"Not a bit. We shall have some jolly times together. Mr. Gwynne is very
anxious to meet you."
"Well, he has not been in any particular hurry. Still, it will be
fearfully nice, and I am so glad you have come down at last."
XX
It was characteristic of Mrs. Paula that she was not in the least
jealous of Isabel's beauty. She was quite positive that no man would
hesitate between her own exuberant prettiness and a face and form that
looked as if it had stepped down from a dingy old canvas. It was true
that Stone admired Isabel--with reservations to his wife--and had openly
avowed his intention to paint her when he emerged from the tyranny of
the pot-boiler. He had hoped that Isabel would take the graceful hint
and order a portrait, but Isabel had succumbed to the pleadings of too
many students of indifferent talent, and had no intention of undergoing
the ordeal of sittings again to any but a master. To-night, as the party
of four entered The Poodle Dog--the socially successful offspring of the
still enterprising and disreputable parent on the dark slope
above--Paula deliberately outstripped her companions and appropriated
the seat, at the corner table reserved for them, that faced the room.
Isabel was only too delighted to turn her back upon the staring people,
for it had occurred to her to-night, for the first time, to be uneasily
ashamed of her adopted relative. She had gone about with her several
times since her return from Europe, and absently disapproved of a
somewhat eccentric tendency in dress, but to all sorts of odd costuming
she had grown accustomed during her experience of art circles abroad.
This evening, as she stood in her living-room with Gwynne and watched
Paula sail down the broad staircase, she had a sudden vision of the
shanty at the northern base of Russian Hill where Mrs. Belmont had found
her little Mexican seamstress, deserted by her American husband, wailing
over the child she was about to leave. This story had always inspired
Isabel with the profoundest pity, tempering her frequent impatience and
disgust towards the family alien, but to-night she wished for a few
moments that her mother had sent Paula to a foundling asylum. She
glanced uneasily at Gwynne and fancied she could hear him slam the lid
of his breeding upon a supercilious sputter. Mrs. Paula's skirt and the
jacket on her arm were a respectable brown, but there was something in
the screaming red blouse, the immense cheap red hat, the blazing cheeks,
the pinched waist between swelling bust and hips, the already lifted
skirt--Paula always wore a train that she might at the same time achieve
longer lines and more subtle opportunities--exhibiting the pointed
bronze slipper with a large red bow and much open work above, that
suggested, if not the French cocotte, at least that San Francisco
variety known in local parlance as "South of Market Street Chippy." She
did not bear the remotest likeness to a lady. She looked common, fast.
Isabel wondered that she had never faced the truth before. It was as if
a wave of final criticism heaved from the brain of the man whose life
had been passed in the best societies of the world across to hers. But
Gwynne was imperturbable and polite, and as they rode down-town in the
bright cars Paula thought him "fearfully nice" and was quite sure that
he admired her.
"We are fearfully late," she remarked, complacently, as she seated
herself and looked slowly around the big room with its ornate frescoes
and heavy chandeliers, its crowded tables and strange assortment of
types. "But it is much nicer--to see them all at once, I mean," she
added, untruthfully.
Gwynne, whose seat also commanded a view of the room, looked about him
with much interest. He had a vague association of impropriety with the
name of the restaurant, but he saw only a few painted females and
queer-looking men. The majority looked as if they belonged to the higher
walks of Bohemia, and quite a fourth were indubitably fashionable. But
his more vivid impression was that they all looked gay and care-free,
and that their personalities were not wholly obscured by clothes. After
lunching or dining at one of the great New York restaurants he had
carried away the impression of a tremendously fashionable school in
uniform--the women distinguished in appearance beyond those of any other
American city, but utterly unindividual. The social bodies of the United
States had interested him little, but to-night he glanced about with
something of the curiosity of a Columbus discovering the land of his
fathers. No doubt his Otis great-grandfather had been intimate with the
great-grandfathers of more than one man present; in this remote bit of
civilization he almost felt as if he were sitting down with a company of
relatives, at the least to a gathering of the clans. And he had rarely
seen so many handsome women together, nor such a variety of types.
Paula, who knew every one by sight and assiduously read the society
papers, volunteered much information while Isabel ordered the dinner;
Stone had been detained half-way down the room by a party of friends.
"That is Mrs. Masten," she whispered, with a respectful accent on the
name and in the significant tone she always employed when addressing a
person of social importance. "The youngish tall woman with white hair
and distinguished profile. She is one of the old set--the one Mrs.
Belmont belonged to--and fearfully haughty. Some people call her a
beauty, but how can a woman be a beauty with white hair? Lots get it
here and lose their complexions before they are twenty-five. It is the
wind and nerves and too many good times. I wonder I have not gone off
too, but I take a nap every day no matter what happens. Just beyond is
Mrs. Trennahan. She never did have any beauty with that sallow skin and
no feature except her eyes; but her husband, who was a great swell in
New York, and often takes her there, is quite devoted to her, and they
have a house on Nob Hill and another in Menlo Park. She is so exclusive
that it is a wonder she ever condescends to dine in a restaurant; but
Mr. Trennahan is a fearfully high liver, and this kitchen is famous.
Mrs. Trennahan's mother, Mrs. Yorba, who led society in the Eighties,
had only ninety people on her visiting list, and they say that her
parties were the dullest ever given in San Francisco. Of course that was
before I was born. The glory of that prehistoric crowd has departed, in
spite of the fact that a few of them--not many--have kept their
fortunes--and they are nothing to the new ones. The Irish and Germans
are on top now and are just ruling things--people whose very names our
mothers never heard, although they were making their piles without
saying much about it. They have come forward in the last five or six
years with a rush. All the old leaders are dead, and their children
don't seem to care much--just stand aside and put on airs. One of the
new leaders has a brogue. And as for Mrs. Hofer--take a good look at
her."
Paula indicated a tall superbly proportioned young woman in a simple
Parisian black gown and an immense black hat with a cascade of white
feathers rolling over the brim; she had a round laughing face and an air
of indescribable buoyancy. "She was born and brought up south of Market
Street, in the respectable part, but a dead give away in her generation:
she's only twenty-six. I forget what her old peasant grandfather started
life as, a peddler, probably, but afterwards he had a dry-goods store,
or shoes or something, and he bought real estate, and his son improved
it, so now they are rich. She was educated at the public schools, went
to the University for a year, had two more in Europe, and came back with
what they call presence and style, but is just cheek dressed up. She
hadn't much show socially, but she didn't lose any time capturing
Nicolas Hofer, the son of a German emigrant, who made money in the
commission business which his sons have turned into millions. All the
men like him, and as he was a great catch, of course he went everywhere;
and when he married they had to accept his wife. She did the rest, and
no one can deny that she is smart--in our sense and yours! She is a
leader already, and has a perfectly wonderful house, that all the old
aristocrats fall over themselves to get invited to. I'd like to go there
myself, but of course I'm nobody. Hofer poses as a reformer, but I guess
this old town's too much for him--"
"Nicolas Hofer?" asked Gwynne, with interest. "I fancy that is the man
my mother met at Homburg and asked me to call on."
"Oh!" exclaimed Mrs. Paula, with a toss of her head. "If you are going
in for fine society you will soon have no use for us."
Gwynne, being unaccustomed to crudities of this sort, applied himself to
his oysters, while Isabel made a fierce resolution that she would find
another chaperon or remain in the country. She was disagreeably
conscious of craning necks, and although she knew that she was beginning
to excite interest in San Francisco, and was looking her best in a white
cloth frock and large white hat, she made no doubt that her
juxtaposition to the exotic Paula was the theme of more than one
unpleasant comment. While she liked Bohemia and was entirely indifferent
to shabbiness, she had never grown accustomed to vulgarities, and that
they should be embodied in her adopted sister filled her with a futile
wrath.
Stone hurried to his neglected party, waving his hand genially. He was a
very tall loosely built man, with a sensuous laughing mouth and an eye
that was seldom sober. He carried wine in his spirit as well as in his
skin, and if the latter had bagged a trifle under its burden, the spirit
was only depressed by the morning headache, and few men were more
popular.
"Know what kept me?" he demanded, as he doubled a huge Eastern
oyster--for the others Isabel had ordered the more delicate Californian,
but Stone's interior demanded a sterner nourishment. "Isabel, you are
famous. At first it was the men. Now it is the women too. It was like
you, dearie, to put Isabel opposite that mirror where everybody can see
her, but in which she looks just one decree further removed from common
mortals. Takes an artist's wife! No use, my sister. The Eggopolis must
take care of itself, the chickens be left to roost alone. San Francisco
wants you, and what she wants she gets--what is the matter, darling?"
The corners of his little wife's mouth were down and her chin was
trembling.
"You might have paid me one compliment!" she enunciated, between anger
and tears.
"Good heavens, sweetheart, you are as familiar to them as Lotta's
fountain. You are an old story--and always beautiful," he added,
gallantly. "But Isabel! We raise the voluptuous by the score, Gwynne,
houris to beat the band. Climate's a regular Venus factory; but somehow
we don't get the classic very often. Too mixed, probably. Will have to
wait another generation or two. Eyes, complexions, figures--ye gods! But
noses--somehow they run to snub. Still! Look over there. Ever see
anything more fetching than those great Irish eyes in a regular little
Dago mug? She's worth three cold millions and I pine to paint her. The
price would be a mere detail. But to return to Isabel. She has only to
raise her finger to become the rage, and I want her to raise it."
"I wonder how much they would care for her if she hadn't been born into
one of the sacred old families, and hadn't money to boot!" cried Mrs.
Stone, exasperated beyond endurance by this triumph of marital
tactlessness. "I'd like to know what chance a poor girl has to turn
people's heads--"
"Tut! tut! Brownie, you're jealous. You know there never was a town
where people cared less about money--"
"It's just like any other old town, only you have silly legends about it
that you stick to in the face of facts. That day Isabel took me to the
St. Francis for lunch I never saw so many stuck-up-looking girls in my
life, and they all looked as if they had just sailed out of New York
fashion-plates. There are only about six really fashionable women here
to-night, and they only come because they think it's spicy to get so
close to real vice without actually touching it. For my part I'm sick of
the whole Bohemian game, and I'd like to dine at The St. Francis or The
Palace every night." She turned to Gwynne, her eyes flashing
dramatically; she was tired of being chorus to her popular husband's
leading rôles, and was determined to hold the centre of the stage for
Gwynne's edification at least. "They pretend to come here because the
dinner is so good!" she exclaimed. "Good and cheap! But it isn't that a
bit with the swells--the women, that is. They just love the idea of
doing something almost naughty, once in a while in their virtuous
lives--when a San Francisco woman is proper she'd make you really
tired with her superior airs and censorious tongue; but there isn't much
she doesn't know, all the same, and she just revels in venturing this
far."
"I don't understand," said the bewildered Englishman. "Are we dining in
a dive?"
"Not quite, but almost!" cried Stone, refilling his glass from the large
bottle in ice. "There is only one San Francisco! We have about six of
these French restaurants--ever taste anything like these frogs in Paris?
You scarcely ever see anybody in them at this hour with an 'all-night'
reputation. There are plenty of other resorts, a good many of them under
the sidewalks, where the dinner is almost as good but where a man
doesn't take his wife. And up-stairs--here--and in a few others--well,
if a woman is seen entering by the side door she is done for. But then
she isn't usually seen. Lord! if these walls could speak! The
divorce-mills would explode. The waiters all invest in real estate.
Policemen send their daughters to Europe, and the boss politicians get
rich so fast they spend money almost like a gentleman. In the hotels you
are all but asked for your marriage license, but in what is
euphemistically known as the French restaurants--well, high-toned vice
comes high, but the town is fairly bursting with accommodations for
every purse. No town like this!" he exclaimed, gazing into his lifted
glass and with the accent of deep feeling. "No town on God's footstool.
Nothing like it. Wouldn't live anywhere else if you gave me the planet.
Of course I've reformed, but then it's the atmosphere--not a taint of
American Puritanism--European and something more--the wild flavor of a
new and unique civilization. Precious few California men that go to New
York to live but are too glad to come back; and Eastern men, like
Trennahan, who have had a long taste of it, couldn't be paid to live
anywhere else."
"So all the legends of San Francisco are true?" said Gwynne, who
preferred Stone to his wife.
"Couldn't exaggerate if you tried. Wait till I show it to you. No blazed
trail nor special policeman detailed to protect our precious skulls. I
know the ropes and am not afraid to go anywhere."
"How do you like your new work?" asked Isabel, hastily, not knowing what
he might say next. "I should fancy that newspaper life would suit you."
"Does! Never hit a job I liked as well. Jolly set of fellows. Up all
night. What more could a fellow ask? No more aristocracy of art for me.
I'm neither a Peters nor a Keith, and I wish I'd found it out ten years
ago. If a man can make a good living, what in--ah, what on earth more
can he want in a town that gives him the best things in the world to
eat, the jolliest all-night life, the finest fellows in the world, the
prettiest women to look at, a climate that puts new life into old
horses--life's a dead easy game out here--when you don't develop too
much ambition. Ambition? Nothing in that. Fellows are ingrates and
idiots that go off to a cold-blooded place like New York, with a beastly
climate, the moment they have made a little mark here. No philosophy in
ambition. Only one life. Why not enjoy it--when your creditors will let
you? And the money always comes somehow--comes easy, goes easy, and if
we can't all be great, we can be happier here than anywhere else on
earth. Here's to San Francisco--and perdition to him that calls it
'Frisco!"
"So you have said good-bye to ambition?" asked Isabel, curiously. "I
used to think you had a good deal."
"So I had. Once I was younger and knew less. Perhaps if I had ever done
anything cleverer than a few dashing skits for the Bohemian Club, and
somebody had patted me hard enough on the back, I might have made an ass
of myself and crossed the continent in the wake of so many that have
never been heard of since."
"I don't think you ever gave your creativeness a real chance. If you had
shut yourself up in the country for a year--"
"I should have stayed a week. Scenery on a drop curtain is all I want of
nature. No, Isabel." He relapsed into sadness for a moment. "I have
travelled the logical road and simmered down into my place. It's just
this: San Francisco breeds all sorts. A few are born with a drop of
iron in their souls. They resist the climate, and the enchantment of the
easy luxurious semi-idle life you can command out here on next to
nothing, and clear out, and work hard, and make little old California
famous. Where they get the iron from God knows. It's all electricity
with the rest of us. There are hundreds of my sort. You've seen them at
the real Bohemian restaurants; young men mad with life and the sense of
their own powers; all of them writing, painting, composing,
editing--mostly talking. Then at other tables the old-young men who
have shrugged their shoulders and simmered down like myself; lucky if
they haven't taken to drink or drugs to drown regrets. Still other
tables--the young-old men, quite happy, and generally drunk. Business
men and some professional are the only ones that forge steadily ahead;
with precious few exceptions. But you don't see them often in the cheap
Bohemian restaurants, which have a glamour for the young, and are a
financial necessity for the failures. Never was such a high percentage
of brains in any one city. But they must get out. And if they don't go
young they don't go at all. San Francisco is a disease. You can't shake
it off. And you don't want to. To Hades with ambition anyhow," he cried,
gayly. "We can admire one another--and we've learned to, instead of
knocking the life out of everybody else as we did a few years ago. Now
we present the unique spectacle of a city packed to the brim with
cleverness and always ready for more. We know how to appreciate. Vive
la bagatelle. New York? Why, the spirit and brains would be drained out
of nine-tenths of us trying to keep a roof over our heads, and nobody
knowing we were there. No, sir. No, madam! The men in this town
realize more and more when they are well off, and here is one of them."
And he refilled his glass.
Isabel, not knowing that she had been listening to the litany of wasted
lives, turned in disgust and cast about for an excuse to leave before
Stone ordered another bottle of champagne. She encountered a gleam of
amusement in Gwynne's eyes, and it seemed to transfer her to an empty
auditorium, while mankind performed its little tricks on the stage for
her sole benefit. It was a subtle tribute, and she blushed under it. She
was also gratified to observe that Paula was boring him. But she glanced
away, lest he should think she had forgiven him. At the same moment she
saw a young man that had sat with his back to them, and opposite the
famous Mrs. Hofer, suddenly push back his chair, rise to his feet, and
look sharply at Gwynne. Then he came rapidly down the room, and Gwynne
rose and met him as if lifted to his feet by the hospitality beaming
from the large bright shrewd capable face of the Californian.
"This is Mr. Gwynne! Is it really?" he exclaimed, taking the stranger's
hand in a large warm grasp. "I am Nicolas Hofer. Your mother wrote you?
We have only been back a short time--I had intended running up to see
you. I knew you for a Britisher the minute you entered the room, but the
word was only just passed about who you were. Do--please--waive
formality and lunch with me at my house to-morrow. Then we'll motor
about a bit and I'll show you something of the city. Glad the fine
weather holds out. No denial. I expect you." And he skilfully took
himself off, before Gwynne should feel obliged to introduce him to his
party.
"Now, what do you think of that for California manners, and the
arrogance of the rich?" demanded Paula, triumphantly.
"Not a bit of it," replied Stone, amiably. "Man was in a hurry. Can't
you see his wife waiting for him? Never knew a Californian to put on
airs in my life." By this time his optimism was complete. "Only women
imagine such things. There are as many poor as rich in San Francisco
society. Only some of us are too poor, and Bohemia is better anyway.
Well, let's hit the pike. This room is too hot for my head."
XXI
The Poodle Dog, a high new ugly building, stood on the corner of Eddy
and Mason Streets in the very centre of the Tenderloin, or "all night
district." For two or three blocks on every side there was a blaze of
light, electric signs, illuminated windows, sudden flashes from swinging
doors. There was much movement, life, laughter, carriages in the street
driving from restaurant to theatre. And all beyond, east and west, south
and north, was a city as dark and quiet as the grave. The hill tops were
picked out with a few lights, but one could barely see them from this
region that never slept. Nor could one see Chinatown and Barbary coast,
nor other sections more picturesque than creditable, where the cheaper
gas blazed late, and not even a policeman was sure of his morrow if he
ventured too far. But here was the sound of music and decorous laughter,
the clang of street-cars and the constant rattle of carriages: the
restaurants were beginning to empty; there would be an hour or two of
comparative quiet, and then another crowd would fill the streets, the
restaurants, even the saloons; a crowd that rarely saw daylight mixing
amiably with respectable but undomestic citizens that could afford to
sleep late.
At present the scene was brilliant. "The San Franciscan loves the
outside life as much as the Londoner," said Isabel to Gwynne, as they
stood a moment almost blinded by the lower signs. "In many ways you
will find them not unlike--especially as regards fads. Wait until you
have been really initiated into intellectual Bohemia--the clever young
newspaper men and budding authors. I already hate the names of Ibsen,
Shaw, Wilde, Symons, Maeterlinck, and Gorky. I am only waiting for them
to discover Max Klinger and Manet--"
"Klinger?" asked Stone. "Where have I heard that name?"
"He is the great unconscious humorist of modern art, also a great
etcher," said Isabel, dryly. "Have you ever heard of the
Secessionists?"
"Of course," replied Stone, huffily. "You imagine that because you have
been to Europe--"
"Well, have you ever heard of the Scholles?"
Gwynne laughed aloud. "If he has not, I should champion the octopus
proclivities of California."
"They are the very best draughtsmen in the world--"
But Paula had no intention that the conversation should be general. It
had been agreed that they should visit Chinatown, and she took Gwynne's
arm and led him up the hill; she found his cool impersonal manner almost
fascinating after a lifetime in a nest of horned egos. They walked up
through the semi-darkness to Clay Street and down to Portsmouth Square,
passing through an entirely disreputable region, but quiet at this hour.
As they crossed the Old Plaza--now Portsmouth Square--Isabel explained
that it had been the nucleus of the San Francisco of the Fifties, and
that people had crowded nightly against the great plate-glass windows on
one of the corners to watch the gamblers and the hillocks of gold on
every table; and that no doubt their common ancestor, who was a
convivial adventurous soul, had brawled here many a night. Mrs. Paula,
who knew absolutely nothing of the history of either California or San
Francisco, hastened her steps, and in consequence excited the always
smouldering jealousy of her husband. Stone had an exaggerated idea of
her beauty and youth, and felt his own power waning, moreover had all
the average American's Oriental instinct for exclusive possession.
Consequently, as they entered the flaming bit of Hong-Kong on the
opposite side of the square, Gwynne, infinitely to his satisfaction,
found that there had been a deft exchange of partners.
He had been in China, and the sudden entrance into an illusion more
complete than even the stage could achieve almost took his breath away.
There were the same crowds of stolid faces and dark-blue blouses,
relieved here and there with the rich garments of the merchants and the
women; the hundreds of tiny high balconies; the gorgeous windows filled
with embroideries and porcelain, Satsuma and bronzes. He was glad to
stroll with Isabel through a scene so like a picture-book, and to
exclaim with her over the novel sensation of passing from the
quintessence of the Western world into a bit of ancient civilization.
She realized the psychology of every violent contrast as no companion he
had ever known, and when she told him of the adjacent Spanish Town,
Little Italy, Nigger Town, Sailor Town, where representatives of the
scum of every clime were no doubt qualifying for purgatory at the
moment, he experienced a lively regret that there were places he must
explore without her comment.
It was a gala night in Chinatown. Even the provision shops were
festooned with sausages ornamented with bits of colored paper, and
decorated paper or silken lanterns hung before every house. Painted
women with stolid faces, often deeply imprinted with misery, rolled
along, and there were many pretty children in the street, painted too,
and dressed in the gayest and richest of garments. On the balconies of
the upper and greater restaurants were valuable jars and vases full of
plants and flowers. They ascended to the finest of these restaurants and
found a merchant's party eating at round tables from dolls' plates. In a
room opening upon a veranda, their creatures chanted what sounded to
Occidental ears like the dirge of the lost souls of all the Flowery
Empire, and the expression of the relaxed haunted faces confirmed the
impression. In large alcoves well-dressed Chinamen reclined on tables of
marble and teakwood, filling and refilling the opium pipe with an
infinity of patience that if otherwise applied might have led to
greatness instead of dreams.
"These men are just on exhibition," said Stone, contemptuously. "Wait
till I show you the real thing down in the slime. Lots of tall stories
about Chinatown, but the reality is bad enough."
They took a Jackson Street car and rode up through humbler Chinatown,
then through quarters of varying respectability until they reached the
sacred precinct of Nob Hill. Here there was an aristocratic calm, but
much light, and faint strains of music. The season was in full swing,
and society was either dining, or dressing for the dance.
As they climbed the hill-stair Stone artfully trimmed the ragged edges
of his wife's discontent. Subservient as she was to him, there were
times when her temper flew straight and sharp like a blade too long
hooped, and he had his reasons for conciliating her.
Said Gwynne in a low tone as they felt their way up the dark and
precarious flight: "Shall you think me rude if I accept Hofer's
invitation for to-morrow? And Stone wants me to do the town a bit
to-night. I am most curious--but I am your guest--and I can come down
another time--"
"I feel almost cross with you. This house is your hotel. If you ever go
to another--whether I am in town or not--there will be trouble."
So it was that as they reached the steps leading up to the door of the
house, Stone dropped his wife's arm, which had lain somewhat rigidly in
his, and catching Gwynne firmly by the elbow, beat a rapid retreat.
"Good-night, darling!" he cried. "We're off to do the town." Throwing up
first one leg then the other in black silhouette against the stars, he
sang: "And we won't be home till morning, till morning--"
The voice drifted up from the corner of Taylor and Broadway, where the
two men waited for a car. "Till daylight doth appear."
Mrs. Paula was gasping. "Well, I never--never--" she exclaimed, as
Isabel hastily marshalled her up the stair and into the house. "I hope
they'll be garroted! That's all! But it's just like the selfish beasts
of men--"
"What difference does it make? Didn't Lyster agree to be host? It would
be too dismal for Gwynne to roam through the purlieus with a
policeman--and he cannot come down often. It's bedtime, anyhow."
"Bedtime?" cried Mrs. Paula. "Why, it's only ten o'clock. But I forgot
that you go to bed and get up with chickens."
"I should think you would be grateful to go to bed early, once in a
while."
"Oh, I often retire early enough, if it comes to that. It's listening
half the night--all, is more like it--for the last car, and then for a
hack galloping from side to side up that hill, as if the driver and the
very horses were drunk themselves. I tell you it's a life!"
"And don't you get used to it?" asked Isabel with curiosity. "You've
been married thirteen years, and I suppose Lyster has always been what
he calls an all-nighter."
"There are some things a wife never gets used to," replied Paula with
injured dignity, as she held out a doubting hand for the candle Isabel
had lighted. "Haven't you gas or electricity?"
"There is gas, but why take the trouble to light it? And the candle
recalls so many delightful evenings in England. I know no prettier
picture than a procession of long-trained women, with bare shoulders,
and jewels in their hair, each carrying a candle up a long stair beside
the central hall."
"Ah! I have no such charming reminiscences of the English aristocracy,
and I am only afraid of spilling candle grease on my one decent dress."
XXII
At four o'clock Isabel was awakened by suspicious sounds at the key-hole
of the front door. She reached out for her pistol, but withdrew her hand
as she heard the careless laugh of her brother-in-law. A few moments
later the two explorers, after an instant's hesitation at the head of
the stair--which they had climbed like cats--walked past her door with a
brisk swaggering preternaturally steady gait that invoked the memory of
former occupants of the mansion. Then Gwynne's door opened and shut as
if by sleight of hand. Stone's was at the end of the hall. Isabel
inferred that he went through it, and a sound between a hiss and a
smothered roar shot down the hall as he would seem to pick up the door
and bang it into place.
Mr. Hofer had mentioned his luncheon hour as half-past one. Isabel had
Gwynne called an hour before. She was sitting on the veranda, as he
emerged. He was as well groomed as usual, but he was unmistakably pale
beneath his new coat of tan. She laughed wickedly.
"Oh yes," he said, imperturbably, "I was drunk. If I had not been I
never could have got through it, not being a seasoned San Franciscan. I
thought I knew vice. I have seen a good many variations, and in places
where protection was necessary. But I had not guessed at the
combination of ancient civilization and the crudities of the mining-camp
in the heart of a modern city. Stone is not a tank, but a camel. I
befuddled myself successfully in those dives under the pavements--and we
had by no means begun there: I should say we had patronized at least
half the saloons in San Francisco before we started for the underworld.
As we finally supported each other up the hill--we hadn't the price of a
cab left between us--it seemed to me that I was ascending from a jungle
of antediluvian men and women and beasts for ever and ever on the
rampage. San Francisco is the most wonderful city in the world inasmuch
as she not only exists but thrives on the top of such outrageous
rottenness. And no wonder that the men like Hofer are desperate. We were
escorted by a policeman after all, and he seemed to enjoy himself. The
flash of knives--I saw two men stuck--made as little impression upon him
as the awful abandonment of--well, of the females. Good God!--Well, I
hope another variety is in store to-day. Hofer, at least, does not
appear to be dissipated."
"Oh no, it is the fashion in that set to be domestic and good citizens.
All you'll hear of the underworld to-day will be its relation to
politics. They have been making a desperate fight to defeat the present
mayor's reëlection and have been overwhelmingly defeated. The mayor is
popularly supposed to be a criminal at large, and the party that
