stripped to the waist and streaming with perspiration.
He gazed down the long rows of the blast furnaces, great caverns
through the cracks of which the molten steel shone like lightning.
Here the men who worked had to have buckets of water poured over
them continually, and they drank several gallons of beer each day.
He went through the rail-mills, where the flaming white ingots were
caught by huge rollers, and tossed about like pancakes, and
flattened and squeezed, emerging at the other end in the shape of
tortured red snakes of amazing length. At the far end of the mill
one could see them laid out in long rows to cool; and as Montague
stood and watched them, the thought came to him that these were some
of the rails which Wyman had ordered, and which had been the cause
of such dismay in the camp of the Steel Trust!
Then he went on to the plate-mill, where giant hammers resounded,
and steel plates of several inches’ thickness were chopped and
sliced like pieces of cheese. Here the spectator stared about him in
bewilderment and clung to his guide for safety; huge travelling
cranes groaned overhead, and infernal engines made deafening clatter
upon every side. It was a source of never ending wonder that men
should be able to work in such confusion, with no sense of danger
and no consciousness of all the uproar.
Montague’s eye roamed from place to place; then suddenly it was
arrested by a sight even unusually startling. Across on the other
side of the mill was a steel shaft, which turned one of the largest
of the rollers. It was high up in the air, and revolving with
unimaginable speed, and Montague saw a man with an oil-can in his
hand rest the top of a ladder upon this shaft, and proceed to climb
up.
He touched his guide upon the arm and pointed. “Isn’t that
dangerous?” he shouted.
“It’s against orders,” said the man. “But they will do it.”
And even while the words of a reply were upon his lips, something
happened which turned the sound into a scream of horror. Montague
stood with his hand still pointing, his whole body turned to stone.
Instantaneously, as if by the act of a magician, the man upon the
ladder had disappeared; and instead there was a hazy mist about the
shaft, and the ladder tumbling to the ground.
No one else in the mill appeared to have noticed it. Montague’s
guide leaped forward, dodging a white-hot plate upon its journey to
the roller, and rushed down the room to where the engineer was
standing by his machinery. For a period which could not have been
less than a minute, Montague stood staring at the horrible sight;
and then slowly he saw what had been a mist beginning to define
itself as the body of a man whirling about the shaft.
Then, as the machinery moved more slowly yet, and the din in the
mill subsided, he saw several men raise the ladder again to the
shaft and climb up. When the revolving had stopped entirely, they
proceeded to cut the body loose; but Montague did not wait to see
that. He was white and sick, and he turned and went outside.
He went away to another part of the yards and sat down in the shade
of one of the buildings, and told himself that that was the way of
life. All the while the din of the mills continued without
interruption. A while later he saw four men go past, carrying a
stretcher covered with a sheet. It dropped blood at every step, but
Montague noticed that the men who passed it gave it no more than a
casual glance. When he passed the plate-mill again, he saw that it
was busy as ever; and when he went out at the front gate, he saw a
man who had been pointed out to him as the foreman of the mill,
engaged in picking another labourer from the group which was
standing about.
He returned to the president’s office, and found that Mr. Andrews
had just arrived. A breeze was blowing through the office, but
Andrews, who was stout, was sitting in his chair with his coat and
vest off, vigorously wielding a palmleaf fan.
“How do you do, Mr. Montague?” he said. “Did you ever know such
heat? Sit down--you look done up.”
“I have just seen an accident in the mills,” said Montague.
“Oh!” said the other. “Too bad. But one finds that steel can’t be
made without accidents. We had a blast-furnace explosion the other
day, and killed eight. They are mostly foreigners, though--‘hunkies,’
they call them.”
Then Andrews pressed a button, summoning his secretary.
“Will you please bring those plans?” he said; and to Montague’s
surprise he proceeded to spread before him a complete copy of the
old reports of the Northern Mississippi survey, together with the
surveyor’s original drawings.
“Did Mr. Carter let you have them?” Montague asked; and the other
smiled a dry smile.
“We have them,” he said. “And now the thing for you to do is to have
your own surveyors go over the ground. I imagine that when you get
their reports, the proposition will look very different.”
These were the instructions which came in a letter from Price the
next day; and with the help of Andrews Montague made the necessary
arrangements, and the next night he left for New York.
He arrived upon a Friday afternoon. He found that Alice had departed
for her visit to the Prentices’, and that Oliver was in Newport,
also. There was an invitation from Mrs. Prentice to him to join
them; as Price was away, he concluded that he would treat himself to
a rest, and accordingly took an early train on Saturday morning.
Montague’s initiation into Society had taken place in the
winter-time, and he had yet to witness its vacation activities. When
Society’s belles and dames had completed a season’s round of
dinner-parties and dances, they were more or less near to nervous
prostration, and Newport was the place which they had selected to
retire to and recuperate. It was an old-fashioned New England town,
not far from the entrance to Long Island Sound, and from a village
with several grocery shops and a tavern, it had been converted by a
magic touch of Society into the most famous and expensive resort in
the world. Estates had been sold there for as much as a dollar a
square foot, and it was nothing uncommon to pay ten thousand a month
for a “cottage.”
The tradition of vacation and of the country was preserved in such
terms as “cottage.” You would be invited to a “lawn-party,” and you
would find a blaze of illumination, and potted plants enough to fill
a score of green-houses, and costumes and jewelled splendour
suggesting the Field of the Cloth of Gold. You would be invited to a
“picnic” at Gooseberry Point, and when you went there, you would
find gorgeous canopies spread overhead, and velvet carpets under
foot, and scores of liveried lackeys in attendance, and every luxury
one would have expected in a Fifth Avenue mansion. You would take a
cab to drive to this “picnic,” and it would cost you five dollars;
yet you must on no account go without a cab. Even if the destination
was just around the corner, a stranger would commit a breach of the
proprieties if he were to approach the house on foot.
Coming to Newport as Montague did, directly from the Mississippi
Steel Mills, produced the strangest possible effect upon him. He had
seen the social splurge in the Metropolis, and had heard the
fabulous prices that people had paid for things. But these thousands
and millions had seemed mere abstractions. Now suddenly they had
become personified--he had seen where they came from, where all the
luxury and splendour were produced! And with every glance that he
cast at the magnificence about him, he thought of the men who were
toiling in the blinding heat of the blast-furnaces.
Here was the palace of the Wymans, upon the laying out of the
grounds of which a half million dollars had been spent; the stone
wall which surrounded it was famous upon two continents, because it
had cost a hundred thousand dollars. And it was to make steel rails
for the Wymans that the slaves of the mills were toiling!
Here was the palace of the Eldridge Devons, with a greenhouse which
had cost one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and which merely
supplied the daily needs of its owners. Here was the famous tulip
tree, which had been dug up and brought a distance of fifty miles,
at a cost of a thousand dollars. And Montague had seen in the making
the steel for one of the great hotels of the Eldridge Devons!
And here was the Walling establishment, the “three-million-dollar
palace on a desert,” as Mrs. Billy Alden had described it. Montague
had read of the famous mantel in its entrance hall, made from
Pompeiian marble, and costing seventy-five thousand dollars. And the
Wallings were the railroad kings who transported Mississippi Steel!
And from that his thoughts roamed on to the slaves of other mills,
to the men and women and little children shut up to toil in shops
and factories and mines for these people who flaunted their luxury
about him. They had come here from every part of the country, with
their millions drawn from every kind of labour. Here was the great
white marble palace of the Johnsons--the ceilings, floors, and walls
of its state apartments had all been made in France; its fences and
gates, even its locks and hinges, had been made from special designs
by famous artists. The Johnsons were lords of railroads and coal,
and ruled the state of West Virginia with a terrible hand. The
courts and the legislature were but branches of old Johnson’s
office, and Montague knew of mining villages which were owned
outright by the Company, and were like stockaded forts; the wretched
toilers could not buy so much as a pint of milk outside of the
Company store, and even the country doctor could not enter the gates
without a pass.
And beyond that was the home of the Warfields, whose fortune came
from great department stores, in which young girls worked for two
dollars and a half a week, and eked out their existence by
prostitution. And this was the summer that Warfield’s youngest
daughter was launched, and for her debutante dance they built a
ballroom which cost thirty thousand dollars--and was torn down the
day afterwards!
And beyond this, upon the cliffs, was the castle of the Mayers,
whose fortunes came from coal.--Montague thought of the young man
who had invented the device for the automatic weighing of coal as it
was loaded upon steam-ships. Major Venable had hinted to him that
the reason the Coal Trust would not consider it, was because they
were selling short weight; and since then he had investigated the
story, and learned that this was true, and that it was old Mayer
himself who had devised the system. And here was his palace, and
here were his sons and daughters--among the most haughty and
exclusive of Society’s entertainers!
So you might drive down the streets and point out the mansions and
call the roll of the owners--kings of oil and steel and railroads
and mines! Here everything was beauty and splendour. Here were
velvet lawns and gardens of rare flowers, and dancing and feasting
and merriment. It seemed very far from the sordid strife of
commerce, from poverty and toil and death. But Montague carried with
him the sight that he had seen in the plate-mill, the misty blur
about the whirling shaft, and the shrouded form upon the stretcher,
dripping blood.
* * *
He was so fortunate as to meet Alice and her friends upon the
street, and he drove with them to the bathing beach which Society
had purchased and maintained for its own exclusive use. The first
person he saw here was Reggie Mann, who came and took possession of
Alice. Reggie would not swim himself, because he did not care to
exhibit his spindle legs; he was watching with disapproving eye the
antics of Harry Percy, his dearest rival. Percy was a man about
forty years of age, a cotillion-leader by profession; and he caused
keen delight to the spectators upon the beach by wearing a monocle
in the water.
They had lunch at the Casino, and then went for a sail in the
Prentices’ new racing yacht. It was estimated just at this time that
there was thirty millions’ worth of steam and sailing pleasure-craft in
Newport harbour, and the bay was a wonderful sight that afternoon.
They came back rather early, however, as Alice had an engagement for
a drive at six o’clock, and it was necessary for her to change her
costume before she went. It was necessary to change it again before
dinner, which was at eight o’clock; and Montague learned upon
inquiry that it was customary to make five or six such changes
during the day. The great ladies of Society were adepts in this art,
and prided themselves upon the perfect system which enabled them to
accomplish it.
All of Montague’s New York acquaintances were here in their
splendour: Miss Yvette Simpkins, with her forty trunks of new Paris
costumes; Mrs. Billy Alden, who had just launched an aristocratic
and exclusive bridge-club for ladies; Mrs. Winnie Duval, who had
created a sensation by the rumour of her intention to introduce the
simple life at Newport; and Mrs. Vivie Patton, whose husband had
committed suicide as the only means of separating her from her
Count.
It chanced to be the evening of Mrs. Landis’s long-expected
dinner-dance. When you went to the Landis mansion, you drove
directly into the building, which had a court so large that a coach
and four could drive around it. The entire ground floor was occupied
by what were said to be the most elaborately equipped stables in the
world. Your horses vanished magically through sliding doors at one
side, and your carriage at the other side, and in front of you was
the entrance to the private apartments, with liveried flunkies
standing in state.
There were five tables at this dinner, each seating ten persons.
There was a huge floral umbrella for the centrepiece, and an
elaborate colour effect in flowers. During the dance, screens were
put up concealing this end of the ballroom, and when they were
removed sometime after midnight, the tables were found set for the
supper, with an entirely new scenic effect.
They danced until broad daylight; Montague was told of parties at
which the guests had adjourned in the morning to play tennis. All
these people would be up by nine or ten o’clock the next day, and he
would see them in the shops and at the bathing beach before noon.
And this was Society’s idea of “resting” from the labours of the
winter season!
After the supper Montague was taken in charge by Mrs. Caroline
Smythe, the lady who had once introduced him to her cats and dogs.
Mrs. Smythe had become greatly interested in Mrs. Winnie’s
anti-vivisection crusade, and told him all about it while they
strolled out upon the loggia of the Landis palace, and stood and
watched the sunrise over the bay.
“Do you see that road back of us?” said Mrs. Smythe. “That is the
one the Landises have just succeeded in closing. I suppose you’ve
heard the story.”
“No,” said Montague, “I haven’t heard it.”
“It’s the joke of Newport,” said the lady. “They had to buy up the
town council to do it. There was a sight-seers’ bus that used to
drive up that road every day, and the driver would rein up his
horses and stand up and point with his whip.
“‘This, ladies and gentlemen,’ he’d say, ‘is the home of the
Landises, and just beyond there is the home of the Joneses. Once
upon a time Mr. Smith had a wife and got tired of her, and Mr. Jones
had a wife and got tired of her; so they both got divorces and
exchanged, and now Mrs. Smith is living in Mr. Jones’s house, and
Mrs. Jones is living in Mr. Smith’s. Giddap!’”
CHAPTER XIII
Alice was up early the next morning to go to church with Harry
Curtiss, but Montague, who had really come to rest, was later in
arising. Afterwards he took a stroll through the streets, watching
the people. He was met by Mrs. De Graffenried, who, after her usual
fashion, invited him to come round to lunch. He went, and met about
forty other persons who had been invited in the same casual way,
including his brother Ollie--and to his great consternation, Ollie’s
friend, Mr. Gamble!
Gamble was clad in a spotless yachting costume, which produced a
most comical effect upon his expansive person. He greeted Montague
with his usual effusiveness. “How do you do, Mr. Montague--how do
you do?” he said. “I’ve been hearing about you since I met you
last.”
“In what way?” asked Montague.
“I understand that you have gone with the Mississippi Steel
Company,” said Gamble.
“After a fashion,” the other assented.
“You want to be careful--you are dealing with a smooth crowd!
Smoother even than the men in the Trust, I fancy.” And the little
man added, with a twinkle in his eye: “I’m accustomed to say there
are two kinds of rascals in the oil business; there are the rascals
who found they could rely upon each other, and they are in the
Trust; and there are the rascals the devil himself couldn’t rely
upon, and they’re the independents. I ought to know what I’m talking
about, because I was an independent myself.”
Mr. Gamble chuckled gleefully over this witticism, which was
evidently one which he relied upon for the making of conversation.
“How do you do, Captain?” he said, to a man who was passing. “Mr.
Montague, let me introduce my friend Captain Gill.”
Montague turned and faced a tall and dignified-looking naval
officer. “Captain Henry Gill, of the Allegheny.”
“How do you, Mr. Montague?” said the Captain.
“Oliver Montague’s brother,” added Gamble, by way of further
introduction. And then, espying someone else coming whom he knew, he
waddled off down the room, leaving Montague in conversation with the
officer.
Captain Gill was in command of one of the half-dozen vessels which
the government obligingly sent to assist in maintaining the gaieties
of the Newport season. He was an excellent dancer, and a favourite
with the ladies, and an old crony of Mrs. De Graffenried’s. “Have
you known Mr. Gamble long?” he asked, by way of making conversation.
“I met him once before,” said Montague. “My brother knows him.”
“Ollie seems to be a great favourite of his,” said the Captain.
“Queer chap.”
Montague assented readily.
“I met him in Brooklyn,” continued the other, seeming to feel that
acquaintance with Gamble called for explanation. “He was quite
chummy with the officers at the Navy Yard. Retired millionaires
don’t often fall in their way.”
“I should imagine not,” said Montague, smiling. “But I was surprised
to meet him here.”
“You’d meet him in heaven,” said the other, with a laugh, “if he
made up his mind that he wanted to go there. He is a good-natured
personage; but I can tell you that anyone who thinks that Gamble
doesn’t know what he’s about will make a sad mistake.”
Montague thought of this remark at lunch, where he sat at table on
the opposite side to Gamble. Next to him sat Vivie Fatten, who made
the little man the victim of her raillery. It was not particularly
delicate wit, but Gamble was tough, and took it all with a cheerful
grin.
He was a mystery which Montague could not solve. To be sure he was
rich, and spent his money like water; but then there was no scarcity
of money in this crowd. Montague found himself wondering whether he
was there because Mrs. De Graffenried and her friends liked to have
somebody they could snub and wipe their feet upon. His eye ran down
the row of people sitting at the table, and the contrast between
them and Gamble was an amusing one. Mrs. De Graffenried was fond of
the society of young people, and most of her guests were of the
second or even the third generation. The man from Pittsburg seemed
to be the only one there who had made his own money, and who bore
the impress of the money struggle upon him. Montague smiled at the
thought. He seemed the very incarnation of the spirit of oil; he was
gross and unpleasant, while in the others the oil had been refined
to a delicate perfume. Yet somehow he seemed the most human person
there. No doubt he was crudely egotistical; and yet, if he was
interested in himself, he was also interested in other people, while
among Mrs. De Graffenried’s intimates it was a sign of vulgarity to
be interested in anything.
He seemed to have taken quite a fancy to Montague, for reasons best
known to himself. He came up to him again, after the luncheon. “This
is the first time you’ve been here, Oliver tells me,” said he.
Montague assented, and the other added: “You’d better come and let
me show you the town. I have my car here.”
Montague had no engagement, and no excuse handy. “It’s very good of
you--” he began.
“All right,” said Gamble. “Come on.”
And he took him out and seated him in his huge red touring-car,
which had a seat expressly built for its owner, not too deep, and
very low, so that his fat little legs would reach the floor.
Gamble settled back in the cushions with a sigh. “Rum sort of a
place this, ain’t it?” said he.
“It’s interesting for a short visit,” said Montague.
“You can count me out of it,” said the other. “I like to spend my
summers in a place where I can take my coat off. And I prefer beer
to champagne in hot weather, anyhow.”
Montague did not reply.
“Such an ungodly lot of snobs a fellow does meet!” remarked his
host, cheerily. “They have a fine time making fun of me--it amuses
them, and I don’t mind. Sometimes it does make you mad, though; you
feel you’d like to make them swallow you, anyway. But then you
think, What’s the use of going after something you don’t want, just
because other people say you can’t have it?”
It was on Montague’s lips to ask, “Then why do you come here?” But
he forbore.
The car sped on down the stately driveway, and his companion
proceeded to point out the mansions and the people, and to discuss
them in his own peculiar style.
“See that yellow brick house in there,” said he. “That belongs to
Allis, the railroad man. He used to live in Pittsburg, and I
remember him thirty years ago, when he had one carriage for his
three babies, and pushed them himself, by thunder. He was glad to
borrow money from me then, but now he looks the other way when I go
by.
“Allis used to be in the steel business six or eight years ago,”
 Gamble continued, reminiscently. “Then he sold out--it was the real
beginning of the forming of the Steel Trust. Did you ever hear that
story?”
“Not that I know of,” said Montague.
“Well,” said the other, “if you are going to match yourself against
the Steel crowd, it’s a good idea to know about them. Did you ever
meet Jim Stagg?”
“The Wall Street plunger?” asked Montague. “He’s a mere name to me.”
“His last exploit was to pull off a prize fight in one of the swell
hotels in New York, and one nigger punched the other through a
plate-glass mirror. Stagg comes from the wild West, you know, and
he’s wild as they make ‘em--my God, I could tell you some stories
about him that’d make your hair stand up! Perhaps you remember some
time ago he raided Tennessee Southern in the market and captured it;
and old Waterman testified that he took it away from him because he
didn’t consider he was a fit man to own it. As a matter of fact,
that was just pure bluff, for Waterman uses him in little jobs like
that all the time.--Well, six or eight years ago, Stagg owned a big
steel plant out West; and there was a mill in Indiana, belonging to
Allis, that interfered with their business. One time Stagg and some
of his crowd had been on a spree for several days, and late one
night they got to talking about Allis. ‘Let’s buy the----out,’ said
Stagg, so they ordered a special and a load of champagne, and away
they went to the city in Indiana. They got to Allis’s house about
four o’clock in the morning, and they rang the bell and banged on
the door, and after a while the butler came, half awake.
“‘Is Allis in?’ asked Stagg, and before the fellow could answer, the
whole crowd pushed into the hall, and Stagg stood at the foot of the
stairs and roared--he’s got a voice like a bull, you know--‘Allis,
Allis, come down here!’
“Allis came to the head of the stairs in his nightshirt, half
frightened to death.
“‘Allis, we want to buy your steel plant,’ said Stagg.
“‘Buy my steel plant!’ gasped Allis.
“‘Sure, buy it outright! Spot cash! We’ll pay you five hundred
thousand for it.’
“‘But it cost me over twelve hundred thousand,’ said Allis.
“‘Well, then, we’ll pay you twelve hundred thousand,’ said
Stagg--‘God damn you, we’ll pay you fifteen hundred thousand!’
“‘My plant isn’t for sale,’ said Allis.
“‘We’ll pay you two million!’ shouted Stagg.
“‘It isn’t for sale, I tell you.’
“‘We’ll pay you two million and a half! Come on down here!’
“‘Do you mean that?’ gasped Allis. He could hardly credit his ears.
“‘Come downstairs and I’ll write you a check!’ said Stagg. And so
they hauled him down, and they bought his mill. Then they opened
some more champagne, and Allis began to get good-natured, too.
“‘There’s only one thing the matter with my mill,’ said he, ‘and
that’s Jones’s mill over in Harristown. The railroads give him
rebates, and he undersells me.’
“‘Well, damn his soul,’ said Stagg, ‘we’ll have his mill, too.’
“And so they bundled into their special again, and about six o’clock
in the morning they got to Harristown, and they bought another mill.
And that started them, you know. They’d never had such fun in their
lives before. It seems that Stagg had just cleaned up ten or twelve
millions on a big Wall Street plunge, and they blew in every dollar,
buying steel mills--and paying two or three prices for every one,
of course.”
Gamble paused and chuckled to himself. “What I’m telling you is the
story that Stagg told me,” said he. “And of course you’ve got to
make allowances. He said he had no idea of what Dan Waterman had
been planning, but I fancy that was a lie. Harrison of Pittsburg had
been threatening to build a railroad of his own, and take away his
business from Waterman’s roads, and so there was nothing for
Waterman to do but buy him out at three times what his mills were
worth. He took the mills that Stagg had bought at the same time.
Stagg had paid two or three prices, and Waterman paid him a couple
of prices more, and then he passed them on to the American people
for a couple of prices more than that.”
Gamble paused. “That’s where they get these fortunes,” he added,
waving his fat little hand. “Sometimes it makes a fellow laugh to
think of it. Every concern they bought was overcapitalised to begin
with; I doubt if two hundred million dollars’ worth of honest
dollars was ever put into the Steel Trust properties, and they
capitalised it at a billion, and now they’ve raised it to a billion
and a half! The men who pulled it off made hundreds of millions, and
the poor public that bought the common stock saw it go down to six!
They gave old Harrison a four-hundred-million-dollar mortgage on the
property, and he sits back and grins, and wonders why a man can’t
die poor!”
Gamble’s car was opposite one of the clubs. Suddenly he signalled
his chauffeur to stop.
“Hello, Billy!” he called; and a young naval officer who was walking
down the steps turned and came toward him.
“What have you been doing with yourself?” said Gamble. “Mr.
Montague, my friend Lieutenant Long, of the Engineers. Where are you
going, Billy?”
“Nowhere in particular,” said the officer.
“Get in,” said Gamble, pointing to the vacant seat between them. “I
am showing Mr. Montague the town.”
The other climbed in, and they went on. “The Lieutenant has just
come up from Brooklyn,” he continued. “Lively times we had in
Brooklyn, didn’t we, Billy? Tell me what you have been doing
lately.”
“I’m working hard,” said the Lieutenant--“studying.”
“Studying here in Newport?” laughed Gamble.
“That’s easy enough when you belong to the Engineers,” said the
other. “We are working-men, and they don’t want us at their balls.”
“By the way, Gamble,” he added, after a moment, “I was looking for
you. I want you to help me.”
“Me?” said Gamble.
“Yes,” said the other. “I have just had notice from the Department
that I am one of a board of five that has been appointed to draw up
specifications for machine oil for the Navy.”
“What can I do about it?” asked Gamble.
“I want you to help me draw them up.”
“But I don’t know anything about machine oil.”
“You cannot possibly know less than I do,” said the Lieutenant.
“Surely, if you have been in the oil business, you can give me some
sort of an idea about machine oil.”
Gamble thought for a minute. “I might try,” he said. “But would it
be the proper thing for me to do? Of course, I’m out of the business
myself; but I have friends who might bid for the contract.”
“Well, your friends can take their chances with the rest,” said the
Lieutenant. “I am a friend, too, hang it. And how in the world am I
to find out anything about oil?”
Gamble was silent again. “Well, I’ll do what I can for you,” he
said, finally. “I’ll write out what I know about the qualities of
good oil, and you can use it as you think best.”
“All right,” said the Lieutenant, with relief.
“But you’ll have to agree to say nothing about it,” said Gamble.
“It’s a delicate matter, you understand.”
“You may trust me for that,” said the other, laughing. So the
subject was dropped, and they went on with their ride.
Half an hour later Gamble set Montague down, at General Prentice’s
door, and he bade them farewell and went in.
The General was coming down the stairs. “Hello, Allan,” he said.
“Where have you been?”
“Seeing the place a little,” said Montague.
“Come into the drawing-room,” said the General. “There’s a man in
there you ought to know.
“One of the brainiest newspaper men in Wall Street,” he added, as he
