dear, I hope you will never go away again while I live;" and she gave a
long sigh as the girl left the room.

She came down presently in a cheerful light frock and began to tell
Cousin Eunice and Jane what she had seen and heard. She was in the full
tide of this, eager, bright, and flushing when Chilian entered. He
greeted her rather languidly. Yes, he had grown thinner, and Cousin
Giles was putting on too much flesh and growing jollier. Chilian did not
look well and an ache went all over Cynthia's body, every nerve being
sympathetic. He was not silent, however; he asked questions, but she
thought he was hardly paying attention to the answers. He remained down
in the sitting-room and read his Gazette, now and then making some
comment, or answering some query of Cousin Eunice. It was not nine yet
when he rose and said, "He was very tired; if they would excuse him, he
would go to bed."

They all went presently. She was glad to be alone in the room, glad
there was no moon, and she turned her face over on the pillow and cried
softly. After all, life was a riddle--two ways and not knowing which to
take, both having a curiously lonely ending. Could she not bear it
better alone? If he should go away as her father had done, if she should
stay here in the old house, and then Cousin Eunice would fold her hands
in that silent clasp, Rachel would slip into old womanhood, Jane would
marry, she was keeping company now. There would be other Janes and
she----

On the other hand would be love, marriage, children maybe, a pleasant
home. Living along side by side, as other people did.

She did not try to shut out either vision. Which should she take? Was
life just for one's self?

She was not morbid. It was only in religion that people took out their
very souls and examined them for lurking sins; the days' duties were
what must be accomplished, whether or no. She knew she was not very
religious, the deep things seemed beyond her grasp. And there was a
certain joyousness in her love for sunshine, flowers, people, and all
the attractive things of life. She was deeply grateful, she raised her
heart in thankfulness to God for every good gift. And now she took up
the daily duties cheerfully. It was not their fault the shadow had
fallen over them.

Some days afterward she was rambling around aimlessly, when she met a
girl friend, and they chatted about various matters.

"Oh," exclaimed the friend, "there'll be another wedding in the autumn,
and Betty Upham is keeping steady company. I used to have an idea that
you and Ben would make a match----"

"It's Jenny Willing," she interrupted. "And I am heartily glad."

"You were all such friends;" looking puzzled.

"And I hope we will go on being friends. I have always liked Jenny."

"She was awfully afraid you'd cut her out. You know he did fancy you
first. I think she would have been very unhappy if she had missed him. I
don't see what there is about you, Cynthia;" studying her intently. "You
are pretty, but there are some handsome girls in Salem. And they run
after Ed Saltonstall as if there was no other man in town. And my advice
to you is to seize on him, for I think your chance best. He's an awful
flirt, though. I think good-looking men always are."

Cynthia flushed. Why should these things be profaned by foolish gossip.

Polly came over one afternoon. She had accomplished the bag and was
proud enough of it. And she announced Bentley's engagement.

"They will be married in the early fall; they are not going to build,
but have part of that double house of Nelsons'. She'll make a fine,
economical wife, and that is what men need who are trying to get along.
Assemblies and all that are not the thing for prudent married people."

"And one gets tired of them." She had a feeling just then that she
should never want to dance any more.

Cynthia was glad to have him settled, glad Jenny Willing had the man she
loved.

And the last time he had come back to her she had held up her finger to
him thoughtlessly, to shield herself from some other pointed attentions.
It had been a mean thing to do. But she had only meant it for that
evening, and he had gone on importunately. She was ashamed of it now.
Yes, she had better marry; then no one would be pleading for favors,
mistaking a simple smile for deeper meaning. Was her smile different
from that of other girls?

She watched Cousin Chilian narrowly. Was the old dear freedom between
them gone? He seemed rather abstracted. He did not call her into the
study, he went out oftener of an evening. Mr. Saltonstall would pass by,
then turn and walk up the path and sit down on the step. This would
occur several times a week. He asked her to ride with him, but she
shrank from that. She went over one evening on special invitation, when
Chilian was to play chess with the father. Mrs. Saltonstall took her in
quite as if she was one of the family, and really was very sweet to her.
And the old gentleman was fatherly.

That seemed to settle it for her, rather the fact that sank deeper in
her mind every day that Cousin Chilian wished her to marry and that this
young man was his preference. She allowed him to come a little nearer,
to hold her hand, to take nameless small freedoms, and he was always
delicate.

Would he be satisfied without all she could not help withholding? Would
it be right to give him a half love? But then how could she help loving
Cousin Chilian, who had been so tender to her in childhood? She would be
gladly content to stay without any nearer tie between them; of course,
that other could not be thought of.

One night Mr. Saltonstall asked her in a manly fashion. And suddenly a
great white light shot up in her heart, and loving one man she knew she
had no right to deceive another, to live a deception all her life long,
to cheat him--yes, it was that. Better a hundred times to live out her
flawed life alone.

"Oh, I cannot," she murmured. "I--I"--she choked down the strangling
sob.

"My little darling, give me the opportunity to teach you what love
really is. You do not know."




CHAPTER XVII

THE FLOWERING OF THE SOUL


Cynthia had said coldly that she did not wish to marry at present,
perhaps never. "I have been trying to love you to--to please some one
else, and it is a compliment for you to ask me. But any woman ought to
be sure before she makes a life-long promise. I must be honest--with
you, with myself."

Something in the solemn tone awed him. He had not been looking at the
serious side of love. She was pretty, bright, and winsome, with a good
deal of Puritan simplicity, a great power of enjoyment and difficult to
win. He liked to do the winning himself. He liked to find some new
qualities in girls, and Cynthia, with all her daintiness, had many sides
that surprised one. She had been brought up by a man--that made the
difference.

"We will wait a little," he said. "Talk to your cousin about it. I think
it will all come right. You are the first woman I ever desired to marry,
and I have been fond of girls, too."

That would have flattered some women. She said good-night in a strained,
breathless tone, and vanished through the door. He sat and thought.
There was no other lover, he was quite sure.

She went to bed at once. She did not cry, she was somehow stunned at
this revelation about herself, for she had resolved to accept him and
this sudden protest told her that it was quite impossible. If Cousin
Chilian was disappointed, if he was tired of her, there was a warm
welcome in Boston.

She did not sleep much. Rachel noted her heavy eyes, and the expression
as if she might be secretly upbraiding fate. What if Mr. Saltonstall had
been trifling?

Chilian went up to his study. He felt languid, he nearly always did now.
He took a book and sat by the open window. Two tall trees hid the
prospect, except a space of blooming garden. To-day a small outlook
pleased him, for his life was to be made narrower. She would come and
tell him--shut the golden gate forever. He could not, would not, enter
their paradise. Let him keep quite on the outside.

She came in a soft, white gown that clung to her virginal figure. The
swelling-out period had passed, even sleeves had collapsed to a small
puff, and for house wear the arms and neck were left bare.

The book was a Greek play. The letters danced before her eyes as she
stood there. He looked off the book, but not up at her.

"Cousin Chilian, I want to tell you"--her voice had the peculiar
softness that one uses to try to cover the hurt one cannot help
giving--"Mr. Saltonstall was here last evening. He has asked me to marry
him."

It seemed to her the silence lasted moments. Then he said in an
incurious tone, "Well?"

"I--will you be angry or disappointed when I confess that I cannot, that
I do not love him."

"Oh, Cynthia, child; what do you know about love?" he said impatiently.

"Enough to know that it would be wrong to take a man's love and give him
nothing in return." Now her voice was steady, convincing.

He had a sudden thought. Like a vision the stalwart form of the young
sailor rose before him. He had carried admiration, yes, love in his
eyes. What if he had carried more than that away?

"Cynthia, is there some one else, some one you could love----"

"There is some one else." Her tone was very low, but brave. That
admission would settle the matter.

"Are you to wait three years for him?"

"For whom?" in surprise.

Then he glanced up. Her face, that had been lily-white, was flushed from
brow to neck. What was there in the beautiful, entreating eyes?

"Cynthia?" All his firmness gave way.

His arm stole softly around her, drew her a trifle down. "Tell me! Tell
me!" he cried, yet he had no idea he was asking her to lay her heart
bare. There was still the boy Anthony.

"Cousin Chilian, if a woman loved very much, would it be a shame to her
if, unasked, she----"

Her head sank down on his shoulder. He felt the warm, throbbing breath
on his cheek. He drew her closer. Did the slim, palpitating body betray
its secret?

"Oh, Cynthia, child, the most precious thing in all the world to me,
tell me that I will not have to give you to another, that I may keep you
to myself. For I cannot comprehend how so great a joy could come to me.
And whether I would have the right to take your sweet young life, that
should be replete with the joys of youth, with the gladness that is its
proper birthright."

"If I gave it to you? If I could never have given it to any other?"

He drew her down closer, and the gentle yielding, the sort of rapturous
sigh, answered him better than any words. He pressed kisses on the
unresisting lips, kisses that then were sacred to affianced lovers and
husbands.

Was it an hour or half a lifetime? He inclined her to his knee as he had
when she was a little girl, but at length he came back to his senses.

"Cynthia," he began with tender gravity, "there are many points to
consider. Do you know that I am more than double your age----"

"Don't tell that to me. Isn't love as sweet?"

Could he deny it in the face of that ravishing smile, those appealing
eyes.

"Still--the world will think about it. And you are a rich young woman,
you could take your pick of lovers----"

"But they are all so troublesome," she interrupted. "And one gets
affronted with the other. And if I picked very much I might be called a
flirt, perhaps I have been. I didn't want them, only to dance and be
merry with, and there are so many pretty girls in the world--enough for
all of them."

He smiled a little and it gave her a heartache to see how thin he had
grown, and there were new creases in his forehead that had been so fair
and smooth.

"And if some day you should repent?"

"I'm not going to repent. Why should one when one gets the thing one
wanted?"

There was a touch of the old brightness in her tone. Had she really
wanted him?

"I've been very naughty with all these lovers, haven't I? But no one
came near enough to really ask me that question until last night, though
Mr. Marsh thought he would if he were going to stay. And Cousin Chilian,
I had made up my mind truly, I thought, for I liked Mr. Saltonstall very
much, and it seemed to me you wanted me to----" Her voice died away in
pathos.

"I did. Oh, you must know the worst of me. When I found you were
growing into my very heart, and I began to feel jealous of the young
men, I took myself in hand as a most reprehensible old fellow. But I
found you had entwined yourself in every fibre of my heart, and it was
hard indeed to uproot you."

"And you really tried?" Her tone was upbraiding.

"I tried like an honest, upright man. I shall never be ashamed of the
effort. I would not mar or spoil your life. You see you might have loved
some of these brave young lads. You might have been very happy with
them."

"Oh, you can't have but one husband;" in laughing gayety.

He flushed at her mischief.

"I wonder when you began to love me? And what has made you so cold and
distant, as if you were taking your affection away?"

"I was--I was--Heaven forgive me! I was learning to live without you; to
go back to a life more solitary than it was before you came. And,
Cynthia, you were not altogether a welcome guest. I did not know what to
do with a little girl. I was set in my ways. I did not like to be
disturbed. I could have sent a boy off to school. And Elizabeth thought
it a trouble, too. You must read your father's letter and see the trust
he reposed in me. But you were such a strange, shy little thing, and so
delicate in all your ways. You never touched an article without
permission, you handled books so gently, you never made dog's-ears, or
crumpled a page. And that winter you were ill--and the faith you had in
his return. How many times my heart ached for you. After that I could
not have given you up, and I fell into a sort of belief that it would go
on this always. When the lovers began to come, I found I must awake from
my delusion. And then I knew that an oldish fellow could love a sweet
girl in her first bloom, but that it would be a selfish, unpardonable
thing."

"Not if she loved him!" She raised her face in all its sweet bravery of
color.

"But it was his duty to let her see what pleasure there was in the world
for youth; it was the promise to her dead father, who had confided his
treasure to him. And even now he hesitates, lest you shall not have the
best of everything."

"I shall have the best;" with winning confidence.

"I loved your mother. I was a young lad, and she some five years older.
I suppose I was like a young brother to her, because your father, her
lover, had been here so much. And somehow, you slipped into the place
where there never had been any other."

"It must have been kept for me," she said gravely. "And now I give you
warning that I shall never go out of it. No place could ever be so dear
as this house with all its memories. I am glad you knew and loved my
mother."

It came noon before they were talked out, or before they had settled
only one point, about which she would have her way. She wrote a pretty
note to Mr. Saltonstall, reiterating some things she had said the
evening before, and acknowledging that when she had tried to accept him,
she had found her heart was another's, "and you are worthy of a woman's
best love," she added, which did comfort him.

Still it puzzled him a good deal, but he finally settled upon Anthony
and thought it a rather foolish choice. No doubt but that Giles Leverett
was back of it all.

They told Cousin Eunice and Miss Winn. The former cried for sheer joy.
She seemed older than her years, but she was well and bid fair to live
years yet.

"Then you will never go away. I could not live without you, and as for
Chilian----"

"It would only be half a life," returned the lover, and he kissed Cousin
Eunice.

Miss Winn hardly knew whether to be pleased or not. She liked Mr.
Saltonstall very much for his gayety, good humor, and fine presence, and
then he had the divine gift of youth to match hers. Would she not tire
of Chilian Leverett's grave life?




CHAPTER XVIII

THE PASSING OF OLD SALEM


After all, they were foolish lovers. She did not hoard up any sweetness.
If he could not look forward to so many years, she must give him a
double portion. That was her only regret about him, and she never
confessed that.

He was surprised at himself. If she had loved another, the wound of
loneliness must have bled inwardly until it sapped his life. Oh, how
daintily sweet she was! Every day he found some new trait.

"You see," she explained to Miss Winn, "we shall all keep together.
Father trusted you to the uttermost, and you have been nobly loyal. I
couldn't do without you. And no one could look so well after Cousin
Eunice, who will keep growing older."

That was true enough. She was very well content in her home, and at her
time of life did not care to try a new one. Cynthia was almost like a
child to her.

Meanwhile matters had not gone prosperously with old Salem, England had
claimed her right of search, against which the country strongly
protested. The British government issued orders, and the French Emperor
decrees, forbidding ships of neutrals to enter the ports, or engage in
trade with their respective enemies. This crippled the trade of Salem.
Then there had been the embargo, which for a while closed the ports. But
the town went on improving. Fortunes had been made and now were being
spent. But much of the shipping lay idle. Yet the social life went on,
there was marrying and giving in marriage.

Of course, there was some gossip about the Saltonstall fiasco. No one,
at least very few, supposed a sensible girl would give up such an
opportunity to settle herself. Miss Cynthia would no doubt use her best
efforts to get him back. She seemed superbly indifferent to the gossip.

At first Chilian insisted upon an engagement of some length, so that she
might be sure of the wisdom of the step. But she only laughed in her
charming fashion, and declared she would not give up the old house, much
more its owner.

But they had a quiet wedding, with only the choicest friends, and then
they went to Boston to escape the wonderings. Cousin Giles was really
displeased.

"It's an unfair thing for an old fellow like you to do. And you had
money enough of your own; her fortune should have gone to help some nice
young fellow along. Why, really Cynthia has hardly outgrown childhood.
You might have been her father!"

"Hardly!" returned Chilian dryly.

On their return the house was opened and really crowded with guests.
Cynthia was in her most splendid attire. Happiness had certainly
improved Chilian Leverett, he had gained some flesh and looked younger.
The most beautiful belongings had been brought out to decorate the
rooms.

"For I am not going to have them stored away for possible
grandchildren," she declared gayly.

And the guests had a charming welcome. The younger girls were truly glad
she had made her election, and no one could deny that she was very much
in love with her husband. Neither had need to marry for money, since
both had fortunes. And they wished her health and happiness with all
their hearts.

Jane had said to her, "Mis' Leverett, there's an old adage:

          "'Change the name and not the letter,
           You marry for worse and not for better.'"

Cynthia laughed. "I'm not going to let signs or omens trouble me. And I
haven't even changed my name, so the letter cannot count. And it is one
of the good old Salem names. It was my dear father's."

One incident touched Cynthia deeply. Eunice took her up in the garret
one day and exhumed from a chest the beautiful white quilt of
Elizabeth's handiwork. Pinned to one corner was a card, "For my little
Cynthia."

"Only a few days before she had her stroke she made me write this and
go up and pin it on the quilt. Maybe she'd had a warning, people do
sometimes. I supposed she'd leave it to Chilian. Oh, my dear, she'd be
so glad to have you go on in the old house if she could know."

Eunice wiped the tears from her eyes. Cynthia bent over and kissed among
the stitches the poor fingers had toiled at day after day, sorry for the
toil, glad for the love that came at the last.

The Leverett house opened its doors with a generous hospitality. People,
men at least, began to think of something beside money-making, and some
fine plans were broached. Chilian Leverett seemed to grow younger.
Cynthia should not miss the joys of youth out of her life. He did
something more than dance minuets, for her sake he essayed quadrilles.
The exquisite motion with her, her dainty hand in his, or at times
resting on his shoulder, filled him with an all-pervading delight.

"Chilian, do you realize that you are a really beautiful dancer?" she
said one evening after they had returned from a small company.

"Then I must have caught it from you. In my youth dancing was considered
frivolous."

"And in India you hire the men and women to dance for you, and follow
the enchanting motions with your eye. But it is so warm out there."

She had been playing one evening when she started up, exclaiming, "Let
us try that new thing--the waltz. It is just made for two people very
much in love."

"It is?" He smiled in the eager face. It was said that she could twist
him around her finger. "Why, we have no music."

"I can sing the measure, just la, la!" and she started the melody. There
were two long paths of moonlight through the wide-open shutters.
Moonlight and sunshine were welcome visitors. She held out her hands.
Just that way she had charmed others, and he yielded to the seductive
influence. For, oh, she was so young and sweet.

It was a little awkward at first, but they soon found the steps. It was
rather slow and graceful, not the mad whirl of later times. It was
considered rather reprehensible, but between husband and wife it was
right enough. They found it very fascinating.

After a while a sort of grave, sweet seriousness came over her. She
liked to sit in the study and have him read poetry to her while she
sewed. She had never loved sewing, but now she had taken a fancy to it.
Dainty little lacey things, with the softest of muslins, treasures that
had come from India. For there were stacks of towels and sheets and
useful articles, so why should she bother about them?

Jane was married and a middle-aged, homeless widow was very glad to
come. Miss Winn took the head of the housekeeping, and Cousin Eunice was
very willing.

Then there came to them both a little son. Women often dream of babies
of their own, but men have so many outside interests. There really were
people at that time who thought children a boon and blessing of the
