of the common people. The story might show that 
when it comes to a question of selfishness men are all 

alike ready to profit by the unjust conditions. How- 

 

ever, it must be remembered that those people were 
only bicyclers. If we could have conceived of them 
as masses we should have known them for brothers, and 
let them in, probably. 



IT is only some six or seven hours by train from Lon- 
don to Aberystwyth, but if you will look at the names 
on a map of the Cambrian railways, when you begin the 
Welsh part of your journey, you will seem to be in a 
stranger and farther country than that of Prester John. 
Pwllheli, Cerrig y Drudion, Gwerful Goch, Festiniog, 
Bryn Eglwys, Llanidloes, Maertwro, Carnedd Fibast, 
Clynog Fwr, Llan-y-Mawddwy Machynlleth, Dirffws, 
are a few out of the hundred names in the hills or 
along the valleys, giving the near neighborhood of Eng- 
land an effect of more than mid - Asian remoteness. 
The eye starts at their look; but if the jaw aches at 
the thought of pronouncing them, it is our own wilful 
orthographical usage that is at fault ; the words, whose 
sound the letters faithfully render, are music, and they 
largely record a Christian civilization which was cen- 
turies old when the Saxons came to drive the Britons 
into the western mountains and to call them strangers 
in the immemorial home of their race. The Britons 
of the Roman conquest, who became the Welsh of the 
baffled Saxon invaders, and are the Cymry of their own 
history and poetry, still stand five feet four in their 
stockings, where they have stood from the dawn of time, 
an inexpugnable host of dark little men, defying the 
Saeseneg in their unintelligible, imperishable speech. 

 



Of course, except in the loneliest and farthest places, 
they speak English as well as "Welsh; and they mis- 
place their aspirates, which they lost under the Nor- 
mans as the Saxons did. But this did not happen to 
them by conquest as it did to the Saxons; they were 
beguiled of their h's when they were cheated with a 
Welsh - born prince instead of the Welsh prince they 
were promised in the succession of their ancient lines. 
They had been devout Christians, after their manner, 
in the earliest centuries; as the prefix Llan, or Saint, 
everywhere testifies, the country abounded in saints, 
whose sons inherited their saintship; and at the Ref- 
ormation they became Calvinists as unqualifiedly as 
their kindred, the Bretons, remained Catholics. They 
have characterized the English and Americans with 
their strong traits in a measure which can be dimly 
traced in the spread of their ten or twenty national 
names, and they have kept even with the most modern 
ideals quite to the verge of co-education in their col- 
leges. It is a fact which no Welshman will deny that 
Cromwell was of Welsh blood. Shakespeare was un- 
questionably of Welsh origin. Henry VII. was that 
Welsh Twdwr (or Tudor, as the Saeseneg misspell it), 
who set aside the Plantagenet succession, and was the 
grandsire of " the great Elizabeth," not to boast of 
Bloody Mary or Henry VIII. But if these are not 
enough, there is the present Chancellor of the Ex- 
chequer, Mr. Lloyd-George, who is now the chief figure 
of the English cabinet. 

The bad name which their own half-countryman, 
Giraldus Cambrensis, gave the Welsh in the twelfth 
century, clings to them yet in the superstition of all 

 

Norman-minded and Saxon-minded men, so that the 
Englishman I met on the way from Edinburgh was 
doubtless speaking racially rather than personally when 
he said that the Welsh were the prize liars of the uni- 
verse. I for my part heard no lies in Wales except 
those I told myself ; but as I am of Welsh stock, perhaps 
my experience is not wholly refutive of that English- 
man's position. I can only urge further the noted 
philological fact that the Welsh language is so full of 
imagery that it is almost impossible to express in it 
the brute veracities in which the English speech is so 
apt. Otherwise I should say that nowhere have I been 
used with a more immediate and constant sincerity than 
in Wales. The people were polite and they were al- 
most always amiable, but in English, at least, they did 
not say the thing that was not; and their politeness 
was without the servile forms from lower to higher 
which rather weary one in England. They said " Yes," 
and " No," but as gently as if they had always added 
" Sir." If I have it on my conscience to except from 
my sweeping praise of sincerity the expressman at 
Aberystwyth who promised that our baggage should 
be at our lodgings in an hour, and did not bring it 
in five, I must add that we arrived on the last day 
of a great agricultural fair, when even the New York 
Transfer Company might have given a promise of more 
than wonted elasticity. 



ii 

In the station of Aberystwyth there were about three 
or four thousand Welshmen of the national height, vol- 
ubly waiting for the trains to bear them away to their 
farms and villages ; but they made way most amiably 
for the dismounting travellers, who in our case were 



led through them by the most energetic porter I ever 
knew. They did not stare down upon us from the un- 
seemly altitude of other national statures, and often 
during our stay I saw like crowds of civil men in the 
street markets who were no taller, and sometimes there 
were women who had not scaled the heights reached by 
our American girls. They would probably have com- 
peted fairly well with these in the courses of the col- 
leges to which the Welsh send their daughters as well 
as their sons ; but I will not pretend that the good looks 
of either the men or women was of the American aver- 
age. I cannot even say that these contemporary ancient 
Britons had the advantage of the toothless English peas- 
antry in the prompt dentistry which is our peculiar 
blessing. In Great Britain, though I must not say 
Ireland, for I have never been there, a few staggering 
incisors seem a formidable equipment of the jaw in 
lower-class middle life and even tender youth. The 
difference is a tremendous advantage which, if it does 
not make for the highest character in us, will doubtless 
stand us in good stead in any close with the well-toothed 
Japanese, and when we are beaten, our gold-fillings will 
go far to pay our indemnity. 

After all those thousands at the station had departed, 
there were still visitors enough left in Aberystwyth to 
distend the hotels uncomfortably; and the next morn- 
ing we set out in the pursuit, always interesting and 
alluring, of lodgings. The town seemed to be pretty 
full of lodgings, but as it was the middle of August, 
and the very height of the season, they were full-up in 
dismaying measure. We found the only one not kept 
by a Welsh woman in the ostensible keeping of an Eng- 
lishwoman, a veteran cockney landlady, but behind her 
tottering throne reigned a Welsh girl, under whose iron 
rule we fell as if we had been unworthy Saeseneg in- 

 

stead of Cymric-fetched Americans. We had rejected 
other lodgings because, though their keepers had prom- 
ised to provision us, it always appeared that we must 
go out and do the marketing ourselves. I shall last- 
ingly regret that we did not submit to this condition, 
for it would have been one of the best means of study- 
ing the local life. But we held out for the London 
custom, and before the Welsh Power, which has so 
often made itself felt behind English thrones, could 
intervene, compliance was promised. After that it re- 
mained for the Welsh Power to make our stay difficult, 
and our going easy. 

Otherwise the place was delightful ; it was in almost 
the centre of the long curve of the Victoria Terrace, 
with windows that looked down upon the pebbly beach, 
and over the blue sea to the bluer stretch of the Pem- 
brokeshire hills on the south, and the Carnarvonshire 
hills on the north, holding the lovely waters in their 
shadowy embrace. There was not much shipping, and 
what there was seemed of the pleasure sort that parties 
go down to the sea to be sick in. The long parade was 
filled at most hours with the English who make the 
place their resort; whose bathing began early in the 
morning and whose flirting continued far into the night, 
with forenoon and afternoon dawdling and dozing on the 
pebbles. At one end of the Terrace rose a prodigious 
headland, whose slope was scaled over with broken slate, 
like some mammoth heaving from the deep and show- 
ing an elephantine hide of bluish gray. At the other 
end was the Amusement Pier, with the co-educational 
college, which is part of the University of Wales, and 
with divers hotels. Somewhat behind and beyond were 
the ruins of one of those castles which the Normans 
planted with a mailed fist at every vantage in Wales, 
as their sole means of holding down the swarming, 

 

squirming, fighting little dark people of the country. 
Even then they could not do it, for the Welsh, often 
overrun, were never conquered, as they will tell you 
themselves if you ask them. But Wales is now per- 
haps the most peaceful country in the world. Its 
prisons for the most part stand empty (it is said), 
and the people, once so turbulent, are as little given 
to violence as to vice. In fact, I once heard a great 
Welsh scholar declare that in the old times it was not 
the true Welsh who kept up the fighting, either on the 
public or the private scale, but the Scotch and Irish 
who had found a home among them. In any case, it 
is true that after the Normans had planted their castles 
in Wales to hold the country, it was all they could do 
to hold the castles, and not till their enemies had im- 
agined having the English King's son born in one of 
them did they bring the Welsh under the English crown 
at last. Even then that uncertain people broke from 
their allegiance now and again ; or the Scotch and Irish 
among them did. 



All sorts of sights and sounds might be expected on 
our Terrace, but that which especially warmed the heart 
of exile in us, and pleased the fancy of other sojourners 
was the appearance, one evening, of a stately band of 
tall men in evening dress and top-hats, with musical 
instruments in their grasp, and heads lifted high above 
their Welsh following. We called the Power behind 
the Throne to the window in our question and she gave 
a glad cry : " Oh, they're the Neegurs ! They're the 
white Neegurs !" and at sight of our compatriotic faces 
at the pane, these beautiful giants took their stand be- 
fore our house, and burst into the familiar music of 

 

the log-cabin, the stern-wheel steamboat, and the corn- 
field, as well as the ragtime melodies of later days. It 
was a rich moment, and I know not which joyed in it 
more, the Welsh Power or the American Sufferance. 

But here, before I go farther afield, I must note a 
main difference between the Welsh Power and the Eng- 
lish slavey to whom she corresponded in calling and 
condition. She was so far educated as to know the 
pseudonym of the friend who came to see us, and to 
have read his writings in the Welsh Gazette, treating 
our proposed triumph in his distinction with the fine 
scorn she used for all our airs. If she had been an old- 
fashioned Yankee Help she could not have been more 
snubbing; but when we had been taught to know our 
place she was more tolerant, and finally took leave of 
us without rancor. 

The notion of the general Welsh education which 
her intelligence gave us was carried indefinitely farther 
by the grocer's boy to whom our friend presented me 
one evening, after he had been struggling to make me 
understand what an englyn was. I am able now to 
explain that it is a polite stanza which the Welsh send 
with a present of fruit or flowers, or for a greeting 
upon any worthy occasion. It is rhymed, sometimes at 
both ends of the lines, and sometimes in the middle of 
them, and it presents all the difficulties of euphony 
which the indomitable Welsh glory in overcoming. But 
when my friend took me in hand, my ignorance was of 
so dense a surface that he could make no impression 
on it, and he said at last, " Let us go into this grocery. 
There's a boy here who will show you what an englyn 
is," and after I was introduced the kind youth did so 
with pleasure, while he sold candles to one customer, 
soap to another, cheese to another, and herring to an- 
other. He first wrote the englyn in Welsh, and when 

 

I had sufficiently admired it in that tongue (for which 
no atavistic knowledge really served me), he said he 
would put it into English, and he did so. It was then 
not rhymed at both ends or in the middle, but it was 
rhymed quite enough, and if it had not the harp-like 
sweetness of the original, it was still such a musical 
stanza that I shall always be sorry to have lost it. What 
I can never lose the impression of is the wide-spread 
literary lore of the common Welsh people which the 
incident suggested. I could not fancy even a Boston 
grocer's boy doing the like; and perhaps this was an 
uncommon boy in Wales itself. He told me a good 
deal, which I have mainly forgotten, about the state 
of polite learning in his country and in what honor the 
living bards were held. It seems that in that rhym- 
ing and singing little land, the poets are still known as 
of old by their bardic names. As Jones, or Evans, 
or Edwards they have no fame beyond other men, but 
up and down all Wales they are celebrated as this bard 
or that, and are honored according to their poetic worth. 



IV 

After the appearance of the White Neegurs on the 
Terrace, I could hardly have expected any livelier ap- 
peal to my American pride, and yet it came, one day, 
when I learned that the line of carriages which I saw 
passing our windows were the vehicles bearing to some 
public function the members of the British Chautauqua. 
How far the name and idea of Chautauqua have since 
spread there is no saying, but it was the last of our 
national inventions which I should have expected to 
find in Aberystwyth, though Welsh culture was rea- 
sonably in its line, and the Eisteddfod was not out of 



keeping with the summer conferences held beside our 
lovely up-State lake. The British Chautauqua, as I 
saw it, was a group of people from all parts of the 
United Kingdom joined in the pursuit of improvement 
and enjoyment, and they were now here on one of their 
summer outings. They had been invited to a gentle- 
man's place not far from Aberystwyth to view as in- 
dubitable a remnant of the Holy Grail as now exists, 
and it was my very good fortune through the kind of- 
fices of that friend of ours to be invited with them. 

It was a blamelessly rainless afternoon, of a sort 
commoner on the western Welsh coast than on other 
shores of the " rainy isles," but not too common even 
there; and we drove out of the town through the pret- 
tiest country of hillside fields and valleys opening to 
the sea, on a road that was fairly dusty in the hot sun. 
There were cottages, grouped and detached, all the way, 
with gray stone walls and blue slate roofs, and in places 
the children ran out from them with mercenary offer- 
ings of flowers and song, or with frank pleas for charity 
direct. I yielded with reluctance to the instruction of 
a Manchester economist in my carriage, and denied 
them, when I would so much rather have abetted 
them in their wicked attempts on our pockets. I re- 
member ruefully still that they had voices as sweet 
and eyes as dark as the children who used to chase our 
wheels in Italy, and I have no doubt they deserved 
quite as well of us as those did. 

I got back my spirits when we left our carriages, 
and I found myself walking up a pleasant avenue of 
wilding trees, with a young Chautauquan from Austra- 
lia who looked as if he might be a young Chautauquan 
from Alabama, tall, and lean, and brown. We fell into 
talk about the trees, and he said how they differed in 
their green from the sombre gray of his native forests ; 

 

and then he, from that vast far continent of his, spoke 
of the little island where we were, as Home. That has 
always a strange effect for us self - outcasts from the 
great British roof, and whether it makes us smile, or 
makes us sigh, it never fails to startle us when we hear 
it from colonial lips. The word holds in common kind- 
ness Canada and India and South Africa and Austra- 
lia, and it has its pathos in the fact that the old mother 
of these mighty children seems to leave solely to them 
the tenderness that draws them to her in that notion 
of home. 



There were about fifty of those British Chautau- 
quans, and when they had ranged themselves on the 
grass before the shrubbery of a pleasant lawn, backed 
by a wooded slope, the dignified lady of the house came 
out with a casket in her hand, and put it on a table, 
and the exercises began. Fitly, if the casket really held 
the sacred relic, they began with prayer ; then a Welsh 
soloist followed with a hymn, but whether she sang in 
Welsh or English, I do not remember ; I am only sure 
she sang divinely; and then came the speeches. The 
first of the speeches was by our friend, who was the 
local Unitarian minister, and of a religious body not 
inconsiderable in that Calvinistic Wales. He told us 
how the Holy Grail had been deposited with the monks 
of Strata Florida, the famous old abbey near Aberyst- 
wyth; but I forgot who made them this trust, unless 
it was King Arthur's knights, and I am not sure 
whether the fact is matter of legend or history. What 
I remember is that when the abbey was suppressed by 
Henry VIII. , certain of the escaping monks came with 
the relic to the gentle house where we then were, and 

 

placed it in the keeping of the family who have guarded 
it ever since. 

After our friend, the lady of this house took up the 
tale, and told in words singularly choice and simple 
the story of the sacred relic as the family knew it. I 
had only once before heard a woman speak, no less a 
woman than our great and dear Julia Ward Howe, 
and it seemed to me that she spoke better than any 
man; and' I must say of the Chautauquans' hostess, 
that day, that if ever the Englishwomen come into 
their full political rights, as they seem sure to do, 
the traditions of good sense and good taste in Eng- 
lish public speaking will not pass, but will prosper on 
through their orators. There were touches of poetry, 
nationally Welsh, in what she said, and touches of hu- 
mor perhaps personally Welsh. It seems that the cup 
had been famed throughout the countryside for the 
miraculous property by which whoever drank from it 
was cured of his or her malady, and it had been passed 
freely round to all sufferers ever since it came into 
her family's keeping. That they might make doubly 
sure of the miracle, it was the custom of the sick not 
only to empty the cup, but to nibble a little bit of the 
wood, and swallow that, so that in whatever state the 
monks of Strata Florida had confided it, the vessel was 
now in the state we saw. Saying this the lady opened 
the casket holding it, arid showed us the crescent-shaped 
rim of a wooden bowl, about the bigness of a cocoanut 
shell ; all the rest had been consumed by the pious suf- 
ferers whom it had restored to health. 

I am sorry, after all, to own that this cup is said by 
some authorities not to be the Holy Grail, but a vessel 
like it carved out of the true cross. But even so sub- 
ordinate a relic is priceless, and as it is no longer pos- 
sible to drink from it, we may hope that the fragment 

 

will remain indefinitely to after time. When tliej had 
wondered at the sight of it the Chautauquans and their 
friend were made free of the charming seventeenth- 
century house, which would be old for this country, 
but which in the taste of that time was rather mod- 
ern, and looked like the casino of some Italian villa. 
It abounded, as such houses in England do, in the 
pictured faces of the past, and in the memorials which 
only the centuries can leave behind them, but was too 
graceful to seem rich. " A home of ancient peace," it 
looked, in its mild gray stone amidst its lawns and 
shrubberies, the larger hold of the gardens and pleas- 
aunces through which the Chautauquans followed 
from it. 

VI 

At Aberystwyth, and elsewhere in Wales, one of the 
things I noticed was the difference of the people from 
the people over the English border in their attitude 
toward their betters. They might stand only five feet 
in their stockings, but they stood straight, and if they 
were respectful, they were first self-respectful. In our 
run from Shrewsbury, their language first made itself 
generally heard at Newport, and it increased in the un- 
utterable names of the stations westward, the farther 
we passed into their beautiful country, but they had 
always English enough to be civil, though never servile. 
The country is beautiful in the New England measure, 
but it is of a softer and smaller beauty; it looks more 
caressable ; it is like Vermont rather than New Hamp- 
shire, and it is more like N"ew England than Old Eng- 
land in the greater number of isolated farm-houses, 
from which the girls as well as the boys come to the 
university colleges for learning undreamt of by Eng- 
lish farm villagers. 

 

The air was fresh and sweet, and though it seemed 
to shower wherever we stopped to let another train go 
by on a siding of our single track, there was a very 
passable sense of summer sun. The human type as we 
began to observe it and as we saw it afterward through- 
out the land was not only diminutive, but rather plain 
and mostly dark, in the men; as to the women they 
were, as they are everywhere, charming, with now and 
then a face of extraordinary loveliness, and nearly al- 
ways the exquisite West of England complexion. In 
their manners the people could not be more amiable 
than the English, who are as amiable as possible, but 
they seemed brighter and gayer. This remained their 
effect to the last in Aberystwyth, and when one left 
the Terrace where the English visitors superabounded, 
the Welsh had the whole place to themselves. I would 
not push my conjecture, but it seemed to me that there 
was an absence of the cloying loyalty which makes so- 
journ in England afflictive to the republican spirit; I 
remember but one shop dedicated to the "King's Majesty, 
with the royal arms over the door, though there may 
have been many others ; I am always warning the reader 
not to take me too literally. 

Though I was about the streets by day and by dark, 
I saw no disorderly behavior of any kind in the town 
away from the beach ; I do not mean there was any by 
the sea, unless some athletic courtship among the young 
