loved:
    "Dear, it is not at all bad in town--not that murderous, humid heat
    that you think I'm up against; and you must stop reproaching
    yourself for enjoying the delicious breezes in the Adirondacks.
    Women don't know what a jolly time men have in town. Follows the
    chronical of this August day:
    "I had your letter; that is breeze enough for me; it was all full of
    blue sky and big white clouds and the scent of Adirondack pines.
    Isn't it jolly for you and Kathleen to be at the Varicks' camp! And
    what a jolly crowd you've run into.
    "I note what you say about your return to the Berkshires, and that
    you expect to be at Berkshire Pass Inn with the motor on Monday.
    Give my love to Naïda; I know you three and young Montross will have
    a bully tour through the hill country.
    "I also note your red-pencil cross at the top of the page--which
    always gives me, as soon as I open a letter of yours, the assurance
    that all is still well with you and that victory still remains with
    you. Thank God! Stand steady, little girl, for the shadows are
    flying and the dawn is ours.
    "After your letter, breakfast with father--a rather silent one. Then
    he went down-town in his car and I walked to the studio. It's one of
    those stable-like studios which decorate the cross-streets in the
    50's, but big enough to work in.
    "A rather bothersome bit of news: the Trust Company reconsiders its
    commission; and I have three lunettes and three big mural panels
    practically completed. For a while I'll admit I had the blues, but,
    after all, some day the Trust Company is likely to take up the thing
    again and give me the commission. Anyway, I've had a corking time
    doing the things, and lots of valuable practice in handling a big
    job and covering large surfaces; and the problem has been most
    exciting and interesting because, you see, I've had to solve it,
    taking into consideration the architecture and certain fixed keys
    and standards, such as the local colour and texture of the marble
    and the limitations of the light area. Don't turn up your pretty
    nose; it's all very interesting.
    "I didn't bother about luncheon; and about five I went to the club,
    rather tired in my spinal column and arm-weary.
    "Nobody was there whom you know except Delancy Grandcourt and
    Dysart. The latter certainly looks very haggard. I do not like him
    personally, as you know, but the man looks ill and old and the
    papers are becoming bolder in what they hint at concerning him and
    the operations he was, and is still supposed to be, connected with;
    and it is deplorable to see such a physical change in any human
    being, guilty or innocent. I do not like to see pain; I never did.
    For Dysart I have no use at all, but he is suffering, and it is
    difficult to contemplate any suffering unmoved.
    "There was a letter at the club for me from Scott. He says he's
    plugging away at the Rose-beetle's life history as a hors-d'oeuvre
    before tackling the appetising problem of his total extermination.
    Dear old Scott! I never thought that the boy I fought in your garden
    would turn into a spectacled savant. Or that his sister would prove
    to be the only inspiration and faith and hope that life holds for
    me!
    "I talked to Delancy. He is a good young man, as you've always
    insisted. I know one thing; he's high-minded and gentle. Dysart has
    a manner of treating him which is most offensive, but it only
    reflects discredit on Dysart.
    "Delancy told me that Rosalie is hostess in her own cottage this
    month and has asked him up. I heard him speaking rather diffidently
    to Dysart about it, and Dysart replied that he didn't 'give a damn
    who went to the house,' as he wasn't going.
    "So much for gossip; now a fact or two: my father is plainly worried
    over the business outlook; and he's quite alone in the house; and
    that is why I don't go back to Roya-Neh just now and join your
    brother. I could do plenty of work there. Scott writes that the new
    studio is in good shape for me. What a generous girl you are! Be
    certain that at the very first opportunity I will go and occupy it
    and paint, no doubt, several exceedingly remarkable pictures in it
    which will sell for enormous prices and enable us to keep a
    maid-of-all-work when we begin our ménage!
    "Father has retired--poor old governor--it tears me all to pieces to
    see him so silent and listless. I am here at the club writing this
    before I go home to bed. Now I am going. Good-night, my beloved.
                                                              "DUANE."
    "P.S.--An honour, or the chance of it, has suddenly confronted me,
    surprising me so much that I don't really dare to believe that it
    can possibly happen to me--at least not for years. It is this: I met
    Guy Wilton the other day; you don't know him, but he is a most
    charming and cultivated man, an engineer. I lunched with him at the
    Pyramid--that bully old club into which nothing on earth can take a
    man who has not distinguished himself in his profession. It is
    composed of professional and business men, the law, the army, navy,
    diplomatic and consular, the arts and sciences, and usually the
    chief executive of the nation.
    "During luncheon Wilton said: 'You ought to be in here. You are the
    proper timber.'
    "I was astounded and told him so.
    "He said: 'By the way, the president of the Academy of Design is
    very much impressed with some work of yours he has seen. I've heard
    him, and other artists, also, discussing some pictures of yours
    which were exhibited in a Fifth Avenue gallery.'
    "Well, you know, Geraldine, the breath was getting scarcer in my
    lungs every minute and I hadn't a word to say. And do you know what
    that trump of a mining engineer did? He took me about after luncheon
    and I met a lot of very corking old ducks and some very eminent and
    delightful younger ducks, and everybody was terribly nice, and the
    president of the Academy, who is startlingly young and amiable, said
    that Guy Wilton had spoken about me, and that it was customary that
    when anybody was proposed for membership, a man of his own
    profession should do it.
    "And I looked over the club list and saw Billy Van Siclen's name,
    and now what do you think! Billy has proposed me, Austin, the marine
    painter, has seconded me, and no end of men have written in my
    behalf--professors, army men, navy men, business friends of
    father's, architects, writers--and I'm terribly excited over it,
    although my excitement has plenty of time to cool because it's a
    fearfully conservative club and a man has to wait years, anyway.
    "This is the very great honour, dear, for it is one even to be
    proposed for the Pyramid. I know you will be happy over it.
                                                               "D."
The weather became hotter toward the beginning of September; his studio
was almost unendurable, nor was the house very much better.
To eat was an effort; to sleep a martyrdom. Night after night he rose
from his hot pillows to stand and listen outside his father's door; but
the old endure heat better than the young, and very often his father was
asleep in the stifling darkness which made sleep for him impossible.
The usual New York thunder-storms rolled up over Staten Island, covered
the southwest with inky gloom, veined the horizon with lightning, then
burst in spectacular fury over the panting city, drenched it to its
steel foundations, and passed on rumbling up the Hudson, leaving
scarcely any relief behind it.
In one of these sudden thunder-storms he took refuge in a rather modest
and retired restaurant just off Fifth Avenue; and it being the luncheon
hour he made a convenience of necessity and looked about for a table,
and discovered Rosalie Dysart and Delancy Grandcourt en tête-à-tête over
their peach and grapefruit salad.
There was no reason why they should not have been there; no reason why
he should have hesitated to speak to them. But he did hesitate--in fact,
was retiring by the way he came, when Rosalie glanced around with that
instinct which divines a familiar presence, gave him a startled look,
coloured promptly to her temples, and recovered her equanimity with a
smile and a sign for him to join them. So he shook hands, but remained
standing.
"We ran into town in the racer this morning," she explained. "Delancy
had something on down-town and I wanted to look over some cross-saddles
they made for me at Thompson's. Do be amiable and help us eat our salad.
What a ghastly place town is in September! It's bad enough in the
country this year; all the men wear long faces and mutter dreadful
prophecies. Can you tell me, Duane, what all this doleful talk is
about?"
"It's about something harder to digest than this salad. The public
stomach is ostrichlike, but it can't stand the water-cure. Which is all
Arabic to you, Rosalie, and I don't mean to be impertinent, only the
truth is I don't know why people are losing confidence in the financial
stability of the country, but they apparently are."
"There's a devilish row on down-town," observed Delancy, blinking, as an
unusually heavy clap of thunder rattled the dishes.
"What kind of a row?" asked Duane.
"Greensleeve & Co. have failed, with liabilities of a million and
microscopical assets."
Rosalie raised her eyebrows; Greensleeve & Co. were once brokers for her
husband if she remembered correctly. Duane had heard of them but was
only vaguely impressed.
"Is that rather a bad thing?" he inquired.
"Well--I don't know. It made a noise louder than that thunder. Three
banks fell down in Brooklyn, too."
"What banks?"
Delancy named them; it sounded serious, but neither Duane nor Rosalie
were any wiser.
"The Wolverine Mercantile Loan and Trust Company closed its doors,
also," observed Delancy, dropping the tips of his long, highly coloured
fingers into his finger-bowl as though to wash away all personal
responsibility for these financial flip-flaps.
Rosalie laughed: "This is pleasant information for a rainy day," she
said. "Duane, have you heard from Geraldine?"
"Yes, to-day," he said innocently; "she is leaving Lenox this morning
for Roya-Neh. I hear that there is to be some shooting there Christmas
week. Scott writes that the boar and deer are increasing very fast and
must be kept down. You and Delancy are on the list, I believe."
Rosalie nodded; Delancy said: "Miss Seagrave has been good enough to ask
the family. Yours is booked, too, I fancy."
"Yes, if my father only feels up to it. Christmas at Roya-Neh ought to
be a jolly affair."
"Christmas anywhere away from New York ought to be a relief," observed
young Grandcourt drily.
They laughed without much spirit. Coffee was served, cigarettes lighted.
Presently Grandcourt sent a page to find out if the car had returned
from the garage where Rosalie had sent it for a minor repair.
The car was ready, it appeared; Rosalie retired to readjust her hair and
veil; the two men standing glanced at one another:
"I suppose you know," said Delancy, reddening with embarrassment, "that
Mr. and Mrs. Dysart have separated."
"I heard so yesterday," said Duane coolly.
The other grew redder: "I heard it from Mrs. Dysart about half an hour
ago." He hesitated, then frankly awkward: "I say, Mallett, I'm a sort of
an ass about these things. Is there any impropriety in my going about
with Mrs. Dysart--under the circumstances?"
"Why--no!" said Duane. "Rosalie has to go about with people, I suppose.
Only--perhaps it's fairer to her if you don't do it too often--I mean
it's better for her that any one man should not appear to pay her
noticeable attention. You know what mischief can get into print. What's
taken below stairs is often swiped and stealthily perused above stairs."
"I suppose so. I don't read it myself, but it makes game of my mother
and she finds a furious consolation in taking it to my father and
planning a suit for damages once a week. You're right; most people are
afraid of it. Do you think it's all right for me to motor back with Mrs.
Dysart?"
"Are you afraid?" asked Duane, smiling.
"Only on her account," said Grandcourt, so simply that a warm feeling
rose in Duane's heart for this big, ungainly, vividly coloured young
fellow whose direct and honest gaze always refreshed people even when
they laughed at him.
"Are you driving?" asked Duane.
"Yes. We came in at a hell of a clip. It made my hair stand, but Mrs.
Dysart likes it.... I say, Mallett, what sort of an outcome do you
suppose there'll be?"
"Between Rosalie and Jack Dysart?"
"Yes."
"I know no more than you, Grandcourt. Why?"
"Only that--it's too bad. I've known them so long; I'm friendly with
both. Jack is a curious fellow. There's much of good in him, Mallett,
although I believe you and he are not on terms. He is a--I don't mean
this for criticism--but sometimes his manner is unfortunate, leading
people to consider him overbearing.
"I understand why people think so; I get angry at him, sometimes,
myself--being perhaps rather sensitive and very conscious that I am not
anything remarkable.
"But, somehow"--he looked earnestly at Duane--"I set a very great value
on old friendships. He and I were at school. I always admired in him the
traits I myself have lacked.... There is something about an old
friendship that seems very important to me. I couldn't very easily break
one.... It is that way with me, Mallett.... Besides, when I think,
perhaps, that Jack Dysart is a trifle overbearing and too free with his
snubs, I go somewhere and cool off; and I think that in his heart he
must like me as well as I do him because, sooner or later, we always
manage to drift together again.... That is one reason why I am so
particular about his wife."
Another reason happened to be that he had been in love with her himself
when Dysart gracefully shouldered his way between them and married
Rosalie Dene. Duane had heard something about it; and he wondered a
little at the loyalty to such a friendship that this young man so
naïvely confessed.
"I'll tell you what I think," said Duane; "I think you're the best sort
of an anchor for Rosalie Dysart. Only a fool would mistake your
friendship. But the town's full of 'em, Grandcourt," he added with a
smile.
"I suppose so.... And I say, Mallett--may I ask you something more?... I
don't like to pester you with questions----"
"Go on, my friend. I take it as a clean compliment from a clean-cut
man."
Delancy coloured, checked, but presently found voice to continue:
"That's very good of you; I thought I might speak to you about this
Greensleeve & Co.'s failure before Mrs. Dysart returns."
"Certainly," said Duane, surprised; "what about them? They acted for
Dysart at one time, didn't they?"
"They do now."
"Are you sure?"
"Yes, I am. I didn't want to say so before Mrs. Dysart. But the
afternoon papers have it. I don't know why they take such a malicious
pleasure in harrying Dysart--unless on account of his connections with
that Yo Espero crowd--what's their names?--Skelton! Oh, yes, James
Skelton--and Emanuel Klawber with his thirty millions and his string of
banks and trusts and mines; and that plunger, Max Moebus, and old Amos
Flack--Flack the hack stalking-horse of every bull-market, who laid down
on his own brokers and has done everybody's dirty work ever since. How
on earth, Mallett, do you suppose Jack Dysart ever got himself mixed up
with such a lot of skyrockets and disreputable fly-by-nights?"
Duane did not answer. He had nothing good to say or think of Dysart.
Rosalie reappeared at that moment in her distractingly pretty pongee
motor-coat and hat.
"Do come back with us, Duane," she said. "There's a rumble and we'll get
the mud off you with a hose."
"I'd like to run down sometimes if you'll let me," he said, shaking
hands.
So they parted, he to return to his studio, where models booked long
ahead awaited him for canvases which he was going on with, although the
great Trust Company that ordered them had practically thrown them back
on his hands.
That evening at home when he came downstairs dressed in white serge for
dinner, he found his father unusually silent, very pale, and so tired
that he barely tasted the dishes the butler offered, and sat for the
most part motionless, head and shoulders sagging against the back of his
chair.
And after dinner in the conservatory Duane lighted his father's cigar
and then his own.
"What's wrong?" he asked, pleasantly invading the privacy of years
because he felt it was the time to do it.
His father slowly turned his head and looked at him--seemed to study
the well-knit, loosely built, athletic figure of this strong young
man--his only son--as though searching for some support in the youthful
strength he gazed upon.
He said, very deliberately, but with a voice not perfectly steady:
"Matters are not going very well, my boy."
"What matters, father?"
"Down-town."
"Yes, I've heard. But, after all, you people in the Half Moon need only
crawl into your shell and lie still."
"Yes."
After a silence:
"Father, have you any outside matters that trouble you?"
"There are--some."
"You are not involved seriously?"
His father made an effort: "I think not, Duane."
"Oh, all right. If you were, I was going to suggest that I've deposited
what I have, subject to your order, with your own cashier."
"That is--very kind of you, my son. I may--find use for it--for a short
time. Would you take my note?"
Duane laughed. He went on presently: "I wrote Naïda the other day. She
has given me power of attorney. What she has is there, any time you need
it."
His father hung his head in silence; only his colourless and shrunken
hands worked on the arms of his chair.
"See here, father," said the young fellow; "don't let this thing bother
you. Anything that could possibly happen is better than to have you look
and feel as you do. Suppose the very worst happens--which it won't--but
suppose it did and we all went gaily to utter smash.
"That is a detail compared with your going to smash physically. Because
Naïda and I never did consider such things vital; and mother is a brick
when it comes to a show-down. And as for me, why, if the very worst hits
us, I can take care of our bunch. It's in me to do it. I suppose you
don't think so. But I can make money enough to keep us together, and,
after all, that's the main thing."
His father said nothing.
"Of course," laughed Duane, "I don't for a moment suppose that anything
like that is on the cards. I don't know what your fortune is, but
judging from your generosity to Naïda and me I fancy it's too solid to
worry over. The trouble with you gay old capitalists," he added, "is
that you think in such enormous sums! And you forget that little sums
are required to make us all very happy; and if some of the millions
which you cannot possibly ever use happen to escape you, the tragic
aspect as it strikes you is out of all proportion to the real state of
the case."
His father felt the effort his son was making; looked up wearily, strove
to smile, to relight his cigar; which Duane did for him, saying:
"As long as you are not mixed up in that Klawber, Skelton, Moebus crowd,
I'm not inclined to worry. It seems, as of course you know, that
Dysart's brokers failed to-day."
"So I heard," said his father steadily. He straightened himself in his
chair. "I am sorry. Mr. Greensleeve is a very old friend----"
The library telephone rang; the second man entered and asked if Colonel
Mallett could speak to Mr. Dysart over the wire on a matter concerning
the Yo Espero district.
Duane, astonished, sprang up asking if he might not take the message;
then shrank aside as his father got to his feet. He saw the ghastly
pallor on his face as his father passed him, moving toward the library;
stood motionless in troubled amazement, then walked to the open window
of the conservatory and, leaning there, waited.
His father did not return. Later a servant came:
"Colonel Mallett has retired, Mr. Duane, and begs that he be
undisturbed, as he is very tired."
CHAPTER XV
DYSART
The possibility that his father could be involved in any of the
spectacular schemes which had evidently caught Dysart, seemed so remote
that Duane's incredulity permitted him to sleep that night, though the
name Yo Espero haunted his dreams.
But in the morning, something he read in the paper concerning a vast
enterprise, involving the control of the new radium mines in Southern
California, startled him into trying to recollect what he had heard of
Yo Espero and the Cascade Development and Securities Company. Tainting
its title the sinister name of Moebus seemed to reoccur persistently in
his confused imagination. Dysart's name, too, figured in it. And,
somehow, he conceived an idea that his father once received some mining
engineer's reports covering the matter; he even seemed to remember that
Guy Wilton had been called into consultation.
Whatever associations he had for the name of the Cascade Development and
Securities Company must have originated in Paris the year before his
father returned to America. It seemed to him that Wilton had been in
Spain that year examining the recent and marvellously rich radium find;
and that his father and Wilton exchanged telegrams very frequently
concerning a mine in Southern California known as Yo Espero.
His father breakfasted in his room that morning, but when he appeared in
the library Duane was relieved to notice that his step was firmer and he
held himself more erect, although his extreme pallor had not changed to
a healthier colour.
"You know," said Duane, "you've simply got to get out of town for a
while. It's all bally rot, your doing this sort of thing."
"I may go West for a few weeks," said his father absently.
"Are you going down-town?"
"No.... And, Duane, if you don't mind letting me have the house to
myself this morning----"
He hesitated, glancing from his son to the telephone.
"Of course not," said Duane heartily. "I'm off to the studio----"
"I don't mean to throw you out," murmured his father with a painful
attempt to smile, "but there's a stenographer coming from my office and
several--business acquaintances."
The young fellow rose, patted his father's shoulder lightly:
"What is really of any importance," he said, "is that you keep your
health and spirits. What I said last night covers my sentiments. If I
can do anything in the world for you, tell me."
His father took the outstretched hand, lifted his faded eyes with a
strange dumb look; and so they parted.
On Fifth Avenue and Fifty-ninth Street, Duane, swinging along at a good
pace, turned westward, and half-way to Sixth Avenue encountered Guy
Wilton going east, a packet under one arm, stick and hat in the other
hand, the summer wind blowing the thick curly hair from his temples.
"Ah," observed Wilton, "early bird and worm, I suppose? Don't try to
bolt me, Duane; I'm full of tough and undigested--er--problems, myself.
Besides, I'm fermenting. Did you ever silently ferment while listening
politely to a man you wanted to assault?"
Duane laughed, then his eye by accident, caught a superscription on the
packet of papers under Wilton's arm: Yo Espero! His glance reverted in a
flash to Wilton's face.
The latter said: "I want to write a book entitled 'Gentleman I Have
Kicked.' Of course I've only kicked 'em mentally; but my! what a list I
have!--all sorts, all nations--from certain domestic and predatory
statesmen to the cad who made his beautiful and sensitive mistress
notorious in a decadent novel!--all kinds, Duane, have I kicked mentally
I've just used my foot on another social favorite----"
"Dysart!" said Duane, inspired, and, turning painfully red, begged
Wilton's pardon.
"You've sure got a disconcerting way with you," admitted Wilton, very
much out of countenance.
"It was rotten bad taste in me----"
Wilton grinned with a wry face: "Nobody is standing much on ceremony
these days. Besides, I'm on to your trail, young man"--tapping the
bundle under his arm--"your eye happened to catch that superscription;
no doubt your father has talked to you; and you came to--a rather
embarrassing conclusion."
Duane's serious face fell:
"My father and I have not talked on that subject, Guy. Are you going up
to see him now?"
Wilton hesitated: "I suppose I am.... See here, Duane, how much do you
know about--anything?"
"Nothing," he said without humour; "I'm beginning to worry over my
father's health.... Guy, don't tell me anything that my father's son
ought not to know; but is there something I should know and
don't?--anything in which I could possibly be of help to my father?"
Wilton looked carefully at a distant policeman for nearly a minute, then
his meditative glance became focussed on vacancy.
"I--don't--know," he said slowly. "I'm going to see your father now. If
there is anything to tell, I think he ought to tell it to you. Don't
you?"
"Yes. But he won't. Guy, I don't care a damn about anything except his
health and happiness. If anything threatens either, he won't tell me,
but don't you think I ought to know?"
"You ask too hard a question for me to answer."
"Then can you answer me this? Is father at all involved in any of Jack
Dysart's schemes?"
"I--had better not answer, Duane."
"You know best. You understand that it is nothing except anxiety for his
personal condition that I thought warranted my butting into his affairs
and yours."
"Yes, I understand. Let me think over things for a day or two. Now I've
got to hustle. Good-bye."
He hastened on eastward; Duane went west, slowly, more slowly, halted,
head bent in troubled concentration; then he wheeled in his tracks with
nervous decision, walked back to the Plaza Club, sent for a cab, and
presently rattled off up-town.
In a few minutes the cab swung east and came to a standstill a few
doors from Fifth Avenue; and Duane sprang out and touched the button at
a bronze grille.
The servant who admitted him addressed him by name with smiling
deference and ushered him into a two-room reception suite beyond the
tiny elevator.
There was evidently somebody in the second room; Duane had also noticed
a motor waiting outside as he descended from his cab; so he took a seat
and sat twirling his walking-stick between his knees, gloomily
inspecting a room which, in pleasanter days, had not been unfamiliar to
him.
Instead of the servant returning, there came a click from the elevator,
a quick step, and the master of the house himself walked swiftly into
the room wearing hat and gloves.
"What do you want?" he inquired briefly.
"I want to ask you a question or two," said Duane, shocked at the change
in Dysart's face. Haggard, thin, snow-white at the temples with the
light in his eyes almost extinct, the very precision and freshness of
linen and clothing brutally accentuated the ravaged features.
"What questions?" demanded Dysart, still standing, and without any
emotion whatever in either voice or manner.
"The first is this: are you in communication with my father concerning
mining stock known as Yo Espero?"
"I am."
"Is my father involved in any business transactions in which you figure,
or have figured?"
"There are some. Yes."
"Is the Cascade Development and Securities Co. one of them?"
"Yes, it is."
Duane's lips were dry with fear; he swallowed, controlled the rising
anger that began to twitch at his throat, and went on in a low, quiet
voice:
"Is this man--Moebus--connected with any of these transactions in which
you and--and my father are interested?"
"Yes."
"Is Klawber?"
"Max Moebus, Emanuel Klawber, James Skelton, and Amos Flack are
interested. Is that what you want to know?"
Duane looked at him, stunned. Dysart stepped nearer, speaking almost in
a whisper:
"Well, what about it? Once I warned you to keep your damned nose out of
my personal affairs----"
"I make some of them mine!" said Duane sharply; "when crooks get hold of
an honest man, every citizen is a policeman!"
Dysart, face convulsed with fury, seized his arm in a vicelike grip:
"Will you keep your cursed mouth shut!" he breathed. "My father is in
the next room. Do you want to kill him?"
At the same moment there came a stir from the room beyond, the tap-tap
of a cane and shuffling steps across the polished parquet. Dysart's grip
relaxed, his hand fell away, and he made a ghastly grimace as a little
old gentleman came half-trotting, half-shambling to the doorway. He was
small and dapper and pink-skinned under his wig; the pink was paint; his
lips and eyes peered and simpered; from one bird-claw hand dangled a
monocle.
Jack Dysart made a ghastly and supreme effort:
"I was just saying to Duane, father, that all this financial agitation
is bound to blow over by December--Duane Mallett, father!"--as the old
man raised his eye-glass and peeped up at the young fellow--"you know
his father, Colonel Mallett."
"Yes, to be sure, yes, to be sure!" piped the old beau. "How-de-do!
How-de-do-o-o! My son Jack and I motor every morning at this hour. It is
