


 

particularly as one might say, on an 
acquaintance so brief. You never can tell, 
however, yet accepting the facts as they 
appeared, the matter narrowed down to 
those who slept in the house, that is to say, 
to Harris and Perkins. 

For clearly Welden was out of it, if for 
no other reason than because, had he wished 
to be rid of the lady, a brief sojourn in 
neighbourly Nevada would suffice to set him 
legally free. Or, if divorce seemed circui 
tous, a slight shove from the bluff, a tarantula put nesting in her bed, and, without in 
convenience, the thing was done. But any 
thing of the kind was beyond peradventure, 
in addition to being absurd. Men of the 
world do not kill an obnoxious wife. They 
find it simpler to detest her. Moreover, 
such men as do murder their wives, do not 
first steal the lady's jewels and then offer a 
reward for their own apprehension, another 
for the recovery of the gems. They do not, 





that is, unless they are lunatics, and anyone 
saner than Welden it were difficult to 
meet. 

These deductions Wicks did not reach 
unaided or even as they are here set forth. 
On the contrary, they were prompted in part 
by the press, partly by the wife of his bosom. 
As a consequence, they were superficial and, 
therefore, unsound. But they satisfied, so 
fully even that he kept an alert eye on Harris, an indefatigable one on Perkins. 

In spite of which he saw nothing sus 
picious. At the time being he was not, how 
ever, as close to them as he could have wished, 
and that defect he artfully remedied. After 
the funeral, Welden, leaving for address 
the Plaza, New York, boarded a train and 
was taken away. But these two remained 
in situations luringly procured at wages- 
California wages! such as they had never 
known, never heard of or even dreamed. 

Then for a while mention of the murder, 



 

dropped by the press, faded from Miramar. 
But not from Santa Barbara. There the 
Alert and Indefatigable, after rehearsing it 
endlessly to his weary wife, happened suddenly on a clue. 



To go back a little. 

Sally Malakoff was twenty. She was 
rich, good looking, and a duchess, yet she 
described herself as a miserable woman and 
the world believed her. But though the 
world believed it did not sympathise. It was 
felt that she had not acted as she should have. 
For that there were excuses. 

A little while before she had married a 
brute. Though a New York girl, she was 
at the time very ignorant. In the way we 
live now that is exceptional. Married women 



 

discuss matters before the young person 
with a clarity which leaves her nothing to 
guess ahout. Through some miracle. Sally 
had heen left in the dark. A contributory 
cause may have heen her mentality which was 
shallow, but. as she was naturally sly, the 
miracle was none the less marvellous. Other 
wise, in appearance and manner that is, she 
was a typically sweet young tiling. She 
talked nicely ahout nothing. Her features 
were dainty and delicate. Her hair was 
dark and she had mauve eyes, which, ob 
lique and half closed, gave her an aspect 
faintly Chinese. Born a Kaudy, and known 
generally as Sugar Candy, she quite lived 
up to the name. 

Heat sugar and abruptly it boils. Sally 
did boil, not long, and not effervescently. 
but with a sort of contained rage. Marriage she had seen somewhere defined as an 
nation for the pursuit of things human 
and divine, and it was with angry amazement that she discovered what, in her case, 
was the derisive falsity of the definition. 

During the honeymoon, or more exactly 
during Malakoif's, for the girl was but an 
indignant participator in it, the man ap 
proached her after the fashion of a pasha 
who has acquired a slave. The girl loathed 
him for it, and it was that loathing perhaps 
which directly precipitated this drama. On 
the other hand, if, as it has been affirmed, 
one's destiny is preordered, it may be that 
even otherwise the result would have been the 
same. Admitting fatality, one's moods 
cannot alter it. But the fault of it, in so far 
at least as is humanly discernible, rested, 
primarily, not with Sally's husband, but with 
her mother, never more than a relative to 
this girl, whose father had been but an acquaintance. 

The latter, Sam Kandy, could have had 
but three objects in life; to marry, have a 
child and make a fortune; for these things 



 

accomplished, he concluded to die, and did 
so, after the fine New York fashion, with 
no fuss whatever, and in a manner which 
Mrs. Kandy, who had no affection for him, 
or for anyone save herself, described as most 
gentlemanly. 

That, though, was only an amiable commonplace. In New York it is a man's mere 
duty to leave a lot of money. Sam Kandy 
bequeathed to his daughter one million for 
life, with reversion to her issue, failing which, 
the principal passed to his nephews. To his 
widow he left six million absolutely. 

The provisions of the will enabled Mrs. 
Kandy to bear the testator's loss with a 
fortitude eminently Christian. She was a 
large, fair woman, with a large, fair wig, and 
the purplish complexion which internal disturbances when combined with poudre de riz 
will impart, and when through a jewelled 
lorgnette, she surveyed the trappings of her 
woe, she declared in the shrill voice which 





was habitual to her, that black is not be 
coming. 

Nor is it. But the lady must have pre 
ferred colours. Shortly she resumed them, 
and, with Sally, betook herself to Paris. 

It was in Paris that Malakoff was en 
countered, and the marriage ensued. 

Jean-Rene-Marie, Due de Malakoff, 
Prince de 1 Alma, had, from adolescence, 
been trained like a colt for the Grand Prix 
in the international steeplechase of marriage. 
"Duchesse de Malakoff," his mother, ceaselessly, had dinged in his ears. "That, at the 
lowest, is worth ten million francs." The 
poor woman knew. Five million francs was 
what her people had paid five million 
thrown in the gutter and since then prices 
had doubled. But her son, thus far, when 
not outclassed, had been outpaced. There 
was Miss Murray, the American heiress, 
welshed from him by Solferino. There was 
Miss Beux, laden down with brewery guineas, whom d Ostende had won by a nose. 
There was Mile. Moses, the pearl of the 
Ghetto, whom d Eylau had jockeyed away. 
There was Senorita Lopez y Montez, sole 
child of the Chilean Croesus, whom Cambaceres had filched from his hand. 

These misadventures diminished the lustre of a title that, while obviously Second 
Empire, was yet a trifle heavy for one who 
has nothing, which, barring debts the float 
ing debt of the duchy and an assortment 
of vices the traditional vices of the French 
nobility constituted the sole possessions of 
this man, who was not bad looking. 

Malakoff had blue-black hair, blue-black 
eyes, a thin, straight nose, and a retreating 
chin, which a pointed beard concealed. With 
out being tall, he was not short, but, since the 
misadventures, perhaps out of training, for 
he had ceased to give in at the waist. He 
dressed less abominably than the majority 
of Frenchmen, got his clothes from London, 





and with them displayed an air of being surrounded by lackeys ready at a gesture from 
him to shut the door in anyone's face, that 
air of indisputable superiority which, at an 
earlier epoch, when the nobility had been 
divested of other insignia, persisted, and so 
exasperated that the one remedy for its ar 
rogance was the austere guillotine. 

Though seigneurial in appearance he 
could when it suited him unbend. On 
such occasions he was affable or merely canaille. 

Mrs. Kandy, who met him on the stalking ground which the American embassy is, 
thought him simply fascinating. To Sally, 
he was part of the landscape, and that not 
from any democratic disdain she had none, 
the New York girl never does have any 
but for the more intimate reason that in the 
neighbourhood of Fifth Avenue there was a 
man with laughing eyes, with whom she fancied herself in love. 



 

Sally, quoted currently at ten million 
francs, flattered MalakofFs eye. He had 
trained for more, but latterly he felt that he 
had trained in vain. 

Mrs. Kandy, who had trained also, but 
only in social values, for which she had a 
naive and inexact appreciation, encouraged 
him to make up to the girl, when she saw that 
he had no intention of making up to the girl's 
mamma, which he certainly would have, had 
he known the terms of Sam Kandy's will. 

He did not know, however, nor, at the 
moment, was there any one that could acquaint him with them, except Mrs. Kandy, 
who, in telling the truth, which she sometimes did, sometimes found it advantageous 
not to tell all of it. 

"And so you wish to have my little girl 
for your wife," she shrilly resumed, when, in 
the elaborate suite which she occupied at the 
Elysee Hotel, the formal and unleisurely 
demand had been made. 





"Partly that," he replied in the passable 
English which he had acquired in preparation for the Prix. "Partly that, but partly 
also, that I may have you for mother-in- 
law." 

No duke had ever talked in such a fashion 
to Mrs. Kandy. Barring the Duke of Kincardine, who, the previous winter, had 
lounged about New York, no duke had ever 
talked to her at all, and, as for Kincardine, 
he had, on meeting her, only said; "Hello," 
after which he had lounged away. MalakofF's treatment was at least more gracious, 
and graciousness to herself was Mrs. Kandy's forte. 

"If you are good to her, I shall feel that 
I can die in peace," remarked the lady, who, 
whatever happened, had no intention of 
doing anything of the kind. 

Malakoff, with equal sincerity, replied: 
"The dear angel, I will refuse her nothing." 

"Sally has a million dollars," Mrs. Kandy 



 

threw in, omitting, however, to fill it up with 
the fact that the million was for life. 

"Devilish thin," thought Malakoff, who 
thought, too, of backing out. But a million 
dollars spells five million francs, and that 
amount he doubted his ability to duplicate. 

"At my death," Mrs. Kandy added, with 
a candour which she afterward tearfully regretted, "Sally will have six million more." 

But the contingency, remote to him, lugubrious to her, neither chose to consider 
further, and presently, after Sally had been 
summoned, and the non-existent duchy had 
been placed at her feet, Malakoff took himself off. 

Not far, however, around the corner mere 
ly to the rue Galilee, where dwelled a Mme. 
Oppensheim who was his mistress, and who 
had supported him for years. 

Giselle Oppensheim, born de Beaupre, 
had been married into the high finance by her 
people, who were very noble, prodigiously 





proud, and equally poor. Giselle de Beaupre accepted Oppensheim for money in the 
same measure that he sought her for place. 
That was ten years before. Since then, 
Oppensheim had paid for his aspirations, 
and, from an Anglo-Saxon standpoint, 
perhaps most notably in Malakoff, with 
whom, none the less, he was on the best terms 
in the world and to whom not infrequently 
he complained when the third party of this 
unholy trinity became, as she often did 
become, particularly waspish. For the lady, 
imperious to Oppensheim, was wax in the 
hands of Malakoff, whom she loved with a 
love that was at once violent, sensual and 
tender. 

On this evening, after leaving the 
Kandys , he told her of his venture. 

"It is not the Peru," she swiftly summa 
rised, when he had cited the dower. "Enfin !" 
she consoling continued, "you might have 
done worse. Besides, in marrying an American, there can be no question of mesalliance." 

That sentiment her race dictated. Oddly, 
it had never reproached her with the left- 
handed mesalliance that she had contracted 
with this man, whose grandfather had been a 
cheesemonger. But love has its own extenuations. Moreover, while, from the stand 
point of the old nobility, Malakoff was no 
body, he yet managed to appear as though 
the spirit of that nobility were incarnated in 
him. 

"Tell me," Mme. Oppensheim continued. 
"In appearance is she better than I?" 

Is the lily fairer than the rose? Sally had 
the ephemeral charm of the former. She was 
a book bound in muslin, with all the pages 
blank. What time and fate would scrawl 
there, fate and time would tell. As yet they 
were white. As yet the girl was a lily. 
Mme. Oppensheim was the rose, large, 
colourful, majestic. 





At the question, Malakoff looked at her. 
Her eyes, like his own, were dark. There 
the resemblance ended. For while he was almost typically Latin, the fainter umber of 
her skin, and the rich orange of her hair, 
suggested an alien race. It had been said 
that she was the souvenir of a caprice which 
her mother had entertained for an Austrian 
prince, and as, at the question, Malakoff 
looked at her, he recalled the story. 

"Bah!" he replied. 

The exclamation sufficed. Besides, Mme. 
Oppensheim was otherwise assured. Be 
tween Malakoff and herself subsisted what 
is called the collage, that glueing of two natures together which is the result of a long 
liaison and which, when effected, is the strongest of life's fragile ties. The lady was, therefore, unvisited by any vulgar sense of jealousy. In addition, in spite of the collage, or 
more precisely, because of it, it was necessary 
that Malakoff should establish himself in a 



 

manner befitting his rank. The anterior 
misadventures of the steeplechase had disappointed her almost as thoroughly as they 
had him. 

"Very good," she resumed. "I will call 
on her to-morrow." 

Around the corner, meanwhile, the poetry 
of the engagement was also being discussed. 

"Of course, my dear," Mrs. Kandy remarked, "some mothers prefer Englishmen 
for their daughters, but where can they get 
a duke?" 

Meditatively Sally helped herself from a 
sac of bon-bons. "I don't see," she replied, 
"why they should want one at all." 

Mrs. Kandy waved her lorgnette. "That 
only shows how foolish you are. A duke 
makes a duchess, and wherever a duchess 
goes she is It." 

"And I don't love him." 

"On such a short acquaintance it would be 
most improper if you did. For that matter, 





when I married your father, I did not love 
him, either, but I admired him, and any girl 
can admire a duke." 

Sally shook her head. She was thinking 
of the man with laughing eyes. Thinking, 
too, of his attentions to Maud Barhyte, a 
New York girl whom she also knew, and 
whom she envied greatly. 

"I don't know," she answered at last. 

"But I do," retorted Mrs. Kandy. "Now 
ring for Perkins and go to bed." 

Sally did ring. A wooden-faced maid 
appeared. Later, when the woman was 
brushing the girl's hair, Sally said to 
her: 

"I am engaged to a duke." 

"Yes, mem." 

Had Sally said she was engaged to a baboon, the reply would have been the same. 
Perkins knew her business. It was not for 
her to manifest any interest in anything con 
cerning her employers. It was for her to 



 

attend to her duties. She did attend to them, 
and attended to them well. 

"But I will keep you, Perkins." 

"Thank you, mem." 

The brushing continued. Presently Perkins said: "If you please, mem, I m to be 
married too." 

In the mirror before her Sally looked at 
the woman in whose face there was not a 
vestige of expression. 

"His name is Arris, mem. He's butler 
and valet, mem, and been only in the best 



houses." 



"Harris!" Sally repeated. "Well, per 
haps, I may take him when I have a house 
of my own, but you will be Perkins just the 



same." 



"Thank you, mem." 

Such was Sally's wooing. The marriage 
was equally enchanting. 

Before it occurred, Malakoff, apprised by 
