a young woman in a gold necklace, a hatful of peaches and figs. When
I came back I found the young man holding open the door of the second
diligence, which had lately come up, and beckoning to me with a
despairing smile. The young man, I must note, was the most amiable of
Ticinese; though he wore no buttons he was attached to the diligence
in some amateurish capacity, and had an eye to the mail-bags and other
valuables in the boot. I grumbled at Berne over the want of soft curves
in the Swiss temperament; but the children of the tangled Tessin are
cast in the Italian mould. My friend had as many quips and cranks as a
Neapolitan; we walked together for an hour under the chestnuts, while
the coach was plodding up from Bellinzona, and he never stopped singing
till we reached a little wine-house where he got his mouth full of bread
and cheese. I looked into his open door, a la Sterne, and saw the young
woman sitting rigid and grim, staring over his head and with a great
pile of bread and butter in her lap. He had only informed her most
politely that she was to be transferred to another diligence and must do
him the favour to descend; but she evidently knew of but one way for
a respectable young insulary of her sex to receive the politeness of a
foreign adventurer guilty of an eye betraying latent pleasantry. Heaven
only knew what he was saying! I told her, and she gathered up her
parcels and emerged. A part of the day’s great pleasure perhaps was my
grave sense of being an instrument in the hands of the powers toward the
safe consignment of this young woman and her boxes. When once you have
really bent to the helpless you are caught; there is no such steel trap,
and it holds you fast. My rather grim Abigail was a neophyte in foreign
travel, though doubtless cunning enough at her trade, which I inferred
to be that of making up those prodigious chignons worn mainly by
English ladies. Her mistress had gone on a mule over the mountains to
Cadenabbia, and she herself was coming up with the wardrobe, two
big boxes and a bath-tub. I had played my part, under the powers,
at Bellinzona, and had interposed between the poor girl’s frightened
English and the dreadful Ticinese French of the functionaries in the
post-yard. At the custom-house on the Italian frontier I was of peculiar
service; there was a kind of fateful fascination in it. The wardrobe
was voluminous; I exchanged a paternal glance with my charge as
the douanier plunged his brown fists into it. Who was the lady at
Cadenabbia? What was she to me or I to her? She wouldn’t know, when she
rustled down to dinner next day, that it was I who had guided the frail
skiff of her public basis of vanity to port. So unseen but not unfelt do
we cross each other’s orbits. The skiff however may have foundered that
evening in sight of land. I disengaged the young woman from among her
fellow-travellers and placed her boxes on a hand-cart in the picturesque
streets of Como, within a stone’s throw of that lovely striped and toned
cathedral which has the facade of cameo medallions. I could only make
the facchino swear to take her to the steamboat. He too was a jovial
dog, but I hope he was polite with precautions.
1873.
ITALY REVISITED
I
I waited in Paris until after the elections for the new Chamber (they
took place on the 14th of October); as only after one had learned that
the famous attempt of Marshal MacMahon and his ministers to drive the
French nation to the polls like a flock of huddling sheep, each with the
white ticket of an official candidate round his neck, had not achieved
the success which the energy of the process might have promised--only
then it was possible to draw a long breath and deprive the republican
party of such support as might have been conveyed in one’s sympathetic
presence. Seriously speaking too, the weather had been enchanting--there
were Italian fancies to be gathered without leaving the banks of the
Seine. Day after day the air was filled with golden light, and even
those chalkish vistas of the Parisian beaux quartiers assumed the
iridescent tints of autumn. Autumn weather in Europe is often such
a very sorry affair that a fair-minded American will have it on his
conscience to call attention to a rainless and radiant October.
The echoes of the electoral strife kept me company for a while after
starting upon that abbreviated journey to Turin which, as you leave
Paris at night, in a train unprovided with encouragements to slumber, is
a singular mixture of the odious and the charming. The charming indeed
I think prevails; for the dark half of the journey is the least
interesting. The morning light ushers you into the romantic gorges
of the Jura, and after a big bowl of cafe au lait at Culoz you may
compose yourself comfortably for the climax of your spectacle. The day
before leaving Paris I met a French friend who had just returned from a
visit to a Tuscan country-seat where he had been watching the vintage.
“Italy,” he said, “is more lovely than words can tell, and France,
steeped in this electoral turmoil, seems no better than a bear-garden.”
 The part of the bear-garden through which you travel as you approach the
Mont Cenis seemed to me that day very beautiful. The autumn colouring,
thanks to the absence of rain, had been vivid and crisp, and the
vines that swung their low garlands between the mulberries round about
Chambery looked like long festoons of coral and amber. The frontier
station of Modane, on the further side of the Mont Cenis Tunnel, is
a very ill-regulated place; but even the most irritable of tourists,
meeting it on his way southward, will be disposed to consider it
good-naturedly. There is far too much bustling and scrambling, and the
facilities afforded you for the obligatory process of ripping open
your luggage before the officers of the Italian custom-house are
much scantier than should be; but for myself there is something that
deprecates irritation in the shabby green and grey uniforms of all the
Italian officials who stand loafing about and watching the northern
invaders scramble back into marching order. Wearing an administrative
uniform doesn’t necessarily spoil a man’s temper, as in France one is
sometimes led to believe; for these excellent under-paid Italians carry
theirs as lightly as possible, and their answers to your inquiries don’t
in the least bristle with rapiers, buttons and cockades. After leaving
Modane you slide straight downhill into the Italy of your desire; from
which point the road edges, after the grand manner, along those
It precipices that stand shoulder to shoulder, in a prodigious
perpendicular file, till they finally admit you to a distant glimpse he
ancient capital of Piedmont.
Turin is no city of a name to conjure with, and I pay an extravagant
tribute to subjective emotion in speaking of it as ancient, if the place
is less bravely peninsular than Florence and Rome, at least it is more
in the scenic tradition than New York Paris; and while I paced the great
arcades and looked at the fourth-rate shop windows I didn’t scruple to
cultivate a shameless optimism. Relatively speaking, Turin touches
a chord; but there is after all no reason in a large collection of
shabbily-stuccoed houses, disposed in a rigidly rectangular manner, for
passing a day of deep, still gaiety. The only reason, I am afraid, is
the old superstition of Italy--that property in the very look of the
written word, the evocation of a myriad images, that makes any lover of
the arts take Italian satisfactions on easier terms than any others. The
written word stands for something that eternally tricks us; we juggle
to our credulity even with such inferior apparatus as is offered to
our hand at Turin. I roamed all the morning under the tall porticoes,
thinking it sufficient joy to take note of the soft, warm air, of that
local colour of things that is at once so broken and so harmonious, and
of the comings and goings, the physiognomy and manners, of the excellent
Turinese. I had opened the old book again; the old charm was in the
style; I was in a more delightful world. I saw nothing surpassingly
beautiful or curious; but your true taster of the most seasoned of
dishes finds well-nigh the whole mixture in any mouthful. Above all on
the threshold of Italy he knows again the solid and perfectly definable
pleasure of finding himself among the traditions of the grand style in
architecture. It must be said that we have still to go there to
recover the sense of the domiciliary mass. In northern cities there are
beautiful houses, picturesque and curious houses; sculptured gables that
hang over the street, charming bay-windows, hooded doorways, elegant
proportions, a profusion of delicate ornament; but a good specimen of
an old Italian palazzo has a nobleness that is all its own. We laugh
at Italian “palaces,” at their peeling paint, their nudity, their
dreariness; but they have the great palatial quality--elevation and
extent. They make of smaller things the apparent abode of pigmies; they
round their great arches and interspace their huge windows with a proud
indifference to the cost of materials. These grand proportions--the
colossal basements, the doorways that seem meant for cathedrals, the far
away cornices--impart by contrast a humble and bourgeois expression
to interiors founded on the sacrifice of the whole to the part, and
in which the air of grandeur depends largely on the help of the
upholsterer. At Turin my first feeling was really one of renewed shame
for our meaner architectural manners. If the Italians at bottom despise
the rest of mankind and regard them as barbarians, disinherited of the
tradition of form, the idea proceeds largely, no doubt, from our
living in comparative mole-hills. They alone were really to build their
civilisation.
{Illustration: UNDER THE ARCADES, TURIN.}
An impression which on coming back to Italy I find even stronger than
when it was first received is that of the contrast between the fecundity
of the great artistic period and the vulgarity there of the genius of
to-day. The first few hours spent on Italian soil are sufficient to
renew it, and the question I allude to is, historically speaking, one of
the oddest. That the people who but three hundred years ago had the best
taste in the world should now have the worst; that having produced the
noblest, loveliest, costliest works, they should now be given up to the
manufacture of objects at once ugly and paltry; that the race of which
Michael Angelo and Raphael, Leonardo and Titian were characteristic
should have no other title to distinction than third-rate genre
pictures and catchpenny statues--all this is a frequent perplexity to
the observer of actual Italian life. The flower of “great” art in these
latter years ceased to bloom very powerfully anywhere; but nowhere
does it seem so drooping and withered as in the shadow of the immortal
embodiments of the old Italian genius. You go into a church or a gallery
and feast your fancy upon a splendid picture or an exquisite piece of
sculpture, and on issuing from the door that has admitted you to the
beautiful past are confronted with something that has the effect of a
very bad joke. The aspect of your lodging--the carpets, the curtains,
the upholstery in general, with their crude and violent colouring and
their vulgar material--the trumpery things in the shops, the extreme
bad taste of the dress of the women, the cheapness and baseness of every
attempt at decoration in the cafes and railway-stations, the hopeless
frivolity of everything that pretends to be a work of art--all this
modern crudity runs riot over the relics of the great period.
We can do a thing for the first time but once; it is but once for all
that we can have a pleasure in its freshness. This is a law not on the
whole, I think, to be regretted, for we sometimes learn to know things
better by not enjoying them too much. It is certain, however, at the
same time, that a visitor who has worked off the immediate ferment for
this inexhaustibly interesting country has by no means entirely drained
the cup. After thinking of Italy as historical and artistic it will
do him no great harm to think of her for a while as panting both for
a future and for a balance at the bank; aspirations supposedly much
at variance with the Byronic, the Ruskinian, the artistic, poetic,
aesthetic manner of considering our eternally attaching peninsula.
He may grant--I don’t say it is absolutely necessary--that its actual
aspects and economics are ugly, prosaic, provokingly out of relation
to the diary and the album; it is nevertheless true that, at the point
things have come to, modern Italy in a manner imposes herself. I hadn’t
been many hours in the country before that truth assailed me; and I may
add that, the first irritation past, I found myself able to accept it.
For, if we think, nothing is more easy to understand than an honest ire
on the part of the young Italy of to-day at being looked at by all the
world as a kind of soluble pigment. Young Italy, preoccupied with its
economical and political future, must be heartily tired of being admired
for its eyelashes and its pose. In one of Thackeray’s novels occurs
a mention of a young artist who sent to the Royal Academy a picture
representing “A Contadino dancing with a Trasteverina at the door of a
Locanda, to the music of a Pifferaro.” It is in this attitude and with
these conventional accessories that the world has hitherto seen fit to
represent young Italy, and one doesn’t wonder that if the youth has
any spirit he should at last begin to resent our insufferable aesthetic
patronage. He has established a line of tram-cars in Rome, from
the Porta del Popolo to the Ponte Molle, and it is on one of these
democratic vehicles that I seem to see him taking his triumphant course
down the vista of the future. I won’t pretend to rejoice with him any
more than I really do; I won’t pretend, as the sentimental tourists say
about it all, as if it were the setting of an intaglio or the border of
a Roman scarf, to “like” it. Like it or not, as we may, it is evidently
destined to be; I see a new Italy in the future which in many important
respects will equal, if not surpass, the most enterprising sections of
our native land. Perhaps by that time Chicago and San Francisco will
have acquired a pose, and their sons and daughters will dance at the
doors of locande.
However this may be, the accomplished schism between the old order and
the new is the promptest moral of a fresh visit to this ever-suggestive
part of the world. The old has become more and more a museum, preserved
and perpetuated in the midst of the new, but without any further
relation to it--it must be admitted indeed that such a relation is
considerable--than that of the stock on his shelves to the shopkeeper,
or of the Siren of the South to the showman who stands before his booth.
More than once, as we move about nowadays in the Italian cities,
there seems to pass before our eyes a vision of the coming years. It
represents to our satisfaction an Italy united and prosperous,
but altogether scientific and commercial. The Italy indeed that we
sentimentalise and romance about was an ardently mercantile country;
though I suppose it loved not its ledgers less, but its frescoes
and altar-pieces more. Scattered through this paradise regained of
trade--this country of a thousand ports--we see a large number of
beautiful buildings in which an endless series of dusky pictures are
darkening, dampening, fading, failing, through the years. By the doors
of the beautiful buildings are little turnstiles at which there sit
a great many uniformed men to whom the visitor pays a tenpenny fee.
Inside, in the vaulted and frescoed chambers, the art of Italy lies
buried as in a thousand mausoleums. It is well taken care of; it is
constantly copied; sometimes it is “restored”--as in the case of that
beautiful boy-figure of Andrea del Sarto at Florence, which may be seen
at the gallery of the Uffizi with its honourable duskiness quite peeled
off and heaven knows what raw, bleeding cuticle laid bare. One evening
lately, near the same Florence, in the soft twilight, I took a stroll
among those encircling hills on which the massive villas are mingled
with the vaporous olives. Presently I arrived where three roads met at a
wayside shrine, in which, before some pious daub of an old-time Madonna,
a little votive lamp glimmered through the evening air. The hour,
the atmosphere, the place, the twinkling taper, the sentiment of the
observer, the thought that some one had been rescued here from an
assassin or from some other peril and had set up a little grateful altar
in consequence, against the yellow-plastered wall of a tangled podere;
all this led me to approach the shrine with a reverent, an emotional
step. I drew near it, but after a few steps I paused. I became aware of
an incongruous odour; it seemed to me that the evening air was charged
with a perfume which, although to a certain extent familiar, had not
hitherto associated itself with rustic frescoes and wayside altars. I
wondered, I gently sniffed, and the question so put left me no doubt.
The odour was that of petroleum; the votive taper was nourished with
the essence of Pennsylvania. I confess that I burst out laughing, and a
picturesque contadino, wending his homeward way in the dusk, stared at
me as if I were an iconoclast. He noticed the petroleum only, I imagine,
to snuff it fondly up; but to me the thing served as a symbol of the
Italy of the future. There is a horse-car from the Porta del Popolo to
the Ponte Molle, and the Tuscan shrines are fed with kerosene.
II
If it’s very well meanwhile to come to Turin first it’s better still to
go to Genoa afterwards. Genoa is the tightest topographic tangle in the
world, which even a second visit helps you little to straighten out. In
the wonderful crooked, twisting, climbing, soaring, burrowing Genoese
alleys the traveller is really up to his neck in the old Italian
sketchability. The pride of the place, I believe, is a port of great
capacity, and the bequest of the late Duke of Galliera, who left four
millions of dollars for the purpose of improving and enlarging it, will
doubtless do much toward converting it into one of the great commercial
stations of Europe. But as, after leaving my hotel the afternoon I
arrived, I wandered for a long time at hazard through the tortuous
by-ways of the city, I said to myself, not without an accent of private
triumph, that here at last was something it would be almost impossible
to modernise. I had found my hotel, in the first place, extremely
entertaining--the Croce di Malta, as it is called, established in a
gigantic palace on the edge of the swarming and not over-clean harbour.
It was the biggest house I had ever entered--the basement alone would
have contained a dozen American caravansaries. I met an American
gentleman in the vestibule who (as he had indeed a perfect right to be)
was annoyed by its troublesome dimensions--one was a quarter of an hour
ascending out of the basement--and desired to know if it were a “fair
sample” of the Genoese inns. It appeared an excellent specimen of
Genoese architecture generally; so far as I observed there were few
houses perceptibly smaller than this Titanic tavern. I lunched in a
dusky ballroom whose ceiling was vaulted, frescoed and gilded with the
fatal facility of a couple of centuries ago, and which looked out upon
another ancient housefront, equally huge and equally battered, separated
from it only by a little wedge of dusky space--one of the principal
streets, I believe, of Genoa--whence out of dim abysses the population
sent up to the windows (I had to crane out very far to see it) a
perpetual clattering, shuffling, chaffering sound. Issuing forth
presently into this crevice of a street I found myself up to my neck
in that element of the rich and strange--as to visible and reproducible
“effect,” I mean--for the love of which one revisits Italy. It offered
itself indeed in a variety of colours, some of which were not remarkable
for their freshness or purity. But their combined charm was not to be
resisted, and the picture glowed with the rankly human side of southern
lowlife.
Genoa, as I have hinted, is the crookedest and most incoherent of
cities; tossed about on the sides and crests of a dozen hills, it is
seamed with gullies and ravines that bristle with those innumerable
palaces for which we have heard from our earliest years that the place
is celebrated. These great structures, with their mottled and faded
complexions, lift their big ornamental cornices to a tremendous height
in the air, where, in a certain indescribably forlorn and desolate
fashion, overtopping each other, they seem to reflect the twinkle and
glitter of the warm Mediterranean. Down about the basements, in the
close crepuscular alleys, the people are for ever moving to and fro or
standing in their cavernous doorways and their dusky, crowded shops,
calling, chattering, laughing, lamenting, living their lives in the
conversational Italian fashion. I had for a long time had no such
vision of possible social pressure. I hadn’t for a long time seen people
elbowing each other so closely or swarming so thickly out of populous
hives. A traveller is often moved to ask himself whether it has been
worth while to leave his home--whatever his home may have been--only to
encounter new forms of human suffering, only to be reminded that toil
and privation, hunger and sorrow and sordid effort, are the portion of
the mass of mankind. To travel is, as it were, to go to the play, to
attend a spectacle; and there is something heartless in stepping forth
into foreign streets to feast on “character” when character consists
simply of the slightly different costume in which labour and want
present themselves. These reflections were forced upon me as I strolled
as through a twilight patched with colour and charged with stale smells;
but after a time they ceased to bear me company. The reason of this, I
think, is because--at least to foreign eyes--the sum of Italian misery
is, on the whole, less than the sum of the Italian knowledge of life.
That people should thank you, with a smile of striking sweetness, for
the gift of twopence, is a proof, certainly, of extreme and constant
destitution; but (keeping in mind the sweetness) it also attests an
enviable ability not to be depressed by circumstances. I know that this
may possibly be great nonsense; that half the time we are acclaiming
the fine quality of the Italian smile the creature so constituted for
physiognomic radiance may be in a sullen frenzy of impatience and pain.
Our observation in any foreign land is extremely superficial, and our
remarks are happily not addressed to the inhabitants themselves, who
would be sure to exclaim upon the impudence of the fancy-picture.
The other day I visited a very picturesque old city upon a mountain-top,
where, in the course of my wanderings, I arrived at an old disused gate
in the ancient town-wall. The gate hadn’t been absolutely forfeited;
but the recent completion of a modern road down the mountain led most
vehicles away to another egress. The grass-grown pavement, which wound
into the plain by a hundred graceful twists and plunges, was now given
up to ragged contadini and their donkeys, and to such wayfarers as were
not alarmed at the disrepair into which it had fallen. I stood in the
shadow of the tall old gateway admiring the scene, looking to right and
left at the wonderful walls of the little town, perched on the edge of
a shaggy precipice; at the circling mountains over against them; at the
road dipping downward among the chestnuts and olives. There was no one
within sight but a young man who slowly trudged upward with his coat
slung over his shoulder and his hat upon his ear in the manner of a
cavalier in an opera. Like an operatic performer too he sang as he came;
the spectacle, generally, was operatic, and as his vocal flourishes
reached my ear I said to myself that in Italy accident was always
romantic and that such a figure had been exactly what was wanted to set
off the landscape. It suggested in a high degree that knowledge of life
for which I just now commended the Italians. I was turning back under
the old gateway when the young man overtook me and, suspending his song,
asked me if I could favour him with a match to light the hoarded remnant
of a cigar. This request led, as I took my way again to the inn, to my
falling into talk with him. He was a native of the ancient city, and
answered freely all my inquiries as to its manners and customs and
its note of public opinion. But the point of my anecdote is that he
presently acknowledged himself a brooding young radical and communist,
filled with hatred of the present Italian government, raging with
discontent and crude political passion, professing a ridiculous hope
that Italy would soon have, as France had had, her “‘89,” and declaring
that he for his part would willingly lend a hand to chop off the
heads of the king and the royal family. He was an unhappy, underfed,
unemployed young man, who took a hard, grim view of everything and was
operatic only quite in spite of himself. This made it very absurd of me
to have looked at him simply as a graceful ornament to the prospect,
an harmonious little figure in the middle distance. “Damn the prospect,
damn the middle distance!” would have been all his philosophy. Yet but
for the accident of my having gossipped with him I should have made him
do service, in memory, as an example of sensuous optimism!
I am bound to say however that I believe a great deal of the sensuous
optimism observable in the Genoese alleys and beneath the low, crowded
arcades along the port was very real. Here every one was magnificently
sunburnt, and there were plenty of those queer types, mahogany-coloured,
bare-chested mariners with earrings and crimson girdles, that seem to
people a southern seaport with the chorus of “Masaniello.” But it is not
fair to speak as if at Genoa there were nothing but low-life to be seen,
for the place is the residence of some of the grandest people in the
world. Nor are all the palaces ranged upon dusky alleys; the handsomest
and most impressive form a splendid series on each side of a couple
of very proper streets, in which there is plenty of room for a
coach-and-four to approach the big doorways. Many of these doorways
are open, revealing great marble staircases with couchant lions for
balustrades and ceremonious courts surrounded by walls of sun-softened
yellow. One of the great piles in the array is coloured a goodly red and
contains in particular the grand people I just now spoke of. They
live indeed on the third floor; but here they have suites of wonderful
painted and gilded chambers, in which foreshortened frescoes also cover
the vaulted ceilings and florid mouldings emboss the ample walls. These
distinguished tenants bear the name of Vandyck, though they are members
of the noble family of Brignole-Sale, one of whose children--the Duchess
of Galliera--has lately given proof of nobleness in presenting the
gallery of the red palace to the city of Genoa.
III
On leaving Genoa I repaired to Spezia, chiefly with a view of
accomplishing a sentimental pilgrimage, which I in fact achieved in the
most agreeable conditions. The Gulf of Spezia is now the headquarters
of the Italian fleet, and there were several big iron-plated frigates
riding at anchor in front of the town. The streets were filled with lads
in blue flannel, who were receiving instruction at a schoolship in the
harbour, and in the evening--there was a brilliant moon--the little
breakwater which stretched out into the Mediterranean offered a scene of
recreation to innumerable such persons. But this fact is from the point
of view of the cherisher of quaintness of little account, for since it
has become prosperous Spezia has grown ugly. The place is filled with
long, dull stretches of dead wall and great raw expanses of artificial
land. It wears that look of monstrous, of more than far-western newness
which distinguishes all the creations of the young Italian State. Nor
did I find any great compensation in an immense inn of recent birth,
an establishment seated on the edge of the sea in anticipation of a
passeggiata which is to come that way some five years hence, the
region being in the meantime of the most primitive formation. The inn
was filled with grave English people who looked respectable and
bored, and there was of course a Church of England service in the
gaudily-frescoed parlour. Neither was it the drive to Porto Venere that
chiefly pleased me--a drive among vines and olives, over the hills
and beside the Mediterranean, to a queer little crumbling village on a
headland, as sweetly desolate and superannuated as the name it bears.
There is a ruined church near the village, which occupies the site
(according to tradition) of an ancient temple of Venus; and if Venus ever
revisits her desecrated shrines she must sometimes pause a moment in
that sunny stillness and listen to the murmur of the tideless sea at
the base of the narrow promontory. If Venus sometimes comes there Apollo
surely does as much; for close to the temple is a gateway surmounted by
an inscription in Italian and English, which admits you to a curious,
and it must be confessed rather cockneyfied, cave among the rocks. It
was here, says the inscription, that the great Byron, swimmer and poet,
“defied the waves of the Ligurian sea.” The fact is interesting, though
not supremely so; for Byron was always defying something, and if a slab
had been put up wherever this performance came off these commemorative
tablets would be in many parts of Europe as thick as milestones.
No; the great merit of Spezia, to my eye, is that I engaged a boat there
of a lovely October afternoon and had myself rowed across the gulf--it
took about an hour and a half--to the little bay of Lerici, which opens
out of it. This bay of Lerici is charming; the bosky grey-green hills
close it in, and on either side of the entrance, perched on a bold
headland, a wonderful old crumbling castle keeps ineffectual guard. The
place is classic to all English travellers, for in the middle of the
curving shore is the now desolate little villa in which Shelley spent
the last months of his short life. He was living at Lerici when he
started on that short southern cruise from which he never returned. The
house he occupied is strangely shabby and as sad as you may choose to
find it. It stands directly upon the beach, with scarred and battered
walls and a loggia of several arches opening to a little terrace with
a rugged parapet, which, when the wind blows, must be drenched with
the salt spray. The place is very lonely--all overwearied with sun and
breeze and brine--very close to nature, as it was Shelley’s passion
to be. I can fancy a great lyric poet sitting on the terrace of a warm
evening and feeling very far from England in the early years of the
century. In that place, and with his genius, he would as a matter of
course have heard in the voice of nature a sweetness which only the
lyric movement could translate. It is a place where an English-speaking
pilgrim himself may very honestly think thoughts and feel moved to lyric
utterance. But I must content myself with saying in halting prose that
I remember few episodes of Italian travel more sympathetic, as they have
it here, than that perfect autumn afternoon; the half-hour’s station on
the little battered terrace of the villa; the climb to the singularly
felicitous old castle that hangs above Lerici; the meditative lounge, in
the fading light, on the vine-decked platform that looked out toward the
sunset and the darkening mountains and, far below, upon the quiet sea,
beyond which the pale-faced tragic villa stared up at the brightening
moon.
IV
I had never known Florence more herself, or in other words more
attaching, than I found her for a week in that brilliant October.
She sat in the sunshine beside her yellow river like the little
treasure-city she has always seemed, without commerce, without other
industry than the manufacture of mosaic paper-weights and alabaster
Cupids, without actuality or energy or earnestness or any of those
rugged virtues which in most cases are deemed indispensable for civic
cohesion; with nothing but the little unaugmented stock of her mediaeval
memories, her tender-coloured mountains, her churches and palaces,
pictures and statues. There were very few strangers; one’s detested
fellow-pilgrim was infrequent; the native population itself seemed
scanty; the sound of wheels in the streets was but occasional; by eight
o’clock at night, apparently, every one had gone to bed, and the
musing wanderer, still wandering and still musing, had the place to
himself--had the thick shadow-masses of the great palaces, and the
shafts of moonlight striking the polygonal paving-stones, and the empty
bridges, and the silvered yellow of the Arno, and the stillness broken
only by a homeward step, a step accompanied by a snatch of song from a
warm Italian voice. My room at the inn looked out on the river and was
flooded all day with sunshine. There was an absurd orange-coloured
paper on the walls; the Arno, of a hue not altogether different, flowed
beneath; and on the other side of it rose a line of sallow houses, of
extreme antiquity, crumbling and mouldering, bulging and protruding over
the stream. (I seem to speak of their fronts; but what I saw was their
shabby backs, which were exposed to the cheerful flicker of the river,
while the fronts stood for ever in the deep damp shadow of a narrow
mediaeval street.) All this brightness and yellowness was a perpetual
delight; it was a part of that indefinably charming colour which
Florence always seems to wear as you look up and down at it from
the river, and from the bridges and quays. This is a kind of grave
radiance--a harmony of high tints--which I scarce know how to describe.
There are yellow walls and green blinds and red roofs, there are
