revelation. " I see," he said, again and again — 
"I see I" 
" It is the law of life," said the professor. 
" No one can escape from it." 
" And then," said Samuel, " when we try to 
change things — when we give out charity, for in- 
stance — we are working against Nature, and we 
really make things worse." 
" That is it," replied the other. 
And Samuel gave a great sigh. How very 
simple was the problem, when one had seen it 
in the light of science. Here he had been worry- 
ing and tormenting his brain about the matter; 
and all the time he was in the hands of Nature — 
and all he had to do was to lie back and let Na- 
ture solve it. " Nature never makes mistakes," 
said Professor Stewart. 
Of course, in this new light Samuel's own case 
became plain. " Those who are out of work are 
those who have failed in the struggle," he said. 
" Precisely," said the professor. 
" And that is because they are unfit." 
" Precisely," said the professor again. " As 
Herbert Spencer has phrased it, ' Inability to 
catch prey must be regarded as a falling short of 
conduct from its ideal.' And, of course, in an 
industrial community, the ' prey ' is a job." 
" Who is Herbert Spencer? " asked Samuel. 
" He is recognized as the authority in such mat- 
ters," said the other. 
"And then," pondered Samuel, "those who 
have jobs must be the fit. And the very rich 
people — the ones who make the millions and mill- 
ions — they are the fittest of all." 
Er — yes," said the professor. 
" And, of course, that makes my problem clear 
— I'm out of a job, and so I must die." 
The professor gazed at Samuel sharply. But 
it was impossible to mistake the boy's open-eyed 
sincerity. He had no thought about himself — 
he was discovering the laws of life. 
" I'm so glad you explained it to me," he went 
on. " But all these thousands of men who are 
starving to death — they ought to be told it, too." 
" What good would it do? " asked the other. 
" Why, they ought to imderstand. They suf- 
fer, and it seems to them purposeless and stupid. 
But if you were to explain to them that they are 
being sacrificed for the benefit of the race — don't 
you see what a diflPerence it would make? " 
" I don't beheve they would take the sugges- 
tion kindly," said the professor with a faint at- 
tempt to smile. 
" But why not? " asked Samuel. 
" Wouldn't it sound rather hypocritical, so 
to speak — coming from a man who had suc- 
ceeded? " 
" Not at all I You have a right to your success, 
haven't you? " 
" I hope so." 
" You have a job " — began Samuel and then 
hesitated. " I don't know how a professor comes 
to get his job," he said. " But I suppose that the 
men wHo make the great f ortimes — the ones who 
are wisest and best of all — they give the money 
for the colleges, don't they? " 
" Yes," said Professor Stewart. 
" And then," said Samuel, " I suppose it is 
they who have chosen you? " 
Again the professor darted a suspicious glance 
at his questioner. " Er — one might put it that 
way," he said. 
" Well, then, that is your right to teach ; and 
you could explain it. Then you could say to these 
men: ' There are too many of you; you aren't 
needed; and you must be removed.' " 
But the professor only shook his head. " It 
wouldn't do," he said. And Samuel, pondering 
and seeking as ever, came to a sudden comprehen- 
sion. 
" I see," he exclaimed. " What is needed is 
action I" 
"Action?" 
" Yes — it's for us who are beaten to teach it; 
and to teach it in our hves. It's a sort of revival 
that is needed, you see," 
" But I don't see the need," laughed the other, 
interested in spite of himself. 
" That's because you aren't one of us ! " cried 
Samuel vehemently. " Nobody else can under- 
stand — nobody! It's easy to be one of the suc- 
cesses of life. You have a comfortable home and 
plenty to eat and all. But when you've failed 
— when you're down and out — then you have to 
bear hunger and cold and sickness. And there is 
grief and fear and despair — you can have no idea 
of it! Why, I've met a little girl in this town. 
She works in the cotton mill, and it's just killed 
her by inches, body and soul. And even so, she 
can only get half a day's work; and the mother is 
trying to support the little children by sewing — 
and they're all just dying of slow starvation. 
This very morning they asked me to stay to 
breakfast, and I refused, because I knew they had 
only some bread and a few potatoes, and it wasn't 
enough for one person. You see, it's so slow — 
it's such a terribly long process — this starving 
people off by inches. And keeping them always 
tormented by hope. Don't you see. Professor 
Stewart? And just because you don't come out 
honestly and teach them the truth. Because you 
won't say to them: ' The world is too full; and 
you've got to get out of the way, so as to give us 
a chance.' Why, look, sir — you defeat your own 
purposes! These people stay, and they keep on 
having more children, and everything gets worse 
instead of better; and they have diseases and vices 
— they ruin the whole world. What's the use of 
having a world if it's got to be like this town — 
crowded with hovels full of dirty people, and sick 
people, and starving and miserable people? I 
can't see how you who live up here on the heights 
can enjoy yourselves while such things con- 
tinue." 
" Um — no," said Professor Stewart; and he 
gazed at Samuel with knitted brows — unable, for 
the hfe of him, to feel certain whether he ought 
to feel amused, or to feel touched, or to feel out- 
raged. 
As for Samuel, he realized that he was through 
with the professor. The professor had taught 
him all that he had to teach. He did not really 
understand this matter at all — that was because 
he belonged to the other world, the world of suc- 
cessful and fit people. They had their own prob- 
lems to solve, no doubt ! 
This non-comprehension was made quite clear 
by the professor's next remark. " I'm sorry to 
have disappointed you," he said. " If a little 
money will help you " 
" No," said the other qmckly. " You mustn't 
offer me money. How can that be right? That 
would be charity." 
"Ahem I" said the professor. "Yes. But 
then — you mentioned that you hadn't had any 
breakfast. Hadn't you better go into the kitchen 
and let them give you something? " 
" But what is the use of putting things off? " 
cried Samuel wildly. " If I'm going to preach 
this new idea, I've got to begin." 
" But you can't preach very long on an empty 
stomach," objected the other. 
To which Samuel answered, " The preaching 
has to be by deeds." 
And so he took his departure; and Professor 
Stewart turned back to his work-table, upon 
which lay the bulky manuscript of his monumen- 
tal work, which was entitled : " Methods of Re- 
hef ; A Theory and a Programme." Some pages 
lay before him; the top one was headed: " Chap- 
ter LXIII — Unemployment and Social Respon- 
sibility." And Professor Stewart sat before 
this title, and stared, and stared. 
CHAPTER VIII 
SAMUEL meantime was walking down the 
broad macadam avenue debating his prob- 
lem. The first glow of excitement was over, and 
he was finding difficulties. The theory still held ; 
but in the carrying out of it there were compli- 
cations. 
For one thing, it would be so hard to spread 
this doctrine. For if one tried to teach it by 
words, he seemed a hypocrite, as the professor 
had said; and on the other hand, if one simply 
practiced it, who would ever know? Suppose, 
for instance, that he starved to death during the 
next few days? That would be only one person 
removed, and apparently there were millions of 
the superfluous. 
The truth was that Samuel, in discussing the 
theory, had applied it only to himself. But now 
he pictured himself going home to tell Mrs. Sted- 
man that she must give up her futile eflFort, and 
take herself and her three children out of the 
way of the progress of the race. And he real- 
ized that he could never do it — he was not equal 
to the task. Doubtless, it was because he was 
one of the unfit. It would need some one who 
did not know them, some one who could ap- 
proach the matter from the purely scientific 
standpoint. 
Then there was another difficulty graver yet. 
Did not this doctrine really point to suicide? 
Would it not be the simplest solution of his prob- 
lem if he were to climb down to the river, and tie 
a stone about his neck, and jump in? Samuel 
wished that he had thought to ask the professor 
about this. For the idea frightened him; he 
had a distinct impression of having been taught 
that it was a dreadful sin to take one's own 
life. 
The trouble seemed to lie in the dull and vmro- 
mantic nature of the life about him. If only there 
had been some way to die nobly and heroically 
for the good of others. If only there was a war, 
for instance, and a call for men to perish on the 
ramparts ! Or a terrible pestilence, so that one 
covdd be a nurse ! But there was nothing at all 
but this slow starving to death — and while other 
people lived in plenty. Samuel thought of the 
chance of finding some work which involved 
grave peril to life or limb; but apparently even 
the danger posts were filled. The world did not 
need him, either in life or death! 
So there was nothing for it but the starving. 
Having eaten nothing that day, Samuel was 
ready to begin at once ; he tightened his belt and 
set his teeth for the grapple with the gaunt wolf 
of hunger. 
And so he strode on down the road, pining for 
a chance to sacrifice himself — and at the very 
hour that the greatest peril of his life was bearing 
down upon him. 
He had passed " Fairview," the great man- 
sion with the stately gates and the white piUars. 
He had passed beyond its vast grounds, and had 
got out into the open coxmtry. He was walking 
blindly — it made no great difference where he 
went. And then suddenly behind him there was 
a clatter of hoofs ; and he turned, and up the road 
he saw a cloud of dust, and in the midst of it a 
horse galloping furiously. Samuel stared ; there 
was some kind of a vehicle behind it, and there 
was a person in the vehicle. A single glance was 
enough for him to realize — it was a runaway! 
To Samuel the thing came as a miracle — it was 
an answer to his prayer. And it found him ready. 
The chance was offered him, and he would not 
fail — not he! He did not falter for a second. 
He knew just what he had to do, and he was 
ready — resolute, and alert, and tense. 
He moved into the center of the road. The 
horse came on, galloping at top speed; it was a 
blooded horse, swift and frantic with fear, and 
terrible to see. Samuel spread out his arms ; and 
then in a flash the creatiu:e was upon him. 
It swerved to pass him; and the boy wheeled, 
leaped swiftly, and flung himself at the bridle. 
He caught it; his arms were wrenched, but he 
himg on, and jerked himself up. The horse fltmg 
him to one side ; but with a swift clutch, Samuel 
caught him by the nostrils with one hand, and 
gripped fast. Then he drew himself up close and 
hung grimly, his eyes shut, with a grasp hke 
death. 
And he was still hanging there when the run- 
away stopped, and the occupant leaped from the 
vehicle and rushed to help him. " My jGodI " he 
cried, " but that was nerve ! " 
He was a young fellow, white as a sheet and 
trembling in every muscle. " How did you do 
it? " he panted. 
" I just held on," said Samuel. 
" God, but I'm thankful to you ! " exclaimed 
the other. " You've saved my life ! " 
Samuel still clung to the horse, which was 
quivering with nervousness. 
" He'd never have got away from me, but one 
rein broke. See here! " — And he held up the end. 
" What started him? " asked Samuel. 
" Nothing," said the other — " a piece of paper, 
likely. He's a fool — always was." And he shook 
his fist in the horse's face, exclaiming, " By God, 
I'll tame you before I finish with you! " 
" Look out! " said Samuel. " You'll start him 
again! " And again he clutched the horse, which 
started to plunge. 
" I've got him now," said the other. " He'll 
quiet down." 
"Hold fast," Samuel continued; and then he 
put his hand to his forehead, and swayed shghtly. 
" I — I'll have to sit down a moment, I'm afraid. 
I feel sort of dizzy." 
" Are you hurt? " cried the stranger anxiously. 
" 'No," he said — " no, but I haven't had any- 
thing to eat to-day, and I'm a little weak." 
" Nothing to eat! " cried the other. " What's 
the matter? " 
" Why, I've been out of a job." 
" Out of a job? Good heavens, man, have you 
been starving? " 
" Well," said Samuel with a wan smile, " I had 
begun to." 
He sat down by the roadside, and the other 
stared at him. " Do you live in Lockmanville? " 
he asked. 
" No, I just came here. I left my home in the 
coimtry to go to New York, and I was robbed 
and lost all my money. And I haven't been able 
to find anything to do, and I'd just about given 
up and got ready to die." 
" My God ! " cried the other in dismay. 
" Oh, it's all right," said Samuel. " I didn't 
mind." 
The stranger gazed at him in perplexity. And 
Samuel returned the gaze, being curious to see 
who it was he had rescued. It was a youth not 
more than a year or two older than himself. The 
color had now come back into his face, and Sam- 
uel thought that he was the most beautiful human 
being he had ever seen. He had a frank, open 
face, and laughing eyes, and golden hair like a 
girl's. He wore outing costume, a silk shirt and 
light flannels — things which Samuel had learned 
to associate with the possession of wealth and 
ease. Also, his horse was a thoroughbred; and 
with a rubber-tired runabout and a silver-mounted 
harness, the expensiveness of the rig was evident. 
Samuel was glad of this, because it meant that 
he had rescued some one of consequence — some 
one of the successful and fit people. 
" Just as soon as you're able, come hold the 
horse," said the stranger, " and then I'll fix this 
rein, and take you back and get you something 
to eat." 
"Oh, no!" said Samuel. "Don't bother. 
That's all right." 
" Hell, man I " cried the other. " Don't you 
suppose I'm going to do anything for you? " 
" Well, I hadn't thought — " began Samuel. 
" Cut it out! " exclaimed the other. " I'll set 
you up, and find you a job, and you can have a 
decent start." 
Find him a job! Samuel's heart gave a great 
throb. For a moment he hardly knew how to 
take this — how it would fit into his new philos- 
ophy. But surely it was all right for him to 
take a job. Yes, he had earned it. Even if some 
one else had to be turned out — even so, he had 
proven his fitness. He had won in the struggle. 
He had a place among the successful, and he 
could help Sophie and her mother. 
He got up with eagerness, and held the horse. 
" Do you think you can manage him? " he asked. 
" Oh, yes," said the other. " I'll chance it, any- 
how." 
And he leaped into the runabout and took the 
reins. " Now," he said; and Samuel got in, and 
they sped away, back toward town. 
" Don't say anything about this accident, 
please," said the young man suddenly. 
" I won't," said Samuel. 
" My friends are always teasing me because 
I drive horses," he explained. 
" Why not? " asked the other. 
"Well, everybody drives motors nowadays. 
But my father stood by horses, and I learned to 
be fond of them." 
" We never had but one horse on the farm," 
observed Samuel. " But I was fond of him." 
" What is your name? " inquired the stranger; 
and Samuel told him. Also he told him where 
he had come from and what had happened to him. 
He took particular pains to tell about the jail, 
because he did not want to deceive anyone. But 
his companion merely called it "an infernal out- 
rage." 
" Where were you going now? " he asked. 
" I'd just left Professor Stewart's," replied 
Samuel. 
"What! Old Stew? How do you come to 
know him? " 
" He was at the court. And he said he'd get 
me a job, and then he foimd he couldn't. Do 
you know him? " 
" Oh, yes, I had him at college, you know." 
" Oh, do you go to the college? " 
" I used to — till my father died. Then I quit. 
I hate study." 
Samuel was startled. " I suppose you don't 
need to," he said after a pause. 
" No," said the other. " My father thought 
the world of Old Stew," he added; " but he used 
to bore the hfe out of me. How'd you find him? " 
" Well," answered Samuel, " you see, I haven't 
had any of your advantages. I found what he 
told me very wonderful." 
" What did he tell you? " 
" Well, he explained to me how it was I was 
out of a job. There are too many people in the 
world, it seems, and I was one of the vmfit. I 
had failed in the struggle for existence, and so I 
had to be exterminated, he said." 
"The devil he did!" exclaimed the stranger. 
Samuel wished that the young man would not 
use so many improper words; but he presumed 
that wajs one of the privileges of the successful. 
" I was very grateful to him," he went on, " be- 
cause, you see, I hadn't understood what it meant. 
But when I realized it was for the good of the 
race, then I didn't mind any more." 
His companion stole a glance at him out of 
the corner of his eye. " Gee! " he said. 
" I had quite an argument with him. I wanted 
him to see that he ought to teach the people. 
There are thousands of people starving here in 
Lockmanville ; and would you want to starve 
without knowing the reason? " 
" No," said the other, " I don't think I should." 
And again he looked at his companion. 
But the conversation was interrupted there. 
For some time they had been passing the place 
with the ten-foot iron railing ; and now they came 
to the great stone entrance with the name " Fair- 
view " carved upon it. To Samuel's surprise 
they turned in. 
" Where are you going? " he asked. 
" Home," said the other. 
And Samuel started. " Do you live here? " he 
igasped. 
" Yes," was the reply. 
Samuel stared at the familiar driveway with 
the stately elms, and the lawns with the peacocks 
and lyre birds. " This is one of the places where 
I asked for work," he said. " They ordered me 
out." 
"The deuce they did!" exclaimed the other. 
" Well, they won't order you out now." 
There was a pause. " You haven't told me 
your name," put in Samuel suddenly. 
" I thought you'd guess," said the other with 
a laugh. 
"How could I?" 
" Why — don't you know what place this is? " 
" No," said Samuel. " What? " 
And his companion replied, " It's the Lock- 
man place." 
Samuel caught his breath and clutched at the 
seat. 
" The Lockman place! " he panted; and then 
again, " The Lockman place! " 
He stared ahead at the great building, with the 
broad porticos and the snow-white columns. He 
could hardly credit his ears. 
" I'm the old man's son," added the stranger 
genially. "Albert's my name. They call me 
Bertie." 
CHAPTER IX 
PROPERLY to understand the thrill which 
this revelation brought to Samuel, one 
would have to consider the state of his mind. 
With all the power of his being Samuel was seek- 
ing for excellence ; and a great and wise man had 
explained to him what were the signs by which 
this quality was known. And in the " struggle 
for existence " old Henry Lockman had succeed- 
ed more than any other man of whom Samuel 
had ever heard in his life. He owned these huge 
glass works, and many others all over the coun- 
try. He owned the trolley roads, and the gas 
works, and the water works; the place had been 
named after him, and the great college also. For 
many years he had even run the government of 
the town, so Finnegan had stated. And here was 
this huge estate, his home — a palace fit for a king. 
How great must have been the excellence of such 
a man! And what benefits he must have con- 
ferred upon the world, to have been rewarded 
with all this power and glory! 
And here was his son — a youth in aspect fitting 
perfectly to Samuel's vision; a very prince of 
the blood, yet genial and free-hearted — noblesse 
oblige! To him had descended these virtues and 
excellences — and all the estates and powers as 
the sign and symbol thereof. And now had come 
a poor ignorant coimtry boy, and it had fallen to 
his fortune to save the Ufe of this extraordinary 
being. And he was to have a chance to be near 
him, and to serve him — to see how he lived, and 
to find out the secret of his superior excellence. 
There was no snobbery in Samuel's attitude; he 
felt precisely as another and far greater Samuel 
had felt when his sovereign had condescended to 
praise his dictionary, and the tears of gratitude 
had started into his eyes. 
They drove up before the palace, and a groom 
came hurrying up. " Phillips," said young Lock- 
man, " look at that rein ! " 
The groom stared aghast. 
" Take it and show it to Sanderson," the other 
continued. " Ask him if I don't pay enough for 
my harness that he gets me stuff like that." 
" Yes, sir," said the groom. 
They ahghted and crossed the broad piazza, 
which was covered with easy chairs and tables 
and rugs. In the entrance hall stood a man in 
livery. 
" Peters," said the young man, " this is Samuel 
Prescott. I had some trouble with my horse and 
he helped me. He hasn't had anything to eat to- 
