voice.  He took the letters, turned around to look for his hat,
found it, and straightened up with a long, deep intake of breath.
"I think there is nothing more to be said between us, Colonel
Arran?"
"That lies with you."
Berkley passed a steady hand across his eyes.  "Then, sir, there
remain the ceremonies of my leave taking--" he stepped closer,
level-eyed--"and my very bitter hatred."
There was a pause.  Colonel Arran waited a moment, then struck the
bell:
"Larraway, Mr. Berkley has decided to go."
"Yes, sir."
"You will accompany Mr. Berkley to the door."
"Yes, sir."
"And hand to Mr. Berkley the outer key of this house."
"Yes, sir."
"And in case Mr. Berkley ever again desires to enter this house, he
is to be admitted, and his orders are to be obeyed by every servant
in it."
"Yes, sir."
Colonel Arran rose trembling.  He and Berkley looked at each other;
then both bowed; and the butler ushered out the younger man.
"Pardon--the latch-key, sir."
Berkley took it, examined it, handed it back.
"Return it to Colonel Arran with Mr. Berkley's
undying--compliments," he said, and went blindly out into the April
night, but his senses were swimming as though he were drunk.
Behind him the door of the house of Arran clanged.
Larraway stood stealthily peering through the side-lights; then
tiptoed toward the hallway and entered the dining-room with velvet
tread.
"Port or brandy, sir?" he whispered at Colonel Arran's elbow.
The Colonel shook his head.
"Nothing more.  Take that box to my study."
Later, seated at his study table before the open box, he heard
Larraway knock; and he quietly laid away the miniature of Berkley's
mother which had been lying in his steady palm for hours.
"Well?"
"Pardon.  Mr. Berkley's key, with Mr. Berkley's compliments, sir."
And he laid it upon the table by the box.
"Thank you.  That will be all."
"Thank you, sir.  Good night, sir."
"Good night."
The Colonel picked up the evening paper and opened it mechanically:
"By telegraph!" he read, "War inevitable.  Postscript!  Fort
Sumter!  It is now certain that the Government has decided to
reinforce Major Andersen's command at all hazards----"
The lines in the Evening Post blurred under his eyes; he passed
one broad, bony hand across them, straightened his shoulders, and,
setting the unlighted cigar firmly between his teeth, composed
himself to read.  But after a few minutes he had read enough.  He
dropped deeper into his arm-chair, groping for the miniature of
Berkley's mother.
As for Berkley, he was at last alone with his letters and his
keepsakes, in the lodgings which he inhabited--and now would
inhabit no more.  The letters lay still unopened before him on his
writing table; he stood looking at the miniatures and photographs,
all portraits of his mother, from girlhood onward.
One by one he took them up, examined them--touched them to his
lips, laid each away.  The letters he also laid away unopened; he
could not bear to read them now.
The French clock in his bedroom struck eight.  He closed and locked
his desk, stood looking at it blankly for a moment; then he squared
his shoulders.  An envelope lay open on the desk beside him.
"Oh--yes," he said aloud, but scarcely heard his own voice.
The envelope enclosed an invitation from one, Camilla Lent, to a
theatre party for that evening, and a dance afterward.
He had a vague idea that he had accepted.
The play was "The Seven Sisters" at Laura, Keene's Theatre.  The
dance was somewhere--probably at Delmonico's.  If he were going, it
was time he was afoot.
His eyes wandered from one familiar object to another; he moved
restlessly, and began to roam through the richly furnished rooms.
But to Berkley nothing in the world seemed familiar any longer; and
the strangeness of it, and the solitude were stupefying him.
When he became tired trying to think, he made the tour again in a
stupid sort of way, then rang for his servant, Burgess, and started
mechanically about his dressing.
Nothing any longer seemed real, not even pain.
He rang for Burgess again, but the fellow did not appear.  So he
dressed without aid.  And at last he was ready; and went out, drunk
with fatigue and the reaction from pain.
He did not afterward remember how he came to the theatre.
Presently he found himself in a lower tier box, talking to a Mrs.
Paige who, curiously, miraculously, resembled the girlish portraits
of his mother--or he imagined so--until he noticed that her hair
was yellow and her eyes blue.  And he laughed crazily to himself,
inwardly convulsed; and then his own voice sounded again, low,
humorous, caressingly modulated; and he listened to it, amused that
he was able to speak at all.
"And so you are the wonderful Ailsa Paige," he heard himself
repeating.  "Camilla wrote me that I must beware of my peace of
mind the moment I first set eyes on you----"
"Camilla Lent is supremely silly, Mr. Berkley----"
"Camilla is a sibyl.  This night my peace of mind departed for
ever."
"May I offer you a little of mine?"
"I may ask more than that of you?"
"You mean a dance?"
"More than one."
"How many?"
"All of them.  How many will you give me?"
"One.  Please look at the stage.  Isn't Laura Keene bewitching?"
"Your voice is."
"Such nonsense.  Besides, I'd rather hear what Laura Keene is
saying than listen to you."
"Do you mean it?"
"Incredible as it may sound, Mr. Berkley, I really do."
He dropped back in the box.  Camilla laid her painted fan across
his arm.
"Isn't Ailsa Paige the most enchanting creature you ever saw?  I
told you so!  Isn't she?"
"Except one.  I was looking at some pictures of her a half an hour
ago."
"She must be very beautiful," sighed Camilla.
"She was."
"Oh. . . . Is she dead?"
"Murdered."
Camilla looked at the stage in horrified silence.  Later she
touched him again on the arm, timidly.
"Are you not well, Mr. Berkley?"
"Perfectly.  Why?"
"You are so pale.  Do look at Ailsa Paige.  I am completely
enamoured of her.  Did you ever see such a lovely creature in all
your life?  And she is very young but very wise.  She knows useful
and charitable things--like nursing the sick, and dressing
injuries, and her own hats.  And she actually served a whole year
in the horrible city hospital!  Wasn't it brave of her!"
Berkley swayed forward to look at Ailsa Paige.  He began to be
tormented again by the feverish idea that she resembled the girl
pictures of his mother.  Nor could he rid himself of the fantastic
impression.  In the growing unreality of it all, in the distorted
outlines of a world gone topsy-turvy, amid the deadly blurr of
things material and mental, Ailsa Paige's face alone remained
strangely clear.  And, scarcely knowing what he was saying, he
leaned forward to her shoulder again.
"There was only one other like you," he said.  Mrs. Paige turned
slowly and looked at him, but the quiet rebuke in her eyes remained
unuttered.
"Be more genuine with me," she said gently.  "I am worth it, Mr.
Berkley."
Then, suddenly there seemed to run a pale flash through his brain,
"Yes," he said in an altered voice, "you are worth it. . . .  Don't
drive me away from you just yet."
"Drive you away?" in soft concern.  "I did not mean----"
"You will, some day.  But don't do it to-night." Then the quick,
feverish smile broke out.
"Do you need a servant?  I'm out of a place.  I can either cook,
clean silver, open the door, wash sidewalks, or wait on the table;
so you see I have every qualification."
Smilingly perplexed, she let her eyes rest on his pallid face for a
moment, then turned toward the stage again.
The "Seven Sisters" pursued its spectacular course; Ione Burke,
Polly Marshall, and Mrs. Vining were in the cast; tableau succeeded
tableau; "I wish I were in Dixie," was sung, and the popular
burlesque ended in the celebrated scene, "The Birth of the
Butterfly in the Bower of Ferns," with the entire company kissing
their finger-tips to a vociferous and satiated audience.
Then it was supper at Delmonico's, and a dance--and at last the
waltz promised him by Ailsa Paige.
Through the fixed unreality of things he saw her clearly, standing,
awaiting him, saw her sensitive face as she quietly laid her hand
on his--saw it suddenly alter as the light contact startled both.
Flushed, she looked up at him like a hurt child, conscious yet only
of the surprise.
Dazed, he stared back.  Neither spoke; his arm encircled her; both
seemed aware of that; then only of the swaying rhythm of the dance,
and of joined hands, and her waist imprisoned.  Only the fragrance
of her hair seemed real to him; and the long lashes resting on
curved cheeks, and the youth of her yielding to his embrace.
Neither spoke when it had ended.  She turned aside and stood
motionless a moment, resting against the stair rail as though to
steady herself.  Her small head was lowered.
He managed to say: "You will give me the next?"
"No."
"Then the next----"
"No," she said, not moving.
A young fellow came up eagerly, cocksure of her, but she shook her
head--and shook her head to all--and Berkley remained standing
beside her.  And at last her reluctant head turned slowly, and,
slowly, her gaze searched his.
"Shall we rest?" he said.
"Yes.  I am--tired."
Her dainty avalanche of skirts filled the stairs as she settled
there in silence; he at her feet, turned sideways so that he could
look up into the brooding, absent eyes.
And over them again--over the small space just then allotted them
in the world--was settling once more the intangible, indefinable
spell awakened by their first light contact.  Through its silence
hurried their pulses; through its significance her dazed young eyes
looked out into a haze where nothing stirred except a phantom
heart, beating, beating the reveille.  And the spell lay heavy on
them both.
"I shall bear your image always.  You know it."
She seemed scarcely to have heard him.
"There is no reason in what I say.  I know it.  Yet--I am destined
never to forget you."
She made no sign.
"Ailsa Paige," he said mechanically.
And after a long while, slowly, she looked down at him where he sat
at her feet, his dark eyes fixed on space.
CHAPTER II
All the morning she had been busy in the Craig's backyard garden,
clipping, training, loosening the earth around lilac, honeysuckle,
and Rose of Sharon.  The little German florist on the corner had
sent in two loads of richly fertilised soil and a barrel of forest
mould.  These she sweetened with lime, mixed in her small pan, and
applied judiciously to the peach-tree by the grape-arbour, to the
thickets of pearl-gray iris, to the beloved roses, prairie climber,
Baltimore bell, and General Jacqueminot.  A neighbour's cat,
war-scarred and bold, traversing the fences in search of single
combat, halted to watch her; an early bee, with no blossoms yet to
rummage, passed and repassed, buzzing distractedly.
The Craig's next-door neighbour, Camilla Lent, came out on her back
veranda and looked down with a sleepy nod of recognition and
good-morning, stretching her pretty arms luxuriously in the
sunshine.
"You look very sweet down there, Ailsa, in your pink gingham apron
and garden gloves."
"And you look very sweet up there, Camilla, in your muslin frock
and satin skin!  And every time you yawn you resemble a plump,
white magnolia bud opening just enough to show the pink inside!"
"It's mean to call me plump!" returned Camilla reproachfully.
"Anyway, anybody would yawn with the Captain keeping the entire
household awake all night.  I vow, I haven't slept one wink since
that wretched news from Charleston.  He thinks he's a battery of
horse artillery now; that's the very latest development; and I shed
tears and the chandeliers shed prisms every time he manoeuvres."
"The dear old thing," said Mrs. Paige, smiling as she moved among
the shrubs.  For a full minute her sensitive lips remained tenderly
curved as she stood considering the agricultural problems before
her.  Then she settled down again, naively--like a child on its
haunches--and continued to mix nourishment for the roses.
Camilla, lounging sideways on her own veranda window sill, rested
her head against the frame, alternately blinking down at the pretty
widow through sleepy eyes, and patting her lips to control the
persistent yawns that tormented her.
"I had a horrid dream, too," she said, "about the 'Seven Sisters.'
I was Pluto to your Diavoline, and Philip Berkley was a phantom
that grinned at everybody and rattled the bones; and I waked in a
dreadful fright to hear uncle's spurred boots overhead, and that
horrid noisy old sabre of his banging the best furniture.
"Then this morning just before sunrise he came into my bedroom,
hair and moustache on end, and in full uniform, and attempted to
read the Declaration of Independence to me--or maybe it was the
Constitution--I don't remember--but I began to cry, and that always
sends him off."
Ailsa's quick laugh and the tenderness of her expression were her
only comments upon the doings of Josiah Lent, lately captain,
United States dragoons.
Camilla yawned again, rose, and, arranging her spreading white
skirts, seated herself on her veranda steps in full sunshine.
"We did have a nice party, didn't we, Ailsa?" she said, leaning a
little sideways so that she could see over the fence and down into
the Craig's backyard garden.
"I had such a good time," responded Ailsa, looking up radiantly.
"So did I.  Billy Cortlandt is the most divine dancer.  Isn't
Evelyn Estcourt pretty?"
"She is growing up to be very beautiful some day.  Stephen paid her
a great deal of attention.  Did you notice it?"
"Really?  I didn't notice it," replied Camilla without enthusiasm.
"But," she added, "I did notice you and Phil Berkley on the
stairs.  It didn't take you long, did it?"
Ailsa's colour rose a trifle.
"We exchanged scarcely a dozen words," she observed sedately.
Camilla laughed.
"It didn't take you long," she repeated, "either of you.  It was
the swiftest case of fascination that I ever saw."
"You are absurd, Camilla."
"But isn't he perfectly fascinating?  I think he is the most
romantic-looking creature I ever saw.  However," she added, folding
her slender hands in resignation, "there is nothing else to him.
He's accustomed to being adored; there's no heart left in him.  I
think it's dead."
Mrs. Paige stood looking up at her, trowel hanging loosely in her
gloved hand.
"Did anything--kill it?" she asked carelessly.
"I don't think it ever lived very long.  Anyway there is something
missing in the man; something blank in him.  A girl's time is
wasted in wondering what is going on behind those adorable eyes of
his.  Because there is nothing going on--it's all on the
surface--the charm, the man's engaging ways and manners--all
surface. . . .  I thought I'd better tell you, Ailsa."
"There was no necessity," said Ailsa calmly.  "We scarcely
exchanged a dozen words."
As she spoke she became aware of a shape behind the veranda
windows, a man's upright figure passing and repassing.  And now, at
the open window, it suddenly emerged into full sunlight, a spare,
sinewy, active gentleman of fifty, hair and moustache thickly
white, a deep seam furrowing his forehead from the left ear to the
roots of the hair above the right temple.
The most engaging of smiles parted the young widow's lips.
"Good morning, Captain Lent," she cried gaily.  "You have neglected
me dreadfully of late."
The Captain came to a rigid salute.
"April eleventh, eighteen-sixty-one!" he said with clean-cut
precision.  "Good morning, Mrs. Paige!  How does your garden blow?
Blow--blow ye wintry winds!  Ahem!  How have the roses
wintered--the rose of yesterday?"
"Oh, I don't know, sir.  I am afraid my sister's roses have not
wintered very well.  I'm really a little worried about them."
"I am worried about nothing in Heaven, on Earth, or in Hell,"
said the Captain briskly.  "God's will is doing night and day, Mrs.
Paige.  Has your brother-in-law gone to business?"
"Oh, yes.  He and Stephen went at eight this morning."
"Is your sister-in-law well.  God bless her!" shouted the Captain.
"Uncle, you mustn't shout," remonstrated Camilla gently.
"I'm only exercising my voice,"--and to Ailsa:
"I neglect nothing, mental, physical, spiritual, that may be of the
slightest advantage to my country in the hour when every
respiration, every pulse beat, every waking thought shall belong to
the Government which I again shall have the honour of serving."
He bowed stiffly from the waist, to Ailsa, to his niece, turned
right about, and marched off into the house, his white moustache
bristling, his hair on end.
"Oh, dear," sighed Camilla patiently, "isn't it disheartening?"
"He is a dear," said Ailsa.  "I adore him."
"Yes--if he'd only sleep at night.  I am very selfish I suppose to
complain; he is so happy and so interested these days--only--I am
wondering--if there ever should be a war--would it break his poor
old heart if he couldn't go?  They'll never let him, you know."
Ailsa looked up, troubled:
"You mean--because!" she said in a low voice.
"Well I don't consider him anything more than delightfully
eccentric."
"Neither do I.  But all this is worrying me ill.  His heart is so
entirely wrapped up in it; he writes a letter to Washington every
day, and nobody ever replies.  Ailsa, it almost terrifies me to
think what might happen--and he be left out!"
"Nothing will happen.  The world is too civilised, dear."
"But the papers talk about nothing else!  And uncle takes every
paper in New York and Brooklyn, and he wants to have the editor of
the Herald arrested, and he is very anxious to hang the entire
staff of the Daily News.  It's all well enough to stand there
laughing, but I believe there'll be a war, and then my troubles
will begin!"
Ailsa, down on her knees again, dabbled thoughtfully in the soil,
exploring the masses of matted spider-wort for new shoots.
Camilla looked on, resignedly, her fingers playing with the
loosened masses of her glossy black hair.  Each was following in
silence the idle drift of thought which led Camilla back to her
birthday party.
"Twenty!" she said still more resignedly--"four years younger than
you are, Ailsa Paige!  Oh dear--and here I am, absolutely
unmarried.  That is not a very maidenly thought, I suppose, is it
Ailsa?"
"You always were a romantic child," observed Ailsa, digging
vigorously in the track of a vanishing May beetle.  But when she
disinterred him her heart failed her and she let him scramble away.
"There!  He'll probably chew up everything," she said.  "What a
sentimental goose I am!"
"The first trace of real sentiment I ever saw you display," began
Camilla reflectively, "was the night of my party."
Ailsa dug with energy.  "That is absurd!  And not even funny."
"You were sentimental!"
"I--well there is no use in answering you," concluded Ailsa.
"No, there isn't.  I've seen women look at men, and men look back
again--the way he did!"
"Dear, please don't say such things!"
"I'm going to say 'em," insisted Camilla with malicious
satisfaction.  "You've jeered at me because I'm tender-hearted
about men.  Now my chance has come!"
Ailsa began patiently: "There were scarcely a dozen words
spoken----"
Camilla, delighted, shook her dark curls.
"You've said that before," she laughed.  "Oh, you pretty minx!--you
and your dozen words!"
Ailsa Paige arose in wrath and stretched out a warning arm among
her leafless roses; but Camilla placed both hands on the fence top
and leaned swiftly down from the veranda steps,
"Forgive me, dear," she said penitently.  "I was only trying to
torment you.  Kiss me and make up.  I know you too well to believe
that you could care for a man of that kind."
Ailsa's face was very serious, but she lifted herself on tiptoe and
they exchanged an amicable salute across the fence.
After a moment she said: "What did you mean by 'a man of that
kind'?"
Camilla's shrug was expressive.  "There are stories about him."
Ailsa looked thoughtfully into space.  "Well you won't say such
things to me again, about any man--will you, dear?"
"You never minded them before.  You used to laugh."
"But this time," said Ailsa Paige, "it is not the least bit funny.
We scarcely exchanged----"
She checked herself, flushing with annoyance.  Camilla, leaning on
the garden fence, had suddenly buried her face in both arms.  In
feminine plumpness, when young, there is usually something left of
the schoolgirl giggler.
The pretty girl below remained disdainfully indifferent.  She dug,
she clipped, she explored, inhaling, with little thrills, the faint
mounting odour of forest loam and sappy stems.
"I really must go back to New York and start my own garden," she
said, not noticing Camilla's mischief.  "London Terrace will be
green in another week."
"How long do you stay with the Craigs, Ailsa?"
"Until the workmen finish painting my house and installing the new
plumbing.  Colonel Arran is good enough to look after it."
Camilla, her light head always ringing with gossip, watched Ailsa
curiously.
"It's odd," she observed, "that Colonel Arran and the Craigs never
exchange civilities."
"Mrs. Craig doesn't like him," said Ailsa simply.
"You do, don't you?"
"Naturally.  He was my guardian."
"My uncle likes him.  To me he has a hard face."
"He has a sad face," said Ailsa Paige.
CHAPTER III
Ailsa and her sister-in-law, Mrs. Craig, had been unusually
reticent over their embroidery that early afternoon, seated
together in the front room, which was now flooded with sunshine--an
attractive, intimate room, restful and pretty in spite of the
unlovely Victorian walnut furniture.
Through a sunny passageway they could look into Ailsa's
bedroom--formerly the children's nursery--where her maid sat sewing.
Outside the open windows, seen between breezy curtains, new buds
already clothed the great twisted ropes of pendant wistaria with a
silvery-green down.
The street was quiet under its leafless double row of trees, maple,
ailanthus, and catalpa; the old man who trudged his rounds
regularly every week was passing now with his muffled shout:
  Any old hats
  Old coats
  Old boots!
  Any old mats
  Old suits,
  Old flutes! Ca-ash!
And, leaning near to the sill, Ailsa saw him shuffling along,
green-baize bag bulging, a pyramid of stove-pipe hats crammed down
over his ears.
At intervals from somewhere in the neighbourhood sounded the
pleasant bell of the scissors grinder, and the not unmusical call
of "Glass put in!"  But it was really very tranquil there in the
sunshine of Fort Greene Place, stiller even for the fluted call of
an oriole aloft in the silver maple in front of the stoop.
He was a shy bird even though there were no imported sparrows to
drive this lovely native from the trees of a sleepy city; and he
sat very still in the top branches, clad in his gorgeous livery of
orange and black, and scarcely stirred save to slant his head and
peer doubtfully at last year's cocoons, which clung to the bark
like shreds of frosted cotton.
Very far away, from somewhere in the harbour, a deep sound jarred
the silence.  Ailsa raised her head, needle suspended, listened for
a moment, then resumed her embroidery with an unconscious sigh.
Her sister-in-law glanced sideways at her.
"I was thinking of Major Anderson, Celia," she said absently.
"So was I, dear.  And of those who must answer for his gove'nment's
madness,--God fo'give them."
There was no more said about the Major or his government.  After a
few moments Ailsa leaned back dreamily, her gaze wandering around
the sunny walls of the room.  In Ailsa Paige's eyes there was
always a gentle caress for homely things.  Just now they caressed
the pictures of "Night" and "Morning," hanging there in their round
gilt frames; the window boxes where hyacinths blossomed; the
English ivy festooned to frame the window beside her
sister-in-law's writing-desk; the melancholy engraving over the
fireplace--"The Motherless Bairn"--a commonplace picture which
harrowed her, but which nobody thought of discarding in a day when
even the commonplace was uncommon.
She smiled in amused reminiscence of the secret tears she had wept
over absurd things--of the funerals held for birds found dead--of
the "Three Grains of Corn" poem which, when a child, elicited from
her howls of anguish.
Little golden flashes of recollection lighted the idle path as her
thoughts wandered along hazy ways which led back to her own nursery
days; and she rested there, in memory, dreaming through the
stillness of the afternoon.
She missed the rattle and noise of New York.  It was a little too
tranquil in Fort Greene Place; yet, when she listened intently,
through the city's old-fashioned hush, very far away the voices of
the great seaport were always audible--a ceaseless harmony of river
whistles, ferry-boats signalling on the East River, ferry-boats on
the North River, perhaps some mellow, resonant blast from the bay,
where an ocean liner was heading for the Narrows.  Always the
street's stillness held that singing murmur, vibrant with deep
undertones from dock and river and the outer sea.
Strange spicy odours, too, sometimes floated inland from the sugar
wharves, miles away under the Heights, to mingle with the scent of
lilac and iris in quiet, sunny backyards where whitewashed fences
reflected the mid-day glare, and cats dozed in strategical
positions on grape trellis and tin roofs of extensions, prepared
for war or peace, as are all cats always, at all times.
"Celia!"
Celia Craig looked up tranquilly.
"Has anybody darned Paige's stockings?"
"No, she hasn't, Honey-bell.  Paige and Marye must keep their
stockings da'ned.  I never could do anything fo' myse'f, and I
won't have my daughters brought up he'pless."
Ailsa glanced humorously across at her sister-in-law.
"You sweet thing," she said, "you can do anything, and you know it!"
"But I don't like to do anything any mo' than I did befo' I had
to," laughed Celia Craig; and suddenly checked her mirth, listening
with her pretty close-set ears.
"That is the do'-bell," she remarked, "and I am not dressed."
"It's almost too early for anybody to call," said Ailsa tranquilly.
But she was wrong, and when, a moment later, the servant came to
announce Mr. Berkley, Ailsa regarded her sister-in-law in pink
consternation.
"I did not ask him," she said.  "We scarcely exchanged a dozen
words.  He merely said he'd like to call--on you--and now he's done
it, Celia!"
Mrs. Craig calmly instructed the servant to say that they were at
