points of the compass at the beck of your old magazine and syndicate.
I'm going to settle down and write a novel."
"Piffle!" growled the editor, dropping his lanky form into a chair.
"Thank goodness, they haven't swivel chairs in the club.  I've been
whirling round in one all day--a long, tall Scotch, please--but a
novel!  I say, piffle!"
"Piffle it may be, but I'm going to have a whack at it.  If I ever do
another article it will be as a millionaire's private secretary.  I
should like to study his methods for saving his money.  What is it this
time?"
"A dash to the North Pole."
"Never again north of Berlin or south of Assuan for mine.  No."
"Come, Fitz; a great chance."
"When you sent me to Manila I explored hell for you, but I've cooled
off considerably since then.  No ice for mine, except in silver
buckets."
"You've made a pretty good thing out of us; something like five
thousand a year and your expenses; and with the credentials we've
always given you, you have been able to see the world as few men see
it."
"That's just the trouble.  You've spoiled me."
"Well, you may take my word for it, you won't have the patience to sit
down at home here and write a hundred thousand words that mean
anything.  There's no reason why you can't do my work and write novels
on the side.  We both know a dozen fellows who are doing it.  We've got
to have this article, and you're the only man we dare trust alone on
it, if it will flatter you any to know it."
"Come, pussy, come!"
"If it's a question of more money--"
"Perish the thought!" cried Fitzgerald, clasping his knees and rocking
gently.  "You know as well as I do, Hewitt, that it's the game and not
the cash.  I've found a new love, my boy."
"Double harness?" with real anxiety.  Hewitt bit his scrubby mustache.
When a special correspondent married that was the end of him.
"There you go again!" warned the recalcitrant.  "If you don't stop
eating that mustache you'll have stomach trouble that no Scotch whisky
will ever cure.  The whole thing is in a nutshell," a sly humor
creeping into his eyes.  "I am tired of writing ephemeral things.  I
want to write something that will last."
"Write your epitaph, Jack," drawled a deep voice from the reading
table.  "That's the only sure way, and even that is no good if your
marble is spongy."
"Oh, Cathewe, this is not your funeral," retorted the editor.
"Perhaps not.  All the same, I'll be chief mourner if Jack takes up
novel writing.  Critics don't like novels, because any one can write an
average story; but it takes a genius to turn out first-class magazine
copy.  Anyhow, art becomes less and less particular every day.  The
only thing that never gains or loses is this London Times.  Someday
I'm going to match the Congressional Record and the Times for the
heavyweight championship of the world, with seven to one on the
Record, to weigh in at the ringside."
"You've been up north, Arthur," said Fitzgerald.  "What's your advice?"
"Don't do it.  You've often wondered how and where I lost these two
digits.  Up there."  The Times rattled, and Cathewe became absorbed
in the budget.
Arthur Cathewe was a tall, loose-limbed man, forty-two or three, rather
handsome, and a bit shy with most folk.  Rarely any one saw him outside
the club.  He had few intimates, but to these he was all that
friendship means, kindly, tender, loyal, generous, self-effacing.  And
Fitzgerald loved him best of all men.  It did not matter that there
were periods when they became separated for months at a time.  They
would some day turn up together in the same place.  "Why, hello,
Arthur!"  "Glad to see you, Jack!" and that was all that was necessary.
All the enthusiasm was down deep below.  Cathewe was always in funds;
Fitzgerald sometimes; but there was never any lending or borrowing
between them.  This will do much toward keeping friendship green.  The
elder man was a great hunter; he had been everywhere, north and south,
east and west.  He never fooled away his time at pigeons and traps; big
game, where the betting was even, where the animal had almost the same
chance as the man.  He could be tolerably humorous upon occasions.  The
solemn cast to his comely face predestined him for this talent.
"Well, Fitz, what are you going to do?"
"Hewitt, give me a chance.  I've been home but a week.  I'm not going
to dash to the Pole without having a ripping good time here first.
Will a month do?"
"Oh, the expedition doesn't leave for two months yet.  But we must sign
the contract a month beforehand."
"To-day is the first of June; I promise to telegraph you yes or no this
day month.  You have had me over in Europe eighteen months.  I'm tired
of trains, and boats, and mules.  I'm going fishing."
"Ah, bass!" murmured Cathewe from behind his journal.
"By the way, Hewitt," said Fitzgerald, "have you ever heard of a chap
called Karl Breitmann?"
"Yes," answered Hewitt.  "Never met him personally, though."
"I have," joined in Cathewe quietly.  He laid down the Times.  "What do
you know about him?"
"Met him in Paris last year.  Met him once before in Macedonia.  Dined
with me in Paris.  Amazing lot of adventures.  Rather down on his luck,
I should judge."
"Couple of scars on his left cheek and a bit of the scalp gone; German
student sort, rather good-looking, fine physique?"
"That's the man."
"I know him, but not very well."  And Cathewe fumbled among the other
newspapers.
"Dine with me to-night," urged Hewitt.
"I'll tell you what.  See that Italian over there with the statues?  I
am going to buy him out; and if I don't make a sale in half an hour,
I'll sign the dinner checks."
"Done!"
"I'll take half of that bet," said Cathewe, rising.  "It will be cheap."
Ten minutes later the two older men saw Fitzgerald hang the tray from
his shoulders and take his position on the corner.
"I love that chap, Hewitt; he is what I always wanted to be, but
couldn't be."  Cathewe pulled the drooping ends of his mustache.  "If
he should write a novel, I'm afraid for your sake that it will be a
good one.  Keep him busy.  Novel writing keeps a man indoors.  But
don't send him on any damn goose chase for the Pole."
"Why not?"
"Well, he might discover it.  But, honestly, it's so God-forsaken and
cold and useless.  I have hunted musk-ox, and I know something about
the place.  North Poling, as I call it, must be a man's natural bent;
otherwise you kill the best that's in him."
"Heaven on earth, will you look!  A policeman is arguing with him."
Hewitt shook with laughter.
"But I bought him out," protested Fitzgerald.  "There's no law to
prevent me selling these."
"Oh, I'm wise.  We want no horse-play on this corner; no joyful college
stunts," roughly.
Fitzgerald saw that frankness must be his card, so he played it.  "Look
here, do you see those two gentlemen in the window there?"
"The club?"
"Yes.  I made a wager that I could sell one of these statues in half an
hour.  If you force me off I'll lose a dinner."
"Well, I'll make a bargain with you.  You can stand here for half an
hour; but if you open your mouth to a woman, I'll run you in.  No
fooling; I'm talking straight.  I'm going to see what your game is."
"I agree."
So the policeman turned to his crossing and reassumed his authority
over traffic, all the while never losing sight of the impromptu vender.
Many pedestrians paused.  To see a well-dressed young man hawking
plaster Venuses was no ordinary sight.  They knew that some play was
going on, but, with that inveterate suspicion of the city pedestrian,
none of them stopped to speak or buy.  Some newsboys gathered round and
offered a few suggestions.  Fitzgerald gave them back in kind.  No
woman spoke, but there wasn't one who passed that didn't look at him
with more than ordinary curiosity.  He was enjoying it.  It reminded
him of the man who offered sovereigns for shillings, and never
exchanged a coin.
Once he turned to see if his friends were still watching him.  They
were, two among many; for the exploit had gone round, and there were
other wagers being laid on the result.  While his head was turned, and
his grin was directed at the club window, a handsome young woman in
blue came along.  She paused, touched her lips with her gloved hand
meditatingly, and then went right-about-face swiftly.  Some one in the
window motioned frantically to the vender, but he did not understand.
Ten minutes left in which to win his bet.  He hadn't made a very good
bargain.  Hm!  The young woman in blue was stopping.  Her exquisite
face was perfectly serious as her eyes ran over the collection on the
tray.  They were all done execrably, something Fitzgerald hadn't
noticed before.
"How much are these apiece?"
"Er--twenty-five cents, ma'am," he stammered.  As a matter of fact he
hadn't any idea what the current price list was.
"You seem very well dressed," doubtfully; "and you do not look hungry."
"I am doing this for charity's sake," finding his wits.  The policeman
hovered near, scowling.  He was powerless, since the young woman had
spoken first.
"Charity," in a half-articulated voice, as if the word to her possessed
many angles, and she was endeavoring to find the proper one to fit the
moment.
"What organization?"
A blank pause.  "My own, ma'am, of which I am the head."  There was no
levity in tone or expression.
By now every window in the club framed a dozen or more faces.
"I will take this Canova, I believe," she finally decided, opening her
purse and producing the necessary silver.  "Of course, it is quite
impossible to send this?"
"Yes, ma'am.  Sending it would eat up all the profits."  But, with
ill-concealed eagerness, "If you will leave your address I can send as
many as you like."
"I will do that."
Incredible as it seemed, neither face lost its repose; he dared not
smile, and the young woman did not care to.  There was something
familiar to his memory in the oval face, but this was no time for a
diligent search.
"Hey, miss," yelled one of the newsboys, "you're t'rowin' your money
away.  He's a fake; he ain't no statoo seller.  He's doing it for a
joke!"
Fitzgerald lost a little color, that was all.  But his customer ignored
the imputation.  She took out a card and laid it on the tray, and
without further ado went serenely on her way.  The policeman stepped
toward her as if to speak, but she turned her delicate head aside.  The
crowd engulfed her presently, and Fitzgerald picked up the card.  There
was neither name nor definite address on it.  It was a message, hastily
written; and it sent a thrill of delight and speculation to his
impressionable heart.  Still carrying the tray before him he hastened
over to the club, where there was something of an ovation.  Instead of
a dinner for three it became one for a dozen, and Fitzgerald passed the
statuettes round as souvenirs of the most unique bet of the year.
There were lively times.  Toward midnight, as Fitzgerald was going out
of the coat room, Cathewe spoke to him.
"What was her name, Jack?"
"Hanged if I know."
"She dropped a card on your tray."
Fitzgerald scrubbed his chin.  "There wasn't any name on it.  There was
an address and something more.  Now, wait a moment, Arthur; this is no
ordinary affair.  I would not show it to any one else.  Here, read it
yourself."
"Come to the house at the top of the hill, in Dalton, to-morrow night
at eight o'clock.  But do not come if you lack courage."
That was all.  Cathewe ran a finger, comb-fashion, through his
mustache.  He almost smiled.
"Where the deuce is Dalton?" Fitzgerald inquired.
"It is a little village on the New Jersey coast; not more than forty
houses, post-office, hotel, and general store; perhaps an hour out of
town."
"What would you do in my place?  It may be a joke, and then again it
may not.  She knew that I was a rank impostor."
"But she knew that a man must have a certain kind of daredevil courage
to play the game you played.  Well, you ask me what I should do in your
place.  I'd go."
"I shall.  It will double discount fishing.  And the more I think of
it, the more certain I become that she and I have met somewhere.
By-by!"
Cathewe lingered in the reading-room, pondering.  Here was a twist to
the wager he was rather unprepared for; and if the truth must be told,
he was far more perplexed than Fitzgerald.  He knew the girl, but he
did not know and could not imagine what purpose she had in aiding
Fitzgerald to win his wager or luring him out to an obscure village in
this detective-story manner.
"Well, I shall hear all about it from her father," he concluded.
And all in good time he did.
CHAPTER IV
PIRATES AND PRIVATE SECRETARIES
It was a little station made gloomy by a single light.  Once in so
often a fast train stopped, if properly flagged.  Fitzgerald, feeling
wholly unromantic, now that he had arrived, dropped his hand-bag on the
damp platform and took his bearings.  It was after sundown.  The sea,
but a few yards away, was a murmuring, heaving blackness, save where
here and there a wave broke.  The wind was chill, and there was the
hint of a storm coming down from the northeast.
"Any hotel in this place?" he asked of the ticket agent, the telegraph
operator, and the baggageman, who was pushing a crate of vegetables off
a truck.
"Swan's Hotel; only one."
"Do people sleep and eat there?"
"If they have good digestions."
"Much obliged."
"Whisky's no good, either."
"Thanks again.  This doesn't look much like a summer resort."
"Nobody ever said it was.  I beg your pardon, but would you mind taking
an end of this darned crate?"
"Not at all."  Fitzgerald was beginning to enjoy himself.  "Where do
you want it?"
"In here," indicating  the  baggage-room.  "Thanks.  Now, if there's
anything I can do to help you in return, let her go."
"Is there a house hereabouts called the top o' the hill?"
"Come over here," said the agent.  "See that hill back there, quarter
of a mile above the village; those three lights?  Well, that's it.
They usually have a carriage down here when they're expecting any one."
"Who owns it?"
"Old Admiral Killigrew.  Didn't you know it?"
"Oh, Admiral Killigrew; yes, of course.  I'm not a guest.  Just going
up there on business.  Worth about ten millions, isn't he?"
"That and more.  There's his yacht in the harbor.  Oh, he could burn up
the village, pay the insurance, and not even knock down the quality of
his cigars.  He's the best old chap out.  None of your red-faced,
yo-hoing, growling seadogs; just a kindly, generous old sailor, with
only one bee in his bonnet."
"What sort of bee?"
"Pirates!" in a ghostly whisper.
"Pirates?  Oh, say, now!" with a protest.
"Straight as a die.  He's got the finest library on piracy in the
world, everything from The Pirates of Penzance to The Life of
Morgan."
"But there's no pirate afloat these days."
"Not on the high seas, no.  It's just the old man's pastime.  Every so
often, he coals up the yacht, which is a seventeen-knotter, and goes
off to the South Seas, hunting for treasures."
"By George!" Fitzgerald whistled softly.  "Has he ever found any?"
"Not so much as a postage stamp, so far as I know.  Money's always been
in the family, and his Wall Street friends have shown him how to double
what he has, from time to time.  Just for the sport of the thing some
old fellows go in for crockery, some for pictures, and some for horses.
The admiral just hunts treasures.  Half-past six; you'll excuse me.
There'll be some train despatches in a minute."
Fitzgerald gave him a good cigar, took up his bag, and started off for
the main street; and once there he remembered with chagrin that he had
not asked the agent the most important thing of all: Had the admiral a
daughter?  Well, at eight o'clock he would learn all about that.
Pirates!  It would be as good as a play.  But where did he come in?
And why was courage necessary?  His interest found new life.
Swan's Hotel was one of those nondescript buildings of wood which are
not worth more than a three-line paragraph even when they burn down.
It was smelly.  The kitchen joined the dining-room, and the dining-room
the office, which was half a bar-room, with a few boxes of sawdust
mathematically arranged along the walls.  There were many like it up
and down the coast.  There were pictures on the walls of terrible
wrecks at sea, naval battles, and a race horse or two.
The landlord himself lifted Fitzgerald's bag to the counter.
"A room for the night and supper, right away."
"Here, Jimmy," called the landlord to a growing, lumbering boy, "take
this satchel up to number five."
The boy went his way, eying the labels respectfully and with some awe.
This was the third of its kind he had ported up-stairs in the past
twenty-four hours.
Fitzgerald cast an idle glance at the loungers.  There were half a
dozen of them, some of them playing cards and some displaying talent on
a pool table, badly worn and beer-stained.  There was nothing
distinctive about any of them, excepting the little man who was reading
an evening paper, and the only distinctive thing about him was a pair
of bright eyes.  Behind their gold-rimmed spectacles they did not waver
under Fitzgerald's scrutiny; so the latter dismissed the room and its
company from his mind and proceeded into dinner.  As he was late, he
dined alone on mildly warm chicken, greasy potatoes, and muddy coffee.
He was used often to worse fare than this, and no complaint was even
thought of.  After he had changed his linen he took the road to the
house at the top of the hill.  Now, then, what sort of an affair was
this going to be, such as would bend a girl of her bearing to speak to
him on the street?  Moreover, at a moment when he was playing a
grown-up child's game?  She had known that he was prevaricating when he
had stated that he represented a charitable organization; and he knew
that she knew he knew it.  What, then?  It could not be a joke; women
never rise to such extravagant heights.  Pirates and treasures; he
wouldn't have been surprised at all had Old Long John Silver hobbled
out from behind any one of those vine-grown fences, and demanded his
purse.
The street was dim, and more than once he stumbled over a loose board
in the wooden walk.  If the admiral had been the right kind of
philanthropist he would have furnished stone.  But then, it was one
thing to give a country town something and another to force the town
council into accepting it.  The lamp-posts, also of wood, stood
irregularly apart, often less than a hundred feet, and sometimes more,
lighting nothing but their immediate vicinity.  Fitzgerald could see
the lamps, plainly, but could separate none of the objects round or
beneath.  That is why he did not see the face of the man who passed him
in a hurry.  He never forgot a face, if it were a man's; his only
difficulty was in placing it at once.  Up to this time one woman
resembled another; feminine faces made no particular impression on his
memory.  He would have remembered the face of the man who had just
passed, for the very fact that he had thought of it often.  The man had
come into the dim radiance of the far light, then had melted into the
blackness of the night again, leaving as a sign of his presence the
creak of his shoes and the aroma of a cigarette.
Fitzgerald tramped on cheerfully.  It was not an unpleasant climb, only
dark.  The millionaire's home seemed to grow up out of a fine park.
There was a great iron fence inclosing the grounds, and the lights on
top of the gates set the dull red trunks of the pines a-glowing.  There
were no lights shining in the windows of the pretty lodge.  Still, the
pedestrians' gate was ajar.  He passed in, fully expecting to be
greeted by the growl of a dog.  Instead, he heard mysterious footsteps
on the gravel.  He listened.  Some one was running.
"Hello, there!" he called.
No answer.  The sound ceased.  The runner had evidently taken to the
silent going of the turf.  Fitzgerald came to a stand.  Should he go on
or return to the hotel?  Whoever was running had no right here.
Fitzgerald rarely carried arms, at least in civilized countries; a
stout cane was the best weapon for general purposes.  He swung this
lightly.
"I am going on.  I should like to see the library."
He was not overfond of unknown dangers in the night; but he possessed a
keen ear and a sharp pair of eyes, being a good hunter.  A poacher,
possibly.  At any rate, he determined to go forward and ring the bell.
Both the park and the house were old.  Some of those well-trimmed pines
had scored easily a hundred and fifty years, and the oak, standing
before the house and dividing the view into halves, was older still.
No iron deer or marble lion marred the lawn which he was now
traversing; a sign of good taste.  Gardeners had been at work here, men
who knew their business thoroughly.  He breathed the odor of trampled
pine needles mingled with the harsher essence of the sea.  It was tonic.
In summer the place would be beautiful.  The house itself was built on
severe and simple lines.  It was quite apparent that in no time of its
history had it been left to run down.  The hall and lower left wing
were lighted, but the inner blinds and curtains were drawn.  He did not
waste any time.  It was exactly eight o'clock when he stepped up to the
door and pulled the ancient wire bell.  At once he saw signs of life.
The broad door opened, and an English butler, having scrutinized his
face, silently motioned him to be seated.  The young man in search of
an adventure selected the far end of the hall seat and dandled his hat.
An English butler was a good beginning.  Perhaps three minutes passed,
then the door to the library opened and a young woman came out.
Fitzgerald stood up.
Yes, it was she.
"So you have come?"  There was welcome neither in her tone nor face,
nor was there the suggestion of any other sentiment.
"Yes.  I am not sure that I gave you my name, Miss Killigrew."  He was
secretly confused over this enigmatical reception.
She nodded.  She had been certain that, did he come at all, he would
come in the knowledge of who she was.
"I am John Fitzgerald," he said.
She thought for a space.  "Are you the Mr. Fitzgerald who wrote the
long article recently on the piracy in the Chinese Seas?"
"Yes," full of wonder.
Interest began to stir her face.  "It turns out, then, rather better
than I expected.  I can see that you are puzzled.  I picked you out of
many yesterday, on impulse, because you had the sang-froid necessary to
carry out your jest to the end."
"I am glad that I am not here under false colors.  What I did yesterday
was, as you say, a jest.  But, on the other hand, are you not playing
me one in kind?  I have much curiosity."
"I shall proceed to allay it, somewhat.  This will be no jest.  Did you
come armed?"
"Oh, indeed, no!" smiling.
She rather liked that.  "I was wondering if you did not believe this to
be some silly intrigue."
"I gave thought to but two things: that you were jesting, or that you
were in need of a gentleman as well as a man of courage.  Tell me, what
is the danger, and why do you ask me if I am armed?"  It occurred to
him that her own charm and beauty might be the greatest danger he could
possibly face.  More and more grew the certainty that he had seen her
somewhere in the past.
"Ah, if I only knew what the danger was.  But that it exists I am
positive.  Within the past two weeks, on odd nights, there have been
strange noises here and there about the house, especially in the
chimney.  My father, being slightly deaf, believes that these sounds
are wholly imaginative on my part.  This is the first spring in years
we have resided here.  It is really our summer home.  I am not more
than normally timorous.  Some one we do not know enters the house at
will.  How or why I can't unravel.  Nothing has ever disappeared,
either money, jewels, or silver, though I have laid many traps.  There
is the huge fireplace in the library, and my room is above.  I have
heard a tapping, like some one hammering gently on stone.  I have
examined the bricks and so has my father, but neither of us has
discovered anything.  Three days ago I placed flour thinly on the
flagstone before the fireplace.  There were footprints in the
morning--of rubber shoes.  When I called in my father, the maid had
unfortunately cleaned the stone without observing anything.  So my
father still holds that I am subject to dreams.  His secretary, whom he
had for three years, has left him.  The butler's and servants' quarters
are in the rear of the other wing.  They have never been disturbed."
"I am not a detective, Miss Killigrew," he remarked, as she paused.
"No, but you seem to be a man of invention and of good spirit.  Will
you help me?"
"In whatever way I can."  His opinion at that moment perhaps agreed
with that of her father.  Still, a test could be of no harm.  She was a
charming young woman, and he was assured that beneath this present
concern there was a lively, humorous disposition.  He had a month for
idleness, and why not play detective for a change?  Then he recalled
the trespasser in the park.  By George, she might be right!
"Come, then, and I will present you to my father.  His deafness is not
so bad that one has to speak loudly.  To speak distinctly will be
simplest."
She thereupon conducted him into the library.  His quick glance, thrown
here and there absorbingly, convinced him that there were at least five
thousand volumes in the cases, a magnificent private collection,
considering that the owner was not a lawyer, and that these books were
not dry and musty precedents from the courts of appeals and supreme.
He was glad to see that some of his old friends were here, too, and
that the shelves were not wholly given over to piracy.  What a hobby to
follow!  What adventures all within thirty square feet!  And a shiver
passed over his spine as he saw several tattered black flags hanging
from the walls; the real articles, too, now faded to a rusty brown.
Over what smart and lively heeled brigs had they floated, these
sinister jolly rogers?  For in a room like this they could not be other
than genuine.  All his journalistic craving for stories awakened.
Behind a broad, flat, mahogany desk, with a green-shaded student lamp
at his elbow, sat a bright-cheeked, white-haired man, writing.
Fitzgerald instantly recognized him.  Abruptly his gaze returned to the
girl.  Yes, now he knew.  It was stupid of him not to have remembered
at once.  Why, it was she who had given the bunch of violets that day
to the old veteran in Napoleon's tomb.  To have remembered the father
and to have forgotten the daughter!
"I was wondering where I had seen you," he said lowly.
"Where was that?"
"In Napoleon's tomb, nearly a year ago.  You gave an old French soldier
a bouquet of violets.  I was there."
"Were you?"  As a matter of fact his face was absolutely new to her.
"I am not very good at recalling faces.  And in traveling one sees so
many."
"That is true."  Queer sort of girl, not to show just a little more
interest.  The moment was not ordinary by any means.  He was
disappointed.
"Father!" she called, in a clear, sweet voice, for the admiral had not
heard them enter.
At the call he raised his head and took off his Mandarin spectacles.
Like all sailors, he never had any trouble in seeing distances clearly;
the difficulty lay in books, letters, and small type.
"What is it, Laura?"
"This is Mr. Fitzgerald, the new secretary," she answered blandly.
"Aha!  Bring a chair over and sit down.  What did you say the name is,
Laura?"
"Fitzgerald."
"Sit down, Mr. Fitzgerald," repeated the admiral cordially.
Fitzgerald desired but one thing; the privilege of laughter!
CHAPTER V
NO FALSE PRETENSES
A private secretary, and only one way out!  If the girl had been kind
enough to stand her ground with him he would not have cared so much.
But there she was vanishing beyond the door.  There was a suggestion of
feline cruelty in thus abandoning him.  He dared not call her back.
What the devil should he say to the admiral?  There was one thing he
knew absolutely nothing about, and this was the duties of a private
secretary to a retired admiral who had riches, a yacht, a hobby, and a
beautiful, though impulsive daughter.  His thought became irrelevant,
as is frequent when one faces a crisis, humorous or tragic; here indeed
was the coveted opportunity to study at close range the habits of a man
who spent less than his income.
"Come, come; draw up your chair, Mr. Fitzgerald."
"I beg your pardon; I--that is, I was looking at those flags, sir,"
stuttered the self-made victim of circumstances.
"Oh, those?  Good examples of their kind; early part of the nineteenth
century.  Picked them up one cruise in the Indies.  That faded one
belonged to Morgan, the bloodthirsty ruffian.  I've always regretted
that I wasn't born a hundred years ago.  Think of bottling them up in a
shallow channel and raking 'em fore and aft!"  With a bang of his fist
on the desk, setting the ink-wells rattling like old bones, "That would
have been sport!"
The keen, blue, sailor's eye seemed to bore right through Fitzgerald,
who thought the best thing he could do was to sit down at once, which
he did.  The ticket agent had said that the admiral was of a quiet
