went behind a cloud and then came a deer ! 
There was hardly a trace of motion in the air, but 
somehow the creature half-scented Thyrsis ; and so it 
stood and trumpeted to the night. Oh, the wildness of 
that sound and the thumping of the heart of the 
hunter, and the breathless suspense, and the burning 
desire. The deer would take a step, and a twig would 
crack ; and then it would stand still again, and Thyrsis 
would listen, crouching like a statue, clutching his 
weapon and striving to penetrate the darkness. And 
then the deer would take two or three more steps, and 
stand again ; and then, in sudden alarm, bound away ; 
and then come back again, step by step fascinated 
by this mysterious thing there in the darkness. For 
three mortal hours that creature pranced and cavorted 
about Thyrsis, while he waited with chattering teeth; 
then in the end it took a sudden fright, and went bound- 
ing away through the thicket. 
So came another day's hunting; and at sundown an- 
other watch by a runway ; and another deer, that ap- 
proached from the wrong direction, and came upon a 
man, worn out by three days and nights of effort, lying 
sound asleep at his post! 
But there could be only one ending to this adventure. 
Thyrsis was out for a deer, and he would never quit 
until he got one. All his planning and wandering had 
availed him nothing ; but now, the next morning, as 
he stepped out from his camp with a bucket in his 
hand behold, at the edge of a thicket, a deer ! Thyrsis 
stood rooted to the spot, staring blankly ; and the deer 
stood staring at him. 
It was a time of agony. Should he try to creep back 
to his gun, or should he make a sudden dash? He started 
 
to try the latter, and had a pang of despair as the deer 
whirled and bolted away. He leaped to the camp and 
grabbed his gun and sprang out into sight again 
and there, off to the right, was another deer. It was 
a huge buck, with wide-spreading antlers, rising out of 
the bushes where it stood. It saw Thyrsis, and started 
away; and in a flash he raised his gun and fired. He 
saw the deer stumble, and he fired the other barrel; 
and then he started in wild pursuit. 
He had been warned to beware of a wounded deer ; but 
he forgot that he forgot also that he had no more 
shells upon him. He ran madly through the forest, 
springing over fallen logs, plunging through thickets 
he would have seized hold of the animal with his bare 
hands, if only he could have caught up with it. 
The deer was badly hurt. It would leap ahead, and 
then stumble, half falling, and then leap again. Even 
in this way, the distance it covered was amazing ; Thyr- 
sis was appalled at the power of the creature, its tre- 
mendous bounds, the shock of its fall, and the crashing 
of the underbrush before it. It seemed like a huge 
boulder, leaping down a precipice ; and Thyrsis stood 
at a safe distance and watched it. According to the 
poetry-books he should have been ashamed perhaps 
moved to tears by the reproachful look in the great 
creature's eyes. But assuredly the makers of the 
poetry-books had never needed the price of a railroad- 
ticket as badly as Thyrsis did! 
He only realized that night how desperate his need 
had been. He lay in his berth on board a train for the 
city while back at his "open-camp" a wild blizzard 
was raging, and the thermometer stood at forty degrees 
below zero. But Thyrsis was warm and comfortable; 
and also he was brown and rugged, once more full 
of health and eagerness for life. All night he listened 
to the pounding of the flying train ; and fast as the 
music of it went, it was not fast enough for his imagina- 
tion. It seemed as if the rails were speaking 
saying to him, over and over and over again, "Ethelynda 
Lewis ! Ethelynda Lewis ! Ethelynda Lewis !" 
BOOK X 
THE END OF THE TETHER 
They sat still watching upon the hill-top, drinking 
in the scent of the clover. 
"Ah, if only we might have come back here!" she 
sighed. "If only we had never had to leave!" 
"That way lies unhappiness" he said. 
"Perhaps" she answered; and then quotec 
'Yet, Thyrsis, let me give my grief its hour 
In the old haunt, and find our tree-topped hill! 
Who, if not I, for questing here hath power?" 
"I wonder," said he, "if the poet put as much mto 
these stanzas as we find in them!" 
1. THROUGH the summer Cory don had been living 
week by week upon the hope that her husband would be 
able to send for her ; all through the fall she had been 
dreaming of the arrangements they would make for the 
winter. But by now it had become clear that they would 
have to be separated for a part of the winter as well. 
She had sent him long letters, full of hopes and yearn- 
ings, anxieties and rebellions ; but in the end she had 
brought herself to face the inevitable. And then it 
transpired that even a greater sacrifice was required 
of her she was to be forbidden to see Thyrsis at all ! 
If a man did not support his wife, said the world, it 
was common-sense that he should not have any wife ; 
that was the quickest way to bring him to his senses. 
And so the two had threshed out that problem, and 
chosen their course ; they would live in the same city, and 
yet confine themselves to writing letters ! 
A curious feeling it gave Thyrsis, to know that she 
was so near to him, and yet not to be going to meet 
her ! He could not endure any part of the city where 
he had been with her, and got himself a hall bedroom on 
the edge of a tenement-district far up town. Then he 
had his shoes shined, and purchased a clean collar, and 
wrote Miss Ethelynda Lewis that he was ready to call. 
While he was waiting to hear from her, there came to 
him a strange adventure ; assuredly one of the strangest 
that ever befell a struggling poet, in a world where 
many strange adventures have befallen struggling 
poets. 
For six months Thyrsis had not seen his baby; and 
 
there had come in the meantime so many letters, telling 
so many miraculous things about that baby ! So many 
dreams he had dreamed about it, so many hopes and so 
many prayers were centered in it ! Twenty-two hours 
had he sat by the bedside when it was born ; and through 
all the trials that had come afterwards, how he had 
suffered and wept for it! Now his heart was wrung 
with longing to see it, to touch it his child. He 
wrote Corydon that he could not stand it ; and Corydon 
wrote back that he was right he should surely see the 
baby. And so it was arranged between them that 
Thyrsis was to be at a certain place in the park, and 
she would send the nurse-girl there with little Cedric. 
He went and sat upon a bench; and the hour came, 
and at last down the path strolled a nurse-girl, wheel- 
ing a baby-carriage. He looked at the girl yes, she 
was Irish, as Corydon had said, and answered all specifi- 
cations ; and then he looked at the baby, and his heart 
sank into his boots. Oh, such a baby ! With red hair 
and a pug-nose,plebeian and dull-looking such a baby ! 
Thyrsis stared at the maid again and she smiled at 
him. Then she passed on, and he sank down upon a 
> bench. Great God, could it be that that was his child? 
That he would have to go through life with something 
so ugly, so alien to him? A terror seized him. It 
was like a nightmare. He was hardly able to move. 
But then he told himself it could not be! Corydon 
had written him all about the baby; it was beautiful, 
with a noble head ; everyone loved it. But then, were 
not mothers notoriously blind? Had there ever been 
a mother dissatisfied with her child? Or a father 
either, for that matter? Was it not a kind of treason 
for him to be so disgusted with this one since it so 
clearly must be his? 
There was none other in sight ; and though he waited 
half an hour, none came. At last he could stand it 
no more, but hurried away to the nearest telegraph- 
office. "Has baby red hair?" he wrote. "Did he come 
to the park?" And then he went to his room and 
waited, and soon after came the reply : "Baby has 
golden hair. Nurse was ill. Could not come." 
Thyrsis read this, and then shut the door upon the 
messenger-boy, and burst into wild, hilarious laughter. 
He stood there with his arms stretched out, invoking 
all posterity to witness "What do you think of that? 
What do you think of that?" 
And a full hour later he was sitting by his bedside, 
his chin supported on his hands, and still invoking 
posterity. "Will you ever know what I went through?" 
he was saying. "Will you ever realize w T hat my books 
have cost?" Then he smiled grimly, thinking of Vol- 
taire's cruel epigram that "letters addressed to pos- 
terity seldom reach their destination !" 
. THYRSIS received a reply to his note, and went 
to call upon Miss Ethelynda Lewis. Miss Lewis dwelt 
in a luxurious apartment-house on Riverside Drive, 
where a colored maid showed him into a big parlor, full 
of spindle-legged gilt furniture upholstered in flowered 
silk. Also the room contained an ebony grand piano, 
and a bookcase, in which he had time to notice the works 
of Maupassant and Marie Corelli. 
Then Miss Lewis entered, clad in a morning-gown 
of crimson "liberty". She was petite and exquisite, 
full of alluring dimples and apparently just out of a 
perfumed bath. Thyrsis sat on the edge of his chair 
and gazed at her, feeling quite out of his element. 
She placed herself on the flowered silk sofa and 
 
talked. "I am immensely interested in that play," 
she said. "It is quite unique. And you are so young, 
too why, you seem just a boy. Really, you know, I 
think you must be a genius yourself." 
Thyrsis murmured something, feeling uncomfortable. 
"The only thing is," Miss Lewis went on, "it will need 
a lot of revision to make it practical." 
"In what part?" he asked. 
"The love-story, principally," said the other. "You 
see, in that respect, you have simply thrown your 
chances away." 
"I don't understand," said he. 
"You have made your hero act so queerly. Everyone 
feels that he is in love with Helena you meant him to 
be, didn't you? And yet he goes away from her and 
won't see her ! Everyone will be disappointed at that 
it's impossible, from every point of view. You'll 
have to have them married in the last act." 
Thyrsis gasped for breath. 
"You see," continued Miss Lewis, "I am to play the 
part of Helena, and I am to be the star. And obvi- 
ously? it would never do for me to be rejected, and left 
all up in the air like that. I must have some sort of a 
love-scene." 
"But" -protested the poet "what you want me to 
change is what my play is about!" 
"How do you mean ?" asked the other. 
"Why, it's a new kind of love," he stammered "a 
different kind." 
"But, people don't understand that kind of love." 
"But, Miss Lewis, that's why I wrote my play ! I 
want to make them understand." 
"But you can't do anything like that on the stage," 
said Miss Lewis. "The public won't come to see your 
play." And then she went on to explain to him the 
conditions of success in the business of the theatre. 
Thyrsis listened, with a clutch as of ice about his 
heart. "I am very sorry, Miss Lewis," he said, at last 
"but I couldn't possibly do what you ask." 
"Couldn't do it !" cried the other, amazed. 
"It would not fit into my idea at all." 
"But, don't you want to get your play produced?" 
"That's just it, I want to get my play produced. If 
I did what you want me to, it wouldn't be my play. 
It would be somebody else's play." 
And there he stood. The actress argued with him 
and protested. She showed him what a great chance he 
had here one that came to a new and unknown writer 
but once in a lifetime. Here was a manager ready to 
give him a good contract, and to put his play on at 
once in a Broadway theatre ; and here was a public 
favorite anxious to have the leading role. It would be 
everything he could ask it would be fame and fortune 
at one stroke. But Thyrsis only shook his head he 
could not do it. He was almost sick with disappoint- 
ment ; but it was a situation in which there was no use 
trying to compromise he simply could not make a 
"love-story" out of "The Genius". 
So at last there came a silence between them there 
being nothing more for Miss Lewis to say. 
"Then I suppose you won't want the play," said 
Thyrsis, faintly. 
"I don't know," she answered, with vexation. "I'll 
have to think about it again, and talk to my manager. 
I had not counted on such a possibility as this." 
And so they left it, and Thyrsis went away. The 
next morning he received a letter from "Robertson 
Jones, Inc.", asking him to call at once. 
 
3. ROBERTSON JONES, the great "theatrical pro- 
ducer", was large and ponderous, florid of face and firm 
in manner the steam-roller type of business-man. And 
it became evident at once that he had invited Thyrsis 
to come and be rolled. 
"Miss Lewis tells me you can't agree about the play," 
said he. 
"No," said Thyrsis, faintly. 
And then Mr. Jones began. He told Thyrsis what 
he meant to do with this play. Miss Lewis was one of 
the country's future "stars", and he was willing to 
back her without stint. He had permitted her to make 
her own choice of a role, and she should have her way 
in everything. There were famous playwrights bidding 
for a chance to write for her ; but she had seen fit to 
choose "The Genius". 
"Personally," said Mr. Jones, "I don't believe in the 
play. I would never think of producing it it's not 
the sort of thing anybody is interested in. But Miss 
Lewis likes it; she's been reading Ibsen, and she wants 
to do a 'drama of ideas', and all that sort of thing, 
you know. And that's all right she's the sort to make 
a success of whatever she does. But you must do your 
share, and give her a part she can make something out 
of some chance to show her charm. Otherwise, of 
course, the thing's impossible." 
Mr. Jones paused. "I'm very sorry" began Thyr- 
sis, weakly. 
"What's your idea in refusing?" interrupted the 
other. 
Thyrsis tried to explain that he had written the 
play to set forth a certain thesis, and that he was 
asked to make changes that directly contradicted this 
thesis. 
"Have you ever had a play produced?" demanded 
the manager abruptly. 
"No," said Thyrsis. 
"Have you written any other plays?" 
"No." 
"Your first trial! Well, don't you think it a good 
deal to expect that your play should be perfect?" 
"I don't think" began Thyrsis. 
"Can't you see," persisted the other, "that people 
who have been in this business all their lives, and have 
watched thousands of plays succeed and fail, might be 
able to give you some points on the matter?" -And 
then Mr. Jones went on to set forth to Thyrsis the 
laws of the theatrical game a game in which there 
was the keenest competition, and in which the "ante" 
was enormously high. To produce "The Genius" would 
cost ten thousand dollars at the least ; and were those 
who staked this to have no say whatever in the shaping 
of the play? Manifestly this was absurd; and as the 
manager pressed home the argument, Thyrsis felt as 
if he wanted to get up and run ! When Mr. Jones 
talked to you, he looked you squarely in the eye, and 
you had a feeling of presumption, even of guilt, in 
standing out against him. Thyrsis shrunk in terror 
from that type of personality he would let it have 
anything in the world it wanted, so only it would not 
clash with him. But never before had it demanded one 
of the children of his dreams ! 
Mr. Jones went on to tell how many things he would 
do for the play. It would go into rehearsal at once, 
and would be seen on Broadway by the first of Feb- 
ruary. They would pay him four, six and eight per 
cent., and his profits could not be less than three hun- 
dred dollars a week. With Ethelynda Lewis in the 
"] 
" 
 
leading role the play might well run until June and 
there would be the road profits the next season, in addi- 
tion. 
Thyrsis' brain reeled as he listened to this ; it was in 
all respects identical with another famous temptation 
"The devil taketh him upon a high mountain, and 
showeth him all the kingdoms of the earth!" 
"And then there is England" the man was saying. 
"No, no !" cried Thyrsis, wildly. "No !" 
'But why not?" demanded the other. 
'It's impossible! I couldn't do it!" 
"You mean you couldn't do the writing?" 
"I wouldn't know how to !" 
"Well then, that's easily arranged. Let me get some 
one to collaborate with you. There's Richard Haber- 
ton you know who he is?" 
"No," said Thyrsis, faintly. 
"He's the author of 'The Rajah's Diamond' it's 
playing with five companions now, and its third season. 
And he dramatized 'In Honor's Cause' you've seen 
that, no doubt. We have paid him some sixty thousand 
dollars in royalties so far. And he'll take the play and 
fix it over you wouldn't have to stir a finger." 
Thyrsis sprang up in his agitation. "Please don't 
ask me, Mr. Jones," he cried. "I simply could not do 
it!" 
It seemed strange to Thyrsis, when he thought it 
over afterwards, that the great Robertson Jones should 
have taken the trouble to argue so long with the un- 
known author of a play in which he did not believe. 
Was it that opposition incited him to persist? Or had 
he told Ethelynda Lewis he would get her what she 
wanted, and was now reluctant to confess defeat? At 
iv rate, so it was he went on to drive Thyrsis into 
a corner, to tear open his very soul. Also, he mani- 
fested anger ; it was a deliberate affront that the boy 
should stand out like this. And Thyrsis, in great dis- 
tress of soul, explained that he did not mean it that 
way he apologized abjectly for his obstinacy. It was 
the ideas that he had tried to put into his play, and 
that he could not give up ! 
"But," persisted the manager "write other plays, 
and put your ideas into them. If you've once had a 
Broadway success, then you can write anything you 
please, and you can make your own terms for pro- 
duction." 
That thought had already occurred to Thyrsis ; it 
was the one that nearly broke down his resistance. He 
would probably have surrendered, had the play not 
been so fresh from his mind, and so dear to him ; if he 
had had time enough to become dissatisfied with it, as 
he had with his first novel or discouraged about its 
prospects, as he had with "The Hearer of Truth" ! 
But this child of his fancy was not yet weaned ; and to 
tear it from his breast, and hand it to the butcher 
no, it could not be thought of! 
4. So he parted from Mr. Jones, and went home, 
to pass two of the most miserable days of his life. 
He had pronounced his "Apage, Satanas!" he had 
turned his back upon the kingdoms of the earth. And 
so presumably virtue being its own reward he should 
have been in a state of utter bliss. But Thyrsis had 
gone deeper into that problem, and asked himself a 
revolutionary question: Why should it always be that 
Satan had the kingdoms of the earth at his bestowal? 
Thyrsis did not want any kingdoms he only wanted 
a chance to live in the country with his wife and child. 
 
And why, in order to get these things, must a poet 
submit himself to Satan? 
Then came the third morning after his interview; 
and Thyrsis found in his mail another letter from 
Robertson Jones, Inc. It was a letter brief and to the 
point, and it struck him like a thunderbolt. 
"Miss Ethelynda Lewis has decided that she wishes 
to accept your play as it stands. I enclose herewith 
a contract in duplicate, and if the terms are acceptable 
to you, will you kindly return one copy signed, and re- 
tain the other yourself." 
Thyrsis read, not long after that, of a young play- 
wright who died of heart-failure ; and he was not sur- 
prised if all playwrights had to go through experi- 
ences such as that. He could hardly believe his eyes, 
and he read the letter over two or three times ; he read 
the contract, with Mr. Jones' impressive signature at 
the bottom. He did not know anything about theatrical 
contracts, but this one seemed fair to him. It provided 
for a royalty upon the gross receipts, to be paid after 
the play had earned the expenses of its production. 
Thyrsis had hoped that he might get some cash in ad- 
vance, but that was not mentioned. In the flush of 
his delight he concluded that he would not take the 
risk of demanding anything additional, but signed the 
contract and mailed it, and sent a telegram to acquaint 
Corydon with the glorious tidings. 
5. ONE of the consequences of this triumph was 
that Thyrsis purchased a new necktie and half a dozen 
collars ; and another was that an angry world was in 
some part appeased, and permitted the struggling poet 
to see his wife and child once more. 
They met in the park ; and strange it was to him to 
see Corydon after six months' absence. She was beauti- 
ful as ever, somewhat paler, though still with the halo 
of motherhood about her. He could scarcely realize 
that she was his ; she seemed like a dream to him like 
some phantom of music, thrilling and wonderful, yet 
frail and unsubstantial. She clung to his arm, trem- 
bling with delight, and pouring out her longing and 
her grief. There came to them one of those golden 
hours, when the deeps of their souls welled up, and they 
pledged themselves anew to their faith. 
Even stranger it was to see the child ; to be able to 
look at him all he pleased, and to speak to him, and to 
hold him in his arms ! He was as beautiful as Thyrsis 
could have wished, and the father had no trouble at all 
in being interested in him ; his smiles were things to 
make the angels jealous. Thyrsis would push his car- 
riage out into the park, and they would sit upon a bench 
and gaze at him each making sure that the other had 
missed none of his fine points. 
He was beginning to make sounds now, and had 
achieved the word "puss-ee". This originally had sig- 
nified the woolly kitten he carried with him, but now 
by a metonymy it had come to include all kinds of 
living things ; and great was the delight of the parents 
when a big red automobile flashed past, and the baby 
pointed his finger, exclaiming gleefully, "Puss-ee !" It 
is an astonishing thing, how little it takes to make 
parents happy ; regarded purely as an abstract propo- 
sition, it would be difficult to explain why two people 
who possessed between them a total of sixty-four teeth, 
more or less, should have been so much excited by the 
discovery that the baby had four. 
But parenthood, as Thyrsis found, meant more than 
charming baby-prattle and the counting of teeth. Little 
 
Cedric's tiny fingers were twisted in his heart-strings 
he loved him with a love the intensity of which fright- 
ened him when he realized it. And sometimes things 
went wrong, and then with a pang as from the stab 
of a knife would come the thought that he might some 
day lose this child. So much pain and toil a child 
cost, so much it took of one's strength and power; 
and then, such a fragile thing it was exposed to so 
many perils and uncertainties, to the ravages of so 
many diseases, that struck like a cruel enemy in the 
dark ! Corydon and Thyrsis were so ignorant they 
were like children themselves ; and where should they 
turn for knowledge? There were doctors, of course; 
but this took so much money and even with all the 
doctors, see how many babies died ! 
Thyrsis was learning the bitter truth of Bacon's 
saying about "giving hostages to fortune." And 
dearly as he loved the child, the artist in him cried out 
against these ties. Where now was that care-free out- 
look, that recklessness, that joy in life as a spectacle, 
which made up so much of the artist's attitude? When 
one had a wife and child one no longer enjoyed tragedies 
one lived them ; and one got from them, not katharsis, 
but exhaustion. One became timid and cautious and 
didactic, and. other inartistic things. One learned that 
life was real, life was earnest, and the grave was not 
its goal ! 
Cedric had been weaned ; but still he was not growing 
properly. Could it be that there was something wrong 
with what they fed him ? Corydon would come upon ad- 
vertisements telling of wonderful newly-discovered foods 
for infants, and giving pictures of the rosy and stal- 
wart ones who were fed upon these foods. She would 
take to buying them and they were not cteap foods 
either. Then, during the winter, the child caught cold ; 
and they took that to mean that it had been in some 
way exposed that was what everybody said, and what 
the name "cold" itself suggested. So Corydon would 
