She had averted her eyes and was now seated, chin in hand, looking out of
the window.
"Do you know," he said, "this is a rotten condition of affairs."
"What do you mean?" she asked.
"This attitude of women."
"Is it more odious than the attitude of men?"
"After all," he said, "man is born with the biceps. He was made to do the
fighting."
"Not all of the intellectual fighting."
"No, of course not. But--you don't want him to rock the cradle, do you?"
"Cradles are no longer rocked, Captain Jones. I don't think you would
be qualified to pass this examination with which you menace us."
He began to be interested. She turned from the window, saw he was
interested, hesitated, then:
"I wish I could talk to you--to such a man as you seem to be--sensibly,
without rancour, without personal enmity or prejudice----"
"Can't you?"
"Why, yes. I can. But--I am not sure what your attitude----"
"It is friendly," he said, looking at her. "I am perfectly hap--I mean
willing to listen to you. Only, sooner or later, you must return to me
those papers."
"Why?"
"The Governor entrusted them to me officially----"
She said smiling: "But you--your Governor I mean--can frame another
similar bill."
"I'm a soldier in uniform," he said dramatically. "My duty is to guard
those papers with my life!"
"I am a soldier, too," she said proudly, "in the Army of Human Progress."
"Very well," he said, "if you regard it that way."
"I do. Only brute violence can deprive me of these papers."
"That," he said, "is out of the question."
"It is no more shameful than the mental violence to which you have
subjected us through centuries. Anyway, you're not strong enough to get
them from me."
"Do you expect me to seize you and twist your arm until you drop those
papers?"
"You can never have them otherwise. Try it!"
He sat silent for a while, alternately twisting his moustache and the
cat's tail. Presently he flung the latter away, rose, inspected the stars
on the wall, and then began to pace to and fro, his gloved hands behind
his back, spurs and sword clanking.
"It's getting late," he said as he passed her. Continuing his promenade
he added as he passed her again. "I've had no luncheon. Have you?"
He poked around the room, examining the fantastic furnishings in all
their magnificence of cotton velvet and red cheesecloth.
"If this is Dill's room it's a horrible place," he thought to himself,
sitting down by a table and shuffling a pack of cards.
"Shall I cast your horoscope?" he asked amiably. "Here's a chart."
"No, thank you."
Presently he said: "It's getting beastly cold in this room."
"Really!" she murmured.
He came back and sat down in the gilded chair. It was now so dusky in the
room that he couldn't see her very plainly.
So he folded his arms and abandoned himself to gloomy patience until the
room became very dark. Then he got up, struck a match, and lighted the
gas.
"By Jupiter!" he muttered, "I'm hungry."
For nearly five minutes she let the remark go apparently unnoticed. But
the complaint he had made is the one general and comprehensive appeal
that no woman ever born can altogether ignore. In the depths of her
something always responds, however faintly. And in the soul of this young
girl it was answering now--the subtle, occult response of woman to the
eternal and endless need of man--hunger of one kind or another.
"I'm sorry," she said, so sincerely that the sweetness in her voice
startled him.
"Why--why, do you know I believe you really are!" he said in grateful
surprise.
"I am a great many things that you have no idea I am," she said, smiling.
"What is one of them?"
"I'm afraid I'm a--a fool."
She came forward and stood looking at him.
"I've been thinking," she said, "that I can do you no kinder service than
to destroy those papers and let you go home."
For a moment he thought she was joking, then something in her expression
changed his opinion and he took a step forward, eyes fixed on her face.
"Yes," he said, "it would be the kindest thing you can do for me. Shall I
tell you why? It's because I'm hopelessly near-sighted. I wear glasses
when I'm alone in my study, where nobody can see me."
"What in the world has that to do with my leaving you?" she asked,
colouring up.
"Suffragettes would never marry a near-sighted man, would they?"
"They ought not to."
"You wouldn't, would you?"
"Why do you ask--such a thing?"
"I want to know."
"But how does your myopia concern me?" she said faintly.
"Couldn't it--ever?" he asked, reddening.
"No," she said, turning pale.
"Then we'd better not stay here; and I'm going to be as generous as you
are," he said, advancing toward her. "I'm going to let you go home."
She backed away, thrusting the papers behind her; his arm slipped around
her, after them, strove to grasp them, to hold and restrain her, but
there was a strength in her tall, firm young body which matched his own;
she resisted, turned, twisted, confronted him with high colour, and lips
compressed, and they came to a deadlock, breathing fast and irregularly.
Again, coolly, dexterously, he pitted his adroitness, then his sheer
strength against hers; and it came again to a deadlock.
Suddenly she crook'd one smooth knee inside of his; her arms slid around
him like lightning; he felt himself rising into the air,
descending--there came a crash, a magnificent display of ocular
fireworks, and nothing further concerned him until he discovered himself
lying flat on the floor and heard somebody sobbing incoherencies beside
him.
He was mean enough to keep his eyes shut while she, on her knees beside
him, slopped water on his forehead and begged him to speak to her, and
told him her heart was broken and she desired to die and repose in
mortuary simplicity beside him forever.
Certain terms she employed in addressing what she feared were only his
mortal remains caused him to prick up his ears. He certainly was one of
the meanest of men.
"Dear," she sobbed, "I--I have l-loved you ever since your lithographs
were displayed during the election! Only speak to me! Only open those
beloved eyes! I don't care whether they are near-sighted! Oh, please,
please wake up!" she cried brokenly. "I'll give you back your papers.
What do I care about that old bill? I'm p-perfectly willing to do all
those things! Oh, oh, oh! How conscience does make Haus-fraus of us all!"
His meanness now became contemptible; he felt her trembling hands on his
brow; the fragrant, tearful face nearer, nearer, until her hot, flushed
cheeks and quivering lips touched his. And yet, incredible as it seems,
and to the everlasting shame of all his sex, he kept eyes and mouth shut
until a lively knocking on the door brought him bolt upright.
She uttered a little cry and shrank away from him on her knees, the tears
glimmering in her startled and wide open eyes.
"Good heavens, darling!" he said seriously; "how on earth are we going to
explain this?"
They scrambled hastily to their feet and gazed at each other while kicks
and blows began to rain on the door.
"I believe it's Dill," he whispered; "and I seem to hear the Mayor's
voice, too."
"Help! Help! For heaven's sake!" screamed the Mayor, "let us in, George!
There's a mob of suffragettes coming up the stairs!"
The Governor unlocked the door and jerked it open, just as several
unusually beautiful girls seized Mr. Dill and the Military Secretary.
The Mayor, however, rushed blindly into the room, his turban-swirl was
over one eye, his skirt was missing, his apron hung by one pin.
He ran headlong for a sofa and tried to scramble under it, but lovely and
vigorous arms seized his shins and drew him triumphantly forth.
"Hurrah!" they cried delightedly, "we have carried the entire ticket!"
"Hurrah!" echoed a sweet but tremulous voice, and a firm young arm was
slipped through the Governor's.
He turned to meet her beautiful, level gaze.
"Check!" she said.
"Make it check-mate," he said steadily.
"Mate you?"
"Will you?"
She bent her superb head a moment, then lifted her splendid eyes to his.
"Of course I will," she said, as steadily as her quickening heart
permitted. "Why do you suppose I ran after you?"
"Why?" whispered that infatuated man.
"Because," she said, naïvely, "I was afraid some other girl would get
you. . . . A girl never can be sure what another girl might do to a man.
. . . And I wanted you for myself."
"Thank God," he said, "that six-foot Professor Challis will never get me,
anyway."
She bent her adorable face close to his.
"Your excellency," she murmured, "I am Professor Challis!"
At that instant a pretty and excited suffragette dashed up the stairs and
saluted.
"Professor," she cried, "all over the city desirable young men are being
pursued and married by the thousands! We have swept the State, with
Brooklyn and West Point yet to hear from!" Her glance fell upon the
Governor; she laughed glee-fully.
"Shall I call a taxi, Professor?" she asked.
An exquisite and modest pride transformed the features of Professor Betty
Challis to a beauty almost celestial.
"Let George do it," she said tenderly.
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
XVII
A FEW minutes later, amid a hideous scene of riot, where young men were
fleeing distractedly in every direction, where excited young girls were
dragging them, struggling and screaming, into cabs, where even the police
were rushing hither and thither in desperate search for a place to hide
in, the Governor of New York and Professor Elizabeth Challis might have
been seen whirling downtown in a taxicab toward the marriage license
bureau.
Her golden head lay close to his; his moustache rested against her
delicately flushed cheek. A moment later she sat up straight in dire
consternation.
"Oh, those papers! The draft of the bill!" she exclaimed. "Where is it?"
"Did you want it, Betty?" he asked, surprised.
"Why--why, no. Didn't you want it, George?"
"I? Not at all."
"Then why on earth did you keep me imprisoned in that room so long if you
didn't want those papers?"
He said slowly: "Why didn't you give them up to me if you didn't really
want them, Betty?"
She shook her pretty head. "I don't know. . . . But I'm afraid it was
only partly obstinacy."
"It was only partly that with me," he said.
They smiled.
"I just wanted to detain you, I suppose," he admitted.
"George, you wouldn't expect me to match that horrid confession--would
you?"
"No, I wouldn't ask it of you."
He laid his cheek against hers and whispered: "Darling, do you think our
great love justifies our concealing my myopia?"
"George," she murmured, "I think it does. . . . Besides, I'm dreadfully
near-sighted myself."
"You!"
"Dear, every one of us has got something the matter with her. Miss
Vining, who caught the Mayor, wears a rat herself. . . . Do you mean to
say that men believe there ever was a perfect woman?"
He kissed her slowly. "I believe it," he said.
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
XVIII
AS the extremes of fashionable feminine costume appear first on Fifth
Avenue in late November, and in early December are imitated in Harlem,
and finally in January pervade the metropolitan purlieus, so all the
great cities of the Union, writhing in the throes of a fashionable
suffragette revolution, presently inoculated the towns; and the towns
infected the villages, and the villages the hamlets, and the hamlets
passed the contagion along into the open country, where isolated farms
and dicky-birds alone remained uninfected and receptive.
It was even asserted by enthusiastic suffragettes that flocks of feminine
dicky-birds had begun to assault masculine birds of the same variety;
and that the American landscape was full of agitated male birds, lacking
rear plumage, flying distractedly in every direction or squatting
disconsolately in lonely trees, counting their tail feathers.
Mr. Borroughs and our late great President were excitedly inclined to
believe it, but the most famous and calm of explorers, who had recently
returned from exile to his camp on top of Mt. McKinley, warned the
scientific world on a type-writer not to credit anything that anybody
said until he had corroborated it in the magazines. And he left that week
for another trip to the pole to find out what the attitude of the
polecats might be concerning the matter in question.
Meanwhile the cities were full of trouble and forcibly selected
bridegrooms. From 60,000 marriages recorded in New York City for the
twelve months of the previous year, in the few months of the eugenic
revolution the number of weddings had reached the enormous figures of
180,000, not including Flatbush.
Thousands and thousands of marriageable young men were hiding in their
clubs or in the shrubbery of Central Park, waiting for a chance to make
their escape to the country and remain incognito in hay lofts until the
eugenic revolution had ended itself in a dazzling display of divorce.
Westchester, the Catskills, and even the country farther north were full
of young business men and professional men fleeing headlong from their
jobs in Wall Street, Broadway, and Fifth Avenue, and hiring out to
farmers and boarding house keepers under assumed names. One could jump a
young man out of almost any likely thicket north of the Bronx; they were
as plentiful and as shy as deer in the Catskills; corn field, scrub,
marsh, and almost any patch of woods in the State, if carefully beaten
up, would have yielded at least one or two flocks of skulking young men.
Now, as there was no close season, and marriageable youths in New York
City became scarcer, those militant suffragettes devoted to eugenic
principles began to make excursions into the suburbs in search of bevies
and singles--which had escaped the exciting days of the great Long Acre
drive and the bachelors' St. Bartholomew. And, as the April days turned
into May days, and the May days into June days, parties of pretty,
laughing, athletic girls penetrated farther and farther into the country,
joyously rummaging the woods and routing out and scattering into flight
the lurking denizens. For every den had its denizen, and Diana roamed the
earth once more.
There was excellent sport to be had along the Hudson. Some young ladies
went in automobiles; some in yachts; some by train, to points north,
where the landscape looked more promising and wilder--but probably not as
wild as the startled masculine countenances peering furtively from
hillside thickets as some gay camping party of distractingly pretty girls
appeared, carrying as excess baggage one clergywoman and a bundle of
marriage licenses, with the bridegroom's name represented only by a
question mark.
It was on an unusually beautiful day in early June that two briar-mangled
and weather-beaten young men, bearing every evidence of Wall Street and
excessive fright, might have been seen sitting up like a brace of
startled rabbits in a patch of ferns which grew along the edges of a
brook at the foot of a charmingly wooded slope among the Westchester
hills. In every direction stretched hills, woods, and Italians. The calm
remote sky was blue and unvexed by anything except factory smoke; not a
sound was visible, not a noise was to be seen.
Bacon was frying unctuously in a pan on the coals beside them; their
suit-cases lay near. They sat up in the fern patch, coffee cups
suspended, eyes wild, listening intently.
"Brown," whispered Vance, "did you hear anything except the hum of
automobiles?"
"I sure did," nodded Brown, craning his neck like a turkey in a
briar-patch and glaring around.
"If--if they've got dogs," said Vance, "they'll flush us before--hark!
Great guns! Look at that bench show!"
Brown's hair rose on end. "They have got dogs," he whispered, "a toy
bull, a Mexican, a Chow, two Pomms--and, by Jupiter! they've got a
marmoset! Look at 'em! Hark! You can hear those unnatural girls laughing!
Me for a quick getaway. Come on!"
"They--they may come from some college," faltered Vance; "they may run us
down. Shall we trust to our protective colouring and squat close?"
"Do you want to stay here until that miserable Chow comes poking his
orange-coloured head into the ferns and laughs at us with his blue
tongue?"
Vance wrung his hands, hurling coffee all over Brown in his agonised
indecision.
"Good heavens!" he moaned. "I don't want to be married! I can't afford
it! Do you think those girls can outrun us?"
"If they can," said Brown, "they'll want me more than I want my liberty.
Look out! There's their bat-eared bull! See him sniff! The wretched mutt
has winded the bacon! We've got to make a break for it now! Come on! Beat
it, son!"
Up out of the covert crashed the two young fellows, and went prancing
away through the woods, suit-cases in hand. A chorus of excited yelps and
barks greeted the racket they made in their flight; a shrill whistle rang
out, then a pretty and excited voice:
"Mark! Quick, Gladys! There are two of them! Mark left!"
"Are they any good?" cried Gladys. "Oh, where are they, dear?"
"I only caught a glimpse of them. They looked like fine ones, in splendid
condition. Millicent! Quick, where are you?"
"Here!" came a third voice. "Oh, Constance! one is too perfectly splendid
for anything! Chow-Chow is at his heels! Look out! Mark right!"
"Run!" panted Constance, leaping a fallen log.
The lovely June woodland was now echoing with the happy cries of the
chase, the ki-yi of excited lap-dogs, the breathless voices of the young
girls, the heavy crashing racket of stampeding young men rushing headlong
through bramble and thicket with a noise like a hurricane amid dead
leaves.
Vance's legs, terror weakened, wobbled as he fled; and after ten minutes
he took to a tree with a despairing scream.
Brown, looking back from the edge of a mountain pasture, saw the dogs
leaping frantically at his friend's legs as he shinned rapidly up the
trunk, and disappeared into the clustering foliage; saw three flushed
young girls come running up with cries of innocent delight; saw one of
them release a slender, black, furry, spidery thing which immediately ran
up the tree; heard distracted yells from Vance:
"For heaven's sake, take away that marmoset! I can't bear 'em--I hate
'em, ladies! Ouch! He's all over me! He's trying to get into my pocket!
Take him away, for the love of Mike, and I'll come down!"
But Brown waited to hear no more. Horror now lent him her infernal wings;
he fairly fluttered across the mountain side, sailed down the farther
slope, and into a lonely country road. Along this he cantered, observed
only by surprised cattle, until, exhausted, he slackened his pace to a
walk.
Rickety fences and the remains of old stone walls flanked him on either
hand; the clearings were few, the cultivated patches fewer. He
encountered no houses. On a distant hillside stood a weather-beaten barn,
the sky shining blue through its roof rafters.
Beyond this the road forked; one branch narrowed to a grassy cattle path
and presently ended at a pair of bars. Inside the bars was a stone barn;
beside the barn a house of the century before last--a low, square stone
house, half stripped of its ancient stucco skin, a high-roofed one-story
affair, with sagging dormers peering from the slates and little oblong
loop-holes under the eaves, from which the straw of birds' nests
fluttered in the breeze.
Surely this ancient place, even if inhabited--as he saw it was--must be
sufficiently remote from the outer world to insure his safety. For here
the mountain road ended at the barn-yard bars; here the low wooded hills
walled in this little world of house, barn, and orchard, making a silent,
sunny place under the blue sky, sweet with late lilac bloom and the hum
of bees. No factory smoke was visible, no Italians.
He looked at the aged house. A black cat sat on the porch thoughtfully
polishing her countenance with the back of one paw. Three diminutive
parti-coloured kittens frisked and rolled and toddled around her; and
occasionally she seized one and washed it energetically against the
grain.
Brown looked at the door with its iron knocker, at the delicately spread
fan-light over it, at the side-lights, at the half-pillars with their
Ionic capitals, at the ancient clumps of lilacs flanking the stone
step--great, heavy-stemmed and gnarled old bushes now all hung with
perfumed clusters of palest lavender bloom.
Leaning there on the picket fence he inhaled their freshness, gazing up
into the sunny foliage of the ancient trees, elms, maples, and one oak so
aged and so magnificent that, awed, his eyes turned uneasily again toward
the house to reassure himself that it was still inhabited.
Cat and kittens were comfortable evidence, also a hen or two loitering
near, and the pleasant sound from a dozen bee-hives, and a wild rose in a
china bowl, dimly visible on an inner window-sill.
There were two characters he might assume; he might go to the back door
and request a job; he might bang on the front door with that iron
knocker, shaped like a mermaid, and ask for country board.
Of one thing, somehow or other, he was convincing himself; this crumbling
house and its occupants knew as much about the recent high-jinks in New
York as did the man who built it in the days when loop-holes were an
essential part of local architecture, and the painted Sagamore passed
like a spectre through the flanking forests.
So Brown, carrying his suit-case, opened the gate, walked up the path,
seized the knocker, and announced himself with resolution.
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
XIX
WHILE he waited the cat looked up at him, curiously but pleasantly.
"Hello, old lady," he said; and she arched her back and rubbed lightly
against his nigh leg while the kittens tumbled over his shoes and played
frantically with the frayed bottoms of his trousers.
This preliminary welcome seemed to comfort him out of all proportion to
its significance; he gazed complacently about at the trees and flowers,
drew in deep breaths of the lilac's fragrance, and waited, listening
contentedly for the coming foot-fall.
He had not heard it when the door opened and a young girl appeared on the
threshold, standing with one hand resting on the inner knob; the other
touching the pocket of her apron, in which was a ball of yarn stuck
through with two needles.
She was slim and red-haired and slightly freckled, and her mouth was
perhaps a shade large, and it curled slightly at the corners; and her
eyes were quite perfectly made, except that one was hazel-brown and the
other hazel-grey.
Hat in hand, Brown bowed; and then she did a thing which interested him;
she lifted the edges of her apron between slender white thumbs and
forefingers and dropped him the prettiest courtesy he had ever seen off
the stage.
"I came to inquire," he said, "whether you ever take summer boarders."
"What are boarders?" she asked. "I never heard of them except in naval
battles."
"Thank heaven," he thought; "this is remote, all right; and I have
discovered pristine innocence in the nest."
"Modern boarders," he explained politely, "are unpleasant people who come
from the city to enjoy the country, and who, having no real homes, pay
farmers to lodge and feed them for a few days of vacation and dyspepsia."
"You mean is this a tavern?" she asked, unsmiling.
"No, I don't. I mean, will you let me live here a little while as though
I were a guest, and then permit me to settle my reckoning in accordance
with your own views upon the subject?"
She hesitated as though perplexed.
"Suppose you ask your father or mother," he suggested.
"They are absent."
"Will they return this morning?"
"I don't know exactly when they expect to return."
"Well, couldn't you assume the responsibility?" he asked, smiling.
She looked at him for a few moments, and it seemed to him as though, in
the fearless gravity of her regard, somehow, somewhere, perhaps in the
curled corners of her lips, perhaps in her pretty and unusual eyes, there
lurked a little demon of laughter. Yet it could not be so; there were
only serenity and a child's direct sweetness in the gaze.
"What is your name?" she asked.
"John Brown 4th."
"Mine is Elizabeth Tennant. Where do you live?"
"In--New York," he admitted, watching her furtively.
"I was there once--at a ball--many years ago," she observed.
"Not very many years ago, I imagine," he said, smiling at her youthful
reminiscence.
"Many, many years ago," she said thoughtfully. "I shall go again some
day."
"Of course," he murmured politely, "it's a thing to do and get done--like
going abroad."
She looked up at him quickly.
"Years ago I knew a boy--with your easy humour and your trick of speech.
He resembled you otherwise; and he wore your name becomingly."
He tried to recall knowing her in his extreme youth, but made no definite
connection.
"You wouldn't remember," she said gravely; "but I think I know you now.
Who is your father?"
"My father?" he repeated, surprised and smiling. "My father is John Brown
3rd."
"And his father?"
"My grandfather?" he asked, very much amused. "Oh, he was John Brown 2nd.
And his father was Captain John Brown of Westchester; but I don't want
to talk D. A. R. talk to you about my great grandfather----"
"He fought at Pound Ridge," said the girl, slowly.
"Yes," said Brown, astonished.
"Tarleton's cavalry--the brutal hussars of the legion--killed him on the
Stamford Road," she said; "and he lay there in the field all day with one
dead arm over his face and his broken pistol in his hand, and the
terrible galloping fight drove past down the stony New Canaan road--and
the smoke from the meeting house afire rolled blacker and blacker and
redder and redder----"
With a quickly drawn breath she covered her face with both hands and
stood a moment silent; and Brown stared at her, astonished, doubting his
eyes and ears.
The next moment she dropped her hands and looked at him with a tremulous
smile.
"What in the world can you be thinking of me?" she said. "Alone in this
old house, here among the remoter hills of Westchester. I live so vividly
in the past that these almost forgotten tragedies seem very real to me
and touch me closely. To me the present is only a shadow; the past is
life itself. Can you understand?"
"I see," he said, intensely relieved concerning her mental stability;
"you are a Daughter of the American Revolution or a Society of Colonial
Wars or--er--something equally--er--interesting and desirable----"
"I am a Daughter of the American Revolution," she said proudly.
"Exactly," he smiled with an inward shudder. "A--a very
interesting--er--and--exceedingly--and--all that sort of thing," he
nodded amiably. "Don't take much interest in it myself--being a broker
and rather busy----"
"I am sorry."
He looked up quickly and met her strange eyes, one hazel-grey, one
hazel-brown.
"I--I'll be delighted to take an interest in anything you--in--er--this
Revolutionary business if you--if you don't mind telling me about it," he
stammered. "Evenings, now, if you have time to spare----"
She smiled, opened the door wider, and looked humorously down at him
where he stood fidgeting on the step.
"Will you come in?" she asked serenely.
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
XX
HE went, first depositing his suit-case on the step outside by the cats,
and followed her into a large, comfortable sitting room.
"By jove," he said, "you know this is really mighty pretty! What a
corking collection of old furniture! Where in the world did you find--or
perhaps this is the original furniture of the place?"
She said, looking around the room as though slightly perplexed: "This
furniture was made to order for me in Boston."
"Then it isn't genuine," he said, disappointed. "But it's a very clever
imitation of antique colonial. It is really a wonderful copy."
"I don't think it is a copy."
"It certainly doesn't look like it; but it must be if it was made in
Boston for you. They're ingenious fellows, these modern makers of
colonial furniture. Every antique shop in New York is loaded up with
excellent copies of this sort--only not nearly as well done."
She assented, apparently with no very clear understanding of what he
meant.
"What a charming setting this old house makes for such things," he said.
She nodded, looking doubtfully at the rag carpet.
"The Manor House was much finer," she observed. "Come to the window and
I'll show you where it stood. They were fine folk, the Lockwoods, Hunts,
