dozens of her men friends. For Ogilvy never allowed himself to make any
mistake concerning the informality and freedom of Valerie West in her
intimacies with men of his kind. She was a born flirt, a coquette,
daring, even indiscreet; but that ended it; and he knew it; and so did
every man with whom she came in contact.
Yet--and he looked again at her and then at Neville--there seemed to him
to be, lately, something a little different in the attitudes of these
two toward each other--nothing that he could name--but it preoccupied
him sometimes.
There was a little good-natured malice in Ogilvy; some masculine
curiosity, too. Looking from Valerie to Neville, he said very
innocently:
"Kelly, you know that peachy dream with whom you cut up so shamefully on
New-year's night? Well, she asked me for your telephone number--"
"What are you talking about?" demanded Neville, annoyed.
"Why, I'm talking about Mazie," said Sam, pleasantly. "You remember
Mazie Gray? And how crazy you and she became about each other?"
Valerie, who was pouring tea, remained amiably unconcerned; and Ogilvy
obtained no satisfaction from her; but Neville's scowl was so hearty and
unfeigned that a glimpse of his visage sent Annan into fits of laughter.
To relieve which he ran across the floor, like a huge spider. Then
Valerie leisurely lifted her tranquil eyes and her eyebrows, too, a
trifle.
"Why such unseemly contortions, Harry?" she inquired.
"Sam tormenting Kelly to stir you up! He's got a theory that you and
Kelly are mutually infatuated."
"What a delightful theory, Sam," said Valerie, smiling so sincerely at
Ogilvy that he made up his mind there wasn't anything in it. But the
next moment, catching sight of Neville's furious face, his opinion
wavered.
Valerie said laughingly to Rita: "They'll never grow up, these two--"
nodding her head toward Ogilvy and Annan. And to Neville carelessly--too
carelessly: "Will you have a little more tea, Kelly dear?"
Her attitude was amiable and composed; her voice clear and
unembarrassed. There may have been a trifle more colour in her cheeks;
but what preoccupied Rita was in her eyes--a fleeting glimpse of
something that suddenly concentrated all of Rita's attention upon the
girl across the table.
For a full minute she sat looking at Valerie who seemed pleasantly
unconscious of her inspection; then almost stealthily she shifted her
gaze to Neville.
Gladys and her kitten came purring around in quest of cream; Rita
gathered them into her arms and caressed them and fed them bits of
cassava and crumbs of cake. She was unusually silent that afternoon.
John Burleson tried to interest her with heavy information of various
kinds, but she only smiled absently at that worthy man. Sam Ogilvy and
Harry Annan attempted to goad her into one of those lively exchanges of
banter in which Rita was entirely capable of taking care of herself.
But her smile was spiritless and non-combative; and finally they let her
alone and concentrated their torment upon Valerie, who endured it with
equanimity and dangerously sparkling eyes, and an occasional lightening
retort which kept those young men busy, especially when the epigram was
in Latin--which hurt their feelings.
She had just furnished them with a sample of this classical food for
thought when the door-bell rang and Neville looked up in astonishment to
see José Querida come in.
"Hello," he said, springing up with friendly hand outstretched--"this is
exceedingly good of you, Querida. You have not been here in a very long
while."
Querida's smile showed his teeth; he bowed to Valerie and to Rita, bowed
to the men in turn, and smiled on Neville.
"In excuse I must plead work, my dear fellow--a poor plea and poorer
excuse for the pleasure lost in seeing you--" he nodded to the
others--"and in missing many agreeable little gatherings--similar to
this, I fancy?"
There was a rising inflection to his voice which made the end of his
little speech terminate as a question; and he looked to Valerie for his
answer.
"Yes," she said, "we usually have tea in Kelly's studio. And you may
have some now, if you wish, José."
He nodded his thanks and placed his chair beside hers.
The conversation had become general; Rita woke up, dumped the cats out
of her lap, and made a few viciously verbal passes at Ogilvy. Burleson,
earnest and most worthy, engaged Querida's attention for a while; but
that intellectually lithe young man evaded the ponderously impending
dispute with suave skill, and his gentle smile lingered longer on
Valerie than on anybody else. Several times, with an adroit carelessness
that seemed to be purposeless, he contrived to draw Valerie out of the
general level of conversation by merely lowering his voice; but she
seemed to understand the invitation; and, answering him as carelessly as
he spoke, keyed her replies in harmony with the chatter going on around
them.
He drank his tea smilingly; listened to the others; bore his part
modestly; and at intervals his handsome eyes wandered about the studio,
reverting frequently to the great canvas overhead.
"You know," he said to Neville, showing the eternal edge of teeth under
his crisp black beard--"that composition of yours is simply superb. I am
all for it, Neville."
"I'm glad you are," nodded Neville, pleasantly, "but it hasn't yet
developed into what I hoped it might." His eyes swerved toward Valerie;
their glances encountered casually and passed on. Only Rita saw the
girl's breath quicken for an instant--saw the scarcely perceptible
quiver of Neville's mouth where the smile twitched at his lip for its
liberty to tell the whole world that he was in love. But their faces
were placid, their expressions well schooled; Querida's half-veiled eyes
appeared to notice nothing and for a while he remained smilingly silent.
Later, by accident, he caught sight of Valerie's portrait; he turned
sharply in his chair and looked full at the canvas.
Nobody spoke for a moment; Neville, who was passing Valerie, felt the
slightest contact as the velvet of her fingers brushed across his.
Then Querida rose and walked over to the portrait and stood before it in
silence, biting at his vivid under lip and at the crisp hairs of his
beard that framed it.
Without knowing why, Neville began to feel that Querida was finding in
that half-finished work something that disturbed him; and that he was
not going to acknowledge what it was that he saw there, whether of good
or of the contrary.
Nobody spoke and Querida said nothing.
A mild hope entered Neville's mind that the something, which had never
been in any work of his, might perhaps lie latent in that canvas--that
Querida was discovering it--without a pleasure--but with a sensitive
clairvoyance which was already warning him of a new banner in the
distance, a new trumpet-call from the barriers, another lance in the
lists where he, Querida, had ridden so long unchallenged and supreme.
Within him he felt a sudden and secret excitement that he never before
had known--a conviction that the unexpressed hostility of Querida's
silence was the truest tribute ever paid him--the tribute that at last
was arousing hope from its apathy, and setting spurs to his courage.
Rita, watching Querida, yawned and concealed the indiscretion with her
hand and a taunting word directed at Ogilvy, who retorted in kind. And
general conversation began again.
Querida turned toward Neville, caught his eye, and shrugged:
"That portrait is scarcely in your happiest manner, is it?" he asked
with a grimace. "For me--" he touched his breast with long pale
fingers--"I adore your gayer vein--your colour, clarity--the glamour of
splendour that you alone can cast over such works as that--" He waved
his hand upward toward the high canvas looming above. And he smiled at
Neville and seated himself beside Valerie.
A portfolio of new mezzotints attracted Annan; others gathered around to
examine Neville's treasures; the tea table was deserted for a while
except by Querida and Valerie. Then he deliberately dropped his voice:
"Will you give me another cup of tea, Valerie? And let me talk to you?"
"With pleasure." She set about preparing it.
"I have not seen you for some time," he said in the same caressing
undertone.
"You haven't required me, José."
"Must it be entirely a matter of business between us?"
"Why, of course," she said in cool surprise. "You know perfectly well
how busy I am--and must be."
"You are sometimes busy--pouring tea, here."
"But it is after hours."
"Yet, after hours, you no longer drop in to chat with me."
"Why, yes, I do--"
"Pardon. Not since--the new year began.... Will you permit me a word?"
She inclined her head with undisturbed composure; he went on:
"I have asked you to many theatres, invited you to dine with me, to go
with me to many, many places. And, it appeared, that you had always
other engagements.... Have I offended you?"
"Of course not. You know I like you immensely--"
"Immensely," he repeated with a smile. "Once there was more of sentiment
in your response, Valerie. There is little sentiment in immensity."
She flushed: "I was spoons on you," she said, candidly. "I was silly
with you--and very indiscreet.... But I'd rather not recall that--"
"I can not choose but recall it!"
"Nice men forget such things," she said, hastily.
"How can you speak that way about it?"
"Because I think that way, José," she said, looking up at him; but she
saw no answering smile in his face, and little colour in it; and she
remained unquietly conscious of his gaze.
"I will not talk to you if you begin to look at me like that," she began
under her breath; "I don't care for it--"
"Can I help it--remembering--"
"You have nothing to remember except my pardon," she interrupted hotly.
"Your pardon--for showing that I cared for you?"
"My pardon for your losing your head."
"We were absolutely frank with one another--"
"I do not understand that you are the sort of man a girl can not be
frank with. We imprudently exchanged a few views on life. You--"
"Many," he said--"and particularly views on marriage."
She said, steadily: "I told you that I cared at heart nothing at all for
ceremony and form. You said the same. But you misunderstood me. What
was there in that silly conversation significant to you or to me other
than an impersonal interest in hearing ideas expressed?"
"You knew I was in love with you."
"I did not!" she said, sharply.
"You let me touch your hands--kiss you, once--"
"And you behaved like a madman--and frightened me nearly to death! Had
you better recall that night, José? I was generous about it; I was even
a little sorry for you. And I forgave you."
"Forgave me my loving you?"
"You don't know what love is," she said, reddening.
"Do you, Valerie?"
She sat flushed and silent, looking fixedly at the cups and saucers
before her.
"Do you?" he repeated in a curious voice. And there seemed to be
something of terror in it, for she looked up, startled, to meet his
long, handsome eyes looking at her out of a colourless visage.
"José," she said, "what in the world possesses you to speak to me this
way? Have you any right to assume this attitude--merely because I
flirted with you as harmlessly--or meant it harmlessly--"
She glanced involuntarily across the studio where the others had
gathered over the new collection of mezzotints, and at her glance
Neville raised his head and smiled at her, and encountered Querida's
expressionless gaze.
For a moment Querida turned his head away, and Valerie saw that his face
was pale and sinister.
"José," she said, "are you insane to take our innocent affair so
seriously? What in the world has come over you? We have been such
excellent friends. You have been just as nice as you could be, so gay
and inconsequential, so witty, so jolly, such good company!--and now,
suddenly, out of a perfectly clear sky your wrath strikes me like
lightning!"
"My anger is like that."
"José!" she exclaimed, incredulously.
He showed the edge of perfect teeth again, but she was not sure that he
was smiling. Then he laughed gently.
"Oh," she said in relief--"you really startled me."
"I won't do it again, Valerie." She looked at him, still uncertain,
fascinated by her uncertainty.
The colour--as much as he ever had--returned to his face; he reached
over for a cigarette, lighted it, smiled at her charmingly.
"I was just lonely without you," he said. "Like an unreasonable child I
brooded over it and--" he shrugged, "it suddenly went to my head. Will
you forgive my bad temper?"
"Yes--I will. Only I never knew you had a temper. It--astonishes me."
He said nothing, smilingly.
"Of course," she went on, still flushed, "I knew you were
impulsive--hot-headed--but I know you like me--"
"I was crazily in love with you," he said, lightly; "and when you let me
touch you--"
"Oh, I won't ever again, José!" she exclaimed, half-fearfully; "I
supposed you understood that sentiment could be a perfectly meaningless
and harmless thing--merely a silly moment--a foolish interlude in a
sober friendship.... And I liked you, José--"
[Illustration: "'I shall have need of friends,' she said half to
herself."]
"Can you still like me?"
"Y-yes. Why, of course--if you'll let me."
"Shall we be the same excellent friends, Valerie? And all this ill
temper of mine will be forgotten?"
"I'll try.... Yes, why not? I do like you, and I admire you
tremendously."
His eyes rested on her a moment; he inhaled a deep breath from his
cigarette, expelled it, nodded.
"I'll try to win back all your friendship for me," he said, pleasantly.
"That will be easy. I want you to like me. I want to be able to like
you.... I shall have need of friends," she said half to herself, and
looked across at Neville with a face tranquil, almost expressionless
save for the sensitive beauty of the mouth.
After a moment Querida, too, lifted his head and gazed deliberately at
Neville. Then very quietly:
"Are you dining alone this evening?"
"No."
"Oh. Perhaps to-morrow evening, then--"
"I'm afraid not, José."
He smiled: "Not dining alone ever again?"
"Not--for the present."
"I see."
"There is nothing to see," she said calmly. But his smile seemed now so
genuine that it disarmed her; and she blushed when he said:
"Am I to wish you happiness, Valerie? Is that the trouble?"
"Certainly. Please wish it for me always--as I do for you--and for
everybody."
But he continued to laugh, and the colour in her face persisted,
annoying her intensely.
"Nevertheless," he said, "I do not believe you can be hopelessly in
love."
"What ever put such an idea into that cynical head of yours?"
"Chance," he said. "But you are not irrevocably in love. You are
ignorant of what love can really mean. Only he who understands it--and
who has suffered through it--can ever teach you. And you will never be
satisfied until he does."'
"Are you very wise concerning love, José?" she asked, laughing.
"Perhaps. You will desire to be, too, some day. A good school, an
accomplished scholar."
"And the schoolmaster? Oh! José!"
They both were laughing now--he with apparent pleasure in her coquetry
and animation, she still a little confused and instinctively on her
guard.
Rita came strolling over, a tiny cigarette balanced between her slender
fingers:
"Stop flirting, José," she said; "it's too near dinner time. Valerie,
child, I'm dining with the unspeakable John again. It's a horrid habit.
Can't you prescribe for me? José, what are you doing this evening?"
"Penance," he said; "I'm dining with my family."
"Penance," she repeated with a singular look--"well--that's one way of
regarding the pleasure of having any family to dine with--isn't it,
Valerie?"
"José didn't mean it that way."
Rita blew a ring from her cigarette's glimmering end.
"Will you be at home this evening, Valerie?"
"Y-yes ... rather late."
"Too late to see me?"
"No, you dear girl. Come at eleven, anyway. And if I'm a little late
you'll forgive me, won't you?"
"No, I won't," said Rita, crossly. "You and I are business women,
anyway, and eleven is too late for week days. I'll wait until I can see
you, sometime--"
"Was it anything important, dear?"
"Not to me."
Querida rose, took his leave of Valerie and Rita, went over and made his
adieux to his host and the others. When he had gone Rita, standing alone
with Valerie beside the tea table, said in a low voice:
"Don't do it, Valerie!"
"Do--what?" asked the girl in astonishment.
"Fall in love."
[Illustration: "Ogilvy stood looking sentimentally at the two young
girls."]
Valerie laughed.
"Do you mean with Querida?"
"No."
"Then--what do you mean?"
"You're on the edge of doing it, child. It isn't wise. It won't do for
us.... I know--I know, Valerie, more than you know about--love. Listen
to me. Don't! Go away--go somewhere; drop everything and go, if you've
any sense left. I'll go with you if you will let me.... I'll do anything
for you, dear. Only listen to me before it's too late; keep your
self-control; keep your mind clear on this one thing, that love is of no
use to us--no good to us. And if you think you suspect its presence in
your neighbourhood, get away from it; pick up your skirts and run,
Valerie.... You've plenty of time to come back and wonder what you ever
could have seen in the man to make you believe you could fall in love
with him."
Ogilvy, strolling up, stood looking sentimentally at the two young
girls.
"A--perfect--pair--of precious--priceless--peaches," he said; "I'd love
to be a Turk with an Oriental smirk and an ornamental dirk, and a
tendency to shirk when the others go to work; for the workers I can't
bear 'em and I'd rather run a harem--"
"No doubt," said Rita, coldly; "so you need not explain to me the rather
lively young lady I met in the corridor looking for studio number ten--"
"Rita! Zuleika! Star of my soul! Jewel of my turban! Do you entertain
suspicions--"
"Oh, you probably did the entertaining--"
"I? Heaven! How I am misunderstood! John Burleson! Come over here and
tell this very charming young lady all about that somewhat conspicuous
vision from a local theatre who came floating into my studio by accident
while in joyous quest of you!"
But Annan only laughed, and Rita shrugged her disdain. But as she nodded
adieu to Valerie, the latter saw a pinched look in her face, and did not
understand it.
CHAPTER IX
The world, and his own family, had always been inclined to love Louis
Neville, and had advanced no farther than the inclination. There were
exceptions.
Archie Allaire, who hated him, discussing him floridly once with Querida
at the Thumb-tack Club in the presence of a dozen others, characterised
him as "one of those passively selfish snobs whose virtues are all
negative and whose modesty is the mental complacency of an underdone
capon."
He was sharply rebuked by Ogilvy, Annan, and Burleson; skilfully by
Querida--so adroitly indeed that his amiable and smiling apology for the
absent painter produced a curiously depressing effect upon Ogilvy and
Annan, and even left John Burleson dully uncomfortable, although Allaire
had been apparently well drubbed.
"All the same," said Allaire with a sneer to Querida after the others
had departed, "Neville is really a most frightful snob. Like a busy
bacillus surrounded by a glass tube full of prepared culture, he exists
in his own intellectual exudations perfectly oblivious to the miseries
and joys of the world around him. He hasn't time for anybody except
himself."
Querida laughed: "What has Neville done to you, my friend?"
"To me?" repeated Allaire with a shrug. "Oh, nothing. It isn't that....
All the same when I had my exhibition at the Monson Galleries I went to
him and said, 'See here, Neville, I've got some Shoe-trust and
Button-trust women to pour tea for me. Now you know a lot of fashionable
people and I want my tea-pourers to see them, and I want the papers to
say that they've been to a private view of my exhibition.'
"He gave me one of those absent-treatment stares and said he'd tell all
the really interesting people he knew; and the damnedest lot of scrubby,
dowdy, down-at-the-heels tatterdemalions presented his card at my
private view that you ever saw outside an artist's rathskeller, a lower
Fifth Avenue reception, or a varnishing day! By God, I can go to the
bread-line and get that sort of lookers myself--and I don't care whether
his bunch came from Tenth Street Colonial stock or the Washington Square
nobility or the landed gentry of Chelsea or from the purlieus of the
Bronx, which is where they apparently belong! I can get that kind
myself. I wanted automobiles and broughams and clothes, and I got one
sea-going taxi, and the dirty end of the stick! And to cap the climax he
strolled in himself with a girl whose face is familiar to everybody who
looks at bath tubs in the back of the magazines--Valerie West! And I
want to tell you I couldn't look my Shoe-trust tea-pourers in the face;
and they're so mad that I haven't got an order out of them since."
Querida laughed till the tears stood in his big, velvety, almond-shaped
eyes.
"Why didn't you come to me?" he said.
"Tell you the truth, Querida, I would have if I'd known then that you
were painting portraits of half of upper Fifth Avenue. Besides," he
added, naïvely, "that was before I began to see you in the grand tier
at the opera every week."
"It was before I sat anywhere except in the gallery," said Querida with
a humorous shrug. "Until this winter I knew nobody, either. And very
often I washed my own handkerchiefs and dried them on the window pane. I
had only fame for my laundress and notoriety for my butcher."
"Hey?" said Allaire, a trifle out of countenance.
"It is very true. It cost me so much to paint and frame my pictures that
the prices they brought scarcely paid for models and materials." He
added, pleasantly: "I have dined more often on a box of crackers and a
jar of olives than at a table set with silver and spread with linen." He
laughed without affectation or bitterness:
"It has been a long road, Allaire--from a stable-loft studio to--" he
shrugged--"the 'Van Rypens' grand tier box, for example."
"How in God's name did you do it?" inquired Allaire, awed to the
momentary obliteration of envy.
"I--painted," said Querida, smiling.
"Sure. I know that. I suppose it was the hellish row made over your
canvases last winter that did the trick."
Querida's eyes were partly closed as though in retrospection. "Also," he
said, softly, "I painted a very fashionable woman--for nothing--and to
her entire satisfaction."
"That's the real thing, isn't it?"
"I'm afraid so.... Make two or three unlovely and unlovable old ladies
lovely and lovable--on canvas--for nothing. Then society will let you
slap its powdered and painted face--yes--permit you--other
liberties--if only you will paint it and sign your canvases and ask them
a wicked price for what you give them and--for what they yield to you."
Allaire's ruddy face grew ruddier; he grinned and passed a muscular hand
over his thick, handsome, fox-tinted hair.
"I wish I could get next," he said with a hard glance at Querida. "I'd
sting 'em."
"I would be very glad to introduce you to anybody I know," observed the
other.
"Do you mean that?"
"Why not. A man who has waited as I have for opportunity understands
what others feel who are still waiting."
"That's damn square of you, Querida."
"Oh, no, not square; just natural. The public table is big enough for
everybody."
Allaire thought a moment, slowly caressing his foxy hair.
"After all," he said with a nervous snicker, "you needn't be afraid of
anybody. Nobody can paint like you.... But I'd like to get a look in,
Querida. I've got to make a little money in one way or another--" he
added impudently--"and if I can't paint well enough to sting them,
there's always the chance of marrying one of 'em."
Querida laughed: "Any man can always marry any woman. There's no trick
in getting any wife you want."
"Sure," grinned Allaire; "a wife is a cinch; it's the front row that
keeps good men guessing." He glanced at Querida, his gray-green eyes
brimming with an imprudent malice he could not even now deny
himself--"Also the backs of the magazines keep one guessing," he added,
carelessly; "and I've the patience of a tom-cat, myself."
Querida's beautifully pencilled eyebrows were raised interrogatively.
"Oh, I'll admit that the little West girl kept me sitting on back fences
until some other fellow threw a bottle at me," said Allaire with a
disagreeable laugh. He had come as near as he dared to taunting Querida
and, afraid at the last moment, had turned the edge of it on himself.
Querida lighted a cigarette and blew a whiff of smoke toward the
ceiling.
"I've an idea," he said, lazily, "that somebody is trying to marry her."
"Forget it," observed Allaire in contempt. "She wouldn't stand for the
sort who marry her kind. She'll land hard on her neck one of these days,
and the one best bet will be some long-faced Botticelli with heavenly
principles and the moral stability of a tumbler pigeon. Then there'll be
hell to pay; but he will get over it and she'll get aboard the
toboggan. That's the way it ends, Querida."
Querida sipped his coffee and glanced out of the club window. From the
window he could see the roof of the studio building where Neville lived.
And he wondered how far Valerie was from that building at the present
moment, wondered, and sipped his coffee.
He was a man whose career had been builded upon perseverance. He had
begun life by slaying every doubt. And his had been a bitter life; but
he had suffered smilingly; the sordid struggle along the edges of
starvation had hardened nothing of his heart.
Sensitive, sympathetic, ardent, proud, and ambitious with the quiet
certainty of a man predestined, he had a woman's capacity for patience,
for suffering, and for concealment, but not for mercy. And he cared
passionately for love as he did for beauty--had succumbed to both in
spirit oftener than in the caprice of some inconsequential amourette.
But never, until he came to know Valerie West, had a living woman meant
anything vital to his happiness. Yet, what she aroused in him was that
part of his nature to which he himself was a stranger--a restless,
sensuous side which her very isolation and exposure to danger seemed to
excite the more until desire to control her, to drive others away, to
subdue, master, mould her, make her his own, obsessed him. And he had
tried it and failed; and had drawn aside, fiercely, still watching and
determined.
Some day he meant to marry properly. He had never doubted his ability to
do so even in the sordid days. But there was no hurry, and life was
young, and so was Valerie West--young enough, beautiful enough to bridge
the years with him until his ultimate destiny awaited him.
And all was going well again with him until that New-year's night; and
matters had gone ill with him since then--so ill that he could not put
the thought of it from him, and her beauty haunted him--and the
expression of Neville's eyes!--
But he remained silent, quiet, alert, watching and waiting with all his
capacity for enduring. And he had now something else to watch--something
that his sensitive intuition had divined in a single unfinished canvas
of Neville's.
So far there had been but one man supreme in the new world as a great
painter of sunlight and of women. There could not be two. And he already
felt the approach of a shadow menacing the glory of his
sunlight--already stood alert and fixedly observant of a young man who
had painted something disquieting into an unfinished canvas.
That man and the young girl whom he had painted to the astonishment and
inward disturbance of José Querida, were having no easy time in that new
world which they had created for themselves.
Embarked upon an enterprise in the management of which they were neither
in accord nor ever seemed likely to be, they had, so far, weathered the
storms of misunderstandings and the stress of prejudice. Blindly
confident in Love, they were certain, so far, that it was Love itself
that they worshipped no matter what rites and ceremonies each one
observed in its adoration. Yet each was always attempting to convert the
other to the true faith; and there were days of trouble and of tears and
of telephones.
Neville presented a frightfully complex problem to Valerie West.
His even-tempered indifference to others--an indifference which had
always characterised him--had left only a wider and deeper void now
filling with his passion for her.
They were passing through a maze of cross-purposes; his ardent and
exacting intolerance of any creed and opinion save his own was ever
