‘‘ Children, children ! ” and there came a calm on 
the sea of trouble. How did they get along so? 
he wondered. 
Latterly the idea of marrying again had entered 
his mind. It was foolish at five-and-forty, per- 
haps, but he thought he would like to be loved and 
cared for, have some one to kiss him when he 
 
went away and watch for his coming, and Mrs. 
Alden almost filled the bill. If there were some 
little children ! 
He took the thought with him to the library, 
where he stirred the fire and lighted his cigar. Of 
course sometime he would have his little boy. He 
felt now that it was best not to be in too great 
a hurry, but let them all get familiar with the idea. 
He would have the others over one or two at a 
time. But there ought to be some tender, womanly 
heart to mother Chan when he came. Little Chan 
with the beautiful voice scarcely any one was 
aware of. It must be worth something if Mr. 
Gwynne wanted to take it in hand. 
His cigar went out and he fell into a half-doze 
A woman came and clasped her soft hands under 
his chin, laid her warm cheek against his — his 
wife — the wife of some of the stories he had 
read. Well — he could count on a quarter of a 
century before real old age, and he would have 
her to travel down the decline with. Chan for 
a son, but he could not decide whether the daugh- 
ter should be Prim or Marigold. 
There was another light fall of snow in the 
night, but the morning was fine. The east was all 
aflame with summer-time radiance. The sky was a 
peerless blue with here and there a white drift 
 
sailing over it. Every twig was outlined and shone 
as if crested with diamonds. It was good to be 
alive, Adonijah Mann thought, and he uttered a 
reverent Thanksgiving. 
Dan,” he exclaimed after breakfast, pile the 
sleigh up with blankets and things and bring over 
every soul, if you have to pack the twins on the 
sleigh bottom. Otherwise you will have to go over 
again. Mind, now.” 
The horses came down the drive jingling the 
silvery bells; Lady Betty was the least bit arrogant 
and held her head high. What a pretty team they 
were ! 
Really the avenue was in a sort of gala proces- 
sion. Ridgewood people liked this road, it was so 
wide, straight, and smooth. Gay loads in fine 
array passed and repassed. One stopped at the 
Chedisters’ and let out a stylish party. 
“ So they are going to keep Thanksgiving, too! ” 
Mr. Mann said to himself. 
Everything seemed to fly past. How he hoped 
nothing had happened ! 
There was great flurrying and scurrying in the 
little old house. The children had been scrubbed 
the night before, but if Amaryllis couldn’t put the 
ethics of dust in as exquisite language as Ruskin, 
 
she fought it in a way that would have appalled 
him. She dressed the twins and placed them on 
a chair and told them if they stirred they would 
be left at home, which she didn’t quite mean, of 
course, and they looked at each other with big 
eyes and quivering lips. 
Linn brought in a great pile of wood and some 
splendid kindlings, so they could start the fire at 
night, and he put a big log in the stove so it would 
last some hours. Then they heard the jingling of 
the merriest bells. 
‘‘ Well, if that isn’t supersplacious, and mag- 
nificently grand ! ” declared Marigold. Oh, why 
don’t we live down in the village and set everybody 
wild with envy! Another beautiful horse and a 
sleigh like Noah’s ark! Look, Chan, look!” 
Mrs. Firth had not been quite sure they would 
all go. Now she meekly gave Dan his way. 
There never had been anything like that ride in 
their lives. 
“ I feel as if I wanted to sing, ‘ On a Christmas 
morning,’ ” declared Marigold. ‘‘ Why, isn’t it 
Christmasy and fine? I know we sha’n’t have as 
gay a time at Christmas.” 
“ Maybe we’ll all go over there again,” subjoined 
Chan hopefully. 
“ Oh, children, I hope you won’t act as if you 
 
had just come out of the woods,” said their 
mother. 
“ They’re ob-ster-epper-epperous,” declared Tip. 
“ I should have put in two more syllables,” re- 
marked Prim. 
They huddled up together and their laughter 
made echoes on the frosty air. 
One of the guests was standing in Mrs. 
Chedister’s bay window, and called to her. 
Oh, Emily, come and look at this load of chil- 
dren! Six, seven, eight. Do you suppose they 
are Institution young ones.'' They’re in hoods 
and motley array. And there’s a woman. Who 
lives next door?” 
Gladys came with a quickened step. Now they 
were laughing as they ran up the walk. 
“Well, there is a raft of them!” replied Mrs. 
Chedister. “ A Mr. Mann who is ” 
“What a beautifully matched team! Has he 
plenty of money?” 
“ I should think so. The Gedneys were in 
trouble and the place had to be sold. He’s a wid- 
ower, Grace,” laughing. 
“ Can’t we make some excuse to go in ? Does 
he have these parties often? ” 
“ There were some children there in the summer. 
 
you know, mamma,” interposed Gladys. And 
they had such a good time.” 
“ Good time ! I thought they would tear things 
to pieces. They were Irish, I guess, and one had 
red hair.” 
‘‘ Well, I suppose they don’t belong to him,” 
said Miss Grace Lawton. 
“ They ” were getting out of wraps upstairs in 
one of the rooms and came down in a sort of 
string, the twins bashfully hanging back. Rilla 
said you had to coax them to come to you and 
then coax them to stay away. And oh, how they 
had been scrubbed and scoured and rinsed until 
they shone painfully! Rilla didn’t know about 
talcum powder taking the shine off, and hadn’t 
any if she had known. Those finger nails had 
been a task of long-suffering and patience. 
But somehow they were in a huddle about Mr. 
Mann, their nicely brushed heads being tousled, 
and they nearly all talked at once while he kissed 
here and there and said, Have I been all around ? 
Hadn’t I better go again for fear I’ve missed 
somebody ? ” 
Oh, Miss Lawton, what would you have said 
to that! 
“ I ’ant to put a tiss in the hole in your cheek,” 
exclaimed Laurel, with infinite pains. 
 
So you may.” He lifted her up. How sweet 
and soft all the young lips were. That was the 
joy fathers had. 
I don’t see how you came to have such a dim- 
ple,” Marigold began complainingly. Men don’t 
need them. I wish I had it. Lai, take it out and 
give it to me.” 
Laurel put her small thumb and finger to the 
place and drew a long breath. 
I tan’t det it out.” 
“ Oh, Marigold ! ” said her mother, with a pink 
flush in her face that should have belonged to the 
girl. 
He sat down with the child on his knee. 
“ I’m afraid it won’t come out,” and he shook 
his head. “ It’s warranted to wash, even. I don’t 
know why it should have come there. I wish I 
could give it to you, Marigold. I’ve wanted it 
out many a time. I’ve heard of people having dim- 
ples made.” 
“ Punched in, I suppose ! It must hurt a good 
deal. I don’t like to be hurt.” 
Let them give you ether,” said Chan, slipping 
under Mr. Mann’s other arm. “ My box came. 
It was from little Arthur’s father. It seems odd 
that he should always be little to me when he was 
older. And the most beautiful books and two 
 
pictures. He willed them to me. Nurse Jane 
wrote his will and it was all signed right. And 
such a lovely letter — we all cried over it. I’ve 
brought it along.” 
“ It is just splendid,” added Marigold. And 
he said such nice things to Chan. I’m so glad he 
could sing for the poor little fellow.” 
Would some one else covet the voice? 
He put Laurel down. Let’s go and read 
it, Chan. We’ll be back in a moment or 
two.” 
He took Chan over in the corner of the library. 
It made his man’s eyes moist to see the crooked, 
trembling signature to which Arthur had added 
“ with my love.” And Mr. Collamore’s letter 
touched his heart as well. 
‘‘But you’re my boy, Chan; you’ll belong to 
me always,” and the strong arm tightened its grasp. 
“ You’ll never need to ask favors of any one. But 
it was very kind in Mr. Collamore, and I am 
glad he cared so much about his poor motherless 
boy. Oh, Chan, some day you will know how dear 
you have grown to me.” 
“The dinner is ready,”' announced Mrs. Alden. 
Then they were all marshaled out and seated 
in due order. Mrs. Alden and Mr. Mann were on 
opposite sides of the table, Mrs. Firth on one end 
They were all marshaled out and seated in due order, 
 
with a twin on each side, Amaryllis at the other 
end. Mr. Mann had Chan on his right hand and 
Linn on the left; Mrs. Alden had Tip on her right 
and the others sandwiched between. Mr. Mann 
had never said grace at his table before, but some- 
how he had been very full of gratitude of late 
and he asked a blessing now in a clear, manly 
tone. 
Oh, how nice they looked, if their clothes were 
not in the latest style ! Rilla had made some neck- 
ties out of pieces of the old silk gowns that were 
not so much faded. Their collars were all clean as 
well as their hands, and they sat up straight, as 
their mother had tried to impress upon them. And 
oh, what a turkey that was ! What elegant cran- 
berry sauce and golden lemon jelly, crisp celery, 
and onions in cream gravy. Mr. Mann carved, 
Lide helped to vegetables that were on a side table, 
Mrs. Alden to the others. It was funny, but at 
first they obeyed their mother’s mandate to the 
letter. 
“ Have you all left your tongues behind you. ” 
asked their host. 
“ Will Bo-Peep have to be sent after them? ” in- 
quired Prim. 
“ Mr. Mann, which side of the turkey is eaten 
first?” propounded Marigold. 
 
“ Why — it depends on which side you carve 
first.’’ 
No, it doesn’t depend upon that at all.” 
“ Well, suppose I turn mine over,” and he suited 
the action to the word. “ Now, Miss Mari- 
gold ! ” 
“ And that doesn’t answer the question.” 
Like the boy’s riddle they snap on you, there 
isn’t any answer to it.” 
There was a mirthful twinkle in Linn’s eye. 
“ I wouldn’t be so foolish as to ask a question 
that couldn’t be answered,” returned Marigold, 
with a fine air of dignity. 
“ You’ll find a great many of such questions in 
the world. Now, Miss Marigold, answer mine. 
Which side of the turkey — why,” and he glanced 
up puzzled — “ how was it ? There was a catch 
somewhere — which side of the turkey ” 
There was a merry shout. 
“ Is eaten first,” prompted Chan, leaning over. 
“Is eaten first?” triumphantly. 
“ Why, the right, always. The other is left,” 
returned Marigold, with the grace of innocence. 
“ You see, it doesn’t matter which way you turn 
the turkey.” 
“But suppose there isn’t any left?” 
“ I’ve answered the one question.” 
 
‘‘ ril look up something to catch you. Have you 
any more of these things? 
On which side of the church do they 
always plant the yew-tree in England ? ” asked 
Linn. 
“ Why — on the right side.” 
Linn shook his head. 
On the left, then.” 
Another shake. 
Then they don’t plant it at all.” 
Why, they plant it on the outside,” said Tip, 
giving it away. I know that.” 
I know it too, now,” said Mr. Mann, with a 
droll smile. 
“ Children,” and their mother’s voice was re- 
proving, “ it isn’t nice to bother Mr. Mann with 
your silliness. You see, they are so little with 
grown-up people,” apologetically. 
It makes a bit of fun and brightens one’s wits. 
I’m a rather stupid old fellow,” 
You’re not old at all,” resented Prim. 
He bowed and said “ Thank you.” Prim won- 
dered what it was for. 
They went on being merry and eating. There 
was no left side to the turkey, and slices of the 
other were brought on. Then Lide cleared the 
table. There was a small piece of mince pie, a 
 
great beautiful preserved peach, and nuts galore, 
almonds and English walnuts, which were a treat. 
Then Marigold, seized with a remembrance of 
something she had read only a little while before, 
rose and held up her glass of fresh water, ex- 
claiming : 
‘‘ Here’s to your health, Mr. Mann, and ” — what 
came next? — “and may the best of everything 
come to you.” 
That was good, but it wasn’t quite as elegant 
as the real toast, and she sat down with a flushed 
face. 
He rose. “ Thank you most sincerely, my child. 
And here’s wishing we may all be together next 
Thanksgiving. You must all say ‘ Amen ’ to that.” 
They all said it reverently. Mr. Mann led the 
way to the library, and as Marigold entered he 
bent over and kissed her. 
It was growing a little dusky; the big tree at 
this corner of the house shut out some of the light. 
Then, too, the woods hid the westward sun. Mr. 
Mann stirred up the fire and made a brilliant 
blaze. 
“ Oh, let’s sit on the floor and watch it ! ” cried 
Prim. “ It’s always so comfortable. You want 
to slip off the chairs. They seem made especially 
for grown-up people. When I am rich I shall have 
 
a splendid wood-fire and sit on the floor with ever 
so many around me and tell them stories like 
Scheherazade.” 
“ Well, you might begin now. Here is the fire 
and the floor,” said the host. 
‘‘ I haven’t put my wonderful stories in the right 
shape yet. I want to learn about Persia and 
Arabia and all those mysterious Eastern countries 
where the queer things happen and there are genii 
and strings of jewels hanging on trees and 
people who can be transformed into different 
things.” 
“ How long will I have to wait.? ” 
“ Oh, Prim, tell him about the Kron,” exclaimed 
Linn. 
You must excuse them,” said Mrs. Firth depre- 
catingly. “ They are so much alone and they have 
to entertain each other, and sometimes it’s just 
foolishness.” 
“ But what is this about the — what did you call 
it?” glancing around. 
Laurel had crawled up on her mother’s lap and 
dropped asleep. Chan was on Mr. Mann’s knee, 
the others in a little huddle before the fire. 
It’s a funny long word that no one but Prim 
can say,” explained Chan. “ And now he’s clear 
inside of the earth where he makes ’ructions.” 
Why, yes, I want to hear about him.” 
Go on. Prim,” prompted Linn. 
It’s the Chrononhontontholagosphorus.” 
“The what!” ejaculated Mr. Mann, in amaze. 
“ The Chrononhontontholagosphorus.” 
He laughed until he shook Chan. “ That beats 
me,” he admitted. “ I never could remember it. 
And what about him ? ” 
Primrose had been so grave that she seemed in 
dead earnest. 
“ Go on,” prompted Linn again. 
“ Well, once clear up by the North Pole, where 
the cakes of ice float around in summer and freeze 
together in winter this big animal lived. There 
was a lot of bears — I don’t know whether you call 
them a drove or a herd. They’d crawled out and 
they were awful hungry, and they were white as 
snow, for the cold had bleached them all up. They 
looked around and espied this strange thing; he 
was lying in a heap then and didn’t look so big, and 
they said to each other, ‘ Oh, let us go over there 
and kill him. He’ll make us a good dinner.’ So 
they started off and took long strides from cake 
to cake and came along cautiously. The mean old 
thing never stirred until they were up quite close, 
when he made a spring and caught the foremost 
one with his huge paw. The others turned and 
 
fled while he was eating up their companion. Then 
they saw an immense whale, who had come up to 
breathe, and they said, ‘ There’s an awful creature 
up there on that cake of ice. Can’t you thrash 
round with that splendid big tail of yours and 
turn the cake over so he will drown? for we don’t 
believe he can swim a bit, and if he stays we’re 
afraid he will eat us all up.’ 
“ Now the whale was good-natured, for he had 
been swallowing loads of fishes, and he thought 
it would be quite fun. So he said, ‘Yes. Now 
you watch and see me.’ Then he began to make a 
terrible commotion, and the Chrononhontonthola- 
gosphorus looked up and began to teeter. The 
cake of ice broke loose and he was too clumsy 
to jump anywhere, but the other cakes broke loose, 
too. The whale kept on, and the bears danced and 
howled, their way of rejoicing, and the poor old 
fellow had to go on and on. Now you know, there 
is an open polar sea — the geography says so — and 
so that must be true. Well, he struck that, and 
then he floated on, but the whale was bound to 
drown him if he could, for he thought he couldn’t 
swim. He began to claw the cake of ice and that 
kept breaking off, and presently there was a great 
black pit, and over he went head first.” 
The children all drew a long breath when Prim 
 
made this pause, many times as they had heard 
the story. Mr. Mann started, too. 
‘‘ Oh, I hope that isn’t the end,” he said. A 
creature with such a long name ought to have a 
long life.” 
“ He is alive yet,” returned Prim solemnly. “ I 
don’t believe he will ever die. You see, up there 
the earth is sort of flattened and there’s a pole run- 
ning through it, so there has to be a hole. It was 
turning round just then, and it swept the Chronon- 
hontontholagosphorus in, and down he went.” 
‘‘And what then?” with almost the eagerness 
of a child, wondering how she was to work to an 
end. 
“ There’s a great space and there’s another 
world inside. Teacher read about it one day, 
though she said she didn’t really believe it; but 
no one truly knows for fair. Well, the Chronon- 
hontontholagosphorus floundered around; he had 
cat’s eyes and could see in the dark, and it looked 
very queer. Then he got awfully hot; he could 
hardly get his breath. So he sprang up on top of 
a high place and put his back against the crust and 
pushed with all his might, and the crust cracked 
and made a little streak of light, and the wind 
blew all about and that refreshed him. Then he 
went on and on, for that space wasn’t big enough 
 
to let him through. So after awhile he tried it 
again, and this time it was terrific. There were 
explosions, and rivers rushed around, and he was 
amused at the great commotion he had created, 
and thought he’d go on having some more fun. 
So he does that every now and then, and we have 
an earthquake.” 
“Is that how it happens.'” Mr. Mann threw 
back his head and laughed. 
“ There is some one truly there. Teacher read 
about him. His name is Enceladus. But I like 
my big fellow better. I thought him up my- 
self.” 
“ You are a genius, certainly. Do you know 
any more ? ” 
“Oh, Mr. Mann, I ought to take the children 
home. It is getting late,” protested the mother. 
“ You had better wait for the moonlight. That 
will be along presently.” 
“ Tell him about the Meggy,” interposed Linn. 
“ That won’t take very long, and it’s so splendid 
here.” 
Linn was hugging his knees and rocking himself 
to and fro, the picture of enjoyment. 
“ That’s a dictionary thing. I found the picture 
of him one day. Dictionaries are splendid. When 
I get big and earn some money I’m going to buy 
 
one. There’s so many pictures you can tell stories 
about.” 
“But the — what is it? You’ll have to write 
these queer names out for me. And to-morrow, 
when I am in town, I’ll buy a big picture diction- 
ary, and every time you come over you shall have 
it.” 
“Oh, thank you! Well, before there were any 
people in the world there were all kinds of animals 
and beasts and things, and this was a horrid great 
thing, but they hadn’t any names yet, the Bible 
says so. And this beast of a thing went around 
eating up all the smaller ones, who had to fly for 
their lives. They grew awfully tired of it, and held 
a council where they thought up ever so many 
plans, but they all seemed rather lame. Then a 
cunning fox said: 
“ ‘ There’s a great quagmire over there in that 
boggy place, and if he once got in, he is so big and 
clumsy he never could get out. Instead of hiding 
away, let’s form a great body and go leaping before 
him. We’re so light we can skip from bog to bog, 
and we’ll keep well in advance.’ 
“ They all shouted so that the beast woke up, 
and presently he found where they were. They 
chattered and screamed, and some of them made 
piteous cries, as if they were afraid. When he saw 
 
the great concourse he put off after them, picking 
his way. But presently his forefeet went down 
pretty deep and he plunged around, and when he 
got them out he gave a big leap where the quag- 
mire was awfully soft and down he went with all 
four feet. Then he couldn’t get out, and it began 
to rain and the great marsh filled up, but he kept 
sinking deeper and deeper. When it cleared up 
the other things came back, and the great hornets 
stung him and the eagles and condors clawed him, 
the foxes and the wolves tore great pieces out of 
him and had a fine feast, and so the poor fellow 
soon died. Well, after that there was a great 
landslide that covered him up, and the earth and 
the rocks buried him, and that was thousands of 
years ago. Then there came people on the earth, 
and they cleared it up and leveled it and began to 
make houses and farms. And one day a lot of 
