A million boarding houses throughout the land, read about her beauty
with avidity; and fat old women in soiled pink wrappers began to mention
her intimately to each other as "Strelsa Leeds"--the first hall-mark of
social fame--and there was loud discussion, in a million humble homes,
about the fashionable men who were paying her marked attention; and the
chances she had for bagging earls and dukes were maintained and
combated, below stairs and above, with an eagerness, envy, and
back-stairs knowledge truly and profoundly democratic.
       *       *       *       *       *
Her morning mail had begun to assume almost fashionable proportions, but
she could not yet reconcile herself to the idea of even such a clever
maid as her own assuming power of social secretary. So she still read
and answered all her letters--or rather neglected to notice the
majority, which invested her with a kind of awe to some and made others
furious and unwillingly respectful.
Letters, bills, notes, invitations, advertisements were scattered over
the bedclothes as she lay there, thinking over the pleasures and
excitement of last night's folly--thinking of Quarren, among others, and
of the swift intimacy that had sprung up between them--like a
witch-flower over night--thinking of her imprudence, and of the cold
displeasure of Barent Van Dyne who, toward daylight, had found her
almost nose to nose with Quarren, absorbed in exchanging with that young
man ideas and perfectly futile notions about everything on top, inside,
and underneath the habitable globe.
She blushed as she remembered her flimsy excuses to Van Dyne--she had
the grace to blush over that memory--and how any of the dignity incident
to the occasion had been all Van Dyne's--and how, as she took his
irreproachable arm and parted ceremoniously with Quarren, she had
imprudently extended her hand behind her as her escort bore her away--a
childish impulse--the innocent coquetry of a village belle--she
flushed again at the recollection--and at the memory of Quarren's lips
on her finger-tips--and how her hand had closed on the gardenia he
pressed into it----
She turned her head on the pillow; the flower she had taken from him lay
beside her on her night table, limp, discoloured, malodorous; and she
picked it up, daintily, and flung it into the fireplace.
At the same moment the telephone rang downstairs in the library.
Presently her maid knocked, announcing Mr. Quarren on the wire.
"I'm not at home," said Strelsa, surprised, or rather trying to feel a
certain astonishment. What really surprised her was that she felt none.
Her maid was already closing the door behind her when Strelsa said:
"Wait a moment, Freda." And, after thinking, she smiled to herself and
added: "You may set my transmitter on the table beside me, and hang up
the receiver in the library.... Be sure to hang it up at once."
Then, sitting up in bed, she unhooked the receiver and set it to her
ear.
"Mr. Quarren," she began coldly, and without preliminary amenities,
"have you any possible excuse for awaking me at such an unearthly hour
as mid-day?"
"Good Lord," he exclaimed contritely, "did I do that?"
She had no more passion for the exact truth than the average woman, and
she quibbled:
"Do you think I would say so if it were not true?" she demanded.
"No, of course not----"
"Well, then!" An indignant pause. "But," she added honestly, "I was not
exactly what you might call asleep, although it practically amounts to
the same thing. I was reposing.... Are you feeling quite fit this
morning?" she added demurely.
"I'd be all right if I could see you----"
"You can't! What an idea!"
"Why not? What are you going to do?"
"There's no particular reason why I should detail my daily duties,
obligations, and engagements to you; is there?--But I'm an unusually
kind-hearted person, and not easily offended by people's
inquisitiveness. So I'll overlook your bad manners. First, then, I am
lunching at the Province Club, then I am going to a matinée at the
Casino, afterward dropping in for tea at the Sprowls, dining at the
Calderas, going to the Opera with the Vernons, and afterward, with them,
to a dance at the Van Dynes.... So, will you kindly inform me where
you enter the scene?"
She could hear him laugh over the telephone.
"What are you doing just now?" he asked.
"I am seated upon my innocent nocturnal couch, draped in exceedingly
intimate attire, conversing over the telephone with the original Paul
Pry."
"Could anything induce you to array yourself more conventionally,
receive me, and let me take you to your luncheon at the Province Club?"
"But I don't wish to see you."
"Is that perfectly true?"
"Perfectly. I've just thrown your gardenia into the fireplace. Doesn't
that prove it?"
"Oh, no. Because it's too early, yet, for either of us to treasure such
things----"
"What horrid impertinence!"
"Isn't it! But your heavenly gift of humour will transform my impudence
into a harmless and diverting sincerity. Please let me see you, Mrs.
Leeds--just for a few moments."
"Why?"
"Because you are going South and there are three restless weeks ahead of
me----"
This time he could hear her clear, far laughter:
"What has my going to Florida to do with your restlessness?"
"Your very question irrevocably links cause and effect----"
"Don't be absurd, Mr. Quarren!"
"Absurdity is the badge of all our Guild----"
"What Guild do you belong to?"
"The associated order of ardent suitors----"
"Mr. Quarren! You are becoming ridiculous; do you know it?"
"No, I don't realise it, but they say all the rest of the world
considers suitors ridiculous----"
"Do you expect me to listen to such nonsense at such an hour in the
morning?"
"It's half past twelve; and my weak solution of nonsense is suitable to
the time of day----"
"Am I to understand that the solution becomes stronger as the day
advances?"
"Exactly; the solution becomes so concentrated and powerful that traces
of common-sense begin to appear----"
"I didn't notice any last night."
"Van Dyne interfered."
"Poor Mr. Van Dyne. If you'd been civil to him he might have asked you
to the dance to-night--if I had suggested it. But you were horridly
rude."
"I? Rude?"
"You're not going to be rude enough to say it was I who behaved badly to
him, are you? Oh, the shocking vanity of man! No doubt you are thinking
that it was I who, serpent-like, whispered temptation into your innocent
ear, and drew you away into a corner, and shoved palms in front of us,
and brought silver and fine linen, and rare fruits and sparkling wines;
and paid shameless court with an intelligent weather-eye always on the
watch for a flouted and justly indignant cavalier!"
"Yes," he said, "you did all those things. And now you're trying to
evade the results."
"What are the results?"
"A partly demented young man clamouring to see you at high-noon while
the cold cruel cause of his lunacy looks on and laughs."
"I'm afraid that young man must continue to clamour," she said,
immensely amused at the picture he drew. "How far away is he at this
moment?"
"In the Legation, a blithering wreck."
"Why not in his office frantically immersed in vast business enterprises
and cataclysmic speculations?"
"I'm rather afraid that if business immerses him too completely he will
be found drowned some day."
"You promised--said that you were going to begin a vigorous campaign,"
she reminded him reproachfully. "I asked it of you; and you agreed."
"I am beginning life anew--or trying to--by seeking the perennial source
of daily spiritual and mundane inspiration----"
"Why won't you be serious?"
"I am. Were you not the source of my new inspiration? Last night did
something or other to me--I am not yet perfectly sure what it was. I
want to see you to be sure--if only for a--moment--merely to satisfy
myself that you are real----"
"Will one moment be enough?"
"Certainly."
"One second--or half a one?"
"Plenty."
"Very well--if you promise not to expect or ask for more than that----"
"That is terribly nice of you!"
"It is, overwhelmingly. But really I don't know whether I am nice or
merely weak-minded. Because I've lingered here gossiping so long with
you that I've simply got to fly like a mad creature about my dressing.
Good-bye----"
"Shall I come up immediately?"
"Of course not! I expect to be dressing for hours and
hours--figuratively speaking.... Perhaps you might start in ten minutes
if you are coming in a taxi."
"You are an angel----"
"That is not telephone vernacular.... And perhaps you had better be
prompt, because Mrs. Lannis is coming for me--that is, if you have
anything to--to say--that----"
She flushed up, annoyed at her own stupidity, then felt grateful to him
as he answered lightly:
"Of course; she might misunderstand our informality. Shall I see you in
half an hour?"
"If I can manage it," she said.
She managed it, somehow. At first, really indifferent, and not very
much amused, the talk with him had gradually aroused in her the same
interest and pleasurable curiosity that she had experienced in
exchanging badinage with him the night before. Now she really wanted to
see him, and she took enough trouble about it to set her deft maid
flying about her offices.
First a fragrant precursor of his advent arrived in the shape of a great
bunch of winter violets; and her maid fastened them to her black fox
muff. Then the distant door-bell sounded; and in an extraordinarily
short space of time, wearing her pretty fur hat, her boa, and carrying a
muff that matched both, with his violets pinned to it, she entered the
dim drawing-room, halting just beyond the threshold.
"Are you not ashamed," she said, severely, "to come battering at my door
at this hour of the day?"
"Abjectly."
They exchanged a brief handshake; she seated herself on the arm of a
sofa; he stood before the unlighted fireplace, looking at her with a
half smiling half curious air which made her laugh outright.
"Bien! C'est moi, monsieur," she said. "Me voici! C'est moi-même!"
"I believe you are real after all," he admitted.
"Do I seem different?"
"Yes--and no."
"How am I different?"
"Well, somehow, last night, I got the notion that you were younger,
thinner--and not very real----"
"Are you presuming to criticise my appearance last night?" she asked
with mock indignation. "Because if you are, I proudly refer you to the
enlightened metropolitan morning press."
"I read all about you," he said, smiling.
"I am glad you did. You will doubtless now be inclined to treat me with
the respect due to my years and experience."
"I believe," he said, "that your gown and hat and furs make a charming
difference----"
"How perfectly horrid of you! I thought you admired my costume last
night!"
"Oh, Lord," he said--"you were sufficiently charming last night. But
now, in your fluffy furs, you seem rather taller--less slender
perhaps--and tremendously fetching----"
"Say that my clothes improve me, and that in reality I'm a horrid, thin
little beast!" she exclaimed, laughing. "I know I am, but I haven't
finished growing yet. Really that's the truth, Mr. Quarren. Would you
believe that I have grown an inch since last spring?"
"I believe it," he said, "but would you mind stopping now? You are
exactly right."
"You know I'm thin and flat as a board!"
"You're perfect!"
"It's too late to say that to me----"
"It is too early to say more."
"Let's don't talk about myself, please."
"It has become the only subject in the world that interests me----"
"Please, Mr. Quarren! Are you actually attempting to be silly at this
hour of the day? The wise inanities of midnight sound perilously flat in
the sunshine--flatter than the flattest champagne, which no
bread-crumbs can galvanise into a single bubble. Tell me, why did you
wish to see me this morning. I mean the real reason? Was it merely to
find out whether I was weak-minded enough to receive you?"
He looked at her, smiling:
"I wanted to see whether you were as real and genuine and wholesome and
unspoiled and--and friendly as I thought you were last night."
"Am I?"
"More so."
"Are you so sure about my friendliness?"
"I want to believe in it," he said. "It means a lot to me already."
"Believe in it then, you very badly spoiled young man," she said,
stretching out her hand to him impulsively. "I do like you.... And now I
think you had better go--unless you want to see Mrs. Lannis."
Retaining her hand for a second he said:
"Before you leave town will you let me ask you a question?"
"I am leaving to-morrow. You'll have to ask it now."
Their hands fell apart; he seemed doubtful, and she awaited his
question, smilingly. And as he made no sign of asking she said:
"You have my permission to ask it. Is it a very impertinent question?"
"Very."
"How impertinent is it?" she inquired curiously.
"Unpardonably personal."
After a silence she laughed.
"Last night," she said, "you told me that I would probably forget you
unless I had something unpardonable to forgive you. Isn't this a good
opportunity to leave your unpardonable imprint upon my insulted
memory?"
"Excellent," he said. "This is my outrageous question: are you engaged
to be married?"
For a full minute she remained silent in her intense displeasure. After
the first swift glance of surprise her gray eyes had dropped, and she
sat on the gilded arm of the sofa, studying the floor covering--an
ancient Saraband rug, with the inevitable and monotonous river-loop
symbol covering its old-rose ground in uninteresting repetition. After a
while she lifted her head and met his gaze, quietly.
"I am trying to believe that you did not mean to be offensive," she
said. "And now that I have a shadow of a reason to pardon you, I shall
probably do so, ultimately."
"But you won't answer me?" he said, reddening.
"Of course not. Are we on any such footing of intimacy--even of
friendship, Mr. Quarren?"
"No. But you are going away--and my reason for speaking--" He checked
himself; his reasons were impossible; there was no extenuation to be
found in them, no adequate explanation for them, or for his attitude
toward this young girl which had crystallised over night--over a
sleepless, thrilling night--dazzling him with its wonder and its truth
and its purity in the clean rays of the morning sun.
She watched his expression as it changed, troubled, uncertain how to
regard him, now.
"It isn't very much like you, to ask me such a question," she said.
"Before I met you, you thought me one kind of a man; after I met you,
you thought me another. Have I turned out to be a third kind?"
"N-no."
"Would I turn into the first kind if I ask you again to answer my
question?"
She gave him a swift, expressionless glance:
"I want to like you; I'm trying to, Mr. Quarren. Won't you let me?"
"I want to have the right to like you, too--perhaps more than you will
care to have me----"
"Please don't speak that way--I don't know what you mean, anyway----"
"That is why I asked you the question--to find out whether I had a right
to----"
"Right!" she repeated. "What right? What do you mean? What have you
misinterpreted in me that has given you any rights as far as I am
concerned? Did you misunderstand our few hours of masked acquaintance--a
few moments of perfectly innocent imprudence?--my overlooking certain
conventions and listening to you at the telephone this morning--my
receiving you here at this silly hour? What has given you any right to
say anything to me, Mr. Quarren--to hint of the possibility of anything
serious--for the future--or at any time whatever?"
"I have no right," he said, wincing.
"Indeed you have not!" she rejoined warmly, flushed and affronted. "I am
glad that is perfectly clear to you."
"No right at all," he repeated--"except the personal privilege of
recognising what is cleanest and sweetest and most admirable and most
unspoiled in life; the right to care for it without knowing exactly
why--the desire to be part of it--as have all men who are awakened
out of trivial dreams when such a woman as you crosses their limited and
foolish horizon."
She sat staring at him, struggling to comprehend what he was saying,
perfectly unable to believe, nor even wishing to, yet painfully
attentive to his every word.
"Mr. Quarren," she said, "I was hurt. I imagined presumption where there
was none. But I am afraid you are romantic and impulsive to an amazing
degree. Yet, both romance and impulse have a place and a reason, not
undignified, in human intercourse."--She felt rather superior in turning
this phrase, and looked on him a little more kindly----
"If the compliment which you have left me to infer is purely a romantic
one, it is nevertheless unwarranted--and, forgive me, unacceptable. The
trouble is----"
She paused to recover her wits and her breath; but he took the latter
away again as he said:
"I am in love with you; that is the trouble, Mrs. Leeds. And I really
have no business to say so until I amount to something."
"You have no business to say so anyway after one single evening's
acquaintance!" she retorted hotly.
"Oh, that! If love were a matter of time and convention--like five
o'clock tea!--but it isn't, you know. It isn't the brevity of our
acquaintance that worries me; it's what I am--and what you
are--and--and the long, long road I have to travel before I am worth
your lightest consideration--I never was in love before. Forgive my
crudeness. I'm only conscious of the--hopelessness of it all."
Breathless, confused, incredulous, she sat there staring at
him--listening to and watching this tall, quiet, cool young fellow who
was telling her such incomprehensible things in a manner that began to
fascinate her. With an effort she collected herself, shook off the
almost eerie interest that was already beginning to obsess her, and
stood up, flushed but composed.
"Shall we not say any more about it?" she said quietly. "Because there
is nothing more to say, Mr. Quarren--except--thank you for--for feeling
so amiably toward me--for believing me more than I really am.... And I
would like to have your friendship still, if I may----"
"You have it."
"Even yet?"
"Why not?... It's selfish of me to say it--but I wish you--could have
saved me," he said almost carelessly.
"From what, Mr. Quarren? I really do not understand you."
"From being what I am--the sort of man you first divined me to be."
"What do you mean by 'saving' you?" she asked, coldly.
"I don't know!--giving me a glimmer of hope I suppose--something to
strive for."
"One saves one's self," she said.
He turned an altered face toward her: and she looked at him intently.
"I guess you are right," he said with a short laugh. "If there is
anything worth saving, one saves one's self."
"I think that is true," she said.... "And--if my friendship--if you
really care for it----"
He met her gaze:
"I honestly don't know. I've been carried off my feet by you,
completely. A man, under such conditions, doesn't know anything--not
even enough to hold his tongue--as you may have noticed. I am in love
with you. As I am to-day, my love for you would do you no good--I don't
know whether yours would do me any good--or your friendship, either. It
ought to if I amounted to anything; but I don't--and I don't know."
"I wish you would not speak so bitterly--please----"
"All right. It wasn't bitterness; it was just whine. ... I'll go, now.
You will comprehend, after you think it over, that there is at least
nothing of impertinence in my loving you--only a blind unreason--a
deadly fear lest the other man in me, suddenly revealed, vanish before I
could understand him. Because when I saw you, life's meaning broke out
suddenly--like a star--and that's another stale simile. But one has to
climb very far before one can touch even the nearest of the stars.... So
forgive my one lucid interval.... I shall probably never have
another.... May I take you to your carriage?"
"Mrs. Lannis is calling for me."
"Then--I will take my leave--and the tatters of my reputation--any song
can buy it, now----"
"Mr. Quarren!"
"Yes?"
"I don't want you to go--like this. I want you to go away knowing in
your heart that you have been very--nice--agreeable--to a young girl who
hasn't perhaps had as much experience as you think----"
"Thank God," he said, smiling.
"I want you to like me, always," she said. "Will you?"
"I promise," he replied so blithely that for a moment his light irony
deceived her. Then something in his eyes left her silent, concerned,
unresponsive--only her heart seemed to repeat persistently in childish
reiteration, the endless question, Why? Why? Why? And she heard it but
found no answer where love was not, and had never been.
"I--am sorry," she said in a low voice. "I--I try to understand you--but
I don't seem to.... I am so very sorry that you--care for me."
He took her gloved hand, and she let him.
"I guess I'm nothing but a harlequin after all," he said, "and they're
legitimate objects for pity. Good-bye, Mrs. Leeds. You've been very
patient and sweet with a blithering lunatic.... I've committed only
another harlequinade of a brand-new sort. But the fall from that balcony
would have been less destructive."
She looked at him out of her gray eyes.
"One thing," she said, with a tremulous smile, "you may be certain that
I am not going to forget you very easily."
"Another thing," he said, "I shall never forget you as long as I live;
and--you have my violets, I see. Are they to follow the gardenia?"
"Only when their time comes," she said, trying to laugh.
So he wished her a happy trip and sojourn in the South, and went away
into the city--downtown, by the way to drop into an office chair in an
empty office and listen to the click of a typewriter in the outer room,
and sit there hour after hour with his chin in his hand staring at
nothing out of the clear blue eyes of a boy.
And she went away to her luncheon at the Province Club with Susanne
Lannis who wished her to meet some of the governors--very grand
ladies--upon whose good will depended Strelsa's election to the most
aristocratic, comfortable, wisely managed, and thriftiest of all
metropolitan clubs.
After luncheon she, with Mrs. Lannis and Chrysos Lacy--a pretty
red-haired edition of her brother--went to see "Sumurun."
And after they had tea at the redoubtable Mrs. Sprowl's, where there
were more footmen than guests, more magnificence than comfort, and more
wickedness in the gossip than lemon in the tea or Irish in the more
popular high-ball.
The old lady, fat, pink, enormous, looked about her out of her little
glittering green eyes with a pleased conviction that everybody on earth
was mortally afraid of her. And everybody, who happened to be anybody in
New York, was exactly that--with a few eccentric exceptions like her
nephew, Karl Westguard, and half a dozen heavily upholstered matrons
whose social altitude left them nothing to be afraid of except lack of
deference and death.
Mrs. Sprowl had a fat, wheezy, and misleading laugh; and it took time
for Strelsa to understand that there was anything really venomous in the
old lady; but the gossip there that afternoon, and the wheezy delight in
driving a last nail into the coffin of some moribund reputation, made
plain to her why her hostess was held in such respectful terror.
The talk finally swerved from Molly Wycherly's ball to the Irish
Legation, and Mrs. Sprowl leaned toward Strelsa, and panted behind her
fan:
"A perfect scandal, child. The suppers those young men give there!
Orgies, I understand! No pretty actress in town is kept sighing long for
invitations. Even"--she whispered the name of a lovely and respectable
prima-donna with a perfectly good husband and progeny--and nodded so
violently that it set her coughing.
"Oh," cried Strelsa, distressed, "surely you have been misinformed!"
"Not in the least," wheezed the old lady. "She is no better than the
rest of 'em! And I sent for my nephew Karl, and I brought him up
roundly. 'Karl!' said I, 'what the devil do you mean! Do you want that
husband of hers dragging you all into court?' And, do you know, my dear,
he appeared perfectly astounded--said it wasn't so--just as you said a
moment ago. But I can put two and two together, yet; I'm not too old and
witless to do that! And I warrant you I gave him a tongue trouncing
which he won't forget. ... Probably he retailed it to that O'Hara man,
and to young Quarren, too. If he did it won't hurt 'em, either."
She was speaking now so generally that everybody heard her, and Cyrille
Caldera said:
"Ricky is certainly innocuous, anyway."
"Oh, is he!" said Mrs. Sprowl with another wheezy laugh. "I fancy I
know that boy. Did you say 'harmless,' Susanne? Well, you ought to
know, of course----"
Cyrille Caldera blushed brightly although her affair with Quarren had
been of the most innocent description.
[Illustration: "'A perfect scandal, child. The suppers those young men
give there!'"]
"There's probably as much ground for indicting Ricky as there is for
indicting me," she protested. "He's merely a nice, useful boy----"
"Rather vapid, don't you think?" observed a thin young woman in sables
and an abundance of front teeth.
"Who expects anything serious from Ricky? He possesses good manners, and
a sweet alacrity," said Chrysos Lacy, "and that's a rare combination."
"He's clever enough to be wicked, anyway," said Mrs. Sprowl. "Don't tell
me that every one of his sentimental affairs have been perfectly
harmless."
"Has he had many?" asked Strelsa before she meant to.
"Thousands, child. There was Betty Clyde--whose husband must have been
an idiot--and Cynthia Challis--she married Prince Sarnoff, you
remember----"
"The Sarnoffs are coming in February," observed Chrysos Lacy.
"I wonder if the Prince has had a tub since he left," said Mrs. Sprowl.
"How on earth Cynthia can endure that dried up yellow Tartar----"
"Cynthia was in love with Ricky I think," said Susanne Lannis.
"Most girls are when they come out, but their mothers won't let 'em
marry him. Poor Ricky."
"Poor Ricky," sighed Chrysos; "he is so nice, and nobody is likely to
marry him."
"Why?" asked Strelsa.
"Because he's--why he's just Ricky. He has no money, you know. Didn't
you know it?"
"No," said Strelsa.
"That's the trouble--partly. Then there's no social advantage for any
girl in this set marrying him. He'll have to take a lame duck or go out
of his circle for a wife. And that means good-bye Ricky--unless he
marries a lame duck."
"Some unattractive person of uncertain age and a million," explained
Mrs. Lannis as Strelsa turned to her, perplexed.
"Ricky," said the lady with abundant teeth, "is a lightweight."
"The lightness, I think, is in his heels," said Strelsa. "He's
intelligent otherwise I fancy."
"Yes, but not intellectual."
"I think you are possibly mistaken."
The profusely dentate lady looked sharply at Strelsa; Susanne Lannis
laughed.
"Are you his champion, Strelsa? I thought you had met him last night
for the first time."
"Mrs. Leeds is probably going the way of all women when they first meet
Dicky Quarren," observed Mrs. Sprowl with malicious satisfaction. "But
you must hurry and get over it, child, before Sir Charles Mallison
arrives." At which sally everybody laughed.
Strelsa's colour was high, but she merely smiled, not only at the
coupling of her name with Quarren's but at the hint of the British
officer's arrival.
Major Sir Charles Mallison had been over before, why, nobody knew,
because he was one of the wealthiest bachelors in England. Now it was
understood that he was coming again; and a great many well-meaning
people saw that agreeable gentleman's fate in the new beauty, Strelsa
Leeds; and did not hesitate to tell her so with the freedom of
