thought him charming, whereas he had not formed any opinion of her at all,
nor later could remember a word of the conversation.
"Tea!" bawled the colonel. The verb had its distinct uses, and one
generally applied it to the colonel's outbursts without being depressed by
the feeling of inelegance.
There is invariably some slight hesitation in the selection of chairs
around a tea-table in the open. Nora scored the first point of this
singular battle by seizing the padre on one side and her father on the
other and pulling them down on the bench. It was adroit in two ways: it
put Courtlandt at a safe distance and in nowise offended the younger men,
who could find no cause for alarm in the close proximity of her two
fathers, the spiritual and the physical. A few moments later Courtlandt
saw a smile of malice part her lips, for he found himself between Celeste
and the inevitable frump.
"Touched!" he murmured, for he was a thorough sportsman and appreciated a
good point even when taken by his opponent.
"I never saw anything like it," whispered Mrs. Harrigan into the colonel's
ear.
"Saw what?" he asked.
"Mr. Courtlandt can't keep his eyes off of Nora."
"I say!" The colonel adjusted his eye-glass, not that he expected to see
more clearly by doing so, but because habit had long since turned an
affectation into a movement wholly mechanical. "Well, who can blame him?
Gad! if I were only twenty-five or thereabouts."
Mrs. Harrigan did not encourage this regret. The colonel had never been a
rich man. On the other hand, this Edward Courtlandt was very rich; he was
young; and he had the entrée to the best families in Europe, which was
greater in her eyes than either youth or riches. Between sips of tea she
builded a fine castle in Spain.
Abbott and the Barone carried their cups and cakes over to the bench and
sat down on the grass, Turkish-wise. Both simultaneously offered their
cakes, and Nora took a ladyfinger from each. Abbott laughed and the Barone
smiled.
"Oh, daddy mine!" sighed Nora drolly.
"Huh?"
"Don't let mother see those shoes."
"What's the matter with 'em? Everybody's wearing the same."
"Yes. But I don't see how you manage to do it. One shoe-string is virgin
white and the other is pagan brown."
"I've got nine pairs of shoes, and yet there's always something the
matter," ruefully. "I never noticed when I put them on. Besides, I wasn't
coming."
"That's no defense. But rest easy. I'll be as secret as the grave."
"Now, I for one would never have noticed if you hadn't called my
attention," said the padre, stealing a glance at his own immaculate
patent-leathers.
"Ah, Padre, that wife of mine has eyes like a pilot-fish. I'm in for it."
"Borrow one from the colonel before you go home," suggested Abbott.
"That's not half bad," gratefully.
Harrigan began to recount the trials of forgetfulness.
Slyly from the corner of her eye Nora looked at Courtlandt, who was at
that moment staring thoughtfully into his tea-cup and stirring the
contents industriously. His face was a little thinner, but aside from that
he had changed scarcely at all; and then, because these two years had left
so little mark upon his face, a tinge of unreasonable anger ran over her.
"Men have died and worms have eaten them," she thought cynically. Perhaps
the air between them was sufficiently charged with electricity to convey
the impression across the intervening space; for his eyes came up quickly,
but not quickly enough to catch her. She dropped her glance to Abbott,
transferred it to the Barone, and finally let it rest on her father's
face. Four handsomer men she had never seen.
"You never told me you knew Courtlandt," said Harrigan, speaking to
Abbott.
"Just happened that way. We went to school together. When I was little
they used to make me wear curls and wide collars. Many's the time
Courtlandt walloped the school bullies for mussing me up. I don't see him
much these days. Once in a while he walks in. That's all. Always seems to
know where his friends are, but none ever knows where he is."
Abbott proceeded to elaborate some of his friend's exploits. Nora heard,
as if from afar. Vaguely she caught a glimmer of what the contest was
going to be. She could see only a little way; still, she was
optimistically confident of the result. She was ready. Indeed, now that
the shock of the meeting was past, she found herself not at all averse to
a conflict. It would be something to let go the pent-up wrath of two
years. Never would she speak to him directly; never would she permit him
to be alone with her; never would she miss a chance to twist his heart, to
humiliate him, to snub him. From her point of view, whatever game he chose
to play would be a losing one. She was genuinely surprised to learn how
eager she was for the game to begin so that she might gage his strength.
"So I have heard," she was dimly conscious of saying.
"Didn't know you knew," said Abbott.
"Knew what?" rousing herself.
"That Courtlandt nearly lost his life in the eighties."
"In the eighties!" dismayed at her slip.
"Latitudes. Polar expedition."
"Heavens! I was miles away."
The padre took her hand in his own and began to pat it softly. It was the
nearest he dared approach in the way of suggesting caution. He alone of
them all knew.
"Oh, I believe I read something about it in the newspapers."
"Five years ago." Abbott set down his tea-cup. "He's the bravest man I
know. He's rather a friendless man, besides. Horror of money. Thinks every
one is after him for that. Tries to throw it away; but the income piles up
too quickly. See that Indian, passing the cakes? Wouldn't think it, would
you, that Courtlandt carried him on his back for five miles! The Indian
had fallen afoul a wounded tiger, and the beaters were miles off. I've
been watching. They haven't even spoken to each other. Courtlandt's
probably forgotten all about the incident, and the Indian would die rather
than embarrass his savior before strangers."
"Your friend, then, is quite a hero?"
What was the matter with Nora's voice? Abbott looked at her wonderingly.
The tone was hard and unmusical.
"He couldn't be anything else, being Dick Courtlandt's boy," volunteered
Harrigan, with enthusiasm. "It runs in the family."
"It seems strange," observed Nora, "that I never heard you mention that
you knew a Mr. Courtlandt."
"Why, Nora, there's a lot of things nobody mentions unless chance brings
them up. Courtlandt--the one I knew--has been dead these sixteen years. If
I knew he had had a son, I'd forgotten all about it. The only graveyard
isn't on the hillside; there's one under everybody's thatch."
The padre nodded approvingly.
Nora was not particularly pleased with this phase in the play. Courtlandt
would find a valiant champion in her father, who would blunder in when
some fine passes were being exchanged. And she could not tell him; she
would have cut out her tongue rather. It was true that she held the
principal cards in the game, but she could not table them and claim the
tricks as in bridge. She must patiently wait for him to lead, and he, as
she very well knew, would lead a card at a time, and then only after
mature deliberation. From the exhilaration which attended the prospect of
battle she passed into a state of depression, which lasted the rest of the
afternoon.
"Will you forgive me?" asked Celeste of Courtlandt. Never had she felt
more ill at ease. For a full ten minutes he chatted pleasantly, with never
the slightest hint regarding the episode in Paris. She could stand it no
longer. "Will you forgive me?"
"For what?"
"That night in Paris."
"Do not permit that to bother you in the least. I was never going to
recall it."
"Was it so unpleasant?"
"On the contrary, I was much amused."
"I did not tell you the truth."
"So I have found out."
"I do not believe that it was you," impulsively.
"Thanks. I had nothing to do with Miss Harrigan's imprisonment."
"Do you feel that you could make a confidant of me?"
He smiled. "My dear Miss Fournier, I have come to the place where I
distrust even myself."
"Forgive my curiosity!"
Courtlandt held out his cup to Rao. "I am glad to see you again."
"Ah, Sahib!"
The little Frenchwoman was torn with curiosity and repression. She wanted
to know what causes had produced this unusual drama which was unfolding
before her eyes. To be presented with effects which had no apparent causes
was maddening. It was not dissimilar to being taken to the second act of a
modern problem play and being forced to leave before the curtain rose upon
the third act. She had laid all the traps her intelligent mind could
invent; and Nora had calmly walked over them or around. Nora's mind was
Celtic: French in its adroitness and Irish in its watchfulness and
tenacity. And now she had set her arts of persuasion in motion (aided by a
piquant beauty) to lift a corner of the veil from this man's heart.
Checkmate!
"I should like to help you," she said, truthfully.
"In what way?"
It was useless, but she continued: "She does not know that you went to
Flora Desimone's that night."
"And yet she sent you to watch me."
"But so many things happened afterward that she evidently forgot."
"That is possible."
"I was asleep when the pistol went off. Oh, you must believe that it was
purely accidental! She was in a terrible state until morning. What if she
had killed you, what if she had killed you! She seemed to hark upon that
phrase."
Courtlandt turned a sober face toward her. She might be sincere, and then
again she might be playing the first game over again, in a different
guise. "It would have been embarrassing if the bullet had found its mark."
He met her eyes squarely, and she saw that his were totally free from
surprise or agitation or interest.
"Do you play chess?" she asked, divertingly.
"Chess? I am very fond of that game."
"So I should judge," dryly. "I suppose you look upon me as a meddler.
Perhaps I am; but I have nothing but good will toward you; and Nora would
be very angry if she knew that I was discussing her affairs with you. But
I love her and want to make her happy."
"That seems to be the ambition of all the young men, at any rate."
Jealousy? But the smile baffled her. "Will you be here long?"
"It depends."
"Upon Nora?" persistently.
"The weather."
"You are hopeless."
"No; on the contrary, I am the most optimistic man in the world."
She looked into this reply very carefully. If he had hopes of winning Nora
Harrigan, optimistic he certainly must be. Perhaps it was not optimism.
Rather might it not be a purpose made of steel, bendable but not
breakable, reinforced by a knowledge of conditions which she would have
given worlds to learn?
"Is she not beautiful?"
"I am not a poet."
"Wait a moment," her eyes widening. "I believe you know who did commit
that outrage."
For the first time he frowned.
"Very well; I promise not to ask any more questions."
"That would be very agreeable to me." Then, as if he realized the rudeness
of his reply, he added: "Before I leave I will tell you all you wish to
know, upon one condition."
"Tell it!"
"You will say nothing to any one, you will question neither Miss Harrigan
nor myself, nor permit yourself to be questioned."
"I agree."
"And now, will you not take me over to your friends?"
"Over there?" aghast.
"Why, yes. We can sit upon the grass. They seem to be having a good
time."
What a man! Take him over, into the enemy's camp? Nothing would be more
agreeable to her. Who would be the stronger, Nora or this provoking man?
So they crossed over and joined the group. The padre smiled. It was a
situation such as he loved to study: a strong man and a strong woman, at
war. But nothing happened; not a ripple anywhere to disclose the agitation
beneath. The man laughed and the woman laughed, but they spoke not to each
other, nor looked once into each other's eyes.
The sun was dropping toward the western tops. The guests were leaving by
twos and threes. The colonel had prevailed upon his dinner-guests not to
bother about going back to the village to dress, but to dine in the
clothes they wore. Finally, none remained but Harrigan, Abbott, the
Barone, the padre and Courtlandt. And they talked noisily and agreeably
concerning man-affairs until Rao gravely announced that dinner was
served.
It was only then, during the lull which followed, that light was shed upon
the puzzle which had been subconsciously stirring Harrigan's mind: Nora
had not once spoken to the son of his old friend.
CHAPTER XIII
EVERYTHING BUT THE TRUTH
"I don't see why the colonel didn't invite some of the ladies," Mrs.
Harrigan complained.
"It's a man-party. He's giving it to please himself. And I do not blame
him. The women about here treat him abominably. They come at all times of
the day and night, use his card-room, order his servants about, drink his
whisky and smoke his cigarettes, and generally invite themselves to
luncheon and tea and dinner. And then, when they are ready to go back to
their villas or hotel, take his motor-boat without a thank-you. The
colonel has about three thousand pounds outside his half-pay, and they are
all crazy to marry him because his sister is a countess. As a bachelor he
can live like a prince, but as a married man he would have to dig. He told
me that if he had been born Adam, he'd have climbed over Eden's walls long
before the Angel of the Flaming Sword paddled him out. Says he's always
going to be a bachelor, unless I take pity on him," mischievously.
"Has he...?" in horrified tones.
"About three times a visit," Nora admitted; "but I told him that I'd be a
daughter, a cousin, or a niece to him, or even a grandchild. The latter
presented too many complications, so we compromised on niece."
"I wish I knew when you were serious and when you were fooling."
"I am often as serious when I am fooling as I am foolish when I am
serious...."
"Nora, you will have me shrieking in a minute!" despaired the mother. "Did
the colonel really propose to you?"
"Only in fun."
Celeste laughed and threw her arm around the mother's waist, less ample
than substantial. "Don't you care! Nora is being pursued by little devils
and is venting her spite on us."
"There'll be too much Burgundy and tobacco, to say nothing of the awful
stories."
"With the good old padre there? Hardly," said Nora.
Celeste was a French woman. "I confess that I like a good story that isn't
vulgar. And none of them look like men who would stoop to vulgarity."
"That's about all you know of men," declared Mrs. Harrigan.
"I am willing to give them the benefit of a doubt."
"Celeste," cried Nora, gaily, "I've an idea. Supposing you and I run back
after dinner and hide in the card-room, which is right across from the
dining-room? Then we can judge for ourselves."
"Nora Harrigan!"
"Molly Harrigan!" mimicked the incorrigible. "Mother mine, you must learn
to recognize a jest."
"Ah, but yours!"
"Fine!" cried Celeste.
As if to put a final period to the discussion, Nora began to hum audibly
an aria from Aïda.
They engaged a carriage in the village and were driven up to the villa. On
the way Mrs. Harrigan discussed the stranger, Edward Courtlandt. What a
fine-looking young man he was, and how adventurous, how well-connected,
how enormously rich, and what an excellent catch! She and Celeste--the one
innocently and the other provocatively--continued the subject to the very
doors of the villa. All the while Nora hummed softly.
"What do you think of him, Nora?" the mother inquired.
"Think of whom?"
"This Mr. Courtlandt."
"Oh, I didn't pay much attention to him," carelessly. But once alone with
Celeste, she seized her by the arm, a little roughly. "Celeste, I love you
better than any outsider I know. But if you ever discuss that man in my
presence again, I shall cease to regard you even as an acquaintance. He
has come here for the purpose of annoying me, though he promised the
prefect in Paris never to annoy me again."
"The prefect!"
"Yes. The morning I left Versailles I met him in the private office of the
prefect. He had powerful friends who aided him in establishing an alibi. I
was only a woman, so I didn't count."
"Nora, if I have meddled in any way," proudly, "it has been because I love
you, and I see you unhappy. You have nearly killed me with your
sphinx-like actions. You have never asked me the result of my spying for
you that night. Spying is not one of my usual vocations, but I did it
gladly for you."
"You gave him my address?" coldly.
"I did not. I convinced him that I had come at the behest of Flora
Desimone. He demanded her address, which I gave him. If ever there was a
man in a fine rage, it was he as he left me to go there. If he found out
where we lived, the Calabrian assisted him, I spoke to him rather plainly
at tea. He said that he had had nothing whatever to do with the abduction,
and I believe him. I am positive that he is not the kind of man to go that
far and not proceed to the end. And now, will you please tell Carlos to
bring my dinner to my room?"
The impulsive Irish heart was not to be resisted. Nora wanted to remain
firm, but instead she swept Celeste into her arms. "Celeste, don't be
angry! I am very, very unhappy."
If the Irish heart was impulsive, the French one was no less so. Celeste
wanted to cry out that she was unhappy, too.
"Don't bother to dress! Just give your hair a pat or two. We'll all three
dine on the balcony."
Celeste flew to her room. Nora went over to the casement window and stared
at the darkening mountains. When she turned toward the dresser she was
astonished to find two bouquets. One was an enormous bunch of violets. The
other was of simple marguerites. She picked up the violets. There was a
card without a name; but the phrase scribbled across the face of it was
sufficient. She flung the violets far down into the grape-vines below. The
action was without anger, excited rather by a contemptuous indifference.
As for the simple marguerites, she took them up gingerly. The arc these
described through the air was even greater than that performed by the
violets.
"I'm a silly fool, I suppose," she murmured, turning back into the room
again.
It was ten o'clock when the colonel bade his guests good night as they
tumbled out of his motor-boat. They were in more or less exuberant
spirits; for the colonel knew how to do two things particularly well:
order a dinner, and avoid the many traps set for him by scheming mamas and
eligible widows. Abbott, the Barone and Harrigan, arm in arm, marched on
ahead, whistling one tune in three different keys, while Courtlandt set
the pace for the padre.
All through the dinner the padre had watched and listened. Faces were
generally books to him, and he read in this young man's face many things
that pleased him. This was no night rover, a fool over wine and women, a
spendthrift. He straightened out the lines and angles in a man's face as a
skilled mathematician elucidates an intricate geometrical problem. He had
arrived at the basic knowledge that men who live mostly out of doors are
not volatile and irresponsible, but are more inclined to reserve, to
reticence, to a philosophy which is broad and comprehensive and generous.
They are generally men who are accomplishing things, and who let other
people tell about it. Thus, the padre liked Courtlandt's voice, his
engaging smile, his frank unwavering eyes; and he liked the leanness about
the jaws, which was indicative of strength of character. In fact, he
experienced a singular jubilation as he walked beside this silent man.
"There has been a grave mistake somewhere," he mused aloud, thoughtfully.
"I beg your pardon," said Courtlandt.
"I beg yours. I was thinking aloud. How long have you known the
Harrigans?"
"The father and mother I never saw before to-day."
"Then you have met Miss Harrigan?"
"I have seen her on the stage."
"I have the happiness of being her confessor."
They proceeded quite as far as a hundred yards before Courtlandt
volunteered: "That must be interesting."
"She is a good Catholic."
"Ah, yes; I recollect now."
"And you?"
"Oh, I haven't any religion such as requires my presence in churches.
Don't misunderstand me! As a boy I was bred in the Episcopal Church; but I
have traveled so much that I have drifted out of the circle. I find that
when I am out in the open, in the heart of some great waste, such as a
desert, a sea, the top of a mountain, I can see the greatness of the
Omnipotent far more clearly and humbly than within the walls of a
cathedral."
"But God imposes obligations upon mankind. We have ceased to look upon the
hermit as a holy man, but rather as one devoid of courage. It is not the
stone and the stained windows; it is the text of our daily work, that the
physical being of the Church represents."
"I have not avoided any of my obligations." Courtlandt shifted his stick
behind his back. "I was speaking of the church and the open field, as they
impressed me."
"You believe in the tenets of Christianity?"
"Surely! A man must pin his faith and hope to something more stable than
humanity."
"I should like to convert you to my way of thinking," simply.
"Nothing is impossible. Who knows?"
The padre, as they continued onward, offered many openings, but the young
man at his side refused to be drawn into any confidence. So the padre gave
up, for the futility of his efforts became irksome. His own lips were
sealed, so he could not ask point-blank the question that clamored at the
tip of his tongue.
"So you are Miss Harrigan's confessor?"
"Does it strike you strangely?"
"Merely the coincidence."
"If I were not her confessor I should take the liberty of asking you some
questions."
"It is quite possible that I should decline to answer them."
The padre shrugged. "It is patent to me that you will go about this affair
in your own way. I wish you well."
"Thank you. As Miss Harrigan's confessor you doubtless know everything but
the truth."
The padre laughed this time. The shops were closed. The open restaurants
by the water-front held but few idlers. The padre admired the young man's
independence. Most men would have hesitated not a second to pour the tale
into his ears in hope of material assistance. The padre's admiration was
equally proportioned with respect.
"I leave you here," he said. "You will see me frequently at the villa."
"I certainly shall be there frequently. Good night."
Courtlandt quickened his pace which soon brought him alongside the others.
They stopped in front of Abbott's pension, and he tried to persuade them
to come up for a nightcap.
"Nothing to it, my boy," said Harrigan. "I need no nightcap on top of
cognac forty-eight years old. For me that's a whole suit of pajamas."
"You come, Ted."
"Abbey, I wouldn't climb those stairs for a bottle of Horace's Falernian,
served on Seneca's famous citron table."
"Not a friend in the world," Abbott lamented.
Laughingly they hustled him into the hallway and fled. Then Courtlandt
went his way alone. He slept with the dubious satisfaction that the first
day had not gone badly. The wedge had been entered. It remained to be seen
if it could be dislodged.
Harrigan was in a happy temper. He kissed his wife and chucked Nora under
the chin. And then Mrs. Harrigan launched the thunderbolt which, having
been held on the leash for several hours, had, for all of that, lost none
of its ability to blight and scorch.
"James, you are about as hopeless a man as ever was born. You all but
disgraced us this afternoon."
"Mother!"
"Me?" cried the bewildered Harrigan.
"Look at those tennis shoes; one white string and one brown one. It's
enough to drive a woman mad. What in heaven's name made you come?"
Perhaps it was the after effect of a good dinner, that dwindling away of
pleasant emotions; perhaps it was the very triviality of the offense for
which he was thus suddenly arraigned; at any rate, he lost his temper, and
he was rather formidable when that occurred.
"Damn it, Molly, I wasn't going, but Courtlandt asked me to go with him,
and I never thought of my shoes. You are always finding fault with me
these days. I don't drink, I don't gamble, I don't run around after other
women; I never did. But since you've got this social bug in your bonnet,
you keep me on hooks all the while. Nobody noticed the shoe-strings; and
they would have looked upon it as a joke if they had. After all, I'm the
boss of this ranch. If I want to wear a white string and a black one, I'll
do it. Here!" He caught up the book on social usages and threw it out of
the window. "Don't ever shove a thing like that under my nose again. If
you do, I'll hike back to little old New York and start the gym again."
He rammed one of the colonel's perfectos (which he had been saving for the
morrow) between his teeth, and stalked into the garden.
Nora was heartless enough to laugh.
"He hasn't talked like that to me in years!" Mrs. Harrigan did not know
what to do,--follow him or weep. She took the middle course, and went to
bed.
Nora turned out the lights and sat out on the little balcony. The
moonshine was glorious. So dense was the earth-blackness that the few
lights twinkling here and there were more like fallen stars. Presently she
heard a sound. It was her father, returning as silently as he could. She
heard him fumble among the knickknacks on the mantel, and then go away
again. By and by she saw a spot of white light move hither and thither
among the grape arbors. For five or six minutes she watched it dance.
Suddenly all became dark again. She laid her head upon the railing and
conned over the day's events. These were not at all satisfactory to her.
Then her thoughts traveled many miles away. Six months of happiness, of
romance, of play, and then misery and blackness.
"Nora, are you there?"
"Yes. Over here on the balcony. What were you doing down there?"
"Oh, Nora, I'm sorry I lost my temper. But Molly's begun to nag me lately,
and I can't stand it. I went after that book. Did you throw some flowers
out of the window?"
"Yes."
"A bunch of daisies?"
"Marguerites," she corrected.
"All the same to me. I picked up the bunch, and look at what I found
inside."
He extended his palm, flooding it with the light of his pocket-lamp.
Nora's heart tightened. What she saw was a beautiful uncut emerald.
CHAPTER XIV
A COMEDY WITH MUSIC
The Harrigans occupied the suite in the east wing of the villa. This
consisted of a large drawing-room and two ample bedchambers, with
window-balconies and a private veranda in the rear, looking off toward the
green of the pines and the metal-like luster of the copper beeches. Always
the suite was referred to by the management as having once been tenanted
by the empress of Germany. Indeed, tourists were generally and
respectively and impressively shown the suite (provided it was not at the
moment inhabited), and were permitted to peer eagerly about for some sign
of the vanished august presence. But royalty in passing, as with the most
humble of us, leaves nothing behind save the memory of a tip, generous or
otherwise.
It was raining, a fine, soft, blurring Alpine rain, and a blue-grey
monotone prevailed upon the face of the waters and defied all save the
keenest scrutiny to discern where the mountain tops ended and the sky
began. It was a day for indoors, for dreams, good books, and good
fellows.
The old-fashioned photographer would have admired and striven to
perpetuate the group in the drawing-room. In the old days it was quite the
proper thing to snap the family group while they were engaged in some
pleasant pastime, such as spinning, or painting china, or playing the
piano, or reading a volume of poems. No one ever seemed to bother about
the incongruence of the eyes, which were invariably focused at the camera
lens. Here they all were. Mrs. Harrigan was deep in the intricate maze of
the Amelia Ars of Bologna, which, as the initiated know, is a wonderful
lace. By one of the windows sat Nora, winding interminable yards of
lace-hemming from off the willing if aching digits of the Barone, who was
speculating as to what his Neapolitan club friends would say could they
see, by some trick of crystal-gazing, his present occupation. Celeste was
at the piano, playing (pianissimo) snatches from the operas, while
Abbott looked on, his elbows propped upon his knees, his chin in his
palms, and a quality of ecstatic content in his eyes. He was in his
working clothes, picturesque if paint-daubed. The morning had been
pleasant enough, but just before luncheon the rain clouds had gathered and
settled down with that suddenness known only in high altitudes.
The ex-gladiator sat on one of those slender mockeries, composed of
gold-leaf and parabolic curves and faded brocade, such as one sees at the
Trianon or upon the stage or in the new home of a new millionaire, and
which, if the true facts be known, the ingenious Louis invented for the
discomfort of his favorites and the folly of future collectors. It creaked
whenever Harrigan sighed, which was often, for he was deeply immersed (and
