it ultimately turns, were entirely confined to a narrow strip of
jungle, only a few miles long, lying on the Halifax River. Nowhere else
in all the world could these little creatures be found. But recently
they have been reported from the Dead Lake country. So the Smithsonian
Institution sent me down here to study them, and find out whither they
were spreading, and whether any natural parasitic enemies had yet
appeared to check them."
She gazed at him, fascinated.
"Have any appeared?" she asked, under her breath.
"I have not yet found a single creature that preys upon them."
"Isn't it a very arduous and difficult task to watch these thousands of
little caterpillars all day long?"
"It is quite impossible for me to do it thoroughly all alone."
"Would you like to have me help you?" she asked innocently.
Which rather bowled him over, but he said:
"I'd b-b-be d-d-delighted--only you haven't time, have you?"
"I have three days. I've brought a tent, you see, and everything
necessary--rugs, magazines, blankets, toilet articles, bon-bons,
books--everything, in fact, to last three days.... I wonder how that
tent is put up. Do you know?"
He went over to the canoe and gazed at the tent.
"I think I could pitch it for you," he said.
"Oh, thanks so much! May I help you? I think I'll put it here on this
pretty stretch of white sand by the water's edge."
"I'm afraid that wouldn't do," he said, gravely.
"Why?"
"Because the lagoon is tidal. You'd be awash sooner or later."
"I see. Well, then, anywhere in the woods will do----"
"Not anywhere," he said, smiling. "High water leaves few dry places in
this forest; in fact--I'm afraid that my shack is perched on the only
spot which is absolutely dry at all times. It is a shell mound--the only
one in the Dead Lake region."
"Isn't there room for my tent beside yours?" she asked, a trifle
anxiously.
"Y-es," he said, in a voice as matter of fact as her own. "How many will
there be in your party?"
"In my party! Why, only myself," she said, with smiling animation.
"Oh, I see!" But he didn't.
They lugged the tent back among the trees to the low shell mound, where
in the centre of a ring of pines and evergreen oaks his open-faced shack
stood, thatched with palmetto fans. She gazed upon the wash drying on
the line, upon a brace of dead ducks hanging from the eaves, upon the
smoky kettle and the ashes of the fire. Purest delight sparkled in her
blue eyes.
Erecting her silk tent with practiced hands, he said carelessly:
"In case you cared to send any word to the yacht----"
"Did I say that I came from the yacht?" she asked; and her straight
eyebrows bent a trifle inward.
"Didn't you?"
"Will you promise me something, Mr. Jones?"
The things he was prepared to promise her choked him for a second, but
when he regained control of his vocal powers he said, very pleasantly,
that he would gladly promise her anything.
"Then don't ask me where I came from. Let me stay three days. Then I'll
go very quietly away, and never trouble you again. Is it a promise?"
"Yes," he said, not looking at her. His face had become very serious;
she noticed it--and how well his head was set on his shoulders, and how
his clipped hair was burned to the color of crisp hay.
"You were Harvard, of course," she said, unthinkingly.
"Yes." He mentioned the year.
"Not crew?"
"No."
"Baseball?"
"'Varsity pitcher," he nodded, surprised.
"Then this is the third time I've seen you.... I wonder what it is about
you----" She remained silent, watching him burying her water bottles in
the cool marl.
When all was in order, he smiled, made her a little formal bow, and
evinced a disposition to retire and leave her in possession.
"I thought we were going to work at once!" she said uneasily. "I am
quite ready." And, as he did not seem to comprehend, "I was going to
help you to examine the little caterpillars, one by one; and the minute
I saw anything trying to bite them I was going to call you. Didn't you
understand?" she added wistfully.
"That will be fine!" he said, with an enthusiasm very poorly
controlled.
"You will show me where the little creatures are hiding, won't you?"
"Indeed I will! Here they are, all about us!" He made a sweeping gesture
over the low undergrowth of scrub-palmetto; and the next moment:
"I see them!" she exclaimed, delighted. "Oh, what funny, scrubby, busy
little creatures! They are everywhere--everywhere! Why, there seem to
be thousands and thousands of them! And all are eating the tiny green
bunches of fruit!"
They bent together over a group of feeding larvæ; he handed her a pocket
microscope like his own; and, enchanted, she studied the tiny things
while he briefly described their various stages of development from the
little eggs to the pretty, pearl-tinted moth so charmingly striped with
delicate, brown lines--a rare prize in the cabinet of any collector.
V
Through the golden forest light of afternoon, they moved from shrub to
shrub; and he taught her to be on the watch for any possible foes of the
neat and busy little caterpillars, warning her to watch for birds,
spiders, beetles, ichneumon flies, possibly squirrels or even hornets.
She nodded her comprehension; he went one way, she the other. For nearly
ten minutes they remained separated, and it seemed ages to one of them
anyway.
But the caterpillars appeared to be immune. Nothing whatever interfered
with them; wandering beetles left them unmolested; no birds even noticed
them; no gauzy-winged and parasitic flies investigated them.
"Mr. Jones!" she called.
He was at her side in an instant.
"I only wanted to know where you were," she said happily.
The sun hung red over the lagoon when they sauntered back to camp. She
went into her tent with a cheerful nod to him, which said:
"I've had a splendid time, and I'll rejoin you in a few moments."
When she emerged in fresh white flannels, she found him writing in a
blank-book.
"I wonder if I might see?" she said. "If it's scientific, I mean."
"It is, entirely."
So she seated herself on the ground beside him, and read over his
shoulder the entries he was making in his field book concerning the
day's doings. When he had finished his entry, she said:
"You have not mentioned my coming to you, and how we looked for
ichneumon flies together."
"I----" He was silent.
She added timidly: "I know I count for absolutely nothing in the
important experiences of a naturalist, but--I did look very hard for
ichneumon flies. Couldn't you write in your field book that I tried very
hard to help you?"
He wrote gravely:
"Miss Cassillis most generously volunteered her invaluable aid, and
spared no effort to discover any possible foe that might prove to be
parasitic upon these larvæ. But so far without success."
"Thank you," she said, in a very low voice. And after a short silence:
"It was not mere vanity, Mr. Jones. Do you understand?"
"I know it was not vanity, even if I do not entirely understand."
"Shall I tell you?"
"Please."
"It was the first thing that I have ever been permitted to do all by
myself. It meant so much to me.... And I wished to have a little record
of it--even if you think it is of no scientific importance."
"It is of more importance than----" But he managed to stop himself,
slightly startled. She had lifted her head from the pages of the field
book to look at him. When his voice failed, and while the red burned
brilliantly in his ears, she resumed her perusal of his journal,
gravely. After a while, though she turned the pages as if she were
really reading, he concluded that her mind was elsewhere. It was.
Presently he rose, mended the fire, filled the kettle, and unhooked the
brace of wild ducks from the eaves where they swung, and marched off
with them toward the water.
When he returned, the ducks were plucked and split for broiling. He
found her seated as he had left her, dreaming awake, idle hands folded
on the pages of his open field book.
For dinner they had broiled mallard, coffee, ash-cakes, and bon-bons.
After it she smoked a cigarette with him.
Later she informed him that it was her first, and that she liked it, and
requested another.
"Don't," he said, smiling.
"Why?"
"It spoils a girl's voice, ultimately."
"But it's very agreeable."
"Will you promise not to?" he asked, lightly.
Suddenly her blue eyes became serious.
"Yes," she said, "if you wish."
The woods grew darker. Far across the lagoon a tiger-owl woke up and
began to yelp like a half-strangled hobgoblin.
She sat silent for a little while, then very quietly and frankly put her
hand on Jones's. It was shaking.
"I am afraid of that sound," she said calmly.
"It is only a big owl," he reassured her, retaining her hand.
"Is that what it is? How very dark the woods are! I had no idea that
there could be such utter darkness. I am not sure that I care for it."
"There is nothing to harm you in these woods."
"No bears and wolves and panthers?"
"There are a few--and all very anxious to keep away from anything
human."
"Are you sure?"
"Absolutely."
"Do you mind if I leave my hand where it is?"
It appeared that he had no insurmountable objections.
After the seventh tiger-owl had awakened and the inky blackness quivered
with the witch-like shouting and hellish tumult, he felt her shoulder
pressing against his. And bending to look into her face saw that all the
colour in it had fled.
"You mustn't be frightened," he said earnestly.
"But I am. I'm sorry.... I'll try to accustom myself to it.... The
darkness is a--a trifle terrifying--isn't it?"
"It's beautiful, too," he said, looking up at the firelit foliage
overhead. She looked up also, her slender throat glimmering rosy in the
embers' glare. After a moment she nodded:
"It is wonderful.... If I only had a little time to accustom myself to
it I am sure I should love it.... Oh! What was that very loud splash
out there in the dark?"
"A big fish playing in the lagoon; or perhaps wild ducks feeding."
After a few minutes he felt her soft hand tighten within his.
"It sounds as though some great creature were prowling around our fire,"
she whispered. "Do you hear its stealthy tread?"
"Noises in the forest are exaggerated," he said carelessly. "It may be a
squirrel or some little furry creature out hunting for his supper.
Please don't be afraid."
"Then it isn't a bear?"
"No, dear," he said, so naturally and unthinkingly that for a full
second neither realised the awful break of Delancy Jones.
When they did they said nothing about it. But it was some time before
speech was resumed. She was the first to recover. Perhaps the
demoralisation was largely his. It usually is that way.
She said: "This has been the most perfect day of my entire life. I'm
even glad I am a little scared. It is delicious to be a trifle afraid.
But I'm not, now--very much.... Is there any established hour for
bedtime in the woods?"
"Inclination sounds the hour."
"Isn't that wonderful!" she sighed, her eyes on the fire. "Inclination
rules in the forest.... And here I am."
The firelight on her copper-tinted hair masked her lovely eyes in a soft
shadow. Her shoulder stirred rhythmically as she breathed.
"And here you live all alone," she mused, half to herself.... "I once
saw you pitch a game against Yale.... And the next time I saw you
walking very busily down Fifth Avenue.... And now--you are--here....
That is wonderful.... Everything seems to be wonderful in this place....
Wh-what is that flapping noise, please?"
"Two herons fighting in the sedge."
"You know everything.... That is the most wonderful of all. And yet you
say you are not famous?"
"Nobody ever heard of me outside the Smithsonian."
"But--you must become famous. To-morrow I shall look very hard for an
ichneumon fly for you----"
"But your discovery will make you famous, Miss Cassillis----"
"Why--why, it's for you that I am going to search so hard! Did you
suppose I would dream of claiming any of the glory!"
He said, striving to speak coolly:
"It is very generous and sweet of you.... And, after all, I hardly
suppose that you need any added lustre or any additional happiness in a
life which must be so full, so complete, and so care-free."
She was silent for a while, then:
"Is your life then so full of care, Mr. Jones?"
"Oh, no," he said; "I get on somehow."
"Tell me," she insisted.
"What am I to tell you?"
"Why it is that your life is care-ridden."
"But it isn't----"
"Tell me!"
He said, gaily enough: "To labour for others is sometimes a little
irksome.... I am not discontented.... Only, if I had means--if I had
barely sufficient--there are so many fascinating and exciting lines of
independent research to follow--to make a name in----" He broke off with
a light laugh, leaned forward and laid another log on the fire.
"You can not afford it?" she asked, in a low voice; and for the moment
astonishment ruled her to discover that this very perfect specimen of
intelligent and gifted manhood was struggling under such an amazingly
trifling disadvantage. Only from reading and from hearsay had she been
even vaguely acquainted with the existence of poverty.
"No," he said pleasantly, "I can not yet afford myself the happiness of
independent research."
"When will you be able to afford it?"
Neither were embarrassed; he looked thoughtfully into the fire; and for
a while she watched him in his brown study.
"Will it be soon?" she asked, under her breath.
"No, dear."
That time a full minute intervened before either realised how he had
answered. And both remained exceedingly still until she said calmly:
"I thought you were the very ideal embodiment of personal liberty. And
now I find that wretched and petty and ignoble circumstances fetter even
such a man as you are. It--it is--is heartbreaking."
"It won't last forever," he said, controlling his voice.
"But the years are going--the best years, Mr. Jones. And your life's
work beckons you. And you are equipped for it, and you can not take it!"
"Some day----" But he could say no more then, with her hand tightening
in his.
"To--to rise superior to circumstances--that is god-like, isn't it?" she
said.
"Yes." He laughed. "But on six hundred dollars a year a man can't rise
very high above circumstances."
The shock left her silent. Any gown of hers cost more than that. Then
the awfulness of it all rose before her in its true and hideous
proportions. And there was nothing for her to do about it, nothing,
absolutely nothing, except to endure the degradation of her wealth and
remember that the merest tithe of it could have made this man beside her
immortally famous--if, perhaps, no more wonderful than he already was in
her eyes.
Was there no way to aid him? She could look for ichneumon flies in the
morning. And on the morning after that. And the next morning she would
say good-bye and go away forever--out of this enchanted forest, out of
his life, back to the Chihuahua, and to her guests who ate often and
digested all day long--back to her father, her mother--back to
Stirrups----
He felt her hand close on his convulsively, and turned to encounter her
flushed and determined face.
"You like me, don't you?" she said.
"Yes." After a moment he said: "Yes--absolutely."
"Do you like me enough to--to let me help you in your research work--to
be patient enough to teach me a little until I catch up with you?... So
we can go on together?... I know I am presumptuous--perhaps
importunate--but I thought--somehow--if you did like me well enough--it
would be--very agreeable----"
"It would be!... And I--like you enough for--anything. But you could not
remain here----"
"I don't mean here."
"Where, then?"
"Where?" She looked vaguely about her in the firelight. "Why,
everywhere. Wherever you go to make your researches."
"Dear, I would go to Ceylon if I could."
"I also," she said.
He turned a little pale, looking at her in silence. She said calmly:
"What would you do in Ceylon?"
"Study the unknown life-histories of the rarer Ornithoptera."
She knew no more than a kitten what he meant. But she wanted to know,
and, moreover, was perfectly capable of comprehending.
"Whatever you desire to study," she said, "would prove delightful to
me.... If you want me. Do you?"
"Want you!" Then he bit his lip.
"Don't you? Tell me frankly if you don't. But I think, somehow, you
would not make a mistake if you did want me. I really am intelligent. I
didn't know it until I talked with you. Now, I know it. But I have never
been able to give expression to it or cultivate it.... And, somehow, I
know I would not be a drag on you--if you would teach me a little in the
beginning."
He said: "What can I teach you, Cecil? Not the heavenly frankness that
you already use so sweetly. Not the smiling and serene nobility which
carries your head so daintily and so fearlessly. Not the calm purity of
thought, nor the serene goodness of mind that has graciously included a
poor devil like me in your broad and generous sympathies----"
"Please!" she faltered, flushing. "I am not what you say--though to hear
you say such things is a great happiness--a pleasure--very intense--and
wonderful--and new. But I am nothing, nothing--unless I should become
useful to you. I could amount to something--with--you----" She checked
herself; looked at him as though a trifle frightened. "Unless," she
added with an effort, "you are in love with somebody else. I didn't
think of that. Are you?"
"No," he said. "Are you?"
"No.... I have never been in love.... This is the nearest I have come to
it."
"And I."
She smiled faintly.
"If we----"
"Oh, yes," he said, calmly, "if we are to pass the balance of our
existence in combined research, it would be rather necessary for us to
marry."
"Do you mind?"
"On the contrary. Do you?"
"Not in the least. Do you really mean it? It wouldn't be disagreeable,
would it? You are above marrying for mere sentiment, aren't you?
Because, somehow, I seem to know you like me.... And it would be death
for me--a mental death--to go back now to--to Stirrups----"
"Where?"
"To--why do you ask? Couldn't you take me on faith?"
He said, unsteadily: "If you rose up out of the silvery lagoon, just
born from the starlight and the mist, I would take you."
"You--you are a poet, too," she faltered. "You seem to be about
everything desirable."
"I'm only a man very, very deep in--love."
"In love!... I thought----"
"Ah, but you need think no more. You know now, Cecil."
She remained silent, thinking for a long while. Then, very quietly:
"Yes, I know.... It is that way with me also. For I no sooner find my
liberty than I lose it--in the same moment--to you. We must never again
be separated.... Do you feel as I do?"
"Absolutely.... But it must be so."
"Why?" she asked, troubled.
"For one thing, I shall have to work harder now."
"Why?"
"Don't you know we can not marry on what I have?"
"Oh! Is that the reason?" She laughed, sprang lightly to her feet,
stood looking down at him. He got up, slowly.
"I bring you," she said, "six hundred dollars a year. And a little
more. Which sweeps away that obstacle. Doesn't it?"
"I could not ask you to live on that----"
"I can live on what you live on! I should wish to. It would make me
utterly and supremely happy."
Her flushed, young face confronted his as she took a short, eager step
toward him.
"I am not making love to you," she said, "--at least, I don't think I
am. All I desire is to help--to give you myself--my youth, energy,
ambition, intelligence--and what I have--which is of no use to me unless
it is useful to you. Won't you take these things from me?"
"Do you give me your heart, too, Cecil?"
She smiled faintly, knowing now that she had already given it. She did
not answer, but her under lip trembled, and she caught it between her
teeth as he took her hands and kissed them in silence.
VI
"Miami is not very far, is it?" she asked, as she sprang aboard the
Orange Puppy.
"Not very, dear."
"We could get a license immediately, couldn't we?"
"I think so."
"And then it will not take us very long to get married, will it?"
"Not very."
"What a wonderful night!" she murmured, looking up at the stars. She
turned toward the shore. "What a wonderful place for a honeymoon!...
And we can continue business, too, and watch our caterpillars all day
long! Oh, it is all too wonderful, wonderful!" She kissed her hand to
the unseen camp. "We will be back to-morrow!" she called softly. Then a
sudden thought struck her. "You never can get the Orange Puppy through
that narrow lead, can you?"
"Oh, there is an easier way out," he said, taking the tiller as the sail
filled.
Her head dropped back against his knees. Now and then her lips moved,
murmuring in sheerest happiness the thoughts that drifted through her
enchanted mind.
"I wonder when it began," she whispered, "--at the ball-game--or on
Fifth Avenue--or when I saw you here? It seems to me as if I always had
been in love with you."
Outside in the ocean, the breeze stiffened and the perfume was tinged
with salt.
Lying back against his knees, her eyes fixed dreamily on the stars, she
murmured:
"Stirrups will be surprised."
"What are you talking about down there all by yourself?" he whispered,
bending over her.
She looked up into his eyes. Suddenly her own filled; and she put up
both arms, linking them around his neck.
And so the Orange Puppy sailed away into the viewless, formless,
starry mystery of all romance.
       
After a silence the young novelist, who had been poking the goldfish,
said slowly: "That's pretty poor fiction, Athalie, but, as a matter of
simple fact and inartistic truth, recording sentimental celerity, it
stands unequalled."
"Straight facts make poor fiction," remarked Duane.
"It all depends on who makes the fiction out of them," I ventured.
"Not always," said Athalie. "There are facts which when straightly told
are far stranger than fiction. I noticed a case of that sort in my
crystal last winter." And to the youthful novelist she said: "Don't try
to guess who the people were if I tell it, will you?"
"No," he promised.
"Please fix my cushions," she said to nobody in particular. And after
the stampede was over she selected another cigarette, thoughtfully, but
did not light it.
VII
"You are queer folk, you writers of fiction," she mused aloud. "No
monarch ordained of God takes himself more seriously; no actor lives
more absolutely in a world made out of his imagination."
She lighted her cigarette: "You often speak of your most 'important'
book,--as though any fiction ever written were important. Painters speak
of their most important pictures; sculptors, composers, creative
creatures of every species employ the adjective. And it is all very
silly. Facts only can be characterised as important; figments of the
creative imagination are as unimportant----" she blew a dainty ring of
smoke toward the crystal globe--"as that! 'Tout ce qu'ont fait les
hommes, les hommes peuvent le détruire. Il n'y a de caractères
inéffaçables que ceux qu' imprime la nature.' There has never been but
one important author."
I said smilingly: "To quote the gentleman you think important enough to
quote, Athalie, 'Tout est bien sortant des mains de l'Auteur des
choses: tout dégénere entre les mains de l'homme.'"
Said the novelist simply: "Imagination alone makes facts important.
'Cette superbe puissance, ennemie de la raison!'"
"O Athalie," whispered Duane, "night-blooming, exquisite blossom of the
arid municipal desert, recount for us these facts which you possess and
which, in your delightful opinion, are stranger than fiction, and more
important."
And Athalie, choosing another sweetmeat, looked at us until it had
dissolved in her fragrant mouth. Then she spoke very gravely, while her
dark eyes laughed at us:
       
When young Lord Willowmere's fiancée ran away from him and married
Delancy Jones, that bereaved nobleman experienced a certain portion of
the universal shock which this social seismic disturbance spread far and
wide over two hemispheres.
That such a girl should marry beneath her naturally disgusted everybody.
So both Jones and his wife were properly damned.
England read its morning paper, shrugged its derision, and remarked that
nobody ought to be surprised at anything that happened in the States.
"The States" swallowed the rebuke and squirmed.
Now, among the sturdy yeomanry, gentry, and nobility of those same
British and impressive Isles there was an earnest gentleman whose ample
waist and means and scholarly tastes inclined him to a sedentary life of
research. The study of human nature in its various native and exotic
phases had for forty years obsessed his insular intellect. Philologist,
anthropologist, calm philosopher, and benignant observer, this
gentleman, who had never visited the United States, determined to do so
now. For, he reasoned--and very properly--a country where such a thing
could happen to a British nobleman and a Peer of the Realm must be worth
exploring, and its curious inhabitants merited, perhaps, the
impersonally judicial inspection of an F. R. B. A. whose gigantic work
on the folk manners of the world had now reached its twentieth volume,
without as yet including the United States. So he determined to devote
several chapters in the forthcoming and twenty-first volume to the
recent colonies of Great Britain.
Now, when the Duke of Pillchester concluded to do anything, that thing
was invariably and thoroughly done. And so, before it entirely realised
the honour in store for it, the United States was buttoning its collar,
tying its white tie, and rushing down stairs to open its front door to
the Duke of Pillchester, the Duchess of Pillchester, and the Lady Alene
Innesly, their youthful and ornamental daughter.
For a number of months after its arrival, the Ducal party inspected the
Yankee continent through a lens made for purposes of scientific
investigation only. The massed wealth of the nation met their Graces in
solid divisions of social worth. The shock was mutual.
Then the massed poverty of the continent was exhibited, leaving the
poverty indifferent and slightly bored, and the Ducal party taking
notes.
It was his Grace's determination to study the folk-ways of Americans;
and what the Duke wished the Duchess dutifully desired. The Lady Alene
Innesly, however, was dragged most reluctantly from function to
function, from palace to purlieu, from theatre to cathedral, from Coney
Island to Newport. She was "havin' a rotten time."
All day long she had nothing to look at but an overdressed and alien
race whose voices distressed her; day after day she had nothing to say
except, "How d'y do," and "Mother, shall we have tea?" Week after week
she had nothing to think of except the bare, unkempt ugliness of the
cities she saw; the raw waste and sordid uglification of what once had
been matchless natural resources; dirty rivers, ruined woodlands, flimsy
buildings, ignorant architecture. The ostentatious and wretched hotels
depressed her; the poor railroads and bad manners disgusted her.
Listless, uninterested, Britishly enduring what she could not escape,
the little Lady Alene had made not the slightest effort to mitigate the
circumstances of her temporary fate. She was civilly incurious
concerning the people she met; their social customs, amusements,
pastimes, duties, various species of business or of leisure interested
her not a whit. All the men looked alike to her; all the women were
