returned early and was planning to take some of 
them out driving. 

Oh, Tip, what has happened? ” 

He fit,” explained Rhoda. Davie Hears 
was going to flop him, he said, and Tip threw him 
down, and then ” 

They fit,” said Primrose with a funny ex- 
pression. 

Well, then, they — fought,” and Rhoda turned 

red. 

Mr. Mann took him up in his arms. My lit- 
tle lad — and you had the worst of it? ” 

Oh, I hammered him good. You see, my nose 
bled. He’s always doing mean little things to the 
girls as well. And he’s a great fat booby. Then 
he said ‘ Tip top ’ — I don’t mind that, but ‘ Slip 
slop ’ madded me, and then he said, ' and now 




you’re goin’ to flop,’ and he flopped with me on the 
top. He’ll let me alone next time, I guess.” 

“ Oh, Tip,” said his mother; fighting is such a 
dreadful thing. I hoped no boy of mine would 
ever do such a thing.” 

Linn came around and put his arm over his 
mother’s shoulder. 

Boys have to sometimes,” he began. “ There 
are always some in school who bully you, and the 
best way is to give it back to them. They are 
nearly always cowards, too,. I’ve had some scrim- 
mages at Denby ” 

“ And he took my part,” interposed Chan. “ It 
was before I was hurt. I tell you, Linn’s a splen- 
did brother ! ” 

How fast the boy was growing, and how manly 
he seemed. Perhaps she did not understand boys. 
There was a smile on Mr. Mann’s face, and he 
hugged the little lad closer. Tip wound the slim 
little legs around the stout body, a trick of baby- 
hood with his own father. What a friend they 
would all have, and the tears of gratitude shone 
in her eyes. 


CHAPTER XIX 


A SUMMER BLOSSOMING 

Tip was not much the worse for his scrimmage, 
except being somewhat bruised under the eye. 
Miss Raynor’s note had expressed sincerest re- 
grets, and exonerated Tip, for she felt he had not 
really been to blame, although she disapproved 
strongly of boys fighting. Davie did not come to 
school, and Tip was quite a hero in the eyes of the 
little girls. Miss Raynor read them a lecture on 
being kind to each other, and not indulging in rude 
or tormenting actions. 

After school was over, Mrs. Mears made her 
appearance, really armed for a fray. Davie had 
been hurt, and had not left his bed all day. She 
had heard those Firth children were of that low 
Denby class, and if Miss Raynor wished to keep 
up the reputation of her school, she would advise 
her to send them packing, as she would lose some 
of her best scholars. They certainly should not 
send Davie next year. 

Miss Raynor’s explanation was quite different 



from what the boy had carried home, but the irate 
mother would not believe her child at fault. 

The Firth children are well-trained- and very 
intelligent. My sister teaches two of them, and 
one is the boy with the beautiful voice who sang 
the Easter anthem. Children will have trivial dis- 
putes at times.” 

But if he had broken Davie’s back when he 
threw him down 

“ He was trying to throw down the Firth boy, 
who is much smaller ; but nothing serious has hap- 
pened. They went down on the soft grass.” 

Well — we shall not send Davie next year,” 
with a toss of the head. 

“ He is rather large for my school,” said Miss 
Raynor, in her quiet, ladylike manner. “ And I 
much prefer girls.” 

Miss Raynor repeated the interview to her 
sister. 

As if we would give up four pupils for her 
one. I do not consider Davie Mears an attractive 
child. He has some sly ways that I despise, and 
he is not truthful. He loves to tease the other 
children.” 

After a week, Davie begged to go back to school. 
It wasn’t any fun to stay at home alone and have 
his mother saying, “ Don’t do that, Davie ; don’t 




get so many books around; don’t pull Jack’s ears; 
oh, can’t you be a little quieter? ” 

Miss Raynor was really proud of Rhoda’s ad- 
vancement, and though Tip had queer streaks, he 
was very smart in some things, and he could draw 
wonderfully. 

Only a week to vacation,” said Prim, swinging 
her hat as she came up the walk. “And, Mother, 
don’t you think Goldie and I might have a little 
tea party? There are so many nice girls in our 
class. And Miss Morrow is going to take us out 
in the woods for a picnic, and there’s the Sunday- 
school, and the Read girls are going to Ocean 
Grove for a week. There are such lots of things. 
Vacation is just splendid! ” 

“ You had a vacation last summer.” 

“ But we had to work, and there were no girls 
to have fun with, only when Mr. Mann came to 
hand,” laughing gayly. “ There he comes now,” 
and Prim flew to meet him. 

They talked school matters. Prim and Goldie 
would not be promoted; they had only been three 
months in the class, and were not far enough ad- 
vanced, Linn was sure. But I’ve studied like a 
trooper.” 

And how does a trooper study? ” asked Goldie;, 
her eyes alight with fun. 





Why, with all his might,” returned Linn. 

Mrs. Mann thought her husband looked tired 
or worried, and when Mrs. Alden had taken the 
children down the street for a walk, she said softly. 
What is it, dear?” 

Oh, have I given it away ? ” laughing in a 
rather forced manner. ‘‘ Well — I had a caller to- 
day, Mr. Howard Gwynne.” 

“ Oh! He wants — does he want Chan? ” 

My dear, there is a good deal to think about.” 
He slipped his arm around his wife and drew her 
nearer. I hoped he had seen some new boys with 
voices — he has one in training — but he wanted to 
know everything about Chan, and I told him I had 
married the mother, the ‘ beauti fullest mother,’ Tip 
once said, and that there were eight children, and 
a girl who might sing equal to Chan, and that I 
should care for them and educate them, and try to 
make fine men and women of them. I ought not to 
have told him about the Easter anthem, but I did, 
I was so proud of it. He is mightily interested, 
and wants to see them all. So I asked him up on 
Saturday.” 

Well ? ” was all she said. 

'' Whether we would have any right to mar a 
splendid future for the lad? He would like to 
take him and do the very best for him. He is 




well known both here and abroad. It is a chance 
out of a thousand. But I love the child — how 
could I part with him ! ” 

Oh, husband, he would not go. Tempting as 
your offer was, he wanted to stay in the little old 
house with us all, and he was full of the sweetest 
gratitude to you. And all the delightful things 
you could give him! Oh, no, he would not go 
away from us. He loved me so well that I think 
he was glad Linn was to go into the store so he 
would have to stay at home a while longer. And 
now I think he doesn’t understand fame well 
enough to give up all our love for it.” 

“ But it is this, Bessy. Suppose in the years to 
come he may think he has made a great sacrifice 
in simply taking the love. I cannot give him a 
fortune, and he might win both fame and fortune 
easily.” 

Oh, don’t think so far into the future. We 
are so happy all together. Heaven grant there 
may not be any break. It should be your reward. 
Let your friend come without a misgiving.” 

Did she understand all it would be to the boy? 
Could she understand how he loved him, what he 
had been to the longing heart? 

There were two busy, exciting days, and, last of 
all, a rather brilliant commencement at school. 




And if Chandler Firth did not stand very high in 
scholarship, he had the solo part in a ringing song 
where all the class joined in the chorus. And Linn 
looked forward two years, when he should walk 
proudly up and receive his diploma and be trans- 
ferred to the high school. 

It was just splendid, cried Goldie. I'm so 
glad weVe come out of the wilderness that was 
Denby, and it is all owing to you, you dearest of 
fathers,” and she gave Mr. Mann’s hand a sort- 
of tempestuous squeeze. And there wasn’t a hap- 
pier person in all Grafton than Adonijah Mann. 

The children slept quite late the next morning. 
Tip and Rhoda would be in school two weeks 
longer, a thing Tip protested against loudly. Prim 
was planning her graduation dress by the aid of a 
fashion magazine. They gardened a little and 
filled the house with fresh bouquets. Mr. Mann 
had gone to the city, but would be up at noon with 
Mr. Gwynne. Chan could hardly tear himself 
away from a book of poems. Two months with 
no lessons! He had almost forgotten what Mr. 
Gwynne was like, and when Dan drove round with 
the surrey he stepped in reluctantly. 

Yes, there they were coming down the platform 
steps, and Mr. Gwynne was not at all formidable. 
A tall, fair man, with a golden-brown mustache, 




and deep blue eyes, that now wore a kindly smile. 

Oh, how you have changed and grown, and 
you are not the pale little fellow of the cot who 
sang like the birds. I’ve carried that in my mind 
many an hour, and it is one of the things I’ve come 
to hear. And I have heard the romance about you 
all and your good father here. He will tell you 
that I wanted you kept safe and well until I could 
see you again. I’ve had months of pressing and 
arduous business, but now I am going to take a 
vacation. What a lovely place, Mr. Mann, and 
what splendid trees! And such a restful air. I 
like the simplicity.” 

Dan drove around the circle. There were some 
children on the front porch. Linn rose and 
bowed. 

Mr. Gwynne thought they made a beautiful pic- 
ture. He stepped out and wondered if he could 
remember each one’s name, and, after all, there 
were only six. Laurel had not come home, and 
Tip was making himself presentable. 

Mrs. Mann came out and invited him in. 

“ Oh, let us sit here a while,” he said. I want 
to talk with the children. I don’t often get such a 
chance.” 

They were all a little shy at first, but when Tip 
joined them he seemed to have some occult in- 




fluence, and they were all inspired with a kind of 
merriment. He half envied Mr. Mann. And 
when they went in to lunch, Mr. Gwynne really 
was one of them. He had never seen just such a 
group of children before. No wonder Mr. Mann 
wanted them ! Why, it was like some bit out of a 
romance. 

He had to hear about little Arthur and the will, 
and see the beautiful books, and also hear about 
Mr. Collamore’s visit. There were so many things 
— why, their lives seemed brimming over with in- 
cidents. 

They went to the parlor presently, and he sat 
down to the piano, though he winced a little at 
first with a comical sense of disapproval. 

You will spoil your singer’s ear with this 
piano, which could never have been first-class,” he 
said. 

Yes, I’ve wondered if we ought not have a 
new one. I took it with the house.” 

“ I’d like to choose one for my singing-bird,” 
with a fond look at Chan. 

They thought Miss Raynor evoked wonderful 
sounds, but they were spellbound at Mr. Gwynne’s 
music, even if the piano had passed its prime. And 
the eager faces were an inspiration. 

'' Now, I want you to do something for me,” he 



began. Chan — may I call you that ? — I want 
to hear again what you were singing to that little 
Arthur. It struck me as being strangely beautiful, 
and has haunted me.” 

“ Oh, it’s so much prettier when Goldie sings. 
You see — we caught it from the birds, there were 
so many over at the old house, and down in the 
woods.” 

Goldie was a bit bashful. We haven’t any 
words to it,” she said. 

I don’t want any words, only just the melody.” 

“ Oh, come, Goldie ; Mr. Gwynne’s so nice, you 
needn’t feel afraid.” 

Mr. Gwynne colored and smiled at the compli- 
ment. 

You begin,” said Goldie. 

It was a little bird in some far-off thicket just at 
daybreak, when hardly a leaf stirred, growing 
clearer with a longing note, then another an- 
swered, then they blended, there was a newer one, 
then there seemed half a dozen, until it was the 
poet’s “ sweet jargoning.” A clear high sound — 
a bird flying upward, growing fainter and fainter, 
broken up by a nearer, merry whistle, soft low 
notes again — the thrush, the lilt of the robin, the 
gayety of the mocking-bird, then something plain- 
tively sweet. 




Mr. Gwynne was noting it down with his pen- 
cil on a pad, raising his eyes now and then to look 
at the two children. Chan’s face was rapt with 
the melody. They both paused and drew a long 
breath. 

“ That is remarkable,” he said. “ It would set 
some audiences wild. I have part of a cornet solo, 
and this is just what I wanted. Next winter, chil- 
dren, you shall hear it played. I have a young 
pupil who will some day be a celebrated player. I 
wonder if you have ever heard a cornet? ” 

I don’t think we know just what it is,” said 
Linn. 

Well, a fine player makes it an inspiration. I 
have been saving up bits for it, and that was what 
caught my attention at the hospital, only I thought 
first it was a bird. Chan, you ought to be a com- 
poser — you may be some day. Do all of you sing? 
Where did you get such remarkable talent ? ” 

We sing at things,” said Primrose dryly. 

I believe I could give a concert with you alone. 
What are you smiling at ? ” 

Prim was rosy red. 

Prim can’t carry a tune,” said Linn. “ She 
wanders off in the funniest way.” 

“ I can sing with the others in Sunday-school 
because I follow the sound, but when I’m alone I 




stray off and can’t get back. So mother says I 
sing like a teakettle, and that whisks about, you 
know.” 

Mr. Gwynne laughed heartily, and then proposed 
to try their voices. Linn’s would make a boyish 
alto and develop into bass; Rilla’s was sweet, but 
had not much strength; Goldie’s was fine, and 
would be a clear, high soprano; Prim’s had more 
of the mezzo strain. They sang some of the school 
songs, and certainly did very well. 

Now I must hear Chan’s anthem. I have 
heard some beautiful boys’ voices in it, and some 
famous singers, but you needn’t feel afraid.” 

Chan smiled a little. “ I sang it then just as if 
I saw the heavenly host from the mountains. I 
am afraid I couldn’t do it quite the same again. 
Oh, don’t you know that sometimes you can see a 
thing ” Chan paused and flushed. 

That’s inspiration, my boy, and it makes the 
best singers. Have you the music? ” 

Chan found it. The solo was set for a boy so- 
prano. Mr. Gwynne played the opening and sang 
the first part, then nodded to the boy, who took up, 

“ How beautiful upon the mountains." 

Howard Gwynne listened in surprise. The ease, 
the sweet unconsciousness, was winsome in itself. 




Yes, the voice was unusual and gave promise 
of being really superior. It was a fortune in 
itself. 

“ And did Mr. Evans give you all the training 
you had ? ” 

And Miss Marsh. She’s the real soprano in 
the church.” 

“ Mr. Mann, I begin to think you captured a 
family of geniuses. But I put in the first claim 
for this boy,” and he kissed Chan’s white forehead. 
‘‘ Whatever is best for him in the musical world 
I can give him. He is truly a child of music. 
You are right in some things, that all children of 
to-day need education. He must learn languages 
as well. I’m not going to lose sight of him. Chan, 
can’t you be partly my boy as well ? It will mean 
a good deal for the future.” 

“ I like you,” Chan said simply. “ But if it 
hadn’t been for father — and he wasn’t my father 
then — I might have been a poor little lame fellow. 
Then no one would have wanted me.” 

“ Oh, you could have sung your way into any 
one’s heart,” was the earnest reply. 

Just then a dainty basket-phaeton stopped on 
the drive. It was Mrs. Brenner. Mr. Mann went 
out. 

“ Yes, I’m coming in, for I have a great favor 




to ask, and Mr. Brenner is the worst man about 
making calls. Why, are you having a party ? ” 
