slept last night thinking of it.” 
"Can’t you bring her over for a visit?” 
thought of proposing that. If I could per- 
suade her to transfer the child to me — ” 
"But if she gets another nurse?” 
"Yes, I must try. The strain on her is too 
great, and now for almost a week she has not 
been out of the house; Mrs. Borden bewails 
it for the childrens’ sake. She thinks only of 
them with a mother’s selfishness, and she 
doesn’t give Marilla credit for these pretty 
ways or their intelligence. She is just their nurse 
girl. It is a cruel waste of the child’s gifts.” 
'I’d like to see Dr. Baker; most of all I’d 
like to see Marilla, but it wouldn’t be etiquette 
to call.” 
go tomorrow with courage enough to 
have a gentle talk or a straight out one,' said 
Miss Armitage resolutely. "We try to save 
other hves, why not this one? And this one is 
dear to me. It has so much of promise in it, 
and life gets lonely sometimes." 
He longed to come into it, but he kept his 
promise. Until she made some sign he must 
be content with friendship. He rose abruptly 
and said he must be going. She did not de- 
tain him. 
It was raining a-softly now and he hurried 
along. His office was in a little ell part in a 
rather inviting looking house, and he took his 
meals with the tenant. The office boy was on 
the lookout for him, it was time he went 
home. 
'There’s a gentleman in there waiting for 
you,’ he said with his good-night. 
The gentleman was comfortably ensconced 
in the Morris chair, smoking a cigar. Doctor 
Richards took a second look. 
“Why, Lorimer!" he exclaimed. “Where 
have you dropped from? I haven't seen you 
in an age — but I'm glad, old fellow; Iwasfeel- 
ing rather down; I should have had a gay 
presentiment." 
''Remembering old times when we were 
both bloated aristocrats, favorites with the 
gods.’ 
"And are now earning daily bread,” laughed 
the doctor. "At least I am and trying to help 
suffering humanity. Isn’t that neatly put?” 
"I don’t know whether I can claim all that; 
now and then I get some poor fellow’s affairs 
out of a snarl and make him pay for it, and one 
end of something has drifted here to Newton 
and I’m after that, but I thought I’d hunt you 
up first. I’ve been here a good haK hour.” 
"And supper is ready in the house. Then* 
we will have a good hour before any one drops 
in. Come in,” and he opened a side door into 
a hall. 
There were three persons at the table, an 
elderly couple and a woman in the thirties. 
They made Mr. Lorimer cordially welcome 
and the supper was inviting. The guest 
asked some questions about Newton which 
was a quiet rather old fashioned town quite 
set in its ways. 
Afterward they settled themselves com- 
fortably in the office. 
"I’ve come to hunt up some one — do you 
know anything about a Bethany Home for 
orphans, girls, I believe.’ 
Dr. Richards roused from his lazy position. 
Yes, I know about it, though I never been 
on the staff. Why?” 
want to learn about a child placed there 
four or five years ago. Let me see,” referring 
to a memorandum, "name, Marilla Bond; 
mother and father died in this town.” 
"Marilla Bond. Yes. I know the child. 
What of her?” 
"I’ll begin at the very first. Hardly two 
years ago Peter Schermerhorn died at the age 
of ninety-eight. He was the black sheep of an 
otherwise respectable family, went off and 
spent his portion in riotous living, afterward 
bought a tract of ground above Harlem, turned 
hermit, raised geese and ducks and pigs, 
married and had three daughters and they in 
turn married, glad, I suppose, to get away from 
the penurious living. So it went on. He had 
to give up the pigs and geese, did a little gar- 
dening and two years ago died without a will. 
Oddly enough he had kept a family record 
which has been of great service to us. The old 
shanty was a disgrace, the ground valuable. 
The city was bringing up one of its fine 
avenues and a syndicate made a proffer for the 
land. Of course the heirs soon scented this 
out, and our firm has been trying to settle 
the estate so the property can be turned into 
money, and a good deed given. We have 
found about everybody, I believe, but the 
mother of this child who is in very direct 
descent, eluded us a long while. 
"And this child is one of the heirs?’ ' in sur- 
prise. 
"Exactly. Her mother came here after her 
marriage. The father was killed in some 
machinery mishap. The mother was in a 
store, a bakery, I believe, and dying, gave her 
little girl to the friend she had lived with, 
and the friend married and went out to Easton. 
We found she did not take the child with her 
but put her in this Bethany Home with some 
important papers. So we want the child and 
the papers.” 
'The child was twelve, a year ago Septem- 
ber. She was bound-out to some fairly nice 
people as a little nursemaid. And an heiress !” 
in a tone of glad surprise. 
‘'Well not to any great extent. There are a 
good many heirs it seems — ten thousand or so. 
But we had to know whether she was living 
or not on account of the title. 
His little Cinderella! Truly this was a 
fairy story. "Oh, are you quite sure?" he 
said. 
"Oh, there’s no doubt, if she is the true heir. 
But the woman at Easton attested a very 
straight story and knew of the husband's 
death, though she had not known him per- 
sonally. The money is on the mother's side, 
you see, so his death is neither here nor there. 
And now — can’t we go out and interview this 
place and the keeper?” 
"Hardly tonight. The matron is a rather 
rigid person I believe. We had best tackle her 
by daylight, and the child is almost in this 
vicinity. A rather unusual child I think, very 
sweet natured. Oh, I can’t express all my 
delight. She is the kind of girl that ought to 
be educated, that should live in an atmosphere 
of love, and she is not really strong enough to 
take the rough and tumble of life. Oh, I can’t 
tell you how glad I am. Lorimer surveyed his 
friend with a rather humorous smile. They 
had been chums during a summer in Switzer- 
land and Holland, but he had not thought 
Richards much given to either love or romance. 
Then they branched off into old times when 
both had been rather wasteful. Lorimerwas 
working hard to redeem that youthful ex- 
travagance; Dr. Richards cared nothing at all 
for the moneyed end of life. 
He would fain have kept his friend all night 
but Lorimer had engaged his room at a hotel. 
They were to meet as soon as possible in the 
morning. 
Bethany Home was quite in the suburbs, 
reached by a walk after one had left the 
trolley. The house was a big rambling place 
to which there had been made several addi- 
tions. It had been a gift from a benevolently 
disposed woman, with a small endowment 
that was occasionally added to. There was 
quite a spacious garden and an abundance of 
rose vines. 
Yes, Mrs. Johnson was in and they were 
ushered into a large old fashioned apartment, 
scrupuously neat and formal. Mrs. Johnson 
was a somewhat portly woman turned of 
sixty, whose face had settled into severe lines, 
and she eyed her visitors rather suspiciously. 
am Dr. Richards,' he began with a 
softening of the countenance, "and my friend 
Mr. Lorimer is a lawyer from New York who 
comes on a matter of business concerning a 
little girl who was an inmate of the Home until 
a little over a year ago — Marilla Bond.” 
"Yes” — in a rather questioning manner. 
Lorimer told his story and the surprise in 
the woman’s face was evident. 
“What is of most importance is to learn 
whether there are any papers to substantiate 
the claim. One has to be careful in the legal 
matters.” 
She seemed to consider. “Yes,” rather 
reluctantly. “The person who brought her 
here gave quite a box of papers and some 
trinkets to my safe keeping. We take charge 
of them until the girls are eighteen — then they 
have served out their time and are legally their 
own mistresses. Ours is quite a private in- 
stitution and has no connection with the city, 
although it has a board of officers, of which I 
am president. Of course I keep watch over 
the girls who are bound-out. This Marilla 
has a very nice place. She was away all sum- 
mer with the family. One of our managers 
visited this Mrs. Borden on her return and 
found everything satisfactory and the child 
content." 
"Could we look over the papers?’’ 
She seemed rather loth to produce them but 
she could find no excuse. She recalled the 
fact that she had seen Dr. Richards’ name in 
connection with the Children’s Hospital. 
Certainly there was enough to substantiate 
the claim. A marriage certificate, an attes- 
tation of the baby’s birth, and old Dr. Lang- 
don was still alive, though he had retired from 
practice. A packet of letters as well, two 
notices of Mr. Bond’s accident and death. 
Everything was ready for corroboration. 
Mr. Lorimer gathered up the important 
papers. At first Mrs. Johnson rather de- 
murred about his taking them away. 
'Why, I would have no object in destroying 
them. I should not be the gainer by it. And 
this is the last heir we have to trace. Now we 
can proceed to a settlement. The syndicate 
takes more than hah the property and pays 
cash. The remainder can be easily sold. No 
one seems disposed to demand an extravagant 
price. You will hear from me before long, and 
I will return the papers.” 
After they had settled that and left the lady, 
Lorimer said — 
‘Now let us interview this Doctor Langdon.' 
He was a somewhat feeble, white haired old 
man but received them very graciously and 
was much interested in the story. Turning 
to his book he refreshed his memory. Yes, 
there was the birth of the child. The mother 
he put down as rather delicate. A note some 
time after substantiated the accident and 
death of the father. He was very willing to 
give an affidavit. "You've been a tremendous 
help to me, Al,’said Mr. Lorimer, "estates 
that have to be settled this way are an enor- 
mous bother, and thanks are poor pay," 
laughing. 
believe I shall demand something more. 
The child will need a guardian. She has 
several warm friends here, I'm not willing to 
lose sight of her. So I shall ask that office. 
"Well — why not? Some one must act until 
she is of age. Yes, I remember. I'm glad 
you spoke of it. Ill be up again. Indeed 
I'm quite curious to see how she takes her for- 
tune.’ 
So the friends parted. Dr. Richards made 
several calls, stopped for some lunch, found a 
number of patients awaiting him and a mes- 
sage that had come from Miss Armitage, who 
wished to see him at once. She had had quite 
an eventful morning as well. Some vague 
presentiment had haunted her about Marilla 
and after disposing of a few business calls she 
hurried around to Arch street. 
Mrs. Borden answered the door. 
"Oh, Miss Armitage! We're so full of 
trouble! Aunt Hetty has just died and 
Marilla — oh, I don’t know what will become of 
the child!” 
"She is not ill?” in a tone of anxiety. 
"Well, come in and sit down and let me tell 
you. They thought the first part of the night 
the poor old lady was dropping off quietly. 
Then toward morning she seemed to rally, and 
kept calling for Marilla. John had been up 
there most of the time and he said bring the 
child up. We didn’t suppose she was really 
conscious. So Marilla went up. It was day- 
light, and just as soon as she went to the bed- 
side the poor old lady held out both hands, and 
Mrs. Holmes said she really smiled, and then 
a horrible thing happened, like a fit, and her 
mouth all curled up and her eyes rolled up to 
the whites and Marilla screamed and fainted 
and the old lady was dead in a minute, and 
then the child fainted .several times and they 
put her in her own bed — we’d had her down 
stairs. What did your doctor say about her 
last summer? Dr. Baker said her heart was 
weak. Now I think they oughtn’t have sent 
a girl out from the Home who had any such 
thing the matter with her. She had it real 
easy, sitting on the floor playing with the 
babies. And we never let her carry them up 
and down stairs or put anything hard on her, 
and now you know they run all over and are 
very little trouble. They have always been 
such good babies, but if she is going to faint 
at every little thing she won’t be much good. 
Mr. Borden has gone for that other girl and 
to attend to the necessary business. There 
will be the funeral and we shall have to take in 
some of the folks, I know. Mrs. Holmes will 
stay right along until we are straight again, 
but, it’s asking a good deal I admit” and she 
paused. 
"Yes, let me take her.” Miss Armitage had 
come primed with several arguments, but she 
saw they would not be needed. 
course the shock was awful. Mrs. 
Holmes said she wasn't surprised, for Marilla 
was just going to clasp the outstretched hands, 
but the old lady came back to her natural 
looks and I’m so glad; but of course Marilla 
will be haunted by the sight — ” 
‘Yes, and you will have so much on your 
hands. Do you think she could walk that far 
or shall I order a hack?” 
'Oh, she came down to the nursery and 
Bridget brought her up some breakfast. 
There’s the undertaker — ” 
'I'll go up to the nursery,” said Miss Ar- 
mitage. 
A very wan little girl was pillowed upon the 
lounge. Jack had been sent to school without 
hearing of the happening. Violet was march- 
ing up and down ringing a little bell and saying 
"Go to door. Ilia, go to door.” Pansy was 
leaning over her with a book crying
authoritatively — "Read to me, read to me.” 
Miss Armitage lifted Pansy down but she 
started to climb up again. The lady sat down 
in the place and drew Marilla's head to her 
bosom and let the child cry there. 
"llia can’t read to you now” she said. 
'Poor Ilia’s sick.” 
"Tain’t your Ilia,’ said the child obsti- 
nately. 
"My dear,’ Miss Armitage began soothing- 
ly, kissing the tremulous lips, "you are going 
home with me. It has been dreadful I know, 
but you must try to forget it. Jane will be 
glad to have you and Dr. Richards will com- 
fort you. Don’t you remember what a nice 
time we had last summer? There dear — little 
Cinderella.” 
Marilla smiled faintly through her tears. 
'Oh, I am so glad. It was so sudden you 
know, and when she stretched out her hands.” 
"She must have known you, and after all it 
was sweet to be remembered then. Are you 
very weak? But I’m afraid you couldn’t 
walk to Loraine place.” 
'I’m so — so shaky — ” 
Aunt Florence entered the room and snatched 
the bell from Violet. "You must not make 
such a noise,” she declared. ‘Dh Miss Armi- 
tage, you are always shocked by a death, 
aren’t you? And poor Aunt Hetty has been 
dying the last week, though the doctor said 
she did not really suffer. But she’s past 
eighty and that’s a good long life. I do won- 
der if she really knew she was calling for Ma- 
rilla, and the poor child has had a bad time. 
How good of you to offer to take her for awhile. 
Funerals are so dismal to a child.” 
think I had better have a cab,” said the 
guest. "Will you kindly telephone for one?” 
Miss Borden assented. Then she brought 
a frock for Marilla, and between them they 
had her dressed. Violet tumbled her box of 
blocks on the floor and began kicking them 
around. 
"Oh, dear! When you want quiet, children 
are always the worst! When that new girl 
comes she shall take them out in their carriage 
and we will have peace for a little while.” 
Mr. Borden entered at that moment with 
a very pleasant-faced young woman. 
"Come through in my room,” said Miss 
Borden, “and you can watch for the cab.” 
She shut the door between, but the babies 
burst into a howl and she went back to pacify 
them. 
"Oh, I do feel better,' exclaimed Marilla, 
and her eyes lightened up, "but no one seems 
to know just what to do to amuse the babies, 
V\e grown so used to it.' 
“They must get along without you for 
awhile. It is a pity they couldn't be sent 
away as well.’’ 
The cab came presently. Mr. Borden al- 
most carried Marilla down stairs. “Now get 
good and rested,” he said. “It will be a sad 
time. Death always is.” 
Oh, how delightful the beautiful house was! 
They went through to the library where the 
grate fire had been kindled and Marilla drew a 
long, happy breath. Why she felt almost 
well. Jane brought her some hot milk and 
presently spread a dainty little luncheon on 
the library table. They had quite a cheerful 
time and it seemed as if she improved every 
moment. 
Dr. Richards thought he would never get 
through with the office patients this afternoon 
and he was impatient to know what had hap- 
pened. As for his own experiences they must 
be kept to himself for some time. Indeed he 
almost felt as if it was a dream. He had seen 
Marilla only three times since her return. 
First she had gone to the office to report to 
him and let him see what the seaside had done 
for her, then the episode of measles had kept 
her indoors as well as the babies. He had 
met her twice with her precious freight, and 
even on Sundays she had not found time to go 
to Miss Armitage. 
She told the story over to save the child's 
nerves. "And so the poor old lady has gone. 
Yet I think it hardly fair for you to have to 
wait upon her so much.'’ 
"Oh then Mrs. Holmes came and she was 
very nice. But as soon as I came in with the 
babies she went out for her walk and Aunt 
Hetty wanted me to read to her. She liked so 
to have me read, and somehow she seemed 
gentler and quite sweet like after she was so 
poorly. I liked it better than being so much 
with the children. They were growing so big 
and strong and wanted to keep tumbling over 
me. It made me so tired sometimes." 
''Marilla is never going back there,’' Dr. 
Richards said decisively. "She isn’t strong 
enough for a nurse girl.” 
"No, she is not going back. I went out 
awhile ago to see that Mrs. Johnson, bat she 
thought the place an excellent one, and that 
it was a bad thing to change girls about, mak- 
ing them dissatisfied everywhere, but I meant 
to bide my time, and find an opportunity. 
Now I think they will be willing to give her 
up as they have a growm-up woman. She 
came while I was there. Dr. Baker told 
them Manila had a weak heart, and I 
think it startled them. They have no idea 
how hard she has been worked.” 
Oh, he longed to tell her of Marilla's good 
fortune. Somehow they must manage to 
share the child between them. She had the 
lovely home and the mother heart, and he 
wanted a home with a sweet little girl in it. 
At Arch street there was a good deal of 
confusion. Cousins and nieces who had called 
only at rare intervals on Mrs. Vanderveer were 
most attentive, suddenly. They did wonder 
between themselves if Aunt Hetty was going 
to leave all her money to John Borden! 
The new nurse, Lizzie by name, was really 
a great comfort. She took up the babies in 
the morning, bathed and dressed them and 
gave them their breakfast. They still took 
their midday nap but she managed to intro- 
duce some discipline, yet she was not harsh. 
Master Jack stood a little in awe of her. She 
was a good seamstress also. 
So passed the three days and they brought 
Aunt Hetty down in the parlor and put her 
in a fine casket, keeping the doors shut until 
the hour for service. Mrs. Seymour had the 
nurse bring the children in her house. So 
they said prayers reverently, sang some lovely 
parting hymns and laid her away, her long 
life on earth finished. 
The relatives were asked to meet at Mr. 
Borden’s office the next day at ten to hear the 
will read. 
Was ever any will satisfactory where prop- 
erty was divided up into small gifts? Five 
hundred dollars to this one and to that one, 
three hundred apiece to some others. Jack, 
Jr., had five hundred, the babies, three hun- 
dred, and Manila Bond, three hundred. 
'It was very nice of her in a way,” said Mrs. 
Borden, "but I think one hundred dollars 
would have been remembrance enough for the 
little waiting on she did, and I find Lizzie is of 
much more service than she was. Of course 
she costs more. I shall go out to the Home 
some day and give her up on account of her 
health. Miss Armitage might as well take 
her. She'll make a nice little waitress maid. 
And now that the house is clear I feel that we 
needn’t economize so closely. You and John 
get your five hundred with the rest, and she 
gave me her diamond ear rings after we came 
back in the summer. It was smart in her not 
to have John make her will, so none of them 
can say he persuaded her. Well, now we can 
settle ourselves to the next thing.” 
CHAPTER XII 
A WONDERFUL HAPPENING 
Mrs. Borden was surprised that Mrs. John- 
son received back Marilla Bond’s indentures 
