cause the baby will have need of extra 
care. You will have to take more trouble; 
you will have to give it medicines; your 
task will be a little more delicate, a Httle 
more difficult." 
"Oh, yes; then it's so that I will be sure 
to take good care of her? I understand." 
"Then it's agreed?" exclaimed Madame 
Dupont, wdth rehef. 
"Yes, ma'am," said the nurse. 
"And you won't come later on to make 
reproaches to us? We understand one 
another clearly? We have warned you 
that the child is sick, and that you could 
catch the disease. Because of that, because 
of the special need of care which she has. 
 
we promise you five hundred francs at the 
end of the nursing. That's all right, is it?'' 
''But; my lady," cried the nurse, all her 
cupidity awakened, ''you spoke just now 
of a thousand francs." 
"Very well, then, a thousand francs." 
George passed behind the nurse and got 
his mother by the arm, drawing her to 
one side. "It would be a mistake," he 
whispered, "if we did not make her sign 
an agreement to all that." 
His mother turned to the nurse. "In 
order that there may be no misunder- 
standing about the sum — you see how it is, 
I had forgotten already that I had spoken 
of a thousand francs — 'we will draw up a 
Httle paper, and you, on your part, will 
write one for us." 
"Very good, ma'am," said the nurse, 
delighted with the idea of so important a 
transaction. "Why, it's just as you do 
when you rent a house!" 
"Here comes the doctor," said the other. 
"Come, nurse, it is agreed?" 
"Yes, ma'am," was the answer. But 
all the same, as she went out she hesitated 
 
and looked sharply first at the doctor, and 
then at George and his mother. She 
suspected that something was wrong, and 
she meant to find out if she could. 
The doctor seated himself in George's 
office chair, as if to write a prescription. 
''The child's condition remains the same," 
he said; ''nothing disturbing." 
''Doctor," said Madame Dupont, gravely, 
''from now on, you will be able to devote 
your attention to the baby and the nurse 
without any scruple. During your absence 
we have arranged matters nicely. The 
nurse has been informed about the situation, 
and she does not mind. She has agreed 
to accept an indemnity, and the amount 
has been stated." 
But the doctor did not take these tidings 
as the other had hoped he might. He 
replied: ''The malady which the nurse 
will almost inevitably contract in feeding 
the child is too grave in its consequences. 
Such consequences might go as far as 
complete helplessness, even as far as death. 
So I say that the indemnity, whatever it 
might be, would not pay the damage." 
 
''But.' exclaimed the other, ''she accepts 
it! She is mistress of herseK, and she has 
the right—" 
''I am not at all certain that she has the 
right to sell her own health. And I am 
certain that she has not the right to sell 
the health of her husband and her children. 
If she becomes infected, it is nearly certain 
that she will communicate the disease to 
them; the health and the life of the children 
she might have later on would be greatly 
compromised. Such things she cannot 
possibly sell. Come, madame, you must 
see that a bargain of this sort isn't possible. 
If the evil has not been done, you must 
do everything to avoid it.' 
''Sir,'' protested the mother, wildly, ''you 
do not defend our interests!" 
'' Madame," was the reply, ''I defend 
those who are weakest." 
''If we had called in our own physician, 
who knows us," she protested, ''he would 
have taken sides with us." 
The doctor rose, with a severe look on 
his face. "I doubt it," he said, ''but there 
is still time to call him." 
 
George broke in with a crj' of distress. 
''Sir, I implore you!" 
And the mother in turn cried. ''Don't 
abandon us, sir! You ought to make 
allowances! If you knew what that child 
is to me! I tell you it seems to me as if I 
had waited for her coming in order to die. 
Have pity upon us! Have pity upon her! 
You speak of the weakest — it is not she 
who is the weakest? You have seen her, 
you have seen that poor little baby, so 
emaciated! You have seen what a heap 
of suffering she is abeady; and cannot that 
inspire in you any sympathy? I pray you, 
sir — 'I pray you!'' 
"I pity her," said the doctor, "I would 
like to save her — and I will do everything 
for her. But do not ask me to sacrifice 
to a feeble infant, with an uncertain and 
probably unhappy life, the health of a 
sound and robust woman. It is useless 
for us to continue such a discussion as 
that." 
Whereupon Madame Dupont leaped up 
in sudden frenzy. "Very well!" she ex- 
claimed. "I will not follow your counsels, 
I will not listen to you!" 
 
Said the doctor, in a solemn voice: 
'' There is akeady some one here who 
regrets that he did not listen to me.' 
''Yes.' moaned George, "to my mis- 
fortune, to the misfortune of all of us.'' 
But Madame Dupont was quite beside 
herself. "Very well!" she cried. "If 
it is a fault, if it is a crime, if I shall have 
to suffer remorse for it in this life, and all 
the punishments in the life to come — I 
accept it all for myseK alone! Myself 
alone, I take that responsibility! It is 
frightfully heavy, but I accept it. I am 
profoundly a Christian, sir; I believe in 
eternal damnation; but to save my little 
child I consent to lose my soul forever. 
Yes, my mind is made up — 'I will do every- 
thing to save that life! Let God judge me; 
and if he condemns me, so much the worse 
for me!" 
The doctor answered: "That responsi- 
bility is one which I cannot let you take, 
for it will be necessary that I should accept 
my part, and I refuse it." 
"What will you do?" 
"I shall warn the nurse. I shall inform 
 
her exactly, completely — something which 
you have not done, I feel sure.' 
"What?'' cried Madame Dupont, wildly. 
"You, a doctor, called into a family which 
gives you its entire confidence, which hands 
over to you its most terrible secrets, its 
most horrible miseries — 'you would betray 
them?" 
"It is not a betrayal," replied the man, 
sternly. "It is something which the law 
commands; and even if the law were 
silent, I would not permit a family of worthy 
people to go astray so far as to commit a 
crime. Either I give up the case, or you 
have the nursing of the child stopped." 
"You threaten! You threaten!" cried 
the woman, almost frantic. "You abuse 
the power which your knowledge gives 
you! You know that it is you whose 
attention we need by that little cradle; 
you know that we believe in you, and you 
threaten to abandon us! Your abandon- 
ment means the death of the child, perhaps ! 
And if I listen to you, if we stop the nursing 
of the child — that also means her death!" 
She flung up her hands like a mad 
 
creature. ''And yet there is no other 
means! Ah, my God! why do you not let 
it be possible for me to sacrifice myself? 
I would wish nothing more than to be able 
to do it — if only you might take my old 
body, my old flesh, my old bones — if only 
I might serve for something! How quickly 
would I consent that it should infect me — 
this atrocious malady! How I would offer 
myself to it — 'wdth what joys, with vrhat 
delights — 'however disgusting, however 
frightful it might be, however much to be 
dreaded! Yes, I would take it without 
fear, without regret, if my poor old empty 
breasts might still give to the child the 
milk which would preserve its life!'' 
She stopped; and George sprang suddenly 
from his seat, and fled to her and flung 
himself down upon his knees before her, 
mingling his sobs and tears wath hers. 
The doctor rose and moved about the 
room, unable any longer to control his 
distress. ''Oh, the poor people!" he mur- 
mured to himself. ''The poor, poor 
people!" 
The storm passed, and Madame Dupont, 
 
who was a woman of strong character, got 
herself together. Facing the doctor again, 
she said, ''Come, sir, tell us what we have 
to do.'' 
''You must stop the nursing, and keep 
the woman here as a dry nurse, in order 
that she may not go away to carry the 
disease elsewhere. Do not exaggerate to 
yourseK the danger which will result to 
the child. I am, in truth, extremely 
moved by your suffering, and I will do 
everything — 'I swear it to you — 'that your 
baby may recover as quickly as possible 
its perfect health. I hope to succeed, and 
that soon. And now I must leave you 
until tomorrow." 
''Thank you. Doctor, thank you," said 
Madame Dupont, faintly. 
The young man rose and accompanied 
the doctor to the door. He could not bring 
himself to speak, but stood hanging his 
head until the other was gone. Then he 
came to his mother. He sought to embrace 
her, but she repelled him — 'without violence, 
but firmly. 
Her son stepped back and put his hands 
over his face. ''Forgive me!" he said. 
 
in a broken voice. ''Are we not unhappy 
enough, without hating each other?'' 
His mother answered: ''God has pun- 
ished you for your debauch by striking at 
your child.'' 
But, grief -stricken as the young man was, 
he could not believe that. "Impossible!" 
he said. "There is not even a man suffi- 
ciently wicked or unjust to commit the act 
which you attribute to your God!" 
"Yes," said his mother, sadly, "you 
believe in nothing." 
"I beHeve in no such God as that," he 
answered. 
A silence followed. When it was broken, 
it was by the entrance of the nurse. She 
had opened the door of the room and had 
been standing there for some moments, 
unheeded. Finally she stepped forward. 
"Madame," she said, "I have thought it 
over; I would rather go back to my home 
at once, and have only the five hundred 
francs." 
Madame Dupont stared at her in con- 
sternation. "What is that you are saying? 
You want to return to your home?" 
 
''Yes, ma'am.' was the answer. 
''But.' cried George, ''only ten minutes 
ago you were not thinking of it." 
''What has happened since then?" de- 
manded Madame Dupont. 
"I have thought it over." 
"Thought what over?" 
"Well, I am getting lonesome for my 
little one and for my husband." 
"In the last ten minutes?" exclaimed 
George. 
"There must be something else," his 
mother added. "Evidently there must be 
something else." 
"No!" insisted the nurse. 
"But I say yes!" 
"Well, I'm afraid the air of Paris might 
not be good for me." 
"You had better wait and try it." ;. 
"I would rather go back at once to my 
home." 
"Come, now," cried Madame Dupont, 
"tell us why?" 
"I have told you. I have thought it 
over." 
"Thought what over?" 
 
''Well, I have thought." 
''Oh.' cried the mother, "what a stupid 
reply! 'I have thought it over! I have 
thought it over!' Thought what over, I 
want to know?" 
''Well, everything." 
"Don't you know how to tell us what?" 
"I tell you, everything." 
"Why," exclaimed Madame Dupont, 
"you are an imbecile!" 
George stepped between his mother and 
the nurse. "Let me talk to her," he said. 
The woman came back to her old formula: 
"I know that we're only poor country 
people." 
"Listen to me, nurse," said the young 
man. "Only a little while ago you were 
afraid that we would send you away. You 
were satisfied with the wages which my 
mother had fixed. In addition to those 
wages we had promised you a good sum 
when you returned to your home. Now 
you tell us that you want to go away. 
You see? All at once. There must be 
some reason; let us understand it. There 
must certainly be a reason. Has anybody 
done anything to you?" 
 
"No, sir," said the woman, dropping her 
eyes. 
"Well, then?" 
"I have thought it over." 
George burst out, "Don't go on repeating 
always the same thing — 'I have thought 
it over!' That's not telling us anything." 
Controlling himself, he added, gently, 
"Come, tell me why you want to go away?" 
There was a silence. ''Well?" he 
demanded. 
"I tell you," said the woman, 'I have 
thought—" 
George exclaimed in despair, 'It's as if 
one were talking to a block of wood!" 
His mother took up the conversation 
again. "You must realize, you have not 
the right to go away." 
The woman answered, "I want to go." 
"But I will not let you leave us." 
"No," interrupted George angrily, "let 
her go; we cannot fasten her here." 
"Very well, then," cried the exasperated 
mother, "since you want to go, go! But 
I have certainly the right to say to you that 
you are as stupid as the animals on your 
farm!" 
 
''I don't say that I am not," answered 
the woman. 
''I will not pay you the month which has 
just begun, and you will pay your railroad 
fare for yourself." 
The other drew back with a look of 
anger. ''Oho!" she cried. '' We'll see 
about that!" 
''Yes, w'll see about it!" cried George. 
"And you will get out of here at once. 
Take yourself off — I will have no more 
to do with you. Good evening." 
"No, George," protested his mother, 
"don't lose control of yourself." And 
then, with a great effort at calmness, 
"That cannot be serious, nurse! Answer 
me." 
"I would rather go off right away to my 
home, and only have my five hundred 
francs." 
"Whatf' cried George, in consternation. 
"What's that you are telling me?" ex- 
claimed Madame Dupont. 
"Five hundred francs?" repeated her 
son. 
''What, five hundred francs?" echoed 
the mother. 
 
''The five hundred francs you promised 
me.' said the nurse. 
''We have promised you five hundred 
francs? Wef 
"Yes.'' 
"When the child should be weaned, and 
if we should be satisfied with you! That 
was our promise." 
"No. You said you would give them to 
me when I was leaving. Now I am leaving, 
and I want them.'' 
Madame Dupont drew herseK up, haugh- 
tily. "In the first place," she said, "kindly 
oblige me by speaking to me in another 
tone; do you understand?" 
The woman answered, "You have nothing 
to do but to give me my money, and I will 
say nothing more." 
George went almost beside himself with 
rage at this. "Oh, it's hke that?" he 
shouted. "Very well; I'll show you the 
door myself! Go along with you!" And 
he sprang to the door and opened it. 
But the nurse never budged. "Give me 
my five hundred francs!" she said. 
George seized her by the arm and shoved 
 
her toward the door. ''You clear out of 
here, do you understand me? And as 
quickly as you can!" 
The woman shook her arm loose, and 
sneered into his face. "Come now, you — 
you can talk to me a little more poHtely, 
eh?" 
''Will you go?" shouted George, com- 
pletely beside himself. "Will you go, or 
must I go out and look for a policeman?" 
"A policeman!" demanded the woman. 
"For what?" 
"To put you outside! You are behaving 
yourself like a thief." 
"A thief? I? What do you mean?" 
"I mean that you are demanding money 
which doesn't belong to you." 
"More than that," in broke Madame 
Dupont, "you are destroying that poor little 
baby! You are a wicked woman!" 
"I will put you out myself!" shouted 
George, and seized her by the arm again. 
"Oh, it's like that, is it?" retorted the 
nurse. "Then you really want me to tell 
you why I am going away?" 
"Yes, tell me!" cried he. 
 
His mother added, ''Yes, yes!'' 
She would have spoken differently had 
she chanced to look behind her and seen 
Henriette, who at that moment appeared 
in the doorway. She had been about to go 
out, when her attention had been caught 
by the loud voices. She stood now, 
amazed, clasping her hands together, while 
the nurse, shaking her fist first at Madame 
Dupont and then at her son, cried loudly, 
"Very well! I'm going away because I 
don't want to catch a filthy disease here!" 
"Hush!'' cried Madame Dupont, and 
sprang toward her, her hands clenched as 
if she would choke her. 
''Be silent!" cried George, wild with 
terror. 
But the woman rushed on without drop- 
ping her voice, ''Oh, you need not be trou- 
bling yourselves for fear anyone should 
overhear! All the world knows it! Your 
other servants were listening with me at 
your door! They heard every word your 
doctor said!" 
"Shut up!" screamed George. 
His mother seized the woman fiercely 
 
by the arm. ''Hold your tongue!" she 
hissed. 
But again the other shook herself loose. 
She was powerful, and now her rage was 
not to be controlled. She waved her hands 
in the air, shouting, "Let me be, let me be! 
I know all about your brat — 'that you will 
never be able to raise it — that it's rotten 
because it's father has a filthy disease he 
got from a woman of the street!" 
She got no farther. She was interrupted 
by a frenzied shriek from Henriette. The 
three turned, horrified, just in time to see 
her fall forward upon the floor, convulsed. 
"My God!" cried George. He sprang 
toward her, and tried to lift her, but she 
shrank from him, repelling him with a 
gesture of disgust, of hatred, of the most 
profound terror. "Don't touch me!" she 
screamed, like a maniac. "Don't touch 
me!" 
CHAPTER V 
IT was in vain that Madame Dupont 
sought to control her daughter-in-law. 
Henriette was beside herself, frantic, 
she could not be brought to listen to any 
one. She rushed into the other room, and 
when the older woman followed her, 
shrieked out to be left alone. Afterwards, 
she fled to her own room and barred herseK 
in, and George and his mother waited dis- 
tractedly for hours until she should give 
some sign. 
Would she kill herself, perhaps? Madame 
Dupont hovered on guard about the door 
of the nursery for fear that the mother in 
her fit of insanity might attempt some harm 
to her child. 
The nurse had slunk away abashed when 
she saw the consequences of her outburst. 
But by the time she had got her belongings 
packed, she had recovered her assurance. 
 
 
She wanted her five hundred; also she 
wanted her wages and her railroad fare 
