the boys to be straightened out. 
Of course this rumor soon got to the rest of the 
family. And they had to tell Celeste, because she 
was frantic with anxiety. There were grave con- 
sultations among the Castleman ladies. It was 
a wanton affront to his fiaTwSe that the boy had 
committed, and something must be done about 
it quickly. Then came the news that Roger had 
 
escaped from his warders, and got drunker than 
ever; he had been out at night, smashing the 
street-lamps, and it had required extreme self- 
control on the part of the town police-force to 
avoid complications. 
"Miss Margaret" went to her yoimg daughter, 
and in a tear-flooded scene informed her of the 
opinion of the family, that her self-respect 
required the breaking of the engagement. Celeste 
went into hysterics. She would not have her 
happiness ruined for life! Roger was 'wild', but 
so were all the other boys — and he would atone 
for his recklessness. She had the idea that if 
only she could get hold of him, she could recall 
him to his senses; the more her mother was 
scandalized by this proposal, the more frantically 
Celeste wept. She shut herself up in her room, 
refusing to appear at meals, and spending her 
time pacing the floor and wringiug her hands. 
The family had been through all this with then- 
eldest daughter several years before; but they 
had not learned to handle it any better. The 
whole household was in a state of distraction; 
and the condition grew worse day by day, as 
bulletins came in concerning the yoimg man. 
He seemed to have gone actually insane. He was 
not to be restrained even by his own father, and 
if the imfortunate policemen could be believed, 
he had violently attacked them. Apparently 
he was deliberately trjdng to break down the un- 
written law that the sons of the "best families" 
are not arrested. 
 
Poor Celeste, with pale, tear-drenched face, sent 
for her elder sister, to make one last appeal. 
Could Sylvia not somehow get hold of Roger and 
bring him to his senses? Could she not interview 
some of the other boys, and find out what he 
meant by his conduct? 
So Sylvia went to her cousin Clive, and had a 
talk with him — assuredly the most remarkable 
talk that that young man had ever had in his 
life. She told him that she wanted to know 
the truth about Roger Peyton; and after a cross- 
examination that would have made the reputation 
of a criminal lawyer, she got what she wanted. 
All the young men in town, it seemed, knew the 
true state of affairs, and were in a panic concern- 
ing it; that Major Castleman had sent for Roger 
and informed him that he could not marry his 
daughter until he produced a certain kind of 
medical certificate. No, he couldn't produce it! 
Was there a fellow in town who could produce it? 
What was there for him to do but to get drunk, 
and stay drunk until Celeste had cast him off? 
It was Chve's turn then to do some plain 
speaking. " Look here, Sylvia," he said. "Since 
you have made me talk about this " 
"Yes, Clive?" 
"Do you know what people are sajnng — I 
mean the reason the Major made this proposition 
to Roger?" 
She answered, in a quiet voice, "I suppose, 
Clive, it has something to do with Elaine." 
"Yes, exactly!" exclaimed Clive. "They 
 
say — " But then he stopped. He could not repeat 
it. "Surely you don't want that kind of talk, 
Sylvia." 
"Naturally, Clive, I'd prefer to escape that 
kind of talk, but my fear of it will not make me 
neglect the protection of my sister." 
"But Sylvia," cried the boy, "you don't under- 
stand about this! A woman can't understand 
about these things " 
"You are mistaken, my dear cousin," said 
Sylvia — and her voice was firm and decisive. "I 
do understand." 
"All right!" cried Clive, with sudden exaspera- 
tion. "But let me tell you this — Celeste is going 
to have a hard time getting any other man to 
propose to her!" 
"You mean, Clive, because so many of them 
are -" She stopped. 
"Yes, if you must put it that way," he said. 
There was a pause; then Sylvia went on, "Let 
us discuss the practical problem, Clive. Don't 
you think it would have been better if Roger, 
instead of going off and getting drunk, had set 
about getting himself cured?" 
The other looked at her, with evident surprise. 
"You mean in that case Celeste might marry 
him?" 
"You say the boys are all alike, Clive; and we 
can't turn our girls into nuns. Why didn't some 
of you fellows point that out to Roger?" 
"The truth is," said Clive, "we tried to." 
There was a little more cordiality in his manner, 
 
since Sylvia had shown such an unexpected 
amount of intelligence. 
"Well?" she asked. " What then?" 
"Why, he wouldn't listen to anything." 
"You mean — because he was drunk?" 
"No, we had him nearly sober. But you 
see — " And Clive paused for a moment, pain- 
fully embarrassed. "The truth is, Roger had 
been to a doctor, and been told it might take him 
a year or two to get cured." 
"Clive!" she cried. "Chve! And you mean 
that ia the face of that, he proposed to go on and 
marry?" 
"Well, Sylvia, you see — " And the young man 
hesitated still longer. He was crimson with 
embarrassment; suddenly he blurted out, "The 
truth is, the doctor told him to marry. That 
was the only way he'd ever get cured." 
Sylvia was almost speechless. "Oh! Oh!" she 
cried. "I can't beheve you!" 
"That's what the doctors tell you, Sylvia. 
You don't imderstand — it's just as I told you, a 
woman can't understand. It's a question of a 
man's nature " 
"But Chve — what about the wife and her 
health? Has the wife no rights whatever?" 
"The truth is, Sylvia, people don't take this 
disease with such desperate seriousness. You 
understand, it isn't the one that everybody knows 
is dangerous. It doesn't do any real harm " 
"Look at Elaiue! Don't you call that real 
harm?" 
 
"Yes, but that doesn't happen often; and they 
say there are ways it can be prevented. Any- 
way, fellows just can't help it ! God knows, we'd 
help it if we could." 
Sylvia thought for a moment, and then came 
back to the immediate question. "It's evident 
what Roger could do in this case. He is young, 
and Celeste is still younger. They might wait 
a couple of years, and Roger might take care of 
himself, and in time it might be properly 
arranged." 
But Chve did not seem to warm to the proposi- 
tion; and Sylvia, who knew Roger Peyton, was 
not long in making out the reason. "You mean 
you don't think he has character enough to keep 
straight for a year or two?" 
"To tell you the honest truth, we talked it 
out with him, and he wouldn't make any 
promises." 
To which Sylvia answered, "Very well, Clive — 
that settles it. You can help me find some man 
for Celeste who loves her a little more than that!" 
 
 
That afternoon came Aunt Nannie, the Bish- 
op's wife, ia shining chestnut-colored silk to 
match a pair of shining chestnut-colored horses. 
Other people, it appeared, had been making 
inquiries into Roger Peyton's story, and other 
people besides Clive Chilton had been telling the 
truth. 
Aunt Nannie gathered the ladies of the family 
in a hurried conference, and Sylvia was sum- 
moned to appear before it — quite as in the 
days of her a£fair with Frank Shirley. 
"Miss Margaret" and Aimt Varina were 
solemn and frightened, as of old; and as of old, 
Aunt Nannie did the talking. "Sylvia, do you 
know what people are saying about you?" 
"Yes, Aunt Nannie," said Sylvia. 
"Oh, you do know?" 
"Yes, of course. And I knew in advance that 
they would say it." 
Something about the seraphic face of Sylvia, 
chastened by terrible suflfering, must have sug- 
gested to Mrs. Chilton the idea of caution. 
"Have you thought of the humihation this must 
inflict upon yoxir relatives?" 
"I have foimd. Aunt Nannie," said Sylvia, 
"that there are worse afflictions than being talked 
about." 
"I am not sure," declared the other, "that 
 
anything could be worse than to be the object of 
the kind of gossip that is now seething around 
our family. It has been the tradition of our 
people to bear their afflictions in silence." 
"In this case, Aunt Nannie, it is obvious that 
silence would have meant more afflictions, many 
more. I have thought of my sister — and of all the 
other girls in our family who might be led to sac- 
rifice by the ambitions of their relatives." Sylvia 
paused a moment, so that her words might have 
effect. 
Said the Bishop's wife: "Sylvia, we caimot 
undertake to save the world from the results of 
its sins. God has his own ways of punishing 
men." 
"Perhaps so; but surely God does not wish 
the ptmishment to fall upon innocent yoimg 
girls. For instance, Aunt Nannie, think of your 
own daughters " 
"My daughters!" broke out Mrs. Chilton. 
And then, mastering her excitement, "At least 
you will permit me to look after my own 
children." 
"I noticed, my dear aunt, that Lucy May 
turned color when Tom Aldrich came into the 
room last night. Have you noticed anything?" 
"Yes— what of it?" 
"It means that Lucy May is falling in love 
with Tom?" 
"Why should she not? I certainly consider 
him an eligible man." 
"And yet you know, Aunt Nannie, that he is 
 
one of Roger Peyton's set. You know that he 
goes about town getting drunk with the gayest 
of them. And you let Lucy May go on to fall in 
love with him! You have taken no steps to 
find out about him — you have not warned your 
daughter " 
Mrs. Chilton was crimson with agitation. 
"Warned my daughter! Who ever heard of such 
a thing?" 
Said Sylvia, quietly: "I can beheve that you 
never heard of it — but you will hear soon. The 
other day I had a talk with Lucy May " 
"Sylvia Castleman!" And then, it was as if 
Mrs. Chilton reminded herself that she was deal- 
ing with a dangerous lunatic. "Sylvia," she said, 
in a suppressed voice, "you mean to tell me that 
you have been poisoning my yoimg daughter's 
mind " 
"You have brought her up well," said Sylvia, 
as her aunt stopped for lack of words. "She did 
not want to listen to me. She said that young 
girls ought not to know about such matters. 
But I pointed out Elaine, and then she changed 
her mind — just as you will have to change yours 
in the end. Aunt Nannie." 
Mrs. Chilton sat glaring at her niece, her bosom 
heaving. Suddenly she txirned her indignant 
eyes upon Mrs. Castleman. "Margaret, cannot 
you stop this shocking business? I demand that 
the tongues of gossip shall no longer clatter around 
the family of which I am a member! My hus- 
band is the Bishop of this diocese — and if our 
 
ancient and untarnished name is of no importance 
to Sylvia van Tuiver, then perhaps the dignity 
and authority of the Church may have some 
weight " 
"Aunt Nannie," interrupted Sylvia, "it will do 
no good to drag Uncle Basil into this matter. I 
fear you will have to face the fact that from this 
time on your authority in our family is to be 
diminished. You had more to do than any other 
person with driving me into the marriage that 
has wrecked my life; and now you want to go 
on and do the same thing for my sister, and for 
your own daughters — to marry them with no 
thought of anything save the social position of 
the man. And in the same way, you are saving 
up your sons to find rich girls. You know that 
you kept Chve from marrying a poor girl in this 
town a couple of years ago — and meantime it 
seems to be nothing to you that he's going with 
men like Roger Peyton and Tom Aldrich, learn- 
ing all the vices the women in the brothels have 
to teach him " 
Poor "Miss Margaret" had several times made 
futile efforts to check her daughter's outburst. 
Now she and Aunt Varina started up at the same 
time. "Sylvia! Sylvia! You must not talk 
like that to yom- aunt!" 
And Sylvia turned and gazed at them with her 
sad eyes. "From now on," she said, "that is 
the way I am going to talk. You are a lot of 
ignorant children. I was one too, but now I 
know. And I say to you. Look at Elaine! Look 
 
at my little one, and see what the worship of 
Mammon has done to one of the daughters of 
your family!" 
 
 
After this, Sylvia had her people reduced to a 
state of terror. She was an avenging angel, sent 
by the Lord to pxmish them for their sins; and 
how could one rebuke the imconventionality of an 
avenging angel? On the other hand, of course, 
one could not help being in agony, and letting 
the angel see it in one's face. 
Outside, there were the tongues of gossip, clat- 
tering, as Aunt Nannie had said; quite literally, 
everyone ia Castleman County was talking about 
the blindness of Mrs. Douglas van Tuiver's baby, 
and how, because of it, the mother was setting 
out on a campaign to destroy the modesty of the 
State. The excitement, the curiosity, the obscene 
delight of the world came rolling back into 
Castleman Hall in great waves, that picked up the 
unfortunate inmates and buffeted them about. 
Family consultations were restricted, because 
it was impossible for the ladies of the family to 
talk to the gentlemen about these horrible things; 
but the ladies talked to the ladies, and the gentle- 
men talked to the gentlemen, and each came 
separately to Sylvia with their distress. Poor, 
helpless "Miss Margaret" would come wringing 
her hands, and looking as if she had buried all 
her children. "Sylvia! Sylvia! Do you realize 
that you are being discussed?" That was the 
worst calamity that could befall a woman in 
 
 
Castleman County — it summed up all possible 
calamities that could befall her — to be "dis- 
cussed." "They were discussing you once when 
you wanted to marry Frank Shirley! And now — 
oh, now they will never stop discussing you!" 
Then would come the dear Major. He loved 
his eldest daughter as he loved nothing else in the 
world, and he was a just man at heart. He could 
not meet her arguments — yes, she was right, she 
was right. But then he would go away, and the 
waves of scandal and shame would come rolling. 
"My child," he pleaded, "have you thought 
what this thing is doing to your husband? Do 
you reahze that while you talk about protecting 
other people, you are putting upon Douglas a 
brand that will follow him through life?" 
Uncle Mandeville came up from New Orleans 
to see his favorite niece; and the wave smote him 
as he ahghted from the train, and he became so 
much excited that he went to the club and got 
drunk, and then could not see his niece, but had 
to be carried off upstairs and given forcible 
hypodermics. Cousin Clive told Sylvia about it 
afterwards — how Uncle Mandeville refused to 
believe the truth, and swore that he would shoot 
some of these fellows if they didn't stop talking 
about his niece. Said Chve, with a grim laugh, 
"I told him, 'If Sylvia had her way, you'd shoot 
a good part of the men in town.' " He answered, 
"Well, by God, I'll do it— it would serve the 
scoundrels right!" And he tried to get out of bed 
and get his pants and his pistols — so that in the 
 
end it was necessary to telephone for the Major, 
and then for Barry Chilton and two of his gigantic 
sons from their plantation. 
Sylvia had her way, and talked things out with 
the agonized Celeste. And next day came Aimt 
Varina, hardly able to contain herself. "Oh, 
Sylvia, such a horrible thing! To hear such words 
coming from your little sister's lips — like the 
toads and snakes in the fairy-story! To think 
of these ideas festering in a young girl's brain!" 
And then again, "Sylvia, your sister declares 
she will never go to a party again ! You are teach- 
ing her to hate men ! You will make her a strong- 
minded woman!" — That was another phrase 
they had, summing up a whole imiverse of horrors. 
Sylvia could not recall a time when she had not 
heard that warning. "Be careful, dear, when 
you express an opinion, always end it with a 
question, 'Don't you think so?' or something like 
that. Otherwise, men may get the idea that you 
are strong-minded!" 
Sylvia, in her girlhood, had heard vague hints 
and nunors, which now she was able to interpret 
in the light of her experience. In her courtship 
days she had met a man who always wore gloves, 
even in the hottest weather, and she had heard 
that this was because of some affliction of the skin. 
Now, talking with the yovmg matrons of her own 
set, she learned that this man had married, and 
had since had to take to a wheel-chair, while his 
wife had borne a child with a monstrous, deformed 
head, and had died of the ordeal and the shock. 
 
Oh, the stories that one vmcovered — right in 
one's own town, among one's own set — hke foul 
sewers Tindemeath the pavements! The succes- 
sion of diseased generations, of imbeciles, epileptics, 
paralytics! The innocent children, bom to a 
life-time of torment; the women, hiding their 
secret agonies from the world! Sometimes 
women went all through life without knowing 
the truth about themselves; there was poor Mrs. 
Valens, for example — who reclined all day upon 
the gallery of one of the most beautiful homes in 
the coimty, and showed her friends the palms of 
her hands, all covered with callouses and scales, 
exclaiming, "What in the world do you suppose 
can be the matter with me?" She had been a 
beautiful woman, a "belle" of Miss Margaret's 
day; she had married a man who was rich and 
handsome and witty — and a rake. Now he was 
drimk all the time, and two of his children had 
died in a hospital, and another had arms that 
came out of joint, and had to be put in plaster-of- 
Paris for months at a time. His wife, the one- 
time darling of society, would lie on her couch and 
read the Book of Job imtil she knew it by heart. 
And could you believe it, when Sylvia came 
home, ablaze with excitement over the story, 
she foimd that the only thing her relatives were 
able to see in it was the Book of Job! Under 
the burden of her afflictions the woman had 
become devout; and how could any one fail to 
see in this the deep purposes of Providence re- 
vealed? "Verily," said Miss Margaret, "'Whom 
 
the Lord loveth, he chasteneth.' We are told in 
the Lord's Word that 'the sins of the fathers 
shall be visited upon the children, even unto the 
third and fourth generations' ; and do you suppose 
the Lord would have told us that, if He had not 
known there would be such children?" 
 
 
I CANNOT pass over this part of my story without 
bringing forward Mrs. Armistead, the town cynic, 
who constituted herself one of Sylvia's sources 
of information in this crisis. Mrs. Sallie Ann 
Armistead was the mother of two boys with whom 
Sylvia as a child had insisted upon playing, in 
spite of the protests of the family. "Wha' fo' 
you go wi' dem Armistead chillun, Mi' Sylvia?" 
would cry Aunt Mandy, the cook. "Doan' you 
know dey grand-daddy done pick cotton in de 
fiel' 'longside o' me?" — But while her father 
was picking cotton, Sallie Ann had looked after 
her complexion and her figure, and had married a 
rising young merchant. Now he was the wealthy 
proprietor of a chain of "nigger stores", and his 
wife was the possessor of the most dreaded tongue 
in Castleman County. 
She was a person who, if she had been bom a 
duchess, would have made a reputation in history: 
the one woman in the county who had a mind, 
and was not afraid to have it known. She used 
all the tricks of a duchess — lorgnettes, for example, 
with which she stared people into a state of fright. 
She did not dare try anything like that on the 
Castlemans, of course — but woe to the little 
people who crossed her path! She had an eye 
that sought out every human weakness, and such 
a wit that even her victims were fascinated. One 
 
of the legends about her told how her dearest foe, 
a dashing young matron, had died, and all the 
friends had gathered with their floral tributes. 
Sallie Ann went in to view the remains, and when 
she came out, a sentimental voice inquired, 
"And how does our poor Ruth look?" 
"Oh," was the answer, "as old and grey as 
ever!" 
Now Mrs. Armistead stopped Sylvia on the 
street. "My dear, how goes the eugenics cam- 
paign?" 
And while Sylvia gazed, dumbfounded, the other 
went on as if she were chatting about the weather : 
"You can't realize what a stir you are making in 
our httle frog-pond. Come see me, and let me 
tell you the gossip. Do you know you've enriched 
our vocabulary?" 
"I have made some one look up the meaning 
of eugenics, at least," answered Sylvia — shaving 
got herself together in haste. 
"Oh, not only that, my dear. You have made 
a new medical term — 'the van Tuiver disease'. 
Isn't that interesting?" 
For a moment Sylvia shriveled before this 
flame from hell. But then, being the only person 
who had ever been able to chain this devil, she 
said, "Indeed? I hope that with so fashionable 
a name the disease does not become an epidemic. " 
Mrs. Armistead gazed at her; and then, in a 
burst of enthusiasm, she exclaimed, "Sylvia 
Castleman, I have always insisted that one of the 
most interesting women in the world was spoiled 
by the taint of goodness in you." 
 
She took Sylvia to her bosom, as it were. 
"Let us sit on the fence and enjoy this spectacle! 
