The colonel objected, but Kathlyn overruled his objections.

"But, Kit, they will recognize us.  They will not have forgot me.  They
will know that we have come from the town, despite the fact that to all
appearances we come from the West."

Bruce also shook his head.  "It doesn't look good, Ramabai.  Why not we
three men?"

"They would be suspicious at once.  They would reason, if they saw
Kathlyn Mem-sahib and my wife with us that we were harmless.  Will you
trust me?"

"Anywhere," said the colonel.  "But they will simply make us prisoners
along with the elephant."

"Ah, but the Colonel Sahib forgets the opium."  Ramabai laid his hand
upon the colonel's arm.  "Let them make prisoners of us.  The very
first thing they will do will be to search the saddle-bags.  They will
find the opium.  In a quarter of an hour they will be as dead and we
can return."

"It is a good plan," said Bala Khan, when the conversation was fully
translated to him.  "And once the elephant is back in the compound I'll
send a dozen men back for the rogues.  Ah! they will play with me; they
will steal into my town, overcome my guards, take the apple of my eye!
Ramabai, thou art a friend indeed.  Haste and Allah fend for thee!
Umballa may arrive with an army, but he shall not enter my gates."

Guided by a servant, Bruce and Ramabai set off for the opium den.  The
proprietor understood exactly what they desired.  There were times when
men entered his place who were in need of a long sleep, having money
tucked away in their fantastic cummerbunds.

So, mounted upon five swift camels, the party started off on a wide
circle.  Whether they caught the brigands at the well or on the way to
their mountain homes was of no great importance.  Ramabai was quite
certain that the result would be the same.  The colonel grumbled a good
deal.  Supposing the rascals did not smoke; what then?

"They will smoke," declared Ramabai confidently.  "The old rascal of
whom we bought the opium has entertained them more than once.  They are
too poor to own pipes.  Have patience, Colonel Sahib.  A good deal
depends upon the success of our adventure this morning.  If I know
anything about Umballa, he will shortly be on the march.  Bala Khan has
given his word."

Had it not been for liberal use of opium the night before, the brigands
would not have tarried so long at the well; but they were terribly
thirsty, a bit nerve shattered and craved for the drug.  The chief
alone had fully recovered.  He cursed and raved at his men, kicked and
beat them.  What!  After all these weeks of waiting, to let sleep stand
between them and thousands of rupees!  Dogs!  Pigs!  Did they not
recollect that Bala Khan had a way of nailing thieves outside the walls
of his city?  Well, he for one would not wait.  He would mount the
sacred white elephant and head toward the caves in the hills.  Let them
who would decorate the walls of Bala Khan.  The threat of Bala Khan put
life into the eight followers, and they were getting ready to move on,
when one of them discovered a small caravan approaching from the west.

Camels?  Ha!  Here was a chance of leaving Bala Khan's city far in the
rear.  And there would be loot besides.  Those helmets were never worn
by any save white men.  The chief scowled under his shading palm.
Women!  Oh, this was going to be something worth while.

When the caravan came within hailing distance the chief of the brigands
stepped forward menacingly.  The new arrivals were informed that they
were prisoners, and were bidden to dismount at once.

"But we are on the way to the city of Bala Khan," remonstrated Ramabai.

"Which you left this morning!" jeered the chief.

"Dismount!"

"But I am selling opium there!"

"Opium!"

"Where is it?  Give it to us!" cried one of the brigands.

The chief thought quickly.  If his men would smoke they should suffer
the penalty of being left at the well to await the arrival of the
tender Bala Khan.  The white elephant was worth ten thousand rupees.
He might not be obliged to share these bags of silver.  His men could
not complain.  They had discharged him.  Let them have the pipes.  He
himself would only pretend to smoke.

But the first whiff of the fumes was too much for his will power.  He
sucked in the smoke, down to the bottom of his very soul, and suddenly
found peace.  The superdrug with which the poppy had been mixed was
unknown to Ramabai, but he had often witnessed tests of its potency.
It worked with the rapidity of viper venom.  Within ten minutes after
the first inhalation the nine brigands sank back upon the sand, as
nearly dead as any man might care to be.

At once the elephant was liberated, and the party made off toward the
town.  Colonel Hare, suspicious of everything these days, marveled over
the simplicity of the trick and the smoothness with which it had been
turned.  He began to have hope for the future.  Perhaps this time they
were really going to escape from this land accursed.

There was great powwowing and salaaming at the gate as the sacred white
elephant loomed into sight.  The old Brahmin who had charge of him wept
for joy.  He was still a personage, respected, salaamed to, despite the
preponderance of Mohammedans.  His sacred elephant!

Bala Khan was joyous.  Here was the sacred elephant once more in the
compound, and not a piece out of his treasure chest.  He was in luck.
In the midst of his self-congratulations came the alarming news that a
large body of men were seen approaching across the desert from the
direction of Allaha.  Bala Khan, his chiefs and his guests climbed to
the top of the wall and beheld the spectacle in truth.  It required but
a single look through the binoculars to discover to whom this host
belonged.

"Umballa!" said Ramabai,

"Ah!  Durga Ram, to pay his respects."  Bala Khan rubbed his hands
together.  It had been many moons since he had met a tulwar.

The colonel examined his revolver coldly.  The moment that Umballa came
within range the colonel intended to shoot.  This matter was going to
be settled definitely, here and now.  So long as Umballa lived, a dread
menace hung above Kathlyn's head.  So, then, Umballa must die.

Bala Khan was for beginning the warfare at once, but Bruce argued him
out of this idea.  Let them first learn what Umballa intended to do.
There was no need of shedding blood needlessly.

"You white people must always talk," grumbled the Khan, who was a
fighting man, born of a race of fighters yet to bow the head to the
yoke.  "It is better to kill and talk afterward.  I have given my word
to protect you, and the word of Bala Khan is as sound as British gold."

"For that," said Bruce, "thanks."

"Keep your men from the walls," cried Kathlyn, "and bring me the white
elephant.  I would deal with this man Umballa."

Her request was granted.  So when Durga Ram and has soldiers arrived
before the closed gates they beheld Kathlyn mounted on the white
elephant alone.

"What wish you here, Durga Ram?" she called down to the man on the
richly caparisoned war elephant.

"You!  Your father and those who have helped you to escape."

"Indeed!  Well, then, come and take us."

"I would speak with Bala Khan," imperiously.

"You will deal with me alone," declared Kathlyn.

Umballa reached for his rifle, but a loud murmur from the men stayed
his impulse.

"It is the sacred white elephant, Highness.  None dare fire at that,"
his captain warned him.  "Those with him or upon him are in sanctity."

"Tell Bala Khan," said Umballa, controlling his rage as best he could,
"tell Bala Khan that I would be his friend, not his enemy."

"Bala Khan," boomed a voice from the other side of the wall, "cares not
for your friendship.  Whatever the Mem-sahib says is my word.  What!
Does Allaha want war for the sake of gratifying Durga Ram's spite?
Begone, and thank your evil gods that I am not already at your lying
treacherous throat.  Take yourself off, Durga Ram.  The people of Bala
Khan do not make war on women and old men.  The Mem-sahib and her
friends are under my protection."

"I will buy them!" shouted Umballa, recollecting the greed of Bala Khan.

"My word is not for sale!" came back.

Kathlyn understood by the expression on Umballa's countenance what was
taking place.  She smiled down at her enemy.

"So be it, Bala Khan," snarled Umballa, his rage no longer on the rein.
"In one month's time I shall return, and of your city there will not be
one stone upon another when I leave it!"

"One month!" Ramabai laughed.

"Why are you always smiling, Ramabai?" asked Bruce.

"I have had a dream, Sahib," answered Ramabai, still smiling.  "Umballa
will not return here."

"You could tell me more than that."

"I could, but will not," the smile giving way to sternness.

"If only I knew what had become of Ahmed," said the colonel, when the
last of Umballa's soldiers disappeared whence they had come, "I should
feel content."

"We shall find him, or he will find us, if he is alive," said Kathlyn.
"Now let us make ready for the last journey.  One hundred miles to the
west is the Arabian gulf.  It is a caravan port, and there will be
sailing vessels and steamships."  She shook him by the shoulders
joyously.  "Dad, we are going home, home!"

"Kit, I want to see Winnie!"

The word sent a twinge of pain through Bruce's heart.  Home!  Would he
ever have a real one?  Was she to go out of his life at last?  Kathlyn
Hare.

"But you, Ramabai?" said Kathlyn.

"I shall return to Allaha, I and Pundita," replied Ramabai.

"It will be death!" objected Bruce and Kathlyn together.

"I think not," and Ramabai permitted one of his mysterious smiles to
stir his lips.

"Ramabai!" whispered Pundita fearfully.

"Yes.  After all, why should we wait?"

"I?"

"Even so!"

"What is all this about?" inquired Kathlyn.

"Allaha is weary of Umballa's iron heel, weary of a vacillating
council.  And the time has arrived when the two must be abolished.  A
thousand men await the turn of my hand.  And who has a better right to
the throne of Allaha than Pundita, my wife?"

"Good!" cried Kathlyn, her eyes sparkling.  "Good!  And if we can help
you----"

"Kit," interposed the colonel, "we can give Ramabai and Pundita only
our good wishes.  Our way lies to the west, to the seaport and home."

Ramabai bowed.

And the party returned to the compound rather subdued.  This quiet
young native banker would go far.

"And if I am ever queen, will my beautiful Mem-sahib come back some day
and visit me?"

"That I promise, Pundita, though I have no love for Allaha."

"We will go with you to the coast," said Ramabai, "and on our return to
Allaha will see what has become of the faithful Ahmed."

"For that my thanks," responded the colonel.  "Ahmed has been with me
for many years, and has shared with me many hardships.  If he lives, he
will be a marked man, so far as Umballa is concerned.  Aid him to come
to me.  The loss of my camp and bungalow is nothing.  The fact that we
are all alive to-day is enough for me.  But you, Bruce; will it hit you
hard?"

Bruce laughed easily.  "I am young.  Besides, it was a pastime for me,
though I went at it in a business way."

"I am glad of that.  There is nothing to regret in leaving this part of
the world."  Yet the colonel sighed.

And Kathlyn heard that sigh, and intuitively understood.  The filigree
basket of gems.  Of such were the minds of men.

But the colonel was taken ill that night, and it was a week before he
left his bed, and another before he was considered strong enough to
attempt the journey.  Bala Khan proved to be a fine host, for he loved
men of deeds, and this white-haired old man was one of the right
kidney.  He must be strong ere he took the long journey over the hot
sands to the sea.

A spy of Umballa's watched and waited to carry the news to his master,
the day his master's enemies departed from the haven of Bala Khan's
walled city.

When the day came the Khan insisted that his guests should use his own
camels and servants, and upon Ramabai's return the elephants would be
turned over to him for his journey back to Allaha.  Thus, one bright
morning, the caravan set forth for what was believed to be the last
journey.

And Umballa's spy hastened away.

All day long they wound in and out, over and down the rolling mounds of
sand, pausing only once, somewhere near four o'clock, when they
dismounted for a space to enjoy a bite to eat and a cup of tea.  Then
on again, through the night, making about sixty miles in all.  At dawn
they came upon a well, and here they decided to rest till sunset.
Beyond the well, some twenty-five miles, lay the low mountain range
over which they must pass to the sea.  At the foot of these hills stood
a small village, which they reached about ten o'clock that night.

They found the village wide awake.  The pariah dogs were howling.  And
on making inquiries it was learned that a tiger had been prowling about
for three or four nights, and that they had set a trap cage for the
brute.  The colonel and Bruce at once assumed charge.  The old zest
returned with all its vigor and allurement.  Even Kathlyn and Pundita
decided to join the expedition, though Pundita knew nothing of arms.

Now, this village was the home of the nine brigands, and whenever they
were about they dominated the villagers.  They were returning from a
foraging expedition into the hills, and discovered the trap cage with
the tiger inside.  Very good.  The tiger was no use to any but
themselves, since they knew where to sell it.  They were in the act of
pulling the brush away from the cage when they heard sounds of others
approaching.  With the suspicion which was a part of their business
they immediately ran to cover to see who it was.

Instantly the chief of the brigands discovered that these new arrivals
were none other than the white people who had given him and his men a
superdrug and thereby mulcted them out of the sacred white elephant
which was to have brought them a fortune.

Unfortunately, the men of Kathlyn's party laid aside their weapons on
approaching the cage to tear away the brush.  Eight brigands, at a sign
from their chief, surrounded the investigators, who found themselves
nicely caught.

The natives fled incontinently.  So did Bala Khan's camel men.

"Death if you move!" snarled the chief.  "Ah, you gave us bad opium,
and we dropped like logs!  Swine!"  He raised his rifle threateningly.

"Wait a minute," said Bruce coolly.  "What you want is money."

"Ay, money!  Ten thousand rupees!"

"It shall be given you if you let us go.  You will conduct us over the
hills to the sea, and there the money will be given you."

The chief laughed long and loudly.  "What!  Am I a goat to put my head
inside the tiger's jaws?  Nay, I shall hold you here for ransom.  Let
them bring gold.  Now, take hold," indicating the trap cage.  "We shall
take this fine man eater along with us.  I am speaking to you, white
men, and you, pig of a Hindu!  Chalu!  I will kill any one who falters.
Opium!  Ah, yes!  You shall pay for my headache and the sickness of my
comrades.  Chalu!  And your white woman; she shall give a ransom of her
own!"

The village jutted out into the desert after the fashion of a
peninsula.  On the west of it lay another stretch of sand.  They
followed the verdure till they reached the base of the rocky hills,
which were barren of any vegetation; huge jumbles of granite the color
of porphyry.  During the night they made about ten miles, and at dawn
were smothered by one of those raging sand-storms, prevalent in this
latitude.  They had to abandon the trap cage and seek shelter in a
near-by cave.  Here they remained huddled together till the storm died
away.

"It has blown itself out," commented the chief.  Then he spoke to
Ramabai.  "Who is this man?" with a nod toward the colonel.

"He is an American."

"He came for Allaha?"

"Yes," said Ramabai unsuspiciously.

"Ha!  Then that great prince did not lie."

"What prince?" cried Ramabai, now alarmed.

"The Prince Durga Ram.  Three fat bags of silver, he said, would he pay
me for the white hunter with the white hair.  It is the will of Allah!"

The colonel's head sank upon his knees.  Kathlyn patted his shoulder.

"Father, I tell you mind not the mouthings of a vile guru.  We shall
soon be free."

"Kit, this time, if I return to Allaha, I shall die.  I feel it in my
bones."

"And I say no!"

The chief turned to Ramabai.  "You and the woman with you shall this
day seek two camels of the five you borrowed from Bala Khan.  You will
journey at once to Allaha.  But do not waste your time in stopping to
acquaint Bala Khan.  At the first sign of armed men each of those left
shall die in yonder tiger cage."

"We refuse!"

"Then be the first to taste the tiger's fangs!"

The chief called to his men to seize Ramabai and Pundita, when Kathlyn
interfered.

"Go, Ramabai; it is useless to fight against these men who mean all
they say, and who are as cruel as the tiger himself."

"It shall be as the Mem-sahib says," replied Ramabai resignedly.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

One morning Umballa entered the judgment hall of the palace, disturbed
in mind.  Anonymous notes, bidding him not to persecute Ramabai and his
wife further, on pain of death.  He had found these notes at the door
of his zenana, in his stables, on his pillows.  In his heart he had
sworn the death of Ramabai; but here was a phase upon which he had set
no calculation.  Had there not been unrest abroad he would have scorned
to pay any attention to these warnings; but this Ramabai--may he burn
in hell!--was a power with the populace, with low and high castes
alike, and for the first time, now that he gave the matter careful
thought, his own future did not look particularly clear.  More than
ever he must plan with circumspection.  He must trap Ramabai, openly,
lawfully, in the matter of sedition.

Imagine his astonishment when, a few minutes after his arrival, Ramabai
and Pundita demanded audience, the one straight of back and proud of
look, the other serene and tranquil!  Umballa felt a wave of bland
[Transcriber's note: blind?] hatred surge over him, but he gave no
sign.  Ramabai stated his case briefly.  Colonel Hare and his daughter
were being held prisoners for ransom.  Three bags of silver--something
like five thousand rupees--were demanded by the captors.

The council looked toward Umballa, who nodded, having in mind the part
of the good Samaritan, with reservations, to be sure.  Having trod the
paths of the white man, he had acquired a certain adroitness in holding
his people.  They had at best only the stability of chickens.  What at
one moment was a terror was at another a feast.  For the present, then,
he would pretend that he had forgot all about Ramabai's part in the
various unsuccessful episodes.

To the council and the gurus (or priests) he declared that he himself
would undertake to assume the part of envoy; he himself would bring the
legal king of Allaha back to his throne.  True, the daughter had been
crowned, but she had forfeited her rights.  Thus he would return with
Colonel Hare as soon as he could make the journey and return.

"He is contemplating some treachery," said Ramabai to his wife.  "I
must try to learn what it is."

In his shop in the bazaars Lal Singh had resumed his awl.  He had, as a
companion, a bent and shaky old man, whose voice, however, possessed a
resonance which belied the wrinkles and palsied hands.

"The rains," said Lal Singh, "are very late this year.  Leather will be
poor."

"Aye."

All of which signified to Ahmed that the British Raj had too many
affairs just then to give proper attention to the muddle in Allaha.

"But there is this man Ramabai.  He runs deep."

"So!"

"He has been conspiring for months."

"Then why does he not strike?"

"He is wary.  He is wary; a good sign."  Lal Singh reached for his pipe
and set the water bubbling.  "In a few weeks I believe all will be
ready, even the British Raj."

"Why will men be sheep?"

Lal Singh shrugged.  "Only Allah knows.  But what about this guru's
curse you say follows the Colonel Sahib?"

"It is true.  I was there," said Ahmed.  "And here am I, with a price
on my head!"

"In the business we are in there will always be a price on our heads.
And Umballa will bring back the Colonel Sahib.  What then?"

"We know what we know, Lal Singh," and the face under the hood broke
into a smile.

Five days passed.  The chief of the brigands was growing restless.  He
finally declared that unless the ransom was delivered that night he
would rid himself of them all.  The tiger was starving.  In order to
prove that he was not chattering idly he had the prisoners tied to the
wheels of the cage.  It would at least amuse him to watch their growing
terror.

"Look!  Some one is coming!" cried Kathlyn.

The chief saw the caravan at the same time, and he set up a shout of
pleasure.  Three fat bags of silver rupees!

Umballa, the good Samaritan, bargained with the chief.  He did not want
all the prisoners, only one.  Three bags of silver would be forthcoming
upon the promise that the young woman and the young man should be
disposed of.

"By the tiger?"

Umballa shrugged.  To him it mattered not how.  The chief, weary of his
vigil, agreed readily enough, and Umballa turned over the silver.

"The guru, my Kit!  You see?  This is the end.  Well, I am tired.  A
filigree basket of gems!"
