educating our boys, and Zay was such a bright, winsome little thing. Her
passion is dancing and being merry. She loves to go out driving but I
think she is afraid of managing a horse. Her father tried to train her a
little but she cried and begged off, and the boys have been away so
much. Oh, it will give him the greatest pleasure."

"And I want to devote my life to your happiness to make up for the years
when you did not have me. You must train me in your ways, you must tell
me what he likes best."

"Oh, my darling!"

Major Crawford found them in a close embrace when he returned.

"Oh," the wife began, eagerly, "we have been planning some pleasures so
we shall not feel Willard's loss too keenly. You must teach Marguerite
to ride and to play chess and we will read the old poets. Some of them
are so charming. Why it will seem as if we had gone in an enchanted
country--the Forest of Arden."

How bright and smiling she was! He kissed her and then sat down on the
other side of Marguerite. He had been afraid he would find her in sore
need of comfort.

Aunt Kate came in presently.

"Zaidee has fallen asleep," she said. "She was completely unnerved by
the parting. Her feelings are so strong, her love has such depths to it,
so I have been soothing her to comparative tranquility. You will not
miss this one good-night."

"We shall all miss the boy very much, and he will return to us a man of
full stature. I think we can trust him to return as true and honorable
as when he went away. Yes, he and Zaidee have been together a great deal
this last six months and she will miss him sorely."

"But there will be school and new interests," said the mother. "We must
see Mrs. Barrington and make some future arrangements. Why in May the
girls will be sixteen!"

"Sixteen!" re-echoed their father. "Let us have them set back."

"Oh no," cried Marguerite, "rather let us stay just here. I should like
to make two days of every one. I am afraid no day will be long enough."

Miss Crawford turned away. The others resumed their talk and she heard
their joyous voices. "Poor Zay! Poor Willard!" she said, under her
breath.

When she went to her room and it was quite late the gas was lighted, her
bed been put in the most inviting order and there lay a pretty
nightdress with its garniture. She colored with a thrill of pleasure.
Then she turned and surveyed herself in the glass. Her eyes had a
luminous softness, there was a faint pink in her cheeks and her lips
had lost their compression, were absolutely shaped into a smile. If she
could grow prettier! But her parents loved her. She knew that and it
filled her with joy.

Zaidee was bright as usual the next morning and hovered about her father
in a tender manner. "By this time Willard was in Washington. When would
he know his time of sailing?"

"I believe the vessel is at Fortress Monroe; we will hear soon."

"Aunt Kate we ought to make some calls today and Margie Putnam has a tea
this afternoon, just an informal little affair. Her cousin has come from
Providence, I believe, and will try to get in at Mrs. Barrington's. I
should think there would be lovely schools in Providence."

"I want to go over to Mrs. Barrington's this morning," said Mrs.
Crawford, "about ten; will you order the carriage?" to her husband.

Then she asked the maid to unpack a box that they had brought home on
their last journey. There were many beautiful materials. They did seem
extravagant at the time, but she was rather glad now.

"Marguerite, I wonder if you could wear these things. This green is
lovely." It was a cloth that had the sheen of satin. She held it up to
the young girl. Why, yes--it would make a handsome winter suit trimmed
with fur. And this sort of lavender gray--it is a favorite color of
mine. "We will see the dressmaker this morning."

Marguerite flushed and glancing up smiled gratefully, though she could
not trust her voice to speak.

"Oh, it will be delightful for me to have a young girl to dress--a
daughter. Perhaps, I shall be a foolish mother, but Aunt Kate has always
looked after Zay's attire. I believe I was not much interested in
clothes, but now I shall be and I have so many pretty things I shall
never wear again. Zay is overburdened now," laughing softly, "and Aunt
Kate will dower her. Oh, Marguerite, I am so glad to have you! It has
given a new impetus to my life," and she held the girl to her heart.

It was a bright morning, cold, but with no perceptible wind. The trees
were outlined against the blue sky, where there was scarcely a drift of
white floating about. The evergreen about the lawns made it look less
like winter and here and there a conservatory showed brilliant bloom.
How beautiful the town was even in the winter.

There were two streets given over to business in one of which a trolley
line was allowed, largely for the convenience of the outlying
settlements. There really were some very nice stores. There was a fine
music hall used for lectures and now and then a play found its way
thither. Some seven miles distant was a thriving city.

The carriage paused at a fine residence with just a nameplate on the
door. They were ushered into a handsome parlor and in a few moments
Madam came sweeping down the broad stairway, her silken gown making a
soft swish on the polished floor. She was surprised and delighted to see
Mrs. Crawford, who introduced her daughter and soon stated her errand.
The green was to be a walking suit for Miss Marguerite and trimmed with
whatever fur would be considered most appropriate. The lavender would be
a sort of dinner and general-utility dress and ornamented with some
beautiful Persian embroidery that had been brought from abroad; one of
Aunt Kate's bargains.

When it was all settled the forewoman was called, who ushered Marguerite
upstairs into the fitting room where two tall mirrors gave the place
twice the size. There were measurements and discussions but the fitter
was horrified to learn that the young girl had never worn corsets.

"Still she has a fine figure. You will make a larger woman than your
sister, indeed, you do favor your mother. It is like a miracle to see
Mrs. Crawford going about without any aid. She had such a splendid
physique until that horrible accident. How overjoyed they must feel that
you escaped."

Marguerite quietly admitted that and presently she was returned to her
mother.

"We might have sent for them, but I thought you wouldn't mind, and I
should have had to explain it all to Aunt Kate. Why, I feel as if I had
run away on some secret expedition. Do I look guilty?" and she laughed
softly. "You are to be my girl you know. Oh, I hope you wont think me
exigent? I can't endure fussiness, and I do believe that I have given in
to Zay's desires when I did not think them wise or necessary, rather
than have any discussion. But Aunt Kate loves her so and she has been so
good to me."

Mrs. Barrington was delighted to see them. While the two ladies
discussed studies and future plans, Marguerite ran through to the study
where the left-over scholars were arranging a little play they were to
amuse themselves with that afternoon. But Miss Nevins uttered a shriek
of delight and nearly toppled her over in an exuberant embrace.

"Oh, my dear Miss Boyd--Crawford, I mean, will we get used to the new
name! Isn't it all splendid! And to be so rich and to belong to a first
class family! It does make a difference. I've been writing to mamma
all about it. It ought to be put in a book. But I liked you so from the
very first, and you were so good to me. But the girls kept hectoring me
and saying mamma wouldn't approve. She's very particular about the
friends I make, because I shall go in the best society when I get
introduced. I think papa will give me a ball. It is real stylish to have
it at Sherry's. And I want you and your sister; only you ought to look
more alike, being twins; I'm just as glad as if something grand had
happened to me. And your father ought to give you a splendid party at
Crawford House. I suppose it is very fine and all that."

Her face was in a glow and her dull brown eyes had a glint in them that
improved them very much.

"I am just the same as when I was Lilian Boyd," she began. But Alice
interrupted--"Oh, no, you're not, and you will soon find it out. It's
all right, too. Rich people do have more chances, and seeing the world
and mixing with high up style gives you an air. Why you couldn't imagine
that plain little Mrs. Boyd with her meek air going to dinners and
balls, and she never could have earned money enough to dress any. That's
what tells. And when you can't go into society or meet nice people but
just stay at home and work or teach--what fun is there in life? Why I'd
rather be dead."

"I should want to be alive even if I were Lilian Boyd. I think it is a
grand world, and there is so much happening all the time. And I don't
care so much about being rich--"

"But you will and your mother is so lovely. Major Crawford looks
rather stern and that handsome young man--what a pity he's to follow the
sea, unless he gets to be an Admiral, and then he'll have to be quite
old. I'd rather be at West Point. Oh, I wish I had a brother."

Marguerite looked pityingly at the silly girl. Then she asked about the
play. Miss Nevins had been to the theatre and wanted to remodel the
simple little story, and there had been some warm arguments.

"I must go and see Miss Arran." There was no use disputing proprieties
with the overwise girl. But she hoped they had all begun a Happy New
Year.

Alice followed her into the hall. "You are coming back to school and now
we can be real good friends. Oh, I just love you and I'm so glad all
this happened to you." Before Marguerite could evade it she had given
her a rapturous kiss which the girl rubbed off an instant later.

Miss Arran was truly glad to see her and they exchanged warm wishes.

"We have a new caretaker, quite a young woman, but I do not take a real
fancy to her. Your mother, oh, excuse me saying that--was so neat and
particular and did every thing so well."

Marguerite smiled. She had often added touches of order and neatness,
and kept the room tidy with a taste that never appealed to Mrs. Boyd.
Though, perhaps, it had in her earlier years. The young girl could
understand now, how gradually she had failed.

And there was Mrs. Dane with her cordial grasp and the heartiness of her
greeting. Whatever distrust she might have had had vanished.

"We are so glad to have you back again," she exclaimed, "and such a
bright future opening before you, though I must have given you the same
respect if you had been here teaching. Mrs. Barrington doesn't often
take such a fancy to anyone. She did from the very first, and though
you'll find the money and position will make a difference in some
quarters, it never would have with her."

"Oh, I am sure of that," responded the girl earnestly.

The two ladies had settled about the studies and the music and Mrs.
Barrington explained a little plan. All the girls would be in by
Saturday and she thought it would be well to introduce Marguerite in her
new circumstances. She would, therefore, give a little dinner at which
the sisters should be the guests of honor. That would prevent any gossip
or comment and give Marguerite that home feeling with the other
students. Mrs. Crawford assented cordially.

"And now, we must go or we will be late for lunch. I can never thank you
enough for your kindly interest in my dear girl when she came to you an
unknown stranger and if anything should happen to me, for I have
wondered if one could be so happy and enjoy it for long, I should want
you always to be her friend."

"You may depend upon that, but the good days are only the outgrowth of
patiently borne bad ones; beauty for ashes."

Mrs. Crawford was very bright at luncheon. She announced to Zaidee Mrs.
Harrington's plan for the informal dinner.

"Why, I think it excellent," declared Zaidee. "You see, we should both
be questioned. It's awfully tiresome to have to tell an occurrence over
and over and Mrs. Barrington would carry conviction. I hope you won't
mind, Marguerite. See what it is to be a heroine."

"I was nearly killed with Miss Nevins and wouldn't it be a good thing to
refer curious people to Mrs. Barrington?"

Marguerite glanced up with a half smile.

"We have to pay the penalty for any unusual happenings," said their
father. "I think I should feel interested if this had occurred in the
home of a neighbor. So we will not set it down to idle curiosity. Even
I had to be convinced that it was not mere hearsay."

As they were leaving the room Miss Crawford said in a low tone,
"Margaret--don't you need some shopping or planning done?"

"Thank you, Kate. You have been a true sister all these years. I took
Marguerite and some material to Madame Blauvelt this morning. She
thought that green cloth would make a very becoming suit and the
lavender grey. They will not go out much this winter now that the
holidays are over, and they are too young."

Miss Crawford only said, "Oh, very well."

The mother had a half guilty feeling as if she had unduly asserted
herself, yet she was inexpressibly happy.

There were calls in the afternoon and Zaidee sat alone in her room
leaning her chin on her hand and glancing out of the window.

In a way she had been the family heroine.

The twin sister who might have been so dear had been wrenched out of her
life. She had thought of her, dreamed of her, although she had been well
content to fill the place of an only daughter with this faint shadow of
sorrow hanging over her; and suddenly, she had been uprooted, flung
aside as it were, and another had stepped into her place. She did not
like it. If it had been from the beginning! If it had come about some
other way. If someone had sent from that Western town. Would the girls
who had held themselves above the Boyd connection feel mortified at many
of the comments they had made? She was glad she had held up some
supposititious cases; though, truth to tell, Zaidee felt too secure of
her own standing to need any propping, and there was a strand of
independence in her character, but she had been first all her life and
in a curious fashion she would lose that eminence.

Of course, in time she would love Marguerite. One could not do it in a
moment. That was the salve she was applying to her conscience. When they
had known each other for months, learned and respected each others'
peculiarities, love would come. She had not felt inclined to fling
herself in Lilian Boyd's arms, and she had almost doubted at first. So
had Aunt Kate.

Zaidee would have scouted the thought of jealousy, and if it had been
suggested would have denied it vehemently. Neither was she given to
analysis. Her temperament was rather volatile and pleasure loving. The
things that suited her she enjoyed, the others she passed by
indifferently. She did like to be made much of, and she thought she was
worthy of preference. She had beauty, good nature and a heedless sort
of generosity and wealth. In a certain way she saw the benefit of that
quite as much as Alice Nevins though she did not esteem it the chief
good.

Major Crawford came in from his walk just at dusk.

"Letters!" holding it up. "A thick packet--one for each of us, I think."

Zaidee had been waiting for Aunt Kate to come up stairs, as the last
caller had gone. She was lonely after this long communing with herself.

"If there is not one for me I shall go to bed and cry," she declared as
she followed to her mother's room. Aunt Kate had been detailing some of
the pleasant neighborhood news.

Yes--each one was directed. Willard had not omitted one member of the
household. He was in Washington and had come just in time for some of
the grand occasions. Saturday he was to board his vessel and by
Wednesday, at the farthest, they were to start on their three years'
pilgrimage. But to each one some tenderness exclusively for herself. To
Zay he recalled many of their joys during the summer time, little events
they were glad to hold together and the blessed news of their mother.

"There will never be anything quite like that," she thought to herself.
"And there is no one else--Aunt Kate never felt afraid to trust us, and
of course, he will grow older, find a sweetheart perhaps, and I may have
a lover; girls of nineteen do. Up to this time he has cared the most for
me."

Marguerite turned to the window though the gas had been lighted. There
was no past to refer to, only the sweet, tender hopes of the future. It
touched her deeply. No one had ever written her such a letter before.
And that he was her brother and would write again and again. She must
strive to deserve this love and confidence, grow up into the fine
character he had pictured for her. Vincent had sent her fond messages in
his mother's letter but she did not know him and he could not come so
near.

Zay read some of hers aloud, but she wondered a little what he could
find to say so much of to Marguerite. She had not the courage to show it
to her mother, even, it seemed so sacred to her. Oh, could she reach the
heights he had indicated?

Marguerite did shrink from the ordeal of Saturday evening. She had kept
rigorously to the position of Mrs. Boyd's daughter but how would she
meet these girls who had held aloof in her poverty and proffered
cordiality now, because she was Major Crawford's daughter! She could not
get over a little hurt feeling, for surely she was the same person. She
almost despised the money and the position. But there was the grand and
tender love. Ah, that was worth a great deal.

By Saturday noon all the girls had come in. There were merry greetings,
recapitulations of the holiday times and the gifts they had received and
some of them heard for the first time the change in Lilian Boyd's life.

"I always liked her," said Isabel Gordon, "only you couldn't get on with
her. She allowed you to come so far and no farther. And she was a most
excellent student and very ready to help anyone. I don't think you girls
need ever felt afraid of her presuming and now I suppose you will all go
down to her."

Miss Gordon's voice had a touch of indignation.

"I shall pay her the respect due her standing, of course," said another,
"I was always polite to her in the classes.

"And, Louie Howe, you know you persuaded that Nevins' girl to write that
hateful letter to her, when she had been so good and taken so much
pains with her."

"I didn't persuade," rejoined Louie, angrily.

"You said you were sure Mrs. Nevins wouldn't approve of the
friendship--yes I think you did suggest the letter and Miss Nevins
slipped back woefully. How many of us would have taken her into grace
again? And I know Mrs. Barrington held Miss Boyd in high esteem."

"She thought she would make a fine teacher; so, of course, she pushed
her along."

"Oh, Louie!" in deprecating tones.

"Well, you may all go down to her. I shan't object. She can't hold a
candle to Zaidee."

"Oh, Zay is a darling!"

"I wonder how she takes it. She has always been a little Queen and her
aunt thinks the sun rises and sets in her and sweeps the very stars out
of sight; and Zay isn't a bit puffed up or arrogant, but she does want
people to love and admire her. And now that her mother has recovered
sufficiently to go into society again I am afraid Zay won't like to
share her."

"Miss Marguerite isn't handsome and Zay is a beauty, and the least vain
of any pretty girl that I ever met."

"It's funny for twins not to look more alike, but there's something
noble about her, and she has the same lovely complexion. What she needs
is more color."

The carriage drove around; Mrs. Barrington welcomed them both warmly.
Marguerite was in a light evening dress that made her look much younger
and her hair had been becomingly arranged by the maid. All the girls
were summoned to the drawing room and Mrs. Barrington entered with her
most delightful air.

"Young ladies," she began, "I have a new scholar to introduce to your
circle, Miss Marguerite Crawford, the lost child of Major and Mrs.
Crawford, supposed to have been killed in the sad accident fifteen years
ago. Mrs. Boyd's baby was killed and she, mistaking the nurse who was
killed for the mother, out of pity, took the child. Her health was not
very good when she came here and it failed gradually. Then she thought
she ought to take some steps that the child might be able to trace her
relatives, if she had any. You may have all heard the story, which has
been proved beyond a doubt, and she has found the most cordial welcome
in her own family. I hope you will all rejoice with her, though I had
resolved if no claimant were found, to keep her here as my own. I hope
you will unite with me in giving her the warmest of welcomes in your
circle as ambitious students. I thought you might like to meet her in
her new relation to us before the real work of next week began."

There was a moment's silence, then Miss Gordon stepped forward and
clasped her hand.

"I think we all rejoice in your good fortune; also, that we are not to
lose you. It is a beautiful and happy romance and Mrs. Barrington's
plans for you would have been fully deserved if something so much more
delightful had not happened. Believe me, I shall always be glad to have
known you."

There was an instant confusion of voices and a throng gathering about
her. Zaidee stood beside her looking proud and happy as congratulations
poured in upon her. The cordial acceptance did touch her. She was glad
to begin her new life by being friendly with them all.

Presently they went out to the dining room and it was quite a festive
occasion. Zaidee was bright and charming, and endeared herself more than
ever to the girls. No one should say she had a grudging thought.
Phillipa Rosewald proposed drinking toasts to her, even if it was only
in water, and much girlish wit and laughter went round.

"Why it's been a delightful party," several of them declared. "Mrs.
Barrington, how can we thank you?"

"By being cordial and helpful with each other and holding fast to the
divine truths that shape character and will make you admirable women
capable of filling the best and highest positions in life; and,
remember, there is nothing more satisfactory in the world than true and
generous friendship."

Phillipa rescued Zay from the overwhelming kissing and hugs.

"Oh, my dear, isn't it all wonderful? Why you didn't write half of it to
me! And I laughed over your little scare of scarlet fever. Louie had a
mental attack, I think. She went almost crazy, but I fancy she won't
blow on us. It was a silly thing to do, but see here--" and she twisted
a ring around her finger. "A diamond, sure enough, but I can't be
engaged until I've graduated. It's just awful, and only a little stolen
bit in his sister's letters to me. But he thinks he'll plan a way to see
me at Easter, even if he has to come here. So the old woman didn't miss
it there! And I do wonder how you'll like a sister? You spoiled little
midget!"

"Oh, we shan't quarrel," with a gay laugh.

The carriage had come for them and there were enough farewells to send
them off to Europe.

"Zay does take it beautifully," said a group of girls. "Lucky that
Miss Nevins was all bunged up with a bad toothache and swelled face.
She'd counted so much on being in at the feast."

The three elders were sitting up for them.

"We've just had a gay old time and Rita was the star of the goodly
company," exclaimed Zaidee in her merriest tone. "We drank healths
enough to sink a ship and Mrs. Barrington was sweetness itself. I'm
tired and sleepy, so you won't mind if I run off to bed. And Monday the
treadmill of school begins. Only one day of grace!"

She kissed her parents, then her sister. Was she beginning to love her?
She had been so radiantly sweet tonight.

"You did enjoy it?" and the Major pulled Marguerite down on his knee.

"Oh, yes, only I didn't like being quite so much of a heroine. But my
most ardent admirer was ill in bed, and I was thankful for that."

He laughed. How different she was from Zay. Had it been her quiet
restricted sphere, her struggle with the life she had known in dreams
and the bald every day experiences? Zay laughed at the favors and
pleasures showered upon her but she would not have been the bright,
merry girl without them. Would the gravity of the one help to tone down
the mercurial temperament of the other? Oh, it was so good to have them
both! Could he ever be thankful enough? And he forgave the poor woman in
her grave.

Zaidee chatted awhile with Aunt Kate who fancied she understood all the
thoughts of the young girl's heart. It was not strange she should be a
little jealous, but she had more gifts to attract the world with, and
the pendulum of her parents' love would swing back presently. Then the
child said good-night and went to her white bed, but the sleepiness had
