spray shot upward flashing, foaming, towering a hundred feet into the
air. And through it I seemed to catch a glimpse of a vast, quivering,
twisting mass of silver falling back with a crash into the lake, while
the huge fountain rained spray on every side and the little lake rocked
and heaved from shore to shore, sending great sheets of surf up over the
rocks so high that the very tree-tops dripped.
Petrified, dumb, our senses almost paralyzed by the shock, our ears still
deafened by the watery crash of that gigantic something that had fallen
into the lake, and our eyes starting from their sockets, we stared at the
darkness.
Slap--slash--slush went the waves, hitting the shore with a clashing
sound almost metallic. Vision and hearing told us that the water in the
lake was rocking like the contents of a bath-tub.
"G-g-good Lord!" whispered Brown. "Is there a v-volcano under that lake?"
"Did you see that huge, glittering shape that seemed to fall into the
water?" I gasped.
"Yes. What was it? A meteor?"
"No. It was something that first came out of the lake and fell back--the
way a trout leaps. Heavens! It couldn't have been alive, could it?"
"W-wh-what do you mean?" stammered Brown.
"It couldn't have been a f-f-fish, could it?" I asked with chattering
teeth.
"No! No! It was as big as a Pullman car! It must have been a falling
star. Did you ever hear of a fish as big as a sleeping car?"
I was too thoroughly unnerved to reply. The roaring of the surf had
subsided somewhat, enough for another sound to reach our ears--a raucous,
gallinacious, squawking sound.
I sprang up and looked at the row of tents. White-robed figures loomed in
front of them. The heavy artillery was evidently frightened.
We went over to them, and when we got nearer they chastely scuttled
into their tents and thrust out a row of heads--heads hideous with
curl-papers.
"What was that awful noise? An earthquake?" shrilled the Reverend Dr.
Jones. "I think I'll go home."
"Was it an avalanche?" demanded Mrs. Batt, in a deep and shaky voice.
"Are we in any immediate danger, young man?"
I said that it was probably a flying-star which had happened to strike
the lake and explode.
"What an awful region!" wailed Miss Dingleheimer. "I've had my money's
worth. I wish to go back to New York at once. I'll begin to dress
immediately--"
"It might be a million years before another meteor falls in this
latitude," I said, soothingly.
"Or it might be ten minutes," sobbed Miss Dingleheimer. "What do you
know about it, anyway! I want to go home. I'm putting on my stockings
now. I'm getting dressed as fast as I can--"
Her voice was blotted out in a mighty crash from the lake. Appalled, I
whirled on my heel, just in time to see another huge jet of water rise
high in the starlight, another, another, until the entire lake was but
a cluster of gigantic geysers exploding a hundred feet in the air, while
through them, falling back into the smother of furious foam, great
silvery bulks dropped crashing, one after another.
I don't know how long the incredible vision lasted; the woods roared with
the infernal pandemonium, echoed and re-echoed from mountain to mountain;
the tree-tops fairly stormed spray, driving it in sheets through the
leaves; and the shores of the lake spouted surf long after the last vast,
silvery shape had fallen back again into the water.
As my senses gradually recovered, I found myself supporting Mrs. Batt on
one arm and the Reverend Dr. Jones upon my bosom. Both had fainted. I
released them with a shudder and turned to look for Brown.
Somebody had swooned in his arms, too.
He was not noticing me, and as I approached him I heard him say something
resembling the word "kitten."
In spite of my demoralization, another fear seized me, and I drew nearer
and peered closely at what he was holding so nobly in his arms. It was,
as I supposed, Angelica White.
I don't know whether my arrival occultly revived her, for as I stumbled
over a tent-peg she opened her blue eyes, and then disengaged herself
from Brown's arms.
"Oh, I am so frightened," she murmured. She looked at me sideways when
she said it.
"Come," said I coldly to Brown, "let Miss White retire and lie down. This
meteoric shower is over and so is the danger."
He evinced a desire to further soothe and minister to Miss White, but she
said, with considerable composure, that she was feeling better; and Brown
came unwillingly with me to inspect the heavy artillery lines.
That formidable battery was wrecked, the pieces dismounted and lying
tumbled about in their emplacements.
But a vigorous course of cold water in dippers revived them, and we
herded them into one tent and quieted them with some soothing
prevarication, the details of which I have forgotten; but it was
something about a flock of meteors which hit the earth every twelve
billion years, and that it was now all over for another such interim, and
everybody could sleep soundly with the consciousness of having assisted
at a spectacle never before beheld except by a primordial protoplasmic
cell.
Which flattered them, I think, for, seated once more at the base of our
tree, presently we heard weird noises from the reconcentrados, like the
moaning of the harbour bar.
They slept, the heavy guns, like unawakened engines of destruction all
a-row in battery. But Brown and I, fearfully excited, still dazed and
bewildered, sat with our fascinated eyes fixed on the lake, asking each
other what in the name of miracles it was that we had witnessed and
heard.
On one thing we were agreed. A scientific discovery of the most enormous
importance awaited our investigation.
This was no time for temporising, for deception, for any species of
polite shilly-shallying. We must, on the morrow, tear off our masks and
appear before these misguided and feminine victims of our duplicity in
our own characters as scientists. We must boldly avow our identities and
flatly refuse to stir from this spot until the mystery of this astounding
lake had been thoroughly investigated.
And so, discussing our policy, our plans for the morrow, and mutually
reassuring each other concerning our common ability to successfully defy
the heavy artillery, we finally fell asleep.
III
Dawn awoke me, and I sat up in my blanket and aroused Brown.
No birds were singing. It seemed unusual, and I spoke of it to Brown.
Never have I witnessed such a still, strange daybreak. Mountains, woods,
and water were curiously silent. There was not a sound to be heard,
nothing stirred except the thin veil of vapour over the water, shreds
of which were now parting from the shore and steaming slowly upward.
There was, it seemed to me, something slightly uncanny about this lake,
even in repose. The water seemed as translucent as a dark crystal, and
as motionless as the surface of a mirror. Nothing stirred its placid
surface, not a ripple, not an insect, not a leaf floating.
Brown had lugged the pneumatic raft down to the shore where he was now
pumping it full: I followed with the paddles, pole, and hydroscope. When
the raft had been pumped up and was afloat, we carried the reel of
gossamer piano-wire aboard, followed it, pushed off, and paddled quietly
through the level cobwebs of mist toward the centre of the lake. From
the shore I heard a gruesome noise. It originated under one of the row of
tents of the heavy artillery. Medusa, snoring, was an awesome sound in
that wilderness and solitude of dawn.
I was unscrewing the centre-plug from the raft and screwing into the
empty socket the lens of the hydroscope and attaching the battery, while
Brown started his sounding; and I was still busy when an exclamation from
my companion started me:
"We're breaking some records! Do you know it, Smith?"
"Where is the lead?"
"Three hundred fathoms and still running!"
"Nonsense!"
"Look at it yourself! It goes on unreeling: I've put the drag on. Hurry
and adjust the hydroscope!"
I sighted the powerful instrument for two thousand feet, altering it from
minute to minute as Brown excitedly announced the amazing depth of the
lake. When he called out four thousand feet, I stared at him.
"There's something wrong--" I began.
"There's nothing wrong!" he interrupted. "Four thousand five hundred!
Five thousand! Five thousand five hundred--"
"Are you squatting there and trying to tell me that this lake is over a
mile deep!"
"Look for yourself!" he said in an unsteady voice. "Here is the tape! You
can read, can't you? Six thousand feet--and running evenly. Six thousand
five hundred!... Seven thousand! Seven thousand five--"
"It can't be!" I protested.
But it was true. Astounded, I continued to adjust the hydroscope to a
range incredible, turning the screw to focus at a mile and a half, at two
miles, at two and a quarter, a half, three-quarters, three miles, three
miles and a quarter--click!
"Good Heavens!" he whispered. "This lake is three miles and a quarter
deep!"
Mechanically I set the lachet, screwed the hood firm, drew out the black
eye-mask, locked it, then, kneeling on the raft I rested my face in the
mask, felt for the lever, and switched on the electric light.
Quicker than thought the solid lance of dazzling light plunged down
through profundity, and the vast abyss of water was revealed along its
pathway.
Nothing moved in those tremendous depths except, nearly two miles below,
a few spots of tinsel glittered and drifted like flakes of mica.
At first I scarcely noticed them, supposing them to be vast beds of
silvery bottom sand glittering under the electric pencil of the
hydroscope. But presently it occurred to me that these brilliant specks
in motion were not on the bottom--were a little less than two miles deep,
and therefore suspended.
To be seen at all, at two miles' depth, whatever they were they must have
considerable bulk.
"Do you see anything?" demanded Brown.
"Some silvery specks at a depth of two miles."
"What do they look like?"
"Specks."
"Are they in motion?"
"They seem to be."
"Do they come any nearer?"
After a while I answered:
"One of the specks seems to be growing larger.... I believe it is
in motion and is floating slowly upward.... It's certainly getting
bigger.... It's getting longer."
"Is it a fish?"
"It can't be."
"Why not?"
"It's impossible. Fish don't attain the size of whales in mountain
ponds."
There was a silence. After an interval I said:
"Brown, I don't know what to make of that thing."
"Is it coming any nearer?"
"Yes."
"What does it look like now?"
"It looks like a fish. But it can't be. It looks like a tiny, silver
minnow. But it can't be. Why, if it resembles a minnow in size at this
distance--what can be its actual dimensions?"
"Let me look," he said.
Unwillingly I raised my head from the mask and yielded him my place.
A long silence followed. The western mountain-tops reddened under the
rising sun; the sky grew faintly bluer. Yet, there was not a bird-note in
that still place, not a flash of wings, nothing stirring.
Here and there along the lake shore I noticed unusual-looking trees--very
odd-looking trees indeed, for their trunks seemed bleached and dead, and
as though no bark covered them, yet every stark limb was covered with
foliage--a thick foliage so dark in colour that it seemed black to me.
I glanced at my motionless companion where he knelt with his face in the
mask, then I unslung my field-glasses and focussed them on the nearest of
the curious trees.
At first I could not quite make out what I was looking at; then, to my
astonishment, I saw that these stark, gray trees were indeed lifeless,
and that what I had mistaken for dark foliage were velvety clusters of
bats hanging there asleep--thousands of them thickly infesting and
clotting the dead branches with a sombre and horrid effect of foliage.
I don't mind bats in ordinary numbers. But in such soft, motionless
masses they slightly sickened me. There must have been literally tons
of them hanging to the dead trees.
"This is pleasant," I said. "Look at those bats, Brown."
When Brown spoke without lifting his head, his voice was so shaken, so
altered, that the mere sound of it scared me:
"Smith," he said, "there is a fish in here, shaped exactly like a brook
minnow. And I should judge, by the depth it is swimming in, that it is
about as long as an ordinary Pullman car."
His voice shook, but his words were calm to the point of commonplace.
Which made the effect of his statement all the more terrific.
"A--a minnow--as big as a Pullman car?" I repeated, dazed.
"Larger, I think.... It looks to me through the hydroscope, at
this distance, exactly like a tiny, silvery minnow. It's half a mile
down.... Swimming about.... I can see its eyes; they must be about ten
feet in diameter. I can see its fins moving. And there are about a dozen
others, much deeper, swimming around.... This is easily the most
overwhelming contribution made to science since the discovery of the
purple-spotted dingle-bock, Bukkus dinglii.... We've got to catch one
of those gigantic fish!"
"How?" I gasped. "How are we going to catch a minnow as large as a
sleeping car?"
"I don't know, but we've got to do it. We've got to manage it, somehow."
"It would require a steel cable to hold such a fish and a donkey engine
to reel him in! And what about a hook? And if we had hook, line,
steam-winch, and everything else, what about bait?"
He knelt for some time longer, watching the fish, before he resigned the
hydroscope to me. Then I watched it; but it came no nearer, seeming
contented to swim about at the depth of a little more than half a mile.
Deep under this fish I could see others glittering as they sailed or
darted to and fro.
Presently I raised my head and sat thinking. The sun now gilded the
water; a little breeze ruffled it here and there where dainty cat's-paws
played over the surface.
"What on earth do you suppose those gigantic fish feed on?" asked Brown
under his breath.
I thought a moment longer, then it came to me in a flash of
understanding, and I pointed at the dead trees.
"Bats!" I muttered. "They feed on bats as other fish feed on the little,
gauzy-winged flies which dance over ponds! You saw those bats flying over
the pond last night, didn't you? That explains the whole thing! Don't you
understand? Why, what we saw were these gigantic fish leaping like trout
after the bats. It was their feeding time!"
I do not imagine that two more excited scientists ever existed than Brown
and I. The joy of discovery transfigured us. Here we had discovered a
lake in the Thunder Mountains which was the deepest lake in the world;
and it was inhabited by a few gigantic fish of the minnow species, the
existence of which, hitherto, had never even been dreamed of by science.
"Kitten," I said, my voice broken by emotion, "which will you have named
after you, the lake or the fish? Shall it be Lake Kitten Brown, or shall
it be Minnius kittenii? Speak!"
"What about that old party whose name you said had already been given to
the lake?" he asked piteously.
"Who? Mrs. Batt? Do you think I'd name such an important lake after
her? Anyway, she has declined the honour."
"Very well," he said, "I'll accept it. And the fish shall be known as
Minnius Smithii!"
Too deeply moved to speak, we bent over and shook hands with each other.
In that solemn and holy moment, surcharged with ecstatic emotion, a deep,
distant reverberation came across the water to our ears. It was the heavy
artillery, snoring.
Never can I forget that scene; sunshine glittering on the pond, the
silent forests and towering peaks, the blue sky overhead, the dead trees
where thousands of bats hung in nauseating clusters, thicker than the
leaves in Valembrosa--and Kitten Brown and I, cross-legged upon our
pneumatic raft, hands clasped in pledge of deathless devotion to science
and a fraternity unending.
"And how about that girl?" he asked.
"What girl?"
"Angelica White?"
"Well," said I, "what about her?"
"Does she go with the lake or with the fish?"
"What do you mean?" I asked coldly, withdrawing my hand from his clasp.
"I mean, which of us gets the first chance to win her?" he said,
blushing. "There's no use denying that we both have been bowled over
by her; is there?"
I pondered for several moments.
"She is an extremely intelligent girl," I said, stalling.
"Yes, and then some."
After a few minutes' further thought, I said:
"Possibly I am in error, but at moments it has seemed to me that my
marked attentions to Miss White are not wholly displeasing to her. I may
be mistaken--"
"I think you are, Smith."
"Why?"
"Because--well, because I seem to think so."
I said coldly:
"Because she happened to faint away in your arms last night is no symptom
that she prefers you. Is it?"
"No."
"Then why do you seem to think that tactful, delicate, and assiduous
attentions on my part may prove not entirely unwelcome to this unusually
intelligent--"
"Smith!"
"What?"
"Miss White is not only a trained nurse, but she also is about to receive
her diploma as a physician."
"How do you know?"
"She told me."
"When?"
"When you were building the fire last night. Also, she informed me that
she had relentlessly dedicated herself to a eugenic marriage."
"When did she tell you that?"
"While you were bringing in a bucket of water from the lake last night.
And furthermore, she told me that I was perfectly suited for a eugenic
marriage."
"When did she tell you that?" I demanded.
"When she had--fainted--in my arms."
"How the devil did she come to say a thing like that?"
He became conspicuously red about the ears:
"Well, I had just told her that I had fallen in love with her--"
"Damn!" I said. And that's all I said; and seizing a paddle I made
furiously for shore. Behind me I heard the whirr of the piano wire as
Brown started the electric reel. Later I heard him clamping the hood on
the hydroscope; but I was too disgusted for any further words, and I dug
away at the water with my paddle.
In various and weird stages of morning déshabillé the heavy artillery
came down to the shore for morning ablutions, all a-row like a file of
ducks.
They glared at me as I leaped ashore:
"I want my breakfast!" snapped Mrs. Batt. "Do you hear what I say, guide?
And I don't wish to be kept waiting for it either! I desire to get out of
this place as soon as possible."
"I'm sorry," I said, "but I intend to stay here for some time."
"What!" bawled the heavy artillery in booming unison.
But my temper had been sorely tried, and I was in a mood to tell the
truth and make short work of it, too.
"Ladies," I said, "I'll not mince matters. Mr. Brown and I are not
guides; we are scientists from Bronx Park, and we don't know a bally
thing about this wilderness we're in!"
"Swindler!" shouted Mrs. Batt, in an enraged voice. "I knew very well
that the United States Government would never have named that puddle of
water after me!"
"Don't worry, madam! I've named it after Mr. Brown. And the new species
of gigantic fish which I discovered in this lake I have named after
myself. As for leaving this spot until I have concluded my scientific
study of these fish, I simply won't. I intend to observe their habits and
to capture one of them if it requires the remainder of my natural life to
do so. I shall be sorry to detain you here during such a period, but it
can't be helped. And now you know what the situation is, and you are at
liberty to think it over after you have washed your countenances in Lake
Kitten Brown."
Rage possessed the heavy artillery, and a fury indescribable seized them
when they discovered that Indians had raided their half ton of feminine
perquisites. I went up a tree.
When the tumult had calmed sufficiently for them to distinguish what I
said, I made a speech to them. From the higher branches of a neighboring
tree Kitten Brown applauded and cried, "Hear! Hear!"
"Ladies," I said, "you know the worst, now. If you keep me up this tree
and starve me to death it will be murder. Also, you don't know enough to
get out of these forests, but I can guide you back the way you came. I'll
do it if you cease your dangerous demonstrations and permit Mr. Brown and
myself to remain here and study these giant fish for a week or two."
[Illustration: "'If you keep me up this tree and starve me to death
it will be murder.'"]
They now seemed disposed to consider the idea. There was nothing else for
them to do. So after an hour or two, Brown and I ventured to descend from
our trees, and we went among them to placate them and ingratiate
ourselves as best we might.
"Think," I argued, "what a matchless opportunity for you to be among the
first discoverers of a totally new and undescribed species of giant fish!
Think what a legacy it will be to leave such a record to posterity! Think
how proud and happy your descendants will be to know that their ancestors
assisted at the discovery of Minnius Smithii!"
"Why can't they be named after me?" demanded Mrs. Batt.
"Because," I explained patiently, "they have already been named after
me!"
"Couldn't something be named after me?" inquired that fearsome lady.
"The bats," suggested Brown politely, "we could name a bat after you with
pleasure--"
I thought for a moment she meant to swing on him. He thought so, too, and
ducked.
"A bat!" she shouted. "Name a bat after me!"
"Many a celebrated scientist has been honoured by having his name
conferred upon humbler fauna," I explained.
But she remained dangerous, so I went and built the fire, and squatted
there, frying bacon, while on the other side of the fire, sitting side
by side, Kitten Brown and Angelica White gazed upon each other with
enraptured eyes. It was slightly sickening--but let that pass. I was
beginning to understand that science is a jealous mistress and that any
contemplated infidelity of mine stood every chance of being squelched.
No; evidently I had not been fashioned for the joys of legal domesticity.
Science, the wanton jade, had not yet finished her dance with me.
Apparently my maxixe with her was to be external. Fides servanda est.
       
That afternoon the heavy artillery held a council of war, and evidently
came to a conclusion to make the best of the situation, for toward
sundown they accosted me with a request for the raft, explaining that
they desired to picnic aboard and afterward row about the lake and
indulge in song.
So Brown and I put aboard the craft a substantial cold supper; and the
heavy artillery embarked, taking aboard a guitar to be worked by Miss
Dingleheimer, and knitting for the others.
It was a lovely evening. Brown and I had been discussing a plan to
dynamite the lake and stun the fish, that method appealing to us as the
only possible way to secure a specimen of the stupendous minnows which
inhabited the depths. In fact, it was our only hope of possessing one of
these creatures--fishing with a donkey engine, steel cable, and a hook
baited with a bat being too uncertain and far more laborious and
expensive.
I was still smoking my pipe, seated at the foot of the big pine-tree,
watching the water turn from gold to pink: Brown sat higher up the slope,
his arm around Angelica White. I carefully kept my back toward them.
On the lake the heavy artillery were revelling loudly, banqueting,
singing, strumming the guitar, and trailing their hands overboard across
the sunset-tinted water.
I was thinking of nothing in particular as I now remember, except that I
noticed the bats beginning to flit over the lake; when Brown called to me
from the slope above, asking whether it was perfectly safe for the heavy
artillery to remain out so late.
"Why?" I demanded.
"Suppose," he shouted, "that those fish should begin to jump and feed on
the bats again?"
I had never thought of that.
I rose and hurried nervously down to the shore, and, making a megaphone
of my hands, I shouted:
"Come in! It isn't safe to remain out any longer!"
Scornful laughter from the artillery answered my appeal.
"You'd better come in!" I called. "You can't tell what might happen if
any of those fish should jump."
"Mind your business!" retorted Mrs. Batt. "We've had enough of your
prevarications--"
Then, suddenly, without the faintest shadow of warning, from the centre
of the lake a vast geyser of water towered a hundred feet in the air.
For one dreadful second I saw the raft hurled skyward, balanced on the
crest of the stupendous fountain, spilling ladies, supper, guitars, and
knitting in every direction.
Then a horrible thing occurred; fish after fish shot up out of the storm
of water and foam, seizing, as they fell, ladies, luncheon, and knitting
in mid-air, falling back with a crashing shock which seemed to rock the
very mountains.
"Help!" I screamed. And fainted dead away.
       
Is it necessary to proceed? Literature nods; Science shakes her head. No,
nothing but literature lies beyond the ripples which splashed musically
upon the shore, terminating forever the last vibration from that
immeasurable catastrophe.
Why should I go on? The newspapers of the nation have recorded the last
scenes of the tragedy.
We know that tons of dynamite are being forwarded to that solitary lake.
We know that it is the determination of the Government to rid the world
of those gigantic minnows.
And yet, somehow, it seems to me as I sit writing here in my office, amid
the verdure of Bronx Park, that the destruction of these enormous fish is
a mistake.
What more splendid sarcophagus could the ladies of the lake desire than
these huge, silvery, itinerant and living tombs?
What reward more sumptuous could anybody wish for than to rest at last
within the interior dimness of an absolutely new species of anything?
For me, such a final repose as this would represent the highest pinnacle
of sublimity, the uttermost zenith of mortal dignity.
       
So what more is there for me to say?
As for Angelica--but no matter. I hope she may be comparatively happy
with Kitten Brown. Yet, as I have said before, handsome men never last.
But she should have thought of that in time.
I absolve myself of all responsibility. She had her chance.
ONE OVER
I
Professor Farrago had remarked to me that morning:
"The city of New York always reminds me of a slovenly, fat woman with her
dress unbuttoned behind."
I nodded.
"New York's architecture," said I, "--or what popularly passes for
it--is all in front. The minute you get to the rear a pitiable condition
is exposed."
He said: "Professor Jane Bottomly is all façade; the remainder of her is
merely an occiputal backyard full of theoretical tin cans and broken
bottles. I think we all had better resign."
It was a fearsome description. I trembled as I lighted an inexpensive
cigar.
The sentimental feminist movement in America was clearly at the bottom of
the Bottomly affair.
Long ago, in a reactionary burst of hysteria, the North enfranchised the
Ethiopian. In a similar sentimental explosion of dementia, some sixty
years later, the United States wept violently over the immemorial wrongs
perpetrated upon the restless sex, opened the front and back doors of
opportunity, and sobbed out, "Go to it, ladies!"
They are still going.
Professor Jane Bottomly was wished on us out of a pleasant April sky. She
fell like a meteoric mass of molten metal upon the Bronx Park Zoölogical
Society splashing her excoriating personality over everybody until
everybody writhed.
I had not yet seen the lady. I did not care to. Sooner or later I'd be
obliged to meet her but I was not impatient.
Now the Field Expeditionary Force of the Bronx Park Zoölogical Society
is, perhaps, the most important arm of the service. Professor Bottomly
had just been appointed official head of all field work. Why? Nobody
knew. It is true that she had written several combination nature and love
romances. In these popular volumes trees, flowers, butterflies, birds,
animals, dialect, sobs, and sun-bonnets were stirred up together into a
saccharine mess eagerly gulped down by a provincial reading public, which
