they got to the point where the other path led off to the 
violet bank, Ellen called to Hugh over her shoulder in a 
voice Mary could not read in the light of anything she 
knew, and he called back : 
" Yes, dear, I remember." 
Larry knew what it meant and, with a sudden savage 
desire toward the completion of happy destinies, wished 
they would turn aside and go back to the old battle- 
ground and kiss and plight themselves unlawfully. But 
they all walked on, now in silence, to his house, and he 
opened the door for them and they went in and sat down, 
Mary suddenly, weakly, as if she felt the weariness of 
her part. And immediately Ellen pulled herself together, 
as she had determined to do, on the way, and spoke. She 
was not now trembling and flushed with happiness, but 
deeply grave. 
" I*m not going to trouble anybody," said she. 
" No,'' said Larry. " We know that." 
" But," said Ellen, " if what I'm going to do is wrong, 
I shall do it just the same." 
Mary watched her with a dull intentness, conscious 
chiefly of her tired head. What was she going to 
do? Something that would tire everybody's head still 
more? 
" I don't know where I'm going," said Ellen. " I can't 
think." 
 
That was it, Mary thought. None of them could 
think. 
" But,'' said Ellen, in a voice that now made its way 
clearly, "I sha'n't stay with Ben. Not ever. Not as 
long as I live. Nobody'll know,'' she went on, turning to 
Mary with the look in her face that begged Mary to im- 
derstand her, "why I thought I could. I don't know. 
But I never will — never ! never ! " 
Mary seemed to hear the words through the closed door 
on the bridal night, and again her heart turned to Ben, 
pathetic in his deserted state. Larry's thoughts kept 
time with Ellen's words, an impetuous commentary. How 
could anything else have been expected, he raged, when 
youth was thrown uninstructed into its great natural 
battle? What was Ellen but a child when she had been 
drawn on by a million silent impulses to pledge herself 
to a compact as vague to her as it was safe and kindly? 
Even he had blunderingly influenced her before she was 
really awake, lest she go with her eyes the more darkly 
bandaged. He had made the love of man and woman the 
climax of earthly inheritance. Was it the climax? He 
was inclined still to think it was. But then there was, 
also, the honor and honesty of the lonely soul. Wasn't 
the great battle, after all, not the struggle to claim a 
mate, but the soul's striving to establish itself before the 
gods? 
" Anyhow," he said, out of this last challenge of possi- 
bilities too big for him, " Ellen's got to do the square 
thing." 
She couldn't know this was the breaking of a big wave 
that had heaved itself up in the sea of his mind ; it soimded 
like a million other whispers she had heard that day from 
the rote of the world's accepted fiats. 
" The square thing? " she echoed, turning to him, her 
 
face a sudden flame. " Does that mean living witli Ben 
because I promised to?" 
" No," said Hugh, in a savage protest. " No, by 
God ! " 
Mary Neale had never heard her sons use the great 
words men swear by, and it startled her. She turned to 
Hugh, the shocked look on her face, and he misread it, 
and asked her passionately, "What do you say? Do 
you want her to do that, to be respectable? " 
And again Mary heard the "Never! never!" through 
the closed door and said violently: 
" No ! no ! she can't." 
" So I say," said Larry. " I mean," he added to Ellen, 
in a gentleness that made her beg him to forgive her, in 
her heart, for thinking he could misread her, " you've 
got to do the square thing by yourself. If you don't 
love Ben — of course you don't love Ben, child ! " he 
added, despairing over her stupidity — "you can't live 
with him." 
" No," said Ellen, with a quick breath. " That's all 
then, all there is to it. Couldn't I stay a minute after 
you go? " She looked at Hugh and he got up and put 
out his hand to Mary who was pale, as if the strength 
had all gone out of her. 
" Come on, miun," said he. 
His thought was with her now. She was being tired 
tremendously, he saw. Whatever was to come, she must 
stay out of it. Ellen wasn't going to be hoodwinked into 
listening to Ben. He knew her old contrariness and 
smiled over it to himself. It would be their bulwark now. 
Mary Neale went without a word, and when the door 
had closed after them and Larry had come back to his 
seat, Ellen stretched out both hands and gave them to his 
eager ones. 
" Larry," she said, " dear — oh, now I know how dear 
 
wftlf you are. I know all about it — about everything. I 
saw it last night when I thought and thought — and to-day 
when Hugh came. And I saw how patient you've 
been with me. But, Larry, what shall I do now? '' She 
k p hardly waited for the answer he hesitated for the wisdom 
mti to give. " I've wasted so much time," she went on, " try- 
mi ing to do what other people do. Because I thought that 
j! I was the way." 
" So've I, Ellen," he said sadly. " Fve wasted all my 
bsv life. Not doing what other people do, but being sulky 
and lazy and keeping out of the game. I give you my 
word I never knew the gates of the universe were wide 
open to every one of us. I never began to learn it till I 
saw what men do when the devil peers up over the rim of 
the world and claws at them. But you're a baby yet. 
You've got the years before you." 
" You see," said she, " I've grown up. It isn't only 
because Hugh's come home. It's everything. Larry, 
I've grown up." 
He thought he knew why she had waked. The sound 
of the guns had waked her. The great vibration that 
shook the earth itself had jarred the atoms in her as they 
had in him, and the shell of habit and unproved tradi- 
tion had cracked and was fallen, and they — the inside 
being of them — saw light and felt the air. It was not 
that they saw grotesquely, through this waving of crea- 
tion in the winds of destiny, that they looked to them- 
selves like gods in this flare of a burning world and knew 
themselves to be, for all time, different. It was because 
they found the forces of honesty and calm decency were 
withstanding the forces that make for downfall and decay 
that they had waked to the certainty that truth is, justice 
is, endurance to the death is as inevitable a reaction as the 
violence that works for death. The war had opened be- 
 
fore them the great book of life that lies at most timed 
guarded by silent spaces and cold approaches, and they 
saw the necessity of the moral code — which is, after all, 
the code of truth and beauty. What you think every 
day gets its reward in what you do on a day when your 
need is greatest. These two had sat in this room telling 
each other all these months how wonderful — and how 
irimple, too — it was that plain men were drowning in 
blood " over there '' that the world might live. And it 
made it quite impossible for them to want to do anything 
ever in all the processions of the years but to be them- 
selves as obedient and as true. And after all, they did 
not talk about it. 
" There's a lot of things you ought to know," said 
Ellen ; " but I danH tell you." How could she tell him 
that the flaring up of her old obstinacy and contrariness 
had saved her from the false fulfillment of dreadful rites, 
and that still she was her own to give or to keep for the 
earth to take her back untouched in its apointed time? 
" But," she added, lier mind returning tenderly to him 
and his patient love for her, " wherever I go, your flag'll 
go with me." 
" Ellen," said he, " you're not going to be headstrong 
and run away — or anything? Where are you going? " 
" Truly," said she, " I don't know." 
" Not with Hugh — if he begs you." 
" Why, no," said she, with a surprised little air that he 
could ask it. "I can't, can I? Think of the promises 
I made to Ben. I'm going to break most of them, not 
all. I sha'n't forget I made them. And about Hugh — 
well, it's no matter." 
"What's no matter?" asked Larry. 
" It's no matter whether we're together as — we'd like 
to be. There's forever, Larry. 
 
He thought Hugh could convince her there was no lure 
in a barren forever when you want love by your side. 
She had not, in this misty dawning, met the hardest tests. 
" Besides," said Ellen, " I wouldn't have Hugh marry 
me and settle down here if he could — not for a long, long 
time. I want him to be free, and go back and fight and 
see things and lick the Boches. That's what he said, lick 
the Boches." 
Larry remembered the nights when David Brock had 
sat with him in this room and they had smoked slow pipes 
and broken much silent communion by the talk of other 
lands and other worlds. David Brock hadn't been con- 
tent to be a citizen of this earth only. He had seen 
the stars with eyes other than the gaze that tells 
the weather by them. The lure of adventure had been 
on him. It was on Ellen now. It had been on Larry 
ever since the first guns sounded at the Mame. He had 
seen like a sign in the heavens one thing: that adventure 
is always at your call. Open your door and you find a 
path that leads straight into it: the adventure that lies 
in calling on the gods and commanding them to tell you 
what they want. For you can command the gods. They 
know it, and only when you cease to batter at their 
thrones do they sink back on rose-leaves and idly pass 
the cup. And ever while they pass it they wonder among 
themselves: why do the earth-bom strip their rose- 
leaves for us and brew the liquor of forgetfulness? We 
don't need their worship. We need them to be whanging 
their swords against the gates of our omnipotence, and 
waking up the old dreams we laid aside for a century or 
two because we thought there were no men brave enough 
to make them true. Even the gods can't give you what 
you do not ask: for the gods are not gods if there are 
no men. Even you, so small as you are, can bring drow- 
 
siness upon their eyes by going a long way off from 
them and ceasing to clamor at their gates. The gods, 
Larry concluded, were now. awake. And when you have 
roused them and puffed the wind through their rose- 
leaves and knocked the jorum out of their hands, they are 
very much awake indeed, and they are as likely to hear 
little voices, the faint footsteps of Ellen and Larry ap- 
proaching the gates of being, as they are the thunder of 
a million wars. Indeed, they do hear everything. He 
knew that. But man must speak in a fashion that shows 
he means business. Ellen got up suddenly and her eyes 
filled with tears. The picture of her then was a rich 
treasure she was unconsciously giving him. 
" Larry," said she, " I do love you. Remember." 
Then, at the same instant, it came to them that Hugh 
had sent her a prayer in that word and how deaf 
she had been to it. Larry's face was, in spite of him, 
miserable with pain. Yet she did love him, and he 
would remember. There was his path to adventure. 
But Ellen had a thousand thoughts that come in the 
spring of life when all is new. She saw herself bound to 
Hugh by an ecstasy of ordained delight. At this mo- 
ment of her love she hardly needed to see him because the 
sense of him was so bewilderingly with her. And Larry 
was dear to her in a way as real. It was all enchanting, 
rich, new, like the singing brooks and birds of spring. 
She got up to go, and he told her he would walk with her 
through the woods. 
" No,'' said she, " truly — no. Not this time." 
His mind leaped with hers, and he knew why. She 
was going to the violet bank. He stood at his gate and 
watched her away, and she turned, just before she van- 
ished in the woods, and waved to him. Smilie, who, ac- 
cording to custom, had gone part way with her, came 
 
loping back, much as if she had heard Larry's inward 
hurry call. He didn't want to watch Ellen out of sight. 
He wanted to get into the house with Smilie before that 
last vanishing. 
" Come on, old girl," said he. " Don't look. This is 
the last we shall see of her." 
He meant it was the last they would ever see of the 
Ellen of that day and mood, who was still partly theirs 
and not veiled by another glamour, as she inevitably 
would be when Hugh and the earth got hold of her. 
Ellen did turn aside at the curve in the path and went 
as fast now as she could cross the wandering roots, to 
the violet bank, and there she fell on her knees and put 
her face to the ground and, in the simplest unconscious- 
ness, loved it and felt herself obedient to all the earth 
expected of her. She was an unspoiled creature, full of 
natural impulses, and she did her earth worship the more 
faithfully because she had, for a moment, realized the 
march of stars. 
When she got home, no one was there, but she found 
a little tray on her table, bread and milk and deli- 
cious things Hannah had been at pains to cook because 
Hugh had come. It was dear, and funny, too, and Ellen, 
as she ate, thought she would have to go away or get 
food from somewhere: she could not have Mary Neale 
bringing trays. 
XXXV 
That night Ellen, after she had eaten from the little 
tray and thought again how absurd it was to have it and 
how kind, tidied her room and sat down by the window 
looking out on the path that came to her back door. 
It was a clear night with an early moon and all the 
bewildering scents of spring. She sat expectant. Some 
one, she knew, would come, and she dared not ask her- 
self who it might be. It was impossible to fit her mind 
to the task of planning the next immediate act, there 
was such tension in the air. And as the moon rose 
and threw things into a glamourous revealment, a step 
came along the little path and up to the door, and 
a hand tried the latch. When the steps went past her 
window she shrank back, her heart beating thickly. Not 
for large rewards and penalties would she have assured 
herself, by looking, of the man's identity. If it were 
Hugh, what should she say? What could she urge in 
denial of him? But the voice came at once on the vain 
trial of the door and it was the voice of Ben. 
" Ellen,'' it called, " let me in." 
This was not the voice of Ben as she had known it, all 
careless fun and laughter and a lazy tolerance of rebuff, 
pince he could subdue the time to his liking, but dissatis- 
fied, fretful, perhaps, above all, mandatory. Ellen 
shrank down into her chair and did not answer. 
" Ellen," said the voice again, " let me in." 
Now she was, if not afraid, because that was impossit 
ble, she told herself, since it was only Ben, uneasy, in a 
 
 
pulsating, choked way, and involuntarily she thought 
how loosely the screens slipped up, and what a light agil- 
ity he had in his slender strength. It was not, indeed, 
tiiat she was afraid, but that she had an unreasoned 
distaste for entering into any sort of intimate communion 
with him. Since she had received him into that monstrous 
nearness of promising fealties that took hold on the 
present and the future, up to the day of her death, she 
was infinitely removed from him. Again he caDed her. 
And now there were other steps and the voice of Hugh. 
"What are you doing there? Don't you see the door 
is locked? " 
Ellen had not known of the struggle on the knoll, but 
she felt instantly that they must not be left to themselves, 
the two in the night, to match their intemperate wills, 
and she got up and ran to the door, though even so she 
did not open it. Ben had not answered his brother, but 
he stood on the upper step, looking down at him. He 
had, though this Ellen, behind the closed door, could not 
know, an attitude of supremacy, of the master of the 
house. 
" Come out of that," said Hugh, in a voice he thought 
he was controlling to a decent steadiness. " The door is 
fastened. That's enough." 
" It's not enough for me," said Ben. His voice was 
full of rage, a violence no one had ever heard in it. 
The scorn and despite of the time had lashed him into a 
sick fury he had actually never felt. Why, he had been 
wondering all day, was the world against him in this in- 
comprehensible fashion? What had he done? His penal- 
ties, so unjust were they, seemed to throw his mistakes 
into nothingness. " I'm waiting to speak to my wife." 
" Don't talk like a fool," said Hugh, at once on fire. 
" If you mean Ellen, say Ellen." 
 
" I mean my wife," said Ben obstinately. This was a 
way, his impish mind told him, of irritating, to a point 
of madness, and yet of keeping within his rights. So he 
repeated the words again : " My wife." 
" All right," said Hugh. " You can stand there and 
make a fool of yourself, if you like. I'll wait. But the 
instant you try to break into the house, I'm ready for 
you." 
He began to walk back and forth in the path, whistling, 
his hands in his pockets, his face tilted to look at the 
sky. And while Ellen, behind the door, wished, in wom- 
an's maternal way, that they wouldn't be silly and would 
go home to bed — yet secretly indeed relieved to know 
Hugh was pacing back and forth there, her defender — 
there came another voice, the voice of Larry. 
" Boys, what the devil are you doing? " 
" Nothing," said Hugh, and Ben responded sulkily, but 
with a sneer : " Nothing." 
" I came over to see if Ellen's all right," said Larry. 
He raised his voice. " Ellen, are you all right? " 
" Yes," called Ellen, so near the door that Ben stepped 
back a pace. " I can't let you in. Nor anybody. Good 
night." 
" Of course not," said Larry. " Go to bed. And, 
hoys, you go home." 
"Go home yourself," said Ben. He sat down on the 
top step and then got up again, he seemed to be at such 
disadvantage sitting. "I've come here to speak to my 
wife. What are you here for? " 
" To stay," said Larry. 
"Yes," said Hugh, as quietly. "We'll all stay. 
Ellen, run up and go to bed. You're not to talk to any 
of us to-night." 
There was silence for a little now, and Ellen went back 
 
to her window and looked out. She could not see Ben 
but she did see Larry and Hugh pacing back and 
forth sometimes avoiding each other on the path and 
again lounging away from it and taking a circle on 
the grass of the yard, or stopping to look, she could 
imagine, at the moon, hands in pockets and heads back- 
tilted. The absurdity of it came over her, the terror, 
too. For the moment they seemed dumb animals, un- 
proven in their ferocity, padding about in the dark, 
some for defense, one for the assertion of angry rights. 
Ellen was no coward, but the strangeness of it keyed 
her to highest pitch; and as familiar faces are some- 
times distorted by our fears, when they come to us in 
the dark, she shuddered before the strong earth power 
of them. Yet this was Larry whom she loved and 
trusted in a way as unthinking as a child's, Hugh who 
was her lover, and Ben, dear playmate she had wronged. 
But the earth, the strong forces of it, had power over 
her that night as it had when she smelled it on the violet 
bank. Sometimes the earth does embody itself like that 
and terrify us, just as the dark forces of war cause the 
accustomed tranquillities to shudder back and hide their 
eyes. There are moments when all the old rites, the old 
sacrifices, rise up and say: "We are here. Pay us 
tribute." Ellen might have been the savage woman hid- 
ing in the brake, shuddering at the clangor of bloody 
turmoil among her masters and sickening over the cer- 
tainty of its aftermath — rapine and ruin. The earth 
spirits had her, and she was in panic, though, she told 
herself again, these were only the three she knew to 
the depths of kindliness, and even Ben had but shame 
and misery in his heart. After an hour of it per- 
haps — it seemed to her half the night — she ran up 
in the dark, and gathered her night things together 
 
— irrationally she tucked Larry's little flag in, too — 
and then she crossed the sitting-room to the other side 
of the house where they could not hear her, took the 
screen from a window and dropped to the ground be* 
neath. She picked her way carefully to the road, 
opened the gate and closed it softly behind her and again 
stole on with caution. But when she had got below the 
Neales', walking on the grass at the side of the road, 
she began to run. 
Meantime, while she was still upstairs, Ben, unbear- 
ably moved by the absurdity of his stand before the door 
he could not enter, walked down the steps and, without a 
look at the others, across the orchard path. Hugh and 
Larry were silent until he was put of ear-shot. Then 
Hugh asked: 
" Gone for good? " 
" Yes," said Larry. " You'd better go, too. Your 
mother'll worry." 
" I'll ask her to come over," said Hugh, " and stay 
with Ellen." 
" She can't. Your f ather'd miss her." 
" But I won't have Ellen frightened." 
" Frightened at Ben? He doesn't want her to be 
frightened any more than you and I do." 
"No," said Hugh doubtfully. "Not at any other 
time. But to-night — the devil's got into everybody to- 
night." 
They began their pacing back and forth, Larry in the 
path and Hugh beside him. 
"You mustn't forget," said Larry finally, "you and 
she are young. You've got a lot of time before you." 
" I've got this week," said Hugh. 
"You can't do anything in it. Leave it all, Hugh. 
Trust to her. She never'll live with him. And some- 
 
thing — something legal — " he hesitated. "Itll have 
to be done." 
" I canH stop to think about that," said Hugh, " talk- 
ing, putting off — and I'm going back, you know." 
« Ellen ! " called Larry. 
The silence of the house answered him adequately, 
though he did not know it. She was willful, he thought, 
indignant with them, perhaps contrary in her old sweet 
way. 
" Ellen ! " he called again. " Ben's gone, and we're 
going. But I'll stay in the edge of the woods, so you 
won't be alone. I shall hear you breathe." 
He thought that would move her. She would surely 
tell him to go home to his bed and Smilie. She was no 
more afraid, he thought, than a shy fox in the night. 
But there was no answer. They waited a minute and 
still the lonely house did not tell them what it knew. 
They turned away together, and at the lane Hugh 
stopped and said, with a ring of something envious in 
his voice: 
" How you spoke to her then ! " 
".What do you mean? " asked Larry. 
"As if you knew her — as I don't know. Why 
don't I, Larry? Why can't I get near enough to know 
her? I could, in these few days even, noj^r she under- 
stands. But you — I suppose, in this time I've been 
away you've got to be great friends." . 
There was pain, not quite jealousy, in his voice. 
"Yes," said Larry simply, in no trimnph. "We're 
friends. It began when she was a baby — almost. 
You know all about that. Her father and I used to 
talk by the hour, and Ellen sat hugged up to him and 
watched us both with her great eyes. I've often won- 
dered what the deuce she thought we were talking about. 
Perhaps it sunk in without her knowing it, and now 
it's coming out. David Brock was a good deal of a man. 
There was honesty in him — and revolt." 
The little tinge of jealousy ran out of Hugh; but he 
was sad. 
" Larry," said he, " do you s'pose I shall ever get 
her?" 
"Why," said Larry, "you've got her, haven't you? 
She won't look at anybody else." 
" But there's such a devil of a time to make up — 
years when she wouldn't speak. I don't mean literally, 
you know. I mean when we neither of us spoke as we 
do now. I couldn't. She wouldn't listen." 
It seemed to Larry if he had youth before him he could 
wait in a certainty that in the end, not so far off, he 
would compass his warm earthly happiness. But he only 
said, in a dull solacing: 
"It'll be all right. Ben won't bother her. He's a 
decent fellow. He's only indecently tiresome now be- 
cause he's so mad. And you can't blame him. Whether 
he loves her or not, he's lost her. And he's been made 
ridiculous, for no fault of his. Come, go home to bed. 
It'll plague your mother to have you vagabonding round. 
I'm a kind of a night-owl, you know. I won't be far 
away." 
Hugh did go home across the orchard and found his 
mother at the step, waiting for him. She put her hand 
on his shoulder, when he came up to her, and though it 
was firm he imagined he felt the tingling of her relief to 
have him close. 
" Where's Ben? " he asked. 
