hand. There was something they could rally to, 
particularly as a loud rubadubdub at the door 
had followed the report of arrested coach-wheels 
before it. "Ah, there the dear man is!" Mrs. 
Midmore at once recovered her faculty to say 
even if all to the immediate effect of calling on 
Ralph first to search his own. 
"Sir Cantopher, Sir. Cantopher?" It was 
nature again for Ralph even if it was in its prime 
newness uncertainty. And it was uncertainty 
but just enough to prepare his glow of response. 
"Sir Cantopher Bland? Why, there's nothing I 
shall more prize than the honour of his acquaint 
ance." 
"He looks forward eagerly to the pleasure of 
yours," Mrs. Midmore remarked with clear assur 
ance; so that Molly was the last to speak which 
she did all to the tune again of her own high 
colour. 
"I hope it won't interfere with your liking him, 
sir, that as you've been so taken with the fancy 
of my sister, he's taken worse still and from years 
and years ago." 
  
"Oh he's in love with her ? Yes surely, I know 
that know it now," Ralph added. 
"Of course you know it when I tell you, dear," 
the girl returned smiling, but with her eyes ? it 
struck him, searching him as we have just noted 
his having had to search himself. He felt it as 
more of a watch of him in spite of his word than 
anything had yet been, and this he resented in 
proportion to his pride in the fine presence of 
mind he had so quickly recovered. So that made 
him positively go further, go in fact a length 
which was the longest he had used up to now. 
"Ah I know more than you' tell me, I know 
what I've been knowing. Of course he is in love 
with Nan," he made out; "almost as much in 
love with her as I'm with you. Only with the 
difference," it came to him, "that his passion 
isn't returned !" 
"As I return yours is what you mean, dear?" 
she took him straight up. And then when he 
had quickly pronounced this exactly what he 
meant, with a glance too at the fact that so much 
was evident, he had still to meet her asking how 
he could be so sure when they had been having 
it from him, and to the extent of his fairly com 
plaining, that no information about her sister 
had ever reached him. The effect he at once 
took this in was of his being fairly cross-ques 
tioned, so that he should somehow be put to the 
proof of what he might say with the very en- 
  
trance of the gentleman who would have already 
alighted below and perhaps be now on the stair. 
She really pushed it quite home. "You com 
plained, you know, my dear, that we had left 
you in such ignorance." 
"Ignorance of Nan, yes only not ignorance of 
Sir Cantopher, at least as a ground of complaint. 
But I don't mind a bit, you see, what I didn't 
know before: that's all made up to me," he found 
himself pleading, "and I want so, don't you un 
derstand ? to be with you in everything." 
It was not unapparent to him meanwhile either 
that Mrs. Midmore, during this exchange, was 
momentarily mystified at her daughter's share in 
it, or that Perry, quite detached apparently from 
any question of a step toward their visitor, had 
witnessed for his attention by turning again to 
the window. But it was to himself directly that 
his hostess addressed a more confessedly puzzled 
expression than had yet comported for her with 
her dignity. "My child must sometimes seem 
to give you the absurdest notice of a temper!" 
And then after an instant to the girl: "Don't, 
you gipsy, make yourself out more of a romp 
than nature has done." With which she appeared 
really, as the surer way, to appeal again to Ralph, 
who noted at the same time, however, that she 
might, by the betrayal of her eye, have caught 
some sense of her daughter's reason. "When 
everything's so right," she asked, "how can 
  
anything be wrong?" and she had put no 
other question with so near an approach to a 
quaver. 
"Do you think that to turn your head isn't 
what I most wish in the world ? " were the only 
words, and splendidly spoken to her lover, with 
which Molly took up the remonstrance. "Mother 
herself knows that, just as I know how she wants 
it scarce less. But all the same, dear sir," she 
continued thus forcibly to reason, "I must put 
common sense between us for your sake even if 
I can do with fancy for my own. It isn't a thing 
to quarrel about, even if anything could be," she 
shiningly pursued, "but you must keep your head 
steady enough to satisfy me here. If you hadn't 
been aware of our friend's cross mistress, how 
could you be aware of our friend himself, who 
thinks of nobody else, and even talks of nobody, 
when he can get tired ears to listen ? " 
Ralph felt himself in the box, but also that 
never was a witness to have seen his embarrass 
ment so enrich his interest. "Oh is she cross 
-?" The tone of the cry must have been 
comically candid, for it moved the ladies together 
to such a spasm of mirth that Perry, who wasn't 
amused, looked round to see why. Before which 
even, however, their kinsman had continued 
much to the same effect: "And he thinks and 
talks of nobody ? " Though with all gaiety, 
since they were gay, he corrected it a little for 
Perry. "Of course, of course he does as he 
likes!" 
Perry faced him on it. "He does indeed 
and why in the world shouldn't he ? It's the 
kind of gentleman he is" 
This was really, for Perry, an explanation, and 
Ralph beamed acknowledgment. "It will be de 
lightful to see the kind as you grow them here !" 
"Ah nobody could be more civil," Mrs. Mid- 
more interposed, "and very few, I assure you, 
cousin, are so clever and so keen. But surely, 
as he doesn't come up, you should wait on him 
below," she said to her son. 
This worthy none the less didn't stir; he only 
stood looking at Ralph; with which, to the 
latter's surprise, he carried explanation further. 
"I don't say he's my man, mind you" it was 
positively pacific. "And you can guess whether 
I'd be his, as my mother describes him apart 
I mean from his liking Nan and our wishing to 
see her suited." 
"Which she isn't of course," Ralph said, "if 
she doesn't like himl" It was as if Perry of a 
sudden had opened to him, and as if moreover, 
feeling this, he couldn't too cordially meet it. He 
met it most indeed by carrying his response on to 
Molly. "I see her as 'cross' so far as 'sweet 
Nan' admits of that because of her perhaps 
fearing that you want to overbear her. That is 
that you all together do, I mean for I don't 
make it personal to yourself, dear! and, as she 
holds out against you, treat her to the discipline 
of bread and water in a moated grange to see if 
it won't bring her round." The way to deal with 
his mistress, he more than ever felt, was to deal 
to extravagance which was clearly at this mo 
ment so right that it seemed to invite him to 
pile it up. "If she'll have him you'll take her 
back, but if she won't, that is till she gives way, 
she's reduced to her crust and her cell. Only," 
he asked to the same effect, "how can Sir Can- 
topher himself suppose such rigours will serve 
him?" 
"Here is Sir Cantopher himself, to satisfy 
you!" Mrs. Midmore cried for the opened door 
now gave passage to the footman who had ad 
mitted Ralph and who announced the awaited 
friend. She called her welcome to this personage 
almost before he appeared. "You take your 
time, you pampered thing when we've never 
so much wanted to see you !" 
IF the moments at which Ralph had felt the 
happy enlargement of his situation, during the 
past half-hour, had been much more numerous 
than those at which he was held of a sudden in 
a sort of constriction, he now knew within the 
minute that the elation of ease had caught him 
up high and higher. This came at once from the 
sight of the gentleman who entered to kiss Mrs. 
Midmore's hand before he did anything else, 
though indeed he gave Ralph a glance by the 
way, and of whom our young man at once con 
veniently noted that he performed the pretty 
act not at all as by prescription but somehow as 
by special inspiration, or even by the custom 
of oddity. He made a difference, the quickest 
his arrival made it, and his look at Ralph and his 
fine good-morning to the others, before he had 
spoken a word but this last; the difference, that 
is, of replacing by their interest in his presence 
a certain self-consciousness on the part of each 
of the four into which their commerce of the last 
ten minutes had perhaps a trifle awkwardly 
tightened. And this verily, wasn't it? just by 
no more than the glance of his eye, a small sharp 
eye in a long narrow face, giving a sense as it 
did on the spot for Ralph's imagination to Mrs. 
  
Midmore's warrant of his keenness. Was it any 
thing more than that he was intelligent ? though 
why if it wasn't could Ralph's heart leap up so 
without thereby implying that the others, the 
so agreeable others (for hadn't Perry turned 
agreeable too !) had beguiled him but with the 
common ? However the question hovered but 
to drop, for there was no conceivable tribute to 
taste that his grand kinswoman didn't seem to 
render as she said to her new visitor: "I desire 
your acquaintance for our cousin Mr. Pendrel 
a faraway cousin, but a near relation of another 
sort, as he is about to become my son-in-law." 
"Do you settle such grand matters in the turn 
of a hand ? if, as I gather, Mr. Pendrel, whom 
I rejoice to see, has scarce had time to draw 
breath in your house!" Sir Cantopher addressed 
this to the others, but paying Ralph the com 
pliment of it, as our young man felt, and letting 
him see that he might figure for unduly driven 
should he choose. It took, however, but this 
first vision of his fellow-visitor to put such a 
choice quite out of the question; the effect of 
this gentleman was so to make him throb again 
with the responsive curiosity that had carried 
him the whole length of his first initiation. That 
tide was once more full and strong, for here was 
a new relation, of the liveliest, which was already 
in the brief moment drawing him on and which 
in fact had in its different way as much force 
  
to that end, whatever the end might prove, as 
had been put forth for his original welcome by 
Molly herself. Molly had desired him, and Molly 
still did, as much as ever, he perfectly felt, all 
outer ruffles of accident notwithstanding, just as 
his own strongest pulse beat upon her for its 
satisfaction with a quickness undiminished; but 
the very face and air and note of the man before 
him, and who was as much taken with him, in 
the way of wonder, he could see, as he was him 
self taken, now multiplied at a stroke his rela 
tions with his actual world. Sir Cantopher's 
forehead was high and his chin long, without 
other fulness, as was also his nose; his mouth, 
with its thin tight edges and its inconsiderable 
size, repeated to the attention the fashion of his 
eyes and their drawn lids, which showed the 
sharpness of the pupil intermittently, much as 
the lips, opening too little, showed the gleam of 
scarce more than a couple of such teeth as would 
have announced on more liberal terms a proper 
array. Sir Cantopher's facial terms were pre 
cisely not liberal in the sense, as we might have 
put it, that they made, in spite of resources close 
at hand, a hard bargain with expression; Ralph 
even noting for it at once that he had his aspect 
certainly, and that one took it somehow as a 
thing of high sufficiency, if not of beauty or 
symmetry, but that not less surely, should it 
continue to be denied larger play, it would have 
  
to do, unlike even the Greek theatric mask, both 
for tragedy and comedy. Would one ever, 
without other help, know which of the two he 
fixedly meant ? though doubtless he was mean 
ing comedy now and moreover was, by some in 
describable art and unsupported by a single direct 
grace, expressing a high degree of elegance and 
of consequence. It might be a small world in 
which he so much mattered, but there was ex 
actly the charm, or at least the challenge 
curiosity always predominant that one might 
come quite to learn and to enjoy his conditions. 
His shoulders sloped, his stature but sufficed, and 
wasn't some slight deflection from the straight 
to be confessed to by his extraordinarily thin 
legs, in their understrapped buff pantaloons, a 
pretty match to a complete puce-coloured frock 
of the very finest smooth cloth, now left open 
to the bristle of frill and the ribboned dangle of 
watch-fob ? The point most of all made by him 
at any rate was that of his being in his way, and 
the more remarkably as without her facilities, 
not less the fine gentleman than Mrs. Midmore 
was the fine lady. 
"Oh our happy understanding was arrived at 
long ago!" Ralph found himself liking to speak 
as if endless generations had prepared it. "You'll 
understand how with such a wind in my sails I 
couldn't be slow to get into port. And the kind 
ness," he said, "with which I have been treated 
  
this hour !" He left that to bridge all gaps 
while his face invited his relatives to see how for 
others still than themselves he put himself in 
their hands. 
They saw it at once, they rallied, as he felt, 
altogether, and Sir Cantopher's presence crowned 
all their confidence without at all imparing his 
own. Ralph had been having from them this 
and that about him, but to see him there was 
to understand him as the supremely valid family 
friend, with certain of whose aspects liberties of 
remark might be taken behind his back, but with 
whose judgment and whose taste they would 
ever, and most particularly, wish their appear 
ance as a family to consort. Our young man, 
with the divinatory gift that so unfailingly flared 
up in him under stress, was quickly mastering 
the truth that, for that matter, criticism of his 
friends would enjoy a range on this visitor's part 
which it could scarce hope to achieve in any con 
ditions on Molly's or her mother's, affirm their 
claim to the luxury as they might. It was won 
derful, it was already inspiring, that Sir Can- 
topher, by the mere action of a sign or two of 
the simplest, seemed to blow on the perceptive 
flame as if he had directly applied his breath. 
He recognised, he recognised Ralph took that 
almost exultingly in for the quickening of in 
terest it surely promised. What he recognised 
was that the American cousin appeared to justify 
  
himself to sight; which was perhaps no great 
showing, especially as an effect of but two or 
three glances yet it offered that pilgrim an 
inviting extension, one he only asked to make 
the most of. 
"I know how they've looked out for you, sir 
and don't mind telling you that I've myself 
looked out with them; so that I perfectly con 
ceive their present satisfaction. We've landed 
our prize the expression seems peculiarly just, 
and you of course are assuring yourself with the 
last conviction that your own is at least equal 
to anything you could have imagined." Of 
these words Sir Cantopher delivered himself in 
a voice of such an odd high nasality as again 
threw Ralph back on the question of voices and 
caused him to note that he had never before 
heard a like tone applied with such confidence. 
It was with confidence and to the happiest effect 
that Mrs. Midmore applied hers, but hers was 
a charm and a rich comfort, whereas Sir Can- 
topher's excited surprise, or was exciting Ralph's 
at least, in proportion as it developed. There 
again accordingly was our friend learning at a 
leap, learning that here was a scene where the 
safe retention of properties and honours didn't 
in the least depend on a gentleman's either deny 
ing a single mark of his ease or attempting to 
please in violation of it. He himself had been 
acquainted, hadn't he ? with the reign of the 
  
nasal, but when and where had" it flourished to 
his ear as this gentleman, and doubtless quite 
unconsciously, made it flourish ? People were 
supposed at home to enjoy in that particular 
an unresented license which he had, however, 
never heard taken as he now heard it without 
its having somehow seemed to pull the speaker 
down. Sir Cantopher was up, up, up yes, as 
he went on, up at the topmost note of his queer 
fine squeak, which was clearly not less an ele 
ment of felt assurance in him than the most 
settled of his other titles. This didn't withal 
diminish the fact that if you had caught the 
sound the first time without sight of its source, 
you might have turned to expect some rather 
ancient lady, of the highest fashion indeed, but 
playing her part, presumably to her disadvantage, 
upon an organ cracked beyond repair. 
It was furthermore >f moment that not a shade 
of disadvantage, even while the impression was 
suddenest and sharpest, appeared attachable by 
Ralph's fancy to Sir Cantopher's similar ex 
ercise, for how could one in that case have 
been so moved more and more to advance in 
proportion as it was suggested that one was 
awaited ? It took no great number of more 
words to represent to him that he was now in 
presence, and might ever so fortunately continue 
to be, of more cleverness even than his cousins 
had engaged for on behalf of their patron his 
  
pulses telling him in this remarkable way that 
the finest parts of it would probably come out 
to him, and that, yes, positively, they were al 
ready wanting to come out. He, Ralph Pendrel, 
should enjoy them even were that ambiguity of 
the oral medium a condition involved. Mightn't 
he too grow with association prolific enough 
fairly to like the ambiguity ? even as it couldn't 
but be that the company Sir Cantopher kept 
had either to like it or, as the phrase might be, 
lump it. Ralph had really not to wait longer 
than this for the first glint of a truth that was 
soon to gather more force, the virtual perception 
that the only way not to find one's self rather 
afraid of such a companion might well be the 
device of getting and keeping so near him that 
his power to alarm should by positive human 
pressure be deprived of range and action. Not 
this calculation indeed do we impute to our par 
taker of impressions during the first stages of 
the relation that had begun so quickly to move 
him; it was quite enough that a surrender to it 
though to have only just to surrender was a 
most extraordinary turn looked for all the world 
like the door of a society, of knowledge, of pleasure 
in a rich sense in which he hadn't yet encountered 
pleasure, standing ajar before him and asking 
but for a push of his young hand. 
"You'll understand, please, sir," Sir Cantopher 
had at any rate soon said, "that I'm here this 
  
morning to pay you in particular my respects 
and to offer you any service in my power. I've 
only to meet your eye, haven't I ? to judge that 
our manners and customs will be an open book 
to you almost at once, so far as a quick under 
standing is concerned; but there may be a page 
here and there that I can help you to turn over 
even if your cousin Perry, who is also my good 
friend, may be a much better guide for you to 
the sights of the town, as they are called, let 
alone too most of the humours of the country. 
There are things Perry could show me, I'm sure, 
that I've never seen in my life but that must 
be because he has never thought me worthy of 
  em: isn't it, you great keeper of your own 
counsel ? " the family friend asked again of the 
family hope, who now stood with his thumbs in 
his waistcoat armholes and his eyes anywhere 
but on Sir Cantopher's. He had no answer for 
the question addressed to him, which flowered 
out of the speaker's urbanity with a special effect 
for that vivacity of observation in our own young 
man of which Sir Cantopher, to his high credit, 
had lost so remarkably little time in making 
sure. 
What even he, however, in spite of that sharp 
ness, couldn't have guessed, and this by Ralph's 
private and immediate certainty, was what the 
latter was at these instants most thinking of: 
which was neither more nor less than that whereas 
  
their companions, not many minutes before, had 
visibly not known what to make of various odd 
matters drawn by the rare force of the situation 
from their kinsman's candour, so no felt want of 
ease whatever could possibly greet on the score 
of its ambiguity even the boldest push of this 
quite other and very much greater cleverness. 
Yes, very much greater, Ralph at once owned, 
for nothing yet had perhaps brushed his percep 
tion with such a wing as the absolute interest of 
that light on the fact that Sir Cantopher, with 
superior resources to his of every kind (if the 
facial were excepted, though perhaps indeed the 
facial but worked in their own way,) might 
irritate, might exasperate, might really, to put 
it at the worst, humiliate, his- present auditors, 
but would never produce in them that odd con 
sequence, recently noted, of their finding them 
selves disconcertedly at sea. Should Ralph again 
by any accident so leave them ? He hoped not, 
he had somehow felt the warning, we know, as 
the chill of a misadventure. Still, amid the 
wondrous things that so positively promised to 
happen, that, even that, had its suspended pos 
sibility; which in fact cast a shadow just ap 
preciably the larger and the darker by reason 
of this appearance that he was in danger of ex 
pressing least, to any practical end, just when 
desiring to express most, and that there was on 
the other hand nothing his fellow-guest might 
  
treat them to, for that gentleman's special amuse 
ment, that wouldn't be intelligible, and quite 
cruelly so if need be, exactly in proportion to 
the fine taste of it. 
That was the point to which our adventurer 
reached out, the attraction of such fine taste as 
he had heard of, as he had dreamed of, as he 
knew existed in the world, without his having 
come even within remotest hail of it, but which 
he now by the mere act of a step or two might 
positively feel his hand touch. Of this he had 
for the instant so intent an awareness that the 
precious quantity in question and its curious 
master might, by the measure of the recognition, 
have seemed to supersede his appointed mistress 
and her bloom and her beauty as the main and 
original reading of his lesson and object of his 
aim. Wasn't he afterwards quite to allow to 
himself that he had during certain moments just 
then fairly invited the girl herself, so far as laugh 
ing toward her as if he desired it went, to be glad 
with him for his so liking what was thus promised 
them together, as might be there having begun 
in him too, under the very sense we commemorate, 
who should have been able to say what instinct 
of the Tightness of his making no sort of surrender 
to which he shouldn't be able to introduce her 
