the three men came out from the office, there was a crowd 
waiting to know what had happened ; men clamoured ques- 
tions, and each one who got the story would be surrounded 
by others eager to hear. Hal made his way to the board- 
ing-house, and when he had finished his supper, he set out 
from place to place in the camp, telling the men about the 
check-weighman plan and explaining that it was a legal 
right they were demanding. All this while Old Mike 
stayed on one side of him, and Edstrom on the other ; for 
Tom Olson had insisted strenuously that Hal should not 
be left alone for a moment. Evidently the bosses had 
given the same order ; for when Hal came out from Eemi- 
nitsky's, there was " Jake " Predovich, the store-clerk, on 
the fringe of the crowd, and he followed wherever Hal 
went, doubtless making note of every one he spoke to. 
They consulted as to where they were to spend the night 
Old Mike was nervous, taking the activities of the spy to 
mean that they were to be thugged in the darkness. He 
told horrible stories of that sort of thing. What could be 
an easier way for the company to settle the matter ? They 
would fix up some story ; the world outside would believe 
they had been killed in a drunken row, perhaps over some 
woman. This last suggestion especially troubled Hal ; he 
thought of the people at home. No, he must not sleep in 
the village ! And on the other hand he could not go down 
 
the canyon, for if he once passed the gate, he might not 
be allowed to repass it. * 
An idea occurred to him. Why not go up the canyon ? 
There was no stockade at the upper end of the village — 
nothing but wilderness and rocks, without even a road. 
" But where we sleep ? " demanded Old Mike, aghast. 
" Outdoors," said Hal. 
" Pluha, biedna! And get the night air into my 
bones ? " 
" You think you keep the day air in your bones when 
you sleep inside ? " laughed Hal. 
" Why don't I, when I shut them windows tight, and 
cover up my bones ? " 
" Well, risk the night air once," said Hal. " It's bet- 
ter than having somebody let it into you with a knife." 
" But that fellow Predovich — he follow us up canyon 
too!" 
" Yes, but he's only one man, and we don't have to fear 
him. If he went back for others, he'd never be able to 
find us in the darkness." 
Edstrom, whose notions of anatomy were not so crude 
as Mike's, gave his support to this suggestion ; so they got 
their blankets and stumbled up the canyon in the still, 
star-lit night. For a while they heard the spy behind 
them, but finally his footsteps died away, and after they 
had moved on for some distance, they believed they were 
safe till daylight. Hal had slept out many a night as a 
hunter, but it was a new adventure to sleep out as the 
game! 
At dawn they rose, and shook the dew from their blan- 
kets, and wiped it from their eyes. Hal was young, and 
saw the glory of the morning, while poor Mike Sikoria 
groaned and grumbled over his stiff and aged joints. He 
thought he had ruined himself forever, but he took courage 
at Edstrom's mention of coffee, and they hurried down to 
breakfast at their boarding-house. 
 
Now came a critical time, when Hal had to be left by 
himself. Edstrom was obliged to go down to see to his 
wife's funeral; and it was obvious that if Mike Sikoria 
were to lay off work, he would be providing the boss with 
an excuse for firing him. The law which provided for a 
check-weighman had failed to provide for a check-weigh- 
man's body-guard! 
Hal had announced his programme in that flash of de- 
fiance in Cartwright's office. As soon as work started up, 
he went to the tipple. " Mr. Peters," he said, to the tip- 
ple-boss, " I've come to act as check-weighman." 
The tipple-boss was a man with a big black moustache, 
which made him look like the pictures of Nietzsche. He 
stared at Hal, frankly dumbfounded. " What the devil ? " 
said he. 
" Some of the men have chosen me check-weighman," 
explained Hal, in a business-like manner. " When their 
cars come up, I'll see to their weights." 
" You keep off this tipple, young fellow ! " said Peters. 
His manner was equally business-like. 
So the would-be check-weighman came out and sat on 
the steps to wait. The tipple was a fairly public place, 
and he judged he was as safe there as anywhere. Some 
of the men grinned and winked at him as they wej£ about 
their work; several found a chance to whisper -wfrpls of 
encouragement. And all morning he sat, like a prdjeiant 
at the palace-gates of a mandarin in China. It was ietf£ 
ous work, but he believed that he would be able to stand 
it longer than the company. 
 In the middle of the morning a man came up to 
him — " Bud " Adams, a younger brother of the " J. P.," 
and Jeff Cotton's assistant. Bud was stocky, red-faced, 
and reputed to be handy with his fists. So Hal rose up 
warily when he saw himu 
.«*&" 
 
"Hey, you," said Bud. "There's a telegram at the 
office for you." 
"Forme?" 
" Your name's Joe Smith, ain't it ? " 
" Yes." 
" Well, that's what it says." 
Hal considered for a moment. There was no one to be 
telegraphing Joe Smith. It was only a ruse to get him 
away. 
" What's in the telegram ? " he asked. 
" How do I know ? " said Bud. 
" Where is it from ? " 
" I dunno that." 
" Well," said Hal, " you might bring it to me here." 
The other's eyes flew open. This was not a revolt, it 
was a revolution! "Who the hell's messenger boy do 
you think I am ? " he demanded. 
" Don't the company deliver telegrams ? " countered 
Hal, politely. And Bud stood struggling with his human 
impulses, while Hal watched him cautiously. But appar- 
ently those who had sent the messenger had given him pre- 
cise instructions ; for he controlled his wrath, and turned 
and strode away. 
Hal continued his vigil. He had his lunch with him ; 
and was prepared to eat alone — understanding the risk 
that a man would be running who showed sympathy with 
him. He was surprised, therefore, when Johannson, the 
giant Swede, came and sat down by his side. There also 
came a young Mexican labourer, and a Greek miner. The 
revolution was spreading ! 
Hal felt sure the company would not let this go on. 
And sure enough, towards the middle of the afternoon, the 
tipple-boss came out and beckoned to him. " Come here, 
you ! " And Hal went in. 
The " weigh-room " was a fairly open place ; but at one 
side was a door into an office. " This way," said the man. 
But Hal stopped where he was. 
" This is where the check-weighman belongs, Mr. 
Peters." 
" But I want to talk to you." 
" I can hear you, sir." Hal was in sight of the men, 
and he knew that was his only protection. 
The tipple-boss went back into the office ; and a minute 
later Hal saw what had been intended. The door opened 
and Alec Stone came out. 
He stood for a moment looking at his political hench- 
man. Then he came up. " Kid," he said, in a low voice, 
" you're overdoing this. I didn't intend you to go so far." 
" This is not what you intended, Mr. Stone," answered 
Hal. 
The pit-boss came closer yet. " What you looking for, 
kid ? What you expect to get out of this ? " 
Hal's gaze was unwavering. " Experience," he replied. 
"You're feeling smart, sonny. But you'd better stop 
and realise what you're up against. You ain't going to 
get away with it, you know ; get that through your head — 
you ain't going to get away with it. You'd better come in 
and have a talk with me." 
There was a silence. 
"Don't you- know how it'll be, Smith? These little 
fires start up — but we put 'em out. We know how to do 
it, we've got the machinery. It'll all be forgotten in a 
week or two, and then where'll you be at? Can't you 
see?" 
As Hal still made no reply, the other's voice dropped 
lower. "I understand your position. Just give me a 
nod, and it'll be all right. You tell the men that you've 
watched the weights, and that they're all right. They'll 
be satisfied, and you and me can fix it up later." 
" Mr. Stone," said Hal, with intense gravity, " am I 
 
correct in the impression that you are offering me a 
bribe ? " 
In a flash, the man's self-control vanished. He thrust 
his huge fist within an inch of Hal's nose, and uttered a 
foul oath. But Hal did not remove his nose from the 
danger-zone, and over the fist a pair of angry brown eyes 
gazed at the pit-boss. " Mr. Stone, you had better realise 
this situation. I am in dead earnest about this matter, 
and I don't think it will be safe for you to offer me vio- 
lence." 
For a moment or two the man continued to glare at Hal ; 
but it appeared that he, like Bud Adams, had been given 
instructions. He turned abruptly and strode back into 
the office. 
Hal stood for a bit, until he had made sure of his com- 
posure. After which he strolled over towards the scales. 
A difficulty had occurred to him for the first time — that 
he did not know anything about the working of coal-scales. 
But he was given no time to learn. The tipple-boss re- 
appeared. " Get out of here, fellow ! " said he. 
" But you invited me in," remarked Hal, mildly. 
" Well, now I invite you out again." 
And so the protestant resumed his vigil at the man- 
darin's palace-gates. 
 When the quitting-whistle blew, Mike Sikoria 
came quickly to join Hal and hear what had happened. 
Mike was exultant, for several new men had come up to 
him and offered to join the check-weighman movement. 
The old fellow was not sure whether this was owing to his 
own eloquence as a propagandist, or to the fine young 
American buddy he had ; but in either case he was equally 
proud. He gave Hal a note which had been slipped into 
his hand, and which Hal recognised as coming from Tom 
Olson. The organiser reported that every one in the camp 
was talking check-weighman, and so from a propaganda 
standpoint they could count their move a success, no mat- 
ter what the bosses might do. He added that Hal should 
have a number of men stay with him that night, so as to 
have witnesses if the company tried to " pull off any- 
thing." "And be careful of the new men," he added; 
" one or two of them are sure to be spies." 
Hal and Mike discussed their programme for the sec- 
ond night. Neither of them were keen for sleeping out 
again — the old Slovak because of his bones, and Hal be- 
cause he saw there were now several spies following them 
about. At Reminitsky's, he spoke to some of those who 
had offered their support, and asked them if they would 
be willing to spend the night with him in Edstrom's cabin. 
Not one shrank from this test of sincerity; they all 
got their blankets, and repaired to the place, where Hal 
lighted the lamp and held an impromptu check-weighman 
meeting — and incidentally entertained himself with a 
spy-hunt ! 
One of the new-comers was a Pole named Wojecicowski ; 
this, on top of Zamierowski, caused Hal to give up all 
effort to call the Poles by their names. " Woji " was an 
earnest little man, with a pathetic, tired face. He ex- 
plained his presence by the statement that he was sick of 
being robbed; he would pay his share for a check-weigh- 
man, and if they fired him, all right, he would move on, 
and to hell with them. After which declaration he rolled 
up in a blanket and went to snoring on the floor of the 
cabin. That did not seem to be exactly the conduct of a 
spy. 
Another was an Italian, named Farenzena; a dark- 
browed and sinister-looking fellow, who might have served 
as a villain in any melodrama. He sat against the wall 
and talked in guttural tones, and Hal regarded him with 
deep suspicion. It was not easy to understand his Eng- 
lish, but finally Hal managed to make out the story he was 
 
telling — that he was in love with a " f anciulla," and that 
the " f anciulla " was playing with him. He had about 
made up his mind that she was a coquette, and not worth 
bothering with, so he did not care any curses if they sent 
him down the canyon. " Don't fight for f anciulla, fight 
for check-weighman ! " he concluded, with a growl. 
Another volunteer was a Greek labourer, a talkative 
young chap who had sat with Hal at lunch-time, and had 
given his name as Apostolikas. He entered into fluent 
conversation with Hal, explaining how much interested he 
was in the check-weighman plan ; he wanted to know just 
what they were going to do, what chance of success they 
thought they had, who had started the movement and who 
was in it. Hal's replies took the form of little sermons on 
working-class solidarity. Each time the man would start 
to " pump " him, Hal would explain the importance of 
the present issue to the miners, how they must stand by 
one another and make sacrifices for the good of all. After 
he had talked abstract theories for half an hour, Apos- 
tolikas gave up and moved on to Mike Sikoria, who, hav- 
ing been given a wink by Hal, talked about " scabs ' and 
the dreadful things that honest workingmen would do to 
them. When finally the Greek grew tired again, and lay 
down on the floor, Hal moved over to Old Mike and whisr 
pered that the first name of Apostolikas must be Judas ! 
 Old Mike went to sleep quickly; but Hal had 
not worked for several days, and had exciting thoughts to 
keep him awake. He had been lying quiet for a couple 
of hours, when he became aware that some one was moving 
in the room. There was a lamp burning dimly, and 
through half -closed eyes he made out one of the men lift- 
ing himself to a sitting position. At first he could not be 
sure which one it was, but finally he recognised the Greek. 
Hal lay motionless, and after a minute or so he stole 
another look and saw the man crouching and listening, his 
han.ds still on the floor. Through half opened eye-lids 
Hal continued to steal glimpses, while the other rose and 
tip-toed towards him, stepping carefully over the sleeping 
forms. 
Hal did his best to simulate the breathing of sleep : no 
easy matter, with the man stooping over him, and a knife- 
thrust as one of the possibilities of the situation. He took* 
the chance, however ; and after what seemed an age, he felt 
the man's fingers lightly touch his side. They moved 
down to his coat-pocket. 
" Going to search me ! " thought Hal ; and waited, ex- 
pecting the hand to travel to other pockets. But after 
what seemed an interminable period, he realised that Apos- 
tolikas had risen again, and was stepping back to his place. 
In a minute more he had lain down, and all was still in the 
cabin. 
Hal's hand moved to the pocket, and his fingers slid in- 
side. They touched something, which he recognised in- 
stantly as a roll of bills. 
"I see ! " thought he. " A frame-up ! " And he 
laughed to himself, his mind going back to early boyhood 
— to a dilapidated trunk in the attic of his home, con- 
taining story-books that his father had owned. He could 
see them now, with their worn brown covers and crude 
pictures : " The Luck and Pluck Series," by Horatio 
Alger ; " Live or Die," " Eough and Beady," etc. How 
he had thrilled over the story of the country-boy who comes 
to the city, and meets the villain who robs his employer's 
cash-drawer and drops the key of it into the hero's pocket ! 
Evidently some one connected with the General Fuel Com- 
pany had read Horatio Alger ! 
Hal realised that he could not be too quick about get- 
ting those bills out of his pocket. He thought of return- 
ing them to " Judas," but decided that he would save them 
for Edstrom, who was likely to need money before long. 
 
He gave the Greek half an hour to go to sleep, then with 
his pocket-knife he gently picked out a hole in the cinders 
of the floor and buried the money as best he could. After 
which he wormed his way to another place, and lay think- 
ing. 
 Would they wait until morning, or would they 
come soon? He was inclined to the latter guess, so he 
was only slightly startled when, an hour or two later, he 
heard the knob of the cabin-door turned. A moment later 
came a crash and the door was burst open, with the shoul- 
der of a heavy man behind it. 
The room was in confusion in a second. Men sprang 
to their feet, crying out; others sat up bewildered, still 
half asleep. The room was bright from an electric torch 
in the hands of one of the invaders. " There's the fel- 
low ! " cried a voice, which Hal instantly recognised as 
belonging to Jeff Cotton, the camp-marshal. " Stick 'em 
up, there ! You, Joe Smith ! " Hal did not wait to see 
the glint of the marshal's revolver. 
There followed a silence. As this drama was being 
staged for the benefit of the other men, it was necessary to 
give them time to get thoroughly awake, and to get their 
eyes used to the light. Meantime Hal stood, his hands 
in the air. Behind the torch he could make out the faces 
of the marshal, Bud Adams, Alec Stone, Jake Predovich, 
and two or three others. 
"Now, men," said Cotton, at last, "you are some of 
the fellows that want a check-weighman. And this is the 
man you chose. Is that right ? "  
There was no answer. 
" I'm going to show you the kind of fellow he is. He 
came to Mr. Stone here and offered to sell you out." 
" It's a lie, men," said Hal, quietly. 
" He took some money from Mr. Stone to sell you out ! " 
insisted the marshal. 
 
"It's a lie," said Hal, again, 
" He's got that money now ! " cried the other. 
And Hal cried, in turn, " They are trying to frame 
something on me, boys ! Don't let them fool you ! " 
" Shut up," commanded the marshal ; then, to the men, 
" I'll show you. I think he's got that money on him now. 
Jake, search him." 
The store-clerk advanced. 
" Watch out, boys ! " exclaimed Hal. " They will put 
something in my pockets." And then to Old Mike, who 
had started angrily forward, " It's all right, Mike ! Let 
them alone ! " 
" Jake, take off your coat," ordered Cotton. " Koll up 
your sleeves. Show your hands." 
It was for all the world like the performance of a 
prestidigitator. The little Jew took off his coat and rolled 
up his sleeves above his elbows. He exhibited his hands 
to the audience, turning them this way and that; then, 
keeping them out in front of him, he came slowly towards 
Hal, like a hypnotist about to put him to sleep. 
" Watch him ! " said Cotton. " He's got that money 
on him, I know." 
" Look sharp ! " cried Hal. " If it isn't there, they'll 
put it there." 
" Keep your hands up, young fellow," commanded the 
marshal. " Keep back from him there ! " This last to 
Mike Sikoria and the other spectators, who were pressing 
nearer, peering over one another's shoulders. 
It was all very serious at the time, but afterwards, when 
Hal recalled the scene, he laughed over the grotesque figure 
of Predovich searching his pockets while keeping as far 
away from him as possible, so that every one might know 
that the money had actually come out of Hal's pocket. 
The searcher put his hands first in the inside pockets, then 
in the pockets of Hal's shirt. Time was needed to build 
up this climax! 
 
" Turn around," commanded Cotton; and Hal turned, 
and the Jew went through his trouser-pockets. He took 
out in turn Hal's watch, his comb and mirror, his hand- 
kerchief ; after examining them and holding them up, he 
dropped them onto the floor. There was a breathless hush 
when he came to Hal's purse, and proceeded to open it. 
Thanks to the greed of the company, there was nothing in 
the purse but some small change. Predovich closed it and 
dropped it to the floor. 
" Wait now ! He's not through ! " cried the master of 
ceremonies. "He's got that money somewhere, boys! 
Did you look in his side-pockets, Jake ? " 
" Not yet," said Jake. 
" Look sharp ! " cried the marshal ; and every one craned 
forward eagerly, while Predovich stooped down on one 
knee, and put his hand into one coat pocket and then into 
the other. 
He took his hand out again, and the look of dismay 
upon his face was so obvious that Hal could hardly keep 
from laughing. " It ain't dere I " he declared. 
" What ? " cried Cotton, and they stared at each other. 
" By God, he's got rid of it!" 
" There's no money on me, boys ! " proclaimed Hal. 
" It's a job they are trying to put over on us." 
"He's hid it!" shouted the marshal. "Find it, 
Jake!" 
Then Predovich began to search again, swiftly, and with 
less circumstance. He was not thinking so much about 
the spectators now, as about all that good money gone for 
nothing! He made Hal take off his coat, and ripped open 
the lining; he unbuttoned the trousers and felt inside; he 
thrust his fingers down inside Hal's shoes. 
But there was no money, and the searchers were at a 
standstill. " He took twenty-five dollars from Mr. Stone 
to sell you out ! " declared the marshal. " He's managed 
to get rid of it somehow." 
" Boys ' cried Hal, " they sent a spy in here, and told 
him to put money on me." He was looking at Aposto- 
likas as he spoke ; he saw the man start and shrink back. 
" That's him ! He's a scab ! " cried Old Mike. " He's 
got the money on him, I bet ! " And he made a move to- 
wards the Greek. 
So the camp-marshal realised suddenly that it was time 
to ring down the curtain on this drama. " That's enough 
of this foolishness," he declared. "Bring that fellow 
along here ! " And in a flash a couple of the party had 
seized Hal's wrists, and a third had grabbed him by the 
collar of his shirt. Before the miners had time to realise 
what was happening, they had rushed their prisoner out 
of the cabin. 
The quarter of an hour which followed was an uncom- 
fortable one for the would-be check-weighman. Outside, 
in the darkness, the camp-marshal was free to give vent 
to his rage, and so was Alec Stone. They poured out 
curses upon him, and kicked him and cuffed him as they 
went along. One of the men who held his wrists twisted 
his arm, until he cried out with pain; then they cursed 
him harder, and bade him hold his mouth. Down the 
dark and silent street they went swiftly, and into the 
camp-marshal's office, and upstairs to the room which 
served as the North Valley jail. Hal was glad enough 
when they left him here, slamming the iron door behind 
them. 
 It had been a crude and stupid plot, yet Hal 
realised that it was adapted to the intelligence of the men 
for whom it was intended. But for the accident that he 
had stayed awake, they would have found the money on 
him, and next morning the whole camp would have heard 
that he had sold out. Of course his immediate friends, the 
members of the committee, would not have believed it ; but 
 
the mass of the workers would have believed it, and so 
the purpose of Tom Olson's visit to North Valley would 
have been balked. Throughout the experiences which 
were to come to him, Hal retained his vivid impression of 
that adventure; it served to him as a symbol of many 
things. Just as the bosses had tried to bedevil him, to 
destroy his influence with his followers, so later on he 
saw them trying to bedevil the labour-movement, to con- 
fuse the intelligence of the whole country. 
Now Hal was in jail. He went to the window and 
tried the bars — but found that they had been made for 
such trials. Then he groped his way about in the dark- 
ness, examining his prison, which proved to be a steel cage 
built inside the walls of an ordinary room. In one corner 
was a bench, and in another corner another bench, some- 
what broader, with a mattress upon it. Hal had read a 
little about jails — enough to cause him to avoid this mat- 
tress. He sat upon the bare bench, and began to think. 
It is a fact that there is a peculiar psychology inci- 
dental to being in jail; just as there is a peculiar psy- 
chology incidental to straining your back and breaking 
your hands loading coal-cars in a five foot vein; and an- 
other, and quite different psychology, produced by living 
at ease off the labours of coal-miners. In a jail, you have 
first of all the sense of being an animal ; the animal side 
of your being is emphasised, the animal passions of hatred 
and fear are called into prominence, and if you are to 
escape being dominated by them, it can only be by intense 
and concentrated effort of the mind. So, if you are a 
thinking man, you do a great deal of thinking in a jail; 
the days are long, and the nights still longer — you have 
time for all the thoughts you can have. 
The bench was hard, and seemed to grow harder. There 
was no position in which it could be made to grow soft. 
Hal got up and paced about, then he lay down for a while, 
then got up and walked again; and all the while he 
 
thought, and all the while the jail-psychology was being 
impressed upon his mind. 
First, he thought about his immediate problem. What 
were they going to do to him ? The obvious thing would 
be to put him out of camp, and so be done with him ; but 
would they rest content with that, in their irritation at the 
trick he had played? Hal had heard vaguely of that 
