 
a hundred connections a sweet assault on his 
credulity, but was at the same time a phase of 
experience comparatively vulgar and that tended 
to lose its edge with repetition. The real, the 
overwhelming sense of his adventure was much 
less in the fact that he could lisp in dollars, as it 
were, and see the dollars come, than in those vast 
vague quantities, those spreading tracts, of his 
own consciousness itself on which his kinsman's 
prodigious perversity had imposed, as for his ex- 
ploration, the aspect of a boundless capital. This 
trust of the dead man in his having a nature that 
would show to advantage under a bigger strain 
than it had ever dreamed of meeting, and the 
corresponding desolate freedom on his own part 
to read back into the mystery such refinements 
either, or such crude candours, of meaning and 
motive as might seem best to fit it, that was the 
huge vague inscribable sum which ran up into 
the millions and for which the signature that let- 
tered itself to the last neatness wherever his mind's 
eye rested was "good" enough to reduce any 
more casual sign in the scheme of nature or of 
art to the state of a negligible blur. Mr. Crick's 
want of colour, as Gray qualified this gentleman's 
idiosyncrasy from the moment he saw how it 
would be their one point of contact, became, by 
the extreme rarity and clarity with which it 
couldn't but affect him, the very most gorgeous 
gem, of the ruby or topaz order, that the smooth 
 
forehead of the actual was for the present to 
flash upon him. 
For dry did it appear inevitable to take the fact 
of a person's turning up, from New York, with no 
other retinue than an attendant scribe in a straw 
hat, a few hours before his uncle's last one, and 
being beholden to mere Miss Mumby for simple 
introduction to Gray as Mr. Betterman's lawyer. 
So had such sparenesses and barenesses of form to 
register themselves for a mind beset with the 
tradition that consequences were always somehow 
voluminous things; and yet the dryness was of a 
sort, Gray soon apprehended, that he might take 
up in handfuls, as if it had been the very sand of 
the Sahara, and thereby find in it, at the least 
exposure to light, the collective shimmer of 
myriads of fine particles. It was with the sub- 
stance of the desert taken as monotonously spar- 
kling under any motion to dig in it that the abyss 
of Mr. Crick's functional efficiency was filled. 
That efficiency, in respect to the things to be done, 
would clearly so answer to any demand upon it 
within the compass of our young man's subtlety, 
that the result for him could only be a couple of 
days of inexpressible hesitation as to the outward 
air he himself should be best advised to aim at 
wearing. He reminded himself at this crisis of 
the proprietor of a garden, newly acquired, who 
might walk about with his gardener and try to 
combine, in presence of abounding plants and the 
 
vast range of luxuriant nature, an ascertainment 
of names and properties and processes with a dis- 
simulation, for decent appearance, of the positive 
side of his cockneyism. By no imagination of a 
state of mind so unfurnished would the gardener 
ever have been visited; such gaping seams in the 
garment of knowledge must affect him at the 
worst as mere proprietary languor, the offhand- 
ness of repletion; and no effective circumvention 
of traditional takings for granted could late-born 
curiosity therefore achieve. Gray's hesitation 
ceased only when he had decided that he needn't 
care, comparatively speaking, for what Mr. Crick 
might think of him. He was going to care for 
what others might — this at least he seemed rest- 
lessly to apprehend; he was going to care tremen- 
dously, he felt himself make out, for what Ro- 
sanna Gaw might, for what Horton Vint might — 
even, it struck him, for what Davey Bradham 
might. But in presence of Mr. Crick, who in- 
sisted on having no more personal identity than 
the omnibus conductor stopping before you but 
just long enough to bite into a piece of paste- 
board with a pair of small steel jaws, the ques- 
tion of his having a character either to keep or 
to lose declined all relevance — and for the reason 
in especial that whichever way it might turn for 
him would remain perhaps, so to speak, the most 
unexpressed thing that should ever have happened 
in the world. 
 
The effect producible by him on the persons 
just named, and extending possibly to whole 
groups of which these were members, would be 
an effect because somehow expressed and en- 
countered as expression: when had he in all his 
life, for example, so lived in the air of expression 
and so depended on the help of it, as in that so 
thrilling night-hour just spent with the mystify- 
ing and apparently mystified, yet also apparently 
attached and, with whatever else, attaching, 
Vinty ? It wasn't that Mr. Crick, whose analogue 
he had met on every occasion of his paying his 
fare in the public conveyances — where the per- 
sons to whom he paid it, without perhaps in their 
particulars resembling each other, all managed 
nevertheless to be felt as gathered into this ref- 
erence — wasn't in a high degree conversible; it 
was that the more he conversed the less Gray 
found out what he thought not only of Mr. Bet- 
terman's heir but of any other subject on which 
they touched. The gentleman who would, by 
Gray's imagination, have been acting for the 
executors of his uncle's will had not that precious 
document appeared to dispense with every super- 
fluity, could state a fact, under any rash invita- 
tion, and endow it, as a fact, with the greatest 
conceivable amplitude — this too moreover not 
because he was garrulous or gossiping, but be- 
cause those facts with which he was acquainted, 
the only ones on which you would have dreamed 
 
of appealing to him, seemed all perfect nests or 
bags of other facts, bristling or bulging thus with 
every intensity of the positive and leaving no 
room in their interstices for mere appreciation to 
so much as turn round. They were themselves 
appreciation — they became so by the simple 
force of their existing for Mr. Crick's arid men- 
tion, and they so covered the ground of his con- 
sciousness to the remotest edge that no breath 
of the air either of his own mind or of anyone's 
else could have pretended to circulate about them. 
Gray made the reflection — tending as he now felt 
himself to waste rather more than less time in 
this idle trick — that the different matters of con- 
tent in some misunderstandings have so glued 
themselves together that separation has quite 
broken down and one continuous block, sugges- 
tive of dimensional squareness, with mechanical 
perforations and other aids to use subsequently 
introduced, comes to represent the whole life of 
the subject. What it amounted to, he might 
have gathered, was that Mr. Crick was of such a 
common commonness as he had never up to now 
seen so efficiently embodied, so completely or- 
ganised, so securely and protectedly active, in 
a word — not to say so garnished and adorned 
with strange refinements of its own: he had 
somehow been used to thinking of the extreme 
of that quality as a note of defeated application, 
just as the extreme of rarity would have to be. 
 
His domestic companion of these days again and 
again struck him as most touching the point at 
issue, and that point alone, when most proclaim- 
ing at every pore that there wasn't a difference, 
in all the world, between one thing and another. 
The refusal of his whole person to figure as a 
fact invidiously distinguishable, that of his aspect 
to have an identity, of his eyes to have a con- 
sciousness, of his hair to have a colour, of his 
nose to have a form, of his mouth to have a mo- 
tion, of his voice to consent to any separation of 
sounds, made intercourse with him at once ex- 
tremely easy and extraordinarily empty; it was 
deprived of the flicker of anything by the way 
and resembled the act of moving forward in a 
perfectly-rolling carriage with the blind of each 
window neatly drawn down. 
Gray sometimes advanced to the edge of trying 
him, so to call it, as to the impression made on 
him by lack of recognitions assuredly without 
precedent in any experience, any, least of all, of 
the ways of beneficiaries; but under the necessity 
on each occasion of our young man's falling back 
from the vanity of supposing himself really pre- 
sentable or apprehensible. For a grasp of him 
on such ground to take place he should have had 
first to show himself and to catch his image some- 
how reflected; simply walking up and down and 
shedding bland gratitude didn't convey or ex- 
hibit or express him in this case, as he was sure 
2
 
these things had on the other hand truly done 
where everyone else, where his uncle and Ro- 
sanna, where Mr. Gaw and even Miss Mumby, 
where splendid Vinty, whom he so looked to, 
and awfully nice Davey Bradham, whom he so 
took to, were concerned. It all came back to 
the question of terms and to the perception, in 
varying degrees, on the part of these persons, of 
his own; for there were somehow none by which 
Mr. Crick was penetrable that would really tell 
anything about him, and he could wonder in free- 
dom if he wasn't then to know too that last im- 
munity from any tax on his fortune which would 
consist in his having never to wince. Against 
wincing in other relations than this one he was 
prepared, he only desired, to take his precautions 
— visionary precautions in those connections truly 
swarming upon him; but apparently he was 
during these first days of the mere grossness of 
his reality to learn something of the clear state 
of seeing every fond sacrifice to superstition that 
he could think of thrust back at him. If he could 
but have brought his visitor to say after twenty- 
four hours of him "Well, you're the damnedest 
little idiot I've ever had to pretend to hold com- 
merce with !" that would on the spot have pressed 
the spring of his rich sacrificial "Oh I must be, 
I must be! — how can I not abjectly and grate- 
fully be?" Something at least would so have 
been done to placate the jealous gods. But in- 
 
stead of that the grossness of his reality just 
flatly included this supremely useful friend's per- 
haps supposing him a vulgar voluptuary, or at 
least a mere gaping maw, cynically, which 
amounted to say frivolously, indifferent to every- 
thing but the general fact of his windfall. Strange 
that it should be impossible in any particular 
whatever to inform or to correct Mr. Crick, who 
sat unapproachable in the midst of the only 
knowledge that concerned him. 
He couldn't help feeling it conveyed in the 
very breath of the summer airs that played about 
him, to his fancy, in a spirit of frolic still lighter 
and quicker than they had breathed in other 
climes, he couldn't help almost seeing it as the 
spray of sea-nymphs, or hearing it as the sounded 
horn of tritons, emerging, to cast their spell, 
from the foam-flecked tides around, that he was 
regarded as a creature rather unnaturally "quiet" 
there on his averted verandahs and in his darkened 
halls, even at moments when quite immense 
things, by his own measure, were happening to 
him. Everything, simply, seemed to be happen- 
ing, and happening all at once — as he could say 
to himself, for instance, by the fact of such a 
mere matter as his pulling up at some turn of his 
now renewedly ceaseless pacing to take in he 
could scarce have said what huge though soft 
collective rumble, what thick though dispersed 
exhalation, of the equipped and appointed life, 
 
the life that phrased itself with sufficient as- 
surance as the multitudinous throb of Newport, 
borne toward him from vague regions, from be- 
hind and beyond his temporary blest barriers, 
and representing for the first time in his experience 
an appeal directed at him from a source not some- 
what shabbily single. An impression like that 
was in itself an event — so repeatedly in his other 
existence (it was already his quite unconnectedly 
other) had the rumour of the world, the voice of 
society, the harmonies of possession, been charged, 
for his sensibility, with reminders which, so far 
from suggesting association, positively waved 
him off from it. Mr. Betterman's funeral, for 
all the rigour of simplicity imposed on it by his 
preliminary care, had enacted itself in a pon- 
derous, numerous, in fact altogether swarming 
and resounding way; the old local cemetery on 
the seaward-looking hillside, as Gray seemed to 
identify it, had served for the final scene, and 
our young man's sense of the whole thing reached 
its finest point in an unanswered question as to 
whether the New York business world or the New 
York newspaper interest were the more copiously 
present. The business world broke upon him 
during the recent rites in large smooth tepid 
waves — he was conscious of a kind of generalised 
or, as they seemed to be calling it, standardised 
face, as of sharpness without edge, save when 
edge was unexpectedly improvised, bent upon 
 
him for a hint of what might have been better 
expressed could it but have been expressed hu- 
morously; while the newspaper interest only fed 
the more full, he felt even at the time, from the 
perfectly bare plate offered its flocking young 
emissaries by the most recognising eye at once 
and the most deprecating dumbness that he 
could command. 
He had asked Vinty, on the morrow of Vinty's 
evening visit, to "act" for him in so far as this 
might be; upon which Vinty had said gaily — he 
was unexceptionally gay now — "Do you mean 
as your best man at your marriage to the bride 
who is so little like St. Francis's ? much as you 
yourself strike me, you know, as resembling the 
man of Assisi." Vinty, at his great present ease, 
. constantly put things in such wonderful ways; 
which were nothing, however, to the way he 
mostly did them during the days he was able 
to spare before going off again to other calls, 
other performances in other places, braver and 
breezier places on the bolder northern coast, it 
mostly seemed: his allusions to which excited 
absolutely the more curious interest in his friend, 
by an odd law, in proportion as he sketched them, 
under pressure, as probably altogether alien to 
the friend's sympathies. That was to be for the 
time, by every indication, his amusing "line" — 
his taking so confident and insistent a view of 
what it must be in Gray's nature and tradition 
 
to like or not to like that, as our young man for 
that matter himself assured him, he couldn't 
have invented a more successfully insidious way 
of creating an appetite than by passing under a 
fellow's nose every sort of whiff of the indigestible. 
One thing at least was clear, namely: that, let 
his presumption of a comrade's susceptibilities, 
his possible reactions, under general or particular 
exposure, approve itself or not, the extent to 
which this free interpreter was going personally 
to signify for the savour of the whole stretched 
there as a bright assurance. Thus he was all the 
while acting indeed — acting so that fond formula- 
tions of it could only become in the promptest 
way mere redundancies of reference; he acted 
because his approach, his look, his touch made 
somehow, by their simply projecting themselves, 
a definite difference for any question, great or 
small, in the least subject to them; and this, 
after the most extraordinary fashion, not in the 
least through his pressing or interfering or even 
so much as intending, but just as a consequence 
of his having a sense and an intelligence of the 
given affair, such as it might be, to which, once 
he" was present at it, he was truly ashamed not 
to conform. That concentrated passage between 
the two men while the author of their situation 
was still unburied would of course always hover 
to memory's eye like a votive object in the rich 
gloom of a chapel; but it was now disconnected, 
 
attached to its hook once for all, its whole mean- 
ing converted with such small delay into work- 
ing, playing force and multiplied tasteable fruit. 
Quiet as he passed for keeping himself, by the 
impression I have noted, how could Gray have 
felt more plunged in history, how could he by his 
own sense more have waked up to it each morn- 
ing and gone to bed with it each night, sat down 
to it whenever he did sit down, which was never 
for long, whether at a meal, at a book, at a letter, 
or at the wasted endeavour to become, by way of 
a change, really aware of his consciousness, than 
through positively missing as he did the hint of 
anything in particular to do ? — missing and miss- 
ing it all the while and yet at no hour paying the 
least of the penalties that are supposed to attend 
the drop of responsibility and the substituted 
rule of fatuity. How couldn't it be agitation of 
a really sublime order to have it come over one 
that the personage in the world one must most 
resemble at such a pitch would be simply, at 
one's choice, the Kaiser or the Czar, potentates 
who only know their situation is carried on by 
attestation of the fact that push it wherever they 
will they never find it isn't ? Thus they are re- 
ferred to the existence of machinery, the working 
of which machinery is answered for, they may 
feel, whenever their eyes rest on one of those 
figures, ministerial or ceremonial, who may be, 
as it is called, in waiting. Mr. Crick was in wait- 
 
ing, Horton Vint was in waiting, Rosanna Gaw 
even, at this moment a hundred miles away, was 
in waiting, and so was Davey Bradham, though 
with but a single appearance at the palace as yet 
to his credit. Neither Horton nor Mr. Crick, it 
was true, were more materially, more recurrently 
present than a fellow's nerves, for the wonder of 
it all, could bear; but what was it but just being 
Czar or Kaiser to keep thrilling on one's own 
side before the fact that this made no difference ? 
 Vulgar reassurance was the greatest of vulgari- 
ties; monarchs could still be irresponsible, thanks 
to their ministers' not being, and Gray repeatedly 
asked himself how he should ever have felt as 
he generally did if it hadn't been so absolutely 
exciting that while the scattered moments of 
Horton's presence and the fitful snatches of tele- 
phonic talk with him lasted the gage of protec- 
tion, perfectly certain patronising protection, 
added a still pleasanter light to his eye and ring 
to his voice, casual and trivial as he clearly might 
have liked to keep these things. Great mon- 
archies might be "run," but great monarchs 
weren't — unless of course often by the favourite 
or the mistress; and one hadn't a mistress yet, 
goodness knew, and if one was threatened with a 
favourite it would be but with a favourite of the 
people too. 
History and the great life surged in upon our 
hero through such images as these at their fullest 
 
tide, finding him out however he might have 
tried to hide from them, and shaking him perhaps 
even with no livelier question than when it oc- 
curred to him for the first time within the week, 
oddly enough, that the guest of the Bradhams 
never happened, while his own momentary guest, 
to meet Mr. Crick, in his counsels, by so much 
as an instant's overlapping, any more than it 
would chance on a single occasion that he should 
name his friend to that gentleman or otherwise 
hint at his existence, still less his importance. 
Was it just that the king was usually shy of men- 
tioning the favourite to the head of the treasury 
and that various decencies attached, by tradi- 
tion, to keeping public and private advisers 
separate? "Oh I absolutely decline to come in, 
at any point whatever, between you and him; 
as if there were any sort of help I can give you 
that he won't ever so much better!" — those 
words had embodied, on the morrow, Vinty's 
sole allusion to the main sense of their first talk, 
which he had gone on with in no direct fashion. 
He had thrown a ludicrous light on his committing 
himself to any such atrocity of taste while the 
empowered person and quite ideally right man 
was about; but points would come up more and 
more, did come up, in fact already had, that they 
doubtless might work out together happily enough; 
and it took Horton in fine the very fewest hours 
to give example after example of his familiar and 
 
immediate wit. Nothing could have better il- 
lustrated this than the interest thrown by him 
for Gray over a couple of subjects that, with 
many others indeed, beguiled three or four rides 
taken by the friends along the indented shores 
and other seaside stretches and reaches of their 
low-lying promontory in the freshness of the 
early morning and when the scene might figure 
for themselves alone. Gray, clinging as yet to 
his own premises very much even as a stripped 
swimmer might loiter to enjoy an air-bath be- 
fore his dive, had yet mentioned that he missed 
exercise and had at once found Vinty full of re- 
source for his taking it in that pleasantest way. 
Everything, by his assurance, was going to be 
delightful but the generality of the people; thus, 
accordingly, was the generality of the people not 
yet in evidence, thus at the sweet hour following 
the cool dawn could the world he had become 
possessed of spread about him unspoiled. 
It was perhaps in Gray to wonder a little in 
these conditions what was then in evidence, with 
decks so invidiously cleared; this being, however, 
a remark he forbore to make, mystified as he 
had several times been, and somehow didn't like 
too much being, by having had to note that to 
differ at all from Vinty on occasions apparently 
offered was to provoke in him at once a positive 
excess of agreement. He always went further, 
as it were, and Gray himself, as he might say, 
 
didn't want to go those lengths, which were out 
of the range of practical politics altogether. Hor- 
ton's habit, as it seemed to show itself, was to 
make out of saving sociability or wanton in- 
genuity or whatever, a distinction for which a 
companion might care, but for which he himself 
didn't with any sincerity, and then to give his 
own side of it away, from the moment doubt 
had been determined, with an almost desolating 
sweep of surrender. His own side of it was by 
that logic no better a side, in a beastly vulgar 
world, than any other, and if anyone wanted to 
mean that such a mundane basis was deficient 
why he himself had but meant it from the first 
and pretended something else only not to be too 
shocking. He was ready to mean the worst — 
was ready for anything, that is, in the interest 
of ceasing from humbug. And if Gray was pre- 
pared for that then il ne s'agissait que de s'enten- 
dre. What Gray was prepared for would really 
take, this young man frankly opined, some thresh- 
ing out; but it wasn't at all in readiness for the 
worst that he had come to America — he had 
come on the contrary to indulge, by God's help, 
in appreciations, comparisons, observations, re- 
flections and other luxuries, that were to minister, 
fond old prejudice aiding, to life at the high pitch, 
the pitch, as who should say, of immortality. 
If on occasion, under the dazzle of Horton's 
facility, he might ask himself how he tracked 
 
through it the silver thread of sincerity — con- 
sistency" wasn't pretended to — something at once 
