and the Amazon, to the ultimate freedom of those 
millions of their sisters lulled or helpless in the enchanted net of sex. 
It is doubtful if even the militants can revert to 
their former singleness of purpose; after many months, 
possibly years, of devotion to duty, serving State and 
man, the effacement of self, appreciation of the naked 
fact that the integrity of their country matters more 
 
than anything else on earth, they may be quite unable to rebound to their old fanatical attitude toward 
suffrage as the one important issue of the Twentieth 
Century. Even the very considerable number of those 
women that have reached an appearance which would 
eliminate them from the contest over such men as 
are left may be so chastened by the hideous sufferings 
they have witnessed or heard of daily, so moved by 
the astounding endurance and grim valor of man 
(who nearest approaches to godhood in time of war) 
that they will have lost the disposition to tear from 
him the few compensations the new era of peace can 
offer. If that is the case, if women at the end of 
the war are soft, completely rehabilitated in that 
femininity, or f emaleness, which was their original endowment from Nature, the whole great movement 
will subside, and the work must begin over again by 
unborn women and their accumulated grievances some 
fifty years hence. 
Nothing is more sure than that Nature will take 
advantage of the lull to make a desperate attempt to 
recover her lost ground. Progressive women, and 
before the war their ranks were recruited daily, were 
one of the most momentous results of the forces of 
the higher civilization, an evolution that in Nature's 
eye represented a lamentable divergence from type. 
Here is woman, with all her physical disabilities, become man's rival in all of the arts, save music, and in 
nearly all of the productive walks of life, as well as in 
a large percentage of the professional and executive; 
 
intellectually the equal if not the superior of the average man — who in these days, poor devil, is born a 
specialist — and making a bold bid for political equality. 
It has been a magnificent accomplishment, and it 
has marked one of the most brilliant and picturesque 
milestones in human progress. It seems incredible 
that woman, in spite of the tremendous pressure that 
Nature will put upon her, may revert weakly to type. 
The most powerful of all the forces working for Na- 
ture and against feminism will be the quite brutal and 
obscene naturalness of war, and the gross familiarity 
of civilization with it for so long a period. There 
is reversion to type with a vengeance ! The ablest of 
the male inheritors of the accumulated wisdom and 
experiences and civilizing influences of the ages were 
in power prior to August 1914, and not one of them 
nor all combined had the foresight to circumvent, or 
the diplomatic ingenuity to keep in leash the panting 
Hun. They are settling their scores, a.d. 1914-1917, 
by brute fighting. There has been some brain work 
during this war so far, but a long sight more brute 
work. As it was in the beginning, etc. 
And the women, giving every waking hour to 
arrleliorating the lot of the defenders of their hearth 
and their honor, or nursing the wounded in hospital, 
have been stark up against the physical side : whether 
making bombs in factories, bandages or uniforms, 
washing gaping wounds, preparing shattered bodies for 
burial, or listening to the horrid tales of men and 
women home on leave. 
 
The European woman, in spite of her exalted pitch, 
is living a more or less mechanical life at present. 
Even where she has revealed unsuspected creative 
ability, as soon as her particular task is mapped she 
subsides into routine. As a rule she is quite automatically and naturally performing those services and 
duties for which Nature so elaborately equipped her, 
ministering to man almost exclusively, even when temporarily filling his place in the factory and the tram- 
car. Dienen! Dienen! is the motto of one and all of 
these Kundrys, whether they realize it or not, and it 
is on the cards that they may never again wish to 
somersault back to that mental attitude where they 
would dominate not serve. 
On the other hand civilization may for once prove 
stronger than Nature. Thinking women — and there 
are a few hundred thousands of them — may emerge 
from this hideous reversion of Europe to barbarism 
with an utter contempt for man. They may despise 
the men of affairs for muddling Europe into the most 
terrible war in history, in the very midst of the greatest civilization of which there is any record. They 
may experience a secret but profound revulsion from 
the men wallowing in blood and filth for months on 
end, living only to kill. The fact that the poor men 
can't help it does not alter the case. The women 
can't help it either. Women have grown very fastidious. The sensual women and the quite unimaginative 
 
women will not be affected, but how about the others ? 
And only men of the finest grain survive a long period 
of war with the artificial habits of civilization strong 
upon them. 
The end of this war may mark a conclusive revul- 
sion of the present generation of European women 
from men that may last until they have passed the 
productive age. Instead of softening, disintegrating 
back to type, they may be insensibly hardening inside 
a mould that will eventually cast them forth a more 
definite third sex than any that threatened before the 
war. Woman, blind victim of the race as she has 
been for centuries, seldom in these days loves with- 
out an illusion of the senses or of the imagination. 
She has ceased, in the wider avenues of life, lined as 
they are with the opulent wares of twentieth century 
civilization, to be merely the burden-bearing and reproductive sex. Life has taught her the inestimable 
value of illusions, and the more practical she becomes, 
the more she cherishes this divine gift. It is possible 
that man has forfeited his power to cast a glamour 
over all but the meanest types of women. If that 
should be the case women will ask : Why settle down 
and keep house for the tiresome creatures, study their 
whims, and meekly subside into the second place, or 
be eternally on the alert for equal rights? As for 
children ? Let the state suffer for its mistakes. Why 
bring more children into the world to be blown to 
pieces on the field of battle, or a burden to their women 
throughout interminable years? No! For a generation at least the world shall be ours, and then it may 
limp along with a depleted population or go to the 
dogs. 
Few, no doubt, will reason it out as elaborately as 
this or be so consciously ruthless, but a large enough 
number are likely enough to bring the light of their 
logic to bear upon the opportunity, and a still larger 
number to feel an obscure sense of revolt against man 
for his failure to uphold civilization against the Prussian anachronism, combined with a more definite de- 
sire for personal liberty. And both of these divisions 
of their sex are likely to alter the course of history — 
far more radically than has ever happened before at 
the close of any fighting period. Even the much depended upon maternal instinct may subside, partly 
under the horrors of field hospitals where so many 
mother's sons are ghastly wrecks, partly under a heavy 
landslide of disgust that the sex that has ruled the 
world should apparently be so helpless against so ob- 
scene a fate. 
They will reflect that if women are weak (com- 
paratively) physically, there is all the more hope they 
may develop into giants mentally; one of man's handicaps being that his more highly vitalized body with its 
coercive demands, is ever waging war with a consistent and complete development of the mind. And in 
these days, when the science of the body is so thoroughly understood, any woman, unless afflicted with 
an organic disease, is able to keep her brain constantly 
supplied with red unpoisoned blood, and may wax in 
 
mental powers (there being no natural physical deteriorations in the brain as in the body) so long as 
life lasts. 
Certainly these women will say: We could have 
done no worse than these chess players of Europe and 
we might have done better. Assuredly if we grasp 
and hold the reins of the world there will never be 
another war. We are not, in the first place, as greedy 
as men ; we will divide the world up in strict accordance with race, and let every nation have its own place 
in the sun. Commercial greed has no place in our 
make-up, and with the hideous examples of history 
it will never obtain entrance. 
How often has it been the cynical pleasure of mere 
ministers of state to use kings as pawns? Well, we 
despise the game. Also, we shall have no kings, and 
republics are loth to make war. Our instincts are 
humanitarian. We should like to see all the world as 
happy as that lovely countryside of Northeastern 
France before August 1914. We at least recognize 
that the human mind is as yet imperfectly developed; 
and if, instead of setting the world back periodically, 
and drenching mankind in misery, we would have all 
men and women as happy as human nature will permit, 
we should devote our abilities, uninterrupted by war, 
to solving the problem of poverty (the acutest evidence of man's failure), and to fostering the talents 
of millions of men and women that to-day constitute 
a part of the wastage of Earth. Of course, being 
mortal, we shall make mistakes, give way, no doubt, 
 
to racial jealousies, and personal ambitions; but our 
eyes have been opened wide by this war and it is impossible that we should make the terrible mistakes we 
inevitably would have made had we obtained power 
before we had seen and read its hideous revelations — 
day after day, month after month, year after year! 
It is true that men have made these resolutions many 
times, but men have too much of the sort of blood 
that goes to the head, and their lust for money is even 
greater than their lust for power. 
Now, this may sound fantastic but it is indisputably 
probable. Much has been said of the patriotic exalta- 
tion of young women during war and just after its 
close, which leads them to marry almost any one in 
order to give a son to the state, or even to dispense 
with the legal formality. But although I heard a great 
deal of that sort of talk during the first months of 
the war I don't hear so much of it now. Nor did I 
hear anything like as much of it in France as I expected. To quote one woman of great intelligence 
with whom I talked many times, and who is one of 
the Government's chosen aids; she said one day, "It 
was a terrible distress to me that I had only one child, 
and I consulted every specialist in France. Now I am 
thankful that I did have but one son to come home to 
me with a gangrene wound, and then, after months of 
battling for his life, to insist upon going back to the 
Front and exposing it every day. I used to feel sad, 
too, that Valentine Thompson" (who is not only beautiful but an Amazon in physique) "did not marry and 
,  
be happy like other girls, instead of becoming a public 
character and working at first one scheme or another 
for the amelioration of the lot of woman. Now, I am 
thankful that she never married. Her father is too 
old to go to war and she has neither husband nor 
son to agonize over. Far better she live the life of 
usefulness she does than deliberately take upon herself 
the common burdens of women." No Frenchwoman 
could be more patriotic than the one who made this 
speech to me, and if she had had many sons she would 
have girded them all for war, but she had suffered 
too much herself and she saw too much suffering 
among her friends daily, not to hate the accursed institution of war, and wish that as many women could 
be spared its brutal impositions as possible. 
Nobody has ever accused me of being a Pacifist. 
Personally, I think that every self-respecting nation on 
the globe should have risen in 1914 and assisted the 
Allies to blast Prussia off the face of the Earth, but 
after this war is over if the best brains in these nations 
do not at once get to work and police the world against 
future wars, it will be a matter for regret that they 
were not all on the German ship when she foundered. 
It is to be remembered that woman has, in her subconscious brain-cells, ancestral memories of the Ma- 
triarchate. It is interesting to quote in this connection 
what Patrick Geddes and G. Arthur Thompson have 
to say on the mooted question of the Mother-Age : 
"Prehistoric history is hazardous, but there is a 
good case to be made out for a Mother-Age. This 
has been reconstructed from fossils in the folk lore of 
agriculture and housewifery, in old customs, ceremonies, festivals, games; in myths and fairy tales and 
age-worn words. 
"Professor Karl Pierson finds in the study of witch- 
craft some of the fossils that point back to the 
Matriarchate. In the older traditions 'the witch re- 
sumes her old position as the wise-woman, the medicine woman, the leader of the people, the priestess.' 
'We have accordingly to look upon the witch as essen- 
tially the degraded form of the old priestess, cunning 
in the knowledge of herbs and medicine, jealous of the 
rights and of the goddess she serves, and preserving 
in spells and incantations such wisdom as early civilization possessed.' 
"The witch's weather wisdom is congruent with the 
fact that women were the earliest agriculturists; her 
knowledge of herbs with that of the ancient medicine 
women; her diablerie with that of the ancient group 
relations of the sexes so different from what we call 
marriage to-day ; her nocturnal dances with the ancient 
choruses of marriage-ripe maidens. The authority and 
magic circle kept by the broom are those of the hearth 
and floor in her primeval roundhut; and her distaff 
and pitchfork, her caldron, her cat and dog, are all in 
keeping with the role of woman in the Mother- Age. 
 
"But there is another way, and that certainly not 
less reliable, by which we can arrive at some understanding of the Mother-Age, and how it naturally 
came about, namely, by a study of our 'contemporary 
ancestors,' of people who linger on the matriarchal 
level. Such people, as well as others on the still 
lower nomad stage of civilization, are to be found at 
this day in Australia. 
"While the purely nomad stage lasted, little progress 
could be niade, because the possessions of a group 
were limited by the carrying powers of its members. 
But in a favorite forest spot a long halt was possible, 
the mothers were able to drop their babies and give a 
larger part of their attention to food-getting. As before, the forest products — roots and fruits — were 
gathered in, but more time and ingenuity were expended in making them palatable and in storing them 
for future use. The plants in the neighborhood, which 
were useful for food or for their healing properties, 
were tended and kept free of weeds, and by and by 
seeds of them were sown in cleared ground within easy 
reach of the camp. Animals gathered about the rich 
food area, and were at first tolerated — certain negro 
tribes to-day keep hens about their huts, though they 
eat neither them nor their eggs — and later encouraged 
as a stable source of food-supply. The group was 
anchored to one spot by its increasing possessions; 
and thus home-making, gardening, medicine, the domestication of animals and even agriculture, were 
fairly begun. Not only were all these activities in the 
 
hands of women, but to them, too, were necessarily 
left the care and training of the young. 
"The men meanwhile went away on warlike expeditions against other groups, and on long hunting and 
fishing excursions, from which they returned with 
their spoils from time to time, to be welcomed by the 
women with dancing and feasting. Hunting and war 
were their only occupations, and the time between 
expeditions was spent in resting and in interminable 
palavers and dances, which we may perhaps look upon 
as the beginnings of parliaments and music halls. 
"Whether this picture be accurate in detail or not 
there is at any rate a considerable body of evidence 
pointing to the 'Matriarchate' as a period during 
which women began medicine, the domestication of the 
smaller animals, the cultivation of vegetables, flax and 
corn, the use of the distaff, the spindle, the broom, 
the fire-rake and the pitchfork. 
"In the Mother-Age the inheritance of property 
passed through the mother; the woman gave the children her own name; husband and father were in the 
background — often far from individualized; the 
brother and uncle were much more important; the 
woman was the depository of custom, lore, and religious tradition; she was, at least, the nominal head 
of the family, and she had a large influence in tribal 
affairs." 
For some years past certain progressive women 
have shown signs of a reversion to the matriarchal 
state — or shall we say a disposition to revive it? In 
 
spite of human progress we travel more or less in 
circles, a truth of which the present war and its reversions is the most uncompromising example. 
In the married state, for instance, these women have 
retained their own name, not even being addressed 
as Mrs., that after all is a polite variation of the 
Spanish "de," which does not by any means indicate 
noble birth alone, women after marriage proudly announcing themselves as legally possessed. For in- 
stance a girl whose name has been Elena Lopez writes 
herself after marriage Elena Lopez de Morena, the 
"de" in this case standing for "property of." It will 
be some time before the women of Spain travel far on 
the Northern road toward pride in sex deliverance, 
but with us, and in Britain, the custom is growing 
prevalent. 
Then there is the hyphen marriage, more common 
still, in which the woman retains her own name, bul 
condescends to annex the man's. Once in a way a 
man will prefix his wife's name to his own, and there 
is one on record who prefixed his own to his wife's. 
But any woman may have her opinion of him. 
So far as I have been able to ascertain these marriages are quite as successful as the average; and if 
the woman has a career on hand — and she generally 
has — she pursues it unhampered. The grandmother 
or aunt takes charge of the children, if there are any, 
while she is at her duties without the home, and so 
far, the husband has been permitted the compensation 
of endowing the children with his name. 
 
The reversion to the prehistoric matriarchate can 
hardly be complete in these days, but there are many 
significant straws that indicate the rising of a new 
wind blown by ancient instincts. To look upon them 
as shockingly advanced or abnormal is an evidence of 
conservatism that does not reach quite far enough into 
the past. 
A still more significant sign of the times (in the 
sense of linking past with present) is the ever-increasing number of women doctors and their success. 
Men for the most part have ceased to sneer or even to 
be more than humanly jealous, often speaking in terms 
of the wannest admiration not only of their skill but 
of their conscientiousness and power of endurance. 
When I went to live in Munich (1903) a woman surgeon was just beginning to practice. This, to Germany, was an innovation with a vengeance, and the 
German male is the least tolerant of female encroachment within his historic preserves. The men practitioners threw every possible obstacle in her way, and 
with no particular finesse. But nothing could daunt 
her, and two or three years later she was riding round 
in her car — a striking red one — while the major number of her rivals were still dependent upon the ambling 
cab-horse, directed off and on by a fat driver who 
was normally asleep. Jealousy, however, for the most 
part had merged into admiration; for your average 
male, of whatever race, is not only philosophical but 
bows to success; she was both recognized and called 
in for consultation. Hang on! Hang on! should be 
 
the motto of all women determined to make their 
mark in what is still a man's world. Life never has 
denied her prizes to courage and persistence backed 
by ability. 
A curious instance of man's inevitable recognition 
of the places of responsibility women more and more 
are taking is in the new reading of the Income Tax 
papers for 191 7. Heretofore only married men were 
exempted taxation on the first $4000 but from now on, 
apparently, women who are also "heads of families" 
are likewise favored. As thousands of women are 
supporting their aged parents, their brothers while 
studying, their children and even their husbands, who 
for one reason or other are unequal to the family 
strain, this exemption should have been made coinciden tally with the imposing of the tax. But men are 
slow to see and slower still to act where women are 
concerned. 
As we all know, women have invaded practically 
every art, trade, and industry, but — aside from the 
arts, for occasionally Nature is so impartial in her 
bestowal of genius that art is accepted as sexless — in 
no walk of life has woman been so uniformly successful as in medicine. This is highly significant in view 
of the fact that they invented and practiced it in the 
dawn of history, while man was too rudimentary to 
do anything but fight and fill the larder. It would 
seem that the biological differences between the male 
and the female which are so often the cause of 
woman's failure in many spheres preempted through- 
 
out long centuries by man, is in her case counteracted 
not only by her ancestral inheritance, but by the high 
moral element without which no doctor or surgeon 
can long stand the exactions and strain of his terrible 
profession. No woman goes blithely into surgery or 
medicine merely to have a career or to make a living, 
although ten thousand girls to her one will essay to 
write, or paint, or clerk, or cultivate her bit of voice, 
with barely a thought expended upon her fitness or the 
obligations involved. 
But the woman who deliberately enters the profession of healing has, almost invariably, a certain nobility of mind, a lack of personal selfishness, and a 
power of devotion to the race quite unknown to the 
average woman, even the woman of genius when seeking a career. 
During the Great War there have been few women 
doctors at the Front, but hundreds of women nurses, 
and they have been as intrepid and useful as their rivals 
in sex. They alone, by their previous experience of 
human suffering, bad enough at best, were in a measure prepared for the horrors of war and the impotence 
of men laid low. But that will not restore any lost 
illusions, for they took masculine courage for granted 
with their mothers' milk, and they cannot fail to be 
imbued to the marrow with a bitter sense of waste 
and futility, of the monstrous sacrifice of the best blood 
of their generation. 
II 
THE TRIUMPH OF MIDDLE-AGE 
CERTAIN doctors of England have gone on 
record as predicting a lamentable physical future 
for the army of women who are at present doing the 
heavy work of men, particularly in the munition factories. They say that the day-long tasks which involve 
incessant bending and standing and lifting of heavy 
weights will breed a terrible reaction when the war 
ends and these women are abruptly flung back into 
domestic life. There is almost no man's place in the 
industrial world that English women are not satisfactorily filling, with either muscle or brains, and the 
doctors apprehend a new problem in many thousand 
neurotics or otherwise broken-down women at the 
close of the war. Although this painful result of 
women's heroism would leave just that many women 
less to compete for the remaining men sound of wind 
and limb, still, if true, it raises the acute question: 
Are women the equal of men in all things? Their 
deliverance from the old marital fetish, and successful 
invasion of so many walks of life, have made such a 
noise in the world since woman took the bit between 
her teeth, more or less en masse, that the feministic, 
paean of triumph has almost smothered an occasional 
protest from those concerned with biology; but as a 
matter-of-fact statistics regarding the staying power 
of women in what for all the historic centuries have 
been regarded as avocations heaven-designed and with 
strict reference to the mental and physical equipment 
of man, are too contradictory to be of any value. 
Therefore, the result of this prolonged strain on 
a healthy woman of a Northern race evidently predestined to be as public as their present accomplishment, will be awaited with the keenest interest, and no 
doubt will have an immense effect upon the future 
status of woman. She has her supreme opportunity, 
and if her nerves are equal to her nerve, her- body to 
her spirit, if the same women are working at the severe 
tasks at the end of the war as during the first months 
of their exaltation, and instead of being wrecks are 
as hardened as the miserable city boys that have become wiry in the trenches — then, beyond all question 
woman will have come to her own and it will be for 
her, not for man, to say whether or not she shall 
subside and attend to the needs of the next generation. 
Before I went to France in May 1916 I was inclined 
to believe that only a small percentage of women 
would stand the test; but since then I have seen hundreds of women at work in the munition factories of 
France. As I have told in another chapter, they had 
then been at work for some sixteen months-, and, of 
poor physique in the beginning, were now strong 
healthy animals with no sign of breakdown. They 
 
were more satisfactory in every way than men, for 
they went home and slept all night, drank only the 
light wines of their country, smoked less, if at all, 
and had a more natural disposition toward cleanliness. 
Their bare muscular arms looked quite capable of laying a man prostrate if he came home and ordered 
them about, and their character and pride had developed in proportion.
It is not to be imagined, however, that the younger, 
at least, of these women will cling to those greasy jobs 
when the world is normal again and its tempered 
prodigals are spending money on the elegancies of life 
once more. And if they slump back into the sedentary 
life when men are ready to take up their old burdens, 
making artificial flowers, standing all day in the fetid 
atmosphere of crowded and noisy shops, stitching everlastingly at lingerie, there, it seems to me, lies the 
danger of breakdown. The life they lead now, arduous as it is, not only has developed their muscles, their 
lungs, the power to digest their food, but they are useful members of society on the grand scale, and to 
fall from any height is not conducive to the well-being 
of body or spirit. No doubt, when the sudden release 
comes, they will return to the lighter tasks with a 
sense of immense relief; but will it last? Will it be 
more than a momentary reaction to the habit of their 
own years and of the centuries behind, or will they 
gradually become aware (after they have rested and 
* Dr. Rosalie Morton, the leading woman doctor and surgeon of New 
York, who also studied this subject at first hand, agrees with me that 
the war tasks have improved the health of the European women. 
 
romped and enjoyed the old life in the old fashion 
when off duty) that with the inferior task they have 
become the inferior sex again. The wife, to be sure, 
will feel something more than her husband's equal, 
and the Frenchwoman never has felt herself the inferior in the matrimonial partnership. But how about 
the wage earners? Those that made ten to fifteen 
francs a day in the Usines de Guerre, and will now 
be making four or five? How about the girls who 
cannot marry because their families are no longer in 
a position to pay the dot, without which no French 
