library armchair (there weren't any to compare with it on land), he had
ranged through the length and breadth of several literatures.
These six days of bliss would have been too soon over if they had not
been the mere prelude to intenser sensations. On the seventh
morning--generally at Cherbourg--Troy Belknap followed his mother, and
his mother's maid, and the French bull, up the gang-plank and into
another large noiseless motor, with another chauffeur (French, this one)
to whom he was also deeply attached, and who sat grinning and
cap-touching at the wheel. And then--in a few minutes, so swiftly and
smilingly was the way of Mrs. Belknap smoothed--the noiseless motor was
off, and they were rushing eastward through the orchards of Normandy.
The little boy's happiness would have been complete if there had been
more time to give to the beautiful things that flew past them: thatched
villages with square-towered churches in hollows of the deep green
country, or grey shining towns above rivers on which cathedrals seemed
to be moored like ships; miles and miles of field and hedge and park
falling away from high terraced houses, and little embroidered stone
manors reflected in reed-grown moats under ancient trees.
Unfortunately Mrs. Belknap always had pressing engagements in Paris. She
had made appointments beforehand with all her dressmakers, and, as Troy
was well aware, it was impossible, at the height of the season, to break
such engagements without losing one's turn, and having to wait weeks and
weeks to get a lot of nasty rags that one had seen, by that time, on the
back of every other woman in the place.
Luckily, however, even Mrs. Belknap had to eat; and during the halts in
the shining towns, where a succulent luncheon was served in a garden or
a flowery courtyard, Troy had time (as he grew bigger) to slip away
alone, and climb to the height where the cathedral stood, or at least to
loiter and gaze in the narrow crooked streets, between gabled
cross-beamed houses, each more picture-bookishly quaint than its
neighbours.
In Paris, in their brightly-lit and beflowered hotel drawing-room, he
was welcomed by Madame Lebuc, an old French lady smelling of crape, who
gave him lessons and took him and the bull-dog for walks, and who, as he
grew older, was supplemented, and then replaced, by an ugly vehement
young tutor, of half-English descent, whose companionship opened fresh
fields and pastures to Troy's dawning imagination.
Then in July--always at the same date--Mr. Belknap was deposited at the
door by the noiseless motor, which had been down to Havre to fetch him;
and a few days later they all got into it, and while Madame Lebuc
(pressing a packet of chocolates into her pupil's hand) waved a damp
farewell from the doorway, the Pegasus motor flew up the Champs Élysées,
devoured the leafy alleys of the Bois, and soared away to new horizons.
Most often they were mountain horizons, for the tour invariably ended in
the Swiss Alps. But there always seemed to be new ways (looked out by
Mr. Belknap on the map) of reaching their destination; ways lovelier,
more winding, more wonderful, that took in vast sweeping visions of
France from the Seine to the Rhone. And when Troy grew older the
vehement young tutor went with them, and once they all stopped and
lunched at his father's house, on the edge of a gabled village in the
Argonne, with a view stretching away for miles toward the Vosges and
Alsace. Mr. and Mrs. Belknap were very kind people, and it would never
have occurred to them to refuse M. Gantier's invitation to lunch with
his family; but they had no idea of the emotions stirred in their son's
eager bosom by what seemed to them merely a rather inconvenient
deviation from their course. Troy himself was hardly aware of these
emotions at the time, though his hungry interest in life always made him
welcome the least deflection from the expected. He had simply thought
what kind jolly people the Gantiers were, and what fun it was to be
inside one of the quaint stone houses, with small window-panes looking
on old box-gardens, that he was always being whisked past in the motor.
But later he was to re-live that day in all its homely details.
II
They were at St Moritz--as usual.
He and M. Gantier had been for a tramp through the Val Suvretta, and,
coming home late, were rushing into their evening clothes to join Mr.
and Mrs. Belknap at dinner (as they did now regularly, Troy having
reached the virile age of fifteen, and having to justify the possession
of a smoking-jacket and patent-leather shoes). He was just out of his
bath, and smothered in towels, when the tutor opened the door and thrust
in a newspaper.
"There will be war--I must leave to-morrow."
Troy dropped the towels.
War! War! War against his beautiful France! And this young man, his
dearest friend and companion, was to be torn from him suddenly,
senselessly, torn from their endless talks, their long walks in the
mountains, their elaborately planned courses of study--archæology,
French literature, mediæval philosophy, the Divine Comedy, and vistas
and vistas beyond--to be torn from all this, and to disappear from Troy
Belknap's life into the black gulf of this unfathomable thing called
War, that seemed suddenly to have escaped out of the history books like
a dangerous lunatic escaping from the asylum in which he was supposed to
be securely confined!
Troy Belknap was stunned.
He pulled himself together to bid a valiant farewell to M. Gantier (the
air was full of the "Marseillaise" and Sambre-et-Meuse, and everybody
knew the Russians would be in Berlin in six weeks); but once his tutor
was gone the mystery and horror again closed in on him.
France, his France, attacked, invaded, outraged; and he, a poor helpless
American boy, who adored her, and could do nothing for her--not even
cry, as a girl might! It was bitter.
His parents, too, were dreadfully upset; and so were all their friends.
But what chiefly troubled them was that they could get no money, no
seats in the train, no assurance that the Swiss frontier would not be
closed before they could cross the border. These preoccupations seemed
to leave them, for the moment, no time to think about France; and Troy,
during those first days, felt as if he were an infant Winkelried, with
all the shafts of the world's woe gathered into his inadequate breast.
For France was his holiday world, the world of his fancy and
imagination, a great traceried window opening on the universe. And now,
in the hour of her need, all he heard about him was the worried talk of
people planning to desert her!
Safe in Paris, Mr. and Mrs. Belknap regained their balance. Having
secured (for a sum that would have fitted up an ambulance) their
passages on a steamer sailing from England, they could at length look
about them, feel sorry, and subscribe to all the budding war charities.
They even remembered poor Madame Lebuc, stranded by the flight of all
her pupils, and found a job for her in a refugee bureau. Then, just as
they were about to sail, Mrs. Belknap had a touch of pneumonia, and was
obliged to postpone her departure; while Mr. Belknap, jamming his
possessions into a single suit-case, dashed down to Spain to take ship
at Malaga. The turn affairs were taking made it advisable for him to get
back as quickly as possible, and his wife and son were to follow from
England in a month.
All the while there came no news of M. Gantier. He had rejoined his
depot at once, and Troy had had a post-card from him, dated the 6th of
August, and saying that he was leaving for the front. After that,
silence.
Troy, poring over the morning papers, and slipping out alone to watch
for the noon communiqués in the windows of the Paris Herald, read of
the rash French advance in Alsace, and the enemy's retaliatory descent
on the region the Belknaps had so often sped over. And one day, among
the names of the ruined villages, he lit on that of the little town
where they had all lunched with the Gantiers. He saw the box-garden with
the horn-beam arbour where they had gone to drink coffee, old M.
Gantier ceremoniously leading the way with Mrs. Belknap; he saw Mme.
Gantier, lame and stout, hobbling after with Mr. Belknap; a little old
aunt with bobbing curls; the round-faced Gantier girl, shy and rosy; an
incredibly dried and smoked and aged grandfather, with Voltairian eyes
and sly snuff-taking gestures; and his own friend, the eldest of the
three brothers; he saw all these modest beaming people grouped about
Mme. Gantier's coffee and Papa Gantier's best bottle of "Fine," he
smelt the lime-blossoms and box, he heard the bees in the lavender, he
looked out on the rich fields and woods and the blue hills bathed in
summer light. And he read: "Not a house is standing. The curé has been
shot. A number of old people were burnt in the Hospice. The mayor and
five of the principal inhabitants have been taken to Germany as
hostages."
The year before the war, he remembered, old M. Gantier was mayor!
He wrote and wrote, after that, to his tutor; wrote to his depot, to his
Paris address, to the ruin that had been his home; but had no answer.
And finally, amid the crowding horrors of that dread August, he forgot
even M. Gantier, and M. Gantier's family, forgot everything but the
spectacle of the Allied armies swept back from Liège, from Mons, from
Laon, from Charleroi, and the hosts of evil surging nearer and ever
nearer to the heart of France.
His father, with whom he might have talked, was gone; and Troy could not
talk to his mother. Not that Mrs. Belknap was not kind and full of
sympathy: as fast as the bank at home cabled funds she poured them out
for war charities. But most of her time was spent in agitated
conference with her compatriots, and Troy could not bear to listen to
their endlessly reiterated tales of flight from Nauheim or Baden or
Brussels, their difficulties in drawing money, hiring motors, bribing
hotel-porters, battling for seats in trains, recovering lost luggage,
cabling for funds, and their general tendency to regard the war as a
mere background to their personal grievances.
"You were exceedingly rude to Mrs. Sampson, Troy," his mother said to
him, surprised one day by an explosion of temper. "It is so natural she
should be nervous at not being able to get staterooms; and she had just
given me five hundred dollars for the American ambulance."
"Giving money's no use," the boy growled, obscurely irritated; and when
Mrs. Belknap exclaimed, "Why, Troy, how callous--with all this
suffering!" he slunk out without answering, and went downstairs to lie
in wait for the evening papers.
The misery of feeling himself a big boy, long-limbed, strong-limbed, old
enough for evening clothes, champagne, the classics, biology, and views
on international politics, and yet able to do nothing but hang about
marble hotels and pore over newspapers, while rank on rank, and regiment
on regiment, the youth of France and England, swung through the dazed
streets and packed the endless trains--the misery of this was so great
to Troy that he became, as the days dragged on, more than ever what his
mother called "callous," sullen, humiliated, resentful at being
associated with all the rich Americans flying from France.
At last the turn of the Belknaps came too; but, as they were preparing
to start, news came that the German army was at Lille, and civilian
travel to England interrupted.
It was the fateful week, and every name in the bulletins--Amiens,
Compiègne, Rheims, Meaux, Senlis--evoked in Troy Belknap's tortured
imagination visions of ancient beauty and stability. He had done that
bit of France alone with M. Gantier the year before, while Mrs. Belknap
waited in Paris for belated clothes; and the thought of the great
stretch of desolation spreading and spreading like a leprosy over a land
so full of the poetry of the past, and so rich in a happy prosperous
present, was added to the crueller vision of the tragic and magnificent
armies that had failed to defend it.
Troy, as soon as he was reassured about his mother's health, had
secretly rejoiced at the accident which had kept them in France. But now
his joy was turned to bitterness. Mrs. Belknap, in her horrified
surprise at seeing her plans again obstructed, lost all sense of the
impending calamity except as it affected her safety and Troy's, and
joined in the indignant chorus of compatriots stranded in Paris, and
obscurely convinced that France ought to have seen them safely home
before turning her attention to the invader.
"Of course I don't pretend to be a strategist," whimpering or wrathful
ladies used to declare, their jewel-boxes clutched in one hand, their
passports in the other, "but one can't help feeling that if only the
French Government had told our Ambassador in time, trains might have
been provided...."
"Or why couldn't Germany have let our Government know? After all,
Germany has no grievance against America...."
"And we've really spent enough money in Europe for some consideration
to be shown us ..." the woeful chorus went on.
The choristers were all good and kindly persons, shaken out of the rut
of right feeling by the first real fright of their lives. But Troy was
too young to understand this, and to foresee that, once in safety, they
would become the passionate advocates of France, all the more fervent in
their championship because of their reluctant participation in her
peril.
("What did I do?--Why, I just simply stayed in Paris.... Not to run
away was the only thing one could do to show one's sympathy," he heard
one of the passport-clutchers declare, a year later, in a New York
drawing-room.)
Troy, from the height of his youthful indignation, regarded them all as
heartless egoists, and fled away into the streets from the sound of
their lamentations.
But in the streets was fresh food for misery; for every day the once
empty vistas were filled with trains of farm-waggons, drawn by slow
country horses, and heaped with furniture and household utensils; and
beside the carts walked lines of haggard people, old men and women with
vacant faces, mothers hugging hungry babies, and children limping after
them with heavy bundles. The fugitives of the Marne were pouring into
Paris.
Troy dashed into the nearest shops, bought them cakes and fruit,
followed them to the big hippodrome where they were engulfed in the
dusty arena, and finally, in despair at his inability to do more than
gape and pity, tried to avoid the streets they followed on their way
into Paris from St. Denis and Vincennes.
Then one day, in the sunny desert of the Place de la Concorde, he came
on a more cheering sight. A motley band of civilians, young,
middle-aged, and even grey-headed, were shambling along together, badged
and beribboned, in the direction of the Invalides; and above them
floated the American flag. Troy flew after it, and caught up with the
last marchers.
"Where are we going?... Foreign Legion," an olive-faced "dago" answered
joyously in broken American. "All 'nited States citizens.... Come and
join up, sonnie...." And for one mad moment Troy thought of risking the
adventure.
But he was too visibly only a schoolboy still; and with tears of envy in
his smarting eyes he stood, small and useless, on the pavement, and
watched the heterogeneous band under the beloved flag disappearing in
the doorway of the registration office.
When he got back to his mother's drawing-room the tea-table was still
surrounded, and a lady was saying: "I've offered anything for a
special train, but they won't listen...." And another, in a stricken
whisper: "If they do come, what do you mean to do about your pearls?"
III
Then came the Marne, and suddenly the foreigners caught in Paris by the
German advance became heroes--or mostly heroines--who had stayed to
reassure their beloved city in her hour of need.
"We all owe so much to Paris," murmured Mrs. Belknap, in lovely
convalescent clothes, from her sofa-corner. "I'm sure we can none of us
ever cease to be thankful for this chance of showing it...."
She had sold her staterooms to a compatriot who happened to be in
England, and was now cabling home to suggest to Mr. Belknap that she
should spend the winter in France and take a job on a war charity. She
was not strong enough for nursing, but she thought it would be
delightful to take convalescent officers for drives in the Bois in the
noiseless motor. "Troy would love it too," she cabled.
Mr. Belknap, however, was unmoved by these arguments. "Future too
doubtful," he cabled back. "Insist on your sailing. Staterooms November
tenth paid for. Troy must return to school."
"Future too doubtful" impressed Mrs. Belknap more than "Insist," though
she made a larger use of the latter word in explaining to her friends
why, after all, she was obliged to give up her projected war work.
Meanwhile, having quite recovered, she rose from her cushions, donned a
nurse's garb, poured tea once or twice at a fashionable hospital, and,
on the strength of this effort, obtained permission to carry supplies
(in her own motor) to the devastated regions. Troy of course went with
her, and thus had his first glimpse of war.
Fresh in his mind was a delicious July day at Rheims with his tutor, and
the memory of every detail noted on the way, along the green windings of
the Marne, by Meaux, Montmirail and Epernay. Now, traversing the same
towns, he seemed to be looking into murdered faces, vacant and stony.
Where he had seen the sociable gossiping life of the narrow streets,
young men lounging at the blacksmith's, blue-sleeved carters sitting in
the wine-shops while their horses shook off the flies in the hot
sunshine of the village square, black-pinafored children coming home
from school, the fat curé stopping to talk to little old ladies under
the church porch, girls with sleek hair calling to each other from the
doorways of the shops, and women in sunburnt gingham bending over the
village wash-trough or leaning on their rakes among the hayricks--where
all this had been, now only a few incalculably old people sat in the
doorways and looked with bewildered eyes at strange soldiers fulfilling
the familiar tasks.
This was what war did! It emptied towns of their inhabitants as it
emptied veins of their blood; it killed houses and lands as well as men.
Out there, a few miles beyond the sunny vineyards and the low hills, men
were dying at that very moment by hundreds, by thousands--and their
motionless young bodies must have the same unnatural look as these wan
ruins, these gutted houses and sterile fields.... War meant Death,
Death, Death--Death everywhere and to everything.
By a special favour, the staff-officer who accompanied them managed to
extend their trip to the ruined château of Mondement, the pivot on which
the battle had turned. He had himself been in the thick of the fight,
and standing before the shattered walls of the old house he explained
the struggle for the spur of Mondement: the advance of the grey masses
across the plain, their capture of the ridge that barred the road to
Paris; then the impetuous rush of General Humbert's infantry, repulsed,
returning, repulsed again, and again attacking; the hand-to-hand
fighting in court and gardens; the French infantry's last irresistible
dash, the batteries rattling up, getting into place on the ridge, and
flinging back the grey battalions from the hillside into the marshes.
Mrs. Belknap smiled and exclaimed, with vague comments and a wandering
glance (for the officer, carried away by his subject, had forgotten her
and become technical); while Troy, his map spread on the top of a
shot-riddled wall, followed every word and gesture with eyes that
absorbed at the same time all the details of the immortal landscape.
The Marne--this was the actual setting of the battle of the Marne! This
happy temperate landscape, with its sheltering woods, its friendly
fields and downs flowing away to a mild sky, had looked on at the most
awful conflict in history. Scenes of anguish and heroism that ought to
have had some Titanic background of cliff and chasm had unrolled
themselves among harmless fields, and along wood-roads where wild
strawberries grew and children cut hazel-switches to drive home their
geese. A name of glory and woe was attached to every copse and hollow,
and to each grey steeple above the village roofs....
Troy listened, his heart beating higher at each exploit, till he forgot
the horror of war, and thought only of its splendours. Oh, to have been
there too! To have had even the smallest share in those great hours! To
be able to say, as this young man could say: "Yes, I was in the battle
of the Marne"; to be able to break off, and step back a yard or two,
correcting one's self critically: "No ... it was here the General
stood when I told him our batteries had got through ..." or: "This is
the very spot where the first seventy-five was trained on the valley. I
can see the swathes it cut in the Bavarians as they swarmed up at us a
third and fourth time...."
Troy suddenly remembered a bit of Henry V. that M. Gantier had been
fond of quoting:
    And gentlemen in England now abed
    Shall think themselves accurst they were not here,
    And hold their manhood cheap, when any speaks
    That fought with us....
Ah, yes--ah, yes--to have been in the battle of the Marne!
       
On the way back, below the crest of the hill, the motor stopped at the
village church and the officer jumped down. "Some of our men are buried
here," he said.
Mrs. Belknap, with a murmur of sympathy, caught up the bunch of roses
she had gathered in the ravaged garden of the château, and they picked
their way among the smashed and slanting stones of the cemetery to a
corner behind the church where wooden crosses marked a row of fresh
graves. Half-faded flowers in bottles were thrust into the loose earth,
and a few tin wreaths hung on the arms of the crosses.
Some of the graves bore only the date of the battle, with "Pour la
France," or "Priez pour lui"; but on others names and numbers had been
roughly burnt into the crosses.
Suddenly Troy stopped short with a cry.
"What is it?" his mother asked. She had walked ahead of him to the
parapet overhanging the valley, and forgetting her roses she leaned
against the low cemetery wall while the officer took up his story.
Troy made no answer. Mrs. Belknap stood with her back to him, and he did
not ask her to turn. He did not want her, or any one else, to read the
name he had just read; of a sudden there had been revealed to him the
deep secretiveness of sorrow. But he stole up to her and drew the
flowers from her hand, while she continued, with vague inattentive
murmurs, to follow the officer's explanations. She took no notice of
Troy, and he went back to the grave and laid the roses on it.
On the cross he had read: "September 12, 1914. Paul Gantier, --th
Chasseurs à pied."
"Oh, poor fellows ... poor fellows. Yes, that's right, Troy; put the
roses on their graves," Mrs. Belknap assented approvingly, as she picked
her way back to the motor.
IV
The 10th of November came, and they sailed.
The week in the steamer was intolerable, not only because they were
packed like herrings, and Troy (who had never known discomfort before)
had to share his narrow cabin with two young German-Americans full of
open brag about the Fatherland; but also because of the same eternally
renewed anecdotes among the genuine Americans about the perils and
discomforts they had undergone, and the general disturbance of their
plans.
Most of the passengers were in ardent sympathy with the Allies, and hung
anxiously on the meagre wirelesses; but a flat-faced professor with
lank hair, having announced that "there were two sides to every case,"
immediately raised up a following of unnoticed ladies, who "couldn't
believe all that was said of the Germans" and hoped that America would
never be "drawn in"; while, even among the right-minded, there subsisted
a vague feeling that war was an avoidable thing, which one had only to
reprobate enough to prevent its recurrence.
They found New York--Mrs. Belknap's New York--buzzing with
war-charities, yet apparently unaware of the war. That at least was
Troy's impression during the twenty-four hours before he was packed off
to school to catch up with his interrupted studies.
At school he heard the same incessant war-talk, and found the same
fundamental unawareness of the meaning of the war. At first the boys
were very keen to hear his story, but he described what he had seen so
often--and especially his haunting impressions of the Marne--that they
named him "Marny Belknap," and finally asked him to cut it out.
The masters were mostly frankly for the Allies, but the Rector had given
out that neutrality was the attitude approved by the Government, and
therefore a patriotic duty; and one Sunday after chapel he gave a little
talk to explain why the President thought it right to try to keep his
people out of the dreadful struggle. The words duty and responsibility
and fortunate privilege recurred often in this address, and it struck
Troy as odd that the lesson of the day happened to be the story of the
Good Samaritan.
When he went home for the Christmas holidays everybody was sending toys
and sugar-plums to the Belgian war-orphans, with little notes from
"Happy American children" requesting to have their gifts acknowledged.
"It makes us so happy to help," beaming young women declared with a
kind of ghoulish glee, doing up parcels, planning war-tableaux and
charity dances, rushing to "propaganda" lectures given by handsome
French officers, and keeping up a kind of continuous picnic on the ruins
of civilization.
Mr. and Mrs. Belknap had inevitably been affected by the surrounding
atmosphere.
"The tragedy of it--the tragedy--no one can tell who hasn't seen it
and been through it," Mrs. Belknap would begin, looking down her long
dinner-table between the orchids and the candelabra; and the pretty
women and prosperous men would interrupt their talk, and listen for a
moment, half absently, with spurts of easy indignation that faded out
again as they heard the story oftener.
After all, Mrs. Belknap wasn't the only person who had seen a
battlefield! Lots and lots more were pouring home all the time with
fresh tales of tragedy: the Marne had become--in a way--an old story.
People wanted something newer ... different....
And then, why hadn't Joffre followed up the offensive? The Germans were
wonderful soldiers after all.... Yes, but such beasts ... sheer
devils.... Here was Mr. So-and-so, just back from Belgium--such horrible
stories--really unrepeatable! "Don't you want to come and hear them, my
dear? Dine with us to-morrow; he's promised to come unless he's summoned
to Washington. But do come anyhow; the Jim Cottages are going to dance
after dinner...."
In time Mrs. Belknap, finding herself hopelessly out-storied,
out-charitied, out-adventured, began insensibly to take a calmer and
more distant view of the war. What was the use of trying to keep up her
own enthusiasm when that of her audience had flagged? Wherever she went
she was sure to meet other ladies who had arrived from France much more
recently, and had done and seen much more than she had. One after
another she saw them received with the same eagerness--"Of course we all
know about the marvellous things you've been doing in France--your
wonderful war-work"--then, like herself, they were superseded by some
later arrival, who had been nearer the front, or had raised more money,
or had had an audience of the Queen of the Belgians, or an autograph
letter from Lord Kitchener. No one was listened to for long, and the
most eagerly-sought-for were like the figures in a movy-show, forever
breathlessly whisking past to make way for others.
Mr. Belknap had always been less eloquent about the war than his wife;
but somehow Troy had fancied he felt it more deeply. Gradually, however,
he too seemed to accept the situation as a matter of course, and Troy,
coming home for the Easter holidays, found at the family table a large
sonorous personage--a Senator, just back from Europe--who, after rolling
out vague praises of France and England, began insidiously to hint that
it was a pity to see such wasted heroism, such suicidal determination on
the part of the Allies to resist all offers of peace from an enemy so
obviously their superior.
"She wouldn't be if America came in!" Troy blurted out, reddening at the
sound of his voice.
"America?" some one playfully interjected; and the Senator laughed, and
said something about geographical immunity. "They can't touch us. This
isn't our war, young man."
"It may be by the time I'm grown up," Troy persisted, burning redder.
"Well," returned the Senator good-humouredly, "you'll have to hurry, for
the economists all say it can't last more than a year longer. Lord
Reading told me----"
"There's been misery enough, in all conscience," sighed a lady, playing
with her pearls; and Mr. Belknap added gravely: "By the time Troy grows
up I hope wars and war-talk will be over for good and all."
"Oh, well--at his age every fellow wants to go out and kill something,"
remarked one of his uncles sympathetically.
Troy shuddered at the well-meant words. To go out and kill something!
They thought he regarded the war as a sport, just as they regarded it
as a moving-picture show! As if any one who had had even a glimpse of it
could ever again think with joy of killing! His boy's mind was sorely
exercised to define the urgent emotions with which it laboured. To save
France--that was the clear duty of the world, as he saw it. But none of
these kindly careless people about him knew what he meant when he said
"France." Bits of M. Gantier's talk came back to him, embodying that
meaning.
"Whatever happens, keep your mind keen and clear: open as many windows
on the universe as you can...." To Troy, France had been the biggest of
those windows.
The young tutor had never declaimed about his country; he had simply
told her story and embodied her ideals in his own impatient, questioning
and yet ardent spirit. "Le monde est aux enthousiastes," he had once
quoted; and he had shown Troy how France had always been alive in every
fibre, and how her inexhaustible vitality had been perpetually nourished
on criticism, analysis and dissatisfaction. "Self-satisfaction is
death," he had said; "France is the phoenix-country always rising from
the ashes of her recognized mistakes."
Troy felt what a wonderful help it must be to have that long rich past
in one's blood. Every stone that France had carved, every song she had
sung, every new idea she had struck out, every beauty she had created in
her thousand fruitful years, was a tie between her and her children.
These things were more glorious than her battles, for it was because of
them that all civilization was bound up in her, and that nothing that
concerned her could concern her only.
V
"It seems too absurd," said Mrs. Belknap; "but Troy will be eighteen
to-morrow. And that means," she added with a sigh, "that this horrible
war has been going on for three whole years. Do you remember, dearest,
your fifteenth birthday was on the very day that odious Archduke was
assassinated? We had a picnic on the Morterasch."
"Oh, dear," cried Sophy Wicks, flinging her tennis-racket into the air
with a swing that landed it in the middle of the empty court--"perhaps
that's the reason he's never stopped talking about the war for a single
minute since!"
Around the big tea-table under the trees there was a faint hush of
disapproval. A year before, Sophy Wicks's airy indifference to the
events that were agitating the world had amused some people and won the
