
"Monsieur?"

"I won’t ask you who you are——"

"Merci, M’sieu."

"Don’t interrupt me.  What I am going to ask you, is, why do you
continually and secretly make fun of me——"

"M’sieu!"

"You do!"

"I, M’sieu?"

"Yes, you, Thusis.  Always there is a hint of mockery in your
smile,—always the hidden amusement as though, in me, you find something
ridiculous——"

"Please!——"

"—Something secretly and delightfully absurd——"

"But you know you are funny," she said, looking a trifle scared at her
own temerity.

"What!" I demanded angrily.

"Please be just, Mr. O’Ryan.  I minded my own business until you tempted
me."

That was perfectly true but I denied it.

"You know," she said, "when a man finds a girl attractive the girl
always knows it, even when she’s a servant....  And certain
circumstances made it much more amusing than you realize....  I mean to
be respectful.  I am your servant....  But you know very well that it is
funny."

"What is funny?"

"The circumstances.  You found me attractive. It mortified you.  And the
way you took it was intensely amusing to me."

"Why?"

"Because you are you; and I am I.  Because the fact that you found your
cook attractive horrified you.  That was intensely funny to me.  And
when, waiving the degradation, you actually attempted to kiss your own
cook——"

Laughter burst from her lips in a silvery shower of rippling notes which
enchanted and infuriated me at the same time.

I waited, very red, to control my voice; then I got up and set a chair
for her.  And she dropped onto it without protest.

"What are you doing in my household?" I asked drily.

At that her laughter ceased and she gave me a straight sweet look.

"Don’t you really know?"

"Of course not.  You’re an agent of some sort. That’s evident.  Are you
here to watch me?"

"Dear Mr. O’Ryan," she said lightly, "have I been at any pains to
deceive you?  I’m not really a servant; you learned that very easily.
And I let you learn it—"  She laughed:—"and it was a very pretty
compliment I paid you when I let you learn it."

"I don’t understand you," I said.

"It’s very simple.  My name really is Thusis; I wish to remain in your
employment.  So do my friends.  We will prove good servants.  You shall
be most comfortable,—you and your amusing friend, Mr. Smith—the
Norwegian."

I smiled in spite of my suspicion and perplexity, and Thusis smiled too,
such a gay little confidential smile that I could not resist the occult
offer of confidence that it very plainly implied.

"You are not here to keep tabs on me?" I demanded.

"You very nice young man, of course not!"

"Do you really think I’m nice, Thusis?"

"I think you’re adorable!"

The rush of emotion to the head made me red and dizzy.  I had never been
talked to that way by a young girl.  I didn’t know it was done.

And another curious thing about this perfectly gay and unembarrassed
eulogy of hers, she said it as frankly and spontaneously as she might
have spoken to another girl or to an attractive child: there was
absolutely no sex consciousness about her.

"Are you going to let us remain and be your very faithful and diligent
servants?" she asked, mischievously amused at the shock she had
administered.

"Thusis," I said, "it’s going to be rather difficult for me to treat you
as a servant.  And if your friends are of the same quality——"

"It’s perfectly easy," she insisted.  "If we presume, correct us.  If we
are slack, punish us.  Be masculine and exacting; be bad tempered about
your food—"  She laughed delightfully—"Raise the devil with us if we
misbehave."

I didn’t believe I could do that and said so; and she turned on me that
bewildering smile and sat looking at me very intently, with her white
hands clasped in her lap.

"You don’t think we’re a band of robbers conspiring to chloroform you
and Mr. Smith some night and make off with your effects?" she inquired.

We both laughed.

"You’re very much puzzled, aren’t you, Mr. O’Ryan," she continued.

"I am, indeed."

"But you’re so nice—so straight and clean yourself—that you’d give me
the benefit of any doubt, wouldn’t you?"

"Yes."

"That’s because you’re a sportsman.  That’s because you play all games
squarely."  Her face became serious; her gray eyes met mine and seemed
to look far into them.

"Your country is neutral, isn’t it?" she said.

"Yes."

"You are not."

"I have my ideas."

"And ideals," she added.

"Yes, I have them still, Thusis."

"So have I," she said.  "I am trying to live up to them.  If you will
let me."

"I’ll even help you——"

"No!  Just let me alone.  That is all I ask of you."  Her youthful face
grew graver.  "But that is quite enough to ask of you.  Because by
letting me alone you are incurring danger to yourself.

"Why do you tell me?"

"Because I wish to be honest with you.  If you retain me as your servant
and accept me and my friends as such,—even if you live here quietly and
blamelessly, obeying the local and Federal laws and making no inquiries
concerning me or my three friends,—yet, nevertheless, you may find
yourself in very serious trouble before many days."

"Political trouble?"

"All kinds of trouble, Mr. O’Ryan."

There was a silence; she sat there with slender fingers tightly
interlocked as though under some sort of nervous tension, but the faint
hint of a smile in the corners of her mouth—which seemed to be part of
her natural expression—remained.

She said: "And more than that: if you let us remain as your servants, we
shall trust to you and to Mr. Smith that neither one of you by look or
word or gesture would ever convey to anybody the slightest hint that I
and my friends are not exactly what we appear to be—your household
servants."

"Thusis," said I, "what the deuce are you up to?"

"What am I up to?" She laughed outright:—"Let me see!  First—" counting
on her fingers, "I am trying to find a way to live up to my ideals;
second, I am going to try to bring happiness to many, many people;
third, I am prepared to sacrifice myself, my friends, my nearest and
dearest." ... She lifted her clear eyes: "I am quite ready to sacrifice
you, too," she said.

I smiled: "That would cost you very little," I said.

There was another short silence.  The girl looked at me with a curious
intentness as though mentally appraising me—trying to establish in her
mind any value I might represent to her—if any.

"It’s like an innocent bystander being hit by a bullet in a revolution,"
she murmured: "it’s a pity: but it is unavoidable, sometimes."

"I represent this theoretical and innocent bystander?"

"I’m afraid you do, Mr. O’Ryan; the chances are that you’ll get hurt."

A perfectly inexplicable but agreeable tingling sensation began to
invade me, amounting almost to exhilaration.  Was it the Irish in me,
subtly stirred, by the chance of a riot?  Was it a possible opportunity
to heave a brick, impartially and with Milesian enthusiasm?

"Thusis," said I, "there is only one question I must ask you to answer."

"I know what it is."

"What?"

"You are going to remind me that, to-day, the whole world is divided
into two parts; that the greatest war of all times is being waged
between the forces of light and of darkness.  And you are going to ask
me where I stand."

"I am."

The girl rose; so did I.  Then she stepped forward, took my right hand
and rested her other upon it.

"I stand for light, for the world’s freedom, for the liberties of the
weaker, for the self-determination of all peoples.  I stand for their
right to the pursuit of happiness.  I stand for the downfall of all
tyranny—the tyranny of the mob as well as the tyranny of all autocrats.
That is where I stand, Mr. O’Ryan.... Where do you stand?"

"Beside you."

She dropped my hand with an excited little laugh:

"I was certain of that.  In Berne I learned all about you.  I took no
chances in coming here.  I took none in being frank with you."  She
began to laugh again, mischievously: "Perhaps I took chances in being
impertinent to you.  There is a dreadful and common vein of frivolity in
me.  I’m a little reckless, too.  I adore absurd situations, and the
circumstances—when you unwillingly discovered that I was
attractive—appealed to me irresistibly. And I am afraid I was silly
enough—common enough—malicious enough to thoroughly enjoy it.... But,"
she added naïvely, "you gave me rather a good scare when you threatened
to kiss me."

"I’m glad of that," said I with satisfaction.

"Of course," she remarked, "that would have been the climax of
absurdity."

"Would it?"

"Certainly."

"Why?"

"Fancy such a nice young man kissing his cook in the cellar."

"That isn’t what you meant."

"Isn’t it?" she asked airily.

"No."

"What did I mean then, Mr. O’Ryan?"

"I don’t know," said I thoughtfully.

She gave me one of her smiling but searching looks, in which there
seemed a hint of apprehension.  Then, apparently satisfied by her
scrutiny, she favored me with a bewitching smile in which I thought to
detect a slight trace of relief.

"You will keep me, then?" she asked.

"Yes."

"Thank you!"

She stretched out her beautiful hand impulsively: I took it.

"Thanks—and good-by," she said a trifle gravely, Then, with a shadow of
the smile still lingering: "Good-by: because, from now on, it is to be
master and servant.  We must both remember that."

I was silent.

"You will remember, won’t you?" she said—the laughter flashed in her
eyes:—"especially if we ever happen to be in the cellar together?"

I said, forcing a smile and my voice not quite steady: "Suppose we
finish that scene, now, Thusis?"

"Good heavens!" she said:—"and the Admiral watching us!"  She drew her
hand from mine and pointed at the picture over my mantel.

"I’m afraid of that man," she said.  "The cellar is less terrifying——"

"Thusis!"

But she laughed and slipped through the door. "Good-by, Don Michael!"
she called back softly from the stairs.

I walked back slowly to the center of my room and for a long time I
stood there quite motionless, staring fixedly at the Admiral.




                                  *V*

                             *AN ODD SONG*


"There’s one thing certain," thought I; "my household personnel is
altogether too pulchritudinous for a man like Smith, and it begins to
worry me."

Considerably disturbed in my mind I reconnoitered Smith’s rooms, and
found him, as I suspected, loitering there on pretense of re-arranging
the contents of his bureau-drawers.

Now Smith had no legitimate business there; it was Clelia’s hour to do
his rooms.  But, as I say, I already had noticed his artless way of
hanging about at that hour, and several times during the last two weeks
I had encountered him conversing with the girl while she, her blonde
hair bound up in a beguiling dust-cap, and otherwise undeniably
fetching, leaned at ease on her broom and appeared quite willing to be
cornered and conversed with.

My advent always galvanized this situation; Clelia instantly became busy
with her broom and duster, and Smith usually pretended he had been
inquiring of Clelia where I might be found.

He attempted the same dishonesty now, and, with every symptom of
delight, cordially hailed me and inquired where I’d been keeping myself
since breakfast.

"I’ve been out doors," said I coldly, "where I hoped—if I did not really
expect—to find you."

This sarcasm put a slight crimp in his assurance, and he accompanied me
out with docile alacrity, which touched me.

"It’s too good a household to spoil," said I.  "A little innocent
gaiety—a bit of persiflage en passant—that doesn’t interfere with
discipline.  But this loitering about the vicinity of little Clelia’s
too brief skirts is almost becoming a habit with you."

"She’s a nice girl," returned Smith, vaguely.

"Surely.  And you’re a very nice young man; but you know as well as I do
that we can’t arrange our social life to include the circle below
stairs."

"You mean, in the event of travelers arriving, they might misconstrue
such a democracy?"

"Certainly, they’d misjudge it.  We couldn’t explain why our cook was
playing the piano in the living-room or why Clelia laid aside her
dust-pan for a cup of tea with us at five, could we?"

"Or why Thusis and you went trout fishing together," he added
pleasantly.

A violent blush possessed my countenance.  So he was aware of that
incident!  He had gone to Zurich that day.  I hadn’t mentioned it.

"Smith," said I, "these are war times.  To catch fish is to conserve
food.  Under no other circumstances——"

"I understand, of course!  Two can catch more fish than one.  Which
caught it?"

"Thusis," I admitted.  "Thusis happened to know where these Swiss trout
hide and how to catch them.  Naturally I was glad to avail myself of her
knowledge."

"Very interesting.  You need no further instruction, I fancy."

"To become proficient," said I, "another lesson or two—possibly——"  I
paused out near the fountain to stoop over and break off a daisy.  From
which innocent blossom, absent-mindedly, I plucked the snowy petals one
by one as I sauntered along beside Smith.

Presently he began to mutter to himself.  At first I remained sublimely
unconscious of what he was murmuring, then I caught the outrageous
words: "Elle m’aime—un peu—beaucoup—passablement—pas-du-tout——"

"What’s that?" I demanded, glaring at him. "What are you gabbling
about?"

He seemed surprised at my warmth.  I hurled the daisy from me; we turned
and strode back in hostile silence toward the bottling house.

My farmer, Raoul Despres, was inside and the door stood open.  We could
hear the humming of the dynamo.  Evidently, obeying my orders of
yesterday, he had gone in to look over and report upon the condition of
the plant with a view to resuming business where my recent uncle had
left off.

We could see his curly black head, and athletic figure inside the low
building.  As he prowled hither and thither investigating the machinery
he was singing blithely to himself:

    "Crack-brain-cripple-arm
    You have done a heap of harm—
    You and yours and all your friends!
    Now you’ll have to make amends."


Smith and I looked at each other in blank perplexity.

"That’s a remarkable song," I said at last.

"Very," said Smith.  We halted.  The dynamo droned on like a giant bee.

Raoul continued to sing as he moved around in the bottling house, and
the words he sang came to us quite plainly:

    "Crack-brain-cripple-arm
    Sacking city, town and farm!
    You, your children and your friends,
    All will come to rotten ends!"


"Smith," said I, "who on earth do you suppose he means by
’Crack-brain-cripple-arm’?"

"Surely," mused Smith, "he could not be referring to the All-highest of
Hunland....  Could he?"

"Impossible," said I.  We went into the bottling house.  And the song of
Raoul ceased.

It struck me, as he turned and came toward us with his frank, quick
smile and his gay and slightly jaunty bearing, that he had about him
something of that nameless allure of a soldier of France.

"But of course you are Swiss," I said to him with a trace of a grin
twitching at my lips.

"Of course, Monsieur," he replied innocently.

"Certainly....  And, how about that machinery, Raoul?"

"It functions, Monsieur.  A little rust—nothing serious.  The torrent
from the Bec de l’Empereur runs the dynamo; the spring flows full.
Listen!"

We listened.  Through the purring of the dynamo the bubbling melody of
the famous mineral spring was perfectly audible.

"How many bottles have we?" I asked.

"In the unopened cases a hundred thousand.  In odd lots, quart size,
twenty thousand more."

"Corks?  Boxes?"

"Plenty."

"Labels?  Straw?"

"Bales, Monsieur."

"And all the machinery works?"

For answer he picked up a quart bottle and placed it in a porcelain
cylinder.  Then he threw a switch; the bottle was filled automatically,
corked, labeled, sheathed in straw and deposited in a straw-lined box.

"Fine!" I said.  "When you have a few moments to spare from the farm you
can fill a few dozen cases.  And you, too, Smith, when time hangs heavy
on your hands, it might amuse you to drop in and start bottling spring
water for me—instead of rearranging your bureau drawers."

The suggestion did not seem to attract him.  He said he’d enjoy doing it
but that he did not comprehend machinery.

I smiled at him and made up my mind that he’d not spend his spare time
in Clelia’s neighborhood.

"Raoul," said I, "that was an interesting song you were singing when we
came in."

"What song, Monsieur?"

"The one about ’Crack-brain-cripple-arm.’"

He gazed at me so stupidly that I hesitated.

"I thought I heard you humming a song," said I.

"Maybe it was the dynamo, Monsieur."

"Maybe," I said gravely.

Smith and I walked out and across toward the cow-stables.

There was nothing to see there except chickens; the little brown Swiss
cattle being in pasture on the Bec de l’Empereur.

"If time hangs heavy with you, Smith," I ventured, "why not drive the
