him to jail for of course old Granitch had the city government 
in his vest-pocket. 
All this was an old story to Jimmie ; but now the Irishman 
went on to a new proposition. There was a way to stop the 
work of the Empire, a way that had been tried in other places, 
and had worked. Reilly knew where to get some T.NYT. an 
explosive many times more powerful than dynamite. They 
could make bombs out of the steel tubing of bicycles, and 
Jimmie, knowing the Empire Shops as he did, could find a 
way to get in and arrange matters. There was big money in 
it the fellows who did that job might live on Easy Street 
the rest of their lives. 
Jimmie was stunned. He had been perfectly sincere in 
classifying German spies with sea-serpents; and here was a 
sea-serpent right before his eyes, raising his head through the 
floor of Kumme's bicycle-shop ! 
Jimmie answered that he had never had anything to do with 
that sort of thing. That wasn't the way to stop war; that was 
only making more war. The other began to argue with him, 
showing that it wouldn't hurt anybody; the explosion would 
take place at night, and all that would be damaged would be 
Abel Granitch's purse. But Jimmie was obdurate ; fortunately 
one thing that had been incessantly pounded into his head at 
the local was that the movement could not use conspiracy, 
it must work by open propaganda, winning the minds and 
consciences of men. 
First the Irishman became angry, and called him a coward 
and a molly-coddle. Then he became suspicious, and wanted 
to know if Jimmie would sell him out to the Empire. Jimmie 
laughed at this ; he had no love for Abel Granitch the damned 
old skunk might do his own spying. Jimmie would simply 
have nothing to do with the matter, one way or the other. 
And so the project was dropped; but the little machinist was 
moved to keep his eyes open after that, and he made note of 
how many Germans, all strangers, were making the shop a 
meeting place; also the quick intimacy which had developed 
between the Irishman and Heinrich, Kumme's nephew who 
held himself so straight and had no back to his head. 
Matters came to a climax with startling suddenness the 
explosion of a bomb, though not the kind which Jimmie was 
expecting. It was an evening in February, just as he was 
about to close up, when he saw the door of the shop open, and 
four men walk in. They came with a peculiar, business-like 
air, two of them to the puzzled Jimmie, and the other two to 
Kumme. One turned back the lapel of his coat, showing a large 
gold star, and announcing, "I am an agent of the government, 
and you are under arrest' And at the same time the other seized 
Jimmie's arms and slipped a pair of handcuffs over his wrists. 
He passed his hands over his prisoner, a ceremony known as 
"frisking"; and at the same time the other men had seized 
Kumme. Jimmie saw two more men enter at the rear door of 
the shop, but they had nothing to do, for both Jimmie and 
Kumme had been too much startled to make any move to 
escape. 
They were led out to an automobile, shoved in and whirled 
away. No questions were answered, so after a bit they stopped 
asking questions and sat still, reflecting upon all the sins they 
had ever committed in their lives, and upon the chances of 
these sins being known to the police. 
Jimmie thought he was going to jail, of course ; but instead 
they took him to the Post Office building, to an upstairs room. 
Kumme was taken to another room, and Jimmie did not see 
him again ; all that Jimmie had time to know or to think about 
was a stern-faced young man who sat at a desk and put him on 
a griddle. "It is my duty to inform you that everything you 
state may be used against you' said this young man ; and then, 
without giving Jimmie a chance to grasp the meaning of these 
words, he began firing questions at him. All through the 
ordeal the two detectives stood by his side, and in a corner 
of the room, at another desk, a stenographer was busily recording 
 
what he said. Jimmie knew there were such things as stenog- 
raphers for had he not come near falling in love with one 
only a short time before? 
"Your name?" said the stern-faced young man; and then, 
"Where do you live ?" And then, "Tell me all you know about 
this bomb-conspiracy." 
"But I don't know nothin' I" cried Jimmie. 
"You are in the hands of the Federal government," replied 
the young man, "and your only chance will be to make a clean 
breast. If you will help us, you may get off." 
"But I don't know nothinM" cried Jimmie, again. 
"You have heard talk about dynamiting the Empire Shops ?" 
"Y-yes, sir." 
"Who?" 
"A man " Jimmie got that far, and then he recollected 
the promise he had given. "I I can't tell !" he said. 
"Why not?" 
"It wouldn't be right." 
"Do you believe in dynamiting buildings?" 
"No, sir !" Jimmie put into this reply a note of tense sin- 
cerity; and so the other began to argue with him. Atrocious 
crimes had been committed all over the country, and the govern- 
ment wished to put a stop to them; surely it was the duty of a 
decent citizen to give what help he could. Jimmie listened until 
a sweat of anxiety stood out on his forehead; but he could not 
bring himself to "peach" on a fellow-workingman. No, not if 
he were sent to jail for ten or twenty years, as the stern-faced 
young man told him might happen. 
"You told Eeilly you wouldn't have anything to do with 
bombs ?" asked the young man ; and Jimmie answered, "Sure, I 
did!" And his poor head was so addled that he didn't even 
realise that in his reply he had told what he had been vow- 
ing he would never tell! 
The questioner seemed to know all about everything, so it 
was easy for him to lead Jimmie to tell how he had heard 
Kumme cursing the Empire Shops, and the country, and the 
President; how he had seen Kumme whispering to Reilly, and 
to Germans whose names he had not learned, and how he had 
seen Heinrich, Kumme's nephew, cutting up lengths of steel 
tubing. Then the questioner asked about Jerry Coleman. 
How much money had Jimmie got, and just what had he done 
with it? Jimmie refused to name other people; but when the 
young man made the insinuation that Jimmie might have kept 
some of the money for himself, the little machinist exclaimed 
with passionate intensity not one dollar had he kept, nor his 
friend Meissner either; they had given statements to Jerry 
Coleman, and this though many a time they had been hard up 
for their rent. The police could ask Comrade Gerrity and Com- 
rade Mary Allen, and the other members of the local. 
So the questioner led Jimmie on to talk about the Germans 
in the movement. Schneider, the brewer, for example he was 
one of those who cursed the Allies most vehemently, and he had 
been in this bomb-conspiracy. Jimmie was 'indignant; Com- 
rade Schneider was as good a Socialist as you could find, and 
Socialists had nothing to do with bombs! But young Emil 
Forster he had been making explosives in his spare hours, 
had he not? At which Jimmie became still more outraged. 
He knew young Emil well; the boy was a carpet-designer and 
musician, and if anybody had told such tales about him, they 
were lying, that was all. The questioner went on for an hour 
or so, tormenting poor Jimmie with such doubts and fears; 
until finally he dropped a little of his sternness of manner, 
and told Jimmie that he had merely been trying him out, to 
see what he knew about various men whose pro-German feel- 
ings had brought them under suspicion. No, the government 
had no evidence of crime against Schneider or Forster, or any 
of the bona-fide Socialists. They were just plain fools, letting 
themselves be used as tools of German plotters, who were 
spending money like water to make trouble in munitions 
factories all over the country. 
IV 
The questioner, who explained himself as a "special agent" 
of the Department of Justice, went on to read Jimmie a lecture. 
A sincere man like himself ought to be ashamed to let himself 
be taken in by German conspirators, who were trying to break 
up American industry, to lead American labour by the nose. 
"But they want to stop the making of munitions!" cried 
Jimmie. 
"But that's only so that Germany can make more muni- 
tions !" 
 
"But I'm opposed to their being made in Germany, too!" 
"What can you do to stop it in Germany?" 
"I'm an international Socialist. When I oppose war in my 
own country, I help the Socialists to oppose it in other coun- 
tries. I ain't a-going to stop not so long as I've got any 
breath left in me !" And here was Comrade Jimmie, delivering 
a sermon on pacifism to the " special agent" of the government,' 
who held his fate in his hands! But no one was going to 
defend war to Jimmie Higgins and not be answered even 
though Jimmie might go to jail for the rest of his life! 
The young man laughed more genially than Jimmie would 
have thought possible at the start of this grilling. "Higgins," 
he said, "you're a good-natured idiot. You can thank your lucky, 
stars that one of the men you trusted happened to be a govern- 
ment detective. If we didn't know the truth about you, you 
might have had a hard time clearing yourself." 
Jimmie's jaw had fallen. "A government detective! Who 
is the government detective?" 
"Keilly," said the young man. 
"Keilly? But it was him that tempted me!" 
"Well, congratulate yourself that you resisted temptation!" 
"But maybe he tempted Heinrich too !" 
"No Heinrich didn't have to be tempted. It was on 
account of Heinrich that we began the investigation. He has 
been making explosives and planting them all over the country. 
His name isn't Heinrich, and he isn't a nephew of Kumme; 
his name is von Holtz, and he's a Prussian officer, a personal 
friend of the Kaiser." 
Jimmie was speechless. For the love of Mike! He had 
been sitting in the back part of old Kumme's bicycle-shop, 
filling his pipe from the tobacco-pouch of a personal friend of 
the Kaiser! He had called this personal friend of the Kaiser 
a dub and a jack-ass, informing him that a real mechanic 
could put a ball-bearing together while he, the personal friend 
of the Kaiser, was spitting on his hands. Could you beat it? 
Mr. Harrod, the "special agent," informed Jimmie that he 
would have to testify as to what he knew; and Jimmie was so 
indignant at the way he had been taken in that he was willing 
to do so. He would have to give bond to appear, added the 
other ; did he know any one who would vouch for him ? Jimmie 
racked his harassed brain. Comrade Dr. Service might con- 
sent, if he were quite sure that Jimmie had not really meant 
to help the Germans. Mr. Harrod kindly consented to give this 
assurance, and called up Dr. Service, whom he seemed to know, 
and told him the circumstances: Dr. Service finally said that 
he would put up a couple of thousand dollars to guarantee 
Jimmie's appearance before the grand jury and at the trial. 
Mr. Harrod added that if Dr. Service would promise to come 
in the morning and attend to the matter, the government would 
take his word and let the witness go for the night. The doctor 
promised, and Jimmie was told that he was free till ten o'clock 
next morning. He went out, like a sky-lark escaping from a 
cage! 
He had been warned not to talk to any one, so he told 
Lizzie that he had been kept late to make repairs on a motor- 
cycle. And next morning he got up at the usual hour, to 
avoid exciting suspicion, and went and stared at the shop, 
which was locked up, with a policeman on guard. He bought 
a copy of the Leesville "Herald' and read the thrilling story 
of the German plot which had been unearthed in Leesville. 
There were half a dozen conspirators under arrest, and more 
than a dozen bombs had been found, all destined to be set off 
in the Empire Shops. Franz Heinrich von Holtz, who had 
blown up a bridge in Canada and put an infernal machine on 
board a big Atlantic liner, had been nailed at last ! 
Half an hour before time, Jimmie was waiting at the Post 
Office building, and when Comrade Dr. Service arrived, they 
went in and signed the bond. Coming out again, the grim and 
forbidding doctor ordered Jimmie into his car, and oh, what a 
dressing-down he did give him! He had Jimmie where he 
wanted him right over his knees and before he let him up 
he surely did make him burn! The little machinist had been 
so cock-sure of himself ; going ahead to end the war, by stopping 
the shipping of munitions, and paying no heed to' warnings 
from men older and wiser than himself ! And now see what he 
had got himself in for arrested with a gang of fire-bugs and 
desperadoes, under the control and in the pay of a personal 
friend of the Kaiser! 
Poor Jimmie couldn't put up much of a defence: he was 
 
cowed, for once. He could only say that he had had no evil 
intention he had merely been agitating against the trade in 
munitions a wicked thing 
"Wicked?" broke in the Comrade Doctor. "The thing upon 
which the freedom of mankind depends V 
"W-what?" exclaimed Jimmie; for these words sounded to 
him like sheer lunacy. 
The other explained. "A nation that means to destroy its 
neighbours sets to work and puts all its energies into making 
guns and shells. The free peoples of the world won't follow 
suit you can't persuade them to do it, because they don't believe 
in war, they can't realise that their neighbours intend to make 
war. So, when they are attacked, their only chance for life 
is to go out into the open market and buy the means of defence. 
And you propose to deprive them of that right to betray them, 
to throw them under the hoofs of the war-monster! You, 
who call yourself a believer in justice, make yourself a tool of 
such a conspiracy! You take German money " 
"I never took no German money !" cried Jimmie, wildly. 
"Didn't Kumme pay you money?'' 
"But I worked in his shop I done my ten hours a day 
right straight!" 
"And this fellow Jerry Coleman? Hasn't he given you 
money?" 
"But that was for propaganda he was agent for Labour's 
National Peace Council " 
And the Comrade Doctor fairly snorted. "How could you 
be such an ass? Don't you read the news? But no of course 
you don't you only read German dope!" And the Comrade 
Doctor drew out his pocket-book, which was bursting with 
clippings, and selected one from a New York paper, telling 
how the government was proceeding against the officials of an 
organisation called "Labour's National Peace Council" for 
conspiring to cause strikes and violence. The founder of the 
organisation was a person known as "the Wolf of Wall Street"; 
the funds had been furnished by a Prussian army officer, an 
attache of the German legation, who had used his official 
immunity to incite conspiracy and wholesale destruction of 
property in a friendly country. What had Jimmie to say to 
that? 
And poor Jimmie for once had nothing to say. He sat, 
completely crushed. Not merely the money which he had got 
from Kumme on Saturday night, but also the ten dollar bills 
which Jerry Coleman had been slipping into his hand they 
too had come from the Kaiser! Was the whole radical move- 
ment to be taken over by the Kaiser, and Jimmie Higgins put 
out of his job? 
JIMME'S bicycle-shop went out of business, and 'its contents 
" were sold at auction. Jimmie Higgins watched the process 
wistfully, reflecting how, if he had not wasted his substance 
on Socialist tracts, if he had saved a bit of his wages like any 
normal human being, he might have bought this little business 
and got a start in life. But alas, such hopes were not for 
Jimmie ! He must remain in the condition which the President 
of his country described as "industrial serfdom"; he must 
continue to work for some other man's profit, to be at the 
mercy of some other man's whim. 
He found himself a job in the railroad-shops; but in a 
couple of weeks came an organiser, trying to start a union in 
the place. Jimmie, of course, joined; how could he refuse? 
And so the next time he went to get his pay he found a green 
slip in his envelope, informing him that the Atlantic Western 
Eailroad Company would no longer require his services. No 
explanation was given, and none sought for Jimmie was old 
in the ways of American wage-slavery, euphemistically referred 
to as "industrial serfdom." 
He got another start as helper to a truckman. It was the 
hardest work he had yet done all the harder because the boss 
was a dull fellow who would not talk about politics or the war. 
So Jimmie was discontented; perhaps the spring-time was 
getting into his blood ; at any rate, he hunted through his Sun- 
day paper, and came on an advertisement of a farmer who 
wanted a "hand." It was six miles out in the country, and 
Jimmie, remembering his walk with the Candidate, treated him- 
self to a Sunday afternoon excursion. He knew nothing about 
farm-work, and said so; but the munition-factories had drained 
so much, labour from the land that the farmer was glad to get 
anybody. He had a "tenant-house" on his place, and on Mon- 
day morning Jimmie hired his former boss the truckman 
to move his few sticks of furniture; he bade farewell to his 
little friend Meissner, and next day was learning to milk cows 
and steer a plough. 
So Jimmie came back to the bosom of his ancient Mother. 
But alas, he came, not to find joy and health, not as a free 
man, to win his own way and make a new life for himself; he 
came as a soil-slave, to drudge from dawn to dark for a hire 
that barely kept him going. The farmer was the owner of 
Jimmie's time, and Jimmie disliked him heartily, because he 
was surly-tempered and stingy, abusing his horses and nagging 
at his hired man. Jimmie's education in farm-economics was 
not thorough enough to enable him to realise that John Cutter 
was as much of a slave as himself bound by a mortgage to 
Ashton Chalmers, President of the First National Bank of 
Leesville. John drudged from dawn to dark, just as Jimmie 
did, and in addition had all the worry and fear; his wife was a 
sallow and hollow-chested drudge, who took as many bottles of 
patent-medicine as poor Mrs. Meissner. 
But Jimmie kept fairly cheerful because he was learning 
new things, and because he saw how good it was for the babies, 
who were getting fresh air and better food than they had ever 
had in their little lives before. All summer long he ploughed 
and harrowed and hoed, he tended horses and cows and pigs 
and chickens, and drove to town with farm-truck to be sold. 
He would be too tired at night even to read his Socialist papers ; 
for six months he let the world go its way unhindered its way 
of desperate strife and colossal anguish. It was the time when 
the German hordes hurled themselves against the fortifications 
of Verdun. For five horrible months they came on, wave upon 
endless wave; the people of France set their teeth and swore, 
"They shall not pass " and the rest of civilisation waited, hold- 
ing its breath. 
II 
The only chance Jimmie had to talk about these matters 
was of a Saturday night when he strolled up to the store at a 
near-by cross-roads. The men he met here were of a new type 
to him as different from factory people as if they came from 
 
another planet. Jimmie had been taught to laugh at them as 
"hayseeds"; intellectually he regarded them as relics of a 
vanished age, so of course he could not listen to their talk very 
long without "butting in." He began with the declaration 
that the Allies were as bad as the Germans. He got away with 
that, because they had all been taught to hate the "Britishers" in 
their schoolbooks, and they didn't know very much about 
Frenchmen and "Eye-talians." But when Jimmie went on to 
say that the American government was as bad as the German 
government that all governments were 'run by capitalists, 
and all went to war for foreign markets and such plunder 
then what a hornets' nest he brought about his ears! "You 
mean to say American armies would do what them Proosians 
done in Belgium?" And when Jimmie answered Yes, an 
indignant citizen rose from his seat on a cracker-box, and 
tapped him on the shoulder and said : "Look here, young feller, 
you better run along home. You'll git yerself a coat of tar 
and feathers if you talk too much round these parts." 
So Jimmie shut up for a while; and when he went out 
with his armful of purchases, an aged, white-whiskered patri- 
arch who had been listening got up and followed him out. 
"I'm goin' your way," he said. "Git in with me." Jimmie 
climbed into the buggy; and while the bony old mare ambled 
along through the summer-night the driver asked questions 
about Jimmie's life. Where had he been brought up? How 
had it been possible for a man to live all his life in America, 
and know so little about his native land? 
Peter Drew was this old farmer's name, and he had been 
in the first battle of Bull Run, and had fought with the Army 
of Northern Virginia all the way to Richmond. So he knew 
how American armies behave ; he could tell Jimmie about a mil- 
lion free men who had rushed to arms to save their nation's in- 
tegrity, and had made a clean job of it, and then gone quietly 
back to their work at farm and forge. Jimmie had heard 
Comrade Mary Allen, the Quaker, make the statement that 
"Force never settled anything." He repeated this now, and the 
other replied that an American ought to be the last person in 
the world to make such a statement, for his country had pro- 
vided the best illustration in history of the importance of a 
good job of spanking. It was force that had settled the slavery 
question and settled it so that now you might travel in the 
South and have a hard time to find a man that would want 
to unsettle it. 
But Jimmie knew nothing about all that ; he knew nothing 
about anything in America. The old man said it frightened 
him to realise that the country had let a man grow up in it 
with so little understanding of its soul. All that precious 
tradition, utterly dead so far as Jimmie was concerned! All 
those heroes who had died to make free the land in which he 
lived, and to keep it free and he did not know their names, 
he did not even know the names of the great battles they had 
fought ! The old man's voice trembled and he laid his hand on 
Jimmie's knee. 
The little Socialist tried to explain that he had dreams of 
his own. He was fighting for international freedom his 
patriotism was higher and wider than any one country. And 
that was all right, said the other, but why kick down the ladder 
by which you had climbed and especially when you had per- 
haps not entirely finished climbing? Why not know the better 
side of your own country, and appeal to it? Peter Drew went 
on to tell of a speech he had heard Abraham Lincoln make, 
and to quote things Lincoln had said ; could Jimmie doubt that 
Lincoln would have opposed the rule of the country by Wall 
Street? And when a country had been shaped and guided by 
such men as Lincoln, why trample its face and besmirch its 
good name just because there were in it some evil men con- 
tending against its ideals of freedom and democracy ? 
This old soldier lived about a mile from Jimmie, and asked 
his new friend to come and see him. So the next afternoon, 
which was Sunday, Lizzie put on a newly starched dress, and 
Jimmie packed the two littlest infants ,in the double perambu- 
lator, and took Jimmie Junior's chubby hand, and they trudged 
down the road to the farm-house which the old man's father 
had built. Mrs. Drew was a sweet-faced, rather tired looking 
old lady, but her pale eyes seemed to smile with hospitality, 
and she brought out a basket of ripe peaches, and sat and 
chatted sympathetically with Lizzie about the care of babies, 
while Jimmie and the old man sat under the shade of an elm 
tree by the kitchen-door and discussed American history. Jim- 
mie listened to stories of battle and imprisonment, of monster 
heroisms and self-immolations. Up to this time he had been 
looking at war from the outside, as it were; but now he got a 
 
glimpse of the soul of it, he began to understand how a man 
might be willing to leave his home and his loved ones, and 
march out to fight and suffer and die to save his country in 
which he believed. 
And here was another new idea: this old fellow had been a 
soldier, had fought through four years of incessant battles, and 
yet he had not lost his goodness. He was kind, gentle, generous ; 
he gave dignity to the phrases at which Jimmie had been taught 
to mock. It was impossible not to respect such a man; and so 
little by little Jimmie was made to reflect that there might be 
such a thing as the soul of America, about which Peter Drew 
was all the time talking. Perhaps there was really more to 
the country than Wall Street speculators and grafting politicians, 
policemen with clubs and militiamen with bayonets to stick 
into the bodies of workingmen who tried to improve their lot 
in life! 
In the course of the summer Jimmie had to take several 
days off and go into Leesville to attend the trial of the Ger- 
man plotters. He had to take the witness-stand and tell all he 
know about Kumme and Heinrich and the other men who had 
frequented the bicycle-shop. It was a very serious experience, 
and before it was over Jimmie was heartily glad that he had 
rejected the invitation to help blow up the Empire Machine 
Shops. The trial ended with a sentence of six months for Jim- 
mie's old employer, and of two years each for Heinrich and his 
pals. The law allowed no more to the intense disgust of the 
Leesville "Herald." The "Herald" was in favour of a life- 
sentence for any one who interfered with the industry upon 
which the prosperity of the city depended. 
Among those who came to the trial was Comrade Smith, 
editor of the "Worker," and Jimmie sat with him in Tom's 
"Buffeteria," and heard an account of the latest developments 
in the Empire Shops. The movement of discontent had been 
entirely crushed ; the great establishment was going at full blast, 
both day and night. They were taking on hundreds of new 
hands, mostly women and girls, speeding them faster and faster, 
turning out tens of thousands of shell-casings every day. And 
still they were not satisfied; new buildings were going up, the 
concern was spreading like a huge blot over the landscape. 
There was talk of an explosives factory nearby, so that shells 
might be filled as fast as they were made. 
The "boom" conditions continued in Leesville; speculators 
were reaping harvests, it seemed as if the masters of the city 
were all on a spree. Comrade Smith advised Jimmie to stay 
where he was, for it was getting to be harder and harder for 
the workers in Leesville to get anything to eat. But out on 
the heights along the river front, the part of the city called 
"Nob Hill' new palaces were rising. And it was that way 
all over the Eastern part of the country, said the young editor; 
the rich no longer knew what to do with their millions. 
On the day the trial ended, Jimmie stayed in town to attend 
a meeting of the local and pay his back dues. So he met all 
his old friends, and heard "Wild Bill" get up and deliver one 
of his tirades. Bill had in his hand a newspaper clipping tell- 
ing of the amazing madness that had struck Wall Street. 
Munition-stocks were soaring to prices beyond belief; "war- 
babies," men called them, with unthinkably cynical wit. On 
the "Great White Way," to which they rushed to celebrate these 
new Arabian Nights, there was such an orgy of dissipation 
as the world had never seen. "And this is what we have to 
slave for!" yelled "Wild Bill" looking wilder than ever since 
the police had broken his nose and knocked out his three front 
teeth. "This is why we are chained to our jobs shut up in 
jail if we so much as open our mouths! Piling up millions 
for old man Granitch, so that young Lacey can marry chorus- 
girls and divorce them or steal away another man's wife, as 
they say he's doing just now !" 
Then young Emil Forster spoke, explaining to Jimmie the 
