Jeroloman glanced at his watch. It was getting late. His residence was
five miles away. He was to dress, dine early and take his wife to the
theatre. He would have to hurry and he reached for his hat.
"The common law was abrogated long ago."
Dunwoodie rumpled the towel. "Why, so it was!"
Jeroloman took the hat and with a gloved finger rubbed at the brim.
"Even otherwise, the term common-law wife is not legally recognised. The
law looks with no favour on the connection indicated by it. The term is
synonymous for a woman who, having lived illicitly with a man, seeks to
assume the relationship of wife after his death and thereby share in the
proceeds of his property."
From under beetling brows, Dunwoodie looked at him. "Thanks for the
lecture, Jeroloman. My client has no such desire. In this office, an
hour ago, she refused them."
Jeroloman stood up. "Very sensible of her, I'm sure." He twirled the
hat. "Who is she?"
"I thought I told you. She is Mrs. Paliser."
Jeroloman waved that hat. "Well, well! I thought I told you. As it is,
if you will take the trouble to look at the laws of 1901, you will find
that common-law marriages are inhibited."
"Hum! Ha! And if you will trouble to look at the Laws of 1907, you will
find they are inhibited no longer."
Jeroloman stared. "I have yet to learn of it."
Dunwoodie repocketed his towel. "Is it possible? Then when the
opportunity occurs you might inform yourself. At the same time let me
recommend the Court of Appeals for March. You may find there additional
instruction. But I see you are going. Don't let me detain you."
Jeroloman sat down. "What case are you referring to?"
"The Matter of Ziegler."
Uncertainly Jeroloman's steel-blue eyes shifted. "It seems to me I read
the syllabus."
"Then your powers of concealment are admirable."
"But just what does it hold?"
"Can it be that you don't remember? Well, well!--to borrow your own
agreeable mode of expression--it holds that common-law marriages that
were valid before and until the enactments which you were good enough to
cite, were again made valid by their appeal in Chapter 742 of the Laws
of 1907."
"But," Jeroloman began and paused. "But----" He paused again.
Comfortably Dunwoodie helped him. "Yes?"
"You say that marriages valid before and until the Laws of 1901 are, by
virtue of a repeal, now valid again?"
"That is what I say, Jeroloman. Merely that and nothing more. In
addition to the Ziegler case, let me commend to you 'The Raven.'"
"Let's get down to facts, sir. From your account of it, this alleged
marriage never could have been valid."
Dunwoodie wiped his mouth. "Dear me! I had no idea that my account of it
could lead to such interesting views. You do surprise me."
"Mr. Dunwoodie, you said the ceremony was performed by a gardener who
pretended to be a clergyman. Those were your very words."
"Yaas. Let the cat out of the bag, didn't I?"
Archly but chillily Jeroloman smiled. "Well, no, I would not care to put
it in that way, but your office-boy must know that false representations
void it."
"Good Lord!" Dunwoodie exclaimed. It was as though he had been hit in
the stomach.
Jeroloman, who was eyeing him, gave a little nod that was tantamount to
saying, "Take that!"
But Dunwoodie was recovering. He sat back, looked admiringly at
Jeroloman, clasped his hands and twirled his thumbs.
Jeroloman, annoyed at the attitude and in haste to be going, pursed his
thin lips. "Well, sir?"
With an affability that was as unusual as it was suspicious, Dunwoodie
smiled at him. "Your objection is well taken. Not an hour ago, in that
chair in which you are sitting, this lady, my client, who not once in
her sweet life has opened the Revised Statutes, and who, to save it,
could not tell the difference between them and the Code, well, sir, she
entered that same objection."
"I don't see----"
"Nor did she, God bless her! And I fear I wearied her with my reasons
for not sustaining it. But I did not tell her, what I may confide in
you, that in Hays versus The People--25 New York--it is held immaterial
whether a person who pretended to solemnise a marriage contract, was or
was not a clergyman, or whether either party to the contract was
deceived by false representations of this character. Hum! Ha!"
Jeroloman pulled at his long chin. In so doing he rubbed his hat the
wrong way. He did not notice. That he was to dress, dine early, take his
wife to the theatre, that it was getting late and that his residence was
five miles away, all these things were forgotten. What he saw were
abominations that his client would abhor--the suit, the notoriety, the
exposure, the whole dirty business dumped before the public's greedy and
shining eyes.
"Who is she?" he suddenly asked.
"Who was she?" Dunwoodie corrected. "Miss Cara."
Jeroloman started and dropped his hat. "Not----?"
Dunwoodie nodded. "His daughter."
Jeroloman, bending over, recovered his hat. Before it, a picture
floated. It represented an assassin's child gutting the estate of a son
whom the father had murdered. It was a bit too cubist. Somewhere he had
seen another picture of that school. It showed a young woman falling
downstairs. He did not know but that he might reproduce it. At least he
could try. Meanwhile it was just as well to take the model's measure and
again his eyes fastened on Dunwoodie.
"What do you suggest?"
Dunwoodie, loosening his clasped hands, beat with the fingers a tattoo
on his waistcoat.
"Let me see. There is 'The Raven,' the first primer, the multiplication
table. Is it for your enlightenment that you ask?"
Jeroloman moistened his lips. Precise, careful, capable, intensely
respectable, none the less he could have struck him. A moment only. From
the sleeve of his coat he flicked, or affected to flick, a speck.
"Yes, thank you, for my enlightenment. You have not told me what your
client wants."
"What a woman wants is usually beyond masculine comprehension."
Methodically Jeroloman dusted his hat. "You might enquire. We, none of
us, favour litigation. In the interests of my client I always try to
avoid it and, while at present. I have no authority, yet----Well, well!
Between ourselves, how would a ponderable amount, four or five thousand,
how would that do?"
Blandly Dunwoodie looked at this man, who was trying to take Cassy's
measure.
"For what?"
"To settle it."
That bland air, where was it? In its place was the look which
occasionally the ruffian turned on the Bench.
"Hum! Ha! Then for your further enlightenment let me inform you that my
client will settle it for what she is legally entitled to, not one
ponderable dollar more, not one ponderable copper less."
Mentally, from before that look, Jeroloman was retreating. Mentally as
well, already he had reversed himself. He had judged Dunwoodie old,
back-number, living in the past. Instead of which the fossil was what he
always had been--just one too many. Though not perhaps for him. Not for
Randolph F. Jeroloman. Not yet, at any rate. The points advanced were
new, undigested, perhaps inexact, filled with discoverable flaws.
Though, even so, how M. P. would view them was another kettle of fish.
But that was as might be. He put on his hat and stood up.
"Very good. I will give the matter my attention."
"Do," Dunwoodie, with that same look, retorted, "And meanwhile I will
apply for letters of administration. Hum! Ha! My compliments to your
good lady."
He turned in his chair. Attention, indeed! He knew what that meant. The
matter would be submitted to M. P. The old devil had not a leg to stand
on, he lacked even a crutch, and in that impotent, dismembered and
helpless condition he would be thrown out of court. A ponderable amount!
Hum!
For a moment he considered the case. But it may be that already it had
been heard and adjudged. Long since, perhaps, at some court of last
resort, the Paliser Case had been decided.
XXXVI
On the morrow, Jeroloman waited on his client, who received him in the
library, an agreeable room in which there was nothing literary, but
which succeeded at once in becoming extremely unpleasant.
M. P. was in tweeds. When his late lamented departed this life, he wore
crêpe on his hat for ninety days. It was a tribute that he paid, not to
the lady's virtues, which were notoriously absent; nor to any love of
her, for he had disliked her exceedingly; nor yet because it was
conventional, he hated conventionality; but, by Gad, sir, because it
bucks the women up! All that was long ago. Since then he had become less
fastidious. At his son's funeral he appeared in black.
Now, on this day, dressed in tweeds, he greeted Jeroloman with his usual
cordiality.
"I hope to God you are not going to bother me about anything?"
The wicked old man, who had faced wicked facts before, faced a few of
them then. The stench of the main fact had been passing from him,
deodorised by the fumigating belief that his son had been killed by a
lunatic. Now here it was again, more mephitic than ever, and for the
whiffs of it with which Jeroloman was spraying him, he hated the man.
"Whom has she?"
"Dunwoodie."
He reviewed the bar. There was Bancroft, whose name was always in the
papers and to whom clients flocked. There was Gwathmay, whom the papers
ignored and whom only lawyers consulted. He might have either or both,
the rest of the crew as well, and in spite of them all, unless he
permitted himself to be done, the publicity would be just as resounding.
In the old nights, when social New York was a small and early, threats
had amused him. "I have my hours for being blackmailed, this is not one
of them," he had lightly remarked at a delightful gang. "Do your
damnedest."
They took him at his word and so completely that the small and early saw
him no more. What was that to him? There were other pastures, less
scrumptious perhaps, but also far less fatiguing. He had not cared, not
a rap. Behind him the yard of brass yodled in a manner quite as lordly
as before. His high-steppers lost none of their sheen; his yacht
retained all its effulgence; so, too, did the glare of his coin. No, he
had not cared. But that was long ago, so long that it might have
happened in an anterior existence. He had not cared then. Age is
instructive. He had learned to since. Moreover, in testimony of his
change of heart, a miracle had been vouchsafed. The affair at the Opera,
attributed to a lunatic, had been buried safely, like his son, the
scandal tossed in for shroud. How freely he had breathed since then! The
little green bottle of menthe he had barely touched. He might live to
see everything forgiven or, what is quite as satisfactory, forgotten.
And now! Columns and columns, endlessly, day in, day out; the Paliser
Case dragged from one court to another, the stench of it exceeded only
by that of the Huns! But, by comparison, blackmail, however bitter, was
sweet. When one may choose between honey and gall, decision is swift.
"What'll she take?"
Jeroloman, who had left his hat on the malachite bench in the hall,
smoothed his gloves. He was about to reply. Before he could, his client
shook a fist at him.
"The slut hasn't a cent. Came to the Place with a bundle, damn her. A
suit like this costs something. Where's she going to get it? What'll she
take?"
Jeroloman looked up from his gloves. "I don't know."
"Then find out."
"I offered Dunwoodie a ponderable amount."
"Well?"
"He refused it."
"Double it, then, triple it."
"Mr. Paliser, I'm sorry, but it won't do."
"Damnation, why not?"
"It is all or nothing with him and maybe nothing in the end. I told him
so. I told him that the courts view with no favour a woman who, having
lived illicitly with a man, claims, on his demise, to be his widow. Such
a claim is but the declaration of a woman entered after the death of her
alleged husband and, as such, is inadmissible under Section 829 of the
Code. I have posted myself very thoroughly in the matter, though I find
it has been held----"
"Damn what has been held. It's all or nothing, is it?"
Jeroloman pulled at his long chin.
All, the wicked old man reflected. All! All would be ten million and ten
million was less than a tenth of his wealth--ten million for which he
had no earthly need, which it would fatigue him to spend, burden him to
hoard, disgrace him to fight for, and which, normally, would go to a
brat whom he had never seen and whom, as next in line, he hated.
Already he had decided. Though, it may be that on planes of which he
knew nothing, long since it had been decided for him.
None the less it hurt. It hurt horribly. From a pocket, he drew a little
bottle.
"Settle it then."
"On what basis?"
"All and be damned to her."
But now the menthe that he had raised to his lips was trickling from the
bottle, staining his tweeds. He hiccoughed, gasped, motioned.
"And good-day to you."
Below, on the malachite bench, a silk hat was waiting. When that hat
again appeared in Dunwoodie's office, the Paliser Case was over. It had
ended before it began.
XXXVII
Cassy sat in the kitchen. Before her were a cheque and a letter. The
letter was from the theatre-man. The cheque was Dunwoodie's. The cheque
begged to be cashed, the letter begged her to call.
During the night she had gone looking along an avenue where there were
houses with candid windows from which faces peered and smiled. But it
was not for these that she was looking and she awoke in a tempest of
farewells.
Now, across the court, in the kitchen opposite, were two inoffensive
beings. On that evening when her father had made her cry, they had
seemed unreal. On this forenoon their baseless appearance persisted. But
their unreality was not confined to them. Their kitchen, the court, the
building shared it. They were all unreal, everything was, except one
thing only, which perhaps was more unreal than all things else.
She looked at the letter and from it at the cheque. The day before, on
returning from the shower of millions that had caught and drenched her
in Broad Street, she was not entirely dry. The glisten of the golden
rain hung all about her. None the less on reaching the walk-up she
forgot it. There were other matters, more important, that she had in
mind. But only a philosopher could be drenched as she had been and
remain unaffected. The bath is too voluptuous for the normal heart. On
its waters float argosies crimson-hulled, purple-rigged, freighted with
dreams come true. You have but a gesture to make. Those dreams are
spaniels crouching at your feet. At a bath not dissimilar but
financially far shallower, Monte Cristo cried: "The world is mine!" It
was very amusing of him. But though, since then, values have varied, a
bagatelle of ten millions is deep enough for any girl, sufficiently deep
at least for its depths to hold strange things.
At those things, strange indeed and yet not unfamiliar, Cassy beckoned.
In their embrace she saw herself, as Jones had pictured her, going
about, giving money away, strewing it full-handed, changing sobs into
smiles. The picture lacked novelty. Often she had dreamed it. Only
recently, on the afternoon just before the clock struck twelve, just
before the gardener lit his pipe and the mask had fallen, only then,
and, relatively, that was but yesterday, she had promenaded in it. It
was a dream she had dreamed when a child, that had haunted her girlhood,
that had abided since then. It was the dream of a dream she had dreamed
without daring to believe in its truth. Now, from the core of the web
that is spun by the spiderous fates, out it had sprung. There, before
her eyes, within her grasp was that miracle, a rainbow solidified,
vapour made tangible, a dream no longer a dream but a palette and a
palette that you could toss in the air, put in the bank, secrete or
squander, a palette with which you could paint the hours and make them
twist to jewelled harps. No more walk-up! Good-bye, kitchy! Harlem,
addio! The gentleman with the fabulous nose could whistle. Vaudeville,
indeed! She could buy the shop, buy a dozen of them, tear them down,
build them up, throw them into one and sing there, sing what she liked,
when she liked, as she liked. Yes, but for whom? God of gods, for whom?
A local newspaper bears--or bore--a sage device: La nuit porte conseil.
That night, on her white bed, in her black room, Cassy sought it. But
the counsel that night brings is not delivered while you toss about.
Night waits until you sleep. Then, to the subjective self that never
sleeps, the message is delivered. It may be fallible, often it is and,
in our scheme of things, what is there that is not? Yet in any dilemma
bad advice may be better than none. Then, without transition, the black
room changed into an avenue where faces peered and smiled. It was not
though for these that she was looking, but for her way. It must have
been very narrow. Though she looked and looked she could not find it.
Yet it was near, perhaps just around the corner. But in some manner, she
could not reach it. Sleep sank her deeper. When she awoke, there it was.
Now as she sat in the kitchen, before which, in the kitchen opposite,
bundles of baseless appearances came and went, she began counting her
wealth on her fingers. Youth! Up went her thumb. Health! The forefinger.
Lungs! The second finger. Not being a fright! The fourth. How rich she
was! But was there not something else? Oh, yes! Sadly she smiled. A
clear conscience! She had forgotten that and that came first. Youth,
health, lungs, looks, these were gamblers' tokens in the great roulette
of life. In the hazards of chance at any moment she might lose one or
all, as eventually she must lose them and remain no poorer than before.
But her first asset which she had counted last, that was her fortune,
the estate she held by virtue of a trust so guardedly created that if
she lost one mite, the whole treasure was withdrawn.
On the washtub--covered admirably with linoleum--at which she sat, were
the cheque for a thousand dollars and the bid from the vaudeville man.
The bid, she knew, meant money. But the cheque would beggar her.
She drew breath and sat back. From above a filter of sunlight fell and
told her it was noon. Across the court the bundles of baseless
appearances transformed themselves into a real woman, an actual child.
The kitchen in which they moved, the house in which they dwelled were no
longer the perceptions of a perceiver. They also were real. So, too, was
life.
An hour and Mr. Purdy's pasty face turned feebly red. He stammered it.
No, unfortunately, Mr. Dunwoodie was out. Would Mrs. Paliser wait? In
Mr. Dunwoodie's private office? And the 'Herald' perhaps or the
'Times'--or--or----
Everything there, Broad Street to boot, the Stock Exchange included, Mr.
Purdy was ready and anxious to offer.
No, Mrs. Paliser would not wait--and mentally she thanked her stars for
it. But would Mr. Purdy do something for her?
Would he! The brave spirit of Talleyrand must have animated that sickly
young man. If what Mrs. Paliser desired were possible it would be done:
if impossible, it was done already.
Cassy gave him the rare seduction of her smile. She also was
entertaining an emotion or two. She had not at all known where she would
find the strength to confront and confute a grandmotherly old ruffian.
But luck was with her. He was out.
So very good of Mr. Purdy then and would he please give Mr. Dunwoodie
this cheque and say she's sorry she can't accept it or the other money
either? She had said she would, but, really, it was not intended for
her. Supposing she took it. She would feel like a thief in a fog.
Exactly that. A thief in a fog. No, she couldn't. Couldn't and wouldn't.
Just as grateful though to Mr. Dunwoodie. Her regrets to him and a
thousand thanks.
"And good-day, Mr. Purdy. I thank you also."
Mr. Purdy, flushing feebly, saw her to the door, saw her to the hall
without. There, while he waited with her for a descending lift, a silk
hat that had just come from a malachite bench, alighted from an
ascending one. Immediately the other lift took her.
"Who was that?" the hat's owner alertly asked.
Mr. Purdy rubbed his perspiring hands. "Mrs. Paliser."
Jeroloman wheeled like a rat. He looked at the cage. It had vanished. He
looked at the other. Above it a moving finger pointed upward.
Cold-blooded, meticulously precise, intensely respectable, none the
less, for one delirious second, madness seized him. He wished to God he
could hurry down, overtake the impostor, lure her into his own office,
frighten her out of such wits as she possessed and buy her off for
tuppence. Instantly Respectability had him by the collar. He could not.
Precision gave him a kick. Wouldn't stand if he did.
Deeply he swore. The millions were gone. Hands down, without a struggle,
the Paliser estate was rooked. No fault of his though, and mechanically
he adjusted that hat. Damn her!
In the street below, superbly, with sidereal indifference, the sun shone
down on the imbecile activities of man. The storm of the day before that
had drenched Cassy so abundantly, had been blown afar, blown from her
forever. The sky in which a volcano had formed was remote and empty.
"Ouf!" Cassy muttered in relief and muttered, too: "Now for the agent!"
She had reached the corner. Just beyond was the subway. It would land
her within two squares of the man's greasy office. Now, though,
suddenly, she felt a gnawing. A sandwich would taste good. Two
sandwiches would taste better. Then, quite as suddenly, that vision, the
street with it, everything, except one thing only, vanished.
Blocking the way stood Lennox.
"Where to in such a hurry?"
Easily she smiled and told him. "I'm going to buy a rhinoceros." But for
all the easiness of it her tongue nearly tripped. "And what are you
doing?"
"I? Oh! Cleaning up."
Wall Street is not a Japanese tea-garden. It lacks the klop-klop of
fountains. Yet, even in its metallic roar there may--for exceptional
beings--be peace there. Not for Cassy, though. She could have screamed.
A moment only. Lennox turned and both moved on.
"Let's get out of this."
Cassy looked up at him. "You forget my little errand."
"Ah, yes! The rhinoceros. Couldn't you ask me to meet him?"
"I shall be giving dinner-parties for him every evening. Would you care
to come?"
They had reached cavernous steps down which Cassy was going.
Lennox raised his hat. "I will come to-night."
Through the metallic roar, the four words dropped and hummed.
XXXVIII
"It is going to be splendid. There will be candles!"--a young person,
dead since but still living, exclaimed of her poet's fête. The fête,
however lavish, and which you will find reported by Murger, was not held
in a kitchen. The poet's garret did not contain a kitchen. That was
Paris.
Hereabouts, nowadays, walk-ups are more ornate. Cassy's dinner that
night was served on rich linoleum and not out of snobbishness either but
because the table had gone from the living-room and though the piano
remained one could not very well dine on that, or, for that matter, on
the sofa. There are details into which a hostess never enters. Cassy--in
black chiffon--did not offer any and Lennox--in evening clothes--did not
ask. He had never dined in a kitchen before and, so far as the present
historian knows not to the contrary, he did not dine in one again. But
he enjoyed the experience. There was cold chicken, a salad, youth,
youth's wine and running laughter. For dessert, a remark.
The rich linoleum then had been abandoned for the other room where Cassy
sat on the sofa and Lennox on the one surviving chair. Beyond was the
piano. Additionally, in some neighbourly flat, a phonograph performed.
Among these luxuries sweets were served. A question preceded them.
"Do you remember the afternoon you were in my rooms?"
Yes, Cassy remembered it.
Then came the remark. "That afternoon I laughed. Until to-night--except
once--I haven't laughed since then."
Very good dessert, with more to follow.
"When you went, the sunlight went with you. It went out at your heels
like a dog. I was thinking about it recently. I don't seem to have seen
the sunlight again, until it played about your rhinoceros."
There are sweets that are bitter. Cassy took one.
"Mr. Jones told me. It does seem such a pity, such a great pity. I saw
her once and I could see she was not merely good to look at but really
good, good through and through."
"May I smoke?" Lennox asked.
Had he wished he could have stood on his head. Cassy nodded at him. He
got out a cigar.
"Miss Austen is all you say. She is a saint. A man doesn't want a saint.
A man wants flesh and blood."
Cassy took another bitter-sweet. "She's that. Any one would know it."
Lennox bit at the cigar. "Too good for me, though. So good that she
threw me over."
Cassy put a finger through it. "She did not understand. Any girl might
have done the same."
Sombrely Lennox considered her. "Would you? You say she did not
understand. I know well enough she did not. But if you cared for a man,
would you throw him over because of a charge which you could not be sure
was true and without giving him a chance to disprove it? Would you?"
He could stand on his head, yes, but it was unfair to grill her. She
flushed.
"I don't see what that has to do with it."
"How, you don't see?"
"Isn't it obvious? Miss Austen and I move in different worlds. On any
subject our views might differ and I don't mean at all but that hers
would be superior."
"There can be but one view of what's square."
"I am sure she meant to be."
Unconcernedly, Lennox smiled. The smile lit his face. From sombre it
became radiant.
"That's all very well. The point is what you would think. Would you
think it square to throw a man over as she threw me?"
Cassy showed her teeth. "If I didn't care for him, certainly I would."
"But if you did?"
That was too much. Cassy exclaimed at it. "If! If! How can I tell? I
don't know. I lack experience."
"But not heart."
He was right about that, worse luck. How it beat, too! It would kill her
though to have him suspect it.
"I do wish you would tell me," he added.
Cassy, casting about, felt like an imbecile and said brilliantly:
"Haven't you a match? Shall I fetch one?"
Lennox extracted a little case. "Thanks. It's an answer I'd like."
It was enough to drive you mad and again casting about, but not getting
it, she hedged.
"It will have to be in the abstract, then."
"Very good. Let's have it in the abstract."
Yet even in the abstract! However, with an uplift of the chin that gave
her, she felt, an air of discussing a matter in which she had no concern
at all, she plunged.
"One never knows, don't you know, but it seems to me that if by any
chance I did care for a man--not that it is in the least presumable that
I ever shall--but if I did, why, then, no. He couldn't get rid of me,
not unless he tried very hard, but if he didn't, then no matter what I
heard, no matter how true it might be, I would cling to his coat-tails,
that is, if he wore them, and if, also, he cared for a ninny like me."
Cassy paused, shook her docked hair and solemnly resumed: "Which, of
course, he couldn't."
"I knew you would say that."
"Say what?" Previously flushed, she reddened. But there is a God. The
room had grown dim.
"That you wouldn't cut and run."
She could have slapped him. "Then why did you ask me?"
Lennox blew a ring of smoke.
"To have you see it as I do. To have you see that at the first flurry
Miss Austen ran to cover. I am quite sure I could show her that she ran
too quick, but I am equally sure it is a blessing that she did run. It
is not ambitious of a man to want a girl who will stand her ground.
Sooner or later some other flurry would have knocked the ground from
under and then it might have been awkward. This one let me out."
He stood up, opened the window, dropped the cigar from it. The cigar
might have been Margaret Austen.
"What are your plans?" he asked and sat again.
Ah, how much safer that was! Cassy grabbed at it.
"You are the third person to ask me. First, Mr. Jones. Then--then----"
But she did not want to mention Dunwoodie or anything about the great
cascade of gorgeous follies and she jumped them both. "Then an agent. He
asked me yesterday and to-day he had a contract for me and a cheque in
advance. He is a very horrid little man but so decent!"
"When does it begin?"
"The engagement? Next week. What plans have you?"
"A few that have been made for me. Presently we sail."
"For France?"
"For France."
It was cooler now, at least her face was, and she got up and switched
the light.
"I wish I might go, too," she told him. "But I lack the training to be
nurse and the means to be vivandière--canteener, I think they call it."
She hesitated and added, "Shall I see you before you go?"
But now from the phonograph in the neighbourly flat, the Non te
scordar drifted, sung nobly by some fat tenor who probably loathed it.
Lennox, who had risen with her, asked: "May I come to-morrow?"
The aria enveloped them and for a moment Cassy trilled in.
"Perhaps to-morrow you will sing for me," he continued.
"Yes, I'll sing."
Later, in the black room on the white bed, the fat tenor's tuneful
