"Do you not hear that bell?" I demanded angrily.
"Yes, sir, I hear it. But I should go to Cayadutta----"
"And I should answer that militia call," said I impatiently. "Go in and
lock the house, I tell you!"
Mrs. Bowman, her arms full of wet linen, ran into the house. The girl,
Penelope, gazed at the woods.
"I am servant to a very old man," she said, twisting her linked fingers.
"I can not abandon him! I can not let him remain all alone at Cayadutta
Lodge. Will you take me to him?"
"And if I were free of duty," said I, "I would not take you or any other
woman into those accursed woods!"
"Why not, sir?"
"Because I do not yet comprehend what that bell is telling me. And if it
means that there is a painted war-party out between the Sacandaga and
the Mohawk, I shall not take you to Caughnawaga when I return from
Stoner's, and that's flat!"
"I am not afraid to go," said she. But I think I saw her shudder; and
her face seemed very still and white. Then Mrs. Bowman ran out of the
house and caught the girl by her homespun shift.
"Come indoors!" she cried shrilly, "or will you have us all pulling war
arrows out of our bodies while you stand blinking at the woods and
gossiping with Jack Drogue?"
The girl shook herself free, and asked me again to take her to Cayadutta
Lodge.
But I had no more time to argue, and I flung my rifle to my shoulder and
started out across the cleared land.
Once I looked back. And I saw her still standing there, the rising sun
bright on her tangled hair, and her naked feet shining like silver in
the dew-wet grass.
By a spring path I hastened to the house of John Putman, and found him
already gone and his family drawing water and fastening shutters.
His wife, Deborah, called to me saying that the Salisburys should be
warned, and I told her that I had already spoken to the Bowmans.
"Your labour for your pains, John Drogue!" cried she. "The Bowmans are
King's people and need fear neither Tory nor Indian!"
"It is unjust to say so, Deborah," I retorted warmly. "Dries Bowman is
already on his way to answer the militia call!"
"Watch him!" she said, slamming the shutters; and fell to scolding her
children, who, poor things, were striving at the well with dripping
bucket too heavy for their strength.
So I drew the water they might need if, indeed, it should prove true
that Little Abe's Mohawks at the Lower Castle had painted themselves and
were broken loose; and then I ran back along the spring path to the
Salisbury's, and found them already well bolted in, and their man gone
to Stoner's with rifle and pack.
And now comes Johnny Silver, who had ridden my mare from Varick's, but
had no news, all being tranquil along Frenchman's Creek, and nobody able
to say what the Block House bell was telling us.
"Did you stable Kaya?" I asked.
"Oui, mon garce! I have bolt her in tight!"
"Good heavens," said I, "she can not remain bolted in to starve if I am
sent on to Canada! Get you forward to Stoner's house and say that I
delay only to fetch my horse!"
The stout little French trapper flung his piece to his shoulder and
broke into a dog-trot toward the west.
"Follow quickly, Sieur Jean!" he called gaily. "By gar, I have smell
Iroquois war paint since ver' long time already, and now I smell him
strong as old dog fox!"
I turned and started back through the woods as swiftly as I could
stride.
As I came in sight of my log house, I was astounded to see my mare out
and saddled, and a woman setting foot to stirrup. As I sprang out of the
edge of the woods and ran toward her, she wheeled Kaya, and I saw that
it was the Caughnawaga wench in my saddle and upon my horse--her
yellow hair twisted up and shining like a Turk's gold turban above her
bloodless face.
"What do you mean!" I cried in a fury. "Dismount instantly from that
mare! Do you hear me?"
"I must ride to Caughnawaga!" she called out, and struck my mare with
both heels so that the horse bounded away beyond my reach.
Exasperated, I knew not what to do, for I could not hope to overtake the
mad wench afoot; and so could only shout after her.
However, she drew bridle and looked back; but I dared not advance from
where I stood, lest she gallop out of hearing at the first step.
"This is madness!" I called to her across the field. "You do not know
why that bell is ringing at Mayfield. A week since the Mohawks were
talking to one another with fires on all these hills! There may be a
war party in yonder woods! There may be more than one betwixt here and
Caughnawaga!"
"I cannot desert Mr. Fonda at such a time," said she with that same pale
and frightened obstinacy I had encountered at Bowman's.
"Do you wish to steal my horse!" I demanded.
"No, sir.... It is not meant so. If some one would guide me afoot I
would be glad to return to you your horse."
"Oh. And if not, then you mean to ride there in spite o' the devil. Is
that the situation?"
"Yes, sir."
Had it been any man I would have put a bullet in him; and could have
easily marked him where I pleased. Never had I been in colder rage;
never had I felt so helpless. And every moment I was afeard the crazy
girl would ride on.
"Will you parley?" I shouted.
"Parley?" she repeated. "How so, young soldier?"
"In this manner, then: I engage my honour not to seize your bridle or
touch you or my horse if you will sit still till I come up with you."
She sat looking at me across the fallow field in silence.
"I shall not use violence," said I. "I shall try only to find some way
to serve you, and yet to do my own duty, too."
"Soldier," she replied in a troubled voice, "is this the very truth you
speak?"
"Have I not engaged my honour?" I retorted sharply.
She made no reply, but she did not stir as I advanced, though her brown
eyes watched my every step.
When I stood at her stirrup she looked down at me intently, and I saw
she was younger even than I had thought, and was made more like a
smooth, slim boy than a woman.
"You are Penelope Grant, of Caughnawaga," I said.
"Yes, sir."
"Do you know who I am?"
"No, sir."
I named myself, saying with a smile that none of my name had ever broken
faith in word or deed.
"Now," I continued, "that bell calls me to duty as surely as drum or
trumpet ever summoned soldier since there were wars on earth. I must go
to Stoner's; I can not guide you to Caughnawaga through the woods or
take you thither by road or trail. And yet, if I do not, you mean to
take my horse."
"I must."
"And risk a Mohawk war party on the way?"
"I--must."
"That is very brave," said I, curbing my impatience, "but not wise.
There are others of his kin to care for old Douw Fonda if war has truly
come upon us here in Tryon County."
"Soldier," said she in her still voice, which I once thought had been
made strange by fear, but now knew otherwise--"my honour, too, is
engaged. Mr. Fonda, whom I serve, has made of me more than a servant. He
uses me as a daughter; offers to adopt me; trusts his age and feebleness
to me; looks to me for every need, every ministration....
"Soldier, I came to Dries Bowman's last night with his consent, and gave
him my word to return within a week. I came to Fonda's Bush because Mr.
Fonda desired me to visit the only family in America with whom I have
the slightest tie of kinship--the Bowmans.
"But if war has come to us here in County Tryon, then instantly my duty
is to this brave old gentleman who lives all alone in his house at
Caughnawaga, and nobody except servants and black slaves to protect him
if danger comes to the door."
What the girl said touched me; nor could I discern in her anything of
the coquetry which Nick Stoner's story of her knitting and her ring of
gallants had pictured for me.
Surely here was no rustic coquette to be flattered and courted and
bedeviled by her betters--no country suck-thumb to sit a-giggling at her
knitting, surfeited with honeyed words that meant destruction;--no wench
to hang her head and twiddle apron while some pup of quality whispered
in her ear temptations.
I said: "This is the better way. Listen. Ride my mare to Mayfield by the
highway. If you learn there that the Lower Castle Indians have painted
for war, there is no hope of winning through to Cayadutta Lodge. And of
what use to Mr. Fonda would be a dead girl?"
"That is true," she whispered.
"Very well. And if the Mohawks are loose along the river, then you shall
remain at the Block House until it becomes possible to go on. There is
no other way. Do you understand?"
"Yes, sir."
"Do you engage to do this thing? And to place my horse in safety at the
Mayfield fort?"
"Yes, sir."
"Then," said I, "in my turn I promise to send aid to you at Mayfield, or
come myself and take you to Cayadutta Lodge as soon as that proves
possible. And I promise more; I shall endeavour to get word through to
Mr. Fonda concerning your situation."
She thanked me in that odd, still voice of hers. Her eyes had the starry
look of a child's--or of unshed tears.
"My mare will carry two," said I cheerfully. "Let me mount behind you
and set you on the Mayfield road."
She made no reply. I mounted behind her, took the bridle from her
chilled fingers, and spoke to Kaya very gaily. And so we rode across my
sunlit glebe and across the sugar-bush, where the moist trail, full of
ferns, stretched away toward Mayfield as straight as the bee flies.
I do not know whether it was because the wench was now fulfilling her
duty, as she deemed it, and therefore had become contented in a measure,
but when I dismounted she took the bridle with a glance that seemed near
to a faint smile. But maybe it was her mouth that I thought fashioned in
pleasant lines.
"Will you remember, soldier?" she asked, looking down at me from the
saddle. "I shall wait some news of you at the Mayfield fort."
"I shall not let you remain there long abandoned," said I cheerily. "Be
kind to Kaya. She has a tender mouth and an ear more sensitive still to
a harsh word."
The girl laid a hand flat on my mare's neck and looked at me, the shy
caress in her gesture and in her eyes.
Both were meant for my horse; and a quick kindness for this Scotch girl
came into my heart.
"Take shelter at the Mayfield fort," said I, "and be very certain I
shall not forget you. You may gallop all the way on this soft wood-road.
Will you care for Kaya at the fort when she is unsaddled?"
A smile suddenly curved her lips.
"Yes, John Drogue," she answered, looking me in the eyes. And the next
moment she was off at a gallop, her yellow hair loosened with the first
bound of the horse, and flying all about her face and shoulders now,
like sunshine flashing across windblown golden-rod.
Then, in her saddle, the girl turned and looked back at me, and sat so,
still galloping, until she was out of sight.
And, as I stood there alone in the woodland road, I began to understand
what Nick Stoner meant when he called this Scotch girl a disturber of
men's minds and a mistress--all unconscious, perhaps--of a very deadly
art.
CHAPTER VIII
SHEEP AND GOATS
Now, as I came again to the forest's edge and hastened along the wide
logging road, to make up for moments wasted, I caught sight of two
neighbors, John Putman and Herman Salisbury, walking ahead of me.
They wore the regimentals of our Mohawk Regiment of district militia,
carried rifles and packs; and I smelled the tobacco from their pipes,
which seemed pleasant though I had never learned to smoke.
I called to them; they heard me and waited.
"Well, John," says Putman, as I came up with them, "this is like to be a
sorry business for farmers, what with plowing scarce begun and not a
seed yet planted in all the Northland, barring winter wheat."
"You think we are to take the field in earnest this time?" I asked
anxiously.
"It looks that way to me, Mr. Drogue. It's a long, long road to liberty,
lad; and I'm thinking we're off at last."
"He believes," explained Salisbury, "that Little Abraham's Mohawks are
leaving the Lower Castle--which God prevent!--but I think this business
is liker to be some new deviltry of Sir John's."
"Sir John gave his parole to General Schuyler," said I, turning very
red; for I was mortified that the honour of my caste should be so
carelessly questioned.
"It is not unthinkable that Sir John might lie," retorted Salisbury
bluntly. "I knew his father. Well and good. I know the son, also.... But
I suppose that gentlemen like yourself, Mr. Drogue, are ashamed to
suspect the honour of any of their own class,--even an enemy."
But Putman was plainer spoken, saying that in his opinion any Tory was
likely to attempt any business, however dirty, and rub up his tarnished
honour afterward.
I made him no answer; and we marched swiftly forward, each engaged with
a multitude of serious and sombre thoughts.
A few moments later, chancing to glance behind me, stirred by what
instinct I know not, I espied two neighbors, young John, son of Philip
Helmer, and Charles Cady, of Fonda's Bush, following us so stealthily
and so closely that they might decently have hailed us had they been so
minded.
Now, when they perceived that I had noticed them, they dodged into the
bush, as though moved by some common impulse. Then they reappeared in
the road. And, said I in a low voice to John Putman:
"Yonder comes slinking a proper pair o' tree-cats to sniff us to our
destination. If these two be truly of the other party, then they have no
business at John Stoner's."
Putman and Salisbury both looked back. Said the one, grimly:
"They are not coming to answer the militia call; they have rifles but
neither regimentals nor packs."
Said the other: "I wish we were clean split at Fonda's Bush, so that an
honest man might know when 'neighbor' spells 'traitor' in low Dutch."
"Some riddles are best solved by bullets," muttered the other. "Who
argues with wolves or plays cat's-cradle with catamounts!"
Glancing again over my shoulder, I saw that the two behind us were
mending their pace and must soon come up with us. And so they did,
Putman giving them a civil good-day.
"Have you any news, John Drogue?" inquired young Helmer.
I replied that I had none to share with him, meaning only that I had no
news at all. But Cady took it otherwise and his flat-featured face
reddened violently, as though the pox were coming out on him.
And, "What the devil," says he, "does this young, forest-running
cockerel mean? And why should he not share his news with John Helmer
here,--yes, or with me, too, by God, or yet with any true man in County
Tryon?"
I said that I had not intended any such meaning; that he mistook me; and
that I had aimed at no discourtesy to anybody.
"And safer for you, too!" retorted Cady in a loud and threatening tone.
"A boy's wisdom lies in his silence."
"Johnny Helmer asked a question of me," said I quietly. "I replied as
best I knew how."
"Yes, and I'll ask a dozen questions if I like!" shouted Cady. "Don't
think to bully me or cast aspersions on my political complexion!"
"If," said I, "your political complexion be no clearer than your
natural one, God only can tell what ferments under your skin."
At which he seemed so taken aback that he answered nothing; but Helmer
urgently demanded to know what political views I pretended to carry.
"I wear mine on my back," said I pleasantly, glancing around at both
Helmer and Cady, who bore no packs on their backs in earnest of their
readiness for service.
"You are a damned impudent boy!" retorted Cady, "whatever may be your
politics or your complexion."
Salisbury and Putman looked around at him in troubled silence, and he
said no more for the moment. But Helmer's handsome features darkened
again: and, "I'll not be put upon," said he, "whatever Charlie Cady
stomachs! Who is Jack Drogue to flaunt his pack and his politics under
my nose!
"And," he added, looking angrily at me, "by every natural right a
gentleman should be a King's man. So if your politics stink somewhat of
Boston, you are doubly suspect as an ingrate to the one side and a
favour-currying servant to the other!"
I said: "Had Sir William lived to see this day in Tryon, I think he,
also, would be wearing his regimentals as I do, and to the same
purpose."
Cady burst into a jeering laugh: "Say as much to Sir John! Go to the
Hall and say to Sir John that his father, had he lived, would this day
be sending out a district militia call! Tell him that, young cockerel,
if you desire a flogging at the guard-house."
"You know more of floggings than do I," said I quietly. Which stopt his
mouth. For, despite my scarcity of years, I had given him a sound
beating the year before, being so harassed and pestered by him because I
had answered the militia-call on the day that General Schuyler marched
up and disarmed Sir John's Highlanders at the Hall.
Putman, beside whom I was marching, turned to me and said, loud enough
for all to hear: "You are only a lad, John Drogue, but I bear witness
that you display the patience and good temper of a grown man. For if
Charlie Cady, here, had picked on me as he has on you, he sure had
tasted my rifle-butt before now!"
"Neighbors must bear with one another in such times," said I, "and help
each other stamp down the earth where the war-axe lies buried."
And, "Damn you!" shouts Cady at a halt, "I shall not stir a step more to
be insulted. I shall not budge one inch, bell or no bell, call or no
call!----"
But Helmer dropped to the rear and got him by the elbow and pulled him
forward; and I heard them whispering together behind us as we hastened
on.
Herman Salisbury said: "A pair of real tree-cats, old Tom and little
Kit! I'm in half a mind to turn them back!" And he swung his brown rifle
from the shoulder and let it drop to the hollow of his left arm--an
insult and a menace to any man.
"They but answer their nature, which is to nose about and smell out
what's a-frying," growled Putman. "Shall we turn them back and be done
with them? It will mean civil war in Fonda's Bush."
"Watched hens never lay," said I. "Let them come with us. While they
remain under our eyes the stale old plan they brood will addle like a
cluck-egg."
Salisbury nodded meaningly:
"So that I can see my enemy," growled he, "I have no care concerning
him. But let him out o' sight and I fret like a chained beagle."
As he finished speaking we came into Stoner's clearing, which was but a
thicket of dead weed-stalks in a fallow field fenced by split rails.
Fallow, indeed, lay all the Stoner clearing, save for a patch o'
hen-scratched garden at the log-cabin's dooryard; for old Henry Stoner
and his forest-running sons were none too fond of dallying with plow and
hoe while rifle and fish-pole rested across the stag-horn's crotch above
the chimney-piece.
And if ever they fed upon anything other than fish and flesh, I do not
know; for I never saw aught growing in their garden, save a dozen
potato-vines and a stray corn-stalk full o' worms.
Around the log house in the clearing already were gathered a dozen or
sixteen men, the greater number wearing the tow-cloth rifle-frock of the
district militia.
Other men began to arrive as we came up. Everywhere great, sinewy hands
were extended to greet us; old Henry Stoner, sprawling under an apple
tree, saluted us with a harsh pleasantry; and I saw the gold rings
shining in his ears.
Nick came over to where I stood, full of that devil's humour which so
often urged him into--and led him safely out of--endless scrapes betwixt
sun-up and moon-set every day in the year.
"It's Sir John we're to take, I hear," he said to me with a grin. "They
say the lying louse of a Baronet has been secretly plotting with Guy
Johnson and the Butlers in Canada. What wonder, then, that our
Provincial Congress has its belly full of these same Johnstown Tories
and must presently spew them up. And they say we are to march on the
Hall at noon and hustle our merry Baronet into Johnstown jail."
I felt myself turning red.
"Is it not decent to give Sir John the benefit of doubt until we learn
why that bell is ringing?" said I.
"There we go!" cried Nick Stoner. "Just because your father loved Sir
William and you may wear gold lace on your hat, you feel an attachment
to all quality. Hearken to me, John Drogue: Sir William is dead and the
others are as honourable as a pack of Canada wolves." He climbed to the
top of the rickety rail fence and squatted there. "The landed gentry of
Tryon County are a pack of bloody wolves," said he, lighting his cob
pipe;--"Guy Johnson, Colonel Claus, Walter Butler, every one of
them--every one!--only excepting you, John Drogue! Look, now, where
they're gathering in the Canadas--Johnsons, Butlers, McDonalds,--the
whole Tory pack--with Brant and his Mohawks stole away, and Little
Abraham like to follow with every warrior from the Lower Castle!
"And do you suppose that Sir John has no interest in all this Tory
treachery? Do you suppose that this poisonous Baronet is not in constant
and secret communication with Canada?"
I looked elsewhere sullenly. Nick took me by the arm and drew me up to a
seat beside him on the rail fence.
"Let's view it soberly and fairly, Jack," says he, tapping his palm with
the stem of his pipe, through which smoke oozed. "Let's view it from the
start. Begin from the Boston business. Now, then! George the Virginian
got the Red-coats cooped up in Boston. That's the Yankee answer to too
much British tyranny.
"We, in the Northland, looked to our landed gentry to stand by us, lead
us, and face the British King who aims to turn us into slaves.
"We called on our own governing class to protect us in our ancient
liberties,--to arm us, lead us in our own defense! We begged Guy Johnson
to hold back his savages so that the Iroquois Confederacy should remain
passive and take neither the one side nor t'other.
"I grant you that Sir William in his day did loyally his uttermost to
quiet the Iroquois and hold his own Mohawks tranquil when Cresap was
betrayed by Dunmore, and the first breeze from this storm which is now
upon us was already stirring the Six Nations into restlessness."
"Sir William," said I, "was the greatest and the best of all Americans."
He said gravely: "Sir William is dead. May God rest his soul. But this
is the situation that confronts us here this day on the frontier: We
appealed to the landed gentry of Tryon. They sneered at us, and spoke of
us as rebels, and have used us very scornfully--all excepting yourself,
John!
"They forced Alec White on us as Sheriff, and he broke up our meetings.
They strove by colour of law and by illegal force to stamp out in Tryon
County the last spark of liberty, of manhood among us. God knows what we
have endured these last few years from the landed gentry of Tryon!--what
we have put up with and stomached since the first shot was fired at
Lexington!
"And what has become of our natural protectors and leaders! Where is the
landed gentry of County Tryon at this very hour? Except you, John
Drogue, where are our gentlemen of the Northland?"
"Gone," said I soberly.
"Gone to Canada with the murderous Indians they were supposed to hold
neutral! Guy Park stands empty and locked. It is an accursed place! Guy
Johnson is fled with every Tory desperado and every Indian he could
muster! May God damn him!
"Old John Butler followed; and is brigading malcontents in Canada.
Butlersbury stands deserted. May every devil in hell haunt that house!
Young Walter Butler is gone with many of our old neighbors of Tryon; and
at Niagara he is forming a merciless legion to return and cut our
throats.
"And Colonel Claus is gone, and McDonald, the bloody thief!--with his
kilted lunatics and all his Scotch banditti----"
"But Sir John remains," said I quietly.
"Jack! Are you truly so blinded by your caste! Did not you yourself
answer the militia call last winter and march with our good General to
disarm Sir John's popish Highlanders! And even then they lied--and Sir
John lied--for they hid their broad-swords and pikes! and delivered them
not when they paraded to ground their muskets!"
"Sir John has given his parole," I repeated stubbornly.
"Sir John breaks it every hour of the day!" cried Nick. "And he will
break it again when we march to take him. Do you think he won't learn of
our coming? Do you suppose he will stay at the Hall, which he has
pledged his honour to do?"
"His lady is still there."
"With his lady I have no quarrel," rejoined Nick. "I know her to be a
very young, very wilful, very bitter, and very unhappy Tory; and she
treats us plain folk like dirt under her satin shoon. But for that I
care nothing. I pity her because she is the wife of that cold, sleek
beast, Sir John. I pity her because she is gently bred and frail and
lonely and stuffed with childish pride o' race. I pity her lot there in
the great Hall, with her girl companions and her servants and her
slaves. And I pity her because everybody in County Tryon, excepting only
herself, knows that Sir John cares nothing for her, and that Claire
Putnam of Tribes Hill is Sir John's doxy!--and be damned to him! And you
think such a man will not break his word?
"He broke his vows to wife and mistress alike. Why should he keep his
vows to men?" He slid to the ground as he spoke, and I followed, for our
three drummers had formed rank and were drawing their sticks from their
cross-belts. Our fifers, also, lined up behind them; and Nick and his
young brother, John, took places with them.
"Fall in! Fall in!" cried Joe Scott, our captain; and everybody ran with
their packs and rifles to form in double ranks of sixteen files front
while the drums rolled like spring thunder, filling the woods with their
hollow sound, and the fifes shrilled like the swish of rain through
trees.
Standing at ease between Dries Bowman and Baltus Weed, I answered to the
roll call. Some among us lighted pipes and leaned on our long rifles,
chatting with neighbors; others tightened belts and straps, buttoned
spatter-dashes, or placed a sprig of hemlock above the black and white
cockades on their felt hats.
Balty Weed, who lived east of me, a thin fellow with red rims to his
eyes and dry, sparse hair tied in a queue with a knot of buckskin, asked
me in his stealthy way what I thought about our present business, and if
our Provincial Congress had not, perhaps, unjustly misjudged Sir John.
I replied cautiously. I had never trusted Balty because he frequented
taverns where few friends to liberty cared to assemble; and he was far
too thick with Philip and John Helmer and with Charlie Cady to suit my
taste.
We, in the little hamlet of Fonda's Bush, were scarce thirty families,
all counted; and yet, even here in this trackless wilderness, out of
which each man had hewed for himself a patch of garden and a stump
pasture along the little river Kennyetto, the bitter quarrel had long
smouldered betwixt Tory and Patriot--King's man and so-called Rebel.
And this was the Mohawk country. And the Mohawks stood for the King of
England.
The road, I say, ended here; but there was a Mohawk path through twenty
odd miles of untouched forest to those healing springs called Saratoga.
Except for this path and a deep worn war-trail north to the Sacandaga,
which was the Iroquois road to Canada, and except for the wood road to
Sir William's Mayfield and Fish House settlements, we of Fonda's Bush
were utterly cut off. Also, save for the new Block House at Mayfield, we
were unprotected in a vast wilderness which embodied the very centre of
the Mohawk country.
True, north of us stood that little pleasure house built for his hour of
leisure by Sir William, and called "The Summer House."
Painted white and green, it stood on a hard ridge jutting out into those
dismal, drowned lands which we call the Great Vlaie. But it was not
fortified.
Also, to the north, lay the Fish House, a hunting lodge of Sir William.
But these places were no protection for us. On the other hand, they
seemed a menace; for Tories, it had been rumoured, were ever skulking
along the Vlaie and the Sacandaga; and for aught we knew, these
buildings were already designed to be made into block-houses and to be
garrisoned by our enemies as soon as the first rifle-shot cracked out in
the cause of liberty.
       
Our company of the Mohawk Regiment numbered thirty-six rifles--all that
now remained of the old company, three-fourths of which had already
deserted to the Canadas with Butler. All our officers had fled; Joe
Scott of Maxon, formerly a sergeant, now commanded us; Benjamin de
Luysnes was our lieutenant; Dries Bowman and Phil Helmer our
sergeants--both already suspected.
Well, we got away from Stoner's, marching in double file, and only the
little creatures of the forest to hear our drums and fifes.
But the old discipline which had obtained in all our Tryon regiments
when Sir William was our Major General and the landed gentry our
officers seemed gone; a dull sense of bewilderment reigned, confusing
many among us, as when leaderless men begin to realize how they had
depended upon a sturdy staff now broken forever.
We marched with neither advanced guard nor flankers for the first half
mile; then Joe Scott halted us and made Nick Stoner put away his beloved
fife and sent him out on our right flank where the forest was heavy.
Me he selected to scout forward on the left--a dirty job where alders
and willows grew thick above the bogs.
But why in God's name our music played to advertise our coming I can not
