forgetting something.” So Peter would repeat the minute details of a
conversation in which Alf Guinness had told of burning down the
barn, but he didn’t remember who else had heard the conversation,
and he didn’t remember what else had been said, nor what was the
date of the conversation.
Then came the blessed hour of noon, with a chance for Peter to get
fixed up again before the court resumed at two. He was questioned
again by Stannard, who patched up all the gaps in his testimony, and
then again he failed to remember things, and so avoided the traps
which Andrews set for his feet. He was told that he had “done fine,”
 and was escorted back to the Hotel de Soto in triumph, and there for
a week he stayed while the defense made a feeble effort to answer
his testimony. Peter read in the papers the long speeches in which
the district attorney and the deputy acclaimed him as a patriot,
protecting his country from its “enemies within;” also he read a
brief reference to the “tirade” of David Andrews, who had called him
a “rat” and a “slinking Judas.” Peter didn’t mind that, of
course--it was all part of the game, and the calling of names is a
pretty sure sign of impotence.
Less easy to accept placidly, however, was something which came to
Peter that same day--a letter from Mrs. Godd! It wasn’t written to
him, but he saw Hammett and another of the “bulls” chuckling
together, and he asked what was the joke, and they told him that
Mrs. Godd had somehow found out about Guffey, and had written him a
letter full of insults, and Guffey was furious. Peter asked what was
in it, and they told him, and later on when he insisted, they
brought it and showed it to him, and Peter was furious too. On very
expensive stationery with a stately crest at the top, the mother of
Mount Olympus had written in a large, bland, girlish hand her
opinion of “under cover” men and those who hired them:
“You sit like a big spider and weave a net to catch men and destroy
them. You destroy alike your victims and your tools. The poor boy,
Peter Gudge, whom you sent to my home--my heart bleeds when I think
of him, and what you have put him up to! A wretched, feeble-minded
victim of greed, who ought to be sent to a hospital for deformed
souls, you have taken him and taught him a piece of villainy to
recite, so that he may send a group of sincere idealists to prison.”
That was enough! Peter put down the letter--he would not dignify
such stuff by reading it. He realized that he would have to put his
mind on the problem of Mrs. Godd once more. One woman like that, in
her position of power, was more dangerous than all the seventeen
“wobblies” who had been haled before the court. Peter inquired, and
learned that Guffey had already been to see Nelse Ackerman about it,
and Mr. Ackerman had been to see Mr. Godd, and Mr. Godd had been to
see Mrs. Godd. Also the “Times” had an editorial referring to the
“nest of Bolshevism” upon Mount Olympus, and all Mrs. Godd’s friends
were staying away from her luncheon-parties--so she was being made
to suffer for her insolence to Peter Gudge!
“A hospital for deformed souls,” indeed! Peter was so upset that his
joy in life was not restored even by the news that the jury had
found the defendants guilty on the first ballot. He told McGivney
that the strain of this trial had been too much for his nerves, and
they must take care of him; so an automobile was provided, and Peter
was taken to a secret hiding place in the country to recuperate.
Hammett went with him, and Hammett was a first-class gunman, and
Peter stayed close by him; in the evening he stayed up in the second
story of the farm-house, lest perchance one of the “wobblies” should
take too literally the testimony Peter had given concerning their
habit of shooting at their enemies out of the darkness. Peter knew
how they all must hate him; he read in the paper how the judge
summoned the guilty men before him and sentenced them, incidentally
forcing them to listen to a scathing address, which was published in
full in the “Times.” The law provided a penalty of from one to
fourteen years, and the judge sentenced sixteen of them to fourteen
years, and one to ten years, thus tempering justice with mercy.
Then one day McGivney sent an automobile, and Peter was brought to
Guffey’s office, and a new plan was unfolded to him. They had
arrested another bunch of “wobblies” in the neighboring city of
Eldorado, and Peter was wanted there to repeat his testimony. It
happened that he knew one of the accused men, and that would be
sufficient to get his testimony in--his prize stuff about the
burning barns and the phosphorus bombs. He would be taken care of
just as thoroughly by the district attorney’s office of Eldorado
County; or better yet, Guffey would write to his friend Steve
Ellman, who did the detective work for the Home and Fireside
Association, the big business organization of that city.
Peter hemmed and hawed. This was a pretty hard and dangerous kind of
work, it really played the devil with a man’s nerves, sitting up
there in the hotel room all day, with nothing to do but smoke
cigarettes and imagine the “wobblies” throwing bombs at you. Also,
it wouldn’t last very long; it ought to be better paid. Guffey
answered that Peter needn’t worry about the job’s lasting; if he
cared to give this testimony, he might have a joy ride from one end
of the country to the other, and everywhere he would live on the fat
of the land, and be a hero in the newspapers.
But still Peter hemmed and hawed. He had learned from the American
City “Times” how valuable a witness he was, and he ventured to
demand his price, even from the terrible Guffey; he stuck it out, in
spite of Guffey’s frowns, and the upshot was that Guffey said, All
right, if Peter would take the trip he might have seventy-five
dollars a week and expenses, and Guffey would guarantee to keep him
busy for not less than six months.
Section 76
So Peter went to Eldorado, and helped to send eleven men to the
penitentiary for periods varying from three to fourteen years. Then
he went to Flagland, and testified in three different trials, and
added seven more scalps to his belt. By this time he got to realize
that the worst the Reds could do was to make faces at him and show
the teeth of trapped rats. He learned to take his profession more
easily, and would sometimes venture to go out for an evening’s
pleasure without his guards. When he was hidden in the country he
would take long walks regardless of the thousands of blood-thirsty
Reds on his trail.
It was while Peter was testifying in Flagland that a magic word was
flashed from Europe, and the whole city went mad with joy. Everyone,
from babies to old men, turned out on the streets and waved flags
and banged tin cans and shouted for peace with victory. When it was
learned that the newspapers had fooled them, they waited three days,
and then turned out and went thru the same performance again. Peter
was a bit worried at first, for fear the coming of peace might end
his job of saving the country; but presently he realized that there
was no need for concern, the smashing of the Reds was going on just
the same.
They had some raids on the Socialists while Peter was in Flagland,
and the detectives told him he might come along for the fun of it.
So Peter armed himself with a black-jack and a revolver, and helped
to rush the Socialist headquarters. The war was over, but Peter felt
just as military as if it were still going on; when he got the
little Jewish organizer of the local pent up in a corner behind his
desk and proceeded to crack him over the head, Peter understood
exactly how our boys had felt in the Argonne. When he discovered the
thrill of dancing on typewriter keys with his boots, he even
understood how the Huns had felt.
The detectives were joined by a bunch of college boys, who took to
that kind of thing with glee. Having got their blood up, they
decided they might as well clean out the Red movement entirely, so
they rushed a place called the “International Book-Shop,” kept by a
Hawaiian. The proprietor dodged into the kitchen of a Chinese
restaurant next door, and put on an apron; but no one had ever seen
a Chinaman with a black mustache, so they fell on him and broke
several of the Chinaman’s sauce-pans over his head. They took the
contents of the “International Book-Shop” into the back yard and
started a bon-fire with it, and detectives and college boys on a
lark joined hands and danced an imitation of the Hawaiian hula-hula
around the blaze.
So Peter lived a merry life for several months. He had one or two
journeys for nothing, because an obstinate judge refused to admit
that anything that any I. W. W. had ever said or done anywhere
within the last ten years was proper testimony to be introduced
against a particular I. W. W. on trial. But most judges were willing
to co-operate with the big business men in ridding the country of
the Red menace, and Peter’s total of scalps amounted to over a
hundred before his time was up, and Guffey sent him his last cheek
and turned him loose.
That was in the city of Richport, and Peter having in an inside
pocket something over a thousand dollars in savings, felt that he
had earned a good time. He went for a stroll on the Gay White Way of
the city, and in front of a moving picture palace a golden-haired
girl smiled at him. This was still in the days of two and
three-fourths per cent beer, and Peter invited her into a saloon to
have a glass, and when he opened his eyes again it was dark, and he
had a splitting headache, and he groped around and discovered that
he was lying in a dark corner of an alleyway. Terror gripped his
heart, and he clapped his hand to the inside pocket where his wallet
had been, and there was nothing but horrible emptiness. So Peter was
ruined once again, and as usual it was a woman that had done it!
Peter went to the police-station, but they never found the woman, or
if they did, they divided with her and not with Peter. He threw
himself on the mercy of the sergeant at the desk, and succeeded in
convincing the sergeant that he, Peter, was a part of the machinery
of his country’s defense, and the sergeant agreed to stand sponsor
for ten words to Guffey. So Peter sat himself down with a pencil and
paper, and figured over it, and managed to get it into ten words, as
follows: “Woman again broke any old job any pay wire fare.” And it
appeared that Guffey must have sat himself down with a pencil and
paper and figured over it also, for the answer came back in ten
words, as follows: “Idiot have wired secretary chamber commerce will
give you ticket.”
So Peter repaired forthwith to the stately offices of the Chamber of
Commerce, and the hustling, efficient young business-man secretary
sent his clerk to buy Peter a ticket and put him on the train. In a
time of need like that Peter realized what it meant to have the
backing of a great and powerful organization, with stately offices
and money on hand for all emergencies, even when they arose by
telegraph. He took a new vow of sobriety and decency, so that he
might always have these forces of law and order on his side.
Section 77
Peter was duly scolded, and put to work as an “office man” at his
old salary of twenty dollars a week. It was his duty to consult with
Guffey’s many “operatives,” to tell them everything he knew about
this individual Red or that organization of Reds. He would use his
inside knowledge of personalities and doctrines and movements to
help in framing up testimony, and in setting traps for too ardent
agitators. He could no longer pose as a Red himself, but sometimes
there were cases where he could do detective work without being
recognized; when, for example, there was a question of fixing a
juror, or of investigating the members of a panel.
The I. W. Ws. had been put out of business in American City, but the
Socialists were still active, in spite of prosecutions and
convictions. Also there was a new peril looming up; the returned
soldiers were coming back, and a lot of them were dissatisfied,
presuming to complain of their treatment in the army, and of the
lack of good jobs at home, and even of the peace treaty which the
President was arranging in Paris. They had fought to make the world
safe for democracy, and here, they said, it had been made safe for
the profiteers. This was plain Bolshevism, and in its most dangerous
form, because these fellows had learned to use guns, and couldn’t
very well be expected to become pacifists right off the bat.
There had been a great labor shortage during the war, and some of
the more powerful unions had taken the general rise in prices as an
excuse for demanding higher wages. This naturally had made the
members of the Chamber of Commerce and the Merchants’ and
Manufacturers’ Association indignant, and now they saw their chance
to use these returned soldiers to smash strikes and to break the
organizations of the labor men. They proceeded to organize the
soldiers for this purpose; in American City the Chamber of Commerce
contributed twenty-five thousand dollars to furnish the club-rooms
for them, and when the trolley men went on strike the cars were run
by returned soldiers in uniform.
There was one veteran, a fellow by the name of Sydney, who objected
to this program. He was publishing a paper, the “Veteran’s Friend,”
 and began to use the paper to protest against his comrades acting as
what he called “scabs.” The secretary of the Merchants’ and
Manufacturers’ Association sent for him and gave him a straight
talking to, but he went right ahead with his campaign, and so
Guffey’s office was assigned the task of shutting him up. Peter,
while he could not take an active part in the job, was the one who
guided it behind the scenes. They proceeded to plant spies in
Sydney’s office, and they had so many that it was really a joke;
they used to laugh and say that they trod on one another’s toes.
Sydney was poor, and had not enough money to run his paper, so he
accepted any volunteer labor that came along. And Guffey sent him
plenty of volunteers--no less than seven operatives--one keeping
Sydney’s books, another helping with his mailing, two more helping
to raise funds among the labor unions, others dropping in every day
or two to advise him. Nevertheless Sydney went right ahead with his
program of denouncing the Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Association,
and denouncing the government for its failure to provide farms and
jobs for the veterans.
One of Guffey’s “under cover operatives”--that was the technical
term for the Peter Gudges and Joe Angells--was a man by the name of
Jonas. This Jonas called himself a “philosophic anarchist,” and
posed as the reddest Red in American City; it was his habit to rise
up in radical meetings and question the speaker, and try to tempt
him to justify violence and insurrection and “mass-action.” If he
repudiated these ideas, then Jonas would denounce him as a
“mollycoddle,” a “pink tea Socialist,” a “labor faker.” Other people
in the audience would applaud, and so Guffey’s men would find out
who were the real Red sympathizers.
Peter had long suspected Jonas, and now he was sent to meet him in
Room 427 of the American House, and together they framed up a job on
Sydney. Jonas wrote a letter, supposed to come from a German
“comrade,” giving the names of some papers in Europe to which the
editor should send sample copies of his magazine. This letter was
mailed to Sydney, and next morning Jonas wandered into the office,
and Sydney showed him the letter, and Jonas told him that these were
labor papers, and the editors would no doubt be interested to know
of the feelings of American soldiers since the war. Sydney sat down
to write a letter, and Jonas stood by his side and told him what to
write: “To my erstwhile enemies in arms I send fraternal greetings,
and welcome you as brothers in the new co-operative commonwealth
which is to be”--and so on, the usual Internationalist patter, which
all these agitators were spouting day and night, and which ran off
the ends of their pens automatically. Sydney mailed these letters,
and the sample copies of the magazine, and Guffey’s office tipped
off the postoffice authorities, who held up the letters. The
book-keeper, one of Guffey’s operatives, went to the Federal
attorney and made affidavit that Sydney had been carrying on a
conspiracy with the enemy in war-time, and a warrant was issued, and
the offices of the magazine were raided, the subscription-lists
confiscated, and everything in the rooms dumped out into the middle
of the floor.
So there was a little job all Peter’s own; except that Jonas, the
scoundrel, claimed it for his, and tried to deprive Peter of the
credit! So Peter was glad when the Federal authorities looked the
case over and said it was a bum job, and they wouldn’t monkey with
it. However, the evidence was turned over to District-attorney
Burchard, who wasn’t quite so fastidious, and his agents made
another raid, and smashed up the office again, and threw the
returned soldier into jail. The judge fixed the bail at fifteen
thousand dollars, and the American City “Times” published the story
with scare-headlines all the way across the front page--how the
editor of the “Veteran’s Friend” had been caught conspiring with the
enemy, and here was a photographic copy of his treasonable letter,
and a copy of the letter of the mysterious German conspirator with
whom he had been in relations! They spent more than a year trying
that editor, and although he was out on bail, Guffey saw to it that
he could not get a job anywhere in American City; his paper was
smashed and his family near to starvation.
Section 78
Peter had now been working faithfully for six or eight months, and
all that time he religiously carried out his promise to Guffey and
did not wink at a woman. But that is an unnatural life for a man,
and Peter was lonely, his dreams were haunted by the faces of Nell
Doolin and Rosie Stern, and even of little Jennie Todd. One day
another face came back to him, the face of Miss Frisbie, the little
manicurist who had spurned him because he was a Red. Now suddenly
Peter realized that he was no longer a Red! On the contrary, he was
a hero, his picture had been published in the American City “Times,”
 and no doubt Miss Frisbie had seen it. Miss Frisbie was a good girl,
a straight girl, and surely all right for him to know!
So Peter went to the manicure parlor, and sure enough, there was the
little golden-haired lady; and sure enough, she had read all about
him, she had been dreaming that some day she might meet him
again--and so Peter invited her to go to a picture show. On the way
home they became very chummy, and before a week went by it was as if
they had been friends for life. When Peter asked Miss Frisbie if he
might kiss her, she answered coyly that he might, but after he had
kissed her a few times she explained to him that she was a
self-supporting woman, alone and defenseless in the world, and she
had nobody to speak for her but herself; she must tell him that she
had always been a respectable woman, and that she wanted him to know
that before he kissed her any more. And Peter thought it over and
decided that he had sowed his full share of wild oats in this life;
he was ready to settle down, and the next time he saw Miss Frisbie
he told her so, and before the evening was by they were engaged.
Then Peter went to see Guffey, and seated himself on the edge of the
chair alongside Guffey’s desk, and twisted his hat in his hands, and
flushed very red, and began to stammer out his confession. He
expected to be received with a gale of ridicule; he was immensely
relieved when Guffey said that if Peter had really found a good girl
and wanted to marry her, he, Guffey, was for it. There was nothing
like the influence of a good woman, and Guffey much preferred his
operatives should be married men, living a settled and respectable
life. They could be trusted then, and sometimes when a woman
operative was needed, they had a partner ready to hand. If Peter had
got married long ago, he might have had a good sum of money in the
bank by now.
Peter ventured to point out that twenty dollars a week was not
exactly a marrying salary, in the face of the present high cost of
living. Guffey answered that that was true, and he would raise Peter
to thirty dollars right away--only first he demanded the right to
talk to Peter’s fiancee, and judge for himself whether she
was worthy. Peter was delighted, and Miss Frisbie had a private and
confidential interview with Peter’s boss. But afterwards Peter
wasn’t quite so delighted, for he realized what Guffey had done.
Peter’s future wife had been told all about Peter’s weakness, and
how Peter’s boss looked to her to take care of her husband and make
him walk the chalkline. So a week after Peter had entered the holy
bonds of matrimony, when he and Mrs. Gudge had their first little
family tiff, Peter suddenly discovered who was going to be top dog
in that family. He was shown his place once for all, and he took
it,--alongside that husband who described his domestic arrangements
by saying that he and his wife got along beautifully together, they
had come to an arrangement by which he was to have his way on all
major issues, and she was to have her way on all minor issues, and
so far no major issues had arisen.
But really it was a very good thing; for Gladys Frisbie Gudge was an
excellent manager, and set to work making herself a nest as busily
as any female beaver. She still hung on to her manicurist job, for
she had figured it out that the Red movement must be just about
destroyed by now, and pretty soon Peter might find himself without
work. In the evenings she took to house-hunting, and during her noon
hour, without consulting Peter she selected the furniture and the
wall-paper, and pretty nearly bought out the stock of a
five-and-ten-cent store to equip the beaver’s nest.
Gladys Frisbie Gudge was a diligent reader of the fashion magazines,
and kept herself right up to the minute with the styles; also she
had got herself a book on etiquette, and learned it by heart from
cover to cover, and now she took Peter in hand and taught it to him.
Why must he always be a “Jimmie Higgins” of the “Whites?” Why
should he not acquire the vocabulary of an educated man, the arts
and graces of the well-to-do? Gladys knew that it is these
subtleties which determine your salary in the long run; so every
Sunday morning she would dress him up with a new brown derby and a
new pair of brown kid gloves, and take him to the Church of the
Divine Compassion, and they would listen to the patriotic sermon of
the Rev. de Willoughby Stotterbridge, and Gladys would bow her head
in prayer, and out of the corner of her eye would get points on
costumes from the lady in the next pew. And afterwards they would
join the Sunday parade, and Gladys would point out to Peter the
marks of what she called “gentility.” In the evenings they would go
walking, and she would stop in front of the big shop-windows, or
take him into the hotel lobbies where the rich could be seen free of
charge. Peter would be hungry, and would want to go to a cheap
restaurant and fill himself up with honest grub; but Gladys, who had
the appetite of a bird, would insist on marching him into the
dining-room of the Hotel de Soto and making a meal upon a cup of
broth and some bread and butter--just in order that they might gaze
upon a scene of elegance and see bow “genteel” people ate their
food.
Section 79
And just as ardently as Gladys Frisbie Gudge adored the rich, so
ardently did she object to the poor. If you pinned her down to it,
she would admit that there had to be poor; there could not be
gentility, except on the basis of a large class of ungentility. The
poor were all right in their place; what Gladys objected to was
their presuming to try to get out of their place, or to criticise
their betters. She had a word by which she summed up everything that
she despised in the world, and that word was “common;” she used it
to describe the sort of people she declined to meet, and she used it
in correcting Peter’s manners and his taste in hats. To be “common”
 was to be damned; and when Gladys saw people who were indubitably
and inescapably “common,” presuming to set themselves up and form
standards of their own, she took it as a personal affront, she
became vindictive and implacable towards them. Each and every one of
them became to her a personal enemy, an enemy to something far more
precious than her person, an enemy to the thing she aspired to
become, to her ideal.
Peter had once been like that himself, but now he was so
comfortable, he had a tendency to become lazy and easy-going. It was
well, therefore, that he had Gladys to jack him up, and keep him on
his job. Gladys at first did not meet any Reds face to face, she
knew them only by the stories that Peter brought home to her when
his day’s work was done. But each new group that he was hounding
became to Gladys an assemblage of incarnate fiends, and while she
sat polishing the finger-nails of stout society ladies who were too
sleepy to talk, Gladys’ busy mind would be working over schemes to
foil these fiends.
Sometimes her ideas were quite wonderful. She had a woman’s
intuition, the knowledge of human foibles, all the intricate
subtleties of the emotional life; she would bring to Peter a program
for the undoing of some young radical, as complete as if she had
known the man or woman all her life. Peter took her ideas to
McGivney, and then to Guffey, and the result was that her talents
were recognized, and by the lever of a generous salary she was pried
loose from the manicure parlor. Guffey sent her to make the
acquaintance of the servants in the household of a certain rich man
who was continually making contributions to the Direct Primary
Association and other semi-Red organizations, and who was believed
to have a scandal in his private life. So successful was Gladys at
this job that presently Guffey set her at the still more delicate
task of visiting rich ladies, and impressing upon them the
seriousness of the Red peril, and persuading them to meet the
continually increasing expenses of Guffey’s office.
Just now was a busy time in the anti-Red campaign. For nearly two
years, ever since the Bolshevik revolution in Russia, there had been
gradually developing a split in the Socialist movement, and the
“under-cover” operatives of the Traction Trust, as well as those of
the district attorney’s office and of the Federal government, had
been working diligently to widen this split and develop dissensions
in the organization. There were some Socialists who believed in
politics, and were prepared to devote their lives to the slow and
tedious job of building up a party. There were others who were
impatient, looking for a short cut, a general strike or a mass
insurrection of the workers which would put an end to the slavery of
capitalism. The whole game of politics was rotten, these would
argue; a politician could find more ways to fool the workers in a
minute than the workers could thwart in a year. They pointed to the
German Socialists, those betrayers of internationalism. There were
people who called themselves Socialists right here in American City
who wanted to draw the movement into the same kind of trap!
This debate was not conducted in the realm of abstractions; the two
wings of the movement would attack one another with bitterness. The
“politicians” would denounce the “impossibilists,” calling them
“anarchists;” and the other side, thus goaded, would accuse their
enemies of being in the hire of the government. Peter would supply
McGivney with bits of scandal which the “under cover” men would
start going among the “left-wingers;” and in the course of the long
wrangles in the local these accusations would come out. Herbert
Ashton would mention them with his biting sarcasm, or “Shorty”
 Gunton would shout them in one of his tirades--“hurling them into
his opponents teeth,” as he phrased it.
“Shorty” Gunton was a tramp printer, a wandering agitator who was
all for direct action, and didn’t care a hang who knew it.
“Violence?” he would say. “How many thousand years shall we submit
to the violence of capitalist governments, and never have the right
to reply?” And then again he would say, “Violence? Yes, of course
we must repudiate violence--until we get enough of it!” Peter had
listened to “Shorty’s” railings at the “compromisers” and the
“political traders,” and had thought him one of the most dangerous
men in American City. But later on, after the episode of Joe Angell
had opened Peter’s eyes, he decided that “Shorty” must also be a
secret agent like himself.
Peter was never told definitely, but he picked up a fact here and
there, and fitted them together, and before long his suspicion had
become certainty. The “left wing” Socialists split off from the
party, and called a convention of their own, and this convention in
turn split up, one part forming the Communist Party, and another
part forming the Communist Labor Party. While these two conventions
were in session, McGivney came to Peter, and said that the Federal
government had a man on the platform committee of the Communist
Party, and they wanted to write in some phrases that would make
membership in that party in itself a crime, so that everybody who
held a membership card could be sent to prison without further
evidence. These phrases must be in the orthodox Communist lingo, and
this was where Peter’s specialized knowledge was needed.
So Peter wrote the phrases, and a couple of days later he read in
the newspapers an account of the convention proceedings. The
platform committee had reported, and “Shorty” Gunton had submitted a
minority report, and had made a fiery speech in the convention, with
the result that his minority report was carried by a narrow margin.
This minority report contained all the phrases that Peter had
written. A couple of months later, when the government had its case
ready, and the wholesale raids upon the Communists took place,
“Shorty” Gunton was arrested, but a few days later he made a
dramatic escape by sawing his way thru the roof of the jail!
Section 80
The I. W. W. had bobbed up again in American City, and had ventured
to open another headquarters. Peter did not dare go to the place
himself, but he coached a couple of young fellows whom McGivney
brought to him, teaching them the Red lingo, and how to worm their
way into the movement. Before long one of them was secretary of the
local; and Peter, directing their activities, received reports twice
a week of everything the “wobblies” were planning and doing. Peter
and Gladys were figuring out another bomb conspiracy to direct
attention to these dangerous men, when one day Peter picked up the
morning paper and discovered that a kind Providence had delivered
the enemy into his hands.
Up in the lumber country of the far Northwest, in a little town
called Centralia, the “wobblies” had had their headquarters raided
and smashed, just as in American City. They had got themselves
another meeting-place, and again the members of the Chamber of
Commerce and the Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Association had held
a secret meeting and resolved to wipe them out. The “wobblies” had
appealed to the authorities for protection, and when protection was
refused, they had printed a leaflet appealing to the public. But the
business men went ahead with their plans. They arranged for a parade
of returned soldiers on the anniversary of Armistice Day, and they
diverted this parade out of its path so that it would pass in front
