make one a little apologetic for him. But we do not give up Jesus
because of the torturers and bigots who call themselves Christians, and
in the same way we have no right to blame Freud for all the absurdities
of the psychoanalysts.
Probably there never was a time in human history when there were not
people who interpreted dreams, and you can still buy "dream books" for
twenty-five cents, and learn that a white horse means that you are going
to get a letter from your sweetheart tomorrow; then you can buy another
dream book, telling you that a white horse means there is going to be a
death in your family within the year. Naturally this prejudices thinking
people against dream analysis; yet, dreams are facts, and every fact has
its cause, and if you dream about a white horse, there must assuredly be
some reason for your dreaming this particular thing. Of course we know
that if you eat mince-pie and welsh-rabbit at midnight, you will dream
about something terrible; but will it be snakes, or will it be a
railroad wreck, or will it be white horses trampling over you?
Obviously, it may be a million different unpleasant things; and what is
it that picks out this or that from the infinite store of your memory,
and brings it into the region of half-consciousness which we call the
dream?
Professor Freud's discovery is in brief that the dream is a
wish-fulfillment. Our instincts present to our consciousness a great
mass of impulses and desires, and among these the consciousness selects
what it pleases, and represses and refuses to recognize or to act upon
the others. But maybe these decisions are not altogether satisfactory to
the subconsciousness. The mind of the body is in rebellion against the
mind--shall we say of reason, or shall we say of society? The mind of
society, otherwise known as the moral law, says that you shall be a good
little boy, and shall go to school and learn what you are told, and on
Sunday go to church and sit very still through a long sermon; whereas,
the body of a boy would rather be a savage, hunting birds' nests and
scalping enemies and exploring magic caves full of precious jewels. So
the subconsciousness of the boy, balked and miserable, awaits its time,
and finds its satisfaction when the boy is asleep and his moral censor
has relaxed its control.
This dream mind is not a logical and orderly thing like the conscious
mind; it is not business-like and civilized, it does not deal in
abstractions. It is far more interested in things than in words; it does
not present us with formulas, but with pictures, and with stories of
weird and wonderful happenings. It is like the mind of the race, which
we study in legends and religions. It does not tell us that the sun is a
mass of incandescent hydrogen gas, so and so many miles in diameter; it
tells us that the sun is a cosmic hero who slays the black dragon of
night. So the mind of our body presents us with innumerable pictures and
symbols, exactly such as we find in poetry. There may be, and frequently
is, dispute as to just what a poet meant by this or that particular
image, but if we read all the work of any particular poet, we get a
certain impression of that poet's individuality. If he is always talking
about the perfume of women's hair and the gleam of the white flesh of
nymphs in the thickets, we are not left in doubt as to what is wrong
with this poet.
And just so, when the expert sets to work to examine all the dreams that
any one person can remember, day after day, sooner or later the expert
observes that these dreams hover continually about one particular
subject; and by questioning the person, he can find out what is the
secret which is troubling the person, perhaps without the person himself
being aware of it. Of course there are many people who like nothing so
much as to talk about themselves; and many are spending their time and
their money on the latest fad of being "psyched," who would, in any
properly organized world, be put to work at hoeing weeds or washing
their own clothes. Nevertheless, it is a fact that there are real mental
disorders in the world, and innumerable honest and earnest people who
have something the matter with them which they do not understand. Here
is one way by which the conscientious investigator can find out what the
trouble is, and make it clear to them, and by establishing harmony
between their conscious and their subconscious minds, can many times put
them in the way of health and happiness.
Through psychoanalysis we are enabled to understand the "split"
personality and its cause. We discover that almost everyone has more or
less rudimentary forms of multiple personality hidden within him; made
out of desires and traits which he does not like, or which the world
forces him to drive into the deeps of his being. These may be evil
impulses, of sex or violence; they may be the most noble altruisms, or
artistic yearnings, ridiculous things in a world of "hustle." A quite
normal man or woman may keep a separate self, apart from the world,
living a Jekyll life of business propriety and a Hyde life of religious
or musical ecstasy. Or again, the repressed impulses may integrate
themselves in the unconscious, and you may have genius or lunacy or
both--"great wits to madness near allied." The modern knowledge on such
dark mysteries you may find in Hart's "The Psychology of Insanity."
CHAPTER XIV
THE PROBLEM OF IMMORTALITY
     (Discusses the survival of personality from the moral point of
     view: that is, have we any claim upon life, entitling us to live
     forever?)
As we explore the deeps of the subconsciousness, our own and other
people's, we find ourselves confronting the strange question: Is it all
our own mind, and that of other living people, or are we by any chance
dealing with the minds of those who are dead? A great many earnest
people, and some very learned people, are fully convinced that the
latter is the case, and we have now to consider their arguments.
When I was a little boy I used to read and hear ghost stories, and would
shudder over them; but I was given to understand that all this was just
imagination, I must not take ghosts seriously, any more than fairies or
dragons or nymphs or satyrs. For an educated person to take ghosts
seriously--well, such a person would be almost as comical as that
supremely comical person, the flying-machine man. Would you believe it,
in those days there actually were people who believed they could learn
to fly in the air, and spent their time manufacturing machines for this
purpose! There was a scientist in Washington who had this "bug," and
built himself a machine and started to fly, and fell into the Potomac
river. We all laughed at him--we laughed so long and so loud that we
killed the poor man; and then, a few years later, somebody took that
machine of Professor Langley's and actually did fly with it! But that
was after I had grown up a bit more, and was not quite so ready to laugh
at an idea because it was new.
I remember vividly my first meeting with a man who believed in ghosts.
He was a Unitarian clergyman, the Reverend Minot J. Savage of New York.
I was sixteen years old, and just breaking out of my theological shell,
and Doctor Savage helped to pry me loose. He was a grave and kindly man,
of great learning and intelligence, and I remember vividly my
consternation when one day he told me--oh, yes, he had seen many ghosts,
he was accustomed to talk with ghosts every now and then. There was no
doubt whatever that ghosts existed!
He told me many stories. I remember one so well that I do not have to go
back to his books to look up the details. It was in the days before the
Atlantic cable, and he had a friend who took a steamer to England. One
night Doctor Savage was awakened and found the ghost of his friend
standing by his bedside. The ship had gone down off the Irish coast, so
the ghost declared, but the friend did not want Doctor Savage to think
that he had suffered from the pangs of drowning; he had been struck on
the left side of the head by a beam of the ship and had been killed
instantly. Doctor Savage wrote down these circumstances and had them
witnessed by a number of people, and two or three weeks later he
received word that the body of his friend had been found on the Irish
coast, with the left side of the head crushed in.
So then, of course, I studied the subject of ghosts. I have studied it
off and on ever since, and have read most of the important new
discoveries and arguments of the psychic researchers. To begin with, I
will mention the contents of two large volumes, Gurney's "Phantasms of
the Living." In this book are narrated many hundreds of cases, of which
Doctor Savage's story is a type. It appears that persons at the moment
of death, or in times of great mental stress, do somehow have the power
to communicate with other people, even at the other side of the world. A
few such cases might be attributed to coincidence or to fraud, but when
you have so many cases, attested in minute detail by so many hundreds of
otherwise honest people, you are not being scientific but simply stupid
if you dismiss the whole subject with contempt.
Gurney discusses the phenomenon and its probable causes. We know, of
course, that hallucinations are among the most common of psychic
phenomenon. Your subconscious mind can be caused to see and hear and
feel anything; likewise it has power to cause you to see and hear and
feel anything. In practically all cases of multiple personality some of
the split-off personalities can cause the others to see and hear and
feel. And the consciousness, you must understand, takes these things to
be just as real as real things; there is no way you can tell an
hallucination from reality--except to ask other people about it. And if
we admit the idea of telepathy, we may say that phantasms are
hallucinations caused by this means; that is, the subconscious mind of
your wife or your mother or your friend who is ill or dying, transmits
to your subconscious mind some vivid impression, which causes your own
subconscious mind to present to your consciousness a perfect image of
that person, walking and talking with you, and your consciousness has no
way of telling but that the image is real.
So much for phantasms of the living. But are there any phantasms of the
dead? Are there any cases in which the time of the appearance can be
proven to be subsequent to the time of death? Even this would not prove
survival, of course; it is perfectly possible that the telepathic
impulse might be delayed in our own minds, it might not flash into
consciousness until our own state of mind made it possible. Can we say
that there are cases in which the facts communicated are such as to
convince us that the person was already dead, and was telling us
something as a dead person and not as a living one?
Before we go into this question, let us clear the ground for the subject
by discussing the survival of personality from a more general
standpoint. What is it that we want to prove? What are the probabilities
of its being true? What would be the consequences of its not being true?
Have we any grounds, other than those of psychic research, for thinking
that it is true, or that it may be true, or that it ought to be true?
What, so to speak, are the morals of the doctrine of immortality?
Well, to begin with, the survival of the soul after death and forever is
one of the principal doctrines of the Christian religion. Many devout
Christians will read this book, and I will seem to them blasphemous when
I say that this argument does not concern me. I count myself one of the
lovers and friends of Jesus, I am presumptuous enough to believe that if
he were on earth, I would understand him and get along with him
excellently; but I do not know any reason why I should believe this,
that, or the other doctrine about life because any religious sect,
founded upon the name of Jesus, commands me so to believe. I see no more
reason for adopting the idea of heaven because it is a Christian idea
than I see for adopting the idea of reincarnation because it is a
precious and holy idea to hundreds of millions of Buddhists. I have some
very good friends who are Theosophists, and are quite convinced of this
idea of reincarnation; that is, that the soul comes back into life over
and over again in many different bodies, thus completing itself and
renewing itself and expiating its sins. My Theosophist friends have a
most elaborate and complicated body of what they consider to be
knowledge on this subject; yet I have to take the liberty of saying that
I cannot see that it has any relation to reality. It seems to me as
completely unproven as any other fairy story, or myth, or legend--for
example, the seven infernos of Dante, and the elaborate and complicated
torments that are suffered there.
But, it will be argued, Jesus rose from the dead, and thus proved the
immortality of the soul. Now, in the first place, there are many learned
investigators who consider there is insufficient evidence for believing
that Jesus ever lived; and certainly if this be so, it will be difficult
to prove that he rose from the dead. Again, it was a common occurrence
for crucified men not to die; sometimes it happened that their guards
allowed them to be spirited away--even nowadays we have known of prison
guards being bribed to allow a prisoner to escape. Again, the events of
the return of Jesus may have been just such psychic phenomena as we are
trying in this chapter to explain. Or, once more, they may have been
purely legends. A very brief study will convince a thinking person that
the people of that time were ready to believe anything, and to accept
facts upon such authority, and to make them the basis for a scientific
conclusion, is simply to be childish.
I shall be told, of course, that it is in the Bible, and therefore it
must be true. The Bible is inspired, you say; and perhaps this is so.
But then, a great deal of other literature is inspired, and that does
not relieve me of the task of comparing these various inspirations, and
judging them, and picking out what is of use to me. The Bible is the
literature of the ancient Hebrews for a couple of thousand years. It
represents what the race mind of a great people for one generation after
another judged worth recording and preserving. You may get an idea what
this means, if you will picture to yourself a large volume of English
literature, containing some Teutonic myths, and the Saxon chronicles,
and the "Morte d'Arthur," and several of Chaucer's stories, and some
Irish fairy tales, and some of Bacon's essays, and Shakespeare's "Venus
and Adonis," and the English prayer book, and the architect's
specifications for Westminster Abbey, and a good part of "Burke's
Peerage"; also Blackstone's "Commentaries," a number of Wesley's hymns,
and Pope's "Essay on Man," and some chapters of Carlyle's "Past and
Present," and Gladstone's speeches, and Blake's poems, and Captain
Cook's story of his voyage around the world, and Southey's "Life of
Nelson," and Morris's "News from Nowhere," and Blatchford's "Merrie
England," and scores of pages from Hansard, which is the equivalent of
our Congressional Record. You may find this description irreverent, but
do not think it is meant so. Do me the honor to get out your Bible and
look it over from this point of view!
But, you say, if we die altogether when we finish this earthly life,
what becomes of moral responsibility and the punishment of sins? What
shall we say to the wicked man to make him be good, if we cannot reward
him with a heaven and frighten him with a hell? Well, my first answer is
that we have been trying this process for a couple of thousand years,
and the results seem to indicate that we might better seek out some
other method of inducing men to behave themselves. They do not believe
so completely in heaven and hell these days, but there were times in
history when they did believe completely, and not merely were the
believers just as cruel, they were just as treacherous and just as
gluttonous and just as drunken. If you want to satisfy yourself on this
point, I refer you to my book "The Profits of Religion," page 129.
Now, as a matter of fact, I think I can discern the outlines of a system
of rewards and punishments automatically working in the life of men. I
am not sure that I can prove that the wicked always get punished and the
virtuous always rewarded; yet, when I stop and think, I am sure that I
would not care to change places with any of the wicked people that I
know in this world. Life may not always be "getting" them, but it has a
way of "getting" their descendants, and I could not be entirely happy if
I knew that my son and his sons were going to share the fate which I now
observe befalling, for example, the grand dukes of Russia and their
children. Life is one thing, and it does not exist for the individual,
but for the race; its causes and effects do not always manifest
themselves in one individual, but in a line of descendants. "Why are
they called dynasties?" asked one of my professors of history; and a
student brought the session to an end by answering: "Because that is
what they always seem to do!"
But this is not perfect justice, you will argue. It is not perfect, from
the point of view of you or me; but then, I ask, what else is there in
the world that is perfect from that point of view? Why should our
justice be any more perfect than, for example, our health or our
thinking or our climate or our government? And, may it not very well be
that our justice is up to us, in precisely the same way that some of
these other things are up to us? Maybe what we have to do is to set to
work to see to it that virtue does always get rewarded and vice does
always get punished, right here and now, instead of waiting for an
omnipotent God to attend to it in some hypothetical heaven.
I find this life of mine very wonderful, and enormously interesting. I
am willing to take it on the terms that it is given, and to try to make
the best of it; and I do not see that I have any right to dictate what
shall be given me in some future life. If my father gives me a Christmas
present, I am happy and grateful; and, of course, if I know that he is
going to give me another present next Christmas, I am still more happy;
but I do not see that I have any right to argue that because he gives me
one Christmas present, he must give me an unlimited number of them, and
I think it would be very ungrateful of me to refuse to thank him for a
Christmas present until I had made sure that I was to get one next time!
Neither do I find myself such a wonderful person that I can assert that
the morality of the universe absolutely depends upon the fact that I am
immortal. Of course, I should like to live forever, and to know all the
wonderful things that are going to happen in the world, and if it is
true that I am so to live, I shall be immensely delighted. But I cannot
say that it must be true, and all I can do is to investigate the
probabilities. On this point my view is stated in a sentence of
Spinoza's: "He who would love God rightly must not desire that God love
him in return."
To sum up, the question of immortality is purely a question of fact. It
is one to be approached in a spirit of open-minded inquiry, entirely
unaffected by hopes or fears or dogmas or moral claims. It is worth
while to get clear that we may be immortal, even though we do not now
know it and cannot now prove it; it is possible that all psychic
research might end in telepathy, and still, when we die, we might wake
up and find ourselves alive. It might possibly be that some of us are
immortal and not all of us. It might be that some parts of us are
immortal and not the rest. It might be that our subconsciousness is
immortal and not our consciousness. It might be that all of us, or some
part of us, survive for a time, but not forever. This last is something
which I myself am inclined to think may be the case.
Also, it seems worthwhile to mention that it is no argument against
immortality that we cannot imagine it, that we cannot picture a universe
consisting of uncountable billions of living souls, or what these souls
would do to pass the time. It may very well be that among these souls
there is no such thing as time. It may be that they are thoroughly
occupied in ways beyond our imagining, or again, that they are not
occupied, and under no necessity of being occupied. Let the person who
presents such arguments begin by picturing to you how the brain cells
manage to store up the uncounted millions of memories which you have,
the thousands of words and combinations of words, and the thoughts which
go with them, musical notes and tunes, colors and odors and visual
impressions, memories of the past and hopes of the future and dreams
that never were. Where are all those hundreds of millions of things, and
what are they like when they are not in our consciousness, and how do
they pass the time, and where were they in the hundreds of millions of
years before we were born, and where will they be in the hundreds of
millions of years of the future? When our wise men can answer these
questions completely, it will be time enough for them to tell us about
the impossibility of immortality.
CHAPTER XV
THE EVIDENCE FOR SURVIVAL
     (Discusses the data of psychic research, and the proofs of
     spiritism thus put before us.)
Let us now take up the question of survival of personality after death
from the strictly scientific point of view; let us consider what facts
we have, and the indications they seem to give. First, we know that to
all appearances the consciousness and the subconsciousness are bound up
with the body. They grow with the body, they decline with the body, they
seem to die with the body. We can irretrievably damage the consciousness
by drawing a whiff of cyanogen gas into the lungs, or by sticking a pin
into the brain, or by clogging one of its tiny blood vessels with waste
matter. It is terrible to us to think that the mind of a great poet or
prophet or statesman may be snuffed out of existence in such a way; but
then, it is no argument against a fact to say that it is terrible.
Insanity is terrible, war is terrible, pestilence is terrible, so also
are tigers and poisonous snakes; but all these things exist, and all
these things have power over the wisest and greatest mind, to put an end
to its work on this earth at least.
And now we come with the new instrument of psychic research, to probe
the question: What becomes of this consciousness when it disappears? Can
we prove that it is still in existence, and is able by any method to
communicate with us? Those who answer "Yes" argue that the mind of the
dead person, unable to use its own bodily machinery any longer, manages
in the hypnotic trance to use the bodily machinery of another person,
called a "medium," and by it to make some kind of record to identify
itself.
This, of course, is a strange idea, and requires a good deal of proof.
The law of probability requires us not to accept an unlikely
explanation, if there is any more simple one which can account for the
facts. When we examine the product of automatic writing, table-tipping,
and other psychic phenomena, we have first to ask ourselves, Is there
anything in all this which cannot be explained by what we already know?
Then, second, we have to ask, Is there any other supposition which will
explain the facts, and which is easier to believe than the spirit
theory?
These "spirits" apparently desire to convince us of their reality, and
they tell us many things which are expected to convince us; they tell us
things which we ourselves do not know, and which spirits might know. But
here again we run up against the problem of the subconsciousness, with
its infinite mass of "forgotten" knowledge. It is not so easy for the
"spirits" to tell us things which we can be sure our subconscious mind
could not possibly contain. Also, there comes the additional element of
telepathy. It appears to be a fact that under trance conditions, or
under any especially exciting conditions of the consciousness, one mind
can reach out and take something out of another mind, or one mind can
cause something to be passed over to another mind; and so information
can be communicated to the mind of a medium, and can appear in automatic
writing, or in clairvoyance, or in crystal gazing.
One of the most conscientious and earnest of all the investigators of
this subject was the late Professor Hyslop, who many years ago sought to
teach me "practical morality" (from the bourgeois point of view) in
Columbia University. Professor Hyslop worked for fifteen years with a
medium by the name of Mrs. Piper, who was apparently sincere and was
never exposed in any kind of fraud. In Professor Hyslop's books you will
find innumerable instances of amazing facts brought out in Mrs. Piper's
trances. You will find Professor Hyslop arguing that the only way
telepathy can account for these facts is by the supposition that there
is a universal subconscious mind, or that the subconscious mind of the
medium possesses the power to reach into the subconscious mind of every
other living person and take out anything from it. But for my part, I
cannot see that the case is quite so difficult. Professor Hyslop
recites, for example, how Mrs. Piper would tell him facts about some
long dead relative--facts which he did not know, but was later able to
verify. But that proves simply nothing at all, because there could be no
possible way for Professor Hyslop to be sure that he had never known
these facts about his relatives. The facts might have been in his
subconscious mind without having ever been in his conscious mind at all;
he might have heard people talking about these matters while he was
reading a book, or playing as a boy, paying no attention to what was
said.
And then came Sir Oliver Lodge with his investigations. I will say this
for his work--he was the first person who was able to make real to my
mind the startling idea that perhaps after all the dead might be alive
and able to communicate with us. You will find what he has to say in his
book, "The Survival of Man," and it seems fair that a great scientist
and a great man should have a chance to convince you of what seem to him
the most important facts in the world.
Sir Oliver's son Raymond was killed in the war, and it is claimed that
he began at once to communicate with his family. Among other things, he
told them of the existence of a picture, which none of them had ever
seen or heard of, a group photograph which he described in detail. But,
of course, other people in this group knew of the existence of the
photograph, and so we have again the possibility that some member of Sir
Oliver's family may have taken into his subconscious mind without
knowing it an impression or description of that picture. If you care to
experiment, you will find that you can frequently play a part in the
dreams of a child by talking to it in its sleep; and that is only one of
a thousand different ways by which some member of a family might
acquire, without knowing it, information of the existence of a
photograph.
There is another possibility to be considered--that a portion of the
consciousness may survive, and not necessarily forever. We are
accustomed when death takes place to see the body before us, and we know
that we can preserve the body for thousands of years if we wish. Why is
it not possible that when conscious life is brought to a sudden end,
there may remain some portion of the consciousness, or of the
subconsciousness, cut off from the body, and slowly fading back into the
universal mind energy, whatever we please to call it? There is a hard
part of the body, the skeleton, which survives for some time; why might
there not be a central core of the mind which is similarly tough and
enduring? Of course, if consciousness is a function of the brain, it
must decay as the brain decays; but how would it be if the brain were a
function of the consciousness--which is, so far as I can see, quite as
likely a guess.
I find many facts which seem to indicate the plausibility of this idea.
I notice that in trance phenomena it is the spirits of those recently
dead which seem to manifest the most vitality. Of course, you can go to
any seance in the "white light" district of your city and receive
communications from the souls of Cæsar and Napoleon and Alexander the
Great and Pocahontas, and if the medium does not happen to be literary,
you can communicate with Hamlet and Don Quixote and Siegfried and
Achilles; but you will not find much reality about any of these people,
they will not tell you very much about the everyday details of their
lives. This fact that so much of what the "spirits" tell us is of our
own time tends to cast doubt on the idea that the dead survive forever.
How simple it would be to convince us, if the spirit of Sophocles would
come back to earth and tell us where to dig in order to find copies of
his lost tragedies! You would think that the soul of Sophocles, seeing
our great need of beauty and wisdom, would be interested to give us his
works! From genius, operating under the guidance of the conscious mind,
we get sublimity, majesty and power; but what the trance mediums give us
suggests, both in its moral and intellectual quality, the operation of
the subconscious. It is exactly like what we get, for example, from
dissociated personalities.
There are, to be sure, the books of Patience Worth, produced by the
automatic writing of a lady in St. Louis, who tells us in evident good
faith that her conscious personality is entirely innocent of Patience,
and all her thought and doings. Patience writes long novels and dramas
in a quaint kind of old English, and the lady in St. Louis knows nothing
about this language. But does she positively know that when she was a
child, she never happened to be in the room with someone who was reading
old English aloud? Nothing seems more likely than that her subconscious
mind heard some quaint, strange language, and took possession of it, and
built up a personality around it, and even made a new language and a new
literature from that starting point.
That is precisely the kind of thing in which the subconscious revels. It
creates new characters, with an imagination infinite and inexhaustible.
Who has not waked up and been astounded at the variety and reality of a
dream? Who has not told his dreams and laughed over them? The
subconscious will play at games, it will act and rehearse elaborate
rôles; it will put on costumes, and delight in being Cæsar and Napoleon
and Alexander the Great and Pocahontas and Hamlet and Don Quixote and
Siegfried and Achilles. Yes, it will even play at being "spirits"! It
will be mischievous and impish; it will be swallowed up with a sense of
its own importance, taking an insolent delight in convincing the world's
most learned scientists of the fact that its play-acting is reality. It
will call itself "Raymond" to move and thrill a grief-stricken family;
it will call itself "Phinuit" and "Dr. Hodgson," and cause an earnest
professor of "practical morality" to give up a respectable position in
Columbia University and write books to convince the world that the dead
are sending him messages.
Consider, for example, the multiple personality of Miss Beauchamp.
Remember that here we are not dealing with any guess work about
"spirits"; here we have half a dozen different "controls," none of them
the least bit dead, but all of them a part of the consciousness of one
entirely alive young lady. A specialist has spent some six years
investigating the case, day after day, week after week, writing down the
minute details of what happens. And now consider the miscreant known as
"Sally." Sally is just as real as any child whom you ever held in your
arms. Sally has love and hate, fear and hope, pain and delight--and
Sally is a little demon, created entirely out of the subconsciousness of
a highly refined and conscientious young college graduate of Boston.
Sally spends Miss Beauchamp's money on candy, and eats it; Sally pawns
Miss Beauchamp's watch and deliberately loses the ticket; Sally uses
Miss Beauchamp's lips and tongue to tell lies about Miss Beauchamp;
Sally strikes Miss Beauchamp dumb, or makes her hear exactly the
opposite of what is spoken to her. Yes, and Sally pleads and fights
frantically for her life; Sally enters into intrigues with other parts
of Miss Beauchamp, and for years deliberately fools Doctor Prince, who
is her Recording Angel and Heavenly Judge!
And can anybody doubt that Sally could have fooled a grieving mother,
and made that mother think she was talking to the ghost of a long lost
child? Can anybody doubt that Sally could and would play the part of any
person she had ever known, or of any historic character she had ever
read about? And don't overlook the all-important fact that the conscious
Miss Beauchamp was absolutely innocent of all this, and was horrified
when she was told about it. So here you have the following situation, no
matter of guesswork, but definitely established: your dearest friend may
act as a medium, and in all good faith may bring to the surface some
part of his or her subconsciousness, which masquerades before you in a
hundred different rôles, and plays upon you with deliberate malice the
most subtle and elaborate and cruel tricks.
And how much worse the situation becomes when to this there is added the
