lives on itself  it has nothing else to live on. 
It is almost fanatically loyal to its own until its 
loyalty is thrown in its face. Then it is bitterer 
than the wrath of God. You understand all 
this, don't you? " 
"Yes, I understand. But — couldn't you 
send Madeleine to her parents in Boston for 
six months — she has never paid them a visit 
 
— but no, I suppose the scandal would be 
worse — " 
" Far worse. It would look either as if she 
had run away from me or as if I had packed 
her off in disgrace. If I could leave my practice I'd take her abroad for two years, but I 
cannot. Nor — to be frank — do I see why 
I should be sacrificed f urther." 
"Oh, assuredly not." Masters* tones were 
even and excessively polite. 
" You will take the train tomorrow morning 
for New York? " 
" I cannot leave San Francisco until after the 
opening of the banks. The money must be refunded. Besides, I prefer to go by steamer. 
There is one lea\dng tomorrow, I believe. I 
want time to think before I arrive in New 
York.'' 
"And you will promise to have no correspondence with Madeleine whatever? " 
" You might leave us that much! " 
"The afFair shall end here and now. Do 
you promise? " 
"Very well. But I should like to see her 
once more." 
" That you shall not! I shall not leave her 
until you are outside the Golden Gate." 
 
"Very well. If that is all — '' 
" Good-by. You have behaved — well, as 
our code commands you to behave. I expected 
nothing less. Don't imagine I don't appreciate 
what this means to you. But you are a man 
of great ability. You will find as hospitable a 
field for your talents elsewhere. San Francisco is the chief loser. I wish you the best of 
luck." 
And he returned to Madeleine. 
XXV 
MADELEINE came of a brave race and 
she was a woman of intense pride. She 
spent a week at Congress Springs and she took 
her courage in her teeth and spent another at 
Rincona. There was a house party and they 
amused themselves in the somnolent way 
peculiar to Alta. Bret Harte was there, a 
dapper little man, whose shoes were always a 
size too small, but popular with women as he 
played an excellent game of croquet and talked 
as delightfully as he wrote. His good humor 
could be counted on if no one mentioned " The 
Heathen Chinee." He had always admired 
Madeleine and did his best to divert her. 
Both Mrs. McLane and Mrs. Abbott were 
disappointed that they were given no opportunity to condole with herj but althoug she gave a fair imitation of the old Madeleine 
Talbot, and even mentioned Masters' name 
with a casual indifference, no one was deceived 
for a moment. That her nerves were on the 
 
rack was as evident as that her watchful pride 
was in arms, and although it was obvious that 
she had foresworn the luxury of tears, her eyes 
had a curious habit of looking through and beyond these good ladies until they had the uncomfortable sensation that they were not there 
and some one else was. They wondered if 
Langdon Masters were dead and she saw his 
ghost. 
The summer was almost over. After a visit 
to Sally Abbott on Lake Merritt, she returned 
to town with the rest of the fashionable world. 
People had never been kinder to herj and if 
their persistent attentions were strongly diluted 
with curiosity, who shall blame them? It was 
not every day they had a blighted heroine of 
romance, who, moreover, looked as if she were 
going into a decline. She grew thinner every 
day. Her white skin was colorless and transparent. They might not have her for long, 
poor darling! How they pitied her! But 
they never wished they had let her alone. It 
was all for the best. And what woman ever 
had so devoted a husband? He went with her 
everywhere. He, too, looked as if he had been 
through the mill, poor dear, but at least he had 
 
won a close race, and he deserved and received 
the sympathy of his faithful friends. As for 
that ungrateful brute, Langdon Masters, he had 
not written a line to any one in San Francisco 
since he left. Not one had an idea what had 
become of him. Did he secretly correspond 
with Madeleine? (They would have per- 
mitted her that much.) Would he blow out 
his brains if she died of consumption? He was 
no philanderer. If he hadn't really loved her 
nothing would have torn him from San Francisco and his brilliant career of course. Duelling days were over, and the doctor was not the 
man to shoot another down in cold blood, with 
no better excuse than the poor things had given 
him. It was all very thrilling and romantic. 
Even the girls talked of little else, and regarded their complacent prosperous swains with 
disfavor. " The Long Long Weary Day ''
was their favorite song. They wished that 
Madeleine lived in a moated grange instead of 
the Occidental Hotel. 
Madeleine had had her own room from the 
beginning of her married life in San Francisco, 
as the doctor was frequently called out at night. 
When Howard had returned and told her that 
 
Masters would leave on the morrow and that 
she was not to see him again, she had walked 
quietly into her bedroom and locked the door 
that led to hisj and she had never turned the 
key since. 
Talbot made no protest. He had no spirit 
left where Madeleine was concemed, but it 
was his humble hope to win her back by unceasing devotion and consideration, aided by time. 
He not only never mentioned Masters^ name, 
but he wooed her in blundering male fashion. 
Not a day passed that he did not send her 
flowers. He bought her trinkets and several 
valuable jewels, and he presented her with a 
victoria, drawn by a fine sorrel mare, and a 
coachman in livery on the box. 
Madeleine treated him exactly as she treated 
her host at a dinner. She was as amiable as 
ever at the breakfast table, and when he deserted his club of an evening, she sat at her 
embroidery frame and told him the gossip of 
the day. 
XXVI 
ONE evening at the end of two long hours, 
when he had heroically suppressed his 
longing for a game of poker, he said hesitatingly, " I thought you were so fond of reading. I don't see any books about. All the 
women are reading a novel called ^ Quits.' I'll 
send it up to you in the morning if you haven't 
read it." 
For the first time since Masters' departure 
the blood rose in Madeleine's face, but she 
answered calmly: 
" Thanks. I have little time for reading, as 
I have developed quite a passion for embroidery and I practice a good deal. This is a 
handkerchief-case for Mrs. McLane. Of 
course I must read ^ Quits,' however, and also 
*The Initials.' One mustn't be behind the 
times. If you'll step into Beach's tomorrow 
and order them I'll be grateful." 
" Of course I will. Should — should — you 
like me to read to you? I'm a pretty bad 
reader, I guess, but I'll do my best." 
 
" Oh — is there ^ earthquake? " 
" No! But your nerves are in a bad state. 
I'll get you a glass of port wine.'' 
He went heavily over to the cupboard, but 
his hand was shaking as he poured out the wine. 
He drank a glass himself before retiuning to 
her. 
" Thanks. You take very good care of me." 
And she gave him the gracious smile of a grateful patient. 
" I don't think you'd better go out any more 
at night for a while. You are far from well, 
you know, and you're not picking up." 
" A call for you, I suppose. Too bad." 
There had been a peremptory knock on the 
door. A coachman stood without. Would Dr. 
Talbot come at once? A new San Franciscan 
was imminent via Mrs. Alexander Groome on 
Ballinger Hill. 
The doctor grumbled. 
" And raining cats and dogs. Why couldn't 
she wait until tomorrow? We'll probably get 
stuck in the mud. Damn women and their 
everlasting babies." 
She helped him into his overcoat and wished 
him a pleasant good-night. It was long since 
 
she had lifted her cheek for his old hasty kiss, 
and he made no protest. He had time oh his 
side. 
She did not return to her embroidery frame 
but stood for several moments looking at the 
chest near the fireplace. She had not opened 
it since Masters left. His library had been 
packed and sent after him by one of his friends, 
but no one had known of the books in her possession. Masters certainly had not thought of 
them and she was in no condition to remember 
them herself at the time. 
She had not dared to look at them! To- 
night, however, she moved slowly toward the 
chest. She looked like a sleep-walker. When 
she reached it she knelt down and opened it 
and gathered the books in her arms. When her 
husband returned two hours later she lay on the 
floor in a dead faint, the books scattered about 
her. 
XXVII 
IT WAS morning before he could revive her, 
and two days before she could leave her 
bed. Then she developed the hacking cough 
he dreaded. He took her to the Sandwich 
Islands and kept her there for a month. The 
even climate and the sea voyage seemed to 
relieve her, but when they returned to San 
Francisco she began to cough again. 
Do women go into a decline these days from 
corroding love and hope in ruins? If so, one 
never hears of it and the disease is unfashionable in modem fiction. But in that era woman 
was woman and little besides. If a woman of 
the fashionable world she had Society besides 
her family and housekeeping. She rarely 
travelled, certainly not from California, and if 
one of her band fell upon evil days and was 
forced to teach school, knit baby sacques, or 
keep a boarding-house, she was pitied but by 
no means emulated. Madeleine had neither 
house nor children, and more money than she 
could spend. She had nothing to ask of life 
but happiness and that was for ever denied her. 
Masters had never been out of her mind for a 
moment during her waking hours, and she had 
slept little. She ate still less, and kept herself 
up in Society with punch in the afternoon and 
champagne at night. Only in the solitude of 
her room did she give way briefly to excoriated 
nerves } but the source of her once ready tears 
seemed dry. There are more scientific terms 
for her condition these days, but she was 
poisoned by love and despair. Her collapse 
was only a matter of time. 
Dr. Talbot knew nothing about psychology 
but he knew a good deal about consumption. 
He had also arrested it in its earlier stages more 
than once. He plied Madeleine with the good 
old remedies: eggnog, a raw egg in a glass 
of sherry, port wine, mellow Bourbon whiskey 
and cream. She had no desire to recover and 
he stood over her while she drank his potions 
lest she pour them down the washstandj and 
some measure of her strength returned. She 
fainted no more and her cough disappeared. 
The stimulants gave her color and her figure 
began to fill out again. But her thoughts, save 
 
when muddled by her tonics, never wandered 
from Masters for a moment. 
The longing to hear from him grew uncontrollable with her returning vitality. She had 
hoped that he would break his promise and 
write to her once at least. He knew her too 
well not to measure the extent of her sufferings, and common humanity would have justified him. But his ship might have sunk with 
all on board for any sign he gave. Others had 
ceased to grumble at his silence; his name was 
rarely mentioned. 
If she had known his address she would have 
written to him and demanded one letter. She 
had given no promise. Her husband had commanded and she had obeyed. She had always 
obeyed him, as she had vowed at the altar. 
But she had her share of feminine guile, and 
if she had known where to address Masters 
she would have quieted her conscience with the 
assurance that a letter from him was a necessary 
part of her cure. She felt that the mere sight 
of his handwriting on an envelope addressed 
to herself would transport her back to that hour 
in Dolores, and if she could correspond with 
him life would no longer be imendurable. But 
 
although he had casually alluded to his club 
in New York she could not recall the name, if 
he had mentioned it. 
She went to the Mercantile Library one day 
and looked over files of magazines and reviews. 
His name appeared in none of them. It was 
useless to look over newspaper files, as editorials were not signed. But he must be writing for one of them. He had his immediate 
living to make. 
What should she do? 
As she groped her way down the dark stair- 
case of the library she remembered the news- 
paper friend, Ralph Holt, who had padded his 
books — so the chambermaid had informed her 
casually — and whom she had met once when 
walking with Masters. He, if any one, would 
know Masters' address. But how meet him? 
He<.did not go in Society, and she had never 
seen him since. She could think of no excuse 
to ask him to call. Nor was it possible — to 
her, at least — to write a note and ask him for 
information outright. 
But by this time she was desperate. See 
Holt she would, and after a few moments' 
hard thinking her feminine ingenuity flashed 
 
a beacon. Holt was one of the sub-editors of 
his newspaper and although he had been about 
to resign and join Masters, no doubt he was 
on the staff still. Madeleine remembered that 
Masters had often spoken of a French restaurant in the neighborhood of the Alta offices, 
patronized by newspaper men. The cooking 
was excellent. He often lunched there himself. 
She glanced at her watch. It was one o'clock. 
She walked quickly toward the restaurant. 
XXVIII 
SHE ENTERED in some trepidation. She 
had never visited a restaurant alone before. 
And this one was crowded with men, the atmosphere thick with smoke. She asked the 
fat little proprietor if she might have a table 
alone, and he conducted her to the end of the 
room, astonished but flattered. A few women 
came to the restaurant occasionally to lunch 
with " their boys,'' but no such lady of the hautton as this. A fashionable woman's caprice, no 
doubt. 
Her seat faced the room, and as she felt the 
men staring at her, she studied the menu carefully and did not raise her eyes until she gave 
her order. In spite of her mission and its tragic 
cause she experienced a fleeting satisfaction that 
she was well and becomingly dressed. She had 
intended dropping in informally on Sibyl 
Forbes, still an outcast, in spite of her intercession, and wore a gown of dove-colored cash- 
mere and a hat of the same shade with a long 
lilac feather. 
 
She summoned her courage and glanced 
about the room, her eyes casual and remote. 
Would it be possible to recognize any one in 
that smoke? But she saw Holt almost immediately. He sat at a table not far from her 
own. She bowed cordially and received as 
frigid a response as Mrs. Abbott would have 
bestowed on Sibyl Forbes. 
Madeleine colored and dropped her eyes 
again. Of course he knew her for the cause 
of Masters' desertion of the city that needed 
him, and the disappointment of his own hopes 
and ambitions. Moreover, she had inferred 
from his conversation the day they had all 
walked together for half an hour that he regarded Masters as little short of a god. He 
was several years younger, he was clever himself, and nothing like Masters had ever come 
his way. He had declared that the projected 
newspaper was to be the greatest in America. 
She had smiled at his boyish enthusiasm, but 
without it she would probably have forgotten 
him. She had resented his presence at the 
time. 
Of course he hated her. But she had come 
too far to fail. He passed her table a few 
moments later and she held out her hand with 
her sweetest smile. 
"Sit down a moment,' she said with her 
pretty air of command j and although his face 
did not relax he could do no less than obey. 
" I feel more comfortable," she said. " I 
had no idea I should be the only lady here. 
But Mr. Masters so often spoke to me of this 
restaurant that I have always meant to visit 
it." She did not flutter an eyelash as she 
uttered Masters' name, and her lovely eyes 
seemed wooing Holt to remain at her side. 
" Heartless, like all the rest of them," 
thought the young man wrathf uUy. " Well, 
I'll give her one straight." 
" Have you heard from him lately? " she 
asked, as the waiter placed the dishes on the 
table. " He hasn't written to one of his old 
friends since he left, and I've often wondered 
what hasf become of him." 
" He's gone to the devil ! " said Holt brutally. " And I guess you know where the blame 
lies — Oh ! — Drink this ! " He hastily 
poured out a glass of claret. " Here ! Drink 
it ! Brace up, for God's sake. Don't give 
yourself away before all these fellows."
Madeleine swallowed the claret but pushed 
back her chair. " Take me away quickly," she 
muttered. "I don't care what they think. 
Take me where you can tell me — " 
He drew her hand through his arm, for he 
was afraid she would fall, and as he led her 
down the room he remarked audibly, "No 
wonder you feel faint. There's no air in the 
place, and youVe probably never seen so much 
smoke in your life before." 
At the door he nodded to the anxious proprietor, and when they reached the sidewalk asked 
if he should take her home. 
" No. I must talk to you alone. There is 
a hack. Let us drive somewhere." 
He handed her into the hack, telling the man 
to drive where he liked as long as he avoided 
the Cliff House Road. Madeleine shrank into 
a comer and began to cry wildly. He regarded 
her with anxiety, and less hostility in his bright 
blue eyes. 
"I'm awfully sorry," he said. "I was a 
brute. But I thought you would know — I 
thought other things — " 
" I knew nothing, but I can't believe it is true. 
There must be some mistake. He is not like 
that." 
"That's what's happened. You see, his 
world went to smash. That was the opportunity of his life, and such opportunities don't 
come twice. He has no capital of his own, and 
he can't raise money in New York. Besides, 
he didn't want a newspaper anywhere else. 
And — and — of course, you know, newspaper 
men hear all the talk — he was terribly hard 
hit. I couldn't help feeling a little sorry for 
you when I heard you were ill and all the rest
but today you looked a^ if you had forgotten 
poor Masters had ever lived — just a Society 
butterfly and a coquette." 
"Oh, I'm not blaming you! Perhaps it 
is all my fault. I don't know! — But that! 
I can't believe it. I never knew a man with 
as strong a character. He — he — always 
could control himself. And he had too much 
pride and ambition." 
" I guess you don't know it, but he had a 
weak spot for liquor. That is the reason he 
drank less than the rest of us — and that did 
show strength of character: that he could drink 
at all. I only saw him half -seas over once. 
.He told me then he was always on the watch 
lest it get the best of him. His father drank 
 
himself to death after the war, and his grand- 
father from mere love of his cups. Nothing 
but a hopeless smash-up, though, would ever 
have let it get the best of him. . . . He was 
terribly high-strung imder all that fine repose 
of his, and although his mind was like 
polished metal in a way, it was full of 
quicksilver. When a man like that lets go — 
nothing left to hold on to — he goes down hill 
at ten times the pace of an ordinary chap. I — 
I — suppose I may as well tell you the whole 
truth. He never drew a sober breath on the 
steamer and he's been drunk more or less ever 
since he arrived in New York. Of course he 
writes — has to — but can't hold down any responsible position. They'd be glad to give him 
the best salary paid if he'd sober up, but he gets 
worse instead of better. He's been thrown off 
two papers already and it's only because he can 
write better drunk than most men sober that he 
sells an article now and again when he has to." 
Madeleine had torn her handkerchief to 
pieces. She no longer wept. Her eyes were 
wide with horror. He fancied he saw awful 
visions in them. Fearing she might faint or 
have hysterics, he hastily extracted a brandy 
flask from his pocket. 
" Do you mind? " he asked diffidently. 
" Sorry I haven't a glass, but this is the first 
time I've taken the cork out.'' 
She lifted the flask obediently and took a 
draught that commanded his respect. 
She smiled faintly as she met his wide-eyed 
regard. " My husband makes me live on this 
stuff. I was threatened with consumption. It 
affected me very little, but it helps me in more 
ways than one." 
" Well, don't let it help you too much. I 
suppose the doctor knows best — but — well, it 
gets a hold on you when you are down on your 
luck." 
" If it ever ^ gets a hold ' on me it will because I deliberately wish it to," she said 
haughtily. " If Langdon Masters — has gone 
as far as you say, I don't believe it is through 
any inherited weakness. He has done it deliberately." 
" I grant that. And I'm sorry if I offended 
-you — " 
" I am only grateful to you. I feel better 
now and can think a little. Something must be 
done. Surely he can be saved." 
" I doubt it. When a man starts scientifically drinking himself to death nothing can be 
done when there is nothing better to offer him. 
May I be frank ? " 
" I have been frank enough ! " 
" Masters told me nothing of course, but I 
heard all the talk. Old Travers let out his 
part of it in his cups, and news travels from
the Clubs like water out of a sieve. We don't 
publish that sort of muck, but there were innuendoes in that blackguard sheet. The Boom. 
They stopped suddenly and I fancy the editor 
had a taste of the horsewhip. It wouldn't be the 
first time. . . . When Masters sent for me and 
told me he was leaving San Francisco for good 
and all, he looked like a man who had been 
through Dore's Hell — was there still, for that 
matter. Of course I knew what had happened; 
if I hadn't Pd have known it the next day when 
I saw the doctor. He looked bad enough, but 
nothing to Masters. He had less reason ! Of 
course Masters threw his career to the winds to 
save your good name. Noblesse oblige. Too 
bad he wasn't more of a villain aAd less of a 
great gentleman. It, might have been better all 
jxnmd. This town certainly needs him." 
'' If he were not a great gentleman nothing 
would have happened in the first place," she 
said with cool pride. " But I asked you if there 
were no way to save him.'' 
