slices in sugar. 
But there was an abiding serpent in this Eden. 
McClintock had brought from Penang three noiango- 
steen evergreens; and, wonders of wonders, they had 
thrived —  as trees. But not once in these ten years 
had they borne blossom or fruit. The soil was 
identical, the climate; still, they would not bear the 
Olympian fruit, with its purple-lined jacket and its 
snow-white pulp. One might have said that these 
trees grieved for their native soil; and, grieving, re- 
fused to bear. 
Of animal life, there was nothing left but mon- 
keys and wild pig, the latter having been domesti- 
cated. Of course there were goats. There's an 
animal! He thrives in all zones, upon all manner 
of food. He may not be able to eat tin-cans, but he 
tries to. The island was snake-free. 
There were all varieties of bird-life known in these 
latitudes, from the bird of paradise down to the tiny 
scarlet-beaked love-birds. There were always par- 
rots and parrakeets screaming in the fruit groves. 
The bungalows and stores were built of heavy 
bamboo and gum- wood; sprawly, one-storied af- 
fairs; for the typhoon was no stranger in these waters. 
Deep verandas ran around the bungalows, with 
bamboo drops which were always down in the day- 
time, fending off the treacherous sunshine. White 
men never went abroad without helmets. The air 
might be cool, but half an hour without head-gear 
was an invitation to sunstroke. 
Into this new world, vivid with colour, came Spur- 
lock, receptively. For a few days he was able to 
relegate his conscience to the background. There 
was so much to see, so much to do, that he became 
what he had once been normally, a lovable boy. 
HcClintock was amused. He began really to like 
Spurlock, despite the shadow of the boy's past, 
despite his inexplicable attitude toward this glorious 
girl. To be sure, he was attentive, respectful; but 
in his conduct there was none of that shameless 
camaraderie of a man who loved his woman and 
didn't care a hang if all the world knew it. If the 
boy did not love the girl, why the devil had he dragged 
her into this marriage? 
Spurlock was a bit shaky bodily, but his brain was 
functioning clearly; and, it might be added, swiftly — 
as the brain always acts when confronted by a per- 
plexing riddle. No matter how swiftly he pursued 
this riddle, he could not bring it to a halt. Why had 
Ruth married him? A penniless outcast, for she 
must have known he was that. Why had she mar- 
ried him, off-hand, like that? She did not love him, 
or he knew nothing of love signs. Had she too been 
 
flying from something and had accepted this method 
of escape? But what frying-pan could be equal to 
this fire? 
All this led him back to the original circle. He 
saw the colossal selfishness of his act; but he could not 
beg off on the plea of abnormality. He had been 
ill; no matter about that: he recollected every 
thought that had led up to it and every act that had 
consummated the deed. 
To make Ruth pay for it! He wanted to get 
away, into some inmiense echoless tract where he 
could give vent to this wild laughter which tore at 
his vitals. To make Ruth pay for the whole shot! 
To wash away his sin by crucifying her: that was 
precisely what he had set about. And God had let 
him do it! He was — and now he perfectly under- 
stood that he was —  treading the queerest labyrinth 
a man had ever entered. 
Why had he kissed her? What had led him into 
that? Neither love nor passion —  utter blankness so 
far as reducing the act to terms. He had kissed his 
wife on the mouth .   and had been horrified! 
There was real madness somewhere along this 
road. 
He was unaware that his illness had opened the 
way to the inherent conscience and that the acquired 
had been temporarily blanketed, or that there was 
any ancient f anaticalism in his blood. He saw what 
he had done only as it related to Ruth. He would 
have to go on; he would be forced to enact all the 
obligations he had imposed upon himself. 
His salvation —  if there was to be any —  lay in her 
ignorance of life' But she could not live in constant 
association with him without having these gaps filled. 
And when she learned that she had been doubly 
cheated, what then? His thoughts began to fall on her 
side of the scales, and his own misery grew lighter as he 
anticipated hers. He was an imaginative young man. 
Never again would he repeat that kiss; but at night 
when they separated, he would touch her forehead 
with his lips, and sometimes he would hold her hand 
in his and pat it. 
"1'11 have my cot in here," said Spurlock to Ruth, 
"where this table is. You never can tell. I'm 
likely to get up any time in the night to work.'' 
Together they were making habitable the second 
bungalow, which was within calling distance of Hc- 
Clintock's. They had scrubbed and dusted, torn 
down and hung up until noon. 
"Whatever you like, Hoddy," she agreed, wiping 
the sweat from her forehead. She was vaguely 
happy over this arrangement which put her in the 
wing across the middle hall, alone. "This will be 
very comfortable." 
"Isn't that lagoon gorgeous? I wonder if there'll 
be sharks?" 
"Not in the lagoon. Mr. McClintock says they 
can't get in there, or at least they never try it." 
Lordl —  think of having sharks for neighbours? 
lEvery morning I'll take a dip into the lagoon' 
That'll tune me up." 
"But don't ever swim off the main beach without 
someone with you." 
" I wonder where the deuce 1'11 be able to get some 
writing paper? I'm crazy to get to work again." 
'' Probably Mr. McClintock will have some." 
''I sha'n't want these curtains. You take them. 
The veranda bamboo will be enough for me." 
He stuffed the printed chintz into her arms and 
smiled into her eyes. And the infernal thought of 
that kiss returned — the softness of her lips and the 
cool smoothness of her cheeks. He turned irre- 
solutely to the table upon which lay the scattered 
leaves of his old manuscripts. 
"I believe I'll tear them up. So long as they're 
about, I'll always be rewriting them and wasting my 
time." 
"Let me have them." 
"What for? What do you want of them?" 
"Why, they are . . . yours. And I don't 
want anything of yours destroyed, Hoddy. Those 
were dreams." 
"All right, then." He shifted the pages together, 
rolled and thrust them under her arm. "But don't 
ever let me see them again. By George, I forgot I
McClintock said there was a typewriter in the office 
and that I could have it. I'll dig it up. I'll be 
feeling fine in no time. The office is a sight — not one 
sheet of paper on another; bills and receipts ev«y- 
where. 1'11 have to put some pep into the game — 
American pep. It will take a month to dean up. 
I've been hunting for this particular job for a thou- 
sand years!'' 
She smiled a little sadly over this fine enthusiasm; 
for in her wisdom she had a clear perception where it 
would eventually end —  in the veranda chair. All 
this — the island and its affairs —  was an old story; but 
her own peculiar distaste had vanished to a -poioi 
imperceptible, for she was seeing the island through 
her husband's eyes, as in the future she would see all 
things. 
For Ruth was in love, tenderly and beautifully 
in love; but she did not know how to express it be- 
yond the fetch and carry phase. Her heart ached; 
and that puzzled her. Love was joy, and joyous 
she was when alone. But in his presence a wall of 
diffidence and timidity encompassed her. 
The call of youth to youth, and we name it love 
for want of something bettei:: a glamorous, evan  
escent thing "like snow upon the desert's dusty 
face, lighting a little hour or two, was gone.'  Man 
is a peculiar animal. No matter what the fire and 
force of his passion, it falters eventually, and for- 
ever after smoulders or goes out. He has nothing 
to fall back upon, no substitute; but a woman always 
has the mother love. When the disillusion comes. 
 
when the fairy story ends, if she is blessed with 
children, she doesn't mind. If she has no children, 
she goes on loving her husband; but he is no longer 
a man but a child. 
A dog appeared unexpectedly upon the thresh  
old. He was yellow and coarse of hair; flea-bitten, 
too; and even as he smiled at Ruth and wagged his 
stumpy tail, he was forced to turn savagely upon 
one of these disturbers who had no sense of the 
fitness of things. 
"Well, well; look who's here!" cried Spur- 
lock. 
He started toward the dog with the idea of eject- 
ing him, but Ruth intervened. 
"No, please! It is good luck for a dog to enter 
your house. Let me keep him.'' 
"What? Good Lord, he's alive with fleas! They'll 
be all over the place." 
'Tlease!" 
She dropped the curtains and the manuscripts,, 
knelt and held out her arms. The dog approached 
timidly, his tail going furiously. He suspected a 
trap. The few whites he had ever known generally 
offered to pet him when they really wanted to kick 
him. But when Ruth's hand fell gently upon his 
bony head, he knew that no one in this house would 
ever offer him a kick. So he decided to stay. 
"You want him?" 
"Please!" said Ruth, 
"All right. What'll we call him— Rollo?''— 
ironically. 
"I never had a pet. I never had even a real 
doll ' she added, as she snuggled the flea-bitten 
head to her heart. "See how glad he is!" 
His irony and displeasure subsided. She had 
never had a pet, never had a real doll. Here was a 
little comer of the past —  a tragic comer. He knew 
that tragedy was as blind as justice, that it struck 
the child and the grown-up impartially. He must 
never refuse her anything which was within his 
power to grant —  anything (he modified) which did 
not lead to his motives. 
''You poor child! —  you can have all the dogs on 
the island, if you want them! Come along to the 
kitchen, and we'll give Rollo a tubbing.'' 
And thus their domesticity at McClintock's 
began —  with the tubbing of a stray yellow dog. 
It was an uproarious affair, for Rollo now knew that 
he had been grieviously betrayed: they were trying to 
kill him in a new way. Nobody will ever know what 
the fleas thought. 
The two young fools laughed until they cried. 
They were drenched with water and suds. Their 
laughter, together with the agonized yowling of the 
dog, drew a circle of wondering natives; and at length 
McClintock himself came over to see what the racket 
was about. When he saw, his roars could be heard 
across the lagoon. 
 
''You two will have this island by the ears ' he 
said, wiping his eyes. "Those boys out there think 
this is some new religious rite and that you are skin- 
ning the dog alive to eat him!" 
The shock of this information loosened Spurlock's 
grip on the dog, who bolted out of the kitchen and out 
of the house, maintaining his mile-a-minute gait 
imtil he reached the jungle muck, where he proceeded 
to neutralize the poison with which he had been 
lathered by rolling in the muck. 
But they found him on the veranda when they re- 
turned from McClintock's that evening. He had for- 
given everybody. Prom then on he was Ruth's dog. 
Nothing else so quickly establishes the condition 
of comradeship as the sharing of a laughable incident. 
Certain reserves went down on both sides. Spur- 
lock discussed the affairs of the island and Ruth gave 
him in exchange her adventures with the native girl 
who was to be their servant. 
This getting up at dawn —  real dawn —  and work- 
ing imtil seven was a distinct novelty. From then 
until four in the afternoon there was nothing to do — 
the whole island went to sleep. Even the chatter- 
ing monkeys, parrots, and parrakeets departed the 
fruit groves for the smelly dark of the jungle. If, 
aroimd noon, a coconut proa landed, the boys made 
no effort to unload. They hunted up shady nooks 
and went to sleep; but promptiy at four they would 
be at the oflSce, ready for barter. 
Spurlock had foimd the typewriter, oiled and 
deaned it, and began to practise on it in the night. 
He would never be able to compose upon it, but it 
would serve to produce the finished work. Above 
the work-table was a drop-light —  kerosene. The 
odour of kerosene permeated the bungalow; but Ruth 
mitigated the nuisance to some extent by burning 
native punk in brass jars. 
He was keen to get to work, but the inspiration 
would not come. He started a dozen stories, but 
they all ended in the waste-basket. Then, one 
night, he glanced up to behold Ruth and Rollo in the 
doorway. She crooked her finger. 
. "What is it?'' 
"The night," she answered. "Come and see the 
lagoon in the moonlight." 
He drew down the lamp and blew it out, and fol- 
lowed her into the night, more lovely than he had 
ever imagined night to be. There was only one 
sound —  the fall of the. sea upon the main beach, and 
even that said: "Hush! Hush! Hus-s-sh!" Not 
a leaf stirred, not a shadow moved. The great gray 
boles of the palms reminded him of some fabulous 
Grecian temple. 
"Let us sit here," she said, indicating the white 
sand bordering the lagoon; "and in a minute or two 
you will see something quite wonderful .... 
There!" 
Out of the dark unruffled sapphire of the lagoon 
 
came vertical flashes of burning silver, singly and in 
groups. 
"What in the world is it?'' he asked. 
"Flying fish. Something is feeding upon them. 
I thought you might like to see. You might be 
able to use the picture some day." 
"I don't know.'' He bent his head to his knees. 
"Something's wrong.. I can't invent; the thing 
won't come." 
"Shall I tell you a real story?" 
"Something you have seen?" 
"Yes." 
"Tell it. Perhaps what I need is something to 
bite in." 
So she told him the adventure of the two beach- 
combers in the typhoon, and how they became re- 
generated by their magnificent courage. 
"That's tremendous!" he cried. "Lord, if I can 
only remember to write it exactly as you told it!" 
He jumped to his feet. "I'll tackle it to-night!" 
"But it's after ten!" 
"What's that got to do with it? . . . The roofs of 
the native huts scattering in the wind! . . . the 
absolute agony of the twisting palms! .... and 
those two beggars laughing as they breasted death! 
Girl, you've gone and done it!" 
He leaned down and caught her by the hand, and 
then raced with her to the bungalow. 
Five hours later she tiptoed down the hall and 
paused at the threshold of what they now called his 
study. There were no doors in the bungalow; in- 
steady there were curtains of strung bead and bam- 
boo, always tinkling mysteriously. His pipe hung 
dead in his teeth, but the smoke was dense about 
him. His hand flew across the paper. As soon as 
he finished a sheet, he tossed it aside and began 
another. Occasionally he would lean back and 
stare at the window which gave upon the sea. But 
she could tell by the dullness of his eyes that he saw 
only some inner vision. 
  Unobserved, she knelt and kissed the threshold: 
for she knew what kisses were now. The curtain 
tinkled as her head brushed it, but he neither saw 
nor heard. 
CHAPTER XXn 
EVERY morning at dawn it was Spurlock's 
custom to take a plunge in the lagoon. Ruth 
took hers in the sea, but was careful never to 
go beyond her depth because of the sharks. She 
always managed to get back to the bungalow be- 
fore he did. 
As she came in this morning she saw that the 
lamp was still burning in the study; so she stopped 
at the door. Spurlock lay with his head on his 
arms, asleep. The lamp was spreading soot over 
everything and the reek of kerosene was stronger 
than usual. She ran to the lamp and extinguished 
it. Spurlock slept on. It was still too dark for 
reading, but she could see well enough to note the 
mmiber of the last page —  fifty-six. 
Ruth wore a printed cotton kimono. She tied 
the obi clumsily about her waist, then gently laid 
her hand on the bowed head. He did not move. 
Mischief bubbled up in her. She set her fingers in 
the hair and tugged, drawing him to a sitting pos- 
ture and stooping so that her eyes would be on the 
level with his when he awoke. 
He opened his eyes, protestingly, and beheld the 
realization of his dream. He had been dreaming of 
 
Ruth — an old recurrency of that dream he had h td 
in Canton, of Ruth leading him to the top of tibe 
mountain. For a moment he believed this mereljr 
a new phase of the dream. He smiled. 
"The Dawn Pearl!" he said, making to recline 
again. 
But she was relentless. "Hoddy, wake up!'' 
She jerked his head to and fro imtil the hair stung. 
"What? .... Oh! ... . Well, good Lord!'' 
He wrenched loose his head and stood up, sending  
the chair clattering to the floor. Rollo barked. 
" Go and take your plunge while I attend to break- 
fast." 
He started to pick up a sheet of manuscript, but 
she pushed him from t}ie table toward the door- 
way; and he staggered out of the bungalow, sud- 
denly stretched his arms, and broke into a trot. 
Ruth returned to the table. The tropical dawn 
is swift. She could now see to read; so she stirred 
the manuscript about until she came upon the first 
page. "The Beachcombers." 
Romance! The Seven Seas are hers. She roves the blue 
fields of the North, with the dean North Wind on her lips and her 
blonde head jewelled with frost — smocking valour and hardihood! 
Out of the West she comes, riding the great ships and the endless 
steel ways that encompass the earth, and smoke comes with her 
and the glare of furnace fires — commerce! From the East she 
brings strange words upon her tongue and strange raiment 
upon her shoulders and the perfume of myrrh —  antiquity! But 
oh! when she springs from the South, her rosy feet trailing the 
lotus, ripe loquats wreathing her head, in one hand the bright 
 
torch of danger and in the other the golden apples of love, with 
her eyes full of sapphires and her mouth full of pearls! 
"With her eyes full of sapphires and her mouth 
full of pearls." All day long the phrase interpo- 
lated her thoughts. 
A week later the manuscript was polished and 
typewritten, ready for the test. Spurlock felt very 
well pleased with himself. To have written a short 
story in a week was rather a remarkable feat. 
It was at breakfast on this day that he told Ruth 
he had sent to Batavia for some dresses. They 
would arrive sometime in June. 
"That gown is getting shabby." 
Ruth spread out the ruffled skirt, sundrily torn 
and soiled. "I haven't worn anything else in weeks. 
I haven't touched the other." 
"Anything like that?'' 
"Yes; but the colour is lavender." 
"Wear that to-night, then. It fits your style. 
You are very lovely, Ruth." 
She wanted to dance. The joy that filled her 
veins with throbbing fire urged her to rise and go 
swinging and whirling and dipping. She sat per- 
fectly still, however. 
"I am glad you think that," she replied. "Please 
tell me whenever I am at fault." 
"I wish you did have some faults, Ruth. You're 
an angel of goodness." 
"No, no! I have had wicked thoughts." 
. 
He laughed and pushed back his chair. ''So has 
the butterfly evil thoughts. We re to be given a 
treat to-night. McClintock will be tuning up the 
piano to-day. I say, I'll take the yam over and read 
it to McClintock. That old chap has a remarkable 
range in reading. But» hang it, I know it's good!'' 
"Of course it is!" 
In the afternoon he began work on another tale. 
It was his purpose to complete four or five stories 
before he sent any away. But to-day he did not get 
beyond half a dozen desultory start-offs. From 
McClintock's came an infernal tinkle-tinklej tump" 
tump! There was no composing with such a sound 
hammering upon the ear. But eventually Spurlock 
laughed. Not so bad. Battle, murder, and sudden 
death —  and an old chap like McClintock tuning his 
piano in the midst of it. He made a note of the 
idea and stored it away. 
He read ''The Beachcombers" to McClintock 
that night after coffee; and when he had done, the 
old trader nodded. 
"That's a good story, lad. You've caught the 
colour and the life. But it soimds too real to be 
imagined. You've never seen a typhoon, have you? '' 
"No." 
"Well, imagination beats me!" 
"It's something Ruth saw. She told me the tale 
the other night, and I've only elaborated it." 
" Ah, I see." McClintock saw indeed — two things : 
that the boy had no conceit and that this odd girl 
would always be giving. "Well, it's a good story ' 
He offered cigars, and Ruth got up. She always 
left the table when they began to smoke. Spurlock 
had not coached her on this line of conduct. Some- 
where she had read that it was the proper thing to 
do and that men liked to be alone with their to- 
bacco. She hated to leave; for this hour would be 
the most interesting. Both Spurlock and McClin- 
tock stood by their chairs until she was gone. 
Yes, sir," said McClintock, as he sat down; 
that's South Sea stuff, that yam of yours. I like 
the way you shared it. I have read that authors 
are very selfish and self-centred." 
"Oh, Ruth couldn't put it on paper, to be sure; 
but there was no reason to hide the source." 
"Have you told her?" 
"Told her? Told her what?" Spurlock sat 
straight in his chair. 
"You know what I mean," said the trader, 
gravely. "In spots you are a thoroughbred; but 
here's a black mark on your ticket, lad. My friend 
the doctor suspected it, and so do I. You are not a 
tourist seeking adventure. You have all the ear- 
marks of a fugitive from justice." 
Spurlock grew limp in his chair. "If you thought 
that, why did you give me this job?" —  his voice 
faint and thick. 
"The doctor and I agreed to give you a chance — 
for her sake. Without realizing what she has done, 
she's made a dreadful mess of it. A child — as 
imiocent as a child! Nothing about life; bemused 
by the fairy stories you writers call novels! I don't 
know what you have done; I don't care. But you 
must tell her." 
"I can't! I can't —  not now!" 
"Bat! — can't you see that she's the kind who 
would understand and forgive? She loves you." 
The walls appeared to rock; bulging shadows 
reached out; the candle flames became mocking 
eyes; and the blood drummed thunderously in 
Spurlock's ears. The door to the apocalypse had 
opened! 
"Loves me? . . . Ruth?" 
"Why the devil not? Why do you suppose she 
married you if she didn't love you? While you read 
I watched her face. It was in her eyes — the big 
thing that comes but once. But you! Why the 
devil did you marry her? That's the thing that 
confounds me." 
