child ?" 
But he had to wait a little while for an answer. 
" What was it, Ellen ?" 
" One thing," said Ellen, — " I was sorry for what I had 
said to you, sir, just before I went out." 
What was that ? I do not remember anything that de 
served to be a cause of grief." 
" I told you, sir, when I wanted you to let me go to 
church, that I hadn't seen Edinburgh yet." 
" Well ?" 
Well sir, that wasn't being quite true ; and I was very 
sorry for it !" 
"Not true ? yes it was ; what do you mean ? you bad not 
seen Edinburgh." 
" No sir, but I mean — that was true, but I said it to make 
you believe what wasn't true." 
- How?" 
" I meant you to think, sir, that that was the reason why 
I wanted to go to church — to see the city and the new 
sights — and it wasn't at all." 
" What was it then?" 
Ellen hesitated. 
" I always love to go, sir, — and besides I beheve I wanted 
be alone." 
" And you were not, after all," said Mr. Lindsay, again 
pressing her cheek to his, — " for I followed you there. But 
Ellen, my child, you were troubled without reason ; you had 
said nothing that was false." 
" Ah, sir, but I had made you believe what was false." 
" Upon my word," said Mr. Lindsay, " you are a nice 
reasoner. And are you always true upon this close scale ?" 
" I wish I was sir, but you see I am not. I am sure I hate 
everything else !" 
" Well I will not quarrel with you for being true," said 
Mr. Lindsay ; — " I wish there was a little more of it in the 
world. Was this the cause of all those tears this after- 
noon ?" 
No sir — not all." 
" What beside, Ellen ?" 
Ellen looked down, and was silent. 
" Come — I must know." 
" Must I tell you all, sir ?" 
" You must indeed," said he smiling; " I will have the 
whole, daughter." 
" I had been feeling sorry all the week because you and 
grandmother and aunt Keith were displeased with me." 
Again Mr. Lindsay's silent caress in its tenderness seemed 
to say that she should never have the same complaint to 
make again. 
" Was that all, Ellen ?" as she hesitated. 
- No sir." 
" Well ?" 
" I wish you wouldn't ask me further ; please do not ! — 
shall displease you again." 
" I will not be displeased." 
" I was thinking of Mr. Humpheys," said Ellen in a low 
tone. 
"Who is that?" 
" You know, sir, — you say I must not call him — " 
" What were you thinking of him." 
" I was wishing very much I could see him again." 
" Well you are a truth-teller," said Mr. Lindsay, — " or 
bolder than I think you." 
" You said you would not be displeased, sir." 
Neither will I, daughter ; but what shall I do to make 
you forget these people ?" 
" Nothino-, sir ; I cannot forfjet them ; I shouldn't deserve 
to have you love me a bit if I could. Let me love them, and 
do not be angry with me for it !" 
" But I am not satisfied to have your body here and your 
heart somewhere else." 
" I must have a poor little kind of heart," said Ellen 
smiling amidst her tears, " if it had room in it for only one 
person." 
" Ellen," said Mr. Lindsay inquisitively, " did you insinuate a falsehood there ?" 
"No sir!" 
" There is honesty in those eyes," said he, " if there is hon- 
esty anywhere in the world. I am satisfied — that is, half 
satisfied. Now lie there my little daughter, and rest," said 
he, laying her upon the sofa ; " you look as if you needed it." 
" I don't need anything now," said Ellen, as she laid her 
cheek upon the grateful pillow, " except one thing — if 
grandmother would only forgive me too." 
" You must try not to offend your grandmother, Ellen, 
for she does not very readily forgive ; but I think we can 
arrange this matter. Go you to sleep." 
" I wonder," said Ellen, smiling as she closed her eyes, 
" why everybody calls me ' little I dont think I am very 
little. Everybody says ' little.' " 
Mr. Lindsay thought he understood it when a few minutes 
after he sat watching her as she really had fallen asleep. 
The innocent brow, the perfect sweet calm of the face, seemed 
to belong to much younger years. Even Mr. Lindsay 
could not help recollectmg the housekeeper's comment, 
" Heaven's peace within ;" scarcely Ellen's own mother ever 
watched over her with more fond tenderness than her adopted father did now. 
For several days after this he would hardly permit her to 
leave him. He made her bring her books and study where 
he was ; he went out and came in with her ; and kept her 
by his side whenever they joined the rest of the family at 
meals or in the evening. Whether Mr. Lindsay intended it 
or not, this had soon the effect to abate the displeasure of 
his mother and sister. Ellen was almost taken out of their 
hands, and they thought it expedient not to let him have 
the whole of her. And though Ellen could better bear their 
cold looks and words since she had Mr. Lindsay's favor 
again, she was veiy glad when they smiled upon her too, 
and went dancing about with quite a happy face. 
She was now very busy. She had masters for the 
piano and singing and different branches of knowledge ; she 
went to Mr. Muller regularly twice a week ; and soon her 
riding-attendance began. She had said no more on the 
subject, but went quietly, hoping they would find out their 
mistake before long. Lady Keith always accompanied her. 
One day Ellen had ridden near her usual time, when a 
young lady with whom she attended a German class, came 
up to where she was resting. This lady was several years 
older than Ellen, but had taken a fancy to her. 
How finely you got on yesterday," said she, — "making 
us all ashamed. Ah, I guess M. Muller helped you." 
" Yes," said Ellen, smihng, " he did help me a little ; 
he helped me with those troublesome pronunciations," 
" With nothing else, I suppose ? Ah well, we must submit to be stupid. How do you do to-day ?" 
"I am very tired, Miss Gordon." 
" Tired ? you're not used to it," 
No it isn't that," said Ellen ; — " I am used to it — that is 
the reason I am tired. I am accustomed to ride up and 
down the country at any pace I like ; and it is very tiresome 
to walk stupidly round and round for an hour." 
" But do you know how to manage a horse ? I thought 
you were only just beginning to learn." 
" no — I have been learning this great while ; — only they 
don't think I know how, and they have never seen rae. Are 
you just come, Miss Gordon?" 
" Yes, and they are bringing out Sophronisbe for me — do 
ou know Sophronisbe ? — look — that light grey — isn't she 
eautiful? she's the loveliest creature in the whole stud." 
"I know !" said Ellen ; " I saw you on her the other 
day ; she went charmingly. How long shall I be kept 
walking here, Miss Gordon ?" 
" Why I don't know — I should think they would find out 
— what does De Courcy say to you ?" 
" O he comes and looks at me and says, ' tres bien — tres 
bien,' and ' allez comme ga,' and then he walks off." 
Well I declare that is too bad," said Miss Gordon laughing. Look here — I've got a good thought in my head — 
suppose you mount Sophronisbe in my place, without saying 
anything to anybody, and let them see what you are up to. 
Can you trust yourself ? she's very spirited." 
I could trust myself," said Ellen ; " but, thank you, I 
think I had better not." 
" Afraid?" 
No, not at all ; but my aunt and father would not like it." 
" Nonsense ! how should they dislike it — there's no sort of 
danger,, you know. Come ! — I thought you sat wonderfully 
for a beginner. I am surprised De Courcy hadn't better eyes. 
I guess you have learned German before Ellen ? — Come, 
will you?" 
But Ellen declined, preferring her plodding walk round the 
ring to any putting of herself forward. Presently Mr. Lindsay came in. It was the first time he had been there. His 
eyes soon singled out Ellen. 
My daughter sits well," he remarked to the riding-master. 
" A merveille! — Mademoiselle Lindesay does ride remarquablement pour une beginner — qui ne fait que commencer. 
Would it be possible that she has had no lessons before ?" 
" Why, yes — she has had lessons — of what sort I don't 
know," said Mr. Lindsay, going up to Ellen. " How do you 
like it, Ellen ?" 
" I don't like it at all, sir." 
" I thought you were so fond of riding." 
" I don't call this riding, sir." 
" Ha ! what do you call riding ? Here, M. De Courcy — 
won't you have the goodness to put this young lady on an- 
other horse and see if she knows anything about handling him." 
" With great pleasure !" M. De Courcy would do any- 
thing that was requested of him. Ellen was taken out of the 
ring of walkers and mounted on a fine animal, and set by 
herself to have her skill tried in as many various ways as M. 
De Courcy 's ingenuity could point out. Never did she bear 
herself more erectly ; never were her hand and her horse's 
mouth on nicer terms of acquaintanceship ; never, even to 
please her master, had she so given her whole soul to the 
single business of managing her horse and herself perfectly 
well. She knew as little as she cared that a number of persons besides her friends were standing to look at her ; she 
thought of only two people there, Mr. Lindsay and her aunt ; 
and the riding-master, as his opinion might affect theirs. 
" C'est tres bien, — c'est tres bien," — he muttered, — c'est 
par-faite-ment — Monsieur, Mademoiselle votre fille has had 
good lessons — voila qui est entierement comme il faut." 
" Assez bien," said Mr Lindsay smiling. " The little 
gipsey!" 
" Mademoiselle," said the riding-master as she paused 
before them, — " pourquoi, wherefore have you stopped in 
your canter tantot — a little while ago — et puis recommence'?" 
" Monsieur, he led with the wrong foot." 
" C'est ca — justement!" he exclaimed. 
" Have you practised leaping, Ellen ?" 
"Yes sir." 
" Try her M. De Courcy. How high will you go Ellen ?" 
As high as you please, sir," said Ellen, leaning over and 
patting her horse's neck to hide her smile. 
" How you look, child !" said Mr. Lindsay in a pleased 
tone. " So this is what you call riding ?" 
" It is a little more like it, sir." 
Ellen was tried with standing and running leaps, higher 
and higher, till Mr. Lindsay would have no more of it ; 
and M. De Courcy assured him that his daughter had 
been taught by a very accomplished rider, and there was 
little or nothing left for him to do ; il n'y pouvoit plus ; — but 
he should be very happy to have her come there to practise, 
and show an example to his pupils. 
The very bright color in Ellen's face as she heard this 
might have been mistaken for the flush of gratified vanity : 
it was nothing less. Not one word of this praise did she take 
to herself, nor had she sought for herself ; — it was all for 
somebody else ; and perhaps so Lady Keith understood it, 
for she looked rather discomfited. But Mr. Lindsay was 
exceedingly pleased ; and promised Ellen that as soon as the 
warm weather came she should have a horse, and rides to 
her heart's content. 
CHAPTER L 
Ellen might now have been in some danger of being 
spoiled, — not indeed with over-indulgence, for that was not 
the temper of the family, — but from finding herself a person 
of so much consequence. She could not but feel that in the 
minds of every one of her three friends she was the object of 
greatest importance ; their thoughts and care were principally 
occupied with her. Even Lady Keith was perpetually watching, superintending, and admonishing ; though she every now 
and then remarked with a kind of surprise, that " really she 
scarcely ever had to say anything to Ellen ; she thought she 
must know things by instinct." To Mr. Lindsay and his 
mother she was the idol of life ; and except when by chance 
her will might cross theirs, she had what she wished and did 
what she pleased. 
But Ellen happily had two safeguards which effectually 
kept her from pride or presumption. 
One was her love for her brother and longing remembrance 
of him. There was no one to take his place, not indeed in 
her affections, for that would have been impossible, but in 
the daily course of her life. She missed him in everything. 
She had abundance of kindness and fondness shown her, but 
the sympathy was wanting. She was talked to, but not with. 
No one now knew always what she was thinking of, nor it 
they did would patiently draw out her thoughts, canvass 
them, set them right or show them wrong. No one now 
could tell what she was feeling, nor had the art sweetly, in a 
way she scarce knew how, to do away with sadness, or dullness, or perverseness, and leave her spirits clear and bright 
as the noon-day. With all the petting and fondness she had 
from her new friends, Ellen felt alone. She was petted and 
fondled as a darling possession — a dear plaything — a thing to 
be cared for, taught, governed, disposed of, with the greatest 
aftection and delight ; but John's was a higher style of kindness, that entered into all her innermost feelings and wants ; 
and his was a higher style of authority too, that reached 
where theirs could never attain ; an authority Ellen always 
felt it utterly impossible to dispute ; it was sure to be exerted 
on the side of what was right ; and she could better have 
borne hard words from Mr. Lindsay than a glance of her 
brother's eye. Ellen made no objection to the imperativeness 
of her new guardians ; it seldom was called up so as to trou- 
ble her, and she was not of late particularly fond of having 
her own way ; but she sometimes drew comparisons. 
" I could not any sooner — I could not as soon — have dis- 
obeyed John ; — and yet he never would have spoken to me 
as they do if I had." 
''Some pride perhaps?" she said, remembering Mr. Dundas's words ; — " I should say a great deal — John isn't proud ; 
— and yet — I don't know — he isn't proud as they are ; I 
wish I knew what kinds of pride are right and what wrong — 
he would tell me if he was here." 
" What are you in a ' brown study ' about, Ellen ?" said 
Mr. Lindsay ?" 
" I was thinking, sir, about different kinds of pride — I wish 
I knew the right from the wrong — or is there any good 
kind ?" 
"All good, Elleti — all good," said Mr. Lindsay, — "provided you do not have too much of it." 
" Would you like me to be proud, sir ?" 
"Yes," said he, laughing and pinching her cheek, "as 
proud as you like ; if you only don't let me see any of it." 
Not very satisfactory ; but that was the way with the few 
questions of any magnitude Ellen ventured to ask ; she was 
kissed and laughed at, called metaphysical or philosophical, 
and dismissed with no hght on the subject. She sighed for 
her brother. The hours with M. MuUer were the best substitute she had ; they were dearly prized by her, and, to say 
truth, by him. He had no family, he lived alone ; and the 
visits of his docile and intelligent little pupil became very 
pleasant breaks in the monotony of his home life. Truly 
kind-hearted and benevolent, and a true lover of knowledge, 
he delighted to impart it. Ellen soon found she might ask 
him as many questions as she pleased, that were at all proper 
to the subject they were upon ; and he, amused and interested, was equally able and willing to answer her. Often 
when not particularly busy he allowed her hour to become 
two. Excellent hours for Ellen. M. Muller had made his 
proposition to Mr. Lindsay, partly from grateful regaid for 
him, and partly to gratify the fancy he had taken to Ellen on 
account of her simplicity, intelligence, and good manners. 
This latter motive did not disappoint him. He grew very much 
attached to his little pupil ; an attachment which Ellen faithfully returned, both in kind, and by every trifling service that 
it could fall in her way to render him. Fine flowers and 
fruit, that it was her special delight to carry to M. Muller; 
little jobs of copying, or setting in order some disorderly matters in his rooms, where he soon would trust her to do anything ; or a book from her father's library ; and once or twice 
when he was indisposed, reading to him, as she did by the 
hour patiently, matters that could neither intei'est nor concern her. On the whole, and with good reason, the days 
when they were to meet were hailed with as much pleasure 
perhaps by M. Muller as by Ellen heiself. 
Her other safeguard was the precious hour alone which 
she had promised John never to lose when she could help it. 
The only time she could liave was the early morning before 
the rest of the family were up. To this hour, and it was 
often more than an hour, Ellen was faithful. Her little Bible 
was extremely precious now ; Ellen had never gone to it with 
a deeper sense of need ; and never did she find more comfort 
in being able to disburden her heart in prayer of its load of 
cares and wishes. Never more than now had she felt the 
preciousness of that Friend who draws closer to his children 
the closer they draw to him ; she had never realized more 
the joy of having him to go to. It was her special delight 
to pray for those loved ones she could do nothing else for ; it 
"was a joy to think that He who hears prayer is equally present with all his people, and that though thousands of miles 
lie between the petitioner and the petitioned-for, the breath 
of prayer may span the distance and pour blessings on the 
far-off head. The burden of thoughts and affections gathered 
during the twenty-three hours, was laid down in the twenty- 
fourth ; and Ellen could meet her friends at the breakfast 
table with a sunshiny face. Little they thought where her 
heart had been, or where it had got its sunshine. 
But notwithstanding this, Ellen had too much to remember 
and regret than to be otherwise than sober, — soberer than 
her friends liked. They noticed with sorrow that the sun- 
shine wore off as the day rolled on ; — that though ready to 
snvle upon occasion, her face always settled again into a 
gravity they thought altogether unsuitable. Mrs. Lindsay 
fancied she knew the cause, and resolved to break it up. 
From the fiist of Ellen's coming her grandmother had 
taken the entire charge of her toilet. Whatever Mrs, Lindsay's notions in general might be as to the propriety of young 
girls learning to take care of themselves, Ellen was much too 
precious a plaything to be trusted to any other hands, even 
her own. At eleven o'clock regularly every day she went to 
her grandmother's dressing room for a very elaborate bathing and dressing ; though not a very long one, for all Mrs. 
Lindsay's were energetic. Now, without any hint as to the 
reason, she was directed to come to her grandmother an hour 
before the breakfast time, to go through then the course of 
cold-water, sponging, and hair-gloving, that Mrs, Lindsay 
was accustomed to administer at eleven. Ellen heard in 
silence, and obeyed, but made up her hour by rising earlier 
than usual, so as to have it before going to her grandmother. 
It was a little difficult at first, but she soon got into the habit 
of it, thouo-h the mornincrs were dark and cold. After a while 
it chanced that this came to Mrs. Lindsay's ears, and Ellen 
was told to come to her as soon as she was out of bed in the 
morning. 
But grandmother," said Ellen, — " I am up a great while 
before you are ; I should find you asleep ; don't I come soon 
enough ?" 
" What do you get up so early for ?" 
" You know ma'am — I told you some time ago. I want 
some time to myself." 
" It is not good for you to be up so long before breakfast, 
and in these cold mornings. Do not rise in future till I send 
for you." 
But grandmother, — that is the only time for me — thei'e 
isn't an hour after breakfast that I can have regularly to 
myself ; and I cannot be happy if I do not have some time." 
" Let it be as I said," said Mrs. Lindsay smiling. 
" Couldn't you let me come to you at eleven o'clock again, 
ma'am ? do, grandmother I" 
Mrs. Lindsay touched her lips ; a way of silencing her 
that Ellen particularly disliked, and which both Mr. Lindsay 
and his mother was accustomed to use. 
She thought a great deal on the subject, and came soberly 
to the conclusion that it was her duty to disobey. " I promised 
John," she said to herself, — " I will never break that promise ! 
I'll do anything rather. And besides, if I had not, it is just 
as much my duty — a duty that no one here has a right to 
command me against. I will do what I think right, come 
what may." 
She could not without its coming to the knowledge of her 
grandmother. A week or two after the former conversation 
Mrs. Lindsay made inquiries of Mason, her woman, who was 
obliged to confess that Miss Ellen's light was always burning 
when she went to call her. 
Ellen," said Mrs. Lindsay the same day, — " have you 
obeyed me in what I told you the other morning ? — about 
lying in bed till you are sent for ?" 
" No, ma'am." 
" You are frank ! to venture to tell me so. Why have you 
disobeyed me ?" 
" Because, grandmother, I thought it was right." 
"You think it is right to disobey, do you ?" 
" Yes, ma'am, if — " 
If what ?" 
" I mean, grandmother, there is One I must obey even be- 
fore you." 
" If what ?" repeated Mrs. Lindsay. 
" Please do not ask me, grandmother ; I don't want to say 
that." 
" Say it at once, Ellen !" 
" I think it is right to disobey if I am told to do what " 
wrong," said Ellen in a low voice. 
"Are you to be the judge of right and wrong ?" 
"No, ma'am." 
" Who then ?" 
" The Bible." 
" I do not know what is the reason," said Mrs. Lindsay, 
" that I cannot be very angry with you. Ellen, I repeat the 
order I gave you the other day. Promise me to obey it." 
" I cannot, grandmother ; I must have that hour ; I cannot 
do without it." 
" So must I be obeyed, I assure you, Ellen. You will 
sleep in my room henceforth." 
Ellen heard her in despair ; she did not know what to do. 
Appealing was not to be thought of. There was, as she 
said, no time she could count upon after breakfast. During 
the whole day and evening she was either busy with her 
studies or masters, or in the company of her grandmother or 
Mr. Lindsay ; and if not there, liable to be called to them at 
any moment. Her grandmother's expedient for increasing 
her cheerfulness had marvelous ill success. Ellen drooped 
under the sense of wrong, as well as the loss of her greatest 
comfort. For two days she felt and looked forlorn ; and 
smihng now seemed to be a difficult matter. Mr. Lindsay 
happened to be remarkably busy those two days, so that he 
did not notice what was going on. At the end of them, 
however, in the evening, he called Ellen to him, and whisperingly asked what was the matter." 
" Nothing, sir," said Ellen, "only grandmother will not let 
me do something I cannot be happy without doing." 
" Is it one of the things you want to do because it is right, 
whether it is convenient or not ?" he asked smiling. Ellen 
could not smile. 
" father," she whispered, putting her face close to his, 
if you would only get grandmother to let me do it !" 
The words were spoken with a sob, and Mr. Lindsay felt 
her warm tears upon his neck. He had however far too 
much respect for his mother to say anything against her proceedings while Ellen was present ; he simply answered that 
she must do whatever her grandmother said. But when 
Ellen had left the room, which she did immediately, he took 
the matter up. Mrs. Lindsay explained, and insisted that 
Ellen was spoiling herself for life and the world by a set of 
dull religious notions that were utterly unfit for a child ; th.at 
she would very soon get over thinking about her habit of 
morning prayer, and would then do much better. Mr. Lindsay 
looked grave ; but with Ellen's tears yet wet up on his 
cheek he could not dismiss the matter so lightly, and persisted in desiring that his mother should give up the point, 
which she utterly refused to do. 
Ellen meanwhile had fled to her own room. The moon- 
light was quietly streaming in through the casement ; it 
looked to her like an old friend. She threw herself down on 
the floor, close by the glass, and after some tears, which she 
could not help shedding, she raised her head and looked 
thoughtfully out. It was very seldom now that she had a 
chance of the kind ; she was rarely alone but when she was 
busy. 
" I wonder if that same moon is this minute shining in at the 
glass door at home ? — no, to be sure it can't this minute — what 
am I thinking of? — but it was there or will be there — let me 
see — east — west — it was there some time this morning I suppose ; looking right into our old sitting-room. moon, I wish I 
was in your place for once, to look in there too ! But it is 
all empty now — there's nobody there — Mr. Humphreys 
would be in his study — how lonely, how lonely he must be ! 
O I wish I was back there with him ! — John isn't there though 
— no matter — he will be, — and I could do so much for Mr. 
Humphreys in the meanwhile. He must miss me. I wonder 
where John is — nobody writes to me; I should think some 
one might. I wonder if I am ever to see them again. he 
will come to see me surely before he goes home I — but then 
he will have to go away without me again — I am fast 
now — fast enough — but oh ! am I to be separated from them 
for ever ? Well ! — I shall see them in heaven !" 
It was a " Well" of bitter acquiescence, and washed down 
with bitter tears. 
" Is it my bonny Miss Ellen ?" said the voice of the house- 
keeper coming softly in ; — " is my baim sitting a' her lane 
in the dark ? Why are ye no wi' the rest o' the folk, Miss 
Ellen?" 
" I like to be alone, Mrs. Allen, and the moon shines in 
here nicely." 
" Greeting !" exclaimed the old lad), drawing nearer, — " I
ken it by the sound o' youi* voice ; — greeting eenow ! Are 
ye no weel, Miss Ellen ? What vexes my bairn ? but your 
father would be vexed an he kenned it !" 
" Never mind, Mrs. Allen," said Ellen ; " I shall get over 
it directly ; don't say anything about it." 
" But I'm wae to see ye," said the kind old woman, 
stooping down and stroking the head that again Ellen had 
bowed on her knees ; — " will ye no tell me what vexes ye ? Ye 
suld be as blithe as a bird the lang day." 
" I can't, Mrs. Allen, while I am away from my friends." 
" Frinds ! and wha has mair frinds than yoursel, Miss Ellen, 
or better frinds ? — father and mither and a' ; where wad ye 
find thae that will love you mair." 
" Ah, but I haven't my brother !" sobbed Ellen. 
" Your brither. Miss Ellen ? An' wha's he ?" 
He's everything, Mrs. Allen ! he's everything I I shall 
never be happy without him ! — never ! never !" 
" Hush, dear Miss Ellen ! for the love of a' that's gude ; — . 
dinna talk that gate ! and dinna greet sae ! your father wad 
be sair vexed to hear ye or to see ye." 
I cannot help it," said Ellen ; — "it is true." 
" It may be sae ; but dear Miss Ellen, dinna let it come to 
your father's ken ; ye're his very heart's idol ; he disna merit 
auglit but gude frae ye." 
" I know it, Mrs. Allen," said Ellen weeping, and so I do 
love hira — better than anybody in the world, except two. 
But oh !, I want my brother ! — I don't know how to be happy 
or good either without him. I want him all the while." 
" Miss Ellen, I kenned and loved your dear mither weel 
for mony a day — will ye mind if I speak a word to her 
bairn ?" 
" No, dear Mrs. Allen — I'll thank you ; — did you know 
my mother ?" 
" Wha suld if I didna? she was brought up in my arms, 
and a dear lassie. Ye're no muckle like her. Miss Ellen ; — 
ye're mair bonny than her ; and no a' thegither sae frack ; — 
though she was douce and kind too." 
" I wish" — Ellen began, and stopped. 
" My dear bairn, there is Ane abuve wha' disposes a 
things for us ; and he isna weel pleased when his children 
fash themselves wi' his dispensations. He has ta'en and 
placed you here, for your ain gude I trust, — I'm sure it's 
for the gude of us a', — and if ye haena a' things ye wad 
wish, Miss Ellen, ye hae Him ; dinna forget that my ain 
bairn." 
Ellen returned heartily and silently the embrace of the old 
Scotchwoman, and when she left her, set herself to follow 
her advice. She tried to gather her scattered thoughts and 
smooth her ruffled feehngs, in using this quiet time to tho 
best advantage. At the end of half an hour she felt like 
another creature ; and began to refresh herself with softly 
singing some of her old hymns. 
The argument which was carried on in the parlor sunk at 
length into silence without coming to any conclusion. 
" Where is Miss Ellen ?" Mrs. Lindsay asked of a servant 
that came in. 
" She is up in her room, ma'am, singing." 
" Tell her I want her." 
"No — stop," said Mr. Lindsay; — "I'll go myself." 
Her door was a little ajar, and he softly opened it without 
disturbing her. Ellen was still sitting on the floor before the 
window, looking out through it, and in rather a low tone 
singing the last verse of the hymn Rock of Ages." 
WTiile I draw this fleeting breath, — 
When my eyelids close in death, — 
When I rise to -worlds unknown, 
And behold thee on thy throne, — 
Rock of Ages, cleft for me. 
Let me hide myself in thee ! 
Mr. Lindsay stood still at the door. Ellen paused a minute, 
and then sung " Jerusalem my happy home." Her utter-ance was so distinct that he heard every word. He did not 
move till she had finished, and then he came softly in. 
" Singing songs to the moon, Ellen ?" 
Ellen started and got up from the floor. 
" No sir ; I was singing them to myself." 
" Not entirely, for I heard the last one. Why do you 
make yourself sober singing such sad things ?" 
" I don't, sir ; they are not sad to me ; they are delightful. 
I love them dearly." 
" How came you to love them ? it is not natural for a child 
of your age. What do you love them for, my little daughter ?" 
" sir, there are a great many reasons, — I don't know how 
many." 
"I will have patience, Ellen ; I want to hear them all." 
" I love them because I love to think of the things the 
hymns are about, — I love the tunes, dearly, — and I like both 
the words and the tunes better, I believe, because I have 
sung them so often with friends." 
" Humph ! I guessed as much. Isn't that the strongest 
reason of the three ?" 
" I don't know sir ; I don't think it is." 
" Is all your heart in America, Ellen, or have you any left 
to bestow on us ?" 
" Yes sir." 
" Not very much !" 
"I love you, father," said Ellen, laying her cheek gently 
alongside of his. 
" And your grandmother, Ellen ?" said Mr. Lindsay, 
clasping his arms around her. 
" Yes sir." 
But he well understood that the " yes" was fainter. 
" And your aunt ? — speak, Ellen." 
" I don't love her as much as I wish I did," said Ellen ; — 
" I love her a little I suppose. why do you ask me such 
a hard question, father ?" 
" That is something you have nothing to do with," said 
Mr. Lindsay half laughing. " Sit down here," he added, 
placing her on his knee, " and sing to me again." 
Ellen was heartened by the tone of his voice, and pleased 
with the request. She immediately sang with great spirit a 
little methodist hymn she had learned when a mere child. 
The wild air and simple words singularly suited each other. 
Canaan — bright Canaan — 
I am bound for the land of Canaan. 
O Canaan ! it is my happy, happy home— 
lamboundfor the land of Canaan. 
" Does that sound sad, sir ?" 
" Why yes, — I think it does, rather, Ellen. Does it make 
you feel merry ?" 
" Not merry, sir, — it isn't merry ; but I like it very much." 
" The tune or the words ?" 
" Both, sir." 
" What do yon mean by the land of Canaan ?" 
" Heaven, sir." 
And do you like to think about that ? at your age ?" 
" Why certainly, sir ! Why not ?" 
" Why do you ?" 
" Because it is a bright and happy place," said Ellen 
gravely ; — where there is no darkness, nor sorrow, nor death, 
neither pain nor crying ; — and my mother is there, and my 
dear Alice, and my Saviour is there ; and I hope I shall be 
there too." 
"You are shedding tears now, Ellen." 
" And if I am, sir, it is not because I am unhappy. It 
doesn't make me unhappy to think of these things — it makes 
me glad ; and the more I think of them the happier I am." 
" You are a strange child. I am afraid your grandmother 
is right, and that you are hurting yourself with poring over 
serious matters that you are too young for." 
" She would not think so if she knew," said Ellen sighing. 
I should not be happy at all without that, and you would 
not love me half so well, nor she either. father," she exclaimed, pressing his hand in botli her own and laying her 
face upon it, — " do not let me be hindered in that ! forbid me 
anything you please, but not that ! the better I learn to 
please my best Friend, the better I shall please you." 
"Whom do you mean by 'your best friend?' " 
".The Lord my Redeemer." 
" W^here did you get these notions ?" said Mr. Lindsay, 
after a short pause. 
" From my mother, first, sir." 
" She had none of them when I knew her." 
" She had afterwards, then, sir ; and !" — Ellen hesi- 
tated, — " I wish ev^erybody had them too !" 
" My little daughter," said Mr. Lindsay, affectionately kissing the cheeks and eyes which were moist again, — " I shall 
indulge you in this matter. But you must keep your brow 
clear, or I shall revoke my grant. And you belong to me 
now ; and there are some things I want you to forget, and 
not remember, — you understand ? Now don't sing songs to 
the moon any more to-night — good night, my daughter." 
" They think religion is a strange melancholy thing," said 
Ellen to herself as she went to bed ; — " I must not give them 
reason to think so — I must let my rushlight burn bright — I 
must take care— I never had more need !" 
And with an earnest prayer for help to do so, she laid her 
head on the pillow. 
Mr. Lindsay told his mother he had made up his mind to 
let Ellen have her way for a while, and begged that she 
might return to her old room and hours again. Mrs. Lindsay would not hear of it. Ellen had disobeyed her orders, 
she said ; — she must take the consequences. 
" She is a bold little hussey, to venture it," said Mr. Lindsay, — " but I do not think there is any naughtiness in her 
heart." 
" No, not a bit. I could not be angry with her. It is 
only those preposterous notions she has got from somebody 
or other." 
Mr. Lindsay said no more. Next morning he asked Ellen 
privately what she did the first thing after breakfast. Practise on the piano for an hour, she said. 
" Couldn't you do it at any other time?" 
"Yes sir, I could practise in the afternoon, only grand- 
mother likes to have me with her." 
" Let it be done then, Ellen, in future." 
" And what shall I do with the hour after breakfast, sir ?" 
" Whatever you please," said he smiling. 
Ellen thanked him in the way she knew he best liked, and 
gratefully resolved he should have as little cause as possible 
to complain of her. Very little cause indeed did he or any 
one else have. No fault could be found with her performance of duty ; and her cheerfulness was constant and unvarying. She remembered her brother's recipe against loneliness 
and made use of it ; she remembered Mrs. Allen's advice and 
followed it ; she grasped the promises, " he that cometh to 
me shall never hunger," — and " seek and ye shall find," — 
precious words that never yet disappointed any one ; and 
though tears might often fall that nobody knew of, and she 
might not be so merry as her friends would have liked to see 
her ; though her cheerfulness was touched with sobriety, 
they could not complain ; for her brow was always unruffled, 
lier voice clear, her smile ready. 
After a while she was restored to her own sleeping room 
again, and permitted to take up her former habits. 
CHAPTER LI. 
Though nothino^ could be smoother than the general course 
of her hfe, Ellen's principles were still now and then severely 
tried. 
Of all in the house, next to Mr. Lindsay, she liked the 
company of the old housekeeper best. She was a simple- 
minded Christian, a most benevolent and kind-hearted, and 
withal sensible and respectable person ; devotedly attached 
to the family, and very fond of Ellen in particular. Ellen 
loved, when she could, to get alone with her, and hear her 
talk of her mother's young days ; and she loved furthermore, 
and almost as much, to talk to Mrs. Allen of her own. Ellen 
could to no one else lisp a word on the subject ; and without 
dwelhng directly on those that she loved, she delighted to 
tell over to an interested listener the things she had done, 
seen, and felt, with them. 
" I wish that child was a Httle more like other people," 
said Lady Keith one evening in the latter end of the winter. 
" Humph !" said Mr. Lindsay, — " I don't remember at this 
moment any one that I think she could resemble without 
losing more than she gained." 
O it's of no use to talk to you about Ellen, brother ! You 
can take up things fast enough when you find them out, but 
you never will see with other people's eyes." 
" What do your eyes see, Catherine ?" 
She is altogether too childish for her years ; she is really 
a baby." 
" I don't know," said Mr. Lindsay sminng ; " you should 
ask M. Muller about that. He was holding forth to me for 
a quarter of an hour the other day, and could not stint in 
her praises. She will go on, he says, just as fast as he 
pleases to take her." 
" yes — in intelligence and so on, I know she is not 
wanting ; that is not what I mean," 
She is perfectly lady-like always," said Mrs. Lindsay. 
" Yes, I know that, — and perfectly child-like too." 
" I like that," said Mr. Lindsay ; " I have no fancy for 
your grown-up little girls." 
"Well!" said Lady Keith in despair, "you may like it; 
but I tell you she is too much of a child nevertheless, — in 
other ways. She hasn't an idea of a thousand things. It 
was only the other day she was setting out to go, at mid-day, 
— through the streets with a basket on her arm — some of 
that fruit for M. Muller I believe." 
"If she has any fault," said Mr. Lindsay, "it is want of 
pride, — but I don't know — I can't say I wish she had more 
of it." 
" no, of course ! I suppose not. And it doesn't take 
anything at all to make the tears come in her eyes ; the other 
day I didn't know whether to laugh or be vexed at the way 
she went on with a kitten, for half an hour or more. I wish 
you had seen her ! I am not sure she didn't cry over that. 
Now I suppose the next thing, brother, you will go and make 
her a present of one." 
" If you have no heavier charges to bring," said Mr. Lindsay smiling, " I'll take breath and think about it." 
" But she isn't like anybody else, — she don't care for 
young companions, — she don't seem to fancy any one out of 
the family unless it is old Mrs. Allen, and she is absurd about 
her. You know she is not very well lately, and Ellen goes to 
see her I know every-day, regularly ; and there are the Gor- 
dons and Carpenters and Murrays and Mclntoshes — she sees 
them continually, but I don't think she takes a great deal of 
pleasure in their company. The fact is, she is too sober." 
" She has as sweet a smile as I ever saw," said Mr. Lindsay, — " and as hearty a laugh, when she does laugh ; she is 
none of your gigglers." 
" But when she does laugh," said Lady Keith, " it is not 
when other people do. I think she is generally grave when 
there is most merriment around her." 
" I love to hear her laugh," said Mrs. Lindsay ; " it is in 
Such a low sweet tone, and seems to come so from the very 
gpring of enjoyment. Yet I must say I think Catherine is 
half right." 
" With half an advocate," said Lady Keith, " I shall not 
effect much." 
Mr. Lindsay uttered a low whistle. At this moment the 
door opened, and Ellen came gravely in, with a book in her 
hand. 
" Come here, Ellen," said Mr. Lindsay holding out his 
hand, — " here's your aunt says you don't like anybody — how 
is it ? are you of an unsociable disposition ?" 
Ellen's smile would have been a sufficient apology to him 
for a much graver fault. 
" Anybody out of the house, I meant," said Lady Keith. 
" Speak, Ellen, and clear yourself," said Mr. Lindsay. 
I like some people," said Ellen smihng ; — " I don't think 
I like a great many people very much." 
" But you don't like young people," said Lady Keith, — 
that is what I complain of; and it's unnatural. Now 
there's the other day, when you went to ride with Miss 
Gordon and her brother, and Miss MacPherson and her bro- 
ther — I heard you say you were not sorry to get home. 
Now where will you find pleasanter young people ?" 
" Why don't you like them, Ellen ?" said Mrs. Lindsay. 
"I do like them, ma'am, tolerably." 
" W^hat does ' tolerably ' mean ?" 
I should have hked my ride better the other day," said 
Ellen, " if they had talked about sensible things." 
Nonsense !" said Lady Keith. Society cannot be made 
up of M. Mullers." 
" What did they talk about, Ellen ?" said Mr. Lindsay, 
who seemed amused. 
" About partners in dancing, — at least the ladies did, — and 
dresses, and different gentlemen, and what this one said and 
the other one said, — it wasn't very amusing to me." 
Mr, Lindsay laughed. And the gentlemen, Ellen ; how 
did you like them ?" 
" I didn't like them particularly, sir." 
" What have you against them, Ellen ?" 
" I don't wish to say anything against them, aunt Keith." 
Come, come, — speak out." 
" I didn't like their talking, sir, any better than the ladies' 
and besides that, I don't think they are very polite," 
" Why not?" said Mr. Lindsay, highly amused. 
" I don't think it was very pohte," said Ellen, " for them 
to sit still on their horses when I went out, and let Brock. esby 
lielp me to mount. They took me up at M. Muller's, you 
know, sir ; M. Muller had been obliged to go out and leave 
me." 
Mr. Lindsay threw a glance at his sister which she rather 
resented. 
" And pray what do you expect, Ellen ?" said she. " You 
are a mere child — do you think you ought to be treated as a 
woman ?" 
" I don't wish to be treated as anything but a child, aunt 
Keith." 
But Ellen remembered well one day at home when John 
had been before the door on horseback and she had lun out 
to give him a message, — his instantly dismounting to hear 
it. " And I was more a child then," she thought, — " and he 
wasn't a stranger." 
Whom do you like Ellen ?" inquired Mr. Lindsay, who 
looked extremely satisfied with the result of the examination. 
" I like M. Muller, sir." 
" Nobody else ?" 
" Mrs. Allen." 
" There !" exclaimed Lady Keith. 
Have you come from her room just now ?" 
Yes sir." 
" What's your fancy for going there ?" 
" I like to hear her talk, sir, and to read to her ; it gives 
her a great deal of pleasure ;— and I like to talk to her." 
" What do you talk about?" 
" She talks to me about my mother" — 
" And you ?" 
" I like to talk to her about old times," said Ellen, changing color. 
" Profitable conversation !" said Mrs. Lindsay. 
" You will not go to her room any more, Ellen," said Mr. 
Lindsay. 
In grfeat dismay at what Mrs. Allen would think, Ellen
began a remonstrance. But only one word was uttered ; 
Mr. Lindsay's hand was upon her Jps. He next took the 
book she still held. 
" Is this what you have been reading to her?" 
Ellen bowed in answer. 
" Who wrote all this ?" 
Before she could speak he had turned to the front leaf 
and read, " To my little sister." He quietly put the book in 
his pocket ; and Ellen as quietly left the room. 
" I am glad you have said that," said Lady Keith. " You 
are quick enough when you see anything for yourself, but you 
never will believe other people." 
" There is nothing wrong here," said Mr. Lindsay, — " only 
I will not have her going back to those old recollections she 
is so fond of. I wish I could make her drink Lethe !" 
" What is the book ?" said Mrs. Lindsay. 
" I hardly know," said he, turning it over, — " except it 
is from that person that seems to have obtained such an 
ascendancy over her — it is full of his notes — it is a religious 
work." 
" She reads a great deal too much of that sort of thing," 
said Mrs. Lindsay. I wish you would contrive to put a stop 
to it. You can do it better than any one else ; she is very 
fond of you." 
That was not a good argument. Mr. Lindsay was silent ; 
his thoughts went back to the conversation held that evening 
in Ellen's room, and to certain other things ; and perhaps he 
was thinking that if religion had m.uch to do with making 
her what she was, it was a tree that bore good fruits. 
" I think," said Lady Keith, " that is one reason why she 
takes so little to the young people she sees. I have seen her 
sit perfectly grave when they were all laughing and talking 
around her — it really looks singular — I don't like it — I pre- 
sume she would have thought it wicked to laugh with them. 
And the other night ; — I missed her from the younger part 
of the company, where she should Iiave been, and there she 
was in the other room with M, Muller and somebody else, — 
gravely listening to their conversation !" 
I saw her," said Mr. Lindsay smiling, — " and she looked 
anything but dull or sober. I would rather have her gravity, 
after all, Catherine, than anybody else's merriment I know." 
" I wish she had never been detained in America after 
the time when she should have come to us," said Mrs. 
Lindsay. 
" I wish the woman had what she deserves that kept back 
the letters !" said Mr. Lindsay. 
"Yes indeed !" said his sister; — " and I have been in continual fear of a visit from that very person that you say gave 
Ellen the book." 
" He isn't here !" said Mr. Lindsay. 
I don't know where he is ; — but he was on this side of 
the water, at the time Ellen came on ; so she told me." 
" I wish he was in Egypt !" 
" I don't intend he shall see her if he comes," said Lady 
Keith, " if I can possibly prevent it. I gave Porterfield 
orders, if any one asked for her, to tell me immediately, and 
not her upon any account ; but nobody has come hitherto, 
and I am in hopes none will." 
Mr. Lindsay arose and walked up and down the room with 
folded arms in a very thoughtful style. 
Ellen with some difficulty bore herself as usual throughout 
the next day and evening, though constantly on the rack to 
get possession of her book again. It was not spoken of nor 
hinted at. When another morning came she could stand it 
no longer ; she went soon after breakfast into Mr. Lindsay's 
study, where he was writing. Ellen came behind him and 
laying both her arms over his shoulders, said in his ear, 
" Will you let me have my book again, father?" 
A kiss was her only answer. Ellen waited. 
Go to the bookcases," said Mr. Lindsay presently, " or to 
the bookstore, and choose out anything you like, Ellen, in- 
stead." 
" I wouldn't exchange it for all that is in them !" she an- 
swered with some warmth, and with the husky feeling com- 
ing in her throat. Mr. Lindsay said nothing. 
" At any rate," whispered Ellen after a minute, " you will 
not destroy it, or do anything to it ? — you will take care of 
it and let me have it again, won't you, sir?" 
" I will try to take care of you, my daughter." 
Again Ellen paused ; and then came round in front of him 
to plead to more purpose. 
I will do anything in the world for you, sir," she said 
