" And what is your mind now about the question I asked 
you this morning ?" 
Ellen cast down her eyes from his inquiring glance, and 
answered in a low tone, " Just what it was then, sir." 
" Have you been thinking of it since ?" 
" I have thought of it the whole time, sir." 
" And you are resolved you will obey Christ henceforth ?" 
" I am resolved to try, sir." 
" My dear Ellen, if you are in earnest you will not try in 
vain. He never yet failed any that sincerely sought him. 
Have you a Bible?" 
'' O yes, sh ! a beautiful one ; mamma gave it to me the 
other day." 
He took the hymn book from her hand, and turning over 
the leaves, marked several places in pencil. 
" I am going to give you this," he said, " that it may 
serve to remind you of what we have talked of to-day, and 
of your resolution." 
Ellen flushed high with pleasure. 
" I have put this mark," said he, showing her a particular 
one, " in a few places of this book, for you ; wherever you 
find it, you may know there is something I want you to take 
special notice of. There are some other marks here too, but 
they are mine : these are for you." 
" Thank you, sir," said Ellen, delighted ; " I shall not 
forget." 
He knew from her face what she meant ; — not the marks. 
The day wore on, thanks to the unwearied kindness of her 
friend, with great comparative comfort to Ellen. Late in 
the afternoon they were resting from a long walk up and 
down the deck. 
" What have you got in this package that you take such 
care of?" said he, smiling. 
" ! candies," said Ellen ; "I am always forgetting 
them. I meant to ask you to take some. Will you have 
some, sir?" 
" Thank you. What are they ?" 
" Almost all kinds, I believe, sir ; I think the almonds are 
the best." 
He took one. 
"Pray, take some more, sir," said Ellen; — " I don't care 
for them in the least." 
" Then I am more of a child than ycu, — in this at any 
rate, — for I do care for them. But I have a little headache 
to-day ; I mustn't meddle with sweets." 
" Then take some for to-morrow, sir ; — please do I' said 
Ellen, dealing them out very freely. 
" Stop, stop !" said he, — " not a bit more ; this won't 
do, — I must put some of these back again ; you'll want them 
to-morrow too." 
" I don't think I shall," said Ellen ; — " I haven't wanted to 
touch them to-day." 
" 0, you'll feel brighter to-morrow, after a night's sleep. 
But aren't you afraid of catching cold ? This wind is blowing pretty fresh, and you've been bonnetless all day ; — what's 
the reason ?" 
Ellen looked down, and coloured a good deal. 
" What's the matter?" said he, laughing ; " has any mischief befallen your bonnet?" 
" No, sir," said Ellen in a low tone, her color mounting 
higher and higher; — " it was laughed at this morning." 
" Laughed at ! — who laughed at it ?" 
" Mrs. Dunscombe and her daughter, and her maid." 
" Did they ! I don't see much reason in that, I confess. 
What did they think was the matter with it ?" 
" I don't know, sir ; — they said it was outlandish, and what 
a figure I looked in it." 
" Well, certainly that was not very polite. Put it on and 
let me see." 
Ellen obeyed. 
" I am not the best judge of ladies' bonnets, it is true," 
said he, " but I can see nothing about it that is not perfectly 
proper and suitable, — nothing in the world ! So that is what 
has kept you bareheaded all day ? Didn't your mother wish 
you to wear that bonnet?" 
" Yes, sir." 
" Then that ought to be enough for you. Will you be 
ashamed of what she approved, because some people that 
haven't probably half her sense choose to make merry with 
it ? — is that right ?" he said gently, " Is that honouring her 
as she deserves ?" 
" No, sir," said Ellen, looking up into his face, " but I 
never thought of that before ; — I am sorry." 
" Never mind being laughed at, my child. If your mo- 
ther says a thing is right, that's enough for you — let them 
laugh !" 
" I won't be ashamed of my bonnet any more," said Ellen, 
tying it on ; " but they made me very unhappy about it, and 
very angry too." 
" I am sorry for that," said her friend, gravely. " Have 
you quite got over it, Ellen ?" 
" O yes, sir, — long ago." 
" Are you sure V 
" I am not angry now, sir." 
" Is there no unkindness left towards the people who 
laughed at you ?" 
" I don't like them much," said Ellen ; — "how can I ?" 
"You cannot of course like the company of ill-behaved 
people, and I do not wish that you should ; but you can and 
ought to feel just as kindly disposed towards them as if they 
had never offended you — just as willing and inclined to please 
them or do them good. Now, could you offer Miss — what's 
her name ? — some of your candies with as hearty good-will 
as you could before she laughed at you ?" 
" No, sir, I couldn't. I don't feel as if I ever wished to 
see them again." 
" Then, my dear Ellen, you have something to do, if you 
were in earne.-t in the resolve you made this morning. ' If 
ye forgive unto men their trespasses, my Heavenly Father 
will also forgive you ; but if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will my f;ither forgive your trespasses !' " 
He was silent, and so was Ellen, for some time. His words 
had raised a struggle in her mind ; and she kept her face 
turned towards the shore, so that her bonnet shielded it from 
view; but she did not in the legist know what she was looking 
at. The sun had been some time descending through a sky 
of cloudless splendor, and now was just kissing the mountain tops of the western horizon. Slowly and with great 
majesty he sank behind the distant blue line, till only a glittering edge appeared, — and then that was gone. There were 
no clouds hanging over his setting, to be gilded and purpled 
by the parting rays, but a region of glory long remained, to 
show where his path had been. 
The eyes of both were fixed upon this beautiful scene, but 
only one was thinking of it. Just as the last glimpse of the 
sun disappeared Ellen turned her face, bright again, towards 
her companion. He was intently gazing towards the hills 
that had so drawn Ellen's attention a while ago, and thinking 
still more intently, it was plain ; so though her mouth had 
been open to speak, she turned her face away again as suddenly as it had just sought his. He saw the motion, however. 
" What is it, Ellen ?" he said. 
Ellen looked again with a smile. ' 
" I have been thinking, sir, of what you said to me." 
" Well ?" said he, smiling in answer. 
" I can't like Mrs. Dunscombe and Miss Dunscombe as well 
as if they hadn't done so to me, but I will try to behave as 
if nothing had been the matter, and be as kind and polite to 
them as if they had been kind and polite to me." 
" And how about the sugar-plums ?" 
" The sugar-plums ! 0," said Ellen, laughing, " Miss Margaret may have them all if she likes — I'm quite willing. Not 
but I had rather give them to you, sir." 
" You give me something a great deal better when I see 
you try to overcome a wrong feeling. You mustn't rest till 
you get rid of every bit of ill-will that you feel for this and 
any other unkindness you may suffer. You cannot do it 
yourself, but you know who can help you. I hope you have 
asked him, Ellen ?" 
"I have, sir, indeed." 
" Keep asking him, and he will do everything for you." 
A silence of some length followed. Ellen began to feel 
very much the fatigue of this exciting day, and sat quietly by 
her friend's side, leaning against him. The wind had changed 
about sundown, and now blew light from the south, so that 
they did not feel it all. 
The light gradually faded away, till only a silver glow in 
the west showed where the sun had set, and the sober gray 
of twilight was gently stealing over all the bright colors of 
sky, and river, and hill ; now and then a twinkling light began 
to appear along the shores. 
" You are very tired," said Ellen's friend to her, — " I see 
you are. A little more patience, my child ; — we shall be at 
our journey's end before a very great while." 
" I am almost sorry," said Ellen, "though I am tired. We 
don't go in the steamboat to-morrow ; do we, sir?" 
" No, — in the stage." 
" Shall you be in the stage, sir ?" 
" No, my child. But I am glad you and I have spent this 
day together." 
" Oh, sir !" said Ellen, " I don't know what I should have 
done if it hadn't been for you !" 
There was silence again, and the gentleman almost thought 
his little charge had fallen asleep, she sat so still. But she 
suddenly spoke again, and in a tone of voice that showed 
sleep was far away. 
* I wish I knew where mamma is now !" 
" I do not doubt, my child, from what you told me, that 
it is well with her wherever she is. Let that thought comfort 
you whenever you remember her." 
" She must want me so much," said poor Ellen, in a 
scarcely audible voice. 
" She has not lost her best friend, my child." 
" I know it, sir," said Ellen, with whom grief was now 
getting the mastery, — " but ! it's just near the time when I 
used to make the tea for her — who'll make it now ? she'll want 
me, — oh what shall I do !" and overcome completely by this 
recollection, she threw herself into her friend's arms and 
sobbed aloud. 
There was no reasoning against this. He did not attempt 
it ; but with the utmost gentleness and tenderness endeavored, 
as soon as he might, to soothe and calm her. He succeeded 
at last ; with a sort of despairing submission, Ellen ceased 
her tears, and arose to her former position. But he did not 
rest from his kind endeavors till her mind was really eased 
and comforted ; which, however, was not long before the lights 
of a city began to appear in the distance. And with them 
appeared a dusky figure ascending the stairs, which, upon 
nearer approach, proved by the voice to be Timmins. 
" Is this Miss Montgomery ?" said she ; — " I can't see, I 
am sure, it's so dark. Is that you, Miss Montgomery ?" 
" Yes," said Ellen, u it is I ; do you want me V 99 
" If you please, Miss, Mrs. Dunscombe wants you to come 
right down ; we're almost in, she says, Miss. 
" I'll come directly, Miss Timmins," said Ellen. " Don't 
wait for me. — I won't be a minute, — I'll come directly." 
Miss Timmins retired, standing still a good deal in awe of 
the grave personage whose protection Ellen seemed to have 
gained. 
" I must go," said Ellen, standing up and extending her 
hand ; — " Good-bye, sir." 
She could hardly say it. He drew her towards him and 
kissed her cheek once or twice ; it was well he did ; for it sent 
a thrill of pleasure to Ellen's heart that she did not get over 
that evening, nor all the next day. 
" God bless you, my child," he said, gravely but cheerfully ; 
" and good night ! — you will feel better I trust when you 
have had some rest and refreshment." 
He took care of her down the stairs, ?nd saw her safe to 
the very door of the saloon, and within it ; and there again 
took her hand and kindly bade her good night ! 
Ellen entered the saloon only to sit down and cry as if her 
heart would break. She saw and heard nothing till Mrs. 
Dunscombe's voice bade her make haste and be ready, for 
they were going ashore in five minutes. 
And in less than five minutes ashore they went. 
" Which hotel, ma'am ? " asked the servant who carried 
her baggage, — " the Eagle, or Foster's ? " 
"The Eagle," said Mrs. Dunscombe. 
" Come this way then, ma'am," said another man, the 
driver of the Eagle carriage, — " Now ma'am, step in, if you 
please." 
Mrs. Dunscombe put her daughter in. 
" But it's full ! " said she to the driver ; " there isn't room 
for another one ! " 
" yes, ma'am, there is," said the driver, holding the door 
open; "there's plenty of room for you, ma'am. — just get in, 
ma'am, if you please, — we'll be there in less that two 
minutes." 
" Timmins, you'll have to walk," said Mrs. Dunscombe. 
"Miss Montgomery, would you rather ride, or walk with 
Timmins ? " 
" How far is it, ma'am ? " said Ellen. 
" O bless me ! how can I tell how far it is ? I don't know, 
I am sure, — not far ; — say quick, — would you rather walk or 
ride ?" 
" I would rather walk, ma'am, if you please," said Ellen. 
" Very well," said Mrs. Dunscombe, getting in ; — " Timmins, you know the way." 
And off went the coach with it's load ; but tired as she 
was, Ellen did not wish herself along. 
Picking a passage-way out of the crowd, she and Timmins 
now began to make their way up one of the comparatively 
quiet streets. 
It was a strange place — that she felt. She had lived long 
enough in the place she had left to feel at home there ; but 
here she came to no street or crossing that she had ever seen 
before ; nothing looked familiar ; all reminded her that she 
was a traveler. Only one pleasant thing Ellen saw on her 
walk, and that was the sky ; and that looked just as it did at 
home ; and very often Ellen's gaze was fixed upon it, much 
to the astonishment of Miss Timmins, who had to be not a 
little watchful for the safety of Ellen's feet while her eyes 
were thus employed. She had taken a great fancy to Ellen, 
however, and let her do as she pleased, keeping all her 
wonderment to herself. 
" Take care, Miss Ellen !" cried Timmins, giving her arm a 
great pull, — "I declare I just saved you out of that gutter! 
poor child ! you are dreadfully tired, aint you?" 
"Yes, I am very tired, Miss Timmins," said Ellen, " have 
we much further to go ?" 
" Not a great deal, dear ; cheer up ! we are almost there. 
I hope Mrs. Dunscombe will want to ride one of these days 
herself, and can't." 
" O don't say so, Miss Timmins," said Ellen, — " I don't 
wish so, indeed." 
" Well I should think you would," said Timmins, — " I 
should think you 'd be fit to poison her ; — I should, I know, 
if I was in your place." 
" no," said Ellen, " that wouldn't be right, — that 
would be very wrong." 
" Wrong !" said Timmins, — " why would it be wrong ? 
she hasn't behaved good to you." 
" Yes," said Ellen, — " but don't you know the Bible says 
if we do not forgive people what they do to us, we shall not 
be forgiven ourselves ?" 
" Well, I declare !" said Miss Timmins, " you beat all ! 
But here's the Eagle hotel at last, — and I am glad for your 
sake, dear." 
Ellen was shown into the ladies' parlor. She was longing 
for a place to rest, but she saw directly it was not to be 
there. The room was large, and barely furnished ; and 
round it were scattered part of the carriage-load of people 
that had arrived a quarter of an hour before her. They 
were waiting till their rooms should be ready. Ellen silently 
found herself a chair and sat down to wait with the rest, as 
patiently as she might. Few of them had as much cause for 
impatience ; but she was the only perfectly mute and uncomplaining one there. Her two companions however, between 
them, fully made up her share of fretting. At length, a 
servant brought the welcome news that their room was ready, 
and the three marched up stairs. It made Ellen's very heart 
glad when they got there, to find a good-sized, cheerful-
looking bed-room, comfortably furnished, with a bright fire 
burning, large curtains let down to the floor, and a nice 
warm carpet upon it. Taking off her bonnet, and only that, 
she sat down on a low cushion by the corner of the fire-place, 
and leaning her head against the jamb fell fast asleep almost 
immediately. Mrs. Dunscombe set about arranging herself 
for the tea-table. 
" Well !" she said, — " one day of this precious journey is 
over !" 
" Does Ellen go with us to-morrow, mamma ?" 
" Oh, yes !— quite to Thirlwall." 
"Well you haven't had much plague with her to-day, 
mamma." 
" No — I am sure I am much obliged to whoever has kept 
her out of my way." 
" Where is she going to sleep to-night ?" asked Miss 
Margaret. 
"I don't know, I am sure. — I suppose I shall have to have 
a cot brought in here for her." 
" What a plague !" said Miss Margaret. " It will lumber 
up the room so ! There's no place to put it. Couldn't she 
sleep with Timmins ?" 
" 0, she could, of course — just as well as not, only people 
would make such a fuss about it ; — it wouldn't do ; we must 
bear it for once. I'll try and not be caught in such a scrape 
again." 
" How provoking !" said Miss Margaret ; — " how came 
father to do so without asking you about it ?'' 
" 0, he was bewitched, I suppose, — men always are. 
Look here, Margaret, — I can't go down to tea with a train of 
children at my heels, — I shall leave you and Ellen up here, 
and I'll send up your tea to you." 
"O no, mamma!" said Margaret eagerly ; "I want to go 
down with you. Look here, mamma ! she's asleep and you 
needn't wake her up — that's excuse enough ; you can leave 
her to have her tea up here, and let me go down with you." 
" Well," said Mrs. Dunscombe, — " I don't care — but make 
haste to get ready, for I expect every minute when the tea
-bell will ring." 
" Timmins ! Timmins !" cried Margaret, — " come here and 
fix me — quick ! — and step softly, will you ? — or you'll wake 
that young one up, and then, you see, I shall have to stay 
up stairs." 
This did not happen however. Ellen's sleep was much too 
deep to be easily disturbed. The tea-bell itself, loud and 
shrill as it was, did not even make her eye-lids tremble. 
After Mrs. and Miss Dunscombe were gone down, Timmins 
employed herself a little while in putting all things about the 
room to rights ; and then sat down to take her rest, dividing 
her attention between the fire and Ellen, towards whom she 
seemed to feel more and more kindness, as she saw that she 
was likely to receive it from no one else. Presently came a 
knock at the door ; — " The tea for the young lady," on a 
waiter. Miss Timmins silently took the tray from the man 
and shut the door. " Well !" said she to herself, — " if that 
aint a pretty supper to send up to a child that has gone two 
hundred miles to-day, and had no breakfast ! — a cup of tea, 
cold enough I'll warrant, — bread and butter enough for a 
bird, — and two little slices of ham as thick as a wafer ! — well, 
I just wish Mrs. Dunscombe had to eat it herself, and nothing 
else ! — I'm not going to wake her up for that, I know, till I 
Bee whether something better aint to be had for love nor 
money. So just you sleep on, darling, till I see what I can 
do for you." 
In great indignation, down stairs went Miss Timmins ; and 
at the foot of the stairs she met a rosy- cheeked, pleasant- 
faced girl coming up. 
" Are you the chambermaid?" said Timmins. 
" I'm one of the chambermaids," said the girl smiling ; 
there's three of us in this house, dear." 
" Well, I am a stranger here," said Timmins, " and I 
want you to help me, and I am sure you will. I've got a 
dear little girl up-stairs that I want some supper for — she's a 
sweet child, and she's under the care of some proud folks 
here in the tea-room that think it's too much trouble to look 
at her ; and they've sent her up about supper enough for a 
mouse, — and she half starving ; she lost her breakfast this 
morning by their ugliness. Now ask one of the waiters to give 
me something nice for her, will you ?- — there's a good girl." 
"James !" — said the girl in a loud whisper to one of the 
waiters who was crossing the hall. He instantly stopped and 
came towards them, tray in hand, and making several extra 
polite bows as he drew near. 
"What's on the supper-table, James?" said the smiling 
damsel. 
" Everything that ought to be there, Miss Johns," said the 
man, with another flourish. 
" Come, stop your nonsense," said the girl, " and tell me 
quick — I'm in a hurry." 
" It's a pleasure to perform your commands, Miss Johns. 
I'll give you the whole bill of fare. There's a very fine beef- 
steak, fricasseed chickens, stewed oysters, sliced ham, cheese, 
preserved quinces, — with the usual compliment of bread and 
toast and muffins, and doughnuts, and new year cake, and 
plenty of butter, — likewise salt and pepper, — likewise tea 
and coffee, and sugar, — likewise, — " 
" Hush ! " said the girl. " Do stop, will you ? " — and 
then laughing and turning to Miss Timmins, she added, 
" What will you have ?" 
"I guess I'll have some of the chickens and oysters," said 
Timmins ; " that will be the nicest for her, — and a muffin 
or two." 
"Now, James, do you hear?" said the chambermaid; 
" I want you to get me now, right away, a nice little supper 
of chickens and oysters and a muffin — it's for a lady up stairs. 
Be as quick as you can." 
" I should be very happy to execute impossibilities for you, 
Miss Johns, but Mrs. Ousters is at the table herself." 
" Very well — that's nothing— she'll think it's for somebody 
up stairs — and so it is." 
" Ay, but the up-stairs people is Tim's business — I should 
be hauled over the coals directly." 
" Then ask Tim, will you ? How slow you are ! Now, 
James, if you don't, I won't speak to you again." 
" Till to-morrow ? — I couldn't stand that. It shall be 
done, Miss Johns, instantum." 
Bowing and smiling, away went James, leaving the girls 
giggling on the stair-case and highly gratified. 
" He always does what I want him to," said the good- 
humored chambermaid, "but he generally makes a fuss 
about it first. He'll be back directly with what you want." 
Till he came, Miss Timmins filled up the time with telling 
her new friend as much as she knew about Ellen and Ellen's 
hardships ; with which Miss Johns was so much interested that 
she declared she must go up and see her ; and when James in 
a few minutes returned with a tray of nice things, the two 
women proceeded together to Mrs. Dunscombe's room. Ellen had moved so far as to put herself on the floor with her 
head on the cushion for a pillow, but she was as sound asleep 
as ever. 
"Just see now!" said Timmins; "there she lies on the 
floor — enough to give her her death of cold ; poor child, 
she's tired to death ; and Mrs. Dunscombe made her walk up 
from the steamboat to-night rather than do it herself; — I declare I wished the coach would break down, only for the 
other folks. I am glad I have got a good supper for her 
though, — thank you, Miss Johns." 
" And I'll tell you what, I'll go and get you some nice hot 
tea," said the chambermaid, who was quite touched by the 
sight of Ellen's little pale face. 
" Thank you," said Timmins, — " you're a darling. This is 
as cold as a stone." 
While the chambermaid went forth on her kind errand, 
Timmins stooped down by the little sleeper's side. "Miss 
Ellen !" she said ; — " Miss Ellen ! — wake up, dear — wake up 
and get some supper — come ! you'll feel a great deal better 
for it — you shall sleep as much as you like afterwards." 
Slowly Ellen raised herself and opened her eyes. " Where 
am I ? " she asked, looking bewildered. 
" Here, dear," said Timmins ; — " wake up and eat some- 
thing — it will do you good." 
With a sigh, poor Ellen arose and came to the fire. 
" You're tired to death, aint you?" said Timmins. 
" Not quite," said Ellen. " I shouldn't mind that if my 
legs would not ache so — and my head, too. 
" Now I'm sorry !" said Timmins ; " but your head will 
be better for eating, I know. See here — I've got you some 
nice chicken and oysters, — and I'll make this muffin hot for 
you by the fire ; and here comes your tea. Miss Johns, I'm 
your servant, and I'll be your bridesmaid with the greatest 
pleasure in life. Now, Miss Ellen, dear, just you put your- 
self on that low chair, and I'll fix you off." 
Ellen thanked her, and did as she was told. Timmins 
brought another chair to her side, and placed the tray with 
her supper upon it, and prepared her muffin and tea ; and 
having fairly seen Ellen begin to eat, she next took off her 
shoes, and seating herself on the carpet before her, she made 
her lap the resting place for Ellen's feet, chafing them in her 
hands and heating them at the fire ; saying there was nothing 
like rubbing and roasting to get rid of the leg-ache. By the 
help of the supper, the fire, and Timmins, Ellen mended rapidly. With tears in her eyes, she thanked the latter for her 
kindness. 
" Now just don't say one word about that," said Timmins ; 
" I never was famous for kindness, as I know ; but people 
must be kind sometimes in their lives, — unless they happen 
to be made of stone, which I believe some people are. You 
feel better, don't you ?" 
" A great deal," said Ellen. " Oh, if I only could go to 
bed, now !" 
" And you shall," said Timmins. " I know about your 
 
bed, and I'll go right away and have it brought in." And 
away she went. 
While she was gone, Ellen drew from her pocket her little 
hymn-book, to refresh herself with looking at it. How 
quickly and freshly it brought back to her mind the friend 
who had given it, and his conversations w r ith her, and the resolve she had made ; and again Ellen's whole heart offered 
the prayer she had repeated many times that day, — 
" Open my heart, Lord, enter in ; 
Slay every foe, and conquer sin." 
Her head was still bent upon her little book when Timmins entered. Timmins was not alone ; Miss Johns and a 
little cot bedstead came in with her. The latter was put at 
the foot of Mrs. Dunscombe's bed, and speedily made up by 
the chambermaid, while Timmins undressed Ellen ; and very 
soon all the sorrows and vexations of the day were forgotten 
in a sound, refreshing sleep. But not till she had removed 
her little hymn-book from the pocket of her frock to a safe 
station under her pillow ; it was with her hand upon it that 
Ellen went to sleep ; and it was in her hand still when she 
was waked the next morning. 
The next day was spent in a wearisome stage-coach, over 
a rough, jolting road. Ellen's companions did nothing to 
make her way pleasant, but she sweetened theirs with her 
sugar-plums. Somewhat mollified, perhaps, after that, Miss 
Margaret condescended to enter into conversation with her, 
and Ellen underwent a thorough cross-examination as to all 
her own and her parent's affairs, past, present, and future, 
and likewise as to all that could be known of her yesterday's 
friend, till she was heartily worried, and out of patience. 
It was just five o'clock when they reached her stopping- 
place. Ellen knew of no particular house to go to ; so Mrs. 
Dunscombe set her down at the door of the principal inn of 
the town, called the " Star " of Thirlwall. 
The driver smacked his whip, and away went the stage 
acrain, and she was left standing alone beside her trunk be- 
fore, the piazza of the inn, watching Timmins, who was look- 
ing back at her out of the stage window, nodding and waving 
good-byo, 
CHAPTER IX. 
 
Ellen had been whirled along over the roads for so many 
hours, — the rattle of the stage coach had filled her ears for 
so long, — that now, suddenly still and quiet, she felt half 
stunned. She stood with a kind of dreamy feeling, looking 
after the departing stage-coach. In it there were three 
people whose faces she knew, and she could not count a 
fourth within many a mile. One of those was a friend, too, 
as the fluttering handkerchief of poor Miss Timmins gave 
token still. Yet Ellen did not wish herself back in the 
coach, although she continued to stand and gaze after it as 
it rattled off at a great rate down the little street, its huge 
body lumbering up and down every now and then, reminding 
her of sundry uncomfortable jolts ; till the horses making a 
sudden turn to the right, it disappeared round a corner. 
Still for a minute Ellen watched the whirling cloud of dust 
it had left behind ; but then the feeling of strangeness and 
loneliness came over her, and her heart sank. She cast a 
look up and down the street. The afternoon was lovely ; 
the slant beams of the setting sun came back from gilded 
windows, and the houses and chimney-tops of the little town 
were in a glow ; but she saw nothing bright anywhere ; — in 
all the glory of the setting sun the little town looked 
strange and miserable. There was no sign of her having 
been expected ; nobody was waiting to meet her. What 
was to be done next ? Ellen had not the slightest idea. 
Her heart growing fainter and fainter, she turned again to 
the inn. A tall, awkward young countryman, with a cap set 
on one side of his head, was busying himself with sweeping 
off the floor of the piazza, but in a very leisurely manner ; ana 
between every two strokes of his broom he was casting long 
looks at Ellen, evidently wondering who she was and what 
she could want there. Ellen saw it, and hoped he would ask 
her in words, for she could not answer his looks of curiosity, 
but she was disappointed. As he reached the end of the 
piazza and gave his broom two or three knocks against the 
edge of the boards to clear it of dust, he indulged himself 
with one good long finishing look at Ellen, and then she saw 
he was going to take himself and his broom into the house. 
So in despair she ran up the two or three low steps of the 
piazza and presented herself before him. He stopped short. 
" Will you please to tell me, sir," said poor Ellen, " if Miss 
Emerson is here ?" 
" Miss Emerson ?" said he, — " what Miss Emerson ?" 
" I don't know, sir, — Miss Emerson that lives not far from 
Thirlwall.' , 
Eyeing Ellen from head to foot, the man then trailed his 
broom into the house." Ellen followed him. 
" Mr. Forbes !" said he, — " Mr. Forbes ! do you know 
anything of Miss Emerson ?" 
" What Miss Emerson ?" said another man, with a big red 
face and a big round body, showing himself in a doorway 
which he nearly filled. 
" Miss Emerson that lives a little way out of town." 
" Miss Fortune Emerson ? yes, I know her. What of 
her?" 
" Has she been here to-day ?" 
" Here ? what, in town ? No — not as I've seen or heerd. 
Why, who wants her ?" 
"This little girl." 
And the man with the broom stepping back, disclosed 
Ellen to the view of the red-faced landlord. He advanced a 
step or two towards her. 
" What do you want with Miss Fortune, little one ?" said 
he. 
" I expected she would meet me here, sir," said Ellen. 
" Where have you come from ?" 
" From New York." 
" The stage set her down just now," put in the other man. 
" And you thought Miss Fortune would meet you, did 
you?" 
" Yes, sir ; she was to meet me and take me home." 
" Take you home ! Are you going to Miss Fortune's home ?" 
" Yes, sir." 
" Why you don't belong to her anyway, do you?" 
" No, sir," said Ellen, " but she's my aunt." 
" She's your what ?" 
" My aunt, sir, — my father's sister." 
" Your father's sister ! You ben't the daughter of Morgan Montgomery, be you?" 
" Yes, I am," said Ellen, half smiling. 
" And you are come to make a visit to Miss Fortune, eh ?" 
" Yes," said Ellen, smiling no longer. 
" And Miss Fortune ha'n't come up to meet you ; — that's 
real shabby of her ; and how to get you down there to-night, 
I am sure is more than I can tell." — And he shouted, " Wife !" 
" What's the matter, Mr. Forbes ?" said a fat landlady, 
appearing -in the doorway, which she filled near as well as 
her husband would have done. 
" Look here," said Mr. Forbes, " here's Morgan Montgomery's daughter come to pay a visit to her aunt, Fortune 
Emerson. Don't you think she'll be glad to see her ?" 
Mr. Forbes put this question with rather a curious look at 
his wife. She didn't answer him. She only looked at Ellen, 
looked grave, and gave a queer little nod of her head, which 
meant, Ellen could not make out what. 
" Now, what's to be done ?" continued Mr. Forbes. 
" Miss Fortune was to have come up to meet her, but she 
aint here, and I don't know how in the world I can take the 
child down there to-night. The horses are both out to 
plough, you know ; and besides, the tire is come off that 
wagon wheel. I couldn't possibly use it. And then it's a 
great question in my mind what Miss Fortune would say to 
me. I should get paid, I s'pose ?" 
" Yes, you'd get paid," said his wife, with another little 
shake of her head ; " but whether it would be the kind of pay 
you'd like, I don't know." 
" Well, what's to be done, wife ? Keep the child over- 
night, and send word down yonder ?" 
"No," said Mrs. Forbes, " I'll tell you. I think I saw 
Van Brunt go by two or three hours ago with the ox-cart, 
and I guess he's somewhere up town yet ; I ha'n't seen him 
go back. He can take the child home with him. " Sam !" 
shouted Mrs. Forbes, — " Sam ! — here ! — Sam, run up street 
directly, and see if you see Mr. Van Brunt's ox-cart standing 
anywhere — I dare say he's at Mr. Miller's, or maybe at Mr. 
Hammersley's, the blacksmith — and ask him to stop here 
before he goes home. Now hurry ! — and don't run over 
him and then come back and tell me he aint in town." 
Mrs. Forbes herself followed Sam to the door, and cast 
an exploring look in every direction. 
" I don't see no signs of him, — up nor down," said she, 
returning to Ellen ; " but I'm pretty sure he aint gone 
home. Come in here — come in here, dear, and make yourself comfortable ; it'll be a while yet maybe 'afore Mr. Van 
Brunt comes, but he'll be along by-and-by ; — come in here 
and rest yourself." 
She opened a door, and Ellen followed her into a large 
kitchen, where a fire was burning that showed wood must be 
plenty in those regions. Mrs. Forbes placed a low chair for 
her on the hearth, but herself remained standing by the side 
of the fire, looking earnestly and with a good deal of interest 
upon the little stranger. Ellen drew her white bonnet from 
her head, and sitting down with a wearied air, gazed sadly 
into the flames that were shedding their light upon her. 
" Are you going to stop a good while with Miss Fortune ?" 
said Mrs. Forbes. 
" I don't know, ma'am, — yes, I believe so," said Ellen 
faintly. 
" Ha'n't you got no mother ?" asked Mrs. Forbes sudden- 
ly, after a pause. 
" Oh yes !" said Ellen, looking up. But the question had 
touched the sore spot. Her head sank on her hands, and 
" Oh mamma !" was uttered with a bitterness that even Mrs. 
Forbes could feel. 
" Now what made me ask you that !" said she. " Don't 
cry ! — don't , love ; poor little dear ! you're as pale as a 
sheet ; you're tired, I know — aint you ? Now cheer up, do, 
— I can't bear to see you cry. You've come a great ways to- 
day, ha'n't you ?" 
Ellen nodded her head, but could give no answer. 
" I know what will do you good," said Mrs. Forbes presently, getting up from the crouching posture she had taken 
to comfort Ellen ; " you want something to eat, — that's the 
matter. I'll warrant you're half starved ; — no wonder you 
feel bad. Poor little thing ! you shall have something good 
directly. 
And away she bustled to get it Left alone, Ellen's tears 
flowed a few minutes very fast She felt forlorn ; and she 
was besides, as Mrs. Forbes opined, both tired and faint. 
But she did not wish to be found weeping ; she checked her 
tears, and was sitting again quietly before the fire when the 
landlady returned. 
Mi's, Forbes had a great bowl of milk in one hand, and a 
plate of bread in the other, which she placed on the kitchen 
table, and setting a chair, called Ellen to come and partake 
of it. 
" Come, dear, — here is something that will do you good. 
I thought there was a piece of pi« in the buttery, and so 
there was, but Mr. Forbes must have got hold of it, for it 
aint there now ; and there aint a bit of cake in the house 
for yon ; but I thought maybe you would like this as well as 
anything. Come !" 
Ellen thanked her, but said she did not want anything. 
" Oh yes, you do," said Mrs. Forbes, " I know better. 
You're as pale as I don't know what Come ! this'll put 
roses in your cheeks. Don't you like bread and milk ?" 
" Yes, very much indeed, ma'am," said Ellen, " but I'm 
not hungry." She rose, however, and came to the table. 
" well, try to eat a bit just to please me. It's real good 
country milk — not a bit of cream off. You don't get such 
milk as that in the city, I guess. That's right ! — I see the 
roses coming back to your cheeks already." 
" Is your pa in New York now ?" 
" Yes, ma'am." 
" You expect your pa and ma up to Thirlwall by-and-by, 
don't you ?" 
" No, ma'am." 
Mrs. Forbes was surprised, and longed to ask why not, 
and what Ellen had come for ; but the shade that had passed 
over her face as she answered the last question warned the 
landlady she was getting upon dangerous ground. 
" Does your aunt expect you to-night ?" 
" I believe so, ma'am, — I don't know, — she was to have 
met me ; papa said he would write." 
" 0, well ! maybe something hindered her from coming. 
It's no matter ; you'll get home just as well. Mr. Van 
Brunt will be here soon, I guess ; it's most time for him to 
be along." 
She went to the front door to look out for him, but 
returned without any news. A few minutes passed in silence, 
for though full of curiosity, the good landlady dared not ask 
what she wanted to know, for fear of again exciting the sorrow of her little companion. She contented herself with 
looking at Ellen, who on her part, much rested and refreshed, 
had turned from the table and was again, though somewhat 
less sadly, gazing into the fire. 
Presently the great wooden clock struck half-past five, 
with a whirring ricketty voice, for all the world like a hoarse 
grasshopper. Ellen at first wondered where it came from, 
and was looking at the clumsy machine that reached nearly 
from the floor of the kitchen to the ceiling, when a door at 
the other end of the room opened, and " Good day, Mrs. 
Forbes," in a rough but not unpleasant voice, brought her 
head quickly round in that direction. There stood a large 
strong-built man, with an ox-whip in his hand. He was well- 
made and rather handsome, but there was something of 
heaviness in the air of both face and person mixed with his 
certainly good humored expression. His dress was as rough 
as his voice — a coarse gray frock-coat, green velveteen pan-taloons, and a fur cap that had seen its best days some time 
ago. 
" Good day, Mrs. Forbes," said this personage ; " Sam 
said you wanted me to stop as I went along." 
" Ah, how d'ye do, Mr. Van Brunt ?" said the landlady, 
rising ; — "you've got the ox-cart here with you, ha'n't you?" 
" Yes, — I've got the ox-cart," said the person addressed, — 
" I came in town for a barrel of flour ; and then the near ox 
had lost both his fore shoes off, and I had to go over there ; 
and Hammersley has kept me a precious long time. What's 
wanting, Mrs. Forbes? I can't stop." 
" You've no load in the cart, have you ? " said the 
landlady. 
" No ; I should have had though, but Miller had no shorts 
nor fresh flour, nor won't till next week. What's to go down, 
Mrs. Forbes? 
" The nicest load ever you carried, Mr. Van Brunt. Here's 
a little lady come to stay with Miss Fortune. She's a daughter of Captain Montgomery, Miss Fortune's brother, you 
know. She came by the stage a little while ago, and the 
thing is how to get her down to-night. She can go in the cart, 
can't she ?" 
Mr. Van Brunt looked a little doubtful, and pulling off 
his cap with one hand, while he scratched his head with 
the other, he examined Ellen from head to foot ; much as if 
she had been some great bale of goods, and he were con- 
sidering whether his cart would hold her or not. 
" Well," said he at length, — " I don't know but she can ; 
but there aint nothing on 'arth for her to sit down upon." 
" 0, never mind ; I'll fix that," said Mrs. Forbes. " Is 
there any straw in the bottom of the cart?" 
" Not a bit." 
" Well, I'll fix it," said Mrs. Forbes. " You get her trunk 
into the cart, will you, Mr. Van Brunt ? and I'll see to the 
rest." 
Mr. Van Brunt moved off without another word to do what 
was desired of him, — apparently quite confounded at having 
a passenger instead of his more wonted load of bags and barrels. And his face still continued to wear the singular doubt- 
ful expression it had put on at first hearing the news. Ellen's 
trunk was quickly hoisted in, however ; and Mrs. Forbes presently appeared with a little arm-chair, which Mr. Van Brunt 
with an approving look bestowed in the cart, planting it with 
it's back against the trunk to keep it steady. Mrs. Forbes 
then raising herself on tiptoe by the side of the cart, took a 
view of the arrangements. 
" That won't do yet," said she ; " her feet will be cold on that 
bare floor, and 'taint over clean neither. Here, Sally ! run up 
and fetch me that piece of carpet you'll find lying at the top 
of the back stairs. Now, hurry ! — Now, Mr. Van Brunt, I 
depend upon you to get my things back again ; will you see 
and bring 'em the first time you come in town ?" 
" I'll see about it. But what if I can't get hold of them ?" 
answered the person addressed, with a half smile. 
" 0," said Mrs. Forbes, with another, " I leave that to 
you ; you have your ways and means. Now, just spread this 
carpet down nicely under her chair ; and then she'll be fixed. 
Now, my darling, you'll ride like a queen. But how are you 
going to get in ! Will you let Mr. Van Brunt lift you up ?" 
Ellen's " no, ma'am, if you please !" was accompanied with 
such an evident shrinking from the proposal, that Mrs. Forbes 
did not press it. A chair was brought from the kitchen, and 
by making a long step from it to the top of the wheel, and 
then to the edge of the cart, Ellen was at length safely 
stowed in her place. Kind Mrs. Forbes then stretched herself up over the side of the cart to shake hands with her and 
bid her good bye, telling her again site would ride like a 
queen. Ellen answered only " Good-bye, ma'am ;" but it 
was said with a look of so much sweetness, and eves swimming half in sadness and half in gratefulness, that the good 
landlady could not forget it. 
" I do think," said she, when she went back to her hus- 
band, " that is the dearest little tiling, about, I ever did see." 
" Humph !" said her husband, " I reckon Miss Fortune 
will think so too." 
The doubtful look came back to Mrs. Forbes' face, and 
with another little grave shake of her head, she went into the 
kitchen. 
" How kind she is ! how good everybody is tome," thought 
little Ellen, as she moved off in state in her chariot drawn by 
oxen. Quite a contrast this new way of traveling was to 
the noisy stage and swift steamer. Ellen did not know at 
first whether to like or dislike it ; but she came to the conclusion that it was very funny, and a remarkably amusing 
way of getting along. There was one disadvantage about it 
certainly, — their rate of travel was very slow. Ellen won- 
dered her charioteer did not make his animals go faster ; but 
she soon forgot their lazy progress in the interest of novel 
sights and new scenes. 
Slowly, very slowly, the good oxen drew the cart and the 
little queen in the arm-chair out of the town, and they 
entered upon the open country. The sun had already gone 
down when they left the inn, and the glow of his setting had 
faded a good deal by the time they got quite out of the town ; 
but light enough was left still to delight Ellen wiUi the pleasant look of the country. It was a lovely evening, and quiet 
as summer ; not a breath stirring. The leaves were all off 
the trees; the hills were brown; but the soft warm light 
that still lingered upon them forbade any look of harshness 
or dreariness. These hills lay towards the west, and at 
Thirlwall were not more than two miles distant, but sloping 
ofF more to the west as the range extended in a southerly 
direction. Between, the ground was beautifully broken. 
Rich fields and meadows lay on all sides, sometimes level, and 
sometimes with a soft wavy surface, where Ellen thought it 
mu<t be charming to run up and down. Every now and 
then these were varied by a little rising ground capped with a 
piece of woodland ; and beautiful trees, many of them, were 
seen standing alone, especially by the road-side. All had a 
cheerful, pleasant look. The houses were very scat- 
tered ; in the whole way they passed but few. Ellen's heart 
regularly began to beat when they came in sight of one, and 
** I wonder if that is aunt Fortune's house !" — " perhaps it 
is!" — or, "I hope it is not !" were the thoughts that rose in 
her mind. But slowly the oxen brought her abreast of the 
houses, one after another, and slowly they passed on beyond, 
and there was no sign of getting home yet. Their way was 
through pleasant lanes towards the south, but constantly 
approaching the hills. About half a mile from Thirlwall, 
they crossed a little river, not more than thirty yards broad, 
and after that the twilight deepened fast. The shades 
gathered on field and hill : everything grew brown, and then 
dusky ; and then Ellen was obliged to content herself with 
what was very near, for further than that she could only see 
dim outlines. She began again to think of their slow traveling, and to wonder that Mr. Van Brunt could be content 
with it. She wondered too what made him walk, when he 
might just as well have sat in the cart ; the truth was he had 
chosen that for the very purpose that he might have a good 
look at the little queen in the arm-chair. Apparently, however, he too now thouo-ht it might be as well to make a little 
haste, for he thundered out some orders to his oxen, accompanied with two or three strokes of his heavy lash, which, 
though not cruel by any means, went to Ellen's heart. 
" Them lazy critters won't go fast anyhow," said he to 
Ellen, — " they will take their own time ; it aint no use to 
cut them." 
" no ! pray don't, if you please !" said Ellen, in a voice 
of earnest entreaty. 
" 'Taint fair neither," continued Mr. Van Brunt, lashing 
his great whip from side to side without touching anything. 
" I have seen critters that would take any quantity of whipping to make them go, but them 'ere aint of that kind ; 
they'll work as long as they can stand, poor fellows !" 
There was a little silence, during which Ellen eyed her 
rough charioteer, not knowing exactly what to make of him. 
" I guess this is the first time you ever rid in an ox-cart, 
aint it?" 
" Yes," said Ellen ; " I never saw one before." 
" Ha'n't you never seen an ox-cart ! Well — how do you 
like it?" 
" I like it very much indeed. Have we much farther to 
go before we get to aunt Fortune's house ?" 
" ' Aunt Fortune's house ?' a pretty good bit yet. You 
see that mountain over there ?" — pointing with his whip to a 
hill directly west of them, and about a mile distant. 
" Yes," said Ellen. 
" That's the Nose. Then you see that other ?" — pointing 
to one that lay some two miles further south ; — " Miss 
Fortune's house is just this side of that ; it's all of two miles 
from here." 
And urged by this recollection, he again scolded and 
cheered the patient oxen, who for the most part kept on 
their steady way without any reminder. But perhaps it was 
for Ellen's sake that he scarcely touched them with the whip. 
" That don't hurt them, not a bit," he remarked to Ellen, 
— " it only lets them know that Em here, and they must 
mind their business. So you're Miss Fortune's niece, eh ?" 
" Yes," said Ellen. 
" Well," said Mr. Van Brunt, with a desperate attempt at 
being complimentary, " I shouldn't care if you was mine 
too." 
Ellen was somewhat astounded, and so utterly unable to 
echo the wish, that she said nothing. She did not know it, 
but Mr. Van Brunt had made, for him, most extraordinary 
efforts at sociability. Having quite exhausted himself, he now 
mounted into the cart and sat silent, only now and then uttering energetic " Gee's !" and " Haw's !" which greatly excited 
Ellen's wonderment. She discovered they were meant for the 
ears of the oxen, but more than that she could not make out. 
They plodded along very slowly, and the evening fell fast. 
As they left behind the hill which Mr. Van Brunt had called 
" the Nose," they could see, through an opening in the mountains, a bit of the western horizon, and some brightness still 
lingering there ; but it was soon hid from view, and darkness 
veiled the whole country. Ellen could amuse herself no 
longer with looking about ; she could see nothing very 
clearly but the outline of Mr. Van Brunt's broad back, just 
