every thing is in a most filthy condition. It is shocking."
Mrs. Darlington fairly groaned at this intelligence.
"But where is it all to lead, Edith?" she asked, arousing herself from
a kind of stupor into which her mind had fallen. "We cannot go on as we
are now going."
"We must reduce our expenses, if possible."
"But how are we to reduce them? We cannot send away the cook."
"No. Of course not."
"Nor our chambermaid."
"No. But cannot we dispense with the waiter?"
"Who will attend the table, go to market, and do the dozen other things
now required of him?"
"We can get our marketing sent home."
"But the waiting oh the table. Who will do that?"
"Half a dollar a week extra to the chambermaid will secure that service
from her."
"But she has enough to do besides waiting on the table," objected Mrs.
Darlington.
"Miriam and I will help more through the house than we have yet done.
Three dollars a week and the waiter's board will be saving a good deal."
Mrs. Darlington sighed heavily, and then said--
"To think what I have borne from that Scragg and his family, ignorant,
low-bred, vulgar people, with whom we have no social affinity whatever,
who occupy a level far below us, and who yet put on airs and treat us
as if we were only their servants! I could bear his insolence no
longer. Ah, to what mortifications are we not subjected in our present
position! How little dreamed I of all this, when I decided to open a
boarding-house! But, Edith, to come back to what we were conversing
about, it would be something to save the expense of our waiter; but
what are three or four dollars a week, when we are going behind hand at
the rate of twenty?"
"If Mrs. Marion"--
Edith checked herself, and did not say what was in her mind. Mrs.
Darlington was silent, sighed again heavily, and then said--
"Yes; if it wasn't for the expense of keeping Mrs. Marion. And she has
no claim upon us."
"None but the claim of humanity," said Edith.
"If we were able to pay that claim," remarked Mrs. Darlington.
"True."
"But we are not. Such being the case, are we justified in any longer
offering her a home?"
"Where will she go? What will she do?" said Edith.
"Where will we go? What will we do, unless there is a change in our
favour?" asked Mrs. Darlington.
"Alas, I cannot tell! When we are weak, small things are felt as a
burden. The expense of keeping Mrs. Marion and her two children is not
very great. Still, it is an expense that we are unable to meet. But how
can we tell her to go?"
"I cannot take my children's bread and distribute it to others,"
replied Mrs. Darlington, with much feeling. "My first duty is to them."
"Poor woman! My heart aches for her," said Edith. "She looks so pale
and heart-broken, feels so keenly her state of dependence, and tries so
in every possible way to make the pressure of her presence in our
family as light as possible, that the very thought of turning her from
our door seems to involve cruelty."
"All that, Edith, I feel most sensibly. Ah me! into what a strait are
we driven!"
"How many times have I wished that we had never commenced this
business!" said Edith. "It has brought us nothing but trouble from the
beginning; and, unless my fears are idle, some worse troubles are yet
before us."
"Of what kind?"
"Henry did not come home until after two o'clock this morning."
"What!" exclaimed the mother in painful surprise.
"I sat up for him. Knowing that he had gone out with Mr. Barling, and,
finding that he had not returned by eleven o'clock, I could not go to
bed. I said nothing to Miriam, but sat up alone. It was nearly half
past two when he came home in company with Barling. Both, I am sorry to
say, were so much intoxicated, that they could scarcely make their way
up stairs."
"Oh, Edith!" exclaimed the stricken mother, hiding her face in her
hands, and weeping aloud.
Miriam entered the room at this moment, and, seeing her mother in
tears, and Edith looking the very image of distress, begged to know the
cause of their trouble. Little was said to her then; but Edith, when
she was alone with her soon after, fully explained the desperate
condition of their affairs. Hitherto they had, out of regard for
Miriam, concealed from her the nature of the difficulties that were
closing around them.
"I dreamed not of this," said Miriam, in a voice of anguish. "My poor
mother! What pain she must suffer! No wonder that her countenance is so
often sad. But, Edith, cannot we do something?"
Ever thus, to the mind of the sweet girl, when the troubles of others
were mentioned to her, came, first, the desire to afford relief.
"We can do nothing," replied Edith, "at present, unless it be to assist
through the house, so that the chambermaid can attend the door, wait on
the table, and do other things now required of the waiter."
"And let him go?"
"Yes."
"I am willing to do all in my power, Edith," said Miriam. "But, if
mother has lost so much already, will she not lose still more if she
continue to go on as she is now going?"
"She hopes to fill all her rooms; then she thinks that she will be able
to make something."
"This has been her hope from the first," replied Miriam.
"Yes; and thus far it has been a vain hope."
"Three hundred dollars lost already," sighed Miriam, "our beautiful
furniture ruined, and all domestic happiness destroyed! Ah me! Where is
all going to end? Uncle Hiram was right when he objected to mother's
taking boarders, and said that it was the worst thing she could attempt
to do. I wish we had taken his advice. Willingly would I give music
lessons or work with my hands for an income, to save mother from the
suffering and labour she has now to bear."
"The worst is," said Edith, following out her own thoughts rather than
replying to her sister, "now that all our money is gone, debt will
follow. How is the next quarter's rent to be paid?"
"A hundred aid fifty dollars?"
"Yes. How can we pay that?"
"Oh dear!" sighed Miriam. "What are we to do? How dark all looks!"
"If there is not some change," said Edith, "by the close of another six
months, every thing we have will be sold for debt."
"Dreadful!" ejaculated Miriam, "dreadful!"
For a long time the sisters conferred together, but no gleam of light
arose in their minds. All the future remained shrouded in darkness.
CHAPTER VII.
THE man named Burton, to whom reference has been made as being
particularly attentive to Miriam, was really charmed with the beautiful
young girl. But the affection of a man such as he was comes to its
object as a blight instead of a blessing. Miriam, while she did not
repel his attentions, for his manner towards her was ever polite and
respectful, felt, nevertheless, an instinctive repugnance towards him,
and when she could keep out of his way without seeming to avoid him,
she generally did so.
A few evenings after the conversation held with Edith, as given in the
last chapter, Burton, in passing from the dining room, said to Miriam,--
"Come. I want you to play for me some of those beautiful airs in Don
Giovanni."
"Indeed you must excuse me Mr. Burton," replied Miriam. "I don't feel
like playing to-night."
"Can't excuse you, indeed," said Burton, smiling pleasantly, and, at
the same time, taking Miriam's hand, which she quickly withdrew from
his touch. The contact sent an unpleasant thrill along her nerves. "So
come. I must have some music to-night."
Miriam yielded to the request, although she felt in no mood for
touching the piano. After playing several pieces, she lifted her hands
from the instrument, and, turning away from it, said,--
"There, Mr. Burton, you must really excuse me. I cannot play to-night."
"Excuse you! Certainly. And for the pleasure you have given me, accept
my thanks," replied Mr. Burton. There was a change in his tone of voice
which Miriam did not comprehend. "And now," he added, in a low voice,
bending to her ear, "come and sit down with me on the sofa. I have
something particular that I wish to say."
Miriam did as she was desired, not dreaming of what was in the mind of
Burton.
"Miriam," said he, after a pause, "do not be startled nor surprised at
what I am going to say."
But his words and manner both startled her, and she was about rising,
when he took her hand and gently detained her.
"Nay, Miriam," said he, "you must hear what I wish to speak. From the
day I entered this house, you have interested me deeply. Admiration was
followed quickly by profound respect; and to this succeeded a warmer
sentiment."
A deep crimson instantly mantled the face of Miriam, and her eye fell
to the floor.
"Can you, my dear young lady," continued Mr. Burton, "reciprocate the
feeling I have expressed?"
"Oh, sir! Excuse me!" said Miriam, so soon as she could recover her
disordered thoughts. And she made another effort to rise, but was still
detained by Burton.
"Stay! stay!" said he. "Hear all that I wish to utter. I am rich"--
But, ere he could speak another word, Miriam sprang from the sofa, and,
bounding from the room, flew rather than walked up the stairs. The
instant she entered her own room she closed and locked the door, and
then, falling upon the bed, gave vent to a flood of tears. A long time
passed before her spirit regained its former composure; and then, when
her thought turned towards Mr. Burton, she experienced an inward
shudder.
Of what had occurred, she breathed not a syllable to Edith when she
joined her in the chamber to retire for the night.
"How my heart aches for mother!" sighed Edith, as she came in. "I have
been trying to encourage her; but words are of no avail. 'Where is all
to end?' she asks; and I cannot answer the question. Oh dear! What is
to become of us? At the rate we are going on now, every thing must soon
be lost. To think of what we have sacrificed and are still sacrificing,
yet all to no purpose. Every comfort is gone. Strangers, who have no
sympathy with us, have come into our house; and mother is compelled to
bear all manner of indignities from people who are in every way her
inferiors. Yet, for all, we are losing instead of gaining. Ah me! No
wonder she is heart-sick and utterly discouraged. How could it be
otherwise?"
Miriam heard and felt every word; but she made no answer. Thought,
however, was busy, and remained busy long after sleep had brought back
to the troubled heart of Edith its even pulsations.
"I am rich." These words of Mr. Burton were constantly recurring to her
mind. It was in vain that she turned from the idea presented with them:
it grew more and more distinct each moment. Yes, there was a way of
relief opened for her mother, of safety for the family, and Miriam saw
it plainly, yet shuddered as she looked, and closed her eyes, like one
about to leap from a fearful height.
Hour after hour Miriam lay awake, pondering the new aspect which things
had assumed, and gazing down the fearful abyss into which, in a spirit
of self-devotion, she was seeking to find the courage to leap.
"I am rich." Ever and anon these words sounded in her ears. As the wife
of Burton, she could at once lift her mother out of her present unhappy
situation. Thus, before the hour of midnight came and went, she
thought. He had offered her his hand. She might accept the offer, on
condition of his settling an income upon her mother.
This the tempter whispered in her ears, and she hearkened, in exquisite
pain, to the suggestion.
When Edith awoke on the next morning, Miriam slept soundly by her side;
but Edith, observed that her face was pale and troubled, and that tears
were on her cheeks. At breakfast time, she did not appear at the table;
and when her mother sent to her room she returned for answer that she
was not very well. The whole of the day she spent in her chamber, and,
during all the time, was struggling against the instinctive repulsion
felt towards the man who had made her an offer of marriage.
At supper time, she reappeared at the table with a calm, yet sad face.
As she was passing from the dining room after tea, Burton came to her
side and whispered--
"Can I have a word with you in the parlour, Miriam?"
The young girl neither looked up nor spoke, but moved along by his
side, and descended with him to the parlour, where they were alone.
"Miriam," said Burton, as he placed himself by her side on the sofa,
"have you thought seriously of what I said last evening? Can you
reciprocate the ardent sentiments I expressed?"
"Oh, sir!" returned Miriam, looking up artlessly in his face, "I am too
young to listen to words like these."
"You are a woman, Miriam," replied Burton, earnestly--"a lovely woman,
with a heart overflowing with pure affections. Deeply have you
interested my feelings from the first; and now I ask you to be mine. As
I was going to say last evening, I am rich, and will surround you with
every comfort and elegance that money can obtain. Dearest Miriam, say
that you will accept the hand I now offer you."
"My mother will never consent," said the trembling girl, after a long
pause.
"Your mother is in trouble. I have long seen that," remarked Mr.
Burton, "and have long wanted to advise and befriend her. Put it in my
power to do so, and then ask for her what you will."
This was touching the right key, and Burton saw it in a moment.
"Yes, you have said truly," replied Miriam; "my mother is in great
trouble. Ah! what would I not do for her relief?"
"Ask for your mother what you will, Miriam," said Burton.
The maiden's eyes were upon the floor, and the rapid heaving of her
bosom showed that her thoughts were busy in earnest debate. At length,
looking up, she said--
"Will you lift her out of her present embarrassed position, and settle
upon her an income sufficient for herself and family?"
"I will," was the prompt answer. "And now, my dear Miriam, name the sum
you wish her to receive."
Another long silence followed.
"Ah, sir!" at length said the maiden, "in what a strange, humiliating
position am I placed!"
"Do not speak thus, Miriam. I understand all better than words can
utter it. Will an income of two thousand dollars a year suffice?"
"It is more than I could ask."
"Enough. The moment you are mine, that sum will be settled on your
mother."
Miriam arose up quickly, as Burton said this, murmuring--
"Let me have a few days for reflection," and, ere he could prevent her,
glided from the room.
CHAPTER VIII.
Two weeks more went by, and the pressure upon Mrs. Darlington was
heavier and heavier. Her income was below her table expenses and
servant-hire, and all her reserve fund being exhausted, she felt the
extremity of her circumstances more than at any time before. To bear
longer the extra weight of poor, deserted Mrs. Marion and her two
children was felt to be impossible. With painful reluctance did Mrs.
Darlington slowly make up her mind to say to Mrs. Marion that she must
seek another home; and for this purpose she one day waited upon her in
her room. As tenderly and as delicately as possible did she approach
the subject. A word or two only had she said, when Mrs. Marion, with
tears upon her face, replied,--
"Pardon me that I have so long remained a burden upon you. Had I known
where to go, or what to do, I would not have added my weight to the
heavy ones you have had to bear. Daily have I lived in hope that my
husband would return. But my heart is sick with hope deferred. It is
time now that I began the work of self-dependence."
"Where can you go?" asked Mrs. Darlington.
"I know not," sadly returned Mrs. Marion. "My only relative is a poor
aunt, with scarcely the ability to support herself. But I will see her
to-day. Perhaps she can advise me what to do."
When Mrs. Marion returned from this visit to her aunt, she looked very
sad. Mrs. Darlington was in the passage as she came in; but she passed
her without speaking, and hurried up to her chamber. Neither at tea
time on that evening nor at breakfast time on the next morning did she
appear, though food for herself and children was sent to her room.
Deeply did Mrs. Darlington and her daughters suffer on account of the
step they were compelled to take, but stern necessity left them no
alternative. During the day, Mrs. Marion went out again for an hour or
two, and when she came back she announced that she would leave on the
next day. She looked even sadder than before. Some inquiries as to
where she was going were made, but she evaded them. On the day
following, a carriage came for her, and she parted with her kind
friends, uttering the warmest expressions of gratitude.
"I have turned her from the house!" said Mrs. Darlington, in a tone of
deep regret, as she closed the door upon the poor creature. "How would
I like my own child treated thus?"
For the rest of the day she was so unhappy, owing to this circumstance,
that she could scarcely attend to any thing.
"Do you know where Mrs. Marion went when she left our house?" said
Edith to her mother, about two weeks afterwards. There was a troubled
look in Edith's face as she asked this question.
"No. Where is she?"
"At Blockley."
"What!"
"In the Alms-house!"
"Edith!"
"It is too true. I have just learned that when she left here, it was to
take up her abode among paupers. She had no other home."
Mrs. Darlington clasped her hands together, and was about giving
expression to her feelings, when a domestic came in and said that Mr.
Ellis was in the parlour, and wished to see her immediately.
"Where is Miriam?" asked the brother, in a quick voice, the moment Mrs.
Darlington entered the parlour, where he awaited her.
"She's in her room, I believe. Why do you ask?"
"Are you certain? Go up, Edith, quickly, and see."
The manner of Mr. Ellis was so excited that Edith did not pause to hear
more, but flew up stairs. In a few moments she returned, saying that
her sister was not there, and that, moreover, on looking into her
drawers, she found them nearly empty.
"Then it was her!" exclaimed Mr. Ellis.
"Where is she? Where did you see her?" eagerly asked both mother and
sister, their faces becoming as pale as ashes.
"I saw her in a carriage with a notorious gambler and scoundrel named
Burton. There was a trunk on behind, and they were driving towards the
wharf. It is ten minutes before the boat starts for New York, and I may
save her yet!"
And, with these words, Mr. Ellis turned abruptly away, and hurried from
the house. So paralyzed were both Mrs. Darlington and Edith by this
dreadful announcement, that neither of them had for a time the power of
utterance. Then both, as by a common impulse, arose and went up to the
chamber where Miriam slept. Almost the first thing that met the eyes of
Mrs. Darlington was a letter, partly concealed by a book on the
mantel-piece. It was addressed to her. On breaking the seal, she read--
"MY DEAR, DEAR MOTHER: I shall be away from you only a little while;
and, when I return, I will come with relief for all your present
troubles. Do not blame me, dear mother! What I have done is for your
sake. It almost broke my heart to see you so pressed down and
miserable. And, then, there was no light ahead. Mr. Burton, who has
great wealth, offered me his hand. Only on condition of a handsome
settlement upon you would I accept of it. Forgive me that I have acted
without consultation. I deemed it best. In a little while, I will be
back to throw myself into your arms, and then to lift you out of your
many troubles. How purely and tenderly I love you, mother, dear mother!
I need not say. It is from this love that I am now acting. Take
courage, mother. Be comforted. We shall yet be happy. Farewell, for a
little while. In a few days I will be with you again.
"MIRIAM."
As Mrs. Darlington read the last sentence of this letter, Henry, her
son, who had not been home since he went out at breakfast-time, came
hurriedly into the room, and, in an excited manner, said--
"Mother, I want ten dollars!"
The face of the young man was flushed, and his eyes unsteady. It was
plain, at a glance, that he had been drinking.
Mrs. Darlington looked at him for a moment, and then, before Edith had
seen the contents of Miriam's letter, placed it in his hands.
"What does this mean?" he exclaimed, after running his eyes over it
hurriedly. "Miriam gone off with that Burton!"
The letter dropped upon the floor, and Henry clasped his hands together
with a gesture of pain.
"Who is Mr. Burton? What do you know of him?" asked Edith.
"I know him to be a man of the vilest character, and a gambler into the
bargain! Rich! Gracious heaven!"
And the young man struck his hands against his forehead, and glanced
wildly from his pale-faced mother to his paler sister.
"And you knew the character of this man, Henry!" said Mrs. Darlington.
There was a smiting rebuke in her tone. "You knew him, and did not make
the first effort to protect your young, confiding, devoted sister!
Henry Darlington, the blood of her murdered happiness will never be
washed from the skirts of your garments!"
"Mother! mother!" exclaimed the young man, putting up his hands to
enforce the deprecation in his voice, "do not speak so, or I will go
beside myself! But where is she? When did she go? I will fly in
pursuit. It may not yet be too late."
"Your Uncle Hiram saw her in a carriage with Mr. Burton, on their way,
as he supposed, to the steamboat landing. He has gone to intercept
them, if possible."
Henry drew his watch from his pocket, and, as he glanced at the time,
sank into a chair, murmuring, in a low voice of anguish--
"It is too late!"
CHAPTER IX.
WHEN Mr. Ellis left the house of his sister, he called a carriage that
happened to be going by, and reached the wharf at Walnut street in time
to spring on board of the steamboat just as the plank was drawn in at
the gangway. He then passed along the boat until he came to the ladies'
cabin, which he entered. Almost the first persons he saw were Burton
and his niece. The eyes of Miriam rested upon him at the same moment,
and she drew her veil quickly, hoping that she was not recognised.
Hiram Ellis did not hesitate a moment, but, walking up to where Miriam
sat, stooped to her ear, and said, in a low, anxious voice--
"Miriam, are you married yet?"
Miriam did not reply.
"Speak, child. Are you married?"
"No," came in a half audible murmur.
"Thank God! thank God!" fell in low accents from the lips of Mr. Ellis.
"Who are you, sir?" now spoke up Burton, whom surprise had till now
kept silent. There was a fiery gleam in his eyes.
"The uncle of this dear girl, and one who knows you well," was
answered, in a stern voice. "Knows you to be unworthy to touch even the
hem of her garment."
A dark scowl lowered upon the face of Burton. But Mr. Ellis returned
his looks of anger glance for glance. Miriam was in terror at this
unexpected scene, and trembled like an aspen. Instinctively she shrank
towards her uncle.
Two or three persons, who sat near, were attracted by the excitement
visible in the manner of all three, although they heard nothing that
was said. Burton saw that they were observed, and, bending towards Mr.
Ellis, said--
"This, sir, is no place for a scene. A hundred eyes will soon be upon
us."
"More than one pair of which," replied Mr. Ellis, promptly, "will
recognise in you a noted gambler, who has at least one wife living, if
no more."
As if stung by a serpent, Burton started to his feet and retired from
the cabin.
"Oh, uncle! can what you say of this man be true?" asked Miriam, with a
blanching face.
"Too true, my dear child! too true! He is one of the worst of men.
Thank God that you have escaped the snare of the fowler!"
"Yes, thank God! thank God!" came trembling from the lips of the maiden.
Mr. Ellis then drew his niece to a part of the cabin where they could
converse without being overheard by other passengers on board of the
boat. To his inquiry into the reasons for so rash an act, Miriam gave
her uncle an undisguised account of her mother's distressed condition,
and touchingly portrayed the anguish of mind which had accompanied her
reluctant assent to the offer of Burton.
"And all this great sacrifice was on your mother's account?" said Mr.
Ellis.
"All! all! He agreed to settle upon her the sum of two thousand dollars
a year, if I would become his wife. This would have made the family
comfortable."
"And you most wretched. Better, a thousand times better, have gone down
to your grave, Miriam, than become the wife of that man. But for the
providential circumstance of my seeing you in the carriage with him,
all would have been lost. Surely, you could not have felt for him the
least affection."
"Oh, uncle! you can never know what a fearful trial I have passed
through. Affection! It was, instead, an intense repugnance. But, for my
mother's sake, I was prepared to make any sacrifice consistent with
honour."
"Of all others, my dear child," said Mr. Ellis, with much feeling, "a
sacrifice of this kind is the worst. It is full of evil consequences
that cannot be enumerated, and scarcely imagined. You had no affection
for this man, and yet, in the sight of Heaven, you were going solemnly
to vow that you would love and cherish him through life!"
A shudder ran through the frame of Miriam, which being perceived by Mr.
Ellis, he said--
"Well may you shudder, as you stand looking down the awful abyss into
which you were about plunging. You can see no bottom, and you would
have found none. There is no condition in this life, Miriam, so
intensely wretched as that of a pure-minded, true-hearted woman united
to a man whom she not only cannot love, but from whom every instinct of
her better nature turns with disgust. And this would have been your
condition. Ah me! in what a fearful evil was this error of your mother,
in opening a boarding-house, about involving her child! I begged her
not to do so. I tried to show her the folly of such a step. But she
would not hear me. And now she is in great trouble?"
"Oh yes, uncle. All the money she had when she began is spent; and what
she now receives from boarders but little more than half pays expenses."
"I knew it would be so. But my word was not regarded. Your mother is no
more fitted to keep a boarding-house than a child ten years old. It
takes a woman who has been raised in a different school, who has
different habits, and a different character."
"But what can we do, uncle?" said Miriam.
"What are you willing to do?"
"I am willing to do any thing that is right for me to do."
"All employment, Miriam, are honourable so far as they are useful,"
said Mr. Ellis, seriously, "though false pride tries to make us think
differently. And, strangely enough, this false pride drives too many,
in the choice of employments, to the hardest, least honourable, and
least profitable. Hundreds of women resort to keeping boarders as a
means of supporting their families when they might do it more easily,
with less exposure and greater certainty, in teaching, if qualified,
fine needle-work, or even in the keeping of a store for the sale of
fancy and useful articles. But pursuits of the latter kind they reject
as too far below them, and, in vainly attempting to keep up a certain
appearance, exhaust what little means they have. A breaking up of the
family, and a separation of its members, follow the error in too many
cases."
Miriam listened to this in silence. Her uncle paused.
"What can I do to aid my mother?" the young girl asked.
"Could you not give music lessons?"
"I am too young, I fear, for that. Too little skilled in the principles
of music," replied Miriam.
"If competent, would you object to teach?"
"Oh, no. Most gladly would I enter upon the task, did it promise even a
small return. How happy would it make me if I could lighten, by my own
labour, the burdens that press so heavily upon our mother!"
"And Edith. How does she feel on this subject?"
"As I do. Willing for any thing; ready for any change from our present
condition."
"Take courage, then, my dear child, take courage," said the uncle, in a
cheerful voice. "There is light ahead."
"Oh, how distressed my mother will be when she finds I am gone!" sighed
Miriam, after a brief silence, in which her thoughts reverted to the
fact of her absence from home. "When can we get back again?"
"Not before ten o'clock to-night. We must go on as far as Bristol, and
then return by the evening line from New York."
Another deep sigh heaved the troubled bosom of Miriam, as she uttered,
in a low voice, speaking to herself--
"My poor mother! Her heart will be broken!"
CHAPTER X.
MEANWHILE the hours passed with the mother, sister, and brother in the
most agonizing suspense. Henry, who had been drawn away into evil
company by two young men who boarded in the house, was neglecting his
studies, and pressing on towards speedy ruin. To drinking and
association with the vicious, he now added gaming. Little did his
mother dream of the perilous ways his feet were treading. On this
occasion he had come in, as has been seen, with a demand for ten
dollars. When he left home in the morning, it was in company with the
young man named Barling. Instead of his going to the office where he
was studying, or his companion to his place of business, they went to a
certain public house in Chestnut Street, where they first drank at the
bar.
"Shall we go up into the billiard-room?" said Barling, as they turned
from the white marble counter at which they had been drinking.
"I don't care. Have you time to play a game?" replied Henry.
"Oh, yes. We're not very busy at the store to-day."
So the two young men ascended to the billiard-room, and spent a couple
of hours there. Both played very well, and were pretty equally matched.
From the billiard-room, they proceeded to another part of the house,
more retired, and there, at the suggestion of Barling, tried a game at
cards for a small stake. Young Darlington was loser at first, but,
after a time, regained his losses and made some advance on his
fellow-player. Hours passed in playing and drinking; and finally,
Darlington, whose good fortune did not continue, parted with every
sixpence.
"Lend me a dollar," said he as the last game went against him.
The dollar was lent, and the playing renewed. Thus it went on, hour
after hour, neither of the young men stopping to eat any thing, though
both drank too frequently. At last, Darlington was ten dollars in debt
to Barling, who, on being asked for another loan, declined any further
advances. Stung by the refusal, Henry said to him, rising as he spoke--
"Do you mean by this that you are afraid I will never return the money?"
"Oh, no," replied Barling. "But I don't want to play against you any
longer. Your luck is bad."
"I can beat you," said Darlington.
"You hav'n't done it to-day certainly," answered Barling.
"Will you wait here a quarter of an hour?" asked Henry.
"For what?"
"I want to pay you off and begin again. I am going for some money."
"Yes, I'll wait," replied the young man.
"Very well. I'll be back in a few minutes."
It was for this work and for this purpose that Henry Darlington came to
his mother just at the moment the absence of Miriam and her purpose in
leaving had been discovered. The effect of the painful news on the
young man has already been described. From the time he became aware of
the fact that Miriam had gone away with Burton for the purpose of
becoming his wife, until ten o'clock at night, he was in an agony of
suspense. As the uncle could not be found at the office where he wrote,
nor at the house where he boarded, it was concluded that he had reached
the boat before its departure, and gone on with the fugitives in the
train to New York. Nothing was therefore left for the distressed family
but to await his return.
How anxiously passed the hours! At tea time Edith only made her
appearance. Henry and his mother remained in the chamber of the latter.
As for the young man, he was cast down and distressed beyond measure,
vexing his spirit with self-accusations that were but too well founded.
"Oh, mother!" said he, while they were alone, starting up from where he
had been sitting with his face buried in his hands--"oh, mother! what
evils have come through this opening of our house, for strangers to
enter! Miriam, our sweet, gentle, pure-hearted Miriam, has been lured
away by one of the worst of men; and!"--the young man checked himself a
moment or two, and then continued--"and I have been drawn away from
right paths into those that lead to sure destruction. Mother, I have
been in great danger. Until Barling and Mason came into our family, I
was guiltless of any act that could awaken a blush of shame upon my
cheek. Oh, that I had never met them!"
"Henry! Henry! what do you mean by this?" exclaimed Mrs. Darlington, in
a voice full of anguish.
"I have been standing on the brink of a precipice," replied the young
man with more calmness. "But a hand has suddenly drawn me away, and I
am trembling at the danger I have escaped. Oh, mother, will you not
give up this mode of life? We have none of us been happy. I have never
felt as if I had a home since it began. And you--what a slave have you
been! and how unhappy! Can nothing be done except keeping boarders? Oh,
what would I not give for the dear seclusion of a home where no
stranger's foot could enter!"
"Some other mode of living must be sought, my son," replied Mrs.
Darlington. "Added to all the evils attendant on the present mode, is
that of a positive loss instead of a profit. Several hundred dollars
have been wasted already, and daily am I going in debt."
"Then, mother, let us change at once," replied the young man. "It would
be better to shrink together in a single room than to continue as we
are. I will seek a clerkship in a store and earn what I can to help
support the family."
"I can think of nothing now but Miriam!" said Mrs. Darlington. "Oh, if
she were back again, safe from the toils that have been thrown around
her, I think I would be the most thankful of mortals! Oh, my child! my
child!"
What could Henry say to comfort his mother? Nothing. And he remained
silent.
Long after this, Mrs. Darlington, with Henry and Edith, were sitting
together in painful suspense. No word had been spoken by either for the
space of nearly an hour. The clock struck ten.
"I would give worlds to see my dear, dear child!" murmured Mrs.
Darlington.
Just then a carriage drove up to the door and stopped. Henry sprang
down stairs; but neither Edith nor her mother could move from where
they sat. As the former opened the street door, Miriam stood with her
uncle on the threshold. Henry looked at her earnestly and tenderly for
an instant, and then, staggering back, leaned against the wall for
support.
"Where is your mother?" asked Mr. Ellis.
"In her own room," said Henry, in a voice scarcely audible.
Miriam sprang up the stairs with the fleetness of an antelope, and, in
a few moments, was sobbing on her mother's bosom.
"Miriam! Miriam!" said Mrs. Darlington, in a thrilling voice, "do you
return the same as when you left?"
"Yes, thank God!" came from the maiden's lips.
"Thank God! thank God!" responded the mother, wildly. "Oh, my child,
what a fearful misery you have escaped!"
In a few minutes, the mother and sisters were joined by Henry.
"Where is your uncle?" asked Mrs. Darlington.
"He has gone away; but says that he will see you to-morrow."
Over the remainder of that evening we will here draw a veil.
CHAPTER XI.
ON the next morning, only Mrs. Darlington met her boarders at the
breakfast-table, when she announced to them that she had concluded to
close her present business, and seek some new mode of sustaining her
family; at the same time, desiring each one to find another home as
early as possible.
At the close of the third day after this, Mrs. Darlington sat down to
her evening meal with only her children gathered at the table. A
subdued and tranquil spirit pervaded each bosom, even though a dark
veil was drawn against the future. To a long and troubled excitement
there had succeeded a calm. It was good to be once more alone, and they
felt this. "Through what a scene of trial, disorder, and suffering have
we passed!" said Edith. "It seems as if I had just awakened from a
dream."
"And such a dream!" sighed Miriam.
"Would that it were but a dream!" said Mrs. Darlington. "But, alas! the
wrecks that are around us too surely testify the presence of a
devastating storm."
"The storm has passed away, mother," said Edith; "and we will look for
calmer and brighter skies."
"No bright skies for us, I fear, my children," returned the mother,
with a deeper tinge of sadness in her voice.
"They are bright this hour to what they were a few days since," said
Edith, "and I am sure they will grow brighter. I feel much encouraged.
Where the heart is willing, the way is sure to open. Both Miriam and I
are willing to do all in our power, and I am sure we can do much. We
have ability to teach others; and the exercise of that ability will
bring a sure reward. I like Uncle Hiram's suggestion very much."
"But the humiliation of soliciting scholars," said the mother.
"To do right is not humiliating," quickly replied Edith.
"It is easy to say this, my child; but can you go to Mrs. Lionel, for
instance, with whose family we were so intimate, and solicit her to
send Emma and Cordelia to the school you propose to open, without a
smarting sense of humiliation? I am sure you cannot."
Edith communed with her own thoughts for some moments, and then
answered--
"If I gave way to false pride, mother, this might be so; but I must
overcome what is false and evil. This is as necessary for my happiness
as the external good we seek--nay, far more so. Too many who have moved
in the circle where we have been moving for years strangely enough
connect an idea of degradation with the office of teaching children.
But is there on the earth a higher or more important use than
instructing the mind and training the heart of young immortals? It has
been beautifully and truly said, that 'Earth is the nursery of Heaven.'
The teacher, then, is a worker in God's own garden. Is it not so,
mother?"
"You think wisely, my child. God grant that your true thoughts may
sustain you in the trials to come!" replied Mrs. Darlington.
The door-bell rang as the family were rising from the tea-table. The
visitor was Mr. Ellis. He had come to advise with and assist the
distressed mother and her children; and his words were listened to with
far more deference than was the case a year before. Nine or ten months'
experience in keeping a boarding-house had corrected many of the false
views of Mrs. Darlington, and she was now prepared to make an effort
for her family in a different spirit from that exhibited in the
beginning. The plan proposed by her brother--a matter-of-fact kind of
person--was the taking of a house at a more moderate rent, and opening
a school for young children. Many objections and doubts were urged; but
he overruled them all, and obtained, in the end, the cordial consent of
every member of the family. During the argument which preceded the
final decision of the matter, Mrs. Darlington said--
"Suppose the girls should not be able to get scholars?"
"Let them see to this beforehand."
"Many may promise to send, and afterwards change their minds."
"Let them," replied the brother. "If, at the end of the first, second,
and third years, you have not made your expenses, I will supply the
deficiency."
"You!"
"Yes. The fact is, sister, if you will be guided in some respects by my
judgment, I will stand by you, and see you safely over every
difficulty. Your boarding-house experiment I did not approve. I saw
from the beginning how it would end, and I wished to see the end as
quickly as possible. It has come, and I am glad of it; and, still
further, thankful that the disaster has not been greater. If you only
had now the five or six hundred dollars wasted in a vain experiment
during the past year, how much the sum might do for you! But we will
not sigh over this. As just said, I will stand by you in the new
experiment, and see that you do not fall again into embarrassment."
Henry was present at this interview, but remained silent during the
whole time. Since the day of Miriam's departure with Burton, and safe
return, a great change had taken place in the young man. He was like
one starting up from sleep on the brink of a fearful precipice, and
standing appalled at the danger he had escaped almost by a miracle. The
way in which he had begun to walk he saw to be the way to sure
destruction, and his heart shrunk with shame and trembled with dismay.
"Henry," said the uncle, after an hour's conversation with his sister
and Edith, "I would like to talk with you alone."
Mrs. Darlington and her daughters left the room.
"Henry," said Mr. Ellis, as soon as the rest had withdrawn, "you are
old enough to do something to help on. All the burden ought not to come
on Edith and Miriam."
"Only show me what I can do, uncle, and I am ready to put my hands to
the work," was Henry's prompt reply.
"It will be years before you can expect an income from your profession."
"I know, I know. That is what discourages me."
"I can get you the place of clerk in an insurance office, at a salary
of five hundred dollars a year. Will you accept it?"
"Gladly!" The face of the young man brightened as if the sun had shone
upon it suddenly.
"You will have several hours each day, in which to continue your law
reading, and will get admitted to the bar early enough. Keep your
mother and sisters for two or three years, and then they will be in a
condition to sustain you until you make a practice in your profession."
But to this the mother and sisters, when it was mentioned to them,
objected. They were not willing to have Henry's professional studies
interrupted. That would be a great wrong to him.
"Not a great wrong, but a great good," answered Mr. Ellis. "And I will
make this plain to you. Henry, as I learn from yourself, has made some
dangerous associations; and some important change is needed to help him
break away from them. No sphere of life is so safe for a young man as
that which surrounds profitable industry pursued for an end. Temptation
rarely finds its way within this sphere. Two or three years devoted to
the duties of a clerk, with the end of aiding in the support of his
mother and sisters, will do more to give a right direction to Henry's
character--more to make success in after life certain--than any thing
else possible now to be done. The office in which I can get him the
situation I speak of adjoins the one to which I am attached, and I
will, therefore, have him mostly under my own eye. In this new school,
the ardency of his young feelings will be duly chastened, and his
thoughts turned more into elements of usefulness. In a word, sister, it
will give him self-dependence, and, in the end, make a man of him."
The force of all this, and more by this suggested, was not only seen,
but felt, by Mrs. Darlington; and when she found her son ready to
accept the offer made to him, she withdrew all opposition.
Steps preliminary to the contemplated change were immediately taken.
First of all, Edith waited upon a number of their old friends, who had
young children, and informed them that she was, in connection with her
sister, about opening a school. Some were surprised, some pleased, and
some indifferent at the announcement; but a goodly number expressed
pleasure at the opportunity it afforded them of placing their younger
children under the care of teachers in whose ability and character they
had so much confidence. Thus was the way made plain before them.
CHAPTER XII.
A FEW weeks later, and the contemplated change was made. The family
removed into a moderate-sized house, at a lower rent, and prepared to
test the new mode of obtaining a livelihood. A good portion of their
furniture had been sold, besides three gold watches and some valuable
jewelry belonging to Mrs. Darlington and her two eldest daughters, in
order to make up a sum sufficient to pay off the debt contracted during
the last few months of the boarding-house experiment. The real loss
sustained by the widow in this experiment fell little short of a
thousand dollars.
"How many scholars have you now?" asked Mrs. Darlington of Edith, two
months after the school was opened, as they sat at tea one evening,
each member of the family wearing a cheerful face.
"Twenty," replied Edith. "We received two new ones to-day. Mrs. Wilmot
came and entered two of her children; and she said that Mrs. Armond was
going to send her Florence so soon as her quarter expired in the school
she is now attending."
"How much will you receive from your present number of scholars?"
inquired Henry.
"I made the estimate to-day," returned Edith, "and find that the bills
will come to something like a hundred and twenty-five dollars a
quarter."
"Five hundred dollars a year," said Henry; "and my five hundred added
to that will make a thousand. Can't we live on a thousand dollars,
mother?"
"We may, by the closest economy."
"Our school will increase," remarked Edith; "and every increase will
add to our income. Oh! it looks so much brighter ahead! and we have so
much real comfort in the present! What a scene of trial have we passed
through!"
"How I ever bore up under it is more than I can now tell," said Mrs.
Darlington, with an involuntary shudder. "And the toil, and suffering,
and danger through which we have come! I cannot be sufficiently
thankful that we are safe from the dreadful ordeal, and with so few
marks of the fire upon us."
A silence followed this, in which two hearts, at least, were humbled,
yet thankful, in their self-communion--the hearts of Henry and Miriam.
Through what perilous ways had they come! How near had they been to
shipwreck!
"Poor Mrs. Marion!" said Edith, breaking the silence, at length. "How
often I think of her! And the thought brings a feeling of condemnation.
Was it right for us to thrust her forth as we did?"
"Can she still be in?"
"Oh no, no!" spoke up Henry, interrupting his mother. "I forgot to tell
you that I met her and her husband on the street to-day."
"Are you certain?"
"Oh yes."
"Did you speak to them?"
"No. They saw me, but instantly averted their faces. Mrs. Marion looked
very pale, as if she had been sick."
"Poor woman! She has had heart-sickness enough," said Mrs. Darlington.
"I shall never forgive myself for turning her out of the house. If I
had known where she was going!"
"But we did not know that, mother," said Edith.
"We knew that she had neither friends nor a home," replied the mother.
"Ah me! when our own troubles press heavily upon us, we lose our
sympathy for others!"
"It was not so in this case," remarked Edith. "Deeply did we sympathize
with Mrs. Marion. But we could not bear the weight without going under
ourselves."
"I don't know, I don't know," said Mrs. Darlington, half to herself.
"We might have kept up with her a little longer. But I am glad from my
heart that her husband has come back. If he will be kind to his wife, I
will forgive all his indebtedness to me."
A few weeks subsequent to this time, as Miriam sat reading the morning
paper, she came upon a brief account of the arrest, in New Orleans, of
a "noted gambler," as it said, named Burton, on the charge of bigamy.
The paper dropped to the floor, and Miriam, with clasped hands and eyes
instantly overflowing with tears, looked upward, and murmured her
thanks to Heaven.
"What an escape!" fell tremblingly from her lips, as she arose and went
to her room to hold communion with her own thoughts.
Three years have passed, and what has been the result of the widow's
new experiment? The school prospered from the beginning. The spirit
with which Edith and Miriam went to work made success certain. Parents
who sent their children were so much pleased with the progress they
made, that they spoke of the new school to their friends, and thus gave
it a reputation, that, ere a year had elapsed, crowded the rooms of the
sisters. Mrs. Darlington was a woman who had herself received a
superior education. Seeing that the number of scholars increased
rapidly, and made the pressure on her daughters too great, she gave a
portion of her time each day to the instruction of certain classes, and
soon became much interested in the work. From that time she associated
herself in the school with Edith and Miriam.
Three years, as we said, have passed, and now the profits on the school
are more than sufficient to meet all expenses. Henry has left his
clerkship, and is a member of the bar. Of course he has little or no
practice--only a few months having elapsed since his admission; but his
mother and sisters are fully able to sustain him until he could sustain
himself.
"How much better this is than keeping boarders!" said Edith, as she sat
conversing with her mother and uncle about the prospects of the school.
"And how much more useful and honourable!" remarked Mr. Ellis. "In the
one case, you fed only the body, but now you are dispensing food to the
immortal mind. You are moreover independent in your own house. When the
day's work is done, you come together as one family, and shut out the
intruding world."
"Yes, it is better, far better," replied Mrs. Darlington. "Ah, that
first mistake of mine was a sad one!"
"Yet out of it has come good," said Mr. Ellis. "That painful experience
corrected many false views, and gave to all your characters a new and
higher impulse. It is through disappointment, trial, and suffering,
that we grow wise here; and true wisdom is worth the highest price we
are ever called upon to pay for it."
Yes, it is so. Through fiery trials are we purified. At times, in our
suffering, we feel as if every good thing in us was about being
consumed. But this never happens. No good in our characters is ever
lost in affliction or trouble; and we come out of these states of pain
wiser and better than when we entered them, and more fitted and more
willing to act usefully our part in the world.
PLAIN SEWING; OR, HOW TO ENCOURAGE THE POOR.
"Do you know of any poor body who does plain sewing?" asked Mrs. Lander
of a neighbour upon whom she called for the particular purpose of
making this inquiry. "I have a good deal of work that I want done, and
I always like to give my plain sewing to people that need it."
"I think I know of a person who will suit you," replied Mrs. Brandon,
the lady to whom the application had been made. "She is a poor widow
woman, with four children dependent upon her for support. She sews
neatly. Yesterday she brought me home some little drawers and
night-gowns that were beautifully made. I am sure she will please you,
and I know she deserves encouragement."
"What is her name?"
"Mrs. Walton; and she lives in Larkin's Court."
"Thank you, ma'am. I will send for her this morning. You say she is
very poor?"
"You may judge of that yourself, Mrs. Lander. A woman who has four
children to support by the labour of her own hands cannot be very well
off."
"No--certainly not. Poor creature! I will throw all I can in her way,
if her work should please me."
"I am sure that will be the case, for she sews very neatly."
Mrs. Lander having found out a poor woman who could do plain
sewing--she was always more ready to employ persons in extreme poverty
than those who were in more easy circumstances--immediately sent a
summons for her to attend upon her ladyship. Mrs. Walton's appearance,
when she came, plainly enough told the story of her indigence.
"Mrs. Brandon informs me," said Mrs. Lander, "that you do plain sewing
very well, and that you stand in need of work. I always like to
encourage the industrious poor."
The woman inclined her head, and Mrs. Lander went on.
"Do you make shirts?"
"Yes, ma'am, sometimes."
"Do you consider yourself a good shirt maker?"
"I don't call myself any thing very extra; but people for whom I work
seem generally pleased with what I do."
"I have six shirts cut out for Mr. Lander. How soon can you make them?"
"I couldn't make them all in less than a couple of weeks, as I have
other work that must be done within that time."
"Very well. That will do."
The poor woman took the shirts home, feeling grateful to Mrs. Brandon
for having recommended her, and thankful to get the work. In order to
give satisfaction to both her new customer, and those for whom she
already had work in the house, she divided her time between them,
sewing one day for Mrs. Lander and the next on the work received before
hers came in. At the end of a week, three of the shirts were ready,
and, as she needed very much the money she had earned in making them,
she carried them over to Mrs. Lander on Saturday afternoon.
"I have three of the shirts ready," said she, as she handed to the lady
the bundle she had brought.
"Ah! have you?" remarked Mrs. Lander, as, with a grave face, she opened
the bundle and examined the garments. This examination was continued
with great minuteness, and long enough almost to have counted every
