a slight shrug, and some perceptible feelings of a disagreeable 
nature. 
"Well," said Haley, after they had both silently picked 
their nuts for a season, " what do you say ? " 
" I'll think the matter over, and talk with my wife," said 
Mr. Shelby. " Meantime, Haley, if you want the matter 
carried on in the quiet way you speak of, you'd best not let 
your business in this neighbourhood be known. It will get 
out among my boys, and it will not be a particularly quiet 
business getting away any of my fellows, if they know it, I'll 
promise you." 
" Oh, certainly ! by all means, mum ! of course ! But I'll 
tell you, I'm in a devil of a hurry, and shall want to know, as 
soon as possible, what I may depend on," said he, rising and 
putting on his overcoat. 
" Well, call up this evening, between six and seven, and 
you shall have my answer," said Mr. Shelby, and the trader 
bowed himself out of the apartment. 
" I'd like to have been able to kick the fellow down the 
steps," said he to himself, as he saw the door fairly closed, 
" with his impudent assurance ; but he knows how much he 
has me at advantage. If anybody had ever said to me that 
I should sell Tom down south to one of those rascally traders, 
I should have said, ' Is thy servant a dog, that he should do 
this thing ? ' And now it must come, for aught I see. And 
Eliza's child, too ! I know that I shall have some fuss with 
wife about that ; and, for that matter, about Tom, too. So 
much for being in debt heigho ! The fellow sees his 
advantage, and means to push it." 
Perhaps the mildest form of the system of slavery is to be 
seen in the State of Kentucky. The general prevalence of 
agricultural pursuits of a quiet and gradual nature, not 
requiring those periodic seasons of hurry and pressure that 
are called for in the business of more southern districts, makes 
the task of the negro a more healthful and reasonable one 
while the master, content with a more gradual style of acquisition, has not those temptations to hard-heartedness which 
always overcome frail human nature when the prospect of 
sudden and rapid gain is weighed in the balance, with no 
heavier counterpoise than the interests of the helpless and 
unprotected. 
Whoever visits some estates there, and witnesses the 
good-humoured indulgence of some masters and mistresses, 
and the affectionate loyalty of some slaves, might be tempted 
to dream the oft-fabled poetic legend of a patriarchal institution, and all that; but over and above the scene there 
broods a portentous shadow the shadow of law. So long 
as the law considers all these human beings, with beating 
hearts and living affections, only as so many things belonging 
to a master so long as the failure, or misfortune, or imprudence, or death of the kindest owner, may cause them any 
day to exchange a life of kind protection and indulgence for 
one of hopeless misery and toil so long it is impossible to 
make anything beautiful or desirable in the best-regulated 
administration of slavery. 
Mr. Shelby was a fair average kind of man, good-natured 
and kindly, and disposed to easy indulgence of those around 
him; and there had never been a lack of anything which 
might contribute to the physical comfort of the negroes on 
his estate. He had, however, speculated largely and quite 
loosely had involved himself deeply, and his notes to a 
large amount had come into the hands of Haley ; and this 
small piece of information is the key to the preceding 
conversation. 
Now, it had so happened that, in approaching the door, 
Eliza had caught enough of the conversation to know that 
a trader was making offers to her master for somebody. 
She would gladly have stopped at the door to listen, as 
she came out ; but her mistress just then calling, she was 
obliged to hasten away. 
Still she thought she heard the trader make an offer for 
her boy ; could she be mistaken ? Her heart swelled and 
throbbed, and she involuntarily strained him so tight, that 
the little fellow looked up into her face in astonishment. 
"Eliza, girl, what ails you to-day?" said her mistress, 
when Eliza had upset the wash-pitcher, knocked down the 
work-stand, and, finally, was abstractedly offering her mistress 
a long night-gown in place of the silk dress she had ordered 
her to bring from the wardrobe. 
Eliza started. " O, missis !" she said, raising her eyes; 
then, bursting into tears, she sat down in a chair and began 
sobbing. 
" Why, Eliza, child ! what ails you ? " said her mistress. 
" O, missis, missis ! " said Eliza, " there's been a -trader 
talking with master in the parlour ! I heard him." 
" Well, silly child, suppose there has." 
" O, missis, do you suppose mas'r would sell my Harry ? " 
And the poor creature threw herself into a chair and sobbed 
convulsively. 
" Sell him ! ISTo, you foolish girl ! You know your 
master never deals with those southern traders, and never 
means to sell any of his servants as long as they behave well. 
Why, you silly child, who do you think would want to buy 
your Harry ? Do you think alLthe world are set on him as 
you are, you goosie ? Come, cheer up, and hook my dress. 
There now, put my back hair up in that pretty braid you 
learnt the other day, and don't go listening at doors any 
more." 
"Well, but, missis, you never would give your consent 
to to " 
" Nonsense, child ! to be sure I shouldn't. "What do you 
talk so for ? I would as soon have one of my own children 
sold. But really, Eliza, you are getting altogether too 
proud of that little fellow. A man can't put his nose into 
the door, but you think he must be coming to buy him." 
Reassured by .her mistress's confident tone, Eliza proceeded nimbly and adroitly with her toilet, laughing at her 
own fears as she proceeded. 
Mrs. Shelby was a woman of a high class, both intel- 
lectually and morally. To that natural magnanimity and 
generosity of mind which one often marks as characteristic 
of the women of Kentucky, she added high moral and religious sensibility and principle, carried out with great energy 
and ability into practical results. Her husband, who made 
no professions to any particular religious character, nevertheless reverenced and respected the consistency of hers, 
and stood, perhaps, a little in awe of her opinion. Certain 
it was, that he gave her unlimited scope in all her benevolent 
efforts for the comfort, instruction, and improvement of her 
servants, though he never took any decided part in them 
himself. In fact, if not exactly a believer in the doctrine of 
the efficiency of the extra good works of saints, he really 
seemed somehow or other to fancy that his wife had piety 
and benevolence enough for two to indulge a 'shadowy 
expectation of getting into heaven through her superabundance of qualities to which he made no particular pretension. 
The heaviest load on his mind, after his conversation with 
the trader, lay in the foreseen necessity of breaking to his 
wife the arrangement contemplated meeting the importu- 
nities and opposition which he knew he should have reason 
to encounter. 
Mrs. Shelby, being entirely ignorant of her husband's 
embarrassments, and knowing only the general kindliness 
of his temper, had been quite sincere in the entire incredulity 
with which she had met Eliza's suspicions. In fact, she 
dismissed the matter from her mind without a second 
thought, and, being occupied in preparations for an evening 
visit, it passed out of her thoughts entirely. 
CHAPTEE II. 
THE MOTHER. 
ELIZA had been brought up by her mistress, from girl- 
hood, as a petted and indulged favourite. 
The traveller in the south must often have remarked that 
peculiar air of refinement, that softness of voice and manner, 
which seems in many cases to be a particular gift to the 
quadroon and mulatto women. These natural graces in the 
quadroon are often united with beauty of the most dazzling 
kind, and in almost every case with a personal appearance 
prepossessing and agreeable. Eliza, such as we have 
described her, is not a fancy sketch, but taken from remembrance, as we saw her years ago in Kentucky. Safe under 
the protecting care of her mistress, Eliza had reached 
maturity without those temptations which make beauty so 
fatal an inheritance to a slave. She had been married to a 
bright and talented young mulatto man, who was -a slave on 
a neighbouring estate, and bore the name of George Harris. 
This young man had been hired out by his master to 
work in a bagging factory, where his adroitness and ingenuity 
caused him to be considered the first hand in the place. He 
had invented a machine for the cleaning of the hemp, which, 
considering the education and circumstances of the inventor, 
displayed quite as much mechanical genius as Whitney's 
cotton-gin. 
 A machine of this description was really the invention of a young 
coloured man in Kentucky. 
He was possessed of a handsome person and pleasing 
manners, and was a general favourite in the factory. Nevertheless as this young man was in the eye of the law not a 
man, but a thing, all these superior qualifications were 
subject to the control of a vulgar, narrow-minded, tyrannical 
master. This same gentleman, having heard of the fame of 
George's invention, took a ride over to the factory, to see 
what this intelligent chattel had been about. He was 
received with great enthusiasm by the employer, who 
congratulated him on possessing so valuable a slave. 
He was waited upon over the factory, shown the machinery 
by G-eorge, who, in high spirits, talked so fluently, held himself so erect, looked so handsome and manly, that his master 
began to feel an uneasy consciousness of inferiority. "What 
business had his slave to be marching round the country, 
inventing machines, and holding up his head among gentlemen ? He'd soon put a stop to it. He'd take him back, 
and put him to hoeing and digging, and " see if he'd step 
about so smart." Accordingly, the manufacturer and all 
hands concerned were astounded when he suddenly demanded 
George's wages, and announced his intention of taking him 
home. 
" But, Mr. Harris," remonstrated the manufacturer, 
" isn't this rather sudden ? " 
" What if it is ? Isn't the man mine ?" 
" We would be willing, sir, to increase the rate of 
compensation." 
" No object at all, sir. I don't need to hire any of my 
hands out, unless I've a mind to." 
" But, sir, he seems peculiarly adapted to this business." 
" Dare say he may be ; never was much adapted to anything 
that I set him about, I'll be bound." 
" But only think of his inventing this machine," interposed 
one of the workmen, rather unluckily. 
" Oh, yes ! a machine for saving work, is it ? He'd 
invent that, I'll be bound ; let a nigger alone for that, any 
time. They are all labour-saving machines themselves, every 
one of 'em. No, he shall tramp ! " 
George had stood like one transfixed, at hearing his doom 
thus suddenly pronounced by a power that he knew was 
irresistible. He folded his arms, tightly pressed in his lips, 
but a whole volcano of bitter feelings burned in his bosom, 
and sent streams of fire through his veins. He breathed 
short, and his large dark eyes flashed like live coals ; and he 
might have broken out into some dangerous ebullition, had 
not the kindly manufacturer touched him on the arm, and 
said, in a low tone, 
" Give way, George ; go with him for the present. We'll 
try to help you, yet." 
The tyrant observed the whisper, and conjectured its 
import, though he could not hear what was said ; and he 
inwardly strengthened himself in his determination to keep 
the power he possessed over his victim. 
George was taken home, and put to the meanest drudgery 
of the farm. He had been able to repress every disrespectful 
word ; but the flashing eye, the gloomy and troubled brow, 
were part of a natural language that could not be repressed 
indubitable signs, which showed too plainly that the man 
could not become a thing. 
It was during the happy period of his employment in the 
factory that George had seen and married his wife. During 
that period being much trusted and favoured by his 
employer he had free liberty to come and go at discretion. 
The marriage was highly approved of by Mrs. Shelby, who, 
with a little womanly complacency in match-making, felt 
pleased to unite her handsome favourite with one of her own 
class who seemed in every way suited to her : and so they were 
married in her mistress's great parlour, and her mistress 
herself adorned the bride's beautiful hair with orange- 
blossoms, and threw over it the bridal veil, which certainly 
could scarce have rested on a fairer head ; and there was no 
lack of white gloves, and cake and wine of admiring guests 
to praise the bride's beauty, and her mistress's indulgence and 
liberality. For a year or two Eliza saw her husband frequently, and there was nothing to interrupt their happiness, 
except the loss of two infant children, to whom she was 
passionately attached, and whom she mourned with a grief 
so intense as to call for gentle remonstrance from her 
mistress, who sought, with maternal anxiety, to direct her 
naturally passionate feelings within the bounds of reason 
and religion. 
After the birth of little Harry, however, she had gradually 
become tranquillised and settled ; and every bleeding tie and 
throbbing nerve, once more entwined with that little life, 
seemed to become sound and healthful; and Eliza was a 
happy woman up to the time that her husband was rudely 
torn from his kind employer, and brought under the iron 
sway of his legal owner. 
The manufacturer, true to his word, visited Mr. Harris a 
week or two after George had been taken away, when, as he 
hoped, the heat of the occasion had passed away, and tried 
every possible inducement to lead him to restore him to his 
former employment. 
" You needn't trouble yourself to talk any longer," said 
he, doggedly; "I know my own business, sir." 
"I did not presume to interfere with it, sir. I only 
thought that you might think it for your interest to let your 
man to us on the terms proposed." 
" Oh, I understand the matter well enough. I saw your 
winking and whispering, the day I took him out of the 
factory ; but you don't come it over me that way. It's a free 
country, sir ; the man's mine, and I do what I please witli 
him that's it!" 
And so fell George's last hope ; nothing before him but a 
life of toil and drudgery, rendered more bitter by every little 
smarting vexation and indignity which tyrannical ingenuity 
could devise. 
A very humane jurist once said, " The worst use you can 
put a man to is to hang him." No ! there is another use 
that a man can be put to that is WOESE ! 
CHAPTEE III. 
THE HUSBAND AND FATHER. 
MBS. SHELBY had gone on her visit, and Eliza stood in 
the verandah, rather dejectedly looking after the retreating 
carriage, when a hand was laid on her shoulder. She turned, 
and a bright smile lighted up her fine eyes. 
" George, is it you ? How you frightened me ! "Well ; I 
am so glad you's come ! Missis is gone to spend the afternoon ; so come into my little room, and we'll have the time 
all to ourselves." 
Saying this, she drew him into a neat little apartment 
opening on the verandah, where she generally sat at her 
sewing, within call of her mistress. 
" How glad I am ! why don't you smile ? and look at 
Harry how he grows!" The boy stood shyly regarding 
his father through his curls, holding close to the skirts of his 
mother's dress. "Isn't he beautiful?" said Eliza, lifting 
his long curls, and kissing him. 
"I wish he'd never been born!" said George bitterly. 
" I wish I'd never been born myself!" 
Surprised and frightened, Eliza sat down, and leaned her 
head on her husband's shoulder, and burst into tears. 
" There now, Eliza, it's too bad for me to make you feel 
so, poor girl!" said he, fondly, "it's too bad. Oh, how I 
wish you never had seen me you might have been happy !" 
" George ! George ! how can you talk so ? What dreadful 
thing has happened, or is going to happen ? I am sure we've 
been very happy till lately." 
" So we have, dear," said George. Then drawing his child 
on his knee, he gazed intently on his glorious dark eyes, and 
passed his hands through his long curls. 
"Just like you, Eliza ; and you are the handsomest woman 
I ever saw, and the best one I ever wish to see ; but, oh, I 
wish I'd never seen you, nor you me !" 
" Oh, George, how can you ? " 
" Yes, Eliza, it's all misery, misery, misery ! My life is 
bitter as wormwood ; the very life is burning out of me. 
I'm a poor, miserable, forlorn drudge ; I shall only drag you 
down with me, that's all. What's the use of our trying to 
do anything, trying to know anything, trying to be anything ? 
What's the use of living ? I wish I was dead ! " 
" Oh, now, dear George, that is really wicked ! I know 
how you feel about losing your place in the factory, and you 
have a hard master ; but pray be patient, and perhaps something " 
"Patient!" said he, interrupting her ; "haven't I been 
patient ? Did I say a word when he came and took me 
away, for no earthly reason, from the place where everybody 
was kind to me ? I'd paid him truly every cent of my 
earnings : and they all say I worked well." 
" Well, it is dreadful," said Eliza, " but, after all, he is 
your master, you know." 
" My master ! and who made him my master ? That's 
what I think of what right has he to me ? I'm a man as 
much as he is ; I am a better man than he is ; I know 
more about business than he does ; I'm a better manager 
than he is ; I can read better than he can ; I can write a 
better hand ; and I've learned it all myself, and no thanks 
to him I've learned it in spite of him ; and now what right 
has he to make a dray-horse of me ? to take me from things 
I can do, and do better than he can, and put me to work that 
any horse can do ? He tries to do it ; he says he'll bring 
me down and humble me, and he puts me to just the hardest, 
meanest, and dirtiest work, on purpose." 
" Oh, George George you frighten me ! Why, I never 
heard you talk so : I'm afraid you'll do something dreadful. 
I don't wonder at your feelings at all ; but oh, do be careful do, do for my sake for Harry's ! " 
" I have been careful, and I have been patient ; but it's 
growing worse and worse flesh and blood can't bear it any 
longer. Every chance he can get to insult and torment me, 
he takes. I thought I could do my work well, and keep on 
quiet, and have some time to read and learn out of work- 
hours ; but the more he sees I can do, the more he loads on. 
He says that though I don't say anything, he sees I've got 
the devil in me, and he means to bring it out ; and one of 
these days it will come out in a way that he won't like, or 
I'm mistaken." 
" Oh, dear, what shall we do ? " said Eliza, mournfully. 
" It was only yesterday," said George, " as I was busy 
loading stones into a cart, that young Mas'r Tom stood 
there, slashing his whip so near the horse, that the creature 
was frightened. I asked him to stop as pleasant as I 
could ; he just kept right on. I begged him again, and 
then he turned on me, and began striking me. I held his 
hand, and then he screamed, and kicked, and ran to his 
father, and told him that I was fighting him. He came in a 
rage, and said he'd teach me who was my master ; and he 
tied me to a tree, and cut switches for young master, and 
told him that he might whip me till he was tired ; and he 
did do it. If I don't make him remember it some time ! " 
And the brow of the young man grew dark, and his eyes 
burned with an expression that made his young wife tremble. 
" Who made this man my master that's what I want to 
know?" he said. 
" "Well," said Eliza, mournfully, " I always thought that 
I must obey my master and mistress, or I couldn't be a 
Christian!" 
"There is some sense in it, in your case; they have 
brought you up like a child fed you, clothed you, indulged 
you, and taught you, so that you have a good education, 
that is some reason why they should claim you. But I have 
been kicked, and cuffed, and sworn at, and at the best only 
let alone ; and what do I owe ? I've paid for all my keeping 
a hundred times over. I won't bear it no, I won't I " he 
said, clenching his hand with a fierce frown. 
Eliza trembled and was silent. She had never seen her 
husband in this mood before ; and her gentle system of 
ethics seemed to bend like a reed in the surges of such 
passions. 
" You know poor little Carlo that you gave me ? " added 
George ; " the creature has been about all the comfort that 
I've had. He has slept with me nights, and followed me 
around days, and kind o' looked at me as if he understood 
how I felt. Well, the other day I was just feeding him with 
with a few old scraps I picked up by the kitchen-door, and 
Mas'r came along, and said I was feeding him up at his 
expense, and that he couldn't afford to have every nigger 
keeping his dog, and ordered me to tie a stone to his neck, 
and throw him in the pond." 
" Oh, George, you didn't do it! " 
" Do it ! not I ; but he did. Mas'r and Tom pelted the 
poor drowning creature with stones. Poor thing ! he looked 
at me so mournful, as if he wondered why I didn't save him. 
I had to take a flogging because I wouldn't do it myself. I 
don't care ; Mas'r will find out that I am one that whipping 
won't tame. My day will come yet, if he don't look out." 
" What are you going to do ? Oh, G-eorge, don't do 
anything wicked ; if you only trust in God, and try to do 
right, he'll deliver you." 
" I an't a Christian like you, Eliza ; my heart's full of 
bitterness ; I can't trust in God. Why does He let things 
be so ? " 
" Oh, George, we must have faith ! Mistress says that 
when all things go wrong to us, we must believe that God is 
doing the very best." 
" That's easy to say, for people that are sitting on their 
sofas and riding in their carriages ; but let 'em be where I 
am, I guess it would come some harder. I wish I could be 
good ; but my heart burns, and can't be reconciled anyhow. 
You couldn't, in my place ; you can't now, if I tell you all 
I've got to say. You don't know the whole yet." 
" What can be coming now ? " 
" Well, lately Mas'r has been saying, that he was a fool 
to let me marry off the place ; that he hates Mr. Shelby 
and all his tribe, because they are proud, and hold their 
heads up above him, and that I've got proud notions 
from you ; and he says he won't let me c6me here any 
more, and that I shall take a wife and settle down on his 
place. At first he only scolded and grumbled these things : 
but yesterday he told me that I should take Mina for a 
wife, and settle down in a cabin with her, or he would 
sell me down river." 
" Why, but you were married to me, by the minister, as 
much as if you'd been a white man," said Eliza, simply. 
" Don't you know a slave can't be married ? There is no 
law in this country for that : I can't hold you for my wife, 
if he chooses to part us. That's why I wish I'd never seen 
you why I wish I'd never been born ; it would have 
been better for us both it would have been better for 
this poor child if he had never been born. All this may 
happen to him yet ! " 
" Oh, but master is so kind ! " 
" Yes, but who knows ? he may die ; and then he may 
be sold to nobody knows who. What pleasure is it that 
he is handsome, and smart, and bright ? I tell you, Eliza, 
that a sword will pierce through your soul for every good 
and pleasant thing your child is or has it will make him 
worth too much for you to keep." 
The words smote heavily on Eliza's heart; the vision 
of the trader came before her eyes, and, as if some one 
had struck her a deadly blow, she turned pale and gasped 
for breath. She looked nervously out on the verandah, 
where the boy, tired of the grave conversation, had retired, 
and where he was riding triumphantly up and down on 
Mr. Shelby's walking-stick. She would have spoken to tell 
her husband her fears, but checked herself. 
" No, no, he has enough to bear, poor fellow ! " she 
thought. " No, I won't tell him ; besides, it an't true ; 
missis never deceives us." 
" So,. Eliza, my girl," said the husband, mournfully, 
"bear up, now, and good bye; for I'm going." 
" Going, George ! going where ? " 
"To Canada," said he, straightening himself up; "and 
when I'm there, I'll buy you that's all the hope that's 
left us. You hare a kind master, that won't refuse to sell 
you. I'll buy you and the boy God helping me, I will! " 
"Oh, dreadful! if you should betaken!" 
" I won't be taken, Eliza I'll die first ! I'll be free, or 
I'll die!" 
" You won't kill yourself? " 
" No need of that ; they will kill me fast enough ; they 
never will get me down the river alive." 
" Oh, George, for my sake, do be careful ! Don't do any- 
thing wicked; don't lay hands on yourself, or anybody 
else. You are tempted too much too much ; but don't 
go you must but go carefully, prudently ; pray God to 
help you." 
" Well, then, Eliza, hear my plan. Mas'r took it into 
his head to send me right by here, with a note to Mr. 
Symmes, that lives a mile past. I believe he expected I 
should come here to tell you what I have. It would please 
him, if he thought it would aggravate ' Shelby's folks,' as 
he calls 'em. I'm going home quite resigned, you under- 
stand, as if all was over. I've got some preparations made, 
and there are those that will help me ; and, in the course 
of a week or so, I shall be among the missing, some day. 
Pray for me, Eliza ; perhaps the good Lord will hear you" 
" Oh, pray yourself, George, and go trusting in Him ; 
then you won't do anything wicked." 
" Well, now, good bye" said George, holding Eliza's 
hands, and gazing into her eyes, without moving. They 
stood silent; then there were last words, and sobs, and 
bitter weeping such parting as those may make whose hope 
to meet again is as the spider's web ; and the husband and 
wife were parted. 
CHAPTER IV. 
AN EVENING IN UNCLE TOM'S CABIN. 
THE cabin of Uncle Tom was a small log building, close 
adjoining to " the house," as the negro, par excellence, designates his master's dwelling. In front it had a neat garden- 
patch, where, every summer, strawberries, raspberries, and a 
variety of fruits and vegetables, flourished under careful 
tending. The whole front of it was covered by a large scarlet 
bignonia and a native multiflora rose, which, entwisting and 
interlacing, left scarce a vestige of the rough logs to be seen. 
Here, also, in summer, various brilliant annuals, such as 
marigolds, petunias, four-o' clocks, found an indulgent corner 
in which to unfold their splendours, and were the delight 
and pride of Aunt Chloe's heart. 
Let us enter the dwelling. The evening meal at the house 
is over, and Aunt Chloe, who presided over its preparation 
as head cook, has left to inferior officers in the kitchen the 
business of clearing away and washing dishes, and come out 
into her own snug territories, to " get her ole man's supper ;" 
therefore, doubt not that it is her you see by the fire, presiding with anxious interest over certain frizzling items in a 
stewpan, and anon, with grave consideration, lifting the 
cover of a bake-kettle, from whence steam forth indubitable 
intimations of " something good." A round, black, shining 
face is hers, so glossy as to suggest the idea that she might 
have been washed over with white of eggs, like one of her 
own tea-rusks. Her whole plump countenance beams with 
satisfaction and contentment from under her well-starched 
checked turban, bearing on it, however, if we must confess 
it, a little of that tinge of self-consciousness which becomes 
the first cook of the neighbourhood, as Aunt Chloe was 
universally held and acknowledged to be. 
A cook she certainly was, in the very bone and centre of 
her soul. Not a chicken, or turkey, or duck in the barn-yard, 
but looked grave when they saw her approaching, and seemed 
evidently to be reflecting on their latter end ; and certain it 
was that she was always meditating on trussing, stuffing, and 
roasting, to a degree that was calculated to inspire terror in 
any reflecting fowl living. Her corn-cake, in an its varieties 
of hoe-cake, dodgers, muffins, and other species too numerous 
to mention, was a sublime mystery to all less practised compounders ; and she would shake her fat sides with honest 
pride and merriment as she would narrate the fruitless efforts 
that one and another of her compeers had made to attain to 
her elevation. 
The arrival of company at the house, the arranging of 
dinners and suppers " in style," awoke all the energies of her 
soul ; and no sight was more welcome to her than a pile of 
travelling trunks launched on the verandah, for then she 
foresaw fresh efforts and fresh triumphs. 
Just at present, however, Aunt Chloe is looking into the 
bake-pan, in which congenial operation we shall leave her till 
we flnish our picture of the cottage. 
In one corner of it stood a bed, covered neatly with a 
snowy spread ; and by the side of it was a piece of carpeting 
of some considerable size. On this piece of carpeting Aunt 
Chloe took her stand, as being decidedly in the upper walks 
of life ; and it and the bed by which it lay, and the whole 
corner, in fact, were treated with distinguished consideration, 
and made, so far as possible, sacred from the marauding 
inroads and desecrations of little folks. In fact, that corner 
was the drawing-room of the establishment. In the other 
corner was a bed of much humbler pretensions, and evidently 
designed for use. The wall over the fireplace was adorned 
with some very brilliant Scriptural prints, and a portrait of 
General Washington, drawn and coloured in a manner which 
would certainly have astonished that hero, if ever he had 
happened to meet with its like. 
On a rough bench in the coroner, a couple of woolly- 
headed boys, with glistening black eyes and fat shining 
cheeks, were busy in superintending the first walking operations of the baby, which, as is usually the case, consisted in 
getting up on its feet, balancing a moment, and then tumbling 
down each successive failure being violently cheered, as 
something decidedly clever. 
A table, somewhat rheumatic in its limbs, was drawn out 
in front of the fire, and covered with a cloth, displaying cups 
and saucers of a decidedly brilliant pattern, with other symptoms of an approaching meal. At this table was seated 
Uncle Tom, Mr. Shelby's best hand, who, as he is to be the 
hero of our story, we must daguerreotype for our readers. 
He was a large, broad-chested, powerfully-made man, of a 
full glossy black, and a face whose truly African features 
were characterised by an expression of grave and steady 
good sense, united with much kindliness and benevolence. 
There was something about his whole air self-respecting and 
dignified, yet united with a confiding and humble simplicity. 
He was very busily intent at this moment on a slate lying 
before him, on which he was carefully and slowly endeavouring to accomplish a copy of some letters; in which operation 
he was overlooked by young Mas'r G-eorge, a smart, bright 
boy of thirteen, who appeared fully to realise the dignity of 
his position as instructor. 
" Not that way, Uncle Tom not that way," said he, 
briskly, as Uncle Tom laboriously brought up the tail of his 
g the wrong side out ; " that makes a q, you see." 
" La sakes, now, does it ? " said Uncle Tom, looking with 
a respectful, admiring air, as his young teacher flourishingly 
scrawled 's and y's innumerable for his edification; and 
then, taking the pencil in his big, heavy fingers, he patiently 
recommenced. 
" How easy white folks al'as does things ! " said Aunt 
Chloe, pausing while she was greasing a griddle with a scrap 
of bacon on her fork, and regarding young Master G-eorge 
with pride. " The way he can write, now ! and read, too ! 
and then to come out here evenings and read his lessons to 
us, it's mighty interestin' ! " 
" But, Aunt Chloe, I'm getting mighty hungry," said 
George. " Isn't that cake in the skillet almost done ?" 
" Mose done, Mas'r George," said Aunt Chloe, lifting the 
lid, and peeping in ; " browning beautiful a real lovely 
brown. Ah, let me alone for dat ! Missis let Sally try to 
make some cake t'other day, jes to larn her, she said. ' Oh, 
go way, missis,' says I ; ' it really hurts my feelins, now, to 
see good vittles spiled dat ar way ! Cake ris all to one side 
no shape at all, no more than my shoe go way ! ' " 
And with this final expression of contempt for Sally's 
greenness, Aunt Chloe whipped the cover of the bake-kettle, 
and disclosed to view a neatly-baked pound-cake, of which 
no city confectioner need to have been ashamed. This 
being evidently the central point of the entertainment, 
Aunt Chloe began now to bustle about earnestly in the 
supper department. 
" Here you, Mose and Pete, get out de way, you niggers ! 
Get away, Polly, honey : mammy'll give her baby somefin 
by-and-by. Now, Mas'r George, you jest take off dem books, 
and set down now with my old man, and I'll take up de 
sausages, and have de first griddle full of cakes on your 
plates in less dan no time." 
" They wanted me to come to supper in the house," said 
George, "but I knew what was what too well for that, 
Aunt Chloe." 
" So you did so you did, honey," said Aunt Chloe, 
heaping the smoking batter-cakes on his plate : " you 
know'd your old aunty 'd keep the best for you. Oh, let you 
alone for dat go way !" 
And with that Aunty gave George a nudge with her 
finger, designed to be immensely facetious, and turned again 
to her griddle with great briskness. 
" Now for the cake," said Mas'r George, when the 
activity of the griddle department had somewhat subsided : 
and with that the youngster nourished a large knife over the 
article in question. 
"La bless you, Mas'r George!" said Aunt Chloe, with 
earnestness, catching his arm ; " you wouldn't be for cuttin' 
it wid dat ar great heavy knife ! Smash all down spile all 
de pretty rise of it ! Here, I've got a thin old knife I keeps 
sharp a purpose. Dar now, see comes apart light as a 
feather ! Now eat away you won't get anything to beat 
datar!" 
" Tom Lincoln says," said George, speaking with his 
mouth full, " that their Jinny is a better cook than you." 
"Dem Lincons an't much 'count no way!" said Aunt 
Chloe, contemptuously ( "I mean, set alongside our folks. 
They's 'spectable folks enough in a kinder plain way : but, 
as to gettin' up anything in style, they don't begin to have a 
notion on't. Set Mas'r Lincon, now, alongside Mas'r Shelby. 
G-ood Lor ! and Missis Lincon can she kinder sweep it 
into a room like my missis so kinder splendid, yer know ? 
Oh, go way! don't tell me nothin' of dem Lincons !" and 
Aunt Chloe tossed her head as one who hoped she did know 
something of the world. 
" Well, though, I've heard you say," said G-eorge, " that 
Jinny was a pretty fair cook." 
" So I did," said Aunt Chloe ; " 1 may say dat. G-ood, 
plain, common cookin', Jinny'll do ; make a good pone of 
bread bile her taters far her corn-cakes isn't extra, not 
extra, now Jinny's corn-cakes isn't, but then they's far. 
But, Lor, come to de higher branches, and what can she do ? 
Why, she makes pies sartin she does; but what kinder 
crust ? Can she make your real flecky paste, as melts in 
your mouth and lies all up like a puff ? Now, I went over 
thar when Miss Mary was gwino to be married, and Jinny 
she jest showed me de weddin' pies. Jinny and I is good 
friends, ye know. I never said nothin' : but go long Mas'r 
G-eorge ! Why, I shouldn't sleep a wink for a week if I 
had a batch of pies like dem ar. Why, dey wa'n't no 
'count 't all." 
" I suppose Jinny thought they were ever so nice," said 
Greorge. 
" Thought so ! didn't she ? Thar she was showing 'em, 
as innocent ! Ye see, it's jest here, Jinny don't know. Lor, 
the family an't nothing ! She can't be 'spected to know ! 
'Tan't no fault o' hern. Ah, Mas'r George, you doesn't 
know half your privileges in yer family and bringin' up !" 
Here Aunt Chloe sighed, and rolled up her eyes with 
emotion. 
"I'm sure Aunt Chloe, I understand all my pie-and- 
pudding privileges," said Greorge. " Ask Tom Lincoln if I 
don't crow over him every time I meet him." 
Aunt Chloe sat back in her chair, and indulged in a 
hearty guffaw of laughter at this witticism of young Mas'r' s, 
laughing till the tears rolled down her black, shining cheeks, 
and varying the exercise with playfully slapping and poking 
Mas'r Greorgey, and telling him to go way, and that he was 
a case that he was fit to kill her, and that he sartin would 
kill her one of these days ; and, between each of these sanguinary predictions, going off into a laugh, each longer and 
stronger than the other, till George really began to think 
that he was a very dangerously witty fellow, and that it 
became him to be careful how he tailed "as funny as he 
could." 
" And so ye telled Tom, did ye ? Lor, what young 
uns will be up ter ! Te crowed over Tom ? Lor, Mas'r 
Greorge, if ye wouldn't make a hornbug laugh ! ' ' 
"Yes," said George, " I says to him, ' Tom, you ought to 
see some of Aunt Chloe's pies ; they're the right sort,' 
says I." 
" Pity, now, Tom couldn't," said Aunt Chloe, on whose 
benevolent heart the idea of Tom's benighted condition 
seemed to make a strong impression. " Ye oughter just 
ask him here to dinner some o' these times, Mas'r Greorge," 
she added ; " it would look quite pretty of ye. Ye know, 
Mas'r Greorge, ye oughtenter feel 'bove nobody on 'count 
yer privileges, 'cause all our privileges is gi'n to us ; we 
ought al'ays to 'member that," said Aunt Chloe, looking 
quite serious. 
" Well, I mean to ask Tom here some day next week," 
said Greorge ; " and you do your prettiest, Aunt Chloe, and 
we'll make him stare. Won't we make him eat so he won't 
get over it for a fortnight ? " 
"Yes, yes sartin," said Aunt Chloe, delighted; "you'll 
see. Lor ! to think of some of our dinners ! Yer mind dat 
ar great chicken-pie I made when we guv de dinner to 
General Knox ? I and missis, we come pretty near quarrelling about dat ar crust. "What does get into ladies sometimes 
I don't know ; but sometimes, when a body has de heaviest 
kind o' 'sponsibility on 'em, as ye may say, and is all kinder 
' seris ' and taken up, dey takes dat ar time to be hangin' 
round and kinder interferin' ! Now, missis, she wanted me 
to do dis way, and she wanted me to do dat way ; and finally 
I got kinder sarcy, and says I, ' Now, missis, do jist look at 
dem beautiful white hands o' yourn, with long fingers, and all 
a sparkling with rings, like my white lilies when de dew's 
,on 'em ; and look at my great black stumpin' hands. Now, 
don't ye think that de Lord must have meant me to make de 
pie-crust, and you to stay in de parlour ? ' Dar ! I was jist 
so sarcy, Mas'r George." 
"And what did mother say ? " said George. 
" Say ? why, she kinder larfed in her eyes dem great 
handsome eyes o' hern ; and says she, ' Well, Aunt Chloe, I 
think you are about in the right on't," says she; and she 
went off in de parlour. She oughter cracked me over de 
head for bein' so sarcy; but dar's whar 'tis I can't do 
nothin' with ladies in de kitchen." 
" Well, you made out well with that dinner I remember 
everybody said so," said George. 
" Didn't I ? And wan't I behind de dinin'-room door dat 
bery day ? and did'nt I see de Gineral pass his plate three 
times for some more dat bery pie ? and, says he,  You must 
have an uncommon cook, Mrs. Shelby.' Lor ! I was fit to 
split myself." 
" And de Grineral, he knows what cookin' is," said Aunt 
Chloe, drawing herself up with an air. " Bery nice man, de 
Grineral ! He comes of one of de bery fastest families in 
Old Virginny ! He knows what's what, now, as well as 
I do de Grineral. Te see, there's pints in all pies, Mas'r 
George ; but tan't every body knows what they is, or orter 
be. But the Gineral, he knows ; I knew by his 'marks he 
made. Yes, he knows what de pints is ! " 
By this time Master George had arrived at that pass to 
which even a boy can come (under uncommon circumstances), 
when he really could not eat another morsel, and, therefore, 
he was at leisure to notice the pile of woolly heads and 
glistening eyes which were regarding their operations 
hungrily from the opposite corner. 
" Here, you Mose, Pete," he said, breaking off liberal bits, 
and throwing it at them; "you want some, don't you? 
Come, Aunt Chloe, bake them some cakes." 
And George and Tom moved to a comfortable seat in the 
chimney-corner, while Aunt Chloe, after baking a goodly 
pile of cakes, took her baby on her lap, and began alternately 
filling its mouth and her own, and distributing to Mose and 
Pete, who seemed rather to prefer eating theirs as they rolled 
about on the floor under the table, tickling each other, and 
occasionally pulling the baby's toes. 
" Oh, go long, will ye ? " said the mother, giving now and 
then a kick, in a kind of general way, under the table, when 
the movement became too obstreperous. " Can't ye be 
decent when white folks come to see ye ? Stop dat ar, now, 
will ye? Better mind yerselves, or I'll take ye down a 
button-hole lower, when Mas'r Greorge is gone ! " 
What meaning was couched under this terrible threat it is 
difficult to say ; but certain it is that its awful indistinctness 
seemed to produce very little impression on the young sinners 
addressed. 
" La, now ! " said Uncle Tom, " they are so Ml of tickle 
all the while, they can't behave theirselves." 
Here the boys emerged from under the table, and, with 
hands and faces well plastered with molasses, began a vigorous 
kissing of the baby. 
" Get along wid ye !" said the mother, pushing away their 
woolly heads. " Ye'll all stick together, and never get clar, 
if ye do dat fashion. Glo long to de spring and wash yerselves ! ' ' 
she said, seconding her exhortations by a slap, which 
resounded very formidably, but which seemed only to knock 
out so much more laugh from the young ones, as they 
tumbled precipitately over each other out-of-doors, where 
they fairly screamed with merriment. 
"Did ye ever see such aggravating young uns?" said 
Aunt Chloe, rather complacently, as, producing an old towel, 
kept for such emergencies, she poured a little water out of 
the cracked teapot on it, and began rubbing oif the molasses 
from the baby's face and hands ; and having polished her 
till she shone, she set her down in Tom's lap, while she 
busied herself in clearing away supper. The baby employed 
the intervals in pulling Tom's nose, scratching his face, and 
burying her fat hands in his woolly hair ; which last operation 
seemed to afford her special content. 
" Ain't she a peart young un ? " said Tom, holding her 
from him to take a full-length view ; then, getting up, he set 
her on his broad shoulder, and began capering and dancing 
with her, while Mas'r Greorge snapped at her with his pocket- 
handkerchief, and Mose and Pete, now returned again, roared 
after her like bears, till Aunt Chloe declared that they " fairly 
took her head oif" with their noise. As, according to her own 
statement, this surgical operation was a matter of daily 
occurrence in the cabin, the declaration no whit abated the 
merriment, till every one had roared, and tumbled, and 
danced themselves down to a state of composure. 
" Well, now, I hopes you're done," said Aunt Chloe, 
who had been busy in pulling out a rude box of a trundle- 
bed ; " and now, you Mose and you Pete, get into thar ; for 
we's going to have the meetinV 
" Oh, mother, we don't wanter. We wants to sit up to 
meetin' meetin's is so curis. We likes 'em." 
" La, Aunt Chloe, shove it under, and let 'em sit up," 
said Mas'r George, decisively, giving a push to the rude 
machine. 
Aunt Chloe, having thus saved appearances, seemed highly 
delighted to push the thing under, saying, as she did so, 
" Well, mebbe 'twill do 'em some good." 
The house now resolved itself into a committee of the 
whole, to consider the accommodations and arrangements for 
the meeting. 
"What we's to do for cheers, now, I declare I don't 
know," said Aunt Chloe. As the meeting had been held at 
Uncle Tom's weekly, for an indefinite length of time, without 
anymore "cheers," there seemed some encouragement to 
hope that a way would be discovered at present. 
" Old Uncle Peter sung both de legs out of dat oldest 
cheer, last week," suggested Mose. 
" You go long ! I'll boun' you pulled 'em out ; some o' 
your shines," said Aunt Chloe. 
" Well, it '11 stand, if it only keeps jam up agin de wall !" 
said Mose. 
"Den Uncle Peter mus'n't sit in it, 'cause he al'ays 
hitches when he gets a singing. He hitched pretty nigh 
across de room t'other night," said Pete. 
" Good Lor ! get him in it, then," said Mose, " and den 
he'd begin, ' Come, saints and sinners, hear me tell,' and 
den down he'd go. And Mose imitated precisely the nasal 
tones of the old man, tumbling on the floor to illustrate the 
supposed catastrophe. 
"Come, now, be decent, can't ye?" said Aunt Chloe; 
"an'tyer shamed?" 
Mas'r George, however, joined the offender in the laugh, 
and declared decidedly that Mose was a " buster." So the 
maternal admonition seemed rather to fail of effect. 
" Well, ole man," said Aunt Chloe, " you'll have to tote 
in them ar bar'ls." 
" Mother's barl's is like dat ar widder's Mas'r George was 
reading 'bout in de good book dey never fails," said Mose, 
aside to Pete. 
"I'm sure one on 'em caved in last week," said Pete, 
" and let 'em all down in de middle of de singin' ; dat ar 
was failin', warn't it?" 
During this aside between Mose and Pete, two empty 
casks had been rolled into the cabin, and being secured from 
rolling by stones on each side, boards were laid across them, 
which arrangement, together with the turning down of certain 
tubs and pails, and the disposing of the rickety chairs, at last 
completed the preparation. 
" Mas'r George is such a beautiful reader, now, I know 
he'll stay to read for us," said Aunt Chloe ; " 'pears like 
't will be much more interestin'." 
G-eorge very readily consented, for your boy is always 
ready for any thing that makes him of importance. 
The room was soon filled with a motley assemblage, 
from the old grey-headed patriarch of eighty to the young girl 
and lad of fifteen. A little harmless gossip ensued on various 
themes, such as where old Aunt Sally got her new red head- 
kerchief, and how " missis was a-going to give Lizzy that 
spotted muslin gown, when she'd got her new berage made 
up ; " and how Mas'r Shelby was thinking of buying a new 
sorrel colt, that was going to prove an addition to the glories 
of the place. A few of the worshippers belonged to families 
hard by, who had got permission to attend, and who brought 
in various choice scraps of information, about the sayings and 
doings at the house and on the place, which circulated as freely 
as the same sort of small change does in higher circles. 
After awhile the singing commenced, to the evident 
delight of all present. Not even all the disadvantage of 
nasal intonation could prevent the effect of the naturally 
fine voices, in airs at once wild and spirited. The words 
were sometimes the well-known and common hymns sung 
in the churches about, and sometimes of a wilder, more 
indefinite character, picked up at camp-meetings. 
The chorus to one of them, which ran as follows, was sung 
with great energy and unction : 
" Die on the field of battle, 
Die on the field of battle, 
Glory in my souL" 
Another special favourite had oft repeated the words 
" Oh, I'm going to glory won't you come along with me ? 
Don't you see the angels beck'ning, and calling me away ? 
Don't you see the golden city and the everlasting day ] " 
There were others, which made incessant mention of 
"Jordan's banks," and "Canaan's fields," and the "New 
Jerusalem ;" for the negro mmd v impassioned and, imagi- 
native, always attaches itself to hymns and expressions of a 
vivid and pictorial nature ; and, as they sang, some laughed, 
and some cried, and some clapped hands, or shook hands 
rejoicingly with each other, as if they had fairly gained the 
other side of the river. 
Various exhortations or relations of experience followed, 
and intermingled with the singing. One old grey-headed 
woman, long past work, but much revered as a sort of 
chronicle of the past, rose, and leaning on her staif, said : 
" Well, chil'en ! Well, I'm mighty glad to hear ye all 
and see ye all once more, 'cause I don't know when I'll be 
gone to glory ; but I've done got ready, chil'en ; 'pears like 
I'd got my little bundle all tied up, and my bonnet on, jest 
a waitin' for the stage to come along and take me home ; 
sometimes, in the night, I think I hear the wheels a rattlin', 
and I'm looking out all the time : now, you jest be ready 
too, for I tell ye all, chil'en," she said, striking her staff 
hard on the floor, " dat ar glory is a mighty thing ! It's a 
mighty thing, chil'en you don'no nothin' about it it's 
wonderful" And the old creature sat down, with streaming 
tears, as wholly overcome, while the whole circle struck up 
" Oh, Canaan, bright Canaan, 
