store in Second street?"

"Very well."

"He died last week."

"I noticed his death in the papers."

"He has appointed me his executor."

"Ah?"

"Yes; and I wish to my heart he had appointed somebody else. I've too
much business of my own to attend to."

"Of course," said Claire, "you will receive your regular commissions
for attending to the settlement of his estate."

"Poor picking there," replied Jasper, shrugging his shoulders. "I'd
very cheerfully give up the profit to be rid of the trouble. But that
doesn't signify now. Elder has left his affairs in my hands, and I
must give them at least some attention. I'm not coming to the point,
however. A little while ago I witnessed the most painful scene that
ever fell under my eyes."

"Ah!"

"Yes, truly. Ugh! It makes the chills creep over me as I think of
it. Last evening I received regular notification of my appointment as
executor to Elder's estate, and to-day thought it only right to call
upon the widow, and see if any present service were needed by the
family. Such a scene as I encountered! Mrs. Elder was just at the
point of death, and expired a few moments after my entrance. Besides
a single domestic and a child, I was the only witness of her last
extremity."

"Shocking!"

"You may well say shocking, Edward, unprepared as I was for such an
occurrence. My nerves are quivering yet."

"Then the widow is dead also?"

"Yes; both have gone to their long home."

"How many children are left?"

"Only one--a little girl, not, I should think, above four years of
age."

"Some near relative will, I presume, take charge of her."

"In dying, the mother declared that she had no friend to whom she
could leave the child. On me, therefore, devolves the care of seeing
to its maintenance."

"No friend. Poor child! and of so tender an age!"

"She is young, certainly, to be left alone in the world."

Jasper uttered these words, but felt nothing of the sad meaning they
involved.

"What disposition will you make of her?" asked Claire.

"I've had no time to think of that yet. Other matters are first to be
regarded. So let me come to the point. Mrs. Elder is dead; and, as far
as I could see, there is no living soul, beyond a frightened servant,
to do any thing. Whether she will have the presence of mind to call in
the neighbours, is more than I can say. I left in the bewilderment of
the moment; and now remember me that something is to be done for the
dead. Will you go to the house, and see what is needed? In the next
block is an undertaker; you had better call, on your way, and ask him
to go with you. All arrangements necessary for the funeral can be left
in his hands. Just take this whole matter off of me, Edward, and I
will be greatly obliged to you. I have a good many things on my mind,
that must receive close attention."

The young man offered no objection, although the service was far from
being agreeable. On his return, after the absence of an hour, Jasper
had, of course, many inquiries to make. Claire appeared serious. The
fact was, he had seen enough to touch his feelings deeply. The grief
of the orphaned child, as he was a witness thereto, had brought tears
upon his cheeks, in spite of every manly effort to restrain them. Her
extreme beauty struck him at the first glance, even obscured as it was
under a vail of sorrow and weeping.

"There were several persons in, you say?" remarked Jasper, after
Claire had related a number of particulars.

"Yes, three or four."

"Ladies, of course?"

"Yes."

"Did any of them propose to take the child home with them?"

"Not directly. One woman asked me a number of questions about the
little girl."

"Of what nature?"

"As to whether there were any relatives or particular friends who
would take charge of her?"

"And you told her there were none?"

"Yes; none of whom I had any knowledge."

"Well? What had she to say to that?"

"She wanted to know if there would be any thing for the child's
support. I said that there would, in all probability."

"Well?"

"Then she gave me to understand, that if no one took the child, she
might be induced to board her for a while, until other arrangements
were made."

"Did you give her to understand that this was practicable?"

"No, sir."

"Why not? She will have to be boarded, you know."

"I neither liked the woman's face, manner, nor appearance."

"Why not?"

"Oh, she was a vulgar, coarse, hard-looking creature to my eyes."

"Kind hearts often lie concealed under unpromising externals."

"True; but they lie not concealed under that exterior, be well
assured, Mr. Jasper. No, no. The child who has met with so sad a loss
as that of a mother, needs the tenderest guardianship. At best, the
case is hard enough."

Jasper did not respond to this humane sentiment, for there was no pity
in him. The waves of feeling, stirred so suddenly a few hours before,
had all subsided, and the surface of his heart bore no ripple of
emotion. He thought not of the child as an object claiming his regard,
but as a trouble and a hinderance thrown in his way, to be disposed of
as summarily as possible.

"I'm obliged to you, Edward, for the trouble you have taken in my
stead," he remarked, after a slight pause. "To-morrow, I may wish
you to call there again. Of course, the neighbours will give needful
attention until the funeral takes place. By that time, perhaps, the
child will have made a friend of some one of them, and secure, through
this means, a home for the present. It is, for us, a troublesome
business at best, though it will soon be over."

A person coming in at the moment, Claire left his employer to attend
at the counter. The new customer, it was quickly perceived by the
clerk, was one who might readily be deceived into buying the articles
for which she inquired, at a rate far in advance of their real value;
and he felt instantly tempted to ask her a very high price. Readily,
for it was but acting from habit, did he yield to this temptation. His
success was equal to his wishes. The woman, altogether unsuspicious
of the cheat practised upon her, paid for her purchases the sum of
ten dollars above their true value. She lingered a short time after
settling her bill, and made some observation upon a current topic
of the day. One or two casually-uttered sentiments did not fall like
refreshing dew upon the feelings of Claire, but rather stung him like
words of sharp rebuke, and made him half regret the wrong he had done
to her. He felt relieved when she retired.

It so happened that, while this customer was in, Jasper left the
store. Soon after, a clerk went to dinner. Only a lad remained with
Claire, and he was sent up-stairs to arrange some goods.

The hour of temptation had again come, and the young man's mind was
overshadowed by the powers of darkness.

"Ten dollars clear gain on that transaction," said he to himself, as
he drew open the money-drawer in which he had deposited the cash paid
to him by his late customer.

For some time his thoughts were busy, while his fingers toyed with the
gold and bills in the drawer. Two five-dollar pieces were included in
the payment just received.

"Jasper, surely, ought to be satisfied with one of these." Thus he
began to argue with himself. "I drove the bargain; am I not entitled
to a fair proportion of the profit? It strikes me so. What wrong will
it be to him? Wrong? Humph! Wrong? The wrong has been done already;
but it falls not on his head.

"If I am to do this kind of work for him,"--the feelings of Claire
now commenced running in a more disturbed channel; there were deep
contractions on his forehead, and his lips were shut firmly,--"this
kind of work, I must have a share of the benefit. If I am to sell my
soul, Leonard Jasper shall not have the whole price."

Deliberately, as he spoke this within himself, did Claire take from
the drawer a five-dollar gold piece, and thrust it into his pocket.

"Mine, not his," were the words with which he approved the act. At
the same instant Jasper entered. The young man's heart gave a sudden
bound, and there was guilt in his face, but Jasper did not read its
true expression.

"Well, Edward," said he, cheerfully, "what luck did you have with the
old lady? Did she make a pretty fair bill?"

"So-so," returned Claire, with affected indifference; "about thirty
dollars."

"Ah! so much?"

"Yes; and, what is better, I made her pay pretty strong. She was from
the country."

"That'll do." And Jasper rubbed his hands together energetically. "How
much over and above a fair percentage did you get?"

"About five dollars."

"Good, again! You're a trump, Edward."

If Edward Claire was relieved to find that no suspicion had been
awakened in the thoughts of Jasper, he did not feel very strongly
flattered by his approving words. The truth was, at the very moment he
was relating what he had done, there came into his mind, with a
most startling distinctness, the dream of his wife, and the painful
feelings it had occasioned.

"What folly! What madness! Whither am I going?"

These were his thoughts now, born of a quick revulsion of feeling.

"It is your dinner-time, Edward. Get back as soon as possible. I want
to be home a little earlier than usual to-day."

Thus spoke Mr. Jasper; and the young man, taking up his hat, left the
store. He had never felt so strangely in his life. The first step in
crime had been taken; he had fairly entered the downward road to ruin.
Where was it all to end? Placing his fingers, almost without thought,
in his pocket, they came in contact with the gold-piece obtained by
a double crime--the robbery both of a customer and his employer.
Quickly, as if he had touched a living coal, was the hand of Claire
withdrawn, while a low chill crept along his nerves. It required some
resolution for the young man to meet his pure-hearted, clear-minded
wife, whose quick intuitions of good or evil in others he had over and
over again been led to remark. Once, as he moved along, he thrust his
hand into his pocket, with the suddenly-formed purpose of casting the
piece of money from him, and thus cancelling his guilt. But, ere the
act was accomplished, he remembered that in this there would be no
restoration, and so refrained.

Edward Claire felt, while in the presence of his young wife, that she
often looked into his face with more than usual earnestness. This not
only embarrassed but slightly fretted him, and led him to speak once
in a way that brought tears to her eyes.

Not a minute longer than necessary did Claire remain at home. The fact
that his employer had desired him to return to the store as quickly
as possible, was an all-sufficient reason for his unusual hurry to get
away.

The moment the door closed upon him, his wife burst into tears. On
her bosom lay a most oppressive weight, and in her mind was a vague,
troubled sense of approaching evil. She felt that there was danger in
the path of her husband; but of its nature she could divine little
or nothing. All day her dream had haunted her; and now it reproduced
itself in her imagination with painful distinctness. Vainly she strove
to drive it from her thoughts; it would not be gone. Slowly the hours
wore on for her, until the deepening twilight brought the period
when her husband was to return again. To this return her mind looked
forward with an anxiety that could not be repressed.

The dreaded meeting with his wife over, Claire thought with less
repugnance of what he had done, and was rather inclined to justify
than condemn himself.

"It's the way of the world," so he argued; "and unless I do as the
world does, I must remain where I am--at the bottom of the ladder. But
why should I stay below, while all around me are struggling upward? As
for what preachers and moralists call strictly fair dealing, it may be
all well enough in theory, pleasant to talk about, and all that; but
it won't do in practice, as the world now is. Where each is grasping
all that he can lay his hands on, fair or foul, one must scramble
with the rest, or get nothing. That is so plain that none can deny the
proposition. So, Edward Claire, if you wish to rise above your present
poor condition, if you wish to get rich, like your enterprising
neighbours, you must do as they do. If I go in for a lamb, I might as
well take a sheep: the morality of the thing is the same. If I take a
large slice off of a customer, why shall not a portion of that slice
be mine; ay, the whole of it, if I choose to make the appropriation?
All Jasper can fairly ask, is a reasonable profit: if I, by my
address, get more than this, surely I may keep a part thereof. Who
shall say nay?"

Justifying himself by these and similar false reasonings, the young
man thrust aside the better suggestions, from which he was at first
inclined to retrace the false step he had taken; and wilfully shutting
his eyes, resolved to go forward in his evil and dangerous course.

During the afternoon of that day a larger number of customers than
usual were in, and Claire was very busily occupied. He made three or
four large sales, and was successful in getting several dollars in
excess of fair profit from one not very well skilled in prices. In
making an entry of this particular transaction in the memorandum
sales-book, the figures recorded were three dollars less than the
actual amount received. So, on this, the first day of the young
man's lapse from honesty, he had appropriated the sum of eight
dollars--nearly equal to his entire week's salary! For such a recent
traveller in this downward road, how rapid had already become his
steps!

Evening found him again alone, musing and debating with himself, ere
locking up the store and returning home. The excitement of business
being over, his thoughts flowed in a calmer current; and the stillness
of the deserted room gave to his feelings a hue of sobriety. He was
not altogether satisfied with himself. How could he be? No man ever
was satisfied with himself, when seclusion and silence found him after
his first departure from the right way. Ah, how little is there
in worldly possessions, be it large or small, to compensate for a
troubled, self-accusing spirit! how little to throw in the balance
against the heavy weight of conscious villany!

How tenderly, how truly, how devotedly had Edward Claire loved the
young wife of his bosom, since the hour the pulses of their spirits
first beat in joyful unity! How eager had he ever been to turn his
face homeward when the shadows of evening began to fall! But now he
lingered--lingered, though all the business of the day was over. The
thought of his wife created no quick impulse to be away. He felt more
like shunning her presence. He even for a time indulged a motion of
anger toward her for what he mentally termed her morbid sensitiveness
in regard to others' right--her dreamy ideal of human perfection.

"We are in the world, and we must do as it does. We must take it as it
is, not as it should be."

So he mused with himself, in a self-approving argument. Yet he could
not banish the accusing spirit; he could not silence the inward voice
of warning.

Once there came a strong revulsion. Good impulses seemed about to
gain the mastery. In this state of mind, he took from his pocket his
ill-gotten gains, and threw them into the money-box, which had already
been placed in the fire-closet.

"What good will that do?" said he to himself, as the wave of better
feelings began to subside. "All the sales-entries have been made, and
the cash balanced; Jasper made the balance himself. So the cash
will only show an excess to be accounted for; and from this may
come suspicion. It is always more hazardous to go backward than
forward--(false reasoner!)--to retrace our steps than to press boldly
onward. No, no. This will not mend the matter."

And Claire replaced the money in his pocket. In a little while
afterward, he left the store, and took his way homeward.




CHAPTER IV.


As on the previous evening, Mrs. Claire was alone for some time later
than usual, but now with an anxious, almost fearful looking for her
husband's return. Suddenly she had taken the alarm. A deep, brooding
shadow was on her heart, though she could not see the bird of night
from whose wings it had fallen. Frequently, during the afternoon,
tears had wet her cheek; and when an old friend of her mother's, who
lived in the country, and who had come to the city in order to make
a few purchases, called to see her, it was with difficulty she could
hide her disturbed feelings from observation.

The absent one came in at last, and with so much of the old, frank,
loving spirit in his voice and manner, that the troubled heart of Mrs.
Claire beat with freer pulsations. And yet something about her husband
appeared strange. There was a marked difference between his state of
mind now, and on the evening before. Even at dinner-time he was silent
and abstracted.

In fact, Edward Claire was, for the first time, acting a part toward
his wife; and, as in all such cases, there was sufficient over-action
to betray the artifice, or, at least, to awaken a doubt. Still, Edith
was greatly relieved by the change, and she chided herself for having
permitted doubt and vague questionings to find a harbour in her
thoughts.

During tea-time, Claire chatted freely, as was his custom; but he grew
serious as they sat together, after the table was cleared away, and
Edith had taken her sewing. Then, for the first time, he thought out
of himself sufficiently to remember his visit to the house of death in
the morning, and he said--

"I witnessed something this morning, dear, that has made me feel sad
ever since."

"What was that, Edward?" inquired the wife, looking instantly into his
face, with a strongly manifested interest.

"I don't think you knew Mr. Elder or his family--Ruben Elder?"

"I have heard the name, nothing more."

"Mr. Elder died last week."

"Ah! What family did he leave?"

"A wife and one child."

Mrs. Claire sighed.

"Did he leave them comfortably off in the world?" she asked, after a
brief silence.

"I don't know; but I'm afraid, he's not left much, if any thing. Mr.
Jasper has been appointed the executor."

"Mr. Jasper!"

"Yes. This morning he called to see Mrs. Elder, and found her in a
very low state. In fact, she died while he was there."

"Edward! Died?"

"Yes, died; and her only child, a sweet little girl, not five years
old, is now a friendless orphan."

"How very sad!"

"Sad enough, Edith, sad enough. Mr. Jasper, who has no taste for
scenes of distress, wished me to look after the funeral arrangements;
so I went to the house, and attended to matters as well as I could. Ah
me! It has cast a gloom over my feelings that I find it hard to cast
off."

"Did you see the child?" inquired Mrs. Claire, the mother's impulse
giving direction to her thoughts.

"Yes; and a lovely child it is. Poor thing!"

"There are near relatives, I presume?"

"None; at least, so Jasper says."

"What is to become of the child?"

"Dear above knows! As for her legal guardian, she has nothing to hope
from his humanity. She will naturally find a home somewhere--a home
procured for money. But her future comfort and well-being will depend
more on a series of happy accidents than on the good-will of the
hard-hearted man to whose tender mercies the dying parents have
committed her."

"Not happy accidents, Edward," said Mrs. Claire, with a tender smile;
"say, wise providences. There is no such thing as chance."

"As you will, dear," returned the husband, with a slight change in his
tone. "I would not call that providence wise by which Leonard Jasper
became the guardian of a friendless child."

"This is because you cannot see the end from the beginning, Edward.
The Lord's providence does not regard merely the external comfort and
well-being of his creatures; it looks far beyond this, and regards
their internal interests. It permits evil and suffering to-day, but
only that good, a higher than earthly good, may come on the morrow.
It was no blind chance, believe me, my husband, that led to the
appointment of Mr. Jasper as the guardian of this poor child. Eternal
purposes are involved therein, as surely as God is infinitely wise and
good. Good to one, perhaps to many, will grow out of what now seems a
deeply to be regretted circumstance."

"You're a happy reasoner, Edith. I wish I could believe in so
consoling a philosophy."

"Edward!" There was a change in Mrs. Claire's voice, and a look
blending surprise with a gentle rebuke in her countenance. "Edward,
how can you speak so? Is not mine the plain Christian doctrine? Is it
not to be found everywhere in the Bible?"

"Doubtless, Edith; but I'm not one of the pious kind, you know."

Claire forced a smile to his face, but his wife looked serious, and
remarked--

"I don't like to hear you talk so, Edward. There is in it, to
me, something profane. Ah, my dear husband, in this simple yet
all-embracing doctrine of providence lies the whole secret of human
happiness. If our Creator be infinite, wise, and good, he will seek
the well-being of his creatures, even though they turn from him to do
violence to his laws; and, in his infinite love and wisdom, will so
order and arrange events as to make every thing conspire to the end
in view. Both bodily and mental suffering are often permitted to take
place, as the only agencies by which to counteract hereditary evils
that would otherwise destroy the soul."

"Ah, Edie! Edie!" said Claire, interrupting his wife, in a fond,
playful tone, "you are a wise preacher, and as good as you are wise.
I only wish that I could see and feel as you do; no doubt it would be
better for me in the end. But such a wish is vain."

"Oh, say not so, dear husband!" exclaimed Edith, with unexpected
earnestness; "say not so! It hurts me almost like words of personal
unkindness."

"But how can I be as good as you are? It isn't in me."

"I am not good, Edward. There is none good but God," answered the wife
solemnly.

"Oh yes, yes! You are an angel!" returned Claire, with a sudden
emotion that he could not control. "And I--and I--"

He checked himself, turned his face partly away to conceal its
expression, sat motionless for a moment, and then burying his face
on the bosom of his wife, sobbed for the space of nearly a minute,
overcome by a passion that he in vain struggled to master.

Never had Edith seen her husband so moved. No wonder that she was
startled, even frightened.

"Oh, Edward, dear Edward! what ails you?" were her eager, agitated
words, so soon as she could speak. "What has happened? Oh, tell me, my
husband, my dear husband!"

But Claire answered not, though he was gaining some control over his
feelings.

"Oh, Edward! won't you speak to me? Won't you tell me all your
troubles, all your heart? Am I not your wife, and do I not love you
with a love no words can express? Am I not your best and closest
friend? Would I not even lay down my life for your good? Dear Edward,
what has caused this great emotion?"

Thus urged, thus pleaded the tearful Edith. But there was no reply,
though the strong tremor which had thrilled through the frame of
Claire had subsided. He was still bowed forward, with his face hid
on her bosom, while her arm was drawn lovingly around him. So they
remained for a time longer. At length, the young man lifted himself
up, and fixed his eyes upon her. His countenance was pale and sad, and
bore traces of intense suffering.

"My husband! my dear husband!" murmured Edith.

"My wife! my good angel!" was the low, thrilling response; and Claire
pressed his lips almost reverently upon the brow of his wife.

"I have had a fearful dream, Edith!" said he; "a very fearful dream.
Thank God, I am awake now."

"A dream, Edward?" returned his wife, not fully comprehending him.

"Yes, love, a dream; yet far too real. Surely, I dreamed, or was
under some dire enchantment. But the spell is gone--gone, I trust, for
ever."

"What spell, love? Oh, speak to me a plainer language!"

"I think, Edith," said the young man, after remaining thoughtfully
silent for some time, "that I will try and get another place. I don't
believe it is good for me to live with Leonard Jasper. Gold is the god
he worships; and I find myself daily tempted to bend my knee in the
same idolatry."

"Edward!" A shadow had fallen on the face of Edith.

"You look troubled at my words, Edith," resumed the young man; "yet
what I say is true, too true. I wish it were not so. Ah! this
passage through the world, hard and toilsome as it is, has many, many
dangers."

"If we put our trust in God, we need have no fear," said Edith, in a
gentle yet earnest and penetrating voice, laying her hand lovingly on
the hot forehead of her husband, and gazing into his eyes.

"Nothing without can harm us. Our worst enemies are within."

"Within?"

"Yes, love; within our bosoms. Into our distrusts and unsatisfied
desires they enter, and tempt us to evil."

"True, true," said Claire, in an abstracted manner, and as if speaking
to himself.

"What more do we want to make us happy?" asked Edith, comprehending
still more clearly her husband's state of mind.

Claire sighed deeply, but made no answer.

"More money could not do it," she added.

"Money would procure us many comforts that we do not now possess,"
said the young man.

"I doubt this, Edward. It might give more of the elegancies of life;
but, as I have often said, these do not always produce corresponding
pleasure. If they come, without too ardent seeking, in the good
pleasure of Providence, as the reward of useful and honest labour,
then they may increase the delights of life; but never otherwise.
If the heart is set on them, their acquirement will surely end in
disappointment. Possession will create satiety; and the mind too
quickly turns from the good it has toiled for in hope so long, to fret
itself because there is an imagined higher good beyond. Believe me,
Edward, if we are not satisfied with what God gives us as the reward
of useful toil to-day, we will not be satisfied with what he gives
to-morrow."

"Perhaps you are right, Edith; I believe you are. My mind has a
glimpse of the truth, but to fully realize it is hard. Ah, I wish that
I possessed more of your trusting spirit!"

"We are both cared for, Edward, by the same infinite love--cared for,
whether we doubt and fear, or trust confidingly."

"It must be so. I see it now, I feel it now--see it and feel it in
the light of your clearer intuitions. Ah, how different from this pure
faith is the faith of the world! Men worship gold as their god; they
trust only in riches."

"And their god is ever mocking them. To-day he smiles upon his
votary, and to-morrow hides his face in darkness. To-day he gives
full coffers, that are empty to-morrow. But the true riches offered so
freely to all by the living God are blessed both in the getting and
in the keeping. These never produce satiety, never take to themselves
wings. Good affections and true thoughts continually nourish and
re-create the mind. They are the soul's wealth, the perennial
fountains of all true enjoyment. With these, and sufficient for the
body's health and comfort, all may be happy: without them, the riches
of the world have no power to satisfy."

A pause ensued, during which the minds of both wandered back a little.

"If you feel," said Edith, recalling the words of her husband, "that
there is danger in remaining where you are"--

"That was hastily spoken," Edward Claire interrupted his wife, "and in
a moment of weakness. I must resist the evil that assaults me. I must
strive with and overcome the tempter. I must think less of this world
and its riches; and in my thoughts place a higher value upon the
riches without wings of which you have spoken to me so often."

"Can you remain where you are, and be out of danger?" asked Edith.

"There is danger everywhere."

"Ay; but in some positions more imminent danger. Is it well to court
temptation?"

"Perhaps not. But I cannot afford to give up my place with Jasper."

"Yet, while remaining, you will be strongly tempted."

"Jasper is dishonest at heart. He is ever trying to overreach in
dealing, and expects every one in his employment to be as keen as
himself."

"Oh, Edward, do not remain with him a day longer! There is death to
the spirit in the very atmosphere around such a man. You cannot serve
such a master, and be true to yourself and to God. It is impossible."

"I believe you are right in that, Edith; I know you are right," said
the young man, with a strong emphasis on the last sentence. "But
what am I to do? Five hundred dollars a year is little enough for our
wants; I have, as you know, been dissatisfied with that. I can hardly
get as much in another situation. I know of but one opening, and that
is with Melleville."

"Go back to him, Edward," said his wife.

"And get but four hundred a year? It is all he can pay."

"If but three hundred, it were a situation far to be preferred to the
one you now hold."

"A hundred dollars a year, Edith, taken from our present income, would
deprive us of many comforts."

"Think of how much we would gain in true inward enjoyment, Edward, by
such a change. Have you grown happier since you entered the store of
Mr. Jasper?"

The young man shook his head sadly, and murmured, "Alas! no."

"Can anything compensate for the anguish of mind we have both suffered
in the last few hours, Edward?"

There was a quick flushing of the face, as Edith said this.

"Both suffered!" exclaimed Edward, with a look of surprise.

"Ay, both, love. Can the heart of my husband feel a jar of discord,
and mine not thrill painfully? Can he be in temptation, without an
overshadowing of my spirit? Can he be in darkness, and I at the same
time in light? No, no; that were impossible. You have been in great
peril; I knew that some evil threatened you, even before you confessed
it with your lips. Oh, Edward, we have both tasted, in the last few
hours, a bitterer cup than has yet been placed to our lips. May we not
be called upon to drink it to the very dregs!"

"Amen!" fell solemnly from the lips of Edward Claire, as a cold
shudder crept along his nerves. If there had been any wavering in his
mind before, there was none now. He resolved to make restitution in
the morning, and, as soon as opportunity offered, to leave a place
where he was so strongly tempted to step aside from the path of
integrity. The virtue of his wife had saved him.




CHAPTER V.


"Edward," said Mr. Jasper, on the next morning, soon after he came to
the store, "Was any time fixed for the funeral yesterday?"

"I believe not."

"That was an oversight. It might as well take place to-day as
to-morrow, or a week hence, if there are no intimate friends or
relatives to be thought of or consulted. I wish you would take the
forenoon to see about this troublesome matter. The undertaker will, of
course, do every thing according to your directions. Let there be as
little expense as possible."

While they were yet speaking, the undertaker came in to make inquiry
as to the funeral arrangements to be observed.

"Is the coffin ready?" asked Jasper, in a cold, business manner.

"It is," was the reply.

"What of the ground? Did you see to her husband's funeral?"

"Yes. I have attended to all these matters. Nothing remains but to fix
the time, and notify the clergyman."

"Were you at the house this morning?" asked Jasper.

"I was."

"Who did you find there?"

"One or two of the neighbours were in."

"No near relatives of the deceased?"

"Not to my knowledge."

"Was any thing said about the time for burying Mrs. Elder?"

"No. That matter, I suppose, will rest with you."

"In that case, I see no reason for delay," said Jasper. "What end is
served?"

"The sooner it is over the better."

"So I think. Suppose we say this afternoon?"

"Very well. The time might be fixed at five. The graveyard is not very
distant. How many carriages shall I order?"

"Not many. Two, I should think, would be enough," replied Jasper.
"There will not be much left, I presume; therefore, the lighter the
funeral expenses the better. By the way, did you see the child, when
you were there this morning?"

"No, sir."

"Some neighbour has, in all probability, taken it."

"Very likely. It is a beautiful child."

"Yes--rather pretty," was Jasper's cold response.

"So young to be left alone in the world. Ah, me! But these things will
happen. So, you decide to have the funeral at five this afternoon?"

"Yes; unless something that we do not now know of, interferes to
prevent. The quicker a matter like this is over the better."

"True. Very well."

"You will see to every thing?"

"Certainly; that is my business. Will you be at the house this
afternoon?"

"At the time of the funeral?"

"Yes."

"I think not. I can't do any good."

"No,--only for the looks of the thing."

The undertaker was already beginning to feel the heartless
indifference of Jasper, and his last remark was half in irony, half in
smothered contempt.

"Looks! Oh! I never do any thing for looks. If I can be of any
service, I will be there--but, if not, not. I'm a right up-and-down,
straight-forward man of the world, you see."

The undertaker bowed, saying that all should be as he wished.

"You can step around there, after a while, Edward," said Jasper, as
soon as the undertaker had retired. "When you go, I wish you would
ascertain, particularly, what has been done with the child. If a
neighbour has taken her home, make inquiry as to whether she will be
retained in the family; or, better still, adopted. You can hint, in a
casual way, you know, that her parents have left property, which may,
some time or other, be valuable. This may be a temptation, and turn
the scale in favour of adoption; which may save me a world of trouble
and responsibility."

"There is some property left?" remarked Claire.

"A small house or two, and a bit of worthless land in the mountains.
All, no doubt, mortgaged within a trifle of their value. Still, it's
property you know; and the word 'property' has a very attractive sound
in some people's ears."

A strong feeling of disgust toward Jasper swelled in the young man's
heart, but he guarded against its expression in look or words.

A customer entering at the moment, Claire left his principal and moved
down behind the counter. He was not very agreeably affected, as the
lady approached him, to see in her the person from whom he had taken
ten dollars on the previous day, in excess of a reasonable profit. Her
serious face warned him that she had discovered the cheat.

"Are you the owner of this store?" she asked, as she leaned upon the
counter, and fixed her mild, yet steady eyes, upon the young man's
face.

"I am not, ma'am," replied Claire, forcing a smile as he spoke.
"Didn't I sell you a lot of goods yesterday?"

"You did, sir."

"I thought I recognised you. Well, ma'am, there was an error in your
bill--an overcharge."

"So I should think."

"A overcharge of five dollars."

Claire, while he affected an indifferent manner, leaned over toward
the woman and spoke in a low tone of voice. Inwardly, he was trembling
lest Jasper should became cognizant of what was passing.

"Will you take goods for what is due you; or shall I hand you back the
money?" said he.

"As I have a few more purchases to make, I may as well take goods,"
was replied, greatly to the young man's relief.

"What shall I show you, ma'am?" he asked, in a voice that now reached
the attentive ears of Jasper, who had been wondering to himself as to
what was passing between the clerk and customer.

A few articles were mentioned, and, in a little while, another bill of
seven dollars was made.

"I am to pay you two dollars, I believe?" said the lady, after Claire
had told her how much the articles came to. As she said this, Jasper
was close by and heard the remark.

"Right, ma'am," answered the clerk.

The customer laid a ten-dollar bill on the counter. Claire saw that
the eyes of Jasper were on him. He took it up, placed it in the
money-drawer, and stood some time fingering over the change and small
bills. Then, with his back turned toward Jasper, he slipped a five
dollar gold piece from his pocket. This, with a three dollar bill from
the drawer, he gave to the lady, who received her change and departed.

Other customers coming in at the moment, both Jasper and his clerk
were kept busy for the next hour. When they were alone again, the
former said--

"How large a bill did you sell the old lady from the country, who was
in this morning?"

"The amount was seven dollars, I believe."

"I thought she said two dollars?"

"She gave me a ten-dollar bill, and I only took three from the
drawer," said the young man.

"I thought you gave her a piece of gold?"

"There was no gold in the drawer," was replied, evasively.

Much to the relief of Claire, another customer entered, thus putting
an end to the conference between him and Jasper.

The mind of the latter, ever suspicious, was not altogether satisfied.
