need to have."
"But you wouldn't mind trying it for once, Mr. Douglass, just
for me?"
"I'll do just what you please," said he, with a little
exculpatory shake of his head; " 'tain't my concern  it's no
concern of mine; the gain or the loss 'll be your'n, and it's
fair you should have the gain or the loss, whichever on 'em
you choose to have. I'll put it in cocks: how much heft should
be in 'em?"
"About a hundred pounds; and you don't want to cut any more
than you can put up to-night, Mr. Douglass. We'll try it."
"Very good! And you'll send along somethin' for the men. Barby
knows," said Earl, bobbing his head again intelligently at
Fleda; "there's four on 'em, and it takes somethin' to feed
'em: workin' men 'll put away a good deal o' meat."
He withdrew his head and closed the door, happily for
Constance, who went off into a succession of ecstatic
convulsions.
"What time of day do your eccentric hay-makers prefer for the
rest of their meals, if they lunch at three o'clock? I never
heard anything so original in my life."
"This is lunch number two," said Fleda, smiling; "lunch number
one is about ten in the morning, and dinner at twelve."
"And do they gladden their families with their presence at the
other ordinary convivial occasions?"
"Certainly."
"And what do they have for lunch?"
"Varieties. Bread and cheese, and pies, and Quirl-cakes; at
every other meal they have meat."
"Horrid creatures!"
"It is only during haying and harvesting."
"And you have to see to all this, poor little Fleda! I
declare, if I was you, I'd do something "
"No," said Fleda, quietly, "Mrs. Douglass and Barby manage the
lunch between them. I am not at all desperate."
"But to have to talk to these people!"
"Earl Douglass is not a very polished specimen," said Fleda,
smiling; "but I assure you, in some of 'these people' there is
an amount of goodness and wit, and shrewd practical sense and
judgment, that would utterly distance many of those that would
call them bears."
Constance looked a good deal more than she said.
"My dear little Fleda! you're too sensible for anything; but
as I don't like sense from anybody but Mr. Carleton, I would
rather look at you in the capacity of a rose, smiling a gentle
rebuke upon me while I talk nonsense."
And she did talk, and Fleda did smile and laugh, in spite of
herself, till Mrs. Evelyn and her other daughters made their
appearance.
Then Barby said she thought they'd have talked the house down;
and she expected there'd be nothing left of Fleda after all
the kissing she got. But it was not too much for Fleda's
pleasure. Mrs. Evelyn was so tenderly kind, and Miss Evelyn as
caressing as her sister had been, and Edith, who was but a
child, so joyously delighted, that Fleda's eyes were swimming
in happiness as she looked from one to the other, and she
could hardly answer kisses and questions fast enough.
"Them is good-looking enough girls," said Barby, as Fleda came
back to the house after seeing them to their carriage, if they
knowed how to dress themselves. I never see this fly-away one
afore. I knowed the old one as soon as I clapped my eyes onto
her. Be they stopping at the Pool again?"
"Yes."
"Well, when are you going up there to see 'em?"
"I don't know," said Fleda, quietly. And then, sighing as the
thought of her aunt came into her head, she went off to find
her and bring her down.
Fleda's brow was sobered, and her spirits were in a flutter
that was not all of happiness, and that threatened not to
settle down quietly. But as she went slowly up the stairs,
faith's hand was laid, even as her own grasped the balusters,
on the promise 
"All the paths of the Lord are mercy and truth unto such as
keep His covenant and His testimonies."
She set faith's foot down on those sure stepping-stones; and
she opened her aunt's door and looked in with a face that was
neither troubled nor afraid.
CHAPTER III.
"Ant. He misses not much.
Seb. No, he doth but mistake the truth totally."
TEMPEST.
It was the very next morning that several ladies and gentlemen
were gathered on the piazza of the hotel at Montepoole, to
brace minds or appetites with the sweet mountain air while
waiting for breakfast. As they stood there, a young countryman
came by bearing on his hip a large basket of fruit and
vegetables.
"Oh, look at those lovely strawberries!" exclaimed Constance
Evelyn, running down the steps. "Stop, if you please  where
are you going with these?"
"Marm!" responded the somewhat startled carrier.
"What are you going to do with them?"
"I aint going to do nothin' with 'em."
"Whose are they? Are they for sale?"
"Well, 'twon't deu no harm, as I know," said the young man,
making a virtue of necessity, for the fingers of Constance
were already hovering over the dainty little leaf-strewn
baskets, and her eyes complacently searching for the most
promising; "I ha'n't got nothin' to deu with 'ern."
"Constance!" said Mrs. Evelyn, from the piazza, "don't take
that. I dare say they are for Mr. Sweet."
"Well, Mamma," said Constance, with great equanimity, "Mr.
Sweet gets them for me, and I only save him the trouble of
spoiling them. My taste leads me to prefer the simplicity of
primitive arrangements this morning."
"Young man!" called out the landlady's reproving voice, "wont
you never recollect to bring that basket round the back way!"
" 't aint no handier than this way," said Philetus, with so
much belligerent demonstration, that the landlady thought
best, in presence of her guests, to give over the question.
"Where do you get them?" said Mrs. Evelyn.
"How?" said Philetus.
"Where do they come from? Are they fresh picked?"
"Just afore I started."
"Started from where?" said a gentleman, standing by Mrs.
Evelyn.
"From Mr. Rossitur's, down to Queechy."
"Mr. Rossitur's!" said Mrs. Evelyn. "Does he send them here?"
"He doos not," said Philetus  "he doosn't keep to hum for a
long spell."
"Who does send them, then?" said Constance.
"Who doos? It's Miss Fliddy Ringgan."
"Mamma!" exclaimed Constance, looking up.
"What does she have to do with it?" said Mrs. Evelyn.
"There don't nobody else have nothin' to deu with it  I guess
she's pretty much the hull," said her coadjutor. "Her and me
was a-picking 'em afore sunrise."
"All that basketful?"
" 't aint all strawberries  there's garden sass up to the
top."
"And does she send that, too?"
"She sends that teu," said Philetus, succinctly.
"But hasn't she any help in taking care of the garden?" said
Constance.
"Yes, Marm  I calculate to help considerable in the back
garden  she wont let no one into the front where she grows
her posies."
"But where is Mr. Hugh?"
"He's to hum."
"But has he nothing to do with all this? Does he leave it all
to his cousin?"
"He's to the mill."
"And Miss Ringgan manages farm, and garden, and all?" said
Mrs. Evelyn.
"She doos," said Philetus.
And receiving a gratuity, which he accepted without
demonstration of any kind whatever, the basket-bearer, at
length released, moved off.
"Poor Fleda!" said Miss Evelyn, as he disappeared with his
load.
"She's a very clever girl," said Mrs. Evelyn, dismissing the
subject.
"She's too lovely for anything!" said Constance. "Mr.
Carleton, if you will just imagine we are in China, and
introduct a pair of familiar chopsticks into this basket, I
shall be repaid for the loss of a strawberry by the expression
of ecstasy which will immediately spread itself over your
features. I intend to patronize the natural mode of eating in
future. I find the ends of my fingers decidedly odoriferous."
He smiled a little as he complied with the young lady's
invitation, but the expression of ecstasy did not come.
"Are Mr. Rossitur's circumstances so much reduced?" he said,
drawing nearer to Mrs. Evelyn.
"Do you know them?" exclaimed both the daughters at once.
"I knew Mrs. Rossitur very well some years ago, when she was
in Paris."
"They are all broken to pieces," said Mrs. Evelyn, as Mr.
Carleton's eye went back to her for his answer; "Mr. Rossitur
failed and lost everything  bankrupt  a year or two after
they came home."
"And what has he been doing since?"
"I don't know  trying to farm it here; but I am afraid he has
not succeeded well  I am afraid not. They don't look like it.
Mrs. Rossitur will not see anybody, and I don't believe they
have done any more than struggle for a living since they came
here."
"Where is Mr. Rossitur now?"
"He is at the West, somewhere  Fleda tells me he is engaged
in some agencies there; but I doubt," said Mrs. Evelyn,
shaking her head, compassionately, "there is more in the name
of it than anything else. He has gone down hill sadly since
his misfortunes. I am very sorry for them."
"And his niece takes care of his farm in the meantime?"
"Do you know her?" asked both the Miss Evelyns again.
"I can hardly say that," he replied. "I had such a pleasure
formerly. Do I understand that she is the person to fill Mr.
Rossitur's place when he is away?"
"So she says."
"And so she acts," said Constance. "I wish you had heard her
yesterday. It was beyond everything. We were conversing very
amicably, regarding each other through a friendly vista formed
by the sugar-bowl and tea-pot, when a horrid man, that looked
as if he had slept all his life in a haycock, and only waked
up to turn it over, stuck his head in, and immediately
introduced a clover-field; and Fleda and he went to tumbling
about the cocks till, I do assure you, I was deluded into a
momentary belief that hay-making was the principal end of
human nature, and looked upon myself as a burden to society;
and after I had recovered my locality, and ventured upon a
sentence of gentle commiseration for her sufferings, Fleda
went off into a eulogium upon the intelligence of hay-makers
in general, and the strength of mind barbarians are
universally known to possess."
The manner, still more than the matter of this speech, was
beyond the withstanding of any good-natured muscles, though
the gentleman's smile was a grave one, and quickly lost in
gravity. Mrs. Evelyn laughed and reproved in a breath, but the
laugh was admiring, and the reproof was stimulative. The
bright eye of Constance danced in return with the mischievous
delight of a horse that has slipped his bridle and knows you
can't catch him.
"And this has been her life ever since Mr. Rossitur lost his
property?"
"Entirely,  sacrificed!" said Mrs. Evelyn, with a
compassionately resigned air;  education, advantages, and
everything given up, and set down here, where she has seen
nobody from year's end to year's end but the country people
about  very good people  but not the kind of people she
ought to have been brought up among."
"Oh, Mamma!" said the eldest Miss Evelyn, in a deprecatory
tone, "you shouldn't talk so  it isn't right  I am sure she
is very nice  nicer now than anybody else I know, and clever
too."
"Nice!" said Edith. "I wish I had such a sister."
"She is a good girl a very good girl," said Mrs. Evelyn, in a
tone which would have deterred any one from wishing to make
her acquaintance.
"And happy, Mamma  Fleda don't look miserable  she seems
perfectly happy and contented."
"Yes," said Mrs. Evelyn, "she has got accustomed to this state
of things  it's her life  she makes delicious bread and
puddings for her aunt, and raises vegetables for market, and
oversees her uncle's farmers; and it isn't a hardship to her 
she finds her happiness in it. She is a very good girl, but
she might have been made something much better than a farmer's
wife."
"You may set your mind at rest on that subject, Mamma," said
Constance, still using her chopsticks with great complacency;
"it's my opinion that the farmer is not in existence who is
blessed with such a conjugal futurity. I think Fleda's strong
pastoral tastes are likely to develop themselves in a new
direction."
Mrs. Evelyn looked, with a partial smile, at the pretty
features which the business of eating the strawberries
displayed in sundry novel and picturesque points of view, and
asked what she meant?
"I don't know," said Constance, intent upon her basket; "I
feel a friend's distress for Mr. Thorn  it's all your doing,
Mamma  you wont be able to look him in the face when we have
Fleda next fall. I am sure I shall not want to look at his.
He'll be too savage for anything."
"Mr. Thorn!" said Mr. Carleton.
"Yes," said Mrs. Evelyn, in an indulgent tone  "he was very
attentive to her last winter when she was with us, but she
went away before anything was decided. I don't think he has
forgotten her."
"I shouldn't think anybody could forget her," said Edith.
"I am confident he would be here at this moment," said
Constance, "if he wasn't in London."
"But what is 'all mamma's doing,' Constance?" inquired her
sister.
"The destruction of the peace of the whole family of Thorns; I
shouldn't sleep sound in my bed if I were she, with such a
reflection. I look forward to heart-rending scenes, with a
very disturbed state of mind."
"But what have I done, my child?" said Mrs. Evelyn.
"Didn't you introduce your favourite, Mr. Olmney, to Miss
Ringgan, last summer? I don't know"  her native delicacy
shrunk from making any disclosures, and, of course, the tongue
of friendship is silent  "but they were out ages yesterday
while I was waiting for her, and their parting at the gate was
 I feel myself unequal to the task of describing it," said
Constance, ecstatically; "and she was in the most elevated
tone of mind during our whole interview afterwards, and took
all my brilliant remarks with as much coolness as if they had
been drops of rain  more, I presume, considering that it was
hay-time."
"Did you see him?" said Mrs. Evelyn.
"Only at that impracticable distance, Mamma; but I introduced
his name afterwards, in my usual happy manner, and I found
that Miss Ringgan's cheeks were by no means indifferent to it.
I didn't dare go any further."
"I am very glad of it. I hope it is so," said Mrs. Evelyn,
energetically. "It would be a most excellent match. He is a
charming young man, and would make her very happy."
"You are exciting gloomy feelings in Mr. Carleton's mind,
Mamma, by your felicitous suggestions. Mr. Carleton, did your
ears receive a faint announcement of ham and eggs, which went
quite through and through mine just now?"
He bowed, and handed the young lady in; but Constance
declared, that though he sat beside her, and took care of her
at breakfast, he had on one of his intangible fits, which
drove her to the last extreme of impatience and captivation.
The sun was not much more than two hours high the next
morning, when a rider was slowly approaching Mr. Rossitur's
house from the bridge, walking his horse, like a man who
wished to look well at all he was passing. He paused behind a
clump of locusts and rose-acacias, in the corner of the court-
yard, as a figure, bonneted and gloved, came out of the house,
and began to be busy among the rose-bushes. Another figure
presently appeared at the hall door, and called out 
"Fleda!"
"Well, Barby "
This second voice was hardly raised, but it came from so much
nearer that the words could be distinctly heard.
"Mr. Skillcorn wants to know if you're going to fix the
flowers for him to carry?"
"They're not ready, and it wont do for him to wait  Mr. Sweet
must send for them if he wants them. Philetus must make haste
back, for you know Mr. Douglass wants him to help in the barn
meadow. Lucas wont be here, and now the weather is so fine, I
want to make haste with the hay."
"Well, will you have the samp for breakfast?"
"No  we'll keep that for dinner. I'll come in and poach some
eggs, Barby,  if you'll make me some thin pieces of toast 
and call me when it's time. Thin, Barby."
The gentleman turned his horse, and galloped back to
Montepoole.
Some disappointment was created among a portion of Mr. Sweet's
guests that afternoon, by the intelligence that Mr. Carleton
purposed setting off the next morning to join his English
friends at Saratoga, on their way to the Falls and Canada.
Which purpose was duly carried into effect.
CHAPTER IV.
"With your leave, Sir, an' there were no more men living upon
the face of the earth, I should not fancy him, by St. George."
EVERY MAN OUT OF HIS HUMOUR.
October had come, and a fair season and a fine harvest, had
enabled Fleda to ease her mind by sending a good remittance to
Dr. Gregory. The family were still living upon her and Hugh's
energies. Mr. Rossitur talked of coming home, that was all.
It sometimes happened that a pause in the urgency of business
permitted Hugh to take a day's holiday. One of these falling
soon after the frosts had opened the burrs of the chestnut-
trees, and the shells of the hickories, Fleda seized upon it
for a nutting frolic. They took Philetus, and went up to the
fine group of trees on the mountain, the most difficult to
reach, and the best worth reaching of all their nut wood. The
sport was very fine; and after spoiling the trees, Philetus
was left to "shuck" and bring home a load of the fruit, while
Fleda and Hugh took their way slowly down the mountain. She
stopped him, as usual, on the old look-out place. The leaves
were just then in their richest colouring, and the October
sky, in its strong vitality, seemed to fill all inanimate
nature with the breath of life. If ever, then on that day, to
the fancy, "the little hills rejoiced on every side." The
woods stood thick with honours, and earth lay smiling under
the tokens of the summer's harvest, and the promise for the
coming year; and the wind came in gusts over the lower country
and up the hill-side, with a hearty good-will that blew away
all vapours, physical and mental, from its path, bidding
everything follow its example and be up and doing. Fleda drew
a long breath or two that seemed to recognise its freshening
power.
"How long it seems," she said  "how very long  since I was
here with Mr. Carleton;  just nine years ago. How changed
everything is! I was a little child then. It seems such an age
ago!" 
"It is very odd he didn't come to see us," said Hugh.
"He did  don't you know?  the very next day after we heard
he was here  when, most unluckily, I was up at aunt
Miriam's."
"I should think he might have come again, considering what
friends you used to be."
"I dare say he would, if he had not left Montepoole so soon.
But, dear Hugh, I was a mere child  how could he remember me
much?"
"You remember him," said Hugh.
"Ah, but I have good reason. Besides, I never forget anything.
I would have given a great deal to see him  if I had it."
"I wish the Evelyns had staid longer," said Hugh. "I think you
have wanted something to brighten you up. They did you a great
deal of good last year. I am afraid all this taking care of
Philetus and Earl Douglass is too much for you."
Fleda gave him a very bright smile, half affection, half fun.
"Don't you admire my management?" said she. "Because I do.
Philetus is firmly persuaded that he is an invaluable
assistant to me in the mystery of gardening; and the origin of
Earl Douglass's new ideas is so enveloped in mist, that he
does not himself know where they come from. It was rich to
hear him the other day descanting to Lucas upon the evil
effects of earthing up corn, and the advantages of curing hay
in cocks, as to both which matters Lucas is a thorough
unbeliever, and Earl was a year ago."
"But that doesn't hinder your looking pale and thin, and a
great deal soberer than I like to see you," said Hugh. "You
want a change, I know. I don't know how you are to get it. I
wish they would send for you to New York again."
"I don't know that I should want to go, if they did," said
Fleda. "They don't raise my spirits, Hugh. I am amused
sometimes  I can't help that  but such excessive gaiety
rather makes me shrink within myself; I am, too, out of tone
with it. I never feel more absolutely quiet than sometimes
when I am laughing at Constance Evelyn's mad sallies  and
sometimes I cannot laugh at them. I do not know what they must
think of me; it is what they can have no means of
understanding."
"I wish you didn't understand it, either, Fleda."
"But you shouldn't say that. I am happier than they are, now,
Hugh  now that you are better  with all their means of
happiness. They know nothing of our quiet enjoyments; they
must live in a whirl, or they would think they are not living
at all; and I do not believe that all New York can give them
the real pleasure that I have in such a day as this. They
would see almost nothing in all this beauty that my eyes
'drink in,' as Cowper says; and they would be certain to
quarrel with the wind, that to me is like the shake of an old
friend's hand. Delicious!" said Fleda, as the wind rewarded
this eulogium with a very hearty shake indeed.
"I believe you would make friends with everything, Fleda, said
Hugh, laughing.
"The wind is always that to me," said Fleda; "not always in
such a cheerful mood as to-day, though. It talks to me often
of a thousand old-time things, and sighs over them with me, a
most sympathizing friend! but to-day he invites me to a waltz
 Come!"
And pulling Hugh after her, away she went down the rocky path,
with a step too light to care for the stones; the little feet
capering down the mountain with a disdain of the ground that
made Hugh smile to see her; and eyes dancing for company, till
they reached the lower woodland.
"A most spirited waltz!" said Hugh.
"And a most slack partner. Why didn't you keep me company?"
"I never was made for waltzing," said Hugh, shaking his head.
"Not to the tune of the north wind? That has done me good,
Hugh."
"So I should judge, by your cheeks."
"Poverty need not always make people poor," said Fleda,
talking breath and his arm together. "You and I are rich,
Hugh."
"And our riches cannot take to themselves wings and fly away,"
said Hugh.
"No, but besides those riches, there are the pleasures of the
eye and the mind, that one may enjoy everywhere  everywhere
in the country at least  unless poverty bear one down very
hard; and they are some of the purest and most satisfying of
any. Oh, the blessing of a good education! how it makes one
independent of circumstances!"
"And circumstances are education, too," said Hugh, smiling. "I
dare say we should not appreciate our mountains and woods so
well, if we had had our old plenty of everything else."
"I always loved them," said Fleda. "But what good company they
have been to us for years past, Hugh!  to me especially; I
have more reason to love them."
They walked on quietly and soberly to the brow of the table-
land, where they parted; Hugh being obliged to go home, and
Fleda wishing to pay a visit to her aunt Miriam.
She turned off alone to take the way to the high road, and
went softly on, no longer, certainly, in the momentary spirits
with which she had shaken hands with the wind, and skipped
down the mountain; but feeling, and thankful that she felt, a
cheerful patience to tread the dusty highway of life.
The old lady had been rather ailing, and from one or two
expressions she had let fall, Fleda could not help thinking
that she looked upon her ailments with a much more serious eye
than anybody else thought was called for. It did not, however,
appear to-day. She was not worse, and Fleda's slight anxious
feeling could find nothing to justify it, if it were not the
very calm and quietly happy face and manner of the old lady;
and that, if it had something to alarm, did much more to
soothe. Fleda had sat with her a long time, patience and
cheerfulness all the while unconsciously growing in her
company; when, catching up her bonnet with a sudden haste very
unlike her usual collectedness of manner, Fleda kissed her
aunt and was rushing away.
"But stop! where are you going, Fleda?"
"Home, aunt Miriam; I must, don't keep me."
"But what are you going that way for? you can't go home that
way?"
"Yes, I can."
"How?"
"I can cross the blackberry hill behind the barn, and then
over the east hill, and then there's nothing but the water-
cress meadow."
"I sha'n't let you go that way alone; sit down and tell me
what you mean  what is this desperate hurry?"
But, with equal precipitation, Fleda had cast her bonnet out
of sight behind the table, and the next moment turned, with
the utmost possible quietness, to shake hands with Mr. Olmney.
Aunt Miriam had presence of mind enough to make no remark, and
receive the young gentleman with her usual dignity and
kindness.
He stayed some time, but Fleda's hurry seemed to have forsaken
her. She had seized upon an interminable long gray stocking
her aunt was knitting, and sat in the corner working at it
most diligently, without raising her eyes unless spoken to.
"Do you give yourself no rest, at home or abroad, Miss Fleda?"
said the gentleman.
"Put that stocking down, Fleda," said her aunt; "it is in no
hurry."
"I like to do it, aunt Miriam."
But she felt, with warming cheeks, that she did not like to do
it with two people sitting still and looking at her. The
gentleman presently rose.
"Don't go till we have had tea, Mr. Olmney," said Mrs.
Plumfield.
"Thank you, Ma'am; I cannot stay, I believe, unless Miss Fleda
will let me take care of her down the hill by and by."
"Thank you, Mr. Olmney," said Fleda, "but I am not going home
before night, unless they send for me."
"I am afraid," said he, looking at her, "that the agricultural
turn has proved an overmatch for your energies."
"The farm don't complain of me, does it?" said Fleda, looking
up at him with a comic, grave expression of countenance.
"No," said he, laughing, "certainly not; but, if you will
forgive me for saying so, I think you complain of it, tacitly
 and that will raise a good many complaints in other
quarters, if you do not take care of yourself."
He shook hands and left them; and Mrs. Plumfield sat silently
looking at Fleda, who, on her part, looked at nothing but the
gray stocking.
"What is all this, Fleda?"
"What is what, aunt Miriam?" said Fleda, picking up a stitch
with desperate diligence.
"Why did you want to run away from Mr. Olmney?"
"I didn't wish to be delayed,  I wanted to get home."
"Then, why wouldn't you let him go home with you?"
"I liked better to go alone, aunt Miriam."
"Don't you like him, Fleda?"
"Certainly, aunt Miriam; very much."
"I think he likes you Fleda," said her aunt, smiling.
"I am very sorry for it," said Fleda, with great gravity.
Mrs. Plumfield looked at her for a few minutes in silence, and
then said 
"Fleda, love, come over here and sit by me, and tell me what
you mean. Why are you sorry? It has given me a great deal of
pleasure to think of it."
But Fleda did not budge from her seat or her stocking, and
seemed tongue-tied. Mrs. Plumfield pressed for an answer.
"Because, aunt Miriam," said Fleda, with the prettiest red
cheeks in the world, but speaking very clearly and steadily,
"my liking only goes to a point which, I am afraid, will not
satisfy either him or you."
"But why?  it will go further."
"No, Ma'am."
"Why not?  why do you say so?"
"Because I must, if you ask me."
"But what can be more excellent and estimable, Fleda?  who
could be more worth liking? I should have thought he would
just please you. He is one of the most lovely young men I have
ever seen."
"Dear aunt Miriam," said Fleda, looking up beseechingly, "why
should we talk about it?"
"Because I want to understand you, Fleda, and to be sure that
you understand yourself."
"I do," said Fleda, quietly, and with a quivering lip.
"What is there that you dislike about Mr. Olmney?"
"Nothing in the world, aunt Miriam."
"Then, what is the reason you cannot like him enough?"
"Because, aunt Miriam," said Fleda, speaking in desperation,
"there isn't enough of him. He is very good and excellent in
every way, nobody feels that more than I do; I don't want to
say a word against him, but I do not think he has a very
strong mind, and he isn't cultivated enough."
"But you cannot have everything, Fleda."
"No, Ma'am, I don't expect it."
"I am afraid you have set up too high a standard for
yourself," said Mrs. Plumfield, looking rather troubled.
"I don't think that is possible, aunt Miriam."
"But I am afraid it will prevent your ever liking anybody."
"It will not prevent my liking the friends I have already; it
may prevent my leaving them for somebody else," said Fleda,
with a gravity that was touching in its expression.
"But Mr. Olmney is sensible, and well educated."
"Yes, but his tastes are not. He could not at all enter into a
great many things that give me the most pleasure. I do not
think he quite understands above half of what I say to him."
"Are you sure? I know he admires you, Fleda."
"Ah, but that is only half enough, you see, aunt Miriam,
unless I could admire him too."
Mrs. Plumfield looked at her in some difficulty; Mr. Olmney
was not the only one, clearly, whose powers of comprehension
were not equal to the subject.
"Fleda," said her aunt, inquiringly, "is there anybody else
that has put Mr. Olmney out of your head?"
"Nobody in the world!" exclaimed Fleda, with a frank look and
tone of astonishment at the question, and cheeks colouring as
promptly. "How could you ask?  but he never was in my head,
aunt Miriam."
"Mr. Thorn?" said Mrs. Plumfield.
"Mr. Thorn!" said Fleda, indignantly. "Don't you know me
better than that, aunt Miriam? But you do not know him."
"I believe I know you, dear Fleda; but I heard he had paid you
a great deal of attention last year; and you would not have
been the first unsuspecting nature that has been mistaken."
Fleda was silent, flushed, and disturbed; and Mrs. Plumfield
was silent and meditating; when Hugh came in. He came to fetch
Fleda home. Dr. Gregory had arrived. In haste again, Fleda
sought her bonnet, and exchanging a more than usually wistful
and affectionate kiss and embrace with her aunt, set off with
Hugh down the hill.
Hugh had a great deal to say to her all the way home, of which
Fleda's ears alone took the benefit, for her understanding
received none of it; and when she at last came into the
breakfast-room where the doctor was sitting, the fact of his
being there was the only one which had entered her mind.
"Here she is, I declare!" said the doctor, holding her back to
look at her after the first greetings had passed. "I'll be
hanged if you aint handsome. Now, what's the use of pinking
your cheeks any more at that, as if you didn't know it before?
 eh?"
"I will always do my best to deserve your good opinion, Sir,"
said Fleda, laughing.
"Well, sit down now," said he, shaking his head, "and pour me
out a cup of tea  your mother can't make it right."
And sipping his tea for some time, the old doctor sat
listening to Mrs. Rossitur, and eating bread and butter,
saying little, but casting a very frequent glance at the
figure opposite him, behind the tea-board.
"I am afraid," said he, after a while, "that your care for my
good opinion wont outlast an occasion. Is that the way you
look for every day?"
The colour came with the smile; but the old doctor looked at
her in a way that made the tears come too. He turned his eyes
to Mrs. Rossitur for an explanation.
"She is well," said Mrs. Rossitur, fondly  "she has been very
well  except her old headaches now and then; I think she has
grown rather thin, lately."
"Thin!" said the old doctor  "etherealized to a mere abstract
of herself; only that is a very bad figure, for an abstract
should have all the bone and muscle of the subject; and I
should say you had little left but pure spirit. You are the
best proof I ever saw of the principle of the homeopaths  I
see now, that though a little corn may fatten a man, a great
deal may be the death of him."
"But I have tried it both ways, uncle Orrin," said Fleda,
laughing. "I ought to be a happy medium between plethora and
starvation. I am pretty substantial, what there is of me."
"Substantial!" said the doctor; "you look as substantial a
personage as your old friend, the 'faire Una'  just about.
Well, prepare yourself, gentle Saxon, to ride home with me the
day after to-morrow. I'll try a little humanizing regimen with
you."
"I don't think that is possible, uncle Orrin," said Fleda,
gently.
"We'll talk about the possibility afterwards  at present, all
you have to do is to get ready. If you raise difficulties, you
will find me a very Hercules to clear them away  I'm
substantial enough, I can tell you  so it's just as well to
spare yourself and me the trouble."
"There are no difficulties," Mrs. Rossitur and Hugh said, both
at once.
"I knew there weren't. Put a pair or two of clean stockings in
your trunk  that's all you want  Mrs. Pritchard and I will
find the rest. There's the people in Fourteenth street want
you the first of November, and I want you all the time till
then, and longer too. Stop  I've got a missive of some sort
here for you."
He foisted out of his breast-pocket a little package of notes
 one from Mrs. Evelyn, and one from Florence, begging Fleda
to come to them at the time the doctor had named; the third
from Constance:
"MY DARLING LITTLE FLEDA,
"I am dying to see you  so pack up and come down with Dr.
Gregory, if the least spark of regard for me is slumbering in
your breast. Mamma and Florence are writing to beg you  but
though an insignificant member of the family, considering that
instead of being 'next to head', only little Edith prevents my
being at the less dignified end of this branch of the social
system, I could not prevail upon myself to let the
representations of my respected elders go unsupported by mine
 especially as I felt persuaded of the superior efficacy of
the motives I had it in my power to present to your truly
philanthropical mind.
"I am in a state of mind that baffles description  Mr.
Carleton is going home! 
"I have not worn ear-rings in my ears for a fortnight; my
personal appearance is become a matter of indifference to me;
any description of mental exertion is excruciating; I sit
constantly listening for the ringing of the door-bell, and
when it sounds, I rush frantically to the head of the
staircase, and look over to see who it is; the mere sight of
pen and ink excites delirious ideas  judge what I suffer in
writing to you.
"To make the matter worse (if it could be), I have been
informed privately, that he is going home to crown at the
altar of Hymen an old attachment to one of the loveliest of
all England's daughters. Conceive the complication of my
feelings! 
"Nothing is left me but the resources of friendship  so come,
darling Fleda, before a barrier of ice interposes itself
between my chilled heart and your sympathy.
"Mr. Thorn's state would move my pity if I were capable of
being moved by anything  by this you will comprehend he is
returned. He has been informed by somebody, that there is a
wolf in sheep's clothing prowling about Queechy, and his head
is filled with the idea that you have fallen a victim, of
which, in my calmer moments, I have in vain endeavoured to
dispossess him. Every morning we are wakened up at an
unseasonable hour by a furious ringing at the door-bell  Joe
Manton pulls off his nightcap, and slowly descending the
stairs, opens the door, and finds Mr. Thorn, who inquires
distractedly whether Miss Ringgan has arrived; and being
answered in the negative, gloomily walks off towards the East
river. The state of anxiety in which his mother is thereby
kept is rapidly depriving her of all her flesh  but we have
directed Joe lately to reply, 'No, Sir, but she is expected' 
upon which Mr. Thorn regularly smiles faintly, and rewards the
'fowling-piece' with a quarter dollar 
"So make haste, dear Fleda, or I shall feel that we are acting
the part of innocent swindlers.
C.E."
There was but one voice at home on the point whether Fleda
should go. So she went.
CHAPTER V.
Host. Now, my young guest! methinks you're allycholy; I pray
you why is it?
Jul. Marry, mine host, because I cannot be merry.
TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA.
Some nights after their arrival, the doctor and Fleda were
seated at tea in the little snug old-fashioned back parlour,
where the doctor's nicest of housekeepers, Mrs. Pritchard, had
made it ready for them. In general, Mrs. Pritchard herself
poured it out for the doctor, but she descended most
cheerfully from her post of elevation, whenever Fleda was
there to fill it.
The doctor and Fleda sat cozily looking at each other across
the toast and chipped beef, their glances grazing the tea-urn,
which was just on one side of their range of vision. A
comfortable Liverpool-coal fire in a state of repletion burned
away indolently, and gave everything else in the room somewhat
of its own look of sonsy independence  except, perhaps, the
delicate creature at whom the doctor, between sips of his tea,
took rather wistful observations.
"When are you going to Mrs. Evelyn?" he said, breaking the
silence.
"They say next week, Sir."
"I shall be glad of it!" said the doctor.
"Glad of it?" said Fleda, smiling. "Do you want to get rid of
me, uncle Orrin?"
"Yes!" said he. "This isn't the right place for you. You are
too much alone."
"No, indeed, Sir. I have been reading voraciously, and
enjoying myself as much as possible. I would quite as lieve be
here as there, putting you out of the question."
"I wouldn't as lieve have you," said he, shaking his head.
"What were you musing about before tea? your face gave me the
heartache."
"My face!" said Fleda, smiling, while an instant flush of the
eyes answered him; "what was the matter with my face?"
"That is the very thing I want to know."
"Before tea?  I was only thinking," said Fleda, her look
going back to the fire from association  "thinking of
different things  not disagreeably; taking a kind of bird's-
eye view of things, as one does sometimes."
"I don't believe you ever take other than a bird's-eye view of
anything," said her uncle. "But what were you viewing just
then, my little Saxon?"
"I was thinking of them at home," said Fleda, smiling,
thoughtfully; "and I somehow had perched myself on a point of
observation, and was taking one of those wider views which are
always rather sobering."
"Views of what?"
"Of life, Sir."
"As how?" said the doctor.
"How near the end is to the beginning, and how short the space
between, and how little the ups and downs of it will matter if
we take the right road and get home."
"Pshaw!" said the doctor.
But Fleda knew him too well to take his interjection otherwise
than most kindly. And, indeed, though he whirled round and ate
his toast at the fire discontentedly, his look came back to
her after a little, with even more than its usual gentle
appreciation.
"What do you suppose you have come to New York for?" said he.
"To see you, Sir, in the first place, and the Evelyns in the
second."
"And who in the third?"
"I am afraid the third place is vacant," said Fleda, smiling.
"You are, eh? Well  I don't know  but I know that I have
been inquired of by two several and distinct people as to your
coming. Ah! you needn't open your bright eyes at me, because I
shall not tell you. Only let me ask  you have no notion of
fencing off, my Queechy rose, with a hedge of blackthorn, or
anything of that kind, have you?"
"I have no notion of any fences at all, except invisible ones,
Sir," said Fleda, laughing, and colouring very prettily.
"Well, those are not American fences," said the doctor; "so, I
suppose, I am safe enough. Whom did I see you out riding with
yesterday?"
"I was with Mrs. Evelyn," said Fleda. "I didn't want to go,
but I couldn't very well help myself."
"Mrs. Evelyn! Mrs. Evelyn wasn't driving, was she?"
"No, Sir; Mr. Thorn was driving."
"I thought so. Have you seen your old friend, Mr. Carleton,
yet?"
"Do you know him, uncle Orrin?"
"Why shouldn't I? What's the difficulty of knowing people?
Have you seen him?"
"But how did you know that he was an old friend of mine?"
"Question!" said the doctor. "Hum  well, I won't tell you; so
there's the answer. Now, will you answer me?"
"I have not seen him, Sir."
"Haven't met him, in all the times you have been to Mrs.
Evelyn's?"
"No, Sir. I have been there but once in the evening, uncle
Orrin. He is just about sailing for England."
"Well, you're going there to-night, aren't you? Run, and
bundle yourself up, and I'll take you there before I begin my
work."
There was a small party that evening at Mrs. Evelyn's. Fleda
was very early. She ran up to the first floor  rooms lighted
and open, but nobody there.
"Fleda Ringgan," called out the voice of Constance from over
the stairs, "is that you?"
"No," said Fleda.
"Well, just wait till I come down to you. My darling little
Fleda, it's delicious of you to come so early. Now, just tell
me, am I captivating?"
"Well, I retain self-possession," said Fleda. "I cannot tell
about the strength of head of other people."
"You wretched little creature! Fleda, don't you admire my
hair? it's new style, my dear  just come out; the Delancys
brought it out with them; Eloise Delancy taught it us; isn't
it graceful? Nobody in New York has it yet, except the
Delancys and we."
"How do you know but they have taught somebody else?" said
Fleda.
"I won't talk to you! Don't you like it?"
"I am not sure that I do not like you in your ordinary way
better."
Constance made a gesture of impatience, and then pulled Fleda
after her into the drawing-rooms.
"Come in here; I wont waste the elegancies of my toilet upon
your dull perceptions; come here and let me show you some
flowers  aren't those lovely? This bunch came to-day, 'for
Miss Evelyn', so Florence will have it it is hers, and it's
very mean of her, for I am perfectly certain it is mine; it's
come from somebody who wasn't enlightened on the subject of my
family circle, and has innocently imagined that two Miss
Evelyns could not belong to the same one! I know the floral
representatives of all Florence's dear friends and admirers,
and this isn't from any of them. I have been distractedly
endeavouring all day to find who it came from, for if I don't,
I can't take the least comfort in it."
"But you might enjoy the flowers for their own sake, I should
think," said Fleda, breathing the sweetness of myrtle and
heliotrope.
"No, I can't, for I have all the time the association of some
horrid creature they might have come from, you know; but it
will do just as well to humbug people: I shall make Cornelia
Schenck believe that this came from my dear Mr. Carleton!"
"No, you wont, Constance," said Fleda, gently.
"My dear little Fleda, I shock you, don't I? but I sha'n't
tell any lies; I shall merely expressively indicate a
particular specimen, and say, 'My dear Cornelia, do you
perceive that this is an English rose?' and then it's none of
my business, you know, what she believes; and she will be
dying with curiosity and despair all the rest of the evening."
"I shouldn't think there would be much pleasure in that, I
confess," said Fleda, gravely. "How very ungracefully and
stiffly those are made up!"
"My dear little Queechy rose," said Constance, impatiently,
"you are, pardon me, as fresh as possible. They can't cut the
flowers with long stems, you know; the gardeners would be
ruined. That is perfectly elegant; it must have cost at least
ten dollars. My dear little Fleda!" said Constance, capering
off before the long pier-glass, "I am afraid I am not
captivating! Do you think it would be an improvement if I put
drops in my ears?  or one curl behind them? I don't know
which Mr. Carleton likes best!" 
And with her head first on one side and then on the other, she
stood before the glass looking at herself and Fleda by turns
with such a comic expression of mock doubt and anxiety, that
no gravity but her own could stand it.
"She is a silly girl, Fleda, isn't she?" said Mrs. Evelyn,
coming up behind them.
"Mamma! am I captivating?" cried Constance, wheeling round.
The mother's smile said "Very!"
"Fleda is wishing she were out of the sphere of my influence,
Mamma. Wasn't Mr. Olmney afraid of my corrupting you?" she
said, with a sudden pull-up in front of Fleda. "My blessed
stars! there's somebody's voice I know. Well, I believe it is
true that a rose without thorns is a desideratum. Mamma, is
Mrs. Thorn's turban to be an invariable pendant to your
coiffure all the while Miss Ringgan is here?"
"Hush!"
With the entrance of company came Constance's return from
extravaganzas to a sufficiently graceful every-day manner,
only enough touched with high spirits and lawlessness to free
it from the charge of commonplace. But the contrast of these
high spirits with her own rather made Fleda's mood more quiet,
and it needed no quieting. Of the sundry people that she knew
among those presently assembled there were none that she
wanted to talk to; the rooms were hot, and she felt nervous
and fluttered, partly from encounters already sustained, and
partly from a little anxious expecting of Mr. Carleton's
appearance. The Evelyns had not said he was to be there, but
she had rather gathered it; and the remembrance of old times
was strong enough to make her very earnestly wish to see him,
and dread to be disappointed. She swung clear of Mr. Thorn,
with some difficulty, and ensconced herself under the shadow
of a large cabinet, between that and a young lady who was very
good society, for she wanted no help in carrying on the
business of it. All Fleda had to do was to sit still and
listen, or not listen, which she generally preferred. Miss
Tomlinson discoursed upon varieties, with great sociableness
and satisfaction; while poor Fleda's mind, letting all her
sense and nonsense go, was again taking a somewhat bird's-eye
view of things, and from the little centre of her post in Mrs.
