She enjoyed it to the full during the few days she was there.
And one thing more, the grand piano in the music-room. The
first evening of their arrival she was drawn by the far-off
sounds, and Mrs. Carleton seeing it, went immediately to the
music-room with her. The room had no light, except from the
moonbeams that stole in through two glass doors which opened
upon a particularly private and cherished part of the grounds,
in summer-time full of flowers; for, in the very refinement of
luxury, delights had been crowded about this favourite
apartment. Mr. Carleton was at the instrument, playing. Fleda
sat down quietly in one corner, and listened  in a rapture of
pleasure she had hardly ever known from any like source. She
did not think it could be greater; till, after a time, in a
pause of the music, Mrs. Carleton asked her son to sing a
particular ballad; and that one was followed by two or three
more. Fleda left her corner  she could not contain herself,
and, favoured by the darkness, came forward; and stood quite
near; and if the performer had had light to see by, he would
have been gratified with the tribute paid to his power by the
unfeigned tears that ran down her cheeks. This pleasure was
also repeated from evening to evening.
"Do you know we set off for Paris to-morrow?" said Mrs.
Carleton the last evening of their stay, as Fleda came up to
the door after a prolonged ramble in the park, leaving Mr.
Carleton with one or two gardeners at a little distance.
"Yes!" said Fleda, with a sigh that was more than half
audible.
"Are you sorry?" said Mrs. Carleton, smiling.
"I cannot be glad," said Fleda, giving a sober look over the
lawn.
"Then you like Carleton?"
"Very much!  it is a prettier place than Queechy."
"But we shall have you here again, dear Fleda," said Mrs.
Carleton, restraining her smile at this, to her, very moderate
compliment.
"Perhaps not," said Fleda quietly. "Mr. Carleton said," she
added, a minute after, with more animation, "that a park was a
place for men and women and deer to take pleasure in. I am
sure it is for children too!"
"Did you have a pleasant ride this morning?"
"Oh, very!  I always do. There isn't anything I like so
well."
"What, as to ride on horseback with Guy?" said Mrs. Carleton,
looking exceedingly benignant.
"Yes  unless "
"Unless what, my dear Fleda?"
"Unless, perhaps  I don't know,  I was going to say, unless
perhaps to hear him sing."
Mrs. Carleton's delight was unequivocally expressed; and she
promised Fleda that she should have both rides and songs there
in plenty another time  a promise upon which Fleda built no
trust at all.
The short journey to Paris was soon made. The next morning
Mrs. Carleton, making an excuse of her fatigue, left Guy to
end the care he had rather taken upon himself, by delivering
his little charge into the hands of her friends. So they drove
to the Hôtel , Rue , where Mr. Rossitur had apartments in
very handsome style. They found him alone in the saloon.
"Ha! Carleton  come back again. Just in time  very glad to
see you. And who is this?  Ah, another little daughter for
aunt Lucy."
Mr. Rossitur, who gave them this greeting very cordially, was
rather a fine-looking man  decidedly agreeable both in person
and manner. Fleda was pleasantly disappointed after what her
grandfather had led her to expect. There might be something of
sternness in his expression; people gave him credit for a
peremptory, not to say imperious, temper; but, if truly, it
could not often meet with opposition. The sense and
gentlemanly character which marked his face and bearing had an
air of smooth politeness which seemed habitual. There was no
want of kindness nor even of tenderness in the way he drew
Fleda within his arm and held her there, while he went on
talking to Mr. Carleton  now and then stooping his face to
look in at her bonnet and kiss her, which was his only
welcome. He said nothing to her after his first question.
He was too busy talking to Guy. He seemed to have a great deal
to tell him. There was this for him to see, and that for him
to hear, and charming new things which had been done or doing
since Mr. Carleton left Paris. The impression upon Fleda's
mind after listening awhile was, that the French capital was a
great gallery of the fine arts, with a magnified likeness of
Mr. Carleton's music-room at one end of' it. She thought her
uncle must be most extraordinarily fond of pictures and works
of art in general, and must have a great love for seeing
company, and hearing people sing. This latter taste, Fleda was
disposed to allow, might be a very reasonable one. Mr.
Carleton, she observed, seemed much more cool on the whole
subject. But, meanwhile, where was aunt Lucy?  and had Mr.
Rossitur forgotten the little armful that he held so fast and
so perseveringly? No, for here was another kiss, and another
look into her face, so kind, that Fleda gave him a piece of
her heart from that time.
"Hugh!" said Mr. Rossitur suddenly to somebody she had not
seen before  "Hugh! here is your little cousin. Take her off
to your mother."
A child came forward at this bidding, hardly larger than
herself. He was a slender, graceful little figure, with
nothing of the boy in his face or manner; delicate as a girl,
and with something almost melancholy in the gentle sweetness
of his countenance. Fleda's confidence was given to it on the
instant, which had not been the case with anything in her
uncle, and she yielded without reluctance the hand he took to
obey his father's command. Before two steps had been taken,
however, she suddenly broke away from him, and springing to
Mr. Carleton's side, silently laid her hand in his. She made
no answer whatever to a light word or two of kindness that he
spoke just for her ear. She listened with downcast eyes and a
lip that he saw was too unsteady to be trusted, and then after
a moment more, without looking, pulled away her hand, and
followed her cousin. Hugh did not once get a sight of her face
on the way to his mother's room, but owing to her exceeding
efforts; and quiet generalship, he never guessed the cause.
There was nothing in her face to raise suspicion, when he
reached the door, and opening it, announced her with 
"Mother, here's cousin Fleda come."
Fleda had seen her aunt before, though several years back, and
not long enough to get acquainted with her. But no matter  it
was her mother's sister sitting there, whose face gave her so
lovely a welcome at that speech of Hugh's, whose arms were
stretched out so eagerly towards her: and springing to them as
to a very haven of rest, Fleda wept on her bosom those
delicious tears that are only shed where the heart is at home.
And even before they were dried the ties were knit that bound
her to her new sphere.
"Who came with you, dear Fleda?" said Mrs. Rossitur then. "Is
Mrs. Carleton here? I must go and thank her for bringing you
to me."
"Mr. Carleton is here." said Hugh.
"I must go and thank him, then. Jump down, dear Fleda  I'll
be back in a minute."
Fleda got off her lap, and stood looking in a kind of
enchanted maze, while her aunt hastily arranged her hair at
the glass;  looking, while fancy and memory were making
strong the net in which her heart was caught. She was trying
to see something of her mother in one who had shared her blood
and her affection so nearly. A miniature of that mother was
left to Fleda, and she had studied it till she could hardly
persuade herself that she had not some recollection of the
original; and now she thought she caught a precious shadow of
something like it in her aunt Lucy. Not in those pretty bright
eyes which had looked through kind tears so lovingly upon her,
but in the graceful ringlets about the temples, the delicate
contour of the face, and a something  Fleda could only have
said it was "a something"  about the mouth when at rest, the
shadow of her mother's image rejoiced her heart. Rather that
faint shadow of the loved lost one for little Fleda, than any
other form or combination of beauty on earth. As she stood
fascinated, watching the movements of her aunt's light figure,
Fleda drew a long breath with which went off the whole burden
of doubt and anxiety that had lain upon her mind ever since
the journey began. She had not known it was there, but she
felt it go, yet even when that sigh of relief was breathed,
and while fancy and feeling were weaving their rich embroidery
into the very tissue of Fleda's happiness, most persons would
have seen merely that the child looked very sober, and have
thought, probably, that she felt very tired and strange.
Perhaps Mrs. Rossitur thought so, for, again tenderly kissing
her before she left the room, she told Hugh to take off her
things and make her feel at home.
Hugh upon this made Fleda sit down, and proceeded to untie her
tippet-strings and take off her coat, with an air of delicate
tenderness which showed he had great pleasure in his task, and
which made Fleda take a good deal of pleasure in it too.
"Are you tired, cousin Fleda?" said he, gently.
"No," said Fleda  "O no!"
"Charlton said you were tired on board ship."
"I wasn't tired," said Fleda, in not a little surprise; "I
liked it very much."
"Then maybe I mistook. I know Charlton said he was tired, and
I thought he said you were too. You know my brother Charlton,
don't you?"
"Yes."
" Are you glad to come to Paris?"
"I am glad, now," said Fleda. "I wasn't glad before."
"I am very glad," said Hugh. "I think you will like it. We
didn't know you were coming till two or three days ago, when
Charlton got here. Do you like to take walks?"
"Yes, very much."
"Father and mother will take us delightful walks in the
Tuileries  the gardens, you know  and the Champs Elysées,
and Versailles, and the Boulevards, and ever so many places,
and it will be a great deal pleasanter now you are here. Do
you know French?"
"No."
"Then you'll have to learn. I'll help you if you will let me.
It is very easy. Did you get my last letter?"
"I don't know," said Fleda; "the last one I had came with one
of aunt Lucy's telling me about Mrs. Carleton  I got it just
before "
Alas! before what? Fleda suddenly remembered, and was stopped
short. From all the strange scenes and interests which lately
had whirled her along, her spirit leapt back with strong
yearning recollection to her old home and her old ties; and
such a rain of tears witnessed the dearness of what she had
lost, and the tenderness of the memory that had let them slip
for a moment, that Hugh was as much distressed as startled.
With great tenderness and touching delicacy, he tried to
soothe her, and at the same time, though guessing, to find out
what was the matter, lest he should make a mistake.
"Just before what?" said he, laying his hand caressingly on
his little cousin's shoulder. "Don't grieve so, dear Fleda!"
"It was only just before grandpa died," said Fleda.
Hugh had known of that before, though like her he had
forgotten it for a moment. A little while his feeling was too
strong to permit any further attempt at condolence; but as he
saw Fleda grow quiet, he took courage to speak again.
"Was he a good man?" he asked softly.
"O yes!"
"Then," said Hugh, "you know he is happy now, Fleda. If he
loved Jesus Christ, he is gone to be with him. That ought to
make you glad as well as sorry."
Fleda looked up, though tears were streaming yet, to give that
full happy answer of the eye that no words could do. This was
consolation, and sympathy. The two children had a perfect
understanding of each other from that time forward,  a
fellowship that never knew a break nor a weakening.
Mrs. Rossitur found on her return that Hugh had obeyed her
charge to the letter. He had made Fleda feel at home. They
were sitting close together, Hugh's hand affectionately
clasping hers, and he was holding forth on some subject with a
gracious politeness that many of his elders might have copied,
while Fleda listened and assented with entire satisfaction.
The rest of the morning she passed in her aunt's arms,
drinking draughts of pleasure from those dear bright eyes,
taking in the balm of gentlest words of love and soft kisses,
every one of which was felt at the bottom of Fleda's heart,
and the pleasure of talking over her young sorrows with one
who could feel them all, and answer with tears as well as
words of sympathy. And Hugh stood by the while, looking at his
little orphan cousin as if she might have dropped from the
clouds into his mother's lap, a rare jewel or delicate flower,
but much more delicate and precious than they or any other
possible gift.
Hugh and Fleda dined alone: for, as he informed her, his
father never would have children at the dinner-table when he
had company, and Mr. and Mrs. Carleton, and other people were
to be there to-day. Fleda made no remark on the subject, by
word or look, but she thought none the less. She thought it
was a very mean fashion. She not come to the table when
strangers were there! And who would enjoy them more? When Mr.
Rossitur and Mr. Carleton had dined with her grandfather, had
she not taken as much pleasure in their society, and in the
whole thing, as any other one of the party? And at Carleton
had she not several times dined with a tableful, and been
unspeakably amused to watch the different manners and
characteristics of people who were strange to her? However,
Mr. Rossitur had other notions. So she and Hugh had their
dinner in aunt Lucy's dressing-room by themselves; and a very
nice dinner it was, Fleda thought, and Rosaline, Mrs.
Rossitur's French maid, was well affected and took admirable
care of them. Indeed, before the close of the day, Rosaline
privately informed her mistress, "qu'elle serait entêtée
sûrement de cet enfant dans trois jours;" and "que son regard
vraiment lui serrait le coeur." And Hugh was excellent
company, failing all other, and did the honours of the table
with the utmost thoughtfulness, and amused Fleda the whole
time with accounts of Paris, and what they would do, and what
she should see; and how his sister Marion was at school at a
convent, and what kind of a place a convent was; and how he
himself always stayed at home and learned of his mother and
his father; "or by himself," he said, "just as it happened,"
and he hoped they would keep Fleda at home too. So Fleda hoped
exceedingly, but this stern rule about the dining had made her
feel a little shy of her uncle; she thought perhaps he was not
kind and indulgent to children, like her aunt Lucy, and if he
said she must go to a convent, she would not dare to ask him
to let her stay. The next time she saw him, however, she was
obliged to change her opinion again, in part; for he was very
kind and indulgent, both to her and Hugh, and, more than that,
he was very amusing. He showed her pictures, and told her new
and interesting things, and finding that she listened eagerly,
he seemed pleased to prolong her pleasure, even at the expense
of a good deal of his own time.
Mr. Rossitur was a man of cultivated mind and very refined and
fastidious taste. He lived for the pleasures of art and
literature, and the society where these are valued. For this,
and not without some secret love of display, he lived in
Paris; not extravagant in his pleasures, nor silly in his
ostentation, but leading, like a gentleman, as worthy and
rational a life as a man can lead who lives only to himself,
with no further thought than to enjoy the passing hours. Mr.
Rossitur enjoyed them elegantly, and, for a man of the world,
moderately; bestowing, however, few of those precious hours
upon his children. It was his maxim, that they should be kept
out of the way whenever their presence might by any chance
interfere with the amusements of their elders; and this maxim,
a good one certainly in some hands, was, in his reading of it,
a very broad one. Still, when he did take time to give his
family, he was a delightful companion to those of them who
could understand him. If they showed no taste for sensible
pleasure, he had no patience with them, nor desire of their
company. Report had done him no wrong in giving him a stern
temper; but this almost never came out in actual exercise;
Fleda knew it only from in occasional hint now and then, and
by her childish intuitive reading of the lines it had drawn
round the mouth and brow. It had no disagreeable bearing on
his everyday life and manner; and the quiet fact probably
served but to heighten the love and reverence in which his
family held him very high.
Mr. Rossitur did once moot the question, whether Fleda should
not join Marion at her convent. But his wife looked very
grave, and said that she was too tender and delicate a little
thing to be trusted to the hands of strangers. Hugh pleaded,
and argued that she might share all his lessons; and Fleda's
own face pleaded more powerfully. There was something
appealing in its extreme delicacy and purity which seemed to
call for shelter and protection from every rough breath of the
world; and Mr. Rossitur was easily persuaded to let her remain
in the stronghold of home. Hugh had never quitted it. Neither
father nor mother ever thought of such a thing. He was the
cherished idol of the whole family. Always a delicate child,
always blameless in life and behaviour, his loveliness of mind
and person, his affectionateness, the winning sweetness that
was about him like a halo, and the slight tenure by which they
seemed to hold him, had wrought to bind the hearts of father
and mother to this child, as it were, with the very life-
strings of both. Not his mother was more gentle with Hugh than
his much sterner father. And now little Fleda, sharing
somewhat of Hugh's peculiar claims upon their tenderness, and
adding another of her own, was admitted, not to the same place
in their hearts  that could not be  but, to their honour be
it spoken, to the same place in all outward show of thought
and feeling. Hugh had nothing that Fleda did not have, even to
the time, care, and caresses of his parents. And not Hugh
rendered them a more faithful return of devoted affection.
Once made easy on the question of school, which was never
seriously stirred again, Fleda's life became very happy. It
was easy to make her happy; affection and sympathy would have
done it almost anywhere; but in Paris she had much more; and
after time had softened the sorrow she brought with her, no
bird ever found existence less of a burden, nor sang more
light-heartedly along its life. In her aunt she had all but
the name of a mother; in her uncle with kindness and
affection, she had amusement, interest, and improvement; in
Hugh, everything  love, confidence, sympathy, society, help;
their tastes, opinions, pursuits, went hand in hand. The two
children were always together. Fleda's spirits were brighter
than Hugh's, and her intellectual tastes stronger and more
universal. That might be as much from difference of physical
as of mental constitution. Hugh's temperament led him somewhat
to melancholy, and to those studies and pleasures which best
side with subdued feeling and delicate nerves. Fleda's nervous
system was of the finest too, but, in short, she was as like a
bird as possible. Perfect health, which yet a slight thing was
enough to shake to the foundation; joyous spirits, which a
look could quell; happy energies, which a harsh hand might
easily crush for ever. Well for little Fleda that so tender a
plant was permitted to unfold in so nicely tempered an
atmosphere. A cold wind would soon have killed it. Besides all
this, there were charming studies to be gone through every day
with Hugh  some for aunt Lucy to hear, some for masters and
mistresses. There were amusing walks in the Boulevards, and
delicious pleasure-taking in the gardens of Paris, and a new
world of people, and manners, and things, and histories, for
the little American. And despite her early rustic experience,
Fleda had from nature an indefeasible taste for the elegances
of life; it suited her well, to see all about her, in dress,
in furniture, in various appliances, as commodious and
tasteful as wealth and refinement could contrive it; and she
very soon knew what was right in each kind. There were, now
and then, most gleeful excursions in the environs of Paris,
when she and Hugh found in earth and air a world of delights
more than they could tell anybody but each other. And at home,
what peaceful times they two had  what endless conversations,
discussions, schemes, air journeys of memory and fancy,
backward and forward!  what sociable dinners alone, and
delightful evenings with Mr. and Mrs. Rossitur in the saloon,
when nobody, or only a very few people, were there, how
pleasantly in those evenings the foundations were laid of a
strong and enduring love for the works of art, painted,
sculptured, or engraven; what a multitude of curious and
excellent bits of knowledge Fleda's ears picked up from the
talk of different people. They were capital ears; what they
caught they never let fall. In the course of the year her
gleanings amounted to more than many another person's harvest.
CHAPTER XIV.
"Heav'n bless thee;
Thou hast the sweetest face I ever look'd on."
SHAKESPEARE.
One of the greatest of Fleda's pleasures was when Mr. Carleton
came to take her out with him. He did that often. Fleda only
wished he would have taken Hugh too, but somehow he never did.
Nothing but that was wanting to make the pleasure of those
times perfect. Knowing that she saw the common things in other
company, Guy was at the pains to vary the amusement when she
went with him. Instead of going to Versailles or St. Cloud, he
would take her long delightful drives into the country, and
show her some old or interesting place that nobody else went
to see. Often there was a history belonging to the spot, which
Fleda listened to with the delight of eye and fancy at once.
In the city, where they more frequently walked, still he
showed her what she would perhaps have seen under no other
guidance. He made it his business to give her pleasure; and
understanding the inquisitive active little spirit he had to
do with, he went where his own tastes would hardly have led
him. The Quai aux Fleurs was often visited, but also the Halle
aux Blés, the great Halle aux Vins, the Jardin des Plantes,
and the Marché des Innocens. Guy even took the trouble, more
for her sake than his own, to go to the latter place once very
early in the morning, when the market bell had not two hours
sounded, while the interest and prettiness of the scene were
yet in their full life. Hugh was in company this time, and the
delight of both children was beyond words, as it would have
been beyond anybody's patience, that had not a strong motive
to back it. They never discovered that Mr. Carleton was in a
hurry, as indeed he was not. They bargained for fruit with any
number of people, upon all sorts of inducements, and to an
extent of which they had no competent notion; but Hugh had his
mother's purse, and Fleda was skilfully commissioned to
purchase what she pleased for Mrs. Carleton. Verily the two
children that morning bought pleasure, not peaches. Fancy and
Benevolence held the purse-strings, and Economy did not even
look on. They revelled too, Fleda especially, amidst the
bright pictures of the odd, the new, and the picturesque, and
the varieties of character and incident that were displayed
around them, even till the country people began to go away,
and the scene to lose its charm. It never lost it in memory;
and many a time in after life, Hugh and Fleda recurred to
something that was seen or done "that morning when we bought
fruit at the Innocens."
Besides these scenes of everyday life, which interested and
amused Fleda to the last degree, Mr. Carleton showed her many
an obscure part of Paris, where deeds of daring and of blood
had been, and thrilled the little listener's ear with
histories of the past. He judged her rightly. She would rather
at any time have gone to walk with him than with anybody else
to see any show that could be devised. His object in all this
was, in the first place, to give her pleasure; and, in the
second place, to draw out her mind into free communion with
his own, which he knew could only be done by talking sense to
her. He succeeded as he wished. Lost in the interest of the
scenes he presented to her eye and mind, she forgot everything
else, and showed him herself  precisely what he wanted to
see.
It was strange that a young man, an admired man of fashion, a
flattered favourite of the gay and great world, and,
furthermore, a reserved and proud repeller of almost all who
sought his intimacy, should seek and delight in the society of
a little child. His mother would have wondered if she had
known it. Mrs. Rossitur did marvel that even Fleda should have
so won upon the cold and haughty young Englishman; and her
husband said he probably chose to have Fleda with him because
he could make up his mind to like nobody else; a remark which
perhaps arose from the utter failure of every attempt to draw
him and Charlton nearer together. But Mr. Rossitur was only
half right. The reason lay deeper.
Mr. Carleton had admitted the truth of Christianity, upon what
he considered sufficient grounds, and would now have steadily
fought for it, as he would for anything else that he believed
to be truth. But there he stopped. He had not discovered, nor
tried to discover, whether the truth of Christianity imposed
any obligation upon him. He had cast off his unbelief, and
looked upon it now as a singular folly. But his belief was
almost as vague and as fruitless as his infidelity had been.
Perhaps, a little, his bitter dissatisfaction with the world
and human things, or rather his despondent view of them, was
mitigated. If there was, as he now held, a Supreme Orderer of
events, it might be, and it was rational to suppose there
would be, in the issues of time, an entire change wrought in
the disordered and dishonoured state of his handiwork. There
might be a remedial system somewhere  nay, it might be in the
Bible,  he meant to look some day. But that he had anything
to do with that change; that the working of the remedial
system called for hands; that his had any charge in the
matter, had never entered into his imagination nor stirred his
conscience. He was living his old life at Paris, with his old
dissatisfaction  perhaps a trifle less bitter. He was seeking
pleasure in whatever art, learning, literature, refinement,
and luxury can do for a man who has them all at command; but
there was something within him that spurned this ignoble
existence, and called for higher aims and worthier exertion.
He was not vicious, he never had been vicious, or, as somebody
else said, his vices were all refined vices; but a life of
mere self-indulgence, although pursued without self-
satisfaction, is constantly lowering the standard and
weakening the forces of virtue  lessening the whole man. He
felt it so; and to leave his ordinary scenes and occupations,
and lose a morning with little Fleda, was a freshening of his
better nature; it was like breathing pure air after the fever-
heat of a sick-room; it was like hearing the birds sing after
the meaningless jabber of Bedlam. Mr. Carleton, indeed, did
not put the matter quite so strongly to himself. He called
Fleda his good angel. He did not exactly know that the office
this good angel performed was simply to hold a candle to his
conscience; for conscience was not by any means dead in him,
it only wanted light to see by. When he turned from the gay
and corrupt world in which he lived, where the changes were
rung incessantly upon self-interest, falsehood, pride, and the
various, more or less refined forms of sensuality; and when he
looked upon that pure bright little face, so free from
selfishness, those clear eyes so innocent of evil, the
peaceful brow under which a thought of double-dealing had
never hid, Mr. Carleton felt himself in a healthier region.
Here, as elsewhere, he honoured and loved the image of truth,
in the broad sense of truth,  that which suits the perfect
standard of right. But his pleasure in this case was
invariably mixed with a slight feeling of self-reproach; and
it was this hardly recognised stir of his better nature, this
clearing of his mental eyesight under the light of a bright
example, that made him call the little torch-bearer his good
angel. If this were truth, this purity, uprightness, and
singleness of mind, as conscience said it was, where was he?
how far wandering from his beloved idol?
One other feeling saddened the pleasure he had in her society,
 a belief that the ground of it could not last. "If she could
grow up so!" he said to himself. "But it is impossible. A very
few years, and all that clear sunshine of the mind will be
overcast,  there is not a cloud now!"
Under the working of these thoughts, Mr. Carleton sometimes
forgot to talk to his little charge, and would walk for a
length of way by her side, wrapped up in sombre musings. Fleda
never disturbed him then, but waited contentedly and patiently
for him to come out of them, with her old feeling, wondering
what he could be thinking of, and wishing he were as happy as
she. But he never left her very long. He was sure to wave his
own humour and give her all the graceful kind attention which
nobody else could bestow so well. Nobody understood and
appreciated it better than Fleda.
One day, some months after they had been in Paris, they were
sitting in the Place de la Concorde. Mr. Carleton was in one
of these thinking fits. He had been giving Fleda a long detail
of the scenes that had taken place in that spot; a history of
it from the time when it had lain an unsightly waste,  such a
graphic lively account as he knew well how to give. The
absorbed interest with which she had lost everything else in
what he was saying, had given him at once reward and motive
enough as he went on. Standing by his side, with one little
hand confidingly resting on his knee, she gazed alternately
into his face and towards the broad highly-adorned square by
the side of which they had placed themselves, and where it was
hard to realize that the ground had once been soaked in blood,
while madness and death filled the air; and her changing face,
like a mirror, gave him back the reflection of the times he
held up to her view. And still standing there in the same
attitude after he had done, she had been looking out towards
the square in a fit of deep meditation. Mr. Carleton had
forgotten her for a while in his own thoughts, and then the
sight of the little gloved hand upon his knee brought him back
again.
"What are you musing about, Elfie, dear?" he said, cheerfully,
taking the hand in one of his.
Fleda gave a swift glance into his face, as if to see whether
it would be safe for her to answer his question,  a kind of
exploring look, in which her eyes often acted as scouts for
her tongue. Those she met pledged their faith for her
security; yet Fleda's look went back to the square and then
again to his face in silence.
"How do you like living in Paris?" said he. "You should know
by this time."
"I like it very much indeed," said Fleda.
"I thought you would."
"I like Queechy better, though," she went on, gravely, her
eyes turning again to the square.
"Like Queechy better! Were you thinking of Queechy just now
when I spoke to you?"
"O no!"  with a smile.
"Were you going over all those horrors I have been distressing
you with?"
"No," said Fleda; "I was thinking of them, a while ago."
"What then?" said he pleasantly. "You were looking so sober, I
should like to know how near your thoughts were to mine."
"I was thinking," said Fleda, gravely, and a little
unwillingly, but Guy's manner was not to be withstood  "I was
wishing I could be like the disciple whom Jesus loved."
Mr. Carleton let her see none of the surprise he felt at this
answer.
"Was there one more loved than the rest?"
"Yes  the Bible calls him 'the disciple whom Jesus loved.'
That was John."
"Why was he preferred above the others?"
"I don't know. I suppose he was more gentle and good than the
others, and loved Jesus more. I think Aunt Miriam said so when
I asked her once."
Mr. Carleton thought Fleda had not far to seek for the
fulfilment of her wish.
"But how in the world, Elfie, did you work round to this
gentle and good disciple from those scenes of blood you set
out with?"
"Why," said Elfie, "I was thinking how unhappy and bad people
are, especially people here, I think; and how much must be
done before they will all be brought right; and then I was
thinking of the work Jesus gave his disciples to do; and so I
wished I could be like that disciple. Hugh and I were talking
about it this morning."
"What is the work he gave them to do?'" said Mr. Carleton,
more and more interested.
"Why," said Fleda, lifting her gentle wistful eyes to his, and
then looking away, "to bring everybody to be good and happy."
"And how in the world are they to do that?" said Mr. Carleton,
astonished to see his own problem quietly handled by this
child.
"By telling them about Jesus Christ, and getting them to
believe and love him," said Fleda, glancing at him again, "and
living so beautifully that people cannot help believing them."
"That last is an important clause," said Mr. Carleton,
thoughtfully. "But suppose people will not hear when they are
spoken to, Elfie?"
"Some will, at any rate," said Fleda, "and by and by everybody
will."
"How do you know?"
"Because the Bible says so."
"Are you sure of that, Elfie?"
"Why, yes, Mr. Carleton,  God has promised that the world
shall be full of good people, and then they will be all happy.
I wish it was now."
"But if that be so, Elfie, God can make them all good without
our help."
"Yes, but I suppose he wishes to do it with our help, Mr.
Carleton," said Fleda, with equal naïveté and gravity.
"But is not this you speak of," said he, half smiling, "rather
the business of clergymen? you have nothing to do with it?"
"No," said Fleda, "everybody has something to do with it  the
Bible says so; ministers must do it in their way, and other
people in other ways; everybody has his own work. Don't you
remember the parable of the ten talents, Mr. Carleton?"
Mr. Carleton was silent for a minute.
"I do not know the Bible quite as well as you do, Elfie," he
said then, "nor as I ought to do."
Elfie's only answer was by a look somewhat like that he well
remembered on shipboard he had thought was angel-like,  a
look of gentle sorrowful wistfulness, which she did not
venture to put into words. It had not for that the less power.
But he did not choose to prolong the conversation. They rose
up and began to walk homeward, Elfie thinking with all the
warmth of her little heart that she wished very much Mr.
Carleton knew the Bible better; divided between him and "that
disciple" whom she and Hugh had been talking about.
"I suppose you are very busy now, Elfie," observed her
companion, when they had walked the length of several squares
in silence.
"O yes!" said Fleda. " Hugh and I are as busy as we can be. We
are busy every minute."
"Except when you are on some chase after pleasure?"
"Well," said Fleda, laughing, "that is a kind of business; and
all the business is pleasure too. I didn't mean that we were
always busy about work. Oh, Mr. Carleton, we had such a nice
time the day before yesterday!"  And she went on to give him
the history of a very successful chase after pleasure which
they had made to St. Cloud.
"And yet you like Queechy better?"
"Yes," said Fleda, with a gentle steadiness peculiar to
herself  "if I had aunt Lucy, and Hugh, and uncle Rolf there,
and everybody that I care for, I should like it a great deal
better."
" 'Unspotted' yet," he thought.
"Mr. Carleton," said Fleda, presently  "do you play and sing
every day here in Paris?"
"Yes," said he, smiling,  "about every day. Why?"
"I was thinking how pleasant it was at your house in England."
"Has Carleton the honour of rivalling Queechy in your liking?"
"I haven't lived there so long, you know," said Fleda, "I dare
say it would if I had. I think it is quite as pretty a place."
Mr. Carleton smiled with a very pleased expression. Truth and
politeness had joined hands in her answer with a child's
grace.
He brought Fleda to her own door, and there was leaving her.
"Stop! Oh, Mr. Carleton," cried Fleda, "come in, just for one
minute  I want to show you something."
He made no resistance to that. She led him to the saloon,
where it happened that nobody was, and repeating, "One
minute!"  rushed out of the room. In less than that time, she
came running back with a beautiful half-blown bud of a monthly
rose in her hand, and in her face such a bloom of pleasure and
eagerness as more than rivalled it. The rose was fairly
eclipsed. She put the bud quietly, but with a most satisfied
air of affection, into Mr. Carleton's hand. It had come from a
little tree which he had given her on one of' their first
visits to the Quai aux Fleurs. She had had the choice of what
she liked best, and had characteristically taken a flourishing
little rose-bush, that as yet showed nothing but leaves and
green buds, partly, because she would have the pleasure of
seeing its beauties come forward, and partly, because she
thought having no flowers, it would not cost much. The former
reason, however, was all that she had given to Mr. Carleton's
remonstrances.
"What is all this, Elfie?" said he. "Have you been robbing
your rose-tree?"
"No," said Elfie, "there are plenty more buds! Isn't it
lovely? This is the first one. They've been a great while
coming out."
His eye went from the rose to her; he thought the one was a
mere emblem of the other. Fleda was usually very quiet in her
demonstrations; it was as if a little green bud had suddenly
burst into a flush of loveliness; and he saw, it was as plain
as possible, that goodwill to him had been the moving power.
He was so much struck and moved, that his thanks, though as
usual perfect in their kind, were far shorter and graver than
he would have given if he had felt less. He turned away from
the house, his mind full of the bright unsullied purity and
single-hearted goodwill that had looked out of that beaming
little face; he seemed to see them again in the flower he held
in his hand, and he saw nothing else as he went.
Mr. Carleton preached to himself all the way home, and his
text was a rose.
Laugh who will. To many it may seem ridiculous; and to most
minds it would have been impossible; but to a nature very
finely wrought and highly trained, many a voice that grosser
senses cannot hear, comes with an utterance as clear as it is
sweet-spoken; many a touch that coarser nerves cannot heed,
reaches the springs of the deeper life; many a truth that
duller eyes have no skill to see, shows its fair features, hid
away among the petals of a rose, or peering out between the
wings of a butterfly, or reflected in a bright drop of dew.
The material is but a veil for the spiritual; but, then, eyes
must be quickened, or the veil becomes an impassable cloud.
That particular rose was to Mr. Carleton's eye a most perfect
emblem and representative of its little giver. He traced out
the points of resemblance as he went along. The delicacy and
character of refinement for which that kind of rose is
remarkable above many of its more superb kindred; a refinement
essential and unalterable by decay or otherwise, as true a
characteristic of the child as of the flower; a delicacy that
called for gentle handling and tender cherishing; the
sweetness, rare indeed, but asserting itself as it were
timidly, at least with equally rare modesty; the very style of
the beauty that, with all its loveliness, would not startle
nor even catch the eye among its more showy neighbours; and
the breath of purity that seemed to own no kindred with earth,
nor liability to infection.
As he went on with his musing, and drawing out this fair
character from the type before him, the feeling of contrast
that he had known before pressed upon Mr. Carleton's mind; the
feeling of self-reproach, and the bitter wish that he could be
again what he once had been  something like this. How changed
now he seemed to himself  not a point of likeness left. How
much less honourable, how much less worth, how much less
dignified, than that fair innocent child! How much better a
part she was acting in life  what an influence she was
exerting,  as pure, as sweet-breathed, and as unobtrusive, as
the very rose in his hand! And he  doing no good to an
earthly creature, and losing himself by inches.
He reached his room, put the flower in a glass on the table,
and walked up and down before it. It had come to a struggle
between the sense of what was and the passionate wish for what
might have been.
"It is late, Sir," said his servant, opening the door  "and
you were "
"I am not going out."
"This evening, Sir?"
"No  not at all to-day. Spenser, I don't wish to see anybody
 let no one come near me."
The servant retired, and Guy went on with his walk and his
meditations  looking back over his life, and reviewing, with
a wiser ken now, the steps by which he had come. He compared
the selfish disgust with which he had cast off the world with
the very different spirit of little Fleda's look upon it that
morning; the useless, self-pleasing, vain life he was leading,
with her wish to be like the beloved disciple, and do
something to heal the troubles of those less happy than
herself. He did not very well comprehend the grounds of her
feeling or reasoning, but he began to see, mistily, that his
own had been mistaken and wild.
His step grew slower, his eye more intent, his brow quiet.
"She is right, and I am wrong," he thought. "She is by far the
nobler creature  worth many such as I. Like her I cannot be 
I cannot regain what I have lost  I cannot undo what years
have done. But I can be something other than I am! If there be
a system of remedy, as there well may, it may as well take
effect on myself first. She says everybody has his work; I
believe her. It must, in the nature of things, be so. I will
make it my business to find out what mine is; and when I have
made that sure, I will give myself to the doing of it. An All-
wise Governor must look for service of me. He shall have it.
Whatever my life be, it shall be to some end. If not what I
would, what I can. If not the purity of the rose, that of
tempered steel!"
Mr. Carleton walked his room for three hours; then rung for
his servant, and ordered him to prepare everything for leaving
Paris the second day thereafter.
The next morning over theirs coffee he told his mother of his
purpose.
"Leave Paris! To-morrow! My dear Guy, that is rather a sudden
notice."
"No, mother; for I am going alone."
His mother immediately bent an anxious and somewhat terrified
look upon him. The frank smile she met put half her suspicions
out of her head at once.
"What is the matter?"
"Nothing at all  if by 'matter' you mean mischief."
"You are not in difficulty with those young men again?"
"No, mother," said he, coolly. "I am in difficulty with no one
but myself."
"With yourself! But why will you not let me go with you?"
"My business will go on better if I am quite alone."
"What business?''
"Only to settle this question with myself," said he, smiling.
"But, Guy! you are enigmatical this morning. Is it the
question that of all others I wish to see settled?"
"No, mother," said he, laughing, and colouring a little; "I
don't want another half to take care of till I have this one
under management."
"I don't understand you," said Mrs. Carleton. "There is no
hidden reason under all this that you are keeping from me?"
"I wont say that. But there is none that need give you the
least uneasiness. There are one or two matters I want to study
out; I cannot do it here, so I am going where I shall be
free."
"Where?"
"I think I shall pass the summer between Switzerland and
Germany."
"And when and where shall I meet you again?"
"I think, at home; I cannot say when."
"At home!" said his mother with a brightening face. "Then you
are beginning to be tired of wandering at last?"
"Not precisely, mother,"  rather out of humour.
"I shall be glad of anything," said his mother, gazing at him
admiringly, "that brings you home again, Guy."
"Brings me home a better man, I hope, mother," said he,
kissing her as he left the room. "I will see you again by and
by."
" 'A better man!' " thought Mrs. Carleton, as she sat with
full eyes, the image of her son filling the place where his
presence had been; "I would be willing never to see him
better, and be sure of his never being worse."
Mr. Carleton's farewell visit found Mr. and Mrs. Rossitur not
at home. They had driven out early into the country to fetch
Marion from her convent for some holiday. Fleda came alone
into the saloon to receive him.
"I have your rose in safe keeping, Elfie," he said. "It has
done me more good than ever a rose did before."
Fleda smiled an innocently pleased smile. But her look changed
when he added 
"I have come to tell you so, and to bid you good-bye."
"Are you going away, Mr. Carleton?"
"Yes."
"But you will be back soon?"
"No, Elfie  I do not know that I shall ever come back."
He spoke gravely, more gravely than he was used, and Fleda's
acuteness saw that there was some solid reason for this sudden
determination. Her face changed sadly, but she was silent, her
eyes never wavering from those that read hers with such gentle
intelligence.
"You will be satisfied to have me go, Elfie, when I tell you
that I am going on business which I believe to be duty.
Nothing else takes me away. I am going to try to do right,"
said he, smiling.
Elfie could not answer the smile. She wanted to ask whether
she should never see him again, and there was another thought
upon her tongue too; but her lip trembled, and she said
nothing.
"I shall miss my good fairy," Mr. Carleton went on, lightly;
"I don't know how I shall do without her. If your wand was
long enough to reach so far I would ask you to touch me now
and then, Elfie."
Poor Elfie could not stand it. Heir head sank. She knew she
had a wand that could touch him, and well and gratefully she
resolved that its light blessing should "now and then" rest on
his head; but he did not understand that; he was talking,
whether lightly or seriously  and Elfie knew it was a little
of both  he was talking of wanting her help, and was ignorant
of the help that alone could avail him. "O that he knew but
that!" What with this feeling and sorrow together, the child's
distress was exceeding great; and the tokens of grief in one
so accustomed to hide them were the more painful to see. Mr.
Carleton drew the sorrowing little creature within his arm,
and endeavoured with a mixture of kindness and lightness in
his tone to cheer her.
"I shall often remember you, dear Elfie," he said; "I shall
keep your rose always, and take it with me wherever I go. You
must not make it too hard for me to quit Paris  you are glad
to have me go on such an errand, are you not?"
She presently commanded herself, bade her tears wait till
another time as usual, and trying to get rid of those that
covered her face, asked him "What errand?"
He hesitated.
"I have been thinking of what we were talking of yesterday,
Elfie," he said at length. "I am going to try to discover my
duty, and then to do it."
But Fleda at that clasped his hand, and squeezing it in both
hers, bent down her little head over it to hide her face and
the tears that streamed again. He hardly knew how to
understand, or what to say to her. He half suspected that
there were depths in that childish mind beyond his fathoming.
He was not, however, left to wait long. Fleda, though she
might now and then be surprised into showing it, never allowed
her sorrow of any kind to press upon the notice or the time of
others. She again checked herself and dried her face.
"There is nobody else in Paris that will be so sorry for my
leaving it," said Mr. Carleton, half tenderly and half
pleasantly.
"There is nobody else that has so much cause," said Elfie,
near bursting out again, but she restrained herself.
"And you will not come here again;, Mr. Carleton?" she said,
after a few minutes.
"I do not say that  it is possible  if I do, it will be to
see you, Elfie."
A shadow of a smile passed over her face at that. It was gone
instantly.
"My mother will not leave Paris yet," he went on  you will
see her often."
But he saw that Fleda was thinking of something else; she
scarce seemed to hear him. She was thinking of something that
troubled her.
"Mr. Carleton," she began, and her colour changed.
"Speak, Elfie."
Her colour changed again. "Mr. Carleton, will you be
displeased if I say something?"
"Don't you know me better than to ask me that, Elfie?" he
said, gently.
"I want to ask you something  if you wont mind my saying it?"
