expecting that their days of slavery were numbered. Here they were
conducted back to the same old prison from which they had been taken a
few weeks before, though they supposed it would be but for an hour or
two. Presently Mr. Bigelow, of Washington, came for Richard. When the
girls found that they were not to be set free too, their grief and
disappointment were unspeakable. But they were separated,—Richard to
go to his home, his wife and children, and they to remain in the
slave-prison. Wearisome days and nights again rolled on. In the mornings
they were obliged to march round the yard to the music of fiddles,
banjoes, &c.; in the day-time they washed and ironed for the male
slaves, slept some, and wept a great deal. After a few weeks their
father came to visit them, accompanied by their sister.
His object was partly to ascertain what were the very lowest terms upon
which their keeper would sell the girls, as he indulged a faint hope
that in some way or other the money might be raised, if time enough were
allowed. The trader declared he should soon send them to some other
slave-market, but he would wait two weeks, and, if the friends could
raise the money in that time, they might have them.
The night their father and sister spent in the prison with them, he lay
in the room over their heads; and they could hear him groan all night,
while their sister was weeping by their side. None of them closed their
eyes in sleep.
In the morning came again the wearisome routine of the slave-prison. Old
Paul walked quietly into the yard, and sat down to see the poor slaves
marched around. He had never seen his daughters in such circumstances
before, and his feelings quite overcame him. The yard was narrow, and
the girls, as they walked by him, almost brushing him with their
clothes, could just hear him groaning within himself, “O, my children,
my children!”
After the breakfast, which none of them were able to eat, they parted
with sad hearts, the father begging the keeper to send them to New
Orleans, if the money could not be raised, as perhaps their brothers
there might secure for them kind masters.
Two or three weeks afterwards Bruin & Hill visited the prison, dissolved
partnership with the trader, settled accounts, and took the Edmondsons
again in their own possession.
The girls were roused about eleven o’clock at night, after they had
fallen asleep, and told to get up directly, and prepare for going home.
They had learned that the word of a slave-holder is not to be trusted,
and feared they were going to be sent to Richmond, Virginia, as there
had been talk of it. They were soon on their way in the cars with Bruin,
and arrived at Washington at a little past midnight.
Their hearts throbbed high when, after these long months of weary
captivity, they found themselves once more in the city where were their
brothers, sisters and parents. But they were permitted to see none of
them, and were put into a carriage and driven immediately to the
slave-prison at Alexandria, where, about two o’clock at night, they
found themselves in the same forlorn old room in which they had begun
their term of captivity!
This was the latter part of August. Again they were employed in washing,
ironing and sewing by day, and always locked up by night. Sometimes they
were allowed to sew in Bruin’s house, and even to eat there. After they
had been in Alexandria two or three weeks, their eldest married sister,
not having heard from them for some time, came to see Bruin, to learn,
if possible, something of their fate; and her surprise and joy were
great to see them once more, even there. After a few weeks their old
father came again to see them. Hopeless as the idea of their
emancipation seemed, he still clung to it. He had had some encouragement
of assistance in Washington, and he purposed to go North to see if
anything could be done there; and he was anxious to obtain from Bruin
what were the very lowest possible terms for which he would sell the
girls. Bruin drew up his terms in the following document, which we
subjoin:
                                     Alexandria, Va., Sept. 5, 1848.
  The bearer, Paul Edmondson, is the father of two girls, Mary Jane
  and Emily Catharine Edmondson. These girls have been purchased by
  us, and once sent to the south; and, upon the positive assurance
  that the money for them would be raised if they were brought back,
  they were returned. Nothing, it appears, has as yet been done in
  this respect by those who promised, and we are on the very eve of
  sending them south the second time; and we are candid in saying
  that, if they go again, we will not regard any promises made in
  relation to them. The father wishes to raise money to pay for them;
  and intends to appeal to the liberality of the humane and the good
  to aid him, and has requested us to state in writing the conditions
  upon which we will sell his daughters.
  We expect to start our servants to the south in a few days; if the
  sum of twelve hundred ($1200) dollars be raised and paid to us in
  fifteen days, or we be assured of that sum, then we will retain them
  for twenty-five days more, to give an opportunity for the raising of
  the other thousand and fifty ($1050) dollars; otherwise we shall be
  compelled to send them along with our other servants.
                                                         BRUIN & HILL.
Paul took his papers, and parted from his daughters sorrowfully. After
this, the time to the girls dragged on in heavy suspense. Constantly
they looked for letter or message, and prayed to God to raise them up a
deliverer from some quarter. But day after day and week after week
passed, and the dreaded time drew near. The preliminaries for fitting up
the gang for South Carolina commenced. Gay calico was bought for them to
make up into “show dresses,” in which they were to be exhibited on sale.
They made them up with far sadder feelings than they would have sewed on
their own shrouds. Hope had almost died out of their bosoms. A few days
before the gang were to be sent off, their sister made them a sad
farewell visit. They mingled their prayers and tears, and the girls made
up little tokens of remembrance to send by her as parting gifts to their
brothers and sisters and aged father and mother, and with a farewell
sadder than that of a death-bed the sisters parted.
The evening before the coffle was to start drew on. Mary and Emily went
to the house to bid Bruin’s family good-by. Bruin had a little daughter
who had been a pet and favorite with the girls. She clung round them,
cried, and begged them not to go. Emily told her that, if she wished to
have them stay, she must go and ask her father. Away ran the little
pleader, full of her errand; and was so very earnest in her
importunities, that he, to pacify her, said he would consent to their
remaining, if his partner, Captain Hill, would do so. At this time
Bruin, hearing Mary crying aloud in the prison, went up to see her. With
all the earnestness of despair, she made her last appeal to his
feelings. She begged him to make the case his own, to think of his own
dear little daughter,—what if she were exposed to be torn away from
every friend on earth, and cut off from all hope of redemption, at the
very moment, too, when deliverance was expected! Bruin was not
absolutely a man of stone, and this agonizing appeal brought tears to
his eyes. He gave some encouragement that, if Hill would consent, they
need not be sent off with the gang. A sleepless night followed, spent in
weeping, groaning and prayer. Morning at last dawned, and, according to
orders received the day before, they prepared themselves to go, and even
put on their bonnets and shawls, and stood ready for the word to be
given. When the very last tear of hope was shed, and they were going out
to join the gang, Bruin’s heart relented. He called them to him, and
told them they might remain! O, how glad were their hearts made by this,
as they might now hope on a little longer! Either the entreaties of
little Martha or Mary’s plea with Bruin had prevailed.
Soon the gang was started on foot,—men, women and children, two and two,
the men all handcuffed together, the right wrist of one to the left
wrist of the other, and a chain passing through the middle from the
handcuffs of one couple to those of the next. The women and children
walked in the same manner throughout, handcuffed or chained. Drivers
went before and at the side, to take up those who were sick or lame.
They were obliged to set off singing! accompanied with fiddles and
banjoes!—“For they that carried us away captive required of us a song,
and they that wasted us required of us mirth.” And this is a scene of
daily occurrence in a Christian country!—and Christian ministers say
that the right to do these things is given by God himself!!
Meanwhile poor old Paul Edmondson went northward to supplicate aid. Any
one who should have travelled in the cars at that time might have seen a
venerable-looking black man, all whose air and attitude indicated a
patient humility, and who seemed to carry a weight of overwhelming
sorrow, like one who had long been acquainted with grief. That man was
Paul Edmondson.
Alone, friendless, unknown, and, worst of all, black, he came into the
great bustling city of New York, to see if there was any one there who
could give him twenty-five hundred dollars to buy his daughters with.
Can anybody realize what a poor man’s feelings are, who visits a great,
bustling, rich city, alone and unknown, for such an object? The writer
has now, in a letter from a slave father and husband who was visiting
Portland on a similar errand, a touching expression of it:
  I walked all day, till I was tired and discouraged. O! Mrs. S——,
  when I see so many people who seem to have so many more things than
  they want or know what to do with, and then think that I have worked
  hard, till I am past forty, all my life, and don’t own even my own
  wife and children, it makes me feel sick and discouraged!
So sick at heart and discouraged felt Paul Edmondson. He went to the
Anti-Slavery Office, and made his case known. The sum was such a large
one, and seemed to many so exorbitant, that, though they pitied the poor
father, they were disheartened about raising it. They wrote to
Washington to authenticate the particulars of the story, and wrote to
Bruin and Hill to see if there could be any reduction of price.
Meanwhile, the poor old man looked sadly from one adviser to another. He
was recommended to go to the Rev. H. W. Beecher, and tell his story. He
inquired his way to his door,—ascended the steps to ring the door-bell,
but his heart failed him,—he sat down on the steps weeping!
There Mr. Beecher found him. He took him in, and inquired his story.
There was to be a public meeting that night, to raise money. The hapless
father begged him to go and plead for his children. He did go, and spoke
as if he were pleading for his own father and sisters. Other clergymen
followed in the same strain,—the meeting became enthusiastic, and the
money was raised on the spot, and poor old Paul laid his head that night
on a grateful pillow,—not to sleep, but to give thanks!
Meanwhile the girls had been dragging on anxious days in the
slave-prison. They were employed in sewing for Bruin’s family, staying
sometimes in the prison and sometimes in the house.
It is to be stated here that Mr. Bruin is a man of very different
character from many in his trade. He is such a man as never would have
been found in the profession of a slave-trader, had not the most
respectable and religious part of the community defended the right to
buy and sell, as being conferred by God himself. It is a fact, with
regard to this man, that he was one of the earliest subscribers to the
National Era, in the District of Columbia; and, when a certain
individual there brought himself into great peril by assisting fugitive
slaves, and there was no one found to go bail for him, Mr. Bruin came
forward and performed this kindness.
While we abhor the horrible system and the horrible trade with our whole
soul, there is no harm, we suppose, in wishing that such a man had a
better occupation. Yet we cannot forbear reminding all such that, when
we come to give our account at the judgment-seat of Christ, every man
must speak for himself alone; and that Christ will not accept as an
apology for sin the word of all the ministers and all the synods in the
country. He has given fair warning, “Beware of false prophets;” and if
people will not beware of them, their blood is upon their own heads.
The girls, while under Mr. Bruin’s care, were treated with as much
kindness and consideration as could possibly consist with the design of
selling them. There is no doubt that Bruin was personally friendly to
them, and really wished most earnestly that they might be ransomed; but
then he did not see how he was to lose two thousand five hundred
dollars. He had just the same difficulty on this subject that some New
York members of churches have had, when they have had slaves brought
into their hands as security for Southern debts. He was sorry for them,
and wished them well, and hoped Providence would provide for them when
they were sold, but still he could not afford to lose his money; and
while such men remain elders and communicants in churches in New York,
we must not be surprised that there remain slave-traders in Alexandria.
It is one great art of the enemy of souls to lead men to compound for
their participation in one branch of sin by their righteous horror of
another. The slave-trader has been the general scape-goat on whom all
parties have vented their indignation, while buying of him and selling
to him.
There is an awful warning given in the fiftieth Psalm to those who in
word have professed religion and in deed consented to iniquity, where
from the judgment-seat Christ is represented as thus addressing them:
“What hast thou to do to declare my statutes, or that thou shouldst
take my covenant into thy mouth, seeing thou hatest instruction, and
castest my words behind thee? When thou sawest a thief, then thou
consentedst with him, and hast been partaker with adulterers.”
One thing is certain, that all who do these things, openly or secretly,
must, at last, make up their account with a Judge who is no respecter of
persons, and who will just as soon condemn an elder in the church for
slave-trading as a professed trader; nay, He may make it more tolerable
for the Sodom and Gomorrah of the trade than for them,—for it may be, if
the trader had the means of grace that they have had, that he would have
repented long ago.
But to return to our history.—The girls were sitting sewing near the
open window of their cage, when Emily said to Mary, “There, Mary, is
that white man we have seen from the North.” They both looked, and in a
moment more saw their own dear father. They sprang and ran through the
house and the office, and into the street, shouting as they ran,
followed by Bruin, who said he thought the girls were crazy. In a moment
they were in their father’s arms, but observed that he trembled
exceedingly, and that his voice was unsteady. They eagerly inquired if
the money was raised for their ransom. Afraid of exciting their hopes
too soon, before their free papers were signed, he said he would talk
with them soon, and went into the office with Mr. Bruin and Mr. Chaplin.
Mr. Bruin professed himself sincerely glad, as undoubtedly he was, that
they had brought the money; but seemed much hurt by the manner in which
he had been spoken of by the Rev. H. W. Beecher at the liberation
meeting in New York, thinking it hard that no difference should be made
between him and other traders, when he had shown himself so much more
considerate and humane than the great body of them. He, however, counted
over the money and signed the papers with great good will, taking out a
five-dollar gold piece for each of the girls, as a parting present.
The affair took longer than they supposed, and the time seemed an age to
the poor girls, who were anxiously walking up and down outside the room,
in ignorance of their fate. Could their father have brought the money?
Why did he tremble so? Could he have failed of the money, at last? Or
could it be that their dear mother was dead, for they had heard that she
was very ill!
At length a messenger came shouting to them, “You are free, you are
free!” Emily thinks she sprang nearly to the ceiling overhead. They
jumped, clapped their hands, laughed and shouted aloud. Soon their
father came to them, embraced them tenderly and attempted to quiet them,
and told them to prepare them to go and see their mother. This they did
they know not how, but with considerable help from the family, who all
seemed to rejoice in their joy. Their father procured a carriage to take
them to the wharf, and, with joy overflowing all bounds, they bade a
most affectionate farewell to each member of the family, not even
omitting Bruin himself. The “good that there is in human nature” for
once had the upper hand, and all were moved to tears of sympathetic joy.
Their father, with subdued tenderness, made great efforts to soothe
their tumultuous feelings, and at length partially succeeded. When they
arrived at Washington, a carriage was ready to take them to their
sister’s house. People of every rank and description came running
together to get a sight of them. Their brothers caught them up in their
arms, and ran about with them, almost frantic with joy. Their aged and
venerated mother, raised up from a sick bed by the stimulus of the glad
news, was there, weeping and giving thanks to God. Refreshments were
prepared in their sister’s house for all who called, and amid greetings
and rejoicings, tears and gladness, prayers and thanksgivings, but
without sleep, the night passed away, and the morning of November 4,
1848, dawned upon them free and happy.
This last spring, during the month of May, as the writer has already
intimated, the aged mother of the Edmondson family came on to New York,
and the reason of her coming may be thus briefly explained. She had
still one other daughter, the guide and support of her feeble age, or,
as she calls her in her own expressive language, “the last drop of blood
in her heart.” She had also a son, twenty-one years of age, still a
slave on a neighboring plantation. The infirm woman in whose name the
estate was held was supposed to be drawing near to death, and the poor
parents were distressed with the fear that, in case of this event, their
two remaining children would be sold for the purpose of dividing the
estate, and thus thrown into the dreaded southern market. No one can
realize what a constant horror the slave-prisons and the slave-traders
are to all the unfortunate families in the vicinity. Everything for
which other parents look on their children with pleasure and pride is to
these poor souls a source of anxiety and dismay, because it renders the
child so much more a merchantable article.
It is no wonder, therefore, that the light in Paul and Milly’s cottage
was overshadowed by this terrible idea.
The guardians of these children had given their father a written promise
to sell them to him for a certain sum, and by hard begging he had
acquired a hundred dollars towards the twelve hundred which were
necessary. But he was now confined to his bed with sickness. After
pouring out earnest prayers to the Helper of the helpless, Milly says,
one day she said to Paul, “I tell ye, Paul, I’m going up to New York
myself, to see if I can’t get that money.”
“Paul says to me, ‘Why, Milly dear, how can you? Ye an’t fit to be off
the bed, and ye’s never in the cars in your life.’
“‘Never you fear, Paul,’ says I; ‘I shall go trusting in the Lord; and
the Lord, He’ll take me, and He’ll bring me,—that I know.’
“So I went to the cars and got a white man to put me aboard; and, sure
enough, there I found two Bethel ministers; and one set one side o’ me,
and one set the other, all the way; and they got me my tickets, and
looked after my things, and did every thing for me. There didn’t
anything happen to me all the way. Sometimes, when I went to set down in
the sitting-rooms, people looked at me and moved off so scornful! Well,
I thought, I wish the Lord would give you a better mind.”
Emily and Mary, who had been at school in New York State, came to the
city to meet their mother, and they brought her directly to the Rev.
Henry W. Beecher’s house, where the writer then was.
The writer remembers now the scene when she first met this mother and
daughters. It must be recollected that they had not seen each other
before for four years. One was sitting each side the mother, holding her
hand; and the air of pride and filial affection with which they
presented her was touching to behold. After being presented to the
writer, she again sat down between them, took a hand of each, and looked
very earnestly first on one and then on the other; and then, looking up,
said, with a smile, “O, these children,—how they do lie round our
hearts!”
She then explained to the writer all her sorrows and anxieties for the
younger children. “Now, madam,” she says, “that man that keeps the great
trading-house at Alexandria, that man,” she said, with a strong,
indignant expression, “has sent to know if there’s any more of my
children to be sold. That man said he wanted to see me! Yes, ma’am, he
said he’d give twenty dollars to see me. I wouldn’t see him, if he’d
give me a hundred! He sent for me to come and see him, when he had my
daughters in his prison. I wouldn’t go to see him,—I didn’t want to see
them there!”
The two daughters, Emily and Mary, here became very much excited, and
broke out in some very natural but bitter language against all
slave-holders. “Hush, children! you must forgive your enemies,” she
said. “But they’re so wicked!” said the girls. “Ah, children, you must
hate the sin, but love the sinner.” “Well,” said one of the girls,
“mother, if I was taken again and made a slave of, I’d kill myself.” “I
trust not, child,—that would be wicked.” “But, mother, I should; I
know I never could bear it.” “Bear it, my child?” she answered, “it’s
they that bears the sorrow here is they that has the glories there.”
There was a deep, indescribable pathos of voice and manner as she said
these words,—a solemnity and force, and yet a sweetness, that can never
be forgotten.
This poor slave-mother, whose whole life had been one long outrage on
her holiest feelings,—who had been kept from the power to read God’s
Word, whose whole pilgrimage had been made one day of sorrow by the
injustice of a Christian nation,—she had yet learned to solve the
highest problem of Christian ethics, and to do what so few reformers can
do,—hate the sin, but love the sinner!
A great deal of interest was excited among the ladies in Brooklyn by
this history. Several large meetings were held in different parlors, in
which the old mother related her history with great simplicity and
pathos, and a subscription for the redemption of the remaining two of
her family was soon on foot. It may be interesting to know that the
subscription list was headed by the lovely and benevolent Jenny Lind
Goldschmidt.
Some of the ladies who listened to this touching story were so much
interested in Mrs. Edmondson personally, they wished to have her
daguerreotype taken; both that they might be strengthened and refreshed
by the sight of her placid countenance, and that they might see the
beauty of true goodness beaming there.
She accordingly went to the rooms with them, with all the simplicity of
a little child. “O,” said she, to one of the ladies, “you can’t think
how happy it’s made me to get here, where everybody is so kind to me!
Why, last night, when I went home, I was so happy I couldn’t sleep. I
had to go and tell my Saviour, over and over again, how happy I was.”
A lady spoke to her about reading something. “Law bless you, honey! I
can’t read a letter.”
“Then,” said another lady, “how have you learned so much of God, and
heavenly things?”
“Well, ‘pears like a gift from above.”
“Can you have the Bible read to you?”
“Why, yes; Paul, he reads a little, but then he has so much work all
day, and when he gets home at night he’s so tired! and his eyes is bad.
But then the Sperit teaches us.”
“Do you go much to meeting?”
“Not much now, we live so far. In winter I can’t never. But, O! what
meetings I have had, alone in the corner,—my Saviour and only me!” The
smile with which these words were spoken was a thing to be remembered. A
little girl, daughter of one of the ladies, made some rather severe
remarks about somebody in the daguerreotype rooms, and her mother
checked her.
The old lady looked up, with her placid smile. “That puts me in mind,”
she said, “of what I heard a preacher say once. ‘My friends,’ says he,
‘if you know of anything that will make a brother’s heart glad, run
quick and tell it; but if it is something that will only cause a sigh,
‘bottle it up, bottle it up!’ O, I often tell my children, ‘Bottle it
up, bottle it up!’”
When the writer came to part with the old lady, she said to her: “Well,
good-by, my dear friend; remember and pray for me.”
“Pray for you!” she said, earnestly. “Indeed I shall,—I can’t help
it.” She then, raising her finger, said, in an emphatic tone, peculiar
to the old of her race, “Tell you what! we never gets no good bread
ourselves till we begins to ask for our brethren.”
The writer takes this opportunity to inform all those friends, in
different parts of the country, who generously contributed for the
redemption of these children, that they are at last free!
The following extract from the letter of a lady in Washington may be
interesting to them:
  I have seen the Edmondson parents,—Paul and his wife Milly. I have
  seen the free Edmondsons,—mother, son, and daughter,—the very day
  after the great era of free life commenced, while yet the
  inspiration was on them, while the mother’s face was all light and
  love, the father’s eyes moistened and glistening with tears, the son
  calm in conscious manhood and responsibility, the daughter (not more
  than fifteen years old, I think) smiling a delightful appreciation
  of joy in the present and hope in the future, thus suddenly and
  completely unfolded.
Thus have we finished the account of one of the families who were taken
on board the Pearl. We have another history to give, to which we
cannot promise so fortunate a termination.
                              CHAPTER VII.
Among those unfortunates guilty of loving freedom too well, was a
beautiful young quadroon girl, named Emily Russell, whose mother is now
living in New York. The writer has seen and conversed with her. She is a
pious woman, highly esteemed and respected, a member of a Christian
church.
By the avails of her own industry she purchased her freedom, and also
redeemed from bondage some of her children. Emily was a resident of
Washington, D. C., a place which belongs not to any state, but to the
United States; and there, under the laws of the United States, she was
held as a slave. She was of a gentle disposition and amiable manners;
she had been early touched with a sense of religious things, and was on
the very point of uniting herself with a Christian church; but her heart
yearned after her widowed mother and after freedom, and so, on the fatal
night when all the other poor victims sought the Pearl, the child Emily
went also among them.
How they were taken has already been told. The sin of the poor girl was
inexpiable. Because she longed for her mother’s arms and for liberty,
she could not be forgiven. Nothing would do for such a sin, but to throw
her into the hands of the trader. She also was thrown into Bruin &
Hill’s jail, in Alexandria. Her poor mother in New York received the
following letter from her. Read it, Christian mother, and think what if
your daughter had written it to you!
  To Mrs. NANCY CARTWRIGHT, New York.
                                          Alexandria, Jan. 22, 1850.
  MY DEAR MOTHER: I take this opportunity of writing you a few lines,
  to inform you that I am in Bruin’s Jail, and Aunt Sally and all of
  her children, and Aunt Hagar and all her children, and grandmother
  is almost crazy. My dear mother, will you please to come on as soon
  as you can? I expect to go away very shortly. O, mother! my dear
  mother! come now and see your distressed and heart-broken daughter
  once more. Mother! my dear mother! do not forsake me, for I feel
  desolate! Please to come now.
                                                Your daughter,
                                                        EMILY RUSSELL.
  P. S.—If you do not come as far as Alexandria, come to Washington,
  and do what you can.
That letter, blotted and tear-soiled, was brought by this poor
washerwoman to some Christian friends in New York, and shown to them.
“What do you suppose they will ask for her?” was her question. All that
she had,—her little house, her little furniture, her small earnings,—all
these poor Nancy was willing to throw in; but all these were but as a
drop to the bucket.
The first thing to be done, then, was to ascertain what Emily could be
redeemed for; and, as it may be an interesting item of American trade,
we give the reply of the traders in full:
                                          Alexandria, Jan. 31, 1850.
  DEAR SIR: When I received your letter I had not bought the negroes
  you spoke of, but since that time I have bought them. All I have to
  say about the matter is, that we paid very high for the negroes, and
  cannot afford to sell the girl Emily for less than EIGHTEEN HUNDRED
  DOLLARS. This may seem a high price to you, but, cotton being very
  high, consequently slaves are high. We have two or three offers for
  Emily from gentlemen from the south. She is said to be the
  finest-looking woman in this country. As for Hagar and her seven
  children, we will take two thousand five hundred dollars for them.
  Sally and her four children. We will take for them two thousand
  eight hundred dollars. You may seem a little surprised at the
  difference in prices, but the difference in the negroes makes the
  difference in price. We expect to start south with the negroes on
  the 8th February, and if you intend to do anything, you had better
  do it soon.
                                                 Yours, respectfully,
                                                         BRUIN & HILL.
This letter came to New York before the case of the Edmondsons had
called the attention of the community to this subject. The enormous
price asked entirely discouraged effort, and before anything of
importance was done they heard that the coffle had departed, with Emily
in it.
Hear, O heavens! and give ear, O earth! Let it be known, in all the
countries of the earth, that the market-price of a beautiful Christian
girl in America is from EIGHTEEN HUNDRED to TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS; and
yet, judicatories in the church of Christ have said, in solemn conclave,
that AMERICAN SLAVERY AS IT IS IS NO EVIL![22]
From the table of the sacrament and from the sanctuary of the church of
Christ this girl was torn away, because her beauty was a salable article
in the slave-market in New Orleans!
Perhaps some Northern apologist for slavery will say she was kindly
treated here—not handcuffed by the wrist to a chain, and forced to walk,
as articles less choice are; that a wagon was provided, and that she
rode; and that food abundant was given her to eat, and that her clothing
was warm and comfortable, and therefore no harm was done. We have heard
it told us, again and again, that there is no harm in slavery, if one is
only warm enough, and full-fed, and comfortable. It is true that the
slave-woman has no protection from the foulest dishonor and the utmost
insult that can be offered to womanhood,—none whatever in law or gospel;
but, so long as she has enough to eat and wear, our Christian fathers
and mothers tell us it is not so bad!
Poor Emily could not think so. There was no eye to pity, and none to
help. The food of her accursed lot did not nourish her; the warmest
clothing could not keep the chill of slavery from her heart. In the
middle of the overland passage, sick, weary, heart-broken, the child
laid her down and died. By that lonely pillow there was no mother. But
there was one Friend, who loveth at all times, who is closer than a
brother. Could our eyes be touched by the seal of faith, where others
see only the lonely wilderness and the dying girl, we, perhaps, should
see one clothed in celestial beauty, waiting for that short agony to be
over, that He might redeem her from all iniquity, and present her
faultless before the presence of his Grace with exceeding joy!
Even the hard-hearted trader was touched with her sad fate, and we are
credibly informed that he said he was sorry he had taken her.
Bruin & Hill wrote to New York that the girl Emily was dead. A friend of
the family went with the letter, to break the news to her mother. Since
she had given up all hope of redeeming her daughter from the dreadful
doom to which she had been sold, the helpless mother had drooped like a
stricken woman. She no longer lifted up her head, or seemed to take any
interest in life.
When the friend called on her, she asked, eagerly,
“Have you heard anything from my daughter?”
“Yes. I have,” was the reply, “a letter from Bruin & Hill.”
“And what is the news?”
He thought best to give a direct answer,—“Emily is dead.”
The poor mother clasped her hands, and, looking upwards, said, “The Lord
be thanked! He has heard my prayers at last!”
And, now, will it be said this is an exceptional case—it happens one
time in a thousand? Though we know that this is the foulest of
falsehoods, and that the case is only a specimen of what is acting every
day in the American slave-trade, yet, for argument’s sake, let us, for
once, admit it to be true. If only once in this nation, under the
protection of our law, a Christian girl had been torn from the altar and
the communion-table, and sold to foulest shame and dishonor, would that
have been a light sin? Does not Christ say, “Inasmuch as ye have done it
unto one of the least of these, ye have done it unto me”? O, words of
woe for thee, America!—words of woe for thee, church of Christ! Hast
thou trod them under foot and trampled them in the dust so long that
Christ has forgotten them? In the day of judgment every one of these
words shall rise up, living and burning, as accusing angels to witness
against thee. Art thou, O church of Christ! praying daily, “Thy kingdom
come”? Darest thou pray, “Come, Lord Jesus, come quickly”? O, what if He
should come? What if the Lord, whom ye seek, should suddenly come into
his temple? If his soul was stirred within him when he found within his
temple of old those that changed money, and sold sheep and oxen and
doves, what will he say now, when he finds them selling body, blood and
bones, of his own people? And is the Christian church, which justifies
this enormous system,—which has used the awful name of her Redeemer to
sanction the buying, selling and trading in the souls of men,—is this
church the bride of Christ? Is she one with Christ, even as Christ is
one with the Father? O, bitter mockery! Does this church believe that
every Christian’s body is a temple of the Holy Ghost? Or does she think
those solemn words were idle breath, when, a thousand times, every day
and week, in the midst of her, is this temple set up and sold at
auction, to be bought by any godless, blasphemous man, who has money to
pay for it!
As to poor Daniel Bell and his family, whose contested claim to freedom
was the beginning of the whole trouble, a few members of it were
redeemed, and the rest were plunged into the abyss of slavery. It would
seem as if this event, like the sinking of a ship, drew into its
maëlstrom the fate of every unfortunate being who was in its vicinity. A
poor, honest, hard-working slave-man, of the name of Thomas Ducket, had
a wife who was on board the Pearl. Tom was supposed to know the men
who countenanced the enterprise, and his master, therefore, determined
to sell him. He brought him to Washington for the purpose. Some in
Washington doubted his legal right to bring a slave from Maryland for
the purpose of selling him, and commenced legal proceedings to test the
matter. While they were pending, the counsel for the master told the men
who brought action against his client that Tom was anxious to be sold;
that he preferred being sold to the man who had purchased his wife and
children, rather than to have his liberty. It was well known, that Tom
did not wish to be separated from his family, and the friends here,
confiding in the representations made to them, consented to withdraw the
proceedings.
Some time after this, they received letters from poor Tom Ducket, dated
ninety miles above New Orleans, complaining sadly of his condition, and
making piteous appeals to hear from them respecting his wife and
children. Upon inquiry, nothing could be learned respecting them. They
had been sold and gone,—sold and gone,—no one knew whither; and as a
punishment to Tom for his contumacy in refusing to give the name of the
man who had projected the expedition of the Pearl, he was denied the
privilege of going off the place, and was not allowed to talk with the
other servants, his master fearing a conspiracy. In one of his letters
he says, “I have seen more trouble here in one day than I have in all my
life.” In another, “I would be glad to hear from her [his wife], but I
should be more glad to hear of her death than for her to come here.”
In his distress, Tom wrote a letter to Mr. Bigelow, of Washington.
People who are not in the habit of getting such documents have no idea
of them. We give a facsimile of Tom’s letter, with all its poor
spelling, all its ignorance, helplessness, and misery.
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
                                                 [February 18, 1852.
  MR. BIGELOW. DEAR SIR:—I write to let you know how I am getting
  along. Hard times here. I have not had one hour to go outside the
  place since I have been on it. I put my trust in the Lord to help
  me. I long to hear from you all I written to hear from you all. Mr.
  Bigelow, I hope you will not forget me. You know it was not my fault
  that I am here. I hope you will name me to Mr. Geden, Mr. Chaplin,
  Mr. Bailey, to help me out of it. I believe that if they would make
  the least move to it that it could be done. I long to hear from my
  family how they are getting along. You will please to write to me
  just to let me know how they are getting along. You can write to me.
                                    I remain your humble servant,
                                                        THOMAS DUCKET.
  You can direct your letters to Thomas Ducket, in care of Mr. Samuel
  T. Harrison, Louisiana, near Bayou Goula. For God’s sake let me hear
  from you all. My wife and children are not out of my mind day nor
  night.]
-----
Footnote 22:
  The words of the Georgia Annual Conference: Resolved, “That slavery,
  as it exists in the United States, is not a moral evil.”
                             CHAPTER VIII.
                              KIDNAPPING.
The principle which declares that one human being may lawfully hold
another as property leads directly to the trade in human beings; and
that trade has, among its other horrible results, the temptation to the
crime of kidnapping.
The trader is generally a man of coarse nature and low associations,
hard-hearted, and reckless of right or honor. He who is not so is an
exception, rather than a specimen. If he has anything good about him
when he begins the business, it may well be seen that he is in a fair
way to lose it.
Around the trader are continually passing and repassing men and women
who would be worth to him thousands of dollars in the way of trade,—who
belong to a class whose rights nobody respects, and who, if reduced to
slavery, could not easily make their word good against him. The
probability is that hundreds of free men and women and children are all
the time being precipitated into slavery in this way.
The recent case of Northrop, tried in Washington, D. C., throws light
on this fearful subject. The following account is abridged from the New
York Times:
  Solomon Northrop is a free colored citizen of the United States; he
  was born in Essex county, New York, about the year 1808; became
  early a resident of Washington county, and married there in 1829.
  His father and mother resided in the county of Washington about
  fifty years, till their decease, and were both free. With his wife
  and children he resided at Saratoga Springs in the winter of 1841,
  and while there was employed by two gentlemen to drive a team South,
  at the rate of a dollar a day. In fulfilment of his employment, he
  proceeded to New York, and, having taken out free papers, to show
  that he was a citizen, he went on to Washington city, where he
  arrived the second day of April, the same year, and put up at
  Gadsby’s Hotel. Soon after he arrived he felt unwell, and went to
  bed.
  While suffering with severe pain, some persons came in, and, seeing
  the condition he was in, proposed to give him some medicine, and did
  so. This is the last thing of which he had any recollection, until
  he found himself chained to the floor of Williams’ slave-pen in this
  city, and handcuffed. In the course of a few hours, James H. Burch,
  a slave-dealer, came in, and the colored man asked him to take the
  irons off from him, and wanted to know why they were put on. Burch
  told him it was none of his business. The colored man said he was
  free, and told where he was born. Burch called in a man by the name
  of Ebenezer Rodbury, and they two stripped the man and laid him
  across a bench, Rodbury holding him down by his wrists. Burch
  whipped him with a paddle until he broke that, and then with a
  cat-o’-nine-tails, giving him a hundred lashes; and he swore he
  would kill him if he ever stated to any one that he was a free man.
  From that time forward the man says he did not communicate the fact
  from fear, either that he was a free man, or what his name was,
  until the last summer. He was kept in the slave-pen about ten days,
  when he, with others, was taken out of the pen in the night by
  Burch, handcuffed and shackled, and taken down the river by a
  steamboat, and then to Richmond, where he, with forty-eight others,
  was put on board the brig Orleans. There Burch left them. Tho brig
  sailed for New Orleans, and on arriving there, before she was
  fastened to the wharf, Theophilus Freeman, another slave-dealer,
  belonging in the city of New Orleans, and who in 1833 had been a
  partner with Burch in the slavetrade, came to the wharf, and
  received the slaves as they were landed, under his direction. This
  man was immediately taken by Freeman and shut up in his pen in that
  city, he was taken sick with the small-pox immediately after getting
  there, and was sent to a hospital, where he lay two or three weeks.
  When he had sufficiently recovered to leave the hospital, Freeman
  declined to sell him to any person in that vicinity, and sold him to
  a Mr. Ford, who resided in Rapides Parish, Louisiana, where he was
  taken and lived more than a year, and worked as a carpenter, working
  with Ford at that business.
  Ford became involved, and had to sell him. A. Mr. Tibaut became the
  purchaser. He, in a short time, sold him to Edwin Eppes, in Bayou
  Beouf, about one hundred and thirty miles from the mouth of Red
  river, where Eppes has retained him on a cotton plantation since the
  year 1843.
  To go back a step in the narrative, the man wrote a letter, in June,
  1841, to Henry B. Northrop, of the State of New York, dated and
  postmarked at New Orleans, stating that he had been kidnapped and
  was on board a vessel, but was unable to state what his destination
  was; but requesting Mr. N. to aid him in recovering his freedom, if
  possible. Mr. N. was unable to do anything in his behalf, in
  consequence of not knowing where he had gone, and not being able to
  find any trace of him. His place of residence remained unknown until
  the month of September last, when the following letter was received
  by his friends:
                                          Bayou Beouf, August, 1852.
  MR. WILLIAM PENY, or MR. LEWIS PARKER.
  GENTLEMEN: It having been a long time since I have seen or heard
  from you, and not knowing that you are living, it is with
  uncertainty that I write to you; but the necessity of the case must
  be my excuse. Having been born free just across the river from you,
  I am certain you know me; and I am here now a slave. I wish you to
  obtain free papers for me, and forward them to me at Marksville,
  Louisiana, Parish of Avovelles, and oblige
                                 Yours,
                                                     SOLOMON NORTHROP.
  On receiving the above letter, Mr. N. applied to Governor Hunt, of
  New York, for such authority as was necessary for him to proceed to
  Louisiana as an agent to procure the liberation of Solomon. Proof of
  his freedom was furnished to Governor Hunt by affidavits of several
  gentlemen, General Clarke among others. Accordingly, in pursuance of
  the laws of New York, Henry B. Northrop was constituted an agent, to
  take such steps, by procuring evidence, retaining counsel, &c., as
  were necessary to secure the freedom of Solomon, and to execute all
  the duties of his agency.
The result of Mr. Northrop’s agency was the establishing of the claim of
Solomon Northrop to freedom, and the restoring him to his native land.
It is a singular coincidence that this man was carried to a plantation
in the Red river country, that same region where the scene of Tom’s
captivity was laid; and his account of this plantation, his mode of life
there, and some incidents which he describes, form a striking parallel
to that history. We extract them from the article of the Times:
  The condition of this colored man during the nine years that he was
  in the hands of Eppes was of a character nearly approaching that
  described by Mrs. Stowe as the condition of “Uncle Tom” while in
  that region. During that whole period his hut contained neither a
  floor, nor a chair, nor a bed, nor a mattress, nor anything for him
  to lie upon, except a board about twelve inches wide, with a block
  of wood for his pillow, and with a single blanket to cover him,
  while the walls of his hut did not by any means protect him from the
  inclemency of the weather. He was sometimes compelled to perform
  acts revolting to humanity, and outrageous in the highest degree. On
  one occasion, a colored girl belonging to Eppes, about seventeen
  years of age, went one Sunday, without the permission of her master,
  to the nearest plantation, about half a mile distant, to visit
  another colored girl of her acquaintance. She returned in the course
  of two or three hours, and for that offence she was called up for
  punishment, which Solomon was required to inflict. Eppes compelled
  him to drive four stakes into the ground at such distances that the
  hands and ankles of the girl might be tied to them, as she lay with
  her face upon the ground; and, having thus fastened her down, he
  compelled him, while standing by himself, to inflict one hundred
  lashes upon her bare flesh, she being stripped naked. Having
  inflicted the hundred blows, Solomon refused to proceed any further.
  Eppes tried to compel him to go on, but he absolutely set him at
  defiance, and refused to murder the girl. Eppes then seized the
  whip, and applied it until he was too weary to continue it. Blood
  flowed from her neck to her feet, and in this condition she was
  compelled the next day to go into the field to work as a field-hand.
  She bears the marks still upon her body although the punishment was
  inflicted four years ago.
  When Solomon was about to leave, under the care of Mr. Northrop,
  this girl came from behind her hut, unseen by her master, and,
  throwing her arms around the neck of Solomon, congratulated him on
  his escape from slavery, and his return to his family; at the same
  time, in language of despair, exclaiming, “But, O God! what will
  become of me?”
  These statements regarding the condition of Solomon while with
  Eppes, and the punishment and brutal treatment of the colored girls,
  are taken from Solomon himself. It has been stated that the nearest
  plantation was distant from that of Eppes a half-mile, and of course
  there could be no interference on the part of neighbors in any
  punishment, however cruel, or how ever well disposed to interfere
  they might be.
Had not Northrop been able to write, as few of the free blacks in the
slave states are, his doom might have been sealed for life in this den
of misery.
Two cases recently tried in Baltimore also unfold facts of a similar
nature.
The following is from
              THE CASE OF RACHEL PARKER AND HER SISTER....
  It will be remembered that more than a year since a young colored
  woman, named Mary Elizabeth Parker, was abducted from Chester county
  and conveyed to Baltimore, where she was sold as a slave, and
  transported to New Orleans. A few days after, her sister, Rachel
  Parker, was also abducted in like manner, taken to Baltimore, and
  detained there in consequence of the interference of her Chester
  county friends. In the first case, Mary Elizabeth was, by an
  arrangement with the individual who had her in charge, brought back
  to Baltimore, to await her trial on a petition for freedom. So also
  with regard to Rachel. Both, after trial,—the proof in their favor
  being so overwhelming,—were discharged, and are now among their
  friends in Chester county. In this connection we give the narratives
  of both females, obtained since their release.
                      Rachel Parker’s Narrative.
  “I was taken from Joseph C. Miller’s about twelve o’clock on Tuesday
  (Dec. 30th, 1851), by two men who came up to the house by the back
  door. One came in and asked Mrs. Miller where Jesse McCreary lived,
  and then seized me by the arm, and pulled me out of the house. Mrs.
  Miller called to her husband, who was in the front porch, and he
  ran out and seized the man by the collar, and tried to stop him. The
  other, with an oath, then told him to take his hands off, and if he
  touched me he would kill him. He then told Miller that I belonged to
  Mr. Schoolfield, in Baltimore. They then hurried me to a wagon,
  where there was another large man, put me in, and drove off.
  “Mr. Miller ran across the field to head the wagon, and picked up a
  stake to run through the wheel, when one of the men pulled out a
  sword (I think it was a sword, I never saw one), and threatened to
  cut Miller’s arm off. Pollock’s wagon being in the way, and he
  refusing to get out of the road, we turned off to the left. After we
  rode away, one of the men tore a hole in the back of the carriage,
  to look out to see if they were coming after us, and they said they
  wished they had given Miller and Pollock a blow.
  “We stopped at a tavern near the railroad, and I told the landlord
  (I think it was) that I was free. I also told several persons at the
  car-office; and a very nice-looking man at the car-office was
  talking at the door, and he said he thought that they had better
  take me back again. One of the men did not come further than the
  tavern. I was taken to Baltimore, where we arrived about seven
  o’clock the same evening, and I was taken to jail.
  “The next morning, a man with large light-colored whiskers took me
  away by myself, and asked me if I was not Mr. Schoolfield’s slave. I
  told him I was not; he said that I was, and that if I did not say I
  was he would ‘cowhide me and salt me, and put me in a dungeon.’ I
  told him I was free, and that I would say nothing but the truth.”
                     Mary E. Parker’s Narrative.
  “I was taken from Matthew Donnelly’s on Saturday night (Dec. 6th, or
  13th, 1851); was caught whilst out of doors, soon after I had
  cleared the supper-table, about seven o’clock, by two men, and put
  into a wagon. One of them got into the wagon with me, and rode to
  Elkton, Md., where I was kept until Sunday night at twelve o’clock,
  when I left there in the cars for Baltimore, and arrived there early
  on Monday morning.
  “At Elkton a man was brought in to see me, by one of the men, who
  said that I was not his father’s slave. Afterwards, when on the way
  to Baltimore in the cars, a man told me that I must say that I was
  Mr. Schoolfield’s slave, or he would shoot me, and pulled a ‘rifle’
  out of his pocket and showed it to me, and also threatened to whip
  me.
  “On Monday morning, Mr. Schoolfield called at the jail in Baltimore
  to see me; and on Tuesday morning he brought his wife and several
  other ladies to see me. I told them I did not know them, and then
  Mr. C. took me out of the room, and told me who they were, and took
  me back again, so that I might appear to know them. On the next
  Monday I was shipped to New Orleans.
  “It took about a month to get to New Orleans. After I had been there
  about a week, Mr. C. sold me to Madame C., who keeps a large
  flower-garden. She sends flowers to sell to the theatres, sells milk
  in market, &c. I went out to sell candy and flowers for her, when I
  lived with her. One evening, when I was coming home from the
  theatre, a watchman took me up, and I told him I was not a slave. He
  put me in the calaboose, and next morning took me before a
  magistrate, who sent for Madame C., who told him she bought me. He
  then sent for Mr. C., and told him he must account for how he got
  me. Mr. C. said that my mother and all the family were free, except
  me. The magistrate told me to go back to Madame C., and he told
  Madame C. that she must not let me go out at night; and he told Mr.
  C. that he must prove how he came by me. The magistrate afterwards
  called on Mrs. C., at her house, and had a long talk with her in the
  parlor. I do not know what he said, as they were by themselves.
  About a month afterwards, I was sent back to Baltimore. I lived with
  Madame C. about six months.
  “There were six slaves came in the vessel with me to Baltimore, who
  belonged to Mr. D., and were returned because they were sickly.
  “A man called to see me at the jail after I came back to Baltimore,
  and told me that I must say I was Mr. Schoolfield’s slave, and that
  if I did not do it he would kill me the first time he got a chance.
  He said Rachel [her sister] said she came from Baltimore and was Mr.
  Schoolfield’s slave. Afterwards some gentlemen called on me [Judge
  Campbell and Judge Bell, of Philadelphia, and William H. Norris,
  Esq., of Baltimore], and I told them I was Mr. Schoolfield’s slave.
  They said they were my friends, and I must tell them the truth. I
  then told them who I was and all about it.
  “When I was in New Orleans Mr. C. whipped me because I said that I
  was free.”
                  *       *       *       *       *
  Elizabeth, by her own account above, was seized and taken from
  Pennsylvania, Dec. 6th or 13th, 1851, which is confirmed by other
  testimony.
It is conceded that such cases, when brought into Southern courts, are
generally tried with great fairness and impartiality. The agent for
Northrop’s release testifies to this, and it has been generally admitted
fact. But it is probably only one case in a hundred that can get into
court:—of the multitudes who are drawn down in the ever-widening
maëlstrom only now and then one ever comes back to tell the tale.
The succeeding chapter of advertisements will show the reader how many
such victims there may probably be.
                              CHAPTER IX.
              SLAVES AS THEY ARE, ON TESTIMONY OF OWNERS.
The investigation into the actual condition of the slave population at
the South is beset with many difficulties. So many things are said pro
and con,—so many said in one connection and denied in another,—that
the effect is very confusing.
Thus, we are told that the state of the slaves is one of blissful
contentment; that they would not take freedom as a gift; that their
family relations are only now and then invaded; that they are a stupid
race, almost sunk to the condition of animals; that generally they are
kindly treated, &c. &c. &c.
In reading over some two hundred Southern newspapers this fall, the
author has been struck with the very graphic and circumstantial
pictures, which occur in all of them, describing fugitive slaves. From
these descriptions one may learn a vast many things. The author will
here give an assortment of them, taken at random. It is a commentary on
the contented state of the slave population that the writer finds two or
three always, and often many more, in every one of the hundreds of
Southern papers examined.
In reading the following little sketches of “slaves as they are,” let
the reader notice:
1. The color and complexion of the majority of them.
2. That it is customary either to describe slaves by some scar, or to
say “No scars recollected.”
3. The intelligence of the parties advertised.
4. The number that say they are free that are to be sold to pay
jail-fees.
Every one of these slaves has a history,—a history of woe and crime,
degradation, endurance, and wrong. Let us open the chapter:
South-side Democrat, Oct. 28, 1852. Petersburgh, Virginia:
                                REWARD.
