him without speaking. He had never seen him so affected before. They
were alone in the glade; and the birds, silenced for a time by human
voices, were heard again twittering in the boughs. Charley spoke at
length.
"I have been deceived, Lacy. I thought I knew men, and was prepared
for any inconsistency; but if I had been told that the man, cherished
for years as a brother, would mislead me purposely in a matter of
vital importance to us both, I would not have credited it. I had his
promise, or what amounted to a promise, that he would not stir without
consulting me. What weakness!" he continued, more agitated, "to abandon
fame and friends and life, because of a fancied slight from a woman!"
"Yet are we guiltless of similar failings?" said Morton, impressively.
"Have there not been times when we too were impatient--despairing--for
no more weighty cause? My dear Charley, let us judge leniently errors
into which we might have fallen, but for greater strength or less
powerful temptation. Disapproval and forgiveness are not incompatible."
"You have witnessed the one--will you be the bearer of the other!"
asked Charley, trying to smile. "I will not oblige him to ask it. He
has had humiliation enough for one day."
Mr. Lacy's first care, upon their return to the city, was to dispatch a
note to Ida. It merely announced the success of their expedition; the
means adopted to secure it, she gathered from Charley. They had gone
together, first to Lynn's then to Pemberton's lodgings, when Charley
had been informed of the projected meeting. They were reported "not
at home." They then hit upon the unpromising expedient of going to
every hackstand in the city, to ascertain, if possible, at what time
the party was to start in the morning, and its route. They failed, in
two or three cases to arouse the keepers; and from others received
unimportant and early replies. Charley had just asked, "Do you mean
to give it up?" and been answered by a firm "Never!" when a negro
bustled by them. Morton seized him by the shoulder, and led him to an
apothecary's lamp.
"I thought so!"
"I've got a pass. Let me go!" said the fellow, struggling.
"Not until I know where you have been. You are Mr. Talbot's
servant--you may gain something, and shall not lose, by answering me
civilly. What were you sent for!"
By smooth and harsh words, he was brought to acknowledge that his
"young master" having had company all the evening, had forgotten, until
late, to send him to a livery-stable to engage a carriage for five
o'clock next morning.
"Who is with him, besides Mr. Pemberton?" inquired Mr. Lacy.
"Mr. Watson, sir."
"How far are they to go, after crossing the river?"
"Lor! Massa! how you reckon I know?"
"No trifling, sir! If I wanted to create mischief, you have said
enough. Tell me everything, or I will go at once to your master!"
The man instantly named their destination, which his master had let
slip in his hearing; and added that they were "fixing pistols." The
information was corroborated by a call upon the liveryman, and they
acted upon it. The delay, which was so near being fatal, arose from
their ignorance of a newer and shorter road than they chose.
"How Lacy guessed their intentions, I cannot imagine," said Charley.
"He would not entrust to me the name of his informant; and Lynn is as
much in the dark. He brought your letter to the door after he was sure
you had retired and mine was left upon his desk. But Lacy is discreet
from principle, not from caprice."
"He is," said Ida with heightened color. "If any stigma attaches to the
informer, it must rest upon me."
"Just like him, noble-hearted and faithful!" exclaimed Charley, when
her story was ended. "Shall you tell Lynn?"
"Yes--if only to show him how his friends love him. He may view it as
a breach of confidence, but I had rather he should reproach me, than
suspect the innocent."
Whether he reproached her or not, the revelation did not diminish his
regard for her. Except at their first agitating interview, he never
adverted to the unfinished duel; but he seemed drawn to her by a new
tie, in the recollection of her readiness to adventure so much in his
behalf. Ellen Morris had left town for a visit to Petersburg, the day
after the rupture:--left without a message or line of penitence or
conciliation. Lynn did not complain, but his moodiness subsided into a
pensiveness, illumined by the flashes of his former animation, like the
sparkle of smouldering embers.
It was during one of these gleams that he spent the evening at the
rendezvous of what Josephine styled the "Dana clique." John Dana and
his amiable wife were great favorites of his and Mr. Lacy's. Their
friendly calls may have been more frequent because it was Ida's chief
visiting place. Mr. Dana was in New York, and she had dined and taken
tea with her friend.
Lynn came in with Charley, and the latter, excusing himself for an hour
after supper, left Ida and the young artist together.
"I have been thinking lately, how sublime a thing is philanthropy,"
said Lynn, throwing himself with boyish abandon, upon the rug at her
feet. "I welcome this train of thought as a sign, that I am growing
less selfish, for I have been sadly, sinfully selfish, Ida--madly
intent upon my schemes, my happiness--forgetting that God placed me
in the world to benefit others. Lacy was in my studio to-day, and we
had a talk upon this subject. He says there is always a reflex tide
of the happiness we send forth to those around us; a purer, truer joy
than self-gratification. 'In this respect,' he observed, 'we can best
imitate the example of our Supreme Benefactor.' Imitate our Creator,
Ida! that is something worth living for."
"You have much besides, to make life precious, Lynn. I remember when it
seemed worthless to me; when I thought I had tasted all the sweetness
it possessed--I have changed my opinion since."
"Ah! but you have never bowed soul and spirit to an idol, and 'found it
clay;' never realised in the dread hour that saw its demolition, that
the fairest growth of heart and mind--the plants which you flattered
yourself were climbing heavenward, had only twined themselves with
strengthening tendrils about the altar of that one love! I know the
meaning of the expression, 'broken cisterns, which can hold no water.'
I have felt for some time past as if my heart were a stagnant marsh,
flooded by wasted affections. To-day I have been happier, more hopeful.
I will begin life anew, and strive for my art and for my kind."
"I have often told you that you have rare qualifications for
usefulness," rejoined Ida. "Your besetting fault is unsteadiness of
purpose; the best resolutions avail nothing if they are not adhered to."
"I know it. I dare not say now, that I will keep my present frame of
mind until to-morrow; but I do feel as if a broad field were spread
before me, and a bright, bright heaven over-arched it. I can think
and speak of Ellen; I comfort myself by imagining that our separation
is for our mutual good--our characters required discipline, and dimly
in the future I see visions of reconciliation and re-union." Poor
boy! the idol was not gone yet! He sat in an attitude of careless
grace, his hand supporting his cheek, and the light falling upon his
upturned face. "Yes," he continued, thoughtfully. "I am convinced
that my life has been spared for some important end, and I will work
it out, whenever Providence designates the ways and means of its
accomplishment. I do not overlaud my ability; for youth, and health,
and energy, are almost omnipotent, and I am young, and strong, and
willing."
"You will not be offended if I aid you in the work?" asked Ida.
"No; and I anticipate your warning. You would say that self-conquest
lies at the base of all other victories. Ah! you will yet be ashamed of
your incredulity as to my regeneration. That is Charley's voice, he has
brought Lacy, too! I am glad!"
Ida was more than glad. She had seen him since their midnight walk,
but Josephine's presence had debarred her from even a look of
acknowledgment.
Mrs. Dana came down stairs, and completed the fireside group.
"What have you two been prosing about?" asked Charley, presently.
"I have been talking--Miss Ida listening," said Lynn. "She has no faith
in my determination to play 'good boy,' and as she knows me better than
I do myself, I am uneasy for the durability of my excellent resolve. Do
say something encouraging, Lacy."
"What is this reformation? of mind or manner?" inquired Morton.
"Mind, manner, heart and will. I have been a wilful troublesome child
all my life; I mean, from this time forward, to be a man."
"And how are you setting about it?"
"Oh! I am theorising now. I have no distinct object, except to do the
best I can; to mortify evil passions, to uproot selfish desires, to
foster the germs of good in myself and others."
Mr. Lacy smiled, a little sadly. "You have undertaken a Sisyphus task,
if you heave the stone up the hill in your own strength."
Lynn looked dismayed. "Yet it is our duty to do all this. The
Scriptures, for whose infallibility you contend, set a higher standard
of faith and practice than I have done."
"But they tell as in so many words, 'Ye can of yourselves do nothing.'
Who can say, 'I have made my heart clean--I am pure from my sin?'"
"You do not agree with the fanatics who denounce morality, I hope,"
said Charley. "I heard one hold forth last Sabbath. He told us 'our
righteousness was as filthy rags.' I had read my Bible, and knew that;
but he heated Gehenna seven times hotter for 'ye miserable moralists'
than for the vilest outcast that ever dishonored the image in which he
was made. I make no pretensions to piety, but I endeavour to do my duty
to my fellow-men; to hate none, and help all. I go to church because I
think it right, if only for the example I set to others; I don't expect
my good works to be a passport to heaven; but I thought, as I listened
to him, that his orthodoxy and zeal, without charity, would profit him
nothing."
"You were probably nearer right than he;" said Mr. Lacy. I do not decry
morality. Reason teaches us that the benevolent citizen, the honest
tradesman, the kind parent and husband, find more favour in the eyes of
a righteous judge than the rioter, the cheat, the debauchee and tyrant.
Much injury is done to religion by the mistaken zeal of its advocates.
This was not the spirit of its Founder. To me, the history of the young
ruler, who came to Christ, is one of the most affecting in the New
Testament. He was not driven away by disheartening rebukes; but 'Jesus,
looking on him, loved him.' How tenderly must he have uttered--'But
one thing thou lackest!'"
"But how unnatural is the finale!" said Lynn. "'And he went away
sorrowful, for he had great possessions.' He let his lucre outweigh his
soul!"
"Take care how you condemn!" said Charley. "There are 'possessions'
besides silver and gold, which clog a man's steps. Love of pleasure has
ruined more souls than love of gain."
"And procrastination more than both together;" added Morton.
Ida looked at Charley. "Do you remember our conversation after the
protracted meeting, last summer?" asked she. "I felt, when you spoke of
Death and Eternity, that I could never close my eyes again in peace;
but the impression wore off; and we are here, to-night, it may be, no
better prepared for our inevitable change than we were then."
"Yet we are content to hunt for the motives of this inconsistency of
belief and action, instead of rectifying it!" said Mr. Lacy, seriously.
"You predestinarians may excuse us upon the ground that we are waiting
the 'set time;'" remarked Charley.
"God's time is 'now;'" answered his friend. "'To-morrow' comes
with a note of warning--'Boast not thyself of to-morrow;' 'To-day
is--to-morrow is cast into the oven.'"
"You have battered my scaffolding, and not provided me with another;"
cried Lynn. "You say I am helpless, yet cry, 'the night cometh!'"
Mr. Lacy took a Bible from the table, and handing it to Ida, requested
her to read aloud the passages he pointed out.
"'Then said they unto him; What shall we do that we might work the
works of God? Jesus answered, and said unto them: this is the work
of God that ye believe on him whom he hath sent;' and 'Knowing that
a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of
Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be
justified by the faith of Christ, and not by the works of the law.'"
"Thank you," said Lynn. "Then I am to do nothing?"
"Nothing as yet, but believe and trust. Having enlisted in the service,
you will not be left idle. But I am overstaying my time; I engaged to
meet a friend at half-past nine, and it is nearly ten. I had rather
stay here, but good night, nevertheless."
"And I have not thanked him!" thought Ida, disappointed--but--
"Miss Ida!" called Charley, from the porch. "Come, see this cloud!"
A pile of snow-clouds was heaving up towards the moon, which fringed
their jagged outlines with silver, unearthly bright from the blackness
below.
"You would say, 'gloomily beautiful;'" said Mr. Lacy.
He was close beside her, and approachable as ever; and Charley held
Mrs. Dana and Lynn in conversation. In one sentence, she expressed her
sense of obligation, and her regret that he had had so much trouble in
executing her commission. His face was in the shade, but she felt his
look.
"Nothing is a trouble to me, that promotes your happiness."
She went back to the parlor, with a tumultuous joy at heart. The full
significance of his words she did not understand till long afterwards.
"Mr. Lacy should study for the ministry;" said Mrs. Dana.
"He does more good as he is;" replied Charley, stoutly. "If all
Christians performed their duty as well, you and I would live to see
the Millennium. He can reach men, who would fly at the glimpse of a
white cravat. There is some charm about the man; his religion is a
part of himself; and he carries it everywhere he goes. I have seen the
wildest fellows I know, cluster around him, and introduce the subject,
for the pleasure of hearing him talk. He knows when to begin, and when
to leave off. He says plain things to me; I might knock down another
man who took the liberty; I thank him, and am sincere in so doing."
"I love to listen to him; but he makes me very uncomfortable;" said
Mrs. Dana.
"It is so with me;" responded Lynn. "Our conferences always leave me
out of humour with myself, and envious of him."
"I think the secret of his influence lies in his humility and charity;"
remarked Ida; "in his not holding himself so far above us 'deluded
worldlings,' as certain of his brethren. He believes there is good in
all; not that he is all-good."
"These all-good people are too apt to slam the door of Heaven, as soon
as they are on the safe side, themselves;" answered Charley. "Lacy
would be willing to see the whole human race saved."
"Who would not?" laughed Ida.
"'Who would not!' why, I honestly thought, before I knew him, that many
professors of religion,--those of his denomination, especially--would
be sorely chagrined at an event so opposite to their calculations."
"I wish I were as certainly 'predestinated' as he is;" said Lynn, with
a smile and a sigh.
"I cannot quite subscribe to your 'election' principles; but if I were
altogether such an one as he seems to be, I should consider my chance
pretty safe;" returned Charley.
"You are not going, Ida!" remonstrated Mrs. Dana. "Stay all night with
me."
"I cannot. We shall have a snow storm to-morrow, and I might be
detained several days."
"No great harm if you are!" said Charley.
"Not if I have duties which call me home? I will come again shortly,
but I must go now."
Charley, as host pro tempore, got his hat; and Lynn followed them into
the street, with, "I hope I don't intrude!" The tempest was near at
hand; the gust that buffeted them at the corners made them stagger.
Lynn forced Ida to take his arm also, and in this style they breasted
the storm, gaily. Ida looked out after them, before she closed the
door. They hurried along, arm in arm, their merry voices borne back to
her by the wind, after the darkness swallowed up their forms.
The snow fell steadily all the next day, and the next.
Josephine was "blue;" her name for ill-humor--"bad weather always made
her blue," Mr. Read had a twinge of the rheumatism, and was amiable
accordingly. Ida wrote a long letter to Carry; read Charley's last
budget of books; and watched the snow-flakes; enjoying the perfect
quiet, and freedom from interruption. Upon each evening, she sat by
her window, until she could not distinguish the boundary between the
leaden sky and the white earth; and the snow, she had been brushing off
all day, banked up against the glass. "Heigho! we dreamers have some
pleasures more sensible people know nothing about;" said she, as the
tea-bell sounded the second night. "It will seem so dark and dreary
below after the society that has cheered my sanctum!"
The ice was breaking up below, in a hail-storm, which had all the
sharpness of a conjugal "difference," without the stinging politeness
genteel people throw into their wrangles. Ida listened and sickened and
sighed. A pealing ring checked the disputants. Ida's heart fluttered,
and Josephine looked up anxiously at the footman's entrance.
"Mr. Dana, to see Miss Ross."
"Of course then, I shall not go out;" said Josephine, haughtily.
Ida ran into the drawing-room. "Oh! I am so glad to see you!"--but his
look stopped her short. "You have bad news! Carry!" she articulated,
sinking into a chair.
"No: Carry and Jenny are well; but I am come for you. Our poor friend
Lynn, is very ill."
"Ill!" said she, incredulously.
His lips quivered. "VERY ill!"
"Lynn! brother!" A mist fell over her sight--then cleared, as one long
choking sob relieved her burdened breast. Charley raised her.
"There is no time to lose."
"I am ready."
Mr. Read and Josephine came into the hall at the bustle.
"Miss Ross! may I presume to ask whither you are going, on such a
night?"
"To see a sick friend, sir!" returned Charley, as dictatorially.
"Whom sir, and where?"
"My friend, and she is under my protection;" said he, impatient at
the detention. A carriage was waiting. Ida asked one question--"When
was he attacked?"
"Within three hours after we parted from you. He stayed with me
at John's that night; complained before retiring, of thirst and
chilliness; and awoke with a raging fever. The doctors pronounce the
disease inflammation of the lungs, of the most virulent nature. He had
a lucid interval this evening, and asked for you."
She did not say, "Is there hope?" She knew there was none.
Charley exchanged a word with the servant who opened the door, and led
the way directly to the sick-chamber. Mrs. Dana met her with a tearful
embrace; she saw no one else, but the figure upon the bed. But for
the dark circles about the eyes and mouth, the unmistakeable signet
of Death, he might have seemed in perfect health. He appeared to be
asleep, until she stood at his pillow; then opened his eyes upon her
horror-stricken face, and made an effort to smile.
"Ida!"
"Dear Lynn!"
His breath was short "I am almost gone. Give my farewell to Ellen,--I
forgave and loved her to the last. Bury her miniature with me. I have
done with earth."
He closed his eyes. They brought a cordial. His wistful glance ran
around the room, and returned to her.
"What is it, dear Lynn?"
Oh! the mournful intensity of that look! and the clammy fingers clasped
hers. "I did not think I should die so soon! Is Lacy here?"
He came forward at her sign.
"I am dying--I have not time to search for myself--see if there is any
promise for me!"
"Him that cometh unto me, I will in no wise cast out;'" repeated
Mr. Lacy, instantly. "'He is able also, to save unto the uttermost
all them, who come unto God by Him,--seeing He ever liveth to make
intercession for them.'"
The fading eyes were re-lit with eagerness.
"Is that there? did He say so, or did you?"
"He said it, who declares, moreover, that He is not willing for 'any to
perish but that all should turn and live.'"
His dying gaze was upward, and his lips moved in prayer.
"To the uttermost--the uttermost!" he whispered. "'Lord!
remember--me,--when Thou comest--into--Thy--'"
He sank into a stupor; and the physician administered another
stimulant. He had besought them not to permit him to sleep while reason
lasted. One and another had come in, on hearing of his danger, and the
room was nearly filled; but there was not a word or loud breath, to
distract the meditations of the parting soul.
Charley and Mrs. Dana were nearest him on one side, Ida and Mr. Lacy,
on the other. He looked at them fondly.
"Friends! dear friends! 'There is a friend--'" to Lacy.
He finished the sentence--"That sticketh closer than a brother."
"Yes:--I remember--who is able to save--to--the--utter most--" his
voice died away. When next his eyes moved, it was slowly and painfully;
but their restless light was not extinct. The stiffening mouth
contracted.
"He says 'Pray!'" said Ida to Morton.
Every head was bowed; and the opening sentence of the prayer brought a
deeper quiet to every heart.
"'Lord! Thou hast been our dwelling-place in all generations!'"
The language was simple, scriptural and fervent,--the pleading of a
son, in behalf of a brother, with an indulgent Parent. As he repeated
the text, Lynn had dwelt upon, Ida felt the feeble pressure of his
hand;--he was alive and conscious then. The rest arose at the "Amen."
She had not knelt; but she did not raise her head from the pillow;--her
soul had caught the farewell of his, as it flew away upon its long
journey! There was a movement through the room--a breathless pause--a
solemn voice said "He is gone!" and tears and sobbings broke forth.
His hand still held hers; and the other was folded over them in
supplication;--the eyes still looked heavenward--but they were fixed.
Dead! dead! in his glorious beauty--in the flush of youth! deaf to the
recall of mourning hearts--and the awakening echoes of the fame his
genius had won! If he could die, who was sure of an hour of life.
CHAPTER XVII.
Ellen Morris accepted an invitation to Petersburg, ere the angry pique,
aroused by Lynn's reproaches, passed off. The promise was hardly given,
when she would have revoked it, had not pride held her to her word.
Her friends were solicitous, that the far-famed hospitality of their
city should not seem to the Richmond beauty, to have been vaunted too
highly; and she appreciated their efforts; but the fortnight she had
named as the period of her stay, crept slowly by. She hoped confidently
to see her lover again at her feet, when the heat of passion was
over; yet she was wretched in the recollection of her trifling, and
the misery it had inflicted upon his high-toned spirit. Twice she
prepared to write to him, and end a suspense torturing to both,--and
twice dashed down the pen in shame and pride. The wished-for hour of
departure arrived. The morning was bleak; the snow had ceased falling,
but the clouds were low and threatening. Her entertainers begged her to
wait but a day longer.
"If it were a matter of life and death, you could not be more
obstinate," said her hostess, fretted at her unreasonableness.
"And how do you know that it is not?" answered she, jestingly.
"It is no joking matter, Miss Ellen," said a young man, gravely. "They
have not cleared the snow from the track as it ought to be done. You
would feel badly to have your neck broken."
"That is a trifle compared with a broken heart;" and she laughed
lightly.
The train started, and the shivering passengers resigned themselves to
a comfortless ride. Ellen's escort, an elderly gentleman, lost no time
in settling his chin and ears down in the collar of his great coat, and
the rest of his body in a corner, to sleep. She was wide-awake; and
her spirits, raised by the near prospect of the meeting, her hopes had
fed upon, for weary days and nights, found amusement in the uncouth
figures, seen by the struggling light. She did not suffer from the cold
or damp; her pulses bounded warmly; and when tired of being a solitary
looker-on, she closed her eyes, and beguiled the time by fancies of
home and him; whether he too were repentant; if he did not show it,
rather than lose him, she could humble herself to lure him back;--she
could not be happy without the assurance of his love. She would tell
him how miserable their parting had made her; and imagination revelled
in the anticipation of the refreshing flood, her thirsting heart would
receive in return. There were pictures of days, which should fleet
by like a dream;--when doubts and fears should be lost in perfect
beatitude; the dingy, smoky cars were metamorphosed into their cottage
home, with its music and flowers and birds, and its atmosphere of
love;--and the votaries of his divine art thronged to offer incense to
him--her peerless one!
The halting of the laboring engine startled her. The drowsy travellers
gathered themselves up; and elbowing and grumbling, rushed out. She
lifted the window. They were at the Depot. Half-frozen officials
stamped their toes and blew their fingers; hackmen swore at their
horses and the porters;--now and then, a pair of watery eyes peered
into the cars, in quest of some expected one; but the form she looked
for was not there. "Pshaw! how could he know when she was coming? how
silly not to recollect this!"
"There is no one here to meet you, Miss Ellen," said her companion,
re-entering.
"I hardly expected it, sir; if you will be so kind as to get a carriage
for me, I will not trouble you further."
Her smile thawed the old man's churlishness. He volunteered, his foot
upon the step "to see her all the way home;" but she would not consent.
"I am not afraid; this kind 'uncle' will carry me safely."
The driver scraped and grinned, although his woolly whiskers were hoary
with rime. "Pity all women can't be agreeable!" said the escort,
trudging through the drifts, to his hack. That a gentleman of his
temperament was ever otherwise, even on a raw morning, did not occur to
him.
An omnibus blocked up the street;--Ellen's carriage was behind it, and
the driver's objurgative eloquence retarded, instead of quickening the
movements of its proprietor, who was stowing away baggage upon the
roof.
"Hallo!" cried a young man, to another, who was knocking the snow from
his boots against the curb-stone. "When did you get in?"
"Just now. Horrid weather for March!--isn't it? Any news going?"
"Not a bit--all frozen up--ah! yes! Lynn Holmes is dead."
"What! not the artist! when did it happen? I saw him on the street a
week ago--another duel?"
"No--lung fever. He died night before last, after forty-eight hours'
illness."
"Shocking!"
"Ellen! you are white as a sheet!" was Mrs. Morris' greeting. "My dear
child--are you sick?"
"No ma'am--only cold--oh! so cold!"
"Come to the fire."
"I think I will lie down awhile--I am chilled to the heart!"
The servant, who carried her breakfast, reported her asleep, and the
careful mother would not let them waken her. Later in the day, she took
a cup of hot coffee up to her. She was motionless; her head covered.
"My daughter!" said Mrs. Morris, softly, drawing down the coverlet.
She looked at her, but did not speak.
"How do you feel now?"
"I don't know, ma'am."
"You are not quite awake yet, I believe," said her mother, smiling.
"Here, drink this--it will do you good."
She took it.
"By the way, my dear," continued Mrs Morris, busying herself with the
folds of a curtain, which did not hang to suit her. "I have melancholy
news for you. Our friend, Mr. Holmes, died suddenly, night before last.
I never was more astonished and grieved in my life. He was such a
handsome, promising young man, and so attached to us! I said directly
how sorry you would be to hear it. You were so much together--where
are the pins? oh! here they are! His disease was a rapid inflammation
of the lungs. The funeral will take place at the church this
afternoon;--some of us must go, if the weather is bad. Do you think
you will be well enough?"
"Yes ma'am."
"Well--I hope so; and now I will go down and keep the children still,
so that you can sleep."
The thunder of a thousand cannon would not have disturbed her. She
heard and saw all that passed; but in place of heart and sense, was a
dead vacuity, empty and soundless, although it had engulphed thought
and feeling. She went to the funeral. Prudent, appearance-loving
Mrs. Morris, dexterously flung a veil before the stony eyes, whose
tearlessness people might observe, and wonder aloud, as she did
mentally, at "Ellen's want of feeling;" but her daughter quietly
raised it. The church was crowded. The untimely end of one so gifted
and popular, thrilled the community, as the breast of one man. All was
as still as the grave; the roar of the busy city-life deadened by the
heavy atmosphere and cushioned earth. The wail of a clarion stirred
the air;--nearer and nearer it sounded; and the plaintive breathing
of other instruments; and at long intervals, a single roll of the
drum;--nearer and nearer--they ceased, and the procession moved up the
aisle. First walked Charles Dana and his sister-in-law, clad in deep
mourning as for a brother; then Morton Lacy, pale and sorrowful, and
on his arm another black-robed figure, (such privilege had Friendship
above Love!) then a small band of fellow-artists; and the coffin! borne
and followed by the Masonic fraternity, of which he was a member. It
was set down in front of the pulpit; "the Book," with its drapery of
black crape, laid reverently upon it; and the service proceeded. There
were prayers and hymns and a sermon; she heard none;--the coffin lay
in her sight--his coffin! It was not! Where then was the vigorous
life which moved the still form within it? where the soul of splendid
imaginings and lofty aspirations? where the heart, with its wealth of
feeling? they could not die! He lived still--and living, loved her.
That narrow coffin was a horrible mockery. And so, when the cover was
removed, and those, who from curiosity or affection, desired to look
for the last time upon his face, filed slowly by it, she arose too.
He was there! royally beautiful, even in his prison-house; the rich
black locks swept back from the marble temples; and a smile resting
upon the lips. Oh! what power bears woman up in a moment like this!
Her life--her world was shut in with the replacing of that lid;
but she saw each screw returned to its place, without a tear or a
shudder;--herself, proposed to her mother, that they should follow the
corpse to its home; and watched them heap the snow and clods upon it.
And through that and many succeeding nights, she stood in the attic,
in cold and darkness, straining her eyes towards where the gleaming
tomb-stones were visible in the day, and fancying she could tell which
shadowed an unsodded mound.
Charley was his friend's executor. In the fulfilment of his trust,
he found a casket marked--"To be given, at my death, to E.--M." He
thought of sealing it up, and sending it to her with a note from
himself; but decided upon further deliberation, to entrust it to Ida.
It was a painful duty. She was not able yet to speak of Lynn without
distressing emotion. His decease was so sudden, so awful,--snatched, as
he was, from her very side, with the barest intimation of his danger,
after months of intimate intercourse. She mourned for him as sisters
and friends seldom weep. Charley did not command. "She was the more
proper person," he said; "but he would not grieve her by enforcing the
request."
"I cannot meet her!" said she. "He was so dear to us--how can I endure
the sight of her indifference? They say she was calm and careless while
they were burying him."
"Calm--she certainly was; but the glance I had at her face assured me
not careless. I am much mistaken if she was not the greatest sufferer
by that grave. I was angry with her, previously; I believe now that she
merits our compassion."
Yet it was an unwilling heart that Ida carried to the interview. Ellen
sent for her to come to her room. "I am busy, you see," said she, with
the ghost of a smile. Ida held the precious legacy more tightly, as she
noticed her occupation. A ball-dress was spread upon the bed, and she
was fastening roses upon the skirt. Her cheek was white, as Ida glanced
at her own sad-colored dress.
"You are going to the party to-night, then?" said the latter.
"Yes--will Josephine attend?"
"I have not heard her say--have not inquired--have not thought of it."
Despairing of broaching the subject in any other way, she took the
casket from under her shawl, and laid it upon the dress.
"The living forget sooner than the dead, Ellen!" was all she said.
The unhappy girl recoiled at the familiar characters upon the lid, and
stretched out her arms with an imploring cry. Ida reached her as she
fell. She had fainted. Charley's words were verified, and Ida blamed
herself severely for her cruel abruptness. Her tears ran fast, as
she strove to restore consciousness "Oh! Ida--Lynn!" groaned Ellen,
reviving. Reserve, pride, self-control were borne down;--they wept in
each other's arms. With the casket pressed to her bosom, Ellen heard
his last message, and the hopeful words he had spoken of the future, he
was not to know upon earth.
"I did love him! Heaven is my witness--I did love him!" she cried,
anguishedly. "He did not condemn me; but I can never forgive myself! If
I could have seen him once more to tell him so! Dead! oh! that I were
in the grave beside him!"
This was grief without a glimmer of hope. Ida had no word of comfort.
Ellen's eye fell upon the gossamer robe.--she threw it upon the floor,
and trampled it "I hate it! and myself, and everything else! I am a
hypocrite! a lying hypocrite! with my hollow smiles and broken heart.
Leave me! go! or I shall hate you!"
Ida left her thus--writhing under the scorpion-lash of remorse, and
rejecting consolation. She met Josephine, a square or two from home,
and upon the door-step, Mr. Lacy. Admitting him, she ran up stairs to
efface the marks of her recent agitation. Her pallor and swollen eyes
remained, however, and did not escape him. He did not begin, as many
would have done, in his place, to speak of topics entirely foreign
to what was in their thoughts; he wished to apply a curative, not an
anodyne.
"Charley tells me you are going to the country, before long;" he said.
"I do not regret it, as I should if I were to stay here myself. After
the first of April, I shall study at home, until autumn. You are to pay
your friend Carry a visit, are you not?"
"Yes."
"She is the 'sister' I have heard so much of?"
"The same--I wish you knew her."
"I think I do. Her cheerful society is what you need. While it is
neither possible, nor desirable to forget that we have been bereaved,
we should beware how we indulge in a luxury of woe. Our duty to those
we have lost, does not oblige us to neglect the friends who are spared
to us."
"Very few remain to me," said Ida, tremulously.
"You are wrong. You may never find one who will fill his place; but
the rest love you the more, that you are afflicted. Charley is a true
brother."
"He is--and of late he is more unreserved, more affectionate than he
used to be; his sympathy is very sweet. I must speak of yourself, also,
Mr. Lacy, although I have no language to thank you for your kindness.
I fear I have been wearisome at times; but you seem to understand why
this was no common bereavement to me."
"So far from being wearied, I am grateful for your confidence. No act
of mine shall cause you to repent it."
"Charley has given me some lines which he thinks were written
recently," said Ida. "They were among some loose sheets in a portfolio
of drawings. I wept over them, but they comforted me. I have been
wishing that you had them. This is a rough copy, you observe; and
probably not read after being penned."
Mr. Lacy's eyes filled, as he read at the top of the page, "11-1/2
P.M., after a visit from M. L."
             "ALL IN CHRIST.
  Jesus, Saviour! from Thy dwelling,
    High all stars and thrones above,
  Hear my faltering accents, telling
    Of weak faith and smouldering love.
  Poor love for Thee, the only worthy--
    Dull faith In Thee, the only wise--
  While to all things base and earthy,
    How madly cling my wistful eyes!
  I am blind! in rough paths groping,
    With outstretched hands and sightless eyes;
  Through gloom so dense, I scarce am hoping
    That dawn will ever gild the skies.
  Black, grisly spectres hover o'er me,
    Filling my quaking soul with fright;
  Thou--of all worlds the sun and glory,
    Radiant Redeemer! be my light.
  I am lonely! often keeping
    Sad vigils o'er affections dead;
  Some in the grave's strait chamber sleeping--
    Some like bursting bubbles fled!
  Yet for full love my deep soul longeth--
    Gently each seeking tendril bend
  To Thee--to whom that soul belongeth;--
    Loving Redeemer! be my friend.
  I am guilty! oh how sinning!
    Against my kind--against my God;--
  Hell and corruption ever winning
    My soul into the downward road.
  Insanely gloating on pollution--
    Quaffing thick lees for pleasures pure--
  Rend thou away each fell delusion,
    Holy Redeemer! be my cure!"
"Do you recollect the visit to which he refers?" inquired Ida.
"I was with him until late, one night, a week before his death," was
the reply; "and our conversation may have inspired the thoughts he has
expressed here; but I cannot say with certainty, that it did. If this
temper of spirit and heart was habitual to him, what may we not hope?"
"If!" exclaimed Ida, sadly. "Doubt is agonizing. It is not consistent
with God's mercy that he should be consigned to never ending misery; he
whose faults made us love him better; the soul of honor and integrity!
I will not believe that so much that was pure and good is quenched in
eternal darkness. This thought is with me night and day. What authority
have men, his inferiors by nature--hardly his equals in the practice of
virtue, to doom him, and hope a happier fate for the themselves?"
"Who has done this?" asked Mr. Lacy, sternly.
"More than one, in my hearing; and Charley was exasperated to insult a
man, a church member, who exhorted him not 'to imitate his example, and
thereby meet the same awful punishment.' Charley regrets now, that he
spoke rudely to one his senior, and whom he had hitherto respected, but
says he, 'a Christian should not forget that he is a man!'"
"Nor does he," replied Morton. "From some who cross the river of
Death we hear the 'All's Well,' when their feet touch the solid
ground; then we may rejoice in the confident assurance that we shall
meet them again. As many pass over in timid, as in despairing
silence;--timidity, exchanged for rapture, on the bright shore beyond.
God only knows the heart--only knows when the doomed oversteps the
bounds He has appointed for his mercy; and as we hope for it ourselves,
we should tremble at the thought of limiting it by our finite
judgments. In this immeasurable love and pity is our trust, Ida; doubts
and fearings cannot solve the mystery; we know this, however--'He doth
not afflict willingly,' and 'remembereth our feeble frame.' Who pardons
a child's faults more than a parent? and 'Our Father' is also his.
Yet," continued he, "Charley erred in repulsing the warning, kindly, if
injudiciously extended. The suffering we experience in our uncertainty
as to his condition, should teach us to make our salvation sure, so
that when our hour shall come--if a call at midnight, we may not leave
those who love us, comfortless."
"His death has caused a heart-rending void," said Ida. "I start
whenever the door opens at the hours he was accustomed to visit us. At
Mr. Dana's, I am listening all the time for his step or voice. Oh! why
do nonentities, cumberers of the earth, spin out a tiresome life, and
the loved and useful perish?"
"Perhaps they are taken away from the evil to come. You would not
rebel if you believed this? At best, what are the short years of toil
and change we pass below, compared with the never-ending life of our
heavenly home?"
"You forget that I have no portion in that home, Mr. Lacy."
"No portion! You do not mean to refuse an inheritance so graciously
offered! It may be long before we have another opportunity to speak of
these things; will you make me a promise?"
"If I can perform it," answered she.
"It is that you will every day, ask yourself, 'What happiness does my
soul desire that Christ cannot, and will not bestow?' Will you do this?"
She promised.
"It seems impossible," he pursued, "that a sorer trial than that which
you are now undergoing, can befall you; yet there may be such in
reserve, and then, I would have you recollect, that as He is the only
happiness, He is also the only comfort. Willingly--gladly as I would
suffer in your stead, I would not save you a pang, if I thought it was
His means to bring you to Himself."
He spoke with emotion, as if possessed with the conviction that the
event he adverted to would assuredly take place; and that this was
his sole chance of preparing her for it. He arose--she gave him her
hand--it was taken as silently, and held for a long minute.
"This is not our parting," said he; "if we both live, I shall see you
again soon, but to provide against contingencies, I will ask you now to
write to me; I mean, of course, in answer to my letters, as you would
to Charley--to a brother,--will you?"
"Yes, if your letters are as frank as your speech, and I am granted a
like indulgence."
True to his promise, he called upon the eve of her departure, but
the presence of the family and other visitors prevented private
conversation; and Charley's manoeuvres, skilful and unsuspected as they
were, failed to effect a diversion of Josephine's watchfulness. Yet as
they said "farewell" Ida felt a card slipped into her hand. Upon it was
pencilled, "Remember your promise. Mizpah."
CHAPTER XVIII.
Life at Poplar-grove was much as it had been, the previous summer;
still and bright. The mornings were spent in Carry's pleasant
sewing-room, from which male visitors were rigorously excluded; in
the afternoon, were the siesta, and ride or walk; at night, music and
social chat. Carry feared that this monotony, while it suited her
wishes and employments, might be less agreeable to her friend; that
she would miss the gay whirl, the intoxicating incense of her city
career. But Ida was contented, even happy. Beloved and caressed by the
whole household, in the home of kindred tastes and feeling; and above
all, with the firm hope that her life-long search was at last ended;
her wild cravings laid to rest beneath the waves, which welling from
the unsealed fountain, had risen higher and higher, until her soul was
overflowing with love and rapture;--she revelled in the quiet hours of
friendly communion, and the sweeter seasons of witching reverie. Carry
knew nothing of the spring of her happiness. She saw that her mind
had acquired a more healthy tone;--that her affections had expanded,
and attributed it to the influence of friendship;--to a strength of
mind, which had determined the world should be what it chose to have
it;--to anything but the true cause,--an idolatry that left no room for
suspicion or discontent. Once Carry alluded to the twilight promenade,
when Ida had told her of her forebodings of the wane of their love,
after the nuptials, which were now fast approaching; and was answered
by a warm embrace and smile, which said those fears were quelled, and
might have betrayed to more prying eyes, the enchantment that had
exorcised them. Her evening improvisations entranced, not only the
parlor-circle, but drew to the windows a larger audience from without,
spellbound by her heart-melodies. All her delight was not in memory.
Letters came and went;--from Charley and Mrs. Dana; and gossiping notes
from Anna Talbot and other of "the girls." These, Carry enjoyed with
her, and asked no questions about those which she did not see. Morton's
were what he engaged they should be; sincere and friendly, without a
hint that could alarm her delicacy. They were tinctured with a sadness,
she did not comprehend, until she noticed his many references to his
sister's sufferings, and his anxiety on her account. It was her turn
to console; and her most valued treasure was the letter, in which he
thanked and blessed her.
Carry was to be married the last of July. The middle of June brought
Mrs. Dana and the children, under Charley's protection. For the week of
his stay, he was the life of the house. One cloud was upon the spirits
of all;--Lynn was missed and mourned, and by none, with more sorrowful
tenderness, than by his vivacious friend; but he was unselfish even
in this. Ida could win him to speak of their loss; to the others, he
never mentioned it of his own accord. She was correct in saying that
he had grown more communicative and affectionate. He seemed to have
transferred to her the watchful love that had been Lynn's safeguard and
solace.
"Nothing changes you, Mars' Charley?" said Uncle Ike, the plantation
patriarch, halting at the piazza steps one afternoon, when he had
crawled out into the sunshine.
"I should like to say the same for you, Uncle Ike; time and sickness
have not treated you as well as you deserve."
"Better'n I desarve, Mars' Charles!--heap better'n I desarve! Time
for me to be packed and shoed for my journey. I'se lived in these
low-grounds of sorrow, nigh 'pon ninety years, and many' the young
folks I've seen step down into the grave before me. When I heard
that poor, handsome Mars' Lynn had gone too, 'pears-like I was ready
to grumble 'cause 'twant me--but 'twas the Almighty's will, Mars'
Charles,--'twas his will. It 'joices me to see you so well and
lively--jest like you used to be. You don't take trouble, I reckon,
Marster."
"No; it's against my principles;--beside, we'll have a plenty given to
us."
"Fact, Marster! You ain't knowed much yet; but 'the evil days will
come, when you shall say, I have no pleasure in them!'"
Charley kept his seat upon the step for some time after the old man had
gone:--once he sighed heavily. Ida was in the parlor, and longed to go
out to him, for she guessed the tenor of his thoughts, but doubted the
propriety of intruding upon them. He got up, presently, and began to
walk the porch, whistling an opera air. Spying her through the window,
he came in. "You are ruining your eyes and health with this eternal
stitching;" said he. "As I live, you are boring holes in that piece of
cloth, for the pleasure of sewing them up again! No wonder woman's work
is never ended! What are you making?"
"A handkerchief." She displayed the corner, in which she was
embroidering, "Carry Carleton."
"Where are the others?" he inquired.
"Mrs. Dana is in the nursery; Carry asleep; Dr. Carleton and Arthur
abroad."
"Come, walk with me!" requested he. "Any handkerchief,--a wedding
mouchoir--can wait an hour."
Their course was along the brink of a deep ravine; overshadowed
by large old trees; and bridged by fallen trunks. The sides were
grass-grown, and at the bottom rolled the rivulet, which had fretted
out the gorge; blending its complainings with the low rush of the wind
through the forest.
"So one feeling often wears away the soul!" remarked Charley,
reflectively. "Man is but clay after all!"
"You! the champion of your species--turning against them!" exclaimed
Ida.
"No. I am still an unbeliever in the total corruption of our nature; a
doctrine so opposed to reason and experience, that I will never assent
to it, if it is preached at me until doomsday. But this is a miserably
unsatisfactory life!"
"Yet the world says you enjoy it."
"And do you, an adept in concealment, credit a man's outward show!"
"At least, I do not practise this accomplishment upon my friends;"
replied Ida, piqued.
"Did I say that you did? I am not sure that I could not prove this
point, too;--but we will let it pass for the present. I believe you to
be what you appear to me. Carry would never forgive one who impugned
your sincerity;--and what would Mr. Germaine say?"
This was a gentleman of the neighbourhood, whose marked attentions to
Ida subjected her to the raillery of the Poplar-grove household.
"Nonsense!" said she, laughing. "He has never been beyond the outermost
court of my heart."
"I own his does not appear likely to be the hand to unlock the
penetralia. This is the spot I wanted to show you. Is it not a fairy
nook?"
It was a mossy bank at the foot of a venerable sycamore, from whose
branches the trailing vines touched their heads. A spring of the
clearest crystal bubbled among its roots.
"Oh! for a fairy goblet!" said Ida.
"It is easily made, if these leaves are large enough," answered
Charley. He gathered some, but they were too irregularly-shaped to
suit his purpose. "It is a simple process," said he, as he failed,
after several trials, to convey a thimbleful of water to his amused
companion; "but as the man said who tried to fly and couldn't--'there
is every thing in knowing how to do it.' I never like to be outdone,
even in trifles. I saw some leaves as we came along that I know will
do--excuse me a moment, and I will get them."
He was gone before she could object; and she strolled idly around
the giant trunk of the sycamore, admiring the al fresco boudoir, of
which it was the centre ornament. She set her foot upon something
harder than the soft carpet--it was a small morocco case, which she
picked up, with an ejaculation of surprise, and without a thought of
who had dropped it, opened. She had nearly let it fall, as Carry's
lovely face smiled at her from within. "Arthur has been here," was her
comment, but a glossy curl untwined itself from an envelope labelled
in Charley's hand--"The seat under the honeysuckle. May 1st, 18--,"
a date four years back. There was no impropriety in his having Carry's
likenesss;--they had long been in feeling what they were shortly
to become in name--brother and sister; but her heart beat so with
indefinable terror that she could not stand;--it was as though, instead
of the senseless case, another heart, its every throbbing revealed, lay
in her hand.
"You are tired waiting, I suppose, but I had a longer search than--"
The glow of a stormy sunset rushed to his face as he saw the miniature
she did not attempt to conceal. She had never conceived of the dormant
passion which now awoke in his eye and form; but she did not quail.
"I found this over there, and opened it thoughtlessly, not suspecting
what it was or to whom it belonged. I am very sorry."
The storm passed while she was speaking. The man's wonderful
self-command was master. He dipped up the water with a careful hand;
the leafy cup did not quiver.
"Do you like it? is it cool?"
"Yes--thank you."
He drank draught after draught himself, threw away the leaves, and
resumed his seat upon the bank.
"There is no help for it, Ida! you must hear what I did not intend
you ever should; not that I disdain your sympathy, but it is a rule
with me not to disturb my friends with troubles, which they cannot
alleviate. I do not know what suspicions have been forced upon you;
if they are of the honor and affection I owe my brother, or of her
fidelity to him, they are groundless. That picture was painted for me
before I had any intimation that his was the prize I foolishly hoped to
secure. I relinquished her; but this is the amulet which has saved me
in many temptations. Although hope was no more, memory remained; and
vice could not mate with the visions of purity that memory recalled.
There has not been a time since I first saw her, a laughing babe,
just liberated from her nurse's arms, when I have not loved her more
than any other earthly being. As boy and man I have thought, studied,
labored for her alone. When I quitted home to seek my fortune, she was
still a child, who clung weepingly to me, and kissed me as fondly as
she did her father. It was the last time! At my next visit she was away
at school;--at the second I obtained that curl. She was then fifteen;
innocent and loving, full of jesting surprise at 'Charley's mannish
ways,' and hurt that I would not call her 'sister.' She did not ask
this the ensuing summer. Lynn was with me; and in the confidence of a
hope that saw no cloud ahead, I imparted to him my dreams and desires,
and engaged him to take her portrait secretly. I went back to New York,
and wrote to her father, asking his sanction of the proposal I could
not delay. The letter was upon my desk, ready for the post, when one
arrived from Arthur. He was not to blame for his silence; I had been
as reserved to him; but he entreated my forgiveness for hiding this,
his only secret, from me. She knew it now;--her father's only objection
was their youth--a 'fault,' he remarked, jocosely, 'which will mend
with time.' In place of the letter to my guardian, I forwarded one to
my brother, congratulating him upon his happy engagement to the woman
I idolized. He is worthy of her, if a mortal can be. I can see that
it is best. He has talents and energy, and loves her as she should be
loved--I am rough and eccentric, caring and striving for nothing, now
that my guiding star has set."
"Charley! Charley! you shall not so defame yourself!" cried Ida
bursting into tears. "You--the kindest--most generous of men! you are
worthy of her! Oh! I wish it could be!"
"Hush! hush! I would not have it otherwise. I came home last summer,
and saw them together without a pang of selfish regret; and gloried in
my subjugation of a passion their betrothal made sinful, until our ride
to 'the Castle.' My arm saved her from mutilation or death, and instead
of thanksgiving, sprang up a horrible envy, that I had rescued her for
him. It was momentary, but the repentance was bitter. I abhor myself
when I think of it. I have never fancied since that I did not love
her. I know it as well now that another month will make her his bride,
as I did when hope was highest. Poor Lynn! it grieved him to his dying
