snow ; a shanty, with a show case full of minerals, articles of 
carved wood, and engravings of the place for sale. In these 
show cases the Alps are brought to market as thoroughly as 
human ingenuity can do the thing. The chamois figures 
largely ; there are pouches made of chamois skin, walking 
licks and alpenstocks tipped with chamois horn; sometimes 
SO entire skin, horns and all, hanging disconsolately downward. Then all manner ol* crystals, such as are found in the 
rocks, are served up — agate pins, rings, seals, bracelets, cups, 
and snuffboxes — all which are duly urged on your attention ; 
so, instead of falling into a rapture at the sight of Mont Blanc, 
the regular routine for a Yankee is to begin a bargain for a 
walking stick or a snuffbox. 
There is another curious fact, and that is, that every prospect loses by being made definite. As long as we only see a 
thing by glimpses, and imagine that there is a deal more that 
we do not see, the mind is kept in a constant excitement and 
play ; but come to a point where you can fairly and squarely 
take in the whole, and there your mind falls listless. It is 
the greatest proof to me of the infinite nature of our minds, 
that we almost instantly undervalue what we have thoroughly 
attained. This sensation afflicted me, for I had been reining 
in my enthusiasm for two days, as rather premature, and keep- 
ing myself in reserve for this ultimate display. But now I 
stood there, no longer seeing by glimpses, no longer catching 
rapturous intimations as I turned angles of rock, or glanced 
through windows of pine — here it was, all spread out before 
me like a map, not a cloud, not a shadow to soften the outline 
— there was Mont Bianc, a great alabaster pyramid, with a 
glacier running down each side of it ; there was the Arve, 
and there was the Arveiron, names most magical in song, but 
now literal geographic realities. 
But in full possession of the whole my mind gave out like 
a rocket that will not go off at the critical moment. I re- 
member, once after finishing a very circumstantial treatise on 
the nature of heaven, being oppressed with a similar sensation 
of satiety, — that which hath not entered the heart of man to 
conceive must not be mapped out, — hence the wisdom of the 
dim, indefinite imagery of the Scriptures ; they give you no 
hard outline, no definite limit ; occasionally they part as do the 
clouds around these mountains, giving you flashes and gleams 
of something supernatural and splendid, but never fully 
unveiling. 
But La Flegere is doubtless the best point for getting a 
statistically accurate idea of how the Alps lie, of any easily 
accessible to ladies. This print you may regard more as a 
chart than as a picture. 
Our guide pointed out every feature with praiseworthy ac- 
curacy. Midmost is Mont Blanc ; on the right the Glacier 
de Boisson. Two or three little black peaks in it are the 
sleeping-place for travellers ascending — the zigzag line shows 
their path. On the left of the mountain lies Mer de Glace, 
with the Arveiron falling from it. The Arve crosses the val- 
ley below us ; the fall is not indicated in this view. The un- 
dulations, whicl^ on near view, are fifty feet high, seem mere 
ripples. Its purity is much soiled by the dust and debris 
which are constantly blown upon it, making it look in some 
places more like mud than ice. Its soiled masses contrast 
with the dazzling whiteness of the upper regions, just as hu- 
man virtue exposed to the wind and dust of earth, with the 
spotless purity of Jesus. 
These mulets, which at this distance appear like black 
points, are needle cliffs rising in a desert of snow, thus : — 
Coming down I mentally compared Mont Blanc and Niaga- 
ra, as one should compare two grand pictures in different 
styles of the same master. Both are of that class of things 
which mark eras in a mind's history, and open a new door 
which no man can shut. Of the two, I think Niagara is the 
most impressive, perhaps because those aerial elements of 
foam and spray give that vague and dreamy indefiniteness of 
outline which seems essential in the sublime. For this reason, 
while Niagara is equally impressive in the distance, it does 
not lose on the nearest approach — it is always mysterious, 
and, therefore, stimulating. Those varying spray wreaths, 
rising like Ossian's ghosts from its abyss ; those shimmering 
rainbows, through whose veil you look; those dizzying falls 
of water that seem like clouds poured from the hollow of 
God's hand ; and that mystic undertone of sound that seems to 
pervade the whole being as the voice of the Almighty, — all 
these bewilder and enchant the discriminative and prosaic 
part of us, and bring us into that cloudy region of ecstasy 
where the soul comes nearest to Him whom no eye hath seen, 
or can see. I have sometimes asked myself if, in the count- 
less ages of the future, the heirs of God shall ever be en- 
dowed by him with a creative power, by which they shall 
bring into being things like these ? In this infancy of his existence, man creates pictures, statues, cathedrals ; but when he 
is made " ruler over many things," will his Father intrust to 
him the building and adorning of worlds ? the ruling of the 
glorious, dazzling forces of nature ? 
At the foot of the mountain we found again our company 
of strawberry girls, wiih knitting work and goat's milk, lying 
in wait for us. They knew we should be thirsty and hungry, 
and wisely turned the circumstance to account. Some of our 
party would not buy of them, because they said they were 
sharpers, trying to get all they could out of people ; but if 
every body who tries to do this is to be called a sharper, what 
is to become of respectable society, I wonder ? 
On the strength of this reflection, I bought some more 
goat's milk and strawberries, and verily found them excellent ; 
for, as Shakspeare says, " How many things by season seas- 
oned are." 
We returned to our hotel, and after dining and taking a 
long nap, I began to feel fresh once more, for the air here acts 
like an elixir, so that one is able to do twice as much as any 
where else. S. was too much overcome to go with us, but the 
rest of us started with our guides once more at five o'clock. 
This time we were to visit the Cascade des Pelerins, which 
comes next on the orthodox list of places to be seen. 
It was a lovely afternoon ; the sun had got over the Mont 
Blanc side of the world, and threw the broad, cool shadow 
of the mountains quite across the valley. What a curious 
kind of thing shadow is, — that invisible veil, falling so even- 
ly and so lightly over all things, bringing with it such thoughts 
of calmness, of coolness, and of rest. I wonder the old Greeks 
did not build temples to Shadow, and call her the sister of 
Thought and Peace. The Hebrew writers speak of the 
"overshadowing of the Almighty;" they call his protection 
" the shadow of a great rock in a weary land." Even as the 
shadow of Mont Blanc falls like a Sabbath across this valley, 
so falls the sense of his presence across our weary life-road ! 
As we rode along under the sides of the mountain every 
thing seemed so beautiful, so thoughtful, and so calm ! All 
the goats and cows were in motion along the mountain paths, 
each one tinkling his little bell and filling the rocks with gentle melodies. You can trace the lines of these cattle paths, 
running like threads all along the sides of the mountains. 
We went in the same road that we had gone in the morning. 
How different it seemed, in the soberness of this afternoon 
light, from its aspect under the clear, crisp, sharp light of 
morning ! 
We pass again through the pine woods in the valley, and 
cross the Arvc ; then up the mountain side to where a tiny 
cascade throws up its feathery spray in a brilliant jet d'eau. 
Every body knows, even in our sober New England, that 
mountain brooks are a frisky, indiscreet set, rattling, chattering, and capering in defiance of all law and order, tumbling 
over precipices, and picking themselves up at the bottom, no 
whit wiser or more disposed to be tranquil than they were at 
the top ; in fact, seeming to grow more mad and frolicsome 
with every leap. TTell, that is just the way brooks do here in 
the Alps, and the people, taking advantage of it, have built a 
little shanty, where they show up the capers of this child of 
the mountain, as if he tumbled for their special profit. Here, 
of course, in the shanty are the agates, and the carved work, 
and so forth, and so on, and you must buy something for a 
souvenir. 
I sat down on the rocks to take, not a sketch, — for who can 
sketch a mountain torrent ? — but to note down on paper a kind 
of diagram, from which afterwards I might reconstruct an 
image of this feathery, frisky son of Kuhleborn. 
And while I was doing this, little G. seemed to be possessed 
by the spirit of the brook to caper down into the ravine, with 
a series of leaps far safer for a waterfall than a boy. I was 
thankful when I saw him safely at the bottom. 
After sketching a little while, I rambled off to a point where 
I looked over towards Mont Blanc, and got a most beautiful 
view of the Glacier de Boisson. Imagine the sky flushed 
with a rosy light, a background of purple mountains, with 
darts of sunlight streaming among them, touching point and 
cliff with gold. Against this background rises the outline of 
the glacier like a mountain of the clearest white crystals, 
tinged with blue ; and against their snowy whiteness in the 
foreground tall forms of pines. I rejoiced in the picture with 
exceeding joy as long as the guide would let me ; but in all 
these places you have to cut short your raptures at the proper 
season, or else what becomes of your supper ? 
I went back to the cottage. A rosy-cheeked girl had held 
our mules, and set a chair for us to get off, and now brings 
them up with " Au plaisir, messieurs" to the bearers of our 
purse. Half a dozen children had been waiting with the rose 
des Alps, which they wanted to sell us " au plaisir" but which 
we did not buy. 
These continual demands on the purse look very alarming, 
only the coin you pay in is of such infinitesimal value that it 
takes about a pocket full to make a cent. Such a currency is 
always a sign of poverty. 
We had a charming ride down the mountain side, in the 
glow of the twilight. We passed through a whole flock of 
goats which the children were driving home. One dear little 
sturdy Savoyard looked so like a certain little Charley at home 
that I felt quite a going forth of soul to him. As we rode on, 
I thought I would willingly live and die in such a place ; but 
I shall see a hundred such before we leave the Alps. 
Thursday, July 7. Weather still celestial, as yesterday. 
But lo, these frail tabernacles betray their earthliness. H. 
remarked at breakfast that all the " tired " of yesterday was 
piled up into to-day. And S. actually pleaded inability, and 
determined to remain at the hotel. 
However, the Mer de Glace must be seen ; so, at seven 
William, Georgy, H., and I, set off. When about half way or 
more up the mountain we crossed the track of the avalanches, 
a strip or trail, which looks from beneath like a mower's 
swath through a field of tall grass. It is a clean path, about 
fifty rods wide, without trees, with few rocks, smooth and 
steep, and with a bottom of ice covered with gravel. 
" Hurrah, William," said I, " let's have an avalanche ! " 
" Agreed," said he ; " there's a big rock." 
" Monsieur le Guide, Monsieur le Guide ! " I shouted, 
" stop a moment. H., stop ; we want you to see our ava- 
lanche." 
" No," cried H., " I will not. Here you ask me to stop, 
right on the edge of this precipice, to see you roll down a 
stone ! " 
So, on she ambled. Meanwhile William and I were already 
on foot, and our mules were led on by the guide's daughter, 
a pretty little lass of ten or twelve, who accompanied us in the 
capacity of mule driver. 
We found several stones of inferior size, and sent them 
plunging down. At last, however, we found one that weighed 
some two tons, which happened to lie so that, by loosening 
the earth before and under it with our alpenstocks, we were 
able to dislodge it. Slowly, reluctantly, as if conscious of 
the awful race it was about to take, the huge mass trembled, 
slid, poised, and, with a crunch and a groan, went over. At 
the first plunge it acquired a heavy revolving motion, and was 
soon whirling and dashing down, bounding into the air with 
prodigious leaps, and cutting a white and flashing path into 
the icy way. Then first I began to realize the awful height 
at which we stood above the plain. Tracts, which looked as 
though we could almost step across them, were reached by 
this terrible stone, moving with frightful velocity ; and bound 
after bound, plunge after plunge it made, and we held our 
breath to see each tract lengthen out, as if seconds grew into 
minutes, inches into rods ; and still the mass moved on, and 
the microscopic way lengthened out, till at last a curve hid its 
further progress from our view. 
What other cliffs we might have toppled over the muse 
refuses to tell ; for our faithful guide returned to say that it 
was not quite safe; that there were always shepherds and 
flocks in the valley, and that they might be injured. So we 
remounted, and soon overtook H. at a fountain, sketching a 
pine tree of special physiognomy. 
" Ah," said I, " II., how foolish you were ! You don't know 
what a sight you have lost." 
"Yes," said she, "all C. thinks mountains are made for is 
to roll stones down." 
"And aU H. thinks trees made foresaid I, "is to have 
ugly pictures made of them." 
"Ay," she replied, " you wanted me to stand on the very 
verge of the precipice, and see two foolish boys roll down 
stones, and perhaps make an avalanche of themselves ! Now, 
you know, C, I could not spare you; first, because I have 
not learned French enough yet; and next, because I don't 
know how to make change." 
"Add to that," said I, "the damages to the bergers and 
flocks." 
" Yes," she added ; " no doubt when we get back to the 
inn we shall have a bill sent in,  H. B. S. to A. B., Dr., to 
one shepherd and six cows, fr.' " 
And so we chatted along until we reached the auberge, and, 
after resting a few moments, descended into the frozen sea. 
Here a scene opened upon us never to be forgotten. From 
the distant gorge of the everlasting Alpine ranges issued forth 
an ocean tide, in wild and dashing commotion, just as we have 
seen the waves upon the broad Atlantic, but all motionless 
as chaos when smitten by the mace of Death; and yet, 
not motionless ! This denser medium, this motionless mass, 
is never at rest. This flood moves as it seems to move ; these 
waves are actually uplifting out of the abyss as they seem 
to lift ; the only difference is in the time of motion, the rate 
of change. 
These prodigious blocks of granite, thirty or forty feet 
long and twenty feet thick, which float on this grim sea of 
ice, do float, and are drifting, drifting down to the valley 
below, where, in a few days, they must arrive. 
We walked these valleys, ascended these hills, leaped across 
chasms, threw stones down the crevasses, plunged our alpen- 
stocks into the deep baths of green water, and philosophized 
and poetized till we were tired. Then we returned to the 
auberge, and rode down the zigzag to our hotel. 
LETTER XXXIV. 
My Dear: — 
The Mer de Glace is exactly opposite to La Flegere, 
where we were yesterday, and is reached by the ascent of 
what is called Montanvert, or Green Mountain. The path 
is much worse than the other, and in some places makes 
one's nerves twinge, especially that from which C. projected 
his avalanche. Just think of his wanting to stop me on the 
edge of a little shelf over that frightful chasm, and take away 
the guide from the head of my mule to help him get up 
avalanches ! 
I warn you, if ever you visit the Alps, that a travelling 
companion who has not the slightest idea what fear is will 
give you many a commotion. For instance, this Mer de 
Glace is traversed every where by crevasses in the ice, which 
go to — nobody knows where, down into the under world — 
great, gaping, blue-green mouths of Hades ; and C. must 
needs jump across them, and climb down into them, to the 
mingled delight and apprehension of the guide, who, after 
conscientiously shouting out a reproof, would say to me, in a 
lower tone, " Ah, he's the man to climb Mont Blanc ; he would 
do well for that!" 
The fact is, QOthing would suit our guides better, this clear, 
bright weather, than to make up a party for the top of Mont 
Blanc. They look longingly and lovingly up to its clear, 
white fields ; they show us the stages and resting-places, and 
 
seem really to think that it is a waste of this beautiful weather 
not to be putting it to that most sublime purpose. 
Why, then, do not we go up ? you say. As to us ladies, 
it is a thing that has been done by only two women since the 
world stood, and those very different in their physique from 
any we are likely to raise in America, unless we mend our 
manners very much. These two were a peasant woman of 
Chamouni, called Marie de Mont Blanc, and Mademoiselle 
Henriette d'Angeville, a lady whose acquaintance I made in 
Geneva. Then, as to the gentlemen, it is a serious consideration, in the first place, that the affair costs about one 
hundred and fifty dollars apiece, takes two days of time, 
uses up a week's strength, all to get an experience of some 
very disagreeable sensations, which could not afflict a man 
in any other case. It is no wonder, then, that gentlemen 
look up to the mountain, lay their hands on their pockets, and 
say, No. 
Our guide, by the way, is the son, or grandson, of the very 
first man that ascended Mont Blanc, and of course feels a sort 
of hereditary property and pride in it. 
C. spoke about throwing our poles down the pools of water 
in the ice. 
There is something rather curious about these pools. Our 
guide saw us measuring the depth of one of them, which was 
full of greenish-blue water, colored only by the refraction of 
the light. He took our long alpenstock, and poising it, sent 
it down into the water, as a man might throw a javelin. It 
disappeared, but in a few seconds leaped up at us out of the 
water, as if thrown back again by an invisible hand. 
A poet would say that a water spirit hurled it back ; perhaps some old under-ground gnome, just going to dinner, had 
his windows smashed by it, and sent it back with a becoming 
spirit, as a gnome should. 
It was a sultry day, and the sun was exercising his power 
over the whole ice field. I sat down by a great ice block, 
about fifty feet long, to interrogate it, and see what I could 
make of it, by a cool, confidential proximity and examination. 
The ice was porous and spongy, as I have seen it on the 
shores of the Connecticut, when beginning to thaw out under 
the influence of a spring sun. I could see the little drops of 
water percolating in a thousand tiny streams through it, and 
dropping down on every side. Putting my ear to it, I could 
hear a fine musical trill and trickle, and that still small click 
and stir, as of melting ice, which showed that it was surely 
and gradually giving way, and flowing back again. 
Drop by drop the cold iceberg was changing into a stream, 
to flow down the sides of the valley, no longer an image of 
coldness and death, but bearing fertility and beauty on its tide. 
And as I looked abroad over all the rifted field of ice, I could 
see that the same change was gradually going on throughout. 
In every blue ravine you can hear the clink of dropping 
water, and those great defiant blocks of ice, which sgem frozen 
with uplifted warlike hands, are all softening in that beneficent 
light, and destined to pass away in that benignant change. So 
let us hope that those institutions of pride and cruelty, which 
are colder than the glacier, and equally vast and hopeless in 
their apparent magnitude, may yet, like that, be slowly and 
surely passing away. Like the silent warfare of the sun on 
the glacier, is that overshadowing presence of Jesus, whose 
power, so still, yet so resistless, is now being felt through all 
the moving earth. 
Those defiant waves of death-cold ice, might as well hope 
to conquer the calm, silent sun, as the old, frozen institutions 
of human selfishness to resist the influence which he is now 
breathing through the human heart, to liberate the captive, 
to free the slave, and to turn the ice of long winters into rivers 
of life for the new heaven and the new earth. 
All this we know is coming, but we long to see it now, and 
breathe forth our desires with the Hebrew prophet, " O that 
thou wouldst rend the heavens, that thou wouldst come down, 
that the mountains might flow down at thy presence." 
I had, while upon this field of ice, that strange feeling which 
often comes over one, at the sight of a thing unusually beautiful and sublime, of wanting, in some way, to appropriate and 
make it a part of myself. I looked up the gorge, and saw this 
frozen river, lying cradled, as it were, in the arms of needle- 
peaked giants of amethystine rock, their tops laced with flying 
silvery clouds. The whole air seemed to be surcharged with 
tints, ranging between the palest rose and the deepest violet — 
tints never without blue, and never without red, but varying in 
the degrees of the two. It is this prismatic hue diffused over 
every object which gives one of the most noticeable characteristics of the Alpine landscape. 
This sea of ice lies on an inclined plane, and all the blocks 
have a general downward curve. 
I told you yesterday that the lower part of the glacier, as seen 
from La Flegere, appeared covered with dirt. I saw to-day 
the reason for this. Although it was a sultry day in July, yet 
around the glacier a continual high wind was blowing, whirling the dust and debris of the sides upon it. Some of the 
great masses of ice were so completely coated with sand as to 
appear at a distance like granite rocks. The effect of some 
of these immense brown masses was very peculiar. They 
seemed like an army of giants, bending forward, driven, as by 
an invisible power, down into the valley. 
It reminds one of such expressions as these in Job : — 
" Have the gates of death been open to thee, or hast thou 
seen the doors of the shadow of death ? " One should read 
that sublime poem in such scenes as these. I remained on the 
ice as long as I could persuade the guides and party to remain. 
Then we went back to the house, where, of course, we 
looked at some wood work, agates, and all the et cetera. 
Then we turned our steps downward. We went along 
the side of the glacier, and I desired to climb over as near 
as possible, in order to see the source of the Arveiron, which 
is formed by the melting of this glacier. Its cradle is a 
ribbed and rocky cavern of blue ice, and like a creature born 
full of vigor and immortality, it begins life with an impetuous 
leap. The cold arms of the glaciers cannot retain it ; it must 
go to the warm, flowery, velvet meadows below. 
The guide was quite anxious about me ; he seemed to "consider a lady as something that must necessarily break in two, 
or come apart, like a German doll, if not managed with extremest care; and therefore to see one bounding through 
bushes, leaping, and springing, and climbing over rocks at such 
a rate, appeared to him the height of desperation. 
The good, faithful soul wanted to keep me within orthodox 
limits, and felt conscientiously bound to follow me wherever 
I went, and to offer me his hand at every turn. I considered, on the whole, that I ought not to blame him, since 
guides hold themselves responsible for life and limb ; and any 
accident to those under their charge is fatal to their professional honor. 
Going down, I held some conversation with him on matters 
and things in general, and life in Chamouni in particular. He 
inquired with great interest about America ; which, throughout Europe, I find the working classes regard as a kind of 
star in the west, portending something of good to themselves. He had a son, he said, settled in. America, near St. 
Louis. 
"And don't you want to go to America?" said I, after 
hearing him praise the good land. 
" Ah, no," he said, with a smile. 
" Why not ? " said I ; " it is a much easier country to 
live in." 
He gave a look at the circle of mountains around, and said, 
"I love Chamouni." The good soul! I was much of his 
opinion. If I had been born within sight of glorious Mont 
Blanc, with its apocalyptic clouds, and store of visions, not all 
the fat pork and flat prairies of Indiana and Ohio could tempt 
me. No wonder the Swiss die for their native valleys ! I 
would if I were they. I asked him about education. He 
said his children went to a school kept by Catholic sisters, 
who taught reading, writing, and Latin. The dialect of Chamouni is a patois, composed of French and Latin. He said 
that provision was very scarce in the winter. I asked how 
they made their living when there were no travellers to be 
guided up Mont Blanc. He had a trade at which he wrought 
in winter months, and his wife did tailoring. 
I must not forget to say that the day before there had been 
some confidential passages between us, which began by his 
expressing, interrogatively, the opinion that " mademoiselle 
was a young lady, he supposed." When mademoiselle had 
assured him, on the contrary, that she was a venerable ma- 
 
tron, mother of a thriving family, then followed a little com- 
parison of notes as to numbers. Madame he ascertained to 
have six, and he had four, if my memory serves me, as it 
generally does not in matters of figures. So you see it is not 
merely among us New Englanders that the unsophisticated 
spirit of curiosity exists as to one's neighbors. Indeed, I 
take it to be a wholesome development of human nature in 
general. For my part, I could not think highly of any body 
who could be brought long into connection with another hu- 
man being and feel no interest to inquire into his history 
and surroundings. 
As we stopped, going down the descent, to rest the mules, 
I looked up above my head into the crags, and saw a flock of 
goats browsing. One goat, in particular, I remember, had 
gained the top of a kind of table rock, which stood apart 
from the rest, and which was carpeted with lichens and green 
moss. There he stood, looking as unconscious and contem- 
plative as possible, the wicked fellow, with his long beard ! 
He knew he looked picturesque, and that is what he stood 
there for. But, as they say in New England, he did it " as 
naCral as a pictur t " 
By the by, the girls with strawberries, milk, and knitting 
work were on hand on the way down, and met us just where 
a cool spring gushed out at the roots of a pine tree ; and of 
course I bought some more milk and strawberries. 
How dreadfully hot it was when we got down to the bottom ! for there we had the long, shadeless ride home, with the 
burning lenses of the glaciers concentrated upon our defenceless heads. I was past admiring any thing, and glad enough 
for the shelter of a roof, and a place to lie down. 
After dinner, although the Glacier de Boisson had been 
spoken of as the appointed work for the afternoon, yet we 
discovered, as the psalm book says, that 
" The force of nature could no farther go." 
"What is Glacier de Boisson, or glacier any thing else, to a 
person used up entirely, with no sense or capability left for 
any thing but a general aching? No ; the Glacier de Boisson 
was given up, and I am sorry for it now, because it is the 
commencement of the road up Mont Blanc ; and, though I 
could not go to the top thereof, I should like to have gone as 
far as I could. In fact, I should have been glad to sleep one 
night at the Grands Mulets : however, that was impossible. 
To look at the apparently smooth surface of the mountain 
side, one would never think that the ascent could be a work 
of such difficulty and danger. Yet, look at the picture of 
crossing a crevasse, and compare the size of the figures with 
the dimensions of the blocks of ice. Madame d'Angeville 
told me that she was drawn across a crevasse like this, by 
ropes tied under her arms, by the guides. The depth of some 
of the crevasses may be conjectured from the fact stated by 
Agassiz, that the thickest parts of the glaciers are over one 
thousand feet in depth. 
Friday, July 8. — Chamouni to Martigny, by Tete Noir. 
Mules en avant. We set off in a caliche. After a two hours' 
ride we came to " those mules" On, to the pass of Tete Noir, 
by paths the most awful. As my mule trod within six inches 
of the verge, I looked down into an abyss, so deep that tallest 
pines looked like twigs ; yet, on the opposite side of the pass, 
I looked up the steep precipice to an equal height, where 
giant trees seemed white fluttering fringe. A dizzy sight. 
We swept round an angle, entered a dark tunnel blasted out 
through the solid rock, emerged, and saw before us, on our 
right, the far-famed Tete Noir, a black ledge, on whose face, 
so high is the opposite cliff, the sun never shines. A few 
steps brought us to a hotel. . William and I rolled down some 
avalanches, by way of getting an appetite, while dinner was 
preparing. 
After dinner we commenced descending 
towards Martigny, alternately riding and 
walking. Here, while I was on foot, my 
mule took it into his head to run away. I 
was never more surprised in my life than 
to see that staid, solemn, meditative, melancholy beast suddenly perk up both his long 
ears, thus, and hop about over the steep 
paths like a goat. Not more surprised 
should I be to see some venerable D. D. of Princeton leading 
off a dance in the Jardin Mabille. We chased him here, and 
chased him there. We headed him, and he headed us. We said, 
"Now I have you," and he said, "No, you don't!" until the affair 
began to grow comically serious. " Il se moque de vous  " said 
the guide. But, at that moment, I sprang and caught him by 
the bridle, when, presto ! down went his ears, shut went the eyes, 
and over the entire gay brute spread a visible veil of stolidity. And down he plod- 
ded, slunging, shambling, pivotting round 
zigzag corners, as before, in a style which 
any one that ever navigated such a craft 
down hill knows without further telling. 
After that, I was sure that the old fellow 
kept up a " terrible thinking," in spite of his stupid looks, and 
knew a vast deal more than he chose to tell. 
At length we opened on the Rhone valley ; and at seven we 
reached Hotel de la Tour, at Martigny. Here H. and S. 
managed to get up two nights of stone stairs, and sank 
speechless and motionless upon their beds. I must say they 
have exhibited spirit to-day, or, as Mr. C. used to say, 
" pluck." After settling with our guides, — fine fellows, 
whom we hated to lose, — I ordered supper, and sought new 
guides for our route to the convent. Our only difficulty in 
reaching there, they say, is the snow. The guides were uncertain whether mules could get through so early in the sea- 
son. Only to think ! To-day, riding broilingly through hay- 
fields — to-morrow, stuck in snow drifts ! 
LETTER XXXV. 
Dear Henry : — 
You cannot think how beautiful are these Alpine valleys. 
Our course, all the first morning after we left Chaniouni, lay 
beside a broad, hearty, joyous mountain torrent, called, perhaps from the darkness of its waters, Eau Noire. Charming 
meadows skirted its banks. All the way along I could think 
of nothing but Bunyan's meadows beside the river of life, 
" curiously adorned with lilies.'* TJiese were curiously 
adorned, broidered, and inwrought with flowers, many and 
brilliant as those in a western prairie. "Were I to undertake 
to describe them, I might make an inventory as long as Ho- 
mer's list of the ships. There was the Canterbury bell of 
our garden ; the white meadow sweet ; the blue and white 
campanula ; the tall, slender harebell, and a little, short- 
tufted variety of the same, which our guide tells me is called 
" Les Clochettes," or the M little bells " — fairies might ring 
them, I thought. Then there are whole beds of the little 
blue forget-me-not, and a white flower which much resembles 
it in form. I also noticed, hanging in the clefts of the rocks 
around Tete Xoir, the long golden tresses of the laburnum. 
It has seemed to me, when I have been travelling here, as if 
every flower I ever saw in a garden met me some where in 
rocks or meadows. 
There is a strange, unsatisfying pleasure about flowers, 
winch, like all earthly pleasure, is akin to pain. TVTiat can 
 
you do with them ? — you want to do something, but what ? 
Take them all up, and carry them with you ? You cannot do 
that. Get down and look at them ? What, keep a whole 
caravan waiting for your observations ! That will never do. 
"Well, then, pick and carry them along with you. That is 
what, in despair of any better resource, I did. My good old 
guide was infinite in patience, stopping at every new exclamation point of mine, plunging down rocks into the meadow 
land, climbing to the points of great rocks, and returning with 
his hands filled with flowers. It seemed almost sacrilegious 
to tear away such fanciful creations, that looked as if they 
were votive offerings on an altar, or, more likely, living existences, whose only conscious life was a continued exhalation 
of joy and praise. 
These flowers seemed to me to be earth's raptures and aspi- 
rations — her better moments — her lucid intervals. Like 
every thing else in our existence, they are mysterious. 
In what mood of mind were they conceived by the great 
Artist ? Of what feelings of his are they the expression — 
springing up out of the dust, in these gigantic, tfaste, and 
desolate regions, where one would think the sense of his al- 
mightiness might overpower the soul ? Born in the track of 
the glacier and the avalanche, they seem to say to us that this 
Almighty Being is very pitiful, and of tender compassion ; 
that, in his infinite soul, there is an exquisite gentleness and 
love of the beautiful, and that, if we would be blessed, his will 
*o bless is infinite. 
The greatest men have always thought much of flowers. 
Luther always kept a flower in a glass, on his writing table ; 
and when he was waging his great public controversy with 
Eckius, he kept a flower in his hand. Lord Bacon has a 
beautiful passage about flowers. As to Shakspeare, he is a 
perfect Alpine valley — he is full of flowers ; they spring, and 
blossom, and wave in every cleft of his mind. Witness the 
Midsummer Night's Dream. Even Milton, cold, serene, and 
stately as he is, breaks forth into exquisite -gushes of tender- 
ness and fancy when he marshals the flowers, as in Lycidas 
and Comus. 
But all this while the sun has been withering the flowers 
the guide brought me ; how they look ! blue and white Can- 
terbury bells, harebells, clochettes, all bedraggled and wilted, 
like a young lady who has been up all night at a ball. 
" No, no," say I to the guide ; " don't pick me any more. 
I don't want them. The fact is, if they are pretty I cannot 
help it. I must even take it out in looking as I go by." 
One thing is evident ; He who made the world is no utilitarian, no despiser of the fine arts, and no condemner of orna- 
ment ; and those religionists, who seek to restrain every thing 
within the limits of cold, bare utility, do not imitate our Father in heaven. 
Cannot a bonnet cover your head, without the ribbon and 
the flowers, say they ? Yes ; and could not a peach tree bear 
peaches without a blossom ? What a waste is all this colored 
corolla of flowers, as if the seed could not mature without 
them ! God could have created the fruit in good, strong, 
homely bushel baskets, if he had been so disposed. 
" Turn off my eyes from beholding vanity," says a good 
man, when he sees a display of graceful ornament. What, 
then, must he think of the Almighty Being, all whose useful 
work is so overlaid with ornament ? There is not a fly's leg, 
nor an insect's wing, which is not polished and decorated to an 
extent that we should think positive extravagance in finishing 
up a child's dress. And can we suppose that this Being can 
take delight in dwellings and modes of life or forms of wor- 
ship where every thing is reduced to cold, naked utility ? I 
think not. The instinct to adorn and beautify is from him ; 
it likens us to him, and if rightly understood, instead of being 
a siren to beguile our hearts away, it will be the closest affiliating band. 
If this power of producing the beautiful has been always so 
fascinating that the human race for its sake have bowed down 
at the feet even of men deficient in moral worth, if we cannot 
forbear loving the painter, poet, and sculptor, how much more 
shall we love God, who, with all goodness, has also all beauty ! 
But all this while we have been riding on till we have 
passed the meadows, and the fields, and are coming into the 
dark and awful pass of the Tete Noir, which C. has described 
to you. 
One thing I noticed which he did not. When we were 
winding along the narrow path, bearing no more proportion to 
the dizzy heights above and below than the smallest insect 
creeping on the wall, I looked across the chasm, and saw a 
row of shepherds' cottages perched midway on a narrow shelf, 
that seemed in the distance not an inch wide. By a very 
natural impulse, I exclaimed, " What does become of the little 
children there ? I should think they would all fall over the 
precipice ! " 
My guide looked up benevolently at me, as if he felt it his 
duty to quiet my fears, and said in a soothing tone, " O, no, 
no, no I " 
Of course, I might have known that little children have their 
angels there, as well as every where else. " When they have 
funerals there," said he, " they are obliged to carry the dead 
 
along that road," pointing to a road that resembled a thread 
drawn on the rocky wall. 
What -a strange idea — such a life and death! It seemed 
to me, that I could see a funeral train creeping along ; the 
monks, with their black cloaks, carrying tapers, and singing 
psalms ; the whole procession together not larger in proportion 
than a swarm of black gnats ; and yet, perhaps, hearts there 
wrung with an infinite sorrow. In that black, moving point, 
may be a soul, whose convulsions and agonies cannot be 
measured or counted by any thing human, so impossible is 
it to measure souls by space. 
What can they think of, these creatures, who are born in this 
strange place, half way between heaven and earth, to whom 
the sound of avalanches is a cradle hymn, and who can never 
see the sun above the top of the cliff on either side, till he 
really gets into the zenith ? 
What they can be thinking of I cannot tell. Life, I suppose, is made up of the same prosaic material there that it is 
every where. The mother thinks how she shall make her 
goat's milk and black bread hold out. The grandmother knits 
stockings, and runs out to see if Jaques or Pierre have not 
tumbled over the precipice. Jaques and Pierre, in return, 
tangle grandmother's yarn, upset mother's milk bucket, pull 
the goat's beard, tear their clothes to pieces on the bushes and 
rocks, and, in short, commit incredible abominations daily, just 
as children do every where. 
In the night how curiously this little nest of houses must 
look, lighted up, wanking and blinking at the solitary traveller, 
like some mysterious eyes looking out of a great eternity! 
There they all are fast asleep, Pierre, and Jaques, and grand- 
 
mother, and the goats. In the night they hear a tremendous 
noise, as if all nature was going to pieces ; they half wake, 
open one eye, say, " Nothing but an avalanche ! " and go to 
sleep again. 
This road, through the pass of the Tete Noir, used to be 
dangerous ; a very narrow bridle-path, undefended by any 
screen whatever. To have passed it in those old days would 
have had too much of the sublime to be quite agreeable to me. 
The road, as it is, is wide enough, I should think, for three 
mules to go abreast, and a tunnel has been blasted through 
what seemed the most difficult and dangerous point, and a 
little beyond this tunnel is the Hotel de la Couronne. 
If any body wanted to stop in the wildest and lonesomest 
place he could find in the Alps, so as to be saturated with a 
sense of savageness and desolation, I would recommend this 
hotel. The chambers are reasonably comfortable, and the 
beds of a good quality — a point which S. and I tested experimentally soon after our arrival. I thought I should like to 
stay there a week, to be left there alone with Nature, and see 
what she would have to say to me. 
But two or three hours' ride in the hot sun, on a mule's 
back, indisposes one to make much of the grandest scenes, insomuch that we were glad to go to sleep ; and on awaking we 
were glad to get some dinner, such as it was. 
Well, after our dinner, which consisted of a dish of fried 
potatoes and some fossiliferous bread, such as prevails here 
at the small hotels in Switzerland, we proceeded onward. 
After an intolerably hot ride for half an hour we began to 
ascend a mountain called the Forclaz. 
There is something magnificent about going up these moun- 
 
tains, appalling as it seems to one's nerves, at particular turns 
and angles of the road, where the mule stops you on the very 
" brink of forever," as one of the ladies said. 
Well, at last we reached the top, and began to descend ; and 
there, at our feet, as if we were looking down at it out of a 
cloud, lay the whole beautiful valley of the Rhone. I did not 
know then that this was one of the things put down in the 
guide book, that we were expected to admire, as I found after- 
wards it was ; but nothing that I saw any where through the 
Alps impressed me as this did. It seemed to me more like 
the vision of the land that is very far off" than any thing 
earthly. I can see it now just as distinctly as I saw it then ; 
one of these flat, Swiss valleys, green as a velvet carpet, studded with buildings and villages that looked like dots in the 
distance, and embraced on all sides by these magnificent 
mountains, of which those nearest in the prospect were distinctly made out, with their rocks, pine trees, and foliage. 
The next in the receding distance were fainter, and of a purplish green ; the next of a vivid purple ; the next, lilac; while 
far in the fading view the crystal summits and glaciers of the 
Oberland Alps rose like an exhalation. 
The afternoon sun was throwing its level beams in between 
these many-colored ranges, and on one of them the ruins of 
an old Roman tower stood picturesquely prominent. The 
Simplon road could be seen, dividing the valley like an 
arrow. 
I had gone on quite ahead of my company, and as my mule 
soberly paced downward in the almost perpendicular road, I 
seemed to be poised so high above the enchanting scene that 
I had somewhat the same sensation as if I were flying. I 
don't wonder that larks seem to get into such a rapture when 
they are high up in the air. "What a dreamlike beauty there 
is in distance, disappearing ever as we approach ! 
As I came down towards Martigny into the pasture land of 
the great mountain, it seemed to me that the scenery might 
pass for that of the Delectable Mountains — such beautiful, 
green, shadowy hollows, amid great clumps of chestnut and 
apple trees, where people were making their hay, which 
smelled so dehghtfully, while cozy little Swiss cottages stood 
in every nook. 
All were out in the fields, men, women, and children, and 
in one hayfield I saw the baby's cradle — baby, of course, 
concealed from view under a small avalanche of a feather 
bed, as the general fashion in these parts seems to be. The 
women wore broad, flat hats, and all appeared to be working 
rather lazily, as it was coming on evening. 
This place might have done for Arcadia, or Utopia, or any 
other of those places people think of when they want to get 
rid of what is, and get into the region of what might be. 
I was very far before my party, and now got off my mule, 
and sat down on a log to wait till they came up. Then the 
drama enacted by C.'s mule took place, which he has de- 
scribed to you. I merely saw a distant commotion, but did not 
enter into the merits of the case. 
As they were somewhat slow coming down, I climbed over 
a log into a hayfield, and plucked a long, delicate, white-blossomed vine, with which I garlanded the top of my flat hat. 
One is often reminded of a text of Scripture in these val- 
leys — " He sendeth springs into the valleys, which run among 
the hills." 
Every where are these little, lively, murmuring brooks falling down the rooks, prattling through the hayfields, sociably 
gossiping with each other as they go. 
Here comes the party, and now we are going down into 
Martigny. How tired we were ! We had to ride quite through 
the town, then through a long, long row of trees, to come to 
the Hotel de la Tour. How delightful it seemed, with its 
stone entries and staircases, its bedrooms as- inviting as cleanliness could make them ! The eating saloon opened on to a 
beautiful garden filled with roses in full bloom. There were 
little tables set about under the trees for people to take their 
strawberries and cream, or tea, in the open air if they pre- 
ferred it, a very common and pleasant custom of continental 
hotels. 
A trim, tidy young woman in a white cap, with a bunch 
of keys at her girdle, ushered us up two flights of stone stairs, 
into a very clean, nice apartment, with white muslin window 
curtains. Now, there is no feature of a room that speaks 
to the heart like white muslin window curtains ; they always 
shed light on the whole scene. 
After resting a while we were called down to a supper of 
strawberries and cream, and nice little rolls with honey. This 
honey you find at every hotel in Switzerland, as one of the 
inevitables of the breakfast or tea table. 
Here we were to part from our Chamouni guides, and en- 
gage new ones to take us to St. Bernard. I had become so 
fond of mine that it really went quite to my heart ; we had 
an affecting leave-taking in the dark stone entry, at the foot 
of the staircase. In the earnestness of my emotion I gave 
him all the change I had in my pocket, to buy souvenirs for 
his little folks at home, for you know I told you we had com- 
pared notes on sundry domestic points. I really flattered my- 
self that I was doing something quite liberal ; but this deceit- 
ful Swiss coin ! I found, when I came to tell C. about it, that 
 
the whole stock only amounted to about twenty cents : like a 
great many things in this world, it looked more than it was. 
The good man, however, seemed as grateful as if I had done 
something, wished all sorts of happiness to me and my chil- 
dren, and so we parted. Peace go with him in his Chamou- 
ni cottage. 
Saturday, July 9. Rose in a blaze of glory. Rode five 
mortal hours in a char-a-banc, sweltering under a burning sun. 
But in less than ten minutes after we mounted the mules and 
struck into the gorge, the ladies muffled themselves in thick 
shawls. "We seemed to have passed, almost in a moment, 
from the tropics into the frigid zone. A fur cloak was sug- 
gested to me, but as it happened I was adequately calorified 
without. Chancing to be the last in the file, my mule sudden- 
ly stopped to eat. 
" Allez, allez ! " said I, twitching the bridle. 
" I won't" said he, as plainly as ears and legs could speak. 
" Allez ! " thundered I, jumping off and bestowing a kick 
upon his ribs which made me suffer if it did not him. 
" I worCt? said he, stuffily. 
" Won't you ? " said I, pursuing the same line of inductive 
argument, with rhetorical flourishes of the bridle. 
" Never ! " he replied again, most mulishly. 
" Then if words and kicks won't do," said I, " let us see 
what virtue there is in stones ; " and suiting the action to the 
word, I showered him with fragments of granite, as from a 
catapult. At every concussion he jumped and kicked, but 
kept his nose in the same relative position. I redoubled the 
logical admonition ; he jumped the more perceptibly ; finally, 
after an unusually affecting appeal from a piece of granite, he 
fairly budged, and I seized the bridle to mount. 
 
" Not at all," said he, wheeling round to his first position, 
like a true proslavery demagogue. 
" Ah," said I ; and went over the same line of argument in 
a more solid and convincing manner. At length the salutary 
impression seemed permanently fastened on his mind ; he 
fairly gave in; and I rode on in triumph to overtake the 
party — having no need of a fur coat. 
Horeb, Sinai, and Hor ! "What a wilderness ! what a sudden change ! Nothing but savage, awful precipices of naked granite, snowy fields, and verdureless wastes ! In every other 
place in the Alps, we have looked upon the snow in the remote distance, to be dazzled with its sheeny effulgence — our- 
selves, meanwhile, in the region of verdure and warmth. 
Here we march through a horrid desert — not a leaf, not a 
blade of grass — over the deep drifts of snow ; and we find 
our admiration turns to horror. And this is the road that 
Hannibal trod, and Charlemagne, and Napoleon ! They were 
fit conquerors of Rome, who could vanquish the sterner des- 
potism of eternal winter. 
After an hour's perilous climbing, we reached, at last, the 
hospice, and in five minutes were sitting at the supper table, 
by a good blazing fire, with a lively company, chatting with a 
gentlemanly abbe, discussing figs and fun, cracking filberts and 
jokes, and regaling ourselves genially. But ever and anon 
drawing, with a half shiver, a little closer to the roaring fagots 
in the chimney, I thought to myself, " And this is our mid- 
summer nights' dream " ! 
LETTER XXXVI*. 
Dear : — 
During breakfast, we were discussing whether we could get 
through the snow to Mont St. Bernard. Some thought we 
could, and some thought not. So it goes here : we are gasping and sweltering one hour, and plunging through snow 
banks the next. 
After breakfast, we entered the char-a-banc, a crab-like, 
sideway carriage, and were soon on our way. Our path was 
cut from the breast of the mountain, in a stifling gorge, where 
walls of rock on both sides served as double reflectors to concentrate the heat of the sun on our hapless heads. To be 
sure, there was a fine foaming stream at the bottom of the 
pass, and ever so much fine scenery, if we could have seen it ; 
but our chars opened but one way, and that against the perpendicular rock, close enough, almost, to blister our faces ; and 
the sun beat in so on our backs that we were obliged to have 
the curtain down. Thus we were as uncognizant of the 
scenery we passed through as if we had been nailed up in a 
box. Nothing but the consideration that we were travelling 
for pleasure could for a moment have reconciled us to such 
inconveniences. As it was, I occasionally called out to C, in 
the back carriage, to be sure and take good care of the fur 
coat ; which always brought shouts of laughter from the whole 
party. The idea of a fur coat seemed .so supremely ridiculous 
to us, there was no making us believe we ever should or 
could want it. 
That was the most unpleasant day's ride I had in the Alps. 
"We stopped to take dinner in the little wretched village of 
Liddes. You have no idea what a disagreeable, unsavory 
concern one of these villages is. Houses, none of which look 
much better than the log barns in our "Western States, set close 
together on either side of a street paved with round stones ; 
coarse, sunburnt women, with their necks enlarged by the 
goitre ; and dirty children, with tangled hair, and the same 
disgusting disease, — these were the principal features of the 
scene. 
This goitre prevails so extensively in this region, that you 
seldom see a person with the neck in a healthy condition. 
The worst of the matter is, that in many cases of children it 
induces idiocy. Cases of this kind were so frequent, that, 
after a while, whenever I met a child, I began to search in its 
face for indications of the approach of this disease. 
They are called cretins. In many cases the whole head 
appears swelled and deformed. As usual, every one you look 
at puts out the hand to beg. The tavern where we stopped 
to dine seemed more like a great barn, or cavern, than any 
thing else. We go groping along perfectly dark stone passages, stumbling up a stone staircase, and gaining light only 
when the door of a kind of reception room opens upon us — a 
