careless part of my congregation quote your example as a respectable
precedent for allowing their families to violate the order of the
Sabbath? You and your children sail about on the lake, with minds and
hearts, I doubt not, elevated and tranquillized by its quiet repose; but
Ben Dakes, and his idle, profane army of children, consider themselves
as doing very much the same thing when they lie lolling about, sunning
themselves on its shore, or skipping stones over its surface the whole
of a Sunday afternoon."
"Let every one answer to his own conscience," replied Mr. James. "If I
keep the Sabbath conscientiously, I am approved of God; if another
transgresses his conscience, 'to his own master he standeth or falleth.'
I am not responsible for all the abuses that idle or evil-disposed
persons may fall into, in consequence of my doing what is right."
"Let me quote an answer from the same chapter," said Mr. Richards. "'Let
no man put a stumbling block, or an occasion to fall, in his brother's
way; let not your good be evil spoken of. It is good neither to eat
flesh nor drink wine, nor any thing whereby thy brother stumbleth, or
is offended, or made weak.' Now, my good friend, you happen to be
endowed with a certain tone of mind which enables you to carry through
your mode of keeping the Sabbath with little comparative evil, and much
good, so far as your family is concerned; but how many persons in this
neighborhood, do you suppose, would succeed equally well if they were to
attempt it? If it were the common custom for families to absent
themselves from public worship in the afternoon, and to stroll about the
fields, or ride, or sail, how many parents, do you suppose, would have
the dexterity and talent to check all that was inconsistent with the
duties of the day? Is it not your ready command of language, your
uncommon tact in simplifying and illustrating, your knowledge of natural
history and of biblical literature, that enable you to accomplish the
results that you do? And is there one parent in a hundred that could do
the same? Now, just imagine our neighbor, 'Squire Hart, with his ten
boys and girls, turned out into the fields on a Sunday afternoon to
profit withal: you know he can never finish a sentence without stopping
to begin it again half a dozen times. What progress would he make in
instructing them? And so of a dozen others I could name along this very
street here. Now, you men of cultivated minds must give your countenance
to courses which would be best for society at large, or, as the
sentiment was expressed by St. Paul, 'We that are strong ought to bear
the infirmities of the weak, and not to please ourselves, for even
Christ pleased not himself.' Think, my dear sir, if our Savior had
gone only on the principle of avoiding what might be injurious to his
own improvement, how unsafe his example might have proved to less
elevated minds. Doubtless he might have made a Sabbath day fishing
excursion an occasion of much elevated and impressive instruction; but,
although he declared himself 'Lord of the Sabbath day,' and at liberty
to suspend its obligation at his own discretion, yet he never violated
the received method of observing it, except in cases where superstitious
tradition trenched directly on those interests which the Sabbath was
given to promote. He asserted the right to relieve pressing bodily
wants, and to administer to the necessities of others on the Sabbath,
but beyond that he allowed himself in no deviation from established
custom."
Mr. James looked thoughtful. "I have not reflected on the subject in
this view," he replied. "But, my dear sir, considering how little of the
public services of the Sabbath is on a level with the capacity of
younger children, it seems to me almost a pity to take them to church
the whole of the day."
"I have thought of that myself," replied Mr. Richards, "and have
sometimes thought that, could persons be found to conduct such a thing,
it would be desirable to institute a separate service for children, in
which the exercises should be particularly adapted to them."
"I should like to be minister to a congregation of children," said Mr.
James, warmly.
"Well," replied Mr. Richards, "give our good people time to get
acquainted with you, and do away the prejudices which your extraordinary
mode of proceeding has induced, and I think I could easily assemble such
a company for you every Sabbath."
After this, much to the surprise of the village, Mr. James and his
family were regular attendants at both the services of the Sabbath. Mr.
Richards explained to the good people of his congregation the motives
which had led their neighbor to the adoption of what, to them, seemed so
unchristian a course; and, upon reflection, they came to the perception
of the truth, that a man may depart very widely from the received
standard of right for other reasons than being an infidel or an opposer
of religion. A ready return of cordial feeling was the result; and as
Mr. James found himself treated with respect and confidence, he began to
feel, notwithstanding his fastidiousness, that there were strong points
of congeniality between all real and warm-hearted Christians, however
different might be their intellectual culture, and in all simplicity
united himself with the little church of Camden. A year from the time of
his first residence there, every Sabbath afternoon saw him surrounded by
a congregation of young children, for whose benefit he had, at his own
expense, provided a room, fitted up with maps, scriptural pictures, and
every convenience for the illustration of biblical knowledge; and the
parents or guardians who from time to time attended their children
during these exercises, often confessed themselves as much interested
and benefited as any of their youthful companions.
SKETCH THIRD.
It was near the close of a pleasant Saturday afternoon that I drew up my
weary horse in front of a neat little dwelling in the village of N.
This, as near as I could gather from description, was the house of my
cousin, William Fletcher, the identical rogue of a Bill Fletcher of whom
we have aforetime spoken. Bill had always been a thriving, push-ahead
sort of a character, and during the course of my rambling life I had
improved every occasional opportunity of keeping up our early
acquaintance. The last time that I returned to my native country, after
some years of absence, I heard of him as married and settled in the
village of N., where he was conducting a very prosperous course of
business, and shortly after received a pressing invitation to visit him
at his own home. Now, as I had gathered from experience the fact that it
is of very little use to rap one's knuckles off on the front door of a
country house without any knocker, I therefore made the best of my way
along a little path, bordered with marigolds and balsams, that led to
the back part of the dwelling. The sound of a number of childish voices
made me stop, and, looking through the bushes, I saw the very image of
my cousin Bill Fletcher, as he used to be twenty years ago; the same
bold forehead, the same dark eyes, the same smart, saucy mouth, and the
same "who-cares-for-that" toss to his head. "There, now," exclaimed the
boy, setting down a pair of shoes that he had been blacking, and
arranging them at the head of a long row of all sizes and sorts, from
those which might have fitted a two year old foot upward, "there, I've
blacked every single one of them, and made them shine too, and done it
all in twenty minutes; if any body thinks they can do it quicker than
that, I'd just like to have them try; that's all."
"I know they couldn't, though," said a fair-haired little girl, who
stood admiring the sight, evidently impressed with the utmost reverence
for her brother's ability; "and, Bill, I've been putting up all the
playthings in the big chest, and I want you to come and turn the
lock--the key hurts my fingers."
"Poh! I can turn it easier than that," said the boy, snapping his
fingers; "have you got them all in?"
"Yes, all; only I left out the soft bales, and the string of red beads,
and the great rag baby for Fanny to play with--you know mother says
babies must have their playthings Sunday."
"O, to be sure," said the brother, very considerately; "babies can't
read, you know, as we can, nor hear Bible stories, nor look at
pictures." At this moment I stepped forward, for the spell of former
times was so powerfully on me, that I was on the very point of springing
forward with a "Halloo, there, Bill!" as I used to meet the father in
old times; but the look of surprise that greeted my appearance brought
me to myself.
"Is your father at home?" said I.
"Father and mother are both gone out; but I guess, sir, they will be
home in a few moments: won't you walk in?"
I accepted the invitation, and the little girl showed me into a small
and very prettily furnished parlor. There was a piano with music books
on one side of the room, some fine pictures hung about the walls, and a
little, neat centre table was plentifully strewn with books. Besides
this, the two recesses on each side of the fireplace contained each a
bookcase with a glass locked door.
The little girl offered me a chair, and then lingered a moment, as if
she felt some disposition to entertain me if she could only think of
something to say; and at last, looking up in my face, she said, in a
confidential tone, "Mother says she left Willie and me to keep house
this afternoon while she was gone, and we are putting up all the things
for Sunday, so as to get every thing done before she comes home. Willie
has gone to put away the playthings, and I'm going to put up the books."
So saying, she opened the doors of one of the bookcases, and began
busily carrying the books from the centre table to deposit them on the
shelves, in which employment she was soon assisted by Willie, who took
the matter in hand in a very masterly manner, showing his sister what
were and what were not "Sunday books" with the air of a person entirely
at home in the business. Robinson Crusoe and the many-volumed Peter
Parley were put by without hesitation; there was, however, a short
demurring over a North American Review, because Willie said he was sure
his father read something one Sunday out of one of them, while Susan
averred that he did not commonly read in it, and only read in it then
because the piece was something about the Bible; but as nothing could be
settled definitively on the point, the review was "laid on the table,"
like knotty questions in Congress. Then followed a long discussion over
an extract book, which, as usual, contained all sorts, both sacred,
serious, comic, and profane; and at last Willie, with much gravity,
decided to lock it up, on the principle that it was best to be on the
safe side, in support of which he appealed to me. I was saved from
deciding the question by the entrance of the father and mother. My old
friend knew me at once, and presented his pretty wife to me with the
same look of exultation with which he used to hold up a string of trout
or an uncommonly fine perch of his own catching for my admiration, and
then looking round on his fine family of children, two more of which he
had brought home with him, seemed to say to me, "There! what do you
think of that, now?"
And, in truth, a very pretty sight it was--enough to make any one's old
bachelor coat sit very uneasily on him. Indeed, there is nothing that
gives one such a startling idea of the tricks that old Father Time has
been playing on us, as to meet some boyish or girlish companions with
half a dozen or so of thriving children about them. My old friend, I
found, was in essence just what the boy had been. There was the same
upright bearing, the same confident, cheerful tone to his voice, and the
same fire in his eye; only that the hand of manhood had slightly touched
some of the lines of his face, giving them a staidness of expression
becoming the man and the father.
"Very well, my children," said Mrs. Fletcher, as, after tea, William and
Susan finished recounting to her the various matters that they had set
in order that afternoon; "I believe now we can say that our week's work
is finished, and that we have nothing to do but rest and enjoy
ourselves."
"O, and papa will show us the pictures in those great books that he
brought home for us last Monday, will he not?" said little Robert.
"And, mother, you will tell us some more about Solomon's temple and his
palaces, won't you?" said Susan.
"And I should like to know if father has found out the answer to that
hard question I gave him last Sunday?" said Willie.
"All will come in good time," said Mrs. Fletcher. "But tell me, my dear
children, are you sure that you are quite ready for the Sabbath? You say
you have put away the books and the playthings; have you put away, too,
all wrong and unkind feelings? Do you feel kindly and pleasantly towards
every body?"
"Yes, mother," said Willie, who appeared to have taken a great part of
this speech to himself; "I went over to Tom Walter's this very morning
to ask him about that chicken of mine, and he said that he did not mean
to hit it, and did not know he had till I told him of it; and so we made
all up again, and I am glad I went."
"I am inclined to think, Willie," said his father, "that if every body
would make it a rule to settle up all their differences before Sunday,
there would be very few long quarrels and lawsuits. In about half the
cases, a quarrel is founded on some misunderstanding that would be got
over in five minutes if one would go directly to the person for
explanation."
"I suppose I need not ask you," said Mrs. Fletcher, "whether you have
fully learned your Sunday school lessons."
"O, to be sure," said William. "You know, mother, that Susan and I were
busy about them through Monday and Tuesday, and then this afternoon we
looked them over again, and wrote down some questions."
"And I heard Robert say his all through, and showed him all the places
on the Bible Atlas," said Susan.
"Well, then," said my friend, "if every thing is done, let us begin
Sunday with some music."
Thanks to the recent improvements in the musical instruction of the
young, every family can now form a domestic concert, with words and
tunes adapted to the capacity and the voices of children; and while
these little ones, full of animation, pressed round their mother as she
sat at the piano, and accompanied her music with the words of some
beautiful hymns, I thought that, though I might have heard finer music,
I had never listened to any that answered the purpose of music so well.
It was a custom at my friend's to retire at an early hour on Saturday
evening, in order that there might be abundant time for rest, and no
excuse for late rising on the Sabbath; and, accordingly, when the
children had done singing, after a short season of family devotion, we
all betook ourselves to our chambers, and I, for one, fell asleep with
the impression of having finished the week most agreeably, and with
anticipations of very great pleasure on the morrow.
Early in the morning I was roused from my sleep by the sound of little
voices singing with great animation in the room next to mine, and,
listening, I caught the following words:--
    "Awake! awake! your bed forsake,
      To God your praises pay;
    The morning sun is clear and bright;
    With joy we hail his cheerful light.
          In songs of love
          Praise God above--
        It is the Sabbath day!"
The last words were repeated and prolonged most vehemently by a voice
that I knew for Master William's.
"Now, Willie, I like the other one best," said the soft voice of little
Susan; and immediately she began,--
    "How sweet is the day,
    When, leaving our play,
      The Saviour we seek!
    The fair morning glows
    When Jesus arose--
      The best in the week."
Master William helped along with great spirit in the singing of this
tune, though I heard him observing, at the end of the first verse, that
he liked the other one better, because "it seemed to step off so kind o'
lively;" and his accommodating sister followed him as he began singing
it again with redoubled animation.
It was a beautiful summer morning, and the voices of the children within
accorded well with the notes of birds and bleating flocks without--a
cheerful, yet Sabbath-like and quieting sound.
"Blessed be children's music!" said I to myself; "how much better this
is than the solitary tick, tick, of old Uncle Fletcher's tall mahogany
clock!"
The family bell summoned us to the breakfast room just as the children
had finished their hymn. The little breakfast parlor had been swept and
garnished expressly for the day, and a vase of beautiful flowers, which
the children had the day before collected from their gardens, adorned
the centre table. The door of one of the bookcases by the fireplace was
thrown open, presenting to view a collection of prettily bound books,
over the top of which appeared in gilt letters the inscription, "Sabbath
Library." The windows were thrown open to let in the invigorating breath
of the early morning, and the birds that flitted among the rosebushes
without seemed scarcely lighter and more buoyant than did the children
as they entered the room. It was legibly written on every face in the
house, that the happiest day in the week had arrived, and each one
seemed to enter into its duties with a whole soul. It was still early
when the breakfast and the season of family devotion were over, and the
children eagerly gathered round the table to get a sight of the pictures
in the new books which their father had purchased in New York the week
before, and which had been reserved as a Sunday's treat. They were a
beautiful edition of Calmet's Dictionary, in several large volumes, with
very superior engravings.
"It seems to me that this work must be very expensive," I remarked to my
friend, as we were turning the leaves.
"Indeed it is so," he replied; "but here is one place where I am less
withheld by considerations of expense than in any other. In all that
concerns making a show in the world, I am perfectly ready to economize.
I can do very well without expensive clothing or fashionable furniture,
and am willing that we should be looked on as very plain sort of people
in all such matters; but in all that relates to the cultivation of the
mind, and the improvement of the hearts of my children, I am willing to
go to the extent of my ability. Whatever will give my children a better
knowledge of, or deeper interest in, the Bible, or enable them to spend
a Sabbath profitably and without weariness, stands first on my list
among things to be purchased. I have spent in this way one third as much
as the furnishing of my house costs me." On looking over the shelves of
the Sabbath library, I perceived that my friend had been at no small
pains in the selection. It comprised all the popular standard works for
the illustration of the Bible, together with the best of the modern
religious publications adapted to the capacity of young children. Two
large drawers below were filled with maps and scriptural engravings,
some of them of a very superior character.
"We have been collecting these things gradually ever since we have been
at housekeeping," said my friend; "the children take an interest in this
library, as something more particularly belonging to them, and some of
the books are donations from their little earnings."
"Yes," said Willie, "I bought Helen's Pilgrimage with my egg money, and
Susan bought the Life of David, and little Robert is going to buy one,
too, next new year."
"But," said I, "would not the Sunday school library answer all the
purpose of this?"
"The Sabbath school library is an admirable thing," said my friend; "but
this does more fully and perfectly what that was intended to do. It
makes a sort of central attraction at home on the Sabbath, and makes the
acquisition of religious knowledge and the proper observance of the
Sabbath a sort of family enterprise. You know," he added, smiling, "that
people always feel interested for an object in which they have invested
money."
The sound of the first Sabbath school bell put an end to this
conversation. The children promptly made themselves ready, and as their
father was the superintendent of the school, and their mother one of the
teachers, it was quite a family party.
One part of every Sabbath at my friend's was spent by one or both
parents with the children, in a sort of review of the week. The
attention of the little ones was directed to their own characters, the
various defects or improvements of the past week were pointed out, and
they were stimulated to be on their guard in the time to come, and the
whole was closed by earnest prayer for such heavenly aid as the
temptations and faults of each particular one might need. After church
in the evening, while the children were thus withdrawn to their mother's
apartment, I could not forbear reminding my friend of old times, and of
the rather anti-sabbatical turn of his mind in our boyish days.
"Now, William," said I, "do you know that you were the last boy of whom
such an enterprise in Sabbath keeping as this was to have been expected?
I suppose you remember Sunday at 'the old place'?"
"Nay, now, I think I was the very one," said he, smiling, "for I had
sense enough to see, as I grew up, that the day must be kept
thoroughly or not at all, and I had enough blood and motion in my
composition to see that something must be done to enliven and make it
interesting; so I set myself about it. It was one of the first of our
housekeeping resolutions, that the Sabbath should be made a pleasant
day, and yet be as inviolably kept as in the strictest times of our good
father; and we have brought things to run in that channel so long, that
it seems to be the natural order."
"I have always supposed," said I, "that it required a peculiar talent,
and more than common information in a parent, to accomplish this to any
extent."
"It requires nothing," replied my friend, "but common sense, and a
strong determination to do it. Parents who make a definite object of
the religious instruction of their children, if they have common sense,
can very soon see what is necessary in order to interest them; and, if
they find themselves wanting in the requisite information, they can, in
these days, very readily acquire it. The sources of religious knowledge
are so numerous, and so popular in their form, that all can avail
themselves of them. The only difficulty, after all, is, that the keeping
of the Sabbath and the imparting of religious instruction are not made
enough of a home object. Parents pass off the responsibility on to the
Sunday school teacher, and suppose, of course, if they send their
children to Sunday school, they do the best they can for them. Now, I am
satisfied, from my experience as a Sabbath school teacher, that the best
religious instruction imparted abroad still stands in need of the
coöperation of a systematic plan of religious discipline and instruction
at home; for, after all, God gives a power to the efforts of a parent
that can never be transferred to other hands."
"But do you suppose," said I, "that the common class of minds, with
ordinary advantages, can do what you have done?"
"I think in most cases they could, if they begin right. But when both
parents and children have formed habits, it is more difficult to
change than to begin right at first. However, I think all might
accomplish a great deal if they would give time, money, and effort
towards it. It is because the object is regarded of so little value,
compared with other things of a worldly nature, that so little is done."
My friend was here interrupted by the entrance of Mrs. Fletcher with the
children. Mrs. Fletcher sat down to the piano, and the Sabbath was
closed with the happy songs of the little ones; nor could I notice a
single anxious eye turning to the window to see if the sun was not
almost down. The tender and softened expression of each countenance bore
witness to the subduing power of those instructions which had hallowed
the last hour, and their sweet, bird-like voices harmonized well with
the beautiful words,--
    "How sweet the light of Sabbath eve!
    How soft the sunbeam lingering there!
    Those holy hours this, low earth leave,
    And rise on wings of faith and prayer."
LET EVERY MAN MIND HIS OWN BUSINESS.
"And so you will not sign this paper?" said Alfred Melton to his cousin,
a fine-looking young man, who was lounging by the centre table.
"Not I, indeed. What in life have I to do with these decidedly vulgar
temperance pledges? Pshaw! they have a relish of whiskey in their very
essence!"
"Come, come, Cousin Melton," said a brilliant, dark-eyed girl, who had
been lolling on the sofa during the conference, "I beg of you to give
over attempting to evangelize Edward. You see, as Falstaff has it, 'he
is little better than one of the wicked.' You must not waste such
valuable temperance documents on him."
"But, seriously, Melton, my good fellow," resumed Edward, "this signing,
and sealing, and pledging is altogether an unnecessary affair for me. My
past and present habits, my situation in life,--in short, every thing
that can be mentioned with regard to me,--goes against the supposition
of my ever becoming the slave of a vice so debasing; and this pledging
myself to avoid it is something altogether needless--nay, by
implication, it is degrading. As to what you say of my influence, I am
inclined to the opinion, that if every man will look to himself, every
man will be looked to. This modern notion of tacking the whole
responsibility of society on to every individual is one I am not at all
inclined to adopt; for, first, I know it is a troublesome doctrine; and,
secondly, I doubt if it be a true one. For both which reasons, I shall
decline extending to it my patronage."
"Well, positively," exclaimed the lady, "you gentlemen have the gift of
continuance in an uncommon degree. You have discussed this matter
backward and forward till I am ready to perish. I will take the matter
in hand myself, and sign a temperance pledge for Edward, and see that he
gets into none of those naughty courses upon which you have been so
pathetic."
"I dare say," said Melton, glancing on her brilliant face with evident
admiration, "that you will be the best temperance pledge he could have.
But every man, cousin, may not be so fortunate."
"But, Melton," said Edward, "seeing my steady habits are so well
provided for, you must carry your logic and eloquence to some poor
fellow less favored." And thus the conference ended.
"What a good disinterested fellow Melton is!" said Edward, after he had
left.
"Yes, good, as the day is long," said Augusta, "but rather prosy, after
all. This tiresome temperance business! One never hears the end of it
nowadays. Temperance papers--temperance tracts--temperance
hotels--temperance this, that, and the other thing, even down to
temperance pocket handkerchiefs for little boys! Really, the world is
getting intemperately temperate."
"Ah, well! with the security you have offered, Augusta, I shall dread no
temptation."
Though there was nothing peculiar in these words, yet there was a
certain earnestness of tone that called the color into the face of
Augusta, and set her to sewing with uncommon assiduity. And thereupon
Edward proceeded with some remark about "guardian angels," together with
many other things of the kind, which, though they contain no more that
is new than a temperance lecture, always seem to have a peculiar
freshness to people in certain circumstances. In fact, before the hour
was at an end, Edward and Augusta had forgotten where they began, and
had wandered far into that land of anticipations and bright dreams which
surrounds the young and loving before they eat of the tree of
experience, and gain the fatal knowledge of good and evil.
But here, stopping our sketching pencil, let us throw in a little
background and perspective that will enable our readers to perceive more
readily the entire picture.
Edward Howard was a young man whose brilliant talents and captivating
manners had placed him first in the society in which he moved. Though
without property or weight of family connections, he had become a leader
in the circles where these appendages are most considered, and there
were none of their immunities and privileges that were not freely at his
disposal.
Augusta Elmore was conspicuous in all that lies within the sphere of
feminine attainment. She was an orphan, and accustomed from a very early
age to the free enjoyment and control of an independent property. This
circumstance, doubtless, added to the magic of her personal graces in
procuring for her that flattering deference which beauty and wealth
secure.
Her mental powers were naturally superior, although, from want of
motive, they had received no development, except such as would secure
success in society. Native good sense, with great strength of feeling
and independence of mind, had saved her from becoming heartless and
frivolous. She was better fitted to lead and to influence than to be
influenced or led. And hence, though not swayed by any habitual sense of
moral responsibility, the tone of her character seemed altogether more
elevated than the average of fashionable society.
General expectation had united the destiny of two persons who seemed
every way fitted for each other, and for once general expectation did
not err. A few months after the interview mentioned were witnessed the
festivities and congratulations of their brilliant and happy marriage.
Never did two young persons commence life under happier auspices. "What
an exact match!" "What a beautiful couple!" said all the gossips. "They
seem made for each other," said every one; and so thought the happy
lovers themselves.
Love, which with persons of strong character is always an earnest and
sobering principle, had made them thoughtful and considerate; and as
they looked forward to future life, and talked of the days before them,
their plans and ideas were as rational as any plans can be, when formed
entirely with reference to this life, without any regard to another.
For a while their absorbing attachment to each other tended to withdraw
them from the temptations and allurements of company; and many a long
winter evening passed delightfully in the elegant quietude of home, as
they read, and sang, and talked of the past, and dreamed of the future
in each other's society. But, contradictory as it may appear to the
theory of the sentimentalist, it is nevertheless a fact, that two
persons cannot always find sufficient excitement in talking to each
other merely; and this is especially true of those to whom high
excitement has been a necessary of life. After a while, the young
couple, though loving each other none the less, began to respond to the
many calls which invited them again into society, and the pride they
felt in each other added zest to the pleasures of their return.
As the gaze of admiration followed the graceful motions of the beautiful
wife, and the whispered tribute went round the circle whenever she
entered, Edward felt a pride beyond all that flattery, addressed to
himself, had ever excited; and Augusta, when told of the convivial
talents and powers of entertainment which distinguished her husband,
could not resist the temptation of urging him into society even oftener
than his own wishes would have led him.
Alas! neither of them knew the perils of constant excitement, nor
supposed that, in thus alienating themselves from the pure and simple
pleasures of home, they were risking their whole capital of happiness.
It is in indulging the first desire for extra stimulus that the first
and deepest danger to domestic peace lies. Let that stimulus be either
bodily or mental, its effects are alike to be dreaded.
The man or the woman to whom habitual excitement of any kind has become
essential has taken the first step towards ruin. In the case of a woman,
it leads to discontent, fretfulness, and dissatisfaction with the quiet
duties of domestic life; in the case of a man, it leads almost
invariably to animal stimulus, ruinous alike to the powers of body and
mind.
Augusta, fondly trusting to the virtue of her husband, saw no danger in
the constant round of engagements which were gradually drawing his
attention from the graver cares of business, from the pursuit of
self-improvement, and from the love of herself. Already there was in her
horizon the cloud "as big as a man's hand"--the precursor of future
darkness and tempest; but, too confident and buoyant, she saw it not.
It was not until the cares and duties of a mother began to confine her
at home, that she first felt, with a startling sensation of fear, that
there was an alteration in her husband, though even then the change was
so shadowy and indefinite that it could not be defined by words.
It was known by that quick, prophetic sense which reveals to the heart
of woman the first variation in the pulse of affection, though it be so
slight that no other touch can detect it.
Edward was still fond, affectionate, admiring; and when he tendered her
all the little attentions demanded by her situation, or caressed and
praised his beautiful son, she felt satisfied and happy. But when she
saw that, even without her, the convivial circle had its attractions,
and that he could leave her to join it, she sighed, she scarce knew why.
"Surely," she said, "I am not so selfish as to wish to rob him of
pleasure because I cannot enjoy it with him. But yet, once he told me
there was no pleasure where I was not. Alas! is it true, what I have so
often heard, that such feelings cannot always last?"
Poor Augusta! she knew not how deep reason she had to fear. She saw not
the temptations that surrounded her husband in the circles where to all
the stimulus of wit and intellect was often added the zest of wine,
used far too freely for safety.
Already had Edward become familiar with a degree of physical excitement
which touches the very verge of intoxication; yet, strong in
self-confidence, and deluded by the customs of society, he dreamed not
of danger. The traveller who has passed above the rapids of Niagara may
have noticed the spot where the first white sparkling ripple announces
the downward tendency of the waters. All here is brilliancy and beauty;
and as the waters ripple and dance in the sunbeam, they seem only as if
inspired by a spirit of new life, and not as hastening to a dreadful
fall. So the first approach to intemperance, that ruins both body and
soul, seems only like the buoyancy and exulting freshness of a new life,
and the unconscious voyager feels his bark undulating with a thrill of
delight, ignorant of the inexorable hurry, the tremendous sweep, with
which the laughing waters urge him on beyond the reach of hope or
recovery.
It was at this period in the life of Edward that one judicious and manly
friend, who would have had the courage to point out to him the danger
that every one else perceived, might have saved him. But among the
circle of his acquaintances there was none such. "Let every man mind
his own business" was their universal maxim. True, heads were gravely
shaken, and Mr. A. regretted to Mr. B. that so promising a young man
seemed about to ruin himself. But one was "no relation," of Edward's,
and the other "felt a delicacy in speaking on such a subject," and
therefore, according to a very ancient precedent, they "passed by on the
other side." Yet it was at Mr. A.'s sideboard, always sparkling with the
choicest wine, that he had felt the first excitement of extra stimulus;
it was at Mr. B.'s house that the convivial club began to hold their
meetings, which, after a time, found a more appropriate place in a
public hotel. It is thus that the sober, the regular, and the discreet,
whose constitution saves them from liabilities to excess, will accompany
the ardent and excitable to the very verge of danger, and then wonder at
their want of self-control.
It was a cold winter evening, and the wind whistled drearily around the
closed shutters of the parlor in which Augusta was sitting. Every thing
around her bore the marks of elegance and comfort.
Splendid books and engravings lay about in every direction. Vases of
rare and costly flowers exhaled perfume, and magnificent mirrors
multiplied every object. All spoke of luxury and repose, save the
anxious and sad countenance of its mistress.
It was late, and she had watched anxiously for her husband for many long
hours. She drew out her gold and diamond repeater, and looked at it. It
was long past midnight. She sighed as she remembered the pleasant
evenings they had passed together, as her eye fell on the books they had
read together, and on her piano and harp, now silent, and thought of all
he had said and looked in those days when each was all to the other.
She was aroused from this melancholy revery by a loud knocking at the
street door. She hastened to open it, but started back at the sight it
disclosed--her husband borne by four men.
"Dead! is he dead?" she screamed, in agony.
"No, ma'am," said one of the men, "but he might as well be dead as in
such a fix as this."
The whole truth, in all its degradation, flashed on the mind of Augusta.
Without a question or comment, she motioned to the sofa in the parlor,
and her husband was laid there. She locked the street door, and when the
last retreating footstep had died away, she turned to the sofa, and
stood gazing in fixed and almost stupefied silence on the face of her
senseless husband.
At once she realized the whole of her fearful lot. She saw before her
the blight of her own affections, the ruin of her helpless children, the
disgrace and misery of her husband. She looked around her in helpless
despair, for she well knew the power of the vice whose deadly seal was
set upon her husband. As one who is struggling and sinking in the waters
casts a last dizzy glance at the green sunny banks and distant trees
which seem sliding from his view, so did all the scenes of her happy
days pass in a moment before her, and she groaned aloud in bitterness of
spirit. "Great God! help me, help me," she prayed. "Save him--O, save my
husband."
Augusta was a woman of no common energy of spirit, and when the first
wild burst of anguish was over, she resolved not to be wanting to her
husband and children in a crisis so dreadful.
"When he awakes," she mentally exclaimed, "I will warn and implore; I
will pour out my whole soul to save him. My poor husband, you have been
misled--betrayed. But you are too good, too generous, too noble to be
sacrificed without a struggle."
It was late the next morning before the stupor in which Edward was
plunged began to pass off. He slowly opened his eyes, started up wildly,
gazed hurriedly around the room, till his eye met the fixed and
sorrowful gaze of his wife. The past instantly flashed upon him, and a
deep flush passed over his countenance. There was a dead, a solemn
silence, until Augusta, yielding to her agony, threw herself into his
arms, and wept.
"Then you do not hate me, Augusta?" said he, sorrowfully.
"Hate you--never! But, O Edward, Edward, what has beguiled you?"
"My wife--you once promised to be my guardian in virtue--such you are,
and will be. O Augusta! you have looked on what you shall never see
again--never--never--so help me God!" said he, looking up with solemn
earnestness.
And Augusta, as she gazed on the noble face, the ardent expression of
sincerity and remorse, could not doubt that her husband was saved. But
Edward's plan of reformation had one grand defect. It was merely
modification and retrenchment, and not entire abandonment. He could
not feel it necessary to cut himself off entirely from the scenes and
associations where temptation had met him. He considered not that, when
the temperate flow of the blood and the even balance of the nerves have
once been destroyed, there is, ever after, a double and fourfold
liability, which often makes a man the sport of the first untoward
chance.
He still contrived to stimulate sufficiently to prevent the return of a
calm and healthy state of the mind and body, and to make constant
self-control and watchfulness necessary.
It is a great mistake to call nothing intemperance but that degree of
physical excitement which completely overthrows the mental powers. There
is a state of nervous excitability, resulting from what is often called
moderate stimulation, which often long precedes this, and is, in regard
to it, like the premonitory warnings of the fatal cholera--an
unsuspected draught on the vital powers, from which, at any moment, they
may sink into irremediable collapse.
It is in this state, often, that the spirit of gambling or of wild
speculation is induced by the morbid cravings of an over-stimulated
system. Unsatisfied with the healthy and regular routine of business,
and the laws of gradual and solid prosperity, the excited and unsteady
imagination leads its subjects to daring risks, with the alternative of
unbounded gain on the one side, or of utter ruin on the other. And when,
as is too often the case, that ruin comes, unrestrained and desperate
intemperance is the wretched resort to allay the ravings of
disappointment and despair.
Such was the case with Edward. He had lost his interest in his regular
business, and he embarked the bulk of his property in a brilliant scheme
then in vogue; and when he found a crisis coming, threatening ruin and
beggary, he had recourse to the fatal stimulus, which, alas! he had
never wholly abandoned.
At this time he spent some months in a distant city, separated from his
wife and family, while the insidious power of temptation daily
increased, as he kept up, by artificial stimulus, the flagging vigor of
his mind and nervous system.
It came at last--the blow which shattered alike his brilliant dreams and
his real prosperity. The large fortune brought by his wife vanished in a
moment, so that scarcely a pittance remained in his hands. From the
distant city where he had been to superintend his schemes, he thus wrote
to his too confiding wife:--
"Augusta, all is over! expect no more from your husband--believe no more
of his promises--for he is lost to you and you to him. Augusta, our
property is gone; your property, which I have blindly risked, is all
swallowed up. But is that the worst? No, no, Augusta; I am lost--lost,
body and soul, and as irretrievably as the perishing riches I have
squandered. Once I had energy--health--nerve--resolution; but all are
gone: yes, yes, I have yielded--I do yield daily to what is at once my
tormentor and my temporary refuge from intolerable misery. You remember
the sad hour you first knew your husband was a drunkard. Your look on
that morning of misery--shall I ever forget it? Yet, blind and confiding
as you were, how soon did your ill-judged confidence in me return! Vain
hopes! I was even then past recovery--even then sealed over to blackness
of darkness forever.
"Alas! my wife, my peerless wife, why am I your husband? why the father
of such children as you have given me? Is there nothing in your
unequalled loveliness--nothing in the innocence of our helpless babes,
that is powerful enough to recall me? No, there is not.
"Augusta, you know not the dreadful gnawing, the intolerable agony of
this master passion. I walk the floor--I think of my own dear home, my
high hopes, my proud expectations, my children, my wife, my own immortal
soul. I feel that I am sacrificing all--feel it till I am withered with
agony; but the hour comes--the burning hour, and all is in vain. I
shall return to you no more, Augusta. All the little wreck I have saved
I send: you have friends, relatives--above all, you have an energy of
mind, a capacity of resolute action, beyond that of ordinary women, and
you shall never be bound--the living to the dead. True, you will suffer,
thus to burst the bonds that unite us; but be resolute, for you will
suffer more to watch from day to day the slow workings of death and ruin
in your husband. Would you stay with me, to see every vestige of what
you once loved passing away--to endure the caprice, the moroseness, the
delirious anger of one no longer master of himself? Would you make your
children victims and fellow-sufferers with you? No! dark and dreadful is
my path! I will walk it alone: no one shall go with me.
"In some peaceful retirement you may concentrate your strong feelings
upon your children, and bring them up to fill a place in your heart
which a worthless husband has abandoned. If I leave you now, you will
remember me as I have been--you will love me and weep for me when dead;
but if you stay with me, your love will be worn out; I shall become the
object of disgust and loathing. Therefore farewell, my wife--my first,
best love, farewell! with you I part with hope,--
          'And with hope, farewell fear,
    Farewell remorse: all good to me is lost:
    Evil, be thou my good.'
This is a wild strain, but fit for me: do not seek for me, do not write:
nothing can save me."
Thus abruptly began and ended the letter that conveyed to Augusta the
death doom of her hopes. There are moments of agony when the most
worldly heart is pressed upward to God, even as a weight will force
upward the reluctant water. Augusta had been a generous, a high-minded,
an affectionate woman, but she had lived entirely for this world. Her
chief good had been her husband and her children. These had been her
pride, her reliance, her dependence. Strong in her own resources, she
had never felt the need of looking to a higher power for assistance and
happiness. But when this letter fell from her trembling hand, her heart
died within her at its wild and reckless bitterness.
In her desperation she looked up to God. "What have I to live for now?"
was the first feeling of her heart.
But she repressed this inquiry of selfish agony, and besought almighty
assistance to nerve her weakness; and here first began that practical
acquaintance with the truths and hopes of religion which changed her
whole character.
The possibility of blind, confiding idolatry of any earthly object was
swept away by the fall of her husband, and with the full energy of a
decided and desolate spirit, she threw herself on the protection of an
almighty Helper. She followed her husband to the city whither he had
gone, found him, and vainly attempted to save.
There were the usual alternations of short-lived reformations, exciting
hopes only to be destroyed. There was the gradual sinking of the body,
the decay of moral feeling and principle--the slow but sure approach of
disgusting animalism, which marks the progress of the drunkard.
It was some years after that a small and partly ruinous tenement in the
outskirts of A. received a new family. The group consisted of four
children, whose wan and wistful countenances, and still, unchildlike
deportment, testified an early acquaintance with want and sorrow. There
was the mother, faded and care-worn, whose dark and melancholy eyes,
pale cheeks, and compressed lips told of years of anxiety and endurance.
There was the father, with haggard face, unsteady step, and that
callous, reckless air, that betrayed long familiarity with degradation
and crime. Who, that had seen Edward Howard in the morning and freshness
of his days, could have recognized him in this miserable husband and
father? or who, in this worn and woe-stricken woman, would have known
the beautiful, brilliant, and accomplished Augusta? Yet such changes are
not fancy, as many a bitter and broken heart can testify.
Augusta had followed her guilty husband through many a change and many a
weary wandering. All hope of reformation had gradually faded away. Her
own eyes had seen, her ears had heard, all those disgusting details, too
revolting to be portrayed; for in drunkenness there is no royal road--no
salvo for greatness of mind, refinement of taste, or tenderness of
feeling. All alike are merged in the corruption of a moral death.
The traveller, who met Edward reeling by the roadside, was sometimes
startled to hear the fragments of classical lore, or wild bursts of
half-remembered poetry, mixing strangely with the imbecile merriment of
intoxication. But when he stopped to gaze, there was no further mark on
his face or in his eye by which he could be distinguished from the
loathsome and lowest drunkard.
Augusta had come with her husband to a city where they were wholly
unknown, that she might at least escape the degradation of their lot in
the presence of those who had known them in better days. The long and
dreadful struggle that annihilated the hopes of this life had raised her
feelings to rest upon the next, and the habit of communion with God,
induced by sorrows which nothing else could console, had given a tender
dignity to her character such as nothing else could bestow.
It is true, she deeply loved her children; but it was with a holy,
chastened love, such as inspired the sentiment once breathed by Him "who
was made perfect through sufferings."
"For their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also may be sanctified."
Poverty, deep poverty, had followed their steps, but yet she had not
fainted. Talents which in her happier days had been nourished merely as
luxuries, were now stretched to the utmost to furnish a support; while
from the resources of her own reading she drew that which laid the
foundation for early mental culture in her children.
Augusta had been here but a few weeks before her footsteps were traced
by her only brother, who had lately discovered her situation, and urged
her to forsake her unworthy husband and find refuge with him.
"Augusta, my sister, I have found you!" he exclaimed, as he suddenly
entered one day, while she was busied with the work of her family.
"Henry, my dear brother!" There was a momentary illumination of
countenance accompanying these words, which soon faded into a mournful
quietness, as she cast her eyes around on the scanty accommodations and
mean apartment.
"I see how it is, Augusta; step by step, you are sinking--dragged down
by a vain sense of duty to one no longer worthy. I cannot bear it any
longer; I have come to take you away."
Augusta turned from him, and looked abstractedly out of the window. Her
features settled in thought. Their expression gradually deepened from
their usual tone of mild, resigned sorrow to one of keen anguish.
"Henry," said she, turning towards him, "never was mortal woman so
blessed in another as I once was in him. How can I forget it? Who knew
him in those days that did not admire and love him? They tempted and
insnared him; and even I urged him into the path of danger. He fell, and
there was none to help. I urged reformation, and he again and again
promised, resolved, and began. But again they tempted him--even his very
best friends; yes, and that, too, when they knew his danger. They led
him on as far as it was safe for them to go, and when the sweep of his
more excitable temperament took him past the point of safety and
decency, they stood by, and coolly wondered and lamented. How often was
he led on by such heartless friends to humiliating falls, and then
driven to desperation by the cold look, averted faces, and cruel sneers
of those whose medium temperament and cooler blood saved them from the
snares which they saw were enslaving him. What if I had forsaken him
then? What account should I have rendered to God? Every time a friend
has been alienated by his comrades, it has seemed to seal him with
another seal. I am his wife--and mine will be the last. Henry, when I
leave him, I know his eternal ruin is sealed. I cannot do it now; a
little longer--a little longer; the hour, I see, must come. I know my
duty to my children forbids me to keep them here; take them--they are my
last earthly comforts, Henry--but you must take them away. It may be--O
God--perhaps it must be, that I shall soon follow; but not till I have
tried once more. What is this present life to one who has suffered as
I have? Nothing. But eternity! O Henry! eternity--how can I abandon him
to everlasting despair! Under the breaking of my heart I have borne
up. I have borne up under all that can try a woman; but this
thought----" She stopped, and seemed struggling with herself; but at
last, borne down by a tide of agony, she leaned her head on her hands;
the tears streamed through her fingers, and her whole frame shook with
convulsive sobs.
Her brother wept with her; nor dared he again to touch the point so
solemnly guarded. The next day Augusta parted from her children, hoping
something from feelings that, possibly, might be stirred by their
absence in the bosom of their father.
It was about a week after this that Augusta one evening presented
herself at the door of a rich Mr. L., whose princely mansion was one of
the ornaments of the city of A. It was not till she reached the
sumptuous drawing room that she recognized in Mr. L. one whom she and
her husband had frequently met in the gay circles of their early life.
Altered as she was, Mr. L. did not recognize her, but compassionately
handed her a chair, and requested her to wait the return of his lady,
who was out; and then turning, he resumed his conversation with another
gentleman.
"Now, Dallas," said he, "you are altogether excessive and intemperate in
this matter. Society is not to be reformed by every man directing his
efforts towards his neighbor, but by every man taking care of himself.
It is you and I, my dear sir, who must begin with ourselves, and every
other man must do the same; and then society will be effectually
reformed. Now this modern way, by which every man considers it his duty
to attend to the spiritual matters of his next-door neighbor, is taking
the business at the wrong end altogether. It makes a vast deal of
appearance, but it does very little good."
"But suppose your neighbor feels no disposition to attend to his own
improvement--what then?"
"Why, then it is his own concern, and not mine. What my Maker requires
is, that I do my duty, and not fret about my neighbor's."
"But, my friend, that is the very question. What is the duty your Maker
requires? Does it not include some regard to your neighbor, some care
and thought for his interest and improvement?"
"Well, well, I do that by setting a good example. I do not mean by
example what you do--that is, that I am to stop drinking wine because it
may lead him to drink brandy, any more than that I must stop eating
because he may eat too much and become a dyspeptic--but that I am to use
my wine, and every thing else, temperately and decently, and thus set
him a good example."
The conversation was here interrupted by the return of Mrs. L. It
recalled, in all its freshness, to the mind of Augusta the days when
both she and her husband had thus spoken and thought.
Ah, how did these sentiments appear to her now--lonely, helpless,
forlorn--the wife of a ruined husband, the mother of more than orphan
children! How different from what they seemed, when, secure in ease, in
wealth, in gratified affections, she thoughtlessly echoed the common
phraseology, "Why must people concern themselves so much in their
neighbors' affairs? Let every man mind his own business."
Augusta received in silence from Mrs. L. the fine sewing for which she
came, and left the room.
"Ellen," said Mr. L. to his wife; "that poor woman must be in trouble of
some kind or other. You must go some time, and see if any thing can be
done for her."
"How singular!" said Mrs. L.; "she reminds me all the time of Augusta
Howard. You remember her, my dear?"
"Yes, poor thing! and her husband too. That was a shocking affair of
Edward Howard's. I hear that he became an intemperate, worthless fellow.
Who could have thought it!"
"But you recollect, my dear," said Mrs. L., "I predicted it six months
before it was talked of. You remember, at the wine party which you gave
after Mary's wedding, he was so excited that he was hardly decent. I
mentioned then that he was getting into dangerous ways. But he was such
an excitable creature, that two or three glasses would put him quite
beside himself. And there is George Eldon, who takes off his ten or
twelve glasses, and no one suspects it."
"Well, it was a great pity," replied Mr. L.; "Howard was worth a dozen
George Eldons."
"Do you suppose," said Dallas, who had listened thus far in silence,
"that if he had moved in a circle where it was the universal custom to
banish all stimulating drinks, he would thus have fallen?"
"I cannot say," said Mr. L.; "perhaps not."
Mr. Dallas was a gentleman of fortune and leisure, and of an ardent and
enthusiastic temperament. Whatever engaged him absorbed his whole soul;
and of late years, his mind had become deeply engaged in schemes of
philanthropy for the improvement of his fellow-men. He had, in his
benevolent ministrations, often passed the dwelling of Edward, and was
deeply interested in the pale and patient wife and mother. He made
acquaintance with her through the aid of her children, and, in one way
and another, learned particulars of their history that awakened the
deepest interest and concern. None but a mind as sanguine as his would
have dreamed of attempting to remedy such hopeless misery by the
reformation of him who was its cause. But such a plan had actually
occurred to him. The remarks of Mr. and Mrs. L. recalled the idea, and
he soon found that his intended protégé was the very Edward Howard
whose early history was thus disclosed. He learned all the minutiæ from
these his early associates without disclosing his aim, and left them
