The Butterflies clapped their hands vigorously, in token of their
approbation of the pledge, and Tony promised the same thing for his
club.
"Now we are ready," added Frank. "Keep perfectly cool, and mind all I
have said. Ready!"
Uncle Ben stood in the bow of the Sylph, with a burning slow match in
his hand, ready to discharge the cannon which was to be the signal for
starting. It was a moment of intense excitement, not only to the crews
of the boats, but to hundreds of spectators on the shore.
It was undeniably true that the Zephyrs, in spite of the warnings which
Frank had given them, were very much excited, and various were the
expedients which the boys used to calm their agitation, or at least to
conceal it. But it was also true that the Butterflies were much more
excited. Discipline and experience had not schooled them in the art of
"being mere machines," and they found it much more difficult than the
Zephyrs to subdue their troublesome emotions.
The eventful moment had come. The oarsmen were bent forward ready to
strike the first stroke, and the coxswains were leaning back ready to
time the movement. Captain Sedley was gazing intently at the dial of his
"second indicator," prepared to give Uncle Ben the word to fire.
"Ready, Ben--fire!"
Bang! went the cannon.
"Pull!" shouted Frank and Tony in the same breath.
Fortunately every oarsman in both boats hit the stroke exactly, and away
leaped the gallant barks.
As Frank had deemed it probable, the Butterfly shot a length ahead of
her rival after pulling a few strokes; but though the noise of the oars
informed his crew of their relative positions, not an eye was turned
from him, not a muscle yielded in the face of the dispiriting fact, and
not a member quickened his stroke in order to retrieve the lost ground.
Even Tim Bunker, who was supposed to have more feeling in regard to the
race than the others, maintained an admirable self-possession. However
much the hearts of the crew beat with agitation, they were outwardly as
cool as though the Butterfly had been a mile behind them.
It is true, some of the Zephyrs, as they continued to gaze at Frank's
calm and immovable features, wondered that he did not quicken the
stroke; but no one for an instant lost confidence in him. "Frank knew
what he was about." This was the sentiment that prevailed, and each
member looked out for himself, leaving all the rest to him.
The Butterflies were quickening their stroke every moment, and
consequently were continuing to increase the distance between the two
boats. Every muscle was strained to its utmost tension. Every particle
of strength was laid out, until Tony, fearful that some of the weaker
ones might "make a slip," dared require no more of them. But they were
already more than two boats' lengths ahead of their rival, and he had
everything to hope.
Still the Zephyr pulled that same steady stroke. As yet she had made no
extraordinary exertion. Her crew were still fresh and vigorous, while
those of her rival, though she was every moment gaining upon her, were
taxing their strength to the utmost.
They rounded the stake boat, which had been placed nearly opposite the
mouth of the Rippleton River, and the Butterfly was still three lengths
ahead. They had begun upon the last two miles of the race. Though the
Zephyr still pursued her former tactics, her rival was no longer able to
gain upon her. The latter had thus far done her best, and for the next
half mile the boats maintained the same relative positions.
Frank was still unmoved, and there was some inward grumbling among his
crew. An expression of deep anxiety had begun to supplant the look of
hope and confidence they had worn, and some of them were provoked to a
doubt whether Frank, in the generosity of his nature, was not intending
to let Tony bear off the honors.
"Come, Frank, let her have, now!" said Tim, who could no longer restrain
his impatience.
"Silence! Not a word!" said the self-possessed coxswain.
It was in the "order of the day" that no member should speak during the
race; and none did, except Tim, and he could easily have been pardoned
under the circumstances.
Not yet did Frank quicken the stroke of the Zephyr, though at the end of
the next half mile she was only two boats' lengths astern of her
competitor, which had lost this distance by the exhaustion of her crew.
They had pulled three miles with the expenditure of all their strength.
They lacked the power of endurance, which could only be obtained by long
practice. "It is the last pound that breaks the camel's back;" and it
was so with them. With a little less exertion they might have preserved
some portion of their vigor for the final struggle, which was yet to
come.
They had begun upon the last mile. The crew of the Butterfly were as
confident of winning the race as though the laurel of victory had
already been awarded to them; and though their backs ached and their
arms were nearly numb, a smile of triumph rested on their faces.
"Now for the tug of war," said Frank, in a low, subdued tone, loud
enough to be heard by all his crew, but so gentle as not to create any
of that dangerous excitement which is sometimes the ruin of the best
laid plans.
As he spoke the motions of his body became a little quicker, and
gradually increased in rapidity till the stroke was as quick as was
consistent with perfect precision. The result of this greater
expenditure of power was instantly observed, and at the end of the next
quarter of a mile the boats were side by side again.
"They are beating us!" said Tony, in a whisper. "Dip a little
deeper--pull strong!"
The exciting moment of the race had come. The spectators on the shore
gazed with breathless interest upon the spectacle, unable, though
"Zephyr stock was up," to determine the result.
Not a muscle in Frank's face moved, and steadily and anxiously his crew
watched and followed his movements.
"Steady!" said he, in his low, impressive tone, as he quickened a trifle
more the stroke of the crew.
The Butterflies were "used up," incapable of making that vigorous effort
which might have carried them in ahead of the Zephyr.
"A little deeper," continued Frank. "Now for it!"
As he spoke, with a sudden flash of energy he drove his oarsmen to their
utmost speed and strength, and the Zephyr shot by the judges' boat full
a length and a half ahead of the Butterfly.
"Cease--rowing!" said he. "Ready--up!"
The Butterfly came in scarcely an instant behind, and her oars were
poised in air, like those of her rival.
A long and animating shout rang along the shore, when the result of the
race was apparent, and the band struck up "See the conquering hero
comes."
CHAPTER IX.
LITTLE PAUL.
"You have won the race, Frank, and I congratulate you," said Tony
Weston, as the Butterfly came alongside the Zephyr.
"Thank you, Tony; that is noble and generous," replied Frank.
"But it is the feeling in our club--isn't it, fellows?"
"Ay, ay, that it is!" shouted Little Paul. "Let us give them three
cheers, to show the folks on shore that there are no hard feelings."
The cheers were given lustily--at least, as lustily as the exhausted
condition of the Butterflies would permit. Each member of the defeated
club seemed to feel it his duty to banish even the semblance of envy;
and it was pleasant to observe how admirably they succeeded.
I do not wish my young readers to suppose that Tony's crew felt no
disappointment at the result; only that there were no hard feelings, no
petty jealousy. They had confidently expected to win the race, even up
to the last quarter of a mile of the course; and to have that hope
suddenly dashed down, to be beaten when they felt sure of being the
victors, was regarded as no trivial misfortune. But so thoroughly had
Tony schooled them in the necessity of keeping down any ill will, that
I am sure there was not a hard feeling in the club. Perhaps they
displayed more disinterestedness in their conduct after the race than
they really felt. If they did, it was no great harm, for their motives
were good, and they were all struggling to feel what their words and
their actions expressed.
"Zephyr, ahoy!" hailed Mr. Hyde, from the Sylph.
"Ay, ay, sir!"
"The prize is ready for the winner."
The oars were dropped into the water again, and the Zephyr pulled up to
the judges' boat.
"You have won the prize handsomely, Frank, and it affords me great
pleasure to present it to you," said Mr. Hyde, as he handed him a purse
containing the prize. "After the noble expressions of kindness on the
part of your rival, I am sure the award will awaken no feeling of
exultation in the minds of the Zephyrs, and none of envy in the
Butterflies. I congratulate you on your victory."
Frank bowed, and thanked the schoolmaster for his hopeful words; and the
Butterflies gave three cheers again as he took the prize. The Zephyr was
then brought alongside her late rival.
"Starboard oars--up!" said Frank.
"Larboard oars--up!" added Tony.
"What now, I wonder?" queried Fred Harper.
"Forward oarsman, step aboard the Butterfly," continued Frank.
"Forward oarsman, step aboard the Zephyr," said Tony.
Then the next member in each boat was passed over to the other, and so
on, till the whole starboard side of the Zephyr was manned by
Butterflies, and the larboard side of the Butterfly by Zephyrs.
"Ready--up!" said the coxswains, as they proceeded to get under way
again.
Thus, with the two clubs fraternally mingled, they slowly pulled towards
the nearest shore, while the band played its sweetest strains. The
spectators still lingered; and as the boats neared the land, they were
greeted with repeated cheers. Then, side by side, they pulled slowly
along the shore, within a few rods of the lake's bank, till they reach
the Butterflies' house, where they all landed.
And thus ended the famous boat race, over which the boys had been
thinking by day and dreaming by night for several weeks. The occasion
had passed; and if it was productive of any evil effects in the minds of
those who engaged in it, they were more than balanced by the excellent
discipline it afforded. They had learned to look without envy upon those
whom superior skill or good fortune had favored, and to feel kindly
towards those over whom they had won a victory. It was a lesson which
they would all need in the great world, where many a race is run, and
where the conqueror is not always gentle towards the conquered--where
defeat generates ill-will, envy, and hatred.
"A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another," said
Jesus--not only love one another when the sky is clear, and the waters
are smooth, but when the clouds threaten, and the stormy sea lashes with
its fury; not only when the arm of friendship and kindness holds us up,
but when all hearts seem cold, when all hands are closed, and all faces
frown upon us. It was this divine command that the circumstances of the
boat race tended to exemplify; and I am sure that both the conquerors
and the conquered were better prepared for the duty of life than if they
had had no such experience.
I do not mean to say that every boat race is a good thing, most
especially when it is made to be a gambling speculation by staking money
on the result--only that this one was, because those who conducted it
made it subservient to the moral progress of the boys.
"Well, Frank, I am glad you won the race," said Tony, with a smile which
testified to his sincerity. "Fortune favored us at the bridge, and gave
us the opportunity of winning the honors."
"And the profits too, Tony. Fifty dollars is nothing to us now," added
Fred, with a laugh.
"Thank you, Tony," replied Frank. "You are so noble that you almost make
me regret we won. But, my dear fellow, you have won a greater victory in
your own heart. I can envy you the possession of such noble feelings."
"Pooh, Frank!"
"I am sure I don't value the victory, because it has been won over you."
"We trained ourselves to feel right about the matter whichever way the
race went."
"Your heart is so near right that you don't need much training. But it
is time for us to return home."
"How about that picnic on the first of May?"
"My father has consented to it."
"So have our folks; we will have a glorious time of it. On Saturday
afternoon, if you say so we will visit Center Island, and set the May
pole."
"Agreed."
"But, Frank, school keeps--don't it?"
"Whew! does it?"
"It did last year; but the committee have talked of giving us the day. I
hope they will. Ask your father; he is one of them."
"I will. We can get the point settled before Saturday."
"I guess so."
"All aboard!"
The Zephyrs hastened on board, and in a few minutes were out of sight.
The Butterfly was hauled into her berth, everything was made "snug" and
tidy, and the boys hastened to their several homes. Of course it was not
easy for them to drive out of their minds the exciting events of the
day, and while all of them, except Tony, were sorry they had lost the
race, they had much to console them. They had won a victory over
themselves; and the consciousness of this triumph compensated for their
disappointment. Each of them, adopting the sentiment of their heroic
young leader, thought what a good fellow Frank Sedley was, and tried
to feel glad that he had won.
There was one of them, however, who did not think much about it after he
separated from his companions. Other considerations claimed his
attention; and before he reached his humble home, the race was banished
from his mind. He had a sick father, and the family had hard work to get
along. This was Little Paul.
His mother insisted upon sending him to school while there was anything
left to procure the necessaries of life; and as there was little for him
to do at home, he was allowed to join the club, because his parents knew
how much he loved the sports on the lake, and that nothing but good
influences would be exerted upon him in the association.
Paul Munroe was a good boy, in every sense of the word; and though he
had never been able to do much for his parents, they regarded him none
the less as one of their choicest blessings. As Tony expressed it,
Little Paul's heart was in the right place; and it was a big heart, full
of warm blood.
His father sat in an easy-chair by the kitchen stove as he entered, and
a smile played upon his pale blue lips as his eyes met the glance of his
loving son.
"Well, Paul, did you win the race?" he asked, in feeble tones.
"No, father; the Zephyrs beat. Frank Sedley rather outgeneraled Tony,
and his crew were more used to pulling than we. But Frank is a
first-rate fellow."
"Isn't Tony?"
"That he is! They are both first-rate fellows; I don't know where there
are two other such fellows in the world."
"You are right, Paul; they are good boys, and we shall be sorry to take
you away from them."
Little Paul looked inquiringly at his father. He had more than once
begged to be allowed to work in the Rippleton factories, that he might
earn something towards supporting the family; but his parents would
never consent to take him away from school and confine him in the noisy,
dusty rooms of the mills. His father's words suggested the idea that
they had consented to his request, and that he was to be allowed to work
for a living.
"'Squire Chase has been here to-day," added Mr. Munroe, sadly.
"Has he? What did he say?" asked Paul, a shade of anxiety gathering upon
his fine, manly face.
"We must leave our house, my son," replied the father, with a sigh.
"Won't he wait?"
"No."
"How did he act while he was here?"
"He was very harsh and unfeeling."
"The villain!" exclaimed Paul, with emphasis, as his check reddened with
indignation.
"He is a hard man, Paul; but reproaches are of no use. The note is due
on the first of May; I cannot pay it, so we must leave the house."
"Where are we to go, father?"
"Your grandfather, who has a large farm in Maine, has written for me to
come there; and your mother and I have decided to go."
Paul looked sad at the thought of leaving the pleasant scenes of his
early life, and bidding farewell to his cherished friends; but there was
no help for it, and he cheerfully yielded to the necessity. It was of no
use to think of moving the heart of 'Squire Chase--it was cold, hard,
and impenetrable. He was a close-fisted lawyer, who had made a handsome
fortune in the city by taking advantage of the distresses of others, and
it was not likely that he, having thus conquered all the nobler
impulses of his nature, would have any sympathy for Mr. Munroe in his
unfortunate condition.
The poor man had bought the little place he occupied a few years before
for seven hundred dollars--paying two hundred down, and giving his note,
secured by a mortgage, for the rest. The person of whom he had purchased
the place, whose lands joined it, had sold his estate to 'Squire Chase,
to whom, also, he had transferred the mortgage. The retired lawyer was
not content to remain quiet in his new home, and there repent of his
many sins, but immediately got up an immense land speculation, by which
he hoped to build a village on his grounds, and thus make another
fortune.
Mr. Munroe's little place was in his way. He wanted to run a road over
the spot where the house was located, and had proposed to buy it and the
land upon which it stood. He offered seven hundred and fifty dollars for
it; but it was now worth nine hundred, and Mr. Munroe refused the offer.
The 'Squire was angry at the refusal, and from that time used all the
means in his power to persecute his poor neighbor.
Then sickness paralyzed the arm of Mr. Munroe, and he could no longer
work. The money he had saved to pay the note when it should become due
was expended in supporting his family. With utter ruin staring him full
in the face, he sent for 'Squire Chase, and consented to his offer; but
the malicious wretch would not give even that now; and the land was so
situated as to be of but little value except to the owner of the Chase
estate. The 'Squire was a bad neighbor, and no one wanted to get near
him; so that Mr. Munroe could not sell to any other person.
The crafty lawyer knew that the poor man was fully in his power, and he
determined to punish him, even to his ruin. He hated him because he was
an honest, good man; because his life, even in his humbler sphere, was a
constant reproach to him. The note would be due on the first of May,
and he had determined to take possession in virtue of the mortgage.
Poor Paul shed many bitter tears upon his pillow that night; and from
the depths of his gentle heart he prayed that God would be very near to
his father and mother in the trials and sorrows that were before them.
CHAPTER X.
A UNANIMOUS VOTE.
On the following day Little Paul was missed at school, and some anxiety
was felt by his companions concerning him. It was feared that the
exertion of the race had proved too great for him, and that he was too
ill to come out. All the other boys appeared as usual, and none of them
seemed to be the worse for the violent exercise they had taken.
Before night, however, they learned that Little Paul was quite well, and
had been detained at home to assist his mother. This intelligence
removed their anxiety, and their fears lest boat racing should be deemed
an improper recreation, and dangerous to the health of the boys. Friday
and Saturday passed, and he did not appear at school; but it was said
that his mother was very busy, and nothing was thought of the
circumstance.
On Saturday afternoon the Butterfly club had assembled in their hall,
and were talking over the affairs of the association until the time
appointed for the excursion to Center Island. Little Paul had not come
yet, and the boys began to fear that they should be obliged to make the
excursion with only five oars on one side.
"What do you suppose is the reason?" asked Dick Chester.
"I have no idea; I hope nothing has happened, for Little Paul has not
been absent from school before this season," replied Tony.
"I hope not," added Henry Brown. "Suppose we send a committee to inquire
after him."
This was deemed an excellent suggestion, and Henry and Dick were
immediately appointed a committee of two, by the "chair," to attend to
the matter. They departed upon their mission, and after the boys had
wondered a while longer what kept Paul away, another topic was brought
up--a matter which was of the deepest interest to the young boatmen, and
which had claimed their attention during all their leisure moments for
several days.
I say their leisure moments; for the affairs of the club were not
permitted to interfere with any of the usual duties of the members. At
home and at school, it was required that everything should be done well
and done properly. As may be supposed, this was not an easy matter for
boys whose heads were full of boats and boating; and about once a week
the coxswains found it advisable to read a lecture on the necessity of
banishing play during work hours. "Whatsoever thy hands find to do, do
it with all thy might," was a text so often repeated that it had
virtually become one of the articles of the constitution.
The boys felt the necessity of following this precept. They realized
enough of the law of cause and effect to be aware that, if their home
and school duties were neglected, or slovenly done, boating would soon
obtain a bad reputation; so both parents and teacher found that the
clubs were a great help rather than a hindrance in the performance of
their several functions.
So strongly were the Zephyrs impressed with the necessity of not
permitting the club to interfere with home and school duties, that, at
the latter part of their first season, they had established a rule by
which any member who wilfully neglected his duties should be, for a
certain time, excluded from the club. And this rule was not a dead
letter. One Wednesday forenoon Charles Hardy had wasted his time in
school, and failed in his lessons. On his slate was found a drawing of a
club boat, manned by certain ill-looking caricatures, which explained
the cause of the defection. An excursion had been planned for that
afternoon, and when Charles presented himself at the boat-house, he was
politely informed that he could not go. In vain he pleaded; Fred Harper,
who was coxswain at the time, was very civil and very gentle, but he was
inflexible. And the culprit had the satisfaction of sitting upon a rock
on shore, and seeing what a fine time the fellows were having.
The effect was decidedly salutary, and another case of such discipline
did not again occur. The boys, zealous to keep their favorite sport in
good repute, adopted the regulation for the present year, in both clubs.
Without such precautions as these it was plain that boating would soon
become a nuisance, which neither parents nor teachers would tolerate.
Therefore the members of the clubs made it a point to keep their
"voyages," their plans and schemes, out of their minds at times when
their heads should be filled with, other matters. It was astonishing to
what an extent they succeeded; and boys would often be surprised to see
how well they can do, if they would only set about it earnestly and with
a determination to succeed.
The notable scheme which just now engrossed the attention of the
Butterflies was no less than the establishment of a "fleet of boats"
upon the lake. The dream of half a dozen boats, under command of
Commodore Frank Sedley, maneuvering on the water, performing beautiful
evolutions, and doing a hundred things which they could not then define,
was so pleasant, so fascinating, that they could not easily give it up.
There would be the commodore in his "flag boat," signalizing the fleet,
now bidding them pull in "close order," now ordering a boat out on
service, and now sending one to examine a bay or a harbor. And then, if
they could only get leave to explore Rippleton River, how the commander
of the squadron would send out a small craft to sound ahead of them, and
to buoy off the rocks and shoals, and how the people on the banks of the
stream would stare when they saw them moving in sections against the
sluggish current! Ah, a fleet of boats was such a brilliant ideal, that
I will venture to say more than one of the boys lay awake nights to
think about it.
I will not attempt to tell my young friends all the queer fancies
concerning the squadron in which they indulged. They were essentially
air castles, very beautiful structures, it is true, but as yet they
rested only on the clouds. But the means of realizing this magnificent
ideal was within their grasp. They had the money to buy the boats, and
the only question was, whether George Weston, the "director" of the
club, would permit the purchase.
"What have you done about the fleet, Tony?" asked Joseph Hooper.
"I have spoken to my brother about it," replied Tony, with a smile.
"What did he say?"
"He had no objection."
"Hurrah! We shall have the fleet then! And Tony, we shall go in for
having you commodore part of the time."
"That we will!" echoed half a dozen voices.
"You would make as good a commodore as Frank," added Joseph.
"I guess not," answered Tony, modestly. "Didn't you see how slick Frank
beat us in the race? If I had followed his tactics, we might have stood
some chance, at least."
"Some chance! Didn't we keep ahead of him till we had got almost home?"
"Yes; but that was a part of Frank's tactics. He let us get tired out,
and then beat us. But we haven't got the fleet yet, fellows, and we are
a pack of fools to count the chickens before they are hatched."
"You said George has no objections," replied Joseph, glancing anxiously
at Tony.
"He has not, but he wants to consult Captain Sedley before he consents."
The boys looked a little disconcerted at this intelligence, and a
momentary silence ensued.
"Do you think he will object, Tony?" asked one.
"I am pretty sure he will not."
"Have you said anything to Frank about it?"
"Yes; and he says the Zephyrs will put their money with ours, if we get
the fleet."
"Hurrah! I know his father will consent!"
"I have even got a hint from him that he should not object," added Tony,
very quietly.
"That is glorious! We shall certainly have the fleet then!" shouted
Joseph Hooper.
"I am pretty sure there will be no trouble about it. Almost everybody is
willing to admit now that the clubs are a good thing; that they keep the
fellows out of mischief, and stimulate them to do their duty at home and
at school. So much for our strict regulations. If we can get more boats,
and form more clubs, everybody concerned will be the better for it."
"That's the idea."
"We can get four small boats for our money--can't we?" asked one of the
boys.
"Frank thought we had better get different sized boats," replied Tony.
"For different kinds of service," added Joseph, demurely.
"Say, one eight-oar boat, one six-oar, and two four-oar," said Tony.
"That would be first rate! Then we could take in twenty-two fellows."
"Twenty-three; the commodore would not be the coxswain of any boat, but
command the whole."
The boys grew so nervous and excited during this fine discussion, that
they could hardly keep their seats. In imagination the fleet was already
afloat, and the broad pennant of Commodore Sedley was flying on board
the Zephyr.
"How long before we can get the boats, Tony?" asked a little fellow,
his eyes snapping with delight at the glorious anticipation.
"Perhaps they can be bought ready made. We need not wait for new ones.
In a few weeks, at least before vacation---- Hallo, Paul! I am glad you
have come."
Little Paul looked very sad as he entered Butterfly Hall. With a faint
smile he received the greetings of his friends.
"All aboard!" shouted Tony, as he rose front his chair. "You haven't got
your uniform on, Paul."
"I can't go with you, Tony," replied Little Paul, in a gloomy tone.
"Not go with us! Why not? What is the matter?"
"I must leave the club too," he added, in a husky voice.
"Leave the club!"
"We are going to move Down East."
"That's too bad!"
All the boys gathered round Little Paul, and there was a troubled look
upon their countenances.
"We cannot stay here any longer," continued the poor boy, as he dashed a
tear from his eye.
It was evident to all that some misfortune had overtaken the Munroe
family, and Little Paul's sorrows excited the deepest interest and
sympathy.
Without any solicitation on the part of his companions, the little
fellow told them the story of his father's trials, and the reason why he
was compelled to leave Rippleton.
"When is the money due, Paul?" asked Tony.
"On the first of May. My father has no money end he cannot pay the
note."
"How much did you say it was?"
"Five hundred dollars. It is a great sum for us."
"My father says 'Squire Chase is not any better than he ought to be,"
added Dick Chester, who had returned with Little Paul.
"He is a very hard man," replied Paul. "But I must go home again. I
shall see you before I leave town;" and the poor fellow turned away to
hide his tears.
"Poor Little Paul!" said Tony, when he had gone.
"How I pity him!" added Henry Brown.
"So do I," reiterated Joseph Hooper.
"How much do you pity him, fellows?" asked Tony, seating himself in his
arm-chair.
"So much that we would help him if we could," answered Henry.
"You can help him."
A deep silence ensued.
"Have you the nerve to make a great sacrifice, Butterflies?" exclaimed
Tony with energy.
"We have."
"I move you, Mr. Chairman, that our four hundred dollars be applied to
the relief of Little Paul's father," said Henry Brown, catching Tony's
idea.
"Second the motion," added Dick Chester, promptly.
"Bravo!" shouted Tony, slapping the table with his fist. "That's what I
call noble! But before we do it, just think what a fine thing the fleet
would be. It is a great sacrifice."
"Question!" called Joseph Hooper.
"Think well, fellows," said Tony. "Any remarks upon the subject will be
in order. It is a great question, and ought not to be hastily decided."
"Question!" shouted the whole club, wildly.
"Those in favor of applying the four hundred dollars to the relief of
Mr. Munroe will signify it," said Tony.
"All up!"
"It is a unanimous vote!"
CHAPTER XI.
BETTER TO GIVE THAN RECEIVE.
"All aboard!" shouted Tony, as soon as he had declared the vote: and the
boys hurried into the boat to be in readiness to join the Zephyr, which
was already upon the lake.
Tony's spirits were unusually buoyant. The sympathy and co-operation of
the club in regard to Little Paul's father was in the highest degree
grateful to his feelings. Perhaps his companions did not so cheerfully
resign the project of the fleet; perhaps they had acted upon the impulse
of the moment; but they were all to experience the benefit of doing a
good deed, and sacrificing their own gratification for the happiness of
others. Tony felt better for the sacrifice they had made, and probably
the rest of them shared his feelings. He was satisfied that they did not
fully realize what they had done, and with the determination to take a
fit opportunity to talk over the matter with them, he took his place in
the boat.
The Zephyrs were laying on their oars, waiting for the Butterfly when
she backed out of the boat house.
"You are late, Tony, which is rather odd for you," said Frank.
"We had a little business to attend to, which detained us," replied
Tony; "and while we are here we may as well tell you about it. We have
voted our money away."
"For the fleet?"
"No; we have given that up."
"Indeed! Given it up?" exclaimed Frank, not a little surprised at this
declaration.
"Fact, Frank!"
"Something new has turned up, then?"
"Let us lash boats to keep us from drifting apart, and I will tell you
all about it."
The two boats were fastened together fore and aft, and Tony proceeded to
tell the story of Little Paul's father. He spoke loud enough for all the
Zephyrs to hear him, and as his heart warmed towards Mr. Munroe in his
misfortunes, his eyes dilated, and his gestures were as apt and
energetic as though he had been an orator all his lifetime.
"I see what you have done with your money," said Frank, as the speaker
paused at the close of the narrative. "It was like you, Tony--noble and
generous!"
"We gave all our money for the relief of Mr. Munroe; but I didn't even
suggest the thing to the fellows. Henry Brown made the motion, and it
was a unanimous vote."
"Bravo, Butterflies!"
"Have you given up the fleet?" asked Tim Bunker, whose face was the only
one which did not glow with satisfaction.
"Yes."
"There is more fun in helping a poor man out of trouble than in working
a fleet," added Henry Brown.
"So I say," put in Dick Chester.
"Humph!" grunted Tim.
"But, Tony, you said the note was five hundred dollars--didn't you?"
asked Frank.
"I did."
"And you have only four hundred?"
"That's all;" and Tony's eyes rekindled with delight at the anticipation
of what the Zephyrs would do.
"You hear that, fellows."
"Would a motion be in order now?" asked Charles Hardy.
"Hold your tongue, you fool!" said Tim Bunker, in a low tone. "We can
get another boat with our money, and you shall be coxswain of it."
Charles looked at him.
"A motion would be in order; at least we can make it in order,"
replied Frank.
But Charles hesitated. The tempting offer of Tim, the absurdity of which
he did not stop to consider, conquered his first impulse.
"I move you we appropriate one hundred dollars to put with the
Butterfly's money for Mr. Munroe," said William Blight, and Charles had
lost the honor of making the motion.
"Second the motion," added Fred Harper.
Those in favor of giving our money to Mr. Munroe will signify it."
"Vote against it," said Tim, and Charles accepted the suggestion.
"Ten; it is a vote, though not unanimous," continued Frank, as he cast a
reproachful glance at his friend who had voted against the proposition.
He was not surprised to see Tim Bunker vote against it; but that
Charles should receive the advice of such a counselor, and such advice,
too, was calculated to alarm him. His friend had but little firmness,
and was perhaps more likely to be led away by bad influence than any
other member of the club. He was sorry to see Tim exhibiting his dogged
disposition, but more sorry to see Charles so much under his control.
"Hurrah!" shouted Tony, when the vote was declared. "Let us send up to
Mr. Munroe, and tell him what we have done, and get little Paul. They
won't want him now."
"But, Tony, you forget that our doings must be approved by our
directors," said Frank.
"I'll risk them."
"It would be better to have everything right before we promise Mr.
Munroe."
"So it would. Is your father at home?"
"I believe so."
"George is, and it won't take five minutes to obtain his consent. Let go
the fasts forward," said Tony, as he cast off the line astern.
"We will go ashore and try to find my father," added Frank.
"Ready--pull!"
Away dashed the Zephyr towards her boat house, while the Butterfly came
about so that Tony could leap on shore.
Of course both Captain Sedley and George Weston were surprised at the
sudden action of the clubs; but the deed was too noble, too honorable to
their kind hearts to want their sanction, and it was readily given. In
less than half an hour the boats were pulling towards a convenient
landing-place near Mr. Munroe's house.
The poor man was confounded when the committee of two from each club
waited upon him and stated their business. His eyes filled with tears,
and he and Little Paul wept together.
But Mr. Munroe could not think of taking the money at first. He declared
that he would suffer anything rather than deprive the boys of the
gratification which their money would purchase.
"We are a little selfish about it, sir," said Tony. "We want to keep
Paul among us."
"That's the idea," added Henry Brown, who was his colleague on the
committee.
"I can't take your money, boys," replied Mr. Munroe, firmly.
"You will oblige us very much by taking it. My brother and Captain
Sedley both know what we are about. I am sure we shall feel happier in
letting you have this money than we should be made by anything it will
buy. It was a unanimous vote in our club."
"Noble little fellows!" exclaimed Mr. Munroe, with a fresh burst of
tears, as he grasped the hand of Tony.
The matter was argued for some time longer, and finally compromised by
Mr. Munroe's agreeing to accept the money as a loan.
The notes were drawn up and signed by the poor man, whose heart was
filled to overflowing with gratitude at this unexpected relief.
"Now you will let Paul come with us--won't you, Mr. Munroe?" asked Tony.
"Certainly; and I shall never cease to thank God that he has found such
noble and true friends," replied the poor man; and as they took their
leave, he warmly pressed the hands of each member of the committee.
"Cheer up, Paul; don't be downhearted. It is all right now," said Tony.
"I can't be lively," replied Little Paul, whose sadness cast a shade
upon the enjoyment of the others.
"Why not, Paul?"
"I feel so sad; and your goodness to my poor father overcomes me."
"Never mind that, Paul; cheer up, and we will have a glorious time."
But Little Paul's feelings were too strong and deep to be easily
subdued. His pride seemed to be wounded by the events of the day, and
when they reached Center Island, he told Tony how badly he felt about
his father being the recipient of their charity, as he called it.
"Charity, Paul!" exclaimed the noble little fellow. "Look here;" and he
pulled the note he had received from Mr. Munroe out of his pocket. "Do
you call this charity?"
"Perhaps he can never pay you; at least it will be a long time."
"No matter; it is a fair trade. We lent him the money."
And Tony argued the point with as much skill as a lawyer would have
done, and finally so far succeeded in convincing Paul, that his face
brightened with a cheerful smile, and he joined with hearty zest in the
preparations for the May-day picnic.
A long spruce pole, which had been prepared for the occasion by Uncle
Ben, was towed to the island by the Zephyr, and erected in a convenient
place. The brushwood in the grove was cleared from the ground, the large
stones were rolled out of the way, and were used in constructing a pier
for convenience in landing. When their labors were concluded it was
nearly dark, and the boats pulled for home, each member of the clubs
anticipating a glorious time on the approaching holiday, for such the
committee had decided the First of May should be.
CHAPTER XII.
FIRST OF MAY.
May day came--warm, bright, and beautiful. At six o'clock in the morning
the Zephyr and the Butterfly were manned, and the boys went over to the
island to trim the May-pole with evergreen and flowers. The Sylph was
degraded for the time into a "freighting vessel," and under command of
Uncle Ben conveyed to the island chairs and settees for the use of the
guests, tables for the feast, music stands for the band, and other
articles required for the occasion.
About nine o'clock the guests began to arrive, and were conveyed to the
island by the two club boats--the Sylph having gone down to Rippleton
after the band. The Sedleys, the Westons, Mr. Hyde, the parents of all
the members of the clubs who could attend, all the boys and girls of the
school, and a few gentlemen and ladies from the village who had
manifested a warm interest in the welfare of the two associations,
composed the party; and before ten they were all conveyed to the scene
of the festival.
"Have you got them all, Frank?" asked Captain Sedley, as the coxswain
was ordering his crew ashore.
"All but the Munroes, and the Butterflies are going for them by and by."
"Tom is hoisting the signal," added Captain Sedley, pointing to a blue
flag on the shore, which the gardener had been directed to hoist when
anyone wished to go to the Island.
"We will go, Frank," said Tony; and away dashed the boat towards the
main shore.
"Ah, my Butterflies," said a voice, as they approached the landing.
"Mr. Walker!" exclaimed Tony. "Ready--up! Now let us give him three
cheers. I was afraid he would not come."
The salute was given, and acknowledged by Mr. Walker.
"I am glad to see you again, my brave boy," said the gentleman, as he
grasped Tony's hand.
"I was afraid you would not deem our invitation worth accepting."
"I would not have missed of coming for the world, my young friend. Here
is Mrs. Walker; you know her."
Tony shook hands with the lady, and she said a great many very pretty
things to him, which made the gallant little hero blush like a rose in
June, and stammer so that he could hardly make them understand him.
"Shall I help you into the boat, Mrs. Walker?" said Tony.
"You shall, my little gallant; though I shall not be so glad to get into
it as I was the other day."
The boat put off again, and Mr. and Mrs. Walker were filled with
admiration of the excellent discipline of the rowers. They were warmly
greeted by the party at the island, and lustily cheered by the crew of
the Zephyr, which was again manned for the purpose of giving their
liberal friend this complimentary salute.
"Off again, my lads?" asked Mr. Walker, as the Butterflies prepared to
go for the Munroe family.
Captain Sedley explained to him the nature of their present errand; and,
of course, the warm-hearted gentleman found renewed occasion to applaud
the nobleness of Tony and his companions. He could hardly find terms
sufficiently strong to express his sense of admiration, especially when
he learned the sacrifice which they had made.
"A fleet of boats!" exclaimed he. "If it would raise up such boys as
these, it ought to be procured at the public expense. Thank God! I am
rich."
"I understand you, Mr. Walker," replied Captain Sedley; "but I beg you
will not let your generosity do anything more for the boys."
"Captain Sedley, I love those boys! They are good boys, and good boys
are a scarcity nowadays. There is nothing too good for them."
"You are enthusiastic."
"But I tell you, sir, there are no such boys as those in the world!"
exclaimed Mr. Walker, with a gesture of earnestness.
"O, yes, sir; I presume, under the same discipline, other boys would be
the same."
"Then let them have the same discipline."
"It would cost a fortune. It is a very extravagant recreation, this
boating."
"But it makes men of them. I read the constitution of the clubs, and
Tony tells me it is carried out to the fullest extent."
"No doubt of it. There are boys among them, who, under other
circumstances, would be bad boys. I am satisfied the club keeps them
true to themselves and their duty."
"That's just my idea; and these noble-hearted little fellows have
bestowed the money I gave them in such a commendable manner, I mean to
give them as much more."
"That was my own feeling about the matter; but I do not think it is a
good plan to make good all they sacrifice. This fleet scheme was a
cherished project, and it was noble in them to give it up that they
might do a good deed."
"Noble! It was heroic--I was just going to use a stronger word."
"It is good for them to practise self-denial. That is all that makes the
deed a worthy one."
"Exactly so."
"Therefore, my friend, we will not say anything more about the fleet at
present."
"But if they bear it well, if they don't repent what they have done,
why, I should not value one or two thousand dollars. Besides, it might
be the means of bringing a large number of boys within the pale of good
influences."
"That is my own view; and by and by we will talk more of the matter."
Captain Sedley then introduced Mr. Walker to the company, and the
benevolent gentleman took a great deal of pains to inform himself in
relation to the influence of the boat clubs upon the boys. He asked a
great many questions of their parents, and of Mr. Hyde, the teacher.
They all agreed that the young men were the better for the associations;
that the discipline was very useful, and the physical exercise very
healthy; but some of them were afraid their sons would acquire such a
taste for the water as to create a desire to follow the seas. But few of
them considered boating, under the discipline of the clubs, a dangerous
recreation; so that the only real objection was the tendency to produce
longings for
  "A life on the ocean wave,
  A home on the rolling deep."
Mr. Walker tried to make the sceptical ones believe that Wood Lake was
so entirely different from the "rolling deep" as scarcely to suggest the
idea of a ship, or of the ocean. But the disadvantages were trivial
compared with the benefits which all acknowledged to have derived from
the associations, even independently of the libraries, the lectures, and
the debating societies at the halls.
Tony and his companions soon returned with the Munroe family, who were
cordially received by the guests. Captain Sedley expressed his sympathy
for the poor man, regretting that he had not known his situation before.
"I would have bought your place myself rather than have had you
sacrifice your property to the cupidity of such a man," said he.
"You are very good, sir," replied Mr. Munroe; "but I had not the courage
to state my circumstances to anybody. 'Squire Chase is a very hard man;
even when I paid him the money, which the kindness of the boys enabled
me to do, he was so angry that he could scarcely contain himself. He
swore at me, and vowed he would have vengeance."
"He must be a very disagreeable neighbor."
"He is, indeed."
"On with the dance!" shouted Frank, in the most exuberant spirits; and
the rich and the poor man dropped the subject.
The boys and girls had formed a line round the May-pole, and the band
commenced playing a very lively air. As the inspiring notes struck their
ears, they began to jump and caper about, taking all sorts of fantastic
steps, which it would have puzzled a French dancing master to define and
classify. Most of the boys and girls knew nothing of dancing, as an art;
but I venture to say they enjoyed themselves quite as much as though
they had been perfectly proficient in all the fashionable waltzes,
polkas, and redowas. Their hearts danced with gladness, and their steps
were altogether impromptu.
Then came the ceremony of crowning the Queen of May, in the person of
Mary Weston, which was performed in the most gallant style by Frank
Sedley. Another dance succeeded, and then came the feast. A great many
good things were eaten, a great many fine things said, and a great many
patriotic and complimentary toasts were drank. The band played "Hail
Columbia," "Yankee Doodle," and many other spirited tunes, and Mr.
Walker was very much astonished, as well as amused, to hear some of the
boys make speeches, flowery and fine, which had evidently been prepared
for the occasion, when they were "called up" by the toasts.
After the feast was over, the party divided itself into little knots for
social recreation. Frank and Mary Weston took a walk on the beach, and
the rest of the boys and girls climbed over the rocks, amused
themselves in the swing which Uncle Ben had put up, or wandered in the
grove. Boys and girls always enjoy themselves at such seasons, and my
young readers need not be told that they all had a "first-rate time."
I do not mean all; for two members of the Zephyr Club had wandered away
from the rest of the party to the north side of the island. They were
concealed from view by a large rock; but if any one had observed them,
he could not have failed to see that they were exceptions to the general
rule--that they were not happy. The two boys were Charles Hardy and Tim
Bunker. Frank had been pained to notice that an unnatural intimacy had
been growing up between them for several days; and he had already begun
to fear that it was in the heart of Tim to lead his weak-minded
associate astray.
"Now, let's see how much there is in it," said Tim.
"I am afraid to open it," replied Charles, as he glanced nervously over
the rocks.
"Git out!"
"I am doing wrong, Tim; I feel it here." And Charles placed his hand
upon his heart.
"Humph!" sneered Tim. "Give it to me, and I will open it."
"We ought not to open it," replied Charles, putting his hand into his
pocket, and again glancing over the top of the rocks. "Besides, Tim, you
promised to be a good boy when we let you into the club."
"I mean to have a good time. We might have had if you fellows hadn't
given away all that money."
"I didn't do it."
"I know you didn't, but the rest on 'em did; so it's all the same. They
are a set of canting pups, and for my part I'm tired on 'em. Frank
Sedley don't lord it over me much longer, you better believe! And you
are a fool if you let him snub you as he does every day."
"I don't mean to," answered Charles. "I believe the fellows all hate me,
or they would have made me coxswain before this time."
"Of course they would. They hate you, Charley: I heard Frank Sedley say
as much as that the other day."
"He did?"
"Of course he did."
"I wouldn't have thought that of him," said Charles, his eye kindling
with anger.
"Let's have the purse, Charley."
Charles hesitated; but the struggle was soon over in his bosom, and he
took from his pocket a silken purse and handed it to Tim.
"We are doing wrong, Tim," said he, as a twinge of conscience brought to
his mind a realizing sense of his position. "Give me back the purse, and
I will try to find the owner."
"No, you don't!" replied Tim, as he opened one end of the purse and took
therefrom a roll of bank bills, which he proceeded to count.
"Do give it back to me! I am sure the owner has missed it by this time."
"No matter if he has; he won't get it again in a hurry," answered the
Bunker, coolly. "Sixty dollars in bills! Good!"
"Give it to me, or I will go to Captain Sedley and tell him you have
it."
"Will you?"
"I will."
"If you do, I'll smash your head," said Tim, looking fiercely at him.
"Don't be a fool! With this money we can have a first-rate time, and
nobody will be any the wiser for it."
"I am afraid we shall be found out."
Probably Charles was more afraid of that than of the wicked act which he
had permitted himself to think of doing. He had found the purse on the
beach a little while before. When he had told Tim of it, the reckless
fellow, still the same person as before, notwithstanding his promises
and his altered demeanor, had led him over to this retired spot in order
to get possession of the purse.
"Nonsense! Nobody will suspect you," replied Tim, as he poured out the
silver and gold in the other end of the purse.
"I never did such a thing in my life."
"No matter; there must be a beginning to everything."
"What would my mother say?"
"She will say you are a clever fellow if you don't get found out. Eleven
dollars and a quarter in specie! That makes seventy-one
twenty-five--don't it?"
"Yes."
"All right! We will just dig a little hole here, and put the purse into
it," continued Tim, as he scooped out a hole in the sand, and dropped
the ill-gotten treasure into it.
Filling up the hole, he placed a large flat stone upon the spot, which
further secured the purse, and concealed the fact that the sand had been
disturbed.
"I am sure we shall get found out," said Charles, trembling with
apprehension.
"Nonsense! Keep a stiff upper lip; don't stop to think, and all will go
well. But, my hearty, if you peach on me, I give you my word, I will
take your life before you are one month older--do you hear?" And Tim's
fierce looks gave force to his words. "Now, we will go back to the rest
on 'em before they miss us. Mind you don't say anything, nor look
anything."
Charles followed Tim back to the other side of the island, and both of
them joined the sports of the day. The afternoon passed away, and
nothing was said of the purse. The owner had not missed it, and Tim
congratulated himself on the circumstance. Charles tried to be joyous,
