His own private library ! Bobby had not got far 
enough to dream of such a thing yet ; but he thanked 
Mr. Bayard, and put the book under his arm. 
After tea, Ellen proposed to her father that they 
should all go to the Museum. Mr. Bayard acceded, 
and our hero was duly amazed at the drolleries per- 
petrated there. He had a good time ; but it was so 
late when he went to bed, that he was a little fearful 
lest he should oversleep himself in the morning. 
He did not,' however, and was down in the parlor 
before any of the rest of the family were stirring. An 
early breakfast was prepared for him, at which Mr. 
Bayard, who intended to see him off, joined him. 
Depositing his little bundle and the copy of " The 
Wayfarer " in the valise provided for him, they walked 
 
to the store. The porter wheeled the trunk down to 
the railroad station, though Bobby insisted upon do- 
ing it himself. 
The bookseller saw him and his baggage safely 
aboard of the cars, gave him a ticket, and then bade 
him an affectionate adieu. In a little while Bobby 
was flving over the rail, and at about eisrht o'clock, 
reached B . 
The station master kindly permitted him to deposit 
his trunk in the baggage room, and to leave it there 
for the remainder of the week. 
Taking a dozen of the books from the trunk, and 
placing them in his valise, he sallied out upon his 
mission. It must be confessed that his heart was 
filled with a tumult of emotions. The battle of life 
was before him. He was on the field, sword in hand, 
ready to plunge into the contest. It was victory or 
defeat. 
" March on, brave youth ! the field of strife 
"With peril fraught before thee lies ; 
March on ! the battle plain of life 
Shall yield thee yet a glorious prize." 
It was of no use to shrink then, even if he had felt 
disposed to do so. He was prepared to be rebuffed, 
to be insulted, to be turned away from the doors at 
which he should seek admission ; but he was deter- 
mined to conquer. 
He had reached a house at which he proposed to 
offer " The Wayfarer " for sale. His heart went pit 
pat, pit pat, and he paused before the door. 
" Now or never ! " exclaimed he, as he swung open 
the garden gate, and made his way up to the door. 
He felt some misgivings. It was so new and strange 
to him that he could hardly muster sufficient resolu- 
tion to proceed farther. But his irresolution was of 
only a moment's duration. 
"Now or never ! ' and he gave a vigorous knock 
at the door. 
It was opened by an elderly lady, whose physiogno- 
my did not promise much. 
" Good morning, ma'am. Can I sell you a copy of 
'The Wayfarer' to-day? a new book, just pub- 
lished." 
" No ; I don't want none of your books. There's 
more pedlers round the country now than you could 
shake a stick at in a month," replied the old lady, 
petulantly. 
 
u 
It is a very interesting book, ma'am ; has an ex- 
cellent moral." Bobby had read the preface, as I 
before remarked. " It will suit you, ma'am ; for 
you look just like a lady who wants to read some- 
thing with a moral." 
Bravo, Bobby ! The lady concluded that her face 
had a moral expression, and she was pleased with the 
idea. 
" Let me see it ; ' and she asked Bobby to walk 
in and be seated, while she went for her spectacles. 
As she was looking over the book, our hero went 
into a more elaborate recommendation of its merits. 
He was sure it would interest the young and the old ; 
it taught a good lesson ; it had elegant engravings ; 
the type was large, which would suit her eyes ; it was 
well printed and bound ; and finally, it was cheap at 
one dollar. 
" I'll take it," said the old lady. 
" Thank you, ma'am." 
Bobby's first victory was achieved. 
" Have you got a dollar ? ' asked the lady, as she 
handed him a two dollar bill. 
" Yes, ma'am ; ' and he gave her his only dollar, 
and put the two in its place, prouder tlian a king who 
has conquered an empire. " Thank you, ma'am." 
Bidding the lady a polite good morning, he left the 
house, encouraged by his success to go forward in his 
mission with undiminished hope. 
CHAPTER X. 
IN WHICH BOBBY IS A LITTLE TOO SMART. 
THE clouds were rolled back, and Bobby no longei 
had a doubt as to the success of his undertaking. It 
requires but a little sunshine to gladden the heart, and 
the influence of his first success scattered all the mis- 
givings he had cherished. 
Two New England shillings is undoubtedly a very 
small sum of money ; but Bobby had made two shil- 
lings, and he would not have considered himself more 
fortunate if some unknown relative had left him a 
fortune. It gave him confidence in his powers, and 
as he walked away from the house, he reviewed the 
circumstances of his first sale. 
The old lady had told him at first she did not wish 
to buy a book, and, moreover, had spoken rather 
contemptuously of the craft to which he had now the 
honor to belong. He gave himself the credit of 
having conquered the old lady's prejudices. He had 
sold her a book in spite of her evident intention not 
to purchase. In short, he had, as we have before 
said, won a glorious victory, and he congratulated 
himself accordingly. 
But it was of no use to waste time in useless self- 
glorification, and Bobby turned from the past to the 
future. There were forty-nine more books to be sold ; 
so that the future was forty-nine times as big as the 
past. 
He saw a shoemaker's shop ahead of him ; and he 
was debating with himself whether he should enter 
and offer his books for sale. It would do no harm, 
though he had but slight expectations of doing any 
thing. 
There were three men at work in the shop one 
of them a middle-aged man, the other two young men. 
They looked like persons of intelligence, and as soon 
as Bobby saw them his hopes grew stronger. 
"Can I sell you any books to-day?' asked the 
little merchant, as he crossed the threshold. 
" Well, I don't know ; that depends upon how 
smart you are," replied the eldest of the men, " It 
takes a pretty smart fellow to sell any thing in this 
shop." 
" Then I hope to sell each of you a book," added 
Bobby, laughing at the badinage of the shoemaker. 
Opening his valise he took out three copies of his 
book, and politely handed one to each of the men. 
" It isn't every book pedler that comes along who 
offers you such a work as that. ' The Wayfarer ' is 
decidedly the book of the season." 
" You don't say so ! ' said the oldest shoemaker, 
with a laugh. " Every pedler that comes along uses 
those words, precisely." 
" Do they ? They steal my thunder then.'' 
" You are an old one." 
" Only thirteen. I was born where they don't fas- 
ten the door with a boiled carrot." 
" What do they fasten them with ? " 
" They don't fasten them at all." 
" There are no book pedlers round there, then ; " 
and all the shoemakers laughed heartily at this smart 
sally. 
" No ; they are all shoemakers in our town." 
" You can take my hat, boy." 
 
" You will want it to put your head in ; but I will 
take one dollar for that book instead." 
The man laughed, took out his wallet, and handed 
Bobby the dollar, probably quite as much because he 
had a high appreciation of his smartness, as from any 
desire to possess the book. 
" Won't you take one ? ' : asked Bobby, appealing 
to another of the men, who was apparently not more 
than twenty-four years of age. 
" No ; I can't read," replied he, roguishly. 
" Let your wife read it to you then." 
" My wife ? " 
" Certainly ; she knows how to read, I will war- 
rant." 
" How do you know I have got a wife ? ' 
" O, well, a fellow as good looking and good na- 
tured as you are could not have resisted till this 
time." 
" Has you, Tom," added the oldest shoemaker. 
" I cave in; " and he handed over the dollar, and 
laid the book upon his bench. 
Bobby looked at the third man with some interest. 
He had said nothing, and scarcely heeded the fun 
 
which was passing between the little merchant and 
his companions. He was apparently absorbed in his 
examination of the book. He was a different kind 
of person from the others, and Bobby's instinctive 
knowledge of human nature assured him that he was 
not to be gained by flattery or by smart sayings ; so 
he placed himself in front of him, and patiently waited 
in silence for him to complete his examination. 
" You will find that he is a hard one," put in one 
of the others. 
Bobby made no reply, and the two men who had 
bought books resumed their work. For five' minutes 
our hero stood waiting for the man to finish his in- 
vestigation into the merits of " The Wayfarer." 
Something told him not to say any thing to this 
person ; and he had some doubts about his pur- 
chasing. 
" I will take one," said the last shoemaker, as he 
handed Bobby the dollar. 
" I am much obliged to you, gentlemen," said Bob- 
by, as he closed his valise. " When I come this way 
again I shall certainly call." 
" Do ; you have done what no other pedler ever 
did in this shop." 
" I shall take no credit to myself. The fact is, you 
are men of intelligence, and you want good books." 
Bobby picked up his valise and left the shop, satis- 
fied with those who occupied it, and satisfied with 
himself. 
" Eight shillings ! ' exclaimed he, when he got 
into the road. " Pretty good hour's work, I should 
say." 
Bobby trudged along till he came to a very large, 
elegant house, evidently dwelt in by one of the nabobs 
of B . Inspired by past successes, he walked 
boldly up to the front door, and rang the bell. 
" Is Mr. Whiting in ? " asked Bobby, who had read 
the name on the door plate. 
" Colonel Whiting is in," replied the servant, who 
had opened the door. 
" I should like to see him for a moment, if he isn't 
busy." 
" Walk in ; " and for some reason or other the ser- 
vant chuckled a great deal as she admitted him. 
She conducted him to a large, elegantly furnished 
parlor, where Bobby proceeded to take out his books 
for the inspection of the nabob, whom the servant 
promised to send to the parlor. 
In a moment Colonel Whiting entered. He was a 
large, fat man, about fifty years old. He looked at 
the little book merchant with a frown that would 
have annihilated a boy less spunky than our hero. 
Bobby was not a little inflated by the successes of the 
morning, and if Julius Caesar or Napoleon Bonaparte 
had stood before him then, he would not have flinched 
a hair much less in the presence of no greater 
magnate than the nabob of B . 
" Good morning, Colonel Whiting. I hope you 
are well this beautiful morning," Bobby began. 
I must confess I think this was a little too familiar 
for a boy of thirteen to a gentleman of fifty, whom he 
had never seen before in his life ; but it must be re- 
membered that Bobby had done a great deal the week 
before, that on the preceding night he had slept in 
Chestnut Street, and that he had just sold four copies 
of "The Wayfarer." He was inclined to be smart, 
and some folks hate smart boys. 
The nabob frowned ; his cheek reddened with an- 
ger ; but he did not condescend to make any reply to 
the smart speech. 
" I have taken the liberty to call upon you this 
 
morning, to see if you did not wish to purchase a 
copy of ' The Wayfarer ' a new book just issued 
from, the press, which people say is to Be the book of 
the season." 
My young readers need not suppose this was an 
impromptu speech, for Bobby had studied upon it all 
the time he was coming from Boston in the cars. It 
would be quite natural for a boy who had enjoyed no 
greater educational advantages than our hero to con- 
sider how he should address people into whose pres- 
ence his calling would bring him ; and he had pre- 
pared several little addresses of this sort, for the 
several different kinds of people whom he expected 
to encounter. The one he had just "got off" was 
designed for the " upper crust." 
When he had delivered the speech, he approached 
the indignant, frowning nabob, and with a low bow, 
offered him a copy of " The Wayfarer." 
" Boy," said Colonel Whiting, raising his arm with 
majestic dignity, and pointing to the door, "boy, 
do you see that door ? ' 
Bobby looked at the door, and, somewhat astonished, 
replied that he did see it, that it was a very 
 
handsome door, and he would inquire whether it was 
black walnut, or only painted in imitation thereof. 
" Do you see that door ? ' thundered the nabob, 
swelling with rage at the cool impudence of the boy. 
" Certainly I do, sir ; my eyesight is excellent." 
" Then use it ! " 
" Thank you, sir ; I have no use for it. Probably 
it will be of more service to you than to me." 
" Will you clear out, or shall I kick you out'? ' 
gasped the enraged magnate of B . 
" I will save you that trouble, sir ; I will go, sir. 
I see we have both made a mistake." 
" Mistake ? What do you mean by that, you 
young puppy ? You are a little impudent, thieving 
scoundrel ! ' 
" That's your mistake, sir. I took you for a gen- 
tleman, sir ; and that was my mistake." 
" Ha, ha, ha ! " laughed a sweet, musical voice, and 
at that moment a beautiful young lady rushed up to 
the angry colonel, and threw her arms around his 
neck. 
" The jade ! ' muttered he. 
" I have caught you in a passion again, uncle ; 
 
and the lady kissed the old gentleman's anger-red- 
dened cheek, which seemed to restore him at once to 
himself. 
" It was enough to make a minister swear," said 
he, in apology. 
" No, it wasn't, uncle ; the boy was a little pert, it 
is true ; but you ought to have laughed at him, in- 
stead of getting angry. I heard the whole of it." 
" Pert ? " said Bobby to himself. " What the 
deuse does she mean by that ? ' 
" Very well, you little minx ; I will pay the pen- 
alty." 
" Come here, Master Pert," said the lady to 
Bobby. 
Bobby bowed, approached the lady, and began to 
feel very much embarrassed. 
" My uncle," she continued, " is one of the best 
hearted men in the world ain't you, uncle ? " 
" Go on, you jade ! ' 
" I love him, as I would my own father ; but he 
will sometimes get into a passion. Now, you pro- 
voked him." 
" Indeed, ma'am, I hadn't the least idea of saying 
any thing uncivil," pleaded Bobby. " I studied to be 
as polite as possible." 
" I dare say. You were too important, too pomp- 
ous, for a boy to an old gentleman like uncle, who is 
really one of the best men in the world. Now, if you 
hadn't studied to be polite, you would have done very 
well." 
" Indeed, ma'am, I am a poor boy trying to make 
a little money to help my mother. I am sure I meant 
no harm." 
" I know you didn't. So you are selling books to 
help your mother ? ' ! 
"Yes, ma'am." 
She inquired still further into the little merchant's 
history, and seemed to be very much interested in 
him. 
In a frolic, a few days before, Bobby learned from 
her, Colonel Whiting had agreed to pay any penalty 
she might name, the next time he got into a passion. 
" Now, young man, what book have you to sell ? " 
asked the lady. 
" ' The Wayfarer.' " 
" How many have you in your valise ? " 
 
" Eight." 
" Very well ; now, uncle, I decree, as the penalty 
of your indiscretion, that you purchase the whole 
stock." 
" I submit." 
" 'The Wayfarer' promises to be an excellent book ; 
and I can name at least half a dozen persons who will 
thank you for a copy, uncle." 
Colonel Whiting paid Bobby eight dollars, who left 
the contents of his valise on the centre table, and 
then departed, astounded at his good fortune, and 
fully resolved never to be too smart again. 
 
CHAPTER XI. 
IN WHICH BOBBY STRIKES A BALANCE, AND RE- 
TURNS TO RIVERDALE. 
OUR hero had learned a lesson which experience 
alone could teach him. The consciousness of that 
" something within him ' ; inclined him to be a little 
too familiar with his elders ; but then it gave hint 
confidence in himself, and imparted courage to go 
forward in the accomplishment of his mission. His 
interview with Colonel Whiting and the gentle but 
plain rebuke of his niece had set him right, and he 
realized that, while he was doing a man's work, he 
was still a boy. He had now a clearer perception of 
what is due to the position and dignity of those upon 
whom fortune has smiled. 
Bobby wanted to be a man, and it is not strange 
that he should sometimes fancy he was a man. He 
had an idea, too, that " all men are born free and 
equal ; " and he could not exactly see why a nabob 
was entitled to any more respect and consideration 
than a poor man. It was a lesson he was compelled 
to learn, though some folks live out their lifetimes 
without ever finding out that. 
" 'Tis wealth, good sir, makes honorable men." 
Some people think a rich man is no better than a 
poor man, except so far as he behaves himself better. 
It is strange how stupid some people are ! 
Bobby had no notion of cringing to any man, and 
he felt as independent as the Declaration of Independ- 
ence itself. But then the beautiful lady had told him 
that he was pert and forward ; and when he thought 
it over, he was willing to believe she was right. 
Colonel Whiting was an old man, compared with 
himself ; and he had some faith, at least in theory, in 
the Spartan virtue of respect for the aged. Prob- 
ably the nabob of B would have objected to 
being treated with respect on account of his age ; and 
Bobby would have been equally unwilling to acknowl- 
edge that he treated him with peculiar respect on 
account of his wealth or position. 
Perhaps the little merchant had an instinctive perception
of expediency that he should sell more 
books by being less familiar : at any rate he deter- 
mined never again to use the flowery speeches he had 
arranged for the upper crust. 
He had sold a dozen books ; and possibly this fact 
made him more willing to compromise the matter than 
he would otherwise have been. This was, after all, 
the great matter for congratulation, and with a light 
heart he hurried back to the railroad station to pro- 
cure another supply. 
We cannot follow him into every house where his 
calling led him. He was not always as fortunate as 
in the instances we have mentioned. Sometimes all 
his arguments were unavailing, and after he had spent 
half an hour of valuable time in setting forth the 
merits of " The Wayfarer," he was compelled to retire 
without having effected a sale. Sometimes, too, he 
was rudely repulsed ; hard epithets were applied to 
him ; old men and old women, worried out by the 
continued calls of pedlers, sneered .at him, or shut the 
door in his face ; but Bobby was not disheartened. 
He persevered, and did not allow these little trials to 
discompose or discourage him. 
 
By one o'clock on the first day of his service ha 
had sold eighteen books, which far exceeded even his 
most sanguine expectations. By this time he began 
to feel the want of his dinner; but there was no 
tavern or eating house at hand, and he could not 
think of leaving the harvest to return to the railroad 
station ; so he bought a sheet of gingerbread and a 
piece of cheese at a store, and seating himself near a 
brook by the side of the road, he bolted his simple 
meal, as boys are very apt to do when they are ex- 
cited., 
When he had finished, he took out his account 
book, and entered, "Dinner, 10 cents." Resuming 
his business, he disposed of the remaining six books 
in his valise by the middle of the afternoon, and was 
obliged to return for another supply. 
About six o'clock he entered the house of a me- 
chanic, just as the family were sitting down to tea. 
He recommended his book with so much energy, that 
the wife of the mechanic took a fancy to him, and 
not only purchased one, but invited him to tea. 
Bobby accepted the invitation, and in the course of 
the meal, the good lady drew from him the details 
 
of his history, which he very modestly related, for 
though he sometimes fancied himself a man, he was 
not the boy to boast of his exploits. His host was 
so much pleased with him, that he begged him to 
spend the night with them. Bobby had been think- 
ing how and where he should spend the night, and the 
matter had given him no little concern. He did not 
wish to go to the hotel, for it - looked like a very 
smart house, and he reasoned that he should have to 
pay pretty roundly for accommodations there. These 
high prices would eat up his profits, and he serious- 
ly deliberated whether it would not be better for him 
to sleep under a tree than pay fifty cents for a lodging. 
If I had been there I should have told him that a 
man loses nothing in the long run by taking good 
care of himself. He must eat well and sleep well, in 
order to do well and be well. But I suppose Bobby 
would have told me that it was of no use to pay 
a quarter extra for sleeping on a gilded bedstead, 
since the room would be so dark he could not see the 
gilt even if he wished to do so. I could not have 
said any thing to such a powerful argument ; so I am 
very glad the mechanic's wife set the matter at rest 
by offering him a bed in her house. 
He spent a very pleasant evening with the family, 
who made him feel entirely at home, they were so 
kind and so plain spoken. Before he went to bed, 
he entered under the book account, " By twenty-six 
Wayfarers, sold this day, $26.00." 
He had done a big day's work, much bigger than 
he could hope to do again. He had sold more than 
one half of his whole stock, and at "this rate he should 
be out of books the next day. At first he thought 
he would send for another lot ; but he could not 
judge yet what his average daily sales would be, and 
finally concluded not to do so. What he had might 
last till Friday or Saturday. He intended to go 
home on the latter day, and he could bring them 
with him on his return without expense. This was 
considerable of an argument for a boy to manage; 
but Bobby was satisfied with it, and went to sleep, 
wondering what his mother, Squire Lee, and Annie 
were thinking of about that time. 
After breakfast the next morning he resumed his 
travels. He was as enthusiastic as ever, and pressed 
 
" The Wayfarer" with, so much earnestness that he 
sold a book in nearly every house he visited. People 
seemed to be more interested in the little merchant 
than in his stock, and taking advantage of this kind 
feeling towards him, he appealed to them with so 
much eloquence that few could resist it. 
The result of the day's sales was fifteen copies, 
which Bobby entered in the book account with the 
most intense satisfaction. He had outdone the boy 
who had passed through Riverdale, but he had little 
hope that the harvest would always be so abundant. 
He often thought of this boy, from whom he had 
obtained the idea he was now carrying out. That 
boy had stopped over night at the little black house, 
and slept with him. He had asked for lodging, and 
offered to pay for it, as well as for his supper and 
breakfast. Why couldn't he do the same ? He 
liked the suggestion, and from that time, wherever he 
happened to be, he asked for lodging, or the meal he 
required, and he always proposed to pay for what he 
had, but very few would take any thing. 
On Friday noon he had sold out. Returning to 
the railroad station, he found that the train would not 
 
leave for the city for an hour ; so he improved the 
time in examining and balancing his accounts. The 
book sales amounted to just fifty dollars,, and after his 
ticket to Boston was paid for, his expenses would 
amount to one dollar and fifty cents, leaving a bal- 
ance in his favor of fifteen dollars. He was over- 
joyed with the result, and pictured the astonishment 
with which his mother, Squire Lee, and Annie would 
listen to the history of his excursion. 
About four o'clock that afternoon he entered the 
store of Mr. Bayard, bag and baggage. On his ar- 
rival in the city, he was considerably exercised in 
mind to know how he should get the trunk to his 
destination. He was too economical to pay a cart- 
man a quarter ; but what would have seemed mean 
in a man was praiseworthy in a boy laboring for a 
noble end. 
Probably a great many of my young readers in 
Bobby's position, thinking that sixteen dollars, which 
our hero had in his pocket, was a mint of money, 
would have been in favor of being a little magnifi- 
cent of taking a carriage and going up- town in state. 
Bobby had not the least desire to "swell;' so he 
 
settled the matter by bargaining with a little ragged 
fellow to help him carry the trunk to Mr. Bayard's 
store for fourpence. 
" How do you do, Mr. Timmins ? ' said Bobby 
to the spruce clerk, as he deposited the trunk upon 
the floor, and handed the ragged boy the four- 
pence. 
" Ah, Bobby ! " exclaimed Mr. Timmins. " Have 
you sold out ? " 
" All clean. Is Mr. Bayard in ? " 
" In the office. But how do you like it ? ' : 
" First rate." 
" Well, every one to his taste ; but I don't see how 
any one who has any regard for his dignity can stick 
himself into every body's house. I couldn't do it, I 
kr.ow." 
" I don't stand for the dignity." 
" Ah, well, there is a difference in folks." 
" That's a fact," replied Bobby, as he hurried to 
the office of Mr. Bayard, leaving Mr. Timmins to sun 
himself in his own dignity. 
The bookseller was surprised to see him so soon, 
but he gave him a cordial reception. 
 
" I didn't expect you yet," said he. " Why dc 
you come back ? Have you got sick of the busi- 
ness ? ' 
"Sick of it! No, sir." 
" What have you come back for then ? ' 
" Sold out, sir." 
" Sold out ! You have done well ! " 
" Better than I expected." 
" I had no idea of seeing you till to-morrow night ; 
and I thought you would have books enough to begin 
the next week with. You have done bravely." 
" If I had had twenty more, I could have sold them 
before to-morrow night. Now, sir, if you please, I 
will pay you for those books thirty-three dollars 
and fifty cents." 
" You had better keep that, Bobby. I will trust 
you as long as you wish." 
" If you please, sir, I had rather pay it ; ' and the 
little merchant, as proud as a lord, handed over the 
amount. 
" I like your way of doing business, Bobby. Noth- 
ing helps a man's credit so much as paying promptly. 
Now tell me some of your adventures or we will 
 
reserve them till this evening, for I am sure Ellen 
will be delighted to hear them." 
" I think I shall go to Biverdale this afternoon. 
The cars leave at half past five." 
" Very well ; you have an hour to spare." 
Bobby related to his kind friend the incidents of 
his excursion, including his interview with Colonel 
Whiting and his niece, which amused the bookseller 
very much. He volunteered some good advice, which 
Bobby received in the right spirit, and with a deter- 
mination to profit by it. 
At half past five he took the cars for home, and 
before dark was folded in his mother's arms. The 
little black house seemed doubly dear to him now 
that he had been away from it a few days. His 
mother and all the children were so glad to see him 
that it seemed almost worth his while to go away for 
the pleasure of meeting them on his return. 
CHAPTER XII. 
TN WHICH BOBBY ASTONISHES SUNDRY PERSONS, 
AND PAYS PART OF HIS NOTE. 
Now tell me, Bobby, how you have made out," 
said Mrs. Bright, as the little merchant seated him- 
self at the supper table. " You cannot have done 
much, for you have only been gone five days." 
" I have done pretty well, mother," replied Bobby, 
mysteriously ; " pretty well, considering that I am 
only a boy." 
" I didn't expect to see you till to-morrow night." 
" I sold out, and had to come home." 
" That may be, and still you may not have done 
much." 
" I don't pretend that I have done much." 
" How provoking you are ! Why don't you tell 
me, Bobby, what you have done ? ' 
"Wait a minute, mother, till I have done my 
 
supper, and then I will show you the footings in my 
ledger." 
" Your ledger ! " 
" Yes, my ledger. I keep a ledger now." 
'" You are a great man, Mr. Robert Bright," laughed 
his mother. " I suppose the people took their hats 
off when they saw you coming." 
" Not exactly, mother." 
" Perhaps the governor came out to meet you when 
he heard you was on the road." 
" Perhaps he did ; I didn't see him, however. 
This apple pie tastes natural, mother. It is a great 
luxury to get home after one has been travelling." 
" Very likely." 
" No place like home, after all is done and 
said. Who was the fellow that wrote that song, 
mother? ' 
" I forget ; the paper said he spent a great many 
years in foreign parts. My sake ! Bobby ; one would 
think by your talk that you had been away from 
home for a year." 
" It seems like a year," said he, as he transferred 
another quarter of the famous apple pic to his plate. 
 
" I miss home very much. I don't more than half 
like being among strangers so much." 
" It is your own choice ; no one wants you to go 
away from home." 
" I must pay my debts, any how. Don't I owe 
Squire Lee sixty dollars ? ' 
But I can pay that." 
It is my affair, you see." 
" If it is your affair, then I owe you sixty dol- 
lars." 
" No, you don't ; I calculate to pay my board now. 
I am old enough and big enough to do something." 
"You have done something ever since you was old 
enough to work." 
" Not much ; I don't wonder that miserable old 
hunker of a Hardhand twitted me about it. By the 
way, have you heard any thing from him ? ' 
" Not a thing." 
" He has got enough of us, I reckon." 
" You mustn't insult him, Bobby, if you happen to 
see him." 
" Never fear me." 
" You know the Bible says we must love our 
enemies, and pray for them that despitefully use us 
and persecute us." 
" I should pray that the Old Xick might get 
him." 
" No, Bobby ; I hope you haven't forgot all your 
Sunday school lessons." 
" I was wrong, mother," replied Bobby, a little 
moved. " I did not mean so. I shall try to think as 
well of him as I can ; but I can't help thinking, if all 
the world was like him, what a desperate hard time 
we should have of it." 
" We must thank the Lord that he has given us 
so many good and true men." 
" Such as Squire Lee, for instance," added Bobby, 
as he rose from the table and put his chair back 
against the wall. " The squire is fit to be a king ; 
and though I believe in the Constitution and the 
Declaration of Independence, I wouldn't mind seeing 
a crown upon his head." 
" He will receive his crown in due time," replied 
Mrs. Bright, piously. 
The squire ? ' 
The crown of rejoicing, I mean." 
" Just so ; the squire is a nice man ; and I know 
another just like him." 
" Who ! " 
" Mr. Bayard ; they are as near alike as two 
peas." 
" I am dying to kn$w about your journey." 
"Wait a minute, mother, till we clear away the 
supper things ; ' : and Bobby took hold, as he had 
been accustomed, to help remove and wash the 
dishes. 
" You needn't help now, Bobby." 
" Yes, I will, mother." 
Some how our hero's visit to the city did not seem 
to produce the usual effect upon him ; for a great 
many boys, after they had been abroad, would have 
scorned to wash dishes and wipe them. A week in 
town has made many a boy so smart that you couldn't 
touch him with a ten foot pole. It starches them up 
so stiff that sometimes they don't know their own 
mothers, and deem it a piece of condescension to 
speak a word to the patriarch in a blue frock who had 
the honor of supporting them in childhood. 
Bobby was none of this sort. V re lament that he 
had a habit of talking big that is, of talking about 
business affairs in a style a little beyond his years. 
But he was modest to a fault, paradoxical as it may 
seem. He was always blushing when any body 
spoke a pretty thing about him. Probably the cir- 
cumstances of his position elevated him above the 
sphere of the mere boy ; he had spent but little time 
in play, and his attention had been directed at all 
times to the wants of his mother. He had thought a 
great deal about business, especially since the visit of 
the boy who sold books to the little black house. 
Some boys are born merchants, and from their ear- 
liest youth have a genius for trade. They think of 
little else. They " play shop " before they wear 
jackets, and drive a barter trade in jackknives, whis- 
tles, tops, and fishing lines long before they get into 
their teens. They are shrewd even then, and obtain 
a taste for commerce before they are old enough to 
know the meaning of the word. 
We saw a boy in school, not long since, give the 
value of eighteen cents for a little stunted quince 
boys have a taste for raw quinces, strange as it may 
seem. Undoubtedly he had no talent for trade, and 
would make a very indifferent tin pedler. Our hero 
was shrewd. He alwavs srot the best end of the bar- 
gain ; though, I am happy to say, his integrity was 
too unyielding to let him cheat his fellows. 
We have made this digression so that my young 
readers may know why Bobby was so much given to 
big talk. The desire to do something worthy of a 
good son turned his attention to matters above his 
sphere ; and thinking of great things, he had come to 
talk great things. It was not a bad fault, after all. 
Boys need not necessarily be frivolous. Play is a 
good thing, an excellent thing, in its place, and is as 
much a part of the boy's education as his grammar 
and arithmetic. It not only develops his muscles, 
but enlarges his mental capacity ; it not only fills 
with excitement the idle hours of the long day, but it 
sharpens the judgment, and helps to fit the boy for 
the active duties of life. 
It need not be supposed, because Bobby had to 
turn his attention to serious things, that he was not 
fond of fun ; that he could not or did not play. At 
a game of round ball, he was a lucky fellow who se- 
cured him upon his side ; for the same energy which 
made him a useful son rendered him a desirable hand 
in a difficult game. 
When the supper things were all removed, the 
dishes washed and put away, Bobby drew out his 
pocket memorandum book. It was a beautiful article, 
and Mrs. Bright was duly astonished at its gilded 
leaves and the elegant workmanship. Very likely 
her first impulse was to reprove her son for such a 
piece of reckless extravagance ; but this matter was 
set right by Bobby's informing her how it came into 
his possession. 
" Here is my ledger, mother," he said, handing 
her the book. 
Mrs. Bright put on her spectacles, and after bestow- 
ing a careful scrutiny upon the memorandum book, 
turned to the accounts. 
" Fifty books ! ' she exclaimed, as she read the 
first entry. 
" Yes, mother ; and I sold them all." 
"Fifty dollars!" 
" But I had to pay for the books out of that." 
" To be sure you had ; but I suppose you made as 
much as ten cents a piece on them, and that would 
be let me see ; ten times fifty ." 
" But I made more than that, I hope." 
" How much ? ' 
The proud young merchant referred her to the profit 
and loss account, which exhibited a balance of fifteen 
dollars. 
" Gracious ! Three dollars a day ! ' 
" Just so, mother. Now I will pay you the dollar 
I borrowed of you when I went away." 
" You didn't borrow it of me." 
" But I shall pay it." 
Mrs. Bright was astonished at this unexpected and 
gratifying result. If she had discovered a gold mine 
in the cellar of the little black house, it could not have 
afforded her so much satisfaction ; for this money was 
the reward of her son's talent and energy. Her own 
earnings scarcely ever amounted to more than three 
or four dollars a week, and Bobby, a boy of thirteen, 
had come home with fifteen for five days' work. She 
could scarcely believe the evidence of her own senses, 
and she ceased to wonder that he talked big. 
It was nearly ten o'clock when the widow and her 
son went to bed, so deeply were they interested in 
discussing our hero's affairs. He had intended to 
 
call upon Squire Lee that night, but the time passed 
away so rapidly that he was obliged to defer it till 
the next day. 
After breakfast the following morning, he hastened 
to pay the intended visit. There was a tumult of 
strange emotions in his bosom as he knocked at the 
squire's door. He was proud of the success he had 
achieved, and even then his cheek burned under the 
anticipated commendations which his generous friend 
would bestow upon him. Besides, Annie would be 
glad to see him, for she had expressed such a desire 
when they parted on the Monday preceding. I don't 
think that Bobby cherished any silly ideas, but the 
sympathy of the little maiden fell not coldly or unwel- 
comely upon his warm heart. In coming from the 
house he had placed his copy of " The Wayfarer ' 
under his arm, for Annie was fond of reading ; and on 
the way over, he had pictured to himself the pleasure 
she would derive from reading his book. 
Of course he received a warm welcome from the 
squire and his daughter. Each of them had bestowed 
more than a thought upon the little wanderer as he 
went from house to house, and more than once they 
had conversed together about him. 
 
" Well, Bobby, how is trade in the book line ? ' 
asked the squire, after the young pilgrim had been 
cordially greeted. 
" Pretty fair," replied Bobby, with as much indif- 
ference as he could command, though it was hard 
even to seem indifferent then and there. 
" Where have you been travelling ? ' 
"In B ." 
" Fine place. Books sell well there ? ' 
" Very well ; in fact, I sold out all my stock by 
noon yesterday." 
" How many books did you carry ? ' 
" Fifty." 
" You did well." 
" I should think you did ! " added Annie, with an 
enthusiasm which quite upset all Bobby's assumed 
indifference. " Fifty books ! ' 
" Yes, Miss Annie ; and I have brought you a 
copy of the book I have been selling ; I thought you 
would like to read it. It is a splendid work, and 
will be the book of the season." 
" I shall be delighted to read it," replied Annie, 
taking the proffered volume. " It looks real good," 
she continued, as she turned over the leaves. 
 
" It is first rate ; I have read it through." 
" It was very kind of you to think of me when you 
have so much business on your mind," added she, 
with a roguish smile. 
" I shall never have so much business on my mind 
that I cannot think of my friends," replied Bobby, so 
gallantly and so smartly that it astonished himself. 
" I was just thinking what I should read next ; I 
am so glad you have come." 
" Never mind her, Bobby ; all she wanted was the 
book," interposed Squire Lee, laughing. 
Xow, pa ! " 
Then I shall bring her one very often." 
" You are too bad, pa," said Annie, who, like most 
young ladies just entering their teens, resented any 
imputation upon the immaculateness of human love, 
or human friendship. 
" I have got a little money for you, Squire Lee," 
continued Bobby, thinking it time the subject was 
changed. 
He took out his gilded memorandum book, whose 
elegant appearance rather startled the squire, and 
from its " treasury department ' : extracted the little 
roll of bills, representing an aggregate of ten dollars, 
which he had carefully reserved for his creditor. 
"Never mind that, Bobby," replied the, squire. 
" You will want all your capital to do business with." 
" I must pay my debts before I think of any thing 
else." 
" A very good plan, Bobby, but this is an excep- 
tion to the general rule." 
" No, sir, I think not. If you please, I insist upon 
paying you ten dollars on my note." 
