
"Has she been crying all the afternoon?"

"Don' know," said Clam; "the eye of curiosity ain't invited;
but she don't take that easy neither, when she's about it.
I've seen her cry -- once; she'd do a year o' your crying in
half an hour."


CHAPTER XIII.


O Land of Quiet! to thy shore the surf
Of the perturbed Present rolls and sleeps;
Our storms breathe soft as June upon thy turf,
And lure out blossoms.
LOWELL.


They were days of violent grief which for a little while
followed each other. Elizabeth spent them out of doors; in the
woods, on the rocks, by the water's edge. She would take her
bible out with her, and sometimes try to read a little; but a
very few words would generally touch some spring which set her
off upon a torrent of sorrow. Pleasant things past or out of
her reach, the present time a blank, the future worse than a
blank, -- she knew nothing else. She did often in her distress
repeat the prayer she had made over the first chapter of
Matthew; but that was rather the fruit of past thought; she
did not think in those days; she gave up to feeling; and the
hours were a change from bitter and violent sorrow to dull and
listless quiet. Conscience sometimes spoke of duties resolved
upon; impatient pain always answered that their time was not
now.

The first thing that roused her was a little letter from
Winthrop, which came with the pieces of furniture and stores
he sent up to her order. It was but a word, -- or two words;
one of business, to say what he had done for her; and one of
kindness, to say what he hoped she was doing for herself. Both
words were brief, and cool; but with them, with the very
handwriting of them, came a waft of that atmosphere of
influence -- that silent breath of truth which every character
breathes -- which in this instance was sweetened with airs from
heaven. The image of the writer rose before her brightly, in
its truth and uprightness and high and fixed principle; and
though Elizabeth wept bitter tears at the miserable contrast
of her own, they were more healing tears than she had shed all
those days. When she dried them, it was with a new mind, to
live no more hours like those she had been living. Something
less distantly unlike him she could be, and would be. She rose
and went into the house, while her eyes were yet red, and gave
her patient and unwearied attention, for hours, to details of
household arrangements that needed it. Her wits were not
wandering, nor her eyes; nor did they suffer others to wander.
Then, when it was all done, she took her bonnet and went back
to her old wood-place and her bible, with an humbler and
quieter spirit than she had ever brought to it before. It was
the fifth chapter of Matthew now.

The first beatitude puzzled her. She did not know what was
meant by 'poor in spirit,' and she could not satisfy herself.
She passed it as something to be made out by and by, and went
on to the others. There were obligations enough.

"'Meek?'" said Elizabeth, -- "I suppose if there is anything
in the world I am not, it is meek. I am the very, very
opposite. What can I do with this? It is like a fire in my
veins. Can I cool it? And if I could control the outward
seeming of it, that would not be the change of the thing
itself. Besides, I couldn't, I must be meek, if I am ever to
seem so."

She went on sorrowfully to the next.

"'Hunger and thirst after righteousness' -- I do desire it -- I
do not 'hunger and thirst.' I don't think I do -- and it is
those and those only to whom the promise is given. I am so
miserable that I cannot even wish enough for what I need most.
O God, help me to know what I am seeking, and to seek it more
earnestly! --"

"'Merciful?'" she went on with tears in her eyes -- "I think
I am merciful. -- I haven't been tried, but I am pretty sure I
am merciful. But there it is -- one must have all the marks, I
suppose, to be a Christian. Some people may be merciful by
nature -- I suppose I am. --"


"Blessed are the pure in heart."


She stopped there, and even shut up her book, in utter sorrow
and shame, that if 'pure in heart' meant pure to the All-
seeing eye, hers was so very, very far from it. There was not
a little scrap of her heart fit for looking into. And what
could she do with it? The words of Job recurred to her, -- "Who
can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? not one."

Elizabeth was growing 'poor in spirit' before she knew what
the words meant. She went on carefully, sorrowfully,
earnestly -- till she came to the twenty-fourth verse of the
sixth chapter. It startled her.


"No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one
and love the other; or else he will hold to the one and
despise the other. You cannot serve God and Mammon."


"That is to say then," said Elizabeth, "that I must devote
myself entirely to God -- or not at all. All my life and
possessions and aims. It means all that! --"

And for 'all that' she felt she was not ready. One corner for
self-will and doing her own pleasure she wanted somewhere; and
wanted so obstinately, that she felt, as it were, a mountain
of strong unwillingness rise up between God's requirements and
her; an iron lock upon the door of her heart, the key of which
she could not turn, shutting and barring it fast against his
entrance and rule. And she sat down before the strong mountain
and the locked door, as before something which must, and could
not, give way; with a desperate feeling that it must -- with
another desperate feeling that it would not.

Now was Elizabeth very uncomfortable, and she hated
discomfort. She would have given a great deal to make herself
right; if a movement of her hand could have changed her and
cleared away the hindrance, it would have been made on the
instant; her judgment and her wish were clear; but her will
was not. Unconditional submission she thought she was ready
for; unconditional obedience was a stumbling-block before
which she stopped short. She knew there would come up
occasions when her own will would take its way -- she could not
promise for it that it would not; and she was afraid to give
up her freedom utterly and engage to serve God in everything.
An enormous engagement, she felt! How was she to meet with ten
thousand the enemy that came against her with twenty thousand?
-- Ay, how? But if he were not met -- if she were to be the
servant of sin for ever -- all was lost then! And she was not
going to be lost; therefore she was going to be the
unconditional servant of God. When? --

The tears came, but they did not flow; they could not, for the
fever of doubt and questioning. She dashed them away as
impertinent asides. What were they to the matter in hand.
Elizabeth was in distress. But at the same time it was
distress that she was resolved to get out of. She did not know
just what to do; but neither would she go into the house till
something was done.

"If Mr. Landholm were here! --"

"What could he do?" answered conscience; "there is the
question before you, for you to deal with. You must deal with
it. It's a plain question."

"I cannot" -- and "Who will undertake for me?" -- were
Elizabeth's answering cry.

Her heart involuntarily turned to the great helper, but what
could or would he do for her? -- it was his will she was
thwarting. Nevertheless, "to whom should she go?" -- the shaken
needle of her mind's compass turned more and more steadily to
its great centre. There was light in no other quarter but on
that 'wicket-gate' towards which Bunyan's Pilgrim first long
ago set off to run. With some such sorrowful blind looking,
she opened to her chapter of Matthew again, and carelessly and
sadly turned over a leaf or two; till she saw a word which
though printed in the ordinary type of the rest, stood out to
her eyes like the lettering on a signboard. "ASK." --


"Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find;
knock, and it shall be opened unto you."


The tears came then with a gush.

"Ask what? -- it doesn't say, --but it must be whatever my
difficulty needs -- there is no restriction. 'Knock'! -- I will
-- till it is opened to me -- as it will be! --"

The difficulty was not gone -- the mountain had not suddenly
sunk to a level; but she had got a clue to get over the one,
and daylight had broken through the other. Elizabeth felt not
changed at all; no better, and no tenderer; but she laid hold
of those words as one who has but uncertain footing puts his
arms round a strong tree, -- she clung as one clings there; and
clasped them with assurance of life. Ask? -- did she not ask,
with tears that streamed now; she knocked, clasping that
stronghold with more glad and sure clasp; she knew then that
everything would be 'made plain' in the rough places of her
heart.

She did not sit still long then for meditation or to rest; her
mood was action. She took her bible from the moss, and with a
strong beating sense both of the hopeful and of the forlorn in
her condition, she walked slowly through the grass to the
steps of her house door. As she mounted them a new thought
suddenly struck her, and instead of turning to the right she
turned to the left.

"Mrs. Nettley," said Elizabeth as she entered the sitting-
room, "isn't it very inconvenient for you to be staying here
with me?"

Good Mrs. Nettley was sitting quietly at her work, and looked
up at this quite startled.

"Isn't it inconvenient for you?" Elizabeth repeated.

"Miss Haye! -- it isn't inconvenient; -- I am very glad to do it
-- if I can be of any service --"

"It is very kind of you, and very pleasant to me; but aren't
you wanted at home?"

"I don't think I am wanted, Miss Haye, -- at least I am sure my
brother is very glad to have me do anything for Mr. Landholm,
or for you, I am sure; -- if I can."

Elizabeth's eye flashed; but then in an instant she called
herself a fool, and in the same breath wondered why it should
be, that Winthrop's benevolence must put him in the way of
giving her so much pain.

"Who fills your place at home, while you are taking care of me
here, Mrs. Nettley?"

"I don't suppose any of 'em can just do that," said the good
lady with a little bit of a laugh at the idea.

"Well, is there any one to take care of your house and your
brother?"

"Mr. Landholm -- he said he'd see to it."

"Mr. Landholm! --"

"He promised he'd take care of George and the house as well. --
I dare say they don't manage much amiss."

"But who takes care of Mr. Landholm?"

"Nobody does, if he don't himself," said Mrs. Nettley with a
shake of her head. "He don't give that pleasure to any other
living person."

"Not when you are at home?"

"It makes no difference, Miss Haye," said Mrs. Nettley going
on with her sewing. "He never will. He never did."

"But surely he boards somewhere, don't he? He don't live
entirely by himself in that room?"

"That's what he always used," said Mrs. Nettley; "he does take
his dinners somewhere now, I believe. But nothing else. He
makes his own tea and breakfast, -- that is! -- for he don't
drink anything. If it was any one else, one would be apt to
say one would grow unsociable, living in such a way; but it
don't make any change in him, no more than in the sun, what
sort of a place he lives in."

Elizabeth stood for a minute very still; and then said gently,

"Mrs. Nettley, I mustn't let you stay here with me."

"Why not, Miss Haye? -- I am sure they don't want me. I can
just as well stay as not. I am very glad to stay."

"You are wanted more there than here. I must learn to get
along alone. -- It don't matter how soon I begin."

"Dear Miss Haye, not yet. Never mind now -- we'll talk about it
by and by," said Mrs. Nettley hurriedly and somewhat
anxiously. She was a little afraid of Elizabeth.

"How could you get home from this place?"

"O by and by -- there'll be ways -- when the time comes."

"The time must come, Mrs. Nettley. You are very good -- I'm
very much obliged to you for coming and staying with me, -- but
in conscience I cannot let you stay any longer. It don't make
any difference, a little sooner or later."

"Later is better, Miss Elizabeth."

"No -- I shall feel more comfortable to think you are at home,
than to think I am keeping you here. I would rather you should
make your arrangements and choose what day you will go; and I
will find some way for you to go."

"I am very sorry, Miss Elizabeth," said Mrs. Nettley most
unaffectedly. "I am sure Mr. Landholm would a great deal
rather I should stay."

It was the last word Elizabeth could stand. Her lip trembled,
as she crossed the passage to her own room and bolted the
door; and then she threw herself on her knees by the bedside
and hid the quivering face in her hands.

Why should it, that kind care of his, pierce her like thorns
and arrows? why give her that when he could give her no more?
"But it will all be over," she thought to herself, -- "this
struggle like all other struggles will come to an end;
meanwhile I have it to bear and my work to do. Perhaps I shall
get over this feeling in time -- time wears out so much. -- But
I should despise myself if I did. No, when I have taken up a
liking on so good and solid grounds, I hope I am of good
enough stuff to keep it to the end of my days."

Then came over her the feeling of forlornness, of loneliness,
well and thoroughly realized; with the single gleam of better
things that sprung from the promise her heart had embraced
that day. True and strong it was, and her soul clung to it.
But yet its real brightness, to her apprehension, shone upon a
"land that is very far off;" and left all the way thereunto
with but a twilight earnest of good things to come; and
Elizabeth did not like looking forward; she wanted some
sweetness in hand. Yet she clung to that, her one stand-by.
She had a vague notion that its gleam might lead to more
brightness even this side of heaven; that there might be a
sort of comfort growing out of doing one's duty, and the
favour of him whose service duty is. Winthrop Landholm was
always bright, -- and what else had he to make him so? She
would try what virtue there might be in it; she would essay
those paths of wisdom which are said to be 'pleasantness;' but
again came the longing for help; she felt that she knew so
little. Again the word 'ask' -- came back to her; and at last,
half comforted, wholly wearied, she rose from her long
meditation by the bed-side and went towards the window.

There was such a sparkling beauty on everything outside, under
the clear evening sun, that its brilliancy half rebuked her.
The very shadows seemed bright, so bright were the lines of
light between them, where the tall pointed cedars were casting
their mantle on the grass. Elizabeth stood by the open window,
wondering. She looked back to the time when she had been there
before, when she was as bright, though not as pure, as all
things else; and now -- father and friend were away from her,
and she was alone. Yet still the sun shone -- might it not
again some time for her? Poor child, as she stood there the
tears dropped fast, at that meeting of hope and sorrow; hope
as intangible as the light, sorrow a thicker mantle than that
of the cedar trees. And now the sunlight seemed to say 'Ask' --
and the green glittering earth responded -- "and ye shall
receive." Elizabeth looked; -- she heard them say it
constantly. She did not question the one word or the other. It
seemed very sweet to her, the thought of doing her duty; and
yet, -- the tears which had stayed, ran fast again when she
thought of Mrs. Nettley's going away and how utterly alone she
should be.

She had sat down and was resting her arm on the window-sill;
and Miss Haye's face was in a state of humbled and saddened
gravity which no one ever saw it in before these days. As she
sat there, Karen's voice reached her from the back of the
house somewhere; and it suddenly occurred to Elizabeth that it
might be as well for her to acquaint herself somewhat better
with one of her few remaining inmates, since their number was
to be so lessened. She dried her eyes, and went out with quick
step through the kitchen till she neared the door of the
little back porch where Karen was at work. There she paused.

The old woman was singing one of her Methodist songs, in a
voice that had once very likely been sweet and strong. It was
trembling and cracked now. Yet none of the fire and spirit of
old was wanting; as was shewn, not indeed by the power of the
notes, but by the loving flow or cadence the singer gave them.
Elizabeth lingered just within the door to listen. The melody
was as wild and sweet as suited the words. The first of the
song she had lost; it went on --


"Till Jesus shall come,
"Protect and defend me until I'm called home;
"Though worms my poor body may claim as their prey,
"'Twill outshine, when rising, the sun at noon-day.


"The sun shall be darkened, the moon turned to blood,
"The mountains all melt at the presence of God;
"Red lightnings may flash, and loud thunders may roar,
"All this cannot daunt me on Canaan's blest shore.


"A glimpse of bright glory surprises my soul,
"I sink in sweet visions to view the bright goal;
"My soul, while I'm singing, is leaping to go,
"This moment for heaven I'd leave all below.


"Farewell, my dear brethren -- my Lord bids me come;
"Farewell, my dear sisters --I'm now going home;
"Bright angels are whispering so sweet in my ear, --
"Away to my Saviour my spirit they'll bear.


"I am going -- I'm going -- but what do I see! --"


She was interrupted.

"Do you mean all that, Karen?" said Elizabeth, stepping
without the door.

Karen stopped her song and looked round.

"Do you mean all that you are singing, Karen?"

"What I'm singing? --"

"Yes. I've been listening to you. -- Do you feel and mean all
those words of your hymn?"

"I don't say no words I don't mean," said Karen, going on with
her work; -- "anyhow, I don't mean to."

"But those words you have been singing -- do you mean that you
feel them all?"

Karen stood up and faced her as she answered,

"Yes!"

"Do you mean that you would rather die than live?"

"If 'twas the Lord's will, I would," said Karen, without
moving her face.

"Why?"

Karen looked at her still, but her face unbent in a little bit
of a smile.

"You ain't one of the Lord's people, be you, young lady?"

"I don't know --" said Elizabeth, blushing and hesitating, -- "I
mean to be."

"Do you mean to be one of 'em?" said Karen.

"I wish to be -- yes, I mean to be, -- if I can."

The old woman dried her hand which had been busy in water, and
coming up took one of Elizabeth's, -- looked at its delicate
tints in her own wrinkled and black fingers, and then lifting
a moistened eye to Elizabeth's face, she answered
expressively,

"Then you'll know."

"But I want to know something about it now," said the young
lady as Karen went back to her work. "Tell me. How can you
wish to 'leave all for heaven,' as you were singing a moment
ago?"

"I'd ha' done that plenty o' years ago," said Karen. "I'd got
enough of this world by that time."

"Is that the reason?"

"What reason?" said Karen.

"Is that the reason you would like to go to heaven?"

"It's the reason why I'm willing to leave the earth," said
Karen. "It hain't nothin' to do with heaven."

"Anybody might be willing to go to heaven at that rate," said
Elizabeth.

"That ain't all, young lady," said Karen, working away while
she spoke. "I'm not only willin' to go -- I'm willin' to be
there when I get there -- and I'm ready too, thank the Lord!"

"How can one be 'ready' for it, Karen? -- It seems such a
change."

"It'll be a good change," said Karen. "Mis' Landholm thinks it
is."

Elizabeth stood silent, the tears swelling; she got little
light from Karen.

"You wa'n't one of the Lord's people when you come? -- be you?
--" said Karen suddenly, looking round at her.

"I hardly know whether I am one now, Karen, -- but I mean to
try."

"Tryin' ain't no use," said Karen. "If you want to be one of
the Lord's people, you've only to knock, and it shall be
opened to you."

"Did you never know that fail?"

"I never tried it but once -- it didn't fail me then," said the
old woman. "The Lord keeps his promises. -- I tried it a good
while -- it don't do to stop knockin'."

"But I must -- one must try to do something -- I must try to do
my duty," said Elizabeth.

"Surely!" said Karen, facing round upon her again, "but you
can't help that. Do you s'pose you can love Jesus Christ, and
not love to please him? 'Tain't in natur' -- you can't help
it."

"But suppose I don't love him, Karen?" said Elizabeth, her
voice choking as she said it. "I don't know him yet -- I don't
know him enough to love him."

There was a little pause; and then without looking at her,
Karen said in her trembling voice, a little more trembling
than it was,

"I don't know, Miss 'Lizabeth -- 'To them gave he power to
become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his
name!' -- I heard a man preach that once."

The tears rushed in full measure to Elizabeth's eyes. She
stood, not heeding Karen nor anything else, and the thick veil
of tears hiding everything from her sight. It was a moment of
strong joy; for she knew she believed in him! She was, or she
would be, one of 'his people.' Her strong pillar of assurance
she clasped again, and leaned her heart upon, with unspeakable
rest.

She stood, till the water had cleared itself from her eyes;
and then she was turning into the house, but turned back
again, and went close up to the old black woman.

"Thank you, Karen," said she. "You have given me comfort."

"You hain't got it all," said Karen without looking at her.

"What do you mean?"

"Did you ever read a book called the 'Pilgrim's Progress,'
young lady?"

"No."

"I ain't much like the people there," said Karen, "but they
was always glad to hear of one more that was going to be a
pilgrim; and clapped their hands, they did."

"Did you ever read it, Karen?"

"I hearn Mis' Landholm read it -- and the Governor."

Elizabeth turned away, and she had not half crossed the
kitchen when she heard Karen strike up, in a sweet refrain,


"I'll march to Canaan's land,
"I'll land on Canaan's shore," --


Then something stopped the song, and Elizabeth came back to
her room. She sat down by the window. The light was changed.
There seemed a strange clear brightness on all things without
that they had not a little while ago, and that they never had
before. And her bread was sweet to her that night.


CHAPTER XIV.


Heaven doth with us as we with torches do;
Not light them for themselves: for if our virtues
Did not go forth of us, 'twere all alike
As if we had them not.
SHAKSPEARE.


Much against Mrs. Nettley's will, she was despatched on her
journey homewards within a few days after. She begged to be
allowed to stay yet a week or two, or three; but Elizabeth was
unmoveable. "It would make no difference," she said, "or at
least I would rather you should go. You ought to be there --
and I may as well learn at once to get used to it."

"But it will be very bad for you, Miss Elizabeth."

"I think it is right, Mrs. Nettley."

So Mrs. Nettley went; and how their young lady passed her days
and bore the quietude and the sorrow of them, the rest of the
household marvelled together.

"She'd die, if there was dyin' stuff in her," said Clam; "but
there ain't."

"What for should she die?" said Karen.

"I'm as near dead as I can be, myself," was Clam's conclusive
reply.

"What ails you, girl?"

"I can't catch my breath good among all these mountains," said
Clam. "I guess the hills spiles the air hereabouts."

"Your young lady don't think so."

"No," said Clam, -- "she looks at the mountains as if she'd
swaller them whole -- them and her Bible; -- only she looks into
that as if it would swaller her."

"Poor bird! she's beat down; -- its too lonesome up here for
her!" said Karen more tenderly than her wont was.

"That ain't no sign she'll go," said Clam. "She's as notional
as the Governor himself, when she takes a notion; only there's
some sense in his, and you never know where the sense of hers
is till it comes out."

"The house is so still, it's pitiful to hear it," said Karen.
"I never minded it when there wa'n't nobody in it -- I knowed
the old family was all gone -- but now I hear it, seems to me,
the whole day long. You can't hear a foot, when you ain't in
there."

"That'll last awhile, maybe," said Clam; "and then you'll have
a row. 'Tain't in her to keep still more'n a certain length o'
time; and when she comes out, there'll be a firing up, I tell
ye."

"The Lord 'll keep his own," said Karen rising from the table.
Which sentence Clam made nothing of.

Spite of her anticipations, the days, and the weeks, sped on
smoothly and noiselessly. Indeed more quietness, and not less,
seemed to be the order of them. Probably too much for
Elizabeth's good, if such a state of mere mind-life had been
of long lasting. It would not long have been healthy. The stir
of passion, at first, was fresh enough to keep her thoughts
fresh; but as time went on there were fewer tears and a more
settled borne-down look of sorrow. Even her Bible, constantly
studied, -- even prayer, constantly made over it, did not
hinder this. Her active nature was in an unnatural state; it
could not be well so. And it sometimes burst the bounds she
had set to it, and indulged in a passionate wrestling with the
image of joys lost and longed for. Meanwhile, the hot days of
August were passed, the first heats of September were slowly
gone; and days and nights began to cool off in earnest towards
the frosty weather.

"If there ain't some way found to keep Miss Haye's eyes from
cryin', she won't have 'em to do anything else with. And
she'll want 'em, some day."

Clam, like Elizabeth of old, having nobody else to speak to,
was sometimes driven to speak to the nearest at hand.

"Is she cryin', now?" said Karen.

"I don' know what you'd call it," said Clam. "'Tain't much
like other folks' cryin'."

"Well there's a letter Anderese fetched -- you'd better take it
to her as soon as it'll do. Maybe it'll do her good."

"Where from?" said Clam seizing it.

"Anderese fetched it from Mountain Spring."

"Now I wish 'twas -- but it ain't! --" said Clam. "I'll take it
to her anyhow."

Elizabeth knew that it wasn't, as soon as she took it. The
letter was from the gentleman who had been her father's lawyer
in the city.


Mannahatta, Sept. 26, 1817.

"Dear madam,

"Upon arrangement of Mr. Haye's affairs, I regret to say, we
find it will take nearly all his effects to meet the standing
liabilities and cover the failure of two or three large
operations in which Mr. Haye had ventured more upon uncertain
contingencies than was his general habit in business matters.
So little indeed will be left, at the best issue we can hope
for, that Mrs. Haye's interest, whose whole property, I
suppose you are aware, was involved, I grieve to say will
amount to little or nothing. It were greatly to be wished that
some settlement had in time been made for her benefit; but
nothing of the kind was done, nor I suppose in the
circumstances latterly was possible. The will makes ample
provision, but I am deeply pained to say, is, as matters
stand, but a nullity. I enclose a copy.

"I have thought it right to advertise you of these painful
tidings, and am,

"Dear madam, with great respect,

"Your obedient servant,

"Dustus O. Brick."


Elizabeth had read this letter, and pondered over it by turns
half the day, when a startling thought for the first time
flashed into her mind. Rose's desolate condition! Less
desolate than her own indeed, in so far that Rose had less
strength to feel; but more desolate by far, because being as
friendless she was much more helpless than herself. "What will
she do, without money and friends? -- for she never had any
near and dear friends but father and me. Where can she live? -- "

Elizabeth jumped up and ran into the house to get away from
the inference. But when she had sat down in her chair the
inference stood before her.

"Bring her here! -- I cannot. I cannot. It would ruin my life."
Then, clear and fair, stood the words she had been reading --
'Whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you --'

"But there is no bed-room for her but this -- or else there
will be no sitting-room for either of us; -- and then we must
eat in the kitchen! --"

"She has neither house, nor home, nor friend, nor money. What
wouldst thou, in her place? --"

Elizabeth put her face in her hands and almost groaned. She
took it up and looked out, but in all bright nature she could
find nothing which did not side against her. She got up and
walked the room; then she sat down and began to consider what
arrangements would be necessary, and what would be possible.
Then confessed to herself that it would not be all bad to have
somebody to break her solitude, even anybody; then got over
another qualm of repugnance, and drew the table near her and
opened her desk.


Shahweetah, Sept. 26, 1817.

"Dear Rose,

"I am all alone, like you. Will you come here and let us do
the best we can together? I am at a place you don't like, but
I shall not stay here all the time, and I think you can bear
it with me for a while. I shall have things arranged so as to
make you as comfortable as you can be in such straitened
quarters, and expect you will come as soon as you can get a
good opportunity. Whether you come by boat or not, part of the
way, you will have to take the stage-coach from Pimpernel
here; and you must stop at the little village of Mountain
Spring, opposite Wut-a-qut-o. From there you can get here by
wagon or boat. I can't send for you, for I have neither one
nor the other.

"Yours truly, dear Rose,

"Elizabeth Haye."


With the letter in her hand, Elizabeth went forth to the
kitchen.

"Karen, is there any sort of a cabinet-maker at Mountain
Spring?"

"What's that?" said Karen.

"Is there any sort of a cabinet-maker at the village? -- a
cabinet-maker, -- somebody that makes tables and bedsteads, and
that sort of thing?"

"A furnitur' shop?" said Karen.

"Yes -- something of that kind. Is there such a thing in
Mountain Spring?"

Karen shook her head.

"They don't make nothin' at Mountain Spring."

"Where do the people get their tables and chairs? where do
they go for them?"

"They go 'most any place," said Karen; -- "sometimes they goes
to Pimpernel, -- and maybe to Starlings, or to Deerford; they
don't go much nowheres."

"Can I get such things at Pimpernel?"

"If you was there, you could, I s'pose," said Karen.

"Could Anderese get a horse and cart at the village, to go for
me?"

"I guess he can find a wagon round somewheres," said Karen.
"You couldn't go in a cart handy."

"I! -- no, but I want to send him, to fetch home a load of
things."

"How'll he know what to get?"

"I will tell him. Couldn't he do it?"

"If he knowed what was wanted, he could," said Karen. "Me and
him 'll go, Miss Lizzie, and we'll do it."

"You, Karen! I don't want to send you."

"Guess I'll do the best," said the old woman. "Anderese
mightn't know what to fetch. What you want, Miss Lizzie?"

Elizabeth thought a moment whether she should ask Winthrop to
send up the things for her; but she could not bear to do it.

"I want a bedstead, Karen, in the first place."

"What sort'll a one?"

"The best you can find."

"That'll be what'll spend the most money," said Karen
musingly.

"I don't care about that, but the nicest sort you can meet
with. And a bureau --"

"What's that?" said Karen. "I dun' know what that means."

"To hold clothes -- with drawers -- like that in my room."

"A cupboard?" said Karen; -- "some sort like that?"

"No, no; I'll shew you what I mean, in my room; it is called a
bureau. And a washstand -- a large one, if you can find it. And
a rocking-chair -- the handsomest one that can be had."

"I know them two," said Karen. "That'll be a load, Miss
Lizzie. I don't b'lieve the wagon 'll hold no more."

"The first fine day, Karen, I want you to go."

"The days is all fine, I speck, hereabouts," said Karen.
"We'll start as quick as Anderese gets a wagon."

"Who's comin', Miss 'Lizabeth?" said Clam as she met her young
lady coming out of the kitchen.

"I don't know -- possibly Mrs. Haye. I wish all things to be in
readiness for her."

"Where'll she sleep, Miss 'Lizabeth," said Clam with opening
eyes.

"Here."

"Will she have this for her bedroom? -- And what'll you do,
Miss 'Lizabeth?"

"If she comes, we will eat in the kitchen." And with the
thought the young lady stepped back.

"I forgot -- Karen, do you think the wagon will hold no more?
Anderese must get a large one. I want a few neat chairs --
plain ones -- cane-bottomed, or rush-bottomed will do; I want
them for this room; for if this lady comes we shall have to
take this for our eating-room. I don't want a table; we can
make this do; -- or we can take the one I use now; but we want
the chairs."

"Well, Miss Lizzie, you'll have to have 'em -- we'll manage to
pile 'em on someways."

And Miss Haye withdrew.

"Ain't this a start now?" said Clam after she had rubbed her
knives in silence for several minutes. "Didn't I tell you so?"

"Tell what?" said Karen.

"Why! that Miss 'Lizabeth couldn't keep quiet more'n long
enough to get her spunk up. What in the name of variety is she
at work at now!"

"What's the matter with you?" grumbled Karen.

"Why I tell you," said Clam facing round, "them two love each
other like pison!"

"That's a queer way to love," said Karen.

"They hate each other then -- do you understand me? they hate
so, one wouldn't thaw a piece of ice off the other's head if
