adviser.”
I bowed, and she continued:
“I have a second letter from Mr. Wallingford. He has, he writes,
been well received by my relatives, who had placed in his hands,
for examination, a large quantity of papers that belonged to Colonel
Willoughby.”
“If they contain any evidence in the right direction, he will be sure to
find it,” said I.
“No doubt of that. But”--I thought her voice faltered a little--“the
question is solved, and he may return.”
“Solved! How?” I asked quickly.
“I have found the will.”
“What?”
“I have found the will,” she repeated, in a steady tone, “and that
solves the question.”
“Is it in your favor?” I asked, and then held my breath for a reply. It
came in a firmly uttered--
“No.”
We looked steadily into each other’s face for several moments.
“In whose favor?”
“In favor of Theresa Garcia his wife,” she replied.
“But she is dead,” I answered quickly.
“True--but I am not his heir.”
She said this resolutely.
“She died childless,” said I, “and will not the descent stop with
her?--the property reverting to you, as next of kin to Captain Allen?”
“She may have relatives--a brother or sister,” said Mrs. Montgomery.
“That is scarcely probable,” I objected.
“It is possible; and in order to ascertain the fact, all right means
ought to, and must be, taken.”
“Where did you find the will?” I inquired.
“Blanche was examining a small drawer in an old secretary, when she
accidentally pressed her hand against one side, which yielded. She
pressed harder, lad it continued to yield, until it was pushed back
several inches. On withdrawing this pressure, the side returned to its
place. She then tried to see how far it could be forced in. As soon
as it had passed a certain point, a secret drawer, set in vertically,
sprung up, and from the side, which fell open, the will dropped out.”
“It is singular,” said I, “that it should come to light just at this
time.”
“It is Providential, no doubt,” Mrs. Montgomery remarked.
“What course will you pursue?” I inquired.
“My first step will be to recall Mr. Wallingford.”
“I must take the liberty of a friend, and object to that,” said I.
“On what ground?”
“This will may be worth the paper on which it is written, and no more.
If the legatee have no relatives, you stand just where you stood before,
and will require the evidence as to identity for which Mr. Wallingford
is now in search. Oh, no, Mrs. Montgomery; he must not be recalled.”
The lady mused for a little while, and then said--
“Perhaps you are right, Doctor.”
“I am sure of it,” I replied, speaking earnestly. “This will, if we
find it, on examination, to be an instrument executed according to
legal forms, puts your rights in jeopardy, though by no means sets them
aside.”
“You take the correct view, no doubt,” was her reply to this. Her voice
was not so firm as in the beginning. As the probabilities began to show
themselves again in her favor, she lost a degree of self-possession.
“Let Mr. Wallingford complete his work,” said I, “and find, if possible,
the evidence you require, in case you prove to be the legal heir, as I
trust you will. And until his return, the existence of this important
document had better remain a secret.”
“Shall I not submit it to Judge Bigelow?”
I reflected for some moments, and then replied--
“Yes. He is your legal adviser, and one in whom the highest confidence
may be reposed. The will should be at once placed in his hands for
examination.”
“And go upon record?”
“Better leave all to his superior legal judgment. But,” as the thought
occurred to me, “who are named as the executors of this will?”
“I did not examine as to that, being too much interested in the
provisions of the writing,” she replied.
“May I see the document?”
“Blanche, dear, you will find it in the right-hand drawer of the
secretary, in our room;” and Mrs. Montgomery handed a key to her
daughter, who left the apartment in which we were sitting. She came back
in a few minutes, and handed me a paper, which, on examination, I found
to be written throughout, and evidently by the hand of Captain Allen. It
was dated San Juan de Porto Rico, January 10, 1820, and was witnessed by
two signatures--the names Spanish. The executors were Judge Bigelow and
Squire Floyd. There was an important sentence at the conclusion of the
will. It was in these words:--“In case my wife, in dying, should leave
no relatives, then every thing shall revert to my own right heirs,
should any be living.”
All this gave the affair, in my mind, a more serious aspect. Before
mentioning the executors’ names, I said--
“Do you know where Theresa Garcia resided, before her marriage with
Captain Allen?”
“In Porto Rico, as I have learned from old ‘Aunty,’ and also from
letters found in searching for the will.”
“Which I find was executed at San Juan De Porto Rico, the principal town
on the island. Judge Bigelow and Squire Floyd are the executors.”
I saw her start slightly, and grow a little pale as I said this.
“Judge Bigelow, and Squire Floyd! That is extraordinary!” She was more
disturbed than I had yet seen her in reference to this matter.
“It is remarkable, certainly, that Judge Bigelow, your legal adviser,
should be one of the executors of a will, which determines your
brother’s estate out of the line of consanguinity.”
“He must, of course, cease to represent my interest in the case,”
 remarked the lady.
“He cannot represent two diverse interests,” said I.
“No; that is clear.” She said this in a troubled way; and was,
evidently, falling into a perplexed state of mind. “Well, Doctor, what
is to be done?” She spoke with recovered self-possession, after a short
period of silence, looking at me with her old calmness of expression.
I took some moments for reflection, and then said,
“My advice is, to keep your own counsel, and wait until Mr. Wallingford
returns from England. Whenever you place this document in the hands of
Judge Bigelow, he must go over to the adverse interest; when you will
be compelled to seek another legal adviser. You are not just ready for
this; nor will be until after your agent comes back with the result of
his investigations. No wrong to any one can possibly occur from letting
things remain just as they are for a few months.”
“I think your view of the matter correct, Doctor,” was her reply. “And
yet, to keep this secret, even for an hour, when I have no right to its
possession, touches my conscience. Is it just? This will is not in my
favor. It does not even recognize my existence. It devises property,
of large value, in another line; and there may be heirs ready to take
possession, the moment its existence is made known to them. Am I not
intermeddling, unjustly, in the affairs of another?”
“But for you,” I replied, “this will might never have seen the light. If
heirs exist, they can, therefore, have no just reason for complaint at
the brief delay to which, under the circumstances, you are, in
common justice, entitled. Your conscience may be over sensitive, Mrs.
Montgomery.”
“I would rather it were over sensitive than obtuse,” she said. “Worldly
possessions are desirable. They give us many advantages. We all desire
and cling to them. But they are dearly bought at the price of heavenly
possessions. What will it profit a man if he gain the whole world and
lose his own soul? Nothing! It were better for him to die like Lazarus.
No, Doctor, I am resolved in this matter to be simply just. If, in
justice and right, this estate comes into my hands, I will take the
wealth thankfully and use it as wisely as I can. But I will not throw
a single straw in the way of its passing to the legal heirs of my
brother’s wife, if any are in existence and can be found.”
“But you will keep this secret until Mr. Wallingford’s return?” I urged.
“I do not see that wrong to any one can follow such a delay,” she
answered. “Yes, I will keep the secret.”
“And I will keep it also, even from my good Constance,” said I, “until
your agent’s return. The matter lies sacred between us.”
CHAPTER XIV.
“Mrs. Dewey is at her father’s,” said my wife to me, one evening in
August, as we sat at the tea-table.
“Ah! have you seen her?” I was interested at once. Six months had
elapsed since Delia’s wedding, and this was her first visit home; though
her mother had been twice down to New York, in company with the Squire,
who had business with the firm to which Ralph belonged. In fact, since
his marriage to Squire Floyd’s daughter, young Dewey had prevailed upon
his father-in-law to make the house of Floyd, Lawson, Lee & Co., agents
for the entire product of his manufactory--an arrangement which the
Squire regarded as greatly to his advantage.
My question was answered in the affirmative.
“How is she?”
“Looking very well.”
There was no warmth or feeling in my wife’s voice or manner, although
Delia had been a favorite with her, and we had often talked about the
pleasure we should have in meeting her again.
“Have you nothing more to say of our young friend?” I asked.
“She is very much changed.”
“For the better?”
“Some might think so. I do not.” There was a disappointed manner about
my wife.
“In what respect is she changed?”
“Some would say that she had grown handsome; and, in truth, her
countenance strikes you, at first, as much improved. It is rounded to a
fuller outline, and has a style about it, caught, I suppose, from city
life and feeling. But she carries her head with a statelier air than is
becoming Squire Floyd’s daughter; and I am very sure, that, as the wife
of Ralph Dewey, she has acquired no special consequence. Rich jewelry
may be very well in city drawing-rooms, and public assemblages, where
dress is made conspicuous. But to sport diamond ear-rings and breastpin,
splendid enough for a countess, in her father’s little parlor, and
before the eyes of friends who loved her once for herself alone, savored
so strongly of weak pride and vanity, that I could not look upon her
with any of my old feelings. It was Delia Floyd no longer. Already,
the pure, sweet, artless maiden, had changed into a woman of the world,
dressed up for show. Ah, my husband! if this is the effect of city life,
let me never breathe its tainted atmosphere.”
And she dropped her eyes, with a sigh, and sat, lost in thought, for
several moments.
“Your account of Delia pains me,” said I. “Is the case indeed so bad?”
“It is. Alas! the fine gold is dimmed. Our sweet young friend has
strayed from the paths of nature, and will never, I fear, get back
again.”
“Had you any conversation with her?” I inquired.
“Yes: or, rather I listened to her, as she ran on about her city life;
the grand people with whom, she had already become acquainted; and the
splendor of balls, parties, soirees, and operas. I grew sober as she
talked: for not one true womanly sentiment fell from her lips. She did
not express interest in any of her new friends and acquaintances for
the good qualities they possessed; but spoke of their wealth, style of
living, social connections, and other attractions wholly external to the
individual. She was even eloquent over star actresses and opera singers;
one or two of whom she spoke of having met at the house of a fashionable
friend.”
“How true the old adage, that evil communications corrupt good manners!”
 said I.
“There must be some radical weakness in a case of such sudden
deterioration as this,” replied my wife. “Some latent vanity and love of
the world. I cannot believe that one sensible young woman in ten would
be spoiled to the degree that Delia is spoiled, if you passed her
through like temptations.”
I saw Delia myself, on the next day. She was dressed in New York, not in
S----, style; and so, naturally, appeared to disadvantage in my eyes.
I found her very bright and animated; and to my questions as to her
new city life, she spoke warmly of its attractions. At times, in the
intervals of exciting talk, her countenance would fall into its true
expression, as nearly all countenances will when thought ceases to be
active--that expression, in which you see, as in a mirror, the actual
state of mind. It revealed far more than came into her consciousness at
the time, else would she have covered it with one of the rippling smiles
she had already learned to throw, like a spangled veil, over her face.
Mrs. Dewey spent nearly a month in S----and then went back with her
husband to New York. I saw them several times together during this
period. He had grown more pompous in manner, and talked in a larger way.
Our little town was simply contemptible in his eyes, and he was at no
pains to conceal his opinion. New York was everything; and a New York
merchant of passable standing, able to put two or three towns like
S----in his breeches pocket.
The only interest I felt in this conceited young man was as the husband
of my young friend; and as touching their relation to each other, I
observed both of them very closely. It did not take me long to discover
that there was no true bond of love between them. The little fond
attentions that we look for in a husband of only six months’ standing;
and the tender reciprocations which are sure to follow, were all wanting
here. Constance spoke of this, and I answered, lightly, to cover the
regret the fact occasioned--
“It is not fashionable in good society, you know, for husband and wife
to show any interest in each other.”
She laid her hand suddenly upon my arm, and looked lovingly into my
face.
“May we never make a part of good society, then!”
I kissed her pure lips, and answered,
“There is no present prospect of it, my Constance. I am not ambitious of
social distinction. Still, our trial in this direction may come, for you
know that I am not without ambition professionally. A chair in one of
the medical schools might tempt me to an Atlantic city.”
Constance smiled, as she still rested her hand upon my arm. Then looking
from my face to our little ones, two of whom were playing on the floor,
while the third slept like a vision of innocence in the cradle, she
said:--
“I shall not need the glitter of diamonds--these are my jewels.”
Turn your eyes away, good society reader, lest they be offended at sight
of a husband’s kiss. Could I do less than breathe my tender love upon
her lips again?
“And richer jewels were never worn in the diadem of a queen,” said I.
“As a mother, woman attains her highest glory.”
“As wife and mother,” Constance answered quickly. And now she leaned
against me, and I drew my arm tenderly around her.
“And all this,” she said, “a good society woman must give up; and for
what? God help them in the time of life’s bitter trials and painful
experience, which all must endure in some degree!” She spoke with strong
feeling. “On what arm can a woman lean, who has no husband in the true
sense? Is she strong enough, standing alone, for life’s great battles?
What has she to sustain her, when all the external support, received
from pride, is swept away? Alas! Alas! Is there a blinder folly than the
pageantry of fashionable society? It is the stage on a grander scale,
glittering, gorgeous, fascinating to the senses--but all a mere
show, back from which the actors retire, each with an individual
consciousness, and the sad words pressing to tremulous lips--‘The heart
knoweth its own bitterness.’”
Like ourselves, most of Delia’s best friends were disappointed, and when
she returned to New York, no hearts followed her with tender interest,
except those of her own family. She had carried herself with an air
of too much self-consequence; or, if she came down to the level of
old friends and companions, it was with too evident a feeling of
condescension.
I happened to fall into the company of Squire Floyd and Judge Bigelow,
not very long after the return of Delia and her husband to New York.
The conversation turned upon business, and I learned that the Squire had
thought of enlarging his mill, and introducing steam--the water power
being only sufficient for its present productive capacity. Judge
Bigelow was very much interested, I found, in the particular branch of
manufacture in which his neighbor was engaged, and inclined to embark
some capital with him in the proposed extension of the works. They
frequently quoted the Judge’s nephew, Mr. Ralph Dewey, as to the extent
to which goods could be put into market by the house of Floyd, Lawson,
Lee & Co., who possessed, it was conceded, almost unlimited facilities.
I listened to their conversation, which involved plans of enlargement,
statistics of trade, home and foreign production, capital, and the
like, until I began to feel that I was moving in a narrow sphere, and
destined, in comparison with them, to occupy a very small space on the
world. And I will confess it, a shade of dissatisfaction crept over my
heart.
A few months later I learned that my two neighbors were jointly
interested in the mill, and that early in the ensuing spring steam-power
would be introduced, and the capacity of the works increased to more
than double their present range.
It was December when Wallingford returned from England. He brought
back with him all the evidence required to prove the identity of Mrs.
Montgomery. Up to this time only three persons knew of the existence of
a will--Mrs. Montgomery, Blanche, and myself; and we formed a council on
the question of what was now to be done. I gave it as my opinion, that,
as Judge Bigelow was one of the executors, and must in consequence cease
to act for Mrs. Montgomery, that we had better call in Mr. Wallingford,
and get his view of the case before placing the will in Judge Bigelow’s
hands. The mother and daughter agreed with me. So a time of meeting was
appointed, and a note sent to the young lawyer desiring his presence
at the house of Mrs. Montgomery. He seemed very much gratified at the
successful result of his visit to England, and referred to it with
something of pardonable pride in his manner.
“We have every reason,” said Mrs. Montgomery, in response to this, “to
be satisfied with the manner in which you have executed an important
mission. Since you left America, however, a document has come into my
hands, which, had it reached me earlier, would have saved you a long and
tedious search among mouldy and moth-eaten papers. It was nothing less
than Captain Allen’s will.”
And she gave him the paper. He looked surprised, and for a moment or two
bewildered. Then opening the will, he read it through rapidly. I saw the
color leave his face as he progressed, and his hand move nervously.
It was plain that his mind took in, at a grasp, the entire series of
consequences which the appearance of this document involved.
“This is a serious matter,” he said, looking up at Mrs. Montgomery.
“It is,” she answered, calmly. “The will appears to be in legal form.”
“Yes.”
“And must go into the hands of those who are named as executors.”
“And be by them entered in the office of probate,” added Wallingford.
“I would have placed it in their hands immediately on its discovery, but
have, acting under advice from my kind friend here, waited until your
return from England. No interest has suffered, I presume, by this
delay?”
“None.”
Wallingford bent his eyes to the floor, and sat for some time as if
half-confounded by the discovery.
“What step will the executors probably take?” I inquired.
“It will be their duty to assume possession of the estate, and hold it
for the heirs of Mrs. Allen, if any are in existence,” he replied.
“And it will be their duty to take all proper means for discovering
these heirs?” said I.
“Yes. That follows, of course.”
“And if none are found within a reasonable time?” I asked.
“The phrase, a reasonable time, is very indeterminate,” said
Wallingford. “It may include one, or ten years, according to the facts
in the case, the views of the executors and the courts.”
“But, finally?”
“Finally,” he answered, “if no heirs come forward to claim the estate,
it will revert to the old line of descent through the blood relations of
Captain Allen.”
“And come into the possession of Mrs. Montgomery?”
“Yes, if the courts are satisfied with the evidence which can be
presented in her favor.”
There followed a long silence, which Mrs. Montgomery was first to break.
“I believe,” she said, firmly, “that I am prepared for the final issue
of this matter, whatever it may be. I shall still require legal advice,
Mr. Wallingford.”
The young man bowed assent.
“And, as Judge Bigelow is one of the executors--”
“I do not think, madam,” said Wallingford, interrupting her, “that the
fact of his executorship will make him any the less a safe adviser for
you. He is a man of the highest integrity of character, clear-seeing,
and of impartial judgment.”
“I believe in his judgment and integrity,” she replied. “Still, I do not
think it well to have these two interests represented by the same man.
You are his associate, if I understand correctly the relation between
you.”
“I am, in a certain sense.”
“Do you have a share in all of his business?”
“Not in all.”
“So he can be independent of you in any special case if he deems it
desirable.”
“Yes.”
“And this is also true as regards yourself?”
“Yes.”
“Then, Mr. Wallingford, I shall consult you, individually, in future.”
He bowed low in acquiescence.
“And let me say to you, once for all, that I want only my rights, if I
have any, protected. I do not wish any impediments thrown in the way
of a proper search for the heirs of Mrs. Allen; but desire to see the
fullest notice given, and in channels by which it is most likely to
reach them. At the same time, it is but just to me and mine that all
right steps should be taken to protect my interests, in case no heirs
should be found. And I have faith in you, Mr. Wallingford.”
“You shall never have cause to regret your confidence, madam,” he
replied, in a tone so full of manly integrity, that I could not but gaze
upon his fine countenance with a feeling of admiration.
“Will you place this will in the hands of Judge Bigelow?” asked Mrs.
Montgomery.
“It will be best for you to do that yourself, madam,” replied
Wallingford.
“I will be guided by your judgment in the case, sir. This very day I
will send him a note asking an interview.”
“After that, madam,” said Wallingford, rising, “I will be at your
service.”
We retired together.
CHAPTER XV.
Both Judge Bigelow and Squire Floyd were discreet men, and did not, at
the outset of their executorship, do more in the way of giving publicity
to the fact, than probating the will, and entering into bonds for the
faithful performance of the trust. For the present they decided to let
Mrs. Montgomery remain in occupancy of the old mansion, and she accepted
this concession in her favor.
The property left by Captain Allen was large. The grounds upon which the
old house stood, embraced nearly twenty acres, and as the town had grown
in that direction, its value might now be estimated by the foot, instead
of the acre, as houses had grown up on all sides. Moreover, the stream
of water upon which the mill of Squire Floyd stood, ran through these
grounds, in a series of picturesque rapids, giving a fall of over twenty
feet. The value of this property, including a mill site, was estimated
at sixty thousand dollars. Then there were twenty thousand dollars in
stock of the County Bank, the interest of which Mrs. Allen had drawn
since the death of her husband, regularly, as administratrix of the
estate. Besides this property, there were several pieces of unimproved
land in and around the town, the value of which could not fall much
below twenty thousand dollars. In addition to all this, was a coffee
estate on the island of Porto Rico. But as to its extent, or value, no
evidence appeared. It might now be richly productive, or a mere tropical
wilderness. If productive, no evidence of any return since Captain
Allen’s death appeared.
The winter passed without any apparent movement on the part of the
executors looking to the discovery of Mrs. Allen’s heirs. Young Dewey
came up from New York every few weeks, to hold business interviews with
his uncle and Squire Floyd, touching the mill-extension which was
fully determined upon; Judge Bigelow agreeing to invest twenty thousand
dollars, and the nephew ten thousand. All these matters were talked of
in the beginning, freely, before Wallingford, who still had his office
with his old preceptor, and shared in his business. After a while, he
noticed a growing reserve on the part of Judge Bigelow and Squire Floyd,
when he was by, touching their private affairs; and then they ceased
entirely all reference thereto.
Dewey came up as frequently as usual, but avoided any remark in relation
to business while in the presence of Wallingford. During his stay in
S----, the Judge spent but little time at the office; being, for the
most part, at the mill with his nephew and the Squire.
In the spring, a large force of men was set to work on the extension of
Squire Floyd’s mill; and as Judge Bigelow had become largely interested
in the new enterprise, he gave a great deal more attention to what was
going on in that direction, than to the business of his office, the
heaviest part of which devolved upon Mr. Wallingford. Still, no steps
were taken to discover the heirs of Mrs. Allen. Once or twice Mr.
Wallingford had approached the subject, but the Judge made no response.
At last, he put the question direct, as to what had been done. The Judge
seemed a little annoyed; but said, in a hurried way that was unusual
with him,
“I must, and will attend to this matter immediately. I have had so much
on my mind that it has been neglected.”
But the spring months passed--summer glided by--and still there was
no advertisement for heirs, nor any steps taken, so far as Wallingford
could learn, to ascertain their existence.
Mrs. Montgomery still occupied the old mansion, waiting patiently the
issue whatever it might be. Her health, I regretted to find, was not
firm. She suffered a great deal from nervous debility; and I saw,
plainly, that she had failed considerably during the past few months.
Blanche, on the contrary, after recovering from the illness which
followed immediately on her arrival in S----, had continued in excellent
health; and was growing daily more matured and womanly both as to mental
development and personal bearing.
The mill improvements went on all summer, exciting no little interest
in our town, and occasioning no small amount of talk and speculation.
It was some time in the fall of that year, that I was permitted to hear
this brief conversation between a couple of townsmen. Mr. A----had made
some query as to the source of all the money expended on the new mill of
Squire Floyd, which was now standing forth, under roof, in most
imposing proportions, compared with the old works. Mr. B----shrugged his
shoulders, and replied,
“Floyd and the Judge are joint executors of old Allen’s estate, you
know.”
“What does that signify?” inquired Mr. A----.
“It may signify a great deal. They have trust funds in their possession
to a large amount, I am told.”
“They are both honorable men, and would not violate their trust,” said
A----.
“I will not gainsay that,” answered Mr. B----. “Still, they may use
these funds temporarily, and wrong no one.”
Nothing more was said in my presence, but I turned their remarks over
and over again, feeling less satisfied the more I pondered them. A day
or two afterwards I met Mr. Wallingford, and said to him,
“How comes on the search for the heirs of the Allen estate?”
The question caused him to look grave.
“No progress has been made, so far as I can learn,” he answered.
“Isn’t this indifference on the part of the executors a little
extraordinary?” I remarked.
“I must confess that I do not understand it,” said the young lawyer.
“There is personal, as well as real estate?”
“Yes. Stocks worth twenty thousand dollars.”
“I have heard it suggested, that trust funds in the case are going into
Squire Floyd’s mill.”
Wallingford started at the suggestion, and looked for some moments
intently in my face; then dropped his eyes, and stood lost in thought a
good while.
“Where did you hear the suggestion?” he at length inquired.
I repeated the conversation just mentioned, and named the individuals
with whom it had occurred.
“And now, Henry,” said I, “put this hint, and the singular neglect of
the executors to search for the heirs to the Allen property, together,
and tell me how the matter shapes itself in your mind. We speak
confidentially with each other, of course.”
“I don’t just like the appearance of it, that is all I can say, Doctor,”
 he replied in a half absent manner.
“As you represent the interests of Mrs. Montgomery,” said I, “is it not
your duty to look a little closer into this matter?”
“It is; and I shall give it immediate attention.”
He did so, and to his surprise, found that all the bank stock had been
sold, and transferred. It was now plain to him where at least a part
of the funds being so liberally expended on the mill property of Squire
Floyd came from. On venturing to make some inquiries of Judge Bigelow
bearing on the subject, that individual showed an unusual degree of
irritation, and intimated, in terms not to be misunderstood, that he
thought himself competent to manage any business he might undertake, and
did not feel disposed to tolerate any intermeddling.
From that time, Wallingford saw that a separation from his old preceptor
was inevitable; and he so shaped events, that in less than three months
he made the separation easy and natural, and took an office to himself
alone.
Still there was no movement on the part of the executors in regard
to the valuable estate in their hands. Summer and fall passed, and
Christmas saw the splendid improvements of Squire Floyd completed,
and the new mill in operation, under the vigorous power of steam. The
product thus secured was almost fabulous in the eyes of the half asleep
and awake people of S----, many of whom could hardly imagine people
enough in the country to consume the miles of cloth that came streaming
out from the rattling looms. And yet, we were informed, that more than
quadruple this product could be sold by the extensive house of Floyd,
Lawson, Lee, & Co.; and that all that stood in the way of creating a
magnificent fortune out of cotton bales, was the lack of productive
facilities.
During this winter I saw more than usual of Mrs. Dewey. She came up
from New York with her nurse and child, a babe not quite a year old, and
spent over six weeks with her parents. She had lost, in the two years
which had passed since her marriage, nearly all those beautiful traits
of character which made her once so charming. Fashionable city life
seemed to have spoiled her altogether. Her mind had not grown in the
right direction. She had wholly abandoned that tasteful reading through
which intellectual refinement comes; and to all appearance, no longer
cared for anything beyond the mere sensuous. Nothing in S----had
any interest for her; and she scarcely took the pains to conceal her
contempt for certain sincere and worthy people, who felt called upon,
for the sake of her parents, to show her some attention. She was not
happy, of course. When in repose; I noticed a discontented look on her
face. Her eyes had lost that clear, innocent, almost child-like beauty
of expression, that once made you gaze into them; and now had a cold,
absent, or eagerly longing expression, as if her thought were straining
itself forward towards some coveted good.
Her conversation was almost always within the range of New York
fashionable themes; and barren of any food upon which the mind could
grow. There was not even the pretence of affection between her and her
husband. The fairest specimen of well bred indifference I had yet seen
was exhibited in their conduct to each other. Their babe did not seem
to be a matter of much account either. Delia took no personal care of it
whatever--leaving all this to the nurse.
It happened one day that I was called in to see the child. I found it
suffering from some of the ill effects of difficult dentition, and
did what the case required. There was an old friend of Delia’s at the
house--a young lady who had been much attached to her, and who still
retained a degree of her old friendship. They were talking together in
a pleasant, familiar way, when I came down stairs from my visit to the
sick child--the mother had not shown sufficient interest in the little
sufferer to attend me to the nurse’s room. A word or two of almost
careless inquiry was made;--I had scarcely answered the mother’s
queries, when her friend said, in a laughing way, looking from the
window at the same time,
“There, Delia! see what you escaped.”
I turned my eyes in the same direction, and saw Mr. Wallingford walking
past, on the opposite side of the street, with his head bent down. His
step was slow, but firm, and his air and carriage manly.
Delia shrugged her shoulders, and drew up the corners of her lips. There
was an expression very much like contempt on her face.--But she did
not make any reply. I saw this expression gradually fade away, and her
countenance grow sober. Her friend did not pursue the banter, and the
subject dropped.
What she had escaped! It was a dark day in the calendar of her life,
when she made that escape; and I think there must have been times when
a consciousness of this fact pressed upon her soul like a suffocating
nightmare.
CHAPTER XVI.
Spring opened again, and the days glided swiftly on towards summer; and
yet, so far as the movements of the executors could be traced, nothing
had been done in the work of searching for the heirs. One day, early in
June, Mrs. Montgomery sent for Mr. Wallingford. On attending her, she
placed in his hands a communication which she had just received. It was
from the executors, giving notice in a kind and respectful way, that,
for the interest of the legal heirs, and their own security, it would be
necessary for them to assume full possession of the mansion and grounds,
unless she felt willing to pay a rental that was equivalent to the
interest on their value.
“I have expected this,” said the lady; “and, so far from considering
myself aggrieved, feel grateful that a quiet residence here has been so
long accorded me.”
“You will remove?”
“There is no other course left. My income will not justify a rent of
some three thousand dollars.”
“As the property is unproductive, no such rent as that will be
required.”
“The letter says, ‘a rental equivalent to the interest on their value.’”
“I will see Judge Bigelow this morning, and ascertain precisely what
views are held in regard to this matter.”
They were sitting near one of the parlor windows that looked out upon
the portion of the grounds that sloped away towards the stream, that
threw its white folds of water from one rocky ledge to another
in graceful undulations. As Mr. Wallingford ceased speaking, Mrs.
Montgomery turned her head quickly and looked out. The sound of voices
had reached her ears. Three men had entered the grounds, and were
passing the window at a short distance.
“Who are they?” asked Mr. Wallingford. Then, answering his own question,
he said, “Oh, I see; Judge Bigelow, Squire Floyd, and Ralph Dewey, his
son-in-law.”
The three men, after going a few hundred rods in the direction of the
stream, turned and stood for some minutes looking at the house,
and talking earnestly. Dewey appeared to have the most to say, and
gesticulated quite freely. Then they moved on to that portion of the
stream where the water went gliding down the mimic rapids, and remained
there for a considerable time. It was plain that some scheme was in
their heads, for they took measurement by pacing off the grounds in
various directions; drew together in close conference at times; then
separated, each making some examination for himself; and again stood in
close deliberation. At last, as if satisfied with their investigations,
they returned by way of the mansion, and passed out without calling.
“Put that and that together, and there is a meaning in this procedure
beyond the simple rental of the place,” said Wallingford.
“What is your inference?” asked Mrs. Montgomery.
“I have made none as yet,” he replied. “But I will see Judge Bigelow,
and have some talk with him. Of course, I can have nothing to say,
adverse to a requirement of rent. Executors are responsible for the
right use of property in their hands, and must see that it produces an
interest, if in a position to pay anything. You do not, of course, wish
to occupy the whole of these grounds. It may be, that the use of the
house, garden, lawn, and appurtenances, may be secured at a moderate
rent. If so, do you wish to remain?”
“I would prefer remaining here, if the rent is within a certain sum.”
“Say three hundred dollars?”
“Yes. If not beyond that sum, I will remain,” replied Mrs. Montgomery.
The interview which Mr. Wallingford held with Judge Bigelow a few hours
afterwards, was not satisfactory. The proposition to let Mrs. Montgomery
and her daughter occupy the house, separate from the extensive grounds,
would not be entertained. It finally came out, that an offer to purchase
had been made by the firm of Floyd, Lawson, Lee, & Co., with a view to
the erection of extensive mills, and that the executors were going
to ask the Court for power to sell, as a handsome sum could now be
obtained. It further came out, that in case this power was granted,
Mr. Dewey was to reside in S----, to superintend the erection of these
mills, and afterwards to join Squire Floyd in the management of both
establishments--a consolidation of interests between the mercantile and
manufacturing branches being about to take place. The old mansion was
to undergo a thorough revision, and become the domicile of the resident
partner.
With these plans in view, the executors insisted upon the removal of
Mrs. Montgomery; and notice as to time was given, which included three
months. Formal application was made to the Court having power in the
case, for authority to sell and re-invest. The reasons for so doing were
set forth in detail, and involved plausible arguments in favor of the
heirs whenever they should be found.
Mr. Wallingford had personal reasons for not wishing to oppose this
application. The executors had been his friends from boyhood. Especially
towards Judge Bigelow did he entertain sentiments of deep gratitude
for his many favors and kindnesses. But his duty, as counsel to Mrs.
Montgomery, left him no alternative. She was heir prospective to this
property, and he did not believe that the plans in view were best for
her interests, in case no other heir was found. So, he went before the
Court, and opposed the prayer of the executors. In doing so, he gained
their ill-will, but did not succeed in preventing a decree authorizing a
sale of the property. Dewey was present, a deeply interested listener to
the arguments that were advanced on both sides. After the decision, as
Wallingford was passing from the court-room, Dewey, who stood near the
door, talking with a gentleman, said, loud enough for the young lawyer
to hear him.
“The hound! He got on the wrong scent that time!”
A feeling of indignation stirred in Wallingford’s bosom; but he
repressed the bitter feeling, and moved on without giving any intimation
that the offensive remark had reached him.
As soon as this decree, authorizing a sale of the property, was made,
Mrs. Montgomery began to make preparation for removal. At first she
seemed inclined to favor a return to England; but after repeated
conferences with Mr. Wallingford, she finally concluded to remain in
this country.
Nearly three years had woven their many colored web of events, since
Mrs. Montgomery had dropped down suddenly among us like a being
from cloudland. The friendly relation established between us in the
beginning, had continued, growing more and more intimate. My good
Constance found in her a woman after her own heart.
“The days I spend at the Allen House,” she would often say to me, “are
days to be remembered. I meet with no one who lives in so pure and
tranquil an atmosphere as Mrs. Montgomery. An hour with her lifts me
above the petty cares and selfish struggles of this life, and fills my
mind with longings after those higher things into which all must rise
before that peace comes to the soul which passeth all understanding.
I return home from these interviews, happier in mind, and stronger for
life’s duties. I do not know any term that so clearly expresses my idea
of this lady, as Christian philosopher.”
Occasionally Mrs. Montgomery would pay us a visit; and these also were
times treasured up in my wife’s remembrance. I always observed a certain
elevation of feeling, a calmer spirit, and a more loving sphere about
her after one of these pleasant seasons.
The daughter came very often. Our children loved her almost as much as
they did their mother, and she seemed as happy with them, as if they
were her own flesh and blood. Agnes, our oldest, now in her eighth year,
almost lived at the Allen House. Blanche never came without taking her
home with her, and often kept her for two or three days at a time.
Blanche had developed into a young woman of almost queenly beauty; yet
her manners retained the easy grace and truthfulness of a child. She did
not seem conscious of her remarkable personal attractions, nor of the
admiration her presence always extorted. No one could meet her, as
a stranger, without feeling that she stood removed from ordinary
contact--a being of superior mould with whom familiarity was
presumption.
The companion of such a mother, who had with tender solicitude, from
childhood upwards, guarded all the avenues of her mind, lest false
principles or false views of things should find entrance; and as
carefully selected her mental food, in order that there might be health
of mind as well as health of body--it was not surprising to find about
her a solidity and strength of character, that showed itself beneath the
sweet grace of her external life, whenever occasion for their exhibition
arose. From her mother she had imbibed a deep religious sentiment; but
this did not manifest itself so much in language, as in dutiful acts.
I had often occasion to notice, how, almost instinctively, she referred
all things to a superintending Providence; and looked into the future,
veiled as it is to all eyes, with a confidence that every thing would
come out right, beautiful to contemplate. What she meant by right,
was something more than is usually included in the words; for she had
learned from her wise teacher, that God’s providence disposes the things
of this world for every individual in a way that serves best his eternal
interests; therefore, what was best in this sense, could not fail to be
right.
To our deep regret, Mrs. Montgomery decided to change the place of her
residence from S----to Boston. All the reasons that led her to this
decision, I was not able to discover. Her life at the Allen House had
been quite secluded. She had been courteous to all the people with whom
she was brought into any degree of contact, and had reciprocated all
friendly visits; but there was a certain distance between her and them,
that it seemed impossible for either to pass over. One of my inferences
was, that, in removing from the retired old mansion, and taking a modern
house, she would stand out more prominently before all eyes than was
agreeable to her. Be this as it may, she was in earnest about removing
to Boston.
I happened to be present when the announcement of this purposed removal
was made to Mr. Wallingford. He had called in, during one of my visits
to Mrs. Montgomery, for the transaction of some business.
“To Boston?” he said, in a tone of surprise, and, I thought,
disappointment. At the same time I saw his eyes turned towards Blanche.
“Yes; I think it will be best,” she replied. “If I have any interests
here, I feel that they are safe in your hands, Mr. Wallingford.”
She leaned a little towards him, and I thought her voice had in it a
softer tone than usual. Her eyes looked steadily into his face.
“I will do all that is right, madam.” He spoke a little lower than
usual.
“And the right is always the best in any case, Mr. Wallingford,” said
she with feeling.
“How soon do you think of removing?” the young man inquired.
“In three or four weeks.”
“So soon.”
Again I noticed that his eyes wandered towards Blanche, who sat close to
her mother, with her face bent down and turned partly away.
“There is no reason why we should linger in S----, after all things are
ready for removal. It would have suited my feelings and habits of mind
to have remained here; but as this cannot be, I prefer going to Boston
on more than one account.”
“You will leave behind you many sincere friends,” said Wallingford.
There was more feeling in his voice than usually showed itself; and I
again observed that Mrs. Montgomery, in responding to the remark, fixed
her eyes upon him steadily, and with, I thought, a look of more than
usual interest.
The few weeks of preparation glided swiftly away, and then we parted
from friends who had won their way into our own hearts; and whose memory
would ever be to us like the fragrance of holy incense. I learned from
Mrs. Montgomery, before she left us, during a more confidential talk
than usual, that her income was comparatively small, and that the
chief part of this, a pension from Government in acknowledgment of her
husband’s services, would cease at her death. There was a momentary
failure in her voice as she said this, and her eyes turned with the
instinct of love towards Blanche.
At her desire, Mr. Wallingford attended them to Boston, and remained
away for three or four days. He then returned to S----, bringing with
him kind words from the absent ones. The old routine of life went on
again, each of us taking up the daily duty; yet I think there was not
one of the favored few who had known Mrs. Montgomery and her daughter
intimately, that was not stronger to do right in every trial for the
memory of these true-hearted strangers--no, friends!
CHAPTER XVII.
It was in October when Mrs. Montgomery, after a residence of three years
in the Allen House, went from among us. Old “Aunty,” and another
colored servant who had lived with Mrs. Allen, remained in charge of the
mansion. There was, of course, no removal of furniture, as that belonged
to the estate. Mrs. Montgomery had brought with her three servants from
England, a coachman, footman, and maid. The footman was sent back after
he had been a year in the country; but the coachman and maid still lived
with her, and accompanied her to Boston.
The large schemes of men ambitious for gain, will not suffer them to
linger by the way. Ralph Dewey had set his mind on getting possession,
jointly with others, of the valuable Allen property; and as the Court
had granted a decree of sale, he urged upon his father-in-law and uncle
an early day for its consummation. They were in heart, honorable men,
but they had embarked in grand enterprises with at least one dishonest
compeer, and were carried forward by an impulse which they had not the
courage or force of character to resist. They thought that spring would
be the best time to offer the property for sale; but Dewey urged the
fall as more consonant with their views, and so the sale was fixed for
the first day of November. Notice was given in the country papers,
and Dewey engaged to see that the proposed sale was duly advertised in
Boston and New York. He managed, however, to omit that part of his duty.
On the day of sale, quite a company of curious people assembled at the
Allen House, but when the property was offered, only a single bid was
offered. That came from Dewey, as the representative of Floyd, Lawson,
Lee & Co., and it was awarded to them for the sum of thirty-five
thousand dollars, a little more than half its real value.
From that time until spring opened, all remained quiet. Then began the
busy hum of preparation, and great things for our town foreshadowed
themselves. A hundred men went to work on the site chosen for a new
mill, digging, blasting, and hauling; while carpenters and masons
were busy in and around the old mansion, with a view to its thorough
renovation, as the future residence of Mr. Ralph Dewey. That gentleman
was on the ground, moving about with a self-sufficient air, and giving
his orders in a tone of authority that most of the work people felt to
be offensive.
The antiquated furniture in the Allen House, rich though it was in style
and finish, would not suit our prospective millionaire, and it was all
sent to auction. From the auctioneers, it was scattered among the town’s
people, who obtained some rare bargains. An old French secretary came
into my possession, at the cost of ten dollars--the original owner could
not have paid less than a hundred. It was curiously inlaid with satin
wood, and rich in quaint carvings. There seemed to be no end to the
discoveries I was continually making among its intricate series of
drawers, pigeon holes, slides, and hidden receptacles. But some one
had preceded me in the examination, and had removed all the papers and
documents it contained. It flashed across my mind, as I explored the
mazes of this old piece of furniture, that it might contain, in some
secret drawer, another will. This thought caused the blood to leap along
my veins, my cheeks to burn, and my hands to tremble. I renewed the
examination, at first hurriedly; then with order and deliberation,
taking out each drawer, and feeling carefully all around the cavity
left by its removal, in the hope of touching some hidden spring. But the
search was fruitless. One drawer perplexed me considerably. I could not
pull it clear out, nor get access above or below to see how closely
the various partitions and compartments came up to its sides, top, and
bottom. After working with it for some time, I gave up the search, and
my enthusiasm in this direction soon died out. I smiled to myself
many times afterwards, in thinking of the idle fancy which for a time
possessed me.
In May, the furnishing of the renovated house began. This took nearly
a month. Every thing was brought from New York. Car loads of enormous
boxes, bales, and articles not made up into packages, were constantly
arriving at the depot, and being conveyed to the Allen House--the
designation which the property retains even to this day. The furniture
was of the richest kind--the carpets, curtains, and mirrors, princely in
elegance. When all was ready for the proud owners to come in and enjoy
their splendid home, it was thrown open for examination and admiration.
All S----went to see the show, and wander in dreamy amazement through
parlors, halls, and chambers. I went with the rest. The change seemed
like the work of magic. I could with difficulty make out the old
landmarks. The spacious rooms, newly painted and decked out in
rich, modern furniture, looked still more spacious. In place of the
whitewashed ceilings and dingy papered walls, graceful frescoes
spread their light figures, entrancing the eyes with their marvelous
semblances. The great hall received you with a statelier formality than
before; for it, too, had received also its gift of painting, and its
golden broideries. As you passed from room to room, you said--“This is
the palace of a prince--not the abode of a citizen.”
The grounds around the mansion had been subject to as thorough a
renovation as the mansion itself. The old gate had given place to one of
larger proportions, and more imposing design. A new carriage-road swept
away in a grander curve from the gate to the dwelling. Substantial
stone-stabling had been torn down in order to erect a fanciful
carriage-house, built in imitation of a Swiss cottage; which, from its
singular want of harmony with the principal buildings, stood forth a
perpetual commentary upon the false taste of the upstart owner.
I hardly think that either Mr. Dewey or his wife would have been much
flattered by the general tone of remark that ran through the curious
crowds that lingered in the elegant rooms, or inspected the improvements
outside. Nobody liked him; and as for his wife, fashionable associations
had so spoiled her, that not a single old friend retained either
affection or respect. It was sad to think that three years of a false
life could so entirely obliterate the good qualities that once blossomed
in her soul with such a sweet promise of golden fruitage.
Early in June, the family of Mr. Dewey took possession of their new
home, and the occasion was celebrated by a splendid entertainment,
the cost of which, common rumor said, was over two thousand dollars.
We--Constance and I--were among the invited guests. It was a festive
scene, brilliant and extravagant beyond anything we had ever witnessed,
and quite bewildering to minds like ours. Mrs. Dewey was dressed like a
queen, and radiant in pearls and diamonds. I questioned her good taste
in this, as hostess; and think she knew better--but the temptation to
astonish the good people of S----was too strong to be resisted.
After the curtain fell on this brilliant spectacle, Mrs. Dewey assumed a
stately air, showing, on all occasions, a conscious superiority that
was offensive to our really best people. There are in all communities
a class who toady to the rich; and we had a few of these in S----.
They flattered the Deweys, and basked in the sunshine of their inflated
grandeur.
I was not one towards whom Mrs. Dewey put on superior airs. My
profession brought me into a kind of relation to her that set aside
all pretence. Very soon after her removal to S----, my services were
required in the family, one of her two children having been attacked
with measles. On the occasion of my first call, I referred, naturally,
to the fact of her removal from New York, and asked how she liked the
change.
“I don’t like it all, Doctor,” she replied, in a dissatisfied tone.
“Could heart desire more of elegance and comfort than you possess?” I
glanced around the richly decorated apartment in which we were seated.
“Gilded misery, Doctor!” She emphasized her words.
I looked at her without speaking. She understood my expression of
surprise.
“I need not tell you, Doctor, that a fine house and fine furniture are
not everything in this world.”
I thought her waking up to a better state of mind, through the
irrepressible yearnings of a soul that could find no sustenance amid the
husks of this outer life.
“They go but a little way towards making up the aggregate of human
happiness,” said I.
“All well enough in their place. But, to my thinking, sadly out of place
here. We must have society, Doctor.”
“True.” My voice was a little rough. I had mistaken her.
“But there is no society here!” And she tossed her head a little
contemptuously.
