shore. 

The corner of the sail hung dpwn for the want 
of a sprit to support it, but as they had the wind 
free, there was canvas enough to drive her rap- 
idly towards the shore. While they were still 
half a mile from the cove, Thomas called Paul's 
attention to a horse and chaise on the beach, 
from which a man was making violent gestures 
for them to come ashore. 




CHAPTER III. 

PAUL HEARS BAD NEWS. 

"Who is it, Tom?" asked Paul, very anxiously. 

"I don't know; can't make him out." 

" What can he want with us ? " 

'' Perhaps your mother has sent him after her 
runaway boy; but whoever he is, I will tell him 
you are a fellow of the right spunk." 

" Who can it be ? " 

"What matter who it is? Your mother won't 
whip you — will she?" 

"No, of course not. My mother don't whip 

me." 

" I thought she did, you seem so much afraid 

of her." 

" I am not afraid of her." 

"If you are, there is nothing else that can 
frighten you." 



 

'' I mind my mother because slie is my mother; 
because I like to do so, and not because I am 
afraid of her. You had better not say much more 
about being afraid, Tom." 

" Do you mean to say I was afraid ? " said 
Thomas, smartly. 

" If you wasn't afraid, you was confoundedly 
scared," replied Paul, whose paradox was fully 
appreciated by his companion. 

" Look here, Paul ; are you going to tell the 
fellows that I was scared ? " demanded Thomas, 
rather in a beseeching than an intimidating tone. 

'' That will depend on circumstances." 

" What circumstances ? " 

" You may as well understand me first as last. 
You keep talking about my being afraid of my 
mother, and all that sort of stuff. I'm not 
afraid of her, and I don't like to be told that 
I am." 

" I won't say it again, then." 

" Fellows that live in glass houses mustn't 
throw stones." 



 

" Do you really think I was frightened, Paul ? " 

" I really think you was. Didn't you back 
out ? " 

" Not till the sail broke down." 

"I offered to fix that." 

" It's no use to risk a fellow's life for noth- 
ing." 

" That's the point exactly. Don't you say a 
word about my mother, and you may talk as big 
as you please about this scrape." 

" I'm not going to talk big about it. I shall 
give you all the credit you deserve." 

" Of course you will. The fellow that holds 
the bag can let the cat out when he chooses. I 
don't like to have my mother spoken of as you 
speak of your mother. She's my mother," and 
she has always been a good mother to me, and I 
would do any thing in the world for her. There's 
only one thing about this scrape that I'm sorry 
for ; and that is, that I didn't mind her. It 
makes me feel bad." 

" She won't say much to you ; she will be so 



 

glad to have you safely home, that she won't feel 
like jawing you," answered Thomas, in what he in- 
tended for words of consolation, but which were 
really heartless and offensive, to the penitent. 

" My mother don't jaw ; it will make her feel 
bad that I 'didn't mind her; and that is ten 
times worse than a scolding or a whipping. — That 
man keeps shaking his hat to us. Who do you 
think it is ? " 

" It looks like Captain Littleton." 
" What can he want of me ? " said Paul, anxiously. 

"If it is Captain Littleton, it is more like he 
wants me." 

In a few moments more the boat darted into the 
cove, and the boys recognized Captain Littleton 
in the gentleman who had been beckoning to them. 

" Come ashore, Paul, as quick as you can ! " 
shouted he, as he jumped into his chaise, and drove 
nearer to the point where the boat was to land. 

" Do you want me, sir ? " asked Paul. 

" Yes ; you are wanted at home." 


Our hero was filled with terror and anxiety by 
this reply. He was sure that something had hap- 
pened, or a gentleman like Captain Littleton would 
not have taken the trouble to come after him. 
As the boat struck the bank, he brailed up the sail, 
and jumped ashore with the painter in his hand. 

" Come, Paul, never mind the boat ; Thomas 
will take care of her. Get into the chaise with 
me as quick as you can," said Captain Littleton. 

" What is the matter, sir ? What has hap- 
pened ? " demanded Paul, trembling with the most 
painful solicitude. 

" Get into the chaise first, and I will tell you 
as we return." 

" Has any thing happened to my mother, sir ? " 
cried Paul, the tears rushing to his eyes. 

" Nothing has happened to your mother, Paul. 
She is quite well," answered Captain Littleton, as 
he urged the horse to his utmost speed. 

Paul was greatly relieved by this assurance, 
though it was still evident from the manner of the 
gentleman, and the speed at which he drove the 
horse, that some dreadful event had occurred. His 
conscience smote him for his disobedience to his 
mother, and he was not in a fit moral condition to 
meet the shock of adversity with courage and forti- 
tude. He would have given the world, in that 
anxious moment, to have undone the work of the 
last three hours, and effaced their record from 
his conscience. 

" Tell me what has hapj)ened, if you please, sir," 
he continued. "Is any of the folks dead .> You 
say it is not my mother." 

" Your mother is quite well, and none of your 

family are dead, though ." 

Captain Littleton paused, and looked at the boy's 
face, which was still bathed in tears. He saw the 
misery that he was enduring, and he hesitated to 
utter words which he knew must carry grief and 
woe to his heart. 

" You must be calm and firm, Paul," continued 
the kind gentleman. " It is not so bad as you 
suppose, and we may hope for the best. Your 
father has just met with a serious accident." 



 

'' Is he dead, sir ? " gasped Paul. " You don't 
tell me the whole story, sir." 

" He is not dead', Paul ; but he is very badly 
hurt." 

" He is alive, then ? " 

" He is." 

Paul closely scrutinized the expression of Cap- 
tain Littleton, fearful that he had not told him 
the whole truth. 

'' Are you sure he was not killed ? " he asked, 
still unsatisfied. 

" He was alive when I left him, but that was 
nearly an hour ago." 

'' I am thankful if he is alive. How did it hap- 
pen, sir ? " 

" He fell from the bow of the ship upon which 
he was at work, and struck a pile of timber. I 
am afraid he is very badly hurt. I happened to 
be near the ship-yard at the time, and assisted in 
carrying him home. He is conscious, and asked 
for you. Your mother said you were out in the 
boat." 



 

Paul burst into tears again at these words, foi 
lie realized the nature and depth of his mother's 
feelings when she had uttered them, and how bit- 
terly did he regret his act of disobedience ! The 
dreadful event had come to intensify the anguish of 
his penitence, and he felt that, if he had not done 
wrong, he could have met the calamity with pa- 
tience and resolution. When children do wrong, 
they know not what event may occur to increase a 
thousand fold the bitterness of their remorse. 

" Do you think my father is alive now ? " sobbed 
Paul. 

" I hope so ; but it is impossible to foretell the 
result. The doctors spoke very despondingly of 
his case ; but we must hope for the best." 

" How does my mother bear it ? " 

" As well as could be expected, considering the 
suddenness of the calamity." 

" O, it will kill her," groaned Paul. 

" I hope not ; you must be calm, my boy. It is 
dreadful, I know ; but we must not add to the 
pain of the sufferer by useless lamentation." 



 

'' I will be as calm as I can, sir ; but it is awful 
to have such a thing happen just now." 

" We know not what a day or an hour may 
bring forth, Paul." 

" Yes, but to have it happen now ! If it had 
been at any other time, I could have borne it 
better," continued the penitent boy, wiping away 
the tears that blinded him. 

" We cannot choose the time for such an event 
to happen." 

"If it had only come before I left home ! O, 

dear." 

" Be calm, Paul ; we could not select a time 
when we should be prepared for such a calamity. 
You must not suppose one time is better than an- 
other for trials and sorrows." 

" You do not understand me. Captain Little- 
ton," replied Paul, earnestly. "I disobeyed my 
mother in going out in the boat. She told me to 
come ashore, and stood on the beach oeckoning 
and calling to me not to go, but I didn't mind her. 
That's what makes me feel so bad about it." 




"I am sorry you disobeyed her, for you must 
suffer the more for your disobedience." 

"I was sorry I did so before I came ashore, 
and now I would give all the world if I had minded 
mother, and let Tom Nettle laugh at me as much 
as he pleased." 

" Tom is a wild boy, and you must not \ied 
his jeers." 

"I will not, another time. You think my fa- 
ther is not dead ? " 

" I think not," replied Captain Littleton, as he 
increased the speed of the horse. 

Paul did not say much more, but wept in silence 
as the chaise dashed along the road. Every mo- 
ment seemed like, an hour, till he came in sight of 
the cottage of his father. There were the two 
sulkies of the doctors, and a crowd of people at 
the gate, to enable him to realize the dreadful ca- 
lamity which had overtaken him. The panting 
horse stopped before the door, and Paul's limbs 
almost failed him, as he dragged himself into the 
house. 



'' O Paul," sobbed bis mother, who met him 
at the door, "I thought you would never come. 
I'm afraid you won't have a fathei' a great while 
longer." 

" Forgive me, mother, for what I did," cried 

Paul. 

' I do forgive you, my son ; but come, your 
poor father wants to see you very much." 

His mother took him by the hand, and led him 
into the. chamber where his father lay. He was 
shocked by the change which a few short hours 
had produced, and he needed not the skill of the 
physicians to assure him that Mr. Duncan had but 
a short time to live. 

" Paul," said his father, faintly, " I shall soon 
be no more, and I leave your mother and your 
brothers and sisters to your care. Take good care 
of them, Paul, for they will soon have no one else 
to help them. Be a good boy, and be an honest 
man, and every thing will go well with you. Be 
true to your God and true to yourself, and then all 
the world cannot harm you. May God keep you 
in the path of duty as long as you live." 



 

Mr. Duncan closed his eyes with an audible 
sigh, and Paul burst into tears, realizing that he 
was about to lose the kindest and best of fathers. 

"Don't cry, my boy," said the sufferer; "be a 
man, and in a little while the struggle will be 
over with me." 

The whole family were gathered ro'und the bed, 
and Mr. Duncan gave them his blessing, for the 
doctors assured him his hour was at hand. We 
will not dwell upon the painful scene. In an hour 
all was still in that room save the sobs of the be- 
reaved widow, who stood gazing in agony upon the 
silent form which she had seen go out from her 
that morning in the full vigor of health and 
strength. The angel of death was there, and had 
done his work. 

Paul was stupefied by the suddenness of the 
Bhoek, and all the currents of his existence seemed 
to stop in their flow. He spent the afternoon in 
bis chamber, trying to understand the nature of 
his situation. He had dried his tears, but the 
deeper grief had gone in upon his heart. He spent 







 

a wakeful niglit in thinking of the past, and In 
endeavoring to make himself believe that his father 
was dead. All that he had ever done for him, all 
that he had ever said to him, came up before him 
with a vividness that made them seem like re- 
alities. 

In this condition he moved about the house till 
after the funeral, mechanically executing such du- 
ties as he was required to perform ; but every 
thing was so unnatural to him that he could hardly 
persuade himself of the reality of his being. The 
death of his father was an epoch in his existence, a 
turning point in his career, and the wheels of 
time, the current of events, stopped, soon to re- 
sume their course in a different direction. 

When the last rites of love and respect had 
been paid to the remains of his father, Paul roused 
himself from his stupor, and began to examine the 
future. At the death bed of his parent he had re- 
ceived a solemn charge, and he carefully reviewed 
the words, and recalled the expression with which 
it had been committed to him. His mother and 



 

his brothers and sisters had been given into his 
care, and he felt the responsibility of the position 
he had accepted. He determined, to the best of his 
ability, to discharge his duty to them; but he was 
sorely troubled to think of some way by which 
he could earn money enough to support them, for 
he had put a literal construction upon the dying 
words of his father. 






PAUL BECOMES THE HEAD OF THE FAMILY. 

For a week after the funeral Paul racked his 
brain in devising expedients to supply the place 
of his father in a pecuniary point of view, but 
without success. If he went into a store, or ob- 
tained such a place as a boy can fill, it would pay 
him only two or three dollars a week, and this 
would be scarcely any thing towards the support 
of the family, for his father had generally earned 
twelve dollars a week during the greater portion 
of the year. He wanted to do something better. 
He did not expect to make so much as his father 
had made, but was determined, if possible, to earn 
at least half as much. 

Thus far his reflection had been to little purpose, 
for it was no small matter for a boy to charge 
himself with double the work of one of his age. 



 

He had not yet consulted his mother, nor obtamed 
her views in regard to the support of the family. 
He did not know whether she expected him to do 
the whole of it, but it did not appear reasonable 
to him that she could do any thing more than to 
keep house and take care of the children. He 
wished that he could go to her and relieve her of 
all responsibility in regard to the money affairs, 
and let her live just as she had been accustomed 
to live before the death of his father ; and he al- 
most cried with vexation, after he had vainly ran- 
sacked his brains for the means, to think he could 
not do so. He could not hit upon any plan that 
would meet his expectations, and he decided to 
have a talk with her in relation to the future. 

'' What are we going to do, mother ? " he asked, 
as he seated himself in the kitchen where Mrs. 
Duncan was getting supper. 

" That is what I have been thinking of myself," 
she replied. " I have been talking with Captain Lit- 
tleton to-day, and he gave me some good advice, 
and offered me any assistance I might require." 


'' You surely don't mean to live on charity, 
mother," added Paul, proudly. 

" Certainly not. Captain Littleton did not offer 
to give me any thing; only to assist me in get- 
ting work for myself and you." 

" O, well, that's all right." 

" While we have our health and strength, we 
shall not have to ask other help of any one." 

" Of course not." 

'' I hope I am above asking charity, or taking it 
either." 

'' I knew 'you were. What did Captain Little- 
ton say ? " 

" Thanks to the goodness and forethought of 
your father, we are not left entirely destitute," re- 
plied Mrs. Duncan, wiping a tear from her cheek. 

" I didn't know there was any thing left." 

" After paying all the funeral expenses and the 
doctors' bills, I shall have fifty dollars in njoney. 
Your father had no debts."  

" Fifty dollars isn't much, mother, towards sup- 
porting the family. It wouldn't last two months." 




'' That is very true ; we have more than that. 
Three years ago your father had his life insured 
for a thousand dollars, and this sum will be paid 
to me in a few days." 

" I didn't know that," said Paul, greatly sur- 
prised to find they had what seemed to him so 
vast a sum. " We shall get along very well." 

" Your father used to calculate that it cost him 
about eight dollars a week to live, or about four 
hundred dollars a year. If he had had work all 
the year round, he might have saved a very hand- 
some sum, he used to tell me." 

" It will not cost us eight dollars a week now." 

" No ; we must live very prudently ; but if 
it cost us only five, a thousand dollars would last 
but a few years, and what should we do then ? " 

" We must not spend it then." 

" Captain Littleton told me what he thought 
we had better do. This house in which we live 
can be bought for fifteen hundred dollars, though 
the owner has always asked eighteen hundred, 
and ." 



 

" You don't really think of such a thing as 
buying the house ? " interrupted Paul, filled with 
amazement at the magnitude of the idea. 

" That is what Captain Littleton advises me 
to do." 

"But you haven't money enough." 

" I can give a mortgage for five hundred dol- 
lars. The rent of the house is one hundred 
and forty dollars, and Mr. Freeman says he can- 
not afford to let it for any less. Now, if we 
buy it, we can pay a thousand dollars down, 
and we shall owe five hundred, on which we 
shall have to pay the interest, amounting to 
thirty dollars. By this plan, we should have to 
pay out only about fifty dollars a year for interest 
and taxes, or about a dollar a week. In this 
way we can get along on five dollars a week." 

" Buy the house then, by all means, mother. 
Five dollars a week ! Well, I think I shall be 
able to support the family, after all." 

"You, Paul?" exclaimed Mrs. Duncan, with a 
smile. 




" I am sure I can." 

"What do you intend to do?" 

"I don't know yet." 

" Your poor father intended that you should 
enter the High School this fall ; but I suppose that 
cannot be. Captain Littleton said he would get 
you a place where you could have two or three 
dollars a week." 

" I must make more than that, mother," replied 
Paul, shaking his head. 

" You must not be too ambitious. If you get 
two or three dollars a week, you will do very 
well, and that sum will be a great help to me." 

" You heard what father said to me in his 
last moments ? " said Paul, with solemn earnest- 
ness. " He told me to take care of my mother 
and of my brothers and sisters, and I mean to 
do so." 

" But he never had a thought that you could 
earn money enough to support the whole of us. 
You are a. good boy, Paul, but you must not try 
to do too much." 



 

" If we can live on five dollars a week, I am 
almost sure I can earn that." 

" That is a good deal for a boy like you." 

'' I can do it, I know." 

" Captain Littleton said he would find a place 
for you." 

" I shall be very much obliged to him, and 
will take any place I can get ; but I am certain 
before long that I can make five dollars a 
week." 

" Don't think of such a thing. There are a 
great many men who get no more than that. 
You must work your way up, little by little, 
Paul, and one of these days you will obtain a 
good situation." 

" That's just what I mean to do. Little by 
little - that's my motto ; and if I can only get 
hold any where, you may leave the rest to me." 

" You are a good boy, Paul, and you will suc- 
ceed by and by," said Mrs. Duncan, -proudly. "I 
expect to get some work myself next week, and 
I have no doubt we shall do very well." 




'' What work, mother ? " asked Paul, a shadow 
of dissatisfaction passing over his face. 

" Captain Littleton thought he could get me a 
chance to make bags for the flour mills." 

" I don't mean to have you take in work, 
mother. You have enough to do to take care of 
the house and the children." 

"I can- do a good deal besides. Sarah can 
help a great deal about the house, and with what 
we can all do, we shall get along very well in- 
deed. We ought to be very thankful for all the 
blessings that surround us." 

'' We are enough sight better off than I thought," 
replied Paul; "but I don't want to have you 
make a slave of yourself. You used to ' work 
hard enough ; and now, if you are going to take in 
work, you will wear yourself out in a few years." 

" I guess not, Paul. There is somebody knock- 
ing at the door ; go and see who it is." 

Paul went to the door, and the visitor proved 
to be Captain Littleton. 

"I was looking for you, Paul," said he. "I'm 



 

going to give a dinner party to-morrow, and I 
want a mess of perch, fresh from the rocks, by 
twelve o'clock. I want you should go down and 
catch them for me. You always have good luck 
at fishing. Will you do this for me, Paul ? " 
"Yes, sir; certainly I will." 
" I will speak to your mother about it." 
Paul conducted Captain Littleton into the little 
parlor, and called his mother. She was willing 
that he should go, and glad to have him do 
something in return for the gentleman's repeated 
acts of kindness. 

" I will give you twenty cents a dozen for 
them, Paul, and I want at least five dozen," con- 
tinued the captain. 

" He will not charge any thing, sir," added 
Mrs. Duncan." 

'' Not a cent, sir, " repeated Paul. 
" It's a fair trade, young man, and I won't take 
them unless I pay for them." 

" I don't want any pay from you, sir." 

" But I choose to pay you, and you must take 



 

your orders from me in this instance. Have you 
any clams for bait ? " 

" No, sir. I will get some to-niglit." 

" Very well ; you may go and get them now, 
and I will talk to your mother about business." 

Paul took his hat and went down to the 
beach. Embarking in the old boat, he sailed 
over to Tenean, where plenty of clams were to 
be had, and a bucket full was soon procured. 
Like a prudent fisherman, he made all his ar- 
rangements for the next day. First he repaired 
the worn-out sail, then made a new sprit, and 
refitted the tiller to the rudder head. When 
every thing was in ship-shape order about the 
boat, he took out his perch lines, ganged on a new 
hook, and rigged an extra sinker for use in case 
of accident. 

"Going a fishing, Paul?" said John Duncan, 
his brother, a lad of ten, who joined him when 
he had nearly completed his preparations. 

"I'm going down in the morning to get a 
mess of perch for Captain Littleton," 



 

" Let me go with you, Paul ? " 

" You inust go to school." 

" It don't keep." 

" Ask mother, then ; if she is willing, I am." 

" Have you got a line for me ? " 

"Yes." 

John Duncan, for his years, was almost as 
much of a sailor and fisherman as Paul. Both 
of them took to the water like ducks, and seemed 
to understand all about a boat as if by instinct. 
The prospect of a day down below fired the im- 
agination of the " young salt," and he ran up 
the bluff with all his might to obtain the desired 
permission. 

" May I go a-fishing with Paul to-morrow, 
mother?" shouted he, as he rushed into the par- 
lor, without noticing the presence of Captain Lit- 
tleton. 

" We will see about that by and by. Take off 
your cap." 

" How do you do, John ? " said Captain Lit- 
tleton. 



 

" Pretty well," replied John, whose head keeled 
over on the port side, as he discovered the visitor, 
and three fingers found their way into his mouth. 

'' You want to go a-fishing, do you ? " 

"Yes, sir." 

." Do you think it is safe to let him go ? '' 
asked Mrs, Duncan. 

" I ain't afraid, mother," interrupted the young 
hopeful. 

" I know . you are not, and that's one reason 
why I don't like to trust you in the boat." 

"Your boys take to the water in a natural 
way ; and when boys have a decided taste of that 
kind, it isn't of much use to thwart them." 

"I know it isn't; but John has worried my life 
out since he was four years old, for he is always 
in the water." 

" I should use proper precaution with him ; but 
Paul is so good a boatman that I should not be 
afraid to trust him in his care." 

" You may go, John," added Mrs. Duncan. 
'" I have almost made up my mind to let him 



 

live in the water ; but I can't help going to the 
window when he is out on the beach, at least 
twenty times a day, to see if he isn't in trouble." 

"To 'return to Paul," said Captain Littleton, 
resuming the remarks which the entrance of John 
had interrupted. " I have the refusal of a place 
in a lawyer's office, where the salary is two 
dollars and a half a week. It is small pay, but 
it is better than nothing." 

"He expects more than that. It would have 
astonished you to hear him talk a little while 
ago. He is going to assume the whole bur- 
den of supporting the family, and is not willing 
that I should do any thing." 

" He is a smart boy, and ought to have a good 
place." 

" He says he means to make five dollars a 
week ; but that is mere boy-talk." 

" I like his spirit, but he will hardly be expected 
to earn five dollars a week at present. I hope I 
shall be able to find him a better place than the 
ono I spoke of." 



 

'' You are very good, sir ; I shall never be able 
to repay you for your kindness." 

" Dpn't .mention it, ma'am. I am very glad to 
do any thing I can for you. You have made up 
your mind then to purchase the house ? " 

" Yes, sir." 

" I think that's the best thing you can do un- 
der the circumstances. The property is rising in 
value, and in a few years, if you should want to 
sell, it would bring two thousand dollars. I will 
see Freeman as I return, and the papers shall be 
made out immediately." 

"Thank you, sir." 

Captain Littleton took his leave, and Mrs. Dun- 
can was very grateful to him for the friendly in- 
terest he manifested in her affairs. When Paul 
returned to the house, his mother informed him 
that her friend had found a place for him; but 
the young aspirant had got an idea, and made up 
his mind to decline the situation. 
6« 



 
