that--shuttlecock fashion--it had got turned round in the air.

"The best place to get out of the rain is in here," she said trying to
draw him along with her. "Oh Endy! how came you in it?"

"If you say three words to me, I shall give you the benefit of all the
remaining raindrops," said Mr. Linden, disengaging himself to throw off
his overcoat,--"how can one do anything, with you standing there? How
came I in it?--I came in it! Precious child! how do you do?" And she
was taken possession of, and carried off into the next room, like a
rosebud as she was, to have the same question put a great many times in
a different way. More words for her, just then, Mr. Linden did not seem
to have. Nor Faith for him. She stood very still, her face in a glow of
shy joy, but her eyes and even her lips grave and quiet; except when
sometimes a very tiny indicatory smile broke half way upon them.

"When did you come?"

"I came in the night train. Mignonette--are you glad to see me?"

The smile shewed her teeth a little. They would bear shewing, but this
was only a glimmer of the white enamel.

"Then you have been travelling all night?"

"Yes. How are you going to prove your position?"

"What position, Endy?"

"That you are glad to see me."

"I don't know,"--she said looking up at him.

"You cannot think of any proof to give me?"

"I can think of a great many."

"I am ready to take them!" said Mr. Linden demurely.

"Then if you will sit down and let me leave you for a few minutes, I
will see what I can do."

"Thank you--the proofs that I mean would by no means take you further
off. Suppose you see what you can do without going away."

She laid her head down for a minute, colouring too, even the cheek that
was high-coloured before; but she looked up again.

"Stoop your high head, then, Endy!"--she said;--and she gave him two
kisses, as full and earnest as they were soft. There was no doubt Faith
had proved her position!

"Faith, darling," he said, "have you been growing thin?--or is it only
that I have had to do with such substantial humanity of late. Look up
here and let me see--are you anything but the essence of Mignonette?"

The face she shewed was aptly named; about as pure as that. With grave,
loving intentness--not the less grave for its little companion
smile--Mr. Linden studied her face for a minute,--pushing back her hair.

"Do you think,"--she said then in a light soft tone--a departure from
the last words,--"do you think you won't want the essence of something
else by and by, Endecott?"

"No,"--decidedly,--"I want nothing but you--so you may as well make up
your mind to want nothing but me."

"Do you know what that would end in?"

"Not necessarily in such a simple duet," said Mr. Linden
smiling,--"people do not always realize their ideal. Mignonette, you
are just as lovely as you can be!--and you need not bring Miss Reason
to keep me in order. I suppose if she were in the house it would end
in her wanting her breakfast."

"I don't like Miss Keason," said Faith, "and the only thing I am
thinking of putting in order is the kitchen fire. Would you like to go
there with me? Nobody's in the house--Cindy went yesterday to a
wedding, and Mr. Skip is gone home to keep Thanksgiving."

"That is the best thing I ever heard of Cindy," said Mr. Linden. "Of
course I will go!--and play Ferdinand again Faith, would the doctor
call me an 'acid'--come to dissolve all his crystals?"

"Dr. Harrison gave me ten dollars yesterday for the poor people," said
Faith as she led the way to the kitchen. Arrived there, she placed a
chair for Mr. Linden and requested him to be seated; while she examined
into the state of the fire. The chair was disregarded--the fire
received double attention.

"Faith," he said laughingly, "I bear the curb about as well as
Stranger. I have a great mind to tell you how that eagle stands in the
doctor's memorandum book!"

Faith dropped her hands for the moment and looked at him, with grave
eyes of wide-open attention. The look changed Mr. Linden's purpose,--he
could not bear to take away all the pleasure the eagle had brought on
his gold wings.

"I don't believe there is such a book in existence," he said lightly.
"Miranda, what would you like to have me do for you now?--the fire is
ready for anything."

"I haven't anything ready for it yet," said Faith, "but I will have--if
you'll wait a bit."--She left him there, and ran off--coming back in a
little while. And then Mr. Linden was initiated, if he never was
before, in kitchen mysteries. Faith covered herself with a great apron,
rolled up her sleeves above the elbows, and with funny little glances
at him between whiles, went round the room about various pieces of
work. Almost noiselessly, with the utmost nicety of quick and clean
work, she was busy in one thing after another and in two or three at
the same time; while Mr. Linden stood or sat by the fire looking on.
Two things he comprehended; the potatoes which were put over the fire
to boil and the white shortcakes which finally stood cut out on the
board ready for baking. The preliminary flour and cream and mixing in
the bowl had been (culinary) Sanscrit to him. He had watched her
somewhat silently of late, but none the less intently: indeed in all
his watching there had been a silent thread woven in with its laughing
and busy talk,--his eyes had followed her as one follows a veritable
sunbeam, noting the bright gleams of colour here, and the soft light
there, and thinking of the time when it must quit the room.

"Faith," he said as she cut out her cakes, "are these what you made for
me the first night I came here?"

"I believe so!"

"What do you suppose you look like--going about the kitchen in this
style?--you make me think irresistibly of something."

"I should like to know," said Faith with an amused laugh.

"I shall make you blush, if I tell you," said Mr. Linden.

That was enough to do it! Faith gave him one look, and went on with her
shortcakes.

"You don't care about knowing, after all?" said Mr. Linden.
"Well,--Faith, do you expect ever to make such things in my
house?--because if you do, I think it will ensure my coming down stairs
before breakfast."

How she flushed--over cheek and brow,--then remarked gravely that, "she
was glad he liked it."

"Yes, and you have no idea what effects my liking will produce!" said
Mr. Linden. "You see, Faith, it may happen to us now and then to be
left without other hands than our own in the house (there is no
reliance whatever to be placed upon cottages!) and then you will come
down, as now, and I shall come too--taking the precaution to bring a
book, that nobody may suspect what I come for. Then enter one of my
parishioners--Faith, are you attending?"

Faith had stopped, and poising her rolling pin the reverse way on the
board--that is, on end,--had leaned her arms upon it,--giving up
shortcakes entirely for the time being.

"You will not be in that position," said Mr. Linden, "but going on
properly with your cakes--as you should be now. Then enter one of my
parishioners who lives six miles off, to ask me to come over to his
house and instruct him in the best way of hanging his gate,--which I of
course promise to do, notwithstanding your protestations that I know
nothing of that--nor of anything else. Parishioner goes away and
reports. One part of the people say how economical we are!--to make one
fire do our cooking and studying. Another part have their suspicions
that you keep me at hand to lift off the teakettle (much strengthened
by report of your protest.) And the charitable part at once propose to
raise my salary--so that we may have as many fires as we like.
Faith--what should we do in the circumstances?"

Faith was biting her lips and rolling out cakes with the swiftest
activity, not allowing Mr. Linden a sight of her face.

"If you hung the gate, I should think you would take the money"--she
answered demurely.

"I said you would say I could not do it!" said Mr. Linden. "Which being
duly reported and considered by certain other people, will cause them
to shake their heads, and wish in half audible (but most telegraphic!)
whispers, 'that Mr. Linden were half as smart as his wife'!"

Faith stopped again. "Oh Endy!"--she exclaimed between laughing and
pleading.

"Que voulez-vous, Mademoiselle?"

But Faith went at her cakes and finished the few that were left.

"I think you must be very much in want of your breakfast," she said
coming to the fire. "You have played Prince Ferdinand--do you think you
would mind acting the part of King Alfred, for once?"

"My dear, I will play any part for you whatever!--in our duet. Shall I
practise taking off the kettle to begin with?"

"I don't think you had better,"--Faith said with a kept down
laugh,--"for it doesn't boil."

"Shall I take you off then? What are you going to do while I play
Alfred?--I will not answer for my solo performances."

"I shall not be gone but a few minutes. Do you think you could take
this little skillet from the fire if it did--boil?"

Mr. Linden might have got into a reverie after she ran away;--but
certain it is that the skillet was in imminent danger of "boiling over"
when Faith appeared at his side and with a laughing look at him gently
lifted it off.

"You are an excellent Alfred!"

"What version of Alfred have you learned?" he said laughing, and
catching it from her hand before it reached the hearth. "I thought hot
water was his reward--not his work."

"I thought, Endy, you would like to go up to your room before
breakfast. Mother will be down presently."

"And am I to find the perfection of a fire, as usual?" said Mr. Linden,
taking both her hands in his and looking at her. "Little Sunbeam!--you
should not have done that! Do you know what you deserve?"

She stood before him rather soberly, glancing up and down; but he
little guessed what her quietness covered. Though the lines of her lip
did give tiny indication that quietness was stirred somewhere. He drew
her to him for a moment, with one or two unconnected words of deep
affection, then turned and went away. Faith listened to hear the well
known run up the stairs--the familiar closing of that door,--how
strange it sounded! how gladsome, how sorrowful. She stood still just
where Mr. Linden had left her, as if sorrow and joy both held her with
detaining hands.

"Why child? Faith!"--said Mrs. Derrick coming into the kitchen, "what
are you about? What made you get up so early, Faith? What's the
matter?--breakfast ready at this time of day! Couldn't you sleep,
pretty child?" she added tenderly.

"I didn't get up very much earlier than usual, mother. Don't you want
breakfast?"

"Whenever you like, child," said her mother, taking hold in her
turn,--"but what's made you in such a hurry? And what makes you look
so, Faith?--You're not pale, neither,--how do you look?"

Faith came so close that her mother could not see, and kissed her.
"Mother, Mr. Linden is here."

"Here!" said Mrs. Derrick with a little sympathetic start--it was not
all surprise, nor all joy.--"Pretty child! how glad I am! But why
didn't you call me, Faith?--and why don't you go and sit down and be
quiet--now you've just been tiring yourself, and I could have done the
whole! And of all things, how could he get here in such weather? No
wonder you're in a hurry, child!"--and Mrs. Derrick began to work in
earnest.

Faith gave her the word or two more that she could give, and went to
the dairy. It was Faith's domain; she was alone, and her industry fell
from her hands. Breakfast and all might wait. Faith set down her bowl
and spoon, sat down herself on the low dairy shelf before the window,
cold and November though it was, and let the tears come, of which she
had a whole heartful in store; and for a little while they fell faster
than the raindrops which beat and rattled against the panes. But this
was a gentler shower, and cleared the sky. Faith rose up from the shelf
entirely herself again.

So busy, skimming off the smooth cream, she felt the light touch of
hands on her shoulders--felt more than that on her cheek. Had the tears
left any trace there?--that Mr. Linden brought her face round into
view. He asked no such question, however, unless with his eyes.

"Mignonette, what are you about?"

"King Alfred's breakfast. I forgot you knew the way to the dairy!"

"Or could find it if I did not. What shape does my breakfast take in
these regions?"

"It takes the shape--Let us go back to the kitchen and we will see."

It was spry work in the kitchen now! How Faith's fingers went about.
But Mr. Linden could make nothing of the form his breakfast was
taking--nothing of Faith's mysterious bowl, in which the cream he had
seen her skim went into compound with the potatoes he had seen boiling
and with also certain butter and eggs. The mixture went into the oven,
and then Faith went off to set the table in the parlour. As they were
alone to-day the fire in the dining-room was not to be kindled.

The storm beat so differently upon the windows now!--now, when it was
only a barrier against people who were not wanted to come in. Mr.
Linden followed Faith in her motions, sometimes with eye and voice,
sometimes with his own steps; confusing both her and her arrangements,
making her laugh, and himself the cause of various irregularities in
the table-setting, which he was very quick to point out.

"Mignonette," he said, "I think it is a perfect day! Do you hear how it
storms?"

"And aren't you glad Cindy went to a wedding? And oh, Endy!--how many
people will be coming after you to-day?" Faith stopped, knife in hand.

"Did you suppose that I would come here to see you, and then be obliged
to see half Pattaquasset instead? I stopped at Patchaug station,--there
Reuben met me, and we had as pleasant a four mile drive in the rain as
I ever remember. As to the wedding--I think there can never be more
than one other so felicitous."

Faith ran off.

And presently the breakfast came in, variously, in her hands and in
Mrs. Derrick's. It was broad light now, and the curtains drawn back,
but the red firelight still gave the hue of the room; and the
breakfast-table and the three people round it wanted for no element or
means of comfort. There were the shortcakes, which Mr. Linden might
more readily recognize now in their light brown flakiness--his coffee
was poured upon the richest of cream; the potatoes came out of the oven
in the shape of a great puff-ball, of most tender consistency; and the
remains of a cold chicken had been mystified into such a dish of
delicacy as no hands but a Frenchwoman's--or Faith's--could concoct.
It's a pleasant thing to be catered for by hands that love you. Mr.
Linden had found that pleasure this morning before. But both Faith and
he were undoubtedly ready for their breakfast!

After breakfast came the consideration of a basketful of things Mr.
Linden had brought her. Very simple things they were, and unromantic
enough to be useful; yet with sentiment enough about them,--if that
name might be given to the tokens of a care that busied itself about
all the ins and outs of her daily life, and sought out and remembered
the various little things that she wanted and could not get; for the
various papers of sugarplums in which the whole were packed, Mr. Linden
declared them to be nothing but epithets and adjectives.

The weather held on its way into the afternoon; but what was most
unexpected, the afternoon brought a visiter. Mr. Linden and Faith, deep
in talk, heard the sound of a foot on the scraper and then of a knock
at the door, which made them both start up. Faith went to the door. But
before she could open it, Mrs. Derrick came up behind her with swift
steps and remanded Faith to the parlour.

"I'll open it, child," she said,--"it's no use for you to run the risk
of seeing anybody you don't want to." So Faith returned to Mr. Linden.
But the first word set all fears at rest--it was only Reuben Taylor. He
presented himself with many apologies, and would fain have told his
errand to Mrs. Derrick, but as it was for Faith, the good lady opened
the parlour door and bade Reuben go in,--which, as he could not help
it, Reuben did. But the colour of his face as he came in!--Mr. Linden
took the effect of it--Faith was partly occupied with her own; and
Reuben, thinking the sooner the quicker--walked straight up to her.

"Miss Faith," he said, trying to speak as usual, "I beg your
pardon--but I was sent here with this,"--and Reuben presented a
moderately large round basket, without a handle.

"Reuben, come up to the fire," said Mr. Linden; while Faith took the
basket and exclaimed, "This! Who in the world sent you, Reuben?--Yes,
come to the fire."

"I am not cold, sir," Reuben said with a look towards where Mr. Linden
stood by the mantelpiece, as if his desire was to get out of the
room--instead of further in, though he did follow Faith a step or two
as she went that way. "I didn't mean to come here to-day, Mr. Linden,
but--"

"Didn't mean to come here?" said Mr. Linden smiling,--"what have you
been doing, to be afraid of me? Faith, has your postman been remiss?"

They were a pair, Reuben and Faith! though the colour of the one was
varying, while Reuben's was steady. Faith nevertheless seized the boy's
hand and drew him with gentle violence up to the fire.

"Who sent you with this, Reuben?"

"Dr. Harrison, Miss Faith. I was off on an errand after church, and one
of his men came after me and told me to come to the house. And there I
saw the doctor himself--and ho told me to bring you this basket, ma'am,
and that he didn't like to trust it to any one else. And--" but there
Reuben hesitated.

"And that you were the only person he knew who would go through fire
and water for him?" said Mr. Linden.

"No, sir, but--I suppose I've got to say it, since he told me to,--Dr.
Harrison said, Miss Faith, that--" the message seemed to stir both
Reuben's shame and laughter--"that he had begged a cake of his sister,
to go with your Thanksgiving pies--and that it was in the basket. And
that I needn't tell anybody else about it."

"Reuben," said Mr. Linden laughing, "you needn't tell him that I shall
eat half the cake."

"No, sir"--Reuben said,--and tried not to laugh, and couldn't help it.

The third member of the trio shewed no disposition at all to much
laughter. She had put the basket down on the table and looked at it
from a distance, as if it had contained the four and twenty live
blackbirds--or a small powder magazine. The effect of his message
Reuben did not stay to see. He went round to Mr. Linden to ask if the
morning orders were unchanged, clasped hands with him--then bowed low
to Faith and went out.

With very demure face Mr. Linden seated himself in one of the
easy-chairs, and looked towards the table, with the air of one who
expects--something! And not demurely but with grave consciousness,
Faith stood looking in the same direction; then her eyes went to Mr.
Linden. But his face did not relax in the least.

"Do you suppose that basket holds a kitten?" he said contemplatively.

Faith did not answer but walked over to the table and began the work of
investigation. Mr. Linden came too. "If you are to make feline
discoveries, I must stand by you, little bird," he said.

The basket was carefully tied with a network of strings over the top;
then followed one paper after another, a silk paper at last,--and the
cake was revealed. The low exclamation that burst from Faith might be
characterized as one of mingled admiration and dismay.

Certainly Dr. Harrison had amused himself that Thanksgiving day!
perhaps in terror of his old enemy, ennui. At least his basket looked
so.

The cake lay upon a white paper in the basket, with a little space all
around. It was a rather small loaf with a plain icing. But round the
sides of it were trailed long sprays of ivy geranium, making a
beautiful bordering. The centre was crowned with a white camellia in
its perfection. From the tip edge of each outer petal depended a drop
of gold, made to adhere there by some strong gum probably; and between
the camellia and the ivy wreaths was a brilliant ring of gold spots,
somewhat larger, set in the icing. Somebody, and it was probably the
doctor, for want of better to do,--had carefully prepared the places to
receive them, so that they were set in the white like a very neat
inlay. It was presently seen that quarter eagles made the inlay, and
that the camellia was dropped with gold dollars.

On the ivy lay a note. Faith looked at Mr. Linden as she took it up;
broke the seal, and hastily running over the paper gave it to him--



"MY DEAR MISS FAITH,



My yesterday's speculation in pumpkins proved so successful, that like
a true speculator it made me want to plunge deeper--into the pumpkin
field! I find myself this morning dissatisfied with what I have
done--and beg to send a cake to go along with the pies--to be
apportioned of course as your judgment shall suggest. I begged the cake
from Sophy, who I am sure would not have given it to me if she had
known what I was going to do with it.

Your pleasure, personal and representative, last night, is a reproach
to me whenever I think of it. Yet my unwonted hand knows neither how to
cut up cake, nor what to do with it when it is cut--except--avaler!
Am I wrong in hoping that you will do me the grace to make available
what I should only--if I tried to do better with it--throw away? and
that as a token of your forgiveness and grace you will on the next
opportunity bestow a piece of pumpkin pie, such as you carried the
other night, on



Your very respectful and most obedient servant,



JULIUS HARRISON."



PATTAQUASSET, Nov. 15, 18--.



Mr. Linden read the note more deliberately than Faith had done, but his
face, the while, she could not read; though (fascinated by the
difficulty) her glances changed to a steady gaze. It was quietly
grave--that was all and not all,--and the note was given back to her
with a smile that spoke both "thoughts" of the doctor, and pleasure for
any pleasure Faith might have from his basket. But then some of the
deeper feeling came out in his comments--and they were peculiar. He had
stood still for a second after reading the note,--his eyes looking down
at the cake--gravely; but then they came to her; and suddenly taking
her in his arms Mr. Linden gave her--it would be hazardous to say, as
many kisses as Dr. Harrison had gold pieces--but certainly as many as
he had put in the basket, and more. Faith did not read them, either, at
first,--till the repetition--or the way of it, told what they were; the
glad saying that she was his, beyond any one's power to buy her,--more
than all, an indemnification to himself for all the gold he could not
lay at her feet! There needed no speech to tell her both.

A word or two had answered his demonstrations, first a wondering word,
and then afterwards a low repetition of his name, in a tone of humble
recognition and protest. Now she looked up at him with a child's clear
face, full of the colour he had brought into it.

"Little darling," he said, "you will have your hands full of business!"

"Oh Endy--I am very sorry!"

"Sorry?" Mr. Linden said. "What about?"

"I'm sorry that basket has come here!"

"It gives you the means of making other people glad."

"Yes--but,"--Faith looked uncomfortably at the basket. Then brought her
eyes back to Mr. Linden's face. "What ought I to do, Endecott?"

"The most good and the least harm you can in the circumstances."

"How shall I,--the last?"--she said with a manner like a beautiful
child, truth struggling through embarrassment.

"If you could contrive to make yourself disenchanting!"

Faith passed that, and waited, her eyes making a grave appeal. Mr.
Linden smiled.

"I am afraid you can only be yourself," he said. "And if Dr. Harrison
will not remove himself to a safe distance, there is not much to be
done, except with the money. Let him understand that you consent for
once to be his almoner, merely because you know better than he where
the need is,--that you take from him, as from anybody, a donation for
your poor and sick neighbours."

"Must I write?"

"No."

"But, Endecott--is that all?"

"All that I need say. You never did encourage him, Faith,--it may be a
long time before he gives you a chance to discourage. There is one
thing I can do, if you wish."

She had stood with an awakened, sorrowful look, the colour burning all
over face and brow. Now she startled and asked "What?"

"Something you do not wish. I can tell him that you belong to me."
But that indeed Faith did not wish.

"Oh no, Endecott--I would rather manage it some other way. Now don't
let us lose any more of our afternoon with it--but come and tell me
what will be the best things to do with this money."

"It is hard to tell all at once," Mr. Linden said as they once more
took their seats by the fire. "What have you thought of yourself?"

"I know where one or two blankets are wanting. And O, Endy! there is
one place where I should like to send a rocking-chair--ever so common a
one, you know."

"And if Ency Stephens had one of those little self-locomotive
carriages, she could go about by herself all day long."

"How good that would be! as soon as the spring opens. You could send
one up from New York, Endecott. Do they cost much?"

"I think not. And what do you say to taking a little portion of this
for the beginning of a free library for the poor people? If the thing
were once begun, Mr. Stoutenburgh would give you what you please to
carry it on,--and Mr. Simlins would help,--and so would I."

"I was thinking of books!" said Faith, her eye dancing in an unknown
"library";--"but these would be books to lend. I think a great many
would like that, Endecott! O yes, we could get plenty of help. That is
a delightful plan!--I don't think I ought to be sorry that basket came,
after all," she added smiling. Mr. Linden smiled too--she was a pretty
Lady Bountiful!

"Faith," he said, "suppose (it is a very presumptuous supposition, but
one may suppose anything) suppose when my hands are free to take care
of my Mignonette, that I should have the offer of two or three
different gardens wherein to place her. How should I choose?"

She coloured and looked at him somewhat inquiringly, then turned away
with a kept-in but very pretty smile. "I know," she said, "how you
would choose--and you would not ask me."

"Yes I should, little unbeliever--I ask you now."

"You would go," she said gravely--"where your hands were most wanted."

"There spoke a true Sunbeam!" said Mr. Linden. But perhaps the word--or
something in the changing light of the afternoon--carried his thoughts
on to the night train which was to bear him away; for he left Dr.
Harrison, and baskets, and schemes, in the background; and drawing her
closer to his side talked of her affairs--what she had been doing, what
she meant to do, in various ways,--trying to leave as it were a sort of
network of his care about her. Then came twilight, and Mrs. Derrick and
tea; with Faith's light figure flitting to and fro in preparation; and
then prayers. And then--how fast the clock ticked! how fast the minutes
began to run away!

The storm did not rest,--it blew and beat and poured down as hard as
ever, eddying round the house in gusts that made every word and every
minute within doors seem quieter and sweeter. And the words were many,
and the minutes too--yet they dropped away one by one, and the upper
glass was empty!



CHAPTER XX.



Faith fortified herself with a triple wall of mental resolves against
Dr. Harrison's advances. But when the doctor came again, a night or two
after Thanksgiving, there did not seem to be much that she could do--or
hinder. The doctor's lines of circumvallation were too skilfully drawn
for an inexperienced warrior like Faith to know very well where to
oppose him. He was not in a demonstrative mood at all; rather more
quiet than usual. He had just pushed an advanced work in the shape of
his golden cake; and he rested there for the present.

To Faith's great joy, midway in the evening the doctor's monopoly was
broken by the entrance of Squire Stoutenburgh and a very round game of
talk. Faith seized the opportunity to present her claim for a free
library--answered with open hand on the spot. And when he was gone, she
sat meditating a speech, but she was prevented. The doctor, as if
unconsciously amusing himself, started a chymical question; and went on
to give Faith a most exquisite analysis and illustration. It was
impossible to listen coldly; it was impossible to maintain reserve.
Faith must be herself, and delight shone in every feature. Now could
Dr. Harrison enjoy this thoroughly and yet give no sign that he did so;
his eye watched hers, while Faith thought he was looking into depths of
science; his smile was a keen reflection of that on her lips, while she
fancied it called forth only by his own skill, or success, or
scientific power. He had produced the very effect he wanted; for the
moment, he had her all to himself.

"Miss Faith," he said gently, as his demonstration came to an
end,--"you may command me for that library."

Faith drew back and her mind returned to business again. The doctor saw
it, and was instantly sorry he had started the subject.

"I was going to speak to you about that, Dr. Harrison. If you have no
objection, I shall take a little of that money you entrusted to me, for
it--the beginning of it. Only a little. The rest shall go as I suppose
you meant it to go."

"I knew it was very sure to go right after it got into your hands. I
don't think I followed it any further."

"It will make a great many people happy this winter, Dr. Harrison."

"I hope it will," said he very sincerely; for he knew that if it made
them it would her.

"You have little notion how much," Faith went on gravely. "I will do
the best I can with it,--and if you had patience to hear, I would let
you know what, Dr. Harrison."

"You do me less than justice, Miss Faith. You can hear me rant about
philosophical niceties,--and yet think that I would not have patience
to listen to a lecture from you upon my neglected duties!"

"I didn't mean that, sir."

He gave her a genial, recognizing little smile, which was not exactly
in his "part"--but came in spite of him.

"Do you know, I should like to hear it, Miss Faith. I always like
lectures illustrated. What have you done already?"

"There is an almost bed-ridden woman two miles off, who will bless
somebody all winter for the comfort of a rocking-chair--all her life, I
may rather say;--a common wooden one, Dr. Harrison."

"That is a capital idea," said the doctor. "She will bless you, I
hope."

"No, certainly! I shall tell her the money is not mine,--I am only
laying it out for a kind somebody."

"Miss Faith," said the doctor,--"I am not kind!"

"I think you are,"--was her gentle, somewhat wistful answer. The doctor
sprung up.

"Mrs. Derrick," said he with all his comicality alive,--"Miss Faith
promised me a piece of pumpkin pie."

He had it, and taking his old place on the rug slowly demolished it,
qualifying every morsel with such ridiculous correlative remarks,
allusions, and propositions,--that it was beyond the power of either
Mrs. Derrick or Faith to retain her gravity. But the moment the door
closed upon him, Faith looked sober.

"Well, child?" said her mother.

"Well, mother--I haven't written my French."

And she sat down to write it, but studied something else. "Manage it
some other way"--she had said she would; it was not easy! What was she
going to do? the doctor asked nothing of her but ordinary civility; how
could she refuse him that? It was a puzzle, and Faith found it so as
the weeks went on. It seemed to be as Mr. Linden had said; that she
could do little but be as she had been, herself. That did not satisfy
Faith.

It was a great relief, when about the middle of December the family
went to New York for a few weeks, and Dr. Harrison went with his
family. Once more she breathed freely. Then Faith and Reuben made
themselves very busy in preparing for the Christmas doings. Means
enough were on hand now. Reuben was an invaluable auxiliary as a
scout;--to find out where anything was pressingly wanted and what; and
long lists were made, and many trains laid in readiness against Mr.
Linden's arrival. And then he came!

It was for a good week's holiday this time, and how it was enjoyed two
people knew--which was enough. Studies went on after the old fashion
during that week, and dinners and teas out made some unavoidable
interruptions, yet not on the whole unpleasant. And sleigh rides were
taken, day and night; and walks and talks not to be mentioned. Then the
Newyear's visiting--with such a budget of new varieties!--how pleasant
it was to go that round again together; and it was hard to make short
visits, for everybody wanted to see and hear so much of Mr. Linden. He
stayed one extra day after that--to see Faith when he had done seeing
everybody else, but then he went; and the coldness and quiet of winter
set in, broken only by letters.

There was a break of another kind when Dr. Harrison came back, in the
middle of January; such a break to Faith's quiet that the coldness was
well nigh forgotten. She had doubly resolved she would have as little
as possible to do with him; and found presently she was having quite as
much as ever.

The plan of rendering him a grave account of what she had done or was
doing with his money, so far as the plan regarded keeping him at a
distance, was a signal failure. Very simply and honestly it was done,
on her part; but it suited the doctor admirably; nothing could better
serve his purposes. Dr. Harrison heard her communication about some
relieved family or project of relief, with a pleasant sort of attention
and intelligence; and had skill, although really and professedly
unwonted in the like things, to take up her plans and make the most
happy suggestions and additions--often growing a large scheme upon a
small one, and edging in the additional means so insensibly, so
quietly, that though Faith saw he did it she could not tell how to
hinder and did not know that she ought. Mr. Linden had sent, as he
promised, his help for the library,--indeed sent from time to time some
new parcel; and without inquiring whether the money he had left for
his poor people was exhausted, had sent her a fresh supply. But she
had none too much, from all sources. It was a winter of great severity
among the poorer portion of the community; work was hard to come by,
and the intense weather made food and clothing and tiring doubly in
demand. There were few starving poor people in Pattaquasset; but many
that winter lacked comforts, and some would have wanted bread, without
the diligent care of their better-off neighbours. And there as
everywhere, those who gave such care were few. Faith and Reuben had
plenty to do. But indeed not merely, nor chiefly, with the furnishing
of food to the hungry and firing to the cold; neither were those the
points where Dr. Harrison's assistance came most helpfully in.

Little Ency Stephens wanted a flower now and then, as well as a
velocipede; and Dr. Harrison gave--not to Faith, but to Faith's hands
for her--a nice little monthly rose-bush out of the greenhouse. How it
smiled in the poor cottage and on the ailing child!--and what could
Faith do but with a swelling heart to wish good to the giver. A smoky
chimney was putting out the eyes of a poor seamstress. Dr. Harrison
quietly gave Reuben orders to have a certain top put to the chimney and
send the bill to him. He even seemed to be undertaking some things on
his own account. Faith heard through Reuben that he had procured the
office of post-mistress in Pattaquasset to be given to the distressed
family she and Mr. Linden had visited at Neanticut; and that Mrs. Tuck
and Mintie were settled at the post-office, in all comfort accordingly.
But worst of all! there were some sick people; and one or two for whom
Faith dared not refuse his offer to go with her to see them. Dared
still less after the first time he had actually gone; so great and
immediate she found the value, not of his medicines only, but of the
word or two of hint and direction which he gave her towards their help
and healing. Faith began to look forward to May with a breath of almost
impatience. But a change came before that.



CHAPTER XXI.



The spring came, with all its genial influences. Not now with such
expeditions as the last spring had seen, but with letters to take their
place, and with walks of business and kindness instead of pleasure.
Yes, of pleasure too; and Faith began to find her "knight" not only a
help and safeguard, but good company. Reuben was so true, so simple and
modest--was walking in such a swift path of improvement; was so devoted
to Faith and her interests, besides the particular bond of sympathy
between them, that she might have had many a brother and fared much
worse. The intercourse had not changed its character
outwardly--Reuben's simple ceremonial of respect and deference was as
strict as ever; but the thorough liking of first acquaintanceship had
deepened into very warm affection on both sides. With Dr. Harrison
Reuben gained no ground--or the doctor did not with him. Though often
working for him and with him, though invariably courteous with the most
respectful propriety, Faith could see that Reuben's old feeling was
rather on the increase.

With the spring thaw came a freshet. It came suddenly, at the end of
the week; every river and stream rising into a full tide of
insurrection with the melting snows of Saturday, and Saturday night
bridges and mill dams went by the board. Among the rest, one of the
railway bridges near Pattaquasset gave way, and a full train from the
east set down its freight of passengers in Pattaquasset over Sunday.
They amused themselves variously--as such freight in such circumstances
is wont to do. Faith knew that the church was well filled that Sunday
morning, but the fact or the cause concerned her little--did not
disturb the quiet path of her thoughts and steps, until church was out
and she coming home, alone that day, as it happened. Then she found the
walk full and her walk hindered. Especially by two gentlemen--who as
the others thinned off, right and left, still went straight on; not
fast enough to get away from Faith nor slow enough for her to pass
them. They were strangers, evidently, and town bred. One of them
reminded Faith of Dr. Harrison, in dress and style--both belonged to a
class of which she had seen few specimens. But she gave them little
heed (save as they detained her,) nor cared at all for their discussion
of the weather, or the place. Then suddenly her attention was caught
and held.

"By the way!" said one--"this is the very place where Linden was so
long."

"Who? Endecott Linden?" said Dr. Harrison's likeness. "What was he here
for?"

"Teaching school."

"Teaching school!" echoed the other,--"Endecott Linden teaching
school!--Pegasus in pound!--How did the rustics catch him?"

"Pegasus came of his own accord, if I remember."

"Pshaw, yes!--but Linden. For what conceivable reason did he let
himself down to teach school?"

"He didn't--" said the other a little hotly. "He wouldn't let himself
down if he turned street-sweeper."

"True--he has a sort of natural dais which he carries about with
him,--I suppose he'd make the crossing the court end. But I say, what
did he do this for?"

"Why--for money!" said the first speaker. "What an ado about nothing!"

"Inconceivable! Just imagine, George, a man who can sing as he does,
teaching a, b, ab!"

"Well--imagine it," said George,--"and then you'll wish you were six
years old to have him teach you."

"How cross you are," said his friend lazily. "And despotic. Was there
nothing left of all that immense property? I've just come home, you
know."

"Not much," said George. "A little--but Endecott wouldn't touch
that--it was all put at interest for Miss Pet. He would have it so, and
even supported her as long as she staid in the country. What he works
so hard for now I don't understand."

"Works, does he? I thought he was studying for the church--going to
bury himself again. It's a crying shame! why he might be member,
minister, Secretary, President!"

"He!" cried George in hot disdain,--"he soil his fingers with politics!
No--he's in the right place now,--there's no other pure enough for him."

"I didn't know you admired the church so much," said his friend
ironically.

"I don't--only the place in it where he'll stand. That's grand."

"And so he's at work yet?"

"Yes indeed--and it puzzles me. That year here ought to have carried
him through his studies."

"Why what can he do?--not teach school now,--he's no time for it."

"He can give lessons--and does. Makes the time, I suppose. You know he
has learned about everything but Theology. Olyphant was telling me
about it the other day."

"What a strange thing!" said the other musingly, "such a family, so
swept overboard! What a house that was! You remember his mother,
George?"

"I should think so!--and the way Endecott used to sing to her every
night, no matter who was there."

"Yes," said the doctor's confrère--"and come to her to be kissed
afterwards. I should have laughed at any other man--but it set well on
him. So did her diamond ring in his hair, which she was so fond of
handling. How did he make out to live when she died?"

"I don't know--" said George with a half drawn breath--a little
reverently too: "I suppose he could tell you. But all that first year
nobody saw him--unless somebody in need or sorrow: they could always
find him. He looked as if he had taken leave of the world--except to
work for it."

