distance, is spread a prospect which has not on earth its like or its
equal. The beautiful plains of Lombardy lie beneath like a map, and the
northern horizon-line is glittering with the entire sweep of the Alps,
like a solemn senate of archangels with diamond mail and glittering
crowns. Mont Blanc, Monte Rosa with its countenance of light, the
Jungfrau and all the weird brothers of the Oberland, rise one after
another to the delighted gaze, and the range of the Tyrol melts far off
into the blue of the sky. On another side, the Apennines, with their
picturesque outlines and cloud-spotted sides, complete the enclosure.
All around, wherever the eye turns, is the unbroken phalanx of
mountains; and this temple, with its thousand saintly statues standing
in attitudes of ecstasy and prayer, seems like a worthy altar and
shrine for the beautiful plain which the mountains enclose: it seems to
give all Northern Italy to God.
The effect of the statues in this high, pure air, in this solemn,
glorious scenery, is peculiar. They seem a meet companionship for
these exalted regions. They seem to stand exultant on their spires,
poised lightly as ethereal creatures, the fit inhabitants of the pure
blue sky. One feels that they have done with earth; one can fancy
them a band of white-robed kings and priests forever ministering in
that great temple of which the Alps and the Apennines are the walls
and the Cathedral the heart and centre. Never were Art and Nature so
majestically married by Religion in so worthy a temple.
One form could be discerned standing in rapt attention, gazing from a
platform on the roof upon the far-distant scene. He was enveloped in
the white coarse woolen gown of the Dominican monks, and seemed wholly
absorbed in meditating on the scene before him, which appeared to move
him deeply; for, raising his hands, he repeated aloud from the Latin
Vulgate the words of an Apostle:--
"Accessistis ad Sion montem et civitatem Dei viventis, Jerusalem
cælestem, et multorum millium angelorum frequentiam, ecclesiam
primitivorum, qui inscripti sunt in cælis."[11]
    [11] "Ye are come unto Mount Sion, and unto the city of the
         living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable
         company of angels, to the general assembly and church of
         the first-born, which are written in heaven."
At this moment the evening worship commenced within the Cathedral, and
the whole building seemed to vibrate with the rising swell of the great
organ, while the grave, long-drawn tones of the Ambrosian Liturgy rose
surging in waves and dying away in distant murmurs, like the rolling
of the tide on some ocean-shore. The monk turned and drew near to the
central part of the roof to listen, and as he turned he disclosed the
well-known features of Father Antonio.
Haggard, weary, and travel-worn, his first impulse, on entering the
city, was to fly to this holy solitude, as the wandering sparrow of
sacred song sought her nest amid the altars of God's temple. Artist no
less than monk, he found in this wondrous shrine of beauty a repose
both for his artistic and his religious nature; and while waiting for
Agostino Sarelli to find his uncle's residence, he had determined to
pass the interval in this holy solitude. Many hours had he paced alone
up and down the long promenades of white marble which run everywhere
between forests of dazzling pinnacles and flying buttresses of airy
lightness. Now he rested in fixed attention against the wall above the
choir, which he could feel pulsating with throbs of sacred sound, as if
a great warm heart were beating within the fair marble miracle, warming
it into mysterious life and sympathy.
"I would now that boy were here to worship with me," he said. "No
wonder the child's faith fainteth: it takes such monuments as these of
the Church's former days to strengthen one's hopes. Ah, woe unto those
by whom such offense cometh!"
At this moment the form of Agostino was seen ascending the marble
staircase.
The eye of the monk brightened as he came towards him. He put out
one hand eagerly to take his, and raised the other with a gesture of
silence.
"Look," he said, "and listen! Is it not the sound of many waters and
mighty thunderings?"
Agostino stood subdued for the moment by the magnificent sights
and sounds; for, as the sun went down, the distant mountains grew
every moment more unearthly in their brilliancy; and as they lay in
a long line, jeweled brightness mingling with the cloud-wreaths of
the far horizon, one might have imagined that he in truth beheld the
foundations of that celestial city of jasper, pearl, and translucent
gold which the Apostle saw, and that the risings and fallings of
choral sound which seemed to thrill and pulsate through the marble
battlements were indeed that song like many waters sung by the Church
Triumphant above.
For a few moments the monk and the young man stood in silence, till at
length the monk spoke.
"You have told me, my son, that your heart often troubles you in being
more Roman than Christian; that you sometimes doubt whether the Church
on earth be other than a fiction or a fable. But look around us. Who
are these, this great multitude who praise and pray continually in this
temple of the upper air? These are they who have come out of great
tribulation, having washed their robes and made them white in the blood
of the Lamb. These are not the men that have sacked cities, and made
deserts, and written their triumphs in blood and carnage. These be men
that have sheltered the poor, and built houses for orphans, and sold
themselves into slavery to redeem their brothers in Christ. These be
pure women who have lodged saints, brought up children, lived holy and
prayerful lives. These be martyrs who have laid down their lives for
the testimony of Jesus. There were no such churches in old Rome,--no
such saints."
"Well," said Agostino, "one thing is certain. If such be the True
Church, the Pope and the Cardinals of our day have no part in it; for
they are the men who sack cities and make desolations, who devour
widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. Let us see one of
them selling himself into slavery for the love of anybody, while they
seek to keep all the world in slavery to themselves!"
"That is the grievous declension our master weeps over," said the
monk. "Ah, if the Bishops of the Church now were like brave old Saint
Ambrose, strong alone by faith and prayer, showing no more favor to an
unrepentant Emperor than to the meanest slave, then would the Church
be a reality and a glory! Such is my master. Never is he afraid
of the face of king or lord, when he has God's truth to speak. You
should have heard how plainly he dealt with our Lorenzo de' Medici on
his death-bed,--how he refused him absolution, unless he would make
restitution to the poor and restore the liberties of Florence."
"I should have thought," said the young man, sarcastically, "that
Lorenzo the Magnificent might have got absolution cheaper than that.
Where were all the bishops in his dominion, that he must needs send for
Jerome Savonarola?"
"Son, it is ever so," replied the monk. "If there be a man that cares
neither for Duke nor Emperor, but for God alone, then Dukes and
Emperors would give more for his good word than for a whole dozen of
common priests."
"I suppose it is something like a rare manuscript or a singular gem:
these virtuosi have no rest till they have clutched it. The thing
they cannot get is always the thing they want."
"Lorenzo was always seeking our master," said the monk. "Often would
he come walking in our gardens, expecting surely he would hasten down
to meet him; and the brothers would run all out of breath to his cell
to say, 'Father, Lorenzo is in the garden.' 'He is welcome,' would he
answer, with his pleasant smile. 'But, father, will you not descend
to meet him?' 'Hath he asked for me?' 'No.' 'Well, then, let us not
interrupt his meditations,' he would answer, and remain still at his
reading, so jealous was he lest he should seek the favor of princes and
forget God, as does all the world in our day."
"And because he does not seek the favor of the men of this world he
will be trampled down and slain. Will the God in whom he trusts defend
him?"
The monk pointed expressively upward to the statues that stood
glorified above them, still wearing a rosy radiance, though the
shadows of twilight had fallen on all the city below.
"My son," he said, "the victories of the True Church are not in time,
but in eternity. How many around us were conquered on earth that
they might triumph in heaven! What saith the Apostle? 'They were
tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better
resurrection.'"
"But, alas!" said Agostino, "are we never to see the right triumph
here? I fear that this noble name is written in blood, like so many of
whom the world is not worthy. Can one do nothing to help it?"
"How is that? What have you heard?" said the monk, eagerly. "Have you
seen your uncle?"
"Not yet; he is gone into the country for a day,--so say his servants.
I saw, when the Duke's court passed, my cousin, who is in his train,
and got a moment's speech with him; and he promised, that, if I would
wait for him here, he would come to me as soon as he could be let off
from his attendance. When he comes, it were best that we confer alone."
"I will retire to the southern side," said the monk, "and await the end
of your conference;" and with that he crossed the platform on which
they were standing, and, going down a flight of white marble steps, was
soon lost to view amid the wilderness of frost-like carved work.
He had scarcely vanished, before footsteps were heard ascending the
marble staircase on the other side, and the sound of a voice humming a
popular air of the court.
The stranger was a young man of about five-and-twenty, habited with all
that richness and brilliancy of coloring which the fashion of the day
permitted to a young exquisite. His mantle of purple velvet falling
jauntily off from one shoulder disclosed a doublet of amber satin
richly embroidered with gold and seed-pearl. The long white plume
which drooped from his cap was held in its place by a large diamond
which sparkled like a star in the evening twilight. His finely moulded
hands were loaded with rings, and ruffles of the richest Venetian
lace encircled his wrists. He had worn over all a dark cloak with a
peaked hood, the usual evening disguise in Italy; but as he gained
the top-stair of the platform, he threw it carelessly down and gayly
offered his hand.
"Good even to you, cousin mine! So you see I am as true to my
appointment as if your name were Leonora or Camilla instead of
Agostino. How goes it with you? I wanted to talk with you below, but I
saw we must have a place without listeners. Our friends the saints are
too high in heavenly things to make mischief by eavesdropping."
"Thank you, Cousin Carlos, for your promptness. And now to the point.
Did your father, my uncle, get the letter I wrote him about a month
since?"
"He did; and he bade me treat with you about it. It's an abominable
snarl, this, they have got you into. My father says, your best way
is to come straight to him in France, and abide till things take a
better turn: he is high in favor with the King and can find you a very
pretty place at court, and he takes it upon him in time to reconcile
the Pope. Between you and me, the old Pope has no special spite in
the world against you: he merely wants your lands for his son, and
as long as you prowl round and lay claim to them, why, you must stay
excommunicated; but just clear the coast and leave them peaceably and
he will put you back into the True Church, and my father will charge
himself with your success. Popes don't last forever, or there may come
another falling out with the King of France, and either way there will
be a chance of your being one day put back into your rights; meanwhile,
a young fellow might do worse than have a good place in our court."
During this long monologue, which the young speaker uttered with all
the flippant self-sufficiency of worldly people with whom the world is
going well, the face of the young nobleman who listened presented a
picture of many strong contending emotions.
"You speak," he said, "as if man had nothing to do in this world but
seek his own ease and pleasure. What lies nearest my heart is not that
I am plundered of my estates, and my house uprooted, but it is that my
beautiful Rome, the city of my fathers, is a prisoner under the heel
of the tyrant. It is that the glorious religion of Christ, the holy
faith in which my mother died, the faith made venerable by all these
saints around us, is made the tool and instrument of such vileness and
cruelty that one is tempted to doubt whether it were not better to have
been born of heathen in the good old times of the Roman Republic,--God
forgive me for saying so! Does the most Christian King of France know
that the man who pretends to rule in the name of Christ is not a
believer in the Christian religion,--that he does not believe even in a
God,--that he obtained the holy seat by simony,--that he uses all its
power to enrich a brood of children whose lives are so indecent that it
is a shame to modest lips even to say what they do?"
"Why, of course," said the other, "the King of France is pretty well
informed about all these things. You know old King Charles, when he
marched through Italy, had more than half a mind, they say, to pull the
old Pope out of his place; and he might have done it easily. My father
was in his train at that time, and he says the Pope was frightened
enough. Somehow they made it all up among them, and settled about their
territories, which is the main thing, after all; and now our new King,
I fancy, does not like to meddle with him: between you and me, he
has his eye in another direction here. This gay city would suit him
admirably, and he fancies he can govern it as well as it is governed
now. My father does not visit here with his eyes shut, I can tell you.
But as to the Pope--Well, you see such things are delicate to handle.
After all, my dear Agostino, we are not priests,--our business is with
this world; and, no matter how they came by them, these fellows have
the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and one cannot afford to quarrel
with them,--we must have the ordinances, you know, or what becomes of
our souls? Do you suppose, now, that I should live as gay and easy a
life as I do, if I thought there were any doubt of my salvation? It's a
mercy to us sinners that the ordinances are not vitiated by the sins of
the priests; it would go hard with us, if they were: as it is, if they
will live scandalous lives, it is their affair, not ours."
"And is it nothing," replied the other, "to a true man who has taken
the holy vows of knighthood on him, whether his Lord's religion be
defamed and dishonored and made a scandal and a scoffing? Did not all
Europe go out to save Christ's holy sepulchre from being dishonored
by the feet of the Infidel? and shall we let infidels have the very
house of the Lord, and reign supreme in his holy dwelling-place? There
has risen a holy prophet in Italy, the greatest since the time of
Saint Francis, and his preaching hath stirred all hearts to live more
conformably with our holy faith; and now for his pure life and good
works he is under excommunication of the Pope, and they have seized and
imprisoned him, and threaten his life."
"Oh, you mean Savonarola," said the other. "Yes, we have heard of
him,--a most imprudent, impracticable fellow, who will not take advice
nor be guided. My father, I believe, thought well of him once, and
deemed that in the distracted state of Italy he might prove serviceable
in forwarding some of his plans: but he is wholly wrapt up in his own
notions; he heeds no will but his own."
"Have you heard anything," said Agostino, "of a letter which he wrote
to the King of France lately, stirring him up to call a General Council
of the Christian Church to consider what is to be done about the
scandals at Rome?"
"Then he has written one, has he?" replied the young man; "then the
story that I have heard whispered about here must be true. A man who
certainly is in a condition to know told me day before yesterday that
the Duke had arrested a courier with some such letter, and sent it on
to the Pope: it is likely, for the Duke hates Savonarola. If that be
true, it will go hard with him yet; for the Pope has a long arm for an
enemy."
"And so," said Agostino, with an expression of deep concern, "that
letter, from which the good man hoped so much, and which was so
powerful, will only go to increase his danger!"
"The more fool he!--he might have known that it was of no use. Who was
going to take his part against the Pope?"
"The city of Florence has stood by him until lately," said Agostino,
"and would again, with a little help."
"Oh, no! never think it, my dear Agostino! Depend upon it, it will end
as such things always do, and the man is only a madman that undertakes
it. Hark ye, cousin, what have you to do with this man? Why do you
attach yourself to the side that is sure to lose? I cannot conceive
what you would be at. This is no way to mend your fortunes. Come
to-night to my father's palace: the Duke has appointed us princely
lodgings, and treats us with great hospitality, and my father has plans
for your advantage. Between us, there is a fair young ward of his, of
large estates and noble blood, whom he designs for you. So you see, if
you turn your attention in this channel, there may come a reinforcement
of the family property, which will enable you to hold out until the
Pope dies, or some prince or other gets into a quarrel with him,
which is always happening, and then a move may be made for you. My
father, I'll promise you, is shrewd enough, and always keeps his eye
open to see where there is a joint in the harness, and have a trusty
dagger-blade all whetted to stick under. Of course, he means to see you
righted; he has the family interest at heart, and feels as indignant as
you could at the rascality which has been perpetrated; but I am quite
sure he will tell you that the way is not to come out openly against
the Pope and join this fanatical party."
Agostino stood silent, with the melancholy air of a man who has much
to say, and is deeply moved by considerations which he perceives it
would be utterly idle and useless to attempt to explain. If the easy
theology of his friend were indeed true,--if the treasures of the
heavenly kingdom, glory, honor, and immortality, could indeed be placed
in unholy hands, to be bought and sold and traded in,--if holiness of
heart and life, and all those nobler modes of living and being which
were witnessed in the histories of the thousand saints around him,
were indeed but a secondary thing in the strife for worldly place and
territory,--what, then, remained for the man of ideas, of aspirations?
In such a state of society, his track must be like that of the dove in
sacred history, who found no rest for the sole of her foot.
Agostino folded his arms and sighed deeply, and then made answer
mechanically, as one whose thoughts are afar off.
"Present my duty," he said, "to my uncle, your father, and say to him
that I will wait on him to-night."
"Even so," said the young man, picking up his cloak and folding it
about him. "And now, you know, I must go. Don't be discouraged; keep
up a good heart; you shall see what it is to have powerful friends to
stand by you; all will be right yet. Come, will you go with me now?"
"Thank you," said Agostino, "I think I would be alone a little while.
My head is confused, and I would fain think over matters a little
quietly."
"Well, au revoir, then. I must leave you to the company of the
saints. But be sure and come early."
So saying, he threw his cloak over his shoulder and sauntered
carelessly down the marble steps, humming again the gay air with which
he had ascended.
Left alone, Agostino once more cast a glance on the strangely solemn
and impressive scene around him. He was standing on a platform of the
central tower which overlooked the whole building. The round, full
moon had now risen in the horizon, displacing by her solemn brightness
the glow of twilight; and her beams were reflected by the delicate
frost-work of the myriad pinnacles which rose in a bewildering maze
at his feet. It might seem to be some strange enchanted garden of
fairy-land, where a luxuriant and freakish growth of Nature had been
suddenly arrested and frozen into eternal stillness. Around in the
shadows at the foot of the Cathedral, the lights of the great gay
city twinkled and danced and veered and fluttered like fireflies in
the damp, dewy shadows of some moist meadow in summer. The sound of
clattering hoofs and rumbling wheels, of tinkling guitars and gay
roundelays, rose out of that obscure distance, seeming far off and
plaintive like the dream of a life that is past. The great church
seemed a vast world; the long aisles of statued pinnacles with their
pure floorings of white marble appeared as if they might be the
corridors of heaven; and it seemed as if the crowned and sceptred
saints in their white marriage-garments might come down and walk there,
without ever a spot of earth on their unsullied whiteness.
In a few moments Father Antonio had glided back to the side of the
young man, whom he found so lost in reverie that not till he laid his
hand upon his arm did he awaken from his meditations.
"Ah!" he said, with a start, "my father, is it you?"
"Yes, my son. What of your conference? Have you learned anything?"
"Father, I have learned far more than I wished to know."
"What is it, my son? Speak it at once."
"Well, then, I fear that the letter of our holy father to the King of
France has been intercepted here in Milan, and sent to the Pope."
"What makes you think so?" said the monk, with an eagerness that showed
how much he felt the intelligence.
"My cousin tells me that a person of consideration in the Duke's
household, who is supposed to be in a position to know, told him that
it was so."
Agostino felt the light grasp which the monk had laid upon his arm
gradually closing with a convulsive pressure, and that he was trembling
with intense feeling.
"Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in thy sight!" he said, after a
few moments of silence.
"It is discouraging," said Agostino, "to see how little these princes
care for the true interests of religion and the service of God,--how
little real fealty there is to our Lord Jesus."
"Yes," said the monk, "all seek their own, and not the things that are
Christ's. It is well written, 'Put not your trust in princes.'"
"And what prospect, what hope do you see for him?" said Agostino. "Will
Florence stand firm?"
"I could have thought so once," said the monk, "in those days when I
have seen counselors and nobles and women of the highest degree all
humbly craving to hear the word of God from his lips, and seeming to
seek nothing so much as to purify their houses, their hands, and their
hearts, that they might be worthy citizens of that commonwealth which
has chosen the Lord Jesus for its gonfalonier. I have seen the very
children thronging to kiss the hem of his robe, as he walked through
the streets; but, oh, my friend, did not Jerusalem bring palms and
spread its garments in the way of Christ only four days before he was
crucified?"
The monk's voice here faltered. He turned away, and seemed to wrestle
with a tempest of suppressed sobbing. A moment more, he looked
heavenward and pointed up with a smile.
"Son," he said, "you ask what hope there is. I answer, There is hope
of such crowns as these wear who came out of great tribulation and now
reign with Christ in glory."
CHAPTER XXIII
THE PILGRIMAGE
The morning sun rose clear and lovely on the old red rocks of Sorrento,
and danced in a thousand golden scales and ripples on the wide
Mediterranean. The shadows of the gorge were pierced by long golden
shafts of light, here falling on some moist bed of crimson cyclamen,
there shining through a waving tuft of gladiolus, or making the
abundant yellow fringes of the broom more vivid in their brightness.
The velvet-mossy old bridge, in the far shadows at the bottom, was lit
up by a chance beam, and seemed as if it might be something belonging
to fairy-land.
There had been a bustle and stir betimes in the little dove-cot, for
to-morrow the inmates were to leave it for a long, adventurous journey.
To old Elsie, the journey back to Rome, the city of her former days
of prosperity, the place which had witnessed her ambitious hopes, her
disgrace and downfall, was full of painful ideas. There arose to her
memory, like a picture, those princely halls, with their slippery, cold
mosaic floors, their long galleries of statues and paintings, their
enchanting gardens, musical with the voice of mossy fountains, fragrant
with the breath of roses and jasmines, where the mother of Agnes had
spent the hours of her youth and beauty. She seemed to see her flitting
hither and thither down the stately ilex-avenues, like some gay
singing-bird, to whom were given gilded cages and a constant round of
caresses and sweets, or like the flowers in the parterres, which lived
and died only as the graceful accessories of the grandeur of an old
princely family.
She compared, mentally, the shaded and secluded life which Agnes had
led with the specious and fatal brilliancy which had been the lot of
her mother,--her simple peasant garb with those remembered visions of
jewelry and silk and embroideries with which the partial patronage of
the Duchess or the ephemeral passion of her son had decked out the poor
Isella; and then came swelling at her heart a tumultuous thought, one
which she had repressed and kept down for years with all the force of
pride and hatred. Agnes, peasant-girl though she seemed, had yet the
blood of that proud old family in her veins; the marriage had been a
true one; she herself had witnessed it.
"Yes, indeed," she said to herself, "were justice done, she would now
be a princess,--a fit mate for the nobles of the land; and here I ask
no more than to mate her to an honest smith,--I that have seen a prince
kneel to kiss her mother's hand,--yes, he did,--entreat her on his
knees to be his wife,--I saw it. But then, what came of it? Was there
ever one of these nobles that kept oath or promise to us of the people,
or that cared for us longer than the few moments we could serve his
pleasure? Old Elsie, you have done wisely! keep your dove out of the
eagle's nest: it is foul with the blood of poor innocents whom he has
torn to pieces in his cruel pride!"
These thoughts swelled in silence in the mind of Elsie, while she was
busy sorting and arranging her household stores, and making those
thousand-and-one preparations known to every householder, whether of
much or little, who meditates a long journey.
To Agnes she seemed more than ever severe and hard; yet probably there
never was a time when every pulse of her heart was beating more warmly
for the child, and every thought of the future was more entirely
regulated with reference to her welfare. It is no sinecure to have the
entire devotion of a strong, enterprising, self-willed friend, as Agnes
had all her life found. One cannot gather grapes of thorns or figs of
thistles, and the affection of thorny and thistly natures has often
as sharp an acid and as long prickers as wild gooseberries; yet it is
their best, and must be so accepted.
Agnes tried several times to offer her help to her grandmother, but
was refused so roughly that she dared not offer again, and therefore
went to her favorite station by the parapet in the garden, whence she
could look up and down the gorge, and through the arches of the old
mossy Roman bridge that spanned it far down by the city-wall. All these
things had become dear to her by years of familiar silent converse.
The little garden, with its old sculptured basin and the ever-lulling
dash of falling water; the tremulous draperies of maiden's-hair, always
beaded with shining drops; the old shrine, with its picture, its lamp,
and flower-vase; the tall, dusky orange-trees, so full of blossoms and
fruit, so smooth and shining in their healthy bark,--all seemed to
her as so many dear old friends whom she was about to leave, perhaps
forever.
What this pilgrimage would be like, she scarcely knew: days and weeks
of wandering,--over mountain-passes; in deep, solitary valleys,--as
years ago, when her grandmother brought her, a little child, from Rome.
In the last few weeks, Agnes seemed to herself to have become wholly
another being. Silently, insensibly, her feet had crossed the enchanted
river that divides childhood from womanhood, and all the sweet ignorant
joys of that first early paradise lay behind her. Up to this time her
life had seemed to her a charming dream, full of blessed visions and
images: legends of saints, and hymns, and prayers had blended with
flower-gatherings in the gorge, and light daily toils.
Now a new, strange life had been born within her,--a life full of
passions, contradictions, and conflicts. A love had sprung up in her
heart, strange and wonderful, for one who till within these few weeks
had been entirely unknown to her, who had never toiled for, or housed,
or clothed, or cared for her as her grandmother had, and yet whom a few
short interviews, a few looks, a few words, had made to seem nearer
and dearer than the old, tried friends of her childhood. In vain she
confessed it as a sin, in vain she strove against it; it came back to
her in every hymn, in every prayer. Then she would press the sharp
cross to her breast, till a thousand stings of pain would send the
blood in momentary rushes to her pale cheek, and cause her delicate
lips to contract with an expression of stern endurance, and pray that
by any penance and anguish she might secure his salvation.
To save one such glorious soul, she said to herself, was work enough
for one little life. She was willing to spend it all in endurance,
unseen by him, unknown to him, so that at last he should be received
into that Paradise which her ardent imagination conceived so vividly.
Surely, there she should meet him, radiant as the angel of her dream;
and then she would tell him that it was all for his sake that she had
refused to listen to him here. And these sinful longings to see him
once more, these involuntary reachings of her soul after an earthly
companionship, she should find strength to overcome in this pilgrimage.
She should go to Rome,--the very city where the blessed Paul poured
out his blood for the Lord Jesus,--where Peter fed the flock, till his
time, too, came to follow his Lord in the way of the cross. She should
even come near to her blessed Redeemer; she should go up, on her knees,
those very steps to Pilate's hall where He stood bleeding, crowned with
thorns,--His blood, perhaps, dropping on the very stones. Ah, could
any mortal love distract her there? Should she not there find her
soul made free of every earthly thrall to love her Lord alone,--as she
had loved Him in the artless and ignorant days of her childhood,--but
better, a thousand times?
"Good-morning to you, pretty dove!" said a voice from without the
garden-wall; and Agnes, roused from her reverie, saw old Jocunda.
"I came down to help you off," she said, as she came into the little
garden. "Why, my dear little saint! you are looking white as a sheet,
and with those tears! What's it all for, baby?"
"Ah, Jocunda! grandmamma is angry with me all the time now. I wish I
could go once more to the convent and see my dear Mother Theresa. She
is angry, if I but name it; and yet she will not let me do anything
here to help her, and so I don't know what to do."
"Well, at any rate, don't cry, pretty one! Your grandmamma is worked
with hard thoughts. We old folks are twisted and crabbed and full of
knots with disappointment and trouble, like the mulberry-trees that
they keep for vines to run on. But I'll speak to her; I know her ways;
she shall let you go; I'll bring her round."
"So-ho, sister!" said the old soul, hobbling to the door and looking
in at Elsie, who was sitting flat on the stone floor of her cottage,
sorting a quantity of flax that lay around her. The severe Roman
profile was thrown out by the deep shadows of the interior,--and the
piercing black eyes, the silver-white hair, and the strong, compressed
lines of the mouth, as she worked, and struggled with the ghosts of her
former life, made her look like no unapt personification of one of the
Fates reviewing her flax before she commenced the spinning of some new
web of destiny.
"Good-morning to you, sister!" said Jocunda. "I heard you were off
to-morrow, and I came to see what I could do to help you."
"There's nothing to be done for me, but to kill me," said Elsie. "I am
weary of living."
"Oh, never say that! Shake the dice again, my old man used to say,--God
rest his soul! Please Saint Agnes, you'll have a brave pilgrimage."
"Saint Agnes be hanged!" said Elsie, gruffly. "I'm out with her.
It was she put all these notions into my girl's head. Because she
didn't get married herself, she don't want any one else to. She has
no consideration. I've done with her: I told her so this morning. The
candles I've burned and the prayers I've gone through with, that she
might prosper me in this one thing! and it's all gone against me. She's
a baggage, and shall never see another penny of mine,--that's flat!"
Such vituperation of saints and sacred images may be heard to this day
in Italy, and is a common feature of idol-worship in all lands; for,
however the invocation of the saints could be vitalized in the hearts
of the few spiritual, there is no doubt that in the mass of the common
people it had all the well-defined symptoms of the grossest idolatry,
among which fits of passionate irreverence are one. The feeling which
tempts the enlightened Christian in sore disappointment and vexation to
rise in rebellion against a wise Providence, in the childish twilight
of uncultured natures finds its full expression unawed by reverence or
fear.
"Oh, hush, now!" said Jocunda. "What is the use of making her angry
just as you are going to Rome, where she has the most power? All sorts
of ill-luck will befall you. Make up with her before you start, or you
may get the fever in the marshes and die, and then who will take care
of poor Agnes?"
"Let Saint Agnes look after her; the girl loves her better than she
does me, or anybody else," said Elsie. "If she cared anything about me,
she'd marry and settle down, as I want her to."
"Oh, there you are wrong," said Jocunda. "Marrying is like your dinner:
one is not always in stomach for it, and one's meat is another's
poison. Now who knows but this pilgrimage may be the very thing to
bring the girl round? I've seen people cured of too much religion by
going to Rome. You know things ain't there as our little saint fancies.
Why, between you and me, the priests themselves have their jokes on
those who come so far to so little purpose. More shame for 'em, say I,
too; but we common people mustn't look into such things too closely.
Now take it cheerfully, and you'll see the girl will come back tired
of tramping and able to settle down in a good home with a likely
husband. I have a brother in Naples who is turning a pretty penny in
the fisheries; I will give you directions to find him; his wife is a
wholesome Christian woman; and if the little one be tired by the time
you get there, you might do worse than stop two or three days with
them. It's a brave city; seems made to have a good time in. Come, you
let her just run up to the convent to bid good-by to the Mother Theresa
and the sisters."
"I don't care where she goes," said Elsie, ungraciously.
"There, now!" said Jocunda, coming out, "Agnes, your grandmother bids
you go to the convent to say good-by to the sisters; so run along,
there's a little dear. The Mother Theresa talks of nothing else but you
since she heard that you meditated this; and she has broken in two her
own piece of the True Cross which she's carried in the gold and pearl
reliquary that the Queen sent her, and means to give it to you. One
doesn't halve such gifts, without one's whole heart goes with them."
"Dear mother!" said Agnes, her eyes filling with tears, "I will take
her some flowers and oranges for the last time. Do you know, Jocunda, I
feel that I never shall come back here to this dear little home where
I have been so happy,--everything sounds so mournful and looks so
mournful!--I love everything here so much!"
"Oh, dear child, never give in to such fancies, but pluck up heart.
You will be sure to have luck, wherever you go,--especially since the
mother will give you that holy relic. I myself had a piece of Saint
John Baptist's thumbnail sewed up in a leather bag, which I wore day
and night all the years I was tramping up and down with my old man; but
when he died, I had it buried with him to ease his soul. For you see,
dear, he was a trooper, and led such a rackety up-and-down life, that I
doubt but his confessions were but slipshod, and he needed all the help
he could get, poor old soul! It's a comfort to think he has it."
"Ah, Jocunda, seems to me it were better to trust to the free love of
our dear Lord who died for us, and pray to Him, without ceasing, for
his soul."
"Like enough, dearie; but then, one can't be too sure, you know. And
there isn't the least doubt in my mind that that was a true relic,
for I got it in the sack of the city of Volterra, out of the private
cabinet of a noble lady, with a lot of jewels and other matters that
made quite a little purse for us. Ah, that was a time, when that city
was sacked! It was hell upon earth for three days, and all our men
acted like devils incarnate; but then they always will in such cases.
But go your ways now, dearie, and I'll stay with your grandmamma; for,
please God, you must be up and away with the sun to-morrow."
Agnes hastily arranged a little basket of fruit and flowers, and
took her way down through the gorge, under the Roman bridge, through
an orange-orchard, and finally came out upon the seashore, and so
along the sands below the cliffs on which the old town of Sorrento is
situated.
So cheating and inconsistent is the human heart, especially in the
feminine subject, that she had more than once occasion to chide
herself for the thrill with which she remembered passing the cavalier
once in this orange-garden, and the sort of vague hope which she
detected that somewhere along this road he might appear again.
"How perfectly wicked and depraved I must be," she said to herself, "to
find any pleasure in such a thought of one I should pray never to meet
again!"
And so the little soul went on condemning herself in those exaggerated
terms which the religious vocabulary of conventual life furnished
ready-made for the use of penitents of every degree, till by the time
she arrived at the convent she could scarcely have been more oppressed
with a sense of sin, if she had murdered her grandmother and eloped
with the cavalier.
On her arrival in the convent court, the peaceful and dreamy stillness
contrasted strangely with the gorgeous brightness of the day outside.
The splendid sunshine, the sparkling seas, the songs of the boatmen,
the brisk passage of gliding sails, the bright hues of the flowers that
garlanded the rocks, all seemed as if the earth had been arrayed for
some gala-day; but the moment she had passed the portal, the silent,
mossy court, with its pale marble nymph, its lull of falling water, its
turf snow-dropt with daisies and fragrant with blue and white violets,
and the surrounding cloistered walks, with their pictured figures of
pious history, all came with a sad and soothing influence on her nerves.
The nuns, who had heard the news of the projected pilgrimage, and
regarded it as the commencement of that saintly career which they had
always predicted for her, crowded around her, kissing her hands and
her robe, and entreating her prayers at different shrines of especial
sanctity that she might visit.
The Mother Theresa took her to her cell, and there hung round her neck,
by a golden chain, the relic which she designed for her, and of whose
genuineness she appeared to possess no manner of doubt.
"But how pale you are, my sweet child!" she said. "What has happened to
alter you so much? Your cheeks look so thin, and there are deep, dark
circles round your eyes."
"Ah, my mother, it is because of my sins."
"Your sins, dear little one! What sins can you be guilty of?"
"Ah, my dear mother, I have been false to my Lord, and let the love of
an earthly creature into my heart."
"What can you mean?" said the mother.
"Alas, dear mother, the cavalier who sent that ring!" said Agnes,
covering her face with her hands.
Now the Mother Theresa had never left the walls of that convent since
she was ten years old,--had seen no men except her father and uncle,
who once or twice made her a short call, and an old hunchback who took
care of their garden, safe in his armor of deformity. Her ideas on the
subject of masculine attractions were, therefore, as vague as might be
the conceptions of the eyeless fishes in the Mammoth Cave of Kentucky
with regard to the fruits and flowers above ground. All that portion of
her womanly nature which might have throbbed lay in a dead calm. Still
there was a faint flutter of curiosity, as she pressed Agnes to tell
her story, which she did with many pauses and sobs and blushes.
"And is he so very handsome, my little heart?" she said, after
listening. "What makes you love him so much in so little time?"
"Yes,--he is beautiful as an angel."
"I never saw a young man, really," said the Mother Theresa. "Uncle
Angelo was lame, and had gray hair; and papa was very fat, and had a
red face. Perhaps he looks like our picture of Saint Sebastian;--I have
often thought that I might be in danger of loving a young man that
looked like him."
"Oh, he is more beautiful than that picture or any picture!" said
Agnes, fervently; "and, mother, though he is excommunicated, I can't
help feeling that he is as good as he is beautiful. My uncle had strong
hopes that he should restore him to the True Church; and to pray for
his soul I am going on this pilgrimage. Father Francesco says, if I
will tear away and overcome this love, I shall gain so much merit that
my prayers will have power to save his soul. Promise me, dear mother,
that you and all the sisters will help me with your prayers;--help me
to work out this great salvation, and then I shall be so glad to come
back here and spend all my life in prayer!"
CHAPTER XXIV
THE MOUNTAIN FORTRESS
And so on a bright spring morning our pilgrims started. Whoever has
traversed the road from Sorrento to Naples, that wonderful path along
the high rocky shores of the Mediterranean, must remember it only as
a wild dream of enchantment. On one side lies the sea, shimmering
in bands of blue, purple, and green to the swaying of gentle winds,
exhibiting those magical shiftings and changes of color peculiar
to these waves. Near the land its waters are of pale, transparent
emerald, while farther out they deepen into blue and thence into a
violet-purple, which again, towards the horizon-line, fades into misty
pearl-color. The shores rise above the sea in wild, bold precipices,
grottoed into fantastic caverns by the action of the waves, and
presenting every moment some new variety of outline. As the path of
the traveler winds round promontories whose mountain-heights are
capped by white villages and silvery with olive-groves, he catches the
enchanting sea-view, now at this point, and now at another, with Naples
glimmering through the mists in the distance, and the purple sides of
Vesuvius ever changing with streaks and veins of cloud-shadows, while
silver vapors crown the summit. Above the road the steep hills seem
piled up to the sky,--every spot terraced, and cultivated with some
form of vegetable wealth, and the wild, untamable rocks garlanded
over with golden broom, crimson gillyflowers, and a thousand other
bright adornments. The road lies through villages whose gardens and
orange-orchards fill the air with sweet scents, and whose rose-hedges
sometimes pour a perfect cascade of bloom and fragrance over the walls.
Our travelers started in the dewy freshness of one of those gorgeous
days which seem to cast an illuminating charm over everything.
Even old Elsie's stern features relaxed somewhat under the balmy
influences of sun and sky, and Agnes's young, pale face was lit up
with a brighter color than for many a day before. Their pilgrimage
through this beautiful country had few incidents. They walked in the
earlier and latter parts of the day, reposing a few hours at noon
near some fountain or shrine by the wayside,--often experiencing the
kindly veneration of the simple peasantry, who cheerfully offered them
refreshments, and begged their prayers at the holy places whither they
were going.
In a few days they reached Naples, where they made a little stop with
the hospitable family to whom Jocunda had recommended them. From Naples
their path lay through the Pontine Marshes; and though the malaria
makes this region a word of fear, yet it is no less one of strange,
soft, enchanting beauty. A wide, sea-like expanse, clothed with an
abundance of soft, rich grass, painted with golden bands and streaks of
bright yellow flowers, stretches away to a purple curtain of mountains,
whose romantic outline rises constantly in a thousand new forms of
beauty. The upland at the foot of these mountains is beautifully
diversified with tufts of trees, and the contrast of the purple
softness of the distant hills with the dazzling gold and emerald of the
wide meadow-tracts they enclose is a striking feature in the landscape.
Droves of silver-haired oxen, with their great, dreamy, dark eyes and
polished black horns, were tranquilly feeding knee-deep in the lush,
juicy grass, and herds of buffaloes, uncouth, but harmless, might be
seen pasturing or reposing in the distance. On either side of the way
were waving tracts of yellow fleur-de-lis, and beds of arum, with its
arrowy leaves and white blossoms. It was a wild luxuriance of growth, a
dreamy stillness of solitude, so lovely that one could scarce remember
that it was deadly.
Elsie was so impressed with the fear of the malaria, that she
trafficked with an honest peasant, who had been hired to take back to
Rome the horses which had been used to convey part of the suite of a
nobleman traveling to Naples, to give them a quicker passage across
than they could have made on foot. It is true that this was quite
contrary to the wishes of Agnes, who felt that the journey ought to be
performed in the most toilsome and self-renouncing way, and that they
should trust solely to prayer and spiritual protection to ward off the
pestilential exhalations.
In vain she quoted the Psalm, "Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror
by night, nor for the arrow that flieth by day, nor for the pestilence
that walketh in darkness, nor for the destruction that wasteth at
noon-day," and adduced cases of saints who had walked unhurt through
all sorts of dangers.
"There's no use talking, child," said Elsie. "I'm older than you, and
have seen more of real men and women; and whatever they did in old
times, I know that nowadays the saints don't help those that don't take
care of themselves; and the long and the short of it is, we must ride
across those marshes, and get out of them as quick as possible, or we
shall get into Paradise quicker than we want to."
In common with many other professing Christians, Elsie felt that going
to Paradise was the very dismalest of alternatives,--a thing to be
staved off as long as possible.
After many days of journeying, the travelers, somewhat weary and
foot-sore, found themselves in a sombre and lonely dell of the
mountains, about an hour before the going down of the sun. The
slanting yellow beams turned to silvery brightness the ashy foliage
of the gnarled old olives, which gaunt and weird clung with their
great, knotty, straggling roots to the rocky mountain-sides. Before
them, the path, stony, steep, and winding, was rising upward and still
upward, and no shelter for the night appeared, except in a distant
mountain-town, which, perched airily as an eagle's nest on its hazy
height, reflected from the dome of its church and its half-ruined
old feudal tower the golden light of sunset. A drowsy-toned bell was
ringing out the Ave Maria over the wide purple solitude of mountains,
whose varying outlines were rising around.
"You are tired, my little heart," said old Elsie to Agnes, who had
drooped during a longer walk than usual.
"No, grandmamma," said Agnes, sinking on her knees to repeat her
evening prayer, which she did, covering her face with her hands.
Old Elsie kneeled too; but, as she was praying,--being a thrifty
old body in the use of her time,--she cast an eye up the steep
mountain-path and calculated the distance of the little airy village.
Just at that moment she saw two or three horsemen, who appeared to be
stealthily observing them from behind the shadow of some large rocks.
When their devotions were finished, she hurried on her grandchild
saying,--
"Come, dearie! it must be we shall find a shelter soon."
The horsemen now rode up behind them.
"Good-evening, mother!" said one of them, speaking from under the
shadow of a deeply slouched hat.
Elsie made no reply, but hurried forward.
"Good-evening, pretty maid!" he said again, riding still nearer.
"Go your ways in the name of God," said Elsie. "We are pilgrims, going
for our souls to Rome; and whoever hinders us will have the saints to
deal with."
"Who talks of hindering you, mother?" responded the other. "On the
contrary, we come for the express purpose of helping you along."
"We want none of your help," said Elsie, gruffly.
"See, now, how foolish you are!" said the horseman. "Don't you see that
that town is a good seven miles off, and not a bit of bed or supper to
be had till you get there, and the sun will be down soon? So mount up
behind me, and here is a horse for the little one."
In fact, the horsemen at this moment opening disclosed to view a
palfrey with a lady's saddle, richly caparisoned, as if for a person
of condition. With a sudden movement, two of the men dismounted,
confronted the travelers, and the one who had acted as spokesman,
approaching Agnes, said, in a tone somewhat imperative,--
"Come, young lady, it is our master's will that your poor little feet
should have some rest."
And before Agnes could remonstrate, he raised her into the saddle as
easily as if she had been a puff of thistledown, and then turning to
Elsie, he said,--
"For you, good mother, if you wish to keep up, you must e'en be content
with a seat behind me."
"Who are you? and how dare you?" said Elsie, indignantly.
"Good mother," said the man, "you see God's will is that you should
submit, because we are four to you two, and there are fifty more within
call. So get up without more words, and I swear by the Holy Virgin no
harm shall be done you."
Elsie looked and saw Agnes already some distance before her, the bridle
of her palfrey being held by one of the horsemen, who rode by her side
and seemed to look after her carefully; and so, without more ado, she
accepted the services of the man, and, placing her foot on the toe of
his riding-boot, mounted to the crupper behind him.
"That is right," said he. "Now hold on to me lustily, and be not
afraid."
So saying, the whole troop began winding as rapidly as possible up the
steep, rocky path to the mountain-town.
Notwithstanding the surprise and alarm of this most unexpected
adventure, Agnes, who had been at the very point of exhaustion from
fatigue, could not but feel the sensation of relief and repose which
the seat in an easy saddle gave her. The mountain air, as they rose,
breathed fresh and cold on her brow, and a prospect of such wondrous
beauty unrolled beneath her feet that her alarm soon became lost in
admiration. The mountains that rose everywhere around them seemed to
float in a transparent sea of luminous vapor, with olive-orchards
and well-tilled fields lying in far, dreamy distances below, while
out towards the horizon silver gleams of the Mediterranean gradually
widened to the view. Soothed by the hour, refreshed by the air, and
filled with admiration for the beauty of all she saw, she surrendered
herself to her situation with a feeling of solemn religious calm, as
to some unfolding of the Divine Will, which might unroll like the
landscape beneath her. They pursued their way in silence, rising higher
and higher out of the shadows of the deep valleys below, the man who
conducted them observing a strict reserve, but seeming to have a care
for their welfare.
The twilight yet burned red in the sky, and painted with solemn lights
the mossy walls of the little old town, as they plunged under a
sombre antique gateway, and entered on a street as damp and dark as a
cellar, which went up almost perpendicularly between tall, black stone
walls that seemed to have neither windows nor doors. Agnes could only
remember clambering upward, turning short corners, clattering down
steep stone steps, under low archways, along narrow, ill-smelling
passages, where the light that seemed so clear without the town was
almost extinguished in utter night.
At last they entered the damp court of a huge, irregular pile of stone
buildings. Here the men suddenly drew up, and Agnes's conductor,
dismounting, came and took her silently from her saddle, saying
briefly, "Come this way."
Elsie sprang from her seat in a moment, and placed herself at the side
of her child.
"No, good mother," said the man with whom she had ridden, seizing her
powerfully by the shoulders, and turning her round.
"What do you mean?" said Elsie, fiercely. "Are you going to keep me
from my own child?"
"Patience!" replied the man. "You can't help yourself, so recommend
yourself to God, and no harm shall come to you."
Agnes looked back at her grandmother.
"Fear not, dear grandmamma," she said, "the blessed angels will watch
over us."
As she spoke, she followed her conductor through long, damp, mouldering
passages, and up flights of stone steps, and again through other long
passages, smelling of mould and damp, till at last he opened the door
of an apartment from which streamed a light so dazzling to the eyes of
Agnes that at first she could form no distinct conception as to where
she was.
As soon as her eyesight cleared, she found herself in an apartment
which to her simplicity seemed furnished with an unheard-of luxury.
The walls were richly frescoed and gilded, and from a chandelier of
Venetian glass the light fell upon a foot-cloth of brilliant tapestry
which covered the marble floor. Gilded chairs and couches, covered with
the softest Genoese velvet, invited to repose; while tables inlaid
with choice mosaics stood here and there, sustaining rare vases,
musical instruments, and many of the light, fanciful ornaments with
which, in those days, the halls of women of condition were graced. At
one end of the apartment was an alcove, where the rich velvet curtains
were looped away with heavy cords and tassels of gold, displaying
a smaller room, where was a bed with hangings of crimson satin
embroidered with gold.
Agnes stood petrified with amazement, and put her hand to her head, as
if to assure herself by the sense of touch that she was not dreaming,
and then, with an impulse of curious wonder, began examining the
apartment. The rich furniture and the many adornments, though only such
as were common in the daily life of the great at that period, had for
her simple eyes all the marvelousness of the most incredible illusion.
She touched the velvet couches almost with fear, and passed from object
to object in a sort of maze. When she arrived at the alcove, she
thought she heard a slight rustling within, and then a smothered laugh.
Her heart beat quick as she stopped to listen. There was a tittering
sound, and a movement as if some one were shaking the curtain, and at
last Giulietta stood in the door-way.
For a moment Agnes stood looking at her in utter bewilderment. Yes,
surely it was Giulietta, dressed out in all the bravery of splendid
apparel, her black hair shining and lustrous, great solid ear-rings of
gold shaking in her ears, and a row of gold coins displayed around her
neck.
She broke into a loud laugh at the sight of Agnes's astonished face.
"So, here you are!" she said. "Well, now, didn't I tell you so? You see
he was in love with you, just as I said; and if you wouldn't come to
him of your own accord, he must fly off with you."
"Oh, Giulietta!" said Agnes, springing towards her and catching her
hands, "what does all this mean? and where have they carried poor
grandmamma?"
