now, and get yourself in a glow. We will follow." 
As they were ascending the hill upon the other side of 
the spring-stream, she subjoined an explanation of the request she had urged with regard to her fortune. 
" I was put upon my guard against Colonel Floyd's 
probable machinations, by a story told me by my cousin, 
Miss Rogers, when she paid us a visit in October. She 
was an intimate friend of Lily's mother, and having taken 
quite a fancy to my society, confided to me certain incidents 
of the family history, which I had never heard until then. 
Among others, she mentioned that Colonel Floyd, as his 
father's executor and sister's guardian, had her share of the 
estate secured to herself prior to her marriage with Mr. 
Calvert, and, as seemed natural and proper to most people, 
assumed the trusteeship of the same. Either Mr. Calvert 
resented this as an imputation upon his honor, or an implication of his inability to manage his wife's property, for, 
shortly after the wedding-day, a coolness grew up between 
the brothers-in-law, which greatly distressed Mrs. Calvert. 
There were serious threats made by her husband of a law 
suit to recover that which, he alleged in Miss Rogers's hear 
ing, had been dishonestly abstracted by Colonel Floyd from 
his sister's portion ; proceedings which were suspended by 
his own tragic death. It is always best to avoid litigation 
by having these questions settled beforehand." 
" What a business head you have !" replied Robert, much 
amused. "I had not supposed that you knew how many 
cents make a dollar. Very few of the Floyds are endowed 
with arithmetical talents. Your uncle, for example, is utterly ignorant of the value of the prime idol of the Yankee 
nation." 
" He understands the rule of subtraction, as your pockets 
can attest. You are mistaken as to his regard for money. 
He is an odd compound of extravagance and covetousness." 
At the yard-gate she stopped. 
" Do not judge me harshly for to-night's talk !" she said, 
almost sadly. " I suppose that I must appear to you wofully 
common-place and practical ; censorious in judgment and 
rigorous in action, for you are charitable and lenient to a 
proverb. But I have only your good at heart ; desire to do 
that which will be best for us both. I do endeavor con 
scientiously to study your interests, Robert !" 
He made some comforting response, and there the subject 
rested. 
He was not, however, so blindly in love, that the sub 
stance, no less than the tone of this last sentence, did not fall 
gratingly upon his sensitive ear. It was, of course, pleasant, 
or ought to have been, to know that she looked upon their 
interests as identical; to see that her manner of speaking of 
these was characterized by the clear-sighted zeal and pru 
dence of the wife, rather than the bewitching hesitancy of 
the blushing bride. Yet, in his heart, he felt a lack of some 
thing, a deficiency that was at once indefinable and painful. 
Her bearing was not too free that could never happen 
still, a trifling diffidence, a dash of coyness would have imparted to it an additional charm. The fruit ripe, rich, and 
round was his, and he was proud and thankful in its possession ; but he could have wished that the downy velvet, 
shading and softening its bloom, had not been so carefully 
 
and thoroughly rubbed off before the treasure was given. 
He could not resist a ridiculous preference for the " Loves of 
the Angels," as a lover's text-book, above ledger or bank- 
account, let them be never so accurately balanced, and largely 
in his favor. 
Above all, that word, " conscientiously," offended his 
spiritual nervous organization. Regard unmeasured, be 
cause immeasurable, Solictiude, loving and anxious-eyed 
Aphrodite, born out of the waves of this boundless love ; 
these would have been to him as the waters of the river of 
Life and the fruit that grows thereby. But he did not want 
to be loved " conscientiously." He did not care to be informed that there was, on her side, a " conscientious endeavor" 
to think of and to do whatever would conduce to his happiness. 
Moreover, but this was a secondary and very inferior 
consideration, he could not divest himself of a disagreeable 
expectation of an unpleasant, if not a violent scene with Colonel Floyd, when they came to the question of the final set 
tlement ; feared lest the retraction of his partial pledge that 
all should be done in consonance with the guardian's desire, 
would place him, the bridegroom, in a false and humiliating position. 
Keeping these misgivings and his dissatisfaction to him 
self, he parted from Helen in the hall, with the fond, gentle 
smile she alone of all women ever had from him, and repair 
ed .to the drawing-room, whence had proceeded the sounds 
of music and laughter the outdoor promenaders had heard where they reached the house. 
A lady, elderly, and who had never been pretty, a governess in one of the aristocratic families there represented, 
was at the piano, playing a lively waltz ; and six or eight 
couples were whirling around the room, in the exultant swing 
of that entrancing dance. Making a wide circuit to avoid 
collisions, Robert succeeded in stationing himself by the side 
of the musician. The piece she was playing was an unfamiliar one to her, and, dexterous and true as were her fingers, 
she dared not remove her eyes from the sheet. There was 
no need for her to see his features to assure herself who 
turned the leaves with a volte subite movement, bespeaking 
an intelligent eye and a hand trained to the like gallant offices. 
She knew who had won for himself the appellation of " the 
wall-flowers friend," and shunned not to maintain his right 
to the title by rendering attentions as graceful and assiduous 
to the neglected children of beauty and fortune, as to the 
most pampered darlings of both. Poor Miss Carter's lank, 
starched figure and dyed silk dress covered a heart slightly 
indurated and withered by twenty years thankless drudgery 
in her present profession; but there were hidden away 
there, in shady, jealously-screened recesses, kept green by 
the dews and occasional freshets of sentiment and memory, stray blossoms and modest mosses of romance and 
feeling, whose existence would have been scoffed at by the 
patrons and acquaintances of the " old maid teacher." And 
never did these bits of verdure and bloom quiver with more 
vitality than beneath the sunshine of Robert Lay's smile. 
She was not in love with him ; she never deluded herself 
with the chimera that a single thought of her visited him 
when she was out of his sight ; but in her mental, or 
rather heart portrait-gallery how scantily furnished, it 
would have given you a heart-ache to see ! he was en 
shrined a stainless hero. 
He offered her a glass of water when the tiresome round 
of variations was at an end, and advised that she should 
rest her strained fingers for a time. But no ! the dancers 
were ready to begin again, and so must she be also, or give 
offence. Automatons and ill-paid governesses are not expected to complain of fafrgue in the service of their masters. 
" At least, play something that you know," said Robert. 
"That will be less exhausting to the head only finger- 
work! You can talk then !" 
With himself, he meant, for every other available masculine specimen of humanity had a partner. He hardly 
merited all the credit for self-denial she inwardly heaped 
upon him, as his pleasant sayings enlivened the monotony 
of her occupation, for it cost him little trouble to keep 
aloof from the dancers, so long as Helen did not appear. 
He did not witness her entrance. The first intimation he 
had of her presence was the sight of her at Miss Carter's 
back, when this set of waltzes was likewise concluded. 
" You should not have been appointed to this work to 
night, Miss Carter !" she said. "You are not well enough. 
Does your head ache very badly now ?" 
" Thank you ! it is about the same." 
With a gesture and three words, Helen swept her from 
the piano-stool and established herself upon it ; shook her 
head in smiling wilfulness in response to the grateful lady's 
remonstrances, and drowned their continuation in a pealing 
march. Robert conducted Miss Carter to an easy-chair ; 
found a fan and a bottle of sal-volatile for her, and went 
back to the instrument. 
The pale, weary governess watched the pair with deep 
and affectionate interest. They were so young and noble ; 
so admirably adapted each to the other, in virtues, manner, 
and disposition, and their mutual attachment so beautiful to 
behold, it was not marvellous that the romance into which 
she wove their united lives had not, in its bright texture, 
one sable thread. If the sigh which heaved her bosom was 
an inaudible and hopeless lament over her barren life and 
departed youth, it was untainted by envy of their different 
and more blessed lot. Presently Helen glanced up at her 
betrothed, and said something, briefly and positively. He 
made reply, seemingly, by an interrogation, and upon receipt 
of her answer turned away, and. joined himself to the band 
of revellers. He went directly up to Lily Calvert, offered 
his hand, which was smilingly accepted, and they took their 
position in a cotillion that was just forming. 
The music flowed out in a bolder, quicker measure, and 
light feet beat time over the floor. Still the silent, unnoticed governess kept watch upon the now lonely per 
former free now, moreover, to indulge at will in the en 
chanting maiden visions that attend brilliant- winged and 
willing sprites upon the meditations of the " young, loving, 
and beloved." Yet Miss Carter saw the fine, mobile 
features subside into pensiveness ; then, fixed sadness ; the 
eye settle into melancholy steadiness a sort of introverted 
look which told plainly enough that the source of her grief 
was not far away, nor beyond herself. While the spectator 
was taxing the meagre stores of her experimental knowledge of Love's mysteries for a solution of this enigma, 
Aleck Lay drew near, deputed by his partner to convey 
some message to the dreaming pianist. A red tide rushed 
over Helen's face as he spoke to her ; she started ; lost 
time, skill, and tune, her hands crashing heavily down upon 
the keys ; and a harsh, loud discord from th.e thrilling wires 
brought the dance to an untimely pause. 
" What is the matter ?" " Go on !" cried a chorus of 
voices. 
" It was my fault !" Aleck's sonorous tones quelled the 
Babel of inquiry. " I interrupted her and did all the mischief. I ask a million pardons !" he pursued laughingly, to 
the drooping and abashed musician. " It was thoughtless 
and awkward in me to accost you so abruptly, when I might 
have seen that you were intent upon your music. It shall 
be a wholesome lesson to me for the future. I was about to 
ask you to play a little faster a very little, if you please." 
An irrepressible impulse of gratitude made her lift her eyes 
to his, and he saw that they were full of tears. This might 
be the effect of nervous agitation merely, but the sight sent 
him back to his place with a madly throbbing heart. Helen 
struggled valiantly with the rising softness, superinduced 
by a. passing vision of the olden days, when he interposed toward off every annoyance from her ; met, with scathing retort, each sarcastic or unfriendly retort that had her for its 
object. For the rest of the evening they kept far apart, did 
not exchange another look or word. " A wholesome lesson 
for the future!" They would do well to remember and 
profit by the warning ! 
Helen refused to dance at all that night ; she " preferred 
to play for the entertainment of the rest ;" and when she 
would not let him hover near her, Robert Lay's most frequent companion was Lily Calvert. She was very pretty 
and charming ; so winning in her childlike, confiding ways ; 
so kind and amiable with him, and apparently so gratified 
by his attentions, that he could not resist the temptation presented by all these, and quite forgot his duty to the wall 
flowers in waiting upon a belle. She was really a sweet 
girl, he reflected, despite some unimportant foibles ; and a 
warm-hearted friend of his, who would make the dearest 
little sister imaginable, one of these days, when she and 
Helen understood one another again. 
Aleck danced, flirted, and flattered, with a reckless grace 
no one else could emulate ; was the life, as he was the lion 
of the company. Half the girls in the room went home in 
love with him ; two-thirds of the beaux wished devoutly 
that he had never quitted the "Faderland" until he was 
ready to bring a wife to the western continent with him. 
At twelve o'clock, the last carriage, with its cortege of 
gallant outriders, left the door of the hospitable abode, and 
Helen, wearied and dispirited, sought her chamber. The 
faithful Sally was in wakeful attendance, and, disobedient to 
her mistress's recommendation, that she should betake her 
self to bed without further delay, began, with alert hands, 
the task of disrobing her. It may have been that fatigue 
and dissipation had rendered Helen indolent, or that, in her 
depressed state of feeling, the society of this attached dependent was more tolerable than solitude and her own mu 
sings ; for she did not repeat the order : submitted languidly 
to her maid's pleasure. 
" Miss Helen !" she said, as she kneeled to unthe her slip 
per-string ; " I hope you did not think it ^mproper in me to 
hurry you home from the spring to-night. I deceived you 
about the reason, then. I didn't like to tell you there, for 
fear you might be frightened, and Mars Robert get angry, 
and go to search into the matter, and so get you both into 
trouble ; so I made the excuse I did, to start you up to the 
house." 
"What are you talking about, Sally?" asked Helen, 
somewhat sharply ; " you have been dreaming, and are not 
quite awake yet, I believe." 
" I'm broad awake, ma 'am, and so I was then, for all I 
had to pretend to be sleepy and cold, to hinder you from 
mistrusting the truth. And I saw him, Miss Helen, as 
plain as I do you, this minute ! I wouldn't move till I was 
sure." 
" Saw him ! Saw whom ? Why do you tell your story 
in such a queer, blundering way? Go on !" urged her mis 
tress, as the girl bent lower over the foot resting upon her 
knee, and tugged and picked at the hard knot she had made 
in the string. 
" The man behind the tree, ma 'am ! the big oak you was 
leaning against." 
" Nonsense ! you mistook the shadow of the limbs for a 
man ! How could any one be there, and I not hear him 
 
move or breathe ? How could lie get there without making 
any noise ?" 
" Tree shadows don't move of a still night, as this one 
did," persisted the girl. " As to how he got there, I can't 
say, nor how long he'd been standing close up against the 
trunk of the tree when I first noticed him. I didn't see him 
until he poked out his head this way as if to hear better 
what you two were saying." 
" Pshaw ! why should he care to hear ? why stay there, 
if he could get away ?" 
" That isn't for me to say, ma 'am. I only know that I 
saw him, and that he behaved just as I've told you." 
Helen pondered for a moment upon this strange tale. 
The maid was unusually sensible and discreet for one in her 
station, and not superstitious or cowardly. Her mistress 
did not question that she really believed all that she had 
said ; but the more she thought of it, the more unlikely it 
appeared that Robert and herself had been dogged by so 
bold an eavesdropper, or that any chance vagrant of the 
forest could have remained for any length of time in the 
position Sally had described, without being discovered. 
" Could you see who he was ? or whether he was white 
or colored ?" she inquired. 
" He kept well in the shade, ma 'am, and I wasn't very 
near, you know. Maybe he was a runaway. There's a 
good many out, I hear, more than common for this season 
of the year," returned the girl, still averting her face, and 
putting away the slippers in a drawer. 
" Perhaps it was Lem !" exclaimed Helen. " Poor fellow! 
he need not have been afraid of us ! We would never have 
betrayed him." 
This was a field-hand of Colonel Floyd's, who had run 
away six weeks before, goaded to desperation by the brutal 
oppression of the driver, Booker, "whose authority was in- 
variably supported by the master. Lem had married Sally's 
sister, as Helen now considered, and the probabilities were 
manifestly in favor of the supposition that he was lurking 
about the plantation, in the hope of seeing his wife. Sally 
was not certain that she recognized him, yet that she had 
some misgivings on the subject was clear. She might feel 
it to be her duty to put her mistress upon her guard against 
a repetition of the nocturnal stroll, while she was cautious 
not to commit her brother-in-law. Acting upon this hypo 
thesis, which she imagined was fully sustained by Sally's 
silence after Lem was named, Helen forbore to prosecute 
her inquiries, and her thoughts strayed of themselves back 
to the more pressing cares and disquietudes that weighed 
heavily upon her young spirit. 
In ten minutes after the servant's story was concluded, her 
auditor had forgotten the runaway and his woes. 
 
CHAPTER V. 
" A WHOLESOME lesson for the future !" Aleck Lay had 
said, and he conned it to such profit, that, during the month 
immediately succeeding his arrival at home, he paid but two 
visits at Colonel Floyd's, and they were made in decorous 
compliance with special invitations. He spent most of each 
day, and often stayed over night, at his plantation of Maple 
Hill, a fine old place, which had come into the family 
through the female line ; having been bequeathed, at his 
grandfather's death, to his mother. Active and judicious 
preparations were being made there now, for the reception 
of his aunt and himself. " He went to as much pains and 
expense in fitting it up, as if he were expecting to take 
thither a beautiful wife, and not an old maid sobersides like 
herself," Miss Ruth affected to complain, while, inwardly, 
she was happy and proud that he did so. The paternal 
mansion, Greenfield, was meanwhile in a state of disorder 
unparalleled in the previous annals of Miss Massie's reign. 
Cleaning, repairing, painting, and refurnishing were ah 
going forward at once, under the superintendence of that 
painstaking housewife. Mrs. Robert Lay should find every 
apartment in every story, every closet and stair, even the 
" cuddy-holes" in the garret, irreproachable, if she, the in 
defatigable present incumbent, perished in the laudable at 
tempt to attain this end. She naturally believed that 
Robert's love-making was prosecuted as diligently, and that 
its results were likely to prove as satisfactory to all concerned, as she hoped those of her labors would be ; justly 
considering the sentimental in metaphysical jargon, the 
" subjective" branch of the nuptial arrangements as quite out 
of her province. 
Mrs. Floyd pursued a similar line of thought and action, 
as she overlooked seamstresses, laundresses, and chamber 
maids ; set aside a goodly reserve of her finest sweatmeats, 
and oldest pickles and liquors ; bespoke eggs, far and near, 
to be delivered a week before Christmas at Belleview; 
tested the golden rolls of butter packed away for the " occasion;" inspected her poultry-yards, and, like the cele 
brated William O Trimmerty of the nursery rhyme, 
" Gathered her hens, 
And put them in pens," 
to be fattened against the great day. She had private per 
sonal trials, in addition to household cares, and the two 
classes of perplexities thoroughly engrossed every faculty 
of a mind which was none too capacious at its best estate. 
Never, in the whole course of her wedded life, had she 
beheld her lord in a worse humor than now held complete 
possession of him. His household words were one perpetual growl not loud, but deep ; and their connubial confabulations, which always partook more of the nature of monologues from him, than a reciprocation of ideas and feelings, 
were uniformly so stormy now, that she trembled in heart 
and body at the anticipation of them. When, with simple 
and wifely guile, she tried to divert him from his sombre 
brooding over his grievances, unknown as yet to her, by 
small domestic details, and deferentially begged his opinion 
upon the momentous topics of invitations, and the number 
less etcetera pertaining to the grand wedding, for no Floyd 
was ever married without a large and magnificent party, 
he swore at her, at the guests, and the supper ; as Gabriel 
reported in the kitchen, " cussed up-stairs and down, and 
all round the lot ;" reserving his choicest imprecations for 
the unconscious bridal pair, whom he anathematized as " a 
brace of the most ungrateful and unmannerly villains, the 
most barefaced cheats, that ever conspired to effect a man's 
ruin !" 
" But how, dear ?" mildly questioned his spouse, after one 
of these philippics. " Helen has her fits of temper, I know, 
but she is much quieter than I ever saw her before. Yet it 
must be confessed that, even now, she does get awfully stub 
born about some things. Now, for instance, I've been scolding her to-day about a senseless notion she has taken. You 
know that Alexander Lay brought over for her a superb set 
of pearls, for a wedding present, and sent them to her by 
Robert, soon after he got home. She has a pearl-colored 
satin, trimmed with lace, among her new things, her * second-day's dress, and anybody, with half an eye, can see that 
it was made to go with these " 
" Confound your satin and pearls ! The twaddle of you 
women is enough to drive one to distraction !" roared the 
colonel, kicking over a stand that opposed him in his heavy 
tramp about the floor. 
" Yes, dear ! I am sorry !" Meek Mrs. Floyd let fall a 
shivering tear upon her stitching. 
Her husband muttered a dozen or so of hotter oaths be 
fore he dropped again into his arm-chair. When he did sit 
down, it was with a force that made the windows rattle. 
Then, picking up the tongs, he poked the fire furiously. 
Mrs. Floyd mustered a faint heart of grace to endeavor to 
repair her mistake. 
" What I wanted to say was this, my love ; Robert Lay al 
ways seemed to me to be a most amiable, obliging young man. 
This is his reputation all through the neighborhood, and 
has been ever since he was a boy. I supposed that he would 
do pretty much whatever you asked him to he is so ready, 
generally, to grant favors to his friends. Hasn't he behaved 
handsomely about the settlement, or whatever you call it ? 
You told me you thought he would." 
" So handsomely that he has backed out of every thing that 
he promised to do, Mrs. Floyd ! He has lied like a dog, 
madam ! He is obliging enough to give me to understand 
that he will grab every dollar of your brother's estate upon 
the wedding-day you are preparing for if he can ! That's 
your amiable, popular saint, madam !" 
Another volley of oaths, accompanied by a shower of coals 
upon the hearth, and sparks up the chimney. 
" You don't say so ! After all the advice I've tried to 
impress upon Helen, about letting you manage her prop 
erty! I should think she might have had some little 
confidence in my judgment, and tried to persuade him to 
act differently ! I declare I am quite hurt by such disre 
spect and ingratitude !" 
" It's her work ! I'll take my oath of that the brazen 
minx ! She can twist him around her finger, if she likes." 
" Well ! well ! well !" ruminated the matron, and returned 
to her former plaint ; " I can't tell when I've been so much 
hurt !" 
" Hurt, madam ! You'll begin to know what has hurt you, 
when you are turned out of house and home ; your last stick 
of furniture gone ; your very clothes sold from off" your back, 
in order that your affectionate niece may flaunt in her hus 
band's mansion in her satin and pearls !" 
" Good gracious, colonel !" The lady twitched back her 
skirts briskly, to avoid the stream of fiery embers that 
bounced from under the forestick in her direction, at the 
conclusion of this comforting prophecy. " It can't be so bad 
as that, I'm sure!" 
" You are sure, are you ? Much you know about it ! It 
is an easy thing for a man with an extravagant family like 
mine, hung like a mill-stone about his neck, to hand over 
some fifty thousand dollars worth of property, and, may-be, 
a matter of five thousand in ready money, upon a month's 
notice, is it ? I would be obliged to you if you will inform 
me where it is to come from !" 
" Why, I don't know any thing about business, dear." 
" You need not trouble yourself to tell me what is self- 
evident, madam !" 
" But I supposed that Helen's fortune was put away safe 
somewhere, against she came of age in the bank, or " 
" Or tied up in a stocking-foot, or carried loose in my 
breeches pocket !" interrupted her husband, with an ugly 
sneer. " That is as much sense as you have about any thing 
outside of your dirty kitchen !" 
He got up, still snarling, put on a shaggy great-coat, took 
his gua from a closet, and made ready for his nightly 
patrol. 
" And see here, my lady, keep your tongue inside of your 
teeth when you think of what I have been fool enough to 
say to-night or it may be the worse for you !" 
Mrs. Floyd gave a weak sniff of wounded sensibility when 
the door banged to after her lawful protector and loving 
liege ; then fell to work upon a mental calculation of the 
number and variety of the loaves of cake, whose manufac 
ture she was to begin the following week. 
One used to ebullitions of temper akin to that she had 
just witnessed, seasoned by years of endurance to the pelt- 
ings and reverberant peals of such thunder-storms as were 
any hour liable to break upon her head was not apt to 
remark or inquire into the cause of lesser variations in the 
family barometer. If Helen grew graver each day, and 
was often moodily taciturn for hours together ; if Lily were 
fretful, restless, and capriciously gay by turns, without any 
visible reason for these humors the good aunt winked at 
these fluctuations of temper and spirits, and, when winking 
did not suffice to shut out the unseemly exhibitions, closed 
fast eyes and ears, and minded her own business. She was 
not, therefore, the person who could have been expected to 
discern other signs of the times such as affected her ease 
and comfort less than the behavior of her husband and 
adopted daughters towards her personally. She never be 
thought herself that Robert Lay's handsome, sunshiny face 
was at times worn and haggard, and his manner oddly 
distrait / that, while he never failed to follow Helen's every 
movement with his eyes, and sought out occasions of 
divining her wishes and forestalling their expression by immediately gratifying them, he as frequently had long, con 
fidential talks with Lily as with her, and treated the 
younger cousin with a warmth of familiarity he had not 
manifested formerly. 
NOT did Helen's quicker vision appear to discover this 
change in her lover's bearing, or imagine that there was peril 
in his increasing intimacy with Lily. Whether she had 
other food for thought, so much more important in her esti 
mation, or was incapacitated from feeling jealousy, through 
perfection of confidence, or, what was surely very unlikely, a 
calm indifference, was not to be learned from her demeanor. 
Certain it was that she pursued the avocations so replete 
with stirring interest to most women with a mechanic
fidelity, a diligent drudgery, that looked more like a conscientious performance of allotted duty than desire ; more like 
an abstraction of ideas and absence of feeling than loving 
zeal. Occasionally she aroused her torpid conscience to the 
examination of the contrariety of emotions that alternately 
depressed and agitated her, questioned herself sharply, and 
censured unsparingly. It might be an indication of a noble 
trust in Robert's truth and affection that she did not object 
to see him sit, for an hour at a time, beside Lily's piano, or 
promenade with her on the lawn for the same period, both 
talking earnestly and continuously, as friends whose interest 
in one absorbing theme is a bond of union between their 
hearts. But did she sin when she wondered what was the 
source of the relief she experienced in the discovery that, 
while his kindness to herself remained unabated, he was yet 
less demonstrative ; made fewer demands upon her time and 
love than of yore ; let her alone when she was inclined to in 
dulge in pensive revery, instead of trying by cheerful arts 
and tenderwiles to dispel the cloud ? She had outlived her 
age of romance, she was in the habit of saying, and perhaps 
it was better that he should also learn to look at Life's pro 
saic side ; to view feelings, as well as facts, as they were, 
without the dangerous and deceptive glamour cast about 
them by a loving idolatry. They would be happier for the 
disillusion when their lots were united. 
She did not palliate the folly and crime of the unutterable 
sadness that would, combat it as she might, steal over her 
in the contemplation of this prospect. Was she not going, 
of her free will, to marry a man who had loved her from 
her childhood in spite of her faults, her many frailties and 
foibles of disposition and errors of conduct ? who loved her 
purely and wholly, as few other women were ever esteemed ? 
Was he not the non-such of his sex, in his spotless life, his 
engaging deportment, perfect temper, and singleness of purpose ? She was a fortunate, a happy woman, and, if un 
grateful as fortunate, unreasonable as happy, she might 
blame herself and no one else. What if she had, in child 
ish folly, once hearkened and thrilled to another's vows, as 
she had never done to Robert's manly fervor of protesta 
tion ? What if, for many months, she had nursed a beau 
tiful shadow of bliss, in the belief that this other was hers 
hers only and forever as she was keeping herself for 
him ? That was a weary, weary time ago ! It seemed as 
if years of wretchedness had gone over her head since the 
summer evening but one month prior to her betrothal 
when she had heaved, torn with desperate strength, the 
great stone by the spring away from its bed, and buried in 
the moist black mould the ring she had worn, in credulous 
faith, for a year and a half worn hopefully, joyously, 
proudly ! then rolled back the rock to its place a tomb 
that hid a grave ! 
These trifles belonged to the girl's history; as a girl she 
had judged falsely of their nature, and consequently over 
rated their value. She had grown into a woman now, rational, strong, resolute ! Was she resentful and despairing 
as well ? It might be, for she had no memory of a mother's 
gentle rectitude of conscience and action ; a father's wise counsels. A wild, undisciplined childhood had not laid the kind 
of foundation from which would spring, in spontaneous 
growth, moderation of judgment and dispassionate conduct 
at the age of maturity. She knew her temperament, and 
what were her besetting sins ; and she firmly believed that 
Robert Lay, of all others, was best acquainted with these, 
and that his influence would exert the most salutary effect 
in restraining whatever was objectionable and fostering the 
few germs of good. He had said that she only had the 
power of making him happy ; that Life would be bare and 
joyless if he were deprived of the hope of winning her; and 
with tender sympathy, born more of her own intense sufiering, her aching, bleeding heart, than out of the sisterly regard she had ever felt for him, she listened, and promised to 
be his wife. 
" There's many a heart caught in the rebound !" says a 
time-honored maxim we see daily exemplified in the drama 
of Life. With regard to the quality and volume of this reflex tide of affection the oracle is mute. 
I heard once of a simple, true-hearted girl, a novice in the 
world and its ways, who was cruelly deserted by the man 
she had loved and trusted for years. She " bore it wonder 
fully," said curious lookers-on. Some went so far as to express a doubt whether her attachment had ever been so 
strong as was generally supposed. Cheerfully and quietly 
none guessed how heroically she went through her round 
of duties ; neither in her home, nor in society, ever yielding, 
for an instant, to visible depression of spirits. Two or 
three years had elapsed since the event that had changed the 
whole tenor of her inner life ; the recreant lover had wedded 
another, and it was considered that she had, in common 
phrase, " quite gotten over her trouble," when she was addressed by another suitor, a noble fellow, who could appreciate aright her rare excellence, and was, in himself, entirely 
worthy of her love and respect. She was greatly moved as 
the tale proceeded, and, when he paused for her answer, hid 
her face and wept abundantly. Encouraged by this evi 
dence of softness, the wooer pressed his suit yet more 
warmly. 
" Please do not," she sobbed, putting both her hands into 
bis, and looking up at him with an expression of grieving 
pity. " Do not go on, or I shall promise that which will 
render us both miserable for life. I know how hard it is 
to endure the pain of wounded affection. Do not make me 
too sorry for you !" 
Had the nature of Helen's former relations to Aleck Lay 
been such as could be avowed, and Robert not his brother, 
she would have made a like answer to his confession of love. 
It wanted just three weeks to the wedding-night, and the 
brothers had accompanied the Floyds home from morning 
service in the church, to partake of their Sunday dinner. 
Aleck had joined the party sadly against his will ; but Lily 
had seconded her aunt's invitation so pressingly, declaring 
that she believed he had some secret and cogent reason for 
his dislike of Belleview or its inmates ; that the whole county 
had observed his neglect of his old friends, and that divers 
queer rumors were in circulation explanatory of his behavior 
that he complied, to avoid discussion and check scandal. 
Lily had a meaning accent and look, moreover, while she 
delivered this lively tirade, that piqued and puzzled him. 
Had such a thing been possible, he would have felt assured 
that she was no stranger to the true cause of his consistent 
avoidance of Helen. 
He was not an admirer or friend of Miss Calvert. When 
a boy, he had mortally offended her by pronouncing her " a 
whey-faced witch," which observation, by means of some 
kind tongue, reached her ears. The feud was further increased by his invariable championship of Helen, in the 
petty quarrels between the girls. Lily professed to like him 
at this date. It had even been slyly and gratuitously suggested to him, by disinterested young ladies and prudent 
mammas, that he, the elder and richer brother, was regarded 
by the Floyd connection as a bon parti, and probable suitor 
of the colonel's younger ward, now that the other was " out 
of the market." This benevolent warning he received with 
profound carelessness, and did not trouble himself to controvert the theory. It was not fear of these tattlers that kept 
him away from the home of the elfin beauty. Yet it might 
be expedient to throw them yet farther off the right scent, 
besides showing his contempt for their impertinent gossip, 
by riding fearlessly by Robert's side, behind the Floyd car 
riage, when it rolled away from the church door on this 
bright day, and his officious friends were looking on, in 
rows and squads, awaiting the arrival of their respective 
vehicles. 
For a wonder, the Lays were the only persons present besides the family at dinner, and all found the repast a dull 
and cheerless ceremony, although the cookery did ample 
credit to Mrs. Floyd's kitchen. The poor lady's eyes were 
red and watery. She had a headache and catarrh, she said ; 
bat the initiated members of the company, and this included 
the entire number, recollecting that she had returned from 
church in her usual spirits and bodily condition, were not 
slow in assigning a more plausible reason for these signs of 
discomfort, in viewing the knit brows and hearing the gruff 
tones of her sovereign master. He carved savagely, and 
wasted as few decent words upon his guests as he could, 
taking no share whatever in the conversation that Lily, 
Robert, and Aleck tried to keep up, to cover his surliness 
and Mrs. Floyd's tremor. He broke a goblet, in pushing it 
roughly against the dish before him ; swore audibly at the 
quaking servants ; and finally ordered his second son from 
the table in a voice of thunder, for spilling water on the cloth. 
The colonel seldom went to church except in summer-time, 
when he could pass the hours of service out of doors, under 
:the trees shading the sacred edifice, talking politics with 
neighbors as graceless as himself. He had spent the fore 
noon of this Sabbath in examining his account-books 
;" business papers," his wife styled them, in a lame apology 
she offered in the drawing-room for his " being out of sorts ;" 
the having finished the meal he had succeeded in spoiling for 
;every one else, and stalked off up to his chamber for his 
Sunday afternoon nap. 
"It always gives him the blues to look over these tire 
some papers !" she sighed, while she tried to smile at the 
absurdity of allowing such trifles to mar one's happiness. 
; I often wish there were no money matters in the world. 
[ don't pretend to understand them myself!" 
" Few ladies do !" said Aleck. " They are among the ills 
of life which are confined almost exclusively to us unhappy 
Helen met Robert's eye with a forced smile, which was 
returned by one yet more mirthless. 
" Can he be so unjust, after all my frankness, as to imagine 
me mercenary ?" she thought, indignantly. 
His uncomfortable cogitations were, in reality, dwelling 
upon the strong likelihood that the " business papers" which 
had stirred up the colonel's bile appertained to the records 
of his stewardship over his niece's estate, and the certainty, 
if this were so, that there were vexatious trials of patience in 
store for himself, when he and the guardian came to the 
dreaded final settlement. 
The diversion was not unwelcome when Lily called him 
into her green-house, to inspect a plant he had sent her some 
time before. It was drooping and yellow, from some cause, 
whose discovery was beyond the reach of her horticultural 
acumen. Robert was a zealous and accomplished amateur 
florist, and his decision, after a minute examination of the 
flower, and inquiry into the course she had pursued towards 
it, was, that she was killing it with kindness. 
"You pet it too much; water it too abundantly; and 
dress the earth about the roots too often. Plants require 
rest, like animals. This needs a little wholesome neglect ; a 
judicious letting alone, with plenty of sunshine. That will 
bring it around, if it is not too far gone." 
Lily bent over the fading favorite in silence, until the 
large drops gathered in her eyes, and one fell upon the plant. 
"My dear child!" ejaculated Robert, in surprise, "I will 
procure a dozen more of the same kind for you, if you want 
them, sooner than you should shed a single tear ; and this 
may revive yet !" 
" I am not a child !" said she, passionately, " although 
everybody sees fit to treat me like one ! And it is not the 
flower, for the flower's sake, that I grieve over ! I was just 
thinking how every thing that I love best is taken from me. 
did care for that geranium, because you gave it to me, 
did I have always believed that you were one of the very, 
ry few who really liked me !" 
She plucked a rose and rent it apart, petal by petal, her 
pouting and trembling; the tears yet hanging, like 
&gt;arly dew, upon the gold fringe of her eyelids. She 
oked perilously pretty, Robert acknowledged, in his contious innocence of every thing except brotherly kindness, 
in his great, tender heart yearned at the sight and confession of her artless distress. What a guileless babe she 
jas ! How sinless and free her attachment for her early 
jaymate ! 
I " And you thought right, Lily ! There are not many 
people whom I like better than I do you as I have often 
Id you." 
" Only a couple of dozen or so !" returned the beauty, 
tulantly. 
Robert was obliged to laugh. 
" Hardly a single couple, I can assure you ! You know 
ho comes first upon the list, and would not dispute her 
ht. Then there is Aleck ! He is the only brother I 
live in the world." 
"And Miss Ruth is your only aunt; and mamma is 
elen's father's only sister, so she ought to come next; 
id Mam Becky is your only mammy, and Hero is your 
;st horse, and Dash your best dog and they all take pre- 
dence of a nobody like me, who has no claim upon you !" 
ied Lily, snatching at another rose, and bringing it away, 
Jem and all. "I don't thank you, or anybody else, for 
seventh, or even a third rate place in his regard. Thank 
podness ! if I am insignificant, I have too much pride for 
I "Don't try to pick a quarrel with me, little sister! I 
give enough sources of disquiet without this one disquiet 
which your sweet sympathy has done much to alleviate 
You wrong me by affecting to misunderstand my meaning. 
You know the sincerity of my attachment for you, Lily !" 
" Forgive me !" 
Her head fell upon his arm. Whether he would have
released himself from this position, or awaited the recovery 
of her composure, was not to be seen. 
" A letter for you, Miss Lily !" said Aleck's voice behind 
them. His face was stern his eye and accent penetrating 
" Your aunt was going to bring it in to you, and I tool 
charge of it to spare her the trouble." 
He bowed and withdrew, before either of the twain, 
whom his abrupt address had started, could find breath of
words for a reply. 
He was not surprised, on returning to the parlor, to per 
ceive that it was deserted. The stiff and labored dialogue 
carried on by himself and Helen, after they were lefl 
together by the floral connoisseurs, was so difficult and
painful to both the participants, that he had seized upof 
the circumstance of Mrs. Floyd's entrance with a note foj 
Lily as an opportune pretext for ending the miserable pretence. Helen understood his eager politeness to her aunt
and contributed her share towards their mutual relief by
leaving the coast clear before he reappeared. There was I 
dark flush of passion upon Aleck's brow as he strode ovei 
to the window, and his mouth worked convulsively undei 
his heavy moustache while he remained there, looking oul 
upon the wintry landscape, blasted and sere, like his own 
hopes. He was displeased with Robert more than dis 
pleased with the miniature siren, whose enticements were 
operating upon the senses of her cousin's affianced hus 
band. 
" He can love twenty women I but one ! If she were 
mine, I would have shrunk with loathing from the touch of 
;hat little serpent ! Instead of enduring her subtlety and 
:bnd twinings about me, would have cast her from me as a 
lateful thing ! How different was the scene transpiring in 
lere ! Have I, then, more regard for his rights and honor 
:han he has himself?" 
It was a hasty and unjust aspersion of his brother's 
fidelity and delicacy of affection for his betrothed ; but his 
wrath glowed yet more hotly as he reviewed, in detail, the 
llustration of rigid self-control, amounting to coldness, his 
manner to Helen had afforded ; his absolute reticence of 
sven friendly warmth towards the woman he neverthe 
less adored; the extreme circumspection he exercised over 
each glance and word, lest Robert's bride should chance to 
read in any of these that which it would be dishonorable in 
him, who was soon to be her brother, to show ; and contrasted 
this line of conduct and principle with Robert's passive, if 
not fond reception of blandishments, such as he had inter 
rupted. 
He was too angry to look around when Lily's clear voice 
iwas heard at the door connecting conservatory and parlor. 
" Helen ! Helen ! Why, Mr. Lay, I thought she was 
entertaining you all this time !" 
" You were mistaken, you see !" he answered, curtly. 
" Don't you know where she has gone ?" 
" I do not !" 
I " Then I must hunt her up ! It was very uncivil in her 
to leave you here all alone. I shall scold her well for it !" 
Away she ran, singing in her bird-like tones as if she had 
never shed a tear in her life. Robert, who had come in 
with her, silently took a seat by the fire. 
Without having the remotest conception of the hidden 
reasons that exasperated into deep displeasure Aleck's 
righteous disapproval of the supposed flirtation, the younger 
brother yet felt that he had placed himself, or been placed 
by another, in a false light in his mentor's eyes. Unwilling 
to make a serious affair of an occurrence so trivial, or to 
impute forwardness and levity of deportment to Lily, he 
was nearly as reluctant to sustain in his own proper person 
the weight of the blame Aleck ascribed to one or both of 
them. That he did blame somebody for what he had seen, 
Robert did not need his present behavior to convince him. 
He knew his ideas of a lover's honor his delicate fastidious 
ness upon some points relative to this scruples for which 
none save those who were most intimately acquainted with 
him ever gave him credit. Gay rattle and reckless flirt as 
he was generally esteemed, his chivalrous respect for true
womanhood amounted to reverence ; his recognition of innate purity was instinctive. Had he been betrothed, he
would have expected not exacted a whole-hearted de 
votion, not of the affections merely, but of the mind. If 
he scorned to exercise the slightest espionage upon the! 
movements of his fiancee or wife, left her, as free as air, to 
obey the bent of her inclinations, it would be because he 
believed, with a faith more powerful than the convictions 
produced by sight, that she was as pure as the freshest air 
ever breathed from Heaven ; that she was his heart, body, 
and imagination, incapable of cherishing a thought she 
would not impart to him ; and he would have given as 
much as he asked. His teasing talk with his aunt about 
the fabulous Gretchen, and his fine compliments to heedless 
butterflies like Virginia Shore, were the veriest lip-play, 
and every one who knew him understood the badinage and 
flattery. No girl could accuse him of more culpable trifling, 
of the most distant approach to unwarrantable familiarity 
in language or touch. 
Robert was conscious that he was sinless in respect to 
that whereof he feared his brother held him to be guilty ; 
yet, he said to himself, that he wished, since Lily's un- 
guarded, because artless action, was destined to have 
another spectator besides himself, that it had been Helen, 
and not Aleck. She would have judged of the case more 
charitably, approximated the truth more nearly. But some 
thing must be said to undeceive the real judge, and there 
was no time to be lost. 
" Aleck old boy !" He passed his arm over his brother's 
shoulder, who stood like a statue of ice under the embrace. 
" Are you thinking hardly of me ? blaming me for the 
little scene you happened to behold just now ?" 
" You are master of your own conscience and actions," 
rejoined the other, freezingly. " I do not presume to sit in 
condemnation upon either." 
" I require no stronger evidence that you have arraigned 
me already condemned me unheard," Robert said, in a 
hurt tone. " You should know me better, Aleck ! If you 
had heard the rest of the conversation you would be more 
lenient. I wish you had !" 
He waited for a response, but none came. 
"It was the simplest, most innocent of gallant farces, 
Al !" Robert resumed, in a lighter tone. 
" When a pretty woman shows her rings, 
What can a fellow do ? 
" That is an analogous quandary to the one in which you 
saw me for which you are inclined to have me hanged, 
drawn, and quartered." 
" The question is," said Aleck, turning to face his brother, 
land speaking slowly, with no softening of his severity, " the 
question is, whether a man, situated as you are, has a right, 
pr ought to have the disposition, to think of the beauty of 
any other woman ?" 
" Pshaw !" replied the other, still determined to turn the 
affair into a jest, " that dogma belongs to a former generation ; the Grandisonian race of swains and shepherdesses ; 
the age that painted Cupid blind." 
" That is very possible. My ideas upon this subject are 
decidedly antiquated, I admit ; somewhat deficient, more 
over, in tolerance of this dear passion for many that mod 
ern lovers find so delightful !" answered Aleck, crossing to 
the fireplace, and throwing himself upon the sofa. 
Nothing further passed between them for that time. I 
Even Robert's sweet temper was ruffled by the unmerited 
sneer. Their disputes were of such rare occurrence that 
reconciliation was an awkward undertaking, if either were 
disposed to attempt it. 
" Excuse me for leaving you !" cried Lily, floating into 
the room her airy motion could hardly be called walking 
" but Nelly and I have been arranging a frolic for this 
evening. Won't you, gentlemen, aid and abet us ?" 
" The better the day the better the deed ?" said Robert, 
playfully interrogative. 
He would not allow Aleck's unjust imaginings to influ 
ence his demeanor to this unsophisticated, warm-hearted 
child. 
" Yes but this is really and truly a Sunday frolic. Mr. 
Sheppard, the new circuit-rider, is to preach to the servants 
at Mr. Shore's to-night, and Ginnie has written to say that 
we must all come. She knows you came home with us to 
dinner, so she will expect both of you, certainly. I dearly 
enjoy these colored meetings don't you, Mr. Robert ?" 
" That depends upon their hue. I have found them very 
blue, and a dingy indigo at that, sometimes taking blue- 
ness and dulness as synonyms." 
" Oh ! you know what I meant ! Why will you be provoking ? Mr. Lay, I wish you would take him in hand, 
and teach him how to behave as you do." 
Aleck did not raise his eyes from his book. He would 
not be a party to this deceitful trifling. Lily gave him a 
stare of inquiry, and returned to the more complaisant 
Robert. 
"They say this Mr. Sheppard is a stirring speaker, a 
thorough-going revivalist; and the ride home by moon 
light will be splendid " 
CHAPTER VI. 
SEVEN o'clock found the quartette from Belleview in the 
revivalist's audience, at one end of Mr. Shore's long dining- 
hall. 
The white population of the neighborhood was principally 
made up of Episcopalians, with a slight sprinkling of Roman 
Catholics ; but Mr. Shore wedded for his second wife a devout Methodist, whose example and precept had wrought 
great, and, it was hoped by the reformer, radical changes in 
the religious habits of the slaves upon her own and certain 
of the surrounding plantations. The clergymen of her de 
nomination, whose itinerant habits brought them within 
range of communication with her, were urgently invited to 
visit at, and most hospitably entertained in, her house ; encouraged to establish meetings for public and social worship 
among the negroes, innovations which were not opposed, 
but rather forwarded, by her indulgent, irreligious husband. 
The gathering on this occasion was made up, for the most 
part, of colored people, a goodly assembly in number, seated 
in close rows upon benches manufactured for such purposes by 
Mrs. Shore's orders. The room was narrow in proportion 
to its length, and had a fireplace at each end. Around the 
upper one of these were ranged chairs, for the accommodation of the family and neighbors. There were about thirty 
in all ; and while the younger portion of the company had 
undoubtedly been attracted thither by the consideration that 
had moved Lily's inclination to attend, namely, the love of 
a frolic, let the day be what it might, they behaved with 
due decorum, preserved the semblance of respectful attention. It would not have been safe to act otherwise under 
Mrs. Shore's watchful eyes. 
Mr. Sheppard was suffering from hoarseness, having already delivered two sermons and conducted a class-meeting 
