their hands with horror at the idea of having their Johnny sleep on the
ground in a tent, and stick to the camp whether it was fair weather or
foul; but the colonel could adduce hundreds of instances where boys of
puny constitutions had become strong and vigorous under this treatment.
He believed that more boys had been spoiled by being "babied" than ever
had been injured in the slightest degree by hardship--if military duty,
as it was performed at Tunbrook, could be called hardship. It was very
certain that the boys enjoyed camping out; and if a few of them sneezed
or coughed after their return, these were not regarded as fatal
symptoms.
Richard was in his element when the school was put upon its muscle.
Though nothing but a private in Company D, and subject to the orders of
his inferiors in body and mind, he performed his duty cheerfully, and
enjoyed it very much. After Nevers had been cured of his folly, there
was not another boy in the establishment who had the hardihood or the
desire to impose upon him.
Every thing was done with military order and precision on the morning
that the battalion marched from the Institute. Though the reader knows
where they were going, not an officer or a private had a suspicion of
their destination; and none but a few of the new comers asked the
question, or appeared to care. In front of the battalion was the band,
and behind it came the wagons containing the tents, baggage, and
pontoon train. The principal and the instructors were scattered along
the line, where they could superintend the operations of the column.
Major Morgan, in command of the battalion, had evidently received
instructions for a portion of the day; for, without any direction from
the teachers, he led his command over the road to the grove, and in
fifteen minutes after they started, the order to halt was given. The
battalion stood rigid as a stake where they were ordered, and presently
the engineer corps was detached for duty. The pontoon wagon was brought
up, and unloaded by the side of the river. The boats, which were of
rubber, were inflated, and the business of building a bridge across the
stream was commenced.
Every thing was so nicely prepared that the work was accomplished in an
incredibly short space of time. The battalion, followed by its wagons,
crossed the pontoon bridge, the boats and the planks were taken up and
loaded upon the wagon again, and the troops were ready to march.
Neither Colonel Brockridge nor any of the instructors had spoken a word
during these operations, for the engineers had been thoroughly trained
in their difficult duty.
For an hour the battalion marched without stopping. The orders
"shoulder arms," "support arms," "right shoulder shift" relieved them
occasionally; but some legs began to ache before a halt was permitted.
During the next hour they marched most of the way with the "route
step." At twelve o'clock they halted for dinner and an hour's rest. The
haversacks of the soldiers had been filled with crackers and cold ham,
and they had a jolly dinner in a grove where they stopped.
About four o'clock in the afternoon, they reached the upper end of the
lake, and the orders necessary for forming a camp were given. The tents
were pitched, the boundaries of the camp marked out, and a detail for
guard duty was made from each company. Every thing proceeded precisely
as it would if they had been old soldiers, and engaged in the actual
business of war.
Richard was one of those who had been detailed from Company D, for
guard duty. The camp ground was a large, open plain, bordering on one
side upon a dense forest. The night was dark and dismal, and at nine
o'clock Richard found himself walking his lonely beat, on the verge of
the forest. There was a novelty about the situation that was very
attractive to him, and as he walked his solitary round, he actually
enjoyed it. It was not to all probable that an enemy, or even a
straggler, would disturb the quiet of the scene by attempting to pass
the line; but though the guard had been commanded to be vigilant, he
had abundant time and opportunity for reflection and castle-building.
Our sentinel had imbibed much of the spirit of the soldier, from the
martial exercise to which he had been trained, and he indulged in some
pretty visions of military glory. They were very pleasant and very
alluring at that time, when the country was enjoying profound peace.
Even the politicians, who were compromising with difficulties, present
and future, never dreamed that the war blast would sound through the
land in their day and generation, and were unbelievers in the dire
prophecies which they uttered. While Richard's fancy led him to scenes
of blood and glory on the battle field, he little thought that an
opportunity would so soon be presented for the practical application of
his military knowledge, and for the indulgence of his military
ambition.
While he was dreaming of war and glory, while in imagination he was
leading battalions of brave men to battle and victory, his reflections
were disturbed by the approach of a squad of boys. It was so dark that
he did not see them till they were within a few rods of him. It was
evident that they had left the tents by stealth, and must have crept
some portion of the way on the ground to escape observation. When they
came near enough to be challenged, the guard called out,--
"Who comes there?"
"Friends," replied one of the party.
"Advance, one friend, and give the countersign."
One of them stepped forward, and Richard held him at bay with his
bayonet, according to military custom.
"I declare, I have forgotten the countersign," said he.
"Then I will call the corporal of the guard."
"No; hold on a minute. I shall think of it in a moment."
Richard was willing to give him a fair chance, as there was no enemy in
the vicinity who could possibly intend to capture the battalion. But
while he was waiting, the fellow suddenly grasped his musket, and
attempted to wrest it from his hands. But this was a game at which two
could play as well as one; and Richard, instead of giving the alarm, as
he should have done, threw himself upon his muscle, and attempted to
beat off his assailants.
The rest of the party immediately came to the assistance of the fellow,
and, after a short but sharp struggle, the sentinel was overpowered,
and his gun taken from him. At the conclusion of the struggle Richard
found himself upon his back, on the ground, held down by the whole
squad of boys, or as many as could get hold of him. One of them held a
handkerchief over his mouth, so that he could not give the alarm, now
that he found it necessary to do so.
Richard supposed this rough treatment could be nothing more than a
practical joke--one of those tricks played off upon raw recruits, to
teach them the necessity of vigilance, and a nice observance of the
rules of the service. When he was overpowered, therefore, he submitted
to his fate, whatever it might prove to be, hoping his captors would
relax their hold upon him just long enough to enable him to turn the
tables upon them; for he was vain enough to believe that he could whip
the whole dozen of them, if he could only have fair play.
"Let him up, now, and we will tie his hands behind him," said one of
the party, in a feigned voice, to prevent the victim from recognizing
the speaker.
"But he will halloo, if we let him up," replied the one who had
answered his challenge, and whose voice Richard could not identify.
"I'll stop his mouth, if he hallooes," added the first speaker. "I'll
hit him over the head with the butt of his musket."
"No, no," said the other; "you'll kill him. We don't want to injure
him."
"I do; I wouldn't mind cracking his skull for him."
"No, no; we shall get into trouble ourselves if we do any thing of that
kind."
Richard thought they would any way, as soon as he could obtain the use
of his arms. He felt so well qualified to take care of himself that he
would have been willing to give his bond not to halloo, or call any one
to his assistance, though he could not help wondering that the
sentinels whose beats were next to his own, did not arrive at the scene
of operations. It was evident to him that they were asleep on their
posts, or that they were accomplices of the conspirators.
"Now, get up," said the speaker, who used the disguised voice.
Richard promptly obeyed this order, and though several of the boys held
on to him as he rose, a terrible struggle ensued, in which the captured
sentinel almost made good his mental boast; but they were too many for
him, and his hands were tied behind him with a knapsack strap, in spite
of his best exertions to shake them off.
"I told you he would be a hard customer," said one, who had not before
spoken.
"Shut up, you ninny! You'll blow the whole of us. No fellow is to speak
but--you know whom," said he with the assumed voice.
Richard tried to obtain, in the thick darkness that shrouded them, some
clew which would enable him to identify the ruffians; but he could not
make out any thing peculiar in their form or motions to guide him, and
he was equally at fault in regard to the voices. He stood quiet when he
found that resistance was useless; but he determined to keep a sharp
lookout for an opportunity to release himself from his mortifying
situation.
"Now, you----"
"My name is Dobbin," added the false voice.
Richard did not remember any such name, though he had heard the roll
called in all the companies, and he concluded that it was a "blind," to
deceive him.
"Now, Dobbin, take him off, and we will settle the case in the woods."
"Lead the way, Kennedy, and we will follow; but be careful and not make
a noise."
"Hush!" said Dobbin; "somebody is coming."
"Grand rounds!" added Kennedy. "Hurry him off as quick as you can.
Stuff a handkerchief in his mouth; choke him if he attempts to cry
out."
"But they will miss him," suggested Dobbin, "and then there will be a
row and a search."
"Off with him! Off with him! We shall all get caught," whispered
Kennedy. "I will take his gun, and keep guard."
Richard was literally dragged from the spot, and the fellow who called
himself Kennedy--though that was not his name--took the musket of the
defeated sentinel, and began to travel his beat as regularly as though
he had been duly detailed.
"Who comes there?" demanded he, as the officer of the day, attended by
a sergeant and two men, approached his beat.
"Grand rounds," replied the sergeant.
"Halt, grand rounds! Advance, sergeant, with the countersign."
The sergeant advanced to give the countersign, without discovering that
he had been challenged by the wrong man.
"Bennington" said the sergeant, giving the word appointed for the
night.
"Advance, rounds!" added Kennedy, as he placed himself in the proper
position.
The officer of the day passed on with his attendants, and as soon as
the ceremony had been repeated with the next sentinel, Kennedy threw
the musket upon the ground, and followed his companions into the
forest. Taking a road which led into the wood, he soon overtook the
rest of the party.
Richard was very curious to find out what his captors intended to do
with him; for he could not even yet believe that any thing more serious
than a practical joke was intended. He was not conscious that he had an
enemy in the battalion, with the exception of Nevers, who, though he
had bestowed a great many sneers and looks of hatred upon him during
the week that had elapsed since the fight, had betrayed no intention to
seek revenge for his defeat in fair fight. He knew that Nevers hated
him, but he could not believe that he would resort to such underhand
measures as the conspirators had adopted.
"What are you going to do?" asked he, after Kennedy had joined them.
"Shut up! You will find out soon enough."
Richard tried to open a conversation with them, but they were too wary
to talk, and no one spoke except Dobbin and Kennedy. They conducted
their prisoner half a mile, as he judged, from the camp, when they
halted, and fastened Richard to a tree, seating themselves upon logs
and stumps. The captive waited impatiently for the proceedings to
commence.
CHAPTER XV.
RICHARD FINDS HIMSELF IN THE HANDS OF THE REGULATORS.
"Come, fellows, we have no time to spare," said Kennedy, when the party
were seated, and Richard fastened to the tree. "We must finish this
business at once."
"We are all ready," replied Dobbin.
"Ready for what?" demanded Richard.
"Ready to settle your case. We are going to give you the biggest
licking you ever had in your life."
The prisoner thought this was rather doubtful; but as they could not be
supposed to have any knowledge of the thrashing inflicted upon him by
"Old Batterbones," he was willing to excuse any exaggerations of which
they might be guilty. When the young ruffian spoke of flogging him,
Richard could not help recalling the incident at the barn of the farmer
on the Hudson. Then he was guilty, now he was innocent; and his
feelings on the present occasion were as different from those of the
former one as light is from darkness.
He had been captured while in the discharge of his duty, and was not
conscious that he had given his assailants any cause of offence. He
could not explain how it happened that he was not angry. He did not
chafe in the bonds that confined him. The consciousness of being
innocent of all offence before his comrades, sustained and supported
him; and he felt a kind of proud superiority over his captors, which
placed him out of the reach of fear, and even out of the reach of
malice and revenge.
Richard was a courageous boy; he had been so in his foolish and vicious
enterprises; but he was doubly so now, when his soul was free from the
stain of transgression. He did not borrow any trouble about what his
persecutors intended to do, though he felt a very natural curiosity to
see the end of the adventure.
"Go on," replied Richard, calmly, as the spokesman of the party
announced their intentions.
"Shall we tell him what for? Shall we try him?" asked Kennedy.
"Yes; let us give him a drum-head court martial. The licking won't do
him any good if he don't know what it is for," replied Dobbin.
"Grant," said Kennedy, with the solemnity of a judge, "you have ruined
the best fellow in Company D."
"He ruined himself," replied Richard.
"No, he didn't. Of what you did in fair fight in the grove, we haven't
a word to say. But you have prejudiced the colonel against him, and
caused him to be deprived of his warrant, which will prevent him from
obtaining his commission at the next election. You set yourself up as a
leader among the fellows before you had been a week in the school. Have
you any thing to say?"
"Nothing, except that all your charges are false," answered Richard;
and if there had been light enough to see it, a smile would have been
discovered upon his countenance.
"In the interview with the principal, you pretended to be a saint, and
to be sorry for what you had done. You did not stand up like a man, and
take the consequences of your acts."
"Go on; I have nothing to say," added Richard, when the speaker paused.
"You are a dangerous fellow in the school. You intend to climb up
yourself by pushing others down. We won't submit to it."
"What are you going to do?" coolly asked the prisoner.
"We are going to thrash you, as you deserve."
"You are brave fellows!" sneered Richard. "What you are afraid to do in
the daylight, with fair play, you do by stealth and trickery in the
night. You are a set of cowards, and if you will untie my hands I will
whip the whole of you."
"That is very fine talk, Grant," said Kennedy, "but it don't amount to
any thing."
"No talk is necessary to prove your cowardly meanness. Go on, and do
your best. I am not afraid of the whole of you, even with my hands tied
behind me. I despise the whole of you."
"We will give you a chance to escape."
"I don't ask any chance to escape."
"Grant, you talk like a fool."
"Better be a fool than a knave and a coward."
"We don't want to hurt you. There are fellows enough in our crowd to
make Tunbrook Institute too hot to hold you. We advise you to write to
your father, advising him to send you to some other school. Will you do
so?"
"I will not," replied Richard, promptly.
"Then you must take the consequences. We are organized, and we are
determined that you shall leave. If you ask your father, and insist
upon it, no doubt he will take you away."
"Very likely he would," added Richard, "but I shall not ask him to do
so."
"You plainly don't understand what is in store for you. Our plans are
well laid, and we have been through the same mill once before. A fellow
about your size, and one who could fight as well as you do, had to
leave about a year ago. He undertook to be a leader before his time
came. We hunted him out, as we shall you."
"When you hunt me out, I will go, but not till then."
"Grant, this is all idle talk on your part. You don't understand your
situation. We can count up fifty fellows belonging to our association.
We can drive out any fellow who makes himself obnoxious. We mean to be
fair, and we are willing that any fellow who works his way up should
have all the honors he wins. But do you suppose we fellows, who have
been here two or three years, and who have worked ourselves up, are
going to step one side for a fellow who has been here only a week or
two?"
"Who asks you to step aside?" demanded Richard, indignantly, for this
show of fair play had touched him in a tender spot, and in spite of
himself he began to be interested in the argument.
"You do; you have licked the best fellow in the school, and then you
begin to play saint, and curry favor with the colonel. You mean to
lead, and not follow."
"I mean to be and do just what circumstances require."
"Grant, there is no such thing as misunderstanding your position. What
your looks indicate is more than all you may say with your mouth, or do
with your hands. You are a dangerous fellow, and you must leave, or
compromise."
"What do you mean by compromise?"
"We'll let you stay if you will keep in your proper position."
"What is my proper position?"
"At the foot of the ladder, of course, till the fellows above you have
got out of the way."
"You mean Nevers?"
"Nevers and others."
"I will agree to no such compromise. All the officers, I am informed,
are chosen by ballot."
"They are."
"Then, of course, the fellows can choose whom they please."
"They can; and since you have whipped Nevers, they will elect you; and
those who have done their duty for two or three years must go into the
shade. If you will agree to step one side, we will promise to let you
alone. Will you do it?"
"I will not."
"Mind what you do, for if the 'Regulators' make war upon you, they will
drive you out."
"The what?"
"The Regulators. They are a secret society for certain purposes. It is
a powerful organization, Grant, I can tell you. If you will do the
right thing, we will take you in."
"No you won't. I'm not to be taken in by any such bait," replied
Richard, who was disposed to laugh at the ridiculous association that
had taken upon itself the duty of regulating the affairs of the
Tunbrook Institute.
"You may sneer as much as you please. Every fellow in the school knows
there is such a society, but no one but members can tell who belong to
it. We mean to have fair play in this institution, and we have never
yet failed in getting it."
"Come, Kennedy, you will talk all night," said Dobbin. "You can't do
any thing with him."
"Well, Grant, you may leave, compromise, or take the consequences.
Which will you do?"
"I will not leave; and I certainly will not compromise on the terms
named. I mean to behave myself like a man, while I am here. If any one
is a better fellow than I am, I will step one side for him, as I must.
If any fellow gets above me in the class, I will not complain, or
attempt to pull him down. If the fellows think I am fit to be a
sergeant, or a captain, or a corporal, I shall abide their decision. I
won't pull any fellow down, or be pulled down myself. I think the
Regulators are a mean, dirty, cowardly set of bullies, who mean to
build themselves up by pulling others down. Let every fellow be judged
by his own merits. That's my opinion. Now you can do what you please."
And they did do what they pleased, though it was evident the Regulators
were not accustomed to deal with so stubborn a subject. At the word
from Kennedy, who seemed to be the chief of the society, the whole band
fell upon Richard with sticks which they had cut in the woods, and gave
him a most unmerciful beating. The prisoner bore it with silent
disdain. He felt that the cause in which he was engaged was a good one,
and he did not flinch from the penalty of fidelity.
At the word from the chief, they suspended the flagellation, and
Kennedy again attempted to bring him to terms by argument, but it was
in vain.
"Very well," said he, evidently disappointed at the ill success of the
reasoning process. "This is only the first installment of what is your
due. When any thing goes wrong with you, when you get into a scrape,
when you find the ushers and the colonel down upon you, just understand
that the Regulators are round. You have fifty enemies now, instead of
one, as you had two hours ago."
"That's all, Kennedy; don't say any more," interposed Dobbin,
impatiently. "Let's take him back now. He will find out the rest of it
fast enough."
If Richard could have heard the conversation among the Regulators
before they waited upon him, he might have been flattered by the
complimentary manner in which his name was handled. His talents and his
muscle, no less than his growing popularity, were appreciated by the
band, and it was more desirable to win him than it was to drive him
out. They knew what a valuable acquisition he would be to their number.
But he must stand one side, and wait for his turn before he aspired to
become a leader.
The Regulators, using the utmost caution, unloosed the prisoner, and
marched him back to the camp. When they reached the line, they threw
him upon the ground. While one of the largest of them, having all the
advantage, held him there, the others disappeared in the darkness. The
fellow that held him then removed the strap from the arms of the
captive, and bounded away as fast as his legs would carry him.
Richard jumped up as quick as he could and gave chase. But the
Regulator had the start of him, and the pursuit was useless. The victim
returned to his beat, felt round upon the ground till he found his gun,
picked it up, and resumed his solitary walk. He was a little confused
by the events which had transpired, and he was forced to acknowledge
that the Regulators had managed their business with consummate address
and skill. He hardly knew what to make of the affair. He knew that he
had been whipped; this fact was still patent to his consciousness in
the tingling sensation that played over his legs.
The whole thing seemed very much like an illusion. It was almost too
strange and ridiculous to be credited, and he could not help
considering whether he had not actually been walking in his sleep this
time. The Regulators appeared, to his sober senses, to be the most
absurd institution ever invented by the mischievous brain of a boy. Yet
he could not disbelieve the evidence of his senses, and especially of
his smarting legs, and he was compelled to admit that the society
actually existed; though there was a remote possibility that the whole
affair was a practical joke, devised by Nevers and his clique.
We have before intimated, in the course of this story, that Richard
Grant was an "old head." He had a very tolerable conception of the
principles of strategy; therefore he did not do as most boys would have
done--make a tremendous row over the occurrences of the night. He
decided that it would be politic for him to keep both eyes and both
ears open, while he kept his mouth closed. By this course he hoped to
obtain a clew to the mystery, and thus eventually to make the daylight
shine in upon the dark proceedings of the Regulators.
"Where have you been this hour?" demanded the sentinel, whose beat was
next to his own, when they met.
"I haven't been far off," replied Richard; "that is, not more than half
a mile off," he added, in a tone so low that his companion could not
hear him.
"I understand. You have been taking a nap."
"'Pon my word, I haven't."
"But you have; I haven't seen you before for an hour."
"I haven't been asleep."
"Honor bright, Grant, haven't you?" asked his companion, good
naturedly.
"No, I haven't."
"Where were you when the grand rounds were made?"
"I was close by."
"Of course you were, or you would have been missed," added his
neighbor, as he turned on his heel and made off.
Richard thought he was very easily satisfied, and he wondered if he
wasn't a member of the secret band of Regulators. Our sentinel marched
to the other end of his beat. His neighbor on this side had missed him,
but he was as easily satisfied as the other had been, and Richard
wondered whether he was not a Regulator.
While he was musing upon the extraordinary events of the night, the
relief came round, and he was marched to the guard tent, where, for
four hours, he had an opportunity to dream of the Regulators, and their
secret management of the affairs of the Tunbrook Institute.
CHAPTER XVI.
RICHARD BECOMES FIRST SERGEANT OF COMPANY D.
The next morning Richard was discharged from guard duty, and returned
to the battalion. From the moment he opened his eyes he carefully
observed the actions of his companions, and even studied the glances
which were bestowed upon him. All his watching seemed to be in vain,
for he could not obtain a particle of information that would aid him in
solving the mystery of the Regulators.
Among the boys there were several with whom he had become quite
intimate, particularly Bailey, who occupied the next bed to his in
Barrack B. So eager was he to fathom the mystery, that he was tempted
to make some inquiries of them; but they might themselves be members of
the Regulators. Even Bailey might belong to the potent organization,
and he did not care to expose himself in the slightest degree to their
jeers or their malice. Though, as he had been informed, there were
fifty boys who had become his enemies, and who were pledged to annoy
him to the utmost of their ability, every one seemed to be his friend.
Hardly had he been discharged from guard duty before his arrest was
ordered, and he found himself accused of sleeping at his post. He was
conducted to the tent of Colonel Brockridge, where the charge was
distinctly recited to him.
"What do you say to this charge, Grant? Are you guilty or not guilty?"
demanded the principal.
"Who are my accusers, sir?" asked Richard, thinking only of the task he
had laid upon himself of discovering the Regulators.
"That does not answer my question, Grant. I asked you whether you were
guilty or not guilty," added the colonel, sternly.
"Not guilty, sir!" replied Richard, promptly and firmly.
"Then you wish to have the charge proved?"
"I do, sir."
"That is rather inconvenient," said the colonel, biting his lip. "If
you are guilty, I should prefer to have you say so."
"I am not guilty, sir."
Colonel Brockridge had had too much experience with boys to neglect the
looks and actions of the accused while he questioned him, for the
expression often reveals more than the words. Richard's communication,
on this occasion, was "yea, yea; nay, nay." He had the look of one who
speaks the truth, and the principal was duly impressed by the
appearance and manner of the prisoner.
"You speak very decidedly," added the colonel. "Were you at your post
at half past nine o'clock?"
"I was not, sir."
"Where were you?"
Richard hesitated; there were several teachers and several company
officers present. He did not like to tell the story before them, and he
did not think it would be prudent to do so. Probably some of the
Regulators were within hearing, and he preferred to unearth them in
some other way.
"Your answer, Grant," said the principal.
"Without intending any disrespect to you, sir, I would rather not
answer," replied Richard, glancing at the officers present.
A slight curl on the lip of a cadet by the name of Redman attracted his
attention. It was a kind of suppressed sneer, which Richard interpreted
that he dared not expose the doings of the secret society. His answer
had been a virtual admission of the charge, and the case seemed to have
gone against him. Richard concluded that the boy who could rejoice at
that moment must be a Regulator.
"The penalty of sleeping at your post and deserting it would be the
same; and as you admit the charge in substance, it will not be
necessary to proceed any further," said Colonel Brockridge.
Richard was tempted to make a full explanation of the events of the
night, but he had some doubts whether he would be believed if he did
so. Besides, he was curious to know what the Regulators would do. The
penalty for the offence with which he was charged could not be very
heavy, and he determined to submit to it, for the purpose of exposing
the Regulators at some future time.
The principal then gave him a lecture on the impropriety of deserting
his post, when placed on guard, explaining the consequences that might
result from such unfaithfulness in time of war. Richard listened
patiently to the reproof, and was sentenced to be confined in the guard
tent for twenty-four hours.
Richard possessed his soul in patience, and slept off a good portion of
his imprisonment. He devoted all his wakeful hours to a consideration
of the doings of the Regulators, and in devising plans for
"ventilating" their secret proceedings.
When he was relieved from arrest, and permitted to join his comrades,
he kept a close watch upon Redman, and also upon the two privates who
had been next to him in the line on guard. They must have been his
accusers, and he was satisfied that they belonged to the obnoxious
association. Nevers, no doubt, was also a member, and he believed him
to be the "Dobbin" of the party that had whipped him. Here were four
whom he suspected, and during the week the battalion remained in camp,
their words and their actions were carefully scanned; but they were too
adroit to expose themselves, though Richard's close scrutiny was not
entirely fruitless.
Our soldier entered heartily into the spirit of the occasion, and
performed his duty with the utmost fidelity. Though he was made the
victim of various petty tricks, such as smearing the stock of his
musket with grease, cutting the straps of his knapsack, and hiding his
blanket, he bore all these things with politic patience, and treated
his comrades with the most scrupulous fairness. He was the champion of
the weak, and, being the conqueror of Nevers, no one ventured to carry
their opposition to his will beyond a few respectful words. He would
not let a small boy be insulted or bullied; and a frown from him was
generally a sufficient protection. He was foremost in all the sports of
the boys, and every day increased his popularity.
If the Regulators said or did any thing to his injury, they did it very
slyly, for Richard could not discover that there was any one who was
not his friend. On the last day of the encampment, the election of
officers was to take place, and during the week, of course there was a
great deal of electioneering done for various candidates.
On the day before the election, a petition was circulated among the
boys, requesting the principal to reinstate Nevers in the office from
which he had been degraded. There were about fifty names on the paper
when Bailey brought it to Richard. It was not very favorably received
by the boys generally. Nobody could tell when or where the fifty names
had been obtained; no one had seen the signers place their autographs
upon the document. Richard heard Bailey and a dozen others refuse to
sign it, and some of them even proposed to get up a remonstrance.
"I am going to sign the petition," said Richard, to the astonishment of
his companions.
"You, Grant?" exclaimed a dozen boys, in the same breath.
"I am; just to show the fellows that I bear him no ill will," replied
Richard. "Nevers was degraded for that affair with me; and, as I licked
him, I think I can afford to do the handsome thing."
"Then he will be elected captain of Company D," said Bailey.
"I don't know about that," added Richard. "I am willing to see him
restored to the place he was in before I came, but I shall not give him
my vote for captain, or any thing else."
The victim of the Regulators took out his pencil and wrote his name
upon the petition. Though he fully believed that Nevers was the
"Dobbin" of the party that had assaulted him, he could not prove it and
he was disposed to give him a fair chance, so that neither he nor his
friends should have any good ground for complaint. His example was
followed by all the boys present, and from that moment the number of
names on the paper increased very rapidly.
At dress parade, Colonel Brockridge, to whom the petition had been
presented early in the afternoon, called Nevers forward, and after a
few remarks, restored him to his former position as first sergeant of
Company D, observing at the same time that the name of Richard Grant on
the paper had had more influence upon his mind than that of all the
others. It was a magnanimous act, which he heartily approved.
"Three cheers for Nevers!" shouted some friend of the first sergeant,
when the company broke ranks.
They were given, but it was only a partial demonstration, evidently
confined to about a dozen of the company.
"Three cheers for Grant!" said Bailey, when those for the first
sergeant had been given.
The call was promptly responded to, and though the cheers seemed to
proceed from the entire company, there were probably about a dozen who
did not join.
"Tiger!" added Bailey, with an earnestness that assured Richard he was
not a member of the Regulators.
The "tiger" was added, together with a volley of applause by clapping
the hands. Richard's position in Company D was not to be doubted, and
the Regulators present must have felt that their influence was not very
powerful.
On the following day they had a further proof of the popularity of
Richard, and if they had not been very stupid, they might have seen
that he had more influence than the whole band of Regulators put
together. On the first ballot in Company D, the first lieutenant was
elected captain; the second sergeant was elected first lieutenant. The
second lieutenant was believed to be a strong friend of Nevers, and no
promotion was awarded to him.
Richard Grant was elected second sergeant, and when the vote was
declared, the result was greeted with a round of hearty applause. The
other places were all filled, as the inclination of the majority
dictated, subject only to the healthy rules of the Institute. If there
had been no limit to the choice of the boys, we have no doubt their
favorite would have been elected captain.
The face of Nevers was as dark as a thunder cloud after the election.
The remark of Richard that he would not vote for him had been
circulated through the company, and had been influential in defeating
the aspirations of the first sergeant. Nevers knew very well that he
owed his defeat and his restoration to his rival, whom he hated with
ten fold greater vigor than before--hated him for what he had done, and
hated him for what he had left undone.
Of course, Richard felt very good-natured, and snapped his fingers at
the Regulators. He sat upon a stool alone after supper, thinking of his
good fortune, and congratulating himself upon the skill with which he
had conquered his enemies. He was satisfied that in being true to
himself he had won the respect and confidence of his companions. The
good resolutions he had successfully carried out had rendered him
worthy of the favor bestowed upon him. In conquering himself he had
conquered others.
While Richard sat on the stool thinking of the pleasant events of the
day, and perhaps wondering how long it would be before he became the
major of the battalion, his vanquished rival sauntered up to him, his
face still looking dark and malignant.
"You have beaten me again, Grant," said he, sourly, "but your day will
come soon."
"Eh, Dobbin?" replied Richard, with a good-natured smile, as he glanced
at his fellow-sergeant.
"What's that?" growled Nevers. "What do you mean by calling me Dobbin?"
Richard was satisfied from the appearance of Nevers, that the name was
not wholly unfamiliar to his ears. It was the first time he had ever
ventured to hint at the proceedings of his first night in camp; and it
was the first time that his rival had ever dared to speak to him in a
surly tone.
"If you don't understand it, no matter," added Richard, with a merry
twinkle of the eye.
"If you call me by that, or any other improper name, you shall suffer
for it."
"How many of you will it take to punish me for it, eh, Dobbin?"
"Dobbin again?"
"Do you know a fellow by the name of Kennedy?" added Richard. "If you
don't, I'll introduce you some day."
Nevers concluded that Richard was a tough customer, and he made no
further allusion to any suffering in store for his defiant rival. But
Richard's taunt about Kennedy, and his promises to introduce him, were
not pleasant to the bully, and he walked away. He feared that the
victim had been making dangerous discoveries.
On the following morning the battalion took up the line of march for
the Institute, and arrived without incident or accident; and that night
the boys exchanged the hard ground for the iron bedsteads in the
barracks.
CHAPTER XVII.
RICHARD GIVES THE TUNBROOKERS A LESSON IN BOATING.
Among the favorite recreations of the cadets of the Tunbrook Military
Institute was that of boating. The beautiful lake afforded them
abundant space for sailing and rowing, and quite a number of them were
proficient oarsmen and excellent navigators.
On the Saturday afternoon following the return from the camp, Colonel
Brockridge proposed to exercise the boys in the boats. This
announcement was received with hearty applause by the cadets, and they
gathered round the principal to learn the order of exercises upon the
lake.
"Well, boys, suppose we appoint a couple of coxswains and have a race."
"Hurrah!" shouted the boys. "A race! A race!"
"You like the plan, I see. Who shall be your leaders?" added the
colonel.
The boys made no reply, but looked curiously at each other, as though
they were not competent, to settle the question.
"Nevers for one," said Redman.
"Very well; Nevers, we all know, is a good boatman, and has always won
the races. Who shall be the other?"
No reply was made, and the principal waited some time for a suggestion.
"Grant has had considerable experience with boats, his father informed
me," continued Colonel Brockridge.
"Grant! Grant!" shouted the boys.
"Grant shall be coxswain of the other boat, then. What do you say,
Grant?"
"I am very willing, sir, if the fellows desire it," replied Richard,
modestly.
"Very well. The race shall come off at four o'clock. Each leader shall
have two hours to train his crew. The course shall be round Green
Island and home, making a pull of about three miles. You shall draw
lots for the choice of boats, though I don't think there is a particle
of difference between them."
The choice was between the Alice and the Emma, as the two club boats
had been named. Nevers drew the first choice, and selected the Alice,
and of course Richard was obliged to be satisfied with the Emma.
"The coxswains shall select their own crews. Now, draw for the first
choice."
Nevers drew the prize this time also, and named Redman as his stroke
oarsman. Richard took Bailey for the same station, and they continued
to select alternately till each had taken his twelve oarsmen. The
coxswain of the Alice had a decided advantage over his rival, for he
had a complete knowledge of the capacity of each boy, and had before
taken part in several races on the lake. Richard was aided in choosing
by his friends whom he had selected, and when they stepped into the
boat, he was well satisfied with his crew.
"We shall get beaten," said Bailey, in a low tone, as they shoved off
the Emma.
"What makes you think so, Bailey?" demanded Richard, with a smile.
"Nevers is a great boatman. He knows all about a boat, and when he was
in command he always won the race."
"Don't you croak, Bailey," laughed Richard. "I have seen a boat before
to-day, and I tell you we shall not get beaten."
The coxswain spoke in a loud tone, so that all his crew could hear him,
for he knew that the first requisite of success was confidence.
"I hope so," said Bailey. "I would rather any other fellow in the
school should beat you than Nevers. It will be a feather in his cap."
"Don't croak, Bailey. Just believe that we shall beat, and we shall."
"I hope we shall. Nevers first got ahead of all the fellows in boating.
His success elected him to his first office in the company, and if he
beats you in this race, he will be captain at the next election. The
boys will all stand by the fellow that beats in any thing."
"There, Bailey, if you say another word, I shall wish I had chosen some
other fellow. You will defeat us if you keep on croaking," added the
coxswain, earnestly.
"I'm not croaking. I only want you to understand what you have got to
do; and I will do all I can to help you win the race. What are you
going up here for?" demanded Bailey, as the boat's bow was pointed down
the river, which was the outlet of the lake.
"You ask too many questions, Bailey. If you will leave this thing to
me, I will agree to whip Nevers all to pieces," said Richard, who did
not like the discipline on board the Emma.
"All right, Grant. Let him alone, Bailey," said one of the boys in the
middle of the boat.
"Where's the other boat?" asked Richard. "I see her; she has gone up
the lake. That's just what I wanted her to do. I have a little business
to do here before we go into the race."
He ordered the crew to cease rowing, and, to the surprise of his
companions, ran the boat up to the shore. As he had intimated to them
that questions were not agreeable to him, they asked none, and waited
patiently till his movements should explain themselves.
"Now, Bailey, will you go up to the store-house, and bring down some
black lead, and the brushes they use to clean the stoves. Don't let any
body see you, and don't say a word to any one."
Bailey did not very clearly understand what this request had to do with
winning the race, but he ran off with all haste to execute the mission
intrusted to him. While he was gone, Richard improved the opportunity
to develop his system of rowing to his companions. He had attended a
great many boat races on the Hudson, had belonged to a boat club in
Whitestone, and had clear ideas upon all matters connected with the
business of boating.
On the return of the messenger, the articles he had brought were thrown
into the stern sheets, and the boat shoved off. Again, to the surprise
of the crew, Richard took them down the river, half a mile, till they
came to a sandy shore, where he grounded the Emma.
"Now, tumble out, fellows," said Richard, "and take your oars with
you."
The boys wondered more than before at the singular proceedings of the
coxswain, and Bailey so far overcame his respect for discipline again,
as to suggest that they should have no time to practise with the oars,
if they spent the precious moments in this stupid manner.
"Shut up, Bailey; I have more to lose in this race than you have," said
Richard, rather curtly. "If the fellows don't believe in me for this
business, I am willing to step one side, and let any other one take
hold who thinks he can do it better than I can."
"Go ahead, Grant!" shouted the crew. "We are all satisfied, and so is
Bailey."
"I won't speak another word, Grant," said Bailey. "I only wish I had as
much confidence as you have."
"Bear a hand lively, my lads," added Richard, as he seized the painter
of the boat; "I want to get her out of the water."
The boys took hold with a will, and the Emma was soon placed high and
dry upon the beach. She was then turned over.
"There, fellows," said Richard, as he pointed to the foul bottom of the
boat, "do you expect to win a race with the craft in that condition? In
fifteen minutes we will have her in the water again, as clean as a
lady's parlor."
By direction of the coxswain, the crew fell to scrubbing the bottom of
the boat with an earnestness and zeal which soon removed every trace of
moss and grass. She was then permitted to dry for a short time, and the
bright October sun soon completed their work. The bottom was then
covered over with black lead, and rubbed with the brushes till it shone
like a newly-polished stove. The boys used their muscle upon the
brushes, being relieved every minute by fresh hands.
"Now, my lads, we are in condition to win the race. Shove her off,"
said Richard, whose energy inspired the whole party with resolution and
confidence.
The Emma was afloat again; the boys took their places, though not till
Richard had rearranged them by their weight, so that the boat was in
perfect trim when she started. For an hour and a half Richard trained
them in rowing, till the stroke exactly suited him, and they fully
understood all his signs and signals.
"Now, fellows, mind your eyes, and we are sure to win," said the
wide-awake coxswain, as the gun fired that was to call them to the
stake boat. "I never saw a better set of rowers in my life, and I am as
well satisfied with you as though we had been pulling together for a
year."
"Bully for you, Grant," said one of the boys at the bow.
The Emma pulled leisurely up to the large sail boat, on board of which
were the colonel, the assistant teachers, and as many of the boys as
she would comfortably accommodate.
"Are you all ready?" shouted the colonel, as the Alice and the Emma
took their stations.
"All ready, sir," replied Richard, cheerfully.
"All ready, sir," added Nevers, confidently.
Both parties were impatient for the contest to begin, and both were
almost certain of winning the victory. Even the boats seemed to share
in the spirit of their crews, and anxious to have the fetters removed
that they might bound away upon the errand of conquest. Each had
appropriate flags at the bow and stern, and one with a taste for boats
would have been delighted by the appearance of the trim craft.
"Ready for the signal!" shouted the colonel again.
"Down with that flag in the bow, Carter," said Richard to the bowman,
as he took down the color in the stern.
"What's that for?" asked one of the crew of the Emma.
"They hold the wind, and keep us back a little. We will be on the safe
side. Now, ready, fellows, and mind what I have said to you. Don't look
at the other boat till you can see her over our stern."
Nevers disdained to follow the example of his rival in removing his
flags, saying that he could beat him with his colors flying. Nevers
prided himself upon his skill in handling a boat, and he felt that the
opportunity had come which would enable him to triumph over the hated
usurper, as he considered Richard. He knew how much glory and honor
would be awarded to the conqueror in this race, and that if he could
beat his rival, scores of those fair-weather friends, who always attach
themselves to a rising man, would leave him.
The signal gun was on shore, and at a gesture from the colonel, it was
discharged. The report seemed to unloose the bonds which chained the
boats to their stations, and they bounded away. The crew of the Alice
bent to their oars with the most tremendous energy, while that of the
Emma seemed to be inspired by the cool and steady nerve of her
coxswain. They had been fully and thoroughly instructed in their duty.
The crowd of boys on the shore were silent and breathless with the
interest they felt in the exciting race; and when, before the boats had
gone a quarter of a mile, they discovered the Alice more than half a
length ahead of her companion, the jaws of Richard's friends dropped,
and their faces were as long as though a ten pound weight had been
fastened to the chin of each, while a smile of triumphant satisfaction
lighted up the faces of Nevers's well-wishers.
"Nevers has it!" exclaimed one of his intimates, as, when she rounded
Green Island, the Alice was found to be more than a length ahead of the
Emma.
"Not yet," said one of the other clique. "Let Dick Grant alone. He
knows what he is about. He don't half try yet."
The crew of the Emma could not yet see the Alice over the stern of the
boat, and we doubt not they shared the anxiety and despondency of their
friends on shore. But no sooner had the boats rounded the island, and
commenced on the home stretch, than Richard's vibrating body began
gradually to move more rapidly, and just in proportion as he increased
the movement, the Emma lessened the distance between herself and the
Alice.
"Steady, fellows; don't get excited. Dip a little deeper," said
Richard, in a quiet, cool tone. "We are doing splendidly, and you shall
see the Alice over the stern in about three minutes."
Nevers, as in the fight with his rival, began to be very much excited
when he saw that he was losing ground. He spoke quick and earnest words
to the crew of his boat, who had been doing their utmost from the
beginning, urging them to increase their exertions. Richard had not
permitted his crew to do their best at first, but had kept in their
muscles a reserve of strength for the final emergency. The party in the
Alice had no such reserve power, and their efforts to increase the
speed of the boat were put forth at the expense of a proper attention
to skill and precision.
The boats were now side by side, and they continued in this relative
position until they were within half a mile of the stake boat. The race
had become intensely exciting, and again the two cliques on shore were
breathless and silent with interest. Neither party had any thing to
indicate the success of its favorite.
Even yet Richard had not put his crew to their utmost. But the decisive
moment had arrived, and his body began to sway backward and forward
with increasing rapidity, and a quarter of a mile more gave him half a
boat-length's advantage over his rival.
"Steady, fellows; keep cool," said he, in a loud whisper. "Don't miss a
stroke, and make every one tell all it will. Now you see her over the
stern--but pull steady."
The Emma was a length ahead of the Alice when Richard finished these
remarks. The boats were within an eighth of a mile of the end of the
course, and the murmuring applause of the Grant party on shore began to
reach the ears of the contestants.
"Pull! Pull!" shouted Nevers, filled with rage and vexation. "Pull with
all your might, fellows. We can beat him yet, if you only stick to it."
He increased the rapidity of his motions, but his crew were unable to
keep up with him. Their stroke was unsteady; some of them forgot to
feather their oars, and some scarcely dipped the blades in the water.
"Steady!" said Richard, with more energy. "Mind your stroke. Keep both
eyes on me. Here we are!" shouted he, jumping up from his seat in the
stern, and giving the order to cease rowing.
The Emma flew by the stake boat two and a half lengths ahead of the
Alice, and a stunning roar of cheers from the shore and the sail boat
saluted the victors.
"Grant forever! Three cheers for Grant!" shouted Bailey, as the crew of
the Emma rose and made the welkin ring with their huzzas.
CHAPTER XVIII.
RICHARD WINS ANOTHER RACE, AND TUNBROOK IS MUTINOUS.
It was a proud moment for Richard Grant when he rose from the stern
sheets of the Emma, and found the Alice was two or three lengths
behind, and when he heard the shouts of his friends rend the air. It
was victory--another triumph over the Regulators, who had threatened to
make Tunbrook too hot to hold him. They did not get ahead very fast,
and he felt that his conquest over them was complete.
The hour of prosperity, of triumph, is the most dangerous period in the
experience of a young man. He is on the top of the wave, and he sees
not the dark abyss that yawns on either side of him. Truly we need
adversity to keep us from forgetting God and duty; to keep us from
forgetting that truth and justice are more mighty than mere success.
But when Richard came to Tunbrook, he came with a solemn resolution to
forsake the error of his ways, and find happiness in the path of
rectitude. Whatever success had attended him, he attributed to the
influence of this good resolution. He had manfully resisted temptation;
he had cured himself of several bad habits, and he had made good
progress in the conquest of himself. He had often felt an inclination
to resent with hard words and heavy blows the sneers of the Nevers
faction, but he had controlled himself; and each victory of principle
over inclination had made him stronger in his purpose to do right.
Bertha's answer to his letter, in which he had informed her of his
election to the post of sergeant, cautioned him against being too much
elated by his good fortune. She hoped his promotion would not make him
think too much of himself. When he realized that he had won a new
victory, when he heard the boys shouting his name, the words of his
sister came to his mind, and he determined to bear his honors meekly,
and to feel kindly towards Nevers and his friends.
As they pulled to the stake boat, Richard cautioned his crew not to
"crow" over the fellows in the other boat, for it was a friendly
