said the sergeant, laughing at the awkward position of 
Owen and Allan, and perhaps quite as much at the 
sharpness of his own illustration. 
" We are entirely satisfied in regard to this young 
man," said Owen ; u but we have come in order to satisfy 
 
another person, who believes that he is an impostor. "We 
promised to take him to Major Platner." 
" You can't enter these lines without a pass," replied 
the sergeant firmly. " This man can go through ; for 
he has a pass," he added to Somers. 
" As I am all right, and in a hurry, I will proceed to 
the brigade headquarters," said Somers. " Now good- 
by, my friends : I am very glad to have met you, and 
much obliged to you for the trouble you have taken to 
come so far with me." 
You take it coolly," laughed Owen. 
Perhaps, if you desire to go to the brigade head- 
quarters, the sergeant will let you pass, if I will youch 
for you," continued Somers with great good humor. 
" We are not very particular." 
" "What do you say, sergeant?" 
" My orders are to permit no stragglers from other 
camps to pass these lines, and I shall obey my orders to 
the letter," replied the official, who, for some reason 
or other, seemed to be prejudiced against Somers's 
friends. 
" Stragglers ! " exclaimed the sensitive Allan. " I 
think we have gone far enough." 
" I think you have," added the sergeant ; " and, if 
you don't leave at once, it will be my duty to arrest 
you." 
" Whew ! " exclaimed Owen. " That would be carrying, 
the joke altogether too far. I think my pater ought 
to be satisfied with what we have clone." 
" Move on," said the sergeant. 
They did move on ; and Somers, attended by tho 
officer of the guard, walked towards headquarters. 
"Those are the coolest fellows that ever came near my 
lines," said the sergeant. " Men without a pass looking 
out for one who has a pass ! ' : 
" Well, they are good fellows ; but I played a joke 
upon them, which makes them a little sour towards me," 
replied the scout. " I am even with them now." 
" What was the joke?" demanded the sergeant, who 
was filled with interest at the mention of the word. 
Somers gave him a modified account of the affair at 
the house of Mr. Raynes ; which he embellished -a little 
for the occasion, to allay any suspicion which might 
arise in the mind of the auditor. But the officer of the 
guard had no suspicion. Why should he have any? for 
Somers, armed with a pass signed by the officer of the 
day, was walking as directly as he could towards the 
headquarters. The sergeant of the guard left him when 
they reached the guard tent ; and Somers proceeded 
to report in due form to the major, whom he found 
smoking his cigar under a tree as complacently as though 
there was not a traitor or a spy in the land. 
" Well, young man ! you have returned promptly at 
the time specified," said the major, as Soiners very 
deferentially touched his cap to this magnate of the 
rebel army. 
"Yes, sir: I have endeavored to discharge my duty 
faithfully," replied Somers. 
" Did you find the regiment?" 
" No, sir : I lost my way ; and finding I should not 
have time to go to the place where it is, without over- 
staying my time, I hastened back, knowing that the 
service upon which you wished to employ me was very 
important indeed." 
" You did right, young man. Where is your coat?" 
" It was one I picked up just after I had passed the 
lines, and a soldier down below claimed it. I gave it up 
when he convinced me it was his property." 
" You are very honest as well as patriotic." 
Somers bowed, but made no reply to the compliment ; 
which, however, was fully appreciated. 
" You seem to be a young man of good address, and 
you can render your country a great service, but it will 
be at the peril of your life," said the major with im- 
pressive formality. 
" I am willing to serve my country, even with my 
life." 
" I do not doubt it. I was impressed by your manner, 
and I have recommended you to the general for the 
service he has in view. I hope you will do credit to the 
selection I have made ; for the most, important duty which 
 
a, commander lias to perform is to select proper persons 
for the execution of special missions." 
" I will endeavor to serve my country to the best of 
my ability ; and I am satisfied that J. can go all over 
the Yankee camps without difficulty." 
''Very well! You have confidence in yourself; and 
that is the first requisite of success. If you discharge 
this duty with fidelity and skill, you may be sure of being 
made a sergeant the moment you return." 
"Thank you, Major Platner. I am very grateful to 
you, sir, for the opportunity you thus afford me to dis- 
tinguish myself." 
" You will find me a good friend, if you are faithful 
and intelligent." 
" Thank you, sir." 
" Now you shall go with me to General M 's head- 
quarters, and he will give you your final instructions." 
Major Platner led the way ; and Somers reverently 
followed a pace or two behind him, flattering the officer 
in every action as well as word. They reached the 
division headquarters, and our hero was ushered into the 
presence of the general. He was a large, red-faced man, 
rnd had evidently taken all the whiskey he could carry, at 
hi.-> dinner, from which he had just returned. 
"AVhat have you got there, Platner?" demanded the 
general, in a tone so rough, that Somers was reminded 
of the ogres in Jack the Giant-killer. 
The young man of whom I spoke to you this fore 
noon. Pie is a person of remarkable address, courage, 
and skill ; and is just the man you need." 
"All right : adieu, major ! " added the general, bowing 
to the other. 
Major Platner took the hint, and took himself off, 
leaving Somers standing alone and somewhat abashed 
in the presence of the great man. 
" Young man ! ' : said, or rather roared, the rebel 
general, as he raised his eyes from the ground, and fixed 
them with a half -drunken leer upon our hero. 
" Sir ! " 
" How much whiskey can you drink without going by 
the board?" 
Somers did not know, had never tried the experiment, 
and was utterly opposed to all such practices. But he 
desired to conciliate the tipsy general ; and, if he had 
not been fearful of being put to the test, he would have 
signified his belief that he could carry off half a dozen 
glasses. As it was, he did not dare to belie his prin- 
ciples. 
" Not any, sir ! I never drink whiskey," he replied., 
with the utmost deference in his tones. 
"Hey?"' gasped General M , darting a sudden 
glance at the young man. 
"I never drank a glass of whiskey in my life, sir," 
added Somers. 
 
The general jumped off his camp-stool with a sudden 
jerk, and stared at our lieutenant in silence for an 
instant. 
" Give me your hand," said he. 
Somers extended his hand. 
" Yes ! you are flesh and blood. You are the first 
man I ever saw -that never drank a glass of whiskey. 
You drink brandy, don't you ? " 
" No, sir ! I never drank a glass of liquor or wine of 
any kind in my life. 
" Give me your hand," said the general again. 
" Flesh and blood ! You are the first man I ever saw 
that never drank a glass of liquor or wine of any kind. 
'Tis a bad practice," he added with an oath. 
"I think so, sir," replied Somers with due deference. 
" Young: man ! " 
"Sir." 
The greatest enemy hie that the Confederate 
army has to contend against is whiskey. Yes, sir ! 
whiskey! If the Confederate States of hie of 
America ever win their independence, it will be when 
the whiskey's all gone." 
" I am very glad to hear officers of your high rank 
condemning the practice," said Somers, alive to the joke 
of the general's proceedings, but prudently looking as 
serious as though it had been a solemn tragedy instead 
of an awful farce. 
 
Yes, sir ! I'm opposed with all my might to the 
practice. Yes, sir ! "Whiskey is the greatest enemy I 
have on the face of the footstool, young maL.." 
Somers believed him. 
" Always be temperate, young man. You are in the 
sunshine of hie of life. Never drink whiskey. It 
will ruin your body and soul. Don't touch it, young 
man," added he, as he sank back on the camp-stool, 
whose centre of gravity was nearly destroyed by tha 
shock, and closed his eyes, as if overcome by the potency 
of his great enemy, which was just then beginning to 
have its full effect, and which produced a tendency to 
sleep. 
" I will endeavor to profit by your good advice, sir," 
said Somers. 
"That's right ; do so," added the general, as he jerked 
up his head to banish the drowsy god, who was strug- 
gling for the possession of his senses. " That will do, 
young man. You may go now." 
The general, in his drunken stupor, had certainly for- 
gotten the business for which Major Platner had brought 
him to the division headquarters ; and Somers began to 
fear that he should have no errand that day. 
" I beg your pardon, general ; but Major Platner was 
kind enough to say that you had some service for me to 
perform." 
Eh ? " demanded he, tossing up his head again. 
;c 
 
Somers repeated the remark more explicitly than 
before. 
" Exactly so : I remember. Do you know what I was 
thinking about just then, young man?" said the general, 
spasmodically leaping to his feet again, as though the 
thought was full of inspiration. 
" No, sir : a man in my humble position could 
hardly measure the thoughts of a great man in your 
situation." 
" I'll tell you : I was thinking about issuing a divi- 
sion general order on the subject of temperance. What 
do you. think of it?" 
" It would be an excellent idea," replied Somers. 
" Young man ! ' : 
"Sir." 
" I believe you said hie " 
Somers did not say any thing of the sort ; but he 
waited patiently for the rebel general to recover the 
idea which he appeared to have lost. 
" I believe you said you never drank any whiskey V 
" I never did, sir." 
" Then you never was drunk." 
" Never, sir." 
" Yoimrr man ! " 
o 
" Sir." 
" Are you a hie " 
Somers was not a "hie;" but he was an impatient 
 
young man, and very anxious to be instructed in regard 
to his difficult and dangerous mission. 
"Are you a minister of the gospel?" demanded the 
general, after a mighty effort. 
" No, sir : I am not." 
"I'm sorry for hie for that; for I wanted to 
appoint you a division chaplain, to preach against 
whiskey to the general officers. Some of them are 
hie drunken fellows, and no more fit for a command 
than the old topers in the streets of Richmond." 
" I am sorry I am not competent to fill the office ; but 
I think, if you should lecture them yourself, it would 
have a better effect." 
" My words are hie powerless. They laugh when 
I talk to them about the error of their ways," added he 
with a string of oaths, which seemed to exhibit a further 
necessity for a chaplain on the division staff. 
' I beg your pardon, sir ; but I am afraid your interest 
in the moral welfare of your officers " 
" That is it, young man ! " interrupted the drunken 
general, catching at his idea with remarkable prompt- 
ness. " My interest in the moral welfare of my hie 
of my officers ! You are a trump, young man (big oath). 
VTou are a major now?" 
" No, sir." 
" Only a captain? " 
" No, sir : nothing but a private." 
 
" Then you shall be a captain. I haven't heard any 
such hie sentiments as you expressed used in this 
division before. You ought to be a hie a brigadier- 
general." 
" Thank you, sir. You are very kind. I came to 
you for instructions in regard to my mission over to the 
enemy." 
" Bless me ! yes : so you did. Well, I have not 
written them yet." 
" I only want a pass from you, general, with such 
verbal instructions as you may please to give me." 
te So you do : the fact of it is, my interest in the moral 
welfare of my men had driven the matter out of my 
mind." 
The general called an orderly ; and Somers was sent 
off to the adjutant for the pass, which was given to him 
under the name he had assumed. When he returned, the 
general was sound asleep on his camp-stool, rolling about 
like a ship in a gale, with a prospect of soon landing at 
full length on terra firma. Somers would gladly have 
received some military information from the general, 
who was in a condition to tell all he knew ; which, 
however, could not have been much, under the circum- 
stances. He concluded that it would be best for him. 
not to awaken the tipsy moralist ; and, after waiting a 
short time on the spot to avoid suspicion, he joined 
Major Plainer, who was smoking his cigar under a tree 
near the headquarters. 
 
" Well, young man, did you obtain your instruc- 
tions?" 
" Yes, all I require." 
" Perhaps we ought to have seen the general before 
dinner," added the major, using the remark as a "feeler" 
to induce his companion to inform him what had trans- 
pired daring the interview. 
" Perhaps it would have been more agreeable to the 
general. However, he seemed to be in a very talkative 
mood." 
" He commonly is after dinner." 
" He is a very jovial, good fellow." 
" Very." 
" But he appears to feel a deep interest in the moi-al 
welfare of those under his command. He expressed 
himself as very averse to habits of intemperance." 
" Humph ! " coughed the major. 
" He said that whiskey was the great enemy the army 
has to contend against, and intends to issue a general 
order directed at the vice of intemperance." 
"Did he?" 
"He did : but I ought to add, that he took me to be a 
major in the service ; a mistake which was very natural, 
since I wore no coat." 
" Very natural, after dinner," replied Major Platner 
suggestively. 
" I told him I never drank any strong drink ; and lie 
kindly advised me never to do so." 
" The general is a brave man, and I hope he will be 
able to overcome all his enemies'." 
The major permitted the conversation to go by default, 
and Somers respectfully dropped a pace or two behind 
him. They reached the brigade headquarters, and then 
repaired to the guard tent, from which the scout took his 
departure upon his arduous and difficult mission, with 
the best wishes of the rebel officers. 
With his pass he had no difficulty in going through 
any line, and made his way down to the woods on the 
left of the open fields. He began to feel easier when he 
had passed the field-works, and experienced a sensation of 
exultation as he thought of the reception which awaited 
him at headquarters as well as in the regiment. 
 
CHAPTER XV. 
THE SHARPSHOOTER IX THE WOODS. 
OMERS found the picket guard nearer the rebel 
line than he had anticipated ; but the exhibi- 
tion of his pass, which had been prepared with 
special reference to this purpose, prevented any 
detention, though a sergeant had to be called who 
was scholar enough to read the mysterious document. 
" I reckon you haven't got the best place to go 
through," said the sergeant, after he had examined the 
pass, and satisfied himself of its correctness. 
"Why not?" 
" There's a whole squad of Yankees a good piece in 
there," he replied, pointing in the direction of the 
Federal lines. " They've been there all day watching 
for something." 
"What do they want?" 
"There was a man run through the line this fore- 
noon from their side, and I reckon they are trying to 
Hud him." 
" Was he a Y'ank?" asked Somers, desirous of obtain- 
ing their idea of the fugitive. 
 
" Dunno what he was" We didn't see him till he got 
v 
a good piece behind us. We were chasing the Yanks 
which run away when they saw us." 
This was satisfactory to our scout ; for the sergeant 
appeared to have no knowledge that would be dangerous 
to him, and none of the graybacks recognized the pants 
he wore. He advanced cautiously, as though he was 
afraid of stumbling upon the squad of Yankees de- 
scribed by the sergeant, till he could no longer be seen 
by the pickets. The last obstacle seemed to be over- 
come ; and he hastened to the place where he had con- 
cealed his uniform, which he wished to put on before he 
approached the pickets on the other side. It was now 
nearly dark, and he had no time to spare ; for, if he 
approached his own men in the darkness, he would be 
in danger of being shot before they discovered who he 
was, though he had full confidence in the discretion of 
Hapgood. 
"Without difficulty, he found the place where he had 
concealed his clothes ; and, after assuring himself that 
lone of the rebel pickets were in sight, he hastily put 
them on. To prevent any unpleasant suspicions, he took 
the precaution to hide the gray pants he had worn, in 
the long grass of the swamp, so that they need not 
attract the attention of any stroller who might pass in 
that direction. Though we have frequently held our 
hero up as a model of modesty, we are compelled to 
acknowledge that he felt exceeclinirlv -well satisfied with 
himself on the present occasion. He felt that he had 
done what, in the homely vocabulary of the boys of 
Pinchbrook might well be called a big thing." 
He had fully and successfully accomplished the ardu- 
ous purposes of his mission. He had examined the 
positions, and counted the forces of the rebels. He had 
received very valuable information from Mr. Raynes, 
and from others whom he had encountered in his walk 
through the enemy's lines. He was satisfied that he 
should receive a warm welcome from those who had 
sent him upon the perilous tour. He had earned the 
first bar to his shoulder-straps, and was proud of his 
achievement. 
The work had been done, and he was within a short 
distance of the Union lines, within a short distance of 
the devoted Hapgood. who was patiently but anxiously 
waiting to give him a soldier's reception. Above all, 
he was safe : and he trembled when he thought of the 
perils through which he had passed, of the consequences 
which must have followed the discovery of his real char- 
acter. As he had thanked God for the boon of life after 
the battle was over, so now he thanked him for the 
signal success which had crowned his labors in the eood 
cause. The last article of his raiment was put on and 
adjusted : he rose from the ground to walk towards the 
Union lines. 
" I say, Yank, you look better'n you did 'fore yer 
changed your clothes," said a voice, which struck his 
ear with startling distinctness. 
Soraers looked in the direction from which the voice 
came, and discovered a villanous-looking countenance, 
that had just risen from the tall swamp-grass, within a 
couple of rods of the spot where he stood. The man 
was unmistakably a rebel, one of the most savage and 
implacable of rebels at that ; such a character as we 
read of in connection with slave-hunts in Mississippi, or 
" free fights " in Arkansas. He wore a long, tangled 
beard ; and his hair had probably never known the use 
of a comb. The grayback looked as cool and impudent 
as though he was perfectly assured of. his prey, and 
intended to torture this victim with his tongue, as he 
would with his knife or his rifle if occasion required. 
" I say, Yank, you look better'n yer did 'fore yer 
changed your colors," repeated the rebel, as he received 
no reply to his first salutation. 
Somers looked at him again : indeed, he had hardly 
taken his eyes off the savage-looking fellow, who woidd 
have made a very good representative of Orson in the 
fairy story. He held a rifle in his hand, the muzzle of 
which could easily be brought to bear upon his victim. 
Our lieutenant at once understood the humor of the 
fellow ; and, having recovered his self-possession in the 
momentary pause, he determined not to be behind him 
foe either in word or in deed. 
"I say, reb, when did you shave last?" demanded 
Somers, with something as near akin to a laugh as he 
could manufacture for the occasion. 
" 'Fore you was born, I reckon, Yank," replied the 
rebel ; " and I sha'n't shave agin till after you're dead. 
But I reckon I sha'n't hev ter wait long nuther." 
" I suppose you don't know what a comb is for, do 
you?" continued Somers, who was, however, thinking 
of some method by which he might get out of this 
scrape. 
" I reckon I've heerd about such things ; but Joe Bag- 
bone ain't a woman, and don't waste his time no such 
way. I say, stranger, you've got about three minutes 
more to live." 
"How long?" 
" Three minutes, stranger. I've sat here by them 
clothes, like a dog at a 'possum's nest, all the arter- 
noon. Now I've treed the critter, and I'm gwine to 
shoot him." 
"Is that so?" 
"That's so, stranger." 
" Do you usually shoot any man you happen to meet 
iu the woods?" 
" Well, I don't reckon we do, every man ; but some 
on 'em we does. I calkilate you got on Tom Myers's 
clothes now, and yer shot the man 'fore you took the 
rags." 
" I didn't shoot him." 
" No matter for that, stranger : he was shot by a 
Yank, and you've got to settle the account." 
Somers began to be of the same opinion himself. The 
grayback had evidently found the clothes, and suspected 
the purpose for which they were concealed. It was pos- 
sible he had even more definite information than this ; for 
he seemed to be prepared for precisely what had taken 
place. 
My friend " 
I'm not your friend, stranger. You kin say any 
thing you like, if yer don't insult me : Joe Bagbone 
don't take an insult from any live man." 
" Well, Joe Bagbone," continued Somers, who was 
disposed to parley with the fellow to gain time, if 
nothing else, " if you shoot me, you will make the 
worst mistake you ever made in your life ; and I can 
prove it to you in less than five minutes." 
" No, yer can't, stranger. Don't waste yer time no 
such way. If yer want ter say yer prayers, blaze away 
lively, 'cause three minutes aren't long for a man to repent 
of all his sins." 
" I have a pass from General M , which permits 
me to go in safety through these lines," persisted Somers. 
" The sergeant above just examined it, and passed me 
through." 
" Don't keer nothing about yer pass. I respects Jeff 
 
Davis just as much as the best man in Mississip. If yer 
had a pass from him, you mought as well not have it as 
have it. Tom Myers was killed, and somebody's gwine 
up for him." 
" But I have important business on the other side." 
" I knows that, stranger," replied the imperturbable 
Joe Bagbone. " It don't make no difference." 
" I am sent over by General M . I belong to the 
Fourth Alabama." 
" Shet up ! Don't tell no lies, 'cause yer hain't got no 
time ter repent on 'em." 
"Then, if I understand it, you mean to murder one of 
your own men in cold blood." 
"Nothin' of the sort : only gwine to shoot a Yank." 
Somers looked into that hard, relentless eye ; but there 
was not the slightest indication of any change of purpose. 
He felt that he stood in the presence of his executioner. 
All the errors of his past life crowded upon him, and the 
grave seemed to yawn before him. 
" Call the sergeant above, and he will satisfy you that 
I am all right," said he, making one more effort to move 
the villain from his wicked purpose. 
" Don't w r ant the sergeant. Yer time's out, stranger.''' 
" Let me call him then." 
" If yer do, I'll fire. Say yer prayers now, if yer 
mean ter ; but I reckon the prayers of a Yank ain't of 
much account," replied Joe with a sneer. 
THE ADVENTURES OF AN ARMY OFFICER. Ill 
Somers stood within a few feet of a large tree. Joe 
had several times raised his rifle to his shoulder : but, 
when he magnanimously offered his victim the last 
moment of grace, he dropped it again ; and our lieu- 
tenant, taking advantage of this interval, darted behind 
the tree. Joe raised his piece quicker than a flash ; but 
he did not fire, for the reason that he could not secure a 
perfect aim, and because he was sure of a better oppor- 
tunity. Our lieutenant, who had carefully preserved his 
revolver during the various changes he had made in his 
dress, now took it from his pocket, and prepared to 
contest the field like a man. 
The grayback, chagrined at this movement on the part 
of his victim, whom he had evidently intended to intimi- 
date by'his coolness and his ferocious words, rose from 
his seat in the long grass, and moved towards the tree 
behind which Somers had taken refuge. Probably he 
was not aware that the Yankee was armed ; for he 
adopted none of the precautions which such a knowl- 
edge would have imposed upon any reasonable man. 
" Come out from that tree, stranger, or you shall die 
like a hog, with a knife ; not like a man, with a rifle- 
ball." 
" I intend to die by neither," said Somers resolutely, 
as he discharged his pistol in the direction from which 
the voice of the grayback came ; for he dared not take 
aim, lest the bullet of the ruffian should pierce his skull. 
that
 
He might as well have fired into the air, so far as 
any injury to his enemy was concerned ; but the report 
had the effect to assure the rebel that he was armed, and 
thus put an end to his farther advance in that direction. 
Somers listened with intense anxiety to discover the next 
movement of his wily persecutor. He had only checked, 
not defeated him ; and an exciting' game was commenced, 
which promised to terminate only in the death of one of 
the belligerents. Somers hoped that the discharge of his 
pistol would bring the sergeant down to his relief; but 
then to be discovered in Federal uniform was about 
equivalent to being shot by his relentless foe, burning 
to revenge the death of Tom Myers. 
The report of pistols and muskets was so common an 
occurrence on the picket-lines as to occasion nothing 
more than a momentary inquiry. No one came for his 
relief, or his ruin, as the case might be ; and he was left 
to play out the exciting game by himself. The gray- 
back, with a wholesome regard for the pistol, had retired 
beyond the reach of its ball, while he was still a long 
way w r ithin rifle-range of his doomed enemy. Somers 
dared not look out from the tree to obtain even a single 
glance at the foe ; for he knew how accurate is the aim 
of some of these Southern woodsmen. He had nothing 
to guide him but the rustling of the dried branches 
c o 
beneath his tread, or the occasional snapping of a twig 
under his feet. 
 
Joe Bagbone, after retreating beyond pistol-shot from 
the tree, had commenced describing a circle which would 
bring him into a position that commanded a view of 
his concealed victim. It must be confessed that Joe's 
tactics were singularly deficient in range ; for nothing but 
a surprise could make them successful. While he was 
moving a hundred rods to secure his position, Somers 
could defeat his purpose by taking a single step. As 
soon as he determined in what direction his persecutor 
was going, he changed his position ; and Joe discovered 
the folly of his strategy, and sat down on a stump to 
await a demonstration on the part of his victim. 
The game promised to be prolonged to a most unrea- 
sonable length ; and Somers, now in a measure secure of 
his life, was impatient to join his anxious companions, 
with whom he had parted in the forenoon. He was 
satisfied that Joe would never abandon the chase, and 
the slightest indiscretion on his own part would result in 
instant death. It was a fearful position, and one which 
was calculated to wear terribly upon his nerves. He 
was anxious to bring the contest to a conclusion ; and, 
while he was debating in his own mind the chances of 
escaping By a sudden dash in the direction of the Union 
lines, a happy thought in the way of strategy occurred 
to him. 
He had determined as nearly as he could the situation 
of his bull-dog opponent, and thought that, if he could 
draw his fire, he might get out of range of his rifle 
before it could be reloaded. Placing his cap on the 
barrel of his pistol, he cautiously moved it over, just as 
it would have appeared to the rebel if his head had been 
inside of it, and projected it a little beyond the tree. He 
withdrew it suddenly two or three times to increase the 
delusion in the mind of his enemy He could not see the 
effect of the stratagem ; but he was hopeful of a satis- 
factory result. He continued to repeat the operation 
with the cap, till he was confident Joe w r as not to be 
fooled in this way. He was probably one of the sharp- 
shooters, and had too often fired at empty caps to be 
caught in this manner when success depended upon the 
single charge in his rifle. 
Somers did not despair, but slipped off his coat ; and, 
rolling it up so as to form the semblance of a head, he 
placed the cap upon the top of the bundle, and cautiously 
exposed the " dummy " on the opposite side of the tree. 
The crack of Joe's rifle instantly followed this exhibition, 
and Somers felt the blow of the ball when it struck the 
cap. The critical moment had come ; and, without the 
loss of a second, our lieutenant darted towards the Union 
lines. This movement was followed by a shrill yell from 
the Mississippian, which might have been a howl of 
disappointment at his failure ; or it might have been 
intended to startle, and thus delay the fugitive. 
Somers had listened to that battle yell too many times 
 
to be moved by it, especially when uttered by a single 
voice ; and, with all the speed of which his limbs were 
capable, he fled to the arms of his friends. Joe was not 
content to give up the battle ; and, dropping his rifle, he 
drew his long knife, and gave chase. They made a long 
run of it ; and it was only ended when Tom heard the 
demand of his faithful sergeant, 
"Who goes there?" 
" Friend," gasped Somers, utterly exhausted by his 
exertions. 
" Lieutenant Somers ? God be praised ! " replied Hap- 
good, instantly recognizing his voice. 
 
CHAPTER XVI. 
RETURN TO THE CAMP. 
'HE moment Somers was recognized, Hapgood 
and his party rushed forward, rightly judging, 
from the rapidity of his motions, that he was 
pursued. The sharp eye of the veteran sergeant 
was the first to perceive the ferocious Mississippian, 
who, undaunted by the appearance of the Union soldiers, 
continued the pursuit as long as there was even a gleam 
of hope that he could overtake his intended victim. He 
was only a few paces behind the lieutenant when the 
latter was discovered. 
Hapgood raised his musket, and fired, just as the im- 
placable pursuer abandoned the chase, and turned his 
steps back to the rebel line. He staggered for a few 
paces more, and fell just as a dozen other muskets were 
levelled at him. He appeared to have been hit in the 
leg ; for he did not fall flat upon the ground, as he would 
if he had been struck in a vital part, but sank down to a 
sitting posture. 
The Union men rushed up to him, and found that the 
 
supposition was correct : the ball had passed through the 
fleshy part of his thigh, disabling, but not dangerously 
wounding him. The ruffian we do not call him so 
because he was a rebel, but he was naturally and by 
education just what the term indicates was as savage 
and implacable as before. 
" Better leave me where I am, Yanks," said he ; " 'case, 
if I get well, I shall be the death of some of you. You 
kin shoot me through the head if you like." 
" Don't consarn yourself about us, reb," replied Hap- 
good. " We'll take good care that you don't hurt your- 
self, or any one else, while you are in our hands." 
" Mebbc you will, Yanks ; but, just as sure as you was 
born, I'll hev the heart's blood of that youuker as fetched 
Tom Myers down." 
" Who's Tom Myers?" demanded the veteran, 
The man that you Yanks killed this forenoon." 
Whose heart's blood do you want ? ' 
That younker with the podge on his shoulder ; the 
im I chased in." 
" He didn't kill Tom Myers, or any other man." 
" Show me the man, then," growled the rebel, now 
beginning to feel the ]7ain of his wound. 
"I'm your man. I brought Tom Myers down," re- 
plied Hapgood, anxious to remove any cause of peril 
from his protege. 
"Didyer?" 
" Sartin I did ; saw him drop when I fired." 
"Then, stranger, yer kin make up yer mind to die like 
a hog within ten days. I tell yer, Yank, there ain't bolts 
and bars enough in Yankee land to keep me away from 
yer. You kin shoot me if yer like now, and that's all 
the way yer kin save yerself." 
" Well, reb, you are great at blowing ; but I've seen a 
good many jest sich fellers as you be, I've fit with 'em, 
and fit agin 'em ; and I tell you, your uncle can take keer 
of just as many of you as can stand up between here and 
sundown. Put that in your hopper, reb ; and the sooner 
you dry up, the sooner you'll come to your milk. We'll 
take keer on you like a Christian, though you ain't nothin' 
but a heathen. Here, boys, make a stretcher, and kerry 
him along. Take that jack-knife 'out of his hand fust, 
and keep one eye on him all the time." 
Having thus delivered himself, Sergeant Hapgood 
hastened to the spot where Somers had seated himself on 
the ground to recover his wind and rest his weary limbs. 
The terrible excitement of the last hour seemed to 
fatigue him more than the previous labors of the whole 
day ; and he was hardly in condition to march to the 
division headquarters, where he was to report the success 
of his mission. 
" O Tom ! I mean Lieutenant Somers ! I'm glad to 
see you ! ' exclaimed the veteran as he grasped both 
the hands of the young soldier. 
 
" Thank you, uncle : I'm just as glad to see you as 
you can be to see me," replied Somers. 
" You're all tuckered out, Somers." 
" I had to run for some distance, with the odds against 
me ; but I shall get rested in a little while." 
The sergeant began to ask questions ; and, as soon as 
he had recovered his breath, Somers gave him a brief 
sketch of his adventures, dwelling mainly on the last and 
most thrilling event of the day. 
" I can hardly beli'eve that I am alive and well after 
all that has happened," said he in conclusion. "That 
was the most bloodthirsty villain I ever encountered in 
the whole course of my life." 
" If you say shoot him, leftenant, it shall be done 
quicker'n you can say Jack Roberson," added Hapgood, 
indignant at the conduct of the savage rebel. 
" Of course, I don't say any thing of the kind. It 
would be murder to do any thing of that sort while he 
is our prisoner." 
" He desarves hanging more'n Kyd the pirate did ; 
and, if I had my way, he'd swing afore sunrise to- 
morrow. He's a consarned heathen ! " 
" Never mind him : only keep him safe, and where he 
can't do any mischief; for he is wicked enough to kill the 
man that feeds him." 
" I'm only sorry I didn't hit him a little higher up, 
where I hit the other feller this mornin." added the 
veteran. " How do you feel now, leftenant?" 
" I am improving. I shall be ready to go with you 
in a few moments more." 
After sitting ou the stump half an hour longer, he was 
in condition to march ; but the danger was past, the 
tremendous excitement had subsided, and his muscles, 
which had been strained up to the highest tension, seemed 
to become soft and flaccid. The party passed the Union 
pickets, and reached the headquarters of the division- 
general, who had just finished his supper. 
" Somers ! by all that is great and good ! " exclaimed 
the general, who probably never expected to see the scout 
again. 
" I have come to make my report, sir," replied the 
lieutenant. 
" You are all used up. You look as though you could 
hardly stand up." 
" I am very tired, sir," added Somers languidly. 
" Sit down, then. Here, Peter," he added, addressing 
his servant, " bring in a glass of whiskey for Lieutenant 
Somers." 
"Thank you, general : I never drink any thing stronger 
than coffee." 
" But a little whiskey would do you good in your 
present condition : you need it." 
" I thank you, general : I never drink whiskey, as I had 
occasion to say to a rebel general of division to-day." 
"Eh? 'Pon my conscience ! Were you asked to drink 
 
by a rebel major-general ? " demanded the officer, greatly 
surprised at the statement of the scout. 
" Not exactly, sir. About the first question he asked 
me was, how much whiskey I could drink without going 
by the board." 
"Who was he? Bring coffee, Peter." 
" General M ." 
So I supposed. Pie is a jovial, good-hearted fellow ; 
but I'll wager my shoulder-straps he was tight at the 
time," laughed the general. 
" Very tight, sir." 
" Well, he is a fighting man, drunk or sober ; but I 
should rather lead than follow him in action. Where 
have you been all day ? " 
" Shall I tell my story in full, or only give you the 
information I obtained?' 
" Tell the story, so that I can determine whether the 
information is good for any thing or not." 
Somers drank the tin cup of coffee which the general's 
servant brought to him, and then proceeded to relate the 
incidents of the day in the rebel camp. His distinguished 
auditor, who, in the Army of the Potomac, had well 
earned the title of " the bravest of the brave," listened 
with eager interest to the details of the lieutenant's 
story, asking occasional questions upon points which 
were not only calculated to elicit particular information, 
but to display the skill and intelligence of the scout. 
 
The interview was prolonged for several hours : and at 
its close a staff-officer was despatched to the corps com- 
mander ; for what purpose, of course, Somers had no 
intimation. 
" Lieutenant Somers, you have earned your promotion ; 
and if you don't have it, it will be because I have not in- 
fluence enough to procure it. You have done well." 
" Thank you, sir." 
"Your friend, Senator Guilford, shall hear of you 
within forty-eight hours." 
" I beg your pardon, sir ; but, grateful as I am to 
Senator Guilford for the interest he has expressed in 
me, I don't care to be patronized by any man in civil 
life." 
" Whew ! " laughed the general. " I wish some of our 
colonels and brigadiers would take a lesson from you. 
Never mind, Lieutenant Somers: you will deserve all 
you ever get." 
" Thank you, sir." 
" Go to your quarters now. Here," he added, dashing 
off a note at his table, in which he desired that Somers 
might be excused from duty for the next two days, to 
enable him to recover from the fatigues of his arduous 
expedition. 
I need not inform my readers how soundly our hero 
slept in his shelter tent that night, nor how his slumbers 
were disturbed by a horrid rebel with a bowie-knife, and 
a horrid feminine monstrosity which seemed to be called 
Sue by her attendant demons ; but he slept as a tired 
boy only can sleep. 
The next morning the brigade was relieved from 
picket duty, and the regiment returned to its camp. 
Captain de Banyan had neither seen nor heard from his 
young friend since his departure on the forenoon of the 
preceding day. Of course he was overjoyed to see him, 
as well as intensely curious to know where he had been, 
what he had done, and whether he had been promoted. 
Somers told his adventures to the mess, omitting such 
military information as was "contraband" in the camp. 
" Somers, my dear fellow, you are a man after my 
own heart ! " exclaimed the captain, grasping his hand, 
and wringing it with all the enthusiasm of his fervid 
nature. " Somers, my boy, did you ever hear of a man 
having his double ? " 
" I have read of such things in old legends." 
ic I believe in it, Somers. You are my double ! You 
ire my second self! You are as near like me as 
one pea is like another ! Just before the battle of 
Magenta " 
At this interesting point in the conversation, the 
officers of the mess burst into an involuntary roar of 
laughter, ending up Magenta with a long dash. 
" Not exactly like you, Captain de Banyan," added 
Somers. 
 
" You can't tell half so big a story," said Lieutenant 
Mimroe. 
" Gentlemen," interposed the captain with dignity, 
you interrupted me at the wrong moment. I was 
about to prove to you wherein Lieutenant Somers was 
irr double ; and, with your permission, I will proceed 
with my argument. Just before the battle of Magenta, 
I was sent out on a scout ; and I went at the particular 
request of the Emperor Napoleon, who permit me to 
add, in the presence of a company which seems to be 
inimical to my antecedents, if not to me had unlimited 
confidence in my ability to perform this delicate duty 
with skill and success. Well, gentlemen, I passed our 
pickets : of course I mean the French pickets ; for I 
was, as you are all aware, a colonel in the French 
infantry at that time." 
" We are all aware of it," laughed Mimroe, " over 
the left." 
" That is a slang phrase, and repulsive to the ears of a 
cultivated gentleman. As I was saying, gentlemen, I 
passed our pickets, and soon encountered a Russian 
general of division." 
"Russian?" 
" Austrian, I should have said ; and I thank you, 
Somers, for the correction. I suppose he was making 
the grand rounds with the officer of the day. Be that 
as it may, he considered it his duty to stop me ; and I 
 
was uuder the disagreeable necessity of putting a bullet 
through his head. He was a count, and the father of a 
large family : however, I could not help it, though I was 
sorry to make orphans of his children. I stepped into 
his uniform without the delay of a moment." 
" Where was the sergeant of the guard, the officer 
of the day, and the sentinels ? " demanded Lieutenant 
Munroe. 
" I beg you will not interrupt me, Lieutenant Munroe, 
with these ill-timed remarks, which are merely intended 
to throw discredit on my character for truth and vera- 
city. I remarked, that I stepped into the uniform of 
