him. When he reached the river, he sat down on the bank, exhausted by
his efforts and by the excitement of the afternoon.
"I reckon I've got about circus enough," said he to himself,--for there
was no one else to whom he could say it. "That Whippleby is worse than a
heathen. I don't like any of them."
He rubbed his legs, which were not yet done smarting; and the pain
seemed to be an emphatic protest against circuses in general, and the
"Great Olympian Circus" in particular. But whether he liked the circus
or not, it was no longer safe for him to remain with the company. He had
taken "French leave" of the manager, and had cheated him out of the
tights which enveloped his body from neck to heels. This thought
reminded him that they did not feel at all comfortable, and he wished
the manager had his own again.
Having abandoned the circus profession in disgust, he wondered what he
should do next. It was useless for him to stay in the vicinity of
Woodville; and the only safe plan for him to adopt was, to go away to
some other part of the country, or go to sea at once. He could not
tolerate the idea of leaving without letting Bertha know where he was.
The officers were on his track, and he could not hope always to escape
them. The court-house was terrible, and prompt action was necessary.
He must have a sight of Bertha, even if he did not speak to her; and at
the risk of being captured, he determined to stay in the neighborhood of
Woodville till the next morning. Near the place where he sat there was a
skiff moored to the bank. He hauled it in, and took up the oars. He did
not mean to steal it, only to borrow it till the next morning. With this
comfortable reflection he cast off the painter, and pulled over to the
other side of the river.
It was now quite late in the evening. He had not eaten any supper, and,
like other boys, he was always hungry at meal times. He wanted something
to eat; and it occurred to him that there were generally some crackers
and cheese in the locker of the Greyhound, and he rowed down to her
moorings. He found what he wanted there, and made a hearty supper. He
was satisfied then, and soon went to sleep in the stern-sheets of the
sail-boat.
Fortunately for him he waked up about daylight, and was not seen by any
of the early risers at Woodville. Appropriating the rest of the crackers
and cheese for his breakfast, he got into the skiff and rowed up to the
Glen, where he hoped, in the course of the forenoon, to see Bertha.
CHAPTER VIII.
GOOD-BYE TO WOODVILLE.
Bertha often walked to the Glen before breakfast, and Noddy expected to
find her there on the present occasion. As she did not appear, he
followed the path toward Woodville, and actually reached the lawn which
surrounded the mansion before he thought of the danger he incurred. But
it was breakfast time in the servants' quarters, and he was not seen.
Keeping on the outskirts of the lawn, where he could make good his
retreat in case of necessity, he walked nearly around to the pier, and
was so fortunate as to discover Bertha at the turn of a winding path,
near his route. The sight of her filled him with emotion, and brought to
his mind the remembrance of the many happy days he had spent in her
presence. He could hardly restrain the tears which the thought of
leaving the place brought to his eyes, though Noddy was not given to
the feminine custom of weeping.
"Miss Bertha," said he, as she approached the spot where he stood.
She started back with alarm; but he stepped forward from the concealment
of the bushes, and with a smile of pleasure she recognized him.
"Why, Noddy, is that you?" said she, walking towards the spot where he
stood.
"It's me, Miss Bertha; but I suppose you don't want to see me now."
"I am very glad to see you. What did you go away for?"
"Because they were going to put me in the court-house."
"In the court-house!" exclaimed Bertha, who was better acquainted with
legal affairs than her pupil.
"Yes, for setting the boat-house afire."
"I don't think they intended to take you to the court-house."
"O, I know they did. I have had two constables after me; but I got away
from them. Besides, I heard Squire Wriggs say they were going to take me
to the court-house. I heard him say so myself."
"Perhaps it is so," said Bertha, musing. "Squire Wriggs came to see
father yesterday morning. They went out together, and were speaking of
you as they left the house."
"I'm glad you didn't have anything to do with it," said Noddy, delighted
to find that Bertha was not one of his persecutors.
Then, with the utmost simplicity, and apparently with the feeling that
he was a persecuted youth, he told her everything that had occurred from
the time he first saw Mr. Grant and Squire Wriggs on the lawn.
"I don't know what my father's plans are," said Bertha, sadly; "but he
thinks it is no longer safe to permit you to roam about the place. He is
afraid you will set the house on fire, or do some other terrible thing."
"But I wouldn't, Miss Bertha," protested Noddy.
"Why did you do such a wicked thing?"
"I couldn't help it."
"Yes, you could, Noddy. That's only making a bad matter worse. Of course
you could help setting a building on fire."
"It wasn't my fault, Miss Bertha," stammered he; "I can't explain it
now--perhaps some time I may; and when you understand it, you won't
think so bad of me."
"If there is anything about it I don't know, why don't you tell me?"
added Bertha, mystified by his strange remark.
"I can't say anything now. Please don't ask me anything about it, Miss
Bertha. I'm not half so much to blame as you think I am; but I set the
fire, and they are after me for it. They have used all sorts of tricks
to catch me; but I'm not going into any court-house, or any tinker's
shop."
"What tricks do you mean?"
"They said they had a lot of money for me, and that Squire Wriggs
wouldn't do me any harm."
"Well, I don't know anything about that. Father went over to Whitestone
with Squire Wriggs, after you ran away. He went over again last night,
after he came from the city, and I haven't seen him for more than a
moment since."
"He is going to send me to the court-house," said Noddy, fully satisfied
that Bertha knew nothing about the proceedings of her father. "I am
going to sea, now."
"To sea, Noddy?"
"Yes, I'm going to work and win, as you told me, and when I come back I
shall be respectable."
Bertha had her doubts on this point. She had almost lost all hope of her
protégé, and she did not think that a voyage in the forecastle of a
ship would be likely to improve his manners or his morals.
"I can't let you go, Noddy," said she.
"I must go; if I stay here they will put me in prison. You don't want to
see me put in prison, Bertha."
"I don't."
"Then what can I do? The officers are after me this moment."
"But I shall have to tell my father that I have seen you."
"You may do that; and you may tell him, too, that it won't be any use
for him to try to find me, for I shall keep out of the way. If they
catch me they will be smarter than I am," added Noddy, confidently.
"I want to see you again, Noddy, after I have talked with father about
you. I don't believe he intends to send you to prison."
"I know he does. I come over here to see you before I went away. I
couldn't go without seeing you, or I shouldn't have come. I may never
see you again, for I shan't run any more risks after this."
Bertha said all she could to induce him to meet her again; but the
cunning youth was afraid that some trap might be set to catch him, and
he assured her that this was positively his last appearance at Woodville
for the present. He was satisfied that Mr. Grant had taken the case into
his own hands, and that she could not save him if she would.
"Now, good-bye, Miss Bertha," said he, wiping a tear from his face.
"Don't go, Noddy," pleaded she.
"I must."
"You haven't any clothes but those you have on, and you have no money."
"I don't want any. I can get along very well. Won't you shake hands with
me before I go?"
"Certainly, I will," replied she, giving him her hand. "You will not let
me do anything for you now?"
"You have done more than I deserve. Good-bye, Miss Bertha," said he,
pressing the hand he held.
"Good-bye, Noddy," replied she. "Good-bye, if you must go."
"There comes your father," exclaimed he, as he bounded off into the
grove with the speed of an antelope.
"Was that Noddy?" asked Mr. Grant, as he joined Bertha a few minutes
later.
"Yes, father."
"Why didn't you tell me he was here, Bertha?"
"He came but a few moments ago. He came to bid me good-bye."
"Where is he going?"
"He is going to sea. He says you intend to take him to the court-house."
"This is very unfortunate. A most remarkable event in regard to the boy
has occurred, which I haven't time to tell you about now. It is very
important that I should find him at once."
"I don't think you can catch him. He is very much afraid of being sent
to prison."
"I had no intention of sending him to prison," laughed Mr. Grant.
"But he heard Squire Wriggs say he must take him over to the court."
"That was for another matter--in a word, to have a guardian appointed,
for Noddy will be a rich man when he is of age."
"Noddy?" exclaimed Bertha.
"Yes; but I haven't a moment to spare. I have been at work on his
affairs since yesterday morning. They are all right now; and all we want
to enable us to complete the business is the presence of the boy."
"Poor fellow! He is terribly worked up at the idea of going to the
court-house, or even to a tinker's shop, as he calls it."
"Well, he is running away from his own fortune and happiness; and I must
find him."
"I hope you will, father," said Bertha, earnestly, as Mr. Grant hastened
away to organize a pursuit of the refugee.
All the male servants on the place were summoned, and several started
off in the direction in which Noddy had retreated. The boatman and
others were sent off in the boats; and the prospect was, that the
fugitive would be captured within a few hours. As our story relates more
especially to the runaway himself, we shall follow him, and leave the
well-meaning people of Woodville to pursue their investigations alone.
When Noddy discovered Mr. Grant, he was satisfied that the gentleman saw
him, for he quickened his pace, and walked towards the place where he
stood holding Bertha's hand. He ran with all his might by the familiar
paths till he reached the Glen. There were, at present, no signs of a
pursuit; but he was confident that it would not be delayed, and he did
not even stop to take breath. Rushing down to the water, he embarked in
the skiff, and rowed up the river, taking care to keep in shore, where
he could not be seen from below.
Above Van Alstine's Island, he crossed the river, and began to work his
way down; but the white sails of the Greyhound were seen, with all the
boats belonging to the estate, headed up stream. They were chasing him
in earnest, and he saw that it was not safe to remain on the river.
"Do you know where Mr. Grover lives?" he asked of a ragged boy who was
fishing on the bank of the river.
"Below Whitestone?"
"Yes."
"Will you take this boat down there?"
"I will," replied the boy, glad of the job, and willing to do it without
any compensation.
Noddy had taken off the tights belonging to the circus company, and
rolled them up in a bundle. In order to be as honest as Bertha had
taught him to be,--though he was not always so particular,--he engaged
the boy to leave them at the circus tent.
The boy got into the boat, and began his trip down the river. Noddy felt
that he had been honest, and he was rather proud of the record he was to
leave behind him; for it did not once occur to him that borrowing the
boat without leave was only a little better than stealing it, even if he
did return it.
The servants at Woodville and the constables at Whitestone were on his
track, and he had no time to spare. Taking a road leading from the
river, he walked away from it as fast as he could. About three miles
distant, he found a road leading to the northward; and thinking it
better to suffer by excess of prudence than by the want of it, he took
this direction, and pursued his journey till he was so tired he could go
no farther.
A farmer on the road gave him some dinner; and when he had rested
himself, he resumed his walk. At sunset he reached a large town on the
river, where he felt safe from pursuit until he saw the flaming
hand-bills of the Great Olympian Circus, which was almost as bad as
meeting one of the constables, for these worthies would expect to find
him at the tent, and probably were on the watch for him.
Noddy was too tired to walk any farther that day. He wanted to reach
some large seaport, like New York or Boston, where he could find a
vessel bound on a foreign voyage. He was almost afraid to go to the
former city, for he had heard about the smart detectives they have
there, who catch any person guilty of crime, though they never saw him
before. He had told Bertha that he intended to go to sea; and he was
afraid that Mr. Grant would be on the watch for him, or set some of
these detectives to catch him, if he went there.
It was almost time for the steamers for Albany, which went up in the
night, to reach the town, and he determined to go on board of one, and
proceed as far up the river as he could with the small sum of money in
his possession. He soon found the landing-place, and presently a steamer
came along.
"Where do you want to go, boy?" asked one of the officers of the boat.
"I want to go to Albany; but I haven't money enough to pay my fare."
"How much money have you got?"
"Thirty-five cents. I will go as far as that will pay my fare."
"That will only be to the next landing-place."
"Couldn't you give me some work to do, to pay my fare up to Albany?"
The officer happened to be rather pleased with Noddy, and told him he
might stand by and help land the baggage at the stopping-places. He gave
the little wanderer some supper in the mess-room, after the boat got
off, and Noddy was as grateful as though the man had given him a gold
mine. When the steamer made another landing, he worked with all his
might, and was highly commended for his skill and activity.
And so he passed the night, sleeping between the stoppages, and working
like a mule at every landing. In the morning the boat reached Albany,
and the officer gave him his breakfast with the engineers. Noddy felt
safe from pursuit now; he went on shore, and walked about the city,
thinking what he should do next.
CHAPTER IX.
AN ATTEMPT TO WORK AND WIN.
Boston was two hundred miles distant, and Noddy was principally excited
to know how he should get there, for he had decided to ship in that
city. It would take him a week to go on foot, and his funds were now
completely exhausted, so that he could not pay his fare by railroad. If
he could neither ride nor walk, the question was narrowed down to a
point where it needed no further consideration.
"Here, boy, do you want a job?" said a gentleman, coming out of a
dwelling with a valise and a large bundle in his hands.
"Yes, sir; thank you, sir," replied Noddy, springing forward, and taking
the heavier articles, without giving the gentleman the trouble to state
what he wanted of him.
This incident seemed to solve the problem for him. He could remain in
Albany long enough to earn a sufficient sum of money to pay his fare to
Boston. He followed the gentleman to the railroad station, and handed
the valise to the baggage-master. The gentleman gave him a quarter of a
dollar for his services. It was a liberal return for the short time he
had been employed, and a few more such jobs as that would soon put him
in funds.
Noddy was sanguine now that he could earn money with entire ease, and
all the difficulties which had beset him began to disappear. There was
something exceedingly pleasant in the idea of being independent; of
putting his hand into his pocket and always finding some money there
which had been earned by his own labor. It was a novel sensation to him.
"Work and win!" exclaimed he, as he walked out of the railroad station.
"I understand it all now, and I may thank Miss Bertha for the idea."
In the enthusiasm of the moment, he began to consider whether it would
not be better to remain on shore and amass a fortune, which he believed
could be done in a short time. He could carry bundles and valises till
he got money enough to buy a horse and wagon, when he could go into the
business on a more extensive scale. The road to fortune was open to him;
all his trials and difficulties had suddenly vanished, and he had only
to reach out his hand to pluck the golden harvest.
The rattling of a train which had just arrived disturbed this pleasant
dream, and Noddy hastened back to secure the fruit of his brilliant
resolution. There were plenty of gentlemen with bags and valises in
their hands, but not a single one of them wanted any assistance; and
some of them answered his civil salutation with insult and harshness.
The experiment did not work so well as he had anticipated, for Noddy's
great expectations led him to believe that he should make about half a
dollar out of the arrival of this train, instead of which he did not
make a single cent.
"Work and win; but where are you going to get your work?" said Noddy to
himself.
No more trains were to arrive for some hours, and he posted himself in
the street, asking for a job whenever there was the least prospect of
obtaining one. At noon, Noddy was hungry, and was obliged to spend half
his morning's earnings for a coarse dinner, for his circumstances did
not permit him to indulge in the luxury of roast beef and plum pudding.
During the afternoon he lay in wait for a job at the railroad stations,
and in the most public places of the city. But the sum of his earnings
was only five cents.
"Work and win!" said he. "Sum total of day's work, thirty cents; not
enough to buy what I want to eat. It don't pay."
If work did not pay, stealing certainly would not; and we are happy to
say, Bertha Grant had done her duty by him so faithfully, that he did
not feel tempted to resort to any irregular means of obtaining a
subsistence. If work did not pay, it was only because he could not
obtain it. He had not yet struck a productive vein. He had been a
fishing a great many times; but when he had no success, he neither
concluded that fish were not good, nor that there were no fish in the
river.
There was a train to arrive, after dark, from New York city, and he
determined to make one more effort to improve his fortunes. As the
passengers came out of the station with small parcels of baggage in
their hands, he offered his services to them. His heart almost leaped
with rapture when a gentleman handed him a small carpet-bag, and told
him to follow to the Delavan House. He took the bag, and then, to his
horror, he discovered that the gentleman was Mr. Grant!
What had brought him to Albany? As Noddy's sphere of observation was
confined to the little world of his own affairs, he concluded that the
owner of Woodville must be there for the purpose of arresting him.
Probably some of those smart constables had traced him to the town where
he had embarked for Albany. Again the horrors of the court-house, the
jail, and the tinker's shop were present to his mind. He had taken the
valise, and was now following Mr. Grant to the hotel. It was dark at the
place where he had received the carpet-bag, otherwise he would have been
recognized.
Noddy had no doubt in regard to the correctness of his conclusions; and
he could not help thinking that a great man, like Mr. Grant, was taking
a good deal of pains to capture a poor boy, like him. His arrest was a
matter of a great deal more consequence than he had supposed, which made
it all the more necessary to his future peace and happiness that he
should escape. The bag tied him to his persecutor, or he would have run
away as fast as he could. He could not carry off the baggage, for that
would subject him to another penalty, even if he had been dishonest
enough to do such a thing. He decided to follow Mr. Grant to the hotel,
drop the bag, and run.
"Boy, do you know where the police office is?" said Mr. Grant, suddenly
turning round upon him.
"No, sir," replied Noddy, whose natural boldness prompted him, when
fairly cornered, to face the danger.
"What! Noddy?" exclaimed Mr. Grant. "I came to look for you."
"Thank you, sir," replied Noddy.
"You were a foolish fellow to run away. I'm not going to hurt you;
neither is anybody else."
Noddy was not a little astonished to find Mr. Grant, in his own homely
terms, "trying it on" in this manner. It was not strange that the
constable, or even Squire Wriggs, should resort to deception to entrap
him; but he was not quite prepared for it from the upright proprietor of
Woodville. If he was wanted "bad enough" to induce a gentleman of wealth
and position to make a journey to Albany after him, it was the very best
reason in the world why he should get out of the way as soon as
possible.
"How is Miss Bertha, sir?" asked Noddy, who did not know what else to
say.
"She is quite well, and feels very badly now at your absence. You have
made a great mistake, Noddy," replied Mr. Grant.
"Is Miss Fanny pretty well, sir?"
"Very well. We don't wish to injure you, or even to punish you, for
setting the boat-house on fire. The worst that I shall do will be to
send you----"
"Is Ben any better than he was?" continued Noddy, fully satisfied in his
own mind in regard to the last remark.
"Ben is very well," said Mr. Grant, impatiently. "Now, you will come
with me, Noddy, and not try to run away again."
"How is Mrs. Green and the rest of the folks?" asked Noddy, fully
resolved that even Mr. Grant should not "pull wool over his eyes," as he
quaintly expressed his view of this attempt to deceive him.
"She is well. Now come with me, Noddy. I will give you a good supper,
and you shall have everything you need. Your circumstances have changed
now, and you will be a rich man when you are of age."
"Have you heard from Mr. Richard lately, sir?"
"Never mind Richard, now. Come with me, Noddy. If you attempt to run
away again, I shall be obliged to hand you over to a policeman."
That looked much more like it, in Noddy's opinion, and he had no doubt
of Mr. Grant's entire sincerity in the last remark.
"I will follow you, sir," replied Noddy, though he did not intend to
continue on this route much farther.
"You understand that I am your friend, Noddy, and that no harm shall
come to you."
"Yes, sir; I understand that."
"Come here now, and walk by my side. I don't want to call a policeman to
take charge of you."
Noddy did not want him to do so either, and did not intend that he
should. He placed himself by the side of his powerful persecutor, as he
still regarded him, and they walked together towards the hotel. The
young refugee was nervous and uneasy, and watched with the utmost
diligence for an opportunity to slip away. As they were crossing a
street, a hack, approaching rapidly, caused Mr. Grant to quicken his
pace in order to avoid being run over. Noddy, burdened with the weight
of the carpet-bag, did not keep up with him, and he was obliged to fall
back to escape the carriage.
"Here, boy, you take this bag, and follow the owner to the hotel, and he
will give you something," said Noddy to a ragged boy at the corner of
the street.
Without waiting for an answer, he darted down the cross street, and made
his best time in the rush for liberty.
The boy, to whom Noddy had given the bag, ran over the street, and
placed himself behind Mr. Grant, whom he judged to be the owner of the
baggage.
"Where is the other boy?" demanded Mr. Grant.
"Gone down State Street to find ten cents he lost there," replied the
wicked boy. "I'll carry your bag, sir."
"But I want the boy! Which way did he go?" said Mr. Grant, in hurried
tones.
"Down there, sir. His mother'll lick him if he don't find the ten cents
he lost. I'll carry the bag."
But Mr. Grant was unwilling to trust his property to the hands of such a
boy, and he immediately reclaimed it.
"I want that boy!" exclaimed Mr. Grant, in great agitation. "Which way
did he go?"
"Down there," replied the ragged boy, pointing down a street in exactly
the opposite direction from that taken by the fugitive.
But Mr. Grant was too wise a man to follow. He was in search of a
policeman just then. As these worthy functionaries are never at hand
when they are wanted, of course he did not find one. He called a
carriage, and ordered the driver to convey him with all speed, and at
double fare, to the police office. On his arrival, he immediately stated
his business, and in a few hours the whole police force of the city were
on the lookout for poor Noddy Newman.
The object of all this friendly solicitude was unconscious of the
decided steps taken by Mr. Grant; but he ran till he had placed a safe
distance between himself and his potent oppressor. He saw plenty of
policemen in his flight, but he paid no attention to them, nor even
thought what a powerful combination they formed against a weak boy like
himself. He was satisfied, however, that he must leave the city; and
when he was out of breath with running, he walked as nearly on a
straight course as the streets would permit, till he reached the
outskirts of the city.
"Stop that heifer!" shouted a man, who was chasing the animal.
Noddy headed her off, and she darted away in another direction. Our
refugee was interested in the case at once; for he could not permit any
horned beast to circumvent him. He ran as though he had not run before
that evening, and brought the wayward animal up in a corner when the man
came to his assistance.
"You are a smart boy," said the drover.
"That's so," puffed Noddy, modestly.
"If you haven't got nothin' better to do, I'll make it wuth your while
to help drive these cattle down to the keers," added the man.
As Noddy had nothing better to do, he at once accepted the offer,
without even stipulating the price. They started the heifer again, and
she concluded to join the drove which was in the adjoining street. It
was no easy matter to drive the animals, which were not accustomed to
the ways of the city, through the streets, and Noddy won a great deal of
credit for the vigor and agility with which he discharged his duty. They
reached the ferry boat, and crossing, came to the "keers," into which
the young drover assisted in loading the cattle.
His employer gave him a quarter of a dollar, which hardly came up to
Noddy's expectations; for it seemed to him like working very hard, and
winning very little for it. The man asked him some questions about his
home. Noddy told as much of the truth as suited his purpose, and
concluded by saying he wanted to get to Boston, where he could find
something to do.
"O, you want sunthin to do--do ye?" replied the drover. "Well, I'll give
you your victuals, and what clothes you want, to help me drive."
This was not exactly Noddy's idea of "work and win," and he told the
drover he wanted to go to sea.
"I'll tell you what I'll do. You may go down to Brighton, and help take
keer of the cattle in the keers, and I'll take keer of you on the way."
Noddy was more than satisfied with all these "keers," and he promptly
accepted the offer. In half an hour the train started, and he was on the
way to Brighton, which is only a few miles from Boston.
CHAPTER X.
POOR MOLLIE.
Noddy's duty on the journey to Brighton was to assist in keeping the
cattle on their feet. When the poor animals become weary, they are
disposed to lie down; but they are so closely packed that this is not
possible for more than one or two in a car; and if one lies down he is
liable to be trampled to death by the others. The persons in charge of
the cattle, therefore, are obliged to watch them, and keep them on their
feet.
The train occasionally stopped during the night, and was several times
delayed, so that it did not reach its destination till the middle of the
following forenoon. The drover provided him a hearty breakfast in the
morning, and Noddy was in no haste. The future was still nothing but a
blank to him, and he was in no hurry to commence the battle of life.
When he arrived at Brighton he assisted in driving the cattle to the
pens; and then, with half a dollar, which the drover gave him for his
extra services, he started for Boston, whose spires he could even then
see in the distance. He reached the city, and from the Mill Dam--the
long bridge he had just crossed--he walked to the Common. Being quite
worn out by two nights of hard work, and the long walk he had just
taken, he seated himself on one of the stone benches near the Frog Pond.
It was a warm and pleasant day, and he watched the sports of the happy
children who were at play, until his eyelids grew heavy, and he hardly
knew the State House from the Big Tree.
For a boy of his age he had undergone a severe experience. The exciting
circumstances which surrounded him had kept him wide awake until his
physical nature could endure no more. Leaving the seat he had occupied,
he sought out the quietest place he could find, and stretching himself
on the grass, went to sleep.
It was nearly sunset when he awoke; but he felt like a new being, ready
now to work and win at any business which might offer. He wandered about
the streets of the city for two hours, and then ate a hearty supper at a
restaurant. It was too late to do anything that night, and he asked a
policeman to tell him where he could sleep. The officer, finding he was
a friendless stranger, gave him a bed at the station-house.
In the morning he made his way to the wharves, and during the long day
he went from vessel to vessel in search of a berth as cabin-boy. He
asked for this situation, because he had frequently heard the term; but
he was willing to accept any position he could obtain. No one wanted a
cabin-boy, or so small a sailor as he was. Night came on again, with a
hopeless prospect for the future; and poor Noddy began to question the
wisdom of the course he had taken. A tinker's shop, with plenty to eat,
and a place to sleep, was certainly much better than wandering about the
streets.
He could not help thinking of Woodville, and the pleasant room he had
occupied in the servants' quarters; of the bountiful table at which he
had sat; and, above all, of the kindness and care which Miss Bertha had
always bestowed upon him. With all his heart he wished he was there; but
when he thought of the court-house and the prison, he was more
reconciled to his fate, and was determined to persevere in his efforts
to obtain work.
It was the close of a long summer day. He had been wandering about the
wharves at the north part of the city; and as the darkness came on, he
walked up Hanover Street in search of a policeman, who would give him
permission to sleep another night in the station-house. As he did not
readily find one, he turned into another street. It made but little
difference to him where he went, for he had no destination, and he was
as likely to find a policeman in one place as another.
He had gone but a short distance before he saw a crowd of ragged boys
pursuing and hooting at a drunken man who was leading a little girl ten
or eleven years of age,--or rather, she was trying to lead him. Under
ordinary circumstances, we are afraid that Noddy would have joined the
ragamuffins and enjoyed the senseless sport as well as any of them; but
his own sorrows raised him above this meanness in the present instance,
and he passed the boys without a particle of interest in the fun.
He was going by the drunken man and the little girl, when one of the
boldest of the pursuers rushed up and gave the man a push, which caused
him to fall on the pavement. The young vagabonds raised a chorus of
laughter, and shouted with all their might. The little girl, who was
evidently the drunkard's daughter, did not desert him. She bent over
him, and used all her feeble powers to assist him to his feet again.
"My poor father!" sobbed she; and her heart seemed to be broken by the
grief and peril which surrounded her.
The tones with which these words were spoken touched the heart of Noddy;
and without stopping to consider any troublesome questions, he sprang to
the assistance of the girl. The man was not utterly helpless; and with
the aid of Noddy and his daughter he got upon his feet again. At that
moment another of the unruly boys, emboldened by the feat of the first,
rushed up and grasped the arm of the little girl, as if to pull her away
from her father's support.
"Don't touch me! Don't touch me!" pleaded the grief-stricken girl, in
tones so full of sorrow that our wanderer could not resist them, if her
vagabond persecutor could.
He sprang to her assistance, and with one vigorous and well-directed
blow, he knocked the rude assailant halfway across the street, and left
him sprawling on the pavement. Noddy did not wait to see what the boy
would do next, but turned his attention to the poor girl, whose
situation, rather than that of her father, had awakened his sympathy.
"What is your father's name?" asked Noddy, who proceeded as though he
had a sovereign remedy for the miseries of the situation.
"Captain McClintock," sobbed the little girl, still clinging to her
father, with no sting of reproach in her words or her manner.
"Don't cry, little girl; I will do what I can for you," said Noddy,
warmly. "I can lick those boys, if I can't do anything more."
"Thank you!" replied the afflicted daughter. "If I can only get him down
to the vessel, I shall be so glad!"
"Want to fight?" shouted the young ruffian, whom Noddy had upset, coming
as near the party as he dared.
"I'll give you fight, if you come near me again," replied the champion
of the poor girl.
"Come on, if you want to fight," cried the little bully, who had not the
pluck to approach within twenty feet of his late assailant.
The crowd of boys still shouted, and some of them carried their
hostility so far as to throw sticks and stones at the little party; but
as long as they kept at a respectful distance, Noddy did not deem it
wise to meddle with them, though he kept one eye on them, and stood
ready to punish those who ventured too near.
"Come, Captain McClintock," said he, as he attempted to lead the drunken
father, "let's go on board."
"Heave ahead, my hearty!" replied the captain, as he pressed forward,
though his steps were so uncertain that his two feeble supporters could
hardly keep him on his feet.
The remarkable trio passed down Fleet Street, and, after many
difficulties and much "rough weather," reached the head of the wharf,
where the little girl said her father's vessel lay. They were still
closely followed by the merciless ragamuffins, who had pelted them with
stones and sticks, until the patience of Noddy was severely tried.
"Come, my boy, now we'll--hic--now we'll go and--hic--go and take
something 'fore we go on board," said the drunken captain, suddenly
coming to a dead halt in the middle of the street.
"O, no, father!" cried the daughter; "let us go on board."
"Something to take, Mollie, and you shall--hic--you shall have
some--hic--some soda water."
"I don't want any, father. Do come on board."
"You are a good girl, Mollie, and you shall--hic--you shall have some
cake."
"Not to-night, father. We will get it in the morning," pleaded poor
Mollie, trembling with apprehension for the consequences which must
follow another glass of liquor.
"Come, Captain McClintock, let's go on board," said Noddy.
"Who are you?" demanded the inebriated man.
"I'm the best fellow out; and I want to see your vessel."
"You shall see her, my boy. If you are--hic--the best fellow out, come
and take something with me," stammered the captain.
"Let's see the vessel first," replied Noddy, tugging away at the arm of
the drunken man.
"She's a very fine--hic--fine vessel."
"Let me see her, then."
"Heave ahead, my jolly roebuck. I've got some of the best--hic--on board
zever you tasted. Come along."
Noddy and Mollie kept him going till they reached the part of the wharf
where the captain's vessel was moored; and the end of their troubles
seemed to be at hand, when the boys, aware that their sport was nearly
over, became very bold and daring. They pressed forward, and began to
push the drunken man, until they roused his anger to such a degree that
he positively refused to go on board till he chastised them as they
deserved. He had broken away from his feeble protectors, and in
attempting to pursue them, had fallen flat upon the planks which covered
the wharf.
Mollie ran to his assistance; and as she did so, one of the boys pushed
her over upon him. Noddy's blood was up in earnest, for the little
girl's suffering made her sacred in his eyes. He leaped upon the rude
boy, bore him down, and pounded him till he yelled in mortal terror.
Some of the boldest of the ragamuffins came to his relief when they
realized how hard it was going with him, and that he was in the hands of
only one small boy.
Noddy was as quick as a flash in his movements, and he turned upon the
crowd, reckless of consequences. One or two of the boys showed fight;
but the young lion tipped them over before they could make up their
minds how to attack him. The rest ran away. Noddy gave chase, and in
his furious wrath felt able to whip the whole of them. He pursued them
only a short distance; his sympathy for poor Mollie got the better even
of his anger, and he hastened back to her side. As he turned, the
cowardly boys turned also, and a storm of such missiles as the wharf
afforded was hurled after him.
By this time two men from the vessel had come to the assistance of the
captain, and raised him to his feet. He was still full of vengeance, and
wanted to chastise the boys. The young ruffians followed Noddy down the
wharf, and he was compelled, in self-defence, to turn upon them again,
and in presence of the drunken man he punished a couple of them pretty
severely. One of the sailors came to his aid, and the foe was again
vanquished. The appearance of a policeman at the head of the wharf now
paralyzed their efforts, and they disbanded and scattered.
"You are a good fellow!" exclaimed Captain McClintock, extending his
hand to Noddy as he returned to the spot.
"The best fellow out," replied the little hero, facetiously, as he took
the offered hand.
"So you be! Now come on board, and--hic--and take something."
"Thank you, captain. I should like to go on board of your vessel."
"Come along, then, my jolly fellow," added the captain, as he reeled
towards the vessel. "You are a smart little--hic--you are a smart little
fellow. If you hadn't--hic--licked them boys, I should--hic."
Noddy thought he did "hic;" but with the assistance of the sailors, the
captain got on board, and went down into his cabin. His first movement
was to bring out a bottle of gin and a couple of glasses, into which he
poured a quantity of the fiery liquor. He insisted that Noddy should
drink; but the boy had never tasted anything of the kind in his life;
and from the lessons of Bertha and Ben he had acquired a certain horror
of the cup, which had not been diminished by the incidents of the
evening. He could not drink, and he could not refuse without making
trouble with his intoxicated host.
But Mollie saw his difficulty, and slyly substituted a glass of water
for the gin, which he drank. Captain McClintock was satisfied, and
overcome by his last potion, he soon sank back on the locker, and
dropped asleep. With the assistance of the mate he was put into the
berth in his state-room, to sleep off the effects of his debauch.
"I'm so grateful to you!" exclaimed Mollie, when all her trials seemed
to have ended.
"O, never mind me."
"Where do you live?"
"Nowhere."
"Have you no home?"
"No."
"Where do you stay?"
"Anywhere."
"Where were you going to sleep to-night?"
"Anywhere I could."
"Then you can sleep here."
Noddy was entirely willing, and one of the eight berths in the cabin was
appropriated by the mate to his use.
CHAPTER XI.
THE SCHOONER ROEBUCK.
"What is your name?" asked Mollie, when the arrangements for the night
were completed.
"Noddy Newman."
"Noddy? What a queer name! That isn't your real name--is it?"
"Yes, I never knew any other."
Mollie was certainly a very pleasing young lady, and Noddy had become
quite interested in her, as we always are in those to whom we are so
fortunate as to render needed assistance. She had a pretty face, and her
curly hair might have challenged the envy of many a fair damsel who was
wicked enough to cherish such a feeling. There was nothing rough or
coarse about her, and one would hardly have expected to find so
lady-like a person in such a situation in life.
We make this statement in apology for the interest which Noddy took in
the little maiden. The service he had rendered her was quite sufficient
to create a kindly feeling towards her; and then she was so pretty, so
modest, and so gentle, that his sympathy grew into admiration before she
went to her little state-room. Mollie asked him a great many questions
about his past life, and Noddy told her all he knew about himself--about
Bertha, Fanny, and others at Woodville. He did not tell her about the
affair of the boat-house, though he determined to do so at some future
time, if he had the opportunity.
In return for all this information, Mollie told him that the schooner in
which they then were was called the Roebuck; that she belonged to her
father, and that they were bound to the Sandwich Islands, where the
vessel was to run as a packet between certain islands, whose names she
had forgotten. Captain McClintock belonged in the State of Maine, where
Mollie's mother had died two years before. Her father had some property,
and learning that there was a good chance to improve his fortunes at the
Sandwich Islands, he had built the Roebuck for this purpose.
As these distant islands were to be his future home, he was to take his
only child with him, and he had fitted up a state-room in the cabin,
next to his own for her special use. Mollie told Noddy how much pleased
she was with all the arrangements, and how happy she had been on the
passage to Boston, where the Roebuck was to pick up an assorted cargo
for the port of her destination. Then she wept when she thought of the
terrible scenes through which she had just passed in the streets. She
said her father did not often drink too much; that he was the very best
father in the whole world; and she hoped he never would get intoxicated
again as long as he lived.
Noddy hoped so too; and when the little maiden had finished her story,
he thought she was almost equal to Miss Bertha; and he could not think
of such a thing as parting with her in the morning, again to buffet the
waves of disappointment on shore.
"Does your father want a boy on board of the vessel?" asked he.
"I don't know. Do you want to go with us?" said Mollie, with a smile
which spoke the pleasure the thought afforded her.
"I should like to go with you first-rate," replied Noddy. "I want to do
something, and earn some money for myself. I want to work."
"Then you shall go with us!" exclaimed Mollie. "Out where we are going
is a nice place to get rich. My father is going to get rich out there,
and then we are coming home again."
Poor child! She knew not what the future had in store for them.
The bells of the city rang for nine o'clock, and Mollie said she went to
bed at this time.
"Can you read, Noddy?" asked she.
"Yes, some."
"I always read my Testament before I go to bed; I promised my mother,
years ago, that I would; and I like to do it, too. I suppose you read
your Testament every night--don't you?"
"Sometimes; that is, I did once," replied Noddy, in some confusion, for
he could not help recalling the teachings of Bertha on this subject.
"Well, we will read it together. You would like to--wouldn't you?"
"Yes; I don't care if I do."
There was a want of enthusiasm on his part which was rather painful to
the little maiden; but she got the Testament, and when she had read a
few verses aloud, she passed the book to Noddy, who stumbled through his
portion, and she then finished the chapter. She bade him good night, and
retired to her state-room, leaving her new-made friend to meditate upon
the singular events of the evening.
He did not meditate a great while--he never did. His thoughts were
disposed to stray from one subject to another; and from the little
maiden, he found himself wondering whether Mr. Grant had finished
searching for him in Albany, and whether Miss Fanny had "let the cat out
of the bag" yet. Noddy was too tired and sleepy to think a great while
about anything; and he turned into his berth, and went to sleep.
Early in the morning Noddy was on his feet. He went on deck, and found
that the Roebuck was a beautiful vessel, almost handsome enough to be a
gentleman's yacht. He went upon the wharf, where he could obtain a fair
view of her bow, and he was sure she would make good time with a fair
breeze. When he had satisfied himself with the examination, he was more
than ever inclined to go out in her.
When he went down into the cabin again, Mollie was there, setting the
table for breakfast. She looked as fair and as fresh as a country
maiden. She gave him a very friendly greeting.
"Do you do these things, Mollie?" asked he.
"O, yes; I always work, and do what I can. I like to do something."
"How old are you, Mollie?"
"Eleven last May."
"But you can't do this work when you are out at sea."
"O, yes, I can."
"You will be seasick."
"I never was sick, and I have been to sea a great deal with my father."
"How is the captain this morning?"
"I don't know; I haven't seen him yet," replied she, looking very sad,
as she thought of her kind father's infirmity.
Captain McClintock soon came out of his state-room. He looked pale and
haggard, and seemed to be thoroughly ashamed of himself for what he had
done the evening before, as he ought to have been. Mollie sprang to him,
as he stepped out of his room, and kissed him as lovingly as though he
had never done a wrong thing in his life. He glanced at Noddy, as he
entered the main cabin, and with a look of astonishment, as though his
connection with the events of the previous evening were a blank to him.
The captain did not say a word to Noddy, which made the boy feel as
though he was an intruder in the cabin; and when he had the opportunity,
he went on deck, leaving Mollie to say whatever the circumstances
required in explanation of his presence.
"I will never do it again, Mollie," said the fond father, as he kissed
his daughter. "I am very sorry, and you must forgive me, my child."
He was a penitent man, and felt how great was the wrong he had done the
poor child. He had taken her out to walk, and to see the sights of the
city, and had become intoxicated. He remembered the whole scene, when
the boys had chased him; and to Mollie, whom he loved with all his
heart, he was willing to own his fault, and to make her happy by
promising never to do the wrong again.
Mollie then told him about her conversation with Noddy, and of the boy's
desire to go to sea with them. Captain McClintock remembered in part
what the boy had done for them; and Mollie supplied what he had not
seen, or had forgotten.
"Why, yes; we want a cabin-boy. I should have shipped one at home, if I
could have found the right one," replied the captain. "You say he is a
good boy?"
"I know he is. He wants to work."
"Does he know anything about a vessel? I want one who can go aloft, and
shake out the top-gallant sail."
"He is used to boats and the water."
"Well, we will see what he is good for, after breakfast."
"I hope you will take him, for we have become fast friends."
"If he is good for anything, I will, Mollie. Call him down. Here comes
the doctor with the grub."
The "doctor" was the black cook of the Roebuck, who was now descending
the companion-way with the morning meal. Noddy was called, and Captain
McClintock spoke very kindly to him. He inquired particularly into his
knowledge of vessels, and wanted to know whether he would be afraid to
go aloft. Noddy smiled, and thought he should not be afraid. He ate his
breakfast with a boy's appetite, and then the captain took him on deck.
"Do you see that fore-top-gallant yard?" asked the captain.
"Yes, sir, I see it," replied Noddy, who had been thoroughly instructed
in these matters by the old man-of-war's-man of Woodville, though he had
no practical experience in seamanship, even on as large a scale as a
topsail schooner, which was the rig of the Roebuck.
"Well, my boy, that's a pretty high place. Should you dare to go up
there?"
"I think I should," answered Noddy.
"Let me see you do it."
"Now?"
"Yes. I want to see what you are good for. If we can't make a sailor of
you, it won't be worth while to take you out to the Pacific. Let me see
how long it will take you to run up to that fore-top-gallant yard."
Noddy started. Captain McClintock was evidently satisfied that it would
make the boy dizzy; and that, perhaps, if he had to do this kind of
work, he would not care to make a voyage. Mollie stood by her father's
side, deeply interested in the experiment, and fearful that her heroic
friend would fail to meet her father's expectations, thus depriving her
of a pleasant companion on her long voyage.
The candidate for a position on the Roebuck skipped lightly forward to
the fore-shrouds of the vessel, ran up, as chipper as a monkey, to the
mast head, then up the fore-topmast rigging to the yard. Planting his
feet in the foot-ropes, he danced out to the port yard-arm. At this
point he astonished the spectators below by performing certain feats
which he had seen at the Great Olympian Circus. Descending from the
yard, he grasped the main-topmast stay, and ran over upon it to the
main-topmast, and then made his way to the deck by the main-topmast
back-stay.
"You'll do, my boy!" said the captain, emphatically. "You will make a
smart sailor."
"Am I to go with you, sir?" asked Noddy.
"Yes, if you like."
"What will you give me?"
This was a more difficult question; but the captain finally agreed to
give him eight dollars a month, and to advance money enough to buy him
an outfit. Mollie actually danced about the deck with joy when the terms
were arranged, and it was certain that Noddy was to go on the voyage.
The boy's work had been carefully stated by the captain. He was to take
care of the cabin, wait upon the captain and his daughter at table, and
do duty forward when required. He was to have a berth in the cabin, and
was not to be in either watch, unless the vessel became short-handed.
"Now we shall be happy!" exclaimed Mollie, who had already formed many
plans for the long and lonely cruise.
"I think we shall. Do you know when we sail, Mollie?"
"Perhaps to-day; perhaps not till to-morrow."
"I want to write a letter to Miss Bertha before we go."
"That's right, Noddy; never forget your friends. I will give you pen,
ink, and paper, by and by."
In the forenoon Captain McClintock took the young sailor ashore, and
purchased for him a supply of clothing. Noddy always dressed like a
sailor at Woodville. This was Ben's idea, and it was quite proper, as
his work was in the boats. His new garments were not strange to him,
therefore, though they were much coarser than those he wore.
After dinner the captain went on shore alone to do his business, and
Noddy wrote his letter. About five o'clock he returned, and poor Mollie
was dreadfully grieved to find that he was partially intoxicated. He
immediately gave the order to get under way, and went down into the
cabin, leaving the mate to haul the vessel out of the dock.
Noddy made himself as useful as possible, and in a short time the
Roebuck was clear of the wharf. The captain came on deck again, when
the jib was hoisted, and the sails began to draw. The voyage had
actually commenced, and Noddy did not believe that Mr. Grant and the
constables would be able to catch him.
CHAPTER XII.
THE DRUNKEN CAPTAIN.
"Lay aloft, and help shake out the fore-topsail," said the captain to
Noddy, who was standing by the wheel-man, watching the movements of the
vessel. "Be lively! What are you staring at?"
The captain's tones were stern and ugly. He had evidently taken another
glass of gin since he came on board. He was sufficiently intoxicated to
be unreasonable, though he could walk straight, and understood perfectly
what he was about. Noddy did not like the harsh tones in which the order
was given, and he did not move as lively as he would have done if the
words had been spoken pleasantly. He had not yet learned the duty of
prompt obedience, be the tones what they may.
He went aloft, and helped the men who were at work on the topsail. As
soon as the sheets were hauled home, the captain hailed him from the
deck, and ordered him to shake out the fore-top-gallant sail. Noddy had
moved so leisurely before, that the command came spiced with a volley of
oaths; and the cabin-boy began to feel that he was getting something
more than he had bargained for. He shook out the sail, and when the yard
had been raised to its proper position, he went on deck again.
The Roebuck was dashing briskly along with a fresh southerly breeze; and
if Noddy had not been troubled with a suspicion that something was
wrong, he would have enjoyed the scene exceedingly. He had begun to fear
that Captain McClintock was a tyrant, and that he was doomed to undergo
many hardships before he saw his native land again.
"Don't be troubled, Noddy," said Mollie, in a low tone, as she placed
herself by his side at the lee rail. "My father isn't cross very often."
"I don't like to be spoken to in that way," replied he, trying to banish
a certain ill feeling which was struggling for expression in his words
and manner.
"You mustn't mind that, Noddy. That's the way all sea captains speak."
"Is it?"
