handed Lydia another bank bill. " It's nothing but 
money ! " he muttered, almost savagely, as he arose to 
his feet, and commenced stalking about the room. His 
wife retired silently. 
The scene we have presented is a simple illustration 
of the home-life of Mr. and Mrs. Guy. Love, as we 
have said, had died out long ago, and in its place was 
hard antagonism. Truly had Guy expressed the 
thought and interest by which they were bounded, when 
he said " It's nothing but money ! " Beyond or 
above this the wings of his spirit had not power to lift 
him ; and fettered by his life bound to a sordid earth- 
 
clod Lydia could not get above the limitations of a 
sphere to which a base marriage had doomed her. He 
was ever holding back his yellow dross ; she, from the 
necessities of her position, ever grasping after it. And 
so, the finer qualities of her nature all her tastes 
all her aspirings after higher things all her loves and 
humanities were stifled, overlaid, or extinguished. 
The promise of her young, sweet life, was rendered 
fruitless. Beauty had turned to ashes. 
So we find it with Adam Guy and his wife after the 
lapse of ten years. How few of those who envied their 
wealth and style of living, dreamed of all the hollow 
mockery by which they were surrounded. They had 
money, but at what a price ! 
CHAPTER X. 
EN years have laid their burdens and 
their lessons on the hearts of Doctor 
Hofland and his wife, as well. They 
have not found it all meadow-path and 
sunshine. Rough places have woun 
ded their feet, and storms have found 
them far distant from sheltering rock 
or hiding covert. But, in all trial, 
disappointment, anxiety, and affliction 
their hearts have drawn nearer and nearer together, 
gaining, at each approach, more unity of pulsation. 
A defect in the character of Doctor Hofland was 
lack of worldly prudence. The absence of all sordid 
qualities left him in danger of setting too light a value 
on money ; and the absorption of thought in his profes 
sion, kept his mind away from a due consideration of 
life's economies, without which it is almost impossible 
for a man, solely dependent on his own efforts, to keep 
himself free from embarrassment. He was too apt to 
let want, and not means, rule in the matter of expen 
diture. The tastes of such a man are costly things, 
and, if gratified, absorb money rapidly. 
We find the doctor and his wife living in a pleasant 
house on Charles street, among merchants, bankers, and 
 
men of property, and in a style indicative of profession 
al thrift. His practice has largely increased, for, in 
addition to his acknowledged skill, he has personal qual 
ities that render him popular. Pass we into his home. 
Let us contrast the parlors with those of Adam Guy, 
who is worth at least forty thousand dollars the doc 
tor's account with the world, we are sorry to say, stands 
seriously against him. In the merchant's parlors, we 
find lace and damask curtains, Brussels carpet, rich 
mantel glasses, pier-tables, and maroon velvet furniture. 
These, looking cold, stiff, and stately, suggest only a 
money value. You think of what they cost not of 
their use in the household. No pictures smile down up 
on you from the walls ; no urn or vase, no bronze or 
Parian statut-tte, gives grace, tenderness, or human beau 
ty. You might as well be in a cabinet maker's show 
room, for all the sentiment of home that is inspired. 
You stand now in two smaller rooms, communicating 
by folding doors, and a home-feeling is penetrating 
your heart. These are the parlors of our friend, the 
doctor. Instead of damask and lace curtains, we find 
simple Venitian, window-blinds. There are no glasses 
in the piers, and only a small one on the mantel in the 
front parlor ; a hair cloth sofa stands in one room, and 
a piano in the other ; the carpets are ingrain, and the 
chairs cane-seat. But, there are many things beyond 
these, and your eyes go to them instinctively. Here 
hangs a landscape, that gives you a dream of summer 
never to be forgotten, and there a home scene of exqui 
site tenderness. You smile now at the humor of a pic 
ture that hits off a foible of character, and take the les- 
 
son to yourself or, more likely, apply it to another. 
From wall to wall you pass, lingering before painting 
and engraving, and drinking in beauty and sentiment. 
Then you turn to examine a small bronze figure of Ca- 
nova's Dancing Girl, which stands on the mantel, and go 
from this to an exquisite Hebe. On the two centre- 
tables, you find rare books, rich in art-treasure the 
wealth of European galleries. 
But these are not obtainable by any small outlay of 
money. A piece of canvas, two feet square, may cost 
more than a gilded mirror ; and the wall adornments of 
two small parlors, like those of Doctor Hofland, absorb 
a larger sum than all the damask, rose-wood, and French 
plate in the drawing-rooms of a merchant-prince. Art 
is expensive. It was actually so in the present case. 
These pictures, books, statuettes, and other articles of 
taste, cost more than all the handsome furniture in 
Adam Guy's parlors. You look grave at this and will 
look graver still, when we tell you that our pleasant 
friends, Dr. Hofland and his wife, are enjoying these 
rare and costly things at the price of debt ! Trying to 
enjoy them, it were better said, for, with such a 
drawback, minds like theirs can have no real enjoyment. 
Do not blame them too severely, for, at heart, they 
are not dishonest. Of set purpose, they would wrong 
none. Good deeds and kindness have marked each step 
of their way through life, These costly things which 
you see, have been gathered, one at a time, all through 
the ten years that have elapsed since you first looked in 
upon them. The sum of their price has never been 
thought of; if you were to ask their aggregate money- 
 
value, they would not answer correctly, within hundreds 
of dollars. Debt has come by gradual advances, year 
after year, as expenditure steadily exceeded income ; and 
now, when the close calculating merchant is worth forty 
thousand dollars, the physician is " worse than nothing," 
by at least three thousand. 
As we gave you a near view of the home-life of 
Adam Guy, after the lapse of ten years, we will now let 
you see how it is with Doctor Hofland and his wife. 
They have had five children. Of these, two have pass 
ed through the gate of death into heaven. Their old 
est, a daughter, named Lena, from her mother, the 
second, a boy, and their youngest, a baby-girl, ten 
months old, are with them still. 
We take the same evening, on which we opened for 
you the door of Adam Guy's dwelling, and will let you 
pass into the Doctor's home. 
There sits Mrs. Hofland, with her youngest born on 
her lap. She has a book in her hand, and is reading 
aloud to her two oldest children, who have drawn their 
little chairs close to hers, and gaze earnestly into, her 
face, listening. 
Time has dealt gently with Mrs. Hofland. Her 
clear dark eyes are as bright as when you first looked 
into them, nay, brighter, and with a depth of feeling 
and consciousness not seen before. The fine oval of 
her face has not changed its curve ; the play of feeling 
is as rapid and rippling ; her voice tenderer, deeper, 
and more musical. You do not think, as you stand 
looking upon her countenance, over which thought is 
playing, like sunbeams and shadows that succeed each 
 
other rapidly on the bosom of a meadow, that sorrow 
has been more than once her tearful guest. 
She stops reading, and listens. All the children, 
even baby in the lap, prick up their ears, and look ex 
pectancy. 
" It's father ! " Little Lena is on her feet in an in 
stant, and moving toward the door, with her brother 
Frank close by her side. Baby Annie's tiny hands are 
fluttering. In the hall, Lena and Frank spring upon 
their father, shouting, and hinder the removal of his 
great coat. But, it is soon laid aside amid these loving 
hindrances, and the doctor advances to the sitting-room, 
with an arm around his boy and girl, whose kisses are 
yet warm upon his lips. Baby's and mother's lips are 
laid on his as one, making love's circle complete, and 
sending full currents of joy to his heart. 
" A gentleman is waiting for you in the office," said 
Mrs. Hofland, after the sweet confusion attendant on 
his return home had subsided. 
"Who?" 
" He did not give his name. Henry said that he 
was here before to-day, and asked when you would be 
home." 
Doctor Hofland, expecting to see a patient, or receive 
a professional call, went down to his office, which was 
in the basement. 
" Doctor Hofland, I believe," said the man, rising. 
There was something in his appearance, and the tone 
in which he spoke, that sent a signal of alarm to the 
doctor's heart. A shadow, as of approaching evil", fell 
suddenly around him. 
 
" My name, sir." He hardly knew his own voice. 
The man's eyes dropped to the floor, and he bent his 
head a little forward, as he thrust his hand into his 
pocket, and drew forth a small bundle of papers. From 
this he selected a folded document, some nine inches 
long, by three wide, and said, coldly, as he opened it-: 
" I have a warrant for you, sir." 
" A warrant ! " The blood flowed back upon the 
heart of Doctor Hofland. 
" Yes, sir." 
" On what account ? " 
" It is issued at the demand of Warfield." 
" Of Henry Warfield ! " 
" Yes, sir." 
" Oh, I'll see him, and make it all right ! It's a 
shame for him to take a step like this. He knows I'll 
pay him.'' 
u You must go with me to the magistrate's, and give 
bail for the debt," said the officer, firmly. 
The face of Doctor Hofland grew paler. His sensi 
tive pride, as well as his fears, were assailed. He ar 
rested for debt, and required to give bail, or ! Ah, 
he knew too well what was beyond the bail-requirement, 
if not met ! The law of imprisonment for debt was on 
the statute-book of the state, and in active operation, 
as the full debtor's apartment in the county jail too 
soberly testified. And creditors, at that time, often 
made short work with their debtors by forcing them to 
give security for the payment of their claims, in sight, 
so to speak, of the jail door. This was the process now 
taken by one of the doctor's creditors, who had grown 
impatient and ill-natured. 
' But it's night, "'answered Doctor Hofland. " How 
am I to get bail at this late hour ? The proceeding is 
an outrage ! Who issued this warrant ?" 
 
" Mr. Ashmun." 
" He knows me very well. Say to him that I will 
appear and give security to-morrow morning." 
" I'm sorry, doctor, but I can't meet your wishes. 
My warrant requires that I produce your body to-day. 
I've been here twice before. But you can get bail 
easily enough. The debt is only ninety-three dollars. 
Come, if you please." 
There was no escape. The hand of the law was on 
him, and he must stand up, as other men had to stand 
up, to its full requirement. 
"I am called out imperatively," he said, pushing 
open a little way the door of the apartment where he 
had left his children a few minutes before. Don't wait 
tea for me, as I may be detained for some time.' 
Then the door shut, and Lena heard her husband's 
feet go quickly down the stairway that led to his office. 
The tone of voice left echoing in her memory haunted 
her in a strange way, and troubled her feelings. It 
had something in it which she did not understand; 
something that left the impression of a disturbed mind 
disturbed from within, not from without for itself, 
and not for the peril or extremity of another. 
An hour passed, and the doctor did not come back. 
From the moment of his departure, his wife had felt the 
pressure of an unusual concern, which continued to 
increase until vague fears crowded into her heart. After 
her children were in bed, her mind fell into such an anx- 
 
ious state, that she was unable to read or sew, and 
wandered about, from room to room, up stairs and down, 
like a perturbed spirit. Eight, nine o'clock came, and 
the doctor had not yet returned. But, now, a note from 
him, so hastily written that she could with difficulty 
make out the words, was placed in her hands. It 
read 
" DEAR LENA : I shall, I fear, be detained all night. 
Don't expect me, if I am not home by ten o'clock. 
Give the children, for me, their go-to-bed kiss. 
Lovingly, 
E. H." 
" Not home to-night ! Strange ! What can it 
mean ? " 
Mrs. Hofland read the note a second time. It's tenor 
puzzled her. Why did he not say where he was, or 
hint at the real cause of his absence ? This was not 
like her husband. There was something wrong! What 
could it be ? 
And in doubt, questionings, anxiety, and vague fear, 
Mrs. Hofland passed an almost sleepless night, the first 
in which her husband had been absent from her since the 
day of their man-age. 
CHAPTER XL 
Q.'SSfflW' 'I W& HE m dy SilenCe that followed the 
fillx-OTtil HAS scene of strife about money between 
Mr. and Mrs. Guy, had been prolong 
ed to nearly an hour, when the street 
door bell was heard to ring loudly. 
"Who is it?" asked Mr. Guy, as 
a servant entered the room where they 
were sitting. 
" A man wants to see you, sir." 
" What's his business ? " 
" He did not say." 
Adam Guy, with no pleasing aspect of countenance, 
for the interruption came upon a scheme of profit half 
thought out, went into the hall, where he found an 
ill-looking stranger standing near the vestibule. 
" Well, sir ? " Adam Guy had already learned the 
purse-proud art of being rude to persons whom men of 
his class consider as of little account in the world, except 
as hewers of wood and drawers of water, and so spoke 
roughly to the man. Without answering, the visitor 
handed him a letter. 
" What's this ? " Guy broke the seal and read - 
" DEAR SIR I am, unfortunately, in the hands of 
an officer, arrested for a debt of ninety-three dollars, and 
 
will go to prison to-night unless I get bail. Will you 
come to my relief, and save me from this disgrace, and 
my family from mortification and distress ? The bearer 
will accompany you to the office where I am held. I 
am grieved to trouble you, but the extremity admits of 
no alternative. 
" Truly 
EDWARD HOFLAND." 
Adam Guy read the letter hastily, and then folding 
it in a resolute manner thrust it back upon the man, say 
ing coldly 
" I know nothing about it." 
" Then you will not go his bail ? " 
" No, sir ! That's a thing I never do. Good even 
ing." And the merchant turned from the messeno-er. 
who went muttering from the house. 
" Who was it ? " asked Mrs. Guy, as her husband 
returned ; but he made no answer. For nearly ten 
minutes he sat with his chin on his breast his usual 
position during the silent evenings spent at home then, 
with a curl of the lip, and a veiled pleasure in his tones, 
he said 
" The Doctor has reached the end of his rope at 
last." 
"Who? What Doctor?" 
" Doctor Hofland." 
" What about him, Adam ? " 
" He's in the hands of a constable, and likely to get 
some experience in jail life." 
" What ! Oh, Adam ! A painful expression con 
tracted the face of Mrs. Guy. 
 
It's nothing more than Iv'e expected. He and his 
wife began in extravagance and wasteful self-indulgence, 
and have kept on the same way steadily. No other 
result could follow. The Doctor has made his bed, 
now let him lie in it. It will do him good. Men of 
his class never grow wise until they get a few hard 
knocks. A short term on the other side of Jones's 
Falls will make him a wiser and a better man." 
" Oh, Adam ! How can you talk so coldly ! " said 
Mrs. Guy, showing still greater distress of mind. 
" Pray go to his rescue ! Don't let an old friend be 
dealt with so cruelly. What is the debt ? " 
" I made a vow ten years ago, and by my life I'll 
keep it ! " was the emphatic answer ; " a vow never to 
endorse or be security for any mam If my own brother 
were in Doctor Hofland's place, I'd say as I do now 
' He's made his bed, let him lie in it ! ' Men like him 
waste their substance, and run in debt ; and then, debt 
penalties lash them into something like prudence and 
honesty. I don't pity him in the least." 
" Oh, Adam ! Adam ! Think of his wife and chil 
dren ! " Mrs. Guy wrung her hands, as she looked at 
her husband through pleading eyes. 
" His wife is as much to blame as himself. Lena 
was idle and extravagant from the beginning," was the 
hard reply. " Let her feel some of the consequences 
of her own folly ; it will make her a better woman, I 
trust. No, no ; the causes of this trouble are with 
themselves, and with themselves must rest the conse 
quences. I shall not help them, if the Doctor, rots in 
jail." 
 
A shudder ran through the frame of Mrs. Guy, and 
she threw up her hands in half instinctive horror, as if 
a monster were before her. 
" You needn't whimper to me, Madam, nor put on 
any of your distressed looks,'' said Adam Guy, coldly 
and cruelly, as his wife essayed once more to reach him. 
" The Doctor's path and mine diverged years ago, and 
will never run side by side, nor cross again. I want 
nothing from him, and he will get nothing from me. If 
he bids for the jail or the almshouse, in heaven's name 
let him take his election ; I wont put a feather in his 
way." 
Mrs. Guy, seeing that no impression could be made 
on her husband, and pained beyond endurance by the 
thought of Lena's distress old, tender feelings were 
rushing back upon her heart for Lena, between whom 
and herself circumstances, not alienations, had inter 
posed barriers difficult to pass left the room and went 
to her chamber. All her sympathies were quickened 
into life sympathies, which contact with sordidness, 
narrow self-seeking, and hard fighting with an enelny 
that always seemed on the eve of victory, had only 
palsied, not destroyed and she was moved by an irre 
pressible desire to go to her friend, and offer comforting 
words, even if she had no power to give aid in her ex 
tremity. Hope in her husband there was none. She 
knew that what he had said he would not gainsay. In 
all his denunciations of Doctor Hofland, there lay, only 
half concealed in 'his tones, a cruel pleasure. 
" Poor Lena ! poor Lena ! " she sobbed, as her pity 
ing heart ran over through her eyes. 
 
"If I had power to aid you, Heaven knows how 
speedily help would come." 
Then, after weeping for awhile, she said resolutely, 
" I must go to Lena in her dreadful extremity. I 
must know all about this trouble in which the Doctor is 
involved. If I cannot help them with money, I may 
help by sympathy or suggestion." 
Hastily putting on her bonnet and cloak, Mrs. Guy 
left the chamber, and was coming lightly down stairs, 
when she met her husband, through whose mind had 
passed a suspicion of just this course on the part of his 
Wife. -, ;: 
" Where are you going ? " he asked, knitting his 
brows. 
" Out for a little while," Lydia answered. 
" Where ? " 
" No matter. I shall not be gone long." 
" Going out, and alone, at this time of night ! I 
think it does matter. Answer plainly, can't you ? A 
husband has some right to question as to where his 
wife goes at an hour like this." 
"I am going to see my friend Lena, if you must 
know." Mrs. Guy looked unflinchingly at her hus 
band, and spoke like a woman in earnest. 
" And I say you are not." 
" Adam Guy ! " 
" Lydia Guy ! " 
Defiantly they gazed in each other's faces for several 
moments. 
" You must not go, Lydia," 
"Why?" 
 
" Let them alone. They have only themselves to 
blame. Lena is as criminal as her husband, and as de 
serving of a just punishment." 
" Criminal, Adam ? " 
" Yes, criminal ! Havn't they been living on other 
people's means, and that without consent? Does a 
thief do more ? The law has laid its hard grip on them, 
and I say it is well. The law is no respecter of persons ; 
they who violate it must take the penalty. I would not 
interpose a feather to hinder its free course : no, not a 
feather, in any case. Not in the case of my best friend, 
even. Let the trespasser be punished ; it is our only 
social sal'ety. Let Doctor Hofland be punished, I say. 
If he will wrong other people, let him feel the lash. 
Go back to your room, and don't play the weak fool ; 
the matter is no concern of yours." 
" It does concern me, Adam, that a dear friend is in 
trouble, and, right or wrong, I must go to Lena," an 
swered Mrs. Guy. 
'' You shall not go ! There ! I have said it again, 
and by all that is sacred I will keep my word ! " and 
striding to the door, Guy locked it, and drew out the 
key. " Now, Madam ! " There was a hard, cruel look 
in his eyes, as he turned to Lydia. 
Poor woman ! She was not strong enough for open 
contention with a nature like this man's. She would 
have gone against his will, and braved the after conse 
quences, if she could have been free of present obstruc 
tion ; but, face to face with his iron resolution, she found 
herself like a reed in the wind. 
"Cruel of heart! " Lydia moaned out the words in 
 
a bitter wail, as, covering her face with her hands, she 
sunk upon the stairs. 
Adam walked two or three times the full length of 
the hall, in unusual disturbance of manner ; then stop 
ping before his wife, he said, " Lydia ! " 
But she gave no response. 
" Lydia ! Do you hear me ? " 
She crouched on the stairs, her face hidden in her 
hands, still and statue-like. 
" Lydia, I say ! " He stamped his foot in out-leaping 
passion ; but she stirred not, spoke not. A shade of 
concern swept over his face, as he stood looking at. her 
motionless figure. 
" Come, come child ! this is weak folly get up ! " 
He had stepped across the hall, and laid a hand upon 
her arm. A great change was apparent in his voice ; 
it was soft with persuasion. But there came no re 
sponse. The arm was nerveless, and offered no resist- 
tance. 
" Lydia ! " Something like alarm was now manifest. 
He lifted her face ; it was white ! and the dark fringe 
of her lashes lay as still as if penciled above her 
cheeks. 
" Good heavens ! - Lydia ! Child ! Lydia ! What 
ails you ? Are you sick ? " 
As he tried to raise her up, the nerveless form slid 
from his arms, and he caught it back with an eager 
grasp, just preventing its heavy fall upon the passage 
floor. Lifting the fragile body how light it was ! 
he bore it to a chamber above. Cold water dashed in 
the face ; friction of the hands, feet and limbs ; with 
 
other rapidly succeeding means of restoration, gave mo 
tion in time to the impeded life-circle, and the pulses be 
gan again their feeble beat. 
" Poor Lena ! " Her heart was still with her old 
friend. They were the first words that parted her pale 
lips, in returning cousciousness. 
Poor Lydia, rather ! If Lena had come into a pit 
eous strait, how much more piteous the strait of Lydia ! 
It was, in the one case, but as the falling of a summer 
storm, or the closing of a summer day ; the storm 
would pass and leave the sky clearer than before the 
night give place to morning. But, for Lydia, the sky 
was leaden with perpetual clouds and unceasing rain : 
for Lydia, it was Arctic night and winter ! The sun 
of earthly love went down long ago, never to bless her 
eyes in reappearing. Her path was in darkness, and 
she must grope on painfully to the end. 
CHAPTER XII. 
N his way, in custody of an officer, to 
the magistrate's, Doctor Hofland ran 
over, in his mind, a number of persons 
to whom, in his trouble, he might ven 
ture to apply for bail. At first thought, 
he felt the assurance of a troop of friends. 
But, doubts obtruded as to one, and 
pride shrunk from the humiliation of 
an application to another ; so, that by 
the time he was at the office, he was in a state of pain 
ful confusion of mind. 
" Will you give bail ? " asked the magistrate, after 
rendering a judgment ; for the account had been sworn 
to, and the Doctor, besides, acknowledged its correct 
ness. 
" Of course I will ; but such matters are difficult to 
arrange at night. In the morning, I will bring my se 
curity." 
" It must be had to-night, sir." The officer spoke to 
the magistrate. " My instructions are positive." 
" Who gave them ? " The Doctor turned sharply 
upon the officer. 
" The plaintiff gave them, and we have no discre 
tion." 
 
" The Doctor is an honorable man, Thomas," said the 
magistrate, interposing. 
" I don't doubt that, sir. But I'm a sworn officer, 
and have no discretion. I must hold his body until the 
money or the security comes." 
" I'm sorry, Doctor. You will have to produce your 
bail to-night," said the magistrate. 
" But, how am I to do that ? You held me in custody. I cannot go for a friend.' 
" Perhaps I can get you a messenger. Harland," the 
magistrate spoke to a constable, who sat listening with 
an air of indifference. 
The man got up, and came forward. 
" Will you take word for Doctor Hofland ? " 
" If he pays me, I will," was bluntly replied. 
" Of course I'll pay you," said the Doctor, with hard 
ly concealed impatience. " How much do you want ? " 
" I'll go for a dollar." 
Doctor Hofland drew out his purse. " There," and a 
silver dollar passed to the constable's outstretched hand. 
Now came pause, debate, and hesitation, on the Doc 
tor's part. To whom should he apply ? He had many 
acquaintances, and many friends. A dozen men, whom 
he felt sure would spring to his relief, the instant they 
knew of his condition, were thought of ; but, in narrow 
ing down the application for security to one after anoth 
er of these, certain considerations were presented that 
made his thoughts turn back, in sickening reluctance up 
on himself. Oh, the bitter humiliation of that hour ! 
Its painful memories went with him to his grave. At 
last, a selection was made, and a brief note penned hur- 
 
riedly. It was addressed to a young man of no means, 
but kind hearted, and an attached friend. He called on 
him, because he could rely on his friendship and discre 
tion. 
Help as well as secresy were needed. To have the 
thing bruited over the town would be discreditable, and 
touch his professional standing. 
For over an hour Doctor Hofland waited, in the 
keenest suspense, the return of his messenger. At the 
expiration of this time, he came back alone. 
" Did you see the Doctor ? " was asked in an anxious 
voice. 
" No, sir. He wasn't at home ; and they didn't know 
when he'd be in. 
" Did you leave my note ? " 
The letter was handed to the disappointed prisoner 
who, crumpling it in his hand, walked the office floor for 
some time in an^agitated manner. Then sitting down, 
he addressed another friend, in trying to communicate 
with whom, a second half hour was lost. This applica 
tion gave no better result ; the friend was absent, and 
not expected to return until a late hour. 
It was now past nine o'clock, and the officer who had 
the doctor in charge began to exhibit impatience, and 
to mutter half incoherent sentences, enough of which 
' O 
reached the ears of Doctor Hofland, to sting his pride 
and manliness into an agony -of pain. The prospect of 
having to spend a night in jail looked threatening. 
The gloomy prison stood a mile away from the office 
in which he was held, and the constable plainly intima 
ted that he could wait no longer, at so late an hour, on 
the uncertain issue of bail. 
 
" I cannot go to prison ! " the Doctor exclaimed, in 
excitement. " I have scores of friends, who, if they 
only knew of this extremity, would hurry to my relief. 
I am well known to you, sir," addressing the magistrate. 
" There is no risk, as you can assure the officer, in giv 
ing me until to-morrow morning to get security. I 
pledge him my 'honor, to have a bondsman or the mon 
ey for which I have been sued, in the office by nine 
o'clock. This taking a man at fault, in this way, is not 
fair and right." 
The magistrate turned to the officer and added a 
CJ 
word in favor of the Doctor, but that official's counte 
nance was hard as iron, and resolute. 
" I have no discretion," was his unyielding answer. 
" The money or bail must come. My instructions are 
explicit. 
" I will make one more effort," said the Doctor, 
forced into calmness ; and he sat down and wrote to his 
old friend, Adam Guy. It cost him a hard struggle to 
do so ; but pride, and an almost unconquerable reluc 
tance to expose himself in this direction, had to be over 
come. He did not doubt for an instant the result, if 
the merchant should be found at home, and the proba 
bilities were in favor of that. The risk was small, and 
Guy could not, in very shame, refuse help in such an 
extremity. A hurried note to Mrs. Hofland was penned 
at the same time, that she might be forewarned, in case 
the dreaded imprisonment should result. 
Suspense had now become almost unendurable. The 
Doctor walked the office floor, with the restless, short, 
quick turns of a caged animal, unceasingly, until his 
messenger came back. 
 
" Did you see him ? " The officer had come in alone. 
Doctor Hofland's face was working all over. 
" Yes." 
" What did he say ? " 
" No, point blank ! " 
" Adam Guy said no ! " Surprise and incredulity- 
were in his voice. 
"He did." 
" You gave him my letter ? " 
" Yes, sir, and his answer was, ' I don't know any 
thing about it.' Then I said, ' will you not go his 
bail ? ' and I thought he'd have taken my head off." 
" What were his precise words ? " asked the Doctor, 
now speaking calmly. 
" His precise words were, ' That is what I never do. 
Good evening ! ' And then he turned from me as if I 
were a dog." 
'' Did you deliver the letter I gave you for Mrs. 
Hofland ? " asked the Doctor, his voice faltering a 
little. 
" I did." 
" Nothing more can be done to-night. I am ready 
to go with you." The Doctor spoke firmly as he 
looked towards the officer who had him in charge. 
" It's a cruel outrage," he added, " and one of which 
Henry Warfield will repent." 
" It would have been better," remarked the magis 
trate, " if you had sent notes to several of your friends 
at once. Ere this time, one or more of them would 
have arrived. Before going with the officer, I would 
suggest your writing to one or two gentlemen of your 
 
<' 
acquaintance, in order that you may be relieved in the 
morning. Harland will see that the notes are delivered 
to-night." 
" You left the second letter ? " Doctor Hofland turned 
to the constable, named Harland. 
" Yes." 
" That will do. If the friend to whom it was sent 
had been at home, I would not be here now. He 
will make all right at the earliest possible time to 
morrow morning." 
" He may be here yet,'' said the magistrate, who 
was reluctant to see the Doctor so needlessly committed 
to prison. He drew out his watch, and the officer who 
made the arrest did the same. The latter shook his 
head, saying 
" It's a quarter to ten now. I can wait no longer. 
The jail doesn't stand next door. Come, sir." 
Dropping his head upon his bosom, the unhappy 
prisoner moved toward the door, and passed out silently. 
CHAPTER XIII. 
Y day dawn Mrs. Hofland is up and 
waiting expectantly. As footfalls be 
gin to sound along the pavement, she 
listens for the well known tread of her 
husband's feet, but listens in vain. 
One after another, the passers come 
and go ; the number steadily increasing 
as the day opens brighter and broader. 
Breakfast has been ready for half an 
hour, but the Doctor is away still. What can it 
mean? Lena's overstrained feelings are getting the 
mastery. The wearying doubts that have perplexed 
her through the night, have changed to cloudy fears. 
Some evil must have befallen her husband ! 
It is nine o'clock, and still no word, no appearance. 
Office patients have arrived and departed ; some still 
linger, on the assurance that the Doctor is expected to 
come in every moment. Half past nine. Poor Lena ! 
suspense has become agony. Ten o'clock. The two 
elder children have gone to school, and she is sitting 
with the baby on her lap, when the door opens, and the 
face of her husband looks in. No wonder she starts 
and cries out in mingled gladness and pain gladness 
that her husband has returned ; pain in beholding the 
 
change wrought on him since his sudden departure last 
evening. His unshaven face is pale and exhausted ; 
his hair in disorder ; his eyes sad and troubled ; his 
garments soiled. 
" Oh my husband ! Where have you been ? What 
ails you ? What has happened ? '"' 
These sentences leap from Lena's lips, as she lays her 
babe down hurriedly, and starts forward to meet her 
husband. He catches both her hands, grasping them 
with a close, nervous grip ; and, as he holds them, says 
in a voice that chokes the words, spite of all efforts to 
speak evenly 
" I've been in jail, Lena ! " 
"Edward! No no!" 
" Yes, Lena." The voice is steady now manhood, 
in a strong, quick struggle, has triumphed. 
"In jail!" 
" Yes, darling, in jail for debt. It was an outrage." 
" For debt ! What debt ? " Tears are running over 
her face. 
" A debt of some ninety dollars to Henry Warfield. 
He took a mean and cruel advantage. It was after 
night when the officer arrested me, and I found it im 
possible to arrange security at so late an hour." 
Mrs. Hofland laid her face upon her husband's breast, 
and sobbed violently. 
" Oh, my husband ! My precious husband ! That 
you should have been so disgraced ! In jail ! I cannot 
bear this!" 
The Doctor drew his arm around Lena, and as they 
passed up to their chamber, he sa'id 
" The lesson may have been needed, dear. I had 
time to think last night." 
" Needed ? Oh, Edward ! " 
" It is wrong to be in debt wrong for us, I mean," 
said the Doctor, as he sat down, on passing into the 
chamber ; "we should not have lived beyond our in 
come." 
" Deeper shadows fell over the face of Mrs. Hof- 
land. A pang of self-reproach shot through her heart. 
"It is no fault of yours; I only am to blame," contin 
ued the Doctor, who saw into her thoughts. " I have 
not been a wise and prudent man have not restrict 
ed want to means ; and here is the result. How blind 
how foolish how criminal I have been ! " 
" Don't, don't, Edward ! I cannot bear to hear you 
say this now," said Lena. 
" It is wisest to look truth in the face," was answered. 
" She has been sitting beside me all night, stern of 
aspect, and I have grown familiar enough with her pres 
ence to endure it for awhile longer. She turned the 
leaves of my book of life backwards, and showed me a 
record, the reading of which made my cheek red with 
shame and humiliation. Ah, my wife ! there is another 
law for a man's government in this world, than the law 
of mere desire. Covetousness is idolatry ! " 
Mrs. Hofland gazed, in questioning surprise, at her 
husband. He went on. 
" With me, taste and desire have too often ruled in 
stead of prudence ; and now, with costly pictures and the 
like, filling our rooms, I am in debt and at the mercy of 
eager creditors. This is wrong all wrong, Lena. Let 
 
us begin again even at the very beginning. This 
day, I am at least three thousand dollars in debt ; and 
to-night, if a creditor chose, he may send me again to 
prison." 
Mrs. Hofland shuddered, and her pale face grew paler. 
" Oh, Edward ! Don't say that," she sobbed, tears 
flowing anew. 
" It is the simple, hard truth of the case, dear; and 
there is no use in disguise," said the Doctor. " The 
more steadily we look it in the face, the better shall we 
be able to comprehend our exact position, and the more 
certainly devise our way of escape." 
" Do you see a way of escape ? " asked Mrs. Hofland. 
" Yes." 
" In what direction ? " 
" The way will be rough, dear." 
" No matter. If your feet are strong enough, mine 
shall not falter. Point out the way, dear husband ! 
Or, turn into it, and you shall find me a brave and 
cheerful walker by your side." 
" I said, we must begin again even at the very be 
ginning, Lena." 
" We cannot do that. The past is past. But, wo 
may change our course." 
" We may begin a new order of things." 
"Yes." 
" And that is what I mean. But, before this is 
fairly possible, some steps must be retraced. As I sat 
waiting on the slow moving hours, last night, and 
watching for the day-dawn, I went over all our affairs, 
and got at the exact result. It stands thus. The cost 
 
of pictures, statuettes, bronze figures, rare and elegant 
books, coins, medals, minerals, and other things not ab 
solutely required for household comfort, has reached the 
sum of twenty-five hundred dollars. I propose to sell 
these by auction. If they bring fifteen hundred dol 
lars only, that will lift half the burden of our debt at 
once. I feel assured, if the thing is rightly managed, 
of realizing nearly their cost. I shall arrange in this 
way ; Have them removed to a room, engaged for 
the purpose, and minutely catalogued and described. 
Auctioneers understand the management of such mat 
ters. Through advertisements and the distribution of 
catalogues among the right persons, a company may be 
assembled that will bid up most of the articles to their 
cost value. In that case we would be almost freed from 
debt in an hour. But, this is anticipating too much." 
" To sell at auction will certainly involve a heavy 
sacrifice," said Lena, her countenance not fully respond 
ing to the hopeful light which had begun to glow-in 
that of her husband. 
" We must expect such a result, and so prepare for 
disappointment," replied the Doctor. 
" A disappointment that will still leave on us the 
burden of debt." 
" But a lighter burden." 
" The smallest burden will be as a mountain hereaf 
ter," said Lena, despondingly. 
^ My thought went further," remarked the Doctor, 
looking steadily at his wife. 
" How inuch further ? Did it reach to the entire 
extinguishment of this debt ? " She bent eagerly to 
wards him. " Nothing less than that, Edward." 
 
" It did, Lena." 
" Then say on." 
" The rent of this house is four hundred and fifty 
dollars a year." 
" Yes.'"' 
" Too much for us to pay, under present circumstan 
ces." 
" I have always thought the rent too high," said Le 
na. 
" We have been no happier here than we were in that 
cosy nest at first called home." 
" Not so happy, I have sometimes thought," replied 
Lena. " There has been more care for appearances, 
here ; more looking out upon the world ; more con 
sciousness of being under the eye of society and these 
things take away the mind's tranquillity." 
" That dear little house is for rent again. I saw the 
bill up yesterday." 
" Then we will go back to it again. Two hundred 
and fifty dollars saved in our expenses will, of itself, ex 
tinguish a thousand dollars of debt in four years, if no 
quicker means can be found. But, the change to that 
house will help more than the saving in rent. Two 
servants are absolutely necessary in this one ; in that I 
can do with a single servant. This will make a differ 
ence of at least a hundred and fifty dollars more in our 
expenses." 
" But, the house will afford no office," said the Doc 
tor. " I've thought it over, but can't settle this point." 
" The parlor must serve for an office," was answer 
ed. 
 
" Then we shall have no parlor no room in which 
to receive our friends." 
Mrs. Hofland was thinking rapidly. Where there is 
a will there is a way, and she found the adage true. 
" We can take the room over the parlor," she replied. 
" There are two rooms, beside this one, on the second 
floor, and these will give the chambers we need for our 
selves and the children." 
" There will be no spare room for a friend," objected 
the Doctor. 
" A sofa bed in the parlor can be used on an emergen 
cy. But, at present, Edward, only the question of right 
and duty is before us, and we must settle that, irrespec 
tive of other considerations." 
" We have twice the quantity of furniture that will 
be needed," said the Doctor. 
" The rest can be sold," was Lena's prompt answer. 
" A few hundred dollars more will be gained in this way, 
and debt still further diminished. Out of debt, out of 
danger, dear husband ! Let us act promptly. I shall 
never have one hour of undisturbed peace, while a dollar 
of debt remains." 
" Nor I ; and as peace of mind is, beyond all mere 
external things, most to be desired, we will seek it in the 
directest way. Ah, to think what this burden of debt has 
cost me ! What hours of discouragement what pain 
ful humiliations what a stinging sense of wrong 
what fears and tremors. It has robbed me of fredom 
and manliness. I have felt myself, all the while, in the 
power of others. It has been the death's head at my 
feast, Lena." 
" But shall be no longer, Edward ! Sell everything. 
I would rather have uncarpeted floors, and the humblest 
