courteously. “Permit me, Mr. Sharp, to introduce our excellent neighbor,
Miss Grey.”
“I am proud to make your acquaintance, Miss Grey,” said the lawyer,
bowing profoundly. “Any friend of my esteemed friends, Mr. and Miss
Ford, needs no other recommendation in my eyes. May I express the hope
that you are well?”
“Quite so, thank you, sir,” said Martha, a little overpowered by the
lawyer’s elaborate civility.
She was at length persuaded to make a fourth at Helen’s banquet.
How much it was enjoyed by all present, not one of whom was accustomed
to such good fare every day; how proudly and gracefully Helen did the
honors of the occasion; how merrily they all laughed at the bungling
attempts of Mr. Ford to carve the fowls, and how, finally, he was
compelled to call in the lawyer’s assistance; how genial and affable Mr.
Sharp was, and how he insisted on proposing the health of Martha Grey,
much to that young lady’s modest confusion; how his deference for her
father raised him every moment in Helen’s estimation,—all this I must
leave to the imagination of the reader, while I prepare in the next
chapter to invite him to a different scene.
                            CHAPTER XXVIII.
                            THE BELL RINGS.
Two persons who are nearly concerned in the revelation made by Mr. Sharp
to Robert Ford, now demand our attention.
First, Mr. Rand, who, upon a sick-bed, worn-out by anxiety and bodily
weakness, is fast drifting towards that unseen world, where all that is
dark and mysterious here will be disclosed, and we shall know even as we
are known. The second, is Lewis Rand, his unworthy nephew, whose whole
soul is absorbed by the eager desire to secure to himself his uncle’s
large fortune. Why this thirst for gold should so have possessed him, is
not so clear. It was not that his habits were extravagant, for such was
not the case. He was no voluptuary, at least not in the lowest sense of
the word. It was not for the mere love of money that he craved it. He
was elevated above the mere miser; but money was valuable to him for the
power which it conferred, and the consequence which it gave. Lewis
Rand’s ambition had taken this form. He desired to be known everywhere
as the possessor of a princely fortune. He wished others to fawn upon
him as he had fawned upon his uncle. As his dependence had compelled him
to remain in a subordinate position, he wished others to become
subordinates to him. Money he must have, somehow. So for years he had
labored to establish and strengthen his position as his uncle’s heir.
The inheritance which he craved, would make him at once a millionnaire.
As a general who has fortified a city, so as to make it, as he
considers, impregnable, and at the last discovers a weak place which
endangers the whole, exerts all his energy and all the resources which
he can command to counteract the danger, so Lewis had, as we have seen,
set in motion certain agencies, through which he hoped to avert the
peril which menaced him in his cousin’s presence.
“Have you received no letters in answer to the advertisement, Lewis?”
asked Mr. Rand, feebly.
“No, uncle, none whatever.”
Mr. Rand sighed, and fell back upon his pillow.
The crimson bed-curtains were drawn apart, revealing the thin and wasted
form of the old man. Thinner and more attenuated he grew day by day.
Each day the result of the struggle for life became less doubtful. A
strong desire for life might have given the needed stimulus to the vital
functions, and turned the scale against death, but the sick man had
ceased to desire it.
None saw this more clearly than Lewis. With his cold, searching eye he
had followed the slow advances of the destroyer. Not a word, however,
had escaped him. How he trembled when the lamp of life burned for a
time with a steadier radiance, lest, perchance, it might prove a
harbinger of ultimate recovery; and when the momentary glow had
departed, and the lamp burned so low that it seemed near its final
extinction, he breathed more freely, and a glow of triumph lighted up
his dark features,—features that might the next moment wear a look of
the deepest sympathy. For Lewis had schooled them to obey the dictates
of his will, and had not fear that they would betray him. He was a
gamester who had staked his all upon a single venture, and was
watching the chances with intense eagerness.
Morning after morning as he stole to his uncle’s bedside, it was with a
secret hope veiled under an appearance of the greatest solicitude, that
he might find the struggle ended. Each day he hoped might prove the
last,—that from his heart the burden of anxiety and the weariness of
waiting might at once and forever be lifted.
Fortunate was it for the old man’s peace, that he could not read this
wicked wish in the eyes that were bent upon him. There was little fear.
Could he conceive it possible that one whom he had long regarded with an
affection second only to that which he bore his own son, who all his
life long had never ceased to receive his bounty; could he dream that
Lewis was capable of cherishing in his heart a hope so unnatural? So far
from this, the faintest shadow of distrust had never entered his uncle’s
thoughts. In his face he read nothing but sympathy and compassion. Mr.
Lewis Rand, could you but sound the depth of wickedness in your own
heart, could you drag it forth to the light and survey it in all its
deformity, how would even your hardened nature shrink aghast and
horror-stricken? Heaven only knows with what a web of sophistry you
excuse this treachery of the heart. Could this be rent away, you could
hardly stand as calmly as you do by the bedside of that old man, belying
in your heart the filial words that fall so glibly from your tongue. Can
you who have the power to bring happiness and peace to that bedside, and
its unhappy occupant, who can bring the light of joy to those eyes soon
to close forever, and repair a great injustice, still refuse to do it?
There may come a time, whether near or remote, Heaven alone knows, when
you would give all the wealth for which you are scheming if you had only
done it.
On receiving a negative answer to his question, Mr. Rand remained for
some time silent, with his face turned to the wall.
“It would be a great relief,” he sighed, wearily, “if I could but see my
son once before I die.”
“When will he be done harping on his son?” muttered Lewis to himself.
“He seems determined to torment me with it.”
He said aloud, with a proper display of emotion, “Do not speak of dying,
uncle. You will yet recover.”
“Never, Lewis, never. There is something that tells me this sickness
will be my last. My feet will soon enter the dark valley of the shadow
of death. I have reached the age set by the Psalmist as the limit of
human life. Even your kind solicitude cannot call me back from the grave
that awaits me.”
“I should be very sorry if it did,” was the unspoken thought of Lewis,
as he replied, covering his face with his handkerchief, as if to conceal
his emotion, “you are—you must be deceived; you are looking brighter
to-day.”
“Lewis, your hopes deceive you. On the contrary, I never felt weaker
than I do to-day. I have never felt more entirely satisfied of the
hopelessness of my situation. Yet why do I say ‘hopelessness?’ I do not
fear death. Rather I welcome it as a friend. I feel no vain longing for
a continuance of that life which is gliding from my grasp. For the last
few years I have enjoyed too little happiness to make it seem very
attractive. Wealth can do little. Even your kind attentions have failed.
The consciousness of wrong done and unatoned for has followed me all
these years. One wrong act has imbittered all my earthly existence.”
“My dear uncle, I regret that you should dwell upon such painful
thoughts. Even if you were in fault, which I do not believe, you are
agitating yourself now to no purpose.”
“Let me speak now, Lewis. The thought is always with me, and I am
relieved by speaking. Never, Lewis, suffer yourself to be led hastily
into a wrong act—never, as you value your soul’s peace. The thought will
come back to you in after years, and never leave you; you may surround
yourself with all that wealth can give, even as I have done, and your
heart will still be an aching void into which no thought of joy or
happiness shall enter. When you are on your death-bed, as I am now, you
will feel how inestimable above all things else is that peace of mind
which comes from a clear conscience and an unblemished life.”
Standing thus at his uncle’s bedside, with more than one sin unexpiated
upon his soul, could Lewis listen unmoved to words which gained so deep
a significance from this utterance by a dying man? Even he felt vaguely
uncomfortable as he listened, mingled with an angry impatience which,
however, he dared not betray.
“I feel a deep conviction,” continued Mr. Rand, “that Robert is still
living. I cannot tell whence it comes, but of nothing am I more
thoroughly persuaded. I had hoped that the advertisement would prove
effectual in finding him out. You are sure that you caused its insertion
in papers of the largest circulation?”
“I have followed your directions, uncle,” said Lewis, unblushingly,
“notwithstanding my fear that it would lead to nothing.”
“You did right, Lewis. After I am gone, I wish you to continue the
advertisement. Your cousin will see it sooner or later. I am quite sure
of that. And when after a time he comes back to you, I wish you to see
that the provisions of my will are carried out. I will not claim your
promise. I know that you will do so.”
Lewis bowed, but forebore to speak.
“That is not all. You must tell him, Lewis, how I have sought for him,
and how with a sorrowful heart I deplored my own injustice, from which
he cannot have suffered more than I. You may tell him that I forgive him
if he feels that there is anything to forgive, in the hope that he will
forgive me who need it so much more. You will tell him all this, Lewis?”
“Can you doubt it, uncle?” asked Lewis, evasively.
“No, Lewis, I have perfect confidence in you. You never have deceived
me, and you will not begin now; and, Lewis, you must try to atone to
Robert, in my stead, for the wrong he has suffered. Never let your
affection for me persuade you that it was not a wrong. I would far
rather have you think harshly of me, than unjustly of your cousin.”
“I will endeavor to obey you even in that, hard though it be,” said
Lewis.
At that moment the quiet of the sick-chamber was broken in by a sharp
peal of the door-bell. It was so unusual an occurrence in that solitary
household, that it startled both.
                             CHAPTER XXIX.
                          THE UNBIDDEN GUEST.
I cannot explain why it was, that the unexpected ringing of the bell led
to the same thought in the minds of the sick man and his nephew. Sudden
fear blanched the face of Lewis; a hopeful look stole over the old man’s
face.
“Go, Lewis,” he said. “Perhaps it is Robert.”
“Heaven forbid!” muttered Lewis, as he hastened from the room.
The sound of contending voices struck upon the ear of Lewis Rand, as he
hurriedly descended the staircase to the hall. The outer door had been
opened, and the servant was endeavoring to impress upon the visitor, in
obedience to directions he had received, that there was sickness in the
house, and that he could not be admitted.
“Lead me to his chamber,” said Robert Ford, pale with excitement, “I
must see him. He is my father.”
The servant looked in his agitated face, and moved aside that he might
pass.
Lewis encountered him at the foot of the stairs. They looked at each
other—those long-estranged cousins—a moment in silence. Lewis was as
pale as death. His lips were compressed and bloodless. The shadow of
failure darkened his way. Dismay and anger and strong disappointment
struggled with him for the mastery. Robert was calmer. He would not have
been human if the sight of his cousin had not awakened within him a
feeling of resentment. But this was swallowed up by a feeling yet
stronger—the desire to see his father.
“Where is my father, Lewis?” he demanded. “Tell me quickly.”
He was about to pass, when his cousin stepped before him.
“Hold!” he exclaimed, in a quick, hoarse voice. “Would you endanger your
father’s life? He is in a most critical condition. The least excitement
may kill him.”
Robert hesitated for a moment. After a separation of eighteen years he
stood within a few feet of his father, and was forbidden to enter his
presence. Nothing short of the urgent reason adduced by Lewis, would
have stopped him for a moment.
“Is my father, then, so ill?” he asked, with emotion. “Why, oh why did
you not send for me before?”
“Do you think I would not if I had known where to find you?” said Lewis,
ignorant how far Robert had been apprised of his machinations.
“I cannot tell,” said Robert, shaking his head. “There was a time,
Lewis, when I could not have deemed you capable of it.”
“And why should you now?”
“I cannot tell you at present; but I must see my father.”
“I tell you again,” said Lewis, vehemently, “that if you see him, it
will be at the peril of his life. It hangs upon a thread.”
Meanwhile Mr. Rand had listened with feverish anxiety to the voices
which he could indistinctly hear. A wild hope had sprung up in his
heart. Oh, for the power to rise from his bed and satisfy himself at
once. Alas, this could not be! At length, as the speakers raised their
voices, he thought he could distinguish the word “father.” His agitation
reached a fearful pitch. He raised his voice as high as his feeble
strength would permit, and called “Robert!”
That word reached the ears of Robert Ford. Nothing could stop him now.
He pushed Lewis aside, scarcely conscious what he did, and a moment
after found him kneeling at his father’s bedside.
“Father, forgive me!”
The old man, with an effort, stretched out his thin and wasted hand, and
placed it tremulous with weakness upon the head of his kneeling son.
“God, I thank thee,” he uttered, reverently, “for this hour. This my son
was dead and is alive again, he was lost and is found. Robert, I have
forgiven you long ago. Can you forgive me?”
“Do you then ask my forgiveness, O my father?”
“Yes, Robert. My heart has long since confessed the wrong it did you.
Can you forgive me?”
“Freely, freely, my father.”
“Now can I die content,” said Mr. Rand, with a deep sigh of relief. “For
many, many years I have waited and looked forward to this hour. I could
not believe that God would suffer me to die till I had seen you.”
“Die!” repeated Robert, in a sorrowful tone.
“Yes, Robert, you have come at the eleventh hour.”
“And for months I have lived within two miles of you, and never guessed
your nearness.”
“Did you not see my advertisement?”
“Never.”
“How is this?” said Mr. Rand, puzzled. “In what papers was it inserted,
Lewis?”
Lewis stood at the door, an apprehensive listener. For obvious reasons
he did not choose to obey this call.
“It may be because I seldom look at the papers,” said Robert, not
wishing to agitate his father with the intelligence of his cousin’s
treachery.
“But others must have seen it,” persisted Mr. Rand. “Why did they not
tell you?”
“I passed by a different name,” explained Robert. “None that knew me—and
these were but few—could guess my identity with Robert Rand.”
At his father’s request Robert gave a brief account of the eighteen
years of separation. He sat with his father’s hand resting in his. As he
concluded, a convulsion passed over the old man’s features. He clasped
Robert’s hand convulsively. The son leaned forward, hoping to catch the
words that seemed struggling for utterance. He could only distinguish
“my will—reparation.”
These were the last words that passed the lips of the dying man.
He breathed his life out in the effort, and fell back—dead!
Robert had, indeed, come at the eleventh hour. Yet had he not come too
late to make his father’s death-bed happy. A peaceful smile rested upon
the worn face. His life had closed happily.
Meanwhile what had become of Lewis?
It was difficult for him at first to collect his thoughts at this most
unexpected occurrence.
At first he thought, “All is lost. My hopes are blasted!”
His second thought, when he had recovered from the momentary shock of
his cousin’s appearance, was, “It may not be as bad as I fear. The old
man cannot live long. This very excitement will probably prove too much
for him in his present weak state. During the short time he has to live,
it is not probable that anything will happen to disarrange my plans. In
the first place, he thinks that his will provides for his son. And so
his true will does! But I have taken care that this shall not be
brought forward. My uncle and cousin will probably spend the time in
sentimentalizing. It will be well for me not to intrude upon this
interview, or I may be asked some awkward questions. Lewis Rand, this is
the turning-point of your fortunes. Be discreet for a short time, and
all may yet be well.”
There was one point that Lewis did not understand. How his cousin could
have learned of his father’s presence in the city. He did not suspect
Mr. Sharp’s fidelity, but thought it possible that he might, by some
blunder, have revealed to Robert that of which he should have been kept
ignorant. At all events the lawyer was the only one likely to yield him
any satisfaction upon this point. Accordingly, willing to be out of the
way for the present, he seized his hat, and hastened to the office of
his confidential agent.
Mr. Sharp was, it must be confessed, awaiting with no little anxiety and
curiosity, the result of Mr. Ford’s visit, which might so materially
effect his own interests.
There was a sharp knock at the door. He rose and opened it.
Lewis entered in great evident perturbation.
“Bless me, what’s the matter?” exclaimed Mr. Sharp, in affected
surprise.
“You may well ask me what’s the matter.”
“You don’t mean to say——”
“I do mean to say that all my plans are menaced with defeat.”
“But, how?”
“My cousin Robert is at this moment with his father.”
“Good heavens!” ejaculated the lawyer, in admirably counterfeited
consternation. “How did this come about?”
“That is more than I can pretend to say. I came to you for the sake of
obtaining information.”
“Which I am wholly unable to afford.”
Lewis threw himself upon a chair.
“To think,” he exclaimed, bitterly, “that this should happen when I am
just within reach of success. Twenty-four hours more, and it would
probably have been too late!”
“How?”
“I mean that my uncle probably has not twenty-four hours lease of life,
unless this meeting revives him. The probability is, that it will have a
contrary effect.”
“Do you consider that you have lost all?”
“Fortunately, no. I am in hopes that this interview will, after all,
prove of no advantage to my cousin.”
“Ah!” said Mr. Sharp, rubbing his hands with apparent delight, but
secret anxiety, beginning for the first time to feel that he would not
be recompensed for his treachery.
“Yes. It is not likely that my uncle will be able to make a new will,
and the present one I shall be very well contented with.”
“Confusion!” thought the lawyer. “I wish I could only see the old
gentleman, and whisper a few words in his ear.”
If Lewis had not been too much absorbed in calculating his own chance,
he might have noticed that Mr. Sharp’s wonted affability had deserted
him, and that he, too, seemed preoccupied.
                              CHAPTER XXX.
                             PALLIDA MORS.
After his interview with the lawyer, Lewis took his way home; his heart
alternately cheered with hope, or disturbed by apprehension. On the
whole, however, hope predominated. It was based on the knowledge that
neither his uncle nor his cousin were men of business, and at this
moment both would have too many other things to think of to recur to
that which he dreaded.
As he opened the outer door, he met a servant in the hall.
“How is my uncle, now, Jane?” he asked.
“I don’t know, sir; I haven’t been up stairs since you went away.”
“Is my—is the gentleman that came in a little while ago still here?” he
inquired, anxiously.
“Yes, sir, I think so; I haven’t seen him go out.”
“Have you heard any talking? I am afraid my uncle will be too much
excited by a visitor at this time.”
“I heard a faint murmur like as if they were talking awhile ago, but I
haven’t heard anything for a few minutes. May I be so bold as to ask if
the gentleman is a relation, sir?”
“Yes,” said Lewis, shortly. “You say you have heard no sound proceeding
from the room for a few minutes?”
“No, sir.”
“Perhaps he is dead,” thought Lewis, hopefully. “At any rate, I will go
up and see.”
“That will do,” he said to the servant, who was still in waiting. “I am
going up into my uncle’s room, and if I should want you I will ring.”
“I wonder who the gentleman is,” said the servant, to herself. “He said
Mr. Rand was his father. I never heard that he had a son, for my part.
If he is, I suppose he will inherit the property. I wonder how Mr. Lewis
will like that. Well, I don’t much care if he is disappointed, for I
don’t like him, and never did.”
The dictatorial manner of Lewis had not gained him friends among the
servants, and none of them could be expected to feel a very profound
sorrow for any reverses which fate might have in store for him.
Lewis Rand softly ascended the stairs, and entered his uncle’s
bed-chamber.
It needed only a glance to assure him that his wish was granted. His
heart leaped with exultation at the thought. This was the only thing
which could give him a perfect sense of security. Now, by the
substitution of the forged will, he felt that his interests were
secured. The estate was his beyond the possibility of a transfer.
Now that his cousin was no longer to be feared as a rival, he felt that
it would be both safe and politic, to treat him with a degree of
consideration. This course would be likely to mislead suspicion, if any
should be excited, when it was found, as it soon would be, that his
cousin shared no portion of his father’s princely estate.
“My uncle sleeps?” he said, inquiringly, as he entered the chamber.
“Yes,” said Robert, solemnly, lifting up a wan face from the bed-clothes
in which it was buried; “the sleep that knows no waking.”
Apparently much shocked at this intelligence, Lewis started back with an
ejaculation of sorrow.
“I ought not to feel surprised,” he said, in a low voice; “it is an
event which I have been expecting and fearing for many weeks. Yet its
actual coming finds me unprepared.”
With his mournful gaze intently fixed upon the old man’s face, Robert
paid little heed to his cousin’s words. Thoughts of the long weary years
that had intervened since he parted from his father, then in the
strength and pride of that manhood, upon which he himself was just
entering, and the changes that had since come over each, till the
present sad moment brought them together, crowded upon him with a force
which he could not resist, and he sat there, looking straight before
him, vainly endeavoring to reconcile the past with the present, till he
was tempted to think the past eighteen years but a dream, from which he
would ere long awake.
It did not take him long to recover from that delusion.
As he lifted his eyes he met his own reflection in the mirror opposite.
That was no young man’s face that met his gaze. The freshness of youth,
had given place to the grave careworn look of later years. The once dark
hair was threaded here and there with silver. The smooth brow was sown
with premature wrinkles. The cheek had lost its bloom, and was now thin
and sallow. In all this there was no deception. But even if this had not
been sufficient, he had but to look towards the bed, to realize how time
had passed. That thin, shrunken old man who lay there—was that his
father? No, there was no mistaking all this; these years of estrangement
were no vain imaginings; they were all too sad realities.
And there, but a few steps from him, sat, with a look of hypocritical
sorrow, the man who had lent his best efforts to widen the breach, of
which he had been the cause, and throw up a permanent wall of separation
between the father and the son. He had changed least of the three. There
was the same plausible smile, the same crafty look about the eyes that
seldom met your gaze. There were no wrinkles to be seen on his brow.
Neither had his heart changed. It was as full of subtlety and evil
thoughts and plans as ever.
Lewis Rand had changed least of the three, yet, of them all, he was
farthest removed from the freshness and simplicity of childhood, that
had never been his. He was one of those who seem never to have been
young.
“Cousin Robert,” said Lewis, with an air of grave courtesy, “although
our grief is so fresh that all other thoughts seem intrusive, yet there
are certain things that must be thought of. It is right and proper that
you should participate with me in paying the last offices of respect and
affection to our lamented relative. You were nearer to him than I. It is
fitting that, from you, should proceed the orders relative to the
funeral.”
“It is a right which I have no disposition to exercise. I would much
rather leave it entirely in your hands. My mind is not in a fit state to
enter upon such arrangements.”
“You have stated my own case,” said Lewis, in a voice of
well-counterfeited emotion. “The death of my dear uncle, for whom I
cherished so deep an affection, and to whom I am indebted for so many
acts of kindness, weighs most heavily upon my heart. Nothing but an
imperative sense of duty would enable me to bear up under it. But I
will, if you desire it, so far overcome my grief, as to give the
necessary directions.”
“I shall be glad to have you do so,” said Robert, briefly. There had
been a time when he would not have questioned his cousin’s sincerity,
but gratefully accepted his proffered sympathy,—when his own heart would
have been soothed by this companionship in grief. But the revelation of
his cousin’s perfidy had been too recent,—the memory of his wrongs was
too fresh. He might, in time, forgive, but he could not at once forget.
He did not look towards his cousin, but his eyes were fixed continually
upon the father from whom he had been separated for eighteen years,—from
whom the grave must soon separate him, till he too lay as still and
motionless as his father now lay, outstretched before him.
Lewis was about to leave the room, when he paused, as if struck by a
sudden thought.
“Pardon me,” he said, hesitatingly, “but this unhappy separation has
left us so much in ignorance of each other, that I am not informed
whether you have children.”
“I have one daughter.”
“And your wife?”
“Is no longer living.”
“Will you leave me your direction, that I may send a carriage?”
“It will not be necessary. We will take a carriage from here.”
“As you please. One thing more. Pardon me if I am wrong, for I know
nothing of your circumstances; you may require a sum of money to procure
proper mourning.”
“It is needless,” said Robert, briefly. “We are sufficiently provided.”
“Proud as ever!” muttered Lewis, to himself. “We’ll see how long that
continues. If I am not greatly mistaken, he will be glad enough to avail
himself of my offers before long.”
Meanwhile, Helen had reached home, and was wondering what had detained
her father so long. He had gone out with Mr. Sharp, not mentioning where
he was going.
She began to be afraid that, in one of his not unusual fits of
abstraction, he had met with some accident, perhaps been run over by
some passing vehicle, while crossing the street.
“Where can he be?” she was asking, anxiously, for the tenth time at
least, when, to her great joy, she at length heard his familiar step
upon the stairs.
She hastened to the door, exclaiming, “Why, papa, why have you been gone
so long?”
She looked into his face, and suddenly stopped short. She saw, by his
expression, that something had happened.
“What is the matter, papa?” she asked, apprehensively.
“We have met with a great misfortune, Helen,” said Mr. Ford, gravely.
“A great misfortune! Has your invention then failed?”
“It is not that, Helen. Did you ever hear me speak of your grandfather?”
“No.”
“I will tell you the reason now. There had been a long and unhappy
alienation between us,—longer, I have since found, than there need to
have been, if we could only have met and had a mutual understanding. I
married against my father’s wishes. If he had once seen your mother,
Helen, he would, I am sure, have withdrawn all his opposition. As it
was, we separated eighteen years ago, and to-day we met for the last
time.”
“But the misfortune, papa?”
“We met at his death-bed, Helen; but, thank Heaven, not too late for a
full reconciliation. An hour since, your grandfather died, with his hand
clasped in mine. The funeral takes place day after to-morrow. We must
procure fitting dresses. I do not understand such things, but you can
consult with Martha.”
Helen wished to learn more of her grandfather, of whom she now, for the
first time, heard; but she saw and respected her father’s grief, and
forebore to question him.
                             CHAPTER XXXI.
                           READING THE WILL.
Although the funeral of Mr. Rand was not largely attended,—for his
seclusion had prevented his making many acquaintances in the city,—no
expense was spared upon it. Lewis was determined that, so far as money
went, every respect should be paid to his uncle’s memory. Perhaps he
thought in this way to atone for the grievous wrong which he had done
him. To his cousin and Helen he was sedulously polite and even
deferential, so that those who could look no deeper than the surface
might well suppose him to be all that a kind and affectionate relation
ought to be.
On the day succeeding the funeral the will was appointed to be read.
“Of course you will be present, Robert,” said Lewis, “you and your
daughter. I need hardly say that I am entirely ignorant of the manner in
which my uncle had seen fit to dispose of his property. I have reason,
indeed, to think that he has made some small provision for me. But
whatever may be the purport of the will which is to be read to-morrow, I
pledge myself in advance to interpose no obstacle to its provisions.”
Perhaps he expected a similar declaration from Robert, but his cousin
kept silence.
The next morning at ten o’clock the will was read. A small company was
gathered in the library of the deceased. Lewis leaned his arm upon the
table by which he sat, with a downcast look but a throbbing heart. One
brief form more, and the object of his life would be attained.
The document was not a long one. After the usual introduction, the
testator bequeathed all his property, real and personal, without
reserve, to his dear nephew, Lewis Rand, for whom he cherished a strong
affection.
There was a slight flush upon the face of Robert Ford, or Robert Rand,
as we should now call him. It was not strange that he should display
some emotion at being thus publicly ignored, and his birthright
transferred to another. As he looked up, he thought he could detect a
momentary gleam of exultation in the face of Lewis. But it was
immediately repressed.
The lawyer, who had previously been made acquainted with the fact that
Robert was a son of the deceased, looked surprised.
“Was this expected?” he asked. “How shall we account for no mention
being made of your name,” addressing Robert, “as his son, and direct
heir? such an omission is extraordinary.”
“My father,” said Robert, calmly, “was not aware of my existence. He had
not seen me for many years, and had been led to believe me dead. It was
only accidentally”—his glance rested for a moment on his cousin, who
strove to look unconcerned—“that I was enabled to discover his residence
in this city, and make myself known to him before he died.”
He was proud enough to wish to keep concealed the long estrangement
between them, desiring to shield his father’s memory from any reproach
which this omission might be thought to cast upon it.
“My cousin is quite right,” said Lewis. “His father and myself believed,
on what we supposed to be reliable evidence, that he died some years
since in Chicago. It is a source of regret to me that our mistake was
discovered at so late a period, when in consequence of the near approach
of death, it was impossible for my uncle to make any change in the
disposition of his estate.”
The lawyer who, without having any definite grounds of suspicion,
distrusted Lewis and his smooth professions, answered, coldly, “Your
regret will no doubt be considerably lessened when you reflect that the
property which you acknowledge has come to you by mistake, is at your
absolute disposal, and that it is therefore in your power to remedy this
unintended wrong.”
The sallow face of Lewis flushed beneath the penetrating gaze of the
lawyer, who, he saw, suspected the real nature which he kept concealed
beneath a flimsy veil of deception and hypocrisy.
But he was prepared even for this emergency.
“That is true,” he said, “and although my reverence for the expressed
wishes of the deceased will not permit me to interfere materially with
the disposition which he has made, I shall take care that my cousin is
provided for. Robert, if you will do me the favor to remain after this
form is over, I shall be glad to explain what I propose to do.”
Lewis had been thinking of this contingency. He saw that it would be
absolutely necessary to make some provision for his cousin, as well to
quiet the world’s censure as more effectually to ward off suspicion from
himself.
In the western part of Pennsylvania there was a small farm, worth, with
the buildings upon it, three or four thousand dollars. This was but an
insignificant item in the list of Mr. Rand’s possessions. It was this
farm that Lewis proposed bestowing upon his cousin. It would, he
thought, be a cheap way of securing his acquiescence in the provisions
of the will, and remove him to an obscure neighborhood, where he would
have little power of doing him harm.
When all, save Helen and her father, had departed, Lewis turned to his
cousin, and after repeating, at some length, his expressions of regret
that his uncle had not been spared to make a change in the disposition
of his property, concluded by tendering him, as a free gift, the farm in
question, together with two hundred dollars in money, which he judged
would be sufficient to convey them hither, and pay any little debts
which they might have incurred.
Robert listened in surprise to this disgraceful proposition. He was not
a practical man, and in business matters he was very liable to be
deceived. But he knew sufficient of the extent of his father’s wealth to
divine, that the pittance which his cousin offered was less than the
hundredth part of the entire estate.
Knowing this, his pride rose in indignant rebellion at this insult.
“Do you think, Lewis,” he said, scornfully, “that if my father had lived
long enough to change his will according to the desire which you have
several times seen fit to express, that this is the provision which he
would have made for me?”
“If you do not consider it sufficient,” said Lewis, evasively, “I will
say a thousand dollars, in addition to the farm. That will enable you to
stock it amply, and live quite independently.”
“You are generous,” said Robert, with sarcasm, for his spirit was now
fully roused; “but think not that I will become a pensioner upon your
bounty. One tenth part even of the pittance which you offer me, if it
came from my father, I would gratefully accept. But for you, who bestow
your alms upon me as if I were a beggar, instead of the son of the man
from whom all your wealth is wrongfully derived, I scorn your gift, and
reject it.”
“You are hasty, and may regret your decision. Think of your
daughter,—would you leave her penniless?”
“Let her decide that question. Helen, shall we accept what this man
offers, or shall we preserve our humble independence, as we have done
heretofore?”
“So long as I have you, papa, it is enough. God will take care of us.”
“You hear her answer, Lewis Rand. I have but one thing to say to you
before we part,—it may be for the last time upon earth. I am not
ignorant of the arts by which you have brought about and kept up the
estrangement between my father and myself; how many overtures towards
reconciliation on either side have been defeated through your
machinations; how carefully you have kept alive in my father’s heart the
belief that I was dead, though you knew it to be false. By such means
you have compassed your object. I do not envy you your reward. Far less
will I be indebted to you for a miserable pittance of that wealth which
you have wrested from me by a systematic course of treachery and deceit.
Come, Helen, let us go.”
Lewis Rand turned red and white by turns during this unexpected address,
which satisfied him that Mr. Sharp had proved faithless to his trust.
But flushed as he was with success, he could afford to disregard it all
now.
“Do as you please,” he said, coldly. “At any rate, you cannot deny that
I have made the offer. You may, some day, regret not having accepted
it.”
“Never!” said his cousin, vehemently.
“Very well; that is your affair. In reference to the grave charges which
you have seen fit to bring against my character, I have only to say,
that I defy you to prove them. Farewell! I would have been your friend.
Since you would have me for your enemy, so let it be.”
“I care as little for the one as for the other,” said Robert, proudly.
So saying, he held out his hand to Helen, and together they left the
stately dwelling, with its costly furniture and appointments, and took
their way slowly to their humble lodging, with its bare floor and hard
wooden chairs, contrasting, in its plainness, so vividly with the
dwelling they had left. There was another difference. The one was dark
and gloomy in spite of its luxury. Here the warm and cheerful sunshine
entered in at the open window, and flung its radiance all over the room.
Helen breathed a sigh of relief as she entered.
“Oh, how much pleasanter it is here,” she said, “than in that great
gloomy house!”
And she began preparing supper with unwonted lightness of heart, as if a
sudden weight had been removed from her spirit.
“I am well rid of him,” muttered Lewis, as his cousin left the room. “He
really has more spirit than I suspected. As for that Sharp, he has
served me a scurvy trick, but he has overshot his mark this time. I can
fancy his disappointment when he discovers that Robert is still a
beggar.”
Lewis laughed sardonically, and gave himself up to the intoxicating
dream of power which his wealth would give him.
                             CHAPTER XXXII.
                       MARGARET’S SECOND FLIGHT.
Margaret lay sick for many weeks in her mother’s cottage, where, it will
be remembered, she took refuge when, maddened by the discovery of
Jacob’s falsehood, she fled from him, heedless of the fury of the
elements. Physical exhaustion and mental excitement brought on a raging
fever, attended by almost constant delirium. Her mother watched by her
bedside with an affection that never tired. For a time it was doubtful
what would be the issue. Margaret’s life trembled in the balance, and it
required but little to incline it either way. Fortunately for Margaret,
however, her constitution was naturally a strong one, and its native
vigor triumphed at length over the assaults of disease, fierce though
they had been. The fever spent its force, and she became rapidly better,
though at first scarcely stronger than an infant.
The first indication of her amendment was her recognition of her mother.
The old lady was sitting in a rocking-chair beside the bed, when
Margaret lifted her head from the pillow, and said, in a tone of
curiosity,—
“Who are you?”
“Who am I?” inquired her mother. “Don’t you know me, Margaret?”
“You look some like my mother. Are you?”
“Yes, Margaret, I am your own mother, who loves you.”
“I believe you are. How long have I been sick, mother?”
“It is—let me see,” said the old lady, reflectively. “It must be six
weeks. Yes, it will be six to-morrow.”
“And for six weeks I have been confined to this room and this bed?”
“Yes, my child.”
“Do not call me child, mother. All the beauty and bloom of childhood,
all its happy hopes and trustful spirit, have gone forever. There are
some who are children all their lives. But I—it seems a great while
since I was a child.”
The simple old lady did not comprehend her daughter’s meaning. She
understood her words literally.
“Why, you are young yet, Margaret.”
“Young! don’t call me young, mother. I am older than you.”
“Older than I?” said the old lady, who fancied Margaret’s brain a little
disordered, and sought to restore it by reasoning; “but you know a child
cannot be older than its mother. You are but thirty-seven, while I am
seventy.”
“I don’t mean older in years, mother. Older in suffering, older in the
experience of life. It isn’t years that make us old, mother, but our own
passions.”
This was uttered half in soliloquy.
“I am afraid you will hurt yourself by talking, Margaret. You had better
go to sleep; or would you like some gruel?”
“No, mother.”
There was silence for a few minutes. During this time Margaret was
scanning attentively the little room and its furniture. Nothing could be
plainer, and yet more comfortable. There was a rag carpet on the floor,
and a few plain articles of furniture scattered about the room; there
was a small clock on the mantel, whose drowsy ticking could be
distinctly heard, so free was the neighborhood from noises of every
description. It was such a retreat as the old would like for its quiet,
while they would not be troubled by its monotony and lack of excitement.
But Margaret was too impetuous and excitable to feel it otherwise than
oppressive.
“How long have you lived here, mother?” she asked abruptly, after a
silence of some minutes.
“Seven years, Margaret; seven years come fall.”
“Seven years! seven years, mother! I should think you would have died of
solitude long ago. You haven’t any neighbors, have you?”
“None very near. None that I go to see. I do not care to visit. Tabby,
here, is company for me. Ain’t you, Tabby?”
The large cat, that was lying at the other end of the room, rose at this
appeal, and after stretching herself in a way to show her extraordinary
size, walked slowly across the room, and submitted herself, with an
appearance of pleasure, to the old lady’s caresses.
“See, Margaret; she answers for herself,” as the cat, in recognition of
the attention shown her, purred loudly.
“I don’t know but you are right in choosing such a friend,” said
Margaret, after a thoughtful pause. “She will treat you well as long as
you do not abuse her. That cannot be said of all human friends. Yet I
should not be able to live six months as you do, mother. My temperament
needs excitement.”
“I fear it has not always brought you good, Margaret,” said the old
lady, who could ill comprehend the turbulent spirit which her daughter
inherited from a father of mixed French and Irish blood.
One afternoon a week later, Margaret, after turning restlessly for some
minutes, asked her mother if she had not a newspaper in the house.
“I get tired looking at the cat,” she exclaimed; “I want something else
to think of.”
“I don’t know,” said the old lady, hesitatingly. “I don’t take a paper;
but perhaps I can find one that came round a bundle, if that will do.”
“Yes, mother, anything. It don’t matter what.”
After diligent search, the old lady managed to discover part of a last
week’s daily paper that had come round a package which she had recently
bought. Apologizing for the unsatisfactory result of her search, she
placed it in Margaret’s hand.
In general, there is nothing very interesting in an old daily paper; but
Margaret, who had been shut out from the world for nearly two months,
and knew nothing of what had transpired during that time, seized the
fragment with avidity, and read it entire, even to the advertisements.
Finally her glance wandered to the deaths; she started as she met the
name of Rand.
    DIED. At his residence in Fifth Avenue, GERALD RAND, Esq., 71.
“He’s dead, then, at last,” she murmured, “and Jacob Wynne has got the
thousand dollars which were promised him. Let him enjoy it while he may.
It will not be long, unless,—but I must see him before I take any
decisive step. He may have said what he did only to provoke me. Would to
heaven it were so! Yes, I must see him; I must give him one more chance,
and then, if he still scorns me,” this she said with fierce emphasis,
“let him look to himself.”
“What have you read that excites you so much, Margaret?” questioned her
mother, anxiously.
“Nothing particular.”
“You frightened me when you spoke so fiercely.”
“Did I?” said Margaret. “I was only talking to myself. It’s a way I
have. But, mother,” she continued, changing her tone suddenly, “do you
think I shall be well enough to go out to-morrow?”
“To-morrow!” repeated the old lady, lifting up both hands in extreme
astonishment; “why, you must be raving crazy to think of such a thing!
What in the world do you want to go out for?”
“Never mind now,” said her daughter, evasively. “I thought I should like
to go out. But I suppose I am weaker than I think for.”
“Why, the fever has only just left you. It would be death to think of
leaving the house.”
“We won’t say anything more about it, mother. Only I get tired of
staying in the same place so long. The time moves so slowly. What time
is it?”
“Three o’clock.”
“It has been three for the last hour,” said Margaret, with a touch of
impatience in her tone.
“I declare the clock has stopped,” said the old lady, adjusting her
spectacles; “I must have forgotten to wind it up. I declare it’s most
time to get tea.”
She filled the tea-kettle, and set it over the fire, Margaret looking on
with languid attention.
Her mother thought that Margaret had given up the idea of leaving the
house. It was only an invalid’s fancy, she thought. But Margaret had a
purpose in view, and only deferred carrying it out till her weakness had
somewhat abated. On the third day, though still far from strong, she
determined to leave the house. Knowing that her mother would never
consent, she devised a stratagem to get her out of the way.
“Is there an orange in the house?” she asked, immediately after
breakfast.
“No, Margaret.”
“I am sorry; I think I could relish one.”
“I can get one at the store.”
“But that is a good ways off. Isn’t it, mother?”
“Only quarter of a mile.”
“It is too far for you to go.”
“Too far? I go there several times a week, Margaret.”
“Then if it will not be too much trouble, I should really like to have
you go.”
“I will go immediately. Isn’t there anything else you would like?”
“Nothing, mother.”
“God forgive me for deceiving her!” thought Margaret. “But I cannot do
otherwise. He knows that.”
Scarcely was her mother out of the house than Margaret hastily rose from
the bed, and with trembling fingers arrayed herself in the garments
which had been so long laid aside. They had been carefully washed and
mended by her mother, so that they looked comparatively respectable. She
threw them on very hastily, fearing that her mother would return and
detect her. She saw half a dollar on the mantel. This also she took,
knowing that she should need money, and left the house.
When her mother returned with the orange she found, to her dismay, that
her daughter had disappeared. On the table there was a scrap of paper,
with these words traced hurriedly upon it:—
    “Forgive the artifice I have employed, dear mother. I knew you
    would not let me go, and I must. There is something of great
    importance that I must attend to without delay. When that is over,
    I may come back to you.
                                                            “MARGARET.
    “P. S. I took a half dollar from the mantel, as I may need it.”
                            CHAPTER XXXIII.
                          THE GOOD SAMARITAN.
Surprised and terrified at her daughter’s disappearance, the old lady
went to the door and, shading her eyes, looked anxiously up the road,
but with her failing eyesight she was unable to catch sight of the
fugitive.
“The child must be crazy,” she said to herself. “She’ll catch her death
of cold, going out so soon after the fever. I must go after her and
bring her back.”
Putting on her hood once more, the old lady went out, and took the road
towards the city. But she did not find her daughter. Returning with a
heavy heart and a sense of deep perplexity she sat down to her knitting,
first carefully putting away the orange, which she thought Margaret
might like to eat if, as she hoped, she should discover her weakness and
return home at night.
But Margaret did not come that night, nor yet again the next.
When she left her mother’s house she hurried forward at a greater speed
than her strength admitted, so great was her anxiety to elude pursuit.
She had not gone half a mile when she found her strength failing her.
Quite exhausted, she staggered to a flat stone by the side of the road,
and sat down.
“Mother was right,” she said to herself; “I am not strong enough for
this journey; but I must get on somehow now that I have started.”
At this moment her eye rested on the half dollar which she had taken,
and which she still held in her hand.
“Perhaps this will procure me a ride,” she thought. “What matter if I am
penniless afterwards. I only care to live long enough to be revenged.”
She looked back on the road she had travelled, hoping to see some wagon
which might serve her purpose.
A little distance off was a covered market wagon, advancing at a good
round pace. The driver was a stout, pleasant-looking man, and Margaret,
hurriedly scanning his features, judged that she might venture to accost
him.
She accordingly rose from the stone on which she had been sitting, and
made a gesture for him to stop.
Somewhat surprised, he called out: “Hold up, Dick! Now, ma’am, what can
I do for you?”
“Would you be willing to take a passenger to New York?”
“Yes, ma’am, just as lieves as not.”
“I am quite willing to pay you. Will that be enough?” asked Margaret,
offering the half dollar.
“Yes, ma’am; enough, and fifty cents too much. Your company will be pay
enough. But, hold on a minute; I’ll jump out and help you in.”
“Thank you; I have been sick, and am not so strong as usual, otherwise I
would not trouble you.”
“No trouble at all. You look as if you’d been sick,—kinder peaked, just
as my Sarah Jane looked after she’d had the fever. Ain’t it rather
imprudent for you to be out?”
“Perhaps it is; but I have something to do which cannot be delayed.”
The driver seemed disposed to be social and communicative.
“I’d orter be pretty well used to this road; I’ve come on it twice a
week for the last fifteen years.”
“Have you?” said Margaret, listlessly.
“Yes, marketing. That’s my business. I’ve got a regular run of
customers, you see, and they’ve got used to me, and know I’ll never
bring anything but what’s good. There’s Judge Harcouth now; may be you
to know the judge?”
“No.”
“His wife won’t never buy no sausages except what I bring. Well, mine
are pretty good, if I do say it. I get old Marm Brown to make ‘em, and
she’d orter know how, for she’s been in the business for forty years. Do
you like sausages?”
“I don’t know,” said Margaret, who had not heard a word that was said.
“Don’t know,” repeated the driver, staring at her in surprise.
“Excuse me; I didn’t hear what you said.”
“I asked if you liked sausages. Some folks have a prejudice agin ‘em.”
“Yes, pretty well.”
“I like to have company,” continued the driver; “like to have somebody
to talk to. Talkin’s natural to the family. My mother had a pretty long
tongue, and used to use it most all the time, so that none of the rest
of us could get in a word edgeways.”
Apparently, the mother’s gift had descended to the son, for he kept up a
constant stream of talk, which was fortunate for Margaret, for he
expected little in the way of response, and so was less likely to notice
her abstraction.
“Last week I brought my oldest boy, Hamlet, with me. Queer name, isn’t?”
“No.”
“Why, ‘taint very common,” said the driver, a little surprised at this
negative.
“That is what I mean,” said Margaret, hurriedly.
“I s’pose you wonder what made me give him such a name, but the fact is
my own name is pretty common. You may have heard of John Smith?”
“I think I have heard the name,” said Margaret, absently.
Her grave manner was thought to conceal something jocose by Mr. Smith,
who laughed heartily, ejaculating “Good, by jingo!” somewhat to
Margaret’s surprise.
“That’s why,” he resumed, “I thought I’d give my children at least one
name that wasn’t common, so I concluded to ask the schoolmaster for
some. He told me I’d find what I wanted in Shakespeare, so I bought a
copy second hand, and the very fust name I come across was Hamlet. So I
gave that name to my oldest boy. My second boy’s name is Othello—the
boys call him Old Fellow; pretty good joke, isn’t it? I didn’t know till
