me back my clothes." 
" You can't have them. If you strip off those you 
have on you'll have to go without any." 
Exasperated, Charlie made a spring forward, and attempted to wrest his clothes from the hands of the mate. 
" Ha, my fine fellow ! " exclaimed Randall, as, evading 
the boy's grasp, he lifted them beyond his reach. " So 
you are inclined to be mutinous, are you? Very well, 
we have a remedy for all such cases, and a very simple 
one it is." 
So saying, he drew a stout cord from his pocket, and 
advanced towards our hero with the intention of binding 
him. 
Charlie sprang for the stairs, and was half way up 
before the mate caught him and dragged him back. 
"Well, boy, you're a pretty tough customer — true 
grit. You're just the boy to make a sailor of. I must 
make sure of you." 
So saying, he succeeded, in spite of Charlie's vigorous 
 
exertions', in tying his hands and feet. Not until thus 
rendered quite helpless did the brave boy suffer himself 
to burst into tears. 
"What are you going to do with me?" he asked. 
" I am going to make a sailor of you," answered the 
mate. 
" But I don't want to go to sea," answered Charlie. 
" So you said once before, but you'll change your 
.mind before long." 
" My mother will not know where I am. She can't 
get along without me, for she depends upon me in part 
for support." 
" I dare say she'll get along somehow," said Randall, 
coolly. " She won't miss you much, and she ought to 
feel glad that your uncle has taken charge of you." 
" Uncle ! " retorted the boy, with flashing  eyes. " I 
wouldn't own you as uncle for all the money in Boston." 
" You wouldn't ! " said Randall, his tone changing, 
and a dark look overspreading his face. " Very well, 
my bold lad, you may have reason to repent those words. 
You may find out by and by that it is as well to be civil 
to your superior officer. I will do nothing about it now, 
but when we are out of port and fairly at sea, look out I " 
" Charlie, who was quick-witted, caught a hint from 
these words, and at once set up a scream, hoping to 
draw attention jfrom outside.' 
" That's your game, is it?" saidt he mate. "We'll 
soon stop that." 
So saying, he drew out the boy's own handkerchief, 
and gagged him so that there was no further fear of his 
being able to make any disturbance which could be heard 
on the wharf or on neighboring vessels. 
 
 
Feeling now secure, he left Charlie mute and helpless, 
and ascended to the deck. 
" What was the noise I heard below, Mr, Randall?" 
asked the captain, pausing in his walk, and addressing 
his first ofl3cer. 
" My nephew ! " said Randall, with a smile. 
'' Ha I he is a little obstreperous, is he ? " 
" A trifle so." 
" Doesn't like the society of his uncle sufficiently to 
want to go to sea with him, I suppose?" 
"I dare say he would like to change his quarters  
said Randall, composedly. 
" How did you reconcile him to his fate?" 
" A couple of strong cords and a gag did the business. 
They will keep him quiet till we get out to sea, and then 
perhaps we can discover some other means of bringing 
him to terms." 
" A slightly different application of the cords, per- 
haps, Mr. Randall." 
The mate smiled approval of this jest, and as his ser- 
vices were now in requisition to expedite preparations for 
departure, he left the captain and went about his duty. 
Meanwhile the mate's conduct had not been unobserved 
by the crew. Among these was an old sailor who rejoiced in the name of Bill Sturdy. It is needless to say 
that this was not his real name. No one appeared to 
know what his real name was, and he had become so used 
to this, that he generally called himself so. The name 
Sturdy had probably been given him on account of his 
sturdy make. He was stout and very powerful. Probaly there were no two men on board the ship who would 
ot have felt some hesitation in attacking Bill Sturdy. 
 
It may be added that the name was no less appropriate if we consider it bestowed on account of his character and disposition. He was unpolished enough, having 
beaten about the world all his life, yet he had been gifted 
by nature with a fund of sturdy common sense and powers of observation which made him more thoughtful and 
intelligent than most of his class. He had a kind heart, 
and hated to see oppression. This was his first voyage 
on board the Bouncing Betsy ; the ship on which he had 
last served having been wrecked, and he with a few others having, with diflSculty, saved themselves. Since he 
had engaged onboard the Betsy, the stories he had heard 
of the captain's brutality led him to repent of his determination, and he .had resolved within himself to remain on 
boai'd but a single voyage. 
He had had his attention drawn to our hero and the 
mate,4ind he observed that the latter came up alone from 
below. 
" That's a trim, handsome little lad," he said to himself ; "I wonder what the mate is so attentive to him 
for. There's some deviltry in the wind, as sure as my 
name is Bill Sturdy. I hope, for the boy's sake, he isn't 
going to ship with us. If he does, I must do what I can 
for him, for I mistrust he'll want a friend." 
 
The thoughts of our young hero as he lay helpless, 
gagged and bound, were hardly of the most cheerful 
character. The blow had been so sudden, that he was 
quite unprepared for it. Added to this, his apprehensions were vague and indefinite. Thiere seemed something mysterious about the manner in which he had been 
spirited away, and this thought increased his feeling of 
discomfort. A danger which can be measured and comprehended in its full extent may be boldly faced, however great, but when we are ignorant of its nature and 
extent that is not so easy. 
Charlie understood as much as this, that it was the intention of Eandall to carry him off to sea. But why he 
should have taken such pains to ensnare him, when there 
are always plenty of boys glad to obtain such a situation, he could not conceive. 
Charlie was no coward. He was no stranger to the 
bold spirit of adventure by which boys of his age are 
apt to be animated. Indeed, under different circumstances, and if the arrangement had been of his own free 
choice, it is quite possible that he might have looked 
forward with pleasurable anticipations to the life that 
awaited him. But there was one thought uppermost in 
 
his mind that gave him no little pain and anxiety, the 
thought of his mother. He was her all. In the large 
and busy city she knew but very few ; she had none 
whom she could call friends. Her hopes were all centred in him. Still farther, it was in a great measure 
owing to his activity and industry that she had been 
able to live with a degree of comfort, for though she 
was always at work, the avenues of industry open to women are few, and toil at the needle is so unsatisfactorily 
compensated that Charlie, though working fewer hours, 
was able to contribute considerably more than half of 
the sum required for their joint support. 
How would his mother get along during his absence, 
the length of which ha could not estimate? Would she 
suffer not only in mind but in bodily discomfort ? Well 
he remembered how pleasantly the evenings had passed 
when they were together. Now there must be a long 
separation. Would he ever see his mother again? She 
would not be able to retain their present lodging, now 
that the entire rent would fall to her to pay. Perhaps 
when he did he should be unable to obtain any clew to 
her whereabouts. This was indeed a terrible thought to 
poor Charlie, who chafed like a caged lion in his confinement. He endeavored to unloose the cords which 
bound him, but with little prospect of success;- for no 
one better than a sailor understands the ai-t of tying a 
knot securely. 
While Charlie was doing his utmost to free himself 
from the cords that bound him, having already removed 
the gag, he was startled by a low laugh of triumphant 
malice. « 
Looking np, he saw the mate, the author of all his 
 
 
misfortunes, watching him with great apparent enjoy- 
ment. , 
" Ah, Jack," he said, " I see you are hard at work. 
Work away. If you untie those knots you've got more 
skilful fingers than the one that tied them, that's all." 
'' Come and release me," said Charlie. " You have 
no right to keep me here." 
" You are mistaken," said the mate, coolly. " I have 
the best of all rights." 
" And what right is that? " demanded our hero.   
" 27'power! " answered Eandall. " Might 
makes right, perhaps you have heard." 
" How long are you going to keep me here?" asked 
Charlie, after a pause. 
'  Till we get far enough out to sea to' make it safe to 
release you." 
Charlie kept silence. He felt that it would be useless 
to appeal to the mercy of the mate, who appeared bent 
upon carrying him away. He turned his face resolutely 
away from Randall, for whom he began to entertain a 
stronger feeling of dislike than he had supposed himself 
capable of feeling. Hitherto he had only been accus- 
tomed to an atmosphere of affection, and though he had 
met with some rebuffs in his daily search for employ- 
ment, he could always return at night to a home and a 
mother, with whom he could forget whatever had been 
disagreeable during the day. Now his position was en- 
tirely changed. The only one he knew on board the 
vessel was one whom he had no reason to believe friend- 
ly, but very much the reverse. 
By this time the noise upon deck, which he could hear 
plainly, had become greater and greater. He could hear 
 
frequent orders given by the captain, and also by tbe 
mate, who had now returned to his post. 
Soon the vessel, which had been at rest, appeared to 
be moving. He could hear the plashing of the water 
against its sides. He felt that it was in motion, slow at 
first, but afterwards more rapid. He conjectured that 
the ship was being towed out to sea by a steam-tug. 
He wished Uhat at least he could get to a window, and 
catch a last glimpse of the land to which he was about 
to bid so unexpected a farewell. But this, tied hand 
and foot as he was, was impossible, and he felt that now 
it would do him no good even if he should succeed in 
breaking his bonds. Already they were speeding out to 
sea as fast as the tug could convey them. There was 
no redress or help for him beyond the limits of the vessel in which his tyrants exercised absolute control, for 
he felt well assured that Captain Brace was in league 
with the mate, or, at all events, would inteipose his authority to support Randall in his plans. 
So time sped on, the ship continuing all vthe while in 
steady motion. 
At length the tug left them and returned to the city, 
leaving the vessel to shift for itself. Although Charlie 
could n8t see what was going on, he judged this from 
the noise and shouts of command given above, to which 
he listened with sharpened attention. 
Charlie felt that with the departure of the steam-tug 
all possibility of escape had passed. The last link 
which had bound him to the shore had been snapped 
asunder. 
While he was plunged in sorrowful thought he suddenly heard a step descending the stairs. 
 
 
ThinMng it was the mate, of whom he felt that he 
should see in future much more than he cared, he did 
not turn his head. 
" Hallo, my lad," was the salutation of the new-comer, 
in a rough, but hearty voice, " how came, you in this 
trim?" 
It was not the mate's harsh voice. Quickly turning 
round, Charlie's eyes rested on the bronzed but good- 
humored face of Bill Sturdy, the stout sailor to whom 
reference has already been made. Whatever may be 
thought of physiognomy as an index of character, it is 
undeniable that we are either attracted to or repelled 
from certain faces. 
Now the first sight of Bill Sturdy's honest and good- 
humored face seemed to Charlie like a ray of light in a 
dark place. He felt that he was a man to be trusted. 
"Will you be a friend to me?" asked Charlie, with 
instinctive confidence. 
" That I will, my lad," exclaimed Bill, with hearty 
emphasis; "but tell me who tied you up in this 
fashion?" 
" His name is Randall, and I believe he is the mate." 
"The lubberly rascal! And what did he do that 
for?" 
" He entrapped me on board the vessel, and now he 
is carrying me out to sea, against my will." 
" How came you in your sailor's rig?" asked Sturdy. 
Charlie explained the trick which had been practised 
upon him, which Bill Sturdy denounced in good set' 
terms, though possibly more strong than refined. 
" He's a rascal ; there ain't a doubt of that," said Bill. 
" I should like to overhaul him, and teach him better 
manners. As for you, my lad, Vm sorry for you. 
You've shipped for the v'y'ge, and there ain't any help 
for it, as I see. But you may depend upon one thing, 
old Bill Sturdy will look out for you, and will be your 
friend." 
"Thank you," said our hero, feeling more cheerful 
and hopeful. It was something to have one friend on 
board. 
"I mistrust there are some rascals aboard," mut- 
tered Bill to himself, as he went up on deck. " They'd 
better not interfere with me or that young lad ! " and ho 
extended his muscular arm with a sense of power. 
The payment of a thousand dollars to Randall had 
been a severe blow to old Peter Manson, and this con- 
sideration materially lessened the satisfaction which he 
felt in Charlie's removal. 
We re-introduce him- to our readers, engaged, as 
usual, in counting over his hoards. Preparatory to 
doing so, he carefully secured the outer door, and also 
the door of the apartment which he occupied. 
Then lifting up a plank from the floor, he raised from 
beneath a large box containing gold coins. It was very 
heavy, and it was not without difficulty that the old 
man, who was very feeble, succeeded in lifting it to a 
level with the floor. 
The box was, perhaps, four fifths Ihll. 
The old man surveyed the deficiency with a groan. 
" It might have been full," he muttered, '' if I hadn't 
been obliged to pay away such a sight of money to that 
determined man. One thousand dollars ! two hundred 
bright, sparkling coins ! How many, many weary days 
it will take before I can supply their place. It was all 
but full. It wanted only ten more coins to make five 
thousand dollars. O gold, gold, gold ! How beautiful 
you are ! To me you are food and drink and clothing 
and friends and relations. I care for nothing but 
you." 
"While Peter was indulging in this soliloquy, he was 
engaged in counting the coins in the box. 
The result of the count showed one less tlian he had 
anticipated. 
The old man turned pale. 
" Some one has robbed me," he muttered. " Or, perchance, I have counted wrong. I will go over it again." 
This he did with eager haste and a feeling of nervous 
anxiety, and, to his no small dismay,, the count resulted 
as before. 
" They have taken my money ! " exclaimed Peter, 
tearing his white hair in aifguish. '" They will make 
me a beggar, and I shall be reduced to want in my old 
age. Oh, oh ! " 
In the midst of his lamentations he suddenly discovered the missing coin, which had rolled away, without 
his observing it, to the opposite side of the room. 
. Chuckling with delight, he picked it up and replaced 
it in the box. 
His duty satisfactorily performed, the miser put on 
his cloak, and prepared for another task. This was, to 
raise Mrs. Codman's rent, and so compel her to leave 
the rooms which she rented of him. This, however, was 
unnecessary, since, deprived of Charlie's earnings, his 
mother would have . found it impossible to pay the rent 
previously demanded. 
Peter Manson resolved to call upon his tenant in 
person. He was not afraid of recognition. He felt 
that the changes which twenty years had wrought in his 
appearance, would be a sufficient protection. Indeed, 
 
this had. already been tested; for Peter had already 
called several times 'on the same errand, without at- 
tracting a glance which could he construed into recog- 
nition. 
It was the morning after Charlie had disappeared. 
He had been absent twenty-four hours, and his mother 
had lieard nothing of him. She was in a terrible state 
of apprehension and anxiety, for few boys were more 
regular than he in repairing home as soon as his daily 
duties were over. 
Mrs. Codman had sat np late into the night, hoping 
against her fears that he would return. At length, 
exhausted by her vigils, she sank upon the bed, but not 
to sleep. In the morning she rose, unrefreshed, to pre  
pare her solitary meal. But it was in vain. Sorrow 
and anxiety had taken away her appetite, and she was 
unable to eat anything. 
Soon afterwards a knock was heard at the door. She 
hastened to open it, hoping to hear some tidings of her 
lost boy. What was her disappointment to meet the 
bent form and«wrkikled face of Peter Manson, her land- 
lord. 
The old man gave her a stealthy glance. 
"Why did I not know her before?" he thought. 
'' She is not so very much changed. But I —  ha, ha ! 
she don't know who I am." 
Mrs. Codman went. to a drawer in her bureau, and 
took there&om six dollars. 
"This is the amount of your rent, I believe, ' she 
said. 
The old man greedily closed his fingers upon the 
money, and then, after intimating that it was very 
 
small, avowed his determiBatlon to raise. the rent to 
two dollars per week. 
The iniser watched with gleeful exultation the look 
of dismay which came over the face of his tenant. 
Two dollars a week was not only beyond Mrs. Cod- 
man's means, but was, at that time, an exorbitant rent 
for the rooms which she occupied. She would scarcely 
have been justified in paying it while she had Charlie's 
earnings as well as her own to depend on. Yet there 
seemed now an ijpperative necessity for remaining where 
she was, for a time at least. It was possible that Charlie would come back, and if she should remove, where 
would he find her? Of course, he would come back! 
The thought that there was even a possibility of her 
son being lost to her was so full of shuddering terror, 
that Mrs. Codman would not for a moment indulge it. 
Life without Charlie would be so Ml of sadness, that 
she could not believe him lost. 
She resolved to make an effort to arouse the old man's 
compassion. She did not dream of the spite and hatred 
which he felt towards her. There ate none whom the 
wicked hate so heartily as those whom they have 
injured. That is something beyond forgiveness. 
Mrs. Codman .knew that Peter Manson was avari- 
cious, and to this she attributed the increase in the 
rent. She had no suspicion that he had a particular 
object in distressing her. 
"Surely, Mr, Manson," she remonstrated, "you do' 
not think these rooms worth two dollars sc week. It is 
all we are able to do to raise the rent we now pay." 
" Humph ! " muttered Peter, avoiding the eye of his 
tenant, "they are worth all I can get for them." 
 
 
" Have you raised the rent on the other rooms in this 
house ? " 
" No, but I— I shall soon." 
" Then I tremble for your tenants. Mr. Manson, if 
you were poor yourself, perhaps you would have a heart 
to sympathize with and pity the poor." 
" If I were poor ! " exclaimed the old man, betrayed 
into his customary whine ; " I am poor ; indeed, I am 
v y poor." 
" You ! " repeated Mrs. Codman, incredulously. 
"Why, you must receive a thousand dollars a year 
from this building." 
"Yet I —  I am poor," persisted Peter. "I am only 
an agent. I— I do not own this building ; at least — I 
mean —  there are heavy incumbrances on it. I have to 
pay away nearly every dollar I receive." 
" Can you let me remain a month longer for the same 
r nt as heretofore?" asked Mrs. Codman, anxiously. 
".I—I couldn't do it," said Peter, hastily. "Either 
you must pay two 4pllars a week, or move out." 
Mrs. Codman hesitated. 
She went to her bureau, and found that she had between five and six dollars remaining in her purse. This 
would enable her, in addition to what she could earn by 
sewing, to get along for a month. 
" Very well, sir," said she, " I must stay a month 
longer, at any rate. I must for my boy's sake." 
" Have you a son? " asked Peter, desirous of learning 
from the mother's lips that the blow had struck home. 
" Yes ; you have probably seen him here sometimes." 
" I haven't noticed him." 
"I am feeling very anxious about him. Yesterday 
 
morning he went out on an errand for some one who 
had engaged him, and he hasn't been back since. I am 
afraid something must have happened to him," and the 
mother's eyes filled with tears. 
" Perhaps he has fallen off from one of the wharves, 
and got drowned," suggested Peter, with a savage delight 
in the pain he was inflicting. 
" You don't think it possible ! " exclaimed Mrs. Cod- 
man, starting to her feet, and looking in the old man's 
face with a glance of agonized entreaty, as if he could 
change by his words the fate of her son. 
" Such things often happen," said Peter, chuckling 
inwardly at the success of his remark ; " I knew a boy 
— an Irish boy, about the size of yours — drowned the 
other day." 
" About the size of my boy I I thought you had not 
noticed him." 
"I — I remember having seen him once," stammered 
Peter. " He is about a dozen years old, isn't he ? " 
" Yes ; but you don't —  you can't think him drowned." 
" How shtFuld I know?" muttered Peter. " Boys are 
careless, very careless, you know that ; and like as not 
he might have been playing on the wharf, and " 
" No, it can't be," said Mrs. Codman, with a feeling 
of relief which her knowledge of Charlie's habits gave 
her. " Charlie was not careless, and never went to play 
. on the wharf." 
The old man was disappointed to find that his blow 
had failed of its effect, but ingenious in devising new 
methods of torture, he now suggested the tnie cause of 
Charlie's absence. 
 ' Perhaps," he said, with his cruel gray eyes fixed 
on the. mother, " perhaps he's been carried off in a 
ship." 
'' Carried off in a ship ! " faltered Mrs. Codman. 
"Yes," said Peter, delighted by the evident dismay 
with which this suggestion was received. 
" But," said Mrs. Codman, not quite comprehending 
his meaning, " Charlie never had any inclination to go 
to sea." 
" Perhaps they didn't consult him about it," suggested 
Peter. 
" What do you mean?" exclaimed the mother, with 
startling emphasis, half advancing towards the old man. 
'' You —  you shouldn't be so violent," said Peter, 
trembling, and starting back in alarm. 
 ' Violent ! Deprive a mother of her only child, and 
she .may well show some vehemence." 
"si— I didn't do it," said Peter, hastily. 
." Certainly not," said Mrs. Codman, wondering at his 
thinking it necessary to exculpate himself; "but you 
were saying something about — about boys being carried 
to sea against their will." 
" I didn't mean anything," muttered Peter, regretting 
that he had put her on the right track. 
" But you did, otherwise you would not have said it. 
For heaven's sake, tell me what you did mean, and all 
you meant. Don't fear to distress me. I can bear any- 
thing except this utter uncertainty." 
She looked up earnestly in the old man's face. 
Peter was somewhat amused at the idea that he might 
be afraid to distress her, but decided, on reflection, to 
tell her all that he chose she should be made acquainted 
with. 
 
 
" Sometimes," he e lained, " a captain is short of 
hands, and fills out his number the best way he can. 
Now perhaps one of the ships at the wharves might 
have wanted a boy, and the captain might have invited 
your son on board, and, ha, ha! it almost makes me 
laugh to think of it, might carry him off before he 
thought where he was." 
" Do you laugh at the thought of such a cruel misfortune ? " asked Mrs. Codman, startled from her grief by 
the old man's chuckle. 
"excuse me, I didn't intend to ; but I thought he 
would be so much surprised when he found out where he 
was." 
"And does that seem to j' ou a fitting subject for 
merriment?" demanded the outraged mother. 
The miser cowed beneath her indignant glance, and 
muttering something unintelligible, slunk away. 
"Curse her!" he muttered, in his quavering tones, 
"why can't I face her like a man? I never could. 
That was the way when — when she rejected me. But 
I shall have my revenge yet." 
Strange to say, Peter's last suggestion produced an 
effect quite different from that which he anticipated and 
intended. Days ptssed, and Charlie did not come ; but 
his mother feeling certain, she hardly knew why, that 
he had been inveigled on board some vessel, felt sure 
he would some day return. 
" He will write to me as soon as he ge£s a chance," 
thought the mother, " and I shall soon see him again.'' 
Small as was the remuneration which Mrs. Codman 
received for sewing, she hoped, by grekt economy, to get 
along with the money which she already had on hand. 
But troubles never come singly, and of this she was 
destined to feel the flill significance. 
One morning she made up a bundle of completed 
work, and proceeded with it to the ready-made clothing 
store of Messrs. Sharp & Keene, her employers. It 
was a trial to one reared as Mrs. Codman had been, to 
come into contact with men who did not think it neces- 
sary to hide their native coarseness from one who 
made shirts for them at twenty cents apiece. 
On the present occasion she was kept waiting for some 
time, before her presence appeared to be noticed. At 
length. Sharp nodded to her from the desk. 
'' Ahem ! Mrs. Wiggins," commenced Sharp. 
" Codman, sir' corrected the one addressed. 
''Well, tjjie name don't signify, I suppose. How 
many shirts have you got there?" 
" Half a dozen, sir." 
'  Half a dozen at twenty cents apiece make a dollar 
and twenty cents. Present this card at the other desk, 
and'yoa will be paid." 
He scratched on a card "— $1.20," and 
handed to her, at the same time calling, in a loud 
voice, "Here, Thomas, pay Mrs. Wigman a dollar 
and twenty cents." 
" Codman, sir." 
 'It seems to me yon are mighty particular about 
your name." 
"Shall I have more work?" asked Mrs. Codman, 
with some anxiety. 
"Well, not at present. Business is dull just now. 
Nothing dping, and won't be for some time to come.'' 
" How long before you can probably give me some- 
thing to do?" inquired Mrs. Codman, apprehensively. 
" Can't say," was the careless reply. " It may be a 
month, or six weeks. You can call round in four or 
five weeks." 
" What am I t J do between now and then ? " thought 
the poor woman, her heart sinking. 
She must get something to do. She could not live 
otherwise, more especially since the rise in the rent, 
and her resources had been so largely diminished by the 
withdrawal of Charlie's services. 
She applied at several other shops which she passed 
on the way home, but found, in every case, that they 
were already overrun with applications, and in the slack 
of business would be compelled to discharge some of 
those at present employed. 
But the hour is the darkest that's just before day, and 
when fortune has done its worst, oftentimes the tide 
turns, and affairs improve. 
 
 
So it proved with Mrs. Codman. 
On reaxihing home, not a little depressed at the idea 
of remaining inactive, when she stood so much in need 
of the proceeds of her labor, Mrs. Codman had scarcely 
removed her bonnet and shawl, when she heard a knock 
at her door. 
In answer to her " Come in," the door opened, and 
the washer-woman, who roomed just above, entered. 
" How do you do, Mrs. O'Grady ?" said Mrs. Codman. 
" I am very well, Miss Codman, and I hope it's the 
same wid yerself. Have you heard anything of the 
swate boy that was lost? " 
"Nothing," was the sad reply. 
'' Cheer up, then. Miss Codman. He'll be coming 
back bimeby, wid his pockets full of gold, so that you 
won't have to work any more." 
  I am afraid that I shall not be able, to work any 
more at present," returned Mrs. Codman. 
" And what for not? Is it sick that ye are? " 
Mrs. Codman related the want of success which she 
had met with in procuring work. She also mentioned 
Peter's visit and the increased rent. 
" Just like him, the old spalpeen ! " broke out Mrs. 
O'Grady, indignantly. " He wants to squeeze the last 
cint out of us poor folks, and it don't do him any good 
neither. I'd be ashamed if Mr. O'Grady wint about 
dressed €is he does. But may be. Miss Codman, I'll get 
you a chance that'll take you out of his reach, the mane 
ould rascal ! " 
" You get me a chance ! What do you mean? " asked 
Mrs. Codbnan, turning with surprise to her Hibernian 
Mend and defender. 
  
'' ril tell ye, only jist sit down, for it may take me 
Bome time." 
This was Mrs. O'Grady's explanation, which it may 
be better to abridge, for the good lady was wont to be 
somewhat prolix and discursive in her narratives. 
It seems she had been employed, at sundry times, in 
the house of a Mr. Bowman, a wealthy merchant living . 
on Mt. Vernon Street. This gentleman had lost his 
wife some months before. The only child arising from 
this union was a daughter, about ten years of age. Her 
father did not like schools, either public or private, for 
a child of her years, and preferred that his daughter, 
for the present, should be educated at home. Hitherto 
she had been left pretty much to herself, and h  never 
been willing to apply herself to study. 
Mr. Bowman was now looking out for a suitable gov- 
erness for his daughter, and it had struck Mrs. O'Grady 
— who,. though ignorant and uncultivated herself, was 
sharp-sighted enough to detect the marks of education 
and refinement in another — that Mrs. Codman would 
suit him. 
So Mrs. O'Grady, in her zeal, made bold to intimate 
to the servants, through whom it reached Mr. Bowman, 
that she knew a sweet lady who would be just the one 
for a governess for the young lady. 
Now the recommendation of an Irish washer-woman . 
may not be considered the most valuable in an affair of 
this kind; but it so happened that the suggestion 
reached Mr. Bowman at a time when he was so op  
pressed with business cares that he did not know how to 
spare the time necessary to seek out a governess. He 
accordingly summoned Mrs. O'Grady to a conference, 
 
 
and asked some hasty questions of her, which she an- 
swered by such a eulogistic account of Mrs. Codman, 
whose condescending kindness had quite won her heart, 
that Mr. Bowman desired her to request Mrs. Codman 
to call upon him the next day at a stated hour. 
" So you see. Miss Codman," concluded the warm- 
hearted Irish woman, "that you're in luck, and all 
you've got to do is to call upon Mr. Bowman to-mor- 
row, and you'll get a nice home, and won't have to work 
any more at your sewing." 
Mrs. Codman did not at once reply. 
" And won't you go?" asked Mrs. O'Grady, wondering at her silence. 
" I think I will," said Mrs. Codman ; " and I feel 
much obliged to you, my good friend, for saying a kind 
word for me, though I do not feel at all confident that I 
shall obtain this place." 
'' Niver fear for that," said the sanguine washer-woman ; " he'll see at once that you're a rale lady, and it's 
in luck he'll be to get you." 
Undoubtedly the position of a governess would be 
more remunerative, and less laborious, than that of a 
seamstress, and, under present circumstances, Mrs. Cod- 
man felt that she could not afford to throw the chance 
away. She retired that night a little more cheerfhl and 
hopeful than would have been the case had not this door 
of escape from the evil of want been shown her. 
Isr the breakfast-room of a house oa Mt. Vernon 
Street sat two persons with whom it is necessary that 
we shoald become acqaainted. 
The first is a gentleman of perhaps forty-five, rather 
stout, and with a pL&asant expression of countenance. 
He has finished his cup of cofiee, and taken up the 
morning paper, which he scans carefully, more especially 
those parts relating to business. 
At the opposite side of the table is a young lady of 
ten, with mirthful black eyes, and very red cheeks, 
which are well set off by her black hair. Altogether, 
she is very handsome, a fact of which she is not altogether unconscious. She is lively, fresh, original, and 
impulsive, not under very much restraint, but with an 
excellent disposition and kindly feelings, which do not 
allow her to go very far wrong. Yet it must be confessed that thus far her education has been sadly neglected, so that, as far as learning goes, she probably 
knows less than most girls two years ygunger. 
The room, in which the father and daughter were 
seated, is tastefully famished with that regard to com- 
fort which is found in our American houses. 
The two whom we have thus introduced are Benja- 
 
 
min Bowman, a wealthy merchant, and his daughter 
Bertha, though, in that shortening of names which is 
apt to take place in a family, hers has been shortened to 
.Bert, which she appears to prefer to the longer and more 
strictly feminine name. 
" Papa," she said, pushing away her plate, " you ain't 
good company at all." 
" Thank you for the compliment, Bert," he said. 
" But you're not, though. There you are wearing 
out your eyes over that stupid paper, and leaving me to 
talk to myself or Topsy. Here, Topsy, isn't it so ? " 
At this summons a kitten, black as the ace of spades, 
and very much addicted to fun and frolic, jumped into 
the lap of her young mistress, and purred a noisy 
acquiescence. 
" There," said Bert, triumphantly, " Topsy says I am 
right. I don't know what I should do without Topsy." 
" She makes a very suitable companion for you, Bert," 
said Mr. Bowman, smiling. 
" Why?" asked the cat's mistress, suspiciously. 
" Because you can sympathize so well. Both are 
equally mischievous, and it is very difficult to tell which 
knows the most of books." 
" Now, papa, that is a slander. I will sue you for 
libel." 
" On your own account, or the kitten's?" asked Mr. 
Bowman. "I really don't know which I have done 
injustice to." 
" Now you are laughing at me, papa. I knew you 
are." 
" Not entirely, Bert. The fact is, you are terribly 
ignorant for one of your age." 
 
 
" I suppose I am," said Bert, shaking her head in 
comic despair. 
" You'll grow up with no more knowledge than a 
Hottentot." 
'  Don't they have any schools among the Hottentots ? " 
'' I suppose not." 
" How delightful that must be ! Why can't we move 
out where they live ? " 
" I don't know but we shall have to," said her father, 
" as, hereabouts, young ladies are expected to know 
something about books. But that reminds me I don't 
knOw but I shall succeed in engaging a governess for 
you to-day." 
" A governess to-day ! " exclaimed Bert, in dismay. 
"Yes. I have made an appointment with a lady to 
call here at nine o'clock, and, if I am satisfied with her, 
I intend to engage her." 
" And if Jam satisfied with her," added Bert. 
" Is that essential? " asked her father, smiling. 
" Yes, for you know she will be with me most of the 
time. If she is like Julia Campbell's governess, I 
sha'n't like her." 
" Well, and what fault do you find with Julia Camp- 
bell's' governess? " asked Mr. Bowman, with more interest than his tone conveyed; for he knew that if Bert 
did not fancy her governess she would be a most incorrigible little rebel, and would be likely to profit very 
little by her instructions. 
' 0h, she's as disagreeable as she can be. In the 
first place, she's an old maid, — not that that's so very 
bad. In fact, I've about made up my mind to be an old 
maid myself." 
 
" Indeed ! " said Mr. Bowman, answered. " May I 
inquire your reasons ? " 
 " Too numerous to mention." 
" Perhaps one is, that you don't expect to have any 
chance to change your name." 
" I've had a chance ahready," said Bert, in a matter-- 
of-fact tone. 
''Had a chance already!" exclaimed her father, in 
amazelnent. 
" Yes," said the young lady of ten, " Charlie Morrill 
offered himself the other day, and I refused him." 
" What is the world coming to? " thought Mr. Bow- 
man. " Why did you refuse him? " 
" Because," said Bert, soberly, " I don't like the way 
he parts his hair. . But as for Julia's governess, I know 
she never had an offer. She's as homely as — as — well, 
I don't know who. Then she wears glasses, and has a 
nose ever so long, and a long face, and she never smiles, 
and she makes Julia study terrible hard." 
And Bert drew a long breath. 
" Not a very charming picture, certainly," said Mr. 
Bowman ; " but I'll promise you that, if the lady who 
applies for the post of governess to-day sbould be anything like this, I won't engage her." 
" That's right, papa. When do you expect her ? " 
'' Let me see. She was to be here at nine, a&d now 
it wants only ten minutes of that time." 
'' And you won't send me out of the room, papa, will 
you?" 
"Mr. Bowman hesitated. 
 ' You know I am very anxious to see how she looks. 
 
 
If I like her, I will make a sign to you, and then you 
can engage her." 
" What sign will yon make, Bert?" asked her father, 
amused, and yet alive to the necessity of securing his 
daughter's acquiescence in his choice. 
' "1 don't know," said Bert, reflecting ; " suppose I . 
wink." 
" And suppose the lady should see you winking at me ? 
What do you suppose she would think ? " 
" Oh; I could tell her afterwards, you know, and she 
would feel flattered, knowing it was a sign that I liked 
her." 
" She might not think it very lady-like in you." 
" What's the use of being lady-like? I don't want to 
be. There's Florence Gates ; I suppose she's lady-like. 
I'll show you how she walks." 
Bert imitated the gait of the young lady, swaying 
herself from side to side, as she walked with mincing 
step, tossing her head, and exhibiting a caricature of 
the airs and affectations which girls sometimes delight 
to display. 
" Why, she wouldn't run for a thousand dollars,'' 
exclaimed Bert. '  She would think it beneath her dignity. If she is lady-like, I don't want to be. But, 
hark ! there goes the bell. She's coming. Now, papa, 
just remember, I shall wink if I like her, and if I don't 
I'll make up a face." 
Bert transferred herself to an ottoman, and took 
Topsy into her lap. 
  Both she and her father looked towards the door with 
curiosity. 
 
Mrs. Codmak had been carefully educated at a large 
expense, and was versed in all the accomplishments 
which are considered indispensable in a young lady's 
education nowadays. It was with no degree of hesita- 
tion on this point, therefore, that she set out this particular morning to present herself as an applicant for 
the post of governess. Having no influential friends, 
however, and not being able to present references from 
a former employer (this being her first essay in this 
line), she feared that her application would be unsuccessful. She could not but feel a considerable degree 
of anxiety, for- her circumstances h&d become desperate, 
owing to the refusal of her former employers to give 
her any more sewing. 
She dressed herself as neatly as her limited wardrobe 
would admit, and with hearty good wishes and many 
glowing predictions of success from her humbly friend, 
Mrs. O'Grady, she set out. 
Though some years past thirty, Mrs. Codman so far 
retained the freshness of youth, that she would hardly 
have been taken for this age. As a girl she had been 
very boautifUl, and her womanhood did not belie her 
early promise. Her attire, though not expensive, was 
in good taste, and characterized by a lady-like simplicity.
Such was the applicant for the post of governess, 
upon whom the curious eyes of Bert and her father fell 
as she was ushered into the breakfast-room by the ser' 
vant, who had received orders to do so. She entered 
the room with the easy grace of a lady. Mr. Bowman 
at once recognized her claim to be considered such by 
deferentially rising, and inviting her to be seated. 
"If I mistake not," he said, politely, "you are the 
lady who has been recommended to me as possessing 
excellent qualifications for the office of governess." 
"Perhaps the recommendation was too strong and 
decided," said Mrs. Codman, modestly. "I shall be 
glad, however, to be considered an applicant for the 
position." 
Here Mr. Bowman, who chanced to glance at Bert, 
detected her executing a surprising succession of winks, 
indicating the favorable impression which had been made 
upon her by the appearance of Mrs. Codman. 
Ah'eady prepossessed in favor of the applicant, this 
was an ' additional inducement to engage her, as her 
success would depend, to a very great extent, upon the 
young lad3''s good-will. 
"I suppose," he said, "you feel prepared to teach 
the branches and accomplishments usually included in 
the education of a young lady." 
Mrs. Codman bowed. 
" I ain't a young lady," interrupted Bert, at this 
point, who thought she was in imminent danger of 
becoming too learned. 
" We hope you will be some time," said Mr. Bowman. 
 
In reply, Bert winked once more. 
There was a piano in the room. 
" Will you favor, us with a specimen of your play- 
ing?" asked Mr. Bowman. 
Mrs. Codman sat down to the piaiio and played two 
pieces, one slow in movement, the other rapid, showing 
a nice touch and easy execution. 
" Thank you," said Mr. Bowman. " I am inclined to 
think that I shall be glad to avail myself of your services. Should you be willing to engage for three months 
at first, to see how we are mutually pleased with each 
other ? The pupil I have to offer j ou is a litle addicted 
to mischief, and I dont know how you may like her." 
" I am quite willing to enter into such an arrangement," said Mrs. Codman; "and in reference to the 
last point, I am quite sure I shall like my pupil. I 
begin to like her already." 
"Do you?" said Bert, with much satisfaction, rising 
from the ottoman, and unceremoniously dropping the 
black kitten, who turned a somerset, and ran off shaking 
her head. 
In answer, LIrs. Codman held out her hand with a 
smile. 
. Bert hurried across the room, and placed her own in 
it confidingly. , 
" I am so glad you do," said she. "You won't make 
me study my eyes out, T ill you ? " 
"That would, indeed, be a pity," said Mrs. Codman, 
looking at Bert's bright eyes, sparkling with fun and 
mischief. 
Mr. Bowman observed these signs of agreement be- 
tween Bert and her new governess with pleasure, and 
 
 
hastened to say, " In regard to business arrangements 
we will speak by and by. I think I can promise that 
they will be satisfactory to you." 
It may be mentioned here, that Mr. Bowman, who 
was by no means 'disposed to deal parsimoniously with 
those in his employ, fixed Mrs. Codman's salary at six 
hundred dollars a year, which was four times as much 
as she had ever been able to gain by her needle. 
" When may we expect you ? " he asked. " You h ve, 
doubtless, some preliminary arrangements to make, for 
which you will please take whatever time yoii may 
require. Meanwhile, accept this sum in advance." 
He drew from his pocket-book a fifty-dollar note, which 
