thing?"
The traitor took from his pocket the oath of allegiance, opened it, and
in silence thrust it into his companion's face.
"I have sold myself."
"You have, Somers. Think of it. If I have to make out a case against
you, of course you will never see Kate again. Let me add, that the
commodore sets his life by me. We were old friends before the war. You
may marry his daughter with my consent, but not without it."
"I never thought of such a thing."
"Perhaps not. We waste time. Will you sign the bond?"
"The bond is good for nothing. No court--"
"That is my affair. If you agree to it, I will run all risks. I trouble
no courts. If you don't pay, I have only to speak, and hang you then."
"I am lost," groaned Somers.
"No, you are not. Sign, and you have found fortune and a friend."
"I dare not sign."
"You dare not refuse."
Somers walked up and down the state-room, apparently in great mental
agony.
"Shall I sign?" said he, in a loud tone, as though he were speaking to
the empty air.
"Not so loud, man!" interposed Pillgrim, angrily.
At that instant two light raps were distinctly heard.
"What's that?" demanded the traitor, greatly alarmed.
"I will sign it," promptly added Somers, to whom the two raps seemed to
be perfectly intelligible.
"What was that noise?" asked Pillgrim, fearfully. "Is there any one in
Garboard's state-room?"
"I think not."
The second lieutenant was not satisfied. He opened the door and looked
into the adjoining state-room, but there was no person there, and the
ward-room was empty. There was no one within hearing, and the
conspirator recovered his wonted self-possession.
"You will sign?" said he.
"I will."
"I knew you would, and therefore I prepared the document; read it," he
continued, taking a paper from his pocket.
Somers read. It was simply an agreement to pay forty thousand dollars,
when he married Kate Portington, in consideration of certain assistance
rendered the signer, but without any allusion to the circumstances under
which it was given. As a legal document, of course it was good for
nothing, as both parties well understood. Somers signed it.
"Now, Mr. Somers, we are friends," said Pillgrim, as he folded up the
paper, and restored it to his pocket. "You have done me a good turn, and
I have done you one."
Somers, unwilling to regard Pillgrim as a fool, believed that this paper
was intended to ruin him in the estimation of the Portington family, and
that the villain intended to marry her himself when her apparent suitor
was disposed of.
"Is this all you expect of me?" asked Somers.
"This is the principal thing. I may have occasion to use you again; if
I do, I shall not hesitate to call upon you. You are in my confidence
now."
"Will you tell me, then, where the Ben Nevis is bound? I may want to
find her, for I haven't much taste for the old navy now."
"Ah, you make better progress than I anticipated. She is bound to St.
Marks."
This was a lie, as Somers well knew.
"Coles and Langdon said she was to make Mobile."
"The plan was changed. You must not lay much stress on what you heard
that night. It was all a blind,--or most of it was."
"Indeed?"
"The conversation at the house in Front Street was carried on for your
especial benefit," added Pillgrim, laughing and rubbing his hands.
"Langdon wrote both letters about the wounded sailor; there was no such
person. The old woman that kept the house was in my pay. When I spoke so
warmly in your praise to Langdon, I knew that you were listening to all
I said; indeed, I said it to you rather than to Langdon."
"Why did you tell me beforehand, if you intended to catch me with the
treasonable offer?" asked Somers, rather mortified to learn that he had
been duped from the beginning.
"I knew you would pretend to accept it. All I wanted was to get you to
take the commission, orders, and oath. As you agreed to sign the
latter, Langdon did it for you, for I could not wait."
"The Ben Nevis is no humbug?"
"No; I bought her and two other steamers on the Clyde, in Scotland. The
Ben Nevis was captured, but my friends bought her after she was
condemned. As there had been a great deal said about her in the
newspapers, I used her because it was probable you had heard of her."
"I had."
"Everything works as I intended."
"Not exactly," thought Somers.
"The captain of the coaster that pounded you that night was Langdon,"
laughed Pillgrim.
"Why was that done?"
"That I might take you back to the hotel, and be your friend. We did not
intend to hurt you much. It was important that you should think well of
me. You do--don't you?"
"Of course."
"All right now; remember you are mine, Somers," said Pillgrim, as he
left the room.
CHAPTER XII.
THE BEN NEVIS.
The Chatauqua rolled along easily on her course during the rest of the
day, until the dog watch, when Mr. Pillgrim had the deck again. Somers,
having discharged his whole duty in reference to the conspiracy, was
content to leave the matter in the hands of Mr. Hackleford, to whom he
had committed it.
At eight bells, as soon as Somers had been relieved from the afternoon
watch, he was not a little surprised to receive a message from the
captain, inviting him to his cabin. He readily came to the conclusion
that the summons related to the conspiracy. When he entered the cabin,
he saw Captain Cascabel and Mr. Hackleford seated at the table, on which
was spread a general chart of the coast of the United States.
"Say what you wish to Mr. Somers," said the captain to the first
lieutenant.
"Mr. Somers, Captain Cascabel has sent for you in relation to the affair
of which we talked in your state-room last night," Mr. Hackleford began.
"All that you have written out in your statement, and all that you told
me, have been fully confirmed."
"I intended to confine myself strictly to the facts," replied Somers,
modestly.
"You have been very discreet and very prudent," added Mr. Hackleford.
"I fully concur," said Captain Cascabel. "You have exposed yourself to
no little peril, in your zeal to serve your country."
Somers bowed and blushed.
"I confess that I had some doubts in regard to the result of your
operations, Mr. Somers," continued the first lieutenant; "but I am
entirely satisfied now that Mr. Pillgrim is just what you represent him
to be."
"All that you affirmed has been fully verified," added the captain.
He did not say that both himself and Mr. Hackleford had listened to the
entire conversation between Somers and the traitor in the forenoon,
occupying one of the captain's state-rooms, which adjoined the starboard
side of the ward-room, having bored a couple of holes through the
partition, behind the bureau; he did not say this, for it was hardly
dignified for a captain to play the eavesdropper, even in a good cause.
Somers knew that Mr. Hackleford was at hand at the time, and had
arranged a set of signals by which he could advise the young officer, if
he should be in doubt. One rap meant, "No;" two raps, "Yes;" and three
raps, "Give no direct answer." When Somers was in doubt respecting the
bond, he asked the question of the empty air, apparently, but really of
Mr. Hackleford, who had promptly replied in the affirmative by giving
the two knocks, which had startled the traitor.
"Mr. Somers, what do you know of the Ben Nevis?" asked the captain.
"She was to sail from St. John on the 4th of July, to run the blockade
at Wilmington. She is said to make sixteen knots, under favorable
circumstances."
"She has had a head wind part of the time. If she has made twelve on the
average, she has done well," said Mr. Hackleford.
"She will be due off Cape Fear some time after meridian to-morrow,"
added the captain, consulting a paper, on which were several
arithmetical operations.
The calculations were carefully reviewed, and Somers was questioned at
considerable length; but he had already given all the information he
possessed. It was evidently the intention of Captain Cascabel to capture
the Ben Nevis, though he did not announce his purpose.
"After what has occurred, Mr. Somers, you may be surprised that Mr.
Pillgrim has not been relieved from duty and placed under arrest,"
continued Captain Cascabel, after the position of the Ben Nevis had been
carefully estimated.
"I leave the matter entirely in the hands of my superior officers,"
replied Somers. "Having cast the responsibility upon them, I am willing
to obey orders without asking any questions."
"That is a very proper view to take of the subject, and I commend your
moderation," said the captain, with a pleasant smile. "It has been
thought best not to disturb Mr. Pillgrim for a day or two, for other
events may transpire."
Captain Cascabel bowed to Somers, and intimated that he had no further
need of him at present.
"Ah, Mr. Somers, been visiting the captain," said the second lieutenant,
as his victim came on deck.
"I was sent for."
"What was the business?"
Fortunately, Mr. Transit, who was planking the deck on the lee side,
approached near enough to enable Somers to avoid answering the question,
and he thus escaped the necessity of telling a falsehood. But as soon as
Mr. Garboard took the deck, Pillgrim repeated the inquiry, and the young
officer was obliged to narrate an imaginary conversation.
"It's no matter, Somers. You understand that I have a rope round your
neck, and I am not at all afraid that you will make an improper use of
your tongue."
"I certainly shall not," answered Somers, with emphasis. "You may depend
upon me for that."
"The fact is, Somers, I have got a mortgage on you; and I want no better
security for your good conduct."
"You needn't trouble yourself at all about me."
"I shall not; because, if you wish to betray me, I should rather enjoy
it. I have been your best friend. Instead of blowing your brains out for
making an end of poor Phil Kennedy, I have taken you into my confidence.
You shall marry the prettiest and the richest girl north of the Potomac;
and when Union officers are proscribed and condemned after the war, you
will have a friend at court who will speak a good word for you."
"Thank you; but do you really believe that the South will carry the
day?"
"I'm sure of it. England is our best friend; and Louis Napoleon, in
order to complete his Mexican scheme, must recognize the Confederacy.
When France does the job, England will be only one day behind her."
"If I go with you, I shall be on the winning side, then."
"If you do? You have gone with me. Though I don't ask you to help the
South openly, I expect you to be a friend of the government which must
soon rule the country. Leave it all to me, Somers, and I will manage the
business for you and myself. You must confess, Somers, that I am a
little ahead of you in strategy," said the traitor, with a complacent
smile.
"You beat me in the game we have been playing; but that only makes us
even, for I got the better of you in another affair."
"Not of me; it was the stupidity of Phil Kennedy that ruined the Snowden
business. I pride myself on my strategy, Somers. I have never been
beaten in anything of this kind yet. The fact of it is, I know whom to
trust. I never give my confidence to a man who dares to betray it,"
replied Pillgrim, rubbing his hands with delight at his own cleverness.
Somers was of the opinion that he would think differently before many
days had elapsed; but he was as prudent as the circumstances required.
At eight bells, the fourth lieutenant took the deck for the first watch;
and from that time until the following afternoon, he saw but little of
the conspirator. At this time, the ship was off Cape Fear, though too
far out to sight the land, or even the outer line of blockaders which
kept vigilant watch over the entrance to the river. Precisely at the
moment when one bell struck in the first dog-watch, the engine of the
Chatauqua, without any order from the officer of the deck, and without
any apparent reason, suddenly stopped.
It had proved itself to be a very good and well-meaning engine, thus
far, and all hands began to wonder what had happened, or what was going
to happen. But Mr. Cranklin, the chief engineer, presently reported that
there was a "screw loose" somewhere, and that it would be necessary to
lay to, and make some repairs. Certainly it was a very opportune moment
for the ship to stop; and those who did not know what had passed between
the chief engineer and the first lieutenant might have supposed that the
zealous engine, heretofore so faithful in the discharge of its trying
duties, had overheard some of the conversation we have related, and was
waiting for the Ben Nevis to show herself to seaward.
In further confirmation that the stoppage was not entirely owing to the
obstinacy of the engine, it was observed that extra lookout men had been
stationed on the fore yard, and on the cross-trees, since meridian of
that day. The captain and the first lieutenant were often seen in
confidential communication; and everybody on board seemed to be
impressed with the idea that something was about to "turn up."
Something did "turn up," about three bells; for the man on the fore
cross-trees, reported a vessel on the beam. The dense mass of black
smoke in the wake of her smoke-stack indicated that she was an English
blockade runner, approaching the coast so as to run in after dark. As
soon as this agreeable information spread through the Chatauqua, it
created an intense excitement, not manifested in noisy demonstrations,
for that would have been in violation of the strict rule of naval
discipline, but in the expectant eyes and stimulated movements of the
officers and crew, to whose pockets, as well as to their national
pride, the prospect of a rich prize appealed with tremendous force.
At this thrilling moment, when everything depended upon the sailing
qualities of the Chatauqua, either Mr. Cranklin had completed his
remedial efforts, or the engine had come to a realizing sense of the
proprieties of the occasion, and was sensible of the appalling
wickedness of disappointing the two hundred and fifty anxious souls on
board. The docile machine was reported to be in condition for active
service. The bells pealed forth the signal to "go ahead slowly," then
"at full speed," and the Chatauqua darted away.
"Hard a starboard!" said Mr. Somers, now the officer of the deck, to the
quartermaster, who was conning the wheel.
"Hard a starboard, sir!"
"Steady!"
"Steady, sir!"
"What does this mean, Somers?" demanded Pillgrim, in a low, angry tone,
as he passed the officer of the deck.
"I don't know, sir. I only obey orders," replied Somers, as he glanced
ahead at the chase.
"Do you know what steamer that is?" asked Pillgrim.
"How should I?"
"It is the Ben Nevis."
"How do you know?"
"I know; that is sufficient. We must save her," said the second
lieutenant, in low, but excited tones.
The chase continued for half an hour longer, when it was evident that
the Ben Nevis--for it was indeed she--had changed her course, and was
headed to the eastward.
"This will never do, Mr. Somers," said Mr. Hackleford. "We can't sail
with her. We must change our tactics."
"She gains upon us," replied Somers.
"No doubt of it."
"I am afraid we shall lose her, sir."
"I would give my year's pay to capture her, Mr. Somers, if it were only
for your sake."
Somers suggested an idea to the first lieutenant, who, after the
approval of Captain Cascabel, adopted it.
"Clear away the first cutter," said Mr. Hackleford. "Lower away."
The first cutter was soon in the water, the ship having now stopped her
engine.
"Mr. Pillgrim, you will stand by in the first cutter till that steamer
comes up. Capture her if her papers are not all right, or if she is
bound into Wilmington."
A smile of satisfaction lighted up the countenance of the second
lieutenant, when he found he was to go in the boat. The first cutter
pulled away.
"Clear away the second cutter!" said the first lieutenant; and while
the men were eagerly performing this duty, the captain instructed
Somers, who was to go in her, in regard to the duty he was expected to
perform.
Somers took his place in the stern-sheets of the second cutter, which
was armed with a twenty-four pounder howitzer, while the first cutter
had nothing but small arms. As soon as this boat left the ship's side,
the Chatauqua came about, as though she had abandoned the chase, and
stood to the westward.
The Ben Nevis immediately discovered the change which had been made in
the course of her pursuer. Apparently satisfied that she had outwitted
the man-of-war, she put about and headed towards the coast again,
without suspecting the fact that two boats lay in her track.
CHAPTER XIII.
A CONFLICT OF AUTHORITY.
It was about sunset when the Ben Nevis put about and headed in shore.
The first cutter was at least half a mile in advance of the second, and
both, of them lying near the track of the blockade-runner. It was
useless to pull towards the expected prize; on the contrary, it was
better policy to keep still, so as not to attract the attention of her
people.
The Ben Nevis, when she changed her course, might have been about five
miles distant from the Chatauqua, and the longer the meeting between the
steamer and the boats was deferred, the more would the darkness favor
the latter. It was thought that the blockade-runner would approach at
half speed, so as not to encounter the fleet off the river at too early
an hour; but her commander did not appear to regard this delay as
necessary, and came down at full speed. It was not dark, therefore, when
the first cutter was within hail of her.
As soon as the Ben Nevis discovered the nearest boat, she sheered off,
though, as the first cutter had no howitzer, she could have everything
her own way. Somers kept the second cutter just out of hail of the other
boat; and carefully watched the operations of the second lieutenant.
The steamer sheered off just enough to avoid the boat; but presently she
resumed her course, as if, making twelve knots, she had nothing to fear
from an enemy with oars only to urge her forward. It would be impossible
for the first cutter to board her at full speed, and she seemed disposed
to run the risk of a shot or two rather than expose herself to falling
into any other trap which the man-of-war might have set for her.
The Ben Nevis dashed on, therefore, in a direction which placed the
first cutter on her starboard bow, when Mr. Pillgrim hailed her, and
ordered her to heave to, accompanying the command with a peculiar wave
of his cap in the air, which was thrice repeated, very much to the
astonishment, no doubt, of the loyal blue-jackets in the boat with him.
"Topple my timber-heads! What does all that mean?" exclaimed Boatswain
Longstone, who, by the especial request of the fourth lieutenant, had a
place in the stern-sheets of the second cutter.
"Wait, and you will see," replied Mr. Somers.
The Ben Nevis at once stopped her wheels, and the first cutter pulled
towards her.
"That beats me!" ejaculated the boatswain. "What did she stop for?"
"Probably her captain thinks that is his best course," replied Somers,
who knew very well why she had stopped.
The commander of the blockade-runner evidently recognized the voice and
the signal of Pillgrim, and, like an obedient servant, was willing to
shift the responsibility of the occasion on his owner and employer.
Honest Tom Longstone was sorely perplexed by the movement of the steamer
and the conduct of the second lieutenant of the Chatauqua, for a
suspicion of foul play on the part of one of his officers could not have
entered his loyal heart.
The first cutter touched the side of the Ben Nevis, and Mr. Pillgrim
went up the accommodation ladder.
"Clear away the howitzer!" said Somers.
The boatswain looked at him as though he had been mad.
"Man the howitzer!"
The gun was loaded with a solid shot, and made ready for instant use.
"Now give way, boatswain," continued Somers; and the second cutter
dashed swiftly over the long billows towards the Ben Nevis.
"Are you going to use that gun?" asked Tom Longstone, in a low tone.
"If necessary."
"But Mr. Pillgrim has the steamer. He has boarded her."
"We will wait and see," answered Somers, evasively; for it was expected
and intended that the second lieutenant should "hang himself," on this
interesting occasion.
Before the second cutter could reach the steamer, Mr. Pillgrim had
completed his examination on board of her, and descended to his boat. As
he gave the order for the cutter to shove off, Somers's boat shot in
alongside of her.
"She is all right, Mr. Somers," said the second lieutenant.
"All right?" exclaimed Somers; and, in spite of himself, he actually
trembled with emotion, being conscious that a very trying scene was
before him--one which would require all his skill and all his energy.
"I say she is all right, Mr. Somers," repeated Pillgrim, sharply, for he
did not appear to like the tone and manner of the fourth lieutenant.
"What is she?"
"She is an American steamer from Baltimore, bound to Havana."
"What is she doing in here, then?" demanded Somers.
"That's her affair. Don't you see the American flag at her peak?"
"What is her name?"
"The Ben Nevis," replied Pillgrim, with the most expressive emphasis.
"Sheer off, and return to the ship."
"I think she is a blockade-runner."
"Do you, indeed?" sneered the traitor.
"I am satisfied she is."
"I have boarded her, and my report will be final in this matter."
"My orders were to board her," said Somers.
"Your orders?"
"Yes, sir."
"I am your superior officer."
"You are, Mr. Pillgrim."
"Of course your orders were intended to be carried out, in case you
happened to come up with the steamer before I did."
"I was ordered to board her, Mr. Pillgrim, and I feel compelled to
obey," replied Somers, with firmness, though he still trembled with
emotion.
"Steady, Mr. Somers; be careful," said Tom Longstone, bewildered by this
conflict of authority--a circumstance he had not before observed in his
long career in the navy. "He is your superior officer."
"I know what I am about, Tom," whispered Somers, compassionating the
misery his apparently mutinous actions must cause his honest friend.
"If you do, go ahead, my darling."
"Mr. Somers, I order you to return to the ship," said Mr. Pillgrim,
sternly.
"I must obey the captain's orders, and board this steamer."
"You mistake your orders, and I insist that you obey me."
"You will excuse me if I disregard your command; and I will be
answerable to the captain for my conduct."
"The captain is not here; I am your superior officer. Disobey me at your
peril!" continued Pillgrim, in savage tones.
"Is it all right?" shouted the captain of the Ben Nevis, who was
standing on the starboard paddle-box of the steamer.
"Ay, ay; all right. Start your wheels!" replied Pillgrim.
"Captain, if you move a wheel, I will fire into you!" added Somers; and
the captain of the howitzer stood, with the lock-string in his hand,
ready to execute the order when it should be given.
The commander of the Ben Nevis looked down upon the second cutter's gun,
pointing into the hull of his vessel, so that the twenty-four pound shot
would pass through her engine-room. He did not give the order to start
the wheels. Pillgrim was disconcerted: he was foiled in his scheme. By
this time he realized that the fourth lieutenant of the Chatauqua was
not the willing, timid tool he had taken him to be.
The men in both boats were astonished and confounded by the startling
clash of authority between their officers. Such a thing had never been
known before. They had been surprised when Mr. Pillgrim declared that
the steamer was all right, for there was not one of them who was not
perfectly satisfied that the vessel was running in to break the
blockade. They were still more surprised when Mr. Somers dared to
dispute the conclusions of his superior officer. Involuntarily they took
sides with the fourth lieutenant, because his opinion that the Ben Nevis
was not all right coincided with their own, and because the prize-money
went with his view of the matter. But they were well disciplined men,
and each crew, thus far, obeyed the orders of its own officer; and, so
far as they were concerned, there was no conflict of command, though
this was likely soon to be the case.
"Mr. Somers, I warn you--beware!" said Pillgrim, with the most
expressive emphasis.
"I intend to do my duty," replied Somers.
"Bully for the fourth luff!" shouted a seaman in the second cutter, who
felt disposed to take a part in the dispute.
"Silence!" interposed Somers, sternly, as he perceived that this bad
example was likely to be followed by others, and he felt that the
occasion was too serious and solemn to admit of anything like levity.
"Mr. Somers, you know the consequences!" continued the second
lieutenant.
"I do."
"Remember!"
"I know what I am about," answered Somers, understanding to what
Pillgrim alluded, though of course it was incomprehensible to others in
the boats. "I shall board the steamer."
"Do it at your peril!"
"I shall do it."
"This is mutiny!" stormed Pillgrim, with an oath, as he took a revolver
from his belt.
"I will abide the consequences," replied Somers, drawing his pistol.
"For God's sake, Mr. Somers--"
"Silence, boatswain!"
"You will ruin yourself," whispered Tom, whose bronzed face was ghastly
pale, and whose lips quivered with the anxiety he felt for his
protégé.
"I am perfectly cool, Tom; don't be alarmed about me," replied Somers,
tenderly, as he glanced at the expression of suffering on the face of
his faithful friend. "That man is a traitor!" he whispered.
"Once more, Mr. Somers, will you obey me, or will you not?" shouted Mr.
Pillgrim, angrily.
"If you will capture this steamer, as you should do, I will obey you in
all things," replied Somers. "I know she is about to run the blockade,
and so do you."
"I have examined her, and I declare that her papers are all right. My
decision is final. Return to the ship, Mr. Somers, and there answer for
your mutinous conduct."
"I shall board this vessel," replied Somers, as he ordered the bowman to
haul in towards the steamer.
"This is mutiny, and I shall treat it as such. I will be obeyed!"
Mr. Pillgrim raised his pistol, and fired at the rebellious officer; but
he was too much excited to take good aim, if, indeed, he intended to do
anything more than intimidate his inferior officer. The ball whistled
within a few feet of Somers's head, and roused his belligerent spirit.
He raised his revolver on the instant, before the second lieutenant was
ready to repeat his experiment, and fired.
The traitor sank down in the stern-sheets of the cutter. The men seemed
to be paralyzed by this sharp work, and sat like statues on the thwarts.
"Haul in, bowman!" said Somers, in sharp and earnest tones, breaking the
solemn silence of that awful moment.
The man obeyed mechanically, and the others did the same when required
to boat their oars; but probably there was not one of the crew of either
cutter who did not believe that the fourth lieutenant would be hung
at the yard-arm for his mutinous, murderous conduct.
Somers directed the coxswain of the first cutter to pull in to the
accommodation ladder of the steamer. He was obeyed, and Boatswain
Longstone was ordered to take charge of the boat. Eight men, armed with
cutlasses and revolvers, were sent on board the Ben Nevis, and Somers
followed them. The captain protested against the capture, but his papers
were not what they were represented to be by Pillgrim. The character of
the steamer was evident, and she was taken possession of by the fourth
lieutenant, and the crews of both cutters were ordered on board.
"How is Mr. Pillgrim?" asked Somers of the boatswain. "Is he dead?"
"No, sir; the ball only glanced along the side of his head. He bleeds
badly, but he is not severely wounded."
The second lieutenant was soon able to sit up, and was assisted on board
the Ben Nevis, where he was conducted to a state-room, and two seamen
placed as guards at the door.
"Somers, you have played me false!" said Pillgrim, with a savage
expression on his pale face, "but you are a doomed man."
"As you please, Mr. Pillgrim. You will consider yourself under arrest,"
replied Somers, as the traitor passed into his state-room.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE PRIZE STEAMER.
It was quite dark when the capture of the Ben Nevis was completed.
Rockets were thrown up to inform the Chatauqua of her present position,
and with guards of seamen in the engine and fire-rooms, the wheels of
the captured steamer were set in motion, and she was headed to the
north. Somers displayed his usual decision and energy, and perhaps the
men began to think, by this time, that the young officer knew his duty
and was competent to perform it.
While the Ben Nevis was making her way towards the Chatauqua, Somers
paced the deck, thinking of the great event which had just transpired.
The captain of the Ben Nevis, sullen and discontented, stood by the
quartermaster at the wheel. He had attempted to enter the state-room of
the wounded officer, but the seamen in charge of the prisoner had been
instructed to exclude him, and they carefully obeyed their orders.
The men of the first and second cutters were silent and troubled.
Perhaps they fully sympathized with Somers, and dreaded the consequence
of the decisive deed he had performed. However the petty officers and
seamen felt, it is quite certain that Boatswain Longstone could hardly
keep from weeping when he thought of the punishment which might be in
store for his young friend. He was in charge of the lookouts forward,
and when the Chatauqua was sighted, he went aft to report to Somers.
"Very well; we shall soon see the end of this business," said the young
officer.
"I would like to see you safe through it," added the boatswain, in tones
of unaffected sympathy.
"What's the matter, Tom?" asked Somers.
"I feel worse to-night than I have before for twenty odd years," groaned
Tom.
"Why so?"
"I'm afraid this is bad business. It's no little thing to fire a pistol
at your superior officer."
"I told you what he was."
"I know you said he was a traitor; but it don't do for an officer in the
navy to take the law into his own hands."
"This steamer makes sixteen knots an hour, they say," said Somers, with
a smile.
The boatswain looked at him, and wondered what this had to do with
shooting the second lieutenant.
"She was going to run the blockade," continued Somers.
"No doubt of that."
"Then they intended to fit her out as a Confederate cruiser."
"Perhaps they did, Mr. Somers; you know best."
"Mr. Pillgrim did not intend to capture her."
"He did not, sartinly."
"Suppose I had permitted this vessel to go on her way, to run the
blockade, which she could have done as easily as a hundred others have
done the same thing, at the same place, and then come out as a
man-of-war."
"But Mr. Pillgrim was your superior officer, and he was responsible, not
you."
"I carried out my orders to the letter, Tom."
"Did you?"
"To the letter, I said."
"Were you ordered to shoot Mr. Pillgrim?"
"Yes, if necessary."
"Thank'ee, Mr. Somers. You have taken a weight heavier than the best
bower off my stomach. I'd rather be where Jonah was--in the whale's
belly--than see any harm come to you. I feel better now."
"You shall know all about it, Tom, in a few days, or perhaps a few
hours."
"I'm satisfied, Mr. Somers. Shiver my kevel-heads, but I ought to have
been satisfied with anything you do."
By this time the steamer came up with the Chatauqua, and both vessels
stopped their engines, as the Ben Nevis rounded to under the stern of
the man-of-war.
"Chatauqua, ahoy!" shouted Somers.
"On board the prize!" replied the officer of the deck.
"Send the surgeon on board, if you please."
"Ay, ay."
In a few moments the third cutter, in charge of Mr. Transit, the master,
put off from the ship, with Dr. De Plesion on board.
"Where is Mr. Pillgrim, sir?" asked the master of Somers.
"Wounded, below."
"Mr. Hackleford wishes your report forthwith on board the ship."
"Mr. Transit, Mr. Pillgrim is under arrest. You will permit no one to
communicate with him except the surgeon."
"Under arrest!" exclaimed Mr. Transit.
"I have no time to explain," replied Somers, as he directed his coxswain
to pipe down his boat's crew.
When the second cutter was hauled up to the accommodation ladder, Somers
stepped on board, and a few moments later, touched his hat to the first
lieutenant on the quarter deck of the Chatauqua.
"I have to report that I have captured the Ben Nevis," said Somers.
"Where is Mr. Pillgrim?" asked Mr. Hackleford, the captain standing by,
an interested and excited listener.
"He is wounded, and under arrest, sir."
"How wounded?"
"He fired at me, and in self-defence I was obliged to shoot him. I think
he is not seriously wounded. He boarded the Ben Nevis, and had given the
captain of her permission to proceed, though the vessel was headed
towards Cape Fear."
"You have done well, Mr. Somers," said Captain Cascabel. "Beat to
quarters, Mr. Hackleford."
When the crew were at quarters, Mr. Hackleford explained to them what
had occurred, and fully justified the course of the fourth lieutenant;
whereupon an earnest and enthusiastic cheer rang through the ship.
"Are you satisfied, Tom?" asked Somers of the boatswain.
"Bless ye! I was satisfied before, Mr. Somers. There is only one dark
thing in the whole of it."
"What's that, Tom?"
"If Captain Cascabel and Mr. Hackleford both knew that Mr. Pillgrim was
a traitor, why did they send him out to capture that steamer? That's
what I can't see through."
"Can't you? Well, if they had not sent him, we should not have captured
the Ben Nevis."
"I don't see why."
"Don't you? Well, you are not as sharp as you are sometimes."
"I know I'm dull, Mr. Somers, but splinter my figger head if I can see
through it."
"The Ben Nevis is good for fifteen knots at least."
"I know that; she did it while we were coming up."
"The Chatauqua can't make more than twelve."
"That's true."
"Then, of course, the Chatauqua could not catch the Ben Nevis."
"That's clear enough. But we were out in the boats, and were close
aboard of her."
"And just then she sheered off. Could the boats have overhauled her?"
"Sartinly not; but you could have put a shot through her hull."
"Which might, at that distance, have disabled her, and might not. The
chances were all against us. But the moment Mr. Pillgrim hailed her, and
swung his cap, she stopped her wheels. They knew very well he would not
detain her."
"I see now."
"Probably the captain of the Ben Nevis knew the Chatauqua, and knew that
Pillgrim was on board of her, and they were on the lookout for him. If
any other officer than myself had been in the second cutter, I am
satisfied Mr. Pillgrim would not have returned to his boat, but would
have staid on board the Ben Nevis."
"He's a horrible villain--arn't he?" said the honest boatswain.
This conversation took place while Captain Cascabel was preparing his
despatches to be sent by the prize steamer to the navy department. When
they were completed, Somers was sent for, and he repaired at once to the
captain's cabin.
"Mr. Somers, though I can hardly spare you, I feel compelled to send you
home as prize master in the Ben Nevis. I have commended you to the
department," said Captain Cascabel, as he handed him the despatches.
"Thank you, sir."
A prize crew was at once detailed, with two master's mates to act as
first and second officers, and a corporal and three marines to guard the
prisoner who was to be sent back in the prize. Somers bade a hasty good
by to his brother officers, and with his crew was sent on board the Ben
Nevis, whose deck he was now to tread for a brief period as her
commander. His orders required him to take the Ben Nevis to Fortress
Monroe, and there communicate with the navy department.
"Well, doctor, how is your patient?" asked Somers, when he reached the
deck of the prize.
"He will do very well. If you had put the bullet half an inch nearer his
brain, you would have finished him. The skin is torn off the side of his
head, and I suppose the ball stunned him. He is sitting up now, and
appears to be as well as ever, though in no very amiable frame of mind."
"I suppose not."
"He says you are a rebel and a traitor, and he intends to prove it. I
told him I thought his wound had affected his brain."
"It would require a long story to explain what he means. Mr. Hackleford
has the papers, and I doubt not he will tell you all about it, doctor,"
replied Somers, as he proceeded to arrange for the return voyage.
All who were not going home in the Ben Nevis were sent back to the
Chatauqua. The firemen and engineers of the prize steamer were willing
to discharge their duties as before, and under the direction of one of
the second assistants from the ship, they were set at work. The first
and third cutters pulled away towards the man-of-war, giving three
rousing cheers as they departed, and the Ben Nevis steamed away to the
northward.
By this time it was ten o'clock at night. The watch was set on deck, and
Somers went below to obtain his supper, for he felt the need of some
rest and refreshment. The steward, anxious to be on good terms with the
new commander, had provided the best meal the larder of the Ben Nevis
afforded, and Somers was hungry enough to do it ample justice.
A marine, with cutlass and revolver, stood at the door of Pillgrim's
state-room. When Somers had finished his supper, and was about to go on
deck, the sentinel informed him that the prisoner had knocked several
times on his door.
"See what he wants."
The marine opened the door.
"Who is the prize master?" asked Pillgrim.
The sentinel looked at Somers for permission before he replied.
"Answer him."
"Mr. Somers," answered the marine.
"Will you present my compliments to Mr. Somers, and say that I beg the
favor of an interview with him?"
Again the sentinel glanced at Somers.
"With pleasure," replied the prize master, as politely as the request
was made.
"Ah, Mr. Somers," said the traitor, as the new commander of the Ben
Nevis stepped forward and showed himself to the prisoner, "I am happy to
see you."
"Are you, indeed?" added Somers, rather amused at the smooth tones of
the traitor.
"I am, I assure you. Might I beg the favor of a few moments' private
conversation with you?"
"Certainly; have you any weapons about you?"
"None, whatever."
Somers directed the marine to seat himself at the farther end of the
cabin.
"Thank you, Mr. Somers; you are as kind and generous as ever."
"Let me say, Mr. Pillgrim, that flattery and threats are all the same to
me."
"Somers, you have me on the hip."
"I know it."
"You have won the game."
"I know it."
"I am in your power."
"I know it."
Pillgrim appeared to be hopeless and disconcerted.
"Somers, I have, in a bank in Philadelphia, fifty thousand dollars."
"What bank?"
"Excuse me; the confiscation laws are dangerous to men in my situation."
"No matter; I will inform the proper officers of the fact, and they can
find out what bank."
Pillgrim bit his lip.
"I will give you this money if you will--"
"Silence, sir! There is not money enough in the whole world to bribe
me."
"I still have the oath of allegiance--signed by you, and--"
"No, you haven't. Mr. Hackleford has it. You left it in your
state-room."
"Now listen to reason, Somers."
"I shall. Reason counsels me to do my duty."
"Somers, I will be revenged."
"Good night, Mr. Pillgrim. I see you have nothing of importance to say
to me;" and Somers went on deck after calling the marine back to his
post.
CHAPTER XV.
THE PRISONER IN THE CABIN.
Mr. Pillgrim's wound, as such injuries are regarded in the army and
navy, was a mere scratch; but it might have been very sore, and might
have ached severely. The traitor did not even mention it in his
interview with Somers, for the sore in his mind was much more serious.
His victim had now become his tyrant; not implacable or vindictive, but
firm and unyielding in the discharge of his duty.
Somers went on deck, satisfied himself in regard to the course of the
steamer, then visited the engine-room, and other parts of the vessel,
until he had assured himself that everything was right. It was a fine,
clear night, and when the port watch came on deck, he went below, and
lay down on the broad sofa, which extended across the after part of the
cabin. He was tired enough to sleep, and he did sleep till the starboard
watch was called in the morning.
He was a prudent and zealous commander, and he hastened on deck at once
to make sure that his charge was still safe. The weather continued fine,
and every man was at his post. He scrutinized the log slate, and
questioned the officer of the deck. Everything had been correctly done;
nothing had happened, and nothing was likely to happen. There was
nothing for him to do but sleep, and he returned to his couch in the
cabin, to complete his nap.
The sentinel at the door of the prisoner's state-room was still in
position. The guard was relieved every two hours, and the door was
secured on the outside by a padlock, which had been put on by the
armorer after the vessel was captured. Of course there could be no doubt
in regard to the safety of the prisoner.
Somers went to sleep again, satisfied that he had neglected no
precautions to insure the safety of the vessel and the prisoner. The
movements of the steward in the cabin awoke him at six o'clock. He had
slept away all his fatigue, and when he looked out through the stern
lights upon a smooth sea, brightened by the morning sun, all his anxiety
left him. It was hardly possible that any accident could interfere with
the safe arrival of the prize at her destined port.
As he rose from the sofa, the corporal of marines relieved the sentry at
the prisoner's door.
"Marine," said Somers, as the man passed him on his way out of the
cabin.
The sentinel stopped and touched his cap.
"How is the prisoner?"
"I haven't heard anything of him, sir, during my beat," replied the
marine.
"Isn't he up yet?"
"I didn't hear him, sir. He's a heavy sleeper, I should say, for I don't
think he moved while I was on guard."
As Somers had the key of the padlock in his pocket, he was satisfied it
was all right with the prisoner, and he went on deck. At seven bells,
when his breakfast was brought down, he directed the steward to give Mr.
Pillgrim his morning meal, handing the key of the state-room to the
corporal.
The door was opened, and the marine entered the little room. Somers sat
down at the table to eat his breakfast. He was blessed with a good
appetite, and some "'am and heggs," which the steward particularly
recommended, looked very inviting. But he had hardly satisfied himself
that the steward had not overrated the quality of his viands, before his
attention was attracted by an exclamation from the corporal of marines.
"What's the matter?" demanded Somers, rising from the table, and rushing
to the state-room.
"Mr. Pillgrim is not here, sir," replied the man.
"Not here!"
"No, sir."
"He can't be far off."
Somers entered the state-room. Certainly the prisoner was not there; nor
was there any indication of the means by which he had departed. The
partitions between this and the adjoining state-rooms were undisturbed.
The door had been securely locked, and the key was in the pocket of the
commanding officer. The traitor could not have crawled through the
bull's eye which lighted the room, for it was not more than nine inches
in diameter.
The marines who had been on guard during the night were summoned. They
all told the same story; not a sound had been heard in the room. Both
the master's mates who had kept the watches on deck were examined, but
they had no information to communicate.
"This is very remarkable," said Somers to his first officer.
"Very remarkable," replied Mr. Hudson, who seemed to be even more
bewildered than his commander.
"Where is Captain Walmsley?" asked Somers of the steward.
"I don't know, sir. I 'aven't seen him since 'e hate his supper last
night."
"See if he is in his state-room, steward."
He was not in his state-room. His bed had not been occupied; no one had
seen him since the Ben Nevis parted company with the Chatauqua.
"Are there any boats missing, Mr. Hudson?" continued Somers.
"No, sir; the steamer had two quarter-boats, and a life-boat forward.
They are all in their places."
"Wasn't there a dingy, or a jolly-boat, at the stern?"
"No, sir; I am sure that no boat is missing."
"Then of course the prisoner must be on board."
"No doubt of that, Mr. Somers. In my opinion he has concealed himself in
the hold, and intends to escape after we go into port."
"But how could he get into the hold?"
"That is more than I know, sir. He isn't in his state-room; he wouldn't
have jumped overboard forty miles from land."
"He must be found before we make the capes," said Somers, who could not
help thinking how "cheap" he should feel if compelled to report the
escape of his prisoner to the department.
He returned to the table and finished his breakfast, as a matter of
necessity now,--for man must eat,--rather than of inclination. The
Scotch ham seemed to have lost its fine flavor, and it was really a pity
that he had not completed his repast before the escape of Pillgrim was
discovered. But Somers was satisfied that the traitor was still on
board, and he was determined to find him, even if he had to throw the
valuable cargo of the Ben Nevis overboard, in order to effect his
purpose.
When Somers had worried down his breakfast, he went on deck to detail
parties to engage in the search. The hatches were taken off, and Mr.
Hudson was directed to examine the hold, while Somers himself, with the
marines and a couple of seamen, went to the cabin for the purpose of
tracing the fugitive from his starting-point. This appeared to be no
easy matter, for as yet there was not the slightest clew to his means of
egress.
Somers opened the door of the state-room, which had been occupied by the
prisoner, and there, to his utter astonishment and confusion, he saw
Pillgrim, sitting on a stool, and looking as composed as though nothing
had happened. Somers could hardly believe the evidence of his own eyes.
"Good morning, Mr. Somers," said the traitor. "I am happy to see you. I
was just thinking it was about breakfast time."
"Haven't you had your breakfast yet?" asked Somers, who deemed it best
to talk at random.
"How should I? You lock the door, and confine me to a very limited
sphere of observation. I hope you don't intend to starve me."
"O, no, by no means. I thought it likely you had breakfasted while on
your travels."
"On my travels?" said the prisoner, inquiringly.
"You have been out of your room."
"I?"
Pillgrim opened his eyes, and seemed to be astonished.
"Certainly you have. When we opened the door half an hour since, you
were not here. Perhaps you will not object to telling me where you have
been."
"I have not been out of my state-room, as you must be aware."
"But you have," replied Somers, stoutly.
"Am I to infer that you accuse me of lying, Mr. Somers?" demanded the
traitor, with an exhibition of dignity.
"I accuse you of nothing; I only say you have been out of your
state-room."
"But I say I have not. I am your prisoner: it is hardly magnanimous to
insult me in my present situation."
"Are you ready for your breakfast?" asked Somers, unwilling to pursue
the conversation on that tack.
"A hungry man is always ready for his breakfast. My misfortunes have not
impaired my appetite. I am ready for my breakfast."
Somers directed the steward to bring the prisoner his morning meal.
"Mr. Somers, may I beg the favor of half an hour's conversation with
you, when I have done my breakfast?" added Pillgrim.
"It is hardly necessary."
"Excuse me; it is absolutely necessary for your comfort and safety as
well as mine."
"Under such a threat, I shall certainly decline," replied Somers,
coldly.
"I intended no threat. Send these people away, and I will speak."
"You may speak or be silent, as you please."
Somers stationed a marine at the door, and sent the others away,
retiring himself to the farther end of the cabin. He was sorely puzzled
to know how the prisoner had got out of his state-room, and why he had
returned. He concluded that the opening of the hold had induced the
latter step, but the former was still enveloped in mystery. He
determined to give the prisoner another room, and make a more careful
search in the one he now occupied.
When Pillgrim had done his breakfast, Somers called a couple of marines,
and ordered them to put the prisoner in the aftermost room. The hasp and
padlock were then transferred to the occupied room.
"Mr. Somers," said Pillgrim, as he was about to lock the door, "I should
like to speak with you."
The tone was gentlemanly, and even supplicating, and Somers entered the
room, closing the door behind him; but he was careful to cock his
revolver as he did so, for the prisoner was a desperate man.
"I am ready to hear you."
"It is well you are."
"If you have any threats to make, I will not remain."
"Let me speak only the truth," said Pillgrim, as he looked at his watch.
"In twenty minutes from now, we shall all be in kingdom come."
There was a malignant smile on the face of the traitor as he spoke, and
it was plain to Somers that the villain did not speak without a cause.
"Somers, you have beaten me in the last game we played. I shall beat in
the next one."
"I told you I did not come here to listen to threats."
"You will be a dead man in seventeen minutes, Somers," continued
Pillgrim, glancing at his watch again. "I could not deny myself the
satisfaction of informing you of the fact. But, Somers, you will have
