" It's very well for you to talk, Dick. You have had a 
splendid education out of father, and now can fall back upon 
your own fortune ; while this is my first year at Yale, and 
likely to be my last, for anything I can see." 



 

"Let us leave the subject now," was Kichard's response. 

" You may go, if you like ; but I don't stir until I have 
examined some of these papers. Whom do you suppose 
father could have indorsed for ? " 

" We will talk of it when I return ; " and Richard went t 
attend to the remaining friends. Having disposed of them, 
he ran up stairs, and found the resignation of the afternoon 
had given way to wildest grief. Even aunt Sophy could do 
nothing but weep. Mabel's firmness had failed entirely. 
His comforting voice seemed to restore them ; but the sobs 
had scarcely ceased when the tea bell rang. Mabel lingered 
to bathe her face and smooth her hair. Coming back to the 
shelter of his arms, she said, brokenly, 

"Richard, aunt Sophy and I have been talking of what 
must come presently : do you think we shall be separated, 
even if you should " and her voice broke down com- 
pletely. 

He had to make an effort to regain his. " No ; " and he 
was glad he could say it ; " there will be no parting at 
present, and I shall not be married until fall." 

Her answer was a convulsive kiss. 

After supper he followed Robert to the library, who began 
in a triumphant tone, ere they were seated, " Well, I have 
solved the mystery ! " 

" Who was it ? Some one father must have loved dearly ; " 
and Richard, bethinking himself of the words spoken that 
fatal night, "I couldn't refuse him ; he had your mother's 
eyes," anticipated Robert's reply of, " Your uncle, Richard 
Aubrey." 

" I found it in father's journal," he continued, opening 
the book. " It was before mother died. Of course he 
didn't suppose he would lose it; but then came the fire, 
when uncle Dick was burned out, his removal to Central 
America, and his sickness and death there. Still, I do not 
think it was father's place to pay it." 

" It was any honorable man's duty," Richard answered, 




warmly. " I am sorry he indorsed; that being done, how- 
ever, there was only one course." 

Robert moved uneasily in his chair. "Certainly, the law 
could compel him to pay it. I didn't exactly mean that. 
The thing is just here, Dick: if it had been my mother's 
brother I would not say a word ; but we children are five 
thousand dollars poorer for the speculation, while it doesn't 
touch you in the slightest. My share of it would take me 
through college." 

A deep crimson suffused Richard's face, as he replied, 
hastily, " I understand you, and will see to all college 
expenses." 

" I will not wrong the others," Robert said, with an as- 
sumption of justice. " If the matter looks right to you, it 
may go." 

" None of you shall suffer through my uncle," Richard 
exclaimed, with a little pride. 

" You see, Dick," Robert began, as if half ashamed of his 
suggestion, " if we were all grown up, it would be different; 
but you have had more than any of us in your education, 
and " 

" I promised father, just before he died, that I would do 
all I could toward filling his place. No one shall want for 
anything while I live. I think you can trust me." 

The solemn, yet tender voice sobered Robert a little. 
'' You were going to be married, Dick," he said. 

" It will not be until fall, and I have given up my trip to 
Europe." No one knew how hard it was for him to say that. 
" When you come home for vacation I shall have decided on 
what it is best to do ; till then, all things will go on as 
before." 

" There's some railroad stock, and a little money in 
the bank. What do you suppose the house would bring, 
Richard?" 

" I hope there will be no necessity of selling it until I can 
become the purchaser," was the quiet answer. " Since you 



have begun, we may as well go over the papers together;' 
and he drew his chair towards the desk. 

Everything was in tolerable order letters laid by them 
selves ; bills and business accounts rightly arranged, ant, 
the ledger written up to the last day of the doctor's life 
Then there was a journal-like volume, containing simple
entries of the day's events, that told more than many 
lengthy paragraphs. He was too healthy-spirited a man  
go into any morbid analysis of thought ; yet it container 
many touching glimpses of home life. It was here Rober 
had found the particulars of the mortgage, and this was tho 
only account of his unfortunate indorsing. Richard prom 
ised himself a sad, sweet pleasure in reading it at some 
future time. The clock struck ten, and a light tap at the 
door interrupted them. 

"Let us put these away for to-night," Richard said, open 
ing the door to Tessy. 

" I came to kiss you. We were all going to bed," war 
the half-timid exclamation. 

He took the child in his arms, and as she buried her face 
in his soft beard, she murmured, " Dick, I love you 
dearly ! dearly ! Do you think God will ever make you 
die ? " 

For answer he held her tightly, and kissed lip, cheek, and 
golden hair ; then carried her up stairs, where he said good 
night to the rest. They all looked up to him now as the 
head of the family. 


CHAPTER IV. 

The lines of our life may be smooth and strong, 

And our pleasant path may lie 
Where the stream of affection flows along, 

In the light of a summer sky; 
But woe for the lights that early wane, 

And the shades that early fall, 
And the prayer that speaks f the secret pain, 

Though its voice be still and small. 

FRANCES BROWN. 

THE head of the family ! This was what Richard Bertrand 
thought, as he sat in his room, weary, and yet wakeful. 
What a change a week had wrought ! Then he had been 
musing over such visions as young men are wont to dream 
of; a girlish wife and baby faces growing up in his house- 
hold, whose helpless, clinging touches give to parents wisdom 
and patience. Instead, ties not his very own sprang up to 
fetter him with a double chain of love and duty. It was not 
such a care-free path as those rambles over the old world, 
with his chosen wife beside him. What wonder if he 
glanced at that lost way with sorrowful tenderness ? Already 
cares and sacrifices began to stare him in the face. Could 
he make his position harmonize with his affection ? The lit- 
tle scene with Robert told him he had not a parent's author- 
ity, and that his rule must be one of love. A fine sense of 
honor ran like a silver chord through his nature, and he felt 
it would be right for him to pay off this mortgage with his 
own fortune, no matter how overstrained the action might 
appear to others. His father had behaved with scrupulous 
generosity and delicacy in never mentioning the fact of his 
having indorsed for Richard's uncle, and it touched him tc 



 

the heart. Yes, be would clear the house from debt, and 
then some provision must be made for the family. His 
father's practice was extensive ; he would doubtless succeed 
to a large share of it. If he could keep them all together 
for a few years ! And then thoughts of Ada arose. Would 
she be happy here ? 

I think it was well Sunday came in the midst of their grief. 
It sanctified it, and added a tender solemnity to the memory 
of the dead, and gave Richard his true position at once the 
place he was to fill through years of mingled joy and sorrow. 
He took his father's seat in the church with a feeling of grave 
awe, and those who looked upon his manly figure and truth- 
ful face, prophesied it would be worthily filled. 

He hesitated a little whether he should go to Ada that 
night, then decided to remain at home. They could not 
sing, as was their usual custom ; but Richard read to them : 
afterwards they fell into a sweet, sorrowful talk of him who 
had gone from their midst, and was keeping the eternal rest 
that remained for the people of God. 

" ' A day which shall be known unto the Lord, not day, nor 
night ; but it shall come to pass that at evening time it shall 
be light,' " Mabel said, with her lingering good-night kiss. 

" At evening time," Richard repeated. He did not dream 
then how often he should have need to comfort himself with 
the words. 

Monday morning brought the stir of busy life. Robert 
was called into conference with his brother, and all immedi- 
ate plans laid before him. There was a sad parting with the 
girls, and Richard drove him to the depot, offering a few 
brotherly suggestions that were received with an attentive 
air. But a feeling of intense relief came in his face when he 
found himself alone ; and he said, almost audibly, 

" Dick is a good fellow, and I must be careful. Wasn't I 
lucky to make my peace with the learned and reverend fac- 
ulty ? Suspension just now would have been well, it 
didn't come, thanks to fortune ; so there's no use of borrow- 
ing trouble." 





Then followed aunt Sophia's departure. It was natural 
she should feel anxious for the children's welfare, as their 
mother had been her only sister ; and she offered to take the 
two younger ones, in case they decided to break up the 
household. 

" You are to be married soon, I believe ? " she said to 
Richard. 

" Not until fall, and I may remain here then. It is 
my wish to keep the family together. I think father de- 
sired it." 

She could not object to this ; but as Mrs. Hall helped her 
put on her wrappings, the subject was re-discussed. 

" I'm afraid it Avill not work," she said, slowly. " Mabel 
is growing up, and may want to te mistress in her own house, 
and Miss Townley won't fe.el disposed to accept of the second 
position. Then, he is only their half-brother, and we can- 
not expect him to give up all to them. Poor things, they 
will never find another friend like their father ! " 

Mrs. Hall sighed and hoped it would end rightly, but was 
a little doubtful of two families living in perfect peace, when 
both would have such a strong claim on "Mr. Richard." 

The next event in order was the mortgage. Mr. Grailford 
was a little surprised at Richard's proposal, but simply said, 
"I hope you have considered the matter well;" and then 
went about the business in his ordinary manner. Some days 
elapsed before it could be finally settled ; but when Richard 
had freed the house from its encumbrance, and placed a 
thousand dollars in the lawyer's hands to Robert's credit, a 
great weight seemed to have fallen from him. Now the 
question of retrenchment must be seriously considered. 

This was a difficult subject for a young man. The house 
was large, to be sure, yet it was all needed ; and it was not 
possible to do with less than the three servants : Mrs. Hall, 
a sensible, middle-aged woman, who had filled the post of 
housekeeper since Mrs. Bertrand's death, and was a most 
excellent manager; Ann, the maid of all work, a good- 



 

natured Irish woman, whose tastes were certainly promiscuous 
as regarded employment. As a girl she had served appren- 
ticeship to Mrs. Bertrand, married, and after a brief essay at 
housekeeping, had come back during the illness of her mis- 
tress. Her husband having been taken as coachman and 
gardener, Martin and Ann Burns might well be considered 
fixtures. Martin was especially valuable, if he did grumble a 
little now and then, for he was sober, honest, and industrious. 
None of the servants could be dispensed with while the family 
remained here. 

And to go away ! It sent a quick pang to Richard's heart. 
Dr. Bertrand had come here after his second marriage, and 
this was the scene of Richard's boyish years, as well as his 
thoughtful, happy manhood. He could remember every im- 
provement, and how he had sometimes assisted in planning. 
The house was situated at the northern end of the city, in a 
quiet, shady street, whose sidewalk was bordered with patri- 
archal elms. The grounds, though small, were tastefully laid 
out, a handsome court-yard in front, with miniature lawns, 
whose dark green Norway pines made a pleasant gloom. 
The house was double, the pointing roofs over the dormer 
windows relieving its squareness. To the right, partially 
hidden by trees, stood the carriage-house and barn. The 
rear commanded a lovely prospect. It lay on the banks of the 
Passaic, the slope terraced by a series of steps, the upper 
ones being devoted to flowers, and the lower to fruit and 
vegetables ; ending by a thick stone wall at the water's edge. 
Here was the boat-house, whose building Richard had super- 
intended, and he could almost feel the thrill of delight with 
which he had welcomed the dainty "Jessie," his boat. Here 
were fruit trees he had trained, rose-cuttings bestowed by 
friends, and a host of flowers he had taken delight in culti- 
vating. Then the rooms ! there was not a nook or corner 
but held some pleasant memory for him ; all had been hal- 
lowed by the presence of that dear father. No, he could 
never willingly go away. 



 

He summoned Mrs. Hall, and they took a review of the 
housekeeping department. He found his father had sup- 
plied every thing with a most lavish hand, and that Mrs. Hall 
thought an important reform might be commenced here. She 
lingered after they had arranged their plans, her face so 
plainly showing something left unsaid, that he asked, with a 
pleasant smile, 

" Are there any more suggestions ? I am a new hand at 
the business, you know, and will take the least hint kindly." 

The little woman's face flushed, and she said, quite hum- 
My, 

" I should like to speak of one thing, if you wouldn't be 
oifended, sir. It's not my place ; but I've seen more of life 
than you, women's lives, I mean, their likes and wants, 
and sometimes little jealous feelings that make a household 
miserable. People who love dearly do not always know just 
how to make each other happy. If it isn't too bold a ques- 
tion, wasn't you thinking of being married, and bringing 
your wife here ? " 

" I did think about it; in the fall, perhaps ; " and Richard's 
color rose a trifle. 

" What I wanted to say, Dr. Richard, was this. Miss 
Townley, being the youngest of her family, and having such 
a fortune, never has had anything to try her patience, or 
any feelings or wishes beside her own to consult. I dare 
say she loves you very much, and looks forward to a happy 
life with you, thinking, like most young creatures, that the 
highest joy is having you all her own. And here are the 
children, very fond of you, and used to having their father all 
to themselves, for he was always thinking what he could do 
for them, and was so indulgent, so patient, with their little 
tempers and rare disputes. Now they all cling to you ; in- 
deed, you are filling their father's place ; but when a new 
claimant for your love comes " 

" You are afraid there might be some trouble," he said ; 
in the calm tone of a man who felt certain of perfect accord, 



 

" It's right and natural fen- a wife who loves her husband 
beyond all else, to wish to be first with him to want all his 
leisure hours. No one could blame her for it. But the 
children would have to be put off, and might feel neg- 
lected. A restraint would come hard at first ; they're so 
affectionate, and were used to so much freedom with their 
father. It's trying to a man, when he loves both parties ; 
and it's difficult for both parties to agree, when they look at 
the same thing in a different light. You'd be the shield, 
with one .side gold, and the other side silver." 

" Well," said Richard, cheerfully, " how shall I keep the 
peace ? " 

" I can't answer that, sir. But if you tried the plan and 
found it did not prove agreeable, I was thinking, how much 
pleasanter than sending them among strangers it would be 
to hire a cheap little cottage, and let me take charge of them. 
I could do all the work, and make them happy, I think, and 
you could watch over them. When I remember how much I 
owe your dear father, I feel as if I ought to spend my very 
life for his children's happiness. He came to me when my 
husband lay dying,and my poor baby too ill to go out of my 
arms, while I was almost wild with poverty and anxiety. 
 I can never forget his goodness, and how he comforted 
me after they were gone, when I came near dying with lone- 
liness and grief myself. I feel as if I daren't meet him in 
heaven, unless I do all I can for his ; " and Mrs. Hall broke 
down in a sobbing fit. 

Richard was moved to the heart. He took her hand 
kindly, and said, in a voice of emotion, 

'' How much I thank you for this generous offer, I cannot 
put in words. I honor you, too, for so practical a plan ; and 
if the time should ever come when such a division seems 
necessary, I shall gladly avail myself of your suggestions. 
Believe me, I am eager to do my whole duty by them ; they 
were my father's last charge." 

" I hope you'll pardon me if I've been over-bold, but I 





couldn't bear to think of their being separated while they're 
so young. Miss Mabel will grow up a sort of mother to the 
rest, and I know we can make a pleasant home. They have 
so few relatives that they'll always cling together. Their 
aunt'Sophia would do anything ia the world for them, but 
she has such a large family." 

" If my plan will not work, we must try yours," he said, 
kindly. 

After Mrs. Hall had left him, he dropped his forehead on 
his hand, and fell into a reverie. How many difficulties rose 
in his path ! More than once some slight incident had made 
him feel his actions would be more severely criticised because 
he was a half brother to the rest. The suspicions that had 
been scarcely suggested, wounded his keenly sensitive soul. 
He understood how this home, delightful as it was, might 
not be so happy for Ada. He would be compelled to divide 
his attentions. There were lessons, little troubles, and much 
demonstrative love, that he could only check by positive cold- 
ness. How could he teach Tessy the first kiss did not be- 
long to her ? Would he wish to estrange them ? 

No, indeed ; he loved them too well ;- and he resolved, 
come what would, to keep, in the truest manner possible, his 
promise to his dead father. If Mrs. Hall hardly dared meet 
him in heaven, with an unperformed kindness between them, 
how much more he, a well-beloved son, in ^whorn his father 
reposed the highest confidence ! 

Yet it would take the most entire devotion to repay Ada 
for her disappointment in not going abroad. It was her 
right to have some voice in a matter that so deeply concerned 
herself. Suppose she should not wish to come and share 
her husband's time and love with so many. She was rather 
exacting. He had hitherto liked the jealous regard that 
could not spare a word nor caress. But how would it an- 
swer when they all came to live together ? 

A rush of children through the hall dispersed his troubled 
thoughts, and he rose to meet them. Fresh from school, 



 

with rosy faces, and somewhat boisterous greetings Archie 
begging for a little help in his Latin, Lily petitioning for a 
ride on Saturday ; and Tessy, clasping his arm with both 
eager hands, hopped beside him, intent on studying locomo- 
tion on one foot. 

Mabel's voice sounded from the hall above, 

" Come, children, the dinner bell will ring in five minutes, 
and you are not ready." 

Lily went up the steps two at a time, and Archie made 
noisy attempts at imitating her. Richard swung Tessy with 
a sudden force, landing her three steps up. She gave a gay 
little laugh, and said, in a delighted tone, 

" Dick ! you're as strong as papa ; he used to do 
that ! " 



 



CHAPTER V. 

All as God wills, who wisely heeds 

To give or to withhold, 
And knowcth more of all my needs 

Than all my prayers have told. 

WHITTIER. 

Two months had elapsed since Dr. Bertrand's death. 
Changeful childhood rallied and grasped eagerly at the 
pleasures of life, in order to fill up the chasm of loss. Merry 
laughs once more woke echoes through the quiet house, and 
occasionally Lilian broke into a bird-like song. Richard had 
been very busy. His father's patients had poured in upon 
him in numbers that could not fail to be gratifying ; yet it 
rendered the prospect of a long absence unfortunate for his 
position as a doctor, if not absolutely impossible. The new 
cares and responsibilities had somewhat broken in upon his 
devotedness as a lover, though his betrothed had consoled 
herself with a visit to New York for gayeties she could not 
well ask Richard to share at home. She had been kind and 
sympathizing, and borne her share of the grief tranquilly. 
Still he was anxious for a -more thorough understanding of 
their future. 

One lovely May evening they went out for a walk. He 
had a purpose in this, for he wanted to be beyond the chance 
of interruption. The night air was fragrant with the breath 
of young trees, and the varied odors of spring. The soft 
blue sky, with its tender stars, seemed to have a peculiar 
nearness to human hearts and human wants. The tremulous 
air brought vague memories of lost joys, dreams unrealized 
and forgotten, save in such, hours. 



 

" How beautiful ! " and Richard paused. They had turned 
into High Street, and gaining a little eminence, the whole 
city lay at their very -feet, softened in a flood of silver light, 
serene as if all in those homes were perfect peace. 

" Yes," Ada answered slowly ; " but think, Richard, what 
such a night would be in Venice with the songs of gondoliers, 
or roaming through the palace gardens of the old world. I 
am longing for fields of olive and figs, and where purple grapes 
glisten in the long reaches of a still fairer light than this." 

" It would disappoint you very, very much not to go ? " 
His voice had a touch of winning gentleness in it. 

" O, I must ! You know what I said about waiting ! By 
fall you will surely have all family arrangements completed." 

" Matters are very different from what I expected," waa 
his grave answer. 

" Your father was not so rich as people supposed ? " 

" It is not that alone. I promised my father in his dying 
moments that I would love the children as he had loved me 
take care of them befriend them." 

" Of course it is your duty to love them ; but surely there 
is enough to support them without any effort of yours. May 
I make a suggestion ? " 

" Certainly, dearest." 

" Could not the house be sold, and the money properly 
invested ? Would it not make sufficient for the children's 
support ? " 

" O, I couldn't give up the house. I should never find 
another spot in the world so dear ! I hope some day to be 
able to purchase it, for the girls will doubtless marry and 
seek other homes. I have half a plan, Ada, if you are 
willing." 

" Well." Her tone was not at all encouraging. 

" I do not think it will be possible for me to go abroad. 
I find there is not enough left to support the family without 
some exertion on my part. I am in a fair way of succeeding 
to much of my father's practice. If you were willing to 





marry me, and share my lot for a^while, I know I could make 
you happy. At least, we might try. Will you not come ? " 

" Richard," Ada began slowly, " I may perhaps offend you 
by what I shall say ; yet I think it my duty. I do not ap- 
prove of such arrangements. I do not feel capable, or even 
willing, to take charge of such a household, neither should I 
be satisfied with a secondary position. I will gladly share 
what I have with you in travelling, and afterwards in any 
manner that seems best. Surely there would be no dif- 
ficulty in reestablishing yourself on our return. Besides, 
you have a tolerable fortune. I shouldn't starve on it if 
mine were all gone ; " and she laughed with assumed gayety. 

" It is not so large as it was. I have had occasion to 
spend half of it." His voice was quietly firm. The truth 
was best told now. Yet he felt there would be an outbreak, 
and summoned not only resolution, but tenderness. 

" Five thousand ! What have you been doing, Richard ? " 
she asked, sharply. 

" My duty, only. After my father's burial I found he had 
mortgaged the house to enable him to pay two notes he had 
indorsed for my uncle, my own mother's brother." 

" He left you nothing, and expected you to pay that ! " 
she said, indignantly. 

" He did leave me a great deal," Richard answered with a 
little wounded feeling. " A handsome library, and a most 
complete as well as expensive set of instruments ; besides, jie 
never spoke of my paying the debt. But in order to have 
you understand why I have taken these particular views of 
duty, I must tell you some of my past life. At my mother's 
death, my uncle and aunt Aubrey took charge of me, keep- 
ing me until my father's second marriage, and utterly refus- 
ing the slightest remuneration. My grandfather divided his 
property equally between uncle Richard and myself. My 
father never touched one penny of either principal or inter- 
est; supplying all my wants himself. Uncle Richard was 
prosperous for a while ; but a disastrous fire, which swept 



 

away nearly all his earnings, was succeeded by a long illness. 
Afterwards he took his family to Central America, where he 
seemed to have a fair prospect of redeeming his losses. In 
several of his letters that I have since found, he expressed 
the most earnest determination to repay my father at the 
earliest opportunity. He took a fever 'and died, and aunt 
and the children went to California. For two years we have 
heard nothing from them. In my father's last momsnts he 
pleaded tenderly for uncle Richard, although I did not un- 
derstand the full import until Robert discovered an acknowl- 
edgment of the indorsement. He suggested the only course 
I should have followed ; for it is true I have had more than 
the others." 

" I do not think it right or fair. Your father did not con- 
sult you in the matter of security, and you are not bound in 
the slightest." 

" Only by a sense of honor, and respect for myself." 

" It was unjust for Robert to speak of such a thing. They 
will never be as generous for you." 

" It was my relative, and not theirs one who had loved 
me fondly. And if I can repay my father a little for his 
kindness to me, I ought to make some sacrifice. Besides, I 
have so much more than they will inherit." 

" If they were your own brothers and sisters, it would look 
more reasonable for you to spend your life for them." Ada's 
tone was bitter. 

" I do not believe their mother ever said of me, ' If he 
had beem my child, I should have felt it my duty to do more 
for him.' I cannot imagine any one more devoted. I would 
do a great deal for the sake of the pleasant life I led with 
her ; indeed, we are as much brothers and sisters as if she 
had been mother to all." 

" Yet I will protest against your spending your life and 
your fortune for them ! You belong to me, at least if I have 
not been crowded out of your heart." 

Both her words and manner pained him ; yet he answered 

gently, " I do not expect to devote my whole time to them, 
 

only just now when they have lost so much ! Think, Ada, 
how many more years I had him years of tender love and 
unwearied counsel. God made me a son and a brother be- 
fore I became a lover, and a little while at this period will 
surely not detract from my permanent happiness. You must 
know my love for you is beyond question." 

" A. divided heart," she returned, coldly. 

" No, not divided. I love you no less, and the others no 
more, than I did three months ago ; but God has placed new 
duties in my way. I dare not neglect them." 

" You would rather relinquish me ? " 

" Ada ! " The whole strength of his nature came out in his 
tone, as if there was a bound she might not pass. 

" Forgive me, Richard. I love you dearly, and you try 
me beyond endurance. I acknowledge you have a sacred 
duty to perform towards your brothers and sisters. If you 
invest their property well, and send them to good boarding- 
schools, what more can any one ask ? " 

" Boarding-school ! " he repeated in surprise. " And 
Tessy nothing but a baby ! " 

" Sister Mary doesn't consider Clara a baby. She is about 
Tessy's age, I believe, and quite womanly." 

" I don't know how they could endure separation and a 
life among strangers." 

" It would be the best thing you could do for them. They 
will certainly be spoiled if you go on this way ; and of course 
every one will blame you." 

He thought of one who never considered them, spoiled, 
or a trouble ; who never wearied of their caresses ; never 
frowned when dimpled arms almost strangled him ; when 
eager feet followed him from house to garden, and childish 
voices plied him with questions ; or when they sat upon his 
knee, and buried their soft fingers in his hair. Their love 
had been so active, never content with a quiet assurance of 
once for all. Could he be the one to chill their young hearts 
with lessons of coldness ? Alas ! how hard duty had be- 
come. He summoned courage to say, cheerfully, 



 

" You may think differently of the matter, Ada, when you 
Lave considered it well." 

" It is useless to hold out false hope," she answered quick- 
ly. " I could not be happy in the life you have planned. I 
will wait, therefore, until you have time for me." 

This was the woman he had relied on so confidently ! the 
one who was to share toils as well as pleasures with him. 
He was chilled to the heart by her coldness, her want of 
sympathy, her lack of appreciation for the struggle he was 
going through. 

They turned down the street in which Ada lived, and no 
further word was spoken until they reached the house, when 
she said, " You will come in ? " 

" Thank you, not to-night, dear." His voice was not 
quite steady, but his kiss as fond as ever. 

" Good night." There was none of the eager persuasion 
she was so ready to use generally. 

He walked away slowly and sadly, with a sense of pain at 
his heart. It was well he could not see the flushed face Ada 
carried up to her sister's room, nor the scornful smile with 
which she threw herself on the sofa. 

" Where is Richard ? " asked Mrs. Taylor. 

" Gone home to the bosom of his family ! " The reply 
was bitter enough. 

" Will he never have affairs straight ? " 

" He has called me into council ; " and her eyes sparkled 
with an angry light. " What do you think of his wishing 
me to give up Europe, marry him, and assist in the care of 
the children ? Quite a generous offer, was it not ? " 

" Shall you ? " 

" Wouldn't you advise me to ? " 

" No, Ada, I should not. You are young, and have had 
no experience with a family. Then they are only his half 
brothers and sisters ; if they should turn out badly, you and 
Richard would always be blamed. Their father indulged 
them beyond everything. In a month's time they would walk 





over you pretty effectually, and there would doubtless be a 
disagreeable separation. No, it is not a wise or prudent 
plan." 

" I do mean to go to Europe ; that will settle the ques- 
tion. It would be a mercy to take him away, for they will 
make a perfect slave of him. Listen to this " and Ada 
repeated the story of his paying the mortgage. 

"What quixotism!" and Mrs. Taylor gave a little pro- 
voked laugh. Her sense of honor had long ago been buried 
under the dust and rubbish of fashionable life. 

By the time Richard reached home he began to ask him- 
self if it was absolutely necessary to sacrifice his own happi- 
ness, if it came to that. Mrs. Hall had spoken truly ; it 
would be difficult to stand between two interests, and yield 
the proper share of affection to both parties. He let him- 
self in with his latch-key, and though he would rather have 
avoided every one just now, he had fallen so in the habit of 
running up to the children's sitting-room, that he stood in 
the doorway before he thought. 

Mabel had a book in her hand, and Tessy was sliding off 
the lounge, rubbing her eyes. 

" Tessy ! " and his voice had a touch of sharpness in it. 
" What are you doing up, this time of night ? " 

She sprang to his arms. " I didn't kiss you before you 
went out, and I could not go to bed. Dear, dear Dick ! " 

" She pleaded to sit up, and I could not refuse her," inter- 
posed Mabel, gently. 

The touch of the soft face had already disarmed him. 
Clasping her to his heart, he satisfied her with repentant 
kisses, and sent her away. Then he took up Mabel's book, 
a French work she had been studying, and turning the 
leaves idly, said, with a careless endeavor, 

"Bel, how would you like to go to boarding-school?" 

" Richard ! I couldn't endure it, and now of all times." 
A white terror crept up in her face. 

"It is not so very dreadful. Some boarding-schools 



 

are quite civilized institutions. And if Lily went with 
you ? " 

" Do you mean it ? Must we go away ? I think it would 
break my heart to leave home and part with Tessy. O, 
please, Richard, do not send me." 

" My darling, don't distress yourself. The idea came into 
my head, and some girls like it. I did not mean to pain 
you." He twined his arm around her, and her fair head 
drooped on his breast. O, if God would only give him 
strength to be faithful to the old home affection ! Some day 
Ada might look upon his high trust in the same light he did. 
He must " endure to the end." Yet an indefinable influence 
seemed playing a jarring discord in his soul, with a hand 
mercilessly cold. 



 



CHAPTER VI. 

And though one wearies by the way, 

And hearts break in the sorrow, 
We'll sow the golden grains to-day; 

The harvest comes to-morrow. 

GERALD MASSET. 

A SCAMPER through the yard and up the piazza, a mys- 
terious tiptoing through the hall, and quite a " company " 
knock at the office door. Richard knew well who the in- 
vaders were ; their smothered laughs would have betrayed 
them, as well as their noisy raid up the yard. Entering into 
the spirit of merriment, he stole behind the door before he 
said, " Come in." It was opened a little way, and a voice 
in droll Irish inquired, " Is the docthor in ? " 

There was no answer. The door was pushed wider, the 
question repeated, and Tessy's golden head began to make 
sunbeams. Her wandering eyes opened to their full extent 
as she exclaimed in a disappointed tone, " He isn't here, 
Archie." 

" Why, yes, he is ; didn't he say, ' Come in ' ? " and the 
next instant Tessy gave a cry of delight, as Richard rushed 
out and caught her in his arms, imitating her voice as he 
asked, " Was it the docthor you wished to see, darlint ? " 

" Dick, we want to go sailing, after dinner." 

" It's office hours, and some poor Irishwoman might 
come ; but if Mabel will promise to raise a white flag in 
case of distress, and you will be sure to see it, I may be in- 
duced to consent." 

As they walked through the hall, he placed one arm 
around Lily's neck. She bent to kiss the hand ; and fan- 



 
