spirit towards an officer. He defeated your plan to escape, but he did
no more than his duty. He would have been blamed, perhaps punished, if
he had done any less."
"I don't find any fault with him for doing his duty, but I don't like to
be snubbed by one who is worse than I am. If you knew what I know, sir,
you would turn him out of the after cabin."
"Then it is fortunate for him that I don't know what you know," replied
Mr. Lowington, sternly. "If you wish to injure him in my estimation, you
will not succeed."
"He is going to get up a mutiny one of these days. He told me all about
it," continued Wilton, desperately, when he found that the principal was
in no mood to listen to his backbiting.
"That will do, Wilton? I don't wish to hear anything more about that
matter. Your testimony against Shuffles, under present circumstances, is
not worth the breath you use in uttering it."
"I thought it was my duty to tell you, if any one was trying to get up a
mutiny."
"You did not think so; you are telling me this story to revenge yourself
against the third lieutenant for his fidelity. Whether there is, or is
not, any truth in what you say, I shall take no notice of it."
"It is all true, sir. He did speak to me about getting up a mutiny,
locking up the professors, taking the ship, and going round Cape Horn;
and he will not deny it."
"He will have no opportunity to deny it to me, for I shall not mention
the subject to him. Go to your duty, and remember that you have injured
yourself more than Shuffles by this course."
Wilton hung his head, and went forward, cheated of his revenge, and
disconcerted by the rebuke he had received.
Mr. Lowington was quite willing to believe that Shuffles had talked
about a mutiny, while he was in the steerage, but there was at least no
present danger of an extravagant scheme being put into operation. He
understood Shuffles perfectly; he knew that his high office and his
ambition were his only incentives to fidelity in the discharge of his
duty; but he had fairly won his position, and he was willing to let him
stand or fall by his own merits. He was not a young man of high moral
principle, as Paul Kendall, and Gordon, and Carnes were; but the
discipline of the ship was certainly doing wonders for him, though it
might ultimately fail of its ends.
The ship came to anchor, the band was sent on shore, and the Fourth of
July holidays were ended. On the following morning the studies were
resumed, and everything on board went on as usual. A few days later, the
ship went on a cruise to the eastward, spending a week in each of the
principal ports on the coast. The students soon became so accustomed to
the motion of the ship, that none of them were seasick and the
recitations were regularly heard, whether the Young America was in port
or at sea.
When the cold weather came, stoves were put up in the cabins and in the
steerage, and the routine of the ship was not disturbed; but Mr.
Lowington dreaded the ice and snow, and the severe weather of
mid-winter, and in November, the Young America started on a cruise to
the southward, and in the latter part of December she was in Chesapeake
Bay. In March she returned to Brockway. By this time the crew were all
thorough seamen, and had made excellent progress in their studies. Mr.
Lowington was entirely satisfied with the success of his experiment, and
was resolved to persevere in it.
The boys were in splendid discipline, and there had not been a case of
serious illness on board during the year. Besides the six hours of study
and recitation required of the pupils per day, they were all trained in
gymnastics by Dr. Winstock, the surgeon, who had a system of his own,
and was an enthusiast on the subject. This exercise, with the ordinary
ship's duty, kept them in excellent physical condition; and while their
brown faces and rosy cheeks indicated a healthy state of the body, their
forms were finely developed, and their muscles scientifically trained.
Greek and Latin, German and French, with the ordinary English branches
pursued in high schools and academies, were taught on board, and the
instructors were satisfied that the boys accomplished twice as much as
was ordinarily done in similar institutions on shore, and without injury
to the students. Everything was done by rule, and nothing was left to
the whims and caprices of teachers and scholars. Just so much study was
done every day, and no more. There was no sitting up nights; there were
no balls and parties, theatres and concerts, to interfere with the work;
no late suppers of escalloped oysters and lobster salads to be eaten.
Boys who had bad habits were watched, and injurious tendencies
corrected.
But the students enjoyed their life on shipboard. As the vessel went
from port to port, new scenes were opened to them. Those who could be
trusted were allowed to go on shore in their off-time; and as all their
privileges depended upon their good conduct, they were very careful to
do their duty, both as students and as seamen, cheerfully and
faithfully.
The Young America dropped her anchor in Brockway Harbor on the 5th of
March, on her return from her southern cruise. The first term of the
second year was to commence on the 1st of April, and it was understood
that the ship would sail for Europe on the last day of March. The vessel
needed some repairs, and all the students were allowed a furlough of
twenty days to visit their homes.
Several of the larger boys, including Carnes, had obtained places in the
navy, and were not to return. Two or three were to enter college in the
summer, and a few were to go into mercantile houses; but these vacancies
would be more than filled by the applicants who had been waiting months
for an opportunity to join the ship.
After the departure of the students, the Young America was docked, and
the necessary repairs made upon her. She was thoroughly cleansed and
painted, and came out as good as new. Before the return of the boys, her
provisions, water, and stores, were taken on board, and all the
preparations made for a foreign voyage. On the 25th of the month she was
anchored again at her old moorings, and in the course of the next two
days all the instructors and pupils were in their places. There were
eleven new boys.
"Young gentlemen," said Mr. Lowington, as he mounted his usual rostrum,
"I am happy to see you again, and to welcome you on board. Our
experience during the coming season will be much more interesting and
exciting than that of the last year. We shall proceed immediately to
Europe, and all who are worthy of the privilege will have an opportunity
to visit the principal cities of Europe--London, Paris, Naples, St.
Petersburg. We shall go up the Baltic and up the Mediterranean, in this
or a subsequent cruise, and I can safely promise you, not only an
interesting, but a profitable trip. In a circular I have informed your
parents and guardians of my purposes, and you are shipped this time for
a foreign voyage, with their consent and approval."
This speech caused no little excitement among the boys, who anticipated
a great deal from the summer voyage. It was no small thing to visit
London, Paris, and St. Petersburg, and not many boys obtain such an
opportunity.
"But, young gentlemen, I believe in discipline and progress, as most of
you know. I expect every student to do his whole duty; and I wish to
tell you now, that misconduct, and failures at recitation, will bring
heavy disappointments upon you. If you do nothing for yourselves, you
need expect nothing from me. For example, when the ship is going up the
Thames, if any one of you, or any number of you, should be guilty of
flagrant misconduct, or gross neglect of your studies, you will see no
more of the city of London than you can see from the cross-trees, for
you shall not put a foot on shore."
"Rather steep," whispered one of the new comers.
"That's so, but he means it," replied an old student.
"We shall be at sea, out of sight of land, for twenty or thirty days,"
continued Mr. Lowington. "We shall encounter storms and bad weather,
such as none of you have ever seen; for in going from port to port, last
season, we were enabled to avoid all severe weather. We shall go to sea
now with no harbor before us till we reach the other side of the
Atlantic, and we must take whatever comes. But the ship is as strong as
a ship can be built, and with good management she would stand any gale
that ever blew. Good management includes good discipline, and every
officer and seaman must be faithful in the discharge of his duty, for
the safety of the ship and all on board of her will depend upon the
fidelity of each individual.
"Young gentlemen, there are eleven new scholars: they must take the
vacant berths after the ship's company is organized on the old plan. The
offices will be given out and the berths drawn by the merit roll for
January, February, and a portion of March--only about nine weeks of term
time."
Shuffles, who stood near the principal, looked very much disconcerted
when this announcement was made, and whispered to Paul Kendall that it
was not fair to distribute the offices by last year's record. While the
Young America was lying at anchor in Chesapeake Bay, in December,
Shuffles, then second lieutenant, had received a letter from his mother,
in which she had informed him that his family would visit Europe in the
following spring, and that he would leave the ship, and form one of the
party. This information had caused him to relax his efforts as a
student, and he had fallen very low in rank. This was the reason why the
proposed distribution of offices was not fair.
When Shuffles went home on his furlough of twenty days, he had behaved
so badly that his father refused to have him form one of the party in
the trip abroad, and compelled him to return to the ship for another
year of wholesome discipline under Mr. Lowington. Angry and indignant,
Shuffles did return and the announcement that the offices were to be
distributed by the merit roll did not add to his equanimity.
"I will now read the record of marks," said the principal, "and announce
the officers for the next term."
The boys were silent and anxious; for places in the after cabin were
more highly valued than ever, now that the Young America was going to
Europe.
CHAPTER VIII.
OUTWARD BOUND.
Mr. Lowington read the merit roll, announcing the officers as he
proceeded. The occupants of the after cabin, who were appointed for the
succeeding three months, during which time the ship crossed the
Atlantic, and visited various European ports, were as follows:--
CHARLES GORDON,    Captain.
Joseph Haven,      First Lieutenant.
Paul Kendall,      Second     "
Samuel Goodwin,    Third      "
Augustus Pelham,   Fourth     "
William Foster,    First Master.
Henry Martyn,      Second  "
Thomas Ellis,      Third   "
Joseph Leavitt,    Fourth  "
Joseph O. Rogers,  First Purser.
Edward Murray,     Second  "
George W. Terrill, First Midshipman.
John Humphreys,    Second     "
Mark Robinson,     Third      "
Andrew Groom,      Fourth     "
The students mentioned in the list made the required promise to behave
themselves like gentlemen, and faithfully discharge the duties of their
several offices, and were duly installed in their new positions in the
after cabin. Most of them had been officers before, but all of them were
higher in rank than at any former period. Richard Carnes had been
captain four terms, for no one could get ahead of him.
The new captain had been first lieutenant, during the preceding year,
three terms out of four, and was certainly the best qualified student on
board for the command. He was a young man of high moral aims, with much
dignity of character and energy of purpose.
The officers went to the after cabin, put on their uniforms, and assumed
their proper places. The choice of berths in the steerage proceeded as
usual, according to the merit roll, and the petty offices were given to
the highest in rank. The new boys took the unoccupied berths by lot. The
organization of the ship was now completed, and the students were
directed to put their berths and lockers in order. The remainder of the
day was fully occupied in preparing for the voyage. Great quantities of
ice and fresh provisions were taken on board, and packed away in the
store rooms of the hold, and all was bustle and confusion.
On Thursday morning the ship was put in order again. The vessel had been
duly cleared at the custom house, and every article required for the
voyage had been received. The boys were ordered to put on their best
suits, and at nine o'clock a steamer came off, having on board a large
number of the parents and friends of the students. The forenoon was
given up to this interesting occasion. It was a beautiful day, with a
gentle breeze from the westward, and at twelve o'clock, all hands were
mustered on deck for religious services, to be performed by the
chaplain, in the presence of the friends of the pupils.
Mr. Lowington was a religious man, and the position of the Rev. Mr.
Agneau, as chaplain on board, was by no means a sinecure. Services had
always been held twice a day on Sunday. At five minutes before eight in
the morning, and at the same time in the evening, prayers were said on
deck, or in the steerage, in the presence of the entire ship's company.
On the point of leaving the shores of the United States, it seemed
highly appropriate to invoke the blessing of God on the voyage and the
voyagers, and the principal had directed that the service should be
conducted in the presence of the parents and friends.
The prayer and the remarks of the chaplain were very solemn and
impressive, and even the roughest of the students were moved by them. At
the conclusion of the religious service, Mr. Lowington addressed the
visitors, explaining the details of his plan more fully than he had done
in his circulars, and saying what he could to inspire the parents with
confidence in regard to the safety of their sons. It need not be said
that there were many tears shed on this occasion.
At the close of the speech a collation was served to the visitors, in
the cabins and steerage, after which another hour was allowed for social
intercourse; and then the ship was cleared, the visitors going on board
the steamer again, which was to accompany the Young America below the
lighthouse. The boys were sent below to change their clothes again.
"All hands, up anchor, ahoy!" piped the boatswain; and the crew sprang
to their stations with more than usual alacrity.
This was a greater event than they had ever known before. The anchor,
which was now to be hauled up, was not to be dropped again for about a
month, and then in foreign waters. They were going out upon the waste of
the ocean, to be driven and tossed by the storms of the Atlantic. They
were bidding farewell to their native land, not again to look upon its
shores for many months. They were boys, and they were deeply impressed
by the fact.
The capstan was manned, and the cable hove up to a short stay. The
topsails and top-gallant sails were set; then the anchor was hauled up
to the hawse-hole, catted and fished. The Young America moved; she wore
round, and her long voyage was commenced. The courses and the royals
were set, and she moved majestically down the bay. The steamer kept
close by her, and salutations by shouts, cheers, and the waving of
handkerchiefs, were continually interchanged, till the ship was several
miles outside of the lower light.
The steamer whistled several times, to indicate that she was about to
return. All hands were then ordered into the rigging of the ship; and
cheer after cheer was given by the boys, and acknowledged by cheers on
the part of the gentlemen, and the waving of handkerchiefs by the
ladies. The steamer came about; the moment of parting had come, and she
was headed towards the city. Some of the students wept then; for,
whatever charms there were in the voyage before them, the ties of home
and friends were still strong. As long as the steamer could be seen,
signals continued to pass between her and the ship.
"Captain Gordon, has the first master given the quartermaster the course
yet?" asked Mr. Lowington, when the steamer had disappeared among the
islands of the bay.
"No, sir; but Mr. Fluxion told him to make it east-north-east."
"Very well; but the masters should do this duty," added Mr. Lowington,
as he directed the instructor in mathematics to require the masters, to
whom belonged the navigation of the ship, to indicate the course.
William Foster was called, and sent into the after cabin with his
associates, to obtain the necessary sailing directions. The masters had
been furnished with a supply of charts, which they had studied daily, as
they were instructed in the theory of laying down the ship's course.
Foster unrolled the large chart of the North Atlantic Ocean upon the
dinner table, and with parallel ruler, pencil, and compasses, proceeded
to perform his duty.
"We want to go just south of Cape Sable," said he, placing his pencil
point on that part of the chart.
"How far south of it?" asked Harry Martyn.
"Say twenty nautical miles."
The first master dotted the point twenty miles south of Cape Sable,
which is the southern point of Nova Scotia, and also the ship's
position, with his pencil. He then placed one edge of the parallel
ruler on both of these points, thus connecting them with a straight
line.
A parallel ruler consists of two smaller rulers, each an inch in width
and a foot in length, connected together by two flat pieces of brass,
riveted into each ruler, acting as a kind of hinge. The parts, when
separated, are always parallel to each other.
Foster placed the edge of the ruler on the two points made with the
pencil, one indicating the ship's present position, the other the
position she was to obtain after sailing two or three days. Putting the
fingers of his left hand on the brass knob of the ruler, by which the
parts are moved, he pressed down and held its upper half, joining the
two points, firmly in its place. With the fingers of the right hand he
moved the lower half down, which, in its turn, he kept firmly in place,
while he slipped the upper half over the paper, thus preserving the
direction between the points. By this process the parallel ruler could
be moved all over the chart without losing the course from one point to
the other.
On every chart there are one or more diagrams of the compass, with lines
diverging from a centre, representing all the points. The parallel ruler
is worked over the chart to one of these diagrams, where the direction
to which it has been set nearly or exactly coincides with one of the
lines representing a point of the compass.
The first master of the Young America worked the ruler down to a
diagram, and found that it coincided with the line indicating east by
north; or one point north of east.
"That's the course," said Thomas Ellis, the third master--"east by
north."
"I think not," added Foster. "If we steer that course, we should go
forty or fifty miles south of Cape Sable, and thus run much farther than
we need. What is the variation?"
"About twelve degrees west," replied Martyn.
The compass does not indicate the true north in all parts of the earth,
the needle varying in the North Atlantic Ocean from thirty degrees east
to nearly thirty degrees west. There is an imaginary line, extending in
a north-westerly direction, through a point in the vicinity of Cape
Lookout, called the magnetic meridian, on which there is no variation.
East of this line the needle varies to the westward; and west of the
line, to the eastward. These variations of the compass are marked on the
chart, in different latitudes and longitudes, though they need to be
occasionally corrected by observations, for they change slightly from
year to year.
"Variation of twelve degrees,"[1] repeated Foster, verifying the
statement by an examination of the chart. That is equal to about one
point, which, carried to the westward from east by north, will give the
course east-north-east.
[Footnote 1: These calculations are merely approximate, being intended
only to illustrate the principle.]
The process was repeated, and the same result being obtained, the first
master reported the course to Mr. Fluxion, who had made the calculation
himself, in the professors' cabin.
"Quartermaster, make the course east-north-east," said the first master,
when his work had been duly approved by the instructor.
"East-north-east, sir!" replied the quartermaster, who was conning the
wheel--that is, he was watching the compass, and seeing that the two
wheelmen kept the ship on her course.
There were two other compasses on deck, one on the quarter-deck, and
another forward of the mainmast which the officers on duty were required
frequently to consult, in order that any negligence in one place might
be discovered in another. The after cabin and the professors' cabin were
also provided with "tell-tales," which are inverted compasses, suspended
under the skylights, by which the officers and instructors below could
observe the ship's course.
The log indicated that the ship was making six knots an hour, the rate
being ascertained every two hours, and entered on the log-slate, to be
used in making up the "dead reckoning." The Young America had taken her
"departure," that is, left the last land to be seen, at half past three
o'clock. At four, when the log was heaved, she had made three miles; at
six, fifteen miles; at eight, the wind diminishing and the log
indicating but four knots, only eight miles were to be added for the two
hours' run, making twenty-three miles in all. The first sea day would
end at twelve o'clock on the morrow, when the log-slate would indicate
the total of nautical miles the ship had run after taking her departure.
This is called her dead reckoning, which may be measured off on the
chart, and should carry the vessel to the point indicated by the
observations for latitude and longitude.
The wind was very light, and studding-sails were set alow and aloft. The
ship only made her six knots as she pitched gently in the long swell of
the ocean. The boys were still nominally under the order of "all hands
on deck," but there was nothing for them to do, with the exception of
the wheelmen, and they were gazing at the receding land behind them.
They were taking their last view of the shores of their native land.
Doubtless some of them were inclined to be sentimental, but most of them
were thinking of the pleasant sights they were to see, and the exciting
scenes in which they were to engage on the other side of the rolling
ocean, and were as jolly as though earth had no sorrows for them.
The principal and the professors were pacing the quarter-deck, and
doubtless some of them were wondering whether boys like the crew of the
Young America could be induced to study and recite their lessons amid
the excitement of crossing the Atlantic, and the din of the great
commercial cities of the old world. The teachers were energetic men, and
they were hopeful, at least, especially as study and discipline were the
principal elements of the voyage, and each pupil's privileges were to
depend upon his diligence and his good behavior. It would be almost
impossible for a boy who wanted to go to Paris while the ship was lying
at Havre, so far to neglect his duties as to forfeit the privilege of
going. As these gentlemen have not been formally introduced, the
"faculty" of the ship is here presented:--
Robert Lowington, Principal.
Rev. Thomas Agneau, Chaplain.
Dr. Edward B. Winstock, Surgeon.
INSTRUCTORS.
John Paradyme, A.M., Greek and Latin.
Richard Modelle, Reading and Grammar.
Charles C. Mapps, A.M., Geography and History.
James E. Fluxion, Mathematics.
Abraham Carboy, M.D., Chemistry and Nat. Phil.
Adolph Badois, French and German.
These gentlemen were all highly accomplished teachers in their several
departments, as the progress of the students during the preceding year
fully proved. They were interested in their work, and in sympathy with
the boys, as well as with the principal.
It was a very quiet time on board, and the crew were collected in little
groups, generally talking of the sights they were to see. In the waist
were Shuffles, Monroe, and Wilton, all feuds among them having been
healed. They appeared to be the best of friends, and it looked ominous
for the discipline of the ship to see them reunited. Shuffles was
powerful for good or evil, as he chose, and Mr. Lowington regretted that
he had fallen from his high position, fearing that the self-respect
which had sustained him as an officer would desert him as a seaman, and
permit him to fall into excesses.
Shuffles was more dissatisfied and discontented than he had ever been
before. He had desired to make the tour of Europe with his father, and
he was sorely disappointed when denied this privilege; for with the
family he would be free from restraint, and free from hard study. When
he lost his rank as an officer, he became desperate and reckless. To
live in the steerage and do seaman's duty for three months, after he had
enjoyed the luxuries of authority, and of a state-room in the after
cabin, were intolerable. After the cabin offices had been distributed,
he told Monroe that he intended to run away that night; but he had found
no opportunity to do so; and it was unfortunate for his shipmates that
he did not.
"This isn't bad--is it, Shuffles?" said Wilton, as the ship slowly
ploughed her way through the billows.
"I think it is. I had made up my mouth to cross the ocean in a steamer,
and live high in London and Paris," replied Shuffles. "I don't relish
this thing, now."
"Why not?" asked Wilton.
"I don't feel at home here."
"I do."
"Because you never were anywhere else. I ought to be captain of this
ship."
"Well, you can be, if you have a mind to work for it," added Monroe.
"Work for it! That's played out. I must stay in the steerage three
months, at any rate; and that while the burden of the fun is going on.
If we were going to lie in harbor, or cruise along the coast, I would go
in for my old place."
"But Carnes is out of the way now, and your chance is better this year
than it was last," suggested Monroe.
"I know that, but I can't think of straining every nerve for three
months, two of them while we are going from port to port in Europe. When
we go ashore at Queenstown, I shall have to wear a short jacket, instead
of the frock coat of an officer; and I think the jacket would look
better on some younger fellow."
"What are you going to do, Shuffles?" asked Wilton.
"I'd rather be a king among hogs, than a hog among kings."
"What do you mean by that?"
"No matter; there's time enough to talk over these things."
"Do you mean a mutiny?" laughed Wilton.
"Haven't you forgotten that?"
"No."
"I wonder what Lowington would say, if he knew I had proposed such a
thing," added Shuffles, thoughtfully.
"He did know it, at the time you captured the runaways, for I told him."
"Did you?" demanded Shuffles, his brow contracting with anger.
"I told you I would tell him, and I did," answered Wilton. "You were a
traitor to our fellows, and got us into a scrape."
"I was an officer then."
"No matter for that. Do you suppose, if I were an officer, I would
throw myself in your way when you were up to anything?"
"I don't know whether you would or not; but I wouldn't blow on you, if
you had told me anything in confidence. What did Lowington say?"
"Nothing; he wouldn't take any notice of what I said."
"That was sensible on his part. One thing is certain, Wilton: you can't
be trusted."
"You mustn't make me mad, then."
"I will keep things to myself hereafter," growled Shuffles.
"Don't be savage. You served me a mean trick, and I paid you off for it;
so we are square."
"We will keep square then, and not open any new accounts."
"But you will want me when anything is up," laughed Wilton. "What would
you do without me in getting up a mutiny?"
"Who said anything about a mutiny?"
"I know you are thinking over something, and you don't mean to submit to
the discipline of the ship, if you can help it."
"Well, I can't help it."
"There goes the boatswain's whistle, piping to muster," said Monroe.
"Confound the boatswain's whistle!" growled Shuffles. "I don't like the
idea of running every time he pipes."
Very much to the surprise of his companions, Shuffles, his irritation
increased by the conduct of Wilton, took no notice of the call, and went
forward, instead of aft. His companions, more wise and prudent, walked
up to the hatch, which Mr. Lowington had just mounted.
"Groom, tell Shuffles to come aft," said the principal to one of the
midshipmen.
The officer obeyed the order; Shuffles flatly refused to go aft. Mr.
Lowington descended from his rostrum and went forward to enforce
obedience. This event created a profound sensation among the students.
"Shuffles," said Mr Lowington, sternly.
"Sir," replied the malcontent, in a surly tone.
"The boatswain piped the crew to muster."
"I heard him."
"You did not obey the call. I sent for you, and you refused to come."
"I don't think I ought to obey the boatswain's call."
"May I ask why not?"
"I've been an officer three terms, and I should be now if we had had
fair play," growled Shuffles.
"I am not disposed to argue this point in your present frame of mind. I
order you to go aft."
"And I won't go!" replied Shuffles, impudently.
"Mr. Peaks," said the principal, calling the senior boatswain.
"Here, sir," replied Peaks, touching his hat to the principal.
"Mr. Leech," added Mr. Lowington.
"Here, sir."
"Walk this young gentleman aft."
"Let me alone!" cried Shuffles, as Peaks placed his hand upon him.
"Gently, my sweet lamb," said the boatswain, with affected tenderness.
"Take your hands off me!" roared the mutinous pupil, as he struggled to
release himself from the grasp of the stalwart seaman.
Peaks took him by the collar with one hand, and held his wrist with the
other, on one side, while Leech did the same on the other side.
"Walk him aft," repeated the principal.
"Mr. Fluxion, may I trouble you to bring up the irons?" continued Mr.
Lowington, when the boatswain and carpenter had "walked" the rebel aft,
in spite of his struggling and kicking.
"Irons!" gasped Shuffles, as he heard the request of the principal.
He trembled with rage as he uttered the word. The irons seemed to pierce
his soul. Probably he did not think that the son of a wealthy gentleman
would be compelled to submit to such an indignity as being put in irons.
Mr. Fluxion came on deck with a pair of handcuffs. It was the first time
they had been seen, and no student even knew there were any on board.
The discipline of the ship had been as gentle as it was firm, and this
was the first time such instruments were necessary.
"Mr. Peaks, put the irons on him!" said Mr. Lowington, his usual dignity
unruffled by angry emotions.
"Don't put them on me!" cried Shuffles, making an effort to disengage
himself from the grasp of his captors.
"Put them on at once!" added the principal.
"You shall not put them on me! I will die first!" roared the rebel.
It was easier to talk than to do, in the hands of two sturdy sailors,
one of whom had used the cat in the navy, when its use was tolerated.
Shuffles did not die, and he was ironed, in spite of his struggles and
his protest.
CHAPTER IX.
THE WATCH-BILL.
Shuffles struggled with the irons and with the stout men who held him
until he had exhausted himself; and then, because his frame, rather than
his spirit, was worn down, he was quiet. It was the first case of severe
discipline that had occurred on board, and it created a tremendous
sensation among the students.
Mr. Lowington stood with folded arms, watching the vain struggles of the
culprit, until he was reduced to a state of comparative calmness. He
looked sad, rather than angry, and his dignity was not impaired by the
assault upon his authority.
"Shuffles, I am sorry to see one who has been an officer of the ship
reduced to your condition; but discipline must and shall be maintained,"
said the principal. "We are on the high seas now, and disobedience is
dangerous. You led me to believe that you had reformed your life and
conduct."
"It isn't my fault," replied Shuffles, angrily.
"You had better not reply to me in that tone," added Mr. Lowington,
mildly.
"Yes, I will!"
"Mr. Topliffe," continued the principal.
"Here, sir," replied the head steward.
"You will have the brig cleared out for use."
"Yes, sir;" and the head steward went below to obey the order.
There was not a boy on board who knew what the "brig" was, though the
establishment had existed in the steerage from the time when the boys
first went on board the ship. It had never before been required for use,
and Mr. Lowington had carefully veiled every disagreeable feature of
discipline, until it was necessary to exhibit it. The brig was the
prison of the ship--the lock-up. It was located under and abaft the main
ladder, in the steerage, being an apartment five feet in length by three
feet in width. The partitions which enclosed it were composed of upright
planks, eight inches in width, with spaces between them for the
admission of light and air.
The brig had been used as a store room for bedding by the stewards, and
the students never suspected, till Shuffles' case came up, that it was
not built for a closet. Mr. Topliffe and his assistants removed the
blankets and comforters from this lock-up, and prepared it for the
reception of the refractory pupil. When the room was ready he went on
deck, and reported the fact to the principal.
"Shuffles, our discipline has always been of the mildest character,"
said Mr. Lowington, breaking the impressive silence which reigned on
deck. "I regret to be compelled to resort to force in any form; even now
I would avoid it."
"You needn't, on my account," replied Shuffles, shaking his head. "You
have done your worst already."
"Mr. Peaks, take him below, lock him up in the brig, and bring the key
to me."
The manacled rebel made another effort to resist, but the stout sailors
easily handled him, and bore him down into the steerage. He was thrust
into the brig, ironed as he was, and the door locked upon him. Shuffles
glanced at the interior of the prison, and broke out into a contemptuous
laugh. He then commenced kicking the pales of the partition? but he
might as well have attempted to break through the deck beneath.
"Shuffles," said Peaks, in a low tone, when he had locked the door, "be
a man. You act like a spoiled child now."
"I have been insulted, and abused," replied Shuffles, fiercely.
"No, you haven't. Aboard almost any ship, you would have got a knock on
the head with a handspike before this time. Don't make a fool of
yourself. You are only making yourself ridiculous now--'pon my word as
an old sailor, you are."
"I'll have satisfaction."
"No, you won't, unless you break your own head. I want to advise you, as
a friend, not to make a fool of yourself. I'm sorry for you, my lad."
"Don't talk to me."
"I can forgive you for disobeying orders, but I can't forgive you for
being a fool. Now, keep quiet, and be a man."
The well-meant effort of the boatswain to pacify the culprit was a
failure, and Peaks, going on deck, delivered the key of the brig to Mr.
Lowington. Shuffles kicked against the partition till he was tired of
the exercise.
"Young gentlemen, to-day we enter upon a new experience on shipboard,"
said the principal, without making any further allusion to Shuffles.
"Our short trips last season were so timed that we kept no regular night
watches, and, with two or three exceptions, the ship was at anchor when
you slept. Of course that is not practicable on a long voyage, and you
must all do duty by night as well as by day.
"This has been a difficult matter to arrange, for you are all too young
to be deprived of your regular sleep, though in heavy weather I am
afraid you will lose your rest to some extent. At eight o'clock this
evening the starboard watch will be on duty. We have four times as many
hands on board the Young America as are usually employed in merchant
ships, so that a quarter watch will be able to handle the ship on all
ordinary occasions. We shall, therefore, keep a quarter watch on ship's
duty at all times through the twenty-four hours.
"During the night, including the time from eight in the evening until
eight in the morning, each quarter watch will be on duty two hours, and
then off six hours; and each hand will obtain six consecutive hours'
sleep every night. At eight this evening, the first part of the
starboard watch will have the ship in charge, and all others may turn in
and sleep. At ten, the second part of the starboard watch will be
called, without disturbing any others. At twelve, the first part of the
port watch will be summoned; at two, the second part; and so on till
eight in the morning.
"The first part of the starboard watch, which turned in at ten, will
sleep till four, giving them six hours of rest all together, and they
may turn in again at six o'clock, when relieved by the second part, and
sleep till half past seven, which is breakfast time for those off duty.
"During the daytime, from eight in the morning till eight in the
evening, the same routine will be observed To-morrow, at eight in the
morning, the first part of the port watch will take charge of the ship
till ten; the second part will be off duty, and the time will be their
own, to use as they think proper. At ten, the second part will be in
charge, and the first will have their own time till twelve. All the
starboard watch, during these four hours, will study and recite. In the
afternoon the same course will be pursued with the other watch. Do you
understand it?"
"Yes, sir," replied the boys.
"By this arrangement you will average three hours of duty every night.
To-night the port watch will be on deck two hours, and the starboard
watch, whose turn will come twice, four hours; but to-morrow night the
operation will be reversed, and the port will have the deck four hours,
and the starboard but two. Two copies of the watch bill will be posted
in the steerage, and one in the after cabin. Young gentlemen, I
recommend you to study it, until you are perfectly familiar with its
requirements."
"How is it with the officers, Mr. Lowington?" asked Paul Kendall, who
was generally the spokesman for his companions.
"The officers are divided into watches in precisely the same manner as
the crew. To the starboard watch belong the first and third lieutenant,
the second and fourth master, and the first and third midshipman, which
makes one officer of each grade for each quarter watch," replied Mr.
Lowington. "Their off-time and study-time correspond with those of the
crew."
It is quite possible that the officers and crew of the Young America
understood the complicated arrangement of the principal. If they did
not, they could refer to the posted document; and, as we cannot deprive
our readers of this privilege, we insert in full, the
     WATCH BILL. FIRST DAY.
     First Watch, from 8 till 12 P.M.
     From 8 till 10. 1st Lieut., 2d Master, 1st Mid. First Part of the
     Starboard Watch.
     From 10 till 12. 3d Lieut., 4th Master, 3d Mid. Second Part of the
     Starboard Watch.
     Mid Watch, from 12 till 4 A.M.
     From 12 till 2. 2d Lieut., 1st Master, 2d Mid. First Part of the
     Port Watch.
     From 2 till 4. 4th Lieut., 3d Master, 4th Mid. Second Part of the
     Port Watch.
     Morning Watch, from 4 till 8 A.M.
     From 4 till 6. 1st Lieut., 2d Master, 1st Mid. First Part of the
     Starboard Watch.
     From 6 till 8. 3d Lieut., 4th Master, 3d Mid. Second Part of the
     Starboard Watch.
     Forenoon Watch, from 8 till 12 A.M.
     From 8 till 10. 2d Lieut., 1st Master, 2d Mid. First Part of the
     Port Watch. Second Part of Port Watch off Duty. All the Starboard
     Watch study and recite till 12.
     From 10 till 12. 4th Lieut., 3d Master, 4th Mid. Second Part of
     Port Watch. First Part of Port Watch off Duty.
     Afternoon Watch, from 12 till 4 P.M.
     From 12 till 2. 1st Lieut., 2d Master, 1st Mid. First Part of
     Starboard Watch. Second Part of the Starboard Watch off Duty. All
     the Port Watch study and recite till 4.
     From 2 till 4. 3d Lieut., 4th Master, 3d Mid. Second Part of the
     Starboard Watch. First Part of the Starboard Watch off Duty.
     First Dog Watch, from 4 till 6 P.M.
     From 4 till 5. 2d Lieut., 1st Master, 2d Mid. First Part of the
     Port Watch. Second Part of the Port Watch off Duty. All the
     Starboard Watch study and recite till 6.
     From 5 till 6. 4th Lieut., 3d Master, 4th Mid. Second Part of the
     Port Watch. First Part of the Port Watch off Duty.
     Second Dog Watch, from 6 till 8 P.M.
     From 6 till 7. 1st Lieut., 2d Master, 1st Mid. First Part of the
     Starboard Watch. Second Part of the Starboard Watch off Duty. All
     the Port Watch study and recite till 8.
     From 7 till 8. 3d Lieut., 4th Master, 3d Mid. Second Part of the
     Starboard Watch. First Part of the Starboard Watch off Duty.
     Breakfast.
     Port Watch, 7-1/2 o'clock. Starboard Watch, 8 o'clock.
     Dinner.
     Starboard Watch, 11-1/2 o'clock. Port Watch, 12 o'clock.
     Supper.
     Starboard Watch, 5-1/2 o'clock. Port Watch, 6 o'clock.
The watch bill for the second day was the same, with the exception of
the names of the watches and quarter watches. The entire programme was
reversed by the operation of the dog watches, which substituted "port"
for "starboard," and "starboard" for "port," in the next day's routine.
When the boys were permitted to go below, they rushed to the watch
bills, and studied them faithfully, till they fully understood the
programme. Each student ascertained his duty for the night, and his
off-time and study-hours for the next day, which were included in the
first day's bill.
"I go on at twelve o'clock," said Paul Kendall, in the after cabin, when
he had examined the bill.
"And I go on deck at eight o'clock," added Joseph Haven, the first
lieutenant. "I shall have a chance to sleep from ten till four in the
morning, and an hour and a half, from six till half past seven."
"I shall have my watch below from two till breakfast time. I don't think
we need wear ourselves out under this arrangement."
"No; I thought we should be obliged to take four hours of duty at a time
on deck."
"How will it be when we have rough weather?" asked Paul.
"I don't know; I suppose we must take our chances then."
"What do you think of Shuffles' case?" added Paul.
"He will get the worst of it."
"I'm sorry for him. He behaved first rate last year, though they say he
used to be a hard fellow."
"What's the use of a fellow doing as he has done?" said Haven, with
palpable disgust. "He can't make anything by it."
"Of course he can't."
"I would rather have him in the cabin than in the steerage, for he will
not obey orders; and when he is ugly, he is a perfect tiger. I wonder
what Mr. Lowington is going to do with him. There is no such thing as
expelling a fellow in this institution now. If he means to be
cross-grained, he can keep us in hot water all the time."
The officers were too much excited by the fact that the ship was outward
bound to remain long in the cabin, and they returned to the deck to
watch the progress of the vessel. At eight o'clock the Young America was
out of sight of land, though it would have been too dark to see it ten
miles distant. The quartermaster, at the helm, struck eight bells, which
were repeated on the forecastle.
"All the first part of the starboard watch, ahoy!" shouted the
boatswain, for it was now time to commence the programme of regular sea
duty.
The first lieutenant took his place, as officer of the deck, near the
helm; the second master on the forecastle and the third midshipman in
the waist. The first part of the starboard watch were stationed in
various parts of the deck. Of the four quartermasters, one was attached
to each quarter watch. The wheel was given to two hands for the first
hour, and two were placed on the top-gallant forecastle, to act as the
lookout men, to be relieved after one hour's service. The rest of the
boys were required to keep awake, but no special duty was assigned to
them. There were hands enough on deck to "tack ship," or to take in the
sails, one or two at a time.
Though the ship was nominally in the hands and under the direction of
her juvenile officers, who performed all the duties required in working
her, yet they were closely watched by the principal, who, if there was
anything wrong, informed the captain of the fact. The commander kept no
watch, but he was responsible for every manoeuvre, and for the regular
routine of duty. Mr. Lowington seldom spoke to any other officer in
regard to ship's duty or the navigation.
When the watch was set, at eight bells, most of the boys who were off
duty went into the steerage. Some of them turned in; but the novelty of
the occasion was too great to permit them to sleep. They collected in
groups, to talk over the prospects of the voyage, and the duties
required of them, as indicated by the watch bill.
Shuffles sat on a stool in the brig, still nursing his wrath. When his
supper was carried to him by the steward, his irons had been taken off.
He refused to eat, and the food was removed. As he was now quiet, the
irons were not replaced. The prisoner was far from penitent for his
offence.
Mr. Agneau, the chaplain, was very much concerned about the prisoner. He
was shocked by his disobedience, and pained to find that one who had
done so well could do so ill. The case had been fully considered in the
professors' cabin; and Mr. Lowington declared that Shuffles should stay
in the brig till he had repented of his folly, and promised obedience
for the future. The chaplain was a tender-hearted man, and he thought
that some gentle words might touch the feelings of the prisoner, and
bring him to a sense of duty. With the principal's permission,
therefore, he paid a visit to Shuffles in the evening.
"I am very sorry to find you here, Shuffles," said Mr. Agneau, when he
had locked the door behind him.
"Has Lowington sent you to torment me?" demanded the prisoner.
"Mr. Lowington, you mean," added the chaplain, gently.
"No, I mean Lowington. When a man has abused and insulted me, I can't
stop to put a handle to his name."
"I regret to find you in such an unhappy frame of mind, my young friend.
I came here of my own accord, to do what I might to help you."
"Did you, indeed!" sneered Shuffles.
"That was my only object."
"Was it? Well, if you want to help me, you will induce Lowington to let
me out of this crib, apologize for what he has done, and give me my
place in the after cabin."
"That is plainly impossible," replied the astonished chaplain.
"Then you can't do anything for me; and I think I can take care of
myself."
"I entreat you, my young friend, to consider the error of your ways."
"There is no error in my ways, Mr. Agneau."
"You are unreasonable."
"No, I'm not. I only want what is fair and right."
"Was it right for you, Shuffles, to refuse obedience to the principal,
when he told you to go aft?"
"I have always obeyed all proper orders; and under the circumstances, I
think it was right for me to refuse."
"You fill me with amazement!" exclaimed the chaplain.
"You know it was not fair to give out the offices by last year's marks,"
protested Shuffles.
"On the contrary, I think it was entirely fair."
"I haven't anything more to say if it was," replied Shuffles, in surly
tones.
The chaplain, finding the prisoner was not in a proper frame of mind for
edifying conversation, left him, and returned to the professors' cabin.
The boys had been forbidden to go near the brig, or to speak to the
prisoner; and thus far no one had exhibited any disposition to disregard
the order. Many of them, as they passed near the brig, glanced curiously
at him. After the departure of the chaplain, Wilton sat down on a stool
near the lock-up.
"How are you. Shuffles?" said he, in a low tone.
"Come here, Wilton--will you?" replied the prisoner.
"I can't; we are not allowed to speak to you."
"What do you care for that? No one can see you."
"What do you want?"
"I want to talk with you."
"I shall be punished if I'm caught."
"You won't be caught. How are our fellows now?"
"First rate," replied Wilton, walking up and down the berth deck, rising
and looking as though nothing was going on.
"You know what we were talking about just before the row," added
Shuffles, drawing his stool up to the palings.
"You said you wouldn't trust me," answered Wilton, still pacing the deck
in front of the brig.
"You told Lowington about something he had no business to know; but I
forgive you, Wilton."
"You are very willing to forgive me, now you are in a tight place."
"It was mean of you to do it, Wilton; you can't deny that. Lowington was
on the best of terms with me when I was in the after cabin, and I might
have told him a hundred things about you."
"Didn't you tell him anything?"
"Not a word."
"Well, you are a good fellow, and I always thought you were. I couldn't
see why you turned traitor to us when we intended to spend the Fourth of
July on shore."
"I was obliged to do what I did. If I hadn't, I should have been turned
out of my office."
"Perhaps you were right, Shuffles, and we won't say anything more about
the past," replied Wilton, who was too willing to be on good terms with
the powerful malcontent, even while he was a prisoner and in disgrace.
"Wilton, I am going to be captain of this ship within ten days," said
Shuffles, in a whisper. "Now you may go and tell Lowington of that."
"Of course I shall not tell him," added Wilton, indignantly.
"I told you merely to show you that I had full confidence in you--that's
all. You can betray me if you wish to do so."
"I don't wish to do anything of the kind. Of course we shall always go
together, as we did before you were an officer."
"I shall be an officer again soon."
"What's the use of talking about such a thing?"
"I shall."
"Do you mean to get up the mutiny?"
"I do. I feel more like it now than I ever did before," replied
Shuffles; and his low tones came from between his closed teeth.
"It's no use to think of such a thing. It's too wild."
"No matter if it is; it shall be carried out."
"The fellows won't go in for it; they won't dare to do it."
"Yes, they will. I know them better than you do, Wilton. It isn't quite
time yet; but in three or four days they will be ready for anything."
"You can't bring them up to what you mean."
"Yes, I can."
"What do you expect to do, locked up in that place?" demanded Wilton,
incredulously.
"When I get ready to go out of this place, I shall go. I needn't stay
here any longer than I please."
"Do you really mean to get up a mutiny?"
"Hush! Don't call it by that name."
"What shall I call it?"
"Call it making a chain."
"I don't understand you," answered Wilton, puzzled by the expression.
"I know what I'm about, and I have got more friends in the ship than
Lowington has. And I know exactly how to manage the whole thing," added
Shuffles, confidently.
"But the fellows are all perfectly satisfied with their condition. They
wish to go to Europe, and are pleased with the prospect before them."
"Perhaps they are; and they shall all go to Europe, and travel about
without being tied to Lowington's coat-tails. I shall come out of this
place to-morrow, and we will work the thing up."
"I'm in for a time with any good fellow; but I don't think we can make
this thing go," said Wilton. "Hush! Don't say another word. There comes
an officer."
One bell, indicating half past eight in the evening, struck on deck. It
was the duty of the master and midshipman on deck, alternately, to pass
through the steerage every half hour during the watch, to see that there
was no disorder, and that the lights were all secure, so as to avoid any
danger from fire. Henry Martyn, the second master, performed this office
on the present occasion. He descended the main ladder, and Wilton, who
expected the visit when he heard the stroke of the bell, retreated to
his mess room, and threw himself into his berth. Harry walked around the
steerage, and glanced into the gangways, from which the rooms opened.
"Harry," said Shuffles, in a low tone, as the master was about to return
to the deck.
"Did you speak to me?" asked Harry, stepping up to the bars of the cage.
"I did. Will you oblige me by telling the chaplain that I would like to
see him?" added the prisoner.
"I will;" and Harry knocked at the door of the professors' cabin.
CHAPTER X.
MAKING A CHAIN.
The chaplain was too glad of an opportunity to converse with the
prisoner to refuse his request, and he hastened to the brig, hoping to
find Shuffles in a better state of mind than when he had visited him
before. Mr. Agneau entered the lock-up, and was securing the door behind
