makes me feel mean." 
 
" It need not ; take it, Lawry, for you will want 
money to provision your boat in the morning." 
Captain Lawry took it, though it seemed to burp 
his fingers. 
" Now, my boy, you shall have your own way. I 
will force nothing more on you, except what I fairly 
owe you, and you shall make your fortune without 
any help or hinderance from anybody." 
"I owe you now " 
" Silence, Lawy ! " laughed Mr. Sherwood. " There 
comes your second fireman." 
As the man came down the gang-plank, he handed 
Mr. Sherwood a long package, done up in brown 
paper. 
" One thing more, Lawry," said his munificent 
friend, as he led the way to the engine-room, which 
was lighted by a lantern. " Will you let me put this 
sign up over the front windows in the wheel-house ? " 
" Certainly, sir. What is it ? " 
"It is the motto of the steamer, and fully explains 
how I lost the boat," replied Mr. Sherwood, as he 
unrolled the package. 
It was a small sign, about three feet in length, 
 
elegantly painted and gilded, on which was the 
motto, — 
" While you were at Port Henry, repairing the 
boat, I went up to Burlington, where I ordered this 
to be done. It came down to-day, and I want it 
put up in the wheel-house, where it will be constantly 
before your eyes, as the best axiom in the world for 
a steamboat man. It will be the history of the 
Woodville to you, and I hope you will always act 
upon it, never running your boat above a safe speed, 
and never leaving your wharf when it is imprudent 
to do so." 
" I shall be very glad to have those words always 
before me," replied Lawry. 
" When you are ready to go, captain, we are," 
said Mr. Sherwood. 
" I'm all ready, sir." 
Lawry turned, and to his astonishment saw Mrs. 
Sherwood and Miss Fanny, who had been looking 
over his shoulder at the pretty sign. 
" We are going with you, Captain Lawry,'" added 
Mr. Sherwood ; " that is, if you won't charge us 
anything for our passage." 
 
" I am very happy to have you as passengers," 
stammered Lawry. 
" We are so much in love with your little boat, 
Lawry, that we could not stay away from her," added 
Mrs. Sherwood. 
" And her little captain," said Miss Fanny. 
Lawry was good for nothing at complimentary 
speeches, and he went aft to give the girls directions 
to light up the cabin and the two state-rooms for the 
accommodation of his unexpected passengers. 
" Where's Fanny Jane ? " asked Ethan, when Mr. 
Sherwood had gone to the wheel-house to put up the 
motto. 
" She is going to keep house for us while we are 
gone," replied Miss Fanny, mischievously. " You 
were so unsocial to-day she would not come with us." 
" I had to look out for the engine," pleaded Ethan. 
" That was not the reason, Ethan," interposed Mrs. 
Sherwood. " You behaved splendidly." 
" If you were twenty, instead of sixteen, Ethan, I 
should say you were in love with Fanny Jane," 
laughed Miss Fanny. 
" O, nonsense ! " exclaimed Ethan, blushing be- 
 
neath his smutty face. " I like her, and after what 
we went through out west, I don't think it is very 
strange I should." 
" You are right, Ethan. She is a good girl, and I 
hope you will like her more, rather than less." 
" The saloon is ready for you, ladies," said Lawry, 
interrupting this pleasant conversation — very pleas- 
ant to Ethan, for without entering' into an analysis 
of the young engineer's feelings, it is quite certain he 
thought a great deal of the companion of his wander- 
ings in Minnesota ; but fortunately he is not the hero 
of this book, and this interesting suggestion need not 
be followed out any farther. 
The little captain conducted the ladies to the 
saloon, and then hastened to the wheel-house, where 
Mr. Sherwood, by the light of a lantern in the hands 
of one of the boys, had screwed up the sign. 
" Haul in the plank ! " shouted Lawry. " Cast 
off the bow line." 
The Woodville hacked till she was clear of the 
wharf, and then went ahead. Lawry knew the lake 
by night as well as by day, and he was perfectly at 
home at the wheel, notwithstanding the darkness that 
 
iay in the steamer's path; One of the deck hands 
was a boy of sixteen, who had served in a simiLir 
capacity on board the lake steamers, and was a good 
wheelman, though he knew nothing of the navigation 
of the lake, and steered only by the directions given 
him from time to time. Captain Lawry called this 
hand, and gave him the wheel, with orders to run for 
a certain headland several miles distant. 
The young captain went below with Mr. Sherwood, 
to make his arrangements for the night. The second 
fireman had already been installed in the fire room by 
Ethan and the first had gone forward. A portion of 
the fore hold of the steamer had been fitted up for 
the accGmmodation of the crew. It contained four 
berths, and was well ventilated by a skylight in the 
forecastle. In building the boat, Mr. Sherwood had 
insisted upon having everything put into her that was 
to be found in larger craft ; and these quarters f u- 
the hands were now very convenient, if not indis- 
pensable. 
Lawry gave one of these berths to t'le fia-st fireman, 
and appropriated the other to tlie nse of the second 
and the two deck hands. The second boy was 
gaping fearfully on the forward deck, and was quite 
delighted when the captain told him he might turn 
in. On the starboard side of the steamer, forward 
of., the wheels, were two very cunning little state- 
rooms, the corresponding space on the port side 
being occupied by the kitchen and store-rooms. 
One of these was for the engineer, and the other 
for the captain. Abaft the wheels, on each side, was 
a small state-room, one of which had been designed 
for the captain. Both of these rooms had been 
appropriated to the cook and the two waiter girls. 
Mrs. Light, in the apartment of the commander, was 
quite delighted with her accommodations ; but Mr. 
Sherwood declared that she deserved a princely couch 
for the good dinner she had served that day. 
The two state-rooms to be occupied by the passen- 
gers were taken out of the space that would other- 
wise have been part of the saloon, and were entered 
by doors on each side of a passage-way leading to it. 
They were beautiful little rooms, though ladies in full 
crinoline might have been somewhat perplexed at 
their contracted dimensions. They were elegantly 
furnished, and Miss Fanny declared that her room 
 
made her think of the fairy palaces for little people, 
of which she had read in her childhood. There were 
twelve berths in the lower cabin, but these were not 
needed on the present occasion. 
Having disposed of his crew for the night, Lawry 
returned to the wheel-house, where he was soon 
joined by his passengers, who spent an hour with 
him before they retired. At half past ten they went 
to their rooms, and Lawry was alone. Not a sound 
was to be heard except the monotonous clang of the 
engine, and the lake was as silent in the gloom as 
though the shadow of death was upon it. There was 
a solemnity in the scene which impressed the young
pilot, even accustomed as he was to the night and 
the silence. He was worn out by the labors and the 
excitement of the day, but he could not resist the 
inspiration which came from the quiet waters and 
the gloomy shores. 
The Woodville sped on her way, and at midnight 
she was approaching the steamboat wharf at Bur- 
lington. Lawry rang to " slow down," and informed 
Ethan that the boat was close to the wharf. The 
" fires were drawn," and in a few moments more, 
the steamer was made fast to the wharf. After 
satisfying himself that everything was secure on 
board, the exhausted pilot went to his state-room, 
and was soon fast asleep. Ethan followed him, 
after instructing the first fireman to get up steam 
early in the morning. 
Both the pilot and the engineer slept till seven 
o'clock; but when they came out of their rooms, 
blaming themselves for sleeping so late, they found 
the decks washed down, the cabins in order, steam 
up, and breakfast ready. Those who had " turned 
in early had faithfully performed the duties belong- 
ing to them, as they had been instructed the evening 
before. Mrs. Light, who was steward as well as cook, 
had been to the market, and purchased the supplies 
for breakfast and dinner. Mr. Sherwood and the 
ladies had risen early, and taken a walk, which gave 
them a keen appetite for the excellent breakfast pre- 
pared for them. The passengers insisted that Captain 
Lawry should sit at the head of the table with them, 
as this was the proper place for the commander of 
the steamer. 
During his walk Mr. Sherwood had purchased 
 
three blank books, and a double slate, for which 
Lawry, agreeably to the arrangement that nothing 
more should be forced upon him, paid the cash on 
the spot, to the great amusement of the ladies. The 
memoranda of each trip, including the time of arrival 
and departure, and of reaching or passing the prin- 
cipal points on the lake, were to be entered on the 
slate in the wheel-house, and afterwards copied into 
the largest of the blank books. These were called 
the log slate and the log book. The second was the 
engagement book, and the third an account book, in 
which the receipts and expenses of the steamer were 
to be kept. 
After breakfast Mr. Sherwood assisted his young 
friend in opening these books, and explained to 
him the best method of keeping his accounts. By 
this time the party for the day's excursion had 
begun to arrive. The ladies and gentlemen were 
friends of Mr. Sherwood, and he and his wife and 
Miss Fanny were to join them. A small band had 
been provided for the occasion, consisting of six 
pieces, which was placed under the awning on the 
promenade deck. 
Precisely at eight o'clock the Woodville left the 
wharf, amid the inspiring strains of the Star-span- 
gled Banner, performed by the band. The scene 
was in the highest degree exhilarating ; and the 
little captain was the happiest person on board, 
where all was merriment and rejoicing. The boat 
was to go down the lake as far as Isle La Motte, 
where the party would spend a couple of hours on 
shore, and return by six o'clock in the afternoon. 
This programme was carried out to the letter, with- 
out any accident, or any nearer approach to one than 
a thunder shower and squall. When the little captain 
saw the tempest coming down upon him, — though 
perhaps it was not absolutely necessary to do so, — 
he put the boat about, and run her up into the teeth 
of the squall. The ladies and gentlemen saw the 
commotion on the water, and some of them were 
very much alarmed ; but the Woodville, under the 
good management of Lawry, did not careen a par- 
ticle, being headed into the wind. 
In three minutes it was over, the steamer returned 
to her former course, and the party wondered that she 
made no more fuss about it. While the rain con- 
 
tinued, the excursionists were compelled to remain 
in the saloon ; but they were full of glee, after their 
terror had subsided, and the shower was hardly- 
regarded as a detriment to the pleasure of the trip. 
At the appointed hour the Woodvillc was at the 
wharf in Burlington. Before the party left the boat, 
they met in the saloon, and passed a vote of thanks 
to the little captain, in which the dinner, the steamer, 
and her commander were warmly praised. It was 
written out, a copy was given to Lawry, and it was 
to be published in the Burlington papers. While 
the boat was stopping at the wharf, Mr. Sherwood 
went up to a printing office, where he had left an 
order for a job in the morning, and returned bring- 
ing with him a few copies of the handbill, which 
was to announce the Woodville more generally to 
the public. It was posted in various parts of the 
steamer, and read aloud with mischievous delight by 
Miss, Fanny. It was printed in colors, ornamented 
with a cut of a steamer, and read as follows : — 
 
EXCURSIONS ON THE LAKE! 
The New akd Splendid Miniatuke Steamer 
WO OID"VILLE 
CAPTAIN LAWEENCE WILEOED, 
With elegant and luxurious accommodations for thirty 
passengers, is now ready to convey pleasure parties 
to any part of the lake. 
Breakfasts, dinners, and suppers, provided on 
board; and the tables will be supplied with the 
best the market affords. 
Apply by letter, or otherwise, to Captain Law* 
rence Wilegkd, Port Rock, N. Y. 
 
By seven o'clock the Woodville was under way for 
Port Rock. Lawry gave the helm to one of the deck 
hands, and went below to make some entries in his 
account book. He had been paid, that day, fifty 
dollars for the boat, and thirty dollars for dinners. 
Mrs. Light had expended twenty-six dollars for pro- 
visions and groceries, but he still had one hundred 
and twenty-eight dollars. It was a large sum of 
money for a boy of fourteen to have, and he counted 
it with a pride and pleasure which made him forget 
the fatigue of his severe labors. 
At half past ten the steamer was moored to her 
wharf at Port Rock. Mr. Sherwood and the ladies 
bade the little captain good night, and went home. 
In half an hour more Lawry was sound asleep in 
his state-room. 
 
CHAPTER XVIII. 
TEN THOUSAND IN GOLD. 
It was fortunate for Lawry that he was able to 
sleep well in the midst of the excitement in which 
he lived ; otherwise his bodily frame must have 
yielded to the pressure to which it was subjected. 
He did not wake till seven the next morning, hav- 
ing thus obtained full eight hours of rest, which 
invigorated his powers, and prepared him for the 
arduous duties of another day. As soon as he turned 
out, he went up to see his mother, and gave her 
a hundred dollars of the money he had earned, re- 
serving the balance for the expenses of the boat. 
At nine Mr. Sherwood and his party came on 
board. It had been his intention to visit Ticonde- 
roga ; but business letters which he found waiting 
his arrival the evening before compelled him to 
change his destination to Burlington. 
 
Just before the party appeared, Ben Wilford had 
been seen lounging about the wharf. He had com- 
plained bitterly to his mother of the treatment he 
had received from Lawry, and did not seem to be 
conscious that he had ever been engaged in a base 
and mean conspiracy against the peace and happi- 
ness of the whole family. Mrs. Wilford had spoken 
plainly to him, which had only increased his irrita- 
tion. The little steamer was a sore trial to him, 
for she was the indication of Lawry' s prosperity. 
Ben had fully persuaded himself into the belief 
that he, and not Lawry, ought to be captain of the 
Woodville. She was a family affair, and he could 
not regard his brother as the actual owner of her. 
He had imagination enough to understand and ap- 
preciate the pleasure of being in command of such 
a fine craft. His conspiracy had signally failed ; in 
his own choice phrase, Mr. Sherwood " carried too 
many guns for him," and it was useless to contend 
a<i,ainst money. 
The envious brother had so far progressed in his 
views as to believe that a subordinate position in 
the Woodville was better than no position at all. 
He had heard of the fine times the parties had on 
board of her, of the splendid dinners, and the in- 
spiring music ; and he was very anxious to have a 
situation in her. He was afraid of Mr. Sherwood, 
and dared not again take his place boldly on board. 
At a favorable moment, when Lawry and the deck 
hands were employed on the after part of the deck, 
he slipped down the plank and into the forecastle, 
concealing himself in the berth of one of the fire- 
men. This trick might insure him a passage with 
the excursion party, if nothing more. 
When the ladies and gentlemen had all arrived, 
the boat left the wharf, and commenced her voyage 
down the lake. After she had gone a couple of 
miles Ben Wilford came out of his hiding-place, 
and proceeded directly to the wheel-house, feeling 
that he had nothing to fear from his kind-hearted 
brother, and hoping to conciliate him before Mr. 
Sherwood discovered that he was on board. He 
entered the open door of the wheel-house as coolly 
as though he belonged there. 
" Ben ! " exclaimed the little captain, when he 
saw him. " I didn't know you were on board." 
 
" I didn't mean you should till I got ready," re- 
plied Een, with a conciliatory smile. 
" I don't know as Mr. Sherwood will like it when , 
he sees you," added Lawry. 
" If you like it, he will." 
"I'm sure I've no objection to your going with 
me." 
" I knew you hadn't." 
" But the steamer belongs to Mr. Sherwood to- 
day." 
" Don't you want some help, Lawry ? Mother 
thinks you are working rather too hard." 
" I don't think I shall hurt myself," answered 
Lawry, laughing ; and he was really pleased to find 
Ben in such good humor. " I don't see that you 
can help me any." 
" I can steer." 
" So can Kounds," replied Lawry, referring to the 
deck hand whom he called to the wheel when he 
left his post. 
" Lawry, you are my brother — ain't you ? " 
" Of course I am." 
" And I am your brother — am I not ? " 
" Without a doubt you are." 
" Then there are two good reasons why we should 
' not quarrel." 
" I'm very sure I don't wish to quarrel, Ben," 
added Lawry, earnestly. 
" And I'm just as sure I don't," continued Ben. 
" This is a splendid little boat, and we might make 
a first-rate thing of it. I still think I ought to be 
captain of her ; but I won't quarrel about that now. 
I'll take any place you have a mind to give me." 
This was certainly very kind and condescending 
on the part of the elder brother, after what had 
occurred ; and Lawry really felt happy in the ex- 
cellent spirit which Ben appeared to manifest. 
" You might give me a chance as mate, if you 
like," added Ben, as he perceived the smile on his 
brother's face. 
."I will speak to Mr. Sherwood about it." 
" What do you want to speak to him for ? Don't 
you own this boat ? " 
" I do ; but he has been very kind to me, and 
I want to take his advice when I can. I wish you 
hadn't got into that scrape the other day." 
 
" What scrape ? " 
" Why, causing the boat to be attached for fa- 
ther's debts." 
" I didn't mean anything by it, Lawry," answered 
Ben, in apologetic tones. " You must acknowledge 
that you provoked me to it." 
" How, Ben ? " 
" I can't get it out of my head that I ought to 
be captain of this boat. I think it would be a 
good deal better for you, Lawry. Just look at it 
one minute ! You are a pilot, and you have to 
leave the wheel to see to everything on board. You 
ought to have nothing to do but to navigate the 
steamer ; while I, as captain, could take the money, 
see to the dinners, and keep the deck and cabins 
in good order." 
" We get along very well," replied Lawry. 
" But it will wear you out in a month. Mother 
is afraid you M'ill kill yourself, running the boat 
night and day." 
" If you were captain I should have to be in the 
wheel-house all the time, just the same. 
" Well, I don't insist on it, Lawry," replied Ben, 
with becoming meekness. " I was only saying what 
would be best for all concerned." 
" I will talk with Mr. Sherwood." 
" Whatever you say, he will agree to. Now, give 
me the wheel, Lawry, and you go and see your 
passengers, 
Ben took hold of the wheel, and the young pilot 
involuntarily released his grasp on the spokes. The 
older brother was certainly in a very amiable frame 
of mind, and it was perfectly proper to encourage 
him ; but there was no more need of a mate than 
there was of another captain. Rounds, as the older 
of the two deck hands, now performed the duties 
of that office. There was no freight to be received 
and discharged, which the mate superintends ; and 
there was nothing for him to do but attend to the 
gang-plank and the mooring lines, and see that the 
decks were washed down when required. 
Lawry was not quite willing to leave the wheel 
in charge of his brother, for he was painfully con- 
scious that he could not always be trusted. Ben 
was not often in so pliable a frame of mind, and 
the little captain could not help suspecting that he 
 
had some object in view which was not apparent, 
for he had twice declared, that if he was not 
captain of the Woodville no one should be. He 
was not prepared to believe that Ben would run the 
boat on the rocks, or set her on fire ; but he deemed 
it prudent to keep his eye on him, and on the 
course of the steamer. 
Ben steered very well, and Lawry left the wheel- 
house. At the door he met Mr. Sherwood, just as 
that gentleman had discovered who was at the helm. 
" How's this, Lawry ? Have you got more help ? " 
asked his friend. 
" I didn't know Ben was on board till we were 
two miles from the wharf I hope you don't ob- 
ject, sir." 
" Certainly not, Lawry. If you are satisfied, I 
have no reason to be otherwise." 
" Ben talks very fair this morning ; and I'm sure 
I don't want to quarrel with him." 
" Of course not." 
" He still thinks he ought to be captain, and 
that it would be better for me ; " and Lawry stated 
his brother's argument. 
 
" That's all very pretty," replied Mr. Sherwood. 
" If you wish to give your brother the command 
of your steamer, it is not for me to interpose any 
objection." 
" But I want to follow your advice." 
" I think you had better let things remain as 
they are, for the present, at least. Do as you 
think best, Lawry. I don't want to influence you." 
This conversation took place near the door of 
the wheel-house, and though the parties had not 
so intended, Ben heard every word of it. 
" Do as you think best, Lawry," continued Mr. 
Sherwood. 
" I want to do what you think is best, sir." 
"You know my opinion. Your brother's habits 
— I am sorry to say it — are not good. I should 
not be willing to trust him. You cannot place 
much confidence in a young man who is in the 
habit of getting drunk. I don't want to hurt your 
feelings, Lawry, but I must be frank with you." 
Ben ground his teeth with rage, as he listened 
to this plain description of himself, and, in accord- 
ance with his usual practice in such cases, vowed 
 
to be revenged upon the man who had tradviced 
him, which was his interpretation of Mr. Sherwood's 
candid statement of the truth. 
" I think you are right, sir," replied Lawry, realiz- 
ing that Ben was not fit for the command of the 
Woodville, even if he was disposed to give it to him. 
"Lawry, I have been compelled to change this 
excursion into a partial business trip. I am going 
to buy the surplus gold of a bank in Burlington, and 
you must leave me there and go on to Port Kent. 
On your return, you can stop for me," continued Mr. 
Sherwood. " What is your engagement for to- 
morrow." 
" At Whitehall, sir." 
" Capital ! You can convey my gold through, so 
that I can take the morning train at Whitehall for 
New York." 
"If we get back to Port Rock by six, we can 
reach Whitehall by twelve." 
" Well, that is sooner than I wish to arrive," added 
Mr. Sherwood, thoughtfully. " I shall have ten thou- 
sand dollars in gold with me, which, at the present 
rate, is worth about twenty-five thousand dollars in 
currency. It would be a great temptation to any 
rogues, who might find out the specie was on board. 
How wotJd it do to start from Port Rock at mid- 
night ? " 
" It will do just as well, sir." 
" Then I shall reach Whitehall just in time for the 
train. But, Lawry, I see that you must have another 
pilot on board." 
" I think I can get along, sir." 
" You will wear yourself out. You have run a 
portion of the last two nights, and this arrangement 
will make the third." 
" I can sleep just as well at Port Rock as at White- 
hall. To-morrow will be Saturday, and my engage- 
ments for Monday and Tuesday are at the upper end 
of the lake, so that I shall have no more night work 
at present. I can stand it well enough." 
"I'm afraid it will be too much for you ; but if 
you have to engage an extra pilot, you must raise 
your price to sixty dollars a day." 
" I think we shall need another engineer at the 
same time. Ethan has just as hard a time of it as 
I do." 
 
" You had better raise your price ; people will not 
object." 
" I was thinking, sir, that Ben would make a good 
pilot. He is a good wheel-man, and it wouldn't 
take him long to learn the courses on the lake." 
Mr. Sherwood shook his head, 
" Would you be willing to trust him with the 
boat ? turn in and go to sleep yourself, while he is 
at the helm ? " asked he. 
" I think I would, after he had learned the navi- 
gation." 
" He is your brother, Lawry, and I don't like to 
say anything to wound you ; but I feel that your 
brother is not a reliable person. You must be very 
prudent. Even a trifling accident, resulting from 
mismanagement, might ruin your business ; for people 
will not expose their lives needlessly. If Ben will 
run the ferry the rest of the year, keep sober, and 
behave well in every respect, you might make a pilot 
of him, or even captain, another season." 
Doubtless this was good advice, and the little cap- 
tain had so much confidence in his friend and bene- 
factor, that he could not help adopting it. Mr. 
 
Sherwood went into the cabin again, without any 
conversation with the subject of his severe but just 
comments. Lawry was on the point of leaving the 
hurricane deck, where he had talked with his adviser, 
when he noticed that the boat was headed toM'ards 
the shore, and in a moment more would be aground 
in the shoal water off Barber's Point. He rushed 
into the wheel-house, and found that Ben had aban- 
doned the helm. Grasping the wheel, the pilot 
brought her up to her course, and then turned to 
his brother. 
" What do you mean, Ben, by leaving the wheel ? " 
demanded Lawry, filled with indignation at his 
brother's treachery. 
" Don't talk to me," growled Ben. 
" The boat would have been aground in a minute 
more." 
" I wish she was." 
" What's the matter, Ben ? " 
" I thought you were my brother; but you are not." 
" I'm sorry to hear you talk so ; and I didn't think 
you would do so mean a thing as to run the boat 
ashore." 
 
" I'll do anything now. I heard what Sherwood 
said to you, and what you said to him. I didn't 
think you would let any man talk about your brother 
as he did. Do you suppose I would let any man talk 
like that about my brother ? I'll bet I wouldn't ! 
I'd knock him over before the words were out of his 
mouth." 
" Why, what did he say, Ben ? " 
" What did he say ! Didn't you hear what he 
said ? Didn't he tell you I was a drunken fellow, 
and couldn't be trusted ? " 
" Well, he certainly did," replied Lawry, moodily. 
" And you heard him ! And you didn't say a 
word ! " said Ben, furiously. 
" What could I say ? I wish it wasn't true." 
" Do you ? " 
Ben looked his brother in the face, while his lips 
curled into a sneer of contempt. 
" What could I say when Mr. Sherwood spoke 
only what I know is true ? " 
" Then you think I'm a drunken fellow, and can't 
be trusted?" demanded Ben, with an injured look. 
" Don't you drink too much sometimes ? " 
" No, I don't ! I drink what I want ; but no one 
ever saw me the worse for liquor. Who says I can't 
be trusted ? " 
" When I gave you the wheel, at your own request, 
you left it, and the boat would have been ashore in 
another minute. Does that look as though you could 
be trusted ? " added Lawry, his indignation rekindled, 
as he thought of the peril to which his beautiful craft 
had been so maliciously exposed. 
" That was because you wouldn't trust me. I was 
mad." 
" One who would expose the lives of twenty or 
thirty persons when he got mad ought not to be 
trusted." 
" Lawry, you are no longer my brother. You and 
your mother, and Sherwood here, have been trying to 
put me down, and make a nobody of me. You can't 
do it. I'm your enemy now. You have made me 
mad, and you must take the consequences. I'll burn 
or smash this boat the first chance I get ! As for 
Sherwood, I'll teach him to talk about me ! " 
The angry young man rushed out of the wheel- 
house. If Mr. Sherwood had heard his insane threats. 
 
he would probably have insisted that he should be 
immediately put on shore ; but Lawry did not think 
his brother capable of the madness of malice his 
speech indicated ; he was in a passion, and when 
he cooled off he would be reasonable again. 
Ben sat down on the forecastle where the pilot 
could see him, and nursed his wrath till the Wood- 
ville arrived at Burlington. He was in deep thought 
all the time, and did not heed the singing or other 
amusements of the party on board, who were enjoy- 
ing themselves to the utmost. Apparently with no 
perception of his own faults and short-comings, he 
regarded himself as a deeply injured young man. 
His mother and his brother had turned against him, 
and M'ere persecuting him to the best of their ability. 
He had come on board to gain his purpose by con- 
ciliation ; he had failed, and, in his own view, there 
was nothing left for him but revenge. 
The boat touched at Burlington, and to the great 
relief of Lawry, his brother followed Mr. Sherwood 
on shore. At three o'clock the Woodville returned 
from Port Kent with the happy excursionists. While 
the steamer lay at the wharf, waiting for Mr. Sher- 
wood, many persons, moved by curiosity to inspect 
the beautiful craft, came aboard ; and whenever she 
stopped, she had plenty of visitors of this description. 
Among them Lawry saw his brother, accompanied 
by two men, who, from the remarks they made, were 
evidently familiar with the machinery and appoint- 
ments of steamers. 
Mr. Sherwood presently appeared attended by a 
bank messenger with the precious coin he had pur- 
chased at 2.44, the telegraphic quotation from New 
York for that day. 
" Where shall I put this gold. Captain Lawry ? " 
asked Mr. Sherwood. 
" I don't know, sir ; I'm really afraid of it," re- 
plied the captain, nervously. " Can't you carry it 
in your pockets ? " 
" It weighs about thirty-seven pounds," laughed 
Mr. Sherwood. " I will lock it up in my state-room. 
I shall sleep on board to-night, and it will be safe 
enough after we leave the wharf, for no one but you 
and me knows there is any specie on board." 
The man of gold went aft with the coin, which 
was contained in two bags. 
 
"I suppose I can go home with you — can't I, 
La wry ? " asked Ben, as the little captain started 
for the wheel-house. 
 Lawry could not refuse this request, though his. 
brother was evidently a little excited by the liquor 
he had drank. He hoped Ben had not heard any
thing about the treasure on board ; for he feared that 
revenge, if not dishonesty, might prompt him to com- 
mit a crime. 
The visitors were warned ashore, and the Wood- 
ville departed for Port Rock, where she arrived at 
about six o'clock. The excursion party went on 
shore, after the usual compliments to the steamer 
and her commander. 
" Now, Lawry, I must go up to the house for my 
valise ; but I will return in an hour," said Mr. Sher- 
wood, whose carriage was waiting for him at the 
head of the wharf. 
" But the gold, sir ? " whispered Lawry, anxiously. 
" You or Ethan may watch the state-room till I 
return, if you please ; but there is no danger here. 
You must turn in at once, Lawry, so as not to lose 
your sleep." 
" I shall be gone four or five days, this time, and 
I must go home after some clean clothes." 
" Very well ; I will get Ethan to keep his eye on 
the state-room," replied Mr. Sherwood ; and Lawry 
ran up to the cottage. 
Ethan, who had ordered the fires to be banked 
in the furnaces, and was letting off the superfluous 
steam, consented to watch the room containing the 
gold. Rounds, the deck hand, and the first fireman 
turned in, that they might be ready for duty at mid- 
night, when the boat would start for Whitehall. 
 
CHAPTER XIX. 
CAPTUKED AND KECAPTUEED. 
Unfortunately for Ben Wilford, he had heard 
Mr. Sherwood inform Lawry of his intentions in 
regard to the purchase and transportation of the 
gold. Before the Woodville reached Burlington, 
the dissolute young man had resolved to obtain the 
money if possible, prompted partly by revenge, and 
partly by the desire to possess so large a sum, with 
which he could revel in luxury in some distant part 
of the country. It must be confessed that this re- 
solve to commit a crime was not simply an impulse, 
for the young man who leads a life of indolence and 
dissipation is never at any great distance from crime. 
Ben had been schooling himself for years for the very 
deed he now determined to do. 
With more energy and decision, Ben was, in other 
respects, the counterpart of his father. His moral 
perceptions were weak, and the dissolute life he led 
had not contributed to strengthen them. He was the 
antipode of Lawry, who had been more willing to 
listen to the teachings of his mother. 
Ben had resolved to commit a crime, but he had 
not the skill or the courage to do it alone. When he 
went on shore at Burlington, he met two of his former 
boon companions, with whom he had often tippled, 
gambled, and caroused. One of them had been a 
fireman, and the other a deck hand, on board a 
steamer with Ben, and he knew them thoroughly. 
By gradual approaches he sounded them, to ascer- 
tain their willingness to join him in the robbery. 
The gold converted into currency would give them 
seven or eight thousand dollars apiece, and the temp- 
tation was sufficiently strong to remove all prudential 
obstacles. 
While the Woodville was absent on her trip to 
Port Kent, the details of the robbery had been set- 
tled. The confederates sat on the corner of the 
wharf and arranged their plans, which were mainly 
suggested by the one who had been a fireman. The 
scheme was to be executed while the boat lay at Port 
 
Rock, and the two men whom Lawry had seen with 
his brother were his associates in the intended crime. 
Ben had concealed them in the fore-hold of the 
steamer. While the excursion party were going on 
shore at the gangway abaft the wheels, and all hands 
had gone aft to witness their departure, Ben had 
called them from their hiding-place, and sent them 
on the wharf, where he soon joined them. From a 
point near the head of the pier, where they were 
not observed, they waited till Mr. Sherwood and 
Lawry had gone, and all was quiet on board of the 
steamer. 
" Now is our time," said Ben, nervously ; for he 
was not familiar enough with crime to be unmoved 
by the desperate situation in which he had placed 
himself. 
" Is the coast clear ? " asked the firemen. 
" Yes," replied Ben, whose teeth actually chattered 
with apprehension. 
" Who is there on board now ? " 
" No one but the engineer and the fireman, except 
two boys," answered Ben. " They were all going to 
turn in as soon as they got to the wharf." 
 
" The firemen are both men, but I reckon they 
won't fight ; all the rest are boys," 
" One fireman and two boys have turned in by 
this time," added Ben. 
" Then there is no one up but the engineer and 
one fireman ? " 
" No." 
" Where is the gold, Ben ? " 
" In the starboard saloon state-room." 
" All right ; have your pistols ready, but don't 
use them, for it will be bad for us if we have to 
kill any one." 
The party walked down to the Woodville. All 
was still on board of her, except the sound of 
escaping steam. Ethan stood sentry at the door of 
the state-room containing the gold, and the man on 
watch in the fiire-room was busy reading a newspaper. 
It was not sunset yet, but the crew of the Woodville 
had been worked so hard for three days, that those 
off duty could sleep without an opiate. 
" Put on that hatch," said the fireman, who became 
the leading spirit of the party, as he pointed to the 
companion-way of the fore-bold, where the hands 
slept. 
 
Ben obeyed the order without making any noise, 
and then the party went aft, where Ethan was 
keeping guard over the treasure. 
" Good evening, Ethan," said Ben, with more 
suavity than he was in the habit of using, 
" Good evening," replied the engineer. 
" Haven't turned in yet ? " continued Ben. 
" No." 
" Going to start at midnight, I hear." 
" Yes." 
" Some friends of mine wanted to look over the 
boat ; I suppose I can show them through." 
" I don't know ; Captain La wry can tell you," 
answered Ethan, who did not like Ben, and was not 
favorably impressed by the appearance of the other 
men. 
Ben walked aft into the saloon, followed by his 
companions. Ethan was sitting in a chair by the 
side of the state-room door. The fireman passed 
round behind, and suddenly fell upon him, throwing 
him on the floor, and pinioning his arms to his back. 
" What are you about ? " cried Ethan, struggling 
to release himself. " Help ! help ! " 
" Stop his mouth ! " said Ben, fearfully. 
Vainly poor Ethan endeavored to shake off his 
assailants ; his arms were tied together hehind him, 
and a handkerchief stuffed into his mouth. In this 
condition he was lashed to a stanchion, so that he 
could move neither hand nor foot. 
The commotion of this outrage attracted the atten- 
tion of Mrs. Light and the two waiter-girls, who were 
employed in the lower cabin. The fireman exhibited 
a pistol to them, drove them below again, and threat- 
ened to shoot them if they made any noise. A 
similar demonstration quieted the fireman, and com- 
pelled him to return to the fire-room. 
" The job is done," said Baker, the leader of the 
enterprise. 
" But we haven't got the money," added Flint, 
the deck hand. 
" We don't want that yet. It is safe where it is. 
Now both of you to your stations," continued Baker ; 
and he went down into the fire-room. 
Ben's station was in the wheel-house, Flint's at the 
fasts, and Baker's at the engine, as it appeared from 
their subsequent movements ; and it was evident, from 
 
the operations in progress, that the villains intended 
to make their escape in the steamer. Baker stopped 
the hissing steam which was going to waste, and 
compelled the fireman to renew the fires. 
" Be lively ! " shouted Ben, from the wheel-house, 
as he discovered Lawry on the shore, hastening back 
to the steamer with his bundle of clothes. 
" All ready ! " replied Baker, finding there was 
steam enough to start the boat. 
Flint had already cast ofi" the fasts, without waiting 
for orders, and was standing on the forecastle, as 
impatient to be off as a man can be who is engaged 
in the commission of a crime. 
Ben rang the bell to back her ; the wheels turned, 
but as the stern line had been cast ofi", her bow was 
not carried out from the wharf. By this time Lawry 
had discovered that the Woodville was in motion. 
He was astonished and alarmed, though he was far 
from surmising that his boat had been captured by 
robbers. Running with all his speed, he reached the 
head of the vharf just as the boat had backed far 
enough to permit Ben to see him, and for him 
to see that Ben was at the wheel. Then he 
realized that his brother was engaged in another 
conspiracy. 
Notwithstanding his extensive knowledge of 
" steamboating " in general, Ben Wilford was a 
very unskilful pilot. If he had understood the man- 
agement of a boat half as well as Lawry, the nefa- 
rious scheme might have been successful. He saw 
his brother ; he did not wish to have him come on 
board, for Lawry might be so obstinate as to induce 
one of his dissolute companions to fire at him. He 
rang the bell to stop her, and then to go ahead, at 
the same time putting the helm hard a-port. 
The Woodville went forward, and as she met the 
helm her bow came round, and she was headed out 
into the middle of the lake. As she went ahead, 
her stern swept in a circle within a few feet of the 
wharf, just as Lawry, breathless with haste and alarm, 
