deluded Gypsy into thinking it was not, if she 
had tried. But she turned and kissed the cheek 
that was touching hers. 
“ It was so dreadful at first,” said Gypsy, 
who, when she once began to talk to Peace 
about Tom, never knew where to stop; “you 
sec, father, — I guess I told you, didn’t I? — 
well, he was so angry ! I never saw him look 
so in all my life. He said Tom was a disgrace 
to the family, and he said he would go right on 
and bring him home, — Tom is under age, you 
know, and he could do it, and I was so terribly 
afraid he would, and that would make Tom just 
as wicked as he could be, I know, he ’d be so 
angry. But mother talked him over. Well, 
then he sat right down and wrote a letter to 
Tom, and I never saw what was in it, but I 
guess it was awful. I don’t believe but what 
mother talked him round not to send that, too, 
for I saw her tearing up some letter-paper that 
night, and she was just as pale ! But by-and- 
by father didn’t seem to be angry, but just 
sorry. He was walking back and forth, back 
and forth, in the entry, and he never knew I 
saw him, and he shut up his hands together 
tight, and once I heard him groan right out 
loud, and say ‘ Poor boy, poor boy ! ’ and you ’d 
better believe I thought I was going to cry. 
Then did I tell you about our having prayers?” 
“No.” 
“Didn’t? Well, that was the worst of it. 
You see they had been shut up together almost 
all the afternoon and evening, talking it over, I 
suppose, — he and mother, I mean, — and no- 
body ate any supper but Winnie (he ate six 
slices of bread and two baked apples, and 
wanted to know if Tom got killed if he couldn’t 
have his gun), and I couldn’t go to bed, and 
Winnie would n’t, — he acted just as if it was a 
holiday, and said he was going to sit up till nine 
o’clock, because Tom had gone to the wars ; — 
so we just sat round and looked at each other, 
and it grew dark, and we could hear them 
talking upstairs, and it was dreadful. Then 
when Winnie saw me feeling for my handkerchief, 
he began to think he must cry too; so he 
stood up against the wall, and opened his mouth, 
and set up such a shout, — it was enough to 
wake the dead ! and I had enough to do hush- 
ing him up, but it made me laugh, and I 
couldn’t help it to save me. Well, then, it 
kept growing darker, and pretty soon they came 
down, and father called in Patty, just as if 
somebody were dead or something, and told her 
that Mr. Tom had enlisted; then he sent her 
out, and we all sat down, and he said : ‘ Children, 
Tom has done wrong, and we are sorry; 
but we have decided to let him stay in the army 
if he wishes, and now we will pray God to bless 
it to him, and to bring him home to us if it be 
His will.’ And then we all knelt down, and he 
began to pray, and I tell you, Peace, he loves 
Tom Breynton ! I did wish Tom could have 
heard him, and then, perhaps, he would forget 
about some of the times he has worried him 
so. I guess we were all choking before we 
got up, — except Winnie; he was sound asleep 
on the floor when we went to pick him 
up. 
“ So after that they wrote to Tom, but I 
don’t know what they said, and we all wrote to 
him, and his next letter sounded dreadfully 
sorry. Now, I believe something, Peace Maythorne.” 
“What is it?” 
“Well, Tom is just sick of it, only he won’t 
say so.” 
“ Why, what makes you think that? ” 
“ Oh, he keeps praising it up so much, for 
one thing. When Tom likes a thing firstrate, 
he doesn’t keep talking about it. Then once in 
a while he lets out a sentence about the rations 
being rather different from mother’s sponge cake 
and mince pies, and he says the marches tire 
him dreadfully. Then there ’s the neuralgia. 
He’s real patriotic, Tom is, and just as brave; 
but mother says he isn’t strong enough for it, 
and father says such young boys always go 
more from love of adventure than anything else, 
and almost always wish they had stayed at home. 
He says they don’t help the Government 
either, getting sick and filling the hospitals, and 
what we want in the army is men. But as long 
as he has gone, I hope he will take a prisoner 
or something. He likes to get funny letters 
from home, and so I drew a picture last week 
of a great, big, lean, lank, long Rebel, with Tom 
coming up about to his knee, and standing up 
on a barrel to arrest him.' 
“ You write to him often, I suppose? ” asked 
Peace. 
“Oh, yes; Tom likes it. And I tell him all 
the news ; he likes that. And I tell him I love 
him pretty much ; and he likes that. We send 
quantities of letters, and some he gets and some 
he doesn’t. But we get almost all his. But 
the thing of it is, Peace Maythorne, Francis 
Rowe says everybody in the army drinks and 
swears before they are out of it, and then the 
papers do tell such dreadful things about the 
battles, and I think, and go to bed thinking, 
and wake up thinking.” 
“ Gypsy,” said Peace, in a tone that had a 
new thought in it 
“ Well? ” 
“You love Tom ever so much.” 
“ Um — a little — yes.” 
“And you are a real good sister to him, I think.” 
Don’t know about that,” said Gypsy, wink- 
ing; “sometimes I’m horrid, and sometimes 
I’m not; it’s just as it happens.” 
“ I ’ve been wondering,” said Peace, and 
hesitated. 
“ Wondering what? ” 
Peace raised her still eyes, and Gypsy looked 
into them. 
“ Wondering if you have helped him every 
way you can.” 
“ I don’t understand exactly.” 
“ There ’s one way I was thinking about. I 
mean, — if you should tell God about him.” 
“ Oh ! ” 
The quiet eyes looked at Gypsy, and Gypsy 
looked at them. Perhaps for an instant Peace 
was almost sorry that she had said what she 
had, — a little uncertain how Gypsy was going 
to take it. But the quiet eyes showed nothing 
of this ; they held Gypsy’s fast by their stillness 
and their pureness, and did for her what they 
always did. 
“ Peace Maythorne,” — after a pause, — “I 
should like to know what made you think of 
saying that to me ! ” 
“ Oh, I don’t know. I was only wondering, 
and thinking; nothing seems of very much use 
without it ! ” 
Gypsy swung her hat round by the strings, 
and tapped the floor with one foot. 
“ Well, I suppose I have n’t, exactly, — no. 
I say Our Father every day — ’most; only 
sometimes I ’m sleepy. I say something about 
Tom once in a while, but I never supposed it 
was going to make any difference. Besides, I ’m 
so vvicked and horrid.” 
Peace made no answer. 
“ Now I suppose you mean, here I ’ve been 
doing and worrying for Tom all this time, and 
it is all of no account, then?” 
“ Oh, no ; it is of a great deal of account. 
Only if you see a man drowning, and throw 
him out planks and branches and straws and 
shavings, and there is a boat there you could 
have just as well as not? ” 
“ Hum,” said Gypsy; “ yes, I see.” 
There was a silence. Peace broke it. 
“ I expect I've bothered you with my sober 
talk. But I thought — I didn’t know as I
should have another chance.” 
“ Another chance ! ” echoed Gypsy, mystified.
Peace turned her head over with a sud- 
den motion, and did not answer. 
“ Peace, what did you mean?” Alarmed at 
the silence, Gypsy climbed up on the bed to see 
what was the matter. 
They had talked too long, and Peace had 
fainted away. 
“ She has these turns pretty nigh ’most 
every day now,” said Aunt Jane, coming in 
and emptying half the water-pitcher upon her 
moveless face, — not roughly, but very much 
as she would gather a skirt or cut button-holes ; 
as if it were part of the business of life, and 
life meant business, and love was a duty, — a 
crippled orphan or a shirt-bosom, it was all the 
same. 
ONE night, not long after that talk with 
Peace, Gypsy had a dream. It was a 
strange dream. 
It seemed to be nearly two thousand years 
ago, and she was living, and Peace, and 
Tom, and Winnie; and their 'home was 
in Judea. Tom was a young rabbi, and 
Winnie, was in the Temple at Jerusalem,
educating, like Samuel, for the Priesthood ; her 
father and mother were buried in the Cave of 
Machpelah, and she and Peace were Jewish 
maidens, and lived in a little vine-covered house 
by the banks of silver Kedron. It was a very 
pleasant house, though very small and simply 
furnished. From the door she could look over 
to Jerusalem, and see the sun light the towers 
of the Temple, and from the windows she could 
watch the hills, and the shadows on them, and 
the paths worn up : there was a certain awe 
about those paths ; she wondered in the dream 
who wore them, but she did not seem to 
know. 
The bed for Peace was drawn up by the win- 
dow, and Peace lay always (as she always had 
since Gypsy had known her) still upon the 
pillows, with folded hands. Tom used to carry 
her out into the air sometimes, and lay her 
down upon the grass beneath the palm-trees, 
and Gypsy would run and shout, and roam 
away over the brook and up the mountains, and 
Peace could never go, but lay under the palm- 
trees, weak and white, with wistful eyes. And 
once it chanced that they were together, she 
and Peace alone, on a long, smooth beach, with 
the blue waves of Galilee singing and sighing 
up about their feet, and singing and sighing 
out to dash against the prows of boats from 
which bronzed fishermen were casting nets. 
Peace was lying upon the sands, and Gypsy 
had made her a pillow of sea-mosses, and the 
light was falling full upon her face, and resting 
in a line of gold upon the water. Peace was 
watching this line of gold, and Gypsy was 
braiding her hair into the plaits the Jewish 
maidens wore, and it chanced that neither 
heard the stepping of near feet upon the 
sand. 
As they sat there talking softly with each 
other, and looking off to the line of gold, and 
listening to the singing and the sighing of the 
waves, a sudden light fell on them, and One 
stood there smiling, and took the hand of 
Peace, and spoke to her. The words He said 
were few and strange : “ Maiden, I say unto 
thee, arise.” 
Gypsy, hearing, turned in wonder to see who 
it could be that was mocking the helplessness 
of Peace ; but He had gone. And standing 
wliei'c He had stood was Peace, upright, erect, 
and strong, with colour in her cheeks and 
brightness in her eyes, — free to walk, to run, 
to leap, like happy Gypsy, all her crippled 
years forgotten like a dream gone by. 
“ Oh, Peace ! ” said Gypsy, in the dream, 
“ Oh, Peace, I am so glad ! ” and springing 
forward, tried to throw her arms around her 
neck. “ I must go,” said Peace, “ to thank 
Him,” and glided out of Gypsy’s clinging arms, 
and turned her face towards Galilee, and van- 
ished in the line of gold, and there was nothing 
left but the sighing of the waves upon the 
shore, and Gypsy sat alone. 
She woke with a start. The room was dark 
and the house was still. Far up the street a 
distant sound was drawing near. As she lay 
listening to it, it grew into the clatter of horses’ 
hoofs. They drew nearer and louder, and 
rattled up and rattled by; they had a sharp, 
hurried sound, as if they were on an errand of 
life and death. She jumped out of bed, went 
to the window, and looked out. In the faint 
moonlight she caught a glimpse of the doctor’s 
carriage. 
“ What a queer dream,” she thought, going 
back to bed, “ and how pretty ! I suppose it is 
because I have been down to see Peace so much 
lately, and then I was reading mother that 
chapter to-night about the lame man. I ’ll tell 
it to Peace to-morrow, and — and — ” 
She was asleep again by that time. 
To-morrow came, and Gypsy woke early. It 
was a rare morning. The winds, sweeping up 
over beds of late summer violets, and nooks 
where the bells of the Solomon’s seal were 
hanging thickly, and shadowy places under 
pines where anemones, white and purple and 
crimson, clustered with drooping heads, were 
as sweet as winds could be. There was not a 
cloud in the sky, and in the sunshine there was 
a sort of hush, Gypsy thought, like the sunshine 
on Sunday mornings. She remembered 
afterwards having stood at the window and 
wondered how many happy things were going 
to happen all over the world that day, and if 
any sorrowful things could happen, and how sorrowful 
things could ever happen on such days. 
Before she was dressed she heard the doorbell 
ring, wondered who it was so early, and 
forgot all about it in tying a new green ribbon 
— a beautiful shade, just like the greens of the 
apple-trees — upon her hair. Before she had 
finished twisting and pulling the pretty bow 
upon the side (Gypsy always made pretty 
bows), Winnie came stamping in, and said 
that there had been “ a funny little Irish girl, 
with a flat nose and two teeth, down ringin’ the 
door-bell, and now mother just wanted to see 
Gypsy Breynton in her room.” 
Gypsy gave a last look in the glass and 
went, still fingering the ribbon. She could 
never look at that pretty green ribbon after- 
wards without a shiver ; for a long time she 
did not want to wear green ribbons at all. The 
least little things are so linked with the great 
ones of our life. 
Her mother was still in bed, — she seldom 
rose now till after breakfast, — and Gypsy, 
going in, saw that she looked startled and 
pale. 
“ Gypsy, shut the door a minute, and come 
here.” 
Gypsy shut it, and came, wondering. 
“ Miss Jane Maythorne has just sent up a 
message.” 
“ A message ! ” 
“ For you ; from Peace. She wants you. 
Gypsy, my child, she is — ” 
Gypsy paled, flushed, paled again, caught 
her mother’s hand with a queer idea to stop the 
words that she was going to say, — not to hear 
them, not to know them. 
“ They sent for the doctor at midnight,” said 
Mrs. Breynton, softly kissing the little appealing 
hand. “ They thought that she was dying 
then. He says she cannot live till night.” 
It was said now. Gypsy drew a long breath, 
kissed her mother, put on her things, and 
went out into the hushing sunlight. Ah, how 
changed it all was now; how bleak, and thin, 
and white it seemed ; Gypsy noticed, as she 
ran along, a huge white rock on which it lay 
thickly, — • it made her think of a tombstone. 
The leaves of the silver aspens, fluttering in 
the wind, reminded her of grave-clothes. In 
the shadows that fell and floated under the 
trees, she seemed to see the face of Peace, 
lying with closed eyes, and motionless. She 
ran fast and faster, to escape the horrible, 
haunting pictures, but they chased her and fol- 
lowed her into the narrow streets, and went 
with her up the dark, hot stairway. At the 
door of the room she stopped. A strange 
dread came over her. She had never seen any 
one die, and for a moment she forgot that it 
was Peace, and that Peace wanted her, in the 
horror of the thought, and lingered, without 
courage to go in. 
While she stood there, one of the neighbours 
opened the door and came out crying. Gypsy 
caught a glimpse of Peace, and slipped in, and 
all her fear was gone. 
The doctor was there, dropping medicine at 
a little table by the window. Aunt Jane was 
there, fanning Peace gently, her stern face 
softened and shocked. Peace was lying with 
her hands folded, her face turned over on the 
pillow in the old way, her eyes closed. The 
Sabbath-like sunlight was falling in as it always 
fell into that room, — turning its bare floor 
and poor furnishing to gold, painting the 
patchwork quilt in strange patterns of light 
and shade, like some old tapestry, glorifying 
the face of Peace where it fell around and 
upon it. Gypsy, as she came in, had a fancy 
that it must look something like the faces of 
pictured saints framed in dusky niches of old 
cathedrals across the sea, — she had heard her 
mother tell about them. 
Peace did not hear her come in, and Gypsy 
had knelt down on the floor beside the bed, right 
in the light, which struck out sharply the con- 
trast between the two, before she knew that 
she was there. She opened her eyes suddenly 
and saw her. 
“ Oh — why, Gypsy ! ” 
Gypsy put up her hand, and Peace took hold 
of it. 
“ I ’m so glad you ’ve come,” she said, in her 
quiet voice, with the old quiet smile. And 
Gypsy said not a word for wonder. How 
could anybody smile who was going to die? 
“ Would it trouble you too much to stay a 
little while?” asked Peace, forgetting herself, 
remembering how to think for the comfort of 
others to the very last, as only Peace could do. 
“Trouble me! Oh, Peace! do you think 
I could go away?” 
“ I want to talk a little,” whispered Peace ; 
“ not now, — I can’t now. Perhaps I shall 
get a little breath by and by.” 
She said no more after that for a long time, 
and Gypsy knelt upon the floor, and held her 
hand, and watched her suffer, and could not 
help her, could not bear it for her, could only 
look on and break her heart in looking. 
How much Peace suffered, probably none of 
them knew. In her death as in her life, she 
made no complaint, uttered no cry of pain. 
Only once she called the doctor and said : — 
“If you could give me something! It 
seems as if I had borne as much as I can!' 
For weeks after, the pitiful, appealing words 
used to ring in Gypsy’s ears at night when she 
was alone. 
Tlicy gave her laudanum and she slept, and 
woke to lie in waking stupors, and slept again. 
The neighbours — rough-faced women in rags — 
came in, through the morning, to look their last 
at her, and go out crying. “ God bless her,” 
they said, “ the swate craythur ! — she always 
’ud lay so patient-like, there in the sunshine, 
an’ hear about a body’s throubles, whin the 
childer was sick an’ the man was took to drink, 
an’ sech a way of smilin’ as she had, the Houly 
Mither rest her soul ! ” ” It ’s greeting sair I 
shall be for her,” said one pale Scotchwoman, 
“ greeting sae sair.” The children — all the 
little, freckled, frowzy, dirty children that Peace 
always would find something beautiful about — 
came in to say good-bye and go out wondering 
who would tell them stories now. Mrs. Breyn- 
ton came down at noon, and stayed till her 
strength gave out, but long enough to see Peace 
look up conscious and smiling, and to under- 
stand the thanks which she could not speak. 
Aunt Jane sat by the bed, and moved gently 
about the room, and did what was to be done. 
still with that shocked, softened look upon her 
face, and Gypsy, watching her, wondered. 
The doctor left, and went to other patients. 
Peace passed from the stupor to sleep, and 
from sleep to stupor, and the clay wore on, but 
Gypsy never left her. 
She had no fear now of this mysterious 
presence which was coming; she did not dread 
to look upon it. The light that, sliding from 
window to window, still flooded the bed, made 
the face of Peace, even then, less like the face 
of death than like the pictured saint. 
As Gypsy knelt there on the floor through 
the long hours, awed and still, watching for 
Peace to waken, she did not wonder any more 
that Peace could smile when she was going 
to die. 
Her dream of the night came back to her 
suddenly. She saw again, as vividly as if she 
had lived it through, the warm waves of Galilee, 
the line of gold ; she heard the voice upon the 
shore, and saw the Figure with its hand upraised. 
And suddenly it came to her what 
dying meant to Peace, — all the freedom and 
the strength and the rest from pain. 
The thought was in her heart when Peace 
awoke at last, conscious and quiet. It was at 
the end of the afternoon, and the light was 
stealing into the west. They were all gone 
now but Aunt Jane and herself. 
“ Peace,” said her aunt, gently, “ Peace, 
dear.” 
But Peace, in her joy at seeing Gypsy there, 
saw nothing and heard nothing besides. Aunt 
Jane shrank back; she deserved it, and she 
knew it, but it was a little hard, now when she 
might — who knows? — have asked in death 
forgiveness for that which she had done and 
left undone to make life bitter. 
“ Gypsy, you here yet? Oh, I am very glad.” 
Gypsy cfept up on the bed. 
“ Right here, close by you. Peace.” 
“ I want to tell you something, Gypsy ; I 
want to say you have been so good, — so good 
to me. And don’t you think I ’m going to forget 
it now, and don’t think I ’m going to forget you. 
Why, I shall thank Him for you one of the 
very first things.” 
At the voice and at the words, Gypsy’s cour- 
age gave way. 
“ Oh, Peace ! oh, Peace ! what shall I do 
without you? What shall I dof and could 
say no more for sobbing, and Peace took her 
clinging hand and drew it up beside her cheek, 
and so they lay and said no word ; and the 
stealing light gathered itself upon the hills, and 
the night came on. 
All at once Peace turned, and took away her 
hand, and pointed at the wall. 
“ See, Gypsy, — why, see ! ” 
Gypsy looked up. Upon the wall, close by 
the bed, the illuminated text was hanging that 
had been her Christmas gift to Peace over a year 
ago. Flashes of crimson thrown from the 
west hung trembling over it and framed in 
and transfigured the blue and golden words : 
“ the mbnbi'tant shall not say I am si'dt.” 
“ Oh, Gypsy, Gypsy, how nice it will be ! ” 
“Yes, dear,” and Gypsy stopped her sobbing. 
“To walk about, and run, and not have any 
pain, — why, think of not having any pain, 
Gypsy ! ” 
“ Yes, dear.” 
“ Kiss me, Gypsy.” 
Gypsy kissed her, and the flush of crimson 
faded from the blue and golden words, and the 
twilight fell into its place. 
” She ’s dropped into another nap,” said Aunt 
Jane, coming up, turning her stern face away 
so that Gypsy should not see, in the dark, the 
hot, fast-dropping tears. So they sat awhile in 
the dusk together. Aunt Jane moving the great 
white fan dimly to and fro on the other side of 
the bed, and Gypsy crouched among the pil- 
lows watching it, watching the face of Peace, 
watching the blackness gather in the room. 
Presently the doctor came in. 
“ She may hold out till morning, after all, 
sir,” whispered Aunt Jane; “she’s having a 
long nap now. I hope she will last a little 
longer, for I ’ve got something to say to her. I 
meant to say it, I meant to say it. I ’ll light 
the lamp, sir.” 
She lighted the lamp ; she went up to the 
bed, holding it and shading her eyes. 
Then through the silence a cry “ tore up- 
wards ” like the cry of a stern heart breaking 
under that most pitiful of human pains, — a 
life-long, unavailing regret. 
But the lamplight fell upon the wall, and fell 
upon the blue and golden words, and Gypsy 
saw them, and saw them only. 
all of us, if we live long enough, find 
our saint. You do not understand what 
I mean? Well, perhaps you will some day. 
Gypsy, young as she was, had found hers. 
She had loved Peace Maythorne with all her 
heart. And now that she was gone, she loved 
her more than ever. The beautiful, sorrowful 
life and beautiful, happy dying, followed her 
like watching angels ; the patient face, with its 
pale gold hair and quiet eyes and the smile 
upon its lips, hung, like those pictured faces in 
the old cathedrals to which she had likened it, 
in a very quiet, shaded corner of her heart, — 
a corner where noisy Gypsy, and rude Gypsy', 
and angry, or selfish, or blundering Gypsy 
never came. It looked at her Mondays and 
Tuesdays and Wednesdays when “ the days 
were rough,” and lessons were long, and pa- 
tience was short. It smiled at her in the Sab- 
bath twilights when her thoughts grew “ sorry ” 
and sober. It turned upon her when she was 
alone at night, when the tears fell and stars 
peeped in at her window that were looking 
down on Tom miles away by the Southern 
rivers, in camp, in battle, in prison, or — for 
who could tell? — in some grave dug quickly in 
the sands and left alone. And in this, where 
the pictured face had always been most help and 
comfort to her, it was most help and comfort 
now. She could not forget how Peace had 
sorrowed for her, had cried with her, had kissed 
her when she talked of Tom, nor what she had 
advised for him, nor what she had hoped for 
him. And one thing that Peace had said in 
that very last talk she could not forget, and she 
did not try. 
You think that I am talking poetry, and 
you wonder what saints and cathedral pictures 
have to do with merry Gypsy? Wait till some 
one very dear to you passes out of life, and you 
will wonder no longer. You will see how the 
little bare room, — very empty and cold it used 
to seem, and the sunlight lonely, — the painful 
bed which Peace had left vacant and silent and 
smooth, the very roads that had led so long to 
her poor home, and the still spot behind the 
church where she was lying, became sacred 
places to Gypsy, You will see how in all her 
temptations and troubles and hopes and fears, 
Peace became more help to her dead than she 
had been living. 
“ I miss her ; oh, I do miss her I ” she wrote 
to Tom ; “ and now mother is sick, and I can’t 
keep going to her as I used to, and there is 
nothing left of Peace but that grave over there 
(mother’s given me some tea-roses to plant on 
it), it does seem as if there weren’t anybody to 
stop me when I get ugly and cross and wicked. 
But then, Tom, if you ’ll believe it, I don’t cry 
very much about her. I can t. To think of 
her up there walking round, — for mother says 
she docs walk round, — and to think about that 
pain, and Aunt Jane, and how she is rid of it 
forever and ever and ever, — why, it just seems 
as if I ought to be glad of it. Now, Tom 
Breynton, don’t you tell, will you ? but I should 
like to know what she is doing in these days. 
I do hope she isn’t singing psalm-tunes all this 
time ; but then the hymn-books say so, and I 
suppose of course they must be true, — o — I 
was going to say ‘ old things ! ’ but I guess that 
was wicked, so I won’t.” 
Troubles never will come single, and while 
thoughts of Peace were yet very fresh in Gyp- 
sy’s heart, there came startling news from Tom. 
It came on a rainy day. It was a dreary 
rain ; the streets were muddy, the trees were 
dripping, the grass was drenched, the skies were 
lead. Gypsy came home early from school, 
exchanged her rubber-boots and waterproof for 
dry clothes, and sat down by the parlour window 
to string some beads. 
“ I ’ll help you,” said Winnie, magnani- 
mously; “I can just as well as not.” 
Gypsy politely declined his offer. 
“ If you don’t let me, I ’ll just stamp and — ” 
“ Six red — two white — one, two, three — 
Oh, Winnie ! ” 
“ Squeal and holler and — ” 
“ Do, — and wake up mother.” 
“ Frow some water at you,” finished Winnie, 
with superb superiority; “ frow some water out 
the tin dipper, with a little ’larsis in it I put in 
to look at ; no, I didn’t drink it either, I only 
put it in to look at, and some sugar too, and a 
little vinegar and pepper and, — well, I ’m going 
to frow it at you, anyway, and you won’t know 
anything about it, you see. Now going to give 
me those old beads? ” 
“ Why, there ’s the door-bell ! Run, Winnie, 
like a good boy ! ” 
Winnie stamped to the door, and came back 
with an envelope in his hand, and said that there 
was a man who wanted seventy-five cents. 
“Why!” said Gypsy, wondering. “A tel- 
egram ! Run up and tell mother, — no, on the 
whole, I won’t wake her; I have her purse in 
my pocket.” 
She paid the messenger and sent him off, and 
went to the foot of the stairs and stood still 
with the envelope in her hand. 
“ Perhaps I had better open it,” she said, 
half to herself, half to Winnie, dreading to do 
so, she knew not why, — dreading, too, to go 
to her mother. “ If there should be anything 
bad, — and father is at the store, — perhaps it 
would make her worse to read it herself. I 
wonder what it can be ! ” 
“ Why don’t you open it, then? ” said curious 
Winnie, peering through the banisters. 
“I — can’t, somehow,” said Gypsy, and stood 
still and looked at it. Then she tore it open 
and read, — names, dates, blurring before her 
eyes, — a few words only, awfully distinct : — 
“ Your son was wounded in /V shoulder this 
morning ; may not live through the day!' 
They had told his mother somehow, they 
never knew exactly how. She had not fainted 
nor shed tears. She had sunk down weakly 
on the bed and closed her eyes, and said one 
thing only, over and over: — 
“ And I cannot go to him ; cannot go to 
him ! ” 
In all the shock and horror, that was the 
sting. Her slowly-gaining strength was not yet 
enough ; the journey would be death to her. 
Tom could not see her, could not feel her last 
kiss on his lips, must die without his mother. 
“You must go, Gypsy; you must tell him — 
Oh, Gypsy, how can I, can I bear it? ” 
“ Oh, mother, mother ! — poor mother ! “ 
And Gypsy forgot all about herself, and drew 
her mother’s face into her arms, and all the 
rest went out, and the two lay down upon the 
pillows and sobbed and moaned together. 
Yes, Gypsy must go. She had a dim con- 
sciousness, as she hurried about to get ready, 
of saying “ Thank you ” to some one that she 
could go. 
“ I never thought about saying my prayers 
for ever so long after that,” she said afterwards ; 
“ but it was so queer how I kept saying ‘ Thank 
you,’ just as if I couldn’t help it. It would 
have been so terrible not to see him again.” 
It was strange work, this making ready. 
The house looked odd, and dark, and unfamiliar. 
Winnie, poor little fellow, only half 
able to understand what was going on, went 
off into a corner and had a frolic with the 
kitty. Gypsy looked on and wondered how 
he could laugh — how any- 
body could laugh, — how 
she had ever laughed or 
could ever laugh again. 
She wondered, too, that 
she did not forget things 
in her prepara- 
tions for the 
journey. But 
she forgot nothing. She packed her bag and 
her father’s carefully ; she stopped to think 
to put up her cologne-bottle, — wondering if 
it might not come in use for Tom, — to stick 
into the corners a roll or two of old soft linen, 
a sponge, and a little flask of brandy. She 
had an idea that lie would not be properly 
taken care of at the hospitals, and that she had 
better, at any rate, have these things with her. 
There were some ripe, fresh oranges on the 
pantry shelf. She took them up, but dropped 
them suddenly, and sat down with a sick faintness 
creeping all over her. Perhaps Tom would 
never eat again. 
He had been carried, just after the fight, — 
a mere skirmish they saw by the evening 
papers, — to one of the Washington hospitals; 
that they found out from the despatch, which 
poor Gypsy, in the blindness and bewilderment 
of bearing the sight of it first, and bearing it 
all alone, and knowing that all the rest must 
hear of it from her, had only partially read. 
The army were on the march, her father said, 
their camp hospitals probably broken up ; he 
was glad that they had sent Tom to Washing- 
ton ; he could receive better care ; there was 
more chance — There he broke off, and pulled 
his hat over his eyes, and Gypsy waited in vain 
for the rest of the sentence. 
The night train to Washington carried them 
both, sitting side by side, looking now and then 
into each other’s faces, but saying scarcely 
a word. Neither wanted to talk. There was 
nothing to say. And that was worst of all. 
If there had been anytJimg to do but bear! 
Gypsy sat by the window. She could not 
sleep, and so she leaned her forehead on the 
glass and looked out. She had never travelled 
in the night before, and the strangeness of it 
fitted her terrible errand. She watched the 
blackness that lay thickly beyond the window, 
in the shade of forest and tunnel, and the dead 
outlines — blackness cut in blackness — of trees 
and fences, houses, spires, hill-tops, streams 
and flats and bridges whirling by, and the 
poles of the telegraph lines rising like thin, 
sharp fingers against the sky, and the sparks 
from the engine shooting past. The rattling 
of the axle over which she sat; the sick sway- 
ing of the train from side to side as they flew 
up and over and down the terrible mountains 
at the rate of forty miles an hour; the dull 
pattering of the storm upon the windows 
heard through all the clash and roar; the long, 
loud, human shriek of the locomotive as they 
rushed through sleeping villages in the twinkling 
of an eye; the sudden flare of cities and 
lighted depots, where the monster was reined 
up panting; the groups upon the platforms, — 
single faces in them, here a soldier, there 
a pale woman in mourning, now a girl cling- 
ing to her brother’s arm, a brother with 
merry eyes and hair like Tom’s; once a cluster 
of men in blue uniform, bearing a long white 
box upon their shoulders, — all these things 
Gypsy saw, and heard, and felt; yet of no one 
was she distinctly conscious ; they all blended 
into one thought, one picture, one dream of 
Tom. 
Sometimes she seemed to see him in battle, 
his bright, brave face flushed and eager and 
beautiful, his hair blown by the wind, his keen 
eye taking aim. Then she would hear — hear 
above all the din of the train and storm — the 
report of a pistol, a cry, a groan, see his arms 
thrown up, see him fall and lie still in the 
blood and horror. After that it would be the 
slow journey from the front to the Capital, the 
painful ambulance jolting and jarring, the face 
within it, — Ah, Tom would be too brave to 
cry out. Then the hospital, the long rows of 
beds and his among them, the surgeons’ faces, 
the nurses, — strangers, all strangers ; not one 
familiar look or smile or touch ; nobody there 
to kiss him ; none to whom he was dear. And 
then there was one picture more, — one that 
swept over all the rest and blackened them out 
of sight ; one that grew sharper and plainer as 
the train shrieked on and the night wore on 
with it. Tom lying still, very still; his eyes 
closed, his hands folded, herself and her father 
looking dumbly on, — too late. 
Gypsy thought that the train crept, crawled, 
dragged, upon its way. Sometimes it seemed 
to her as if she must spring up and shriek with 
the horror of her thoughts. Sometimes as if 
she must cry out to her father, and throw her 
arms around his neck, and sob upon his shoulder. 
But when she saw his face rigid and 
white as he sat beside her with his eyes closed 
and his head laid back, she determined not to 
add her pain to his, but to bear it alone, and 
bear it like a woman ; and she did. 
That was a horrible night. Perhaps it is not 
very often — I hope not — that a child of 
Gypsy’s years has such to live through. Anx- 
iety and danger and death come everywhere, 
and many brave young brothers have gone, as 
Tom went, out of happy homes into which they 
never came back. But brothers are different, 
and sisters ; and all are not what Gypsy and 
Tom were to each other. 
But there was one pleasant thing about the 
night, — one quiet, restful thing, that Gypsy 
used afterwards to remember thankfully. 
At one of the large towns where the express 
stopped for a moment there was a little bustle 
at the end of the car, and two men came in 
carrying a crippled girl. There was not room 
enough for her, and they passed on into the 
next car, and Gypsy saw no more of her. But 
she had caught a glimpse of her white face and 
shrunken shoulders as they carried her through, 
and it took her quick thoughts back to Peace 
Maythorne, and that was the pleasant thing. 
For she remembered that Peace had said : 
“ If you see a man drowning, and throw him 
out planks and branches and straws, and there 
is a boat you could have just as well as not? ” 
And the hot tears came for sorrow and 
wonder that she could have forgotten to pray 
for Tom ; that all this long night had been 
wasted in branches and planks and straws, — in 
fruitless fears and useless grief and dreaming; 
and the only thing that could help him, — why, 
how could she forget? 
So, with the pictured face of Peace smiling 
in that silent corner of her heart, she told God 
all the story, — all that she feared, all that she 
hoped, all that she thought she could not bear. 
He loved her. He loved Tom. He would do 
right. She seemed to feel that, after a while, 
and with the thought in her heart she went 
quietly to sleep. 
Who shall say what that thought and that 
prayer had to do with what came afterwards? 
So the night passed, and the morning came, 
and the garish sunshine, and the burning day, 
and the sick faintness of the long journey. 
They had travelled as fast as steam could 
take them, and when the next night settled 
down they were in Washington. 
Gypsy looked out from the carriage window 
on the twinkling lights and heavy shadows of 
the city, and thought of that other journey to 
Washington which she had taken with her 
cousin Joy; thought of it with a curious sort 
of wonder that she could ever have been as 
happy as she was then ; that Tom could have 
been at home, safe and well, waiting to kiss 
her when she came, to take her in his strong 
arms, to look down into her face with his own 
bri gilt brown eyes, and pinch her cheek, and 
say how he had missed her. 
Oh, if the bright brown eyes should never 
look at her any more ! If he should never miss 
her, never wait for her again ! 
The carriage stopped suddenly. They were 
at the foot of the hospital steps. There were 
many lights in the windows, and some men 
gathered about the door. 
Gypsy caught her father’s hand and held it 
tightly. 
“Father,” — in a sort of terror, — “don’t 
let ’s go in yet. Wait a minute. I can’t bear 
to — know.” 
But the driver had the door open then, and 
somebody lifted her out, and she found herself 
climbing the steps, clinging to her father, and 
trying not to think. 
They went in. Mr. Breynton dropped her 
hand for a moment, and called a man who was 
standing in the hall, and said something to him 
in a whisper. 
“ Breynton, Breynton ! ” said the man aloud, 
“ let me see ; think I remember the name. 
Jack, look here ! ” 
Jack came. 
“ Here ’s a gentleman looking for Breynton — 
Thomas Breyntoii. Know where they ’ve put 
him?” 
“ Ward 3, sir, yes — if — ” 
Gypsy half caught the words, — “ if he ’s 
held out till now; don’t know about that. This 
way, sir; bed No. 2, in the corner, — this 
way.” 
The steward walked on with rapid, business- 
like strides. Through a bewilderment of light, 
