become penitent in a hurry. Gypsy's temper was like a flash of
lightning, hot and fierce and melting right away in the softest of
summer rains. When Joy was angry she sulked. Joy was precise and neat
about everything. Gypsy was not. Then Joy kept still, and Gypsy talked;
Joy told parts of stories, Gypsy told the whole; Joy had some foolish
notions about money and dresses and jewelry, on which Gypsy looked with
the most supreme contempt—not on the dresses, but the notions.
Therefore there was plenty of material for rubs and jars, and of all sad
things to creep into a happy house, these rubs and jars are the saddest.
One day both the girls woke full of mischief. It was a bracing November
day, cool as an ice-cream and clear as a whistle. The air sparkled like
a fountain of golden sands, and was as full of oxygen as it could hold;
and oxygen, you must know, is at the bottom of a great deal of the
happiness and misery, goodness and badness, of this world.
"I tell you if I don't feel like cutting up!" said Gypsy, on the way
to school. Gypsy didn't look unlike "cutting up" either, walking along
there with her satchel swung over her left shoulder, her turban set all
askew on her bright, black hair, her cheeks flushed from the jumping of
fences and running of races that had been going on since she left the
house, and that saucy twinkle in her eyes. Joy was always somewhat more
demure, but she looked, too, that morning, as if she were quite as ready
to have a good time as any other girl.
"Do you know," said Gypsy, confidentially, as they went up the
schoolhouse steps, "I feel precisely as if I should make Miss Cardrew a
great deal of trouble to-day; don't you?"
"What does she do to you if you do?"
"Oh, sometimes she keeps you after school, and then again she tells Mr.
Guernsey, and then there are the bad marks. Miss Melville—she's my old
teacher that married Mr. Hallam, she was just silly enough!—well, she
used to just look at you, and never open her lips, and I guess you
wished you hadn't pretty quick."
It was very early yet, but quite a crowd was gathered in the
schoolhouse, as was the fashion on cool mornings. The boys were stamping
noisily over the desks, and grouped about the stove in No. 1. No. 1. was
the large room where the whole school gathered for prayer. A few of the
girls were there—girls who laughed rudely and talked loudly, none of
them Gypsy's friends. Tom never liked to have Gypsy linger about in No.
1, before or after school hours; he said it was not the place for her,
and Tom was there that morning, knotting his handsome brows up into a
very decided frown, when he saw her in the doorway, with Joy peeping
over her shoulder. So Gypsy—somewhat reluctantly, it must be
confessed, for the boys seemed to be having a good time, and with boys'
good times she had a most unconquerable sympathy—went up with Joy into
Miss Cardrew's recitation room. Nobody was there. A great, empty
schoolroom, with its rows of silent seats and closed desks, with power
to roam whithersoever you will, and do whatsoever you choose, is a great
temptation. The girls ran over the desks, and looked into the desks,
jumped over the settees, and knocked down the settees, put out the fire
and built it up again, from the pure luxury of doing what they wanted
to, in a place where they usually had to do what they didn't want to.
They sat in Miss Cardrew's chair, and peeped into her desk; they ate
apples and snapped peanut shells on the very platform where sat the
spectacled and ogre-eyed committee on examination days; they drew all
manner of pictures of funny old women without any head, and old men
without any feet, on the awful blackboard, and played "tag" round the
globes. Then they stopped for want of breath.
"I wish there were something to do," sighed Gypsy; "something real
splendid and funny."
"I knew a girl once, and she drew a picture of the teacher on the board
in green chalk," suggested Joy; "only she lost her recess for a whole
week after it."
"That wouldn't do. Besides, pictures are too common; everybody does
those. Boys put pins in the seats, and cut off the legs of the teacher's
chair, and all that. I don't know as I care to tumble Miss Cardrew
over—wouldn't she look funny, though!—'cause mother wouldn't like
it. Couldn't we make the stove smoke, or put pepper in the desks,
or—let me see."
"Dress up something somehow," said Joy; "there's the poker."
Gypsy shook her head.
"Delia Guest did that last term, 'n' the old thing—I mean the poker,
not Delia—went flat down in the corner behind the stove—flat, just
as Miss Melville was coming in, and lay there in the wood-pile, and
nobody knew there was a single sign of a thing going on. I guess you
better believe Delia felt cheap!—hark! what's that?"
It was a faint miaow down in the yard. The girls ran to the window and
looked out.
"A kitten!"
"The very thing!"
"I'm going right down to get her."
Down they ran, both of them, in a great hurry, and brought the creature
up. The poor thing was chilled, and hungry, and frightened. They took
her up to the stove, and Gypsy warmed her in her apron, and Joy fed her
with cookies from her lunch-basket, till she curled her head under her
paws with a merry purr, all ready for a nap, and evidently without the
slightest suspicion that Gypsy's lap was not foreordained, and created
for her especial habitation as long as she might choose to remain there.
"Joy," said Gypsy, suddenly, "I've thought of something."
"So have I."
"To dress her——"
"Up in a handkerchief."
"And things."
"I know it."
"And put her——"
"Yes! into Miss Cardrew's desk!"
"Won't it be just——"
"Splendid! Hurry up!"
They "hurried up" in good earnest, choking down their laughter so that
nobody downstairs might hear it. Joy took her pretty, purple-bordered
handkerchief and tied it over the poor kitten's head like a nightcap, so
tight that, pull and scratch as she might, pussy could not get it off.
Gypsy's black silk apron was tied about her, like a long baby-dress, a
pair of mittens were fastened on her arms, and a pink silk scarf around
her throat. When all was done, Gypsy held her up, and trotted her on her
knee. Anybody who has ever dressed up a cat like a baby, knows how
indescribably funny a sight it is. It seemed as if the girls could never
stop laughing—it does not take much to make girls laugh. At last there
was a commotion in the entry below.
"It's the girls!—quick, quick!"
Gypsy, trying to get up, tripped on her dress and fell, and away flew
the kitten, all tangled in the apron, making for the door as fast as an
energetic kitten could go.
"She'll be downstairs, and maybe Miss Cardrew's there! Oh!"
Joy sprang after the creature, caught her by the very tip end of her
tail just as she was preparing to pounce down the stairs, and ran with
her to Miss Cardrew's desk.
"Put her in—quick, quick!"
"O-oh, she won't lie still!"
"Where's the lunch-basket? Give me some biscuit—there! I hear them on
the stairs!"
The kitten began to mew piteously, struggling to get out with all her
might. Down went the desk-cover on her paws.
"There now, lie still! Oh, hear her mew! What shall we do?"
Quick footsteps were on the stairs—halfway up; merry laughter, and a
dozen voices.
"Here's the biscuit. Here, kitty, kitty, poor kit-ty, do please to
lie still and eat it! Oh, Joy Breynton, did you ever?"
"There, she's eating!"
"Shut the desk—hurry!"
When the girls came in, Joy and Gypsy were in their seats, looking over
the arithmetic lesson. Joy's book was upside down, and Gypsy was
intensely interested in the preface.
Miss Cardrew came in shortly after, and stood warming her fingers at the
stove, nodding and smiling at the girls. All was still so far in the
desk. Miss Cardrew went up and laid down her gloves and pushed back her
chair. Joy coughed under her breath, and Gypsy looked up out of the
corners of her eyes.
"Mr. Guernsey is not well to-day," began Miss Cardrew, standing by the
desk, "and we shall not be able to meet as usual in No. 1 for prayers.
It has been thought best that each department should attend devotions in
its own room. You can get out your Bibles."
Gypsy looked at Joy, and Joy looked at Gypsy.
Miss Cardrew sat down. It was very still. A muffled scratching sound
broke into the pause. Miss Cardrew looked up carelessly, as if to see
where it came from; it stopped.
"She'll open her desk now," whispered Joy, stooping to pick up a book.
"See here, Joy, I almost wish we hadn't——"
"We will read the fourteenth chapter of John," spoke up Miss Cardrew,
with her Bible in her hand. No, she hadn't opened her desk. The Bible
lay upon the outside of it.
"Oh, if that biscuit'll only last till she gets through praying!"
"Hush-sh! She's looking this way."
Miss Cardrew began to read. She had read just four verses, when—
"Miaow!"
Gypsy and Joy were trying very hard to find the place. Miss Cardrew
looked up and around the room. It was quite still. She read two verses
more.
"Mi-aow! mi-aow-aow!"
Miss Cardrew looked up again, round the room, over the platform, under
the desk, everywhere but in it.
"Girls, did any of you make that sound?"
Nobody had. Miss Cardrew began to read again. All at once Joy pulled
Gypsy's sleeve.
"Just look there!"
"Where?"
"Trickling down the outside of the desk!"
"You don't suppose she's upset the——"
"Ink-bottle—yes."
Miss Cardrew was in the tenth verse, and the room was very still. Right
into the stillness there broke again a distinct, prolonged, dolorous—
"Mi-aow-aow!"
And this time Miss Cardrew laid down her Bible and lifted the
desk-cover.
It is reported in school to this day that Miss Cardrew jumped.
Out flew the kitten, like popped corn from a shovel, glared over the
desk in the nightcap and black apron, leaped down, and flew, all
dripping with ink, down the aisle, out of the door, and bouncing
downstairs like an India-rubber ball.
Delia Guest and one or two of the other girls screamed. Miss Cardrew
flung out some books and papers from the desk. It was too late; they
were dripping, and drenched, and black. The teacher quietly wiped some
spots of ink from her pretty blue merino, and there was an awful
silence.
"Girls," said Miss Cardrew then, in her grave, stern way, "who did
this?"
Nobody answered.
"Who put that cat in my desk?" repeated Miss Cardrew.
It was perfectly still. Gypsy's cheeks were scarlet. Joy was looking
carelessly about the room, scanning the faces of the girls, as if she
were trying to find out who was the guilty one.
"It is highly probable that the cat tied herself into an apron, opened
the desk and shut the cover down on herself," said Miss Cardrew; "we
will look into this matter. Delia Guest, did you put her in?"
"No'm—he, he! I guess I—ha, ha!—didn't," said Delia.
"Next!"—and down the first row went Miss Cardrew, asking the same
question of every girl, and the second row, and the third. Gypsy sat on
the end of the fourth settee.
"Gypsy Breynton, did you put the kitten in my desk?"
"No'm, I didn't," said Gypsy; which was true enough. It was Joy who did
that part of it.
"Did you have anything to do with the matter, Gypsy?" Perhaps Miss
Cardrew remembered that Gypsy had had something to do with a few other
similar matters since she had been in school.
"Yes'm," said honest Gypsy, with crimson face and hanging head, "I did."
"What did you do?"
"I put on the apron and the tippet, and—I gave her the biscuit.
I—thought she'd keep still till prayers were over," said Gypsy,
faintly.
"But you did not put her in the desk?"
"No'm."
"And you know who did?"
"Yes'm."
Miss Cardrew never asked her scholars to tell of each other's
wrong-doings. If she had, it would have made no difference to Gypsy. She
had shut up her lips tight and not another word would she have said for
anybody. She had told the truth about herself, but she was under no
obligations to bring Joy into trouble. Joy might do as she liked.
"Gypsy Breynton will lose her recesses for a week and stay an hour after
school tonight," said Miss Cardrew. "Joy, did you put the kitten in my
desk?"
"No, ma'am," said Joy, boldly.
"Nor have anything to do with it?"
"No, ma'am," said Joy, without the slightest change of color.
"Next!—Sarah Rowe."
Of course Sarah had not, nor anybody else. Miss Cardrew let the matter
drop there and went on with her reading.
Gypsy sat silent and sorry, her eyes on her Testament. Joy tried to
whisper something to her once, but Gypsy turned away with a gesture of
impatience and disgust. This thing Joy had done had shocked her so that
she felt as if she could not bear the sight of her face or touch of her
hand. Never since she was a very little child had Gypsy been known to
say what was not true. All her words were like her eyes—clear as
sunbeams.
At dinner Joy did all the talking. Mrs. Breynton asked Gypsy what was
the matter, but Gypsy said "Nothing." If Joy did not choose to tell of
the matter, she would not.
"What makes you so cross?" said Joy in the afternoon; "nobody can get a
word out of you, and you don't look at me any more than if I weren't
here."
"I don't see how you can ask such a question!" exploded Gypsy, with
flashing eyes. "You know what you've done as well as I do."
"No, I don't," grumbled Joy; "just 'cause I didn't tell Miss Cardrew
about that horrid old cat—I wish we'd let the ugly thing alone!—I
don't see why you need treat me as if I'd been murdering somebody and
were going to be hung for it. Besides, I said 'Over the left' to myself
just after I'd told her, and I didn't want to lose my recess if you
did."
Gypsy shut up her pink lips tight, and made no answer.
Joy went out to play at recess, and Gypsy stayed in alone and studied.
Joy went home with the girls in a great frolic after school, and Gypsy
stayed shut up in the lonely schoolroom for an hour, disgraced and
miserable. But I have the very best of reasons for thinking that she
wasn't nearly as miserable as Joy.
Just before supper the two girls were sitting drearily together in the
dining-room, when the door-bell rang.
"It's Miss Cardrew!" said Joy, looking out of the window; "what do you
suppose she wants?"
Gypsy looked up carelessly; she didn't very much care. She had told Miss
Cardrew all she had to tell and received her punishment.
As for her mother, she would have gone to her with the whole story that
noon, if it hadn't been for Joy's part in it.
"What is that she has in her hand, I wonder?" said Joy uneasily, peeping
through a crack in the door as Miss Cardrew passed through the entry;
"why, I declare! if it isn't a handkerchief, as true as you
live—all—inky!"
When Miss Cardrew had gone, Mrs. Breynton came out of the parlor with a
very grave face, a purple-bordered handkerchief in her hand; it was all
spotted with ink, and the initials J. M. B. were embroidered on it.
"Joy."
Joy came out of the corner slowly.
"Come here a minute."
Joy went and the door was shut. Just what happened that next half hour
Gypsy never knew. Joy came upstairs at the end of it, red-eyed and
crying, and gentle.
Gypsy was standing by the window.
"Gypsy."
"Well."
"I love auntie dearly, now I guess I do."
"Of course," said Gypsy; "everybody does."
"I hadn't the least idea it was so wicked—not the least idea. Mother
used to——"
But Joy broke off suddenly, with quivering, crimson lips.
What that mother used to do Gypsy never asked; Joy never told
her—either then, or at any other time.
CHAPTER VII
PEACE MAYTHORNE'S ROOM
"Tis, too."
"It isn't, either."
"I know just as well as you."
"No you don't any such a thing. You've lived up here in this old country
place all your life, and you don't know any more about the fashions than
Mrs. Surly."
"But I know it's perfectly ridiculous to rig up in white chenille and
silver pins, when anybody's in such deep mourning as you. I wouldn't
do it for anything."
"I'll take care of myself, if you please, miss."
"And I know another thing, too."
"You do? A whole thing?"
"Yes, I do. I know you're just as proud as you can be, and I've heard
more'n one person say so. All the girls think you're dreadfully stuck up
about your dresses and things—so there!"
"I don't care what the girls think, or you either. I guess I'll be glad
when father comes home and I get out of this house!"
Joy fastened the gaudy silver pins with a jerk into the heavy white
chenille that she was tying about her throat and hair, turned herself
about before the glass with a last complacent look, and walked, in her
deliberate, cool, provoking way, from the room. Gypsy got up,
and—slammed the door on her.
Very dignified proceedings, certainly, for girls twelve and thirteen
years old. An unspeakably important matter to quarrel about—a piece of
white chenille! Angry people, be it remembered, are not given to
over-much dignity, and how many quarrels are of the slightest
importance?
Yet the things these two girls found to dispute, and get angry, and get
miserable, and make the whole family miserable over, were so
ridiculously petty that I hardly expect to be believed in telling of
them. The front side of the bed, the upper drawer in the bureau, a
hair-ribbon, who should be helped first at the table, who was the best
scholar, which was the more stylish color, drab or green, and whether
Vermont wasn't a better State than Massachusetts—such matters might
very appropriately be the subjects of the dissensions of young ladies in
pinafores and pantalettes.
Yet I think you will bear me witness, girls, some of you—ah, I know
you by the sudden pink in your cheeks—who have gone to live with a
cousin, or had a cousin live with you, or whose mother has adopted an
orphan, or taken charge of a missionary's daughter, or in some way or
other have been brought for the first time in your life into daily and
hourly collision with another young will just as strong and unbending as
yours—can't you bear me witness that, in these little contests between
Joy and Gypsy, I am telling no "made-up stories," but sad, simple fact?
If you can't, I am very glad of it.
No, as I said before, matters were not going on at all comfortably; and
every week seemed to make them worse. Wherein lay the trouble, and how
to prevent it, neither of the girls had as yet exerted themselves to
think.
A week or two after the adventures that befell that unfortunate kitten,
something happened which threatened to make the breach between Gypsy and
Joy of a very serious nature. It began, as a great many other serious
things begin, in a very small and rather funny affair.
Mrs. Surly, who has been spoken of as Gypsy's particular aversion, was a
queer old lady with green glasses, who lived opposite Mr. Breynton's,
who felt herself particularly responsible for Gypsy's training, and gave
her good advice, double measure, pressed down and running over. One
morning it chanced that Gypsy was playing "stick-knife" with Tom out in
the front yard, and that Mrs. Surly beheld her from her parlor window,
and that Mrs. Surly was shocked. She threw up her window and called in
an awful voice—
"Jemima Breynton!"
Now you might about as well challenge Gypsy to a duel as call her
Jemima; so—
"What do you want?" she said, none too respectfully.
"I have something to say to you, Jemima Breynton."
"Say ahead," said Gypsy, under her breath, and did not stir an inch.
Distance certainly lent enchantment to the view when Mrs. Surly was in
the case.
"Does your ma allow you to be so bold as to play boys' games with
boys, right out in sight of folks?" vociferated Mrs. Surly.
"Certainly," nodded Gypsy. "It's your turn, Tom."
"Well, it's my opinion, Gypsy Breynton, you're a romp. You're nothing
but a romp, and if I was your ma——"
Tom dropped his knife just then, stood up and looked at Mrs. Surly. For
reasons best known to herself, Mrs. Surly shut the window and contented
herself with glaring through the glass.
Now, Joy had stood in the doorway and been witness to the scene, and
moreover, having been reproved by her aunt for something or other that
morning, she felt ill-humored, and very ready to find fault in her turn.
"I think it's just so, anyway," she said. "I wouldn't be seen playing
stick-knife for a good deal."
"And I wouldn't be seen telling lies!" retorted Gypsy, sorry for it the
minute she had said it. Then there followed a highly interesting
dialogue of about five minutes' length, and of such a character that Tom
speedily took his departure.
Now it came about that Gypsy, as usual, was the first ready to "make
up," and she turned over plan after plan in her mind, to find something
pleasant she could do for Joy. At last, as the greatest treat she could
think of to offer her, she said:
"I'll tell you what! Let's go down to Peace Maythorne's. I do believe I
haven't taken you there since you've been in Yorkbury."
"Who's Peace Maythorne?" asked Joy, sulkily.
"Well, she's the person I love just about best of anybody."
"Best of anybody!"
"Oh, mother, of course, and Tom, and Winnie, and father, and all those.
Relations don't count. But I do love her as well as anybody but
mother—and Tom, and—well, anyway, I love her dreadfully."
"What is she, a woman, or a girl, or what?"
"She's an angel," said Gypsy.
"What a goose you are!"
"Very likely; but whether I'm a goose or not, she's an angel. I look for
the wings every time I see her. She has the sweetest little way of
keeping 'em folded up, and you're always on the jump, thinking you see
'em."
"How you talk! I've a good mind to go and see her."
"All right."
So away they went, as pleasant as a summer's day, merrily chatting.
"But I don't think angels are very nice, generally," said Joy,
doubtingly. "They preach. Does Peace Maythorne preach? I shan't like her
if she does."
"Peace preach! Not like her! You'd better know what you're talking
about, if you're going to talk," said Gypsy, with heightened color.
"Dear me, you take a body's head off. Well, if she should preach, I
shall come right home."
They had come now to the village, where were the stores and the
post-office, the bank, and some handsome dwelling-houses. Also the one
paved sidewalk of Yorkbury, whereon the young people did their
promenading after school in the afternoon. Joy always fancied coming
here, gay in her white chenille and white ribbons, and dainty parasol
lined with white silk. There is nothing so showy as showy mourning, and
Joy made the most of it.
"Why, where are you going?" she exclaimed at last. Gypsy had turned away
from the fashionable street, and the handsome houses, and the paved
sidewalk.
"To Peace Maythorne's."
"This way?"
"This way."
The street into which Gypsy had turned was narrow and not over clean;
the houses unpainted and low. As they walked on it grew narrower and
dirtier, and the houses became tenement houses only.
"Do, for pity's sake, hurry and get out of here," said Joy, daintily
holding up her dress. Gypsy walked on and said nothing. Red-faced women
in ragged dresses began to cluster on the steps; muddy-faced children
screamed and quarreled in the road. At the door of a large tenement
building, somewhat neater than the rest, but miserable enough, Gypsy
stopped.
"What are you stopping for?" said Joy.
"This is where she lives."
"Here?"
"I just guess she does," put in a voice from behind; it was Winnie, who
had followed them on tiptoe, unknown to them, all the way. "She's got a
funny quirk in her back, 'n' she lies down pretty much. That's her room
up there to the top of the house. It's a real nice place, I tell you.
They have onions mos' every day. Besides, I saw a little boy here one
time when I was comin' 'long with mother, 'n' he was smokin' some
tobaccer. He said he'd give it to me for two napples, and mother just
wouldn't let me."
"Here—a cripple!" exclaimed Joy.
"Here, and a cripple," said Gypsy, in a queer tone, looking very
straight at Joy.
"You ought to be ashamed of yourself!" broke out Joy, "playing such a
trick on me. Do you suppose I'm going into such a place as this, to
see an old beggar—a hunch-backed beggar?"
Gypsy turned perfectly white. When she was very angry, too angry to
speak, she always turned white. It was some seconds before she could
find her voice.
"A hunch-backed beggar! Peace? How dare you say such things of Peace
Maythorne? Joy Breynton, I'll never forgive you for this as long as I
live—never!"
The two girls looked at each other. Just at that moment I am afraid
there was something in their hearts answering to that forbidden word,
that terrible word—hate. Ah, we feel so safe from it in our gentle,
happy, untempted lives, just as safe as they felt once. Remember this,
girls: when Love goes out, Hate comes in. In your heart there stands
an angel, watching, silent, on whose lips are kindly words, in whose
hands are patient, kindly deeds, whose eyes see "good in everything,"
something to love where love is hardest, some generous, gentle way to
show that love when ways seem closed. In your heart, too, away down in
its darkest corner, all forgotten, perhaps, by you, crouches something
with face too black to look upon, something that likewise watches and
waits with horrible patience, if perhaps the angel, with folded wing and
drooping head, may be driven out. It is never empty, this curious,
fickle heart. One or the other must stand there, king of it. One or the
other—and in the twinkling of an eye the change is made, from angel to
fiend, from fiend to angel; just which you choose.
Joy broke away from her cousin in a passion. Gypsy flew into the door of
the miserable house, up the stairs two steps at a time, to the door of a
low room in the second story, and rushed in without knocking.
"Oh, Peace Maythorne!"
The cripple lying on the bed turned her pale face to the door, her
large, quiet eyes blue with wonder.
"Why, Gypsy! What is the matter?"
Gypsy's face was white still, very white. She shut the door loudly, and
sat down on the bed with a jar that shook it all over. A faint
expression of pain crossed the face of Peace.
"Oh, I didn't mean to—it was cruel in me! How could I? Have I hurt
you very badly, Peace?" Gypsy slipped down upon the floor, the color
coming into her face now, from shame and sorrow. Peace gently motioned
her back to her place upon the bed, smiling.
"Oh, no. It was nothing. Sit up here; I like to have you. Now, what is
it, Gypsy?"
The tone of this "What is it, Gypsy?" told a great deal. It told that it
was no new thing for Gypsy to come there just so, with her troubles and
her joys, her sins and her well-doings, her plans and hopes and fears,
all the little stories of the fresh, young life from which the cripple
was forever shut out. It told, too, what Gypsy found in this quiet room,
and took away from it—all the help and the comfort, and the sweet, sad
lessons. It told, besides, much of what Peace and Gypsy were to each
other, that only they two should ever exactly understand. It was a tone
that always softened Gypsy, in her gayest frolics, in her wildest moods.
For the first time since she had known Peace, it failed to soften her
now.
She began in her impetuous way, her face angry and flushed, her voice
trembling yet:—
"I can't tell you what it is, and that's the thing of it! It's about
that horrid old Joy."
"Gypsy!"
"I can't help it—I hate her!"
"Gypsy."
Gypsy's eyes fell at the gentle word.
"Well, I felt just as if I did, down there on the steps, anyway. You
don't know what Joy said. It's something about you, and that's what
makes me so mad. If she ever says it again!"
"About me?" interrupted Peace.
"Yes," said Gypsy, with great, flashing eyes. "I wouldn't tell it to you
for all the world; it's so bad as that, Peace. How she dared to call
you a beg——"
Gypsy stopped short. But she had let the cat out of the bag. Peace
smiled again.
"A beggar! Well, it doesn't hurt me any, does it? Joy has never seen me,
doesn't know me, you must remember, Gypsy. Besides, nobody else thinks
as much of me as you do."
"I didn't mean to say that; I'm always saying the wrong thing! Anyway,
that isn't all of it, and I did think I should strike her when she said
it. I can't bear Joy. You don't know what she is, Peace. She grows worse
and worse. She does things I wouldn't do for anything, and I wish she'd
never come here!"
"Is Joy always wrong?" asked Peace, gently. Peace rarely gave to any
one as much of a reproof as that. Gypsy felt it.
"No," said she, honestly, "she isn't. I'm real horrid and wicked, and do
ugly things. But I can't help it; Joy makes me—she acts so."
"I know what's the matter with you and Joy, I guess," said Peace.
"The matter? Well, I don't; I wish I did. We're always fight—fighting,
day in and day out, and I'm tired to death of it. I'm just crazy for the
time for Joy to go home, and I'm dreadfully unhappy having her round,
now I am, Peace."
Gypsy drew down her merry, red lips, and looked very serious. To tell
the truth, however, do the best she would, she could not look altogether
as if her heart were breaking from the amount of "unhappiness" that fell
to her lot. A little smile quivered around the lips of Peace.
"Well," said Gypsy, laughing in spite of herself, "I am. I never can
make anybody believe it, though. What is the matter with Joy and me? You
didn't say."
"You've forgotten something, I think."
"Forgotten something?"
"Yes—something you read me once out of an old Book."
"Book? Oh!" said Gypsy, beginning to understand.
"In honor preferring one another," said Peace, softly. Gypsy did not say
anything. Peace took up her Bible that lay on the bed beside her—it
always lay on the bed—and turned the leaves, and laid her finger on
the verse. Gypsy read it through before she spoke. Then she said slowly:
"Why, Peace Maythorne. I—never could—in this world—never."
Just then there came a knock at the door. Gypsy went to open it, and
stood struck dumb for amazement. It was Joy.
"Auntie said it was supper-time, and you were to come home," began Joy,
somewhat embarrassed. "She was going to send Winnie, but I thought I'd
come."
"Why, I never!" said Gypsy, still standing with the door-knob in her
hand.
"Is this your cousin?" spoke up Peace.
"Oh, yes, I forgot. This is Peace Maythorne, Joy."
"I am glad to see you," said Peace in her pleasant way; "won't you come
in?"
"Well, perhaps I will, a minute," said Joy, awkwardly, taking a chair by
the window, and wondering if Gypsy had told Peace what she said. But
Peace was so cordial, her voice so quiet, and her eyes so kind, that she
concluded she knew nothing about it, and soon felt quite at her ease.
Everybody was at ease with Peace Maythorne.
"How pleasant it is here!" said Joy, looking about the room in unfeigned
astonishment. And indeed it was. The furniture was poor enough, but
everything was as neat as fresh wax, and the sunlight, that somehow or
other always sought that room the earliest, and left it the latest—the
warm, shimmering sunlight that Peace so loved—was yellow on the old,
faded carpet, on the paperless, pictureless wall, on the bed where the
hands of Peace lay, patient and folded.
"It is pleasant," said Peace, heartily. "You don't know how thankful
it makes me. Aunt came very near taking a room on the north side.
Sometimes I really don't know what I should have done. But then I guess
I should have found something else to like."
I should have found something else. A sudden thought came to the two
girls then, in a dim, childish way—a thought they could by no means
have explained; they wondered if in those few words did not lie the key
to Peace Maythorne's beautiful, sorrowful life. They would not have
expressed it so, but that was what they meant.
"See here," broke out Gypsy all at once, "Peace Maythorne wants you and
me to make up, Joy."
"Your cousin will think I'm interfering with what's none of my
business," said Peace, laughing. "I didn't say exactly that, you know; I
was only talking to you."
"Oh, I'd just as lief make up now, but I wouldn't this morning,"
wondering for the second time if Peace could know what she said, and
be so gentle and good to her; "I will if Gypsy will."
"And I will if Joy will," said Gypsy, "so it's a bargain."
"Do you have a great deal of pain?" asked Joy, as they rose to go, with
real sympathy in her puzzled eyes.
"Oh, yes; but then I get along."
"Peace Maythorne!" put in Gypsy just then, "is that all the dinner you
ate?" Gypsy was standing by the table on which was a plate containing a
cold potato, a broken piece of bread, and a bit of beefsteak. Evidently
from the looks of the food, only a few mouthfuls had been eaten.
"I didn't feel hungry," said Peace, evasively.
"But you like meat, for you told me so."
"I didn't care about this," said Peace, looking somewhat restless.
Gypsy looked at her sharply, then stooped and whispered a few words in
her ear.
"No," said Peace, her white cheek flushing crimson. "Oh, no, she never
told me not to. She means to be very kind. I cost her a great deal."
"But you know she'd be glad if you didn't eat much, and that was the
reason you didn't," exclaimed Gypsy, angrily. "I think it's abominable!"
"Hush! please Gypsy."
Gypsy hushed. Just then the door opened and Miss Jane Maythorne, Peace's
aunt, came in. She was a tall, thin, sallow-faced woman, with angular
shoulders and a sharp chin. She looked like a New England woman who had
worked hard all her life and had much trouble, so much that she thought
of little else now but work and trouble; who had a heart somewhere, but
was apt to forget all about it except on great occasions.
"I've been talking to Peace about not eating more," said Gypsy, when she
had introduced Joy, and said good-afternoon. "She'll die if she doesn't
eat more than that," pointing to the plate.
"She can eat all she wants, as far as I know," said Aunt Jane, rather
shortly. "Nobody ever told her not to. It's nothing very fine in the way
of victuals I can get her, working as I work for two, and most beat out
every night. La! Peace, you haven't eaten your meat, have you? Well,
I'll warm it over to-morrow, and it'll be as good as new."
"The old dragon!" exclaimed Gypsy, under her breath, as the girls went
out. "She is a dragon, nothing more nor less—a dragon that doesn't
scold particularly, but a dragon that looks. I'd rather be scolded to
death than looked at and looked at every mouthful I eat. I don't wonder
Peace doesn't eat. She'll starve to death some day."
"But why don't you send her down things?" asked Joy. Gypsy shook her
head.
"You don't understand Peace. She wouldn't like it. Mother does send her
a quantity of books and flowers and things, and dinner just as often as
she can without making Peace feel badly. But Peace wouldn't like 'em
every day."
"She's real different from what I thought," said Joy—"real. What
pretty eyes she has. I didn't seem to remember she was poor, a bit."
"What made you come down?"
"'Cause," said Joy.
This excellent reason was all that was ever to be had out of her. But
that first time was by no means the last she went to Peace Maythorne's
room.
The girls were in good spirits that night, well pleased with each other,
themselves, and everybody else, as is usually the case when one is just
over a fit of ill-temper. When they were alone in bed, Gypsy told Joy
about the verse of which Peace spoke. Joy listened in silence.
Awhile after, Gypsy woke from a dream, and saw a light burning on the
table. Joy was sitting up in her white night-dress, turning the leaves
of a book as if she were hunting for something.
CHAPTER VIII
THE STORY OF A NIGHT
November, with its bright, bleak skies, sere leaves tossing, sad winds
sobbing, and rains that wept for days and nights together, on dead
flowers and dying grasses, moaned itself away at last, and December
swept into its place with a good rousing snow-storm, merry sleigh-bells,
and bright promises of coming Christmas. The girls coasted and skated,
and made snow-men and snowballs and snow-forts. Joy learned to slide
down a moderate hill at a mild rate without screaming, and to get along
somehow on her skates alone—for the very good reason that Tom wouldn't
help her. Gypsy initiated her into the mysteries of "cannon-firing" from
the great icy forts, and taught her how to roll the huge balls of snow.
Altogether they had a very good time. Not as good as they might have
had, by any means; the old rubs and jars were there still, though of
late they had been somewhat softened. Partly on account of their talk
with Peace; partly because of a certain uncomfortable acquaintance
called conscience; partly because of their own good sense, the girls had
tacitly made up their minds at least to make an effort to live together
more happily. In some degree they succeeded, but they were like people
walking over a volcano; the trouble was not quenched; it lay always
smoldering out of sight, ready at a moment's notice to flare up into
angry flame. The fault lay perhaps no more with one than another. Gypsy
had never had a sister, and her brothers were neither of them near
enough to her own age to interfere very much with her wishes and
privileges. Moreover, a brother, though he may be the greatest tease in
existence, is apt to be easier to get along with than a sister about
one's own age. His pleasures and ambitions run in different directions
from the girls; there is less clashing of interests. Besides this,
Gypsy's playmates in Yorkbury, as has been said, had not chanced to be
girls of very strong wills. Quite to her surprise, since Joy had been
her roommate and constant companion, had she found out that
she—Gypsy—had been pretty well used to having her own way, and that
other people sometimes liked to have theirs.
As for Joy, she had always been an only child, and that tells a history.
Of the two perhaps she had the more to learn. The simple fact that she
was brought wisely and kindly, but thoroughly, under Mrs. Breynton's
control, was decidedly a revelation to her. At her own home, it had
always been said, from the time she was a baby, that her mother could
not manage her, and her father would not. She rebelled a little at first
against her aunt's authority, but she was fast learning to love her, and
when we love, obedience ceases to be obedience, and becomes an offering
freely given.
A little thing happened one day, showing that sadder and better side of
Joy's heart that always seemed to touch Gypsy.
They had been having some little trouble about the lessons at school; it
just verged on a quarrel, and slided off, and they had treated each
other pleasantly after it. At night Joy was sitting upstairs writing a
letter to her father, when a gust of wind took the sheet and blew it to
Gypsy's feet. Gypsy picked it up to carry it to her, and in doing so,
her eyes fell accidentally on some large, legible words at the bottom of
the page. She had not the slightest intention of reading them, but their
meaning came to her against her will, in that curious way we see things
in a flash sometimes. This was what she saw:
"I like auntie ever so much, and Tom. Gypsy was cross this morning.
She——" and then followed Joy's own version of the morning's dispute.
Gypsy was vexed. She liked her uncle, and she did not like to have him
hear such one-sided stories of her, and judge her as he would.
She walked over to Joy with very red cheeks.
"Here's your letter. I tried not to read it, but I couldn't help seeing
that about me. I don't think you've any business to tell him about me
unless you can tell the truth."
Of course Joy resented such a remark as this, and high words followed.
They went down to supper sulkily, and said nothing to one another for an
hour. After tea, Joy crept up moodily into the corner, and Gypsy sat
down on the cricket for one of her merry talks with her mother. After
she had told her how many times she missed at school that day, what a
funny tumble Sarah Rowe had on the ice, and laughed over "Winnie's
latest" till she was laughed out and talked out too, she sprang into her
lap, in one of Gypsy's sudden outbursts of affection, throwing her arms
around her neck, and kissing her on cheeks, forehead, lips and chin.
"O-oh, what a blessed little mother you are! What should I do without
you?"
"Mother's darling daughter! What should she do without you?" said Mrs.
Breynton, softly.
But not softly enough. Gypsy looked up suddenly and saw a pale face
peering out at them from behind the curtain, its great eyes swimming in
tears, its lips quivering. The next minute Joy left the room.
There was something dim in Gypsy's eyes as she hurried after her. She
found her crouched upstairs in the dark and cold, sobbing as if her
heart would break. Gypsy put her arm around her.
"Kiss me, Joy."
Joy kissed her, and that was all that was said. But it ended in Gypsy's
bringing her triumphantly downstairs, where were the lights and the
fire, and the pleasant room, and another cricket waiting at Mrs.
Breynton's feet.
They were very busy after this with the coming Christmas. Joy
confidently expected a five-dollar bill from her father, and Gypsy
cherished faint aspirations after a portfolio with purple roses on it.
But most of their thoughts, and all their energies, were occupied with
the little gifts they intended to make themselves; and herein lay a
difficulty. Joy's father always supplied her bountifully with spending
money; Gypsy's stock was small. When Joy wanted to make a present, she
had only to ask for a few extra dollars, and she had them. Gypsy always
felt as if a present given in that way were no present; unless a thing
cost her some self-denial, or some labor, she reasoned, it had nothing
to do with her. If given directly out of her father's pocket, it was his
gift, not hers.
But then, how much handsomer Joy's things would be.
Thus Gypsy was thinking in her secret heart, over and over. How could
she help it? And Joy, perhaps—possibly—Joy was thinking the same
thing, with a spice of pleasure in the thought.
It was about her mother that Gypsy was chiefly troubled. Tom had
condescendingly informed her, about six months ago, that he'd just as
lief she would make him a watch-case if she wanted to very much. Girls
always would jump at the chance to get up any such nonsense. Be sure she
did it up in style, with gold and silver tape, and some of your blue
alpaca. (Tom's conceptions of the feminine race, their apparel,
occupations and implements, were bounded by tape and alpaca.) So Tom was
provided for; the watch-case was nearly made, and bade fair to be quite
as pretty as anything Joy could buy. Winnie was easily suited, and her
father would be as contented with a shaving-case as with a velvet
dressing-gown; indeed he'd hardly know the difference. Joy should have a
pretty white velvet hair-ribbon. But what for mother? She lay awake a
whole half hour one night, perplexing herself over the question, and at
last decided rather falteringly on a photograph frame of shell-work.
Gypsy's shell-work was always pretty, and her mother had a peculiar
fancy for it.
"I shall give her Whittier's poems," said Joy, in—perhaps
unconsciously, perhaps not—a rather triumphant tone. "I heard her say
the other day she wanted them ever so much. I'm going to get the best
copy I can find, with gold edges. If uncle hasn't a nice one in his
store, I'll send to Boston. Mr. Ticknor'll pick me out the best one he
has, I know, 'cause he knows father real well, and we buy lots of things
there."
Gypsy said nothing. She was rather abashed to hear Joy talk in such
familiar terms of Mr. Ticknor. She was more uneasy that Joy should give
so handsome a present. She sat looking at her silently, and while she
looked, a curious, dull, sickening pain crept into her heart. It
frightened her, and she ran away downstairs to get rid of it.
A few days after, she was sitting alone working on the photograph case.
It was rather pretty work, though not over-clean. She had cut a
well-shaped frame out of pasteboard, with a long, narrow piece bent back
to serve as support. The frame was covered with putty, and into the
putty she fastened her shells. They were of different sizes, shapes, and
colors, and she was laying them on in a pretty pattern of stars and
crescents. She had just stopped to look at her work, her red lips shut
together with the air of a connoisseur, and her head on one side, like a
canary, when Joy came in.
"Just look here!" and she held up before her astonished eyes a handsome
volume of blue and gold—Whittier's poems, and written on the fly-leaf,
in Joy's very best copy-book hand, "For Auntie, with a Merry Christmas,
from Joy."
"Uncle sent to Boston for me, and got it, and he promised on his word
'n' honor, certain true, black and blue, he wouldn't let Auntie know a
single sign of a thing about it. Isn't it splendid?"
"Ye-es," said Gypsy, slowly.
"Well! I don't think you seem to care much."
Gypsy looked at her shell-work, and said nothing. For the second time
that dull, curious pain had crept into her heart. What did it mean? Was
it possible that she was envious of Joy? Was it possible?
The hot crimson rushed to Gypsy's cheeks for shame at the thought. But
the thought was there.
She chanced to be in Peace Maythorne's room one day when the bustle of
preparation for the holidays was busiest. Peace hid something under the
counterpane as she came in, flushing a little. Gypsy sat down in her
favorite place on the bed, just where she could see the cripple's great
quiet eyes—she always liked to watch Peace Maythorne's eyes—and in
doing so disturbed the bedclothes. A piece of work fell out: plain, fine
sewing, in which the needle lay with a stitch partially taken.
"Peace Maythorne!" said Gypsy, "you've been doing it again!"
"A little, just to help aunt, you know. A little doesn't hurt me,
Gypsy."
"Doesn't hurt you? Peace, you know better. You know you never sew a
stitch but you lie awake half the night after it with the pain."
Peace did not contradict her. She could not.
"Help your aunt!" Gypsy went on vehemently; "she oughtn't to let you
touch it. She hasn't any more feeling than a stone wall, nor half as
much, I say!"
"Hush, Gypsy! Don't say that. Indeed I'd rather have the pain, and help
her a little, once in a while, when my best days come and I can; I had,
really, Gypsy. You don't know how it hurts me—a great deal more than
this other hurt in my back—to lie here and let her support me, and I
not do a thing. O Gypsy, you don't know!"
Something in Peace Maythorne's tone just then made Gypsy feel worse than
she felt to see her sew. She was silent a minute, turning away her face.
"Well, I suppose I don't. But I say I'd as lief have a stone wall for an
aunt; no, I will say it, Peace, and you needn't look at me." Peace
looked, notwithstanding, and Gypsy stopped saying it.
"Sometimes I've thought," said Peace, after a pause, "I might earn a
little crocheting. Once, long ago, I made a mat out of ends of worsted I
found, and it didn't hurt me hardly any; on my good days it wouldn't
honestly hurt me at all. It's pretty work, crocheting, isn't it?"
"Why don't you crochet, then," said Gypsy, "if you must do anything?
It's ten thousand times easier than this sewing you're killing yourself
over."
"I've no worsteds, you know," said Peace, coloring; and changed the
subject at once.
Gypsy looked thoughtful. Very soon after she bade Peace good-bye, and
went home.
That night she called her mother away alone, and told her what Peace had
said.
"Now, mother, I've thought out an idea."
"Well?"
"You mustn't say no, if I tell you."
"I'll try not to; if it is a sensible idea."
"Do I ever have an idea that isn't sensible?" said Gypsy, demurely. "I
prefer not to be slandered, if you please, Mrs. Breynton."
"Well, but what's the idea?"
"It's just this. Miss Jane Maythorne is a heathen."
"Is that all?"
"No. But Miss Jane Maythorne is a heathen, and ought to cut off her
head before she lets Peace sew. But you see she doesn't know she's a
heathen, and Peace will sew."
"Well, what then?"
"If she will do something, and won't be happy without, then I can't help
it, you see. But I can give her some worsteds for a Christmas present,
and she can make little mats and things, and you can buy them. Now,
mother, isn't that nice?"
"Yes," said Mrs. Breynton, after a moment's thought. "It is a very good
plan. I think Joy would like to join you. Together, you can make quite a
handsome present out of it."
"I don't want Joy to know a thing about it," said Gypsy, with a decision
in her voice that amounted almost to anger.
"Why, Gypsy!"
"No, not a thing. She just takes her father's money, and gives lots of
splendid presents, and makes me ashamed of all mine, and she's glad of
it, too. If I'm going to give anything to Peace, I don't want her to."
"I think Joy has taken a great fancy to Peace. She would enjoy giving
her something very much," said Mrs. Breynton, gravely.
"I can't help it. Peace Maythorne belongs to me. It would spoil it all
to have Joy have anything to do with it."
"Worsted are very expensive now," said her mother; "you alone cannot
give Peace enough to amount to much."
"I don't care," said Gypsy, resolutely, "I want to do one thing Joy
doesn't."
Mrs. Breynton said nothing, and Gypsy went slowly from the room.
"I wish we could give Peace Maythorne something," said Joy, an hour
after, when they were all sitting together. Mrs. Breynton raised her
eyes from her work, but Gypsy was looking out of the window.
When the girls went up to bed, Gypsy was very silent. Joy tried to laugh
and plague and scold her into talking, but it was of no use. Just before
they went to sleep, she spoke up suddenly:
"Joy, do you want to give something to Peace Maythorne?"
"Splendid!" cried Joy, jumping up in bed to clap her hands, "what?"
Gypsy told her then all the plan, a little slowly; it was rather hard.
Perhaps Joy detected the hesitation in her tone. Joy was not given to
detecting things with remarkable quickness, but it was so plain that she
could not very well help it.
"I don't believe you want me to give any of it."
"Oh, yes," said Gypsy, trying to speak cordially, "yes, it will be
better."
It certainly was better she felt. She went to sleep, glad it was settled
so.
When the girls came to make their purchases, they found that Gypsy's
contribution of money would just about buy the crochet-needles and
patterns. The worsteds cost about treble what she could give. So it was
settled that they should be Joy's gift.
Gypsy was very pleasant about it, but Joy could not help seeing that she
was disappointed. So then there came a little generous impulse to Joy
too, and she came one day and said:
"Gypsy, don't let's divide the things off so, for Peace. It makes my
part the largest. Besides, the worsteds look the prettiest. Let's just
give them together and have it all one."
There is a rare pleasure in making a gift one's self, without being
hampered by this "all-together" notion, isn't there?—especially if the
gift be a handsome one, and is going where it is very much needed. So as
Joy sat fingering the pile of elegant worsteds, twining the brilliant,
soft folds of orange, and crimson, and royal purple, and soft,
wood-browns about her hands, it cost her a bit of a struggle to say
this. It seems rather a small thing to write about? Ah, they are these
bits of struggles in which we learn to fight the great ones; perhaps
these bits of struggles, more than the great ones, make up life.
"You're real good," said Gypsy, surprised; "I think I'd rather not. It
isn't really half of it mine, and I don't want to say so. But it's just
as good in you."
