those with whom she comes in contact--always excepting Jack, who has a
lively sense of the ludicrous, and never enjoys himself better than in
bantering his aunt.
Ida is no less a favorite with Jack than with the other members of the
household. Rough as he is sometimes, Jack is always gentle with Ida.
When she was just learning to walk, and in her helplessness needed the
constant care of others, he used, from choice, to relieve his mother of
much of the task of amusing the child. He had never had a little sister,
and the care of a child as young as Ida was a novelty to him. It was,
perhaps, this very office of guardian to the child, assumed when she was
so young, that made him feel ever after as if she was placed under his
special protection.
And Ida was equally attached to Jack. She learned to look up to him for
assistance in anything which she had at heart, and he never disappointed
her. Whenever he could, he would accompany her to school, holding her by
the hand; and fond as he was of rough play, nothing would induce him to
leave her.
“How long have you been a nurse-maid?” asked a boy, older than himself,
one day.
Jack’s fingers itched to get hold of his derisive questioner, but he had
a duty to perform, and contented himself with saying, “Just wait a few
minutes, and I’ll let you know.”
“I dare say,” was the reply. “I rather think I shall have to wait till
both of us are gray before that time.”
“You won’t have to wait long before you are black and blue,” retorted
Jack.
“Don’t mind what he says, Jack,” whispered Ida, fearful lest he should
leave her.
“Don’t be afraid, Ida; I won’t leave you; I guess he won’t trouble us
another day.”
Meanwhile the boy, emboldened by Jack’s passiveness, followed, with more
abuse of the same sort. If he had been wiser, he would have seen a storm
gathering in the flash of Jack’s eye; but he mistook the cause of his
forbearance.
The next day, as they were again going to school, Ida saw the same boy
dodging round the corner, with his head bound up.
“What’s the matter with him, Jack?” she asked.
“I licked him like blazes, that’s all,” said Jack, quietly.
“I guess he’ll let us alone after this.”
CHAPTER VIII. A STRANGE VISITOR.
IT was about eleven o’clock in the forenoon, Mrs. Crump was in the
kitchen, busy in preparations for dinner, when a loud knock was heard at
the door.
“Who can it be?” ejaculated Mrs. Crump. “Aunt Rachel, there’s somebody
at the door; won’t you be kind enough to see who it is?”
“People have no business to call at such an hour in the morning,”
 grumbled Aunt Rachel, as she laid down her knitting reluctantly, and
rose from her seat. “Nobody seems to have any consideration for anybody
else. But that’s the way of the world.”
Opening the outer door, she saw before her a tall woman, dressed in
a gown of some dark stuff, with marked, and not altogether pleasant
features.
“Are you the lady of the house?” inquired the visitor.
“There ain’t any ladies in this house,” said Rachel. “You’ve come to the
wrong place. We have to work for a living here.”
“The woman of the house, then. It doesn’t make any difference about
names. Are you the one I want to see?”
“No, I ain’t,” said Rachel, shortly.
“Will you lead me to your mistress, then?”
“I have none.”
The visitor’s eyes flashed, as if her temper was easily roused.
“I want to see Mrs. Crump,” she said, impatiently. “Will you call her, or
shall I go and announce myself?”
“Some folks are mighty impatient,” muttered Rachel. “Stay here, and I’ll
call her to the door.”
In a short time Mrs. Crump presented herself.
“Won’t you come in?” she asked, pleasantly.
“I don’t care if I do,” was the reply. “I wish to speak to you on
important business.”
Mrs. Crump, whose interest was excited, led the way into the
sitting-room.
“You have in your family,” said the stranger, after seating herself, “a
girl named Ida.”
Mrs. Crump looked up suddenly and anxiously. Could it be that the secret
of Ida’s birth was to be revealed at last!
“Yes,” she said.
“Who is not your child.”
“But whom I love as such; whom I have always taught to look upon me as
a mother.”
“I presume so. It is of her that I wish to speak to you.”
“Do you know anything of her parentage?” inquired Mrs. Crump, eagerly.
“I was her nurse,” said the other, quietly.
Mrs. Crump examined, anxiously, the hard features of the woman. It was
a relief at least to know, though she could hardly have believed, that
there was no tie of blood between her and Ida.
“Who were her parents?”
“I am not permitted to tell,” was the reply.
Mrs. Crump looked disappointed.
“Surely,” she said, with a sudden sinking of heart, “you have not come
to take her away?”
“This letter will explain my object in visiting you,” said the woman,
drawing a sealed envelope from a bag which she carried on her arm.
The cooper’s wife nervously broke open the letter, and read as
follows:--
“MRS. CRUMP;
“Eight years ago last New Year’s night, a child was left on your
door-steps, with a note containing a request that you would care for
it kindly as your own. Money was sent, at the same time, to defray the
expenses of such care. The writer of this note is the mother of the
child Ida. There is no need to say, here, why I sent the child away
from me. You will easily understand that only the most imperative
circumstances would have led me to such a step. Those circumstances
still prevent me from reclaiming the child, and I am content, still, to
leave Ida in your charge. Yet, there is one thing of which I am
desirous. You will understand a mother’s desire to see, face to face,
the child who belongs, of right, to her. With this view, I have come to
this neighborhood. I will not say where, for concealment is necessary
to me. I send this note by a trustworthy attendant,--Mrs. Hardwick,
my little Ida’s nurse in her infancy,--who will conduct Ida to me, and
return her again to you. Ida is not to know whom she is visiting. No
doubt she believes you her mother, and it is well. Tell her only, that
it is a lady who takes an interest in her, and that will satisfy her
childish curiosity. I make this request as
“IDA’S MOTHER.”
Mrs. Crump read this letter with mingled feelings. Pity for the writer;
a vague curiosity in regard to the mysterious circumstances which had
compelled her to resort to such a step; a half feeling of jealousy,
that there should be one who had a claim to her dear adopted daughter
superior to her own; and a strong feeling of relief at the assurance
that Ida was not to be permanently removed,--all these feelings affected
the cooper’s wife.
“So you were Ida’s nurse,” she said, gently.
“Yes, ma’am,” said the stranger. “I hope the dear child is well.”
“Perfectly well. How much her mother must have suffered from the
separation!”
“Indeed, you may say so, ma’am. It came near to break her heart.”
“So it must,” said sympathizing Mrs. Crump. “There is one thing I would
like to ask,” she continued, hesitating and reddening. “Don’t answer it
unless you please. Was--is Ida the child of shame?”
“She is not,” answered the nurse.
Mrs. Crump looked relieved. It removed a thought from her mind which
would now and then intrude, though it had never, for an instant,
lessened her affection for the child.
At this point in the conversation, the cooper entered the house. He had
just come home on an errand.
“It is my husband,” said Mrs. Crump, turning to her visitor, by way of
explanation. “Timothy, will you come in a moment?”
Mr. Crump regarded his wife’s visitor with some surprise. His wife
hastened to introduce her as Mrs. Hardwick, Ida’s nurse, and handed to
the astonished cooper the letter which the latter had brought with her.
He was not a rapid reader, and it took him some time to get through the
letter. He laid it down on his knee, and looked thoughtful. The nurse
regarded him with a slight uneasiness.
“This is, indeed, unexpected,” he said, at last. “It is a new
development in Ida’s history. May I ask, Mrs. Hardwick, if you have
any further proof. I want to be prudent with a child that I love as my
own,--if you have any further proof that you are what you claim to be?”
“I judged that this letter would be sufficient,” said the nurse; moving
a little in her chair.
“True; but how can we be sure that the writer is Ida’s mother?”
“The tone of the letter, sir. Would anybody else write like that?”
“Then you have read the letter?” said the cooper, quickly.
“It was read to me, before I set out.”
“By----”
“By Ida’s mother. I do not blame you for your caution,” she continued.
“You must be so interested in the happiness of the dear child of whom
you have taken such (sic) excelent care, I don’t mind telling you that I
was the one who left her at your door eight years ago, and that I never
left the neighborhood until I found that you had taken her in.”
“And it was this, that enabled you to find the house, to-day.”
“You forget,” said the nurse, “that you were not then living in this
house, but in another, some rods off, on the left-hand side of the
street.”
“You are right,” said the cooper. “I am disposed to believe in the
genuineness of your claim. You must pardon my testing you in such a
manner, but I was not willing to yield up Ida, even for a little time,
without feeling confident of the hands she was falling into.”
“You are right,” said the nurse. “I don’t blame you in the least. I
shall report it to Ida’s mother, as a proof of your attachment to your
child.”
“When do you wish Ida to go with you?” asked Mrs. Crump.
“Can you let her go this afternoon?”
“Why,” said Mrs. Crump, hesitating, “I should like to have a chance to
wash out some clothes for her. I want her to appear as neat a possible,
when she meets her mother.”
The nurse hesitated.
“I do not wish to hurry you. If you will let me know when she will be
ready, I will call for her.”
“I think I can get her ready early to-morrow morning.”
“That will answer excellently. I will call for her then.”
The nurse rose, and gathered her shawl about her.
“Where are you going, Mrs. Hardwick?” asked the cooper’s wife.
“To a hotel,” was the reply.
“We cannot allow that,” said Mrs. Crump, kindly. “It is a pity if we
cannot accommodate Ida’s old nurse for one night, or ten times as long,
for that matter.”
“My wife is quite right,” said the cooper; “we must insist upon your
stopping with us.”
The nurse hesitated, and looked irresolute. It was plain she would have
preferred to be elsewhere, but a remark which Mrs. Crump made, decided
her to accept the invitation.
It was this. “You know, Mrs. Hardwick, if Ida is to go with you, she
ought to have a little chance to get acquainted with you before you go.”
“I will accept your kind invitation,” she said; “but I am afraid I shall
be in your way.”
“Not in the least. It will be a pleasure to us to have you here. If you
will excuse me now, I will go out and attend to my dinner, which I am
afraid is getting behindhand.”
Left to herself, the nurse behaved in a manner which might be regarded
as singular. She rose from her seat, and approached the mirror. She took
a full survey of herself as she stood there, and laughed a short, hard
laugh.
Then she made a formal courtesy to her own reflection, saying, “How do
you do, Mrs. Hardwick?”
“Did you speak?” asked the cooper, who was passing through the entry on
his way out.
“No,” said the nurse, a little awkwardly. “I believe I said something to
myself. It’s of no consequence.”
“Somehow,” thought the cooper, “I don’t fancy the woman’s looks, but I
dare say I am prejudiced. We’re all of us as God made us.”
While Mrs. Crump was making preparations for the noon-day meal, she
imparted to Rachel the astonishing information, which has already been
detailed to the reader.
“I don’t believe a word of it,” said Rachel, resolutely.
“She’s an imposter. I knew she was the very first moment I set eyes on
her.”
This remark was so characteristic of Rachel, that Mrs. Crump did not
attach any special importance to it. Rachel, of course, had no grounds
for the opinion she so confidently expressed. It was consistent,
however, with her general estimate of human nature.
“What object could she have in inventing such a story?”
“What object? Hundreds of ‘em,” said Rachel, rather indefinitely. “Mark
my words, if you let her carry off Ida, it’ll be the last you’ll ever
see of her.”
“Try to look on the bright side, Rachel. Nothing is more natural than
that her mother should want to see her.”
“Why couldn’t she come herself?” muttered Rachel.
“The letter explains.”
“I don’t see that it does.”
“It says that the same reasons exist for concealment as ever.”
“And what are they, I should like to know? I don’t like mysteries, for
my part.”
“We won’t quarrel with them, at any rate, since they enable us to keep
Ida with us.”
Aunt Rachel shook her head, as if she were far from satisfied.
“I don’t know,” said Mrs. Crump, “but I ought to invite Mrs. Hardwick in
here. I have left her alone in the front room.”
“I don’t want to see her,” said Aunt Rachel. Then changing her mind,
suddenly, “Yes, you may bring her in. I’ll find out whether she is an
imposter or not.”
Mrs. Crump returned with the nurse. “Mrs. Hardwick,” said she, “this is
my sister, Miss Rachel Crump.”
“I am glad to make your acquaintance, ma’am,” said the nurse.
“Aunt Rachel, I will leave you to entertain Mrs. Hardwick,” said Mrs.
Crump. “I am obliged to be in the kitchen.”
Rachel and the nurse eyed each other with mutual dislike.
“I hope you don’t expect me to entertain you,” said Rachel. “I never
expect to entertain anybody again. This is a world of trial and
tribulation, and I’ve had my share. So you’ve come after Ida, I hear?”
 with a sudden change of subject.
“At her mother’s request,” said the nurse.
“She wants to see her, then?”
“Yes, ma’am.”
“I wonder she didn’t think of it before,” said Aunt Rachel, sharply.
“She’s good at waiting. She’s waited eight years.”
“There are circumstances that cannot be explained,” commenced the nurse.
“No, I dare say not,” said Rachel, dryly. “So you were her nurse?”
“Yes, ma’am,” said Mrs. Hardwick, who evidently did not relish this
cross-examination.
“Have you lived with the mother ever since?”
“No,--yes,” stammered the nurse. “Some of the time,” she added,
recovering herself.
“Umph!” grunted Rachel, darting a sharp glance at her.
“Have you a husband living?” inquired Rachel, after a pause.
“Yes,” said Mrs. Hardwick. “Have you?”
“I!” repeated Aunt Rachel, scornfully. “No, neither living nor dead. I’m
thankful to say I never married. I’ve had trials enough without that.
Does Ida’s mother live in the city?”
“I can’t tell you,” said the nurse.
“Humph, I don’t like mystery.”
“It isn’t my mystery,” said the nurse. “If you have any objection to
make against it, you must make it to Ida’s mother.”
The two were not likely to get along very amicably. Neither was gifted
with the best of tempers, and perhaps it was as well that there should
have been an interruption as there was.
CHAPTER IX. A JOURNEY.
“OH, mother,” exclaimed Ida, bounding into the room, fresh from school.
She stopped short, in some confusion, on seeing a stranger.
“Is this my own dear child, over whose infancy I watched so tenderly?”
 exclaimed the nurse, rising, her harsh features wreathed into a smile.
“It is Ida,” said Mrs. Crump.
Ida looked from one to the other in silent bewilderment.
“Ida,” said Mrs. Crump, in a little embarrassment, “this is Mrs.
Hardwick, who took care of you when you were an infant.”
“But I thought you took care of me, mother,” said Ida, in surprise.
“Very true,” said Mrs. Crump, evasively, “but I was not able to have the
care of you all the time. Didn’t I ever mention Mrs. Hardwick to you?”
“No, mother.”
“Although it is so long since I have seen her, I should have known her
anywhere,” said the nurse, applying a handkerchief to her eyes. “So
pretty as she’s grown up, too!”
Mrs. Crump, who, as has been said, was devotedly attached to Ida,
glanced with pride at the beautiful child, who blushed at the
compliment.
“Ida,” said Mrs. Hardwick, “won’t you come and kiss your old nurse?”
Ida looked at the hard face, which now wore a smile intended to express
affection. Without knowing why, she felt an instinctive repugnance to
her, notwithstanding her words of endearment.
She advanced timidly, with a reluctance which she was not wholly able to
conceal, and passively submitted to a caress from the nurse.
There was a look in the eyes of the nurse, carefully guarded, yet not
wholly concealed, which showed that she was quite aware of Ida’s feeling
towards her, and resented it. But whether or not she was playing a part,
she did not betray this feeling openly, but pressed the unwilling child
more closely to her bosom.
Ida breathed a sigh of relief when she was released, and walked quietly
away, wondering what it was that made her dislike the woman so much.
“Is my nurse a good woman?” she asked, thoughtfully, when alone with
Mrs. Crump, who was setting the table for dinner.
“A good woman! What makes you ask that?” queried her adopted mother, in
surprise.
“I don’t know,” said Ida.
“I don’t know anything to indicate that she is otherwise,” said Mrs.
Crump. “And, by the way, Ida, she is going to take you on a little
excursion, to-morrow.”
“She going to take me?” exclaimed Ida. “Why, where are we going?”
“On a little pleasure trip, and perhaps she may introduce you to a
pleasant lady, who has already become interested in you, from what she
has told her.”
“What could she say of me?” inquired Ida, “she has not seen me since I
was a baby.”
“Why,” said the cooper’s wife a little puzzled, “she appears to have
thought of you ever since, with a good deal of affection.”
“Is it wicked,” asked Ida, after a pause, “not to like those that like
us?”
“What makes you ask?”
“Because, somehow or other, I don’t like this Mrs. Hardwick at all, for
all she was my old nurse, and I don’t believe ever shall.”
“Oh yes, you will,” said Mrs. Crump, “when you find she is exerting
herself to give you pleasure.”
“Am I going to-morrow morning with Mrs. Hardwick?”
“Yes. She wanted you to go to-day, but your clothes were not in order.”
“We shall come back at night, sha’n’t we?”
“I presume so.”
“I hope we shall,” said Ida, decidedly, “and that she won’t want me to
go with her again.”
“Perhaps you will think differently when it is over, and you find you
have enjoyed yourself better than you anticipated.”
Mrs. Crump exerted herself to fit Ida up as neatly as possible, and when
at length she was got ready, she thought to herself, with sudden fear,
“Perhaps her mother won’t be willing to part with her again.”
When Ida was ready to start, there came over all a little shadow of
depression, as if the child were to be separated from them for a year,
and not for a day only. Perhaps this was only natural, since even this
latter term, however brief, was longer than they had been parted from
her since, an infant, she was left at their door.
The nurse expressly desired that none of the family should accompany
her, as she declared it highly important that the whereabouts of Ida’s
mother should not be known at once. “Of course,” she said, “after
Ida returns, she can tell you what she pleases. Then it will be of no
consequence, for her mother will be gone. She does not live in this
neighborhood; she has only come here to have an interview with Ida.”
“Shall you bring her back to-night?” asked Mrs. Crump.
“I may keep her till to-morrow,” said the nurse. “After eight years’
absence, that will seem short enough.”
To this, Mrs. Crump agreed, but thought that it would seem long to her,
she had been so accustomed to have Ida present at meals.
The nurse walked as far as Broadway, holding Ida by the hand.
“Where are we going?” asked the child, timidly. “Are we going to walk
all the way?”
“No,” said the nurse, “we shall ride. There is an omnibus coming now. We
will get into it.”
She beckoned to the driver who stopped his horse. Ida and her companion
got in.
They got out at the Jersey City ferry.
“Did you ever ride in a steamboat?” asked Mrs. Hardwick, in a tone
intended to be gracious.
“Once or twice,” said Ida. “I went with brother Jack once, over to
Hoboken. Are we going there, now?”
“No, we are going over to the city, you can see over the water.”
“What is it? Is it Brooklyn?”
“No, it is Jersey City.”
“Oh, that will be pleasant,” said Ida, forgetting, in her childish love
of novelty, the repugnance with which the nurse had inspired her.
“Yes, and that is not all; we are going still further,” said the nurse.
“Are we going further?” asked Ida, her eyes sparkling. “Where are we
going?”
“To a town on the line of the railroad.”
“And shall we ride in the cars?” asked the child, with animation.
“Yes, didn’t you ever ride in the cars before?”
“No, never.”
“I think you will like it.”
“Oh, I know I shall. How fast do the cars go?”
“Oh, a good many miles an hour,--maybe thirty.”
“And how long will it take us to go to the place you are going to carry
me to!”
“I don’t know exactly,--perhaps two hours.”
“Two whole hours in the cars!” exclaimed Ida. “How much I shall have to
tell father and Jack when I get back.”
“So you will,” said Mrs. Hardwick, with an unaccountable smile, “when
you get back.”
There was something peculiar in her tone as she pronounced these last
words, but Ida did not notice it.
So Ida, despite her company, actually enjoyed, in her bright
anticipation, a keen sense of pleasure.
“Are we most there?” she asked, after riding about two hours.
“It won’t be long,” said the nurse.
“We must have come ever so many miles,” said Ida.
An hour passed. She amused herself by gazing out of the car windows at
the towns which seemed to flit by. At length, both Ida and her nurse
became hungry.
The nurse beckoned to her side a boy who was going through the cars
selling apples and seed-cakes, and inquired their price.
“The apples are two cents apiece, ma’am, and the cakes a cent apiece.”
Ida, who had been looking out of the window, turned suddenly round, and
exclaimed, in great astonishment; “Why, William Fitts, is that you?”
“Why, Ida, where did you come from?” asked the boy, his surprise
equalling her own.
The nurse bit her lips in vexation at this unexpected recognition.
“I’m making a little journey with her,” indicating Mrs. Hardwick.
“So you’re going to Philadelphia,” said the boy.
“To Philadelphia!” said Ida, in surprise. “Not that I know of.”
“Why, you’re most there now.”
“Are we, Mrs. Hardwick?” asked Ida, looking in her companion’s face.
“It isn’t far from there where we’re going,” said the nurse, shortly.
“Boy, I’ll take two of your apples and four seed-cakes. And now you’d
better go along, for there’s somebody by the stove that looks as if he
wanted to buy of you.”
William looked back as if he would like to question Ida farther, but her
companion looked forbidding, and he passed on reluctantly.
“Who is that boy?” asked the nurse, abruptly.
“His name is William Fitts.”
“Where did you get acquainted with him?”
“He went to school with Jack, so I used to see him sometimes.”
“With Jack! Who’s Jack?”
“What! Don’t you know Jack, brother Jack?” asked Ida, in childish
surprise.
“O yes,” replied the nurse, recollecting herself; “I didn’t think of
him.”
“He’s a first-rate boy, William is,” said Ida, who was disposed to be
communicative. “He’s good to his mother. You see his mother is sick most
of the time, and can’t do much; and he’s got a little sister, she ain’t
more than four or five years old--and William supports them by selling
things. He’s only sixteen; isn’t he a smart boy?”
“Yes;” said the nurse, mechanically.
“Some time,” continued Ida, “I hope I shall be able to earn something
for father and mother, so they won’t be obliged to work so hard.”
“What could you do?” asked the nurse, curiously.
“I don’t know as I could do much,” said Ida, modestly; “but when I have
practised more, perhaps I could draw pictures that people would buy.”
“So you know how to draw?”
“Yes, I’ve been taking lessons for over a year.”
“And how do you like it?”
“Oh, ever so much! I like it a good deal better than music.”
“Do you know anything of that?”
“Yes, I can play a few easy pieces.”
Mrs. Hardwick looked surprised, and regarded her young charge with
curiosity.
“Have you got any of your drawings with you?” she asked.
“No, I didn’t bring any.”
“I wish you had; the lady we are going to see would have liked to see
some of them.”
“Are we going to see a lady?”
“Yes, didn’t your mother tell you?”
“Yes, I believe she said something about a lady that was interested in
me.”
“That’s the one.”
“Where does she live? When shall we get there?”
“We shall get there before very long.”
“And shall we come back to New York to-night?”
“No, it wouldn’t leave us any time to stay. Besides, I feel tired and
want to rest; don’t you?”
“I do feel a little tired,” acknowledged Ida.
“Philadelphia!” announced the conductor, opening the car-door.
“We get out, here,” said the nurse. “Keep close to me, or you may get
lost. Perhaps you had better take hold of my hand.”
“When are you coming back, Ida?” asked William Fitts, coming up to her
with his basket on his arm.
“Mrs. Hardwick says we sha’n’t go back till to-morrow.”
“Come, Ida,” said the nurse, sharply. “We must hurry along.”
“Good-by, William,” said Ida. “If you see Jack, just tell him you saw
me.”
“Yes, I will,” was the reply.
“I wonder who that woman is with Ida,” thought the boy. “I don’t like
her looks much. I wonder if she’s any relation of Mr. Crump. She looks
about as pleasant as Aunt Rachel.”
The last-mentioned lady would hardly have felt complimented at the
comparison, or the manner in which it was made.
Ida looked about her with curiosity. There was a novelty in being in a
new place, since, as far back as she could remember, she had never left
New York, except for a brief excursion to Hoboken; and one Fourth of
July was made memorable in her recollection, by a trip to Staten Island,
which she had taken with Jack, and enjoyed exceedingly.
“Is this Philadelphia?” she inquired.
“Yes;” said her companion, shortly.
“How far is it from New York?”
“I don’t know; a hundred miles, more or less.”
“A hundred miles!” repeated Ida, to whom this seemed an immense
distance. “Am I a hundred miles from father and mother, and Jack,
and--and Aunt Rachel?”
The last name was mentioned last, and rather as an after-thought, if Ida
felt it her duty to include the not very amiable spinster, who had never
erred in the way of indulgence.
“Why, yes, of course you are,” said Mrs. Hardwick, in a practical,
matter-of-fact tone. “Here, cross the street here. Take care or you’ll
get run over. Now turn down here.”
They had now entered a narrow and dirty street, with unsightly houses on
either side.
“This ain’t a very nice looking street,” said Ida, looking about her.
“Why isn’t it?” demanded the nurse, looking displeased.
“Why, it’s narrow, and the houses don’t look nice.”
“What do you think of that house, there?” asked Mrs. Hardwick, pointing
out a tall, brick tenement house.
“I shouldn’t like to live there,” said Ida, after a brief survey.
“You shouldn’t! You don’t like it so well as the house you live in in
New York?”
“No, not half so well.”
The nurse smiled.
“Wouldn’t you like to go up and look at the house?” she asked.
“Go up and look at it!” repeated Ida, in surprise.
“Yes, I mean to go in.”
“Why, what should we do that for?”
“You see there are some poor families living there that I go to see
sometimes,” said Mrs. Hardwick, who appeared to be amused at something.
“You know it is our duty to visit the poor.”
“Yes, that’s what mother says.”
“There’s a poor man living in the third story that I’ve made a good many
clothes for, first and last,” said the nurse, in the same peculiar tone.
“He must be very much obliged to you,” said Ida, thinking that Mrs.
Hardwick was a better woman than she had supposed.
“We’re going up to see him, now,” said the nurse. “Just take care of.
that hole in the stairs. Here we are.”
Somewhat to Ida’s surprise, her companion opened the door without
the ceremony of knocking, and revealed a poor untidy room, in which a
coarse, unshaven man, was sitting in his shirt-sleeves, smoking a pipe.
“Hallo!” exclaimed this individual, jumping up suddenly. “So you’ve got
along, old woman! Is that the gal?”
Ida stared from one to the other, in unaffected amazement.
CHAPTER X. UNEXPECTED QUARTERS.
THE appearance of the man whom Mrs. Hardwick addressed so familiarly was
more picturesque than pleasing. He had a large, broad face, which, not
having been shaved for a week, looked like a wilderness of stubble. His
nose indicated habitual indulgence in alcoholic beverages. His eyes,
likewise, were bloodshot, and his skin looked coarse and blotched; his
coat was thrown aside, displaying a shirt which bore evidence of having
been useful in its day and generation. The same remark may apply to his
nether integuments, which were ventilated at each knee, indicating a
most praiseworthy regard to the laws of health. He was sitting in a
chair pitched back against the wall, with his feet resting on another,
and a short Dutch pipe in his mouth, from which volumes of smoke were
pouring.
Ida thought she had never seen before so disgusting a man. She continued
to gaze at him, half in astonishment, half in terror, till the object of
her attention exclaimed,--
“Well, little girl, what you’re looking at? Hain’t you never seen a
gentleman before?”
Ida clung the closer to her companion, who, she was surprised to find,
did not resent the man’s impertinence.
“Well, Dick, how’ve you got along since I’ve been gone?” asked Mrs.
Hardwick, to Ida’s unbounded astonishment.
“Oh, so so.”
“Have you felt lonely any?”
“I’ve had good company.”
“Who’s been here?”
Dick pointed significantly to a jug, which stood beside his chair.
“So you’ve brought the gal. How did you get hold of her?”
There was something in these questions which terrified Ida. It seemed to
indicate a degree of complicity between these two, which boded no good
to her.
“I’ll tell you the particulars by and by,” said the nurse, looking
significantly at the child’s expressive face.
At the same time she began to take off her bonnet.
“You ain’t going to stop, are you?” whispered Ida.
“Ain’t going to stop!” repeated the man called Dick. “Why shouldn’t she?
Ain’t she at home?”
“At home!” echoed Ida, apprehensively, opening wide her eyes in
astonishment.
“Yes, ask her.”
Ida looked, inquiringly, at Mrs. Hardwick.
“You might as well take off your things,” said the latter, grimly. “We
ain’t going any farther to-day.”
“And where’s the lady you said you were going to see?” asked the child,
bewildered.
“The one that was interested in you?”
“Yes.”
“Well, I’m the one.”
“You!”
“Yes.”
“I don’t want to stay here,” said Ida, becoming frightened.
“Well, what are you going to do about it?” asked the woman, mockingly.
“Will you take me back early to-morrow?”
“No, I don’t intend to take you back at all,” said the nurse, coolly.
Ida seemed stupefied with astonishment and terror at first. Then,
actuated by a sudden impulse, she ran to the door, and had got it open
when the nurse sprang forward, and seizing her by the arm, dragged her
rudely back.
“Where are you going in such a hurry?” she demanded, roughly.
“Back to father and mother,” said Ida, bursting into tears. “Oh, why did
you carry me away?”
“I’ll tell you why,” answered Dick, jocularly. “You see, Ida, we ain’t
got any little girl to love us, and so we got you.”
“But I don’t love you, and I never shall,” said Ida, indignantly.
“Now don’t you go to saying that,” said Dick. “You’ll break my heart,
you will, and then Peg will be a widow.”
To give effect to this pathetic speech, Dick drew out a tattered red
handkerchief, and made a great demonstration of wiping his eyes.
The whole scene was so ludicrous that Ida, despite her fears and
disgust, could not help laughing hysterically. She recovered herself
instantly, and said, imploringly, “Oh, do let me go, and father will pay
you; I’m sure he will.”
“You really think he would?” said Dick.
“Oh, yes; and you’ll tell her to carry me back, won’t you?”
“No, he won’t tell me any such thing,” said Peg, gruffly; “and if he
did, I wouldn’t do it; so you might as well give up all thoughts of that
first as last. You’re going to stay here; so take off that bonnet of
yours, and say no more about it.”
Ida made no motion towards obeying this mandate.
“Then I’ll do it for you,” said Peg.
She roughly untied the bonnet, Ida struggling vainly in opposition,
and taking this with the shawl, carried them to a closet, in which she
placed them, and then, locking the door, deliberately put the key in her
pocket.
“There,” said she, “I guess you’re safe for the present.”
“Ain’t you ever going to carry me back?” asked Ida, wishing to know the
worst.
“Some years hence,” said the woman, coolly. “We want you here for the
present. Besides, you’re not sure that they want to see you back again.”
“Not glad to see me?”
“No; how do you know but your father and mother sent you off on purpose?
They’ve been troubled with you long enough, and now they’ve bound you
apprentice to me till you’re eighteen.”
“It’s a lie,” said Ida, firmly. “They didn’t send me off, and you’re a
wicked woman to keep me here.”
“Hoity-toity!” said the woman, pausing and looking menacingly at the
child. “Have you anything more to say before I whip you?”
“Yes,” said Ida, goaded to desperation; “I shall complain of you to the
police, and they will put you in jail, and send me home. That is what I
will do.”
The nurse seized Ida by the arm, and striding with her to the closet
already spoken of, unlocked it, and rudely pushing her in, locked the
door after her.
“She’s a spunky ‘un,” remarked Dick, taking the pipe from his mouth.
“Yes,” said the woman, “she makes more fuss than I thought she would.”
“How did you manage to come it over her family?” asked Dick.
His wife, gave substantially, the same account with which the reader is
already familiar.
“Pretty well done, old woman!” exclaimed Dick, approvingly. “I always
said you was a deep ‘un. I always say if Peg can’t find out a way to do
a thing it can’t be done, no how.”
“How about the counterfeit coin?” asked his wife, abruptly.
“They’re to supply us with all we can get off, and we are to have one
half of all we succeed in passing.”
“That is good,” said the woman, thoughtfully. “When this girl Ida gets a
little tamed down, we’ll give her some business to do.”
“Won’t she betray us if she gets caught?”
“We’ll manage that, or at least I will. I’ll work on her fears so that
she won’t any more dare to say a word about us than to cut her own head
off.”
Ida sank down on the floor of the closet into which she had been thrust.
Utter darkness was around her, and a darkness as black seemed to hang
over all her prospects of future happiness. She had been snatched in
a moment from parents, or those whom she regarded as such, and from a
comfortable and happy though humble home, to this dismal place. In place
of the kindness and indulgence to which she had been accustomed, she
was now treated with harshness and cruelty. What wonder that her heart
desponded, and her tears of childish sorrow flowed freely?
CHAPTER XI. SUSPENSE.
“It doesn’t somehow seem natural,” said Mr. Crump, as he took his seat
at the tea-table, “to sit down without Ida. It seems as if half of the
family were gone.”
“Just what I’ve said twenty times to-day,” remarked his wife. “Nobody
knows how much a child is to them till they lose it.”
“Not lose it, mother,” said Jack, who had been sitting in a silence
unusual for him.
“I didn’t mean to say that,” said Mrs. Crump. “I meant till they were
gone away for a time.”
“When you spoke of losing,” said Jack, “it made me feel just as Ida
wasn’t coming back.”
“I don’t know how it is,” said his mother, thoughtfully, “but that’s
just the feeling I’ve had several times to-day. I’ve felt just as if
something or other would happen so that Ida wouldn’t come back.”
“That is only because she has never been away before,” said the cooper,
cheerfully. “It isn’t best to borrow trouble; we shall have enough of it
without.”
“You never said a truer word, brother,” said Rachel, lugubriously. “‘Man
is born to trouble as the sparks fly upward.’ This world is a vale of
tears. Folks may try and try to be happy, but that isn’t what they’re
sent here for.”
“Now that’s where I differ from you,” said the cooper, good-humoredly,
“just as there are many more pleasant than stormy days, so I believe
that there is much more of brightness than shadow in this life of ours,
if we would only see it.”
“I can’t see it,” said Rachel, shaking her head very decidedly.
“Perhaps you could if you tried.”
“So I do.”
“It seems to me, Rachel, you take more pains to look at the clouds than
the sun.”
“Yes,” chimed in Jack; “I’ve noticed whenever Aunt Rachel takes up the
newspaper, she always looks first at the (sic) death’s, and next at the
fatal accidents and steamboat explosions.”
“It’s said,” said Aunt Rachel, with severe emphasis, “if you should ever
be on board a steamboat when it exploded you wouldn’t find much to laugh
at.”
“Yes, I should,” said Jack. “I should laugh----”
“What!” said Aunt Rachel, horrified.
“On the other side of my mouth,” concluded Jack. “You didn’t wait till I
had got through the sentence.”
“I don’t think it proper to make light of such matters.”
“Nor I, Aunt Rachel,” said Jack, drawing down the corners of his mouth.
“I am willing to confess that this is a serious matter. I should feel as
they said the cow did, that was thrown three hundred feet into the air.”
“How was that?” inquired his mother.
“A little discouraged,” replied Jack.
All laughed except Aunt Rachel, who preserved the same severe composure,
and continued to eat the pie upon her plate with the air of one gulping
down medicine.
So the evening passed. All seemed to miss Ida. Mrs. Crump found herself
stealing glances at the smaller chair beside her own in which Ida
usually sat. The cooper appeared abstracted, and did not take as much
interest as usual in the evening paper. Jack was restless, and found it
difficult to fix his attention upon anything. Even Aunt Rachel looked
more dismal than usual, if such a thing be possible.
In the morning all felt brighter.
“Ida will be home to-night,” said Mrs. Crump, cheerfully. “What an age
it seems since she left us!”
“We shall know better how to appreciate her presence,” said the cooper,
cheerfully.
“What time do you expect her home? Did Mrs. Hardwick say?”
“Why no,” said Mrs. Crump, “she didn’t say, but I guess she will be along
in the course of the afternoon.”
“If we only knew where she had gone,” said Jack, “we could tell better.”
“But as we don’t know,” said his father, “we must wait patiently till
she comes.”
“I guess,” said Mrs. Crump, in the spirit of a notable housewife, “I’ll
make up some apple-turnovers for supper to-night. There’s nothing Ida
likes so well.”
“That’s where Ida is right,” said Jack, “apple-turnovers are splendid.”
“They’re very unwholesome,” remarked Aunt Rachel.
“I shouldn’t think so from the way you eat them, Aunt Rachel,” retorted
Jack. “You ate four the last time we had them for supper.”
“I didn’t think you’d begrudge me the little I eat,” said Rachel,
dolefully. “I didn’t think you took the trouble to keep account of what
I ate.”
“Come, Rachel, this is unreasonable,” said her brother. “Nobody
begrudges you what you eat, even if you choose to eat twice as much as
you do. I dare say, Jack ate more of them than you did.”
“I ate six,” said Jack.
Rachel, construing this into an apology, said no more; but, feeling it
unnecessary to explain why she ate what she admitted to be unhealthy,
added, “And if I do eat what’s unwholesome, it’s because life ain’t of
any value to me. The sooner one gets out of this vale of affliction the
better.”
“And the way you take to get out of it,” said Jack, gravely, “is by
eating apple-turnovers. Whenever you die, Aunt Rachel, we shall have
to put a paragraph in the papers, headed, ‘Suicide by eating
apple-turnovers.’”
Rachel intimated, in reply, that she presumed it would afford Jack a
great deal of satisfaction to write such a paragraph.
The evening came. Still no tidings of Ida.
The family began to feel alarmed. An indefinable sense of apprehension
oppressed the minds of all. Mrs. Crump feared that Ida’s mother, seeing
her grown up so attractive, could not resist the temptation of keeping
her.
“I suppose,” she said, “that she has the best claim to her; but it will
be a terrible thing for us to part with her.”
“Don’t let us trouble ourselves in that way,” said the cooper. “It seems
to me very natural that they should keep her a little longer than they
intended. Besides, it is not too late for her to return to-night.”
This cheered Mrs. Crump a little.
The evening passed slowly.
At length there came a knock at the door.
“I guess that is Ida,” said Mrs. Crump, joyfully.
Jack seized a candle, and hastening to the door, threw it open. But
there was no Ida there. In her place stood William Fitts, the boy who
had met Ida in the cars.
“How do you do, Bill?” said Jack, endeavoring not to look disappointed.
“Come in, and take a seat, and tell us all the news.”
“Well,” said William, “I don’t know of any. I suppose Ida has got home.”
“No,” said Jack, “we expected her to-night, but she hasn’t come yet.”
“She told me that she expected to come back to-day,” said William.
“What! have you seen her?” exclaimed all in chorus.
“Yes, I saw her yesterday noon.”
“Where?”
“Why, in the cars,” said William, a little surprised at the question.
“What cars?” asked the cooper.
“Why, the Philadelphia cars. Of course, you knew that was where she was
going?”
“Philadelphia!” all exclaimed, in surprise.
“Yes, the cars were almost there when I saw her. Who was that with her?”
“Mrs. Hardwick, who was her old nurse.”
“Anyway, I didn’t like her looks,” said the boy.
“That’s where I agree with you,” said Jack, decidedly.
“She didn’t seem to want me to speak to Ida,” continued William, “but
hurried her off, just as quick as possible.”
“There were reasons for that,” said Mrs. Crump, “she wanted to keep
secret her destination.”
“I don’t know what it was,” said William; “but any how, I don’t like her
looks.”
The family felt a little relieved by this information; and, since Ida
had gone so far, it did not seem strange that she should have outstayed
her time.
CHAPTER XII. HOW IDA FARED.
WE left Ida confined in a dark closet, with Peg standing guard over her.
After an hour she was released.
“Well,” said Peg, grimly, “how do you feel now?”
“I want to go home,” sobbed the child.
“You are at home,” said the woman. “This is going to be your home now.”
“Shall I never see father and mother and Jack, again?”
“Why,” answered Peg, “that depends on how you behave yourself.”
“Oh, if you will only let me go,” said Ida, gathering hope from this
remark, “I’ll do anything you say.”
“Do you mean this, or do you only say it for the sake of getting away?”
“Oh, I mean just what I say. Dear, good Mrs. Hardwick, just tell me what
I am to do, and I will obey you cheerfully.”
“Very well,” said Peg, “only you needn’t try to get anything out of me
by calling me dear, good Mrs. Hardwick. In the first place, you don’t
care a cent about me. In the second place, I am not good; and finally,
my name isn’t Mrs. Hardwick, except in New York.”
“What is it, then?” asked Ida.
“It’s just Peg, no more and no less. You may call me Aunt Peg.”
“I would rather call you Mrs. Hardwick.”
“Then you’ll have a good many years to call me so. You’d better do as I
tell you if you want any favors. Now what do you say?”
“Yes, Aunt Peg,” said Ida, with a strong effort to conceal her
repugnance.
“That’s well. Now the first thing to do, is to stay here for the
present.”
“Yes--aunt.”
“The second is, you’re not to tell anybody that you came from New York.
That is very important. You understand that, do you?”
The child replied in the affirmative.
“The next is, that you’re to pay for your board, by doing whatever I
tell you.”
“If it isn’t wicked.”
“Do you suppose I would ask you to do anything wicked?”
“You said you wasn’t good,” mildly suggested Ida.
“I’m good enough to take care of you. Well, what do you say to that?
Answer me.”
“Yes.”
“There’s another thing. You ain’t to try to run away.”
Ida hung down her head.
“Ha!” said Peg. “So you’ve been thinking of it, have you?”
“Yes,” said Ida, boldly, after a moment’s hesitation; “I did think I
should if I got a good chance.”
“Humph!” said the woman; “I see we must understand one another. Unless
you promise this, back you go into the dark closet, and I shall keep you
there all the time.”
Ida shuddered at this fearful threat, terrible to a child of nine.
“Do you promise?”
“Yes,” said the child, faintly.
“For fear you might be tempted to break your promise, I have something
to show you.”
She went to the cupboard, and took down a large pistol.
“There,” she said, “do you see that?”
“Yes, Aunt Peg.”
“What is it?”
“It is a pistol, I believe.”
“Do you know what it is for?”
“To shoot people with,” said Ida, fixing her eyes on the weapon, as if
impelled by a species of fascination.
“Yes,” said the woman; “I see you understand. Well, now, do you know
what I would do if you should tell anybody where you came from, or
attempt to run away? Can you guess now?”
“Would you shoot me?” asked the child, struck with terror.
“Yes, I would,” said Peg, with fierce emphasis. “That’s just what I’d
do. And what’s more,” she added, “even if you got away, and got back to
your family in New York. I would follow you and shoot you dead in the
street.”
“You wouldn’t be so wicked!” exclaimed Ida, appalled.
“Wouldn’t I, though?” repeated Peg, significantly. “If you don’t believe
I would, just try it. Do you think you would like to try it?”
“No,” said the child, with a shudder.
“Well, that’s the most sensible thing you’ve said yet. Now, that you
have got to be a little more reasonable, I’ll tell you what I am going
to do with you.”
Ida looked up eagerly into her face.
“I am going to keep you with me a year. I want the services of a little
girl for that time. If you serve me faithfully, I will then send you
back to your friends in New York.”
“Will you?” said Ida, hopefully.
“Yes. But you must mind and do what I tell you.”
“O yes,” said the child, joyfully.
This was so much better than she had been led to fear, that the prospect
of returning home, even after a year, gave her fresh courage.
“What shall I do?” she asked, anxious to conciliate Peg.
“You may take the broom,--you will find it just behind the door,--and
sweep the room.”
“Yes, Aunt Peg.”
“And after that you may wash the dishes. Or, rather, you may wash the
dishes first.”
“Yes, Aunt Peg.”
“And after that I will find something for you to do.”
The next morning Ida was asked if she would like to go out into the
street.
This was a welcome proposition, as the sun was shining brightly, and
there was little to please a child’s fancy in Peg’s shabby apartment.
“I am going to let you do a little shopping,” said Peg. “There are
various things that we want. Go and get your bonnet.”
“It’s in the closet,” said Ida.
“O yes, where I put it. That was before I could trust you.”
She went to the closet, and came back bringing the bonnet and shawl. As
soon as they were ready, they emerged into the street. Ida was glad to
be in the open air once more.
“This is a little better than being shut up in the closet, isn’t it?”
 said Peg.
Ida owned that it was.
“You see you’ll have a very good time of it, if you do as I bid you. I
don’t want to do you any harm. I want you to be happy.”
So they walked along together, until Peg, suddenly pausing, laid her
hand on Ida’s arm, and pointing to a shop near by, said to her, “Do you
