instant, every one of those six sober thoughts was gone away
somewhere--nobody could have told where; and the funniest little laugh
broke the silence of the entry.
The most interested observer could not have told what Gypsy saw that was
so very amusing. The entry was quite deserted. Nothing was to be seen but
a long row of girls' "things," hanging up on the nails--hats and bonnets,
tippets, sacks, rubbers, and baskets; apparently as demure and respectable
as hats, bonnets, tippets, sacks, rubbers, and baskets could be. Yet there
Gypsy stood for as much as a minute laughing away quietly to herself, as
if she had come across some remarkable joke.
About ten minutes after, some one knocked at the school-room door. Miss
Melville laid down her geography.
"Cape Ann, Cape Hatteras, Cape--may I go to the door?" piped little Cely
Hunt, holding up her hand. Miss Melville nodded and Cely went. She opened
the door--and jumped.
"What's the matter, Cely?--Oh!" For there stood the funniest old woman
that Cely or Miss Melville had ever seen. She had on a black dress, very
long and very scant, that looked as if it were made out of an old
waterproof cloak. Over that, she wore a curious drab-silk sack, somewhat
faded and patched, with all the edges of the seams outside. Over that, was
a plaid red-and-green shawl, tied about her waist. There was a little
black shawl over that, and a green tippet wound twice around her throat
with the ends tucked in under the shawl. She had a pair of black mitts on
her hands, and she carried a basket. Her face no one could see, for it was
covered with a thick green veil, tied closely about her bonnet.
Cely gave a little scream, and ran behind the door. Miss Melville stepped
down from the platform, and went to meet the visitor.
"Good arternoon," said the old woman, in a very shrill voice.
"Good afternoon," said Miss Melville, politely.
"I come to see the young uns," piped the old woman. "I ben deown teown fur
some eggs, an'clock I heerd the little creaturs a sayin'clock of their
lessons as I come by, an'clock thinks says I to myself, says I, bless
their dear hearts, I'll go in an'clock see 'em, says I, an'clock I'll
thank ye kindly for a seat, for I'm pretty nigh beat out."
The scholars all began to laugh. Miss Melville, somewhat reluctantly,
handed her visitor a chair by the door, but did not ask her upon the
platform, as the visitor seemed to expect.
"There's a drefful draught here on my neck," she muttered, discontentedly;
"an'clock I'm terribly afflicted with rheumatiz mostly. Can't see much of
the young uns here, nuther."
"I doubt if there is much here that will interest you," observed Miss
Melville, looking at her keenly. "You may rest yourself, and then I think
you had better go. Visitors always disturb the children."
"Bless their dear hearts!" cried the old woman, shrilly. "They needn't be
afraid of me--I wouldn't hurt 'em. Had a little angel boy once myself;
he's gone to Californy now, an'clock I'm a lone, lorn widdy. I say--little
gal!" and the stranger pointed her finger (it trembled a little) at Sarah
Rowe, who had grown quite red in the face with her polite efforts not to
laugh. "Little gal, whar's yer manners?--laughin'clock at a poor ole
creetur like me! Come out here, and le's hear ye say that beautiful psalm
of Dr. Watts--now!"
"How doth the little busy bee!"
But just then something happened for which the old woman and the scholars
were equally unprepared. Miss Melville looked through the green veil
straight into the old woman's eyes, and said just one word. She said it
very quietly, and she said it without a smile. It was
"Gypsy!"
There was a great hush. Sarah Rowe was the first to break it.
"Why, that's my sack turned wrong side out!"
"And those are my mitts!" said Agnes Gaylord.
"If you please, Miss Melville, that's my black shawl,--I know it by the
border," piped a very little girl in mourning.
"I do believe that's my waterproof, and Lucy's plaid shawl," giggled Delia
Guest. "Did you ever?"
"And my green veil," put in somebody else, faintly.
Miss Melville quietly removed the veil, and Gypsy looked up with her
mischief bright all over her face. Her eyes fell, however, and her cheeks
flushed crimson, when she saw the look about Miss Melville's mouth.
"You may go and put away the things, Gypsy," said Miss Melville, still
without a smile. Gypsy obeyed in silence. The girls stopped laughing, and
began to whisper together behind the desk-covers.
"The school will come to order," said Miss Melville. "Cely, what is the
largest river in New England?--Next."
Gypsy hung up the things, and came slowly back into the room. Miss
Melville motioned her to her seat, but took no further notice of her.
Gypsy, silent and ashamed, took out her spelling-book, and began to study.
The girls looked at her out of the corners of their eyes, and every now
and then Delia Guest broke out afresh into a smothered laugh, but no one
spoke to her, and she spoke to nobody.
The spelling-class was called out, but Miss Melville signified, by a look,
that Gypsy was to keep her seat. Recess came, but Miss Melville was busy
writing at her desk, and took no notice of her, further than to tell the
group of girls, who had instantly clustered buzzing and laughing about
her, that they were all to go out doors and play. They went, and Gypsy sat
still with her head behind the desk-cover. Something in Miss Melville's
manner said, louder than words, that she was displeased. It was a manner
which made Gypsy feel, for once in her life, that she had not one word to
say.
She busied herself with her books, and tried to look unconcerned when the
scholars came back. The arithmetic class recited, but her teacher did not
call for her; the history class, but no one spoke to Gypsy. The disgrace
of this punishment was what Gypsy minded the most, though it was no slight
thing to see so many "absent" marks going down on her report, when she was
right in the room and had learned her lessons.
After what seemed to her an interminable time, the morning passed and the
school broke up. The children, controlled by that something in Miss
Melville's manner, and by Gypsy's averted head and burning cheeks, left
the room quickly, and Gypsy and her teacher were alone.
"Gypsy," said Miss Melville.
There was no answer.
"Gypsy."
There came a faint "Yes'm" from behind the desk-cover. Miss Melville laid
down her pencil, closed her own desk, and came and sat down on the bench
beside Gypsy.
"I wonder if you are as sorry as I am," she said, simply.
Something very bright glittered on Gypsy's lashes, and two great drops
stood on her hot cheeks.
"I don't see what possessed me!" she said, vehemently. "Why don't you turn
me out of school?"
"I did not think you could willingly try to make me trouble," continued
Miss Melville, without noticing the last remark.
The two great drops rolled slowly down Gypsy's cheeks, and into her mouth.
She swallowed them with a gulp, and brushed her hand, angrily, across her
eyes. Gypsy very seldom cried, but I fancy she came pretty near it on that
occasion.
"Miss Melville," she said, with an earnestness that was comical, in spite
of itself; "I wish you'd please to scold me. I should feel a great deal
better."
"Scoldings won't do you much good," said Miss Melville, with a sad smile;
"you must cure your own faults, Gypsy. Nobody else can do it for you."
Gypsy turned around in a little passion of despair.
"Miss Melville, I can't! It isn't in me--you don't know! Here this
very morning I got late to school, tipping Winnie over in a raft--drenched
through both of us, and mother, so patient and sweet with the dry
stockings she'd just mended, and wasn't I sorry? Didn't I think about it
all the way to school--the whole way, Miss Melville? And didn't I make up
my mind I'd be as good as a kitten all day, and sit still like Agnes
Gaylord, and not tickle the girls, nor make you any trouble, nor anything?
Then what should I do but come into the entry and see those things, and it
all came like a flash how funny it would be'n I'd talk up high like Mrs.
Surly 'n you wouldn't know me, and--that was the last I thought, till you
took off the veil, and I wished I hadn't done it. It's just like me--I
never can help anything anyhow."
"I think you can," said her teacher, kindly. "You certainly had the power,
when you stood out there in the entry, to stop and think before you
touched the things."
"I don't know," said Gypsy, shaking her head, thoughtfully; "I don't
believe I had."
"But you wouldn't do it again?"
"I guess I wouldn't!" said Gypsy, with an emphasis.
"What you can do one time, you can another," said Miss Melville.
Gypsy was silent.
"There's one other thing about it," continued her teacher, "besides the
impropriety of playing such a trick in school hours--that is, that it was
very unkind to me."
"Unkind!" exclaimed Gypsy.
"Yes," said Miss Melville, quietly, "unkind."
"Why, Miss Melville, I wouldn't be unkind to you for anything!--I love you
dearly."
"Nevertheless, Gypsy, it was very unkind to deliberately set to work to
annoy me and make me trouble, by getting the school into a frolic.
Anything done to break the order of study-hours, or to withstand any rule
of the school, is always an unkindness to a teacher. There is scarcely a
girl in school that might help me more than you, Gypsy, if you chose."
"I don't see how," said Gypsy, astonished.
"I do," said Miss Melville, smiling, "and I always think a little vote of
thanks to you, when you are quiet and well-behaved. An orderly scholar has
a great deal of influence. The girls all love you, and are apt to do as
they see you do, Gypsy."
There was a little silence, in which Gypsy's eyes were wandering away
under the apple-boughs, their twinkling dimmed and soft.
At last she turned quickly, and threw her arms about her teacher's neck.
"Miss Melville, if you'll give me one kiss, I'll never be an old woman
again, if I live as long as Methuselah!"
Miss Melville kissed her, and whispered one or two little loving words of
encouragement, such as nobody but Miss Melville knew how to say. But Gypsy
never told what they were.
"I believe there's a bolt left out of me somewhere," she said, as they
left the school-house together; "what do you suppose it is?"
"It is the strong, iron bolt, 'stop and think,' Gypsy."
"Um--yes--perhaps it is," said Gypsy, and walked slowly home.
CHAPTER IV
GYPSY HAS A DREAM
"Come, Tom--do."
"Do what?"
"You know as well as I do."
"What did you observe?"
"Tom Breynton!"
"That's my name."
"Will you, or will you not, come down to the pond and have a row?"
"Let's hear you tease a little."
"Catch me! If you won't come for a civil request, I won't tease for it."
"Very good," said Tom, laying aside his Euclid; "I like your spunk. Rather
think I'll go."
Tom tossed on his cap and was ready. Gypsy hurried away to array herself
in the complication of garments necessary to the feminine adventurer, if
she so much as crosses the yard; a continual mystery of Providence, was
this little necessity to Gypsy, and one against which she lived in a state
of incessant rebellion. It was provoking enough to stand there in her
room, tugging and hurrying till she was red in the face, over a pair of
utterly heartless and unimpressible rubbers, that absolutely refused to
slip over the heel of her boot, and to see Tom through the window, with
his hands in his pocket, ready, waiting, and impatient, alternately
whistling and calling for her.
"I never did!" said Gypsy, in no very gentle tone.
"Hur--ry up!" called Tom, coolly.
"These old rubbers!" said Gypsy.
"What's the matter?" asked her mother, stopping at the door.
"It's enough to try the patience of a saint!" said Gypsy, emphatically,
holding out her foot.
"Perhaps I can help you," said Mrs. Breynton, stooping down. "Why, Gypsy!
your boots are wet through; of course the rubbers won't go on."
"I didn't suppose that would make any difference," said Gypsy, looking
rather foolish. "I got them wet this morning, down at the swamp. I thought
they were dry, though: I sat with my feet in the oven until Patty drove me
off. She said I was in the bread."
"You will have to put on your best boots," said her mother.
"Oh, Tom!" called Gypsy, in despair, as the shrillest of all shrill
whistles came up through the window. "Everything's in a jumble! I'll be
there as soon as I can."
She changed her boots, tossed on her turban, whisked on her sack, and
began to fasten it with a jerk, when off came the button at the throat,
and rolled maliciously quite out of sight under the bed.
"There!" said Gypsy.
"Can't wait!" shouted Tom.
"I mended that sack," said Gypsy, "only yesterday afternoon. I call it too
bad, when a body's trying to keep their things in order, and do up all
their mending, that things have to act so!"
"I think you have been trying to be orderly," said her mother, helping her
to pin the offending sack about the throat, for there was no time now to
restore the wandering button. "I have noticed a great improvement in you;
but there's one thing wanting yet, that would have kept the button in its
place, and had the boots properly taken off and dried at the right time."
"What's that?" asked Gypsy, in a great hurry to go.
"A little more thoroughness, Gypsy."
This bit of a lesson, like most of Mrs. Breynton's moral teachings, was
enforced with a little soft kiss on Gypsy's forehead, and a smile that was
as unlike a sermon as smile could be.
Gypsy gave two thoughts to it, while she jumped down stairs three steps at
a time; then, it must be confessed, she forgot it entirely, in the sight
of Tom coolly walking off down the lane without her. But words that Mrs.
Breynton said with a kiss did not slip away from Gypsy's memory "for good
an a'," as easily as that. She had her own little places and times of
private meditation, when such things came up to her like faithful angels,
that are always ready to speak, if you give them the chance.
Tom was still in sight, among the hazel-nut bushes and budding grape-vines
of the lane, and Gypsy ran swiftly after him. She was fleet of foot as a
young gazelle, and soon overtook him. She had just stopped, panting, by
his side, and was proceeding to make some remarks which she thought his
conduct richly deserved, when the sound of some little trotting feet
behind them attracted their attention.
"Why, Winnie Breynton!" said Gypsy.
"Where are you going?" asked Tom, turning round.
"Oh, nowheres in particular," said Winnie, with an absent air.
"Well, you may just turn round and go there, then," said Tom. "We don't
want any little boys with us this afternoon."
"Little boys!" said Winnie, with a terrible look; "I'm five years old,
sir. I can button my own jacket, and I've got a snowshovel!"
Tom walked rapidly on, and Gypsy with him. A moment's reflection seemed to
convince Winnie that his company was not wanted, and he disappeared among
the hazel nut bushes.
Gypsy and Tom were fast walkers, and they reached the pond in a
marvellously short time. This pond was about a half-mile from the house,
just at the foot of a hill which went by the name of Kleiner Berg--a
German word meaning little mountain. There were many of these elevations
all along the valley in which Yorkbury was situated. They seemed to be a
sort of stepping-stones to the great, snow-crowned mountains, that towered
sharply beyond. The pond that nestled in among the trees at the foot of
the Kleiner Berg was called the Kleiner Berg Basin. It was a beautiful
sheet of water, small and still and sheltered, and a great resort of
pleasure-seekers because of the clouds of white and golden lilies that
floated over it in the hot summer months. Mr. Breynton owned a boat there,
which was kept locked to a tiny wharf under the trees, and was very often
used by the children, although Tom declared it was no better to fish in
than a wash-tub; as a Vermont boy, used to the trout-brooks up among the
mountains, would be likely to think.
"What's that?" asked Gypsy, as they neared the wharf.
"Looks as much like a little green monkey as anything," said Tom, making a
tube of his hands to look through. "It's in the boat, whatever it is."
"It's a green-and-white gingham monkey," said Gypsy, suddenly, "with a
belt, and brown pants, and a cap on wrong side before."
"The little----, he may just walk home anyhow," observed Tom, in his
autocratic style. "He ought to be taught better than to come where older
people are, especially if they don't want him."
"I suppose he likes to have a boat-ride as well as we do," suggested
Gypsy.
"Winthrop!" called Tom, severely.
Winnie's chin was on his little fat hand, and Winnie's eyes were fixed
upon the water, and Winnie was altogether too deeply absorbed in
meditation to deign a reply.
"Winnie, where did you come from?"
"Oh!" said Winnie, looking up, carelessly; "that you?"
"How did you get down here, I'd like to know?" said Gypsy.
Winnie regarded her impressively, as if to signify that his principles of
action were his own until they were made public, and when they were made
public she might have them.
"You may just get out of that boat," said Tom, rather crossly for him.
Winnie hinted, as if it were quite an accidental remark, that he had no
intention of doing so. He furthermore observed that he would be happy to
take them to row. "Father said whoever took the boat first was to have
it."
Tom replied by taking him up in one hand, twisting him over his shoulder,
and landing him upon the grass. At this Winnie, as characteristic in his
wrath as in his dignity, threw himself flat, and began to scream after his
usual musical fashion.
"It's too bad!" said Gypsy. "Let him go, Tom--do."
"He should have stayed where he was told to," argued Tom, who, like most
boys of his age, had a sufficiently just estimate of the importance of his
own authority, and who would sometimes do a very selfish thing under the
impression that it was his duty to family and state, as an order-loving
individual and citizen.
"I know it isn't so pleasant to have him," said Gypsy, "but it does make
him so dreadfully happy."
That was the best of Gypsy;--she was as generous a child as poor, fallen
children of Adam are apt to be; as quick to do right as she was to do
wrong, and much given to this fancy of seeing people "dreadfully happy." I
have said that people loved Gypsy. I am inclined to think that herein lay
the secret of it.
Then Gypsy never "preached." If she happened to be right, and another
person wrong, she never put on superior airs, and tried to patronize them
into becoming as good as she was. She made her suggestions in such a
straightforward, matter-of-fact way, as if of course you thought so too,
and she was only agreeing with you; and was apt to make them so merrily
withal, that there was no resisting her.
Therefore Tom, while pretending to carry his point, really yielded to the
influence of Gypsy's kind feeling, in saying,--
"On the whole, Winnie, I've come to the conclusion to take you, on
condition that you always do as I tell you in future. And if you don't
stop crying this minute, you sha'n't go."
This rather ungracious consent was sufficient to dry Winnie's tears and
silence Winnie's lungs, and the three seated themselves in the little
boat, and started off in high spirits. It was a light, pretty boat,
painted in bright colors, and christened The Dipper, it being an
appropriate and respectful title for a boat on the Kleiner Berg Basin.
Moreover, the air was as sweet as a May-flower, and as warm as sunshine;
there was a soft, blue sky with clouds of silver like stately ships
sailing over it, and such a shimmering, bright photograph of it in the
water; then Tom was so pleasant, and rowed so fast, and let Gypsy help,
and she could keep time with him, and the spray dashed up like silver-dust
about the oars, and the bees were humming among the buds on the trees, and
the blue dragon-flies, that skipped from ripple to ripple, seemed to be
having such a holiday. Altogether, Gypsy felt like saying, with famous
little Prudy,--
"Oh, I'm so glad there happened to be a world, and God made me!"
After a while Tom laid down his oars, and they floated idly back and forth
among the lily-stems and the soft, purple shadows of the maple-boughs,
from which the perfumed scarlet blossoms dropped like coral into the
water. Tom took off his cap, and leaned lazily against the side of the
boat; Winnie, interested in making a series of remarkable faces at himself
in the water, for a wonder sat still, and Gypsy lay down across two seats,
with her face turned up watching the sky. It was very pleasant, and no one
seemed inclined to talk.
"I wish I were a cloud," said Gypsy, suddenly, after a long silence. "A
little white cloud, with a silver fringe, and not have anything to do but
float round all day in the sunshine,--no lessons nor torn dresses nor
hateful old sewing to do."
"S'posin' it thunder-stormed," suggested Winnie. "You might get striked."
"That would be fun," said Gypsy, laughing. "I always wanted to see where
the lightning came from."
"Supposing there came a wind, and blew you away," suggested Tom, sleepily.
"I never thought of that," said Gypsy. "I guess I'd rather do the sewing."
Presently a little scarlet maple-blossom floated out on the wind, and
dropped right into Gypsy's mouth (which most unpoetically happened to be
open).
"Just think," said Gypsy, whose thoughts seemed to have taken a
metaphysical turn, "of being a little red flower, that dies and drops into
the water, and there's never any fruit nor anything,--I wonder what it was
made for."
"Perhaps just to make you ask that question," answered Tom; and there was
a great deal more in the answer than Tom himself supposed. This was every
solitary word that was said on that boat-ride. A little is so much better
than much, sometimes, and goes a great deal further.
It seemed to Gypsy the pleasantest boat-ride she had ever taken; but Tom
became tired of it before she did, and went up to the house, carrying
Winnie with him. Gypsy stayed a little while to row by herself.
"Be sure you lock the boat when you come up," called Tom, in starting.
"Oh yes," said Gypsy, "I always do."
"Did you bring up the oars?" asked Tom, at supper.
"Yes, they're in the barn. I do sometimes remember things, Mr. Tom."
"Did you----," began Tom, again.
But Winnie just then upset the entire contents of his silver mug of milk
exactly into Tom's lap, and as this was the fourth time the young
gentleman had done that very thing, within three days, Tom's sentence was
broken off for another of a more agitated nature.
That night Tom had a dream.
He thought the house was a haunted castle--(he had, I am sorry to say,
been reading novels in study hours), and that the ghost of old Baron
Somebody who had defrauded the beautiful Lady Somebody-else, of Kleiner
Berg Basin and the Dipper, in which it was supposed Mrs. Surly had
secreted a blind kitten, which it was somehow or other imperatively
necessary should be drowned, for the well-being of the beautiful and
unfortunate heiress,--that the ghost of this atrocious Baron was going
down stairs, with white silk stockings on his feet and a tin pan on his
head.
At this crisis Tom awoke, with a jump, and heard, or thought he heard, a
slight creaking noise in the entry. Winnie's cat, of course; or the wind
rattling the blinds;--nevertheless, Tom went to his door, and looked out.
He was exceedingly sleepy, and the entry was exceedingly dark, and, though
he had not a breath of faith in ghosts, not he,--was there ever a boy who
had?--and though he considered such persons, as had, as candidates for the
State Idiot Asylum, yet it must be confessed that even Tom was possessed
of an imagination, and this imagination certainly, for an instant, deluded
him into the belief that a dim figure was flitting down stairs.
"Who's there?" said Tom, rather faintly.
There was no reply. A curious sound, like the lifting of a distant latch
by phantom fingers, fell upon his ear,--then all was still.
"Stuff and nonsense!" said Tom. Nevertheless, Tom went to the head of the
stairs, and looked down; went to the foot of the stairs, and looked
around. The doors were all closed as they had been left for the night.
Nothing was to be seen; nothing was to be heard.
"Curious mental delusions one will have when one is sleepy," said Tom, and
went back to bed, where, the reader is confidentially informed, he lay for
fifteen entire minutes with his eyes wide open, speculating on the
proportion of authenticated ghost-stories;--to be sure, there had been
some; it was, perhaps, foolish to deny as much as that.
After which, he slept the rest of the night as soundly as young people of
sixteen, who are well and happy, are apt to sleep.
That night, also, Gypsy had a dream.
She dreamed that Miss Melville sailed in through the window on an oar,
which she paddled through the air with a parasol, and told her that her
(Gypsy's) father had been hung upon a lamp-post by Senator Sumner, for
advocating the coercion of the seceded States, and that Tom had set Winnie
afloat on the Kleiner Berg Basin, in a milk-pitcher. Winnie had tipped
over, and was in imminent danger of drowning, if indeed he were not past
hope already, and Tom sat up in the maple-tree, laughing at him.
Her mother appeared to have enlisted in the Union army, and, her father
being detained in that characteristic manner by Mr. Sumner, there was
evidently nothing to be done but for Gypsy to go to Winnie's relief. This
she hastened to do with all possible speed. She dressed herself under a
remarkable sense of not being able to find any buttons, and of getting all
her sleeves upon the wrong arm. She put on her rubber-boots, because it
took so long to lace up her boots. Her stockings she wore upon her arms.
The reason appeared to be, that she might not get her hands wet in pulling
Winnie out. She stopped to put on her sack, her turban, and her blue veil.
She also spent considerable time in commendable efforts to pin on a lace
collar which utterly refused to be pinned, and to fasten at her throat a
velvet bow that kept turning into a little green snake, and twisting round
her fingers.
When at length she was fairly ready, she left the house softly, under the
impression that Tom (who appeared to have the remarkable capacity of being
in the house and down in the maple-trees at one and the same time) would
stop her if he heard her.
She ran down the lane and over the fields and into the woods, where the
Kleiner Berg rose darkly in front of her; so, at last, to the Basin, which
rippled and washed on its shore, and tossed up at her feet--an empty
milk-pitcher!
A horrible fear seized her. She had come too late. Winnie was drowned. It
was all owing to that lace collar.
She sprang into the boat; she floated away; she peered down into the dark
water. But Tom laughed in the maple-tree; and there was no sign nor sound
of Winnie.
She cried out with a loud cry, and awoke. She lifted up her head, and
saw----
CHAPTER V
WHAT SHE SAW
A great, solemn stretch of sky, alive with stars.
A sheet of silent water.
A long line of silent hills.
She had acted out her dream! When the truth came to Gypsy, she sat for a
moment like one stunned. The terrible sense of awakening in a desolate
place, at midnight, and alone, instead of in a safe and quiet bed, with
bolted doors, and friends within the slightest call, might well alarm an
older and stouter heart than Gypsy's. The consciousness of having wandered
she did not know whither, she did not know how, in the helplessness of
sleep, into a place where her voice could reach no human ear, was in
itself enough to freeze her where she sat, with hands locked, and wide,
frightened eyes, staring into the darkness.
After a few moments she stirred, shivered a little, and looked about her.
It was the Basin, surely. There were the maples, there was the Kleiner
Berg rolling up, soft and shadowy, among its pines. There were the
mountains, towering and sharp--terrible shadows against the sky. Here,
too, was the Dipper beneath her, swaying idly back and forth upon the
water. She remembered, with a little cry of joy, that the boat was always
locked; she could not have stirred from the shore; it would be but the
work of a moment to jump upon the wharf, then back swiftly through the
fields to the house.
She looked back. The wharf was not in sight. A dark distance lay between
her and it. The beds of lily-leaves, and the dropping blossoms of the
maples were about her on every side. She had drifted half across the pond.
She understood it all in a moment--she had not locked the boat that
afternoon.
What was to be done? The oars were half a mile away, in the barn at home.
There was not so much as a branch floating within reach on the water. She
tried to pull up the board seats of the boat, under the impression that
she could, by degrees, paddle herself ashore with one of them. But they
were nailed tightly in their places, and she could not stir them.
Evidently, there was nothing to be done.
Perhaps the boat would drift ashore somewhere; she could land anywhere;
even on the steep Kleiner Berg side she could easily have found footing;
she was well used to climbing its narrow ledges, and knew every crack and
crevice and projection where a step could be taken. But, no; the boat was
not going to drift ashore. It had stopped in a tangle of lily-leaves, far
out in the water, and there was not a breath of wind to stir it. If the
water had not been deep she could have waded ashore; but her practised ear
told her, from the sound of the little waves against her hand, that wading
was not to be thought of. To be sure, Gypsy could swim; but a walk of half
a mile in drenched clothes was hardly preferable to sitting still in a dry
boat, to say nothing of the inconvenience of swimming in crinoline, and on
a dark night.
No, there was nothing to be done but to sit still till morning.
Having come to this conclusion, Gypsy gave another little shiver, and
slipped down into the bottom of the boat, thinking she might lie with her
head under the stern-seat, and thus be somewhat shielded from the chilly
air. In turning up her sack-collar, to protect her throat, she touched
something soft, which proved to be the lace collar. This led her to
examine her dress. She now noticed for the first time that one stocking
was drawn up over her hand,--the other she had probably lost on the
way,--and that she had put her bare feet into rubber-boots. The lace
collar was fastened by a bit of green chenille she sometimes wore at her
throat, and which had doubtless been the snake of her dream.
Lonely, frightened, and cold as she was, Gypsy's sense of the ludicrous
overcame her at that, and she broke into a little laugh. That laugh seemed
to drive away the mystery and terror of her situation, in spite of the
curious sound it had in echoing over the lonely water; and Gypsy set
herself to work with her usual good sense to see how matters stood.
"In the first place," she reasoned, talking half aloud for the sake of the
company of her own voice, "I've had a fit of what the dictionary calls
somnambulism, I suppose. I eat too much pop-corn after supper, and that's
the whole of it,--it always makes me dream,--only I never was goose enough
to get out of bed before, and I rather think it'll be some time before I
do again. I came down stairs softly, and out of the back door. Nobody
heard me, and of course nobody will hear me till morning, and I'm in a
pretty fix. If I hadn't forgotten to lock the boat I should be back in bed
by this time. Oh dear! I wish I were. However, I'm too large to tip myself
over and get drowned, and I couldn't get hurt any other way; and there's
nothing to be afraid of if I do have to stay here till morning, except
sore throat, so there's no great harm done. The worst of it is, that old
Tom! Won't he laugh at me about the boat! I never expect to hear the end
of it. Then when they go to my room and find me gone, in the morning,
they'll be frightened. I'm rather sorry for that. I wish I knew what time
it is."
Just then the distant church-clock struck two. Gypsy held her breath, and
listened to it. It had a singular, solemn sound. She had never heard the
clock strike two in the morning but once before in her life. That was once
when she was very small, when her father was dangerously sick, and the
coming of the doctor had wakened her. She had always somehow associated
the hour with mysterious flickering lights, and anxious whispers and
softened steps, and a dread as terrible as it was undefined. Now, out here
in this desolate place, where the birds were asleep in their nests, and
the winds quiet among the mountain-tops, and the very frogs tired of their
chanting,--herself the only waking thing,--these two far, deep-toned
syllables seemed like a human voice. Like the voice, Gypsy fancied, of
some one imprisoned for years in the belfry, and crying to get out.
Two o'clock. Three--four--five--six. At about six they would begin to miss
her; her mother always called her, then, to get up. Four hours.
"Hum,--well," said Gypsy, drawing her sack-collar closer, "pretty long
time to sit out in a boat and shiver. It might be worse, though." Just
then her foot struck something soft under the seat. She pulled it out, and
found it to be an old coat of Tom's, which he sometimes used for boating.
Fortunately it was not wet, for the boat was new, and did not leak. She
wrapped it closely around her shoulders, curled herself up snugly in the
stern, and presently pronounced herself "as warm as toast, and as
comfortable as an oyster."
Then she began to look about her. All around and underneath her lay the
black, still water,--so black that the maple-branches cast no shadow on
it. About and above her rose the mountains, grim and mute, and watching,
as they had watched for ages, and would watch for ages still, all the long
night through. Overhead, the stars glittered and throbbed, and shot in and
out of ragged clouds. Far up in the great forests, that climbed the
mountain-sides, the wind was muttering like an angry voice.
Somehow it made Gypsy sit very still. She thought, if she were a poet, she
would write some verses just then; indeed, if she had had a pencil, I am
not sure but she would have, as it was.
Then some other thoughts came to Gypsy. She wondered why, of all places,
she chanced to come to the Basin in her dream. She might have gone to the
saw-mill, and been caught and whirred to death in the machinery. She might
have gone to the bridge over the river, and thrown herself off, not
knowing what she did. Or, what if the pond had been a river, and she were
now floating away, helpless, out of reach of any who came to save her, to
some far-off dam where the water roared and splashed on cruel rocks. Or
she might, in her dream, have tipped over the boat where the water was
deep, and been unable to swim, encumbered by her clothing. Then she might
have been such a girl as Sarah Rowe, who would have suffered agonies of
fright at waking to find herself in such a place. But she had been led to
the quiet, familiar Basin, and no harm had come to her, and she had good
strong nerves, and lost all her fear in five minutes, so that the
mischance would end only in an exciting adventure, which would give her
something to talk about as long as she lived.
Well; she was sure she was very thankful to--whom? and Gypsy bowed her
head a little at the question, and she sat a moment very still.
Then she had other thoughts. She looked up at the shadowed mountains, and
thought how year after year, summer and winter, day and night, those
terrible masses of rock had cleaved together, and stood still, and caught
the rains and the snows and vapors, the golden crowns of sunsets and
sunrisings, the cooling winds and mellow moonlights, and done all their
work of beauty and of use, and done it aright. "Not one faileth." No
avalanche had thundered down their sides, destroying such happy homes as
hers. No volcanic fires had torn them into seething lava. No beetling
precipice, of which she ever heard, had fallen and crushed so much as the
sheep feeding in the valleys. To the power of the hills as to the power of
the seas, Someone had said, Thus far shalt thou go, and no farther.
And the Hand that could uphold a mountain in its place, was the Hand that
had guided her--one little foolish, helpless girl, out of millions and
millions of creatures for whom He was caring--in the wanderings of an
uneasy sleep that night.
There was a great awe and a great joy in this thought; but sharp upon it
came another, as a pleasure is followed by a sudden pain,--a thought that
came all unbidden, and talked with Gypsy, and would not go away. It was,
that she had gone to bed that night without a prayer. She was tired and
sleepy, and the lamp went out, and so,--and so,--well, she didn't know
exactly how it came about.
Gypsy's bowed head fell into her hands, and there, crouched in the lonely
boat, under the lonely sky, she put this thought into a few whispered
words, and I know there was One to hear it.
Other thoughts had Gypsy after this; but they were those she could not
have put into words. For three of those solemn, human syllables had
sounded from the distant clock, and far over the mountain-tops the sweet
summer dawn was coming. Gypsy had never seen the sun rise. She had seen,
to be sure, many times, the late, winter painting of crimson and gold in
the East, which unfolded itself before her window, and chased away her
dreams. But she had never watched that slow, mysterious change from
midnight to morning, which is the only spectacle that can properly be
called a sunrise.
There was something in Gypsy that made her sit like a statue there,
wrapped in Tom's old coat, her face upturned, and her very breath held in,
as the heavy shadows softened and melted, and the stars began to dim in a
pale, gray light, that fell and folded in the earth like a mist; as the
clouds, that floated faintly over the mountains, blushed pink from the
touch of an unseen sun; as the pink deepened into crimson, and the crimson
burned to fire, and the outlines of the mountains were cut in gold; as the
gold broadened and brightened, and stole over the ragged peaks, and shot
down among the forests, and filtered through the maple-leaves, and chased
the purple shadows far down among the valleys; as the birds twittered in
unseen nests, and the crickets chirped in the meadows, and the dews fell
and sparkled from nodding grasses, and "all the world grew green again."
Gypsy thought it was worth an ugly dream and a little fright, to see such
a sight. She wondered if those old pictures of the great masters far away
over the sea, of which she had heard so much, were anything like it. She
also had a faint, flitting notion that, in a world where there were
sunrises every day, it was very strange people should ever be cross, and
tear their dresses, and forget to lock boats. It seemed as if they ought
to know better.
Just then Gypsy fell asleep, with her head on the bottom of the boat; and
the next she knew it was broad day, and a dear, familiar voice, from
somewhere, was calling,--
"Gypsy!--Why, Gypsy!"
"How do you do?" said Gypsy, sleepily, sitting up straight.
Tom was standing on the shore. He did not say another word. He jumped into
an old mud-scull, that lay floating among the bushes, and paddled up to
her before she was wide enough awake to speak.
"Why, Gypsy Breynton!"
"I've been walking in my sleep," said Gypsy, with a little laugh; "I came
out here to save Winnie from upsetting in a milk-pitcher, and then I woke
up, and I did forget to lock the boat, and I couldn't get ashore."
"How long have you been here?" Tom was very pale.
"Since a little before two. There was a splendid sunrise, only it was
rather cold, and I didn't know where I was at first, and I--well, I'm glad
you're come."
"Put on my coat over that. Lean up against my arm--so. Don't try to talk,"
said Tom, in a quick, business-like tone. But Tom was curiously pale.
"Why, there's no harm done, Tom, dear," said Gypsy, looking up into his
face.
"I can't talk about it, Gypsy--I can't, I thought, I----"
Tom looked the other way to see the view, and did not finish his sentence.
"You don't suppose she's going to be a somnambulist?" asked Mr. Breynton.
This was the first time he had remembered to be worried over any of
Gypsy's peculiarities all day. He had spent so much time in looking at
her, and kissing her, and wiping his spectacles.
"No, indeed," said her mother; "it was nothing in the world but
popped-corn. The child will never have another such turn, I'll venture."
And she never did.
It is needless to say that nobody scolded Gypsy for forgetting to lock the
boat. She was likely enough to remember the incident. She had, perhaps,
received a severe punishment for so slight a negligence, but the reader
may rest assured that the boat was always locked thereafter when Gypsy had
anything to do with it.
CHAPTER VI
UP IN THE APPLE TREE
"Gypsy! Gypsy!"
"What's wanted?"
"Where are you?"
"Here."
"I don't know where 'here' is."
"Well, you'll find out after a while."
Winnie trotted along down the garden-path, and across the brook. "Here"
proved to be the great golden-russet tree. High up on a gnarled old
branch, there was a little flutter of a crimson and white gingham dress,
and a merry face peeping down through the dainty pink blossoms that
blushed all over the tree. It looked so pretty, framed in by the bright
color and glistening sunlight, and it seemed to fit in so exactly with the
fragrance and the soft, dropping petals, and the chirping of the
blue-birds overhead, that I doubt if even Mrs. Surly would have had the
heart to say, as Mrs. Surly was much in the habit of saying,--
"A young lady, twelve years old, climbing an apple-tree! Laws a massy! I
pity your ma--what a sight of trainin'clock she must ha' wasted on you!"
"It looks nice up there," said Winnie, admiringly, looking up with his
mouth open; "I'm acomin'clock up."
"Very well," said Gypsy.
Winnie assailed a low-hanging bough, and crawled half way up, where he
stopped.
"Why don't you come?" said Gypsy.
"Oh, I--well, I think I like it better down here. You can see the grass,
and things. There's a black grasshopper here, too."
"What do you want, anyway?" asked Gypsy, taking a few spasmodic stitches
on a long, white seam; "I'm busy. I can't talk to little boys when I'm
sewing."
"Oh, I guess I don't want anythin'clock, very much," said Winnie, folding
his arms composedly, as if he had seated himself for the day; "I'm five
years old."
Down went Gypsy's work, and a whole handful of pink and white blossoms
came fluttering into Winnie's eyes.
"How am I going to sew?" said Gypsy, despairingly; "you're so exactly in
the right place to be hit. I don't believe Mrs. Surly herself could help
snowballing you."
"Mrs. Surly snowball! Why, I never saw her. Wouldn't it be just funny?"
"Winnie Breynton, will you please to go away?"
"I say, Gypsy,--if you cut off a grasshopper's wings, and frow him in a
milk-pan, what would he do?" remarked Winnie, inclining to metaphysics, as
was Winnie's custom when he wasn't wanted. Gypsy took several severe
stitches, and made no answer.
"Gypsy--if somebody builded a fire inside of me and made steam, couldn't I
draw a train of cars?"
"Look here--Gyp., when a cat eats up a mouse----"
Winnie forgot what he was aiming at, just there, coughed, and began again.
"Samson could have drawed a train of cars, anyway."
"Oh, Winnie Breynton!"
"Well, if he had a steam-leg, he'd be jest as good as an
engine--wouldn't I like to seen him!" Just then a branch struck Winnie's
head with decidedly more emphasis than the handful of blossoms, and Winnie
slid to the ground, and remarked, with dignity, that he was sorry he
couldn't stay longer. He would come again another day. About half way up
the walk, he stopped, and turned leisurely round.
"Oh--Gypsy! Mother want's to know where's the key of the china-closet she
let you have. She's in a great hurry. That's what I come down for; I
s'posed there was something or nuther."
"Why, Winnie Breynton! and you've been sitting there all this----"
"Where's the key?" interrupted Winnie, severely; "mother hadn't ought to
be kept waitin'clock."
"It's up-stairs in--in, I guess in my slippers," said Gypsy, stopping to
think.
"Slippers!"
"Yes. I was afraid I should forget to put it up, so I put it in my
slipper, because I should feel it, and remember it. Then I took off the
slippers, and that was the last I thought of it."
"It was very careless," said Winnie, with a virtuous air. It was
noticeable that he took good care to be out of hearing of Gypsy's reply.
Gypsy returned to her seam, and the apple-blossoms, and to her own little
meditations about the china-closet key; which, being of a private and
somewhat humiliating nature, are not given to the public.
The apple-tree stood in one corner of a very pleasant garden. Mr. Breynton
had a great fancy for working over his trees and flowers, and, if he had
not been a publisher and bookseller, might have made a very successful
landscape-gardener. Poor health had driven him out of the professions, and
the tastes of a scholar drove him away from out-door life; he had
compromised the matter by that book-store down opposite the post-office.
The literature of a Vermont town is not of the most world-stirring nature,
and it did occur to him, occasionally, that business was rather dull, but
his wife loved the old home, the children were comfortable and happy, and
he himself, he thought, was getting rather old to start out on any new
venture elsewhere; so Yorkbury seemed likely to be the family nest for
life.
It was the same methodical kind-heartedness that made him at once so
thoughtful and tender a father, and yet so habitually worried by the
children's little failings, that gave him his taste for beautiful flowers
and shrubbery, and his skill in cultivating them. This garden was his pet
enterprise. It was gracefully laid out with winding walks, evergreens,
fruit-trees and flower-beds; not in stiff patterns, but with a delightful
studied negligence, such as that with which an artist would group the
figures on a landscape. Rocks and vines and wild flowers were scattered
over the garden very much as they would be found in the fields; stately
roses and dahlias, delicate heliotrope and aristocratic fuchsias, would
grow, side by side, with daisies and buttercups. But, best of all, Gypsy
liked the corner where the golden russet stood. A bit of a brook ran
across it, which had been caught in a frolic one day, as it went singing
away to the meadows, and dammed up and paved down into a tiny pond.
The short-tufted grass swept over its edge like a fringe, and in their
season slender hair-bells bent over, casting little blue shadows into the
water; the apple-boughs, too, hung over it, and flung down their showers
of pearls and rubies, when the wind was high. Moreover, there was a
statue. This statue was Gypsy's pride and delight. It was Aladdin's
Palace, the Tuilleries, Versailles, and the Alhambra, all in one. The only
fault to be found with it was that it was not marble. It was a species of
weather-proof composition, but very finely carved, and much valued by Mr.
Breynton. It was a pretty thing--a water-nymph rising from an unfolded
lily, with both hands parting her long hair from a wondering face, that,
pleased with its own beauty, was bent to watch its reflection in the
water.
Altogether, the spot was so bewitching, that it is little wonder Gypsy's
work kept dropping into her lap, and her eyes wandering away somewhere
into dreamland.
One of those endless seams on a white skirt that you have torn from the
placket to the hem, is not a very attractive sight, if you have it to
mend, and don't happen to like to sew any better than Gypsy did.
She seemed fated to be interrupted in her convulsive attempts at
"run-and-back stitching." Winnie was hardly in the house, before Sarah
Rowe came out in the garden to hunt her up.
"Oh, dear," said Gypsy, as Sarah's face appeared under the apple-boughs;
"I'm not a bit glad to see you."
"That's polite," said Sarah, reddening; "I'll go home again."
"Look," said Gypsy, laughing; "just see what I've got to mend, and I
came out here on purpose to get it done, so I could come over to your
house. You see I oughtn't to be glad to see you at all, but I am
exceedingly."
Sarah climbed up, and sat down beside her upon a long, swaying bough.
"Now don't you speak a single word," said Gypsy, with an industrious air,
"till I get this done."
"No, I won't," said Sarah. "What do you have to sew for, Saturday
afternoons?"
"Why, it's my mending: mother wants me to do it Saturday morning, and of
course it's a great deal easier, because then you have all the afternoon
to yourself, only I never seem to get time; I'm sure I don't know why.
This morning I had my history topics to write."
"Why, I wrote mine yesterday!"
"I meant to, but I forgot; Miss Melville said I musn't put it off another
day. There! I wasn't going to talk."
"Mother does my mending for me," said Sarah.
"She does! Well, I just wish my mother would. She says it wouldn't be good
for me."
"How did you tear such a great place, I'd like to know?"
"Put my foot right through it," said Gypsy, disconsolately. "It was
hanging on a chair, and I just stepped in it and started to run, and down
I went,--and here's the skirt. I was running after the cat. I'd put her
under my best hat, and she was spinning down stairs. You never saw
anything so funny! I'm always doing such things,--I mean like the skirt. I
do declare! you mustn't talk."
"I'm not," said Sarah, laughing; "it's you that are talking. You haven't
sewed a stitch for five minutes, either."
Gypsy sighed, and her needle began to fly savagely. There was a little
silence.
"You see," said Gypsy, breaking it, "I'm trying to reform."
"Reform?" said Sarah, with some vague ideas of Luther and Melancthon, and
Gypsy's wearing a wig and spectacles, and reading Cruden's "Concordance."
"Yes," nodded Gypsy, "reform. I never knew anybody need it as much as I. I
never do things anyway, and then I do them wrong, and then I forget all
about them. Mother says I'm improving. She says my room used to look like
a perfect Babel, and now I keep the wardrobe door shut, and dust it
out--sometimes. Then there's my mending. I came out here so's to be quiet
and keep at it. The poor dear woman is so afraid I won't learn to do
things in a lady-like way. It would be dreadful not to grow up a lady,
wouldn't it?"
"Dreadful!" said Sarah; "only I wish you'd hurry and get through, so we
can go down to the swamp and sail. Couldn't you take a little bigger
stitches?"
"No," said Gypsy, resolutely; "I should have to rip it all out. I'm going
to do it right, if it takes me all day."
Gypsy began to sew with a will, and Sarah, finding it was for her own
interest in the end, stopped talking; so the fearful seam was soon neatly
finished, the work folded up, and the thimble and scissors put away
carefully in the little green reticule.
"I lose so many thimbles,--you don't know!" observed Gypsy, by way of
comment. "I'm going to see if I can't keep this one three months."
"Now let's go," said Sarah.
"In a minute; I must carry my work up first. I'm going to jump off--it's
real fun. You see if I don't go as far as that dandelion."
So Gypsy sprang from the tree, carrying a shower of blossoms with her.
"Oh, look out for the statue!" cried Sarah.
The warning came too late. Gypsy fell short of her mark, hit the
water-nymph heavily, and it fell with a crash into the water, where the
paved bottom was hard as rock.
"Just see what you've done!" said Sarah, who had not a capacity for making
comforting remarks. "What do you suppose your father will say?"
Gypsy stood aghast. The water gurgled over the fallen statue, whose
pretty, upraised hands were snapped at the wrist, and the wondering face
crushed in. There was a moment's silence.
"Don't you tell!" said Sarah at length; "nobody saw it fall, and they'll
never think you did it. You just seem surprised, and keep still about it."
Gypsy flushed to her forehead.
"Why, Sarah Rowe! how can you say such a thing? I wouldn't tell a lie for
anything in this world!"
"It wouldn't be a lie!" said Sarah, looking ashamed and provoked. "You
needn't say you didn't do it."
"It would be a lie!" said Gypsy, decidedly. "He'd ask if anybody knew,--I
wouldn't be so mean, even if I knew he couldn't find out. I am going to
tell him this minute."
Gypsy started off, with her cheeks still very red, up the garden paths and
down the road, and Sarah followed slowly. Gypsy's sense of honor had
received too great a shock for her to take pleasure just then in Sarah's
company, and Sarah had an uneasy sense of having lowered herself in her
friend's eyes, so the two girls separated for the afternoon.
It was about a mile to Mr. Breynton's store. The afternoon was warm for
the season, and the road dusty; but Gypsy ran nearly all the way. She was
too much troubled about the accident to think of anything else, and in as
much haste to tell her father as some children would have been to conceal
it from him.
Old Mr. Simms, the clerk, looked up over his spectacles in mild
astonishment, as Gypsy entered the store flushed, and panting, and pretty.
To Mr. Simms, who had no children of his own, and only a deaf wife and a
lame dog at home for company, Gypsy was always pretty, always "such a
wonderful development for a young person," and always just about right in
whatever she did.
"Why, good afternoon, Miss Gypsy," said Mr. Simms; "I'm surprised to see
you such a warm day--very much surprised. But you always were a remarkable
young lady."
"Yes," panted Gypsy; "where's father, Mr. Simms?"
"He's up in the printing-room just now, talking with the foreman. Can I
carry any message for you, Miss Gypsy?"
"Oh, Mr. Simms," said Gypsy, confidentially, "I've done the most dreadful
thing!"
"Dear me! I don't see how that is possible," said Mr. Simms, taking his
spectacles off nervously, and putting them on again.
"I have," said Gypsy; "I've broken the water-nymph!"
"Is that all?" asked Mr. Simms, looking relieved; "why, how did it
happen?"
"I jumped on it."
"Jumped on it!"
"Yes; I'm sure I don't know what father'll say."
"Well, I must say you are a wonderful young person," said Mr. Simms,
proudly. "I'm sure I'm glad that's all. Don't you fret, my dear. Your
father won't care much about water-nymphs, when he has such a daughter."
"But he will," said Gypsy, who regarded Mr. Simm's compliments only as a
tiresome interruption to conversation, and by no means as entitled to any
attention; "he will be very sorry, and I am going to tell him right off.
Please, Mr. Simms, will you speak to him?"
"Remarkable development of veracity!" said Mr. Simms, as he bowed himself
away in his polite, old-fashioned way, and disappeared up the stairway
that led to the printing-rooms. It seemed to Gypsy, waiting there so
impatiently, as if her father would never come down. But come he did at
last, looking very much surprised to see her, and anxious to know if the
house were on fire, or if Winnie were drowned.
"No," said Gypsy, "nothing has happened,--I mean nothing of that sort.
