"One of the Indian horses?"
"Yes; as true as you live! I kin see the old scar on his flank."
"Where could the Indians get him?"
"That's what I want to know," continued Ethan, now so much excited that
he could not think of his milking. "Creation hokee!" he added--his
usual expression when extraordinarily excited.
"What is it?"
"Creation hokee!" repeated Ethan.
"What do you see, Ethan?" demanded Fanny, who was now so much
interested that she abandoned her occupation.
"There's the t'other hoss!" replied Ethan. "They've got both on 'em."
"Where could they get them?" said Fanny, who regarded the fact
indicated by her companion as sufficiently ominous to excite her alarm.
"That's what I'd like to hev some 'un tell me. Fanny, I tell you
sunthin' hes happened."
At this moment a shrill and terrible scream was heard in the direction
of the house, followed by the sharp crack of a rifle. Ethan and Fanny,
appalled by the sounds, looked towards the house. They saw Mrs. Grant
rush from the back door, and then fall upon the ground. Two or three
Indians followed her, in one of whom Fanny recognized Lean Bear, the
stalwart chief she had endeavored to conciliate. He bent over the
prostrate form of the woman, was seen to strike several blows with his
tomahawk, and then to use his terrible scalping-knife.
At the sound of the rifle, which seemed to be a signal for the purpose,
the savages who had grouped together outside of the house rushed in,
yelling and hooting like demons.
"Creation hokee!" gasped Ethan, his face as nearly white as its
sun-browned hue would permit.
Fanny's blood was chilled in her veins; she could not speak, and her
limbs seemed to be paralyzed. And now in the distance harsh and
discordant sounds rose on the still morning air. They came from the
direction of the other portions of the settlement. The shrill screams
of women, the hoarse cries of men, and the unearthly yells of the
savages, mingled in horrible confusion. It was evident to the appalled
listeners that a fearful Indian massacre had commenced. They had seen
Mrs. Grant fall; had seen the fierce Lean Bear tomahawk and scalp her.
It was madness to stand still in the midst of so much peril, but both
Ethan and Fanny seemed to be chained to the spot where they stood,
fascinated, as it were, by the anguished cries of agony and death that
were borne to their revolting senses by the airs of that summer
morning. The savages were at that moment busy in ransacking and
plundering the house, but Fanny realized that she might be the next
victim; that the tomahawk of the terrible Lean Bear might be glaring
above her head in a few moments more. She trembled like an aspen leaf
in the extremity of her terror, as she heard the terrific cries uttered
by the mangled, mutilated, dying men, women, and children, far enough
off to be but faintly heard, yet near enough to be horribly distinct.
"It's time sunthin' was did," said Ethan, with quivering lips.
"What can we do?" asked Fanny, in a husky whisper.
"We must git out of sight fust. Come along with me, Fanny," added
Ethan, as he led the way into the barn.
"They will find us here," said Fanny.
"P'rhaps they will; but there ain't nowhere else to go to."
"Why not run away as fast as we can?"
"We kin run, but I reckon bullets will travel faster 'n we kin."
Ethan went up a ladder to the top of the hay-mow, and Fanny followed
him. He carried up with him a small hay-fork, with which he went
vigorously to work in burrowing out a hole in the hay. Fanny assisted
him with her hands, and in a few moments they had made an aperture deep
enough to accommodate them. This hiding-place had been made in the back
part of the mow, next to the side of the barn, where there were wide
cracks between the boards, through which they could receive air enough
to prevent them from being stifled.
"Now, you get in, Fanny, and I'll fix the hay so I kin tumble it all
down on top on us, and bury us up."
"Suppose they should set the barn afire," suggested Fanny.
"Then they will; we must take our chances, such as they be. We hain't
got much chance nohow."
Fanny stepped down into the hole; Ethan followed her, and pulled the
mass of hay over so that it fell upon them. They were four or five feet
below the surface of the hay.
"I would rather be killed by a bullet than burned to death in the
fire," said Fanny, with a shudder, when her companion had adjusted the
hay so as to afford them the best possible means of concealment.
"P'rhaps they wouldn't kill you with a bullet. Them redskins is awful
creeturs. They might hack you all to pieces with their knives and
tomahawks," whispered Ethan.
"It's horrible!" added Fanny, quivering with emotion.
"I've hearn tell that there was some trouble with the redskins up on to
the reserves; and I knowed sunthin' had happened when I see them two
hosses. I was kind o' skeery when the varmints rid up to the house."
"Do you suppose they have killed my uncle?" asked Fanny, sick at heart.
"I s'pose they hev," answered Ethan, gloomily. "I reckon we'd better
keep still, and not say nothin'. Some o' the redskins may be lookin'
for us. They're pesky cunnin'."
This was good advice, and Fanny needed no persuasion to induce her to
follow it. Through the cracks in the side of the barn she could see a
few houses of the settlement; and through these apertures came also the
hideous sounds which denoted the progress of the massacre. Great piles
of curling smoke were rising from the burning buildings of the devoted
settlers, and the work of murder and pillage still continued, as the
relentless savages passed from place to place in the execution of their
diabolical mission.
The greater part of the detachment which had halted at the house of Mr.
Grant had now departed, though the sounds which came from the dwelling
indicated that the rest were still there. Lean Bear knew the members of
Mr. Grant's household. With his own hand he had slain the woman who had
so often fed him, and ministered to his necessities, thus belying the
traditional character of his race; and it was not probable that he
would abandon his object without a diligent search for the missing
members of the family.
Fanny was safe for the present moment, but the next instant might doom
her to a violent death, to cruel torture, or to a captivity more to be
dreaded than either death or torture. She trembled with mortal fear,
and dreaded the revelations of each new second of time with an
intensity of horror which cannot be understood or described.
"They are comin' out of the house," said Ethan, in a tremulous whisper.
"There's seven on 'em."
"Are they coming this way?"
"No; they are lookin' round arter us. They are going down to the lake."
"I hope they won't come here."
"But they will kim here, as sure as you live."
"Do you ever pray, Ethan?" asked Fanny, impressively.
"Not much," replied he, evasively.
"Let us pray to God. He can help us, and He will, if we ask Him in the
right spirit."
"I dunno how," added Ethan.
"I will pray for both of us. The Indians can't hear us now, but God
can."
Fanny, in a whisper, uttered a brief and heart-felt prayer for
protection and safety from the savage monsters who were thirsting for
their blood. She prayed earnestly, and never before had her
supplications come so directly from her heart. She pleaded for herself
and for her companion, and the good Father seemed to be very near to
her as she poured forth her simple petition.
"Thy will, not ours, be done," she murmured, as she thought that it
might not be the purpose of "Him who doeth all things well" to save
them from the tomahawk of the Indians. If it was not His will that they
should pass in safety through this ordeal of blood, she asked that they
might be happy in death, or submissive to whatever fate was in store
for them.
Ethan listened to the prayer, and seemed to join earnestly in the
petitions it contained. With his more devout companion, he felt that
God was able to save them, to blunt the edges of the weapons raised to
destroy them, or to transform their savage and bitter foes into the
warmest and truest of friends.
"I feel better," said Fanny, after a moment of silence at the
conclusion of the prayer.
"So do I," replied Ethan, whose altered look and more resolute tones
confirmed his words. "I feel like I could fight some o' them Injins."
"We can do nothing by resistance."
"I dunno; if they don't burn the house, I reckon I know whar to find
some shootin' fixin's."
"Where?"
"Mr. Grant sort o' hid his rifle and things, for fear some un might
steal 'em, I s'pose. I know where they be; and I reckon them redskins
won't find 'em."
"Let us not think of resistance. There must be hundreds of Indians at
the settlement."
"'Sh!" said Ethan, impressively. "They're comin'."
The light step of the moccasoned feet of the savages was now distinctly
heard in the barn. Their guttural jargon grated harshly on the ears of
the fugitives in their concealment, as they tremblingly waited the
issue.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE INDIAN BOY.
Above the voices of the other savages, the harsh and heavy tones of
Lean Bear were prominent. He spoke in the Indian dialect, and of course
the anxious fugitives could not understand what he said; but he seemed
to be angry and impatient, disappointed and chagrined; and Ethan and
Fanny readily inferred that, as he was searching for them, he was the
more ferocious because he could not find them. They lay silent and
motionless in their hiding-place, hardly daring to breathe, lest a
sound should reach the quick ears of their relentless foes.
The Indians searched in every nook and cranny of the barn where a human
being could possibly be concealed. They climbed to the top of the mow,
pulled over the hay, jumped upon it, and thrust their knives deep down.
The fugitives felt the weight of the pursuers pressing heavily down
upon them; they realized that the points of the bloody knives were
within a short distance of their vital organs; but, breathless and
silent, they lay in the most agonizing suspense, expecting to be
dragged from their retreat, and subjected to atrocities which it froze
their blood to think of.
The remorseless miscreants howled with disappointed rage as the search
was abandoned. Fanny and Ethan drew a long sigh of relief when they
heard their foes on the floor beneath them. The good Father to whom
they prayed so earnestly had dimmed the eyes of the savages so that
they could not see, and the danger of that terrible moment passed by
them. Fanny breathed her thanks to God for her safety--she did not dare
to speak them.
The savages consulted together, using brief, sharp, and exciting
sentences. Their words were not understood, and no clew to their future
purposes could be obtained. Lean Bear spoke in tones even more savage
than he had used before, and the steps of the Indians were heard as
they left the barn.
"Hev they gone?" asked Ethan, in a convulsive whisper.
"Yes, I think they have," replied Fanny, in a tone not less agitated.
"Let us thank God that we are still safe."
"Don't whistle till you get out o' the woods," added Ethan, who
referred, not to the thanks, but to the exultation which his companion
appeared to feel at their apparent safety.
"We must be thankful and submissive, Ethan. We have been saved this
time, whatever may happen next."
"I am thankful."
"I know you are. We must trust in our Father in heaven if we expect him
to hear our prayer."
"'Sh!" interposed Ethan, as he became silent and motionless again.
The voices of the Indians were heard near the barn again, and other
moments of agonizing suspense were in store for the fugitives. The
gruff tones of Lean Bear rose above those of his companions, and it was
evident that they had not yet given up the search.
"Ho, ho, ho! He, he, he!" yelled the monsters, which cries were to them
expressions of satisfaction.
It was painfully clear to Ethan and Fanny that the Indians had made
some important discovery, or done some act which would accomplish their
purpose. More agonizing than the thought came the reality, a few
moments afterwards, while the wretches outside of the barn were still
shouting their hideous yells. A smell of smoke, accompanied by a sharp,
crackling sound, assured the waiting, trembling couple in the hay-mow
that their worst fears were realized. The Indians had set fire to the
barn.
"We are lost!" exclaimed Fanny. "They have set fire to the barn!"
"'Sh! Don't say a word," interposed Ethan.
"We shall be burned to death!"
"Don't give up; keep still."
"Keep still?" repeated Fanny, amazed at the self-possession of her
companion. "We shall be burned to death in a few minutes."
"Don't say nothin', Fanny."
It was not easy to keep still in that terrible moment of peril, but
Ethan seemed to know what he was about, and his coolness and courage
acted as inspiration upon his terrified companion. Fanny prayed again,
in a hardly audible whisper; but this time, Ethan, though perhaps his
heart was with her, was thinking of something else. She felt more calm
after her prayer, though the dense smoke and the snapping flames
admonished her that death was close at hand. The rough prairie boy
looked resolute, and seemed to have conquered his fears. She wondered
whether he had discovered any possible avenue of escape, for nothing
but the promptings of a strong hope, whether real or delusive, could
have produced such a change in his bearing.
"Better be burned up, than butchered by the redskins," said he, at
last.
Was this the explanation of his new-born courage? It was a terrible
alternative, but Fanny was forced to believe that what he said was
true.
"Is there no escape for us?"
"Don'no; whar's the Injins now?"
"I don't hear them," replied Fanny.
"Nuther do I. We must stay here jest as long as we kin."
"But the barn is on fire! If we are going to get out at all, we must do
so at once."
"Don't hurry. The fire's all out to t'other end o' the barn. It won't
hurt us jest yit," said Ethan, with wonderful coolness. "I s'pose the
Injins is in a hurry, and they won't stop no longer'n they want to.
Jest as soon as they move off we'll git out."
"How shall we get out after the barn is all in a blaze?"
"That's easy enough. I ain't a bit afeered of the fire, but I am pesky
skeered of the Injins."
The confidence of Ethan increased the courage of Fanny. She had more to
dread from the Indians than he had, and if he preferred to die by the
flames, she ought to be willing to share his fate. She commended her
soul and that of her companion to God, and tried to be calm and
resolute, and she succeeded to an extent which astonished herself.
The fire was rapidly leaping upward, and the barn was soon enveloped in
flames. The Indians could not now be seen through the cracks, nor could
their voices be heard, and the fire-besieged fugitives supposed they
had gone to new fields of blood and rapine.
"We can't stand it much longer--kin we?" said Ethan, as they heard the
crash of some falling timbers at the other end of the building.
"We are not burned yet, but I am nearly suffocated by the smoke,"
replied Fanny. "Do you suppose the Indians are gone?"
"I reckon they be; but they hain't gone fur yit," added Ethan, as he
applied his shoulder to one of the boards on the side of the barn.
"Let me help you," said Fanny.
"You ain't nothin' but a gal, and you can't do much," replied Ethan.
He was a stout boy, and the board, only slightly nailed, gave way
before the pressure he applied to it; but it required a great deal of
labor to detach it from the timbers above and below. He had not begun
this work a moment too soon, for the flames were sweeping over the
surface of the mow, and the roof was falling in upon them. The barn was
stored full of new hay, which, being partially green, did not burn very
readily, especially the solid masses of it. The heat was intense, and
nothing but a greater peril without could have forced them to remain so
long in the building.
The first board was removed, and then a second, leaving an opening wide
enough for them to get out. They were about fifteen feet above the
level of the ground, but there was no difficulty, even to Fanny, in the
descent, though some young ladies might have regarded this minor
obstacle as one of some importance. Ethan thrust his head out at the
aperture, and looked in every direction his position commanded a view
of, in search of the Indians, but none of them were in sight.
"Be quick, Ethan, or the fire will be upon us," said Fanny, who began
to feel the near approach of the flames above her.
"Where shall we go when we get out? We must understand matters a leetle
grain aforehand."
"I think we had better go down to the lake. We can take the boat and go
over to the island."
"That's fust rate," replied Ethan, with enthusiasm. "The Injins hain't
got no boats, and can't foller us. Now we'll go down; but be keerful.
It would be miser'ble to break your neck here, arter gittin' clear of
the fire and the Injins both."
Ethan descended, holding on at each side of the aperture with his
hands, and thrusting his feet into the solid mass of hay in the mow.
Fanny, adopting the same method, also reached the ground in safety.
"'Sh!" said Ethan, as he took her arm. "Run for them bushes!" and he
pointed to a little thicket near the barn.
Fanny ran with all her speed to the bushes, and concealed herself
behind them. She was immediately followed by Ethan. The barn was now
nearly consumed; the portion of the roof which had not before fallen
in, now sunk down with a crash upon the masses of burning hay. The lake
was beyond the house, which they were obliged to pass in order to reach
their destination.
"I s'pose the sooner we start, the sooner we'll git there," said Ethan,
after he had carefully surveyed the ground to ascertain if any savages
were near.
"I am ready, Ethan. I will do whatever you say."
"We'll go now, then. Foller me, Fanny."
Ethan led the way, but they had hardly emerged from the bushes before
they were appalled to find that they were discovered by their savage
foes.
"Ho, ho, ho!" yelled the Indians from behind them.
It appeared that Lean Bear and his companions had waited in the
vicinity until the burning barn was so far consumed that it was not
deemed possible for a human being to remain concealed in it, and then
moved off towards another part of the settlement. With watchful eyes
behind as well as before them, they had discovered the young fugitives
when they left the clump of bushes.
"Ho, ho, ho!" shouted the painted wretches, as they gave chase to Fanny
and Ethan.
"Run for the house!" cried Ethan.
"Why not for the lake?" asked Fanny, in an agony of despair.
"They'll ketch you afore you git half way there. Run for the house!"
They were both running with all their might; and Fanny, though against
her judgment, directed her steps to the house. As they approached the
back door, an Indian boy and a squaw came out of the building, where
they had probably been searching for such valuables as might have
escaped the hasty observation of the party who had sacked the premises.
The boy was apparently about ten years old, and the woman appeared to
be his mother.
Fanny, not suspecting any harm from a woman and so young a boy, still
ran towards the door, being in advance of Ethan, who was chivalrous
enough to place himself in position to cover the retreat of his
companion in case of need. To the surprise of Fanny, the squaw placed
herself in her path, and attempted to seize her, uttering yells hardly
less savage than those of her male companions. The terrified girl
paused in her rapid flight till Ethan came up. The resolute fellow had
already picked up a heavy cart stake, and when he saw the new and
unexpected peril which menaced Fanny, he rushed forward, and though the
squaw drew a long knife and stood her ground, he dealt her a heavy blow
on the head, which felled her to the ground.
"Run into the house as fast as you kin, Fanny," said Ethan.
She obeyed, and, in doing so, passed the scalped and mutilated form of
her aunt, which lay near the door. The sight made her sick at heart,
and she had almost fainted under the horror induced by a single glance
at the ghastly spectacle. Such might, and probably would be her own
fate, for it was hoping against hope to expect any other issue.
She reached the door, and clung to the post for support. Then she saw
that Ethan, instead of following her, was pursuing the Indian boy. It
was but a short chase, for he immediately overtook the youth, and in
spite of his yells, dragged him into the house with him. Ethan seemed
then to have a savage spirit, for he handled the boy without mercy,
dragging him by the hair of the head, and kicking him to accelerate his
movements.
The capture of the young Indian had been witnessed by the whole of the
pursuing party, who yelled with renewed vigor when they saw him borne
into the house. When they reached the place where the squaw had fallen,
they paused. The tall form of Lean Bear was seen bending over her, and
it was plain that there was confusion in the counsels of the savages.
"Hold this boy, Fanny," said Ethan, out of breath with the violence of
his exertions, as he took from the belt of the little prisoner a small
scalping-knife, and offered it to Fanny. "Don't let him go, no-how;
stick him ef he don't keep still."
"I can hold him; I don't want the knife," replied she, as she grasped
the boy by the arms, bending them back behind him.
Taking her handkerchief, she tied his arms behind him, so that he was
powerless to do her any mischief. She then cut off a portion of the
clothes line, which hung up in the kitchen, and tied his feet together.
In this condition, he was secured to a door. The boy looked cool and
savage; he did not cry, and ceased to struggle only when the bonds
prevented him from doing so.
"Now we are ready for sunthin'," said Ethan, as he appeared with two
guns and a revolver, which he had taken from their place of concealment
behind the oven.
CHAPTER XV.
THE CONFERENCE.
Mr. Grant, like all settlers and backwoodsmen, had a profound respect
and veneration for his weapons. They were absolutely necessary for
purposes of defence in a new country, and upon their skilful use often
depended the supplies in the family larder. More coveted than any other
property by the Indians, trappers and strollers of the prairies, he was
obliged to secure them carefully, so that they should not be stolen;
and Mr. Grant, in building his house, had provided the place behind the
oven for their reception.
One of the guns was a fowling-piece, and the other a rifle. The
appropriate ammunition for each was kept in the secret closet with the
weapon. For the revolver there was a plentiful supply of patent
cartridges. Mr. Grant owned two of these arms, but the other he had
taken with him.
Like all western boys, Ethan French was accustomed to the use of the
rifle and the fowling-piece, though he had never particularly
distinguished himself as a marksman. It was a bold idea on his part to
think of defending Fanny and himself from the attacks of the savages;
but, desperate as was the thought, it was his only hope, for the
Indians were murdering all who fell into their hands. There was a
slight chance for him, which he was disposed to improve.
Ethan evidently had some other purpose in view than that of merely
defending himself and his companion from the savages--a purpose
indicated by his capture of the Indian boy, though he had not had time
to explain it to Fanny. He was firm and resolute, exhibiting a courage
which no one would have supposed he possessed; indeed, we can hardly
know what is in any person until he is tried in the fiery furnace.
Fanny, too, had ceased to tremble. The firmness and determination of
Ethan had inspired her with courage, and without stopping to consider
the odds against him, she ventured to hope that his efforts would be
crowned with some measure of success. The occupation of the last few
moments was calculated to increase her courage, for "something to do"
is always the best antidote for fear. She had bound the young savage,
and secured him to the door, when Ethan appeared with the weapons; and
now she anxiously waited the development of his next movement.
"What are you going to do, Ethan?" she asked, as her companion walked
to the door.
"I don't know jest exactly what I'm go'n to do; but I'm go'n to do
sunthin', as sure as you're alive. I reckon I've done sunthin' already,
for them Injins hes come to a dead halt."
"Can you see them?"
"Yes, I kin. They look kinder anxious."
The group of savages had gathered around the prostrate form of the
squaw. She could not have been killed, or even very badly injured, by
the blow she had received. Two of the party appeared to be at work over
her, while the others, among whom Lean Bear was prominent, were holding
a consultation near the spot.
"I reckon I got 'em whar the har 's short," added Ethan, with something
like a chuckle at his own cleverness.
"What do you mean, Ethan?" asked Fanny, not yet able to comprehend the
situation.
"D'ye see that little Injin?" replied he, pointing at the prisoner.
"Yes; and I wondered what you dragged him into the house for."
"Don't you see his fine fixin's--his necklaces and his moccasons? I
reckon that boy belongs to the big Injin."
"You mean Lean Bear."
"Yes, if that's his name. He looks enough like him to be his son.
Gittin' him 's what made 'em stop short jist whar they was. I tell you
we've got 'em whar the har 's short."
"What are you going to do with him?"
"Don't ye see?" replied Ethan, as he finished loading the last of the
weapons. "I'm go'n to shoot some of them Injins; and ef they don't keep
off I'm go'n to shoot the boy."
"You wouldn't do that, Ethan."
"You bet!" replied he, firmly, using more western slang than was
necessary, though he was dependent upon such expressions for the force
of his language.
"But it would be wicked to kill the poor boy."
"What's them Injins doin' to all the white folks?"
"That is no reason why you should kill a harmless boy."
"I don't want to kill him; it would make me feel bad to do any sech
thing. Ef any of them Injins come near us, I'm go'n to show 'em what I
kin do. Keep still now; one on 'em is comin' up this way."
Ethan placed himself at one of the open windows, and cocked the rifle.
One of the party was moving towards the house, apparently sent thither
by Lean Bear, who appeared suddenly to have become very quiet and
harmless.
"See hyer, Fanny," said Ethan, still keeping his eye fixed on the
approaching foe.
"What shall I do?" asked Fanny.
"Did you tie that little Injin's hands strong?"
"As well as I could with my handkerchief."
"Better do it better with the clothes line. Then undo his feet, and put
a rope round his neck."
"Around his neck!" exclaimed Fanny, horrified at the suggestion.
"Jest to lead him by. We may want to quit this house reyther suddin."
Fanny obeyed, satisfied that Ethan did not intend to hang the boy. The
Indian, approaching the house, moved very slowly and cautiously,
frequently stopping, and examining the house with great care. Ethan was
on one of his knees, pointing the rifle at the single Indian, resting
it on the sill of the window. When Lean Bear's messenger saw him, he
came to a halt, and began to make earnest gestures, pointing to his
belt, and throwing out his arms to indicate that he had no weapons.
"What does that creetur want?" mused Ethan.
"He wants to talk with you," replied Fanny, correctly interpreting his
gestures.
"I can't talk Injin--kin you?"
"No; but some of the Indians talk English."
"What ye want?" shouted Ethan, satisfied that the man's intentions were
peaceful.
"Talk! talk!" replied the messenger.
"Kim along, then," replied Ethan. "That's jest what I want, too," he
added, to Fanny. "I want to tell them Injins that this hyer boy will
ketch fits if they don't let us be."
The Indian, still gesticulating, continued to approach the house with
cautious step. Ethan put aside the rifle, and took the revolver, which
he was careful that the messenger should see.
"Stop thyer!" said he, when the Indian had come within twenty feet of
the house; and, at the same time, he elevated his pistol to enforce
obedience to his order.
"Me talk," said the messenger.
"Well! what ye got to say?" asked Ethan.
"You got Wahena--little Wahena."
"Yes, sir!" replied Ethan, with emphasis. "I've got him, and I mean to
keep him."
"No keep! We want Wahena," continued the messenger.
"No git him," added Ethan, who was inclined to be facetious at times,
especially when the advantage was on his side.
"Lean Bear's son. Big Lean Bear--little Wahena."
"You can't hev him, nohow," said Ethan, decidedly.
"Me get Wahena--you go 'way--no kill, no hurt."
"You can't fool me."
"No kill, no hurt."
"No, yer don't!"
"Give Wahena--no kill, no hurt," repeated the messenger, impressively.
"You git out!"
"No give Wahena, Lean Bear kill!"
"Two kin play at that game," added Ethan, shaking his head. "Ef you
don't quit, I'll kill the boy."
"No kill Wahena!" cried the savage, evidently horrified at the threat.
"Yes, I will, old boy, ef you don't all go off, and quit right away. I
know what's what, 'n you can't fool me, nohow."
"Why not give up the boy, if they will let us go?" asked Fanny.
"You can't trust one o' them Injin creeturs no more'n you kin trust a
rattlesnake, nohow. Jest fetch the boy here, and I'll show 'em what I
mean."
Fanny had fastened Wahena's hands more securely behind him, and
attached one end of the line to his neck. She had removed the cord from
his ankles, so that he could walk, while by the rope at his neck he
could be kept under perfect control. Ethan took the line, and led the
boy out at the door, where he was placed in full view of the savages.
His captor still held the leaded pistol in his hand.
"No kill Wahena!" shouted the messenger, fiercely.
"I won't hurt him ef you all go off--go 'way--clear out--quit the
ranch."
"No hurt?" asked the Indian.
"All go 'way," answered Ethan, pointing to the west with the revolver.
"Give Wahena--all go."
"No, sir!"
"No give Wahena?"
"I'll kill him ef them creeturs come hyer," said Ethan, sternly, as he
pointed the pistol at the boy's head.
"No kill Wahena!" shouted the messenger.
"Tell 'em to keep back, then."
This demonstration on the part of Ethan had been caused by the sudden
movement of the savages towards the house. Their spokesman fortunately
understood his meaning, and turning round, he shouted out a few words
in the Indian dialect, accompanying them with violent gestures, which
had the effect to stop the nearer approach of the band. As they moved
back, Ethan lowered his weapon. Wahena did not flinch, nor exhibit any
signs of terror while he was menaced with the pistol, though he looked
stern and resolute, as he had probably been taught to be by his savage
father.
Ethan, finding that he had the power all in his own hands, walked a few
paces nearer to the messenger, dragging his prisoner after him. It was
not an easy matter to carry on a conversation with the savage, whose
knowledge of the English language was limited to a few words; but after
a long time, and a great deal of effort, he succeeded in making the
Indian spokesman understand his intention. He refused to give up
Wahena, but he promised that the boy should not be injured if the
Indians would retire, and not attempt to molest Fanny or himself. He
assured the messenger that he would kill the boy if the savages
followed, or fired upon himself or his companion.
It was a long and trying conference, and when the parties came to an
understanding, the Indian withdrew to communicate the result to his
chief. Ethan returned to the house with his prisoner, and from the
window watched the movements of the foe, while he related to Fanny what
had passed between himself and the messenger during the interview.
"I reckon they'll do it, Fanny," said Ethan.
"I hope they will."
"When we are safe, they kin hev the Injin boy; I don't want him. I
reckon it was a smart idee o' mine, ketchin' the young cub."
"I think it was a very good idea. They would certainly have butchered
us before this time if it hadn't been for him."
"I reckon they would; but ef I knows myself, some on 'em would hev gone
down fust."
"I suppose the Indians have murdered a great many people."
"I reckon they hev."
"It's awful!" exclaimed Fanny, shuddering, as she glanced at the place
where poor Mrs. Grant lay cold and still in death.
"So 'tis, but 'tain't no use to think on't now; it makes a feller feel
kind o' weak and sickly. We must figur' it out now."
"Thanks to your good management, we may yet escape."
"I reckon we will. Did you ever fire a pistil, Fanny?"
"No, but I'm not afraid to do so."
"Better take this, then, and I'll use the guns. I reckon it may be of
use to you," added he, handing her the weapon. "Hokee!" suddenly
exclaimed he, as he glanced out of the window.
"What is it, Ethan?"
"Them Injins is go'n off!"
"So they are."
"Mebbe they're comin' round to try us on t'other side of the house. Ef
they be, I'm thar. You hold on to the little Injin, and I'll watch
'em."
Ethan went to a window on the front of the house, and soon returned
with the gratifying intelligence that the redskins were actually moving
off in the direction of the burning buildings to the west of them.
"How thankful we ought to be that we have been saved!" said Fanny. "Let
us thank God with all our hearts, Ethan."
"We can't stop to do no more prayin' now, Fanny. Besides, we ain't out
o' the woods yet."
"We need not stop to pray," replied Fanny, devoutly. "If the prayer is
in our hearts, God will understand it."
"I'm thankful, I'm sure, as a body kin be. Now, you git together
everything you kin find to eat, and I'll git a wheelbarrer to fetch 'em
down to the lake. Ef we kin only git on the island, I don't keer for
all the redskins this side o' sundown."
Wahena was tied up in such a way that he could not escape, and Fanny
hurriedly collected everything in the shape of provisions which had
escaped the depredations of the Indians. Ethan brought from the
chambers an armful of blankets and bed-quilts, and the wheelbarrow was
loaded with all it would contain. A bushel of potatoes, a leg of bacon,
a bucket of corn-meal, a small supply of groceries, and a few cooking
utensils, constituted the stock upon which they were mainly to depend
for sustenance during their banishment from civilized life for they
knew not how long a time. But both of the exiles were hopeful, though
very sad, when they thought of the death and desolation they were
leaving behind them.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE YOUNG EXILES.
Wahena, with his hands still tied behind him, was led by Fanny, while
Ethan trundled the wheelbarrow, across the handles of which lay the two
guns, ready for use if occasion should require. The Indians had halted
on one of the little eminences of the prairie, and appeared to be
watching the departure of the fugitives from their once happy home.
Lean Bear was evidently very fond of his little son, who was a boy of
bright promise, measured by the Indian standard. He had exhibited no
concern for the mother while she lay senseless upon the ground, but he
seemed to be willing to make any sacrifice, even to the curbing of his
ferocious nature, for Wahena's sake.
The party of Indians on the knoll appeared to be impressed with the
misfortune of their leader in the loss of his favorite son. Though the
work of rapine and death was still going on in the settlement, they did
not heed it. The messenger had probably represented to Lean Bear that
Wahena would certainly be killed if he attempted to molest the little
party, and the chief had withdrawn far enough to remove all temptation
on the part of Ethan to execute his threat.
The wheelbarrow was heavily loaded, and it was hard work for the
prairie boy to move it along over the soft soil. On a hill, just before
the descent to the lake commenced, he paused to rest for a moment. He
was in excellent spirits, and was proud of the success which had thus
far attended his stratagem. He was confident that he should reach the
island in safety, where, having the only boat on the lake in his
possession, he was satisfied that he should be able to defend himself
and his companion, especially with Wahena as a guaranty for the good
behavior of the Indians.
Ethan was entirely satisfied with himself, and he was about to resume
the march towards the lake, when his attention was attracted by a noise
in the direction opposite to that in which Lean Bear and his party had
retreated.
"Creation hokee!" shouted Ethan.
"What's the matter?" asked Fanny.
"Don't you see the Injins comin' out of the woods?" replied he, as he
grasped the rifle, and raised it to his shoulder.
"Ho, ho, ho! He, he, he!" yelled the band of savages, as they rushed
out of the covert of the trees, and ran towards the spot where Ethan
stood.
"We are lost!" gasped Fanny, almost overcome by this new peril.
"No, we ain't lost, Fanny. You keep a stiff upper lip. Lay right down
on the ground, behind the wheelbarrer, and don't let the varmints see
you. If they kim hyer, use that ere pistil."
One of the new enemies was considerably in advance of the others, as if
anxious to drink the first blood of the victims before him. Suddenly he
came to a halt, raised his rifle, and fired.
"Creation hokee!" exclaimed Ethan, as the ball whistled frightfully
near his head.
"Hadn't we better run?" asked Fanny, in trembling tones.
"'Tain't no use to run; them redskins kin beat you all to pieces
runnin'," replied Ethan, as he retreated behind the wheelbarrow, and
resting the rifle upon it, took careful aim at the savage who was in
advance of the others.
He fired; the Indian fell, and lay still on the ground.
"That's sunthin' towards it, anyhow," continued Ethan, encouraged by
the success of his first shot. "Ef I kin fetch down one more on 'em, it
will make the rest a leetle grain skeery."
"The other Indians are coming too, Ethan," said Fanny.
"Let 'em kim; if they do we are safe."
The immediate followers of Lean Bear were rushing towards the spot with
all their might. The swiftest runner of the party had far outstripped
his companions, but it was evident to Ethan and Fanny that he was
moving towards the other band of savages, rather than towards them. He
was shouting in his own tongue words which were unintelligible to the
white boy and girl. But if the words were not understood, their effect
was, for the hostile band presently halted, and awaited the arrival of
the messenger.
In the mean time Ethan placed Wahena in a position where he could be
seen by all the savages, and with the revolver in his hand, stood in
readiness to make another demonstration at the life of the boy if it
should be necessary. It was not needed, for all these Indians belonged
to the tribe of Lean Bear, whose command was law to them.
"We are safe, Ethan," said Fanny.
"So we are; but I've killed one Injin, and I reckon I could kill some
more."
"Don't you feel sorry you killed him?" asked Fanny.
"Not ef I knows myself, I don't. I'd like to kill the whole boodle on
'em, after what they've did, consarn thar picters! I reckon we'd better
be go'n along."
"I think we had. It is really terrible to think of killing a man."
"'Tain't no more terrible 'n killin' all them women 'n childern up to
the settlement," replied Ethan, as he raised the handles of the barrow
and moved on. "I hope they'll send the sogers up here, and kill off all
the Injins this side o' sundown."
"I hope it won't be necessary to do that," added Fanny.
"It ought to be did. What's them Injins good for but to be shot? I
kinder wish they'd kim, so I could have fetched down some more on 'em,
consarn 'em!"
"It is lucky the party of Lean Bear was near enough to turn them back.
We might have been killed before this time."
"I dunno," replied Ethan, shaking his head.
"You have done nobly, Ethan; but Wahena has saved us so far."
"I know that; I ketched him for jest what he has did for us."
The rest of the way to the lake was down a gentle declivity, and the
wheelbarrow moved more easily than before. In a short time they reached
their destination, on the shore of the beautiful sheet of water at
which was moored a boat. It was not such a craft as the Greyhound, in
which Fanny had been accustomed to sail; it was a bateau, or
flat-bottomed boat, with very sharp slopes under the bow and stern. It
had a keel and rudder, and was provided with a sail.
The stores and utensils from the wheelbarrow were quickly transferred
to the boat, and then the barrow itself was placed on board. The wind
now blew tolerably fresh, and was fair for reaching the island; but
Ethan, with all his other accomplishments, knew no more about the
management of a boat than of a ship, which he had never even seen. This
boat had been built by Mr. Grant and a carpenter of the settlement
during the preceding winter, and Ethan had never sailed in it but once.
"I don't know nothin' about this hyer thing," said Ethan. "I kin
paddle, but I reckon the sail would tip us over."
"I can manage it," replied Fanny, confidently.
"Kin ye? Did ye ever manage a boat with a sail?"
"Yes, once," answered Fanny, and she thought with shame of the cruise
she had made in the Greyhound. "Let us hoist the sail, and we can run
over to the island in a few moments."
Fanny, assisted by Ethan, hoisted the sail, and the bateau darted out
of the little cove where she had been moored. Wahena, who had been as
stoical in danger as his race, uttered an exclamation of alarm, perhaps
called forth by the novelty of the situation and of the peril. Ethan
was not entirely satisfied with the movements of the boat under sail,
for she careened under the fresh breeze, till her gunwale was within an
inch of the surface of the lake. Fanny took the helm, and, as she eased
off the sheet, which her previous experience had taught her to do in
such an emergency, the boat came up to an even keel, and the confidence
of the prairie boy was fully restored.
"I don't want to be tipped over and drownded, arter we've got away from
the Injins," said he, in apology for his timidity.
"I'm sure I don't fear the water, after the terrible scenes we have
passed through," replied Fanny; "but there is no danger."
"I dunno 's there is; but even the little Injin boy was skeered when
she tipped so."
"I ought to have unfastened this rope before we hoisted the sail,"
added Fanny, pointing to the sheet.
"I ain't afeerd, if you ain't, Fanny. I don't reckon we could 'a
paddled her over to the island in seven year."
"It would have taken a long time," said Fanny, glancing back at the
smoking buildings of the settlement.
She was sad at heart when she thought of the murder and destruction
which had occurred that morning. It was pleasant on the lake, but
neither Fanny nor Ethan was in a condition to enjoy the sail. Each was
thinking of friends in the settlement who had probably been slain by
the remorseless savages. Fanny steered the bateau in silence, till she
reached the shore of the island, which was about two miles from the
point where the party had embarked. It was very small, containing not
more than half an acre of land. A single tree grew on the highest part,
and all of it was covered with grass, like the ground on the western
shores of the lake.
A landing was effected under the lee of the land, and the cargo of the
bateau removed to the shore. Wahena was taken to the middle of the
island, and fastened to the tree. From this point a view of all the
surrounding country could be obtained, and with ordinary care on the
part of the exiles, it would be impossible for an enemy to approach
without their knowledge. The provisions and other articles were
transported on the wheelbarrow to the tree.
"I should kinder like this, ef the folks hadn't all been killed off,"
said Ethan, when the work was done, and he had seated himself at
Fanny's side, in the shade of the tree.
"We were very fortunate to escape with our lives, Ethan, and I feel
very thankful," replied Fanny.
"So do I; and ef you want to say your prayers now, we hain't got
nothin' else to do."
"I have said them many times; God can hear us even when we do not speak
aloud."
"I s'pose so; well, I said mine, too; and that's a thing I don't do
very often."
"I have no doubt they strengthened your arm, and made you feel brave."
"I dunno but they did; but I feel as though a leetle grain o' breakfast
would strengthen my arm most jest now."
Fanny was not very well pleased with the manner in which her rude
companion spoke of serious things, and she improved the opportunity to
embody the prayer of her heart in words. It was a fervent utterance,
and Ethan seemed to join her in spirit. Both of them were grateful--not
abstractly grateful, but grateful to God for his mercy in saving them
from torture and death at the hands of the savages.
They sat in silence for a moment after the prayer, and then Fanny
suggested that they should prepare their breakfast. Ethan had brought
with him a shovel and a sharp axe, and while Fanny was peeling the
potatoes and cutting the bacon, he dug out a kind of fireplace in the
side of the hill. Some dead branches from the tree supplied them with
dry fuel. Fried ham and fried potatoes were soon provided, and they sat
down to their morning meal.
"I should like this fust rate if we hadn't been druv away from hum jest
as we was," said Ethan.
"It would be very pleasant if we could forget the poor people who have
been killed and mangled by the savages," replied Fanny, sadly.
"I reyther like campin' out, and travellin' over the peraries, as we
did when we kim up hyer."
"What is to become of us, after all, Ethan?"
"I dunno; we must stop hyer, I s'pose."
"We cannot remain here a great while."
"Why not?"
"Our provisions will not last many days."
"We kin git more."
"I don't think it is safe for us to go over to the settlement again."
"We've got plenty o' powder'n shot, and thyers ducks and birds enough.
And this lake's full of fish."
"But we must leave some time. We could not stay here through the
winter."
"We kin git off somewhar bime-by. I dunno what all this business
means--whether the Injins is killin' off everybody or not. Sunthin' 'll
happen one o' these days."
It was impossible to plan for the future, for no one could tell what a
day might bring forth. It was evident to the young exiles that the lake
settlement had been destroyed, and the greater portion of the people
killed, though they had no positive knowledge of the extent of the
horrible massacre. They did not know, what was really true, that the
onslaught of the savages extended over hundreds of miles of territory,
and that its victims were numbered by hundreds.
When Ethan and Fanny had finished their breakfast, Wahena was unbound
and permitted to eat all he wanted. His appetite did not seem to be at
all impaired by his imprisonment, for he ate with a greediness which
threatened to make serious inroads upon the scanty stock of provisions.
While he was thus occupied, Fanny sang one of her Sunday school hymns,
a sad and plaintive air, which not only moved Ethan to the depths of
his heart, but visibly affected the little savage. Noticing the effect,
she followed up the impression until she was surprised to see Wahena
offer her his hand.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE NIGHT ATTACK.
Fanny sang "Sweet Home" to the young Indian, with the feeling that
there was no longer a spot on earth which she could call by that
endearing name. By this time, Mr. Grant, with Bertha and Fanny, were in
Europe, and it would be months before she could see them again. Her
uncle had probably been killed by the war party of Lean Bear, while
returning to his home, as the possession of his horses by the Indians
indicated. Her aunt lay mangled and unburied near the house which had
been her happy home. The settlement was doubtless broken up and
deserted; for all who had not been killed or captured by the Indians
must have fled to the woods and the prairies for safety.
The feeling of loneliness in Fanny gave to her song a touching pathos,
which, with the sad sweetness of the melody itself, made the great
tears roll down the bronzed checks of Ethan, and touched the heart of
even the young savage. Wahena looked long and earnestly at Fanny, when
he had finished his breakfast. The music pleased him, and its charms
literally soothed his savage breast. She sang other songs, and he began
to make friendly demonstrations towards her, which ended in the offer
of his hand. She accepted the proffered token of friendship.
Wahena spoke to her, but of course she could not understand a word of
his language. He made signs, using the earnest gestures peculiar to the
Indians. He shook his head, pointed to her, and then to the shore of
the lake in the direction of the settlement. She thought he meant to
say that he would not permit his father to injure her; but she was not
very sure. The young savage was certainly disposed to be her friend,
and manifested his interest in her by all the means within his power.
"Well, Fanny, it's about time for me to go to work," said Ethan, after
he had observed the demonstrations between her and Wahena for a time.
"What are you going to do, Ethan? I thought you had no work."
"Plenty of it, I reckon. 'Tain't no use to groan over what can't be
helped. We may as well make the best on't."
"Of course we will not complain of what we cannot help. Ethan, do you
know what my motto is?"
"Your what?" asked Ethan, with a vacant stare.
"My motto."
"That's sunthin' in Latin, or some outlandish lingo--ain't it?"
"Mine is in plain English."
"I've hearn tell of some Latin stuff they called a motto out in
Illinois; I forgit what it was now."
"'Hope and have,' is my motto."
"What does that mean? 'Tain't Latin, but it might as well be."
"It means hope for the best, and then you will work the harder to have
it."
"Thet jest fits my case."
"The motto was given me by a very good girl in New York, who was dying
of consumption. They were the last words she spoke, and they were
engraved on her tombstone. I will tell you the whole story about her
some time."
"I should like to hear it, fust rate; but I reckon we've got sunthin'
else to do jest now. I hope we shall hev sunthin' like a house for you
to sleep in to-night."
"Hoping alone will not build the house, Ethan; besides, we don't hope
much for that which we are not willing to work for."
"I know thet; and I'm go'n to work on the house right away now,"
replied Ethan, as he rose from the ground, and took his shovel.
"I will help you, for I hope we shall have a house to keep us out of
the wet if it should happen to rain."
"You are nothin' but a gal," said Ethan, rather contemptuously.
"But I can help you. How shall you build a house?"
"Well, I don't quite know."
"I can help you think, if nothing more, Ethan."
"So you kin, Fanny. You are right down smart. I don't know as we should
ever hev got over to this island ef't hadn't been for you."
"Do you think we could get the boat out of the water, Ethan?"
"I reckon we could," replied Ethan, rubbing his head to stimulate his
ideas. "I kin cut some rollers, and kinder pry it along."
Fanny minutely detailed her plan for a house, which, after much
explanation, was adopted. As soon as Ethan comprehended her idea, he
became very enthusiastic for its execution.
"I reckon we must tie up the young Injin afore we go to work," said he,
taking the cord, and moving towards Wahena.
The little savage looked appealingly at Fanny, placed his hand upon his
breast, shook his head violently, and frequently pointed to the shore
of the lake. She interpreted his signs to mean that he would not
attempt to escape, and she so informed Ethan.
"I dassent trust him," said he.
"He can't get away if he tries," replied Fanny.
"But he may take one of the guns and kill one on us."
"Put all the weapons out of the way, then, and I will keep watch of
him," added Fanny, who wished to conciliate Wahena.
Ethan consented, and climbing the tree with his axe, he commenced
cutting off the large branches which were to be used in the
