Antonino attended us to our carriage when we 
went away. He had kept us all night at Capri, it is 
true, and he had brought us in at the end for a pro- 
digious buonamano ; yet I cannot escape the convic- 
tion that he parted from us with an unfulfilled pur- 
pose of greater plunder, and I have a compassion, 
which I here declare, for the strangers who fell next 
into his hands. He was good enough at the last 
moment to say that his name, Silver-Eye, was a 
nickname given him according to a custom of the 
Sorrentines ; and he made us a farewell bow that 
could not be bought in America for money. 
 
At the station of Castellamare sat a curious cripple 
on the stones, a man with little, short, withered 
legs, and a pleasant face. He showed us the ticket- 
office, and wanted nothing for the politeness. After 
we had been in the waiting-room a brief time, he 
came swinging himself in upon his hands, followed by 
another person, who, when the cripple had planted 
himself finally and squarely on the ground, whipped 
out a tape from his pocket and took his measure for 
a suit of clothes, the cripple twirling and twisting 
himself about in every way for the tailor's conven- 
ience. Nobody was surprised or amused at the sight, 
and when his measure was thus publicly taken, the 
cripple gravely swung himself out as he had swung 
himself in. 
XL 
THE PROTESTANT BAGGED SCHOOLS AT NAPLES. 
I HAD the pleasure one day of visiting nearly all 
the free schools which the wise philanthropy of the 
Protestant residents of Naples has established in that 
city. The schools had a peculiar interest for me, be- 
cause I had noticed (in an un careful fashion enough, 
no doubt) the great changes which had taken place 
in Italy under its new national government, and was 
desirous to see for myself the sort of progress the 
Italians of the south were making in avenues so long 
closed to them. I believe I have no mania for mis- 
sionaries ; I have heard of the converted Jew-and-a- 
half, and I have thought it a good joke ; but I cannot 
help offering a very cordial homage to the truth that 
the missionaries are doing a vast deal of good in Na- 
ples, where they are not only spreading the gospel, but 
the spelling-book, the arithmetic, and the geography. 
It is not to be understood from the word mission- 
aries, that this work is done by men especially sent 
from England or America to perform it. The free 
Protestant schools in Naples are conducted under the 
auspices of the Evangelical Aid Committee, com- 
posed of members of the English Church, the Swiss 
Church, and the Presbyterian Church ; the Presi- 
 
dent of this committee is Dr. Strange, an English- 
man, and the Treasurer is Mr. Rogers, the American 
banker. The missionaries in Naples, therefore, are 
men who have themselves found out their work and 
appointed themselves to do it. The gentleman by 
whose kindness I was permitted to visit the schools 
was one of these men, the Rev. Mr. Buscarlet, the 
pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Naples, a Swiss 
by birth, who had received his education chiefly in 
Scotland. 
He accompanied me to the different schools, and as 
we walked up the long Toledo, and threaded our 
way through the sprightly Neapolitan crowd, he told 
me of the origin of the schools, and of the peculiar 
difficulties encountered in their foundation and main- 
tenance. They are no older than the union of Na- 
ples with the Kingdom of Italy, when toleration of 
Protestantism was decreed by law ; and from the 
first, their managers proceeded upon a principle of 
perfect openness and candor with the parents who 
wished to send their children to them. They an- 
nounced that the children would be taught certain 
branches of learning, and that the whole Bible would 
be placed in their hands, to be studied and under- 
stood. In spite of this declaration of the Protestant 
character of the schools, the parents of the chil- 
dren were so anxious to secure them the benefits of 
education, that they willingly ran the risk of their 
becoming heretics. They were principally people of 
the lower classes, laborers, hackmen, fishermen, 
domestics, and very small shopkeepers, but occasion- 
 
ally among them were parents able to send their 
children to other schools, yet preferring the thorough 
and conscientious system practiced in these. So the 
children came, and thanks to the peaceful, uncom- 
bative nature of Italian boys, who get on with much 
less waylaying and thumping and bullying than boys 
of northern blood, they have not been molested by 
their companions who still live the wild life of the 
streets, and they have only once suffered through in- 
terference of the priests. On complaint to the au- 
thorities the wrong was promptly redressed, and was 
not again inflicted. Of course these poor little peo- 
ple, picked up out of the vileness and ignorance of a 
city that had suffered for ages the most degrading op- 
pression, are by no means regenerate yet, but there 
seems to be great hope for them. Now at least they 
are taught a reasonable and logical morality and 
who can tell what wonders the novel instruction may 
not work ? They learn for the first time that it is a 
foolish shame to lie and cheat, and it would scarcely 
be surprising if some of them were finally persuaded 
that Honesty is the best Policy a maxim that few 
Italians believe. And here lies the trouble, in the 
unfathomable, disheartening duplicity of the race. 
The children are not quarrelsome, nor cruel, nor 
brutal ; but the servile defect of falsehood fixed by 
long generations of slavery in the Italians, is almost 
ineradicable. The fault is worse in Naples than else- 
where in Italy ; but how bad it is everywhere, not 
merely travellers, but all residents in Italy, must bear 
witness. 
 
The first school which we visited was a girls' 
school, in which some forty-four little women of all 
ages, from four to fifteen years, were assembled un- 
der the charge of a young Corfute girl, an Italian 
Protestant, who had delegated her authority to dif- 
ferent children under her. The small maidens 
gathered around their chiefs in groups, and read 
from the book in which they were studying when we 
appeared. Some allowance must be made for differ- 
ence of the languages, Italian being logically spelled 
and easily pronounced ; but I certainly never heard 
American children of their age read nearly so well. 
They seemed also to have a lively understanding of 
what they read, and to be greatly interested in the 
scriptural stories of which their books were made up. 
They repeated verses from the Bible, and stanzas of 
poetry, all very eagerly and prettily. As bashfulness 
is scarcely known to their race, they had no hesita- 
tion in showing off their accomplishments before a 
stranger, and seemed quite delighted with his ap- 
plause. They were not particularly quiet ; perhaps 
with young Neapolitans that would be impossible. 
I saw their copy-books, in which the writing was 
very good, (I am sure the printer would like mine 
to be as legible,) and the books were kept neat and 
clean, as were the hands and faces of the children. 
Taking the children as one goes in the streets of Na- 
ples, it would require a day perhaps to find as many 
clean ones as I saw in these schools, where cleanli- 
ness is resolutely insisted upon. Many of the chil- 
dren were ragged ; here and there was one hideous 
 
with ophthalmia; but there was not a clouded coun- 
tenance, nor a dirty hand among them. We should 
have great hopes for a nation of which the children 
can be taught to wash themselves. 
There were fourteen pupils in the boys' superior 
school, where geography, mathematics, linear draw- 
ing, French, Italian history, and ancient history were 
taught. A brief examination showed the boys to be 
well up in their studies ; indeed they furnished 
some recondite information about Baffin's Bay for 
which I should not myself have liked to be called on 
suddenly. Their drawing-books were prodigies of 
neatness, and betrayed that aptness for form and 
facility of execution which are natural to the Ital- 
ians. Some of these boys had been in the schools 
nearly three years ; they were nearly all of the 
class which must otherwise have grown up to hope- 
less vagabondage ; but here they were receiving 
gratis an education that would fit them for em- 
ployments wherein trained intellectual capacity is 
required. If their education went no higher than 
this, what an advance it would be upon their origi- 
nal condition ! 
In the room devoted to boys of lower grade, I en- 
tangled myself in difficulties with a bright-eyed 
young gentleman, whom I asked if he liked Italian 
history better than ancient history. He said he 
liked the latter, especially that of the Romans, much 
better. " Why, that is strange. I should think an 
Italian boy would like Italian history best." " But 
were not the Romans also Italians, Signore ? " I
 
blush to say that I basely sneaked out of this trouble 
by answering that they were not like the Italians of 
the present day, whatever that meant. But in- 
deed all these young persons were startlingly quick 
with their information, and knowing that I knew 
very little on any subject with certainty, I think I 
was wise to refuse all offers to examine them in their 
studies. 
We left this school and returned to the Toledo by 
one of those wonderful little side streets already men- 
tioned, which are forever tumultuous with the oddest 
Neapolitan life with men quarreling themselves 
purple over small quantities of fish with asses 
braying loud and clear above their discord with 
women roasting pine-cones at charcoal fires with 
children in the agonies of having their hair combed 
with degraded poultry and homeless dogs with 
fruit-stands and green groceries, and the little edifices 
of ecclesiastical architecture for the sale of lemonade 
with wandering bag-pipers, and herds of noncha- 
lant goats with horses, and grooms currying them 
and over all, from vast heights of balcony, with 
people lazily hanging upon rails and looking down 
on the riot. Re entering the stream of the Toledo, 
it carried us almost to the Museo Borbonico before 
we again struck aside into one of the smaller streets, 
whence we climbed quite to the top of one of those 
incredibly high Neapolitan houses. Here, crossing 
an open terrace on the roof, we visited three small 
rooms, in which there were altogether some hundred 
boys in the first stages of reclamation. They were 
 
under the immediate superintendence of Mr. Buscar- 
let, and he seemed to feel the fondest interest in 
them. Indeed, there was sufficient reason for this : 
up to a certain point, the Neapolitan children learn 
so rapidly and willingly that it can hardly be other 
than a pleasure to teach them. After this, their 
zeal flags ; they know enough ; and their parents and 
friends, far more ignorant than they, are perfectly 
satisfied with their progress. Then the difficulties 
of their teachers begin ; but here, in these lowest 
grade schools, they had not yet begun. The boys 
were still eager to learn, and were ardently following 
the lead of their teachers. They were little fellows, 
nearly all, and none of them had been in school 
more than a year and a half, while some had been 
there only three or four months. They rose up 
with " Buon giorno, signori" as we entered, and 
could hardly be persuaded to lapse back to the duties 
of life during our stay. They had very good faces, 
indeed, for the most part, and even the vicious had 
intellectual brightness. Just and consistent usage 
has the best influence on them ; and one boy was 
pointed out as quite docile and manageable, whose 
parents had given him up as incorrigible before he 
entered the school. As it was, there was something 
almost pathetic in his good behavior, as being pos- 
sible to him, but utterly alien to his instincts. The 
boys of these schools seldom play truant, and they 
are never severely beaten in school ; when quite in- 
tractable, notice is given to their parents, and they 
usually return in a more docile state. It sometimes 
happens that the boys are taken away by their 
parents, from one motive or another ; but they find 
their way back again, and are received as if nothing 
had happened. 
The teacher in the first room here is a handsome 
young Calabrian, with the gentlest face and manner, 
one of the most efficient teachers under Mr. 
Buscarlet. The boys had out their Bibles when we 
entered, and one after another read passages to us. 
There were children of seven, eight, and nine years, 
who had been in the school only three months, and 
who read any part of their Bibles with facility and 
correctness ; of course, before coming to school they 
had not known one letter from another. The most 
accomplished scholar was a youngster, named Sag- 
giomo, who had received eighteen months' schooling. 
He was consequently very quick indeed, and wanted 
to answer all the hard questions put to the other 
boys. In fact, all of them were ready enough, and 
there was a great deal of writhing and snapping 
of fingers among those who longed to answer some 
hesitator's question just as you see in schools at 
home. They were examined in geography, and 
then in Bible history particularly Joseph's story. 
They responded in chorus to all demands on this 
part of study, and could hardly be quieted sufficiently 
to give Saggiomo's little brother, aged five, a chance 
to tell why Joseph's brethren sold him. As soon as 
he could be heard he piped out : " Perche Giuseppe 
aveva dei sogni ! " (Because Joseph had dreams.) 
It was not exactly the right answer, but nobody 
 
laughed at the little fellow, though they all roared 
out in correction when permitted. 
In the next room, boys somewhat older were ex- 
amined in Italian history, and responded correctly 
and promptly. They were given a sum which they 
performed in a miraculously short time ; and their 
copy-books, when shown, were equally creditable to 
them. Their teacher was a Bolognese, a natural- 
ized Swiss, who had been a soldier, and who 
maintained strict discipline among his irregulars, 
without, however, any perceptible terrorism. 
The amount of work these teachers accomplish in 
a day is incredible : the boys' school opens at eight 
in the morning and closes at four, with intermission 
of an hour at noon. Then in the evening the same 
men teach a school for adults, and on Sunday have 
their classes in the Sunday-schools. And this the 
whole year round. Their pay is not great, being 
about twenty dollars a month, and they are evidently 
not wholly self-interested from this fact. The 
amount of good they accomplish under the direction 
of their superiors is in proportion to the work done. 
To appreciate it, the reader must consider that they 
take the children of the most ignorant and degraded 
of all the Italians ; that they cause them to be 
washed corporeally, first of all, and then set about 
cleansing them morally ; and having cleared away as 
much of the inherited corruption of ages as possible, 
they begin to educate them in the various branches 
of learning. There is no direct proselyting in the 
schools, but the Bible is the first study, and the chil- 
dren are constantly examined in it ; and the result is 
at least not superstition. The advance upon the old 
condition of things is incalculably great ; for till the 
revolution under Garibaldi in 1860, the schools of 
Naples were all in the hands of the priests or their 
creatures, and the little learning there imparted was 
as dangerous as it could well be made. Now these 
schools are free, the children are honestly and thor- 
oughly taught, and if they are not directly instructed 
in Protestantism, are at least instructed to associate 
religion with morality, probably for the first time in 
their lives. Too much credit cannot be given to the 
Italian government which has acted in such good 
faith with the men engaged in this work, protecting 
them from all interruption and persecution ; but af- 
ter all, the great praise is due to their own wise, 
unflagging zeal. They have worked unostenta- 
tiously, making no idle attacks on time-honored prej- 
udices, but still having a purpose of enlightenment 
which they frankly avowed. The people whom 
they seek to benefit judge them by their works, and 
the result is that they have quite as much before 
them as they can do. Their discouragements are 
great. The day's teaching is often undone at home ; 
the boys forget as aptly as they learn ; and from the 
fact that only the baser feelings of fear and interest 
have ever been appealed to before in the Neapolitans, 
they have often to build in treacherous places with- 
out foundation of good faith or gratitude. Embar- 
rassments for want of adequate funds are sometimes 
 
felt also. But no one can study their operations 
without feeling that success must attend their efforts, 
with honor to them, and with inestimable benefits to 
the generation which shall one day help to govern 
free Italy. 
XII. 
BETWEEN ROME AND NAPLES. 
ONE day it became plain even to our reluctance 
that we could not stay in Naples forever, and the 
next morning we took the train for Rome. The 
Villa Reale put on its most alluring charm to him 
that ran down before breakfast to thrid once more 
its pathways bordered with palms and fountains and 
statues ; the bay beside it purpled and twinkled in 
the light that made silver of the fishermen's sails ; 
far away rose Vesuvius with his nightcap of mist still 
hanging about his shoulders ; all around rang and rat- 
tled Naples. The city was never so fair before, nor 
could ever have been so hard to leave ; and at the 
last moment the landlord of the Hotel Washington 
must needs add a supreme pang by developing into a 
poet, and presenting me with a copy of a comedy he 
had written. The reader who has received at part- 
ing from the gentlemanly proprietor of one of our 
palatial hotels his " Ode on the Steam Elevator," 
will conceive of the shame and regret with which I 
thought of having upbraided our landlord about our 
rooms, of having stickled at small preliminaries con- 
cerning our contract for board, and for having alto- 
gether treated him as one of the uninspired. Let me 
 
do him the tardy justice to say that he keeps, after 
the Stella d'Oro at Ferrara, the best hotel in Italy, 
and that his comedy was really very sprightly. It is 
no small thing to know how to keep a hotel, as we 
know, and a poet who does it ought to have a double 
acclaim. 
Nobody who cares to travel with decency and 
comfort can take the second-class cars on the road 
between Naples and Rome, though these are per- 
fectly good everywhere else in Italy. The Papal 
city makes her influence felt for shabbiness and un- 
cleanliness wherever she can, and her management 
seems to prevail on this railway. A glance into the 
second-class cars reconciled us to the first-class, 
which in themselves were bad, and we took our 
places almost contentedly. 
The road passed through the wildest country we 
had seen in Italy ; and presently a rain began to fall 
and made it drearier than ever. The land was much 
grown up with thickets of hazel, and was here and 
there sparsely wooded with oaks. Under these, hogs 
were feeding upon the acorns, and the wet swine- 
herds were steaming over fires built at their roots. 
In some places the forest was quite dense ; in other 
places it fell entirely away, and left the rocky hill- 
sides bare, and solitary but for the sheep that nibbled 
at the scanty grass, and the shepherds that leaned 
upon their crooks and motionlessly stared at us as we 
rushed by. As we drew near Rome, the scenery 
grew lonelier yet ; the land rose into desolate, ster- 
ile, stony heights, without a patch of verdure on their 
 
nakedness, and at last abruptly dropped into the 
gloomy expanse of the Campagna. 
The towns along the route had little to interest us 
in their looks, though at San Germano we caught a 
glimpse of the famous old convent of Monte-Cassino, 
perched aloft on its cliff and looking like a part of the 
rock on which it was built. Fancy now loves to 
climb that steep acclivity, and wander through the 
many-volumed library of the ancient Benedictine re- 
treat, and on the whole finds it less fatiguing and cer- 
tainly less expensive than actual ascent and acquaint- 
ance with the monastery would have been. Two 
Croatian priests, who shared our compartment of the 
railway carriage, first drew our notice to the place, 
and were enthusiastic about it for many miles after it 
was out of sight. What gentle and pleasant men 
they were, and how hard it seemed that they should 
be priests and Croats ! They told us all about the 
city of Spalato, where they lived, and gave us such a 
glowing account of Dalmatian poets and poetry that 
we began to doubt at last if the seat of literature 
were not somewhere on the east coast of the Adri- 
atic ; and I hope we left them the impression that 
the literary centre of the world was not a thousand 
miles from the horse-car office in Harvard Square. 
Here and there repairs were going forward on the 
railroad, and most of the laborers were women. 
They were straight and handsome girls, and moved 
with a stately grace under the baskets of earth bal- 
anced on their heads. Brave black eyes they had, 
such as love to look and to be looked at ; they were 
not in the least hurried by their work, but desisted 
 
from it to gaze at the passengers whenever the train 
stopped. They all wore their beautiful peasant cos- 
tume, the square white linen head-dress falling to 
the shoulders, the crimson bodice, and the red scant 
skirt ; and how they contrived to keep themselves so 
clean at their work, and to look so spectacular in it 
all, remains one of the many Italian mysteries. 
Another of these mysteries we beheld in the little 
beggar-boy at Isoletta. He stood at the corner of 
the station quite mute and motionless during our 
pause, and made no sign of supplication or entreaty. 
He let his looks beg for him. He was perfectly 
beautiful and exceedingly picturesque. Where his 
body was not quite naked, his jacket and trousers 
hung in shreds and points ; his long hair grew 
through the top of his hat, and fell over like a plume. 
Nobody could resist him ; people ran out of the cars, 
at the risk of being left behind, to put coppers into 
the little dirty hand held languidly out to receive 
them. The boy thanked none, smiled on none, but 
looked curiously and cautiously at all, with the quick 
perception and the illogical conclusions of his class 
and race. As we started he did not move, but re- 
mained in his attitude of listless tranquillity. As we 
glanced back, the mystery of him seemed to be 
solved for a moment : he would stand there till he 
grew up into a graceful, prayerful, pitiless brigand, 
and then he would rend from travel the tribute now 
so freely given him. But after all, though his future 
seemed clear, and he appeared the type of a strange 
and hardly reclaimable people, he was not quite a 
solution of the Neapolitan puzzle. 
XIII. 
ROMAN PEARLS. 
I. 
THE first view of the ruins in the Forum brought 
a keen sense of disappointment. I knew that they 
could only be mere fragments and rubbish, but I was 
not prepared to find them so. I learned that I had 
all along secretly hoped for some dignity of neighbor- 
hood, some affectionate solicitude on the part of Na- 
ture to redeem these works of Art from the destruction 
that had befallen them. But in hollows below the 
level of the dirty cowfield, wandered over by evil- 
eyed buffaloes, and obscenely defiled by wild beasts 
of men, there stood here an arch, there a pillar, yon- 
der a cluster of columns crowned by a bit of frieze ; 
and yonder again, a fragment of temple, half-gorged 
by the facade of a hideous Renaissance church ; then 
a height of vaulted brick-work, and, leading on to the 
Coliseum, another arch, and then incoherent columns 
overthrown and mixed with dilapidated walls mere 
phonographic consonants, dumbly representing the 
past, out of which all vocal glory had departed. The 
Coliseum itself does not much better express a cer- 
tain phase vof Roman life than does the Arena at 
Verona ; it is larger only to the foot-rule, and it 
 
seemed not grander otherwise, while it is vastly 
more ruinous. Even the Pantheon failed to impress 
me at first sight, though I found myself disposed to 
return to it again and again, and to be more and more 
affected by it. 
Modern Rome appeared, first and last, hideous. 
It is the least interesting town in Italy, and the archi- 
tecture is hopelessly ugly especially the architect- 
ure of the churches. The Papal city contrives at 
the beginning to hide the Imperial city from your 
thought, as it hides it in such a great degree from 
your eye, and old Rome only occurs to you in a sort 
of stupid wonder over the depth at which it is buried. 
I confess that I was glad to get altogether away 
from it after a first look at the ruins in the Forum, 
and to take refuge in the Conservatorio delle Mendi- 
canti, where we were charged to see the little Vir- 
ginia G. The Conservatorio, though a charitable in- 
stitution, is not so entirely meant for mendicants as its 
name would imply, but none of the many young girls 
there were the children of rich men. They were 
often enough of parentage actually hungry and rag- 
ged, but they were often also the daughters of honest 
poor folk, who paid a certain sum toward their 
maintenance and education in the Conservatorio. 
Such was the case with little Virginia, whose father 
was at Florence, doubly impeded from seeing her by 
the fact that he had fought against the Pope for the 
Republic of 1848, and by the other fact that he had 
since wrought the Pope a yet deadlier injury by turn- 
ing Protestant. 
 
Ringing a garrulous bell that continued to jingle 
some time after we were admitted, we found our- 
selves in a sort of reception-room, of the general 
quality of a cellar, and in the presence of a portress 
who was perceptibly preserved from mold only by 
the great pot of coals that stood in the centre of 
the place. Some young girls, rather pretty than 
not, attended the ancient woman, and kindly acted 
as the ear-trumpet through which our wishes were 
conveyed to her mind. The Conservatorio was not, 
so far, as conventual as we had imagined it ; but as 
the gentleman of the party was strongly guarded 
by female friends, and asked at once to see the Su- 
perior, he concluded that there was, perhaps, some- 
thing so unusually reassuring to the recluses in his 
appearance and manner that they had not thought it 
necessary to behave very rigidly. It later occurred to 
this gentleman that the promptness with which the 
pretty mendicants procured him an interview with the 
Superior had a flavor of self-interest in it, and that 
he who came to the Conservatorio in the place of a fa- 
ther might have been for a moment ignorantly viewed 
as a yet dearer and tenderer possibility. From what- 
ever danger there was in this error the Superior soon 
appeared to rescue him, and we were invited into a 
more ceremonious apartment on the first floor, and 
the little Virginia was sent for. The visit of the 
strangers caused a tumult and interest in the quiet 
old Conservatorio of which it is hard to conceive 
now, and the excitement grew tremendous when it 
appeared that the signori were Ainericani and Prot- 
 
estanti. We imparted a savor of novelty and im- 
portance to Virginia herself, and when she appeared, 
the Superior and her assistant looked at her with no 
small curiosity and awe, of which the little maiden 
instantly became conscious, and began to take ad- 
vantage. Accompanying us over the building and 
through the grounds, she cut her small friends 
wherever she met them, and was not more than 
respectful to the assistant. 
It was from an instinct of hospitality that we were 
shown the Conservatorio, and instructed in regard to 
all its purposes. We saw the neat dormitories with 
their battalions of little white beds ; the kitchen with 
its gigantic coppers for boiling broth, and the refec- 
tory with the smell of the frugal dinners of genera- 
tions of mendicants in it. The assistant was very 
proud of the neatness of every thing, and was glad 
to talk of that, or, indeed, any thing else. It ap- 
peared that the girls were taught reading, writing, 
and plain sewing when they were young, and that 
the Conservatorio was chiefly sustained by pious 
contributions and bequests. Any lingering notion 
of the conventual character of the place was dispelled 
by the assistant's hurrying to say, "And when we 
can get the poor things well married, we are glad 
to do so." 
" But how does any one ever see them ? " 
" Eh ! well, that is easily managed. Once a 
month we dress the marriageable girls in their best, 
and take them for a walk in the street. If an hon- 
est young man falls in love with one of them going 
by, he comes to the Superior, and describes her as 
well as he can, and demands to see her. She is 
called, and if both are pleased, the marriage is ar- 
ranged. You see it is a very simple affair." 
And there was, to the assistant's mind, nothing odd 
in the whole business, insomuch that I felt almost 
ashamed of marveling at it. 
Issuing from the backdoor of the convent, we as- 
cended by stairs and gateways into garden spaces, 
chiefly planted with turnips and the like poor but 
respectable vegetables, and curiously adorned with 
fragments of antique statuary, and here and there a 
fountain in a corner, trickling from moss-grown rocks, 
and falling into a trough of travertine, about the feet 
of some poor old goddess or Virtue who had forgot- 
ten what her name was. 
Once, the assistant said, speaking as if the thing 
had been within her recollection, though it must 
have been centuries before, the antiquities of the 
Conservatorio were much more numerous and strik- 
ing ; but they were now removed to the different 
museums. Nevertheless they had still a beautiful 
prospect left, which we were welcome to enjoy if we 
would follow her ; and presently, to our surprise, we 
stepped from the garden upon the roof of the Temple 
of Peace. The assistant had not boasted without 
reason : away before us stretched the Campagna, a 
level waste, and empty, but for the umbrella-palms 
that here and there waved like black plumes upon 
it, and for the arched lengths of the acqueducts that 
seemed to stalk down from the ages across the 
 
melancholy expanse like files of giants, with now 
and then a ruinous gap in the line, as if one had 
fallen out weary by the way. The city all around 
us glittered asleep in the dim December sunshine, 
and far below us, on the length of the Forum over 
which the Appian Way stretched from the Capito- 
line Hill under the Arch of Septimius Severus and 
the Arch of Titus to the Arch of Constantino, leav- 
ing the Coliseum on the left, and losing itself in 
the foliage of the suburbs, the Past seemed strug- 
gling to emerge from the ruins, and to reshape 
and animate itself anew. The effort was more suc- 
cessful than that which we had helped the Past to 
make when standing on the level of the Forum ; 
but Antiquity must have been painfully conscious of 
the incongruity of the red-legged Zouaves wander- 
ins over the grass, and of the bewildered tourists 
trying to make her out with their Hurrays. 
In a day or two after this we returned again to 
our Conservatorio, where we found that the excite- 
ment created by our first visit had been kept fully 
alive by the events attending the photographing of 
Virginia for her father. Not only Virginia was 
there to receive us, but her grandmother also an 
old, old woman, dumb through some infirmity of 
age, who could only weep and smile in token of her 
content. I think she had but a dim idea, after all, 
of what went on beyond the visible fact of Virginia's 
photograph, and that she did not quite understand 
how we could cause it to be taken for her son. 
She was deeply compassionated by the Superior, who 
 
rendered her pity with a great deal of gesticulation, 
casting up her eyes, shrugging her shoulders, and 
sighing grievously. But the assistant's cheerfulness 
could not be abated even by the spectacle of extreme 
age ; and she made the most of the whole occasion, 
recounting with great minuteness all the incidents of 
the visit to the photographer's, and running to get 
the dress Virginia sat in, that we might see how ex- 
actly it was given in the picture. Then she gave us 
much discourse concerning the Conservatorio and its 
usages, and seemed not to wish us to think that life 
there was altogether eventless. " Here we have a 
little amusement also,"' she said. " The girls have 
their relatives to visit them sometimes, and then in 
the evening they dance. Oh, they enjoy themselves ! 
I am half old (mezzo-vecchia). I am done with 
these things. But for youth, always kept down, 
something lively is wanted." 
When we took leave of these simple folks, we 
took leave of almost the only natural and unprepared 
aspect of Italian life which we were to see in Rome ; 
but we did not know this at the time. 
INDEED, it seems to me that all moisture of ro- 
mance and adventure has been wellnigh sucked out 
of travel in Italy, and that compared with the old 
time, when the happy wayfarer journeyed by vettura 
through the innumerable little states of the Penin- 
sula, - halted every other mile to show his passport, 
 
and robbed by customs officers in every color of 
shabby uniform and every variety of cocked hat, 
the present railroad period is one of but stale and 
insipid flavor. Much of local life and color re- 
mains, of course ; but the hurried traveller sees little 
of it, and, passed from one grand hotel to another, 
without material change in the cooking or the meth- 
ods of extortion, he might nearly as well remain at 
Paris. The Italians, who live to so great extent by 
the travel through their country, learn our abomina- 
ble languages and minister to our detestable comfort 
and propriety, till we have slight chance to know 
them as we once could, musical, picturesque, and 
full of sweet, natural knaveries, graceful falsehood, 
and all uncleanness. Rome really belongs to the 
Anglo-Saxon nations, and the Pope and the past 
seem to be carried on entirely for our diversion. 
Every thing is systematized as thoroughly as in a 
museum where the objects are all ticketed ; and our 
prejudices are consulted even down to alms-giving. 
Honest Beppo is gone from the steps in the Piazza, di 
Spagna, and now the beggars are labeled like police- 
men, with an immense plate bearing the image of St. 
Peter, so that you may know you give to a worthy 
person when you bestow charity on one of them, and 
not, alas ! to some abandoned impostor, as in former 
days. One of these highly recommended mendicants 
gave the last finish to the system, and begged of us 
in English ! No custodian will answer you, if he 
can help it, in the Italian which he speaks so ex- 
quisitely, preferring to speak bad French instead ; 
and in all the shops on the Corso the English tongue 
is de rigueur. 
After our dear friends at the Conservatorio, I think 
we found one of the most simple and interesting of 
Romans in the monk who showed us the Catacombs 
of St. Sebastian. These catacombs, he assured us, 
were not restored like those of St. Calixtus, but 
were just as the martyrs left them ; and, as I do not 
remember to have read anywhere that they are 
formed merely of long, low, narrow, wandering un- 
der-ground passages, lined on either side with tombs 
in tiers like berths on a steamer, and expanding here 
and there into small square chambers, bearing the 
traces of ancient frescos, and evidently used as chap- 
els, I venture to offer the information here. The 
reader is to keep in his mind a darkness broken by 
the light of wax tapers, a close smell, and crookedness 
and narrowness, or he cannot realize the catacombs 
as they are in fact. Our monkish guide, before en- 
tering the passage leading from the floor of the church 
to the tombs, in which there was still some " fine 
small dust " of the martyrs, warned us that to touch 
it was to incur the penalty of excommunication, and 
then gently craved pardon for having mentioned the 
fact. But, indeed, it was only to persons who showed 
a certain degree of reverence that these places were 
now exhibited ; for some Protestants who had been 
permitted there had stolen handfuls of the precious 
ashes, merely to throw away. I assured him that I 
thought them beasts to do it ; and I was afterwards 
puzzled to know what should attract their wantonness 
 
in the remnants of mortality, hardly to be distin- 
guished from the common earth out of which the 
catacombs were dug. 
RETURNING to the church above we found, kneel- 
ing before one of the altars, two pilgrims, a man 
and a woman. The latter was habited in a nun- 
like dress of black, and the former in a long pilgrim's 
coat of coarse blue stuff. He bore a pilgrim's staff in 
his hand, and showed under his close hood a fine, 
handsome, reverent face, full of a sort of tender awe, 
touched with the pathos of penitence. In attendance 
upon the two was a dapper little silk-hatted man, 
with rogue so plainly written in his devotional coun- 
tenance that I was not surprised to be told that he 
was a species of spiritual valet de place, whose occu- 
pation it was to attend pilgrims on their tour to the 
Seven Churches at which these devotees pray in 
Rome, and there to direct their orisons and join in 
them. 
It was not to the pilgrims, but to the heretics that 
the monk now uncovered the precious marble slab on 
which Christ stood when he met Peter flying from 
Rome and turned him back. You are shown the 
prints of the divine feet, which the conscious stone 
received and keeps forever ; and near at hand is one 
of the arrows with which St. Sebastian was shot. 
We looked at these things critically, having to pay 
for the spectacle ; but the pilgrims and their guide 
were all faith and wonder. 
 
I remember seeing nothing else so finely super- 
stitious at Rome. In a chapel near the Church of 
St. John Late ran are, as is well known, the marble 
steps which once belonged to Pilate's house, and 
which the Saviour is said to have ascended when he 
went to trial before Pilate. The steps are protected 
against the wear and tear of devotion by a stout 
casing of wood, and they are constantly covered with 
penitents, who ascend and descend them upon their 
knees. Most o the pious people whom I saw in this 
act were children, and the boys enjoyed it with a 
good deal of giggling, as a very amusing feat. Some 
old and haggard women gave the scene all the dignity 
which it possessed ; but certain well-dressed ladies 
and gentlemen were undeniably awkward and ab- 
surd, and I was led to doubt if there were not an 
incompatibility between the abandon of simple faith 
and the respectability of good clothes. 
IV. 
IN all other parts of Italy one hears constant talk 
among travellers of the malaria at Rome, and having 
seen a case of Roman fever, I know it is a thing 
not to be trifled with. But in Rome itself the mala- 
ria is laughed at by the foreign residents, who, 
nevertheless, go out of the city in midsummer. The 
Romans, to the number of a hundred thousand or so, 
remain there the whole year round, and I am bound 
to say I never saw a healthier, robuster-looking popu- 
lation. The cheeks of tho French soldiers, too, whom 
we met at every turn, were red as their trousers, and 
they seemed to flourish on the imputed unwholesome- 
ness of the atmosphere. All at Rome are united in 
declaring that the fever exists at Naples, and that 
sometimes those who have taken it there come and 
die in Rome, in order to give the city a bad name ; 
and I think this very likely. 
Rome is certainly dirty, however, though there 
is a fountain in every square, and you are never 
out of the sound of falling water. The Corso 
and some of the principal streets do not so much im- 
press you with their filth as with their dullness ; 
but that part of the city where some of the most 
memorable relics of antiquity are to be found is un- 
imaginably vile. The least said of the state of 
the archways of the Coliseum the soonest mended ; 
and I have already spoken of the Forum. The 
streets near the Theatre of Pompey are almost im- 
passable, and the so-called House of Rienzi is a stable, 
fortified against approach by a fosse of excrement. 
A noisome smell seems to be esteemed the most ap- 
propriate offering to the memory of ancient Rome, 
and I am not sure that the moderns are mistaken in 
this. In the rascal streets in the neighborhood of 
the most august ruins, the people turn round to stare 
at the stranger as he passes them ; they are all dirty, 
and his decency must be no less a surprise to them 
than the neatness of the French soldiers amid all the 
filth is a puzzle to him. We wandered about a long 
time in such places one day, looking for the Tarpeian 
Rock, less for Tarpeia's sake than for the sake of 
 
Miriam and Donatello and the Model. There are 
two Tarpeian rocks, between which the stranger 
takes his choice ; and we must have chosen the 
wrong one, for it seemed but a shallow gulf com- 
pared to that in our fancy. We were somewhat dis- 
appointed ; but then Niagara disappoints one ; and as 
for Mont Blanc 
v. 
IT is worth while for every one who goes to Rome 
to visit the Church of St. Peter's ; but it is scarcely 
worth while for me to describe it, or for every one 
to go up into the bronze globe on the top of the 
cupola. In fact, this is a great labor, and there is 
nothing to be seen from the crevices in the ball 
which cannot be far more comfortably seen from the 
roof of the church below. 
The companions of our ascent to the latter point 
were an English lady and gentleman, brother and 
sister, and both Catholics, as they at once told us. 
The lady and myself spoke for some time in the 
Tuscan tongue before we discovered that neither of 
us was Italian, after which we paid each other some 
handsome compliments upon fluency and perfection 
of accent. The gentleman was a pleasant purple 
porpoise from the waters of Chili, whither he had 
wandered from the English coasts in early youth. 
He had two leading ideas :* one concerned the Pope, 
to whom he had just been presented, and whom he 
viewed as the best and blandest of beings ; the other 
 
related to his boy, then in England, whom he called 
Jack Spratt, and considered the grandest and great- 
est of boys. With the view from the roof of the 
church this gentleman did not much trouble himself. 
He believed Jack Spratt could ride up to the roof 
where we stood on his donkey. As to the great 
bronze globe which we were hurrying to enter, he 
seemed to regard it merely as a rival in rotundity, 
and made not the slightest motion to follow us. 
I should be loth to vex the reader with any de- 
scription of the scene before us and beneath us, even 
if I could faithfully portray it. But I recollect, with 
a pleasure not to be left unrecorded, the sweetness 
of the great fountain playing in the square before the 
church, and the harmony in which the city grew in 
every direction from it, like an emanation from its 
music, till the last house sank away into the pathetic 
solitude of the Campagna, with nothing beyond but 
the snow-capped mountains lighting up the remotest 
distance. At the same moment I experienced a rap- 
ture in reflecting that I had underpaid three hack- 
men during my stay in Rome, and thus contributed 
to avenge my race for ages of oppression. 
The vastness of St. Peter's itself is best felt in 
looking down upon the interior from the gallery that 
surrounds the inside of the dome, and in comparing 
one's own littleness with the greatness of all the 
neighboring mosaics. But as to the beauty of the 
temple, I could not find it,without or within. 
 
VI. 
IN Rome one's fellow -tourists are a constant 
source of gratification and surprise. I thought that 
American travellers were by no means the most ab- 
surd among those we saw, nor even the loudest in 
