Nancy gave one howl, 
" Och ! it 's the ghost of him, as true as I 'm 
a livin sinner ! The Virgin an the blessed 
Saints have mercy on us," threw her apron 
over her head, and tore upstairs as if her last 
hour had come. 
It was absolutely necessary to laugh now, no 
matter what the consequences. 
" Dear me ! " said Miss Ayre, coming to her 
door in her night-dress, and putting the edge 
of her sharp chin out into the cool entry air, 
" what a racket ! Do you know what mischief 
the girls are up to to-night, Phcebe? On the 
whole, though, I think it must be Nancy 
putting away her tubs." 
She went back and shut the door, and after 
that the house was still. Very still ; in fact, it 
seemed to Gypsy as if she had never known it 
so still. Her very breaths sounded like groans, 
and a crack of the barrel like a thunderclap. 
What was to be done? The idea of staying 
locked up all night in a china-closet in a 
barrel under a shelf! Jerk herself free she 
could not, and tip herself over she dared not. 
Such a noise in that deathly stillness would 
wake every echo and every inmate of the 
house. The chance of crawling through into 
the kitchen and escaping upstairs before dis 
covery was too slight to be worth the risk. 
Besides, the dumb waiter might be fastened 
upon the other side. 
" C-h-a-r-ming little fix ! Now I should like 
to know ! Let me see ; if I tip over, no, I 
won't tip over. Mrs. M. would be frantic. If 
I stay where I am and go to sleep, why, by- 
and-by it will be morning, and Nancy will be 
up building the furnace fire early, and if she 
doesn't expect her third cousin to walk round 
by daylight, she will let me out ; and what .s 
more, she will hold her tongue about it. But 
to sleep in a sugar-barrel ! Let 's taste ; yes, 
to be sure. I wonder how many pounds there 
are, or quarts don't they sell sugar by the 
quart? I wonder if I shall have to pay for it 
You blessed little woman at home, what would 
you think of this? I wonder what the girls 
did with my pick-le and " 
By the time that she had thought as far as 
this, she was asleep. So, by that time, was 
every one else. Maude Clare and the rest, 
finding that she and the crackers did not make 
their appearance, supposed that she had been 
playing a trick upon them, and was gone to 
bed. Jane Bruce, sound asleep half an hour 
ago, did not suppose anything about her. 
In the middle of the night there was an 
unearthly noise in the china-closet. Gypsy, 
dreaming that there was a mouse down her 
neck, had tipped over her barrel. 
Miss Ayre came to her door and screamed 
" Robbers ! " Mrs. Holt appeared in an in 
describable wrapper, groped into the dining- 
room, tripped over the inevitable rocking-chair, 
and fiercely demanded, "Who 's there? Mr. 
Holt, bring along that gun ! " This worthy 
man, twenty years since departed to a world 
where thieves do not break through and steal, 
was invariably at least so ran the traditiofc 
made formidable use of against that per 
sistent burglar by whom the dreams of his 
valiant relict were almost nightly disturbed. 
" Mr. Holt 's gun " had passed into a proverb 
at the Golden Crescent, but never with her own 
ears had Gypsy actually heard it appealed to 
before. It took her so long to smother her 
laughter and gain her breath, that Mrs. Holt 
had gone back to bed, and the house was 's . 'll 
again, and she had not called for help. 
" However, now I 'm tipped over," she 
thought, " I don't see what is to prevent my 
trying the dumb waiter and getting upstairs in 
my stocking-feet Hilloa ! " 
The dumb waiter was fastened upon the 
other side. 
There being nothing to do but to go to sleep 
again, Gypsy lay down with her head in the 
barrel, and went to sleep ; and that was the last 
she knew till it was morning, and somebody 
was trying the key in the door. 
Mrs. Holt had waked at six o'clock and 
wjiought of those crackers, and, forthwith jump 
Ing into her dressing-gown and spectacles, 
down she had come, frowning and suspicious, 
to see if they were safe. 
She flung open the door and glared in. 
There lay Gypsy, with her head in the sugar- 
barrel. 
" Miss BREYNTON ! " said Mrs. Holt, in a 
voice of thunder. 
" Ma 'am ? " said Gypsy, sleepily. 
"Is it you?" 
"I suppose so," said Gypsy, faintly. "I
don't know exactly. I went to sleep, and 
then-" 
Mrs. Holt solemnly took off her spectacles, 
solemnly rubbed them, solemnly put them on 
again, solemnly pinched Gypsy to see if she 
were flesh and blood, locked the door upon 
her, and went straight to Mrs. McMunn. 
Gypsy waited and trembled. Mrs. McMunn 
came with awful haste, threw open the door, 
and stood speechless. In the agitation conse 
quent upon Mrs. Holt 's announcemeal, the 
good lady had succeeded in fastening her 
waterfall precisely in a line with her right ear, 
and there it hung gracefully swaying, tremu 
lous yet, from her hurried descent of the stairs. 
Gypsy became so much interested in watching 
it that she very nearly forgot what Mrs. 
McMunn had come for. The Principal, 
however, quickly restored her memory. 
" Miss Gypsy Breynton ! " 
" Yes, m, I know it," said Gypsy, meekly. 
" I should like to know," proceeded Mrs. Mc 
Munn, with a severe shake of her waterfall, &gt; 
"I should like to know, if you will be so good 
as to tell me, how you came here, and what 
you have been doing." 
Just then something rattled out of Gypsy 's 
pocket, and spun away over the bare floor. 
" It 's my crackers ! " screamed the house 
keeper, looking in over Mrs. McMunn 's shoul 
ders. " It 's those crackers, that I lay awake 
half the night over, I was so anxious about 
them. Oh, the Land 's End ! to think of it ! " 
" Oh, I forgot," said Gypsy. " Yes, the girls 
wanted the crackers, Mrs. McMunn, and I 
never thought, and so I came down and Mrs. 
Holt locked me in, and then you see I thought 
there was a mouse in my neck and the barrel 
tipped me over, and I 'm very sorry, Mrs. 
McMunn, but you can't think how funny it was, 
I don't think you can possibly think how funny 
it was, unless you were to see me, now really." 
The teacher 's mouth twitched a little. 
" Miss Breynton, we have had enough of this 
levity, I think we have had enough of this levity." 
" Yes, m," replied Gypsy mildly, regarding 
her with an attentive air. 
" You re not attending to what I say ! " said 
her teacher, rather sharply. " What are you 
looking at?" 
" Oh, I do beg your pardon ! " Gypsy 
blushed all over. "I was only thinking I 
was only looking " 
"At what?" insisted the Principal. 
"At your your waterfall, you know." 
It was now Mrs. McMunn 's turn to blush. 
She felt round her head with both hands, after 
the unfortunate waterfall, till she found it; 
when, by way of improving the matter, she 
took it off and put it in her pocket. Gypsy 
felt that the scene beggared description, but 
look, she dared not. 
"Altogether too much levity," repeated the 
Principal, as severely as she knew how. 
"And I really never would have supposed, 
Miss Breynton, that you could be capable 
of" 
" Mrs. McMunn," interrupted Gypsy, seriously. 
- If you had spent the night in a sugar-barrel, 
squeezed up in a funny little heap you 've no 
idea what a funny little heap it would make 
of you under an old shelf, and bumped your 
head every time you stirred, and found the dumb 
waiter locked on top of it, and all, you wouldn't 
want to be scolded very badly, Mrs. McMunn." 
" In the sugar-barrel ! Oh, Miss Breynton, 
Miss Breynton ! " 
Mrs. McMunn gave up all efforts at com 
posure, collapsed upon the nearest firkin, and 
laughed till she cried. She seemed to recol 
lect, at last, that Gypsy remained there to be 
scolded, and grew suddenly severe again. 
" I really never should have thought you 
capable, Miss Gypsy, of stealing anybody 's 
crackers, much less " 
" Stealing ! " 
"Certainly, my dear. What was it if it 
wasn't stealing?" 
" Why, so it was," said horrified Gypsy, 
after some consideration. " Why, I never 
thought ! Why, how funny ! " 
" Funny i " said poor Mrs. McMunn, in im 
minent danger of subsiding upon the firkin again. 
" Funny, Miss Breynton? Why, really, I " 
"What will that blessed woman say?" 
observed Gypsy in an undertone, seriously 
enough. " Stealing ! And I must tell her all 
about it to-night. And to think it never 
crossed my mind now ! " 
"What blessed woman, my dear?" asked 
Mrs. McMunn, looking very much flattered. 
" Only my mother," said Gypsy, looking up. 
" Mrs. McMunn, I believe I ve been a horrid 
little wretch, and I ask your pardon, you know, 
and I 'll pay for the sugar, but I 'm sure I did 
not mean to be a horrid little wretch, and if 
you please, I 'll never get into any of your 
sugar-barrels again. I don't suppose I ever 
shall hear the last of this, though." 
She never did. 
GYPSY, Why don't Mrs. 
Makmunn let you come home? 
I don't like her. If I should 
just see her, I 'd knock her down, sir, and 
then I 'd stamp on her, and then I 'd frow 
sum orful cold watter on her. My Cat had 2 
fits ; she skratched Mrs. Surly too. I swallerd 
a apple-seed yesterday, Why won't it gro upp 
into a napple-tree inside of me. I wouldn't 
like that. Tommy Rowe 's dorg she laid him 
little dorgs last week. They haven't got any 
feathers. Besides, they re blind, and Besides, 
they can't see anything. Father says if I etc 
so much pop corn, I shan't live long enuff 
to gro up and keep my kandy-shop. I am 
bigger n I was when you were hear. I am 
a big Boy and go two Sundy-School now. I 
know about Elijah. I would like to be as good 
Mann as Elijah was. Of kourse a Prophett is 
a great deal gooder than a kandy-man. Now 
you just write me a leter as good as this. 
MR. WINNIE BREYNTON. 
Yorkbury, Vt 
Gypsy laid down the letter laughing, and 
took up her mother s. She had already read 
that through twice, but one part of it much 
surprised and somewhat puzzled her. So, 
thinking it over, she read it again. It ran thus : 
Be on your guard a little, Gypsy. There 
will be, figuratively speaking, a good many 
plates of crackers at the Golden Crescent, 
which will draw you into locked closets, unless 
you are on the watch against being led. Be 
cause the girls are older than you, they have 
a certain advantage of influence. Struggle 
against it. Take your own time to think, and 
act as you think, if what you think is right 
Yoar " beautiful, darling, precious Maude 
Clare for instance ; she may be a very nice 
girl, but remember that you do not yet know 
very much about her. If, some day or other, 
you should find out that she is not exactly 
what she seems to you to be in fact, that 
she is something very different from what she 
seems to you to be, it would be only what has 
happened in girls lives ever since there have 
been any girls. However, any such discoveries 
that are to be made, you must make for your 
self. I only throw out now and then a bit of a 
hint, by way of signal-light. 
By the way, speaking of Maude Clare, re 
minds me: Be sure that you are a perfect 
lady, no matter what anybody else may ever 
prove to be. 
As ever, lovingly, 
MOTHER. 
When Gypsy had read this for the third 
time, she threw her Virgil and Lexicon with 
such a bang upon the floor that quiet Jane 
jumped half-way across the room. 
"Why, Gypsy! What on earth is the 
matter?" 
" Nothing," said Gypsy, with flushed cheek, 
"only I have something to say to mother; 
that 's all" 
She sat straight down and wrote : 
"Why, mother! Why, I never! Why, 
how could you? You just went and hinted 
that Maude Clare isn't a perfect lady you 
know you did ! Why, she 's so par&Vular, and 
so proud, you ve no idea; and last summer 
one day a gentleman kissed her and she fired 
up and told him he didn't dare to do that 
again, and he did it again, and by-and-by she 
got up and walked right out of the room. She 
never lets people take liberties with her, and 
she 's so polite, too, and I think you re very 
much mistaken, and I don't see what made you 
say such a thing, for you see you don't know 
hardly anything about her; only what I 've 
told you; and I don't see how I can help 
knowing best, mother, I 'm sure." 
Had Gypsy seen the smile with which her 
mother read this, she would have been more 
perplexed than ever. 
One afternoon when study-hours were over, 
Maude Clare came upstairs to ask Gypsy to 
go to walk with her. 
" Why you see," said Gypsy, hesitating, 
with a glance at the window, where her room 
mate was finishing her French exercise, " I 
promised Jane I 'd go with her. I don't go 
with her very often, you know. It 's too 
bad, though; I 'd a great deal rather go with 
you." 
This was in a whisper, but whispers are al 
ways more easily audible than people suppose; 
Jane may have heard it, for she turned over the 
leaves of her Fasquelle quickly, with a sudden 
flush upon her cheek. 
"Oh, Jane doesn't care; do you, Jane?" 
said Maude, aloud. 
" Care about what? " 
" Let Gypsy go to walk with me, there 's 
a good girl. I have a particular reason for 
wanting her to-day." 
"A particular reason?" questioned Gypsy, 
curious and undecided. 
" Oh, don't mind me," spoke up Jane, hur 
riedly. " I don't care that is, I mean I 
would rather have you do as you feel about it 
I can go with Phoebe Hand just as well, you 
know." 
" It 's a very particular reason," urged Maude. 
Gypsy, still looking undecided, began to put 
on her things, saying something to Jane mean 
while about being sorry, and hating to break 
an engagement, and she didn't know 
but 
Jane put an end to the matter by running 
down to find Phoebe ; and Gypsy and Maude 
Clare went slowly down after her, and out of 
the house. Maude was chattering about the 
fit of her gloves. Gypsy did not listen. 
" It is good," she interrupted suddenly. 
"What the colour?" 
" No ; I wasn't thinking about gloves. I 
mean Jane Bruce." 
" Well, what about Jane Bruce? " 
Maude spoke a little sharply, and pulled up 
her gloves with a jerk. As long as Miss 
Maude Clare was the subject of remark, this 
young lady evinced unusual conversational
abilities. Strike off upon another topic, and one 
could but notice every one, that fs, but 
Gypsy how suddenly her interest flagged, 
and her brilliancy grew dim. 
" Why, I was thinking how good it is in her 
to go so much with that Phoebe Hand," 
pursued Gypsy, too busy with the thought to ob 
serve how Maude had received it. " She walks 
with her, and she rides with her, and she goes 
in to see her ; I don't see how she can, I 'm sure, 
with Miss Ayre looking round." 
" Yes," said uninterested Maude. " Yes, I 
suppose so. Look at Jack Delancey showing 
off those everlasting hands of hers across the 
road there ! She wears kid gloves all the time 
just because they make them look smaller. I 
wouldn't be seen in kids every day, such 
freezing weather as this, in such a little country 
place as Snapberry." 
" I think your hands look prettier in Cash 
mere than they do in kid," observed Gypsy. 
" Such little soft brown stuff curves and fits so 
easily; besides, it makes the fingers look 
shorter." 
" Yes," said Maude Clare ; " I don't know 
but it does. It isn't everybody that can bear 
Cashmere without making one 's hands look like 
a cook s. I know Jack couldn't, because hers 
are so fat. I declare ! See her flirting her 
handkerchief at those boys. How she does 
act ! See, she has on her best bonnet too, and 
I never saw anybody sail about the streets as 
she does, since she had that trailing green pop 
lin. I 'd bet you a cookie, as Jo Courtis 
says, that Jack Delancey considers herself Num 
ber i in this school, in fact, I have it on very 
good authority, that she said so herself, to 
Mary Blunt" 
" Number I ! " repeated Gypsy, looking puz 
zled. " Why, what do you mean by Number I ? " 
" Why I mean just Number I ! I can't put it 
any plainer ; if you don't know what that is." 
" Why, I 'm sure she doesn't profess to be 
the best scholar," said Gypsy, considering, 
" nor the best behaved ; and she isn't a bit of a 
favourite among the girls, and 
" You little simpleton ! " interrupted Maude 
Clare, with her patronising laugh. " Of course 
I don't mean anything like that. If you must 
have a translation, Number I means the most 
stylish, the most distingue, the I suppose 
having the most of an air to your things, 
and plenty of money, you know, and why, all 
that." 
" Oh ! " said Gypsy. She looked down the 
street as she spoke, where Jacqueline 's striking 
green poplin dragged its slow length along, and 
Jacqueline 's feathers and ribbons were blowing 
about in the wind. Then turning around, her 
eye fell on Phoebe, limping down the hill, and 
leaning heavily on Jane Bruce 's arm. 
" You haven't shown yourself much inter 
ested in what I said before we came out," said 
Maude Clare, in an aggrieved tone, after a 
silence had fallen between the two. 
Gypsy started from her musing, and begged 
pardon. 
" Your particular reason for wanting me to 
day ? Oh yes, I am interested ; I want to know, 
Of course I want to know. What was it?" 
"I have something to show you, ma 
and that 's why " 
"Something to " 
" That is to say, somebody." 
"Maude Clare, what is the matter? What 's 
up? What are you blushing about? " 
Maude Clare indignantly denied that she 
was blushing, and somewhat unintelligibly re 
quested Gypsy not to say anything, but to wait 
and see. Gypsy, not having anything to say, 
said nothing, but waited and saw. 
Presently Maude Clare turned from the main 
street into a quiet by-road, bounded with 
stone walls and apple-trees, and comparatively 
secure from a crowd of passers. 
" Why, what are you turning up Love Lane 
for?" asked Gypsy. "It isn't half so good 
walking; the ground is all frozen up in little 
jolts, Maude." 
"You 'll see," said Maude, mysteriously. 
At the same time she was looking very intently 
up the road. 
" There ! " she said at last, and pulled her 
spotted lace veil it was very becoming 
down suddenly over her face. 
"There what?" 
"There he is." 
Gypsy observed then, far up the road, the 
figure of a young man or boy approaching 
them. He was not very tall, but of rather a 
graceful form, and even at that distance she 
could see that he was fresh from the hands of a 
city tailor. 
"Who is he, Maude?" 
" Hush-sh ! It 's Ben Sizer." 
Gypsy hushed ; thinking that it was some 
old acquaintance of whom Maude Clare had 
never chanced to speak to her. She was much 
surprised to see that, as the young fellow 
neared them, Maude did not bow to him. She 
glanced up with a smile one of those brilliant 
smiles, such as had attracted Gypsy in the car 
on the evening that they came to the Golden 
Crescent and then looked demurely on the 
gtmd, her eyelashes on her cheeks, and her 
hands in her sacque-pockets. 
The stranger had scarcely passed her, how 
ever, when he stopped, and, raising his hat, said 
something in an undertone that Gypsy did not 
hear ; at the same time handing her his card. 
If Gypsy had been surprised before, she was 
struck dumb when Maude Clare, instead of 
repelling the impertinence in a dignified way, 
took the card with a blush and a smile, drew 
her own from her pocket, handed it to him, 
and with a familiar " Good-afternoon " walked 
slowly on. 
Gypsy waited till they were out of hearing, 
then expressed her opinion in this fashion: 
" Why, Maude Clare Smith ! " 
"Well, what 's the matter? You needn't 
tuck on my last name if you are mystified. 
Anybody would think you had been taking 
lessons of Jack Delancey." 
" I should like to know ! " 
"Know what?" 
" Didn't you why, haven't you ever seen 
that boy before to-day?" 
Maude laughed noisily. 
" Occasionally yes, dear; about a dozen 
times, perhaps." 
"Why, where?" 
" Oh, church, and lectures, and down town, 
ftnd so on. You ve seen him too, only you 
hadn't the sense to remember it. Did you 
ever see such eyes? And such a love of a 
moustache ! " 
" Why, then, you must be acquainted with 
him, I suppose?" 
" Depends upon what you call acquaintance. 
I never spoke to him till to-day. It was real 
bright in him to think of introducing himself 
that way, wasn't it? I never should have got 
an introduction any other way. Nobody knows 
him in school but Jack Delancey, and she 'd 
sooner cut her head off than have him fall 
into my hands. It will be a joke to hear what 
My Lady has to say to this. It was so cute." 
" Cute ! Why, I thought he was the most 
impudent fellow I ever saw. But you won't 
treat him like anybody else, of course, and bow 
to him?" 
" My dear little Gypsy, pray, why shouldn't 
I ! Of course I wouldn't without any intro 
duction, like Jack; but I 'm sure he was 
very thoughtful and gentlemanly about it, 
and I don't see any reason for cutting him. 
I don't care anything about it though, any 
way, and very likely I shall if I feel like 
it." 
" Oh," said Gypsy, looking a little relieved ; 
" well, I hope you won't have anything more 
to do with him, anyway ; it isn't a bit like 
you." But after this she was silent for some 
time. 
"Have you ever met him before in Love 
Lane?" she questioned presently. 
" Why, let me see ; once or twice, perhaps," 
said Maude Clare, evasively. 
" But you know something about him, I 
suppose, who he is, and all." 
" Why, stupid ! he is Mr. Ben Sizer." 
" But, I mean, anything more, you know." 
" Well, he is a student at Harvard College^ 
I believe ; so Jack says." 
" Harvard ! But it 's term time at Harvard ; 
how happens he to be here?" 
" Oh, I don't know, nor care," said Maude, 
carelessly. " Hush ! I declare ! Look 
round ! " 
Gypsy looked, and saw, to her surprise, that 
Mr. Benjamin Sizer was following them at a 
rapid pace. 
"The horrid, impudent old thing! Come, 
Maude, let 's hurry home." 
Just then, the most surprising series of acci 
dents happened to Miss Maude Clare. She 
dropped her glove, and she was sure that she 
had lost her purse, and her boot-lacing came 
untied, and her veil blew off, and, take it alto 
gether, she was delayed so long upon the side 
walk that Mr. Sizer had picked up the veil, 
had joined them to return it, had fallen into 
step to walk beside them, and had been for 
mally introduced to Gypsy, before Gypsy had 
fairly recovered from her amazement and seen 
through the performance. 
At this point, however, " I 'm going to walk 
on ! " she said, with bright cheeks and indig 
nant eyes. 
Maude Clare exclaimed: " Oh, don t, 
Gypsy ! Stay with us, it 's only a little 
way." 
" I should be really very sorry to be de 
prived of the pleasure of your company," 
urged the collegian, with a very low bow. 
" Can't help it if you are ! " said Gypsy, 
bluntly. " It 's against the rules, and I'm
going home." 
And home she went as fast as her feet could 
carry her. 
" Spunky ! I declare ! " she heard Mr. 
Sizer observe as she crossed the street. 
He strolled on slowly with Maude Clare, 
very slowly; there were no teachers upon the 
street; the twilight was falling. The twilight 
had quite fallen when Maude Clare came in. 
Gypsy was sitting alone in the dark, with her 
cheek leaning upon her hand, and her hat in 
her lap; she had not taken off the rest of 
her things, but seemed to have dropped 
into the first chair that she came to, deep in 
thought. 
" Gypsy this you ? " 
" Yes." 
" What are you sitting here in this azure 
fashion for?" 
Maude Clare came up and pinched her cheek, 
as she was used to, to " find the dimple," and 
kissed her several times. Gypsy sat silent, and 
did not return the caress. 
" Gypsy, how cross you are ! What ails 
you?" 
But Gypsy sat silent still. If it had not 
been dark, Maude Clare might have seen that 
her pretty black eyelashes were wet. She 
was thinking of what her mother had said. 
She was thinking of Mr. Benjamin Sizer. All 
her sense of delicacy and dignity had been 
jarred. Could a lady have done what Maude 
had done that afternoon? She must answer 
her own question honestly, and it hurt her it 
did hurt a little to decide it against her 
" precious Maude Clare." 
But Maude stood there, looking very hand 
some and grieved and injured, and she 
caressed the dimple back into its place with 
her pretty soft fingers, and so they went 
down to tea together, and Gypsy said nothing 
about it 
ANGEL OF A MOTHER, Holidays, holidays, holidays ! 
The darling McMunn has given us a week, and I 'll 
never laugh at her waterfall again, if I can 
help it. I shall just catch that blessed Thomas, 
and I shall sleep again in my own dear room, 
and I shall climb into your own dear arms, and 
besides, I shall have some rice griddle-cakes, 
and I really don't know whether I am standing 
on my head or my feet. 
Your bewildered 
GYPSY. 
P. S. Maude Clare means to write to me 
every day. A week is so long to be separated. 
to* 
The little letter hurries on its way, and the 
days are hurrying with it. There is much sur 
prise and expecting and making ready, in the 
happy Green Mountain home. There is impa 
tient waiting and there are longing eyes, and 
there is a wild sense of freedom in the very 
grammars and lexicons at the Golden Crescent 
Gypsy falters through the last Virgil lesson, 
corrects the last French exercise, plunges poor 
Chaplain Goss into despair over her last equa 
tion, by announcing that x equals one goose 
and two-thirds of a goose, rushes through the 
last Shakespeare reading and the last composi 
tion, loses the last lead-pencil, and tips over 
the last ink-bottle; bestows the last crinoline 
on Dolly, takes the last look at Mrs. McMunn 's 
ivaterfall, the last kiss from Maude Clare 's red 
rtps, and before she knows exactly what is hap 
pening, has been steamed into Yorkbury, and 
rumbled up in the old coach to the old home- 
door, with the old dear faces clustered on the 
steps. 
Ah, such a pleasant week; such a short; 
dear week ! She grudges every moment spent 
in night and sleep, and is sure that the days 
are not so long by several hours as they were 
when last she was at home. Her mother 's 
sweet, bright face is there, to be watched and 
kissed and patted and talked to, hours without 
end. Her father 's mind must be set at rest as 
to the exact amount of her expenses, and the 
ventilation of her room at the Golden Crescent. 
Winnie 's cat, feeling called upon to contribute 
to the entertainment, has three fits regularly 
every day; which furnish Winnie with a most 
fruitful and interesting subject of conversation, 
in season and out of season. Patty, with 
beaming face, concocts the most delicious of 
rice-cakes and Charlotte Russe, to honour the 
vacation, and in addition gives astonishing 
and practical evidence of her favour, by volun 
teering to make Miss Gypsy 's bed for her while 
she is at home, which, be it recorded, Patty has 
never thought herself capable of before. But, 
best of all, is the short, sweet sight of Tom. 
" So nice, you know, that his vacation should 
Just come right with mine," Gypsy says, " and 
did you ever see such a handsome fellow in all 
your life?" "Besides," she writes to Maude 
Clare, " he studies like a house on fire, and 
behaves like a deacon, and I have a good realt; 
son for being glad of that. Perhaps," she is 
going to add, " perhaps I will tell you about 
it sometime ; " but hesitates, and leaves the 
sentence unfinished. Maude Clare is not ex 
actly the one to hear that story. Some quick 
tears spring just then into her eyes; for she 
has a thought of another than Maude Clare, 
whom she used to love with a very different 
love from that which she gives to this strong, 
bright, handsome girl,, another, ^vho knew 
all about " that story." As for the meaning of 
these two memories, will it not be found re 
corded in the chronicles of " Gypsy 's Sowing 
and Reaping"? or according to Winnie (who 
has, by chance, heard a distant report of that 
book), " Gypsy 's Sewing and Ripping" 
Right into the happy week come Christmas 
frolics and sweet New Year hopes and wishes, 
and last, but not least, a present or two. 
Gypsy, undoing a curious, oblong bundle that 
she finds in her chair at the breakfast-table, 
fairly screams, 
" Oh, you sweetest of women ! A Chinchilla 
muff! and a gray silk scarf to match! And 
how you ever happened to guess what Jack 
said, and Maude, and how I did try not to 
mind its being squirrel, but kept wondering if 
they were laughing at me, you know ! " 
" I wish I could have bought a complete set, 
dear; but if you can get along with the scarf 
for the present " 
" Get along ! " Gypsy fairly hushes up the 
words with her kisses and delight, and must 
needs sit straight down and write Jane Bruce 
all about it. Somehow it does not come 
natural to tell the little tale to Maude. Jane 
always is interested to hear such things; and 
then Jane was so brave about the squirrel, on 
the whole, the thought of her slips most 
naturally into the matter. 
The week has lengthened to ten short days, 
and after the merry-making there comes a little 
lull. Gypsy is going. Frolics and sleigh-rides 
and Charlotte Russe and Winnie 's kitty and 
Tom 's college stories are becoming part of a 
far-away past. Lexicon and copy-books and 
compositions and Miss Ayre are drearily at 
hand. 
Her mother has not had a chance for a quiet 
talk with Gypsy ; but one night just before she 
goes, the chance comes, and the talk. 
" Now I want to hear all about it, Gypsy." 
So Gypsy, climbing into her lap, begins with 
her appearance at Snapberry on the dripping 
station-platform, and comes down through the 
term, and everything that she has thought, 
said, or done, she remembers and repeats to 
the best of her ability. Her mother, at the 
close, looks a little grave. 
"But the lessons, Gypsy? " 
" Lessons Oh, yes, I forgot. Yes, we 
had some lessons. I didn't have very bad 
ones, because I was ashamed to, but I don't 
suppose I studied much, though." 
To which her mother has a few things to say. 
One day, soon after she was back at the 
Golden Crescent, Maude Clare found Gypsy 
studying directly after tea. 
" Why, Gypsy Breynton, I 've been hunting 
the house over for you ! Why, this isn't study- 
hours ! Come, the girls are having the Lancers 
down in the music-room, and I want you." 
Gypsy laid down her Roman History. 
" Maude Clare, you re my evil angel. Now, 
what do you suppose my mother told me, the 
last night I was at home?" 
" Oh, I don't know ; here, give us your book ! 
Now ! it 's behind the bed, and you 'll have to 
come." 
" She told me," pursued Gypsy, with great 
seriousness, " she told me that I came to 
school to think of it, Maude ! to study." 
" She did ! " 
" Yes, and she actually asked me how much 
I supposed I had learned. Why, I laughed 
right out. But what 's more, I told her I would 
learn something this term. Accordingly, I eat 
chocolate taffy all study-hour this afternoon." 
" Oh, well, it 's all the same ; come, we can't 
get along without you. Gypsy Breynton, if 
you don't stir pretty quickly, I 'll pull your 
hair down ! " Which Maude proceeded to 
do, and Gypsy sat, a perplexed-looking little 
statue, wrapped about with a flood of bright 
black waves. 
"I might make it up it 's only five pages 
more after Biblical." 
" But it 's Society night." 
"So it is well, I will make time in the 
morning, then. I can't stand that music much 
longer." 
So, still wrapped in her pretty hair, she 
bounded down to the music-room, three stairs 
at a time. 
" I don't think you will study in the morn 
ing," said Maude Clare, trying to keep up with 
her, " when you see a novel I brought from 
home on purpose for you to read. It 's The 
Shadow of a Life-time, most elegant story, 
and so weird, you 've no idea." 
To her justice, be it recorded that Gypsy 
did study in the morning till the history lesson 
was learned. When afternoon came, however, 
and she was sleepy, and the room was hot, and 
"The Shadow of a Life-time " lay, in tempting 
brown binding and beautiful print, open upon 
the table, she thought that she would just look it 
over, see the heroine 's name, and how it ended, be 
fore commencing on those dreary conjugations, 
" Over the little one 's future all unknown fo 
thee, innocent one, a Shadow hung  why, Jane, 
this looks interesting. Oh, what 's this pic 
ture? Lorina found by her Lovers Dear 
me ! what a lot of em she had ! Oh, here 's a 
description of a ball-dress. I think descrip 
tions of ball-dresses are splendid. There, I ve 
lost the place. Oh, no ! 
" * Her head was unadorned, save by a single 
iiamond, in a wreath of artificial roses Let 
me see" and that was the end of the con 
jugations. 
" Jane dear," observed Gypsy, languidly, 
looking up from the amiable Lorina when 
study-hours were half over, " I don't see what 
you are always studying for." 
Silent study-hours were the rule, and Jane 
made no reply. 
" Oh, I forgot," said Gypsy ; " well, I won't 
talk. I 'm going to study when I get through 
this chapter." 
" This chapter " lasted till the bell rang to go 
to walk. Gypsy, flushed and excited, threw 
the book angrily down, but made no remarks. 
" Why don't you come to bed? " asked Jane 
that night, after the lamp was out. Gypsy was 
sitting by the window in her night-dress. She 
sat there some time; and there the following 
conversation took place. 
" I was a little villain, that 's what I was ! I 
won't do it again. But I think it 's dreadfully 
poky work studying." 
" What did you come to the Golden Crescent 
for, dear? " 
" Oh, well I know it ; but I can't be an ex 
emplary scholar now, like Jane there, mother. 
Why, just think, she not only learns her lessons 
perfectly; but she actually reads somebody 
else 's Roman History in connection with our little 
black one, TO IMPROVE HER MIND ! " 
" When Jane is out of school, she will know 
something to pay for it. And some day, you 
will be sorry that you have not been more like 
her, Gypsy." 
" My dear, respected mother, I beg your 
pardon, but I don't believe it! I won't be a 
dunce, but I can't be a model." 
After which, she went to bed. To do Gypsy 
justice, the management at the Golden Cres 
cent was not such as was calculated to help a 
rollicking, frolicking, bright girl who could 
skim over a lesson in ten minutes, make a fait 
recitation, and forget it within an hour in 
the formation of solid habits of study. Mrs. 
McMunn was just what she looked to be, an 
awkward, good-natured, easy-going, and by no 
means scholarly woman. In fact, she owed her 
position to the reputation of a distinguished 
brother, rather than to any attainments or suit 
abilities for the work of a teacher which any 
body had ever been so fortunate as to discover 
in her. Miss Ayre was a severe disciplinarian, 
and Chaplain Goss a thorough mathematical 
instructor; but under-teachers cannot guide 
the helm. Mrs. McMunn was careless about 
enforcing their rules, and made herself no sys 
tem of marks, rewards, or punishments, to 
serve as incitement to the ambitious, or threat 
to the lazy; so it was small wonder that 
even Gypsy 's most violent efforts to become 
that " exemplary scholar " flagged after a 
day or two, and subsided into taffy and 
novels. 
But Jane 's did not Nor Lou Armstrong s. 
Nor the efforts of one or two others. Had 
Gypsy shown a little of the application of any 
one of them, she might have outstripped them 
all. She was simply spending her school-days 
as many another thoughtless, talented girl is 
spending them, the world over; neither better 
nor worse, " I won't be a dunce, but I can't 
be a model," just expressed it. 
But Gypsy was not, as she used to say for 
lornly sometimes to her mother, " just a 
jumble of naughtiness, without any goodness 
sprinkled in." Taking, for instance, a thing 
that happened soon after the beginning of the 
term; it was a very little thing, but not too 
small to be without its uses. 
It was one Sunday noon, just after church; 
several of the girls had come up into Gypsy 's 
room ; one or two with a headache or " the 
blues," hunting for Jane; the rest Gypsy 's 
friends. It chanced that they were all busy 
for a few moments about Jane, who was ex 
plaining the Bible lesson to them, and that 
Gypsy, turning away to the table to hunt for 
her Testament, came upon " The Shadow of a 
Life-time." It lay open where she had left it 
at eleven o'clock Saturday night. The lachry 
mose Lorina was in a thrilling crisis of her 
history ; tangled by her hair in a thorn-bush, I 
believe, or something of the sort, with two 
wild bulls, three robbers, and a rattlesnake 
funning after her if rattlesnakes may, with 
zoological propriety, be said to run. 
Gypsy took up the book, thinking that she 
would close it and put it on the shelf; turned 
the leaves a little, glanced up and down a page 
or two, looked at the next illustration, thought 
she would just see whether Adolphe did not 
