content. Slept, eaten, worked that was all. . Not 
loved nor hated, nor struggled, nor hoped. I am not 
sure but men live these lives oftener than women. 
The picture before him was beautiful enough to 
speak to any soul that had not been born deaf and 
blind. Few are, I think. They lived on the out- 
skirts of the town Archibald Dane, Stephen, his son, 
and an orphan niece, his dead brother's child. This 
'had been their home ever since Stephen could remem- 
ber. At first Joe's mother was alive, but his own, 
dead. For several years Joe had been sole house- 
keeper. 
From the house down to the river there was a 
gradual slant, broken by little hillocks, tame enough, 
without jut or spur, and an occasional rambling gray 
rock. Interspersed were knolls of shrubbery, clumps 
 
of elder or hazel, with here and there some oaks, 
rising in majestic grandeur. When the blooming 
summer crowned it, when the wind wound its way in 
billowy furrows through the grass, making an emerald 
sea with frosted tips to the waves, you might study it 
for hours. Through vistas of twilight green the mur- 
murous river sparkled. In this opening you caught a 
glimpse of the misty hills beyond, rounded into a 
picture by softest tinting. In some places there was 
an abrupt earnestness, and the top became a golden- 
spired cathedral. Even now long, arrowy rays gleamed 
from them to penetrate the sloping sides. The river 
was broad and placid. Miles below, it was dammed 
up, and used for manufacturing purposes ; but here no 
one interfered with it. Just as God made it, here it 
lay, going along in a quiet, sleepy fashion. That was 
all it had to do in fair weather. But God sent it 
storms, sometimes, when it grew strong and turbulent, 
rushed madly into little coves and nooks, lashed the 
rocks at its edge, or beat against the bare roots of the 
trees as if it meant to sweep them away. But to-day 
it was calm, with a tender haze upon its bosom that 
reminded you of a bride's tremulous veil. Patches of 
mosfe and lichens at its edge looked like velvet. Even 
the brown, leafless trees were glorified. 
What meaning had it for Stephen Dane ? Did his 
thirsty soul go down to bathe, and find there the fabled 
fountain of new life, the magical draught more potent 
 
than Circean cup? Did the soft gray clouds, drifting 
about the sky, sending shadows upon its surface, speak 
of the doubts and fears that beset one continually, and 
yet are cleared up by the sun, eternal in the heavens? 
He was groping about blindly. For all the radiance 
of the sun he could not see. The eyes of the soul are so 
faint and uncertain at first. But he wanted something 
that was in the river, in the hills beyond, in the spring- 
tide sky. Out of the darkness of the past he called ; 
out of deeps, stagnant with the rank vegetation of evil. 
For weeds always thrive. No place so dark or noisome 
but some foul tiling will make it a home. And feeling 
this, knowing himself to be weak and vile, and misera- 
ble within, he cried to be lifted out of it all. May be 
the first time he had ever prayed in all his life. 
What did he want to do? 
He could not tell. Everything was so vague, so 
unformed within him. It was chaos, with a shadow 
moving upon the waters. It seems an easy thing to 
say to a blind, groping soul, "Let there be light; " but 
we are none of us Gods. And just then there was no 
one to say it to Stephen Dane. 
So he looked with hungry, longing, unreasoning 
eyes. They were touching eyes, too. Large, and of 
that soft, appealing brown, you sometimes see in a dog 
who questions you minutely. A shadow in them, as 
if he had never lived in the light. 
The face was indifferent. You see hundreds of 
 
such faces among the working poor. If you are care- 
less, you pronounce them stolid, and pass them by. 
Looking underneath, you may see a fine possibility in 
that starved and stunted development, a soul that could 
have grown to grander heights, but in some way 
missed its proper aliment. The brow was not very 
high, but broad, with rugged corners and great width 
of temple. It was overhung by shaggy chestnut curls, 
that seemed never to have been combed out thoroughly. 
The cheek bones were high, the nose straight and 
strong, with a good deal of character in it. The chin 
was resolute and well pronounced, giving a squareness 
and power to the face. The lips had a heavy, care- 
less expression, as if they dropped together, rather 
than shut with any firm purpose. 
The dress was indifferent, too. Thick gray trousers, 
fastened with a leathern belt in place of suspenders, 
and a blue flannel shirt. The old sou'wester, as he 
called his short, heavy jacket, was discarded to-day. 
After he had looked over the river, and entreated 
hill and sky in vain, he turned his glance in-doors. 
The house was old, built on a rocky slope, low, moss- 
grown, and crumbling into decay. Two or three large, 
flat stones lay before the door, which went in even with 
the ground. The room had a dingy look, with its 
ceiling of smoke-stained rafters. There was a fire in 
the wide fireplace, the ends of the logs resting upon 
bricks. One window and the door on one side, two 
 
windows on the other. A shambling, rickety wooden 
settle, some Windsor chairs, a high cupboard, and a little 
candle-stand painted green, comprised the furniture. 
A large table stood in the middle of the floor, with the 
remnants of dinner, and piled-up dishes. Joe, squatted 
on the hearth, her dress tucked round her ankles, was 
taking some pork and potatoes out of the large iron 
dinner kettle, that had been left in to keep hot, and not 
needed. On the settle lay Archy Dane, drowsing into 
his afternoon nap. 
He was a thin, stoop-shouldered, weazen-faced 
man, with watery eyes, a red nose, straggling gray 
whiskers, and straggling gray hair. He, too, ate and 
slept, but, instead of working, spent much of his time 
at the tavern, in a maudlin state. He had been a 
drinking man always. That accounted for the thrift- 
less-looking place. Perhaps, too, it accounted for 
Stephen Dane's stunted soul. 
He, the young man, took in this untidy picture. 
He had seen it hundreds of times before, but never 
with this sickening sensation. For out of doors all 
nature was clean and pure, teeming with new life. 
But this darkness and vileness within ! 
In his slow-thinking manner he had fancied it would 
go on thus always. He would marry Joe in the course 
of time, though he had never said anything to her 
about it ; never made love to her, as the phrase goes ; 
rarely kissed her. It would come about some way. 
 
And they would rear children to work and vegetate. 
He would drop into a bent old man, wrinkled and 
gray, go down to the tavern to hear the news, smoke a 
stumpy pipe, and at last die like a brute. 
Would he? 
He smote the door-post angrily with his fist. A 
great, powerful fist it was. You would not care to get 
a blow from it. 
" What's the matter, Stephen ? " 
Joe sprang up in affright. 
" Nothing ! " 
His voice was deep and full of sullen passionateness. 
She lifted the dish to the table. She came and 
looked curiously at him. 
" 'Tend to your work," he exclaimed, roughly. 
Then he turned to the river again. 
He rarely went to church. Now and then to a 
Methodist revival meeting, to have some fun. But 
to-day he felt there was a God. In a dumb, indignant 
way, he wondered what gratification it was for a greater 
and wiser Power to see men grovelling along, a little, 
and only a very little, removed from the beasts of the 
field. Somehow it didn't seem quite fair to give a man 
a soul, and place him where he could never use it. He 
ground his teeth with a wronged, bitter feeling. 
" Why, there's the bell, Stephen I Ain't you goin' 
to work?" and Joe wondered in her mind what pos- 
sessed him. 
 
He took down his old slouch hat and marched off 
without a word. Out into the bright, free air. It 
was a good mile to the Foundeiy. In old times the 
men didn't mind being late, but under the new regime 
well, who cared? Let it come. That man didn't 
own soul and body. So he sauntered along, the 
resentment against a huge wrong, that he did not 
understand, working out at every pore. If all his 
worldly good for years to come had depended upon 
his haste now, he would not have quickened one step. 
The man was in a sullen, reckless mood. 
But the glory of the day was gone. Purple hills 
and silver river no longer lulled him into dreamy 
languor. Something harder and sharper took pos- 
session of him. A great hungry life confronted him 
a life potatoes and bread could not satisfy. A 
furious instinct within goaded him on to a desperate 
move. He was tired of being a clod. He had a soul, 
and wanted to use it. Then a sardonic smile crossed 
his face did he have a soul ? 
Turning out of the lane, the street was long and 
wide, the gradual descent adding to the perspective. 
He saw the low, rambling place, with its tall black 
chimneys, where the dense smoke curled up against 
the azure sky, as if man wanted to shut out God's 
bright, beautiful world. It was hateful in his sight. 
And, drawing nearer, a smothering, strangling breath 
thickened the air. Then the clang, the jar, the roaring 
 
of fires, the whirring of machinery, the stroke of the 
heavy hammers smote upon his ear. Bars and piles of 
iron lay strewn around just where they had been thrown 
from the great wagons, waiting for the fierce flames to 
reduce and ripen them into available stock. A savage 
kind of discipline, and yet it brought this crude stuff 
into a state of civilization and usefulness. What if 
human souls, with iron in them, underwent some such 
process before they could give out the true steely ring ! 
A man stood at the wide gateway as Stephen Dane 
entered. That gate was a modern innovation, and 
hated of the workmen. And this man 
He was about forty ; barely average height, but with 
a compactness of frame, a vigor of limb and muscle, 
that spoke of hardy sinews and great strength. The 
feet and hands were large, the latter ridgy with dull 
blue veins. The face corresponded with the figure 
square, hard, coarse. A heavy under jaw, projecting 
forehead, with thick, beetling brows, and deep-set, 
keen gray eyes. The nose was short, with distended 
nostrils ; the mouth wide, but with thin, nervous lips. 
It was not self-indulgent nor sensual, yet supremely 
selfish. You knew the man would have his own, if he 
wrung out the last drop of one's heart's blood. But 
he was an honest man, so far as the world goes. 
When he made a bargain or a contract, he kept his 
part scrupulously. Why, there were men in the neigh- 
boring cities who would back his simple word against 
 
any other man's bond. His integrity had never been 
questioned. But there are some Utopian people who 
must needs have a higher law, an integrity of the 
heart. 
This face of power, will, and mastery turned full 
upon Stephen Dane; and he, having no weapons to 
meet it with, writhed angrily under it. 
"Late!" the master said, laconically, taking out a 
book and pencil. " Second offence, Dane." 
Ten minutes ago Stephen Dane thought he had 
courage enough to beard this lion was almost long- 
ing for a chance to fling out some of the bitter words 
gnawing at his heart. Now that the time had come, he 
was speechless. It was a hard matter to answer this 
man. 
"You know what I told the workmen, Dane. I'm 
bound to break up this lazy, lounging practice, if I 
send every hand away and shut up the Foundery." 
Then he no longer held him captive with his keen, 
resolute eye. Stephen Dane shuffled away uneasily, 
angry at himself for his cowardice. 
Through the large yard, into one of those smoke- 
blackened buildings. It came into his mind, just then, 
something about going down into the mouth of hell. It 
looked like it. These great furnaces full of molten 
metal, glaring in its vivid glow of a hue more intense 
than scarlet. Great cranes, loaded with their heavy 
chains, waiting to lift the steaming mass, and pour 
 
it, a scorching river, into these giant moulds. And 
here, where it lay in its dusky bed, taking on the im- 
press of a new form, a dense smoke arose, giving the 
faces of the workmen a weird, spectral air. Fierce 
eyes glared out ; brawny arms reached hither and 
thither ; gaunt, half-nude figures flitted about like the 
shadows of the lost souls in Dora's powerful illustra- 
tions of Dante. Voices sounded ghostly and terrible 
amid this din, and a laugh broke into short echoes, as 
if it might well be the scornful jeer of some doomed 
spirit. 
It must be confessed there was a better and brisker 
air about the place under the new reign. Before, it 
had been falling into a process of slow decay. Super- 
intendents were inefficient, workmen idle ; old Mr. Elli- 
cott easy and powerless ; Mr. Reardon confined- to a 
sick bed in a distant city, grumbling about the small 
profits, and threatening to close the concern. Insubor- 
dination and thriftlessness supreme rulers. 
Mr. Reardon died : Mr. Thomas Vennard, one of his 
creditors, came down to Trcgony to look at the Foun- 
dery. He had a quick eye and calculating brain. It 
was a kind of business he understood ; and he decided 
the thing could be worked up handsomely. The place 
was inventoried, and Reardon's share sold at auction, 
Mr. Vennard becoming purchaser. He would fain have 
ousted Ellicott ; but the old man had an odd persistency 
of affection for an establishment that had been handed 
 
down from generation to generation. Mr. Vennard's 
shrewd eyes discovered another way in which to gain 
his point. There was no Ellicott son now to follow in 
his father's steps. Only a daughter of three and 
twenty, an insipid-flavored young woman, with flaxen 
hair and pale blue eyes. Some people thought her 
handsome ; indeed, she had been quite a belle one win- 
ter in Philadelphia. She was soft, plastic, ready to take 
the impress of any strong hand that might be laid upon 
her. In a month Mr. Vennard had gauged every 
point and capability, as if she had been a steam-engine, 
and decided to marry her. Then the Ellicott works 
would be all his. He liked supreme power, and this 
indulgent old man's interference annoyed him. If he 
had been born south he would have made a w strong " 
master. 
He was a widower, with one child, a little girl. I 
will confess to you that he had not been exactly happy 
in his first marriage. Mrs. Vennard came from the 
"higher law" region. She had clear eyes and an 
honest soul; and when she learned what manner of 
man she had married, her heart died within her. One 
night, in the darkness and silence, it floated out on the 
great unknown sea, alone. Angel hands took it up 
with reverent tenderness. 
Mr. Vennard felt somehow that he had wronged this 
woman. They were not born for each other, though at 
first he had fancied her strongly. And, since she was 
 
comfortably dead, since the sad eyes would never re- 
proach him again with their prisoned pain, he sorrowed 
discreetly, and went his way breathing more freely. 
He had no fear of Miss Ellicott turning angel on his 
hands. Give her fine dresses and elegant jewelry, 
he liked them, too ; they set off a woman, a carriage 
to ride in, servants to wait upon her, and she would 
never trouble him with any vain and useless specu- 
lations. 
So he went to work in good earnest, wooing a wife 
and laying the foundation for a fortune. In ten years 
he meant to be a rich man. This was how a change 
had come over the Ellicott "Works. 
Mr. Vennard was not given to blustering. He called 
the men together one morning, and delivered a brief 
address. They had fallen into idle and vicious habits ; 
drank more rum than they did work ; he was not one 
to mince matters ; made bad iron, poor machinery, 
running the credit of the place down to the lowest ebb, 
and driving its owners to the very verge of bankruptcy. 
There was to be a new order of affairs instituted. Every 
man was expected to be on the mark when the bell 
rang, to do his work properly, to keep tolerably sober 
until hours were over. If they couldn't come under 
the rules, they could go. When he paid a man for his 
labor, he expected him to earn the money. 
No swearing with all this. Every word dropped 
down with a sharp, metallic click, like the closing of a 
 
vice. The tone was deep and strong. The men winced 
and glowered at each other from under threatening 
brows, but no one spoke. Instead, a cowed, savage 
sullenncss. They felt they had a master. 
Mr. Vennard brought in new foremen after his own 
heart ; but his keen vigilance never for an instant re- 
laxed. There were the usual mutinous outbreaks ; but 
every one concerned was discharged on the spot. New 
men came to fill their places. Being sent out of the 
Ellicott Works was as final as expulsion from Paradise. 
You know the kind of men who always manage mat- 
ters their own way. Some are born gentlemen, and do 
it by high intellectual force of will. Mr. Vennard was 
on a lower plane, but held his way as royally. 
There was little love lost between him and his work- 
men. But love was considerably below par with him 
not one of the stocks he cared to deal in. And in a 
town like this, where workmen marry and rear up fam- 
ilies, they become, as it were, a part of the soil. Not 
always taking root through affection. A hard necessity, 
like an iron chain, binds them to the spot. They are 
often a little in debt, cannot afford to lose time, nor 
spare the money for a removal. So capital and brains 
win the day. Two or three large manufactories in a 
small town have it all their own way, and uneducated, 
thriftless labor must submit or starve ; and starving is 
not generally a pleasant process. 
So the more thoughtful and far-sighted gave in to 
 
the Vennard reign from a sort of angry compulsion, 
since the lives of their wives and little ones depended 
on their submission. 
Stephen Dane had not espoused either side very 
warmly. He was reticent, self-contained, or rather 
would be when the coming manhood had sufficient force 
to assert itself. He had been indifferent, for these re- 
strictions did not touch him. He was quite too proud 
to defraud his employer that rugged, ungracious sort 
of pride one meets with now and then. He did his 
work well on the same principle. All had gone rightly 
enough with him until within a week or so. But now 
he had begun a process dangerous to a weak mind, and 
the first step was dissatisfaction with the grovelling life 
he had hitherto led. 
In six months Mr. Vennard could see just where he 
stood, and glance down a golden future. But pros- 
perity did not mellow his heart, nor send any rich, gen- 
erous juices through his frame. He seemed to con- 
tract instead. He drew the reins tighter everywhere. 
He was building a large house on the hill, and was 
also within a month of his wedding-day. It was rather 
too soon to begin to use capital in this fashion, and it 
pinched him a little. So he pinched others. 
He was supreme master of the Ellicott Works. 
Moreover, the people in the town began to look up 
to him. His advice was sought on various topics, from 
real estate to railroad stock. Drowsy old men nodded 
 
sagaciously, with their eyes half closed. Miss Ellicott 
plumed herself upon her conquest, and proudly dis- 
played her diamond ring. The field before him looked 
so fair with its ripening yellow harvest ! 
But Stephen Dane peered into the dusky, impenetra- 
ble desert, and tortured himself with vain questionings. 
 
STEPHEN DANE was in a good mood to listen to 
John Gilbert that night. He didn't exactly 
understand what Gilbert was driving at with his " right 
of labor." The tyranny of employers appeared more 
tangible. But how the reform was to be made, how 
workmen were to acquire shops of their own, com- 
fortable homes, leisure for reading and recreation, an 
occasional journey, and some of the pleasures of life, 
he did not clearly see. Indeed, to tell the truth, he 
had been considerably muddled, whether it was owing 
to Gilbert's lack of clearness or his own dull brain. 
Joe had playfully stretched her arms across the door 
to bar him in. 
"I don't see what you are off for every night," she 
had said with girlish petulance. 
"Don't you? Well, I do. It's a man's business, 
and women haven't the brains to understand it." 
Some of the new theories. He did not know then 
that he had taken up the wrong end by undervaluing 
women. 
W O, they haven't!" snapped Joe. "They've brains 
enough to understand when they're left at home alone 
night after night." 
He made no reply, but turned away. Joe watched 
him down the lane, pouted a little, and then ran into 
Sally Fawcett's for a good gossip. 
Stephen went to the Star. It was a rather better 
class tavern than the one his father frequented, but 
bad enough, though it boasted a reading-room. Two 
or three tables were on the side opposite the bar, con- 
taining a few stray newspapers, and generally occupied 
by a motley group, who played " Seven up " and 
"Euchre." Some of the more ambitious had organized 
a Club, and of these John Gilbert was leader. 
He was a little, nervous, hungry-looking man, with 
restless eyes and a great sallow forehead, the sandy 
hair being very thin on the top, which seemed to add 
to its height. He had long, angular arms, bony, blood- 
less fingers, and was much given to gesticulating. 
Like many another reformer, he had a chronic quar- 
rel with the world. He saw its faults and wrongs, 
and held them up to the indignation of others ; but he 
could not seem to get hold of the great cure for these 
evils. 
The sanded floor was ornamented with pools of 
tobacco juice, stumps of cigars, and charred matches. 
There was a vile odor in the place, liquoy, smoke, and 
unclean men each adding their mite. Somehow, it 
went against Stephen Dane, and he lingered in the 
doorway many moments. 
"Hillo, Dane ! " said a rather thick, unsteady voice. 
" Come in and treat, old fellow ! " 
" Treat yourselves ; " and Dane threw some loose 
change towards him and the few stragglers around. 
"You needn't be so huffy," was the reply, as the 
man scrambled on the floor for the money. 
John Gilbert came up the street. He had a peculiar 
uneasy gait, and was continually fumbling with his 
hands. 
"Well, Dane," was his salutation, accompanied by a 
brief nod, " what's the news ? " 
" Don't apply to me ; " and Stephen gave a short, 
forced laugh. 
"Why not? Doesn't Thomas Vennard, Esquire, 
keep the world going straight? If it swerved the mil- 
lionth of an inch on its axis, we should hear of it. 
Business pretty good ? " 
" Good enough with him, and always will be," was 
the half-sullen rejoinder. 
"You're right there, Dane. Vennard and that crew 
are always prosperous men, let the world go as it will. 
Now, why should they have all the good luck ? " 
"I don't know, I'm sure, "said Stephen, grimly. 
" They shouldn't. If God made men, which I some- 
times question., he didn't mean one should be a slave to 
the other. And it amounts to just that, Dane. You 
belong to Vennard about as much as a negro slave to 
his master. I'm opposed to slavery of any kind. I 
say one man hasn't any right to lord it over another. 
Don't you s'pose to-night that \ have as much brains as 
Thomas Vennard ? " 
Judging from looks, allowing one's forehead was 
filled with brains, a great deal more, thought Stephen 
Dane. And yet he was not quite sure but quality, as 
well as quantity, had something to do with it. So he 
only nodded a half assent. 
 "Well, why am not I a rich man ? If I had chosen," 
and the speaker stretched up to his utmost capacity, 
"I might have ground the flesh and blood of my fel- 
low-creatures into gold. It's only just turning a vice 
little tighter every day. Some one groans, to be sure ; 
who cares? Here comes Thomas Vennard to look at 
Reai'don's share of the Works. Things were going to 
the dogs, sharp. It looked worse than it was. No one 
was there to bid against him, and Ellicott's an old fool. 
'Now,' says my gentleman, 'you'll all have to stand 
round. Any man that I can't buy may go to the 
devil. And those I do buy will have a long row to 
hoe, I can tell you. No fooling with me.' Now, 
what is the result?" 
Stephen Dane ground his teeth, but made no reply. 
"You work twice as hard as before, and get the same 
pay. The profit goes into the pocket of T. Vennard. 
And if one man of you dares to say his soul's his own, 
 
what then? Off he marches. What can a poor man 
do ? Here's his family starving if he is out of work a 
week. I say, Capital is the greatest tyrant in the world. 
It fights labor down to the lowest point, and chains it 
there. It means to keep workmen ignorant. Educa- 
tion is its bitterest enemy. What chance has a man for 
improvement when he gets just enough to keep body 
and soul together? How can he study when he comes 
home worn out with toil ? He must have some excite- 
ment, some relaxation ; so he flies to the tavern. That's 
what the bosses like. They make a great spread, build- 
ing churches and voting public schools everywhere. 
Who goes to 'em? Why, look at the men in this town 
who haven't a Sunday coat, and who are compelled to 
send their children to work at twelve and thirteen ! 
That rears up just such another brutish generation. I 
say the whole thing is an abomination ! " 
The speaker brought one fist down on the palm of 
the. other hand, and gave Dane a triumphant nod, as 
if he had established a great point. 
"What's to be done?" asked Stephen Dane, 
thoughtfully. "These rich men always will keep 
the power." 
" I say they haven't any business with so much 
money. Equalization of capital is my great theory. 
Workmen must take it into their own hands." 
"But how can they?" 
Dane's tone was impatient. 
"They must form associations Homes. Now, I 
believe these homes could be successfully carried out. 
Each man could put in his labor, his energy, and what- 
ever money he might have, and share equal with his 
fellows. It's the only thing that ever will raise the 
poorer classes. No one will give them a helping hand ; 
so they must help themselves." 
" But what could they do ? People must eat." 
" Just what the workmen do at Elliott's, or any 
other place. When do you suppose Vennard would 
make a fortune if it depended on his daily labor ? And 
if so many men can make thousands of dollars a year 
for him, they could make something for themselves. 
Couldn't they have factories, and mills, and farms? 
And then this abode, which should be a home, would 
admit of the developing of each soul according to its 
primal bent. Each man must have the work that suits 
his native power. Under such a system, the talent, 
genius, and power would be brought out, cultivated 
according to the eternal truths and harmonies, and man 
would no longer be a brute, a mere machine, at the 
beck of any person who would give him barely enough 
to keep him from starving." 
" Did you ever see one of these Homes ? " 
"Yes, I've seen 'em. No dirty floors and frowzy- 
headed women. No starved and beggarly brats. No 
filth and foulness. Men and women enfranchising 
themselves from these cursed laws of society and cus- 
 
torn ; growing into a broad, vigorous life. You can 
believe in a God, there. And when the day comes in 
which a soul will dare to be true to itself " 
w But why don't people form them everywhere ? " 
Somehow the idea looked so bright, and clean, and 
enticing to Stephen Dane. 
" Why ? Because the world is full of greedy, grasp- 
ing men, and vain, selfish women. Because among 
people of means you never find a correspondingly 
generous soul. What is it to Vennard if men are 
dragged down to the very dregs of social life, stupefy 
themselves with bad liquor, beat their wives and 
children? When they reach that point of brutishness 
that incapacitates them from earning their wages, he 
gets new men, and works them down. The old ones 
make thieves, murderers, and paupers. He grumbles 
at taxes and the increase of crime ; they all do ; and yet 
they are ready enough to ship workmen off when no 
longer useful. Do they think a man has a soul, a 
bruin, or could be anything beyond the mere machine 
they make him?" 
All this stirred Stephen strangely. He knew so 
little concerning the schemes with which men have 
deluded themselves in their vain search for a perfect 
social system, that he was not capable of seeing the 
faults or appreciating the difficulties of these great 
reforms. He had a perception, vague though it was, 
of a better life than he was leading, and Gilbert's 
 
Phalansteries appeared perfection. But how to reach 
one. 
"Could I join one of these?" he said at length. 
Gilbert looked at him curiously. He stood just 
in range of the light from the open door. Some- 
thing in the man's stalwart, rude strength touched him 
with a sense of incongruity. Had he any fine brain ? 
" Yes, you could," he answered slowly. 
He was sometimes compelled to admit to himself 
that these experiments had been failures. He laid the 
blame on the people who composed them, forgetting 
that systems must be made for men, and that human 
souls, in their infinite variety, cannot all be crowded 
into one groove, or reach one height. They ignore 
the differences of temperament, they cling to the same 
arbitrary government they denounce so bitterly in the 
world. With all their experience they make too little 
allowance for the warps, and strains, and excrescences 
poor human nature suffers from, and will while the 
earth stands. 
Two or three new-comers joined the two men. 
Stephen frowned and bit his lip. He wanted to hear 
more about these places, but he was too reserved to 
open his heart to, a crowd. 
"What's the row, Gilbert? Laying down the law 
again?" asked a round-faced, jolly-looking fellow. 
" No row," said Gilbert, rather surlily. " Can't a 
man talk?" 
" I do suppose he can in this free country." 
" Free ! " Gilbert gave a contemptuous sneer. 
"Yes, free country. I ain't goin' to stand by an' see 
her run down. I have all I want." 
" You're a lucky fellow," with another sneer. "Can't 
many men say that." 
"Tell you what it is, Gilbert; you men, with your 
fine theories, are always out of sorts, and dissatisfied. 
No thin' goes right." 
Gilbert took up the gauntlet. He was fond of 
argument; he had a certain readiness of words and 
much superficial information. He soon distanced his 
adversary, and established his point, which was always 
the wrongs and degradation of the working classes. 
He had a certain show of right on his side, and a 
sympathy that attracted many to his way of thinking. 
It is so easy to make a man believe he is wronged, 
unjustly treated. And when he sees another accumu- 
lating wealth, the result of his labor, his heart fires 
up with a bitter, angry feeling. 
Stephen Dane listened. As they went on, evil 
passions were aroused. Oaths were freely used. One 
and another went in for a drink, and rejoined the group 
with a heated brain, ripe for any monstrous belief. 
Inside, they were gambling in a small way, singing 
street songs, and using their tongues noisily, when 
they were not too thick for articulation. 
If such men as Gilbert believed anything could be 
 
done for the "masses," why not begin here? Heaven 
knows they needed it sorely. But he laid the blame 
off his shoulders, dropped it at another's door. Men 
were justified in drinking and carousing, because they 
had no other amusement. With low wages, homes 
could not be beautified, intellects cultivated, nor any 
of the appliances or refinements of wealth indulged in. 
Clearly, then, the system of labor was at fault. But 
did such foul, disgusting pleasures as these pay? 
Stephen Dane stole away while the excited voices 
were at their highest. The man's impulses were clean 
and pure ; these sights and sounds jarred roughly 
against his soul. If he could go to one of those Homes, 
if he could be educated to something, and not have to 
grovel all his life ! For, after all, in the battle, brain 
won the day against brawn. Not just such a morbid, 
nervous, crochety brain as Gilbert's. I hardly know 
why Gilbert should have lost favor in his eyes that 
night as a prophet ; but he did. Stephen had begun to 
believe quite strongly in him, but now he felt all adrift 
again. And such a wide, lonesome sea ! 
The young moon was walking amid the stars, shed- 
ding a ^alm and tender light. All was so peaceful 
here ! How odd that Gilbert's confessed half-atheism 
should have made him think of God ! He began to 
wonder at his own previous insensibility. He was 
not stock or stone. He could perceive this heavenly 
beauty, and enjoy it. He even longed for something 
 
besides companionship, perhaps. He had never 
known how solitary his existence was until now. 
If he went away to lead a new life, what could he 
do with his father, with Joe? Not leave them behind. 
He had an idea that to desert them would make a bad 
beginning. And yet they were a drag. Joe might be 
raised a little, but his father 
So, in spite of the balmy evening, he came home in 
an irritable mood. The room was deserted. The fire 
on the hearth had burned to a heap of ashes. It looked 
gray enough in that long beam of moonlight. He 
stumbled up stairs without the aid of any candle, and 
went to bed. Generally to instant slumber, but now 
he tossed about restlessly. The wind brought Sally 
Fawcett's shrill laugh up the lane, and the echo of Joe's 
good night. How noisy these women were ! loud- 
voiced, hard, not the women of Phalansteries. Then 
his father came shambling along, and silence fell over 
the house. The voice of the distant marsh-frogs kept 
up a monotonous murmur, and amid this he dropped 
asleep. 
Mr. Vennard's marriage made little difference at the 
Kllicott Works. True, he was away for a week. A 
gatekeeper marked time as rigidly. Foremen were as 
sharp. But one relentless eye was not there to pounce 
upon them in an unsuspecting moment. The men 
breathed a little more freely, but there were no cases of 
insubordination. 
 
He brought his little daughter back with him, and 
father and child took up their abode at Mr. Ellicott's, 
until the completion of the new house. Mrs. Vennard's 
elegant dresses were the town talk ; and Joe, like many 
another foolish woman, was delighted with a sight of 
her in the carriage, driving with the little girl. 
" But such a child I There ain't nothin' to her. She 
looks, for all the world, like an angel. Light, yellow 
curls, and a face as white as a ghost. She's enough- 
sight more like her step-mother than her father. Won- 
der if she'll be good to Rer, Stephen ? " 
"Why not?" with a sort of grave, preoccupied air. 
Stephen no longer went to the tavern, but he was still 
busy pondering the problem of destiny. 
" Step-mothers ain't always good." And Joe tossed 
her head with a quick jerk, as if she was enunciating a 
great truth. 
Stephen wondered just then how much Mr. Vennard 
cared for his child if indeed he could care for any- 
thing. What a life she would have ! Always to be 
surrounded by beauty and luxury; never, perhaps, to 
know a want. And his soul must be starved in order 
to pamper her. 
If Stephen Dane could have looked down this child's 
future ! But not the wildest dream could have con- 
nected him with her then. 
Orders poured in upon Mr. Vennard. Night and 
day the great engines were in motion. What did he 
 
care if some of the poor wretches at the tavern mut- 
tered threats and imprecations ? If they had chosen to 
obey the rules, they might have still held their places. 
It was not his fault. 
One night they were casting. There was no moon, 
and the great sheet of flame from the chimney struck 
vividly against the deep-blue sky. Myriads of sparks 
rayed off like shooting stars. It was a strange, weird 
sight from without, but a hundred fold more intense 
within. And so Mrs. Vennard brought her guests 
down to inspect it. Few of them had witnessed the 
work on so grand a scale. 
They looked like spirits from another world, those 
gayly-dressed ladies and fine gentlemen. Little shrieks 
and exclamations were drowned amid the unearthly din. 
They gathered up their dresses daintily, and kept by 
the open windows to avoid the smothering heat, peering 
now and then into these molten red streams, that seemed 
to crawl along the ground like fiery serpents. It 
formed a striking picture, with just sufficient of the 
weird to give it a touch of diablerie. 
Stephen Dane was not very busy: in fact he had 
been promoted from the casting-shop to one of the 
forges ; though he came down nearly every night, be- 
cause he liked it, and he could think better here than 
in that comfortless home, with Joe's unceasing chatter. 
The man had begun to find much enjoyment in the use 
of his faculties. Convinced that he .was not a mere 
 
animal product of nature, but held, somewhere within, 
a sentient, spiritual vitality, he put forth some feeble 
efforts, like a child's walking at first ; but there was 
something fascinating in it that lured him on. 
He watched the group out beyond with a strange 
feeling. These young men with fair foreheads, care- 
fully trimmed beards, well-arranged hair and dress, 
were .different from him. These delicate women, with 
slender white hands and graceful figures, did not in the 
least resemble Joe. Was it the accident of birth and 
prosperity only, or something of a more positive and 
integral nature? Quite a new speculation for him. 
Rather annoying, too ; so presently he strayed around 
to the other side, where their brightness and beauty no 
longer jarred upon him. 
Some one pulled him gently, and a little, timid voice 
uttered, "Say ! " so entreating withal, that it quite sur- 
prised him. But turning, he was still more astonished. 
She looked so uncanny, this little girl of seven or 
thereabouts, standing in the shadowy darkness, her 
white face, her pale hair, of a ripe wheat tint, falling 
about her shoulders, her large, lustrous eyes, her dim- 
pled arms and tiny hands, all so distinctly outlined 
against the black background. He was confused and 
bewildered by the vision, and gazed at her with some- 
thing more than amazement incredulity. 
Her upraised glance was so sweet and fearless ! 
" I wish you would hold me up and let me look into 
 
that large large I don't know what you call it 
full of iron." 
"What, the kettle?" he said, just under his breath, 
hardly knowing whether he dared answer her or not. 
" Yes. I want to see. Mamma and the rest looked 
in ; but she said wait for papa to lift me. He hasn't 
come yet." 
"You will not be afraid?" 
"No." And she gave such a soft, musical laugh. 
"You'll hold me tight won't you? and your arms are 
good and strong." 
His sleeves were rolled up nearly to the shoulders. 
Great, strong arms they were, indeed, with swelling 
muscles and hard, brown skin. But he kept on glan- 
cing at her in a sort of vacant surprise. 
"Well I" she remarked at length. 
He stepped outside the door, and, from a niche in the 
passage-way, took down a coat of soft gray cloth, that 
one of the men had worn. He remembered noticing 
at noon that it had been improved by a recent washing. 
" Are you going to wrap me up in that ? " And she 
laughed again. 
It sent a thrill all over him. He had never heard 
anything so sweet in all his life before, unless it was a 
brook purling over some pebbly descent. 
" O, no. Only I'm all dust and grime, and should 
soil you. So I'll just throw this coat over my arm and 
shoulder." 
 
She looked down at her pale-blue dress, with its 
white braided edge, and gave a little, dainty smile. 
He stooped to take her, and then he paused, trem- 
bling in every nerve with some unwonted emotion. A 
very angel, as Joe had said. 
" Are you afraid of me because my dress is so nice ? " 
"No, not that ; and yet I am afraid of you." 
He spoke the simple truth. 
"Why?" she asked, wonderingly. 
"I cannot tell you." And then, with a great effort, 
he took her in his arms. 
"O, how tall you are ! " she exclaimed, clasping her 
tiny hands joyously. "It's like going up to the moon. 
I can see over the tops of the men's heads. And how 
odd it all looks ! " 
" It's very hot there by the furnace," he said slowly. 
" It won't burn me, just for a moment. I want to see, 
so much ! " 
He picked his way over the smoking moulds, holding 
his precious burden in the tenderest clasp. He could 
not think of her in connection with Sally Fawcett's 
dirty children, who played in the lane the only chil- 
dren he had hitherto been brought much in contact with. 
She drew her breath in a quick, excited manner as 
they approached the seething mass. The men were 
dipping it out with huge, long-handled ladles, and 
paused for a moment to stare at her. A strange vision 
was that lovely, childish face amid the rough, stalwart 
forms. 
 
She turned suddenly, and clasped her arms around 
Stephen Dane's neck. The soft, pinky flesh touched 
his lip and cheek in passing. She caught at a long, 
convulsive sigh, and he felt.how every pulse quivered as 
he turned away. 
" Were you frightened ? " he asked, when they had 
regained the doorway. 
"Not quite. Only I thought, if anybody ever let a 
little girl fall in " 
Both shivered ; she with her arms still around his 
neck soft, white arms, stirring all his manhood's 
blood. 
" What made you think of anything so terrible ? It 
could never, never happen." 
He drew her closer. 
"Mamma said Mr. Lawton might let me fall. But 
you are stronger." 
He rejoiced in his strength at that moment ; but he 
said, with a rather grim smile, 
"I am not one of your fine gentlemen." 
" I don't like Mr. Lawton," was her comment. 
She would like him by and by, when the years 
taught her the difference. And then Stephen Dane 
sighed. 
"Have you any little girls at home?" she asked, 
presently. 
"No." 
" What makes you look so sorry ? " 
 
She was peering into his eyes with her lustrous orbs 
swimming in lakes of liquid light. 
"Did I look sorry?" 
"Don't you like little girls?" She was following 
her own train of thought, and hardly noticed his 
question. 
"I like you." There was a strange, half-suppressed 
passion in his voice. 
" May I come down here sometimes ? Papa thinks 
me a bother. It's so lonesome at at home ! " There 
was a little break in her voice. "I haven't any one to 
play with, you know. And at Philadelphia there was 
Addie and Jane. It was so nice ! What's your 
name?" with a sudden impulse. 
" Stephen Dane." 
" Did you come from Denmark ? " 
" No ; " and he laughed. " Why ? " 
" The Danes do. I learned it in my Geography. 
