"Vallington, I confess my astonishment at seeing you engaged in an
affair of this kind," said Mr. Parasyte, reproachfully; and he fixed
his gaze upon the judge, and again wiped the perspiration from his
forehead. "I have always regarded you as an orderly and well-behaved
boy."
"I do not expect to forfeit my reputation as such by what I have done.
Mr. Parasyte, the boys are dissatisfied. We are not little children.
We have all reached the years of discretion, and we know the
difference between right and wrong, between justice and injustice."
"Do you intend to read me a lecture?" demanded the principal, angrily.
"No, sir; I had no such intention--only to state the facts."
"But you are arraigning me, the principal of the Parkville Liberal
Institute," added Mr. Parasyte, measuring the judge from head to foot.
"You may call it what you please, sir."
"May I ask what you purpose to do?" continued the principal, in a
sneering tone, not unmingled with timidity.
"Poodles," said the judge, turning to the lank toady, "stand up."
He obeyed; and being now with the majority of the boys, I think he was
mean enough to enjoy the discomfiture of Mr. Parasyte, for there can
be no real respect or true sympathy in the relation of one flunky with
another.
"Are you ready to tell the whole truth?" demanded Vallington.
"I am," replied Poodles.
"Perhaps you will be willing to inform Mr. Parasyte, in the beginning,
whether you do so of your own free will and accord, or not."
"I do so of my own free will and accord."
"Did you perform the examples on the examination paper without any
assistance?"
"I did not."
"How many did you do yourself?"
"None of them."
"Who struck the first blow in the affray on the pier with Thornton?"
"I did," answered Poodles, with a silly leer. "Thornton told the facts
just exactly as they were."
"You may sit down."
Mr. Parasyte wiped his brow again.
"Pearl," continued Vallington.
This culprit, unlike his companion in guilt, looked sheepish and
crestfallen, as he slowly rose from his seat. He was not so base and
low-minded as Poodles, and he felt a genuine shame for the mean
conduct of which he had been guilty.
"Have you anything to say, Pearl?" asked the judge.
"I lent my paper to Poodles, who copied the solutions from it,"
replied Pearl, with his glance fixed upon the floor.
"That's all; you may sit down."
Pearl seated himself; and if a pin had fallen to the floor then, it
might have been heard in the anxious silence that followed. Mr.
Parasyte's chest heaved with emotion. He wanted to storm, and scold,
and threaten, but seemed to be afraid to do so.
"I have nothing more to say at present, Mr. Parasyte. In the name and
in behalf of the students, I have brought the facts to your notice,"
said Vallington, breaking the impressive stillness, as the principal
did not seem disposed to do so.
"After the riotous proceedings of this afternoon, I might have
expected this; but I did not," the principal began. "You appear to
have intimidated Poodles to such an extent that he has entirely
modified and reversed the statements he made this afternoon. He is a
weak-minded boy, and it was not difficult to do so."
This remark roused the ire of Poodles, and it required a sharp
reprimand from the judge to repress his impertinence.
"Pearl is a poor boy, upon whose fears you seem to have successfully
wrought. A confession from either of them, under the circumstances, is
not reliable. I do not countenance this meeting, or these proceedings.
I am not to be intimidated by your action. In regard to what you have
done, I have nothing to say; but I require you to separate, and go at
once to your rooms."
"Will you be kind enough to inform us what you intend to do, Mr.
Parasyte?" said Vallington.
"I am not to be taken to task by my pupils."
"We do not intend to resort to any disorderly proceedings," added the
judge. "Poodles and Pearl, without compulsion, have acknowledged
their errors, and it has been fully proved that Thornton was not to
blame for the affair on the pier. We ask, therefore, that Thornton be
restored to his rank and privileges as a member of the Institute. If
this is not done, at least fifty of us will sign a paper urging our
parents and guardians to take us away from this school."
"I will grant nothing under these circumstances--promise nothing,"
replied the principal, doggedly.
"We are in no haste. We leave the matter for your consideration, Mr.
Parasyte. We will all go to our rooms now."
Vallington left the chair, and walked out of the school-room, followed
in good order by all the students who had taken part in these
irregular proceedings. I was going out with the rest, when Mr.
Parasyte intimated that he had something to say to me, and I remained.
When the boys had all gone, he invited me to accompany him to his
private office--a small apartment, opening from the main hall, near
the front door, in which he received callers, and sat in state when
not employed in the school-room.
There is an old saying that "you must summer and winter" a man before
you know him. Mr. Parasyte was considered a tyrant; not a coarse and
brutal tyrant, but a refined and gentlemanly one, who cows you by his
polite impertinence. He seldom indulged in harsh speech, never in
personal violence--at least no instance of it was known to the
students. He indulged in sneers and polished browbeating. A boy was
never stupid--he lacked common intelligence; never a blockhead--his
perceptions were very dull. His polite epithets were more cutting than
good round invectives would have been.
He had a will of his own; and he was obstinate, mulish, pig-headed. If
he had been surprised into declaring that black was white, then black
would continue to be white, in spite of positive demonstration to the
contrary. He was dogmatic to the last degree; and this is a fault to
which the schoolmaster is peculiarly liable. It required the event of
the day whereof I speak to enable us fully to comprehend Mr. Parasyte.
We had summered him before; now we were to winter him.
What he had said in the school-room indicated that he intended to
regard the confessions of Poodles and Pearl as extorted from them by
intimidation, and that he purposed to persist in persecuting me. I had
no desire to be a martyr; but I did not see how I could help myself.
"Thornton, I see you intend, if possible, to break up the Parkville
Liberal Institute," said he.
"No, sir, I do not. I hadn't anything to do with what took place in
the school-room," I replied.
"You did not seem to be a martyr there," sneered he. "The boys have
made a mistake; so have you. They don't know me; you don't. You got up
a quarrel this afternoon."
"No, sir, I did not."
"Don't contradict me," said he, sharply. "I say you got up a quarrel
this afternoon."
"And I say I did not."
"I am in no humor to trifle with you," said he, opening a desk, and
taking out a cowhide.
I was willing to confess, when I saw that implement, that I had not
known him before. He was about to step down from refined to brutal
tyranny.
"Poodles himself has confessed that he lied," I added, taking no
further notice of the cowhide.
"Confessed!" exclaimed Mr. Parasyte, savagely. "The boys have either
bribed or frightened him into this confession. It will have no effect
upon me."
"I have nothing to say, then," I answered, with dignity. "If you will
look into the case again, and require Poodles to do the examples, you
will see that you, and not the boys, have made a mistake."
"Silence, sir! I don't intend to be addressed in that impudent way by
any student. I have attempted to suppress this rebellion by mild
means; but they have failed. I have been to see your uncle. As I
supposed he would, he has taken a proper view of the case. He does not
wish to have you expelled, and I revoke my sentence; but he desires to
have you reduced to subjection."
My uncle had actually spoken, and taken sides with the tyrant. I was
astonished, but not intimidated.
"I have drawn up a paper for you to sign, which shall be read to the
boys to-morrow morning. There it is."
I glanced at the document. It was an acknowledgment of all Mr.
Parasyte charged me with, and a promise to behave myself properly. I
refused to sign it. The principal rolled up his sleeves, and took the
cowhide in his hand. He looked cool and malignant.
"Then I shall do as your uncle wishes me to do--reduce you to
subjection," said he. "Consider well what you are doing."
"I have considered, sir. If you strike me with that cowhide, I shall
do the best I can to defend myself."
"Do you threaten me?" demanded Mr. Parasyte, stepping towards me with
a jerk.
"No, sir; but I will not submit to a blow, if it costs me my life."
"Won't you? We'll see."
He did see. He struck me. The blow cut my soul. I sprang upon him with
all the tiger in my nature let loose. I kicked, bit, scratched. I
clawed at his throat like a vampire, and, though severely belabored, I
finally wrenched the cowhide from his grasp, and hurled him back so
that he fell full length upon the floor.
CHAPTER IX.
IN WHICH ERNEST STRIKES A HEAVY BLOW, AND WINS ANOTHER VICTORY.
I was astonished at my own prowess, as I stood, with heaving breast,
gazing at the prostrate form of the vanquished tyrant. I was a stout
young fellow, heavy enough and strong enough for a boy of fifteen; but
I did not regard myself as a match for a full-grown man. I suppose the
fury and impetuosity of the onslaught I made had given me the victory
before Mr. Parasyte was able to bring all his power to bear upon me.
I was satisfied with what I had done, and did not care to do any more.
I wished to leave; but the principal had locked the door, and put the
key into his pocket. I glanced at the window, hoping to find a means
of egress in that direction, though it was at least ten feet above the
ground. But ten feet are nothing to a boy of spirit; and I was moving
towards the window, intending to take the leap, when Mr. Parasyte
sprang to his feet, and confronted me again. If ever a man wore the
expression of a demon, the principal of the Parkville Liberal
Institute did at that moment; and it was patent to me that, unless I
could effect my escape, my trials and troubles had but just commenced.
I was more disposed to use strategy than force; for, in spite of the
victory I had won, I was fearful that the tyrant "carried too many
guns" for me. The malignity of his aspect was accompanied by an
expression of pain, as though he had been injured by his fall. This
was in my favor, if I was to be again compelled to break a lance with
him.
"You villain!" gasped Mr. Parasyte, with one hand upon his side. "How
dare you resist?"
"I have no fancy for being cut to pieces with a cowhide," I replied,
as coolly as I could, which, however, was not saying much.
"Your uncle wished me to reduce you to subjection, and to flog you
till you came to your senses."
"I am not very grateful to my uncle for his request; and I have to
say, that I will not be tamely flogged either by you or by him."
"What do you mean to do?" demanded he, apparently astonished to find
me so resolute.
"I mean to resist as long as I am flogged," I replied, twisting the
cowhide I still held in my hand.
Saying this, I jumped upon the window-seat, and unfastened the sash.
"Stop!" said he, moving towards me.
"I know what you mean now; and if you come near me, I will hit you
over the head with the butt-end of this cowhide," I replied, raising
the sash.
"I intend to reduce you to subjection at any hazard," he added.
Without making reply, I attempted to get out of the window in such a
way that I could drop to the ground, or "hang off" with my hands. In
doing this, I laid myself open to the assault of the enemy, who was
prompt in perceiving his advantage, and in availing himself of it.
Seizing me by the collar with both hands, he dragged me back into the
office, and hurled me heavily upon the floor, at the same time
wrenching the cowhide from my grasp. I sprang to my feet with the
celerity of a wounded tiger; but the principal began to beat me with a
zeal corresponding to his malignity.
A heavy round ruler on the desk, which had before attracted my
attention, was available as a weapon, and in the fury of my passion I
grasped it. Without thought or consideration except in my own defence,
I sprang upon the tyrant again, and dealt him several heavy blows with
the implement, until one was planted in such a place on his head that
it knocked him insensible upon the floor. Panting like a hunted deer
from the rage which filled my soul, and from the violence of my
exertions, I gazed upon the work I had done. Mr. Parasyte lay
motionless upon the floor. I took the key from his vest pocket, and
unlocked the door.
In the hall I found several persons, including Mrs. Parasyte, and Mr.
Hardy, one of the assistant teachers. They had been sitting in the
parlor opposite the office, and had heard the noise of the desperate
struggle between the principal and myself.
"What have you done!" exclaimed Mrs. Parasyte, greatly alarmed when
she saw her husband lying senseless upon the floor.
"This is bad business," added Mr. Hardy, as he hastened to the
assistance of the principal.
"Is he dead?" asked the wife, in tremulous tones.
"No--O, no! But he has had a heavy blow on the temple," replied the
teacher.
I assisted Mrs. Parasyte and Mr. Hardy in carrying my foe to his
chamber. I was alarmed myself. I feared that I had done more than I
intended to do. I went for the doctor at the lady's request; but
before my return Mr. Parasyte had come to his senses, and complained
of a severe sickness at his stomach. The physician carefully examined
him, and declared that his patient was not seriously injured. I need
not say that I was greatly relieved by this opinion. I left the room,
intending to depart from the house, though it was now nearly eleven
o'clock at night. Mr. Hardy followed me out into the hall, and wished
to know where I was going.
"Home," I replied.
"I'm afraid you have got into difficulty, Thornton," added he.
"I can't help it if I have. I didn't mean to hurt him so badly; but it
was his own fault."
"How did it happen?"
I told him how it happened; but Mr. Hardy expressed no opinion on the
merits of the case. He knew, as well as I did, that Mr. Parasyte had
been wrong from the beginning; but being in a subordinate position, it
was not proper for him to condemn his principal.
"The boys are in a riotous condition, and it is fortunate they do not
know of this affair. I hope you do not intend to inform them--at least
not to-night," he added.
"No, sir, I do not. I have tried from the first to keep the peace.
Poodles confessed to Mr. Parasyte that he had lied about the affair on
the pier, but he refused to believe him. I am sorry there has been any
trouble; but I couldn't help it."
Mr. Hardy was really troubled; but he could not say anything, and he
did not. He was a poor man, trying to earn the means to study a
profession by teaching, and a word or a look of sympathy to a rebel
like me would have cost him his situation. He was a just and a fair
man, and as such was loved and respected by all the students. Many of
the boys had often wished that he might be the principal of the
academy, instead of Mr. Parasyte, who had established and who still
owned the institution.
There was nothing more to be said or done, and I left the academy for
home. I was sincerely sorry for what had happened. Even a quarrel in
which I had been the victor had no pleasant reflections for me. I
would have submitted to any punishment except the flogging, and borne
the injustice of it without a complaint; but I had been required to
confess that of which I was not guilty, and I could not do that. I
hated a lie of any kind, and I could not tell one to save myself from
the consequences of the tyrant's rage and injustice.
I considered all the events of the day as I walked home, and came to
the conclusion that I was not to blame for the mischief that had been
done. If I had been haughty and disobedient, it was because I had been
treated badly. I certainly did not deserve flogging, and it would have
been impossible for me to submit to it. If I had been guilty, I could
have borne even that.
My uncle had counselled Mr. Parasyte to reduce me to subjection; and
much I marvelled that he had found words to say so much. It was an
evidence of interest in me which he had never before manifested. It
was plain that, in the settlement of the difficulty, I must count upon
the opposition of my uncle, who had already espoused the principal's
side of the quarrel. But I did not make any rash resolves, preferring
to act as my sense of right and justice should dictate when the time
for action came.
As I approached the cottage by the lake, I saw a light in my uncle's
library. My guardian sat up late at night, and rose early in the
morning. He did not sleep well, and he always looked pale and haggard.
He was a misanthrope in the worst sense of the word. He seemed to have
no friends, and to care for no one in the world--not even for himself.
Certainly he had no regard for me.
Of his past history I knew nothing; but I had already concluded that
he had been subjected to some terrible disappointment or injustice. He
appeared to suffer all the time; and if he would have permitted it,
how gladly would I have assuaged his woe by my sympathy! He was cold
and forbidding, and would not permit me to speak a word to him. I had
once tried to make him tell me something about my father and mother;
but, with an expression of angry impatience upon his face, he had
turned and fled in disgust from me.
I longed to know who and what my mother was; but my questions brought
no answer. One day, when my uncle was away, I had crept into his
library, and tried vainly to obtain some information from his books
and papers. He caught me in the room, and drove me out with a curse
upon his lips. After that a spring lock was put upon the door, the key
of which he carried in his pocket.
On the present occasion I had nothing to expect from my uncle; but I
wished to see him, and tell him my story. I knew that he could talk;
for, during the preceding year, a man of thirty, elegantly dressed,
came to the cottage one afternoon, and walked with my uncle into the
grove by the lake. They had business together, and it was not of a
pleasant nature; for, prompted by curiosity, I rowed my skiff up to
the shore, to learn what I might of the stranger's purpose. I could
not understand a word that was said; but my uncle talked rapidly and
fiercely, and a violent altercation ensued, which I feared would end
in blows. The stranger did not come back to the cottage, and the
supper which Betsey had prepared for the guest was not needed.
Learning from this that my uncle had a tongue, I asked him who the
stranger was. The answer was only a savage frown. He had no tongue for
me. Neither old Jerry nor his wife was any better informed than I was,
for both assured me they did not know the stranger. Satisfied,
therefore, that my uncle could talk, I was determined to see him
before I went to bed, though it was nearly midnight. Perhaps, also, I
was disposed to adopt this course, because my guardian had given such
bad advice to Mr. Parasyte. I was not insensible to the indulgence
with which I had ever been treated; and seeing that my silent uncle
wished to avoid me, I had generally favored him in doing so. It was
different now. He had given an order or a permission to have me
brutally punished, and I was determined to make him "face the music."
I entered the house, and passing through my uncle's chamber, stood at
the door of the library, which was fastened by the spring lock.
CHAPTER X.
IN WHICH ERNEST HAS AN INTERVIEW WITH HIS UNCLE.
With my resolution still at the highest pitch of firmness, I knocked
at the library door. I expected a storm; it was hardly possible to
avoid one; but I hoped, if I could induce my stern and silent guardian
to speak or to listen, that I might make an impression upon him. There
was no answer to my knock, and I repeated it. Then I heard a stir in
the library, and my uncle opened the door. When he saw me, he was
about to close the door in my face, doubtless regarding my conduct in
knocking at his door as impudent in the highest degree. I was not
disposed to be shut out, and anticipating his purpose, I stepped
nimbly into the room.
"Uncle Amos, I wish to speak with you for a few moments, if you will
be kind enough to hear me," I began, in tones as humble as the veriest
tyrant could have required.
He sat down in his arm-chair, leaned his head upon his hand in such a
way as to cover his face, but made me no reply, either by word or by
sign.
"I would not trouble you if it were not necessary to do so," I
continued. "Will you permit me to tell my story?"
He removed his hand, and gave me an affirmative nod; but it was
evident to me that my presence was the occasion of positive suffering
to him. I knew of no reason why I should be personally disagreeable to
him, and it seemed to me that his aversion was caused wholly by a kind
of obstinacy, which I could not understand.
"I have had a difficulty with Mr. Parasyte; but I was not to blame, as
I can prove by more than half the students in the academy," I
proceeded; and then I rehearsed all the particulars of my affray with
Poodles, on the pier, including the rebellion of the students, and the
confession of the guilty ones.
My uncle may have heard me, and he may not; but he took not the least
notice of me, appearing to be absorbed in his own meditations during
the recital of my wrongs.
"Mr. Parasyte called me into his private office, and informed me that
he had been to see you," I added.
My uncle removed his hand from his face, glanced at me, nodded his
head, which was the first indication he had given that he was
conscious of my presence, after I began to relate my story. The look
that accompanied the nod was anything but a pleasant one. There was
something like malignant satisfaction in the glance that he bestowed
upon me.
"Then you did request Mr. Parasyte to reduce me to subjection, as he
expressed it?"
"I did," replied he, decidedly, as he again uncovered his face, and
nodded to emphasize his reply.
This was hopeful, for I had at least got an answer out of him, though
the reply was cold-blooded and cruel.
"Did you request him to flog me?" I demanded, a little excited by the
fact that my uncle was likely to prove as malignant as the
schoolmaster.
"I did," he added; and his eyes seemed to glow like two coals of fire.
It was not difficult now for me to understand the situation. My uncle
hated me,--why I knew not. I could not reconcile such a feeling with
the indulgence he had always extended to me. I could not see why, if
he hated me, as that fierce glare of his eyes indicated, he had always
allowed me to have my own way, had always given me money without
stint, and had permitted me to go and come when and as I pleased, and
rove at will over the broad and dangerous lake.
I have since learned that this indulgence was perfectly consistent
with hatred, and that the judicious parent, who truly loves his son,
would deprive him of such unhealthy and dangerous indulgences. As he
hated me, so he let me have my own way. Had he loved me, he would have
restrained me; he would have inquired into my conduct when away from
home; and above all, he would not have allowed me to risk my life upon
the stormy lake as I did.
"You did request him to flog me, and without understanding the
merits of the case!" I replied, indignantly.
He nodded again.
"Uncle Amos, I have tried to do my duty faithfully at school, and to
be respectful and obedient to my teachers. This is the first time I
have had any trouble. I say, most solemnly, I was not to blame."
"You were," said my uncle.
"Will you hear the evidence in my favor?"
"No."
"You will not?"
"No."
"What would you have me do?"
"Obey your teacher."
"Mr. Parasyte ordered me to apologize to Poodles."
"Do it then."
"But Poodles confesses that I was not to blame."
"No matter."
"I cannot do it, uncle."
"The master must make you do it," added my uncle, with a sneer.
"He attempted to do so. He began to flog me, and I knocked him down,"
I replied, quietly, but sullenly.
My uncle sprang to his feet, and stared at me with an intensity which
would have made me quail if I had been guilty.
"You struck him!" exclaimed he, trembling with emotion.
"When he attempted a second time to flog me, I hit him on the head
with a heavy ruler, and he fell insensible upon the floor."
My stern guardian rushed furiously across the room, foaming with
passion.
"You villain!" gasped he, pausing before me. "You struck the master?"
"I knocked him down, as I would any other man who insulted me with a
blow," I replied, firmly; for I intended to have my uncle understand
exactly how I felt.
"You are an obstinate whelp!" ejaculated my guardian, who had
certainly found a tongue now.
"All the students think I am right."
"The students! What do I care what they think?"
"They understand the case."
"Humph!" sneered my uncle.
"I see, sir, that I have nothing to expect from you," I continued.
"No!"
"I have only to say that Mr. Parasyte can't flog me. If I were guilty,
I would not resist; but I will fight as long as I have a breath left
against such injustice."
"Very pretty! May I ask what you are going to do with yourself?"
"I don't know yet; only, if I am not wanted here, I won't stay here. I
think I can take care of myself."
"Do you consider this a proper return for all I have done for you?"
asked he, more calmly.
"I don't know what you have done for me. I asked you once something
about my father and mother, and you did not answer me."
"You have no father and mother," he replied, with visible emotion.
"You need not ask any questions, for I will not answer them."
"Did they leave any property for me?" I asked, mildly; and I had
already concluded that they did, or my uncle would not have been so
lavish of his money upon me.
"Property! What put that idea into your head?" demanded he; and he was
more agitated than the circumstances seemed to warrant.
"I have no idea anything about it. I only asked the question."
"It is enough for you to know that I am willing to take care of you,
and pay your expenses, however extravagant they may be, as long as you
behave properly."
"I have always done so."
"No, you haven't! You have resisted your teacher, knocked him down,
killed him for aught I know. You are a bad boy."
It seemed just as though my uncle intended to drive me to desperation,
and compel me to commit some rash act. I could not see why he should
refuse to tell me anything about my father and mother.
"I asked you whether my parents left any property for me. You did not
answer me," I continued.
"I will answer no questions," replied he.
"If they did, it is right that I should know it," I persisted.
"If they did, you will know it when you are of age to receive it."
"I would like to know whether you are supporting me out of your own
property or with my own."
"It doesn't concern you to know, so long as you are supported."
"Yes, it does, and I insist upon knowing."
"I shall answer no questions," replied he, more troubled now than
angry.
"If there is nothing belonging to me, I am very willing to go to work
and support myself. I don't wish to be a burden upon one who cares so
little for me as you do."
"I did not say you were a burden. I have given you all you asked for,
and am willing to do so still."
"I don't wish to have you do so, if what you give me does not belong
to me."
"You are a foolish boy!" said he, impatiently.
"You have hardly spoken to me before for a year; and you never said as
much to me as you have to-night before in all my lifetime."
"It was not necessary to do so."
"Uncle Amos, I am old enough now to be able to think for myself," I
continued, earnestly. "It is time for me to know who and what I am,
and I am going to find out if it is possible for me to do so."
"It is not possible," said he, greatly agitated, though he struggled
to be calm. "What do you wish to know?"
"About my parents."
He walked the room for a moment with compressed lips, as if
considering whether he should tell me what I wanted to know.
"If I have concealed anything from you, it was for your own good,"
replied he, with a desperate effort. "Your father is dead; he died
eleven years ago."
"And my mother?" I asked, eagerly.
"She is a raving maniac in an insane asylum."
This information came like a shock upon me, and I wept great tears of
grief.
"I thank you, uncle Amos, for telling me so much, sad as it is. One
more question and I am satisfied. Did my father leave any property?"
"No," said he.
I fancied that this single word cost him a mightier effort than all he
had said before, though I could not see why it should.
"Where is my mother now?" I asked.
"You were to ask no more questions; and it is not best for you to know
where she is," he answered. "Now, Ernest, I wish you to make your
peace with Mr. Parasyte."
"How make my peace with him?"
"Do what he requires of you."
"I cannot do that; and I will not."
"If you persist you will ruin me," said my uncle, bitterly.
"I don't understand you, uncle Amos."
"Mr. Parasyte owes me a large sum of money."
Here was the hole in that millstone!
"His Institute is mortgaged to me. If there is trouble there, the
property will depreciate in value, and I shall be the loser."
My uncle seemed to be ashamed of himself for having said so much, and
told me to go to bed. I retired from his presence with the feeling
that I must sacrifice myself or my guardian.
CHAPTER XI.
IN WHICH ERNEST IS DISOWNED AND CAST OUT.
I was so nervous and excited after the stirring events of the day,
that I could not sleep when I went to bed, tired and almost exhausted
as I was. I had enough to think of, and that night has always seemed
to me like a new era in my existence. My father was dead; and my
mother, somewhere in the wide world, was an occupant of an insane
asylum. My uncle had told me I had no property, which was equivalent
to informing me that I must soon begin to earn my daily bread, unless
he chose to support me.
I would not even then have objected to earning my own living; indeed,
there was something pleasurable and exciting in the idea of depending
upon myself for my food and raiment; but I was not satisfied with my
uncle's statements. I could see no reason why he should not tell me
where my father had lived and died, and where my mother was confined
as a lunatic. I meant to know all about these things in due time, for
it was my right to know.
I could not help weeping when I thought of my mother, with her
darkened mind, shut out from the world and from me. What a joy she
would have been to me! What a comfort I might have been to her! My
father was dead, and she had no one to care for her. Was she in a
proper place? Was she kindly treated while overshadowed by her
terrible infirmity? I shuddered when I thought of her, for fear that
she might be in the hands of cruel persons.
It seemed very strange to me that my uncle should spend money so
freely upon me if I had no expectations. Why should he wish to conceal
anything that related to my father and mother from me? Who was the
person that came to the cottage and quarrelled with him? I had reached
the years of discretion, and was able to think for myself. What my
uncle told me, and what he refused to tell me, taken in connection
with his conduct, his mode of life, and his misanthropic habits,
convinced me that there was something wrong. I intended to ascertain
what it was; and I was fully resolved, whether it was right or wrong,
to explore the library in search of any letters, legal documents, or
other papers which would throw some light on the mystery, now becoming
painfully oppressive to me. It was my duty, as a son, to assure myself
that my mother, in her helplessness, was kindly cared for.
I went to sleep at last; and I did not wake the next morning till nine
o'clock, which was my uncle's usual breakfast hour. I took my morning
meal with him; but he did not speak a single word. After breakfast I
went down to the boat-house. I missed the Splash very much indeed; for
I wanted to take her, and sail away to some remote part of the lake,
and consider what I should do. Then it occurred to me that my
sail-boat might be raised and repaired; and I was getting into the
row-boat, with the intention of pulling out and finding the place
where the Splash had gone down, when my uncle made his appearance.
"Ernest, have you considered what you mean to do?" said he. "Do you
intend to go to school?"
"No, sir, I do not," I replied, promptly and decidedly.
"Then I disown you, and cast you out," he added, turning on his heel
and walking back to the house.
Was I becoming obstinate and self-willed? Was I refusing a reasonable
service? I sat down in the boat to think over it. It was not right
that I should apologize to Poodles, after he had confessed that the
evidence on which I had been condemned was a lie; and it was of no use
for me to return to the academy unless I could do so.
Mr. Parasyte owed my uncle a large sum of money, secured by the estate
and good-will of the Institute. If I was driven from the school, a
majority of the boys would petition their parents to be taken from it
also, and the establishment would be seriously injured. There was
plainly an understanding between Mr. Parasyte and my uncle, or the
tyrant would not have made war upon me as he did. Should I sacrifice
myself in order to save my uncle's money, or to prevent the debt from
being imperilled?
No! I could not; but I hoped my uncle would not lose his money, though
it would not be my fault if he did. I had just been "disowned and cast
out." The sentence hardly produced an impression upon me. I was not
banished from a happy home, where I had been folded in a mother's
love, and had lived in the light of a father's smile; only from the
home of coldness and silence; only from shelter and food, which I
could easily find elsewhere.
I took the oars and pulled towards the bluff off which the Splash had
sunk. It seemed to me just then that I was breaking away from all my
early associations, from my home and my school, and pushing out on the
great ocean of life, as my boat was upon the lake. I must go out into
the world, and make for myself a name and a fortune. There was
something solemn and impressive in the thought, and I rested upon my
oars to follow out the idea. Breaking away! To me it was not going
away, it was breaking away. There was no near and dear friend to bid
me God speed on my journey of life. As for my uncle, he would not
have cared if I had, at that moment, been forever buried beneath the
deep waters of the lake.
I was awed and solemnized by the thought that I was alone in the
world. And looking up to the clear blue sky, I prayed that God would
help me to keep in the path of truth and duty. I really hoped that, if
I had done wrong, or was then doing wrong, I might be convicted of my
error. I prayed for light. I was afraid that I had been wilful and
wayward; but as I knew that I was right so far as Poodles was
concerned, I could not accuse myself of obstinacy in refusing to
apologize. On the whole, I was satisfied with myself, though willing
to acknowledge that in some things I had rather overdone the matter.
Resuming the oars, I pulled towards the bluff. My course lay near the
shore until I had passed the northerly point of Parkville, where the
steamboat wharf extends a hundred feet out to the deep water of the
lake. Continuing beyond this long pier, I came in sight of the
Parkville Liberal Institute. As it was then the middle of the
forenoon, I did not expect to see any of the students; but, to my
surprise, I discovered large numbers of them on the grounds between
the buildings and the lake. They did not seem to be engaged in the
usual sports, but were gathered in groups on various parts of the
premises. Everything looked as though some important event had
transpired, which the boys were busily engaged in discussing.
I was tempted to pull up towards the Institute, and ascertain what had
occurred, and why the students were not in the school-room, attending
to their studies; but I was fearful that my presence might do
mischief, and I reluctantly continued on my way to the bluff. As
nearly as I could interpret the signs, the boys were in a state of
rebellion, though it was possible that Mr. Parasyte was too ill to
attend to his duties, and in the present excited state of the school,
had deemed it best to give the boys a holiday.
The bearings of the spot where the Splash sank had been carefully
noted, after my capture, by the principal and his men, and without
much difficulty I found the place. The bed of this part of the lake
was composed of gravel, washed down by the continual wearing away of
the bluff; and as the water was clear, I could see the bottom. The
Splash lay in about twenty-five feet of water--as I found by measuring
with a fish-line. She sat nearly upright on her keel, and the tops of
her masts were not more than a foot below the surface.
How could I coax her to the top of the water? The Splash had been
father and mother to me, and I loved her. In my loneliness I wanted
her companionship. It did not look like an easy task to raise her; and
yet the most difficult things become easy when we hit upon the right
method of doing them. The Splash was ballasted with ten fifty-sixes,
each with a ring for lifting it. They were deposited on the bottom of
the boat, where I could remove a portion of them when I had a large
party to take out. I made up my mind, that with a long pole, having a
hook on the end of it, I could fasten to the rings of the fifty-sixes,
and raise them, one by one, to the surface; and when the ballast was
removed, the boat would rise of herself.
Satisfied that this idea was a practical one, I started for Parkville
to procure the pole. As I took the oars, I discovered that one of the
Institute boats, which I had not before noticed, was pulling towards
me. At first I was startled, fearful that it might contain some of my
tyrant's minions, sent out to capture me, and carry me back to the
school. As the boat came nearer, however, I saw that it was filled
with my friends, prominent among whom were Bob Hale and Tom Rush; and
I lay upon my oars to await her coming.
"Good morning, Ernest; I'm glad to see you," said Bob, as the
Institute boat ranged up alongside of mine.
"What is the matter at the Institute? Don't school keep to-day?" I
asked, when I had returned the salutations of my friend.
"There's big news there, Ernest, you'd better believe," replied Bob,
in an excited tone.
"What is it? What has happened?"
"There has been an awful row between Mr. Parasyte and Mr. Hardy, and
Mr. Hardy has been discharged--that's the first thing; and the fellows
won't stand it, anyhow."
"What was it about?"
"We don't know. Mr. Hardy opened the school as usual at nine o'clock;
but he didn't say a word to us about the troubles. A little after
nine, Mr. Parasyte came in, with a black eye and a broken head. He and
Mr. Hardy talked together a little while, and we saw that Parasyte was
as mad as a hop. They went into the recitation-room to have it out;
but in two or three minutes they returned, and Mr. Hardy said he was
going to leave; but he didn't tell the reason--just bade us good by.
If we had only known what the trouble was, we would have pitched
Parasyte out of the window."
"Then Mr. Hardy has gone," I added.
"Left, and at once. Then Mr. Parasyte made a speech, in which he told
us the school was in a state of rebellion; that Thornton had assaulted
him, and struck him on the head with a heavy ruler, and that he
intended to flog him till he apologized to Poodles, as his uncle
wished him to do. We didn't wait to hear any more. We gave a yell, and
rushed out of the school-room."
CHAPTER XII.
IN WHICH ERNEST RAISES THE SPLASH, AND THERE IS A GENERAL BREAKING
AWAY AMONG THE STUDENTS.
I listened, with astonishment and dismay, to the tale which Bob Hale
told me. I could not help asking myself to what extent I was
responsible for the troubles which overwhelmed the Parkville Liberal
Institute. I told Bob how I felt, and he ridiculed the idea of my
shouldering any portion of the blame.
"Even the parson says you are not to blame, and that you have behaved
like a gentleman from the beginning," said he, alluding to Henry
Vallington, who, on account of his intended profession, often went by
the name of the "parson."
"Can you imagine why Mr. Hardy was discharged?" I asked.
"We don't know; but it is easy enough to see that he blamed Mr.
Parasyte, though he never said a word to the fellows. The idea of
staying at the Institute after Mr. Hardy goes is not to be thought
of," replied Bob, who, like myself, was a day scholar at the school.
"What did Parasyte mean when he said your uncle wished him to flog you
into subjection?"
"He meant that; my uncle told him to do so," I replied, with shame and
mortification, not for myself, but for him who should have been my
guardian and protector.
"Did he, though? Well, that was amiable of him," added Tom Rush. "He
and Parasyte will do to go together."
"They do go together. I find that Mr. Parasyte owes my uncle a large
sum of money. I had no idea that they were even acquainted with each
other before," I continued.
"Then I wonder that Parasyte made a row with you, if he owed your
uncle so much money."
"I don't understand it; but I think Mr. Parasyte didn't expect any
trouble. He judged hastily between Poodles and me, and when he had
given his decision, he was too proud and too obstinate to alter it. I
suppose he was a little afraid after what he had done, and went to see
my uncle and ask for instructions."
"But it was cold-blooded for your uncle to say what he did."
"Probably Parasyte told his own story," I replied, willing to shield
my uncle as much as possible.
"What did your uncle say to you when you went home?" asked Bob Hale,
full of interest and sympathy.
"We had some words, and he disowned and cast me out--to use his own
expression."
"Turned you out of house and home!" exclaimed Tom Rush.
"That was what he meant."
"Don't mind it, Ernest," interposed Bob. "You shall come to my house."
"I can take care of myself, I think," was my reply, rather proudly
spoken.
"Of course you can; but you shall have half my bed and half my dinner
as long as I have any."
"Thank you, Bob."
"We will talk that over another time, Ernest; for at present we have a
big job on our hands."
"What is that?"
"We'll tell you by and by. Parasyte says you assaulted him, and hit
him over the head with a big ruler. How was that, Ernest?"
I told them what had occurred after we left the school-room, and gave
them all the particulars of my battle with the principal.
"Served him right," was the verdict of the boys. "He didn't tell us
that he attempted to flog you; only that you pitched into him,
apparently without any cause or reason," added Tom Rush.
"You all ran out of school," said I. "What is Mr. Parasyte going to do
about it?"
"We don't know, and we don't care. He is a tyrant, and a toady; and
all but about a dozen of the fellows are going to quit the school."
"But where are you going?" I asked, surprised at this decided step.
"We have it all arranged, and are going to break away in a bunch. We
are getting things ready; but we want you, Ernest."
"Why me?"
"Because you are a good sailor, and know all about boats?"
That was highly complimentary in a direction where I was peculiarly
weak--my love of boats and boating. Bob Hale then informed me that the
students were going into camp on their own hook this year. This was an
annual institution at the academy. Belonging to the Institute were
seven tents, large enough to accommodate all the boys and all the
teachers; and in the month of July the whole school camped out for one
or two weeks. This custom did more for the popularity of the Institute
than anything else, and without it, it was doubtful if the school
could have been kept together; for it was an offset to the dislike
with which a large majority of the boys regarded the principal.
The students had begun to talk about camping out as soon as the spring
opened, and when the rebellion broke out, it immediately ran into this
channel. The camp during the preceding year had been in a piece of
woods ten miles east of Parkville; but the rebels had already decided
to establish it, at the present time, on Cleaver Island, two miles
north-west of the steamboat pier, and including an area of about
twenty acres, well covered with wood.
I could not say that I approved of this scheme; but Bob Hale and Tom
Rush said the students had unanimously agreed to it. I was not in
favor of insubordination and rebellion. But the moral sense of the
boys had been outraged; Mr. Parasyte had resorted to the grossest
injustice, and they were determined to "break away" from him. Rather
reluctantly I consented to join the insurrection. I ought not to have
done so; but smarting as I then was under the injustice of my uncle
and the principal, I found an argument to satisfy myself with my
conduct.
The Splash seemed to be necessary, in my estimation, for the success
of the enterprise, and my friends volunteered to assist me in raising
her. I went to Parkville, and procured a long spruce pole, to which
the blacksmith attached a hook. Without much difficulty the ballast
was hoisted out of the sunken craft, and obedient to the law of
gravitation, she came to the surface. We towed her to a bank of the
lake in the town, near the shop of a wheelwright, who promised to
have her repaired in a few hours. One of the ribs was snapped off, and
six of the "streaks" stove in. We hauled her up on the shore, and got
the water out of her; and the wheelwright went to work upon her at
once, assisted by his journeyman.
I had regarded the Splash as a lost boat; and I was delighted with my
success in raising her, and with the prospect of having her again as
good as new; for the wheelwright assured me she was not materially
injured in her timbers. The result of this enterprise rather inflated
my spirits, and not without good reason; for, as I was now to take
care of myself, it had already occurred to me that I could make money
enough to support me by boating--for there were always residents and
strangers enough in the town who wanted to sail to afford me a good
business for at least three months in the year.
"Now, Ernest," said Bob Hale, who had embarked with me in my row-boat,
"how shall we get the crowd, the tents, and the provisions over to
Cleaver Island?"
"I don't think it is a very big job," I replied.
"I do. Of course Parasyte will prevent us from going if he can," said
he.
"Too many cooks will spoil the broth," I added. "You want a leader, or
captain, who shall manage the affair."
"We will choose you."
"No; I decline at the outset. I don't want the credit of being the
ringleader in this scrape after what has happened."
"What do you say to the parson?" asked he.
"Capital!"
We consulted the students in the other boat, and they agreed to this
selection. Both boats then pulled to the pier at the Institute. As we
approached, all the rebels gathered around us. Bob Hale immediately
called them to order, and made a brief statement of the necessity of
the hour, and then nominated Henry Vallington as leader of the
enterprise. He was unanimously elected, and somewhat to my surprise he
accepted.
"Fellow-students," said the parson, in accepting the position, "if I
didn't feel that every decent fellow in the Institute had been
outraged and insulted by the conduct of the principal, I wouldn't
have anything to do with such an affair as this. I want you all to
understand that I, for one, am going into this thing for a purpose,
and on principle."
"So say we all of us!" shouted the boys.
"Now, you must obey orders, and have no rioting or rows. We shall do
this thing in order."
The boys were excited; but the parson told them to keep cool, and,
when the orders came, to execute them promptly, which they promised
with one voice to do. By this time I had a scheme arranged in my mind
for the conveyance of the forces to Cleaver Island, and the leader did
me the honor to appoint me master of transportation. I stated my plan
to Vallington and two or three of the more influential of the boys. It
was cordially approved.
At half past twelve the dinner bell of the Institute rang, as usual;
and the boys, who had no idea of being deprived of their rations,
marched in to dinner in order; and I went home with Bob Hale, who had
invited me to dine with him. On our return, we learned that Mr.
Parasyte had made a stirring appeal to the students, in the
dining-room, to support the discipline of the school, and had
intimated that he intended to prosecute Thornton in the courts for the
assault upon him. I was rather startled at this intelligence, for a
court was an appalling affair to me.
The boys heard in silence what the principal had to say, and left the
dining-room in as good order as usual. At quarter before two the
school-bell rang; but only about twenty obeyed the summons. I was on
the pier at this time, and shortly after I saw Mr. Parasyte coming
down to see the students. Deeming it best to keep out of his way, I
pulled over to the wheelwright's, to look after the Splash. An hour
later, Bob Hale, Henry Vallington, and Tom Rush joined me, saying that
Mr. Parasyte had been very gentle with the boys, and had used only
mild persuasions. Having failed in all, he had taken his horse and
gone away. This was favorable to our operations, and I advised the
parson to hasten back, and do the job at once.
At four o'clock the Splash was finished, and a coat of paint put on
the new streaks. I got under way at once in her, taking my tender in
tow. Near the Institute lived a man who owned a large flat-boat, or
scow, used for bringing wood down the lake. Tom Rush had hired this
clumsy craft for a week. The three row-boats belonging to the
Institute had been manned by the boys, and were towing this scow down
to the pier, according to the plan I had suggested to the parson. When
the flat was near the pier, a signal was given, and the boys on shore
all rushed to the building in which the tents were stored. There were
enough of them to carry all the canvas, poles, and other materials at
one load, and the students rushed down to the pier with them at a
rapid pace, so that the work was accomplished before any of the
assistant teachers or laborers could interfere.
The tents were tumbled into the scow, and all the boys not needed in
the row-boats embarked with the camp material.
"All ready!" shouted Henry Vallington.
"Give way!" I added to the oarsmen.
The long painter of the scow had been extended over, and fastened to,
the three boats. As the wind was fresh, I went to the head of this
line, attached a rope to the painter, and the procession of boats
straightened out and moved off, dragging the scow after them.
CHAPTER XIII.
IN WHICH ERNEST IS CHOSEN COMMODORE OF THE FLEET.
The procession of boats went off in good style, after the line was
straightened; but the flat-boat was large and heavy, and it required a
hard pull to put her in motion. The boys rowed well, and the wind was
fresh enough to enable the Splash to do her full share of the work.
The distance from the Institute to the island was two miles and a
half, and at the rate we moved, I calculated that it would take nearly
two hours to accomplish the voyage.
The movements of the students had been so sudden and so well arranged,
that if any one saw them, there was not time to interfere before the
boats were off. When the scow was fairly in motion, I saw Mr. Gaule,
one of the teachers, and the two laborers on the estate, rushing down
to the pier, apparently intent upon doing something.
"Come back, boys!" shouted Mr. Gaule.
No one made any reply, or took any notice of him.
"Come back, I say!" he cried again, but with no better result than
before.
I was very glad that none of the boys made any insulting replies. They
were as silent and dignified as so many judges. We all knew very well
that Mr. Gaule had not force enough to attempt anything, and we did
not expect to be molested until the return of Mr. Parasyte.
In something less than the two hours I had allowed for the passage,
