inquisitive servant was eavesdropping, and, finding all deserted, he
resumed his place, while young Annon lounged on a couch as he listened
with intense interest to the major’s story.
“You know it was supposed that old Sir Jasper, being a bachelor, would
leave his fortune to his two nephews. But he was an oddity, and as the
title must go to young Jasper by right, the old man said Maurice
should have the money. He was poor, young Jasper rich, and it seemed but
just, though Madame Mère was very angry when she learned how the will
was made.”
“But Maurice didn’t get the fortune. How was that?”
“There was some mystery there which I shall discover in time. All went
smoothly till that unlucky yachting trip, when the cousins were wrecked.
Maurice saved Jasper’s life, and almost lost his own in so doing. I
fancy he wishes he had, rather than remain the poor cripple he is.
Exposure, exertion, and neglect afterward brought on paralysis of the
lower limbs, and there he is--a fine, talented, spirited fellow tied to
that cursed chair like a decrepit old man.”
“How does he bear it?” asked Annon, as the major shook his gray head,
with a traitorous huskiness in his last words.
“Like a philosopher or a hero. He is too proud to show his despair at
such a sudden end to all his hopes, too generous to complain, for Jasper
is desperately cut up about it, and too brave to be daunted by a
misfortune which would drive many a man mad.”
“Is it true that Sir Jasper, knowing all this, made a new will and left
every cent to his namesake?”
“Yes, and there lies the mystery. Not only did he leave it away from
poor Maurice, but so tied it up that Jasper cannot transfer it, and at
his death it goes to Octavia.”
“The old man must have been demented. What in heaven’s name did he mean
by leaving Maurice helpless and penniless after all his devotion to
Jasper? Had he done anything to offend the old party?”
“No one knows; Maurice hasn’t the least idea of the cause of this sudden
whim, and the old man would give no reason for it. He died soon after,
and the instant Jasper came to the title and estate he brought his
cousin home, and treats him like a brother. Jasper is a noble fellow,
with all his faults, and this act of justice increases my respect for
him,” said the major heartily.
“What will Maurice do, now that he can’t enter the army as he intended?”
 asked Annon, who now sat erect, so full of interest was he.
“Marry Octavia, and come to his own, I hope.”
“An excellent little arrangement, but Miss Treherne may object,” said
Annon, rising with sudden kindling of the eye.
“I think not, if no one interferes. Pity, with women, is akin to love,
and she pities her cousin in the tenderest fashion. No sister could be
more devoted, and as Maurice is a handsome, talented fellow, one can
easily foresee the end, if, as I said before, no one interferes to
disappoint the poor lad again.”
“You espouse his cause, I see, and tell me this that I may stand aside.
Thanks for the warning, Major; but as Maurice Treherne is a man of
unusual power in many ways, I think we are equally matched, in spite of
his misfortune. Nay, if anything, he has the advantage of me, for Miss
Treherne pities him, and that is a strong ally for my rival. I’ll be as
generous as I can, but I’ll not stand aside and relinquish the woman I
love without a trial first.”
With an air of determination Annon faced the major, whose keen eyes had
read the truth which he had but newly confessed to himself. Major
Royston smiled as he listened, and said briefly, as steps approached,
“Do your best. Maurice will win.”
“We shall see,” returned Annon between his teeth.
Here their host entered, and the subject of course was dropped. But the
major’s words rankled in the young man’s mind, and would have been
doubly bitter had he known that their confidential conversation had been
overheard. On either side of the great fireplace was a door leading to a
suite of rooms which had been old Sir Jasper’s. These apartments had
been given to Maurice Treherne, and he had just returned from London,
whither he had been to consult a certain famous physician. Entering
quietly, he had taken possession of his rooms, and having rested and
dressed for dinner, rolled himself into the library, to which led the
curtained door on the right. Sitting idly in his light, wheeled chair,
ready to enter when his cousin appeared, he had heard the chat of Annon
and the major. As he listened, over his usually impassive face passed
varying expressions of anger, pain, bitterness, and defiance, and when
the young man uttered his almost fierce “We shall see,” Treherne smiled
a scornful smile and clenched his pale hand with a gesture which proved
that a year of suffering had not conquered the man’s spirit, though it
had crippled his strong body.
A singular face was Maurice Treherne’s; well-cut and somewhat haughty
features; a fine brow under the dark locks that carelessly streaked it;
and remarkably piercing eyes. Slight in figure and wasted by pain, he
still retained the grace as native to him as the stern fortitude which
enabled him to hide the deep despair of an ambitious nature from every
eye, and bear his affliction with a cheerful philosophy more pathetic
than the most entire abandonment to grief. Carefully dressed, and with
no hint at invalidism but the chair, he bore himself as easily and
calmly as if the doom of lifelong helplessness did not hang over him. A
single motion of the hand sent him rolling noiselessly to the curtained
door, but as he did so, a voice exclaimed behind him, “Wait for me,
cousin.” And as he turned, a young girl approached, smiling a glad
welcome as she took his hand, adding in a tone of soft reproach, “Home
again, and not let me know it, till I heard the good news by accident.”
“Was it good news, Octavia?” and Maurice looked up at the frank face
with a new expression in those penetrating eyes of his. His cousin’s
open glance never changed as she stroked the hair off his forehead with
the caress one often gives a child, and answered eagerly, “The best to
me; the house is dull when you are away, for Jasper always becomes
absorbed in horses and hounds, and leaves Mamma and me to mope by
ourselves. But tell me, Maurice, what they said to you, since you would
not write.”
“A little hope, with time and patience. Help me to wait, dear, help
me to wait.”
His tone was infinitely sad, and as he spoke, he leaned his cheek
against the kind hand he held, as if to find support and comfort there.
The girl’s face brightened beautifully, though her eyes filled, for to
her alone did he betray his pain, and in her alone did he seek
consolation.
“I will, I will with heart and hand! Thank heaven for the hope, and
trust me it shall be fulfilled. You look very tired, Maurice. Why go in
to dinner with all those people? Let me make you cozy here,” she added
anxiously.
“Thanks, I’d rather go in, it does me good; and if I stay away, Jasper
feels that he must stay with me. I dressed in haste, am I right,
little nurse?”
She gave him a comprehensive glance, daintily settled his cravat,
brushed back a truant lock, and, with a maternal air that was charming,
said, “My boy is always elegant, and I’m proud of him. Now we’ll go in.”
 But with her hand on the curtain she paused, saying quickly, as a voice
reached her, “Who is that?”
“Frank Annon. Didn’t you know he was coming?” Maurice eyed her keenly.
“No, Jasper never told me. Why did he ask him?”
“To please you.”
“Me! When he knows I detest the man. No matter, I’ve got on the color he
hates, so he won’t annoy me, and Mrs. Snowdon can amuse herself with
him. The general has come, you know?”
Treherne smiled, well pleased, for no sign of maiden shame or pleasure
did the girl’s face betray, and as he watched her while she peeped, he
thought with satisfaction, Annon is right, I have the advantage,
and I’ll keep it at all costs.
“Here is Mamma. We must go in,” said Octavia, as a stately old lady made
her appearance in the drawing room.
The cousins entered together and Annon watched them covertly, while
seemingly intent on paying his respects to Madame Mère, as his hostess
was called by her family.
“Handsomer than ever,” he muttered, as his eye rested on the blooming
girl, looking more like a rose than ever in the peach-colored silk which
he had once condemned because a rival admired it. She turned to reply to
the major, and Annon glanced at Treherne with an irrepressible frown,
for sickness had not marred the charm of that peculiar face, so
colorless and thin that it seemed cut in marble; but the keen eyes shone
with a wonderful brilliancy, and the whole countenance was alive with a
power of intellect and will which made the observer involuntarily
exclaim, “That man must suffer a daily martyrdom, so crippled and
confined; if it last long he will go mad or die.”
“General and Mrs. Snowden,” announced the servant, and a sudden pause
ensued as everyone looked up to greet the newcomers.
A feeble, white-haired old man entered, leaning on the arm of an
indescribably beautiful woman. Not thirty yet, tall and nobly molded,
with straight black brows over magnificent eyes; rippling dark hair
gathered up in a great knot, and ornamented with a single band of gold.
A sweeping dress of wine-colored velvet, set off with a dazzling neck
and arms decorated like her stately head with ornaments of Roman gold.
At the first glance she seemed a cold, haughty creature, born to dazzle
but not to win. A deeper scrutiny detected lines of suffering in that
lovely face, and behind the veil of reserve, which pride forced her to
wear, appeared the anguish of a strong-willed woman burdened by a heavy
cross. No one would dare express pity or offer sympathy, for her whole
air repelled it, and in her gloomy eyes sat scorn of herself mingled
with defiance of the scorn of others. A strange, almost tragical-looking
woman, in spite of beauty, grace, and the cold sweetness of her manner.
A faint smile parted her lips as she greeted those about her, and as her
husband seated himself beside Lady Treherne, she lifted her head with a
long breath, and a singular expression of relief, as if a burden was
removed, and for the time being she was free. Sir Jasper was at her
side, and as she listened, her eye glanced from face to face.
“Who is with you now?” she asked, in a low, mellow voice that was
full of music.
“My sister and my cousin are yonder. You may remember Tavia as a child,
she is little more now. Maurice is an invalid, but the finest fellow
breathing.”
“I understand,” and Mrs. Snowdon’s eyes softened with a sudden
glance of pity for one cousin and admiration for the other, for she
knew the facts.
“Major Royston, my father’s friend, and Frank Annon, my own. Do you know
him?” asked Sir Jasper.
“No.”
“Then allow me to make him happy by presenting him, may I?”
“Not now. I’d rather see your cousin.”
“Thanks, you are very kind. I’ll bring him over.”
“Stay, let me go to him,” began the lady, with more feeling in face and
voice than one would believe her capable of showing.
“Pardon, it will offend him, he will not be pitied, or relinquish any
of the duties or privileges of a gentleman which he can possibly
perform. He is proud, we can understand the feeling, so let us humor
the poor fellow.”
Mrs. Snowdon bowed silently, and Sir Jasper called out in his hearty,
blunt way, as if nothing was amiss with his cousin, “Maurice, I’ve an
honor for you. Come and receive it.”
Divining what it was, Treherne noiselessly crossed the room, and with no
sign of self-consciousness or embarrassment, was presented to the
handsome woman. Thinking his presence might be a restraint, Sir Jasper
went away. The instant his back was turned, a change came over both: an
almost grim expression replaced the suavity of Treherne’s face, and Mrs.
Snowdon’s smile faded suddenly, while a deep flush rose to her brow, as
her eyes questioned his beseechingly.
“How dared you come?” he asked below his breath.
“The general insisted.”
“And you could not change his purpose; poor woman!”
“You will not be pitied, neither will I,” and her eyes flashed; then the
fire was quenched in tears, and her voice lost all its pride in a
pleading tone.
“Forgive me, I longed to see you since your illness, and so I
‘dared’ to come.”
“You shall be gratified; look, quite helpless, crippled for life,
perhaps.”
The chair was turned from the groups about the fire, and as he spoke,
with a bitter laugh Treherne threw back the skin which covered his
knees, and showed her the useless limbs once so strong and fleet. She
shrank and paled, put out her hand to arrest him, and cried in an
indignant whisper, “No, no, not that! You know I never meant such cruel
curiosity, such useless pain to both--”
“Be still, someone is coming,” he returned inaudibly; adding aloud,
as he adjusted the skin and smoothed the rich fur as if speaking of
it, “Yes, it is a very fine one, Jasper gave it to me. He spoils me,
like a dear, generous-hearted fellow as he is. Ah, Octavia, what can
I do for you?”
“Nothing, thank you. I want to recall myself to Mrs. Snowdon’s memory,
if she will let me.”
“No need of that; I never forget happy faces and pretty pictures. Two
years ago I saw you at your first ball, and longed to be a girl again.”
As she spoke, Mrs. Snowdon pressed the hand shyly offered, and smiled at
the spirited face before her, though the shadow in her own eyes deepened
as she met the bright glance of the girl.
“How kind you were that night! I remember you let me chatter away about
my family, my cousin, and my foolish little affairs with the sweetest
patience, and made me very happy by your interest. I was homesick, and
Aunt could never bear to hear of those things. It was before your
marriage, and all the kinder, for you were the queen of the night, yet
had a word for poor little me.”
Mrs. Snowdon was pale to the lips, and Maurice impatiently tapped the
arm of his chair, while the girl innocently chatted on.
“I am sorry the general is such an invalid; yet I dare say you find
great happiness in taking care of him. It is so pleasant to be of use to
those we love.” And as she spoke, Octavia leaned over her cousin to hand
him the glove he had dropped.
The affectionate smile that accompanied the act made the color deepen
again in Mrs. Snowdon’s cheek, and lit a spark in her softened eyes. Her
lips curled and her voice was sweetly sarcastic as she answered, “Yes,
it is charming to devote one’s life to these dear invalids, and find
one’s reward in their gratitude. Youth, beauty, health, and happiness
are small sacrifices if one wins a little comfort for the poor
sufferers.”
The girl felt the sarcasm under the soft words and drew back with a
troubled face.
Maurice smiled, and glanced from one to the other, saying significantly,
“Well for me that my little nurse loves her labor, and finds no
sacrifice in it. I am fortunate in my choice.”
“I trust it may prove so--” Mrs. Snowdon got no further, for at that
moment dinner was announced, and Sir Jasper took her away. Annon
approached with him and offered his arm to Miss Treherne, but with an
air of surprise, and a little gesture of refusal, she said coldly:
“My cousin always takes me in to dinner. Be good enough to escort the
major.” And with her hand on the arm of the chair, she walked away with
a mischievous glitter in her eyes.
Annon frowned and fell back, saying sharply, “Come, Major, what are you
doing there?”
“Making discoveries.”
Chapter II
BYPLAY
A right splendid old dowager was Lady Treherne, in her black velvet and
point lace, as she sat erect and stately on a couch by the drawing-room
fire, a couch which no one dare occupy in her absence, or share
uninvited. The gentlemen were still over their wine, and the three
ladies were alone. My lady never dozed in public, Mrs. Snowdon never
gossiped, and Octavia never troubled herself to entertain any guests but
those of her own age, so long pauses fell, and conversation languished,
till Mrs. Snowdon roamed away into the library. As she disappeared, Lady
Treherne beckoned to her daughter, who was idly making chords at the
grand piano. Seating herself on the ottoman at her mother’s feet, the
girl took the still handsome hand in her own and amused herself with
examining the old-fashioned jewels that covered it, a pretext for
occupying her telltale eyes, as she suspected what was coming.
“My dear, I’m not pleased with you, and I tell you so at once, that you
may amend your fault,” began Madame Mère in a tender tone, for though a
haughty, imperious woman, she idolized her children.
“What have I done, Mamma?” asked the girl.
“Say rather, what have you left undone. You have been very rude to Mr.
Annon. It must not occur again; not only because he is a guest, but
because he is your--brother’s friend.”
My lady hesitated over the word “lover,” and changed it, for to her
Octavia still seemed a child, and though anxious for the alliance, she
forbore to speak openly, lest the girl should turn willful, as she
inherited her mother’s high spirit.
“I’m sorry, Mamma. But how can I help it, when he teases me so that I
detest him?” said Octavia, petulantly.
“How tease, my love?”
“Why, he follows me about like a dog, puts on a sentimental look when I
appear; blushes, and beams, and bows at everything I say, if I am
polite; frowns and sighs if I’m not; and glowers tragically at every man
I speak to, even poor Maurice. Oh, Mamma, what foolish creatures men
are!” And the girl laughed blithely, as she looked up for the first time
into her mother’s face.
My lady smiled, as she stroked the bright head at her knee, but asked
quickly, “Why say ‘even poor Maurice,’ as if it were impossible for
anyone to be jealous of him?”
“But isn’t it, Mamma? I thought strong, well men regarded him as one set
apart and done with, since his sad misfortune.”
“Not entirely; while women pity and pet the poor fellow, his comrades
will be jealous, absurd as it is.”
“No one pets him but me, and I have a right to do it, for he is my
cousin,” said the girl, feeling a touch of jealousy herself.
“Rose and Blanche Talbot outdo you, my dear, and there is no cousinship
to excuse them.”
“Then let Frank Annon be jealous of them, and leave me in peace. They
promised to come today; I’m afraid something has happened to prevent
them.” And Octavia gladly seized upon the new subject. But my lady was
not to be eluded.
“They said they could not come till after dinner. They will soon arrive.
Before they do so, I must say a few words, Tavia, and I beg you to give
heed to them. I desire you to be courteous and amiable to Mr. Annon, and
before strangers to be less attentive and affectionate to Maurice. You
mean it kindly, but it looks ill, and causes disagreeable remarks.”
“Who blames me for being devoted to my cousin? Can I ever do enough to
repay him for his devotion? Mamma, you forget he saved your son’s life.”
Indignant tears filled the girl’s eyes, and she spoke passionately,
forgetting that Mrs. Snowdon was within earshot of her raised voice.
With a frown my lady laid her hand on her daughter’s lips, saying
coldly, “I do not forget, and I religiously discharge my every
obligation by every care and comfort it is in my power to bestow. You
are young, romantic, and tender-hearted. You think you must give your
time and health, must sacrifice your future happiness to this duty. You
are wrong, and unless you learn wisdom in season, you will find that you
have done harm, not good.”
“God forbid! How can I do that? Tell me, and I will be wise in time.”
Turning the earnest face up to her own, Lady Treherne whispered
anxiously, “Has Maurice ever looked or hinted anything of love during
this year he has been with us, and you his constant companion?”
“Never, Mamma; he is too honorable and too unhappy to speak or think of
that. I am his little nurse, sister, and friend, no more, nor ever shall
be. Do not suspect us, or put such fears into my mind, else all our
comfort will be spoiled.”
Flushed and eager was the girl, but her clear eyes betrayed no tender
confusion as she spoke, and all her thought seemed to be to clear her
cousin from the charge of loving her too well. Lady Treherne looked
relieved, paused a moment, then said, seriously but gently, “This is
well, but, child, I charge you tell me at once, if ever he forgets
himself, for this thing cannot be. Once I hoped it might, now it is
impossible; remember that he continue a friend and cousin, nothing more.
I warn you in time, but if you neglect the warning, Maurice must go. No
more of this; recollect my wish regarding Mr. Annon, and let your cousin
amuse himself without you in public.”
“Mamma, do you wish me to like Frank Annon?”
The abrupt question rather disturbed my lady, but knowing her daughter’s
frank, impetuous nature, she felt somewhat relieved by this candor, and
answered decidedly, “I do. He is your equal in all respects; he loves
you, Jasper desires it, I approve, and you, being heart-whole, can have
no just objection to the alliance.”
“Has he spoken to you?”
“No, to your brother.”
“You wish this much, Mamma?”
“Very much, my child.”
“I will try to please you, then.” And stifling a sigh, the girl kissed
her mother with unwonted meekness in tone and manner.
“Now I am well pleased. Be happy, my love. No one will urge or distress
you. Let matters take their course, and if this hope of ours can be
fulfilled, I shall be relieved of the chief care of my life.”
A sound of girlish voices here broke on their ears, and springing up,
Octavia hurried to meet her friends, exclaiming joyfully, “They have
come! they have come!”
Two smiling, blooming girls met her at the door, and, being at an
enthusiastic age, they gushed in girlish fashion for several minutes,
making a pretty group as they stood in each other’s arms, all talking at
once, with frequent kisses and little bursts of laughter, as vents for
their emotion. Madame Mère welcomed them and then went to join Mrs.
Snowdon, leaving the trio to gossip unrestrained.
“My dearest creature, I thought we never should get here, for Papa had a
tiresome dinner party, and we were obliged to stay, you know,” cried
Rose, the lively sister, shaking out the pretty dress and glancing at
herself in the mirror as she fluttered about the room like a butterfly.
“We were dying to come, and so charmed when you asked us, for we haven’t
seen you this age, darling,” added Blanche, the pensive one, smoothing
her blond curls after a fresh embrace.
“I’m sorry the Ulsters couldn’t come to keep Christmas with us, for we
have no gentlemen but Jasper, Frank Annon, and the major. Sad, isn’t
it?” said Octavia, with a look of despair, which caused a fresh peal
of laughter.
“One apiece, my dear, it might be worse.” And Rose privately decided to
appropriate Sir Jasper.
“Where is your cousin?” asked Blanche, with a sigh of sentimental
interest.
“He is here, of course. I forget him, but he is not on the flirting
list, you know. We must amuse him, and not expect him to amuse us,
though really, all the capital suggestions and plans for merrymaking
always come from him.”
“He is better, I hope?” asked both sisters with real sympathy, making
their young faces womanly and sweet.
“Yes, and has hopes of entire recovery. At least, they tell him so,
though Dr. Ashley said there was no chance of it.”
“Dear, dear, how sad! Shall we see him, Tavia?”
“Certainly; he is able to be with us now in the evening, and enjoys
society as much as ever. But please take no notice of his infirmity, and
make no inquiries beyond the usual ‘How do you do.’ He is sensitive, and
hates to be considered an invalid more than ever.”
“How charming it must be to take care of him, he is so accomplished and
delightful. I quite envy you,” said Blanche pensively.
“Sir Jasper told us that the General and Mrs. Snowdon were coming. I
hope they will, for I’ve a most intense curiosity to see her--”
 began Rose.
“Hush, she is here with Mamma! Why curious? What is the mystery? For you
look as if there was one,” questioned Octavia under her breath.
The three charming heads bent toward one another as Rose replied in a
whisper, “If I knew, I shouldn’t be inquisitive. There was a rumor that
she married the old general in a fit of pique, and now repents. I asked
Mamma once, but she said such matters were not for young girls to hear,
and not a word more would she say. N’importe, I have wits of my
own, and I can satisfy myself. The gentlemen are coming! Am I all right,
dear?” And the three glanced at one another with a swift scrutiny that
nothing could escape, then grouped themselves prettily, and waited, with
a little flutter of expectation in each young heart.
In came the gentlemen, and instantly a new atmosphere seemed to pervade
the drawing room, for with the first words uttered, several romances
began. Sir Jasper was taken possession of by Rose, Blanche intended to
devote herself to Maurice Treherne, but Annon intercepted her, and
Octavia was spared any effort at politeness by this unexpected move on
the part of her lover.
“He is angry, and wishes to pique me by devoting himself to Blanche. I
wish he would, with all my heart, and leave me in peace. Poor Maurice,
he expects me, and I long to go to him, but must obey Mamma.” And
Octavia went to join the group formed by my lady, Mrs. Snowdon, the
general, and the major.
The two young couples flirted in different parts of the room, and
Treherne sat alone, watching them all with eyes that pierced below the
surface, reading the hidden wishes, hopes, and fears that ruled them. A
singular expression sat on his face as he turned from Octavia’s clear
countenance to Mrs. Snowdon’s gloomy one. He leaned his head upon his
hand and fell into deep thought, for he was passing through one of those
fateful moments which come to us all, and which may make or mar a life.
Such moments come when least looked for: an unexpected meeting, a
peculiar mood, some trivial circumstance, or careless word produces it,
and often it is gone before we realize its presence, leaving
aftereffects to show us what we have gained or lost. Treherne was
conscious that the present hour, and the acts that filled it, possessed
unusual interest, and would exert an unusual influence on his life.
Before him was the good and evil genius of his nature in the guise of
those two women. Edith Snowdon had already tried her power, and accident
only had saved him. Octavia, all unconscious as she was, never failed to
rouse and stimulate the noblest attributes of mind and heart. A year
spent in her society had done much for him, and he loved her with a
strange mingling of passion, reverence, and gratitude. He knew why Edith
Snowdon came, he felt that the old fascination had not lost its charm,
and though fear was unknown to him, he was ill pleased at the sight of
the beautiful, dangerous woman. On the other hand, he saw that Lady
Treherne desired her daughter to shun him and smile on Annon; he
acknowledged that he had no right to win the young creature, crippled
and poor as he was, and a pang of jealous pain wrung his heart as he
watched her.
Then a sense of power came to him, for helpless, poor, and seemingly an
object of pity, he yet felt that he held the honor, peace, and happiness
of nearly every person present in his hands. It was a strong temptation
to this man, so full of repressed passion and power, so set apart and
shut out from the more stirring duties and pleasures of life. A few
words from his lips, and the pity all felt for him would be turned to
fear, respect, and admiration. Why not utter them, and enjoy all that
was possible? He owed the Trehernes nothing; why suffer injustice,
dependence, and the compassion that wounds a proud man deepest? Wealth,
love, pleasure might be his with a breath. Why not secure them now?
His pale face flushed, his eye kindled, and his thin hand lay clenched
like a vise as these thoughts passed rapidly through his mind. A look, a
word at that moment would sway him; he felt it, and leaned forward,
waiting in secret suspense for the glance, the speech which should
decide him for good or ill. Who shall say what subtle instinct caused
Octavia to turn and smile at him with a wistful, friendly look that
warmed his heart? He met it with an answering glance, which thrilled her
strangely, for love, gratitude, and some mysterious intelligence met and
mingled in the brilliant yet soft expression which swiftly shone and
faded in her face. What it was she could not tell; she only felt that it
filled her with an indescribable emotion never experienced before. In an
instant it all passed, Lady Treherne spoke to her, and Blanche Talbot
addressed Maurice, wondering, as she did so, if the enchanting smile he
wore was meant for her.
“Mr. Annon having mercifully set me free, I came to try to cheer your
solitude; but you look as if solitude made you happier than society does
the rest of us,” she said without her usual affectation, for his manner
impressed her.
“You are very kind and very welcome. I do find pleasures to beguile my
loneliness, which gayer people would not enjoy, and it is well that I
can, else I should turn morose and tyrannical, and doom some unfortunate
to entertain me all day long.” He answered with a gentle courtesy which
was his chief attraction to womankind.
“Pray tell me some of your devices, I’m often alone in spirit, if not so
in the flesh, for Rose, though a dear girl, is not congenial, and I find
no kindred soul.”
A humorous glimmer came to Treherne’s eyes, as the sentimental damsel
beamed a soft sigh and drooped her long lashes effectively. Ignoring the
topic of “kindred souls,” he answered coldly, “My favorite amusement is
studying the people around me. It may be rude, but tied to my corner, I
cannot help watching the figures around me, and discovering their little
plots and plans. I’m getting very expert, and really surprise myself
sometimes by the depth of my researches.”
“I can believe it; your eyes look as if they possessed that gift.
Pray don’t study me.” And the girl shrank away with an air of
genuine alarm.
Treherne smiled involuntarily, for he had read the secret of that
shallow heart long ago, and was too generous to use the knowledge,
however flattering it might be to him. In a reassuring tone he said,
turning away the keen eyes she feared, “I give you my word I never will,
charming as it might be to study the white pages of a maidenly heart. I
find plenty of others to read, so rest tranquil, Miss Blanche.”
“Who interests you most just now?” asked the girl, coloring with
pleasure at his words. “Mrs. Snowdon looks like one who has a romance to
be read, if you have the skill.”
“I have read it. My lady is my study just now. I thought I knew her
well, but of late she puzzles me. Human minds are more full of
mysteries than any written book and more changeable than the cloud
shapes in the air.”
“A fine old lady, but I fear her so intensely I should never dare to try
to read her, as you say.” Blanche looked toward the object of discussion
as she spoke, and added, “Poor Tavia, how forlorn she seems. Let me ask
her to join us, may I?”
“With all my heart” was the quick reply.
Blanche glided away but did not return, for my lady kept her as well as
her daughter.
“That test satisfies me; well, I submit for a time, but I think I can
conquer my aunt yet.” And with a patient sigh Treherne turned to observe
Mrs. Snowdon.
She now stood by the fire talking with Sir Jasper, a handsome, reckless,
generous-hearted young gentleman, who very plainly showed his great
admiration for the lady. When he came, she suddenly woke up from her
listless mood and became as brilliantly gay as she had been unmistakably
melancholy before. As she chatted, she absently pushed to and fro a
small antique urn of bronze on the chimneypiece, and in doing so she
more than once gave Treherne a quick, significant glance, which he
answered at last by a somewhat haughty nod. Then, as if satisfied, she
ceased toying with the ornament and became absorbed in Sir Jasper’s
gallant badinage.
The instant her son approached Mrs. Snowdon, Madame Mère grew anxious,
and leaving Octavia to her friends and lover, she watched Jasper. But
her surveillance availed little, for she could neither see nor hear
anything amiss, yet could not rid herself of the feeling that some
mutual understanding existed between them. When the party broke up for
the night, she lingered till all were gone but her son and nephew.
“Well, Madame Ma Mère, what troubles you?” asked Sir Jasper, as she
looked anxiously into his face before bestowing her good-night kiss.
“I cannot tell, yet I feel ill at ease. Remember, my son, that you are
the pride of my heart, and any sin or shame of yours would kill me. Good
night, Maurice.” And with a stately bow she swept away.
Lounging with both elbows on the low chimneypiece, Sir Jasper smiled at
his mother’s fears, and said to his cousin, the instant they were alone,
“She is worried about E.S. Odd, isn’t it, what instinctive antipathies
women take to one another?”
“Why did you ask E.S. here?” demanded Treherne.
“My dear fellow, how could I help it? My mother wanted the general, my
father’s friend, and of course his wife must be asked also. I couldn’t
tell my mother that the lady had been a most arrant coquette, to put it
mildly, and had married the old man in a pet, because my cousin and I
declined to be ruined by her.”
“You could have told her what mischief she makes wherever she goes,
and for Octavia’s sake have deferred the general’s visit for a time. I
warn you, Jasper, harm will come of it.”
“To whom, you or me?”
“To both, perhaps, certainly to you. She was disappointed once when she
lost us both by wavering between your title and my supposed fortune. She
is miserable with the old man, and her only hope is in his death, for he
is very feeble. You are free, and doubly attractive now, so beware, or
she will entangle you before you know it.”
“Thanks, Mentor. I’ve no fear, and shall merely amuse myself for a
week--they stay no longer.” And with a careless laugh, Sir Jasper
strolled away.
“Much mischief may be done in a week, and this is the beginning of it,”
 muttered Treherne, as he raised himself to look under the bronze vase
for the note. It was gone!
Chapter III
WHO WAS IT?
Who had taken it? This question tormented Treherne all that sleepless
night. He suspected three persons, for only these had approached the
fire after the note was hidden. He had kept his eye on it, he thought,
till the stir of breaking up. In that moment it must have been removed
by the major, Frank Annon, or my lady; Sir Jasper was out of the
question, for he never touched an ornament in the drawing room since he
had awkwardly demolished a whole étagère of costly trifles, to
his mother’s and sister’s great grief. The major evidently suspected
something, Annon was jealous, and my lady would be glad of a pretext to
remove her daughter from his reach. Trusting to his skill in reading
faces, he waited impatiently for morning, resolving to say nothing to
anyone but Mrs. Snowdon, and from her merely to inquire what the note
contained.
Treherne usually was invisible till lunch, often till dinner; therefore,
fearing to excite suspicion by unwonted activity, he did not appear till
noon. The mailbag had just been opened, and everyone was busy over their
letters, but all looked up to exchange a word with the newcomer, and
Octavia impulsively turned to meet him, then checked herself and hid her
suddenly crimsoned face behind a newspaper. Treherne’s eye took in
everything, and saw at once in the unusually late arrival of the mail a
pretext for discovering the pilferer of the note.
“All have letters but me, yet I expected one last night. Major, have you
got it among yours?” And as he spoke, Treherne fixed his penetrating
eyes full on the person he addressed.
With no sign of consciousness, no trace of confusion, the major
carefully turned over his pile, and replied in the most natural manner,
“Not a trace of it; I wish there was, for nothing annoys me more than
any delay or mistake about my letters.”
He knows nothing of it, thought Treherne, and turned to Annon, who was
deep in a long epistle from some intimate friend, with a talent for
imparting news, to judge from the reader’s interest.
“Annon, I appeal to you, for I must discover who has robbed me of
my letter.”
“I have but one, read it, if you will, and satisfy yourself” was the
brief reply.
“No, thank you. I merely asked in joke; it is doubtless among my lady’s.
Jasper’s letters and mine often get mixed, and my lady takes care of his
for him. I think you must have it, Aunt.”
Lady Treherne looked up impatiently. “My dear Maurice, what a coil about
a letter! We none of us have it, so do not punish us for the sins of
your correspondent or the carelessness of the post.”
She was not the thief, for she is always intensely polite when she
intends to thwart me, thought Treherne, and, apologizing for his
rudeness in disturbing them, he rolled himself to his nook in a sunny
window and became apparently absorbed in a new magazine.
Mrs. Snowdon was opening the general’s letters for him, and, having
finished her little task, she roamed away into the library, as if in
search of a book. Presently returning with one, she approached Treherne,
and, putting it into his hand, said, in her musically distinct voice,
“Be so kind as to find for me the passage you spoke of last night. I am
curious to see it.”
Instantly comprehending her stratagem, he opened it with apparent
carelessness, secured the tiny note laid among the leaves, and,
selecting a passage at hazard, returned her book and resumed his own.
Behind the cover of it he unfolded and read these words:
    I understand, but do not be anxious; the line I left was merely
    this--“I must see you alone, tell me when and where.” No one can
    make much of it, and I will discover the thief before dinner. Do
    nothing, but watch to whom I speak first on entering, when we meet
    in the evening, and beware of that person.
Quietly transferring the note to the fire with the wrapper of the
magazine, he dismissed the matter from his mind and left Mrs. Snowdon
to play detective as she pleased, while he busied himself about his
own affairs.
It was a clear, bright December day, and when the young people separated
to prepare for a ride, while the general and the major sunned themselves
on the terrace, Lady Treherne said to her nephew, “I am going for an
airing in the pony carriage. Will you be my escort, Maurice?”
“With pleasure,” replied the young man, well knowing what was in
store for him.
My lady was unusually taciturn and grave, yet seemed anxious to say
something which she found difficult to utter. Treherne saw this, and
ended an awkward pause by dashing boldly into the subject which
occupied both.
“I think you want to say something to me about Tavie, Aunt. Am I right?”
“Yes.”
“Then let me spare you the pain of beginning, and prove my sincerity by
openly stating the truth, as far as I am concerned. I love her very
dearly, but I am not mad enough to dream of telling her so. I know that
it is impossible, and I relinquish my hopes. Trust me. I will keep
silent and see her marry Annon without a word of complaint, if you will
it. I see by her altered manner that you have spoken to her, and that my
little friend and nurse is to be mine no longer. Perhaps you are wise,
but if you do this on my account, it is in vain--the mischief is done,
and while I live I shall love my cousin. If you do it to spare her, I am
dumb, and will go away rather than cause her a care or pain.”
“Do you really mean this, Maurice?” And Lady Treherne looked at him with
a changed and softened face.
Turning upon her, Treherne showed her a countenance full of suffering
and sincerity, of resignation and resolve, as he said earnestly, “I do
mean it; prove me in any way you please. I am not a bad fellow, Aunt,
and I desire to be better. Since my misfortune I’ve had time to test
many things, myself among others, and in spite of many faults, I do
cherish the wish to keep my soul honest and true, even though my body be
a wreck. It is easy to say these things, but in spite of temptation, I
think I can stand firm, if you trust me.”
“My dear boy, I do trust you, and thank you gratefully for this
frankness. I never forget that I owe Jasper’s life to you, and never
expect to repay that debt. Remember this when I seem cold or unkind, and
remember also that I say now, had you been spared this affliction, I
would gladly have given you my girl. But--”
“But, Aunt, hear one thing,” broke in Treherne. “They tell me that any
sudden and violent shock of surprise, joy, or sorrow may do for me what
they hope time will achieve. I said nothing of this, for it is but a
chance; yet, while there is any hope, need I utterly renounce Octavia?”
“It is hard to refuse, and yet I cannot think it wise to build upon a
chance so slight. Once let her have you, and both are made unhappy, if
the hope fail. No, Maurice, it is better to be generous, and leave her
free to make her own happiness elsewhere. Annon loves her, she is
heart-whole, and will soon learn to love him, if you are silent. My poor
boy, it seems cruel, but I must say it.”
“Shall I go away, Aunt?” was all his answer, very firmly uttered, though
his lips were white.
“Not yet, only leave them to themselves, and hide your trouble if you
can. Yet, if you prefer, you shall go to town, and Benson shall see that
you are comfortable. Your health will be a reason, and I will come, or
write often, if you are homesick. It shall depend on you, for I want to
be just and kind in this hard case. You shall decide.”
“Then I will stay. I can hide my love; and to see them together will
soon cease to wound me, if Octavia is happy.”
“So let it rest then, for a time. You shall miss your companion as
little as possible, for I will try to fill her place. Forgive me,
Maurice, and pity a mother’s solicitude, for these two are the last of
many children, and I am a widow now.”
Lady Treherne’s voice faltered, and if any selfish hope or plan
lingered in her nephew’s mind, that appeal banished it and touched his
better nature. Pressing her hand he said gently, “Dear Aunt, do not
lament over me. I am one set apart for afflictions, yet I will not be
conquered by them. Let us forget my youth and be friendly counselors
together for the good of the two whom we both love. I must say a word
about Jasper, and you will not press me to explain more than I can
without breaking my promise.”
“Thank you, thank you! It is regarding that woman, I know. Tell me all
you can; I will not be importunate, but I disliked her the instant I saw
her, beautiful and charming as she seems.”
“When my cousin and I were in Paris, just before my illness, we met her.
She was with her father then, a gay old man who led a life of pleasure,
and was no fit guardian for a lovely daughter. She knew our story and,
having fascinated both, paused to decide which she would accept: Jasper,
for his title, or me, for my fortune. This was before my uncle changed
his will, and I believed myself his heir; but, before she made her
choice, something (don’t ask me what, if you please) occurred to send us
from Paris. On our return voyage we were wrecked, and then came my
illness, disinheritance, and helplessness. Edith Dubarry heard the
story, but rumor reported it falsely, and she believed both of us had
lost the fortune. Her father died penniless, and in a moment of despair
she married the general, whose wealth surrounds her with the luxury she
loves, and whose failing health will soon restore her liberty--”
“And then, Maurice?” interrupted my lady.
“She hopes to win Jasper, I think.”
“Never! We must prevent that at all costs. I had rather see him dead
before me, than the husband of such a woman. Why is she permitted to
visit homes like mine? I should have been told this sooner,” exclaimed
my lady angrily.
“I should have told you had I known it, and I reproved Jasper for his
neglect. Do not be needlessly troubled, Aunt. There is no blemish on
Mrs. Snowdon’s name, and, as the wife of a brave and honorable man, she
is received without question; for beauty, grace, or tact like hers can
make their way anywhere. She stays but a week, and I will devote myself
to her; this will save Jasper, and, if necessary, convince Tavie of my
indifference--” Then he paused to stifle a sigh.
“But yourself, have you no fears for your own peace, Maurice? You must
not sacrifice happiness or honor, for me or mine.”
“I am safe; I love my cousin, and that is my shield. Whatever happens
remember that I tried to serve you, and sincerely endeavored to
forget myself.”
“God bless you, my son! Let me call you so, and feel that, though I deny
you my daughter, I give you heartily a mother’s care and affection.”
Lady Treherne was as generous as she was proud, and her nephew had
conquered her by confidence and submission. He acted no part, yet, even
in relinquishing all, he cherished a hope that he might yet win the
heart he coveted. Silently they parted, but from that hour a new and
closer bond existed between the two, and exerted an unsuspected
influence over the whole household.
      
Maurice waited with some impatience for Mrs. Snowdon’s entrance, not
only because of his curiosity to see if she had discovered the thief,
but because of the part he had taken upon himself to play. He was equal
to it, and felt a certain pleasure in it for a threefold reason. It
would serve his aunt and cousin, would divert his mind from its own
cares, and, perhaps by making Octavia jealous, waken love; for, though
he had chosen the right, he was but a man, and moreover a lover.
Mrs. Snowdon was late. She always was, for her toilet was elaborate, and
she liked to enjoy its effects upon others. The moment she entered
Treherne’s eye was on her, and to his intense surprise and annoyance she
addressed Octavia, saying blandly, “My dear Miss Treherne, I’ve been
admiring your peacocks. Pray let me see you feed them tomorrow. Miss
Talbot says it is a charming sight.”
“If you are on the terrace just after lunch, you will find them there,
and may feed them yourself, if you like” was the cool, civil reply.
“She looks like a peacock herself in that splendid green and gold dress,
doesn’t she?” whispered Rose to Sir Jasper, with a wicked laugh.
“Faith, so she does. I wish Tavie’s birds had voices like Mrs.
Snowdon’s; their squalling annoys me intensely.”
“I rather like it, for it is honest, and no malice or mischief is hidden
behind it. I always distrust those smooth, sweet voices; they are
insincere. I like a full, clear tone; sharp, if you please, but decided
and true.”
“Well said, Octavia. I agree with you, and your own is a perfect sample
of the kind you describe.” And Treherne smiled as he rolled by to join
Mrs. Snowdon, who evidently waited for him, while Octavia turned to her
brother to defend her pets.
“Are you sure? How did you discover?” said Maurice, affecting to admire
the lady’s bouquet, as he paused beside her.
“I suspected it the moment I saw her this morning. She is no actress;
and dislike, distrust, and contempt were visible in her face when we
met. Till you so cleverly told me my note was lost, I fancied she was
disturbed about her brother--or you.”
A sudden pause and a keen glance followed the last softly uttered
word, but Treherne met it with an inscrutable smile and a quiet “Well,
what next?”
“The moment I learned that you did not get the note I was sure she had
it, and, knowing that she must have seen me put it there, in spite of
her apparent innocence, I quietly asked her for it. This surprised her,
this robbed the affair of any mystery, and I finished her perplexity by
sending it to the major the moment she returned it to me, as if it had
been intended for him. She begged pardon, said her brother was
thoughtless, and she watched over him lest he should get into mischief;
professed to think I meant the line for him, and behaved like a charming
simpleton, as she is.”
“Quite a tumult about nothing. Poor little Tavie! You doubtlessly
frightened her so that we may safely correspond hereafter.”
“You may give me an answer, now and here.”
“Very well, meet me on the terrace tomorrow morning; the peacocks will
make the meeting natural enough. I usually loiter away an hour or two
there, in the sunny part of the day.”
“But the girl?”
“I’ll send her away.”
“You speak as if it would be an easy thing to do.”
“It will, both easy and pleasant.”
“Now you are mysterious or uncomplimentary. You either care nothing for
a tête-à-tête with her, or you will gladly send her out of my way.
Which is it?”
“You shall decide. Can I have this?”
She looked at him as he touched a rose with a warning glance, for the
flower was both an emblem of love and of silence. Did he mean to hint
that he recalled the past, or to warn her that someone was near? She
leaned from the shadow of the curtain where she sat, and caught a
glimpse of a shadow gliding away.
“Who was it?” she asked, below her breath.
“A Rose,” he answered, laughing. Then, as if the danger was over, he
said, “How will you account to the major for the message you sent him?”
“Easily, by fabricating some interesting perplexity in which I want sage
counsel. He will be flattered, and by seeming to take him into my
confidence, I can hoodwink the excellent man to my heart’s content, for
he annoys me by his odd way of mounting guard over me at all times. Now
take me in to dinner, and be your former delightful self.”
“That is impossible,” he said, yet proved that it was not.
Chapter IV
FEEDING THE PEACOCKS
It was indeed a charming sight, the twelve stately birds perched on the
broad stone balustrade, or prancing slowly along the terrace, with the
sun gleaming on their green and golden necks and the glories of their
gorgeous plumes, widespread, or sweeping like rich trains behind them.
In pretty contrast to the splendid creatures was their young mistress,
in her simple morning dress and fur-trimmed hood and mantle, as she
stood feeding the tame pets from her hand, calling their fanciful names,
laughing at their pranks, and heartily enjoying the winter sunshine, the
fresh wind, and the girlish pastime. As Treherne slowly approached, he
watched her with lover’s eyes, and found her very sweet and blithe, and
dearer in his sight than ever. She had shunned him carefully all the day
before, had parted at night with a hasty handshake, and had not come as
usual to bid him good-morning in the library. He had taken no notice of
the change as yet, but now, remembering his promise to his aunt, he
resolved to let the girl know that he fully understood the relation
which henceforth was to exist between them.
“Good-morning, cousin. Shall I drive you away, if I take a turn or two
here?” he said, in a cheerful tone, but with a half-reproachful glance.
She looked at him an instant, then went to him with extended hand and
cheeks rosier than before, while her frank eyes filled, and her voice
had a traitorous tremor in it, as she said, impetuously: “I will be
myself for a moment, in spite of everything. Maurice, don’t think me
unkind, don’t reproach me, or ask my leave to come where I am. There is
a reason for the change you see in me; it’s not caprice, it is
obedience.”
“My dear girl, I know it. I meant to speak of it, and show you that I
understand. Annon is a good fellow, as worthy of you as any man can be,
and I wish you all the happiness you deserve.”
“Do you?” And her eyes searched his face keenly.
“Yes; do you doubt it?” And so well did he conceal his love, that
neither face, voice, nor manner betrayed a hint of it.
Her eyes fell, a cloud passed over her clear countenance, and she
withdrew her hand, as if to caress the hungry bird that gently pecked at
the basket she held. As if to change the conversation, she said
playfully, “Poor Argus, you have lost your fine feathers, and so all
desert you, except kind little Juno, who never forgets her friends.
There, take it all, and share between you.”
Treherne smiled, and said quickly, “I am a human Argus, and you have
been a kind little Juno to me since I lost my plumes. Continue to be so,
and you will find me a very faithful friend.”
“I will.” And as she answered, her old smile came back and her eyes met
his again.
“Thanks! Now we shall get on happily. I don’t ask or expect the old
life--that is impossible. I knew that when lovers came, the friend
would fall into the background; and I am content to be second, where I
have so long been first. Do not think you neglect me; be happy with
your lover, dear, and when you have no pleasanter amusement, come and
see old Maurice.”
She turned her head away, that he might not see the angry color in her
cheeks, the trouble in her eyes, and when she spoke, it was to say
petulantly, “I wish Jasper and Mamma would leave me in peace. I hate
lovers and want none. If Frank teases, I’ll go into a convent and so be
rid of him.”
Maurice laughed, and turned her face toward himself, saying, in his
persuasive voice, “Give him a trial first, to please your mother. It can
do no harm and may amuse you. Frank is already lost, and, as you are
heart-whole, why not see what you can do for him? I shall have a new
study, then, and not miss you so much.”
“You are very kind; I’ll do my best. I wish Mrs. Snowdon would come, if
she is coming; I’ve an engagement at two, and Frank will look tragical
if I’m not ready. He is teaching me billiards, and I really like the
game, though I never thought I should.”
“That looks well. I hope you’ll learn a double lesson, and Annon find a
docile pupil in both.”
“You are very pale this morning; are you in pain, Maurice?” suddenly
asked Octavia, dropping the tone of assumed ease and gaiety under which
she had tried to hide her trouble.
“Yes, but it will soon pass. Mrs. Snowdon is coming. I saw her at the
hall door a moment ago. I will show her the peacocks, if you want to go.
She won’t mind the change, I dare say, as you don’t like her, and I do.”
“No, I am sure of that. It was an arrangement, perhaps? I understand. I
will not play Mademoiselle De Trop.”
Sudden fire shone in the girl’s eyes, sudden contempt curled her lip,
and a glance full of meaning went from her cousin to the door, where
Mrs. Snowdon appeared, waiting for her maid to bring her some additional
wrappings.
“You allude to the note you stole. How came you to play that prank,
Tavie?” asked Treherne tranquilly.
“I saw her put it under the urn. I thought it was for Jasper, and I took
it,” she said boldly.
“Why for Jasper?”
“I remembered his speaking of meeting her long ago, and describing her
beauty enthusiastically--and so did you.”
“You have a good memory.”
“I have for everything concerning those I love. I observed her manner
of meeting my brother, his devotion to her, and, when they stood
laughing together before the fire, I felt sure that she wished to charm
him again.”
“Again? Then she did charm him once?” asked Treherne, anxious to know
