orchards. The oranges and lemons getting their great harvests
ready; cultivation going on beneath the trees; the water-
wheels working; the curious hedges of prickly pear, four and
six feet high, reminding us all the while, if nothing else
did, that we were in a very strange land. What endless delight
it was! The weather had just cleared the day before; and to-
day, the fifteenth of January, the sun shone still and fair
and warm. I saw that papa was getting good with every step,
and growing interested with every hour. We went down to the
beach, and strolled along as far as the tanneries; every wave
that broke at my side seeming to sing in my ears the reminder
that it broke on the shores of Palestine. Papa wished the
oranges were ripe; I wished for nothing.
Then we entered the city again, and examined the bazars;
lingering first a good while to watch the motley, picturesque,
strange and wild crowd without the city gate. It was my first
taste of Oriental life; papa knew it before, but he relished
it all afresh in my enjoyment of it. Of course we were taken
to see Simon's house and the house where Tabitha died.
"Do you realise anything here, Daisy?" papa asked, as we stood
on the flat roof of the first of these two.
"Yes, papa."
"Pray, what? St. Peter never saw this building, my dear."
"No, papa, I don't think it. But he saw the Mediterranean -
just so, - and he had the same sky over him, and the same
shores before him."
"The same sky, Daisy? What is the sky?"
"Yes papa, I know; but there is a difference. This Syrian sky
is not like the sky over Florence nor like the sky over
Melbourne. And this is what Peter saw."
"You are a delicious travelling companion, Daisy," said papa.
"Your mother is good, but you are better. Well, take me with
you now in your journey into the past."
We sat down there on the roof of the so-called house of Simon,
papa and I; he gave the guide a bonus to keep him contented;
and we read together chapters in the Old Testament and
chapters in the New. It was drinking water from wells of
delight. Bible words never seemed so real, nor so full. And
then when I thought that I was going on to Jerusalem - to
Jericho - to Mount Tabor, and the Sea of Galilee, and Lebanon,
- that Joppa was only the beginning, - I could hardly contain
my joy. I could only give thanks for it all the time. True, I
did remember, as I looked over that bright sea of the Levant,
I did remember that far away there was a region of conflict
where the interests nearest to me were involved; a strife
going on, in which the best blood in the world, the dearest in
my account, might be shed or shedding. I remembered it all.
But the burden of that care was too heavy for me to carry; I
was fain to lay it down where so many a load has been laid
before now; and it was easier for me to do it in Syria than
anywhere else; God's own land, where His people had had so
many tokens to trust Him. Where Peter's doubts of conscience
were resolved by a vision, where the poor worker of kindness
was raised from the sleep of death, it was not there the place
for me to doubt whether the Lord looked upon my trouble, or
whether he cared about it, or whether he could manage it. I
laid care and doubt to sleep; and while I was in the Lord's
land I walked with the Lord's presence always before me. There
is no want to them that fear him.
We were detained at Joppa three days by a most pouring rain,
which kept us fast prisoners in doors. The time was however
not lost. We had despaired of making arrangements at Joppa for
our journey, any further than such as would take us to
Jerusalem. Joppa is no place for such arrangements. But while
we waited there in the rain, a party of English people arrived
who came to take the steamer for home. They had just ended
their travels in the Holy Land; and while waiting for the
steamer, one of them who was an invalid sought the shelter of
our hotel. We came to know each other. And the end was, we
secured their travelling equipment. Tents, servants and all,
were made over to papa, with mutual pleasure at the
arrangement. So when the sun shone out on the fourth day, we
were ready to start in great comfort. I had a dear little
Syrian pony, which carried me nicely through my whole journey;
papa had another that served him well. The tents and tent
fittings were in the English style of perfection; cook and
interpreter and other servants knew their business, and we had
no reason to complain of them from the beginning to the end of
our tour. Moreover, in those days of waiting at Joppa, and
intercourse with the ladies of the party, I got from them some
useful hints and details which were of great service to me
afterwards. I had always wished to go through Palestine living
in our own tents; papa had been a little uncertain how he
would do. Now it was settled. I had my maid, of course; but
she was the greatest trouble I had, all the way.
The morning of our setting out from Joppa is never to be
forgotten. It was clear and balmy. For miles we rode through
the orange gardens, getting ready fast for their superb
harvest, which would be ripe a month later. Then through a
pleasant open country; - cornfields and meadows interspersed
with trees in patches. It was easy riding, and I liked my
pony, and my heart was full of exhilaration.
"Well?" said papa, as my eye met his one time in the course of
its wanderings.
"Papa, it is the plain of Sharon!"
"You speak as if it were a place where you had played, when
you were a child."
"Papa, in some measure it is like that; so often I have read
about the old things that were done here."
Papa smiled at me? and asked what? But I could not tell him
while we were going at a canter.
"It would be pretty in spring," he said. "Where are we to stop
to-night, Daisy? I have left all that to you. I do not know
the country as you do."
"Papa, we set off so late, we shall not be able to get further
than Latron to-night."
"What place is that? is it any place?"
"Supposed to be the Modin of the Maccabees."
"Have you brought any books, Daisy?" was papa's next question.
"No, papa, except 'Murray' and the Bible."
"We ought to have more," he said. "We must see if we cannot
supply that want at Jerusalem."
Papa's interest in the subject was thoroughly waking up. We
lunched at Ramleh. How present it is to me, those hours we
spent there. The olive groves and orchards and cornfields, the
palms and figs, the prickly-pear hedges, the sweet breath of
the air. And after our luncheon we stayed to examine the ruins
and the minaret. Our master of ceremonies, Suleiman, was a
little impatient. But we got off in good time and reached our
camping ground just before sunset. Tiere too, the sunlight
flashing on those rocks of ruin comes back to me, and the wide
plain and sea view which the little hill commands. Papa and I
climbed it to look at the ruins and see the view while dinner
was getting ready.
"What is it, Daisy?" he said. "You must be my gazetteer and
interpreter for the land; Suleiman will do for the people."
"It is an old Crusaders' fortress, papa; built to command the
pass to Jerusalem."
That was enough for papa. He pored over the rough remains and
their associations; while I sat down on a stone and looked
over the Philistine plain; scarce able to convince myself that
I was so happy as to see it in reality. Papa and I had a most
enjoyable dinner afterwards; he enjoyed it, I knew; and our
night's rest was sweet, with a faint echo of the war storms of
the ages breaking upon my ear.
To my great joy, there was no storm of the elements the next
morning, and we were able to take up our march for Jerusalem.
The road soon was among the hills; rough, thickety, wild; from
one glen into another, down and up steep ridge sides, always
mounting of course by degrees. Rough as it all was, there were
olives and vineyards sometimes to be seen; often terraced
hillsides which spoke of what had been. At last we came up out
of a deep glen and saw at a distance the white line of wall
which tells of Jerusalem. I believe it was a dreary piece of
country which lay between, but I could hardly know what it
was. My thoughts were fixed on that white wall. I forgot even
papa.
We had pouring rains again soon after we got to Jerusalem. I
was half glad. So much to see and think of at once, it was
almost a relief to be obliged to take things gradually. I had
been given numerous good bits of counsel by the kind English
ladies we had seen at Jaffa; and according to their advice, I
persuaded papa that we should go down at once to Jericho and
the Dead Sea, without waiting till the weather should grow too
hot for it; then Jerusalem and the Mount of Olives and all the
neighbourhood would be delightful. Now, they were very gray
and forlorn to a stranger's eye. I wanted papa to be pleased.
I could have enjoyed Jerusalem at any time. But I knew that by
and by Jericho would be insupportable.
So papa and Suleiman made their arrangements. All that we
wanted was a guard of Arabs; everything else we had already.
The rain ceased after the third day; and early in the morning
we went out of the eastern gate of the city and moved slowly
down the slope of the Kedron valley and up the side of Mount
Olivet.
It was my first ride in the environs of Jerusalem; and I could
hardly bear the thoughts it brought up. Yet there was scant
time for thoughts; eyes had to be so busy. The valley of the
Kedron! I searched its depths, only to find tombs everywhere,
with olive trees sprinkled about among them. Life and death;
for if anything is an emblem of life in Palestine, I suppose
it is the olive. They looked sad to me at first, the olives;
their blue-gray foliage had so little of the fresh cheer of
our green woods. Afterwards I thought differently. But
certainly the valley of the Kedron was desolate and mournful
in the extreme, as we first saw it. Nor was Olivet less so.
The echo of forfeited promises seemed to fill my ear; the
shades of lost glory seemed to tenant all those ways and
hillsides. I could but think what feet had trod those paths;
what hands of blessing had been held out on these hills;
turned back and rejected, to the utter ruin of those who
rejected them. The places of Solomon's splendour and David's
honour, in the hands of the Moslem; or buried beneath the
ruins of twenty desolations. And in the midst of such thoughts
which possessed me constantly, came thrills of joy that I was
there. So we mounted over the shoulder of the Mount of Olives,
and the day cleared and brightened as we went on. Then came
the ruins of Bethany. I would have liked to linger there; but
this was not the time. I left it for the present.
"We must dismount here, Daisy," said papa the next minute. And
he set me the example. "Our own feet will do this next piece
of road most satisfactorily."
We scrambled down, over the loose stones and rock, the very
steep pitch just below Bethany. I do not know how deep, but
hundreds of feet certainly. Our mules and horses came on as
they could.
"Is this to be taken as a specimen of Palestine roads, Daisy?"
"I believe they are pretty bad, papa."
"How do you like it?"
"Oh, papa," said I, stopping, "I like it. Look - look yonder -
do you see that glimmer? do you know what that is, papa?"
"It is water -"
"It is the Dead Sea."
"Thirty-six hundred feet below. We have a sharp ride before
us, Daisy."
"Not quite so much below us - we have come down some way.
Papa, don't you enjoy it?"
"I enjoy you," he said, smiling. "Yes, child, I enjoy it; only
I don't enjoy such villainous roads."
"But then, papa, you know it is the only possible way the road
can go, and always has been; and so we are sure that Christ
was here many a time. Here, papa, where our feet are
treading."
Papa looked at me and said nothing.
The way was so pleasant, that we walked on ahead of our mules,
till we came to the spring about a mile from Bethany. It was
strange to look at the water pouring out its never failing
stream, and to remember it had been doing just so ever since
nineteen hundred years ago.
"How often travellers have rested here and drunk of the water,
papa; how often Christ was here."
"That arch was not over the spring in those days, though,"
said papa.
But papa stood and looked at the spring and at the ravine, and
I saw that he was catching something of my feeling. We mounted
there, and the rest of the way we had no more talk. I did not
want to talk. There was too much to think about, as we wound
down the rough valleys or watercourses among the desolate
hills; while the air grew constantly warmer as we got lower.
No trees, no life, no vine terraces; and this was the way to
Jericho. At the ruined khan, a good distance from the top, we
dismounted and stopped to rest and take our lunch.
"Well, Daisy," said papa, "are you enjoying yet?"
"Every minute, papa."
"I am very glad. But I am very tired."
"Papa, you must take a good rest here; and here is an orange
for you. I will give you something else directly."
Papa stretched himself out wearily on the stones.
"What is the source of your pleasure just now, Daisy? It is as
barren a landscape as ever I traversed."
"Papa, David went this way when he fled from Absalom."
"Humph!" said papa, as if there were not much pleasure in that
association.
"And Jesus and His apostles came this way, up from Jericho; up
and down, I suppose, many a time; they have rested here,
papa."
"And I see, Daisy, you love the ground where those feet have
trod. I never could understand it before. I fancy, I could
never attain power of realisation to get near enough to the
subject."
"Do you now, papa?"
"Hardly. By sympathy with you, Daisy."
"A little below, papa, we shall come to the Valley of Achor,
where Achan was stoned."
"I don't know that story, Daisy. You may read it to me."
We had a long reading and resting there by the ruined khan.
Papa was ready to listen and talk; and I saw that so long as
we were in Palestine he would read the Bible as much as I
liked. Then we made the rest of our way. I knew he could not
but be interested with that. The scenery became so wild and
grand as to satisfy even him. We got the glorious view of the
plains of Jericho from the top of the steep descent, and stood
still for some time to look. Papa said it was a noble view;
but to me it was so full of the riches of association that I
could hardly feast upon it enough. Down there, Jericho of old
had stood and fallen; when the priests and the people of
Israel compassed it about with trumpets of victory. There, or
over against it, the Jordan had been divided to let the people
pass over. In later days Elijah and Elisha had gone over
single-handed. Down on that plain had stood Herod's Jericho,
which Christ had gone through time and again; where Zaccheus
climbed the tree to see Him, and Bartimeus sitting by the
wayside had cried out for his mercy and got it. What was there
before me in all that scene that did not tell of the power of
faith - of the grace of God - of the safety and strength of
His children - of the powerlessness of their enemies. My heart
sang hymns and chanted psalms of rejoicing, while my little
Syrian pony stood still with me at the top of the pass of
Adummim. I even forgot papa.
At the bottom we found ourselves in a new world. Water and
wood, luxuriant vegetation of many kinds; a stream even to
ford, the brook which comes down from Wady Kelt, now full with
the rains; a warm delicious atmosphere, and the sun shining on
the opposite Moab mountains.
And then came another sight which is very pleasant at the
close of a long day of fatigue and excitement; our tents, up
and ready for us. Our Syrian cook gave us a good dinner; and
papa was satisfied to see me so happy. I thought he was a
little happy himself.
CHAPTER XV.
OLD BATTLEFIELDS
The next day papa was so tired that he would not go anywhere.
So I had to be quiet too. It was no hardship. I was rather
glad, to take in leisurely the good of all I had before and
around me, and have time for it. Our tents were pitched by the
beautiful fountain Aines-Sultân; which the books told me was
Elisha's fountain. I wandered round it, examining the strange
trees and bushes, gathering flowers; I found a great many;
studying the lights and shades on the Moab mountains, and
casting longing looks towards the Dead Sea and the Jordan. I
took my maid with me in my wanderings, and Suleiman also kept
near me like a shadow; but nobody of all our caravan behaved
to me with anything but the most observant politeness. The
Arabs, taught, I suppose, by other travellers whom they had
attended, were very eager to bring me natural curiosities;
birds and animals and shells and plants. I had no lack of
business and pleasure all that day. I wanted only some one to
talk to me who could tell me things I wanted to know.
The day had come to an end, almost; the shadow of Quarantania
had fallen upon us; and I sat on a rock by the spring,
watching the colours of the sunset still bright on the trees
in the plain, on the water of the sea, and on the range of the
Moab hills. From all these my thoughts had at last wandered
away, and were busy at the other end of the world; sad, with a
great sense that Mr. Thorold was away from me; heavy, with a
moment's contrast of pleasures present and pleasures past. My
musings were suddenly broken by seeing that some one was close
by my side, and a single glance said, a stranger. I was
startled and rose up, but the stranger stood still and seemed
to wish to speak to me. Yet he did not speak. I saw the air of
a gentleman, the dress of a European in Syria, the outlines of
a personable man; one glance at his face showed me a bronzed
complexion, warm-coloured auburn hair, and a frank and very
bright eye. I looked away, and then irresistibly was driven to
look back again. He smiled. I was in confusion.
"Don't you know?" he said.
"Not -?"
"Yes!"
"Can it be, - Mr. Dinwiddie?"
"Is it possible it is Daisy?" he said, taking my hand.
"Oh, Mr. Dinwiddie, I am so glad to see you!"
"And I am so glad to see you - here, of all places, at
Elisha's fountain. The first question is, How came we both
here?"
"I persuaded papa to bring me. I wanted to see Palestine."
"And I heard of you in Jerusalem, and felt sure it must be
you, and I could not resist the temptation to take a little
journey after you."
"And you are travelling through Palestine too?"
"In one way. I am living here - and life is a journey, you
know."
"You are living in Palestine?"
"In Jerusalem. I came here as a missionary, five years ago."
"How very nice!" I said. "And you can go with us?"
He shook my hand heartily, which he had not yet let go,
laughing, and asked where we were going?
"I want to see the Dead Sea, very much, Mr. Dinwiddie; and
papa was in doubt; but if you were with us there would be no
more difficulty."
"I shall be most happy to be with you. Do you know where you
are now?"
"I know a little. This is Elisha's fountain, isn't it?"
"Yes; and just hereabouts are the ruins of old Jericho."
"I did not know. I wondered, and wanted to know. But, Mr.
Dinwiddie, have you got a tent?"
"I never travel without one."
"Then it is all right," I said; "for we have a cook."
"I should not miss that functionary," he said, shaking his
head. "I am accustomed to act in that capacity myself. It is
something I have learned since I came from Virginia."
We were called to dinner and had no time then for anything
more. Our table was spread in front of the tents, in a clear
spot of greensward; in the midst, I thought, of all possible
delights that could be clustered together - except one. The
breeze was a balmy, gentle evening zephyr; the sunlight,
hidden from us by the Quarantania, shone on the opposite
mountains of Moab, bringing out colours of beauty; and glanced
from the water of the Dead Sea, and brightened the hues of the
green thickets on the plain. Jericho behind us, the Jordan in
front of us, the confusions of the world we live in thrust to
a great distance out of the way, - I sat down to the open-air
meal with a profound feeling of gratitude and joy. It was also
a relief to me to have Mr. Dinwiddie's company with papa; he
knew the land and the people and the ways of the land, and
could give such good help if help were needed. He could be
such good society too.
I fancied that papa's reception of Mr. Dinwiddie was rather
slack in its evidence of pleasant recollection; but however,
every shadow of stiffness passed away from his manner before
dinner was over. Mr. Dinwiddie made himself very acceptable;
and there, where we had so much to talk about, talk flowed in
full stream. It was arranged that the new member of our party
should be our guest and our travelling companion during as
much of our journey as his duties allowed; and I went to sleep
that night with a deep and full sense of satisfaction.
Papa declared himself still the next day unable for a very
long and exciting day's work; so it was decided that we should
put off till the morrow our ride to the Jordan and the Dead
Sea, and Mr. Dinwiddie proposed to conduct me to Mount
Quarantania to see the hermits' caves which are remaining
there. Of course they remain; for the walls of caves do not
crumble away; however, the staircases and rock ways which led
to the upper ones have many of them suffered that fate.
We had a delicious walk. First along the foot of the mountain,
skirting a little channel of running water which brings the
outflow of another fountain to enrich a part of the plain. It
was made good for the cultivation of a large tract; although
very wild and disorderly cultivation. As we went, every spot
within sight was full of interest; rich with associations; the
air was warm but pleasant; the warble of the orange-winged
blackbird - I don't know if I ought to call it a warble; it
was a very fine and strong note, or whistle, - sounding from
the rocks as we went by, thrilled me with a wild reminder of
all that had once been busy life there, where now the
blackbird's cry sounded alone. The ruins of what had been, -
the blank, that was once so filled up, - the forlorn repose,
where the stir of the ages had been so restlessly active. I
heard Mr. Dinwiddie's talk as we went, he was telling and
explaining things to me. I heard, but could not make much
answer. Thought was too full.
A good distance from home, that is, from the tents, we reached
the source of all that fertilising water the channel of which
we had followed up. How wild the source was too! No Saracenic
arch over that; the water in a full flow came out from among
the roots of a great tree - one of the curious thorny dôm
trees that grow in thickets over the plain. I believe our
Arabs called them dôm; Mr. Dinwiddie said it was a Zizyphus.
It was a very large tree at any rate, and with its odd thorny
branches and bright green foliage canopied picturesquely the
fine spring beneath it. All was wild and waste. The Arabs do
not even root out the dîm or nubk trees from the spots they
irrigate and cultivate; but the little channels of water flow
in and out among the stems and roots of the trees as they can.
Times are changed on Jericho's plain.
I thought so, as we turned up the slope of rock rubbish which
leads to the foot of the cave cliffs. The mountain here is a
sheer face of rock; and the caves, natural or artificial,
pierce the rock in tiers, higher and lower. The precipice is
spotted with them. The lowest ones are used now by the Arabs
to pen their sheep and quarter their donkeys; Mr. Dinwiddie
and I looked into a good many of them; in one or two we found
a store of corn or straw laid up. Many of the highest caves
could not be got at; the paths and stairs in the rock which
used to lead to them are washed and worn away; but the second
tier are not so utterly cut off from human feet. By a way
chiselled in the rock, with good nerves, one can reach them.
My nerves were good enough, and I followed Mr. Dinwiddie along
the face of the precipice till we reached some sets of caves
communicating with each other. These were partly natural,
partly enlarged by labour. Places were cut for beds and for
cupboards; there was provision of a fine water tank, to which,
Mr. Dinwiddie told me, there were stone channels leading from
a source some hundreds of feet distant; cistern and tubes both
carefully plastered. A few Abyssinian Christians come here
every spring to keep Lent, Mr. Dinwiddie said. How much more
pains they take than we do, I thought.
"Yes," said Mr. Dinwiddie, when I said my thought aloud, -
" 'Skin for skin; all that a man hath will he give for his
life.' But when the conscience knows that heaven is not to be
bought that way, then there is no other motive left that will
use up all a man's energies but the love of Christ
constraining him."
"The trouble is, Mr. Dinwiddie, that there is so little of
that."
"So little!" he said, - "even in those of us who love most. I
do not mean to say that this love had no share in determining
the actions of those who used to live here; perhaps they
thought to get nearer to Christ by getting nearer to the
places of His some time presence and working in human flesh."
"And don't you think it does help, Mr. Dinwiddie?" I said.
He turned on me a very deep and sweet look, that was half a
smile.
"No!" he answered. "The Lord may use it, - He often does, - to
quicken our sense of realities and so strengthen our
apprehension of spiritualities; but just so He can use other
things, even remote distance from such and all material helps.
Out of that very distance He can make a tie to draw the soul
to Himself."
"There must have been a great many of those old Christians
living here once?" I said.
"Yes," said Mr. Dinwiddie. "On this face of the mountain there
are thirty or forty caves - I think there are many more in the
gorge of the Kelt, round on the south face. Do you see that
round hole over your head?"
We were standing in one of the caverns. I looked up.
"I cannot get you up there," he went on, - "but I have climbed
up by means of a rope. There are other rooms there, and one is
a chapel - I mean, it was one, - with arches cut to the
windows and doorways, and frescoed walls, full of figures of
saints. Through another hole in another ceiling, like this, I
got up into still a third set of rooms, like the ones below.
Into those nobody had come for many a year; the dust witnessed
it. Back of one room, the chapel, was a little low doorway;
very low. I crept through - and there in the inner place, lay
piled the skeletons of the old hermits; skulls and bones, just
as they had been laid while the flesh was still upon them; the
dust was inches deep. A hundred feet higher up there are more
caverns. No, I should not like to take you - though the
Abyssinian devotees come to them every spring. Yet higher than
those, far up, near the top of the mountain, I have explored
others, where I found still more burial caves like the one
just here above us. Chapels and frescoes were up there too."
"And difficult climbing, Mr. Dinwiddie."
"Very difficult. Broken stairs and dizzy galleries, and deep
precipices, with the vultures floating in air down below me."
"What a place for men to live!"
"Fitter for the doves and swallows which inhabit the old
hermits' houses now. Yet not a bad place to live either, if
one had nothing to do in the world. Sit down and rest and let
us look at it."
"And I have got some luncheon for you, Mr. Dinwiddie. I should
have missed all this if you had not been with me. Papa would
never have come here."
There were many places in front of the cells where seats had
been cut out in the rock; and in one of these Mr. Dinwiddie
and I sat down, to eat fruit and biscuit and use our eyes; our
attendant Arab no doubt wondering at us all the while. The
landscape in view was exceedingly fine. We had the plains of
Jericho, green and lovely, spread out before us; we could see
the north end of the Dead Sea and the mouth of the Jordan; and
the hills of Moab, always like a superb wall of mountain
rising up over against us.
"Do you know where you are?" said Mr. Dinwiddie.
"Partly."
"The site of old Jericho is marked by the heaps and the ruins
which lie between us and our camp."
"Yes. That is old Jericho."
"Over against us, somewhere among those Moab hills, is the
pass by which the hosts of the 'sons of Israel' came down,
with their flocks and herds, to the rich plains over there, -
the plains of Moab."
"And opposite us, I suppose, somewhere along there in front of
old Jericho, is the place where the waters of the river failed
from below and were cut off from above, and the great space
was laid bare for the armies to pass over."
"Just over there. And there - Elijah and Elisha went over dry
shod, when Elijah smote with his mantle upon the waters; and
there by the same way Elisha came back alone, after he had
seen his master taken from him."
"Those were grand times!" I said, with a half breath.
"They were rough times."
"Still, they were grand times."
"I think, these are grander."
"But, Mr. Dinwiddie, such things are not done now as were done
then."
"Why not?"
"Why, how can you ask?"
"How can you answer?"
"Why, Mr. Dinwiddie, the river is not parted now, this river
nor any other, for the Lord's people to go over without
trouble."
"Are you sure?" said he, with the deep sweet look I had
noticed. "Do they never come now, in the way of their duty, to
an impassable barrier of danger or difficulty, through which
the same hand opens their path? Did you never find that they
do, in your own experience?"
A little, I had; and yet it seemed to me that a very Jordan of
difficulty lay before me now, rolling in full power. Mr.
Dinwiddie waited a moment and went on.
"That old cry, 'Where is the Lord God of Elijah?' - will bring
down His hand, now as then; mighty to hold back worse waves
than those of the 'Descender.' Aaron's rod, and the blast of
the priests' trumpets, were but the appeal and the triumph of
faith. And before that appeal stronger walls than those of
Jericho fall down, now as well as then."
"Then it must be the faith that is wanting," I said.
"Sometimes" - Mr. Dinwiddie answered; "and not sometimes. That
earnest Sunday-school teacher, who prayed that the Lord would
give him at least one soul a week out of his Bible class, and
who reported at the end of the year, fifty-two brought to God,
- what do you think of his faith? - and his Jericho?"
"Is it true?" I said.
"It is true. What are the walls of stone and mortar to that?
We wrestle not with flesh and blood, but against
principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the
darkness of this world. - But our Captain is stronger."
I think we were both silent for some time; yet there was a din
of voices in my ear. So it seemed. Silence was literally
broken only by the note of a bird here and there; but the
plain before me, the green line which marked the course of the
Jordan, the Moab mountains, the ruins at my feet, the caves
behind me, were all talking to me. And there were voices of my
own past and present, still other voices, blending with these.
I sat very still, and Mr. Dinwiddie sat very still; until he
suddenly turned to me and spoke.
"Will nothing but a miracle do, Miss Daisy?"
The tone was so gentle and so quietly blended itself with my
musings, that I started and smiled.
"Oh, yes," I said; - "I do not suppose I want a miracle."
"Can a friend's counsel be of any use?"
"It might - of the greatest," I answered; - "if only I could
tell you all the circumstances."
"Before we go to that, how has it fared with my little friend
of old time, all these years?"
"How has it fared with me?" - I repeated in doubt.
"There is only one sort of welfare I know," he said. "It is
not strength to the body, or gold to the purse. I am 'well'
only when God's favour is shining on me and I am strong to run
the way of His commandments."
"I am not strong," I said.
"You know I do not mean my own strength, or yours," he
answered.
"I have never forgotten what you used to tell me," I said.
"Good. And yet, Miss Daisy, I would rather you could tell me
you had forgotten it; that you had gone on so far from that
beginning as to have lost it out of view."
"Ah, but I have not had so many friends to teach me, and help
me, that I could afford to forget the first one," I said. "I
have one dear old friend who thinks as you do, - and that is
all; and I cannot see her now."
" 'If any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to
all men liberally and upbraideth not; and it shall be given
him,' " Mr. Dinwiddie said.
"I lack wisdom, very much; but it does not seem to come, even
though I ask for it. I am sometimes in a great puzzle."
"About what to do?"
"Yes."
"You can always find out the first step to be taken. Jesus
will be followed step by step. He will not show you but one
step at a time, very often. But take that, holding His hand,
and He will show you the next."
"So I came here," I said.
"And what is the work to be done here? on yourself, or on
somebody else?"
"I do not know," I said. "I had not thought it was either.
Perhaps I am learning."
He was silent then, and I sat thinking.
"Mr. Dinwiddie," I said, "maybe you can help me."
"I will gladly, if I can."
"But it is very difficult for me to put you in possession of
the circumstances - or in the atmosphere of the circumstances.
I do not know that I can. You know that papa and mamma do not
think with me on the subject of religion?"
"Yes."
"There are other things in which I think differently from them
- other things in which we feel apart; and they do not know
it. Ought I to let them know it?"
"Your question is as enigmatical as an ancient oracle. I must
have a little more light. Do these differences of feeling or
opinion touch action? - either yours or theirs?"
"Yes, - both."
"Then, unless your minds are known to each other, will there
not be danger of mistaken action, on the one part or on the
other?"
"Telling them would not prevent that danger," I said.
"They would disregard your views, or you would disregard
theirs, - which?"
"I must not disregard theirs," I said low.
Mr. Dinwiddie was silent awhile. I had a sort of cry in my
heart for the old dividing of the waters.
"Miss Daisy," he said, "there is one sure rule. Do right; and
let consequences break us to pieces, if needs be."
"But," said I doubtfully, "I had questioned what was right; at
least I had not been certain that I ought to do anything just
now."
"Of course I am speaking in the dark," he answered. "But you
can judge whether this matter of division is something that in
your father's place you would feel you had a right to know."
I mused so long after this speech, that I am sure Mr.
Dinwiddie must have felt that he had touched my difficulty. He
was perfectly silent. At last I rose up to go home. I do not
know what Mr. Dinwiddie saw in me, but he stopped me and took
my hand.
"Can't you trust the Lord?" he said.
"I see trouble before me, whatever I do," I said with some
difficulty.
"Very well," he said; "even so, trust the Lord. The trouble
will do you no harm."
I sat down for a moment and covered my face. It might do me no
harm; it might at the same time separate me from what I loved
best in the world.
"Cannot you trust?" he repeated. " 'He that putteth his trust
in the Lord shall be made fat.' "
"You know," I said, getting up, "one cannot help being weak."
"Will you excuse me? - That is precisely what we can help. We
cannot help being ignorant sometimes, - foolish sometimes, -
short-sighted. But weak we need not be; for 'in the Lord
Jehovah is everlasting strength;' and 'he giveth power to the
faint.' "
"But there is no perfection, Mr. Dinwiddie."
"Not if by perfection you mean, standing alone. But if the
power that holds us up is perfect, - what should hinder our
having a fulness of that? 'If ye shall ask anything in My
name, I will do it.' Isn't that promise good for all we want
to ask?"
I sat down again to think. Mr. Dinwiddie quietly took his
place by my side; and we were still for a good while. The
plains of Jericho and the Jordan and the Moab mountains and
the Quarantania, all seemed to have new voices for me now;
voices full of balm; messages of soft-healing. I do think the
messages God sends to us by natural things are some of the
sweetest and mightiest and best understood of all. They come
home.
"Do you think," I asked, after a long silence, "that this
mountain was really the scene of the Temptation?"
"Why should we think so? No, I do not think it."
"But the road from Jericho to Jerusalem - there is no doubt of
that?"
"No doubt at all. We are often sure of the roads here, when we
are sure of little else."
There was a pause; and then Mr. Dinwiddie broke it.
"You left things in confusion at home. How do you feel about
that?"
"At home in America?" I said. "I do not feel about it as my
parents do."
"You side with the North!"
"I have lived there so much. I know the view taken there; and
it seems to me the right one. And I have lived at the South
too; and I do not like the view held there, - nor the practice
followed."
"There are some things I can fancy you would not like," he
said musingly. "I have not known what to think. It seems to me
they have made a false move. But it seems to me they must
succeed."
"I don't know," I said. "Perhaps."
He looked at me a little hard, and then we left the hermits'
caves and went down the plain to our encampment.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE FORLORN HOPE
The spot where our tents were pitched commands a view, I think
one of the loveliest in the world. Perhaps with me association
has something to do with the feeling. That broad sweep of the
plains of Jericho, bright with their groves of Zizyphus trees;
the lake waters coming in at the south; the great line of the
Moab horizon, and the heights of the western shore; and then
the constant changes which the light makes in revealing all
these; I found it a study of beauty, from the morning till the
night. From the time when the sun rose over the Moab mountains
and brightened our dôm trees and kissed our spring, to the
evening when the shadow of Quarantania stretched over all our
neighbourhood, as it stretched over Jericho of old, and the
distant hills and waters and thickets glowed in colours and
lights of their own.
The next morning after my walk I was up early, and going a
little way from my tent door, I sat down to enjoy it. The
servants were but just stirring; my father and Mr. Dinwiddie
safe within their canvas curtains. It was very nice to be
alone, for I wanted to think. The air was deliciously balmy
and soft; another fair day had risen upon us in that region of
tropical summer; the breath of the air was peace. Or was it
the speech of the past? It is difficult to disentangle things
sometimes. I had troublesome matters to think about, yet
somehow I was not troubled. I did not lay hold of trouble, all
the while I was in Palestine. Mr. Dinwiddie's words had
revealed to me that it might be my duty to tell my father all
that was in my heart. Suspicions of the fact, only, had
crossed my thought before; but "as iron sharpeneth iron, so a
man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend." I saw more
clearly. And the longer I sat there on my stone looking over
to the line of the Jordan and to the hills through which the
armies of Israel had once come down to cross it, the clearer
it grew to my mind, that the difficulty before me was one to
be faced, not evaded. I saw that papa had a right to know my
affairs, and that he would think it became me as a Christian
not to make a mystery of them. I saw I must tell papa about
myself. And yet, it did not appal me, as the idea had often
appalled me. I was hardly afraid. At any rate, there before me
the hosts of the Israelites had passed over dry shod; though
the river was swift and strong; and the appeal of Elisha, -
"Where is the Lord God of Elijah?" - came home to my ear like
a blast of the priests' silver trumpets. I felt two hands on
my shoulders.
"Studying it all, Daisy?"
"Papa, I am never tired of studying."
"This is a wonderful place."
"Papa, you know little about it yet. Old Jericho was up
there."
"You speak as if I had gone to school in 'old Jericho,' " said
my father, laughing. "I have the vaguest idea, Daisy, that
such a city existed. That is all."
"Sit down, papa, while breakfast is getting ready, and let me
mend your knowledge."
So we read the story there, on the stone by the spring. Mr.
Dinwiddie joined us; and it was presently decided that we
should spend the morning in examining the ground in our
neighbourhood and the old sites of what had passed away. So
after breakfast we sat out upon a walk over the territory of
old Jericho.
"But it is strange," said papa, "if the city was here, that
there are no architectural remains to testify as much."
"We rarely find them, sir, but in connection with Roman or
Saracenic work. Shapeless mounds, and broken pottery, as you
have it here, are all that generally mark our Palestine
ruins."
"But Herod?" said papa. "He was a builder."
"Herod's Jericho was a mile and a half away, to the east. And
moreover, if anything had been remaining here that could be
made of use, the Saracens or Crusaders would have pulled it to
pieces to help make their sugar mills up yonder, or their
aqueducts."
"There is no sugar cane here now?"
"Not a trace of it. Nor a palm tree; though Jericho was a city
of palms; nor a root of the balsam, though great gain was
derived to Judea in ancient times from the balsam gardens
here."
We mounted our horses and rode down to the site of Herod's
Jericho, on the banks of the little stream that issues from
the gorge of the Wady Kelt. How lovely, and how desolate, it
was. The stream overhung with trees and bordered with
oleanders and shrubs of which I have forgotten the names, and
crossed by old arches still; and around, the desolate tokens
of what once was. Foundation lines, and ruined aqueducts. Mr.
Dinwiddie made us remark the pavement of the road leading up
to the Kelt, the old road to Jerusalem, the road by which
Jesus went when the blind men called him, and over which,
somewhere on its way, stretched the sycamore tree into which
Zaccheus climbed. Ah how barren and empty the way looked now!
- with Him no longer here. For a moment, so looked my own path
before me, - the dusty, hot road; the desolate pass; the
barren mountain top. It was only a freak of fancy; I do not
know what brought it. I had not felt so a moment before, and I
did not a moment after.
"Where His feet lead now, the green pastures are not wanting,
-" Mr. Dinwiddie said; I suppose reading my look.
"Never, Mr. Dinwiddie?"
"Never!"
"But it seems, often, to people, that they are wanting."
"Their eyes are so blinded by tears that they cannot see them,
sometimes. Even then, they can lie down and feel them, - feel
that they are in them."
"Are there any sycamore trees here now?" my father asked.
"Two or three poor old specimens; just enough to show for the
story. Those sycamore figs belong to the low and warm
situations; this is the proper place for them."
Papa felt so well that we determined to push on to the Jordan.
It was a hot, long ride, over a shadeless and barren plain;
and when we came to the river papa declared himself very much
disappointed. But I was not. Narrow and muddy as the stream
was, it was also powerful in its rapid flood; no one could
venture to bathe in it. The river was much swollen and had
been yet more so; the tracks of wild animals which the floods
had disturbed were everywhere to be seen. Papa and Mr.
Dinwiddie reasoned and argued, while I sat and meditated; in a
deep delight that I should see the Jordan at all. We took a
long rest there, on its banks. The jungle was a delicious
study to me, and when the deep talk of the gentlemen subsided
enough to give me a chance, I got Mr. Dinwiddie to enlighten
me as to the names and qualities of the various trees and
plants. They were of fine luxuriant growth. Poplars and
sycamores and other trees, willows, I think, and exquisite
tamarisks in blossom; and what I specially admired, the canes.
I understood then how people might go into the plain to see "a
reed shaken with the wind." Growing twelve to fifteen feet
high, with graceful tufts of feathery bloom which they bow and
sway to the breeze in a manner lovely to see.
Another day we rode down to the shore of the Dead Sea; papa
being none the worse for his Jordan excursion. Then the rain
visited us, and for two or three days we were kept in our
tents. With some difficulty I then persuaded papa to go
further south, to the shore of the Dead Sea, to some pleasant
camping ground by one of its western springs; there rain falls
almost never. So, first at Ain Feshkah and then at Ain Jidi,
we spent another couple of weeks; without Mr. Dinwiddie it
would have been impossible, but his society kept papa from
wearying and made everything as enjoyable as could be to both
of us. It was the middle of February when we returned to
Jerusalem.
The rainy season was not of course at an end yet; but a change
of beauty had come over the land. We found fruit trees in
blossom, almond and peach; and apricots just ready to bloom.
Corn up and green; and flowers coming and come. I had my own
plans, made up from the experience and counsels of my English
friends; but papa wanted to see Jerusalem, and I waited. Of
course I wanted to see Jerusalem too; and here again Mr.
Dinwiddie was our excellent friend and guide and instructor.
Papa was quite in earnest now; and went about the city
examining walls and churches and rock-tombs and all the
environs, with a diligent intentness almost equal to mine; and
he and Mr. Dinwiddie had endless talks and discussions, while
I mused. The words, "Constantine," "Byzantine," "Crusaders,"
"Helena", "Saracenic," "Herod," "Josephus;" with modern names
almost as well known; echoed and re-echoed in my ears.
"Daisy!" said papa suddenly in one of these talks, - "Daisy!
you are not interested in this."
"Papa, it is so uncertain."
Mr. Dinwiddie laughed.
"But the question, child; don't you care about the question?
how is it ever to be made certain? I thought this question
would engage all your attention."
"How can it ever be made certain, papa? After those hundred
and fifty years when there were no Jews allowed here, who was
to remember the spot of the Sepulchre? Few but Christians knew
it, in the first place."
"Oh, you have thought about it!" said papa. "But are you not
interested in a probable site, Daisy?"
"No, papa."
"All these old churches and relics then do not concern you?"
"Papa, I only go to see them for your sake."
"Well," said papa, "now I will go to the Mount of Olives for
your sake."
That was my plan; following the advice of the English party,
who said they had enjoyed it. We hired for a time a little
stone dwelling on the Mount of Olives, from which we had a
fine view of the city; and to this new home papa and I moved,
and took up our quarters in it. Of all my days in the Holy
Land, excepting perhaps the time spent at Jericho and Engedi,
these days were the best. They are like a jewel of treasure in
my memory.
The little dwelling to which we had come was rougher in
accommodation than our tents; but the season was still early,
and it gave better shelter to papa. It was a rude stone house,
with a few small rooms at our service; which I soon made
comfortable with carpets and cushions. The flat roof above
gave us a delightful view of the country and abundant chance
to examine and watch all its points and aspects. I spent the
hours up here or at the window of our little sitting-room;
using my eyes all the time, to take in and feast upon what was
before them. Only when papa would go out with me, I left my
post; to take up the survey from some new point of view. I had
a great deal to think of, those days; a certain crisis in my
