“And you live your creed, which all such genial Christians do not find
it necessary to do,” I thought, as the Deacon in some perplexity took
his departure, and she returned with a smile to her sewing.
I suppose the call came about in this way. We had the sewing-circle here
last week, and just before the lamps were lighted, and when people had
dropped their work to group and talk in the corners, Meta Tripp came up
with one or two other girls to Aunt Winifred, and begged “to hear some
of those queer things people said she believed about heaven.” Auntie is
never obtrusive with her views on this or any other matter, but, being
thus urged, she answered a few questions that they put to her, to the
extreme scandal of one or two old ladies, and the secret delight of the
rest.
“Well,” said little Mrs. Bland, squeezing and kissing her youngest, who
was at that moment vigorously employed in sticking very long
darning-needles into his mother’s waterfall, “I hope there’ll be a great
many babies there. I should be perfectly happy if I always could have
babies to play with!”
The look that Aunt Winifred shot over at me was worth seeing.
She merely replied, however, that she supposed all our “highest
aspirations,”--with an indescribable accent to which Mrs. Bland was
safely deaf,--if good ones, would be realized; and added, laughing, that
Swedenborg said that the babies in heaven--who outnumber the grown
people--will be given into the charge of those women especially fond of
them.
“Swedenborg is suggestive, even if you can’t accept what seem to the
uninitiated to be his natural impossibilities,” she said, after we had
discussed Deacon Quirk awhile. “He says a pretty thing, too,
occasionally. Did I ever read you about the houses?”
She had not, and I wished to hear, so she found the book on Heaven and
Hell, and read:--
“As often as I have spoken with the angels mouth to mouth, so often I
have been with them in their habitations: their habitations are
altogether like the habitations on earth which are called houses, but
more beautiful; in them are parlors, rooms, and chambers in great
numbers; there are also courts, and round about are gardens,
shrubberies, and fields. Palaces of heaven have been seen, which were so
magnificent that they could not be described; above, they glittered as
if they were of pure gold, and below, as if they were of precious
stones; one palace was more splendid than another; within, it was the
same the rooms were ornamented with such decorations as neither words
nor sciences are sufficient to describe. On the side which looked to the
south there were paradises, where all things in like manner glittered,
and in some places the leaves were as of silver, and the fruits as of
gold; and the flowers on their beds presented by colors as it were
rainbows; at the boundaries again were palaces, in which the view
terminated.”
Aunt Winifred says that our hymns, taken all together, contain the worst
and the best pictures of heaven that we have in any branch of
literature.
“It seems to me incredible,” she says, “that the Christian Church should
have allowed that beautiful ‘Jerusalem’ in its hymnology so long, with
the ghastly couplet,--
    ‘Where congregations ne’er break up,
       And Sabbaths have no end.’
The dullest preachers are sure to give it out, and that when there are
the greatest number of restless children wondering when it will be time
to go home. It is only within ten years that modern hymn books have
altered it, returning in part to the original.
“I do not think we have chosen the best parts of that hymn for our
‘service of song.’ You never read the whole of it? You don’t know how
pretty it is! It is a relief from the customary palms and choirs. One’s
whole heart is glad of the outlet of its sweet refrain,--
    ‘Would God that I were there!’
before one has half read it. You are quite ready to believe that
    ‘There is no hunger, heat, nor cold,
      But pleasure every way.’
Listen to this:--
    ‘Thy houses are of ivory,
      Thy windows crystal clear,
    Thy tiles are made of beaten gold;
      O God, that I were there!
    ‘We that are here in banishment
      Continually do moan.
    
    ‘Our sweet is mixed with bitter gall,
      Our pleasure is but pain,
    Our joys scarce last the looking on,
      Our sorrows still remain.
    ‘But there they live in such delight,
      Such pleasure and such play,
    As that to them a thousand years
      Doth seem as yesterday.’
And this:--
    ‘Thy gardens and thy gallant walks
       Continually are green;
     There grow such sweet and pleasant flowers
       As nowhere else are seen.
    ‘There cinnamon, there sugar grows,
       There nard and balm abound,
     What tongue can tell, or heart conceive
       The joys that there are found?
    ‘Quite through the streets, with silver sound,
       The flood of life doth flow,
     Upon whose banks, on every side,
       The wood of life doth grow.’
I tell you we may learn something from that grand old Catholic singer.
He is far nearer to the Bible than the innovators on his MSS. Do you not
notice how like his images are to the inspired ones, and yet how
pleasant and natural is the effect of the entire poem?
“There is nobody like Bonar, though, to sing about heaven. There is one
of his, ‘We shall meet and rest,’--do you know it?”
I shook my head, and knelt down beside her and watched her face,--it was
quite unconscious of me, the musing face,--while she repeated
dreamily:--
    “Where the faded flower shall freshen,--
       Freshen nevermore to fade;
     Where the shaded sky shall brighten,--
       Brighten nevermore to shade;
     Where the sun-blaze never scorches;
       Where the star-beams cease to chill;
     Where no tempest stirs the echoes
       Of the wood, or wave, or hill;....
     Where no shadow shall bewilder;
       Where life’s vain parade is o’er;
     Where the sleep of sin is broken,
       And the dreamer dreams no more;
     Where the bond is never severed,--
       Partings, claspings, sob and moan,
     Midnight waking, twilight weeping,
       Heavy noontide,--all are done;
     Where the child has found its mother;
       Where the mother finds the child;
     Where dear families are gathered,
       That were scattered on the wild;....
     Where the hidden wound is healed;
       Where the blighted life reblooms;
     Where the smitten heart the freshness
       Of its buoyant youth resumes;....
     Where we find the joy of loving,
       As we never loved before,--
     Loving on, unchilled, unhindered,
       Loving once, forevermore.” ...
30th.
Aunt Winifred was weeding her day-lilies this morning, when the gate
creaked timidly, and then swung noisily, and in walked Abinadab Quirk,
with a bouquet of China pinks in the button-hole of his green-gray linen
coat. He had taken evident pains to smarten himself up a little, for his
hair was combed into two horizontal dabs over his ears, and the
green-gray coat and blue-checked shirt-sleeves were quite clean; but he
certainly is the most uncouth specimen of six feet five that it has ever
been my privilege to behold. I feel sorry for him, though. I heard Meta
Tripp laughing at him in Sunday school the other day,--“Quadrangular
Quirk,” she called him, a little too loud, and the poor fellow heard
her. He half turned, blushing fiercely; then slunk down in his corner
with as pitiable a look as is often seen upon a man’s face.
He came up to Auntie awkwardly,--a part of the scene I saw from the
window, and the rest she told me,--head hanging, and the tiny bouquet
held out.
“Clo sent these to you,” he stammered out,--“my cousin Clo. I was coming
’long, and she thought, you know,--she’d get me, you see, to--to--that
is, to--bring them. She sent her--that is--let me see. She sent her
respect--ful--respectful--no, her love; that was it. She sent her love
’long with ’em.”
Mrs. Forceythe dropped her weeds, and held out her white, shapely hands,
wet with the heavy dew, to take the flowers.
“O, thank you! Clo knows my fancy for pinks. How kind in you to bring
them! Won’t you sit down a few moments? I was just going to rest a
little. Do you like flowers?”
Abinadab eyed the white hands, as his huge fingers just touched them,
with a sort of awe; and, sighing, sat down on the very edge of the
garden bench beside her. After a singular variety of efforts to take the
most uncomfortable position of which he was capable, he succeeded to his
satisfaction, and, growing then somewhat more at his ease, answered her
question.
“Flowers are sech gassy things. They just blow out and that’s the end
of ’em. I like machine-shops best.”
“Ah! well, that is a very useful liking. Do you ever invent machinery
yourself?”
“Sometimes,” said Abinadab, with a bashful smile. “There’s a little
improvement of mine for carpet-sweepers up before the patent-office now.
Don’t know whether they’ll run it through. Some of the chaps I saw in
Boston told me they thought they would do’t in time; it takes an awful
sight of time. I’m alwers fussing over something of the kind; alwers
did, sence I was a baby; had my little windmills and carts and things;
used to sell ’em to the other young uns. Father don’t like it. He wants
me to stick to the farm. I don’t like farming. I feel like a fish out of
water.--Mrs. Forceythe, marm!”
He turned on her with an abrupt change of tone, so funny that she could
with difficulty retain her gravity.
“I heard you saying a sight of queer things the other day about heaven.
Clo, she’s been telling me a sight more. Now, I never believed in
heaven!”
“Why?”
“Because I don’t believe,” said the poor fellow, with sullen decision,
“that a benevolent God ever would ha’ made sech a derned awkward chap as
I am!”
Aunt Winifred replied by stepping into the house, and bringing out a
fine photograph of one of the best of the St. Georges,--a rapt, yet very
manly face, in which the saint and the hero are wonderfully blended.
“I suppose,” she said, putting it into his hands, “that if you should go
to heaven, you would be as much fairer than that picture as that picture
is fairer than you are now.”
“No! Why, would I, though? Jim-miny! Why, it would be worth going for,
wouldn’t it?”
The words were no less reverently spoken than the vague rhapsodies of
his father; for the sullenness left his face, and his eyes--which are
pleasant, and not unmanly, when one fairly sees them--sparkled softly,
like a child’s.
“Make it all up there, maybe?” musing,--“the girls laughing at you all
your life, and all? That would be the bigger heft of the two then,
wouldn’t it? for they say there ain’t any end to things up there. Why,
so it might be fair in Him after all; more’n fair, perhaps. See here,
Mrs. Forceythe, I’m not a church-member, you know, and father, he’s
dreadful troubled about me; prays over me like a span of ministers, the
old gentleman does, every Sunday night. Now, I don’t want to go to the
other place any more than the next man, and I’ve had my times, too, of
thinking I’d keep steady and say my prayers reg’lar,--it makes a chap
feel on a sight better terms with himself,--but I don’t see how I’m
going to wear white frocks and stand up in a choir,--never could sing no
more’n a frog with a cold in his head,--it tires me more now, honest, to
think of it, than it does to do a week’s mowing. Look at me! Do you
s’pose I’m fit for it? Father, he’s always talking about the thrones,
and the wings, and the praises, and the palms, and having new names in
your foreheads, (shouldn’t object to that, though, by any means), till
he drives me into the tool-house, or off on a spree. I tell him if God
hain’t got a place where chaps like me can do something He’s fitted ’em
to do in this world, there’s no use thinking about it anyhow.”
So Auntie took the honest fellow into her most earnest thought for half
an hour, and argued, and suggested, and reproved, and helped him, as
only she could do; and at the end of it seemed to have worked into his
mind some distinct and not unwelcome ideas of what a Christ-like life
must mean to him, and of the coming heaven which is so much more real to
her than any life outside of it.
“And then,” she told him, “I imagine that your fancy for machinery will
be employed in some way. Perhaps you will do a great deal more
successful inventing there than you ever will here.”
“You don’t say so!” said radiant Abinadab.
“God will give you something to do, certainly, and something that you
will like.”
“I might turn it to some religious purpose, you know!” said Abinadab,
looking bright. “Perhaps I could help ’em build a church, or hist some
of their pearl gates, or something like!”
Upon that he said that it was time to be at home and see to the oxen,
and shambled awkwardly away.
Clo told us this afternoon that he begged the errand and the flowers
from her. She says: “‘Bin thinks there never was anybody like you, Mrs.
Forceythe, and ’Bin isn’t the only one, either.” At which Mrs. Forceythe
smiles absently, thinking--I wonder of what.
Monday night.
I saw as funny and as pretty a bit of a drama this afternoon as I have
seen for a long time.
Faith had been rolling out in the hot hay ever since three o’clock, with
one of the little Blands, and when the shadows grew long they came in
with flushed cheeks and tumbled hair, to rest and cool upon the
door-steps. I was sitting in the parlor, sewing energetically on some
sun-bonnets for some of Aunt Winifred’s people down town,--I found the
heat to be more bearable if I kept busy,--and could see, unseen, all the
little tableaux into which the two children grouped themselves; a new
one every instant; in the shadow now,--now in a quiver of golden glow;
the wind tossing their hair about, and their chatter chiming down the
hall like bells.
“O what a funny little sunset there’s going to be behind the
maple-tree,” said the blond-haired Bland, in a pause.
“Funny enough,” observed Faith, with her superior smile, “but it’s going
to be a great deal funnier up in heaven, I tell you, Molly Bland.”
“Funny in heaven? Why, Faith!” Molly drew herself up with a religious
air, and looked the image of her father.
“Yes, to be sure. I’m going to have some little pink blocks made out of
it when I go; pink and yellow and green and purple and--O, so many
blocks! I’m going to have a little red cloud to sail round in, like that
one up over the house, too, I shouldn’t wonder.”
Molly opened her eyes.
“O, I don’t believe it!”
“You don’t know much!” said Miss Faith, superbly. “I shouldn’t s’pose
you would believe it. P’r’aps I’ll have some strawberries too, and some
ginger-snaps,--I’m not going to have any old bread and butter up
there,--O, and some little gold apples, and a lot of playthings; nicer
playthings--why, nicer than they have in the shops in Boston, Molly
Bland! God’s keeping ’em up there a purpose.”
“Dear me!” said incredulous Molly, “I should just like to know who told
you that much. My mother never told it at me. Did your mother tell it at
you?”
“O, she told me some of it, and the rest I thinked out myself.”
“Let’s go and play One Old Cat,” said Molly, with an uncomfortable jump;
“I wish I hadn’t got to go to heaven!”
“Why, Molly Bland! why, I think heaven’s splendid! I’ve got my papa up
there, you know. ‘Here’s my little girl!’ That’s what he’s going to say.
Mamma, she’ll be there, too, and we’re all going to live in the
prettiest house. I have dreadful hurries to go this afternoon sometimes
when Phœbe’s cross and won’t give me sugar. They don’t let you in,
though, ’nless you’re a good girl.”
“Who gets it all up?” asked puzzled Molly.
“Jesus Christ will give me all these beautiful fings,” said Faith,
evidently repeating her mother’s words,--the only catechism that she has
been taught.
“And what will he do when he sees you?” asked her mother, coming down
the stairs and stepping up behind her.
“Take me up in His arms and kiss me.”
“And what will Faith say?”
“Fank--you!” said the child, softly.
In another minute she was absorbed, body and soul, in the mysteries of
One Old Cat.
“But I don’t think she will feel much like being naughty for half an
hour to come,” her mother said; “hear how pleasantly her words drop!
Such a talk quiets her, like a hand laid on her head. Mary, sometimes I
think it is His very hand, as much as when He touched those other little
children. I wish Faith to feel at home with Him and His home. Little
thing! I really do not think that she is conscious of any fear of dying;
I do not think it means anything to her but Christ, and her father, and
pink blocks, and a nice time, and never disobeying me, or being cross.
Many a time she wakes me up in the morning talking away to herself, and
when I turn and look at her, she says: ‘O mamma, won’t we go to heaven
to-day, you fink? When will we go, mamma?’”
“If there had been any pink blocks and ginger-snaps for me when I was at
her age, I should not have prayed every night to ‘die out.’ I think the
horrors of death that children live through, unguessed and unrelieved,
are awful. Faith may thank you all her life that she has escaped them.”
“I should feel answerable to God for the child’s soul, if I had not
prevented that. I always wanted to know what sort of mother that poor
little thing had, who asked, if she were very good up in heaven,
whether they wouldn’t let her go down to hell Saturday afternoons, and
play a little while!”
“I know. But think of it,--blocks and ginger-snaps!”
“I treat Faith just as the Bible treats us, by dealing in pictures of
truth that she can understand. I can make Clo and Abinadab Quirk
comprehend that their pianos and machinery may not be made of literal
rosewood and steel, but will be some synonyme of the thing, which will
answer just such wants of their changed natures as rosewood and steel
must answer now. There will be machinery and pianos in the same sense in
which there will be pearl gates and harps. Whatever enjoyment any or all
of them represent now, something will represent then.
“But Faith, if I told her that her heavenly ginger-snaps would not be
made of molasses and flour, would have a cry, for fear that she was not
going to have any ginger-snaps at all; so, until she is older, I give
her unqualified ginger-snaps. The principal joy of a child’s life
consists in eating. Faith begins, as soon as the light wanes, to dream
of that gum-drop which she is to have at bedtime. I don’t suppose she
can outgrow that at once by passing out of her little round body. She
must begin where she left off,--nothing but a baby, though it will be as
holy and happy a baby as Christ can make it. When she says: “Mamma, I
shall be hungery and want my dinner, up there,” I never hesitate to tell
her that she shall have her dinner. She would never, in her secret
heart, though she might not have the honesty to say so, expect to be
otherwise than miserable in a dinnerless eternity.”
“You are not afraid of misleading the child’s fancy?”
“Not so long as I can keep the two ideas--that Christ is her best
friend, and that heaven is not meant for naughty girls--pre-eminent in
her mind. And I sincerely believe that He would give her the very pink
blocks which she anticipates, no less than He would give back a poet his
lost dreams, or you your brother. He has been a child; perhaps,
incidentally to the unsolved mysteries of atonement, for this very
reason,--that He may know how to ‘prepare their places’ for them, whose
angels do always behold His Father. Ah, you may be sure that, if of such
is the happy Kingdom, He will not scorn to stoop and fit it to their
little needs.
“There was that poor little fellow whose guinea-pig died,--do you
remember?”
“Only half; what was it?”
“‘O mamma,’ he sobbed out, behind his handkerchief, ‘don’t great big
elephants have souls?’
“‘No, my son.’
“‘Nor camels, mamma?’
“‘No.’
“‘Nor bears, nor alligators, nor chickens?’
“‘O no, dear.’
“‘O mamma, mamma! Don’t little CLEAN--white--guinea-pigs have
souls?’
“I never should have had the heart to say no to that; especially as we
have no positive proof to the contrary.
“Then that scrap of a boy who lost his little red balloon the morning he
bought it, and, broken-hearted, wanted to know whether it had gone to
heaven. Don’t I suppose if he had been taken there himself that very
minute, that he would have found a little balloon in waiting for him?
How can I help it?”
“It has a pretty sound. If people would not think it so material and
shocking--”
“Let people read Martin Luther’s letter to his little boy. There is the
testimony of a pillar in good and regular standing! I don’t think you
need be afraid of my balloon, after that.”
I remembered that there was a letter of his on heaven, but, not
recalling it distinctly, I hunted for it to-night, and read it over. I
shall copy it, the better to retain it in mind.
“Grace and peace in Christ, my dear little son. I see with pleasure that
thou learnest well, and prayed diligently. Do so, my son, and continue.
When I come home I will bring thee a pretty fairing.
“I know a pretty, merry garden wherein are many children. They have
little golden coats, and they gather beautiful apples under the trees,
and pears, cherries, plums, and wheat-plums;--they sing, and jump, and
are merry. They have beautiful little horses, too, with gold bits and
silver saddles. And I asked the man to whom the garden belongs, whose
children they were. And he said: ‘They are the children that love to
pray and to learn, and are good.’ Then said I: ‘Dear man, I have a son,
too; his name is Johnny Luther. May he not also come into this garden
and eat these beautiful apples and pears, and ride these fine horses?’
Then the man said: ‘If he loves to pray and to learn, and is good, he
shall come into this garden, and Lippus and Jost too; and when they all
come together, they shall have fifes and trumpets, lutes and all sorts
of music, and they shall dance, and shoot with little cross-bows.’
“And he showed me a fine meadow there in the garden, made for dancing.
There hung nothing but golden fifes, trumpets, and fine silver
cross-bows. But it was early, and the children had not yet eaten;
therefore I could not wait the dance, and I said to the man: ‘Ah, dear
sir! I will immediately go and write all this to my little son Johnny,
and tell him to pray diligently, and to learn well, and to be good, so
that he also may come to this garden. But he has an Aunt Lehne, he must
bring her with him.’ Then the man said: ‘It shall be so; go, and write
him so.’
“Therefore, my dear little son Johnny, learn and pray away! and tell
Lippus and Jost, too that they must learn and pray. And then you shall
come to the garden together. Herewith I commend thee to Almighty God.
And greet Aunt Lehne, and give her a kiss for my sake.
                           “Thy dear Father,
                                   “MARTINUS LUTHER.
“ANNO 1530.”
XIII.
August 3.
The summer is sliding quietly away,--my desolate summer which I dreaded;
with the dreams gone from its wild flowers, the crown from its sunsets,
the thrill from its winds and its singing.
But I have found out a thing. One can live without dreams and crowns and
thrills.
I have not lost them. They lie under the ivied cross with Roy for a
little while. They will come back to me with him. “Nothing is lost,” she
teaches me. And until they come back, I see--for she shows me--fields
groaning under their white harvest, with laborers very few. Ruth
followed the sturdy reapers, gleaning a little. I, perhaps, can do as
much. The ways in which I must work seem so small and insignificant, so
pitifully trivial sometimes, that I do not even like to write them down
here. In fact, they are so small that, six months ago, I did not see
them at all. Only to be pleasant to old Phœbe, and charitable to
Meta Tripp, and faithful to my not very interesting little scholars,
and a bit watchful of worn-out Mrs. Bland, and--But dear me, I won’t!
They are so little!
But one’s self becomes of less importance, which seems to be the point.
It seems very strange to me sometimes, looking back to those desperate
winter days, what a change has come over my thoughts of Roy. Not that he
is any less--O, never any less to me. But it is almost as if she had
raised him from the grave. Why seek ye the living among the dead? Her
soft, compassionate eyes shine with the question every hour. And every
hour he is helping me,--ah, Roy, we understand one another now.
How he must love Aunt Winifred! How pleasant the days will be when we
can talk her over, and thank her together!
“To be happy because Roy is happy.” I remember how those first words of
hers struck me. It does not seem to me impossible, now.
       
Aunt Winifred and I laugh at each other for talking so much about
heaven. I see that the green book is filled with my questions and her
answers. The fact is, not that we do not talk as much about mundane
affairs as other people, but that this one thing interests us more.
If, instead, it had been flounces, or babies, or German philosophy, the
green book would have filled itself just as unconsciously with flounces,
or babies, or German philosophy. This interest in heaven is of course no
sign of especial piety in me, nor could people with young, warm,
uncrushed hopes throbbing through their days be expected to feel the
same. It is only the old principle of, where the treasure is--the heart.
“How spiritual-minded Mary has grown!” Mrs. Bland observes, regarding me
respectfully. I try in vain to laugh her out of the conviction. If Roy
had not gone before, I should think no more, probably, about the coming
life, than does the minister’s wife herself.
But now--I cannot help it--that is the reality, this the dream; that the
substance, this the shadow.
The other day Aunt Winifred and I had a talk which has been of more
value to me than all the rest.
Faith was in bed; it was a cold, rainy evening; we were secure from
callers; we lighted a few kindlers in the parlor grate; she rolled up
the easy-chair, and I took my cricket at her feet.
“Paul at the feet of Gamaliel! This is what I call comfort. Now, Auntie,
let us go to heaven awhile.”
“Very well. What do you want there now?”
I paused a moment, sobered by a thought that has been growing steadily
upon me of late.
“Something more, Aunt Winifred. All these other things are beautiful and
dear; but I believe I want--God.
“You have not said much about Him. The Bible says a great deal about
Him. You have given me the filling-up of heaven in all its pleasant
promise, but--I don’t know--there seems to be an outline wanting.”
She drew my hand up into hers, smiling.
“I have not done my painting by artistic methods, I know; but it was not
exactly accidental.
“Tell me, honestly,--is God more to you or less, a more distinct Being
or a more vague one, than He was six months ago? Is He, or is He not,
dearer to you now than then?”
I thought about it a minute, and then turned my face up to her.
“Mary, what a light in your eyes! How is it?”
It came over me slowly, but it came with such a passion of gratitude and
unworthiness, that I scarcely knew how to tell her--that He never has
been to me, in all my life, what he is now at the end of these six
months. He was once an abstract Grandeur which I struggled more in fear
than love to please. He has become a living Presence, dear and real.
    “No dead fact stranded on the shore
       Of the oblivious years;
     But warm, sweet, tender, even yet
       A present help.” ...
He was an inexorable Mystery who took Roy from me to lose him in the
glare of a more inexorable heaven. He is a Father who knew better than
we that we should be parted for a while; but He only means it to be a
little while. He is keeping him for me to find in the flush of some
summer morning, on which I shall open my eyes no less naturally than I
open them on June sunrises now. I always have that fancy of going in the
morning.
She understood what I could not tell her, and said, “I thought it would
be so.”
“You, His interpreter, have done it,” I answered her. “His heaven shows
what He is,--don’t you see?--like a friend’s letter. I could no more go
back to my old groping relations to Him, than I could make of you the
dim and somewhat apocryphal Western Auntie that you were before I saw
you.”
“Which was precisely why I have dealt with this subject as I have,” she
said. “You had all your life been directed to an indefinite heaven,
where the glory of God was to crowd out all individuality and all human
joy from His most individual and human creatures, till the “Glory of
God” had become nothing but a name and a dread to you. So I let those
three words slide by, and tried to bring you to them, as Christ brought
the Twelve to believe in him, ‘for the works’ sake.’
“Yes, my child; clinging human loves, stifled longings, cries for rest,
forgotten hopes, shall have their answer. Whatever the bewilderment of
beauties folded away for us in heavenly nature and art, they shall
strive with each other to make us glad. These things have their pleasant
place. But, through eternity, there will be always something beyond and
dearer than the dearest of them. God himself will be first,--naturally
and of necessity, without strain or struggle, first.”
When I sat here last winter with my dead in my house, those words would
have roused in me an agony of wild questionings. I should have beaten
about them and beaten against them, and cried in my honest heart that
they were false. I knew that I loved Roy more than I loved such a
Being as God seemed to me then to be. Now, they strike me as simply and
pleasantly true. The more I love Roy, the more I love Him. He loves us
both.
“You see it could not be otherwise,” she went on, speaking low. “Where
would you be, or I, or they who seem to us so much dearer and better
than ourselves, if it were not for Jesus Christ? What can heaven be to
us, but a song of the love that is the same to us yesterday, to-day, and
forever,--that, in the mystery of an intensity which we shall perhaps
never understand, could choose death and be glad in the choosing, and,
what is more than that, could live life for us for three-and-thirty
years?
“I cannot strain my faith--or rather my common sense--to the rhapsodies
with which many people fill heaven. But it seems to me like this: A
friend goes away from us, and it may be seas or worlds that lie between
us, and we love him. He leaves behind him his little keepsakes; a lock
of hair to curl about our fingers; a picture that has caught the trick
of his eyes or smile; a book, a flower, a letter. What we do with the
curling hair, what we say to the picture, what we dream over the flower
and the letter, nobody knows but ourselves. People have risked life for
such mementoes. Yet who loves the senseless gift more than the
giver,--the curl more than the young forehead on which it fell,--the
letter more than the hand which traced it?
“So it seems to me that we shall learn to see in God the centre of all
possibilities of joy. The greatest of these lesser delights is but the
greater measure of His friendship. They will not mean less of pleasure,
but more of Him. They will not “pale,” as Dr. Bland would say. Human
dearness will wax, not wane, in heaven; but human friends will be loved
for love of Him.”
“I see; that helps me; like a torch in a dark room. But there will be
shadows in the corners. Do you suppose that we shall ever fully feel
it in the body?”
“In the body, probably not. We see through a glass so darkly that the
temptation to idolatry is always our greatest. Golden images did not die
with Paganism. At times I fancy that, somewhere between this world and
another, a revelation will come upon us like a flash, of what sin
really is,--such a revelation, lighting up the lurid background of our
past in such colors, that the consciousness of what Christ has done for
us will be for a time as much as heart can bear. After that, the mystery
will be, not how to love Him most, but that we ever could have loved
any creature or thing as much.”
“We serve God quite as much by active work as by special prayer, here,”
I said after some thought; “how will it be there?”
“We must be busily at work certainly; but I think there must naturally
be more communion with Him then. Now, this phrase “communion with God”
has been worn, and not always well worn.
“Prayer means to us, in this life, more often penitent confession than
happy interchange of thought with Him. It is associated, too, with
aching limbs and sleepy eyes, and nights when the lamp goes out.
Obstacles, moral and physical, stand in the way of our knowing exactly
what it may mean in the ideal of it.
“My best conception of it lies in the friendship of the man Christ
Jesus. I suppose he will bear with him, eternally, the humanity which he
took up with him from the Judean hills. I imagine that we shall see him
in visible form like ourselves, among us, yet not of us; that he,
himself, is “Gott mit ihnen”; that we shall talk with him as a man
talketh with his friend. Perhaps, bowed and hushed at his dear feet, we
shall hear from his own lips the story of Nazareth, of Bethany, of
Golgotha, of the chilly mountains where he used to pray all night long
for us; of the desert places where he hungered; of his cry for
help--think, Mary--His!--when there was not one in all the world to
hear it, and there was silence in heaven, while angels strengthened him
and man forsook him. Perhaps his voice--the very voice which has sounded
whispering through our troubled life--“Could ye not watch one
hour?”--shall unfold its perplexed meanings; shall make its rough places
plain; shall show us step by step the merciful way by which he led us
to the hour; shall point out to us, joy by joy, the surprises that he
has been planning for us, just as the old father in the story planned to
surprise his wayward boy come home.
“And such a ‘communion,’--which is not too much, nor yet enough, to dare
to expect of a God who was the ‘friend’ of Abraham, who ‘walked’ with
Enoch, who did not call fishermen his servants,--such will be that
‘presence of God,’ that ‘adoration,’ on which we have looked from afar
off with despairing eyes that wept, they were so dazzled, and turned
themselves away as from the thing they greatly feared.”
I think we neither of us cared to talk for a while after this. Something
made me forget even that I was going to see Roy in heaven.
“Three-and-thirty years. Three-and-thirty years.” The words rang
themselves over.
“It is on the humanity of Christ,” she said after some musing, “that all
my other reasons for hoping for such a heaven as I hope for, rest for
foundation. He knows exactly what we are, for he has been one of us;
exactly what we hope and fear and crave, for he has hoped and feared and
craved, not the less humanly, but only more intensely.
“‘If it were not so,’--do you take in the thoughtful tenderness of
that? A mother, stilling her frightened child in the dark, might speak
just so,--‘if it were not so, I would have told you.’ That brooding
love makes room for all that we can want. He has sounded every deep of a
troubled and tempted life. Who so sure as he to understand how to
prepare a place where troubled and tempted lives may grow serene?
Further than this; since he stands as our great Type, no less in death
and after than before it, he answers for us many of these lesser
questions on the event of which so much of our happiness depends.
“Shall we lose our personality in a vague ocean of ether,--you one puff
of gas, I another?--
“He, with his own wounded body, rose and ate and walked and talked.
“Is all memory of this life to be swept away?--
“He, arisen, has forgotten nothing. He waits to meet his disciples at
the old, familiar places; as naturally as if he had never been parted
from them, he falls in with the current of their thoughts.
“Has any one troubled us with fears that in the glorified crowds of
heaven we may miss a face dearer than all the world to us?--
“He made himself known to his friends; Mary, and the two at Emmaus, and
the bewildered group praying and perplexed in their bolted room.
“Do we weary ourselves with speculations whether human loves can outlive
the shock of death?--
“Mary knew how He loved her, when, turning, she heard him call her by
her name. They knew, whose hearts ‘burned within them while he talked
with them by the way, and when he tarried with them, the day being far
spent.’”
“And for the rest?”
“For the rest, about which He was silent, we can trust him, and if,
trusting, we please ourselves with fancies, he would be the last to
think it blame to us. There is one promise which grows upon me the more
I study it, ‘He that spared not his own Son, how shall he not also with
him freely give us all things?’ Sometimes I wonder if that does not
infold a beautiful double entendre, a hint of much that you and I have
conjectured,--as one throws down a hint of a surprise to a child.
“Then there is that pledge to those who seek first His kingdom: ‘All
these things shall be added unto you.’ ‘These things,’ were food and
clothing, were varieties of material delight, and the words were spoken
to men who lived hungry, beggared, and died the death of outcasts. If
this passage could be taken literally, it would be very significant in
its bearing on the future life; for Christ must keep his promise to the
letter, in one world or another. It may be wrenching the verse, not as a
verse, but from the grain of the argument, to insist on the literal
interpretation,--though I am not sure.”
XIV.
August 15.
I asked the other day, wondering whether all ministers were like Dr.
Bland, what Uncle Forceythe used to believe about heaven.
“Very much what I do,” she said. “These questions were brought home to
him, early in life, by the death of a very dear sister; he had thought
much about them. I think one of the things that so much attached his
people to him was the way he had of weaving their future life in with
this, till it grew naturally and pleasantly into their frequent thought.
O yes, your uncle supplied me with half of my proof-texts.”
Aunt Winifred has not looked quite well of late, I fancy; though it may
be only fancy. She has not spoken of it, except one day when I told her
that she looked pale. It was the heat, she said.
20th.
Little Clo came over to-night. I believe she thinks Aunt Winifred the
best friend she has in the world. Auntie has become much attached to
all her scholars, and has a rare power of winning her way into
their confidence. They come to her with all their little
interests,--everything, from saving their souls to trimming a bonnet.
Clo, however, is the favorite, as I predicted.
She looked a bit blue to-night, as girls will look; in fact, her face
always has a tinge of sadness about it. Aunt Winifred, understanding at
a glance that the child was not in a mood to talk before a third, led
her away into the garden, and they were gone a long time. When it grew
dark, I saw them coming up the path, Clo’s hand locked in her teacher’s,
and her face, which was wet, upturned like a child’s. They strolled to
the gate, lingered a little to talk, and then Clo said good night
without coming in.
Auntie sat for a while after she had gone, thinking her over, I could
see.
“Poor thing!” she said at last, half to herself, half to me,--“poor
little foolish thing! This is where the dreadful individuality of a
human soul irks me. There comes a point, beyond which you can’t help
people.”
“What has happened to Clo?”
“Nothing, lately. It has been happening for two years. Two miserable
years are an eternity, at Clo’s age. It is the old story,--a summer
boarder; a little flirting; a little dreaming; a little pain; then
autumn, and the nuts dropping on the leaves, and he was gone,--and knew
not what he did,--and the child waked up. There was the future; to bake
and sweep, to go to sewing-circles, and sing in the choir, and bear the
moonlight nights,--and she loved him. She has lived through two years of
it, and she loves him now. Reason will not reach such a passion in a
girl like Clo. I did not tell her that she would put it away with other
girlish things, and laugh at it herself some happy day, as women have
laughed at their young fancies before her; partly because that would be
a certain way of repelling her confidence,--she does not believe it, and
my believing could not make her; partly because I am not quite sure
about it myself. Clo has a good deal of the woman about her; her
introspective life is intense. She may cherish this sweet misery as she
does her musical tastes, till it has struck deep root. There is nothing
in the excellent Mrs. Bentley’s household, nor in Homer anywhere, to
draw the girl out from herself in time to prevent the dream from
becoming a reality.”
“Poor little thing! What did you say to her?”
“You ought to have heard what she said to me! I wish I were at liberty
to tell you the whole story. What troubles her most is that it is not
going to help the matter any to die. ‘O Mrs. Forceythe,’ she says, in a
tone that is enough to give the heart-ache, even to such an old woman as
Mrs. Forceythe, ‘O Mrs. Forceythe, what is going to become of me up
there? He never loved me, you see, and he never, never will, and he will
have some beautiful, good wife of his own, and I won’t have anybody!
For I can’t love anybody else,--I’ve tried; I tried just as hard as I
could to love my cousin ’Bin; he’s real good, and--I’m--afraid ’Bin
likes me, though I guess he likes his carpet-sweepers better. O,
sometimes I think, and think, till it seems as if I could not bear it! I
don’t see how God can make me happy. I wish I could be buried up and
go to sleep, and never have any heaven!’”
“And you told her--?”
“That she should have him there. That is, if not himself,
something,--somebody who would so much more than fill his place, that
she would never have a lonely or unloved minute. Her eyes brightened,
and shaded, and pondered, doubting. She ‘didn’t see how it could ever
be.’ I told her not to try and see how, but to leave it to Christ. He
knew all about this little trouble of hers, and he would make it right.
“‘Will he?’ she questioned, sighing; ‘but there are so many of us!
There’s ’Bin, and a plenty more, and I don’t see how it’s going to be
smoothed out. Everything is in a jumble, Mrs. Forceythe, don’t you see?
for some people can’t like and keep liking so many times.’ Something
came into my mind about the rough places that shall be made plain, and
the crooked things straight. I tried to explain to her, and at last I
kissed away her tears, and sent her home, if not exactly comforted, a
little less miserable, I think, than when she came. Ah, well,--I wonder
myself sometimes about these ‘crooked things’; but, though I wonder, I
never doubt.”
She finished her sentence somewhat hurriedly, and half started from her
chair, raising both hands with a quick, involuntary motion that
attracted my notice. The lights came in just then, and, unless I am
much mistaken, her face showed paler than usual; but when I asked her if
she felt faint, she said, “O no, I believe I am a little tired, and will
go to bed.”
September 1.
I am glad that the summer is over. This heat has certainly worn on Aunt
Winifred, with that kind of wear which slides people into confirmed
invalidism. I suppose she would bear it in her saintly way, as she bears
everything, but it would be a bitter cup for her. I know she was always
pale, but this is a paleness which--
Night.
A dreadful thing has happened!
I was in the middle of my sentence, when I heard a commotion in the
street, and a child’s voice shouting incoherently something about the
doctor, and “mother’s killed! O, mother’s killed! mother’s burnt to
death!” I was at the window in time to see a blond-haired girl running
wildly past the house, and to see that it was Molly Bland.
At the same moment I saw Aunt Winifred snatching her hat from its nail
in the entry. She beckoned to me to follow, and we were half-way over
to the parsonage before I had a distinct thought of what I was about.
We came upon a horrible scene. Dr. Bland was trying to do everything
alone; there was not a woman in the house to help him, for they have
never been able to keep a servant, and none of the neighbors had had
time to be there before us. The poor husband was growing faint, I think.
Aunt Winifred saw by a look that he could not bear much more, sent him
after Molly for the doctor, and took everything meantime into her own
charge.
I shall not write down a word of it. It was a sight that, once seen,
will never leave me as long as I live. My nerves are thoroughly shaken
by it, and it must be put out of thought as far as possible.
It seems that the little boy--the baby--crept into the kitchen by
himself, and began to throw the contents of the match-box on the stove,
“to make a bonfire,” the poor little fellow said. In five minutes his
apron was ablaze. His mother was on the spot at his first cry, and
smothered the little apron, and saved the child, but her dress was
muslin, and everybody was too far off to hear her at first,--and by the
time her husband came in from the garden it was too late.
She is living yet. Her husband, pacing the room back and forth, and
crouching on his knees by the hour, is praying God to let her die before
the morning.
Morning.
There is no chance of life, the doctor says. But he has been able to
find something that has lessened her sufferings. She lies partially
unconscious.
Wednesday night.
Aunt Winifred and I were over at the parsonage to-night, when she roused
a little from her stupor and recognized us. She spoke to her husband,
and kissed me good by, and asked for the children. They were playing
softly in the next room; we sent for them, and they came in,--the four
unconscious, motherless little things,--with the sunlight in their hair.
The bitterness of death came into her marred face at sight of them, and
she raised her hands to Auntie--to the only other mother there--with a
sudden helpless cry: “I could bear it, I could bear it, if it weren’t
for them. Without any mother all their lives,--such little
things,--and to go away where I can’t do a single thing for them!”
Aunt Winifred stooped down and spoke low, but decidedly.
“You will do for them. God knows all about it. He will not send you
away from them. You shall be just as much their mother, every day of
their lives, as you have been here. Perhaps there is something to do for
them which you never could have done here. He sees. He loves them. He
loves you.”
If I could paint, I might paint the look that struck through and through
that woman’s dying face; but words cannot touch it. If I were Aunt
Winifred, I should bless God on my knees to-night for having shown me
how to give such ease to a soul in death.
Thursday morning.
God is merciful. Mrs. Bland died at five o’clock.
10th.
How such a voice from the heavens shocks one out of the repose of calm
sorrows and of calm joys. This has come and gone so suddenly that I
cannot adjust it to any quiet and trustful thinking yet.
The whole parish mourns excitedly; for, though they worked their
minister’s wife hard, they loved her well. I cannot talk it over with
the rest. It jars. Horror should never be dissected. Besides, my heart
is too full of those four little children with the sunlight in their
hair and the unconsciousness in their eyes.
15th.
Mrs. Quirk came over to-day in great perplexity. She had just come from
the minister’s.
“I don’t know what we’re a goin’ to do with him!” she exclaimed in a
gush of impatient, uncomprehending sympathy; “you can’t let a man take
on that way much longer. He’ll worry himself sick, and then we shall
either lose him or have to pay his bills to Europe! Why, he jest stops
in the house, and walks his study up and down, day and night; or else he
jest sets and sets and don’t notice nobody but the children. Now I’ve
jest ben over makin’ him some chicken-pie,--he used to set a sight by my
chicken-pie,--and he made believe to eat it, ’cause I’d ben at the
trouble, I suppose, but how much do you suppose he swallowed? Jest three
mouthfuls! Thinks says I, I won’t spend my time over chicken-pie for the
afflicted agin, and on ironing-day, too! When I knocked at the study
door, he said, ‘Come in, and stopped his walkin’ and turned as quick.
“‘O,’ says he, ‘good morning. I thought it was Mrs. Forceythe.’
“I told him no, I wasn’t Mrs. Forceythe, but I’d come to comfort him in
his sorrer all the same. But that’s the only thing I have agin our
minister. He won’t be comforted. Mary Ann Jacobs, who’s ben there kind
of looking after the children and things for him, you know, sence the
funeral--she says he’s asked three or four times for you, Mrs.
Forceythe. There’s ben plenty of his people in to see him, but you
haven’t ben nigh him, Mary Ann says.”
“I stayed away because I thought the presence of friends at this time
would be an intrusion,” Auntie said; “but if he would like to see me,
that alters the case. I will go, certainly.”
“I don’t know,” suggested Mrs. Quirk, looking over the tops of her
spectacles,--“I s’pose it’s proper enough, but you bein’ a widow, you
know, and his wife--”
Aunt Winifred’s eyes shot fire. She stood up and turned upon Mrs. Quirk
with a look the like of which I presume that worthy lady had never seen
before, and is not likely to see soon again (it gave the beautiful
scorn of a Zenobia to her fair, slight face), moved her lips slightly,
but said nothing, put on her bonnet, and went straight to Dr. Bland’s.
The minister, they told her, was in his study. She knocked lightly at
the door, and was bidden in a lifeless voice to enter.
Shades and blinds were drawn, and the glare of the sun quite shut out.
Dr. Bland sat by his study-table, with his face upon his hands. A Bible
lay open before him. It had been lately used; the leaves were wet.
He raised his head dejectedly, but smiled when he saw who it was. He had
been thinking about her, he said, and was glad that she had come.
I do not know all that passed between them, but I gather, from such
hints as Auntie in her unconsciousness throws out, that she had things
to say which touched some comfortless places in the man’s heart. No
Greek and Hebrew “original,” no polished dogma, no link in his
stereotyped logic, not one of his eloquent sermons on the future state,
came to his relief.
These were meant for happy days. They rang cold as steel upon the warm
needs of an afflicted man. Brought face to face, and sharply, with the
blank heaven of his belief, he stood up from before his dead, and groped
about it, and cried out against it in the bitterness of his soul.
“I had no chance to prepare myself to bow to the will of God,” he said,
his reserved ministerial manner in curious contrast with the caged way
in which he was pacing the room,--“I had no chance. I am taken by
surprise, as by a thief in the night. I had a great deal to say to her,
and there was no time. She could tell me what to do with my poor little
children. I wanted to tell her other things. I wanted to tell
her--Perhaps we all of us have our regrets when the Lord removes our
friends; we may have done or left undone many things; we might have made
them happier. My mind does not rest with assurance in its conceptions of
the heavenly state. If I never can tell her--”
He stopped abruptly, and paced into the darkest shadows of the shadowed
room, his face turned away.
“You said once some pleasant things about heaven?” he said at last, half
appealingly, stopping in front of her, hesitating; like a man and like a
minister, hardly ready to come with all the learning of his schools and
commentators and sit at the feet of a woman.
She talked with him for a time in her unobtrusive way, deferring, when
she honestly could, to his clerical judgment, and careful not to wound
him by any word; but frankly and clearly, as she always talks.
When she rose to go he thanked her quietly.
“This is a somewhat novel train of thought to me,” he said; “I hope it
may not prove an unscriptural one. I have been reading the book of
Revelation to-day with these questions especially in mind. We are never
too old to learn. Some passages may be capable of other interpretations
than I have formerly given them. No matter what I wish, you see, I
must be guided by the Word of my God.”
Auntie says that she never respected the man so much as she did when,
hearing those words, she looked up into his haggard face, convulsed with
its human pain and longing.
“I hope you do not think that I am not guided by the Word of God,” she
answered. “I mean to be.”
“I know you mean to be,” he said cordially. “I do not say that you are
not. I may come to see that you are, and that you are right. It will be
a peaceful day for me if I can ever quite agree with your methods of
reasoning. But I must think these things over. I thank you once more for
coming. Your sympathy is grateful to me.”
Just as she closed the door he called her back.
“See,” he said, with a saddened smile. “At least I shall never preach
this again. It seems to me that life is always undoing for us
something that we have just laboriously done.”
He held up before her a mass of old blue manuscript, and threw it, as he
spoke, upon the embers left in his grate. It smoked and blazed up and
burned out.
It was that sermon on heaven of which there is an abstract in this
journal.
