Liberator. His own son had been a leader in that conquering army
which entered Charleston amid the shouts of liberated slaves, and
the fetters and hand-cuffs of the slave-mart were sent as peaceful
trophies to the Liberator office in Boston. Never was it given to any
mortal in one generation to witness a more perfect triumph of a moral
enterprise!
But before this triumph came were years of sharp conflict. Tones so
ringing and so resolute, coming from the poorest den in Boston, could
not but find listeners! The vital instincts of all forms of oppression
are surprisingly acute, and prompt to discriminate afar what is really
a true and what a false alarm. A storm of agitation began, which
swelled, and eddied, and howled, and shook, and convulsed the nation
from year to year, till the end came.
The first number of the Liberator brought fifty dollars from James
Forten, a colored man of Philadelphia, and the names of twenty-five
subscribers; and before long an obscure room was rented as an office,
where Garrison and his partner made their bed on the floor, boarded
themselves, and printed their paper.
A Southern magistrate, trembling for the institutions of his country,
wrote a somewhat dictatorial appeal to the mayor of Boston, Harrison
Gray Otis, to suppress that paper. Mr. Otis wrote in reply, that having
ferreted out the paper and the editor, he found that his office was an
obscure hole, his only visible auxiliary a negro boy, his supporters
a few insignificant persons of all colors--from which he argued that
there was no occasion for alarm, even though the obscure paper should
prove irrepressible. Very differently, however, thought the South.
Every mail brought to Garrison threats of assassination, and letters
whose mingled profanity and obscenity can only be described as John
Bunyan describes the discourse of Apollyon, "He spake as a dragon." The
Governors of one or two States set a price upon his head. The Governor
of Georgia, in terms somewhat more decent, offered five thousand
dollars to any one who should arrest and bring to trial under the laws
of that State, the editor or publisher of the Liberator. Many of Mr.
Garrison's friends, deeming his life in danger, besought him to wear
arms. He was, however, from religious conviction, a non-resistant of
evil, interpreting with literal strictness the Saviour's directions on
that subject; and so committed his life simply to the good providence
of God.
On January 1, 1832, he secured the co-operation of eleven others, who,
with himself, organized the American Anti-Slavery Society upon the
principle of immediate emancipation. Affiliated associations sprang
up all over the country--books, tracts, lectures, all the machinery
of moral agitation, began active movement. He went to England as agent
for the Emancipation Society, to hold counsel with the men who had
pioneered the same work successfully in England. He was warmly received
by Wilberforce, Brougham, Clarkson, and their associates, and succeeded
in opening their eyes to the entire inefficiency of the Colonization
Society as a substitute for the great duty of immediate emancipation,
so that Wilberforce, with eleven of his coadjutors, issued a protest
against it, not as in itself considered, but as it had been made a
shield to the consciences of those who deferred their immediate duty to
the slave on the ground of this distant and precarious remedy.
While in England this time, Mr. Garrison was invited to Stafford House,
and treated with marked attention by the Duchess of Sutherland, then in
the zenith of that magnificent beauty which, in union with a generous
nature and winning manners, made her one of the most distinguished
leaders among the nobility of the times. With a heart to feel every
grand and heroic impulse, she had entered with enthusiasm into the
anti-slavery movement of her own country, and was prepared to welcome
the obscure, unknown apostle of the same faith from American shores.
At her request, Garrison sat for his portrait to one of the most
distinguished artists of the time, and the copy was retained among the
memorabilia of Stafford House. Garrison humorously remarked that many
had desired to have his head before now, but the solicitation had never
come in so flattering a form. The noble woman has lived to enjoy the
triumph of that cause in which her large heart gave her that right of
personal possession which belongs to the very highest natures.
On his return from England he assisted in organizing the American
Anti-Slavery Society in Philadelphia, the declaration of whose
principles was prepared by him. From this time the anti-slavery
agitation was intensified, and the era of mob violence swept over the
country. The holding of an anti-slavery society in any place was the
appointed signal for scenes of riotous violence. In Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania Hall was burned, the negroes abused and maltreated. In
Cincinnati, Birney's printing-press and types were thrown into the
Ohio, and the negroes for days were hunted like beasts. In Alton,
Lovejoy was shot while defending his printing-press, and Boston,
notwithstanding the sepulchres of the fathers, and the shadow of Bunker
Hill spire, had her hour of the powers of darkness. Leading presses
abused the abolitionists in terms which aroused every vindictive
passion of the mob, and in October, 1835, a meeting of the Female
Anti-Slavery Society of Boston was riotously broken up by a collection
of persons, described in the journals of the day as "gentlemen of
property and standing."
The heroines of that memorable day and time, were ladies from the
very first Massachusetts families; sprung from the old heroic stock
of her historic fame. For vigor of mind, for education, for beauty,
accomplishments and genius, some of them might be cited who would
scarce find superiors in any land. Their meeting was in every way
feminine and proper, and in strict accordance with the spirit and
customs of New England, which recognize female organizations for
various benevolent purposes, as one of the most approved means for
carrying on society.
There was no more reason why a female Anti-Slavery Society should not
meet quietly, transact its own business and listen to speeches of its
own chosen orators, than the Female Foreign Missionary Society or the
Female Home Missionary Society, or the Female Temperance Union.
But certain newspapers of Boston called attention to the fact that
this meeting was so to be held, in articles written in that well known
style which stirs up and invites that very mobocratic spirit which it
pretends to deprecate.
These papers proceeded to say that those ladies were about to hold a
dangerous kind of meeting, which would be sure to end in a mob, that
they were about to be addressed by George Thompson, who was declared
to be nothing more nor less than a British agitator, sent over to make
dissension and trouble in America, and kept here for that purpose by
British funds.
It was now stated in the public prints that several store keepers
in the immediate vicinity of the Hall, had petitioned the Mayor to
suppress the meeting, as in case of a riot in the neighborhood their
property might be in danger. A placard was posted and circulated
through the city to the following purport, that
'The infamous foreign scoundrel, Thompson, would hold forth in
Anti-Slavery Hall in the afternoon, and that the present was a fair
opportunity for the friends of the Union 'to snake him out;' that a
purse of $100 has been subscribed by a number of patriotic citizens to
reward the individual who would lay violent hands on him, so that he
might be brought to the tar kettle before dark."
In consequence, the Mayor sent a deputy to Mr. Garrison to know if Mr.
Thompson did intend to address the meeting, for if he did not he wished
to apprise the people of it in order to tranquilize the excitement, and
if he did, it would be necessary to double the constabulary forces.
Mr. Garrison sent him word that Mr. Thompson was out of town, and would
not be present at the meeting. The remainder of this scene is best
given in Mr. Garrison's own words:
"As the meeting was to commence at 3 o'clock, P. M., I went to the hall
about twenty minutes before that time. Perhaps a hundred individuals
had already gathered around the street door and opposite to the
building, and their number was rapidly augmenting. On ascending into
the hall, I found about fifteen or twenty ladies assembled, sitting
with serene countenances, and a crowd of noisy intruders (mostly young
men) gazing upon them, through whom I urged my way with considerable
difficulty. 'That's Garrison,' was the exclamation of some of their
number, as I quietly took my seat. Perceiving that they had no
intention of retiring, I went to them and calmly said--'Gentlemen,
perhaps you are not aware that this is a meeting of the Boston Female
Anti-Slavery Society, called and intended exclusively for ladies,
and those only who have been invited to address them. Understanding
this fact, you will not be so rude or indecorous as to thrust your
presence upon this meeting. If, gentlemen,' I pleasantly continued,
'any of you are ladies--in disguise--why, only apprise me of the
fact, give me your names, and I will introduce you to the rest of
your sex, and you can take seats among them accordingly.' I then
sat down, and, for a few moments, their conduct was more orderly.
However, the stair-way and upper door of the hall were soon densely
filled with a brazen-faced crew, whose behavior grew more and more
indecent and outrageous. Perceiving that it would be impracticable
for me, or any other person, to address the ladies; and believing, as
I was the only male abolitionist in the hall, that my presence would
serve as a pretext for the mob to annoy the meeting, I held a short
colloquy with the excellent President of the Society, telling her that
I would withdraw, unless she particularly desired me to stay. It was
her earnest wish that I would retire, as well for my own safety as
for the peace of the meeting. She assured me that the Society would
resolutely but calmly proceed to the transaction of its business, and
leave the issue with God. I left the hall accordingly, and would have
left the building, if the stair-case had not been crowded to excess.
This being impracticable, I retired into the Anti-Slavery Office,
(which is separated from the hall by a board partition,) accompanied
by my friend, Mr. Charles C. Burleigh. It was deemed prudent to lock
the door, to prevent the mob from rushing in and destroying our
publications.
In the mean time, the crowd in the street had augmented from a hundred
to thousands. The cry was for 'Thompson! Thompson!'--but the Mayor
had now arrived, and, addressing the rioters, he assured them that
Mr. Thompson was not in the city, and besought them to disperse. As
well might he have attempted to propitiate a troop of ravenous wolves.
None went away--but the tumult continued momentarily to increase. It
was apparent, therefore, that the hostility of the throng was not
concentrated upon Mr. Thompson but that it was as deadly against the
Society and the Anti-Slavery cause. The fact is worthy of special
note--for it incontestably proves that the object of these 'respectable
and influential' rioters was to put down the cause of Emancipation, and
that the prejudice against Mr. Thompson was only a mere pretext.
Notwithstanding the presence and frantic behavior of rioters in the
hall, the meeting of the Society was regularly called to order by
the President. She read a select and exceedingly appropriate portion
of scripture, and offered a fervent prayer to God for direction and
succour and the forgiveness of enemies and rioters. It was an awful,
sublime and soul-thrilling scene. * * * The clear, untremulous tone of
that Christian heroine in prayer, occasionally awed the ruffians into
silence, and was heard distinctly even in the midst of their hisses,
yells and curses--for they could not long silently endure the agony of
conviction, and their conduct became furious. They now attempted to
break down the partition, and partially succeeded; but that little band
of women still maintained their ground unshrinkingly, and endeavored
to transact their business.
An assault was now made upon the door of the office, the lower panel of
which was instantly dashed to pieces. Stooping down, and glaring upon
me as I sat at the desk, writing an account of the riot to a distant
friend, the ruffians cried out--'There he is! That's Garrison! Out with
the scoundrel!' &c., &c. Turning to Mr. Burleigh I said--'You may as
well open the door, and let them come in and do their worst.' But he,
with great presence of mind, went out, locked the door, put the key
into his pocket, and by his admirable firmness succeeded in keeping the
office safe.
Two or three constables having cleared the hall and staircase of the
mob, the Mayor came in and ordered the ladies to desist, assuring
them that he could not any longer guarantee protection, if they did
not take immediate advantage of the opportunity to retire from the
building. Accordingly, they adjourned, to meet at the house of one of
their number, for the completion of their business; but as they passed
through the crowd, they were greeted with 'taunts, hisses, and cheers
of mobocratic triumph, from gentlemen of property and standing from all
parts of the city.' Even their absence did not diminish the throng.
Thompson was not there--the ladies were not there--but 'Garrison
is there!' was the cry. 'Garrison! Garrison! We must have Garrison!
Out with him! Lynch him!' These and numberless other exclamations
arose from the multitude. For a moment their attention was diverted
from me to the Anti-Slavery sign, and they vociferously demanded its
possession. It is painful to state, that the Mayor promptly complied
with their demand! So agitated and alarmed had he become that in very
weakness of spirit he ordered the sign to be hurled to the ground,
and it was instantly broken in a thousand fragments by the infuriated
populace. The sign being demolished the cry for Garrison was resumed
more loudly than ever. It was now apparent that the multitude would
not disperse till I left the building, and as egress out of the front
door was impossible, the Mayor and some of his assistants as well as
some of my friends earnestly besought me to escape in the rear of the
building. At this moment an abolition brother, whose mind had been
previously settled on the peace question, in his anguish and alarm for
my safety, and in the view of the helplessness of the civil authority,
said, 'I must henceforth repudiate the principle of non-resistance.
When the civil arm is powerless, my own rights are trodden in the dust,
and the lives of my friends are put in imminent peril by ruffians, I
will hereafter stand ready to defend myself and them at all hazards.'
Putting my hand upon his shoulder, I said, 'Hold, my dear brother!
You know not what spirit you are of. Of what value or utility are the
principles of peace and forgiveness, if we may repudiate them in the
hour of peril and suffering? Do you wish to become like one of those
violent and blood-thirsty men who are seeking my life? Shall we give
blow for blow, and array sword against sword? God forbid! I will perish
sooner than raise my hand against any man, even in self-defence, and
let none of my friends resort to violence for my protection. If my life
be taken, the cause of emancipation will not suffer. God reigns--his
throne is undisturbed by this storm--he will make the wrath of man to
praise him, and the remainder he will restrain--his omnipotence will at
length be victorious.'
Preceded by my faithful and beloved friend Mr. J----R----C----, I
dropped from a back window on to a shed, and narrowly escaped falling
headlong to the ground. We entered into a carpenter's shop, through
which we attempted to get into Wilson's Lane, but found our retreat
cut off by the mob. They raised a shout as soon as we came in sight,
but the proprietor promptly closed the door of his shop, kept them at
bay for a time, and thus kindly afforded me an opportunity to find
some other passage. I told Mr. C. it would be futile to attempt to
escape--I would go out to the mob, and let them deal with me as they
might elect; but he thought it was my duty to avoid them as long as
possible. We then went up stairs, and finding a vacancy in one corner
of the room, I got into it, and he and a young lad piled up some
boards in front of me, to shield me from observation. In a few minutes
several ruffians broke into the chamber, who seized Mr. C. in a rough
manner, and led him out to the view of the mob, saying, 'This is not
Garrison, but Garrison's and Thompson's friend, and he says he knows
where Garrison is, but won't tell.' Then a shout of exultation was
raised by the mob, and what became of him I do not know; though, as
I was immediately discovered, I presume he escaped without material
injury. On seeing me, three or four of the rioters, uttering a yell,
furiously dragged me to the window, with the intention of hurling me
from that height to the ground; but one of them relented, and said,
'Don't let us kill him outright.' So they drew me back, and coiled a
rope about my body--probably to drag me through the streets. I bowed to
the mob, and requesting them to wait patiently until I could descend,
went down upon a ladder that was raised for that purpose. I fortunately
extricated myself from the rope, and was seized by two or three of
the leading rioters, powerful and athletic men, by whom I was dragged
along bare-headed, (for my hat had been knocked off and cut in pieces
on the spot,) a friendly voice in the crowd shouting, 'He shan't be
hurt! He is an American!' This seemed to excite sympathy in the breasts
of some others, and they reiterated the same cry. Blows, however, were
aimed at my head by such as were of a cruel spirit, and at last they
succeeded in tearing nearly all my clothes from my body. Thus was I
dragged through Wilson's Lane into State street, in the rear of the
City Hall, over the ground that was stained with the blood of the first
martyrs in the cause of LIBERTY and INDEPENDENCE, in the memorable
massacre of 1770; and upon which was proudly unfurled, only a few years
since, with joyous acclamations, the beautiful banner presented to
the gallant Poles by the young men of Boston! What a scandalous and
revolting contrast! My offence was in pleading for LIBERTY--liberty for
my enslaved countrymen, colored though they be--liberty of speech and
of the press for ALL! And upon that 'consecrated spot' I was made an
object of derision and scorn.
They proceeded with me in the direction of the City Hall, the cry
being raised, 'To the Common!' whether to give me a coat of tar and
feathers, or to throw me into the pond, was problematical. As we
approached the south door, the Mayor attempted to protect me by his
presence; but as he was unassisted by any show of authority or force,
he was quickly thrust aside; and now came a tremendous rush on the part
of the mob to prevent my entering the hall. For a time the conflict was
desperate; but at length a rescue was effected by a posse that came to
the help of the Mayor, by whom I was carried up to the Mayor's room.
In view of my denuded condition, one individual in the Post office
below stairs kindly lent me a pair of pantaloons, another a coat, a
third a stock, a fourth a cap, &c. After a brief consultation, the mob
densely surrounding and threatening the City Hall and Post Office, the
Mayor and his advisers said that my life depended on committing me
to jail, ostensibly as a disturber of the peace. Accordingly a hack
was got ready at the door and I was put into it, supported by Sheriff
Parkman and Ebenezer Bailey, the Mayor leading the way. And now ensued
a scene which baffles all description. As the ocean lashed to fury by a
storm, seeks to whelm a bark beneath the waves, so did the mob, enraged
at their disappointment, rush like a whirlwind upon the frail vehicle
in which I sat, and endeavored to drag me out of it. Escape seemed
a physical impossibility. They clung to the wheels--dashed open the
doors--seized hold of the horses--and tried to upset the carriage. They
were, however, vigorously repulsed by the police, a constable sprang in
by my side, the doors were closed, and the driver, using his whip on
the bodies of the horses and the heads of the rioters, happily made an
opening through the crowd, and drove with all speed to Leverett street.
In a few moments I was locked up in a cell, safe from my persecutors,
accompanied by two delightful associates, a good conscience and a
cheerful mind. In the course of the evening several of my friends came
to my grated window to sympathise and confer with me, with whom I
held strengthening conversation, till the hour of retirement, when I
threw myself on my prison bed, and slept tranquilly. In the morning, I
inscribed upon the walls of my cell, with a pencil, the following lines:
'Wm. Lloyd Garrison was put into this cell on Wednesday afternoon,
Oct. 21, 1835, to save him from the violence of a "respectable
and influential" mob, who sought to destroy him for preaching the
abominable and dangerous doctrine that "all men are created equal," and
that all oppression is odious in the sight of God. "Hail, Columbia!"
Cheers for the Autocrat of Russia, and the Sultan of Turkey!
Reader, let this inscription remain till the last slave in this
despotic land be loosed from his fetters.'
    'When peace within the bosom reigns,
      And conscience gives th' approving voice,
    Though bound the human form in chains,
      Yet can the soul aloud rejoice.
    'Tis true, my footsteps are confined--
      I cannot range beyond this cell;
    But what can circumscribe my mind?
      To chain the winds attempt as well!'
    'Confine me as a prisoner--but bind me not as a slave.
    Punish me as a criminal--but hold me not as a chattel.
    Torture me as a man--but drive me not like a beast.
    Doubt my sanity--but acknowledge my immortality.'
In the course of the forenoon, after passing through the mockery of an
examination, for form's sake, before Judge Whitman, I was released from
prison; but, at the earnest solicitation of the city authorities, in
order to tranquilize the public mind, I deemed it proper to leave the
city for a few days, accompanied by my wife, whose situation was such
as to awaken the strongest solicitude for her life."
At this distance of time it is difficult to conceive of such scenes as
occurring in Boston. They are to be accounted for by two things. First,
the intense keenness of the instincts of the Slaveholding power in the
United States, in discriminating from afar what the results of the
Anti-Slavery discussion would be, and the real power which was arising
in the apparently feeble body of the Abolitionists; and second, the
thousand ties of politics, trade, blood relationship, friendship and
religion that interlaced the South with the North, and made the North
for many years a tool of southern dictators and a mere reflection of
southern sympathies. There was scarcely a thing in northern society
that was not interwoven and intertwisted with southern society.
Northern schools and colleges were full of southern scholars--northern
teachers were all the while seeking places on southern plantations.
The great political bodies had each its southern wing, every religious
denomination had its southern members and southern interests. Every
kind of trade and industrial calling had its southern outlet. The ship
builders of Maine went to Charleston for their cargoes. Plantations
were fitted out at the North, by every kind of trade. Our mercantile
world was truly and in fact one firm with the South and felt any
disturbance to them as virtually as the South itself.
Hence Garrison's instinctive feeling that the battle was to be fought
in the North, where as yet there was a free press and the right of
free speech.
It was not long before the South perceived that if free inquiry and
free discussion were going to be allowed in Massachusetts, it would be
all over with them, and like men who were brought up always to have
their own way and had but to command to be obeyed, several southern
states sent immediate and earnest communications to the Massachusetts
Legislature, requesting the General Court to enact laws making it penal
for the citizens of Massachusetts to form abolition societies or print
and publish abolition sentiments.
The Governor of Massachusetts, in his message to the Legislature at
this time, expressed his belief that the abolitionists were guilty of
an offence punishable by common law.
This part of the Governor's message, together with the resolutions from
the Legislatures of slaveholding states, was referred to a committee of
five.
The Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society addressed a memorial to this
committee, praying to be permitted to appear before them and show that
they had done nothing but what they had a perfect constitutional right
to do by the laws of Massachusetts.
On the Fourth and Eighth of March, 1836, these memorable interviews
took place at the state house, in the chamber of the representatives.
A committee of some of the leading abolitionists attended--Mr. I.
May, Mr. E. Gray Loring, Mr. Sewell, Dr. Follen, of Harvard College,
and Mr. Garrison. Dr. Channing also met with them as an expression of
sympathy and to mark his sense of the vitally important nature of the
transactions to the rights of personal liberty in Massachusetts.
The meeting was attended by many spectators, and the abolitionists had
opportunity to defend their course and conduct.
Mr. Garrison's speech at this time is one of the most energetic and
characteristic of his utterances. After alluding to the duty of all men
to plead for the rights of the dumb and the oppressed, he then went on
to say:
"Mr. Chairman, there is one aspect of this great question which has not
yet been presented to the committee. The liberties of the people of
the free States are identified with those of the slave population. If
it were not so, there would be no hope, in my breast, of the peaceful
deliverance of the latter class from their bondage. Our liberties are
bound together by a ligament as vital as that which unites the Siamese
twins. The blow which cuts them asunder, will inevitably destroy
them both. Let the freedom of speech and of the press be abridged or
destroyed, and the nation itself will be in bondage; let it remain
untrammelled, and southern slavery must speedily come to an end."
The chairman of the committee however insulted the abolitionists,
refused them a fair hearing, and substantially turned them out of the
Legislature, to protest at their leisure. The Legislature however did
not pass the laws demanded by the South.
Miss Martineau, who visited Boston in those days, described feelingly
what she justly called the martyr age in America.
The abolitionists in Boston at this time, were ostracized from genteel
society. Rank and fashion cut them in the street, and crossed out their
names from visiting lists. Whoever joined them must expect as a matter
of course to give up what was called in Boston, good society.
Their houses were constantly threatened by anonymous letters, nor was
the threat a vain one.
One of the most accomplished women of Boston, whose genius and beauty
and fine manners won her a distinguished position afterwards in
European society, lives to remember now, how her house was fired while
she was still an invalid in her chamber with an infant daughter only
three weeks old, and how she was obliged to sit by an open window to
get air for herself and infant, from the smoke that filled the house
after the fire had been discovered and brought under.
Now there were in the whole North, thousands of people who thought
slavery a wrong, an inhumanity, and who wished with a greater or less
degree of ardor that it might cease from the earth. But all these
people were associated for some purpose social, moral or religious,
with people at the South, who were in a state of feverish combativeness
on this subject, who were accustomed to command from their cradles,
impatient of contradiction, and violent in their passions; and in
every way and form, and every branch of life in state and church, the
demand was stringent and imperative: "You shall not say that slavery is
wrong--you shall not agitate that question or discuss it at all, and
you shall join with us to discountenance and put down all who endeavor
to agitate the public mind. If you don't we won't have any thing to
do with you or your purposes or schemes."
This was the language which kept the whole North boiling like a pot for
years. On the one hand, the force of conscience and humanity, and on
the other, the passionate determined resistance of the South operating
through northern men, who, though disliking slavery yet had their
various purposes to carry, for which they needed the help of the South.
So even the religious societies felt that their great moral and
religious work was so important that they must yield a little, in order
to gain the help of southern Christians. The Tract Society struck out
from English reprints every line and sentence which might be supposed
to reprove slavery; the Sunday School Union followed suit. The various
religious bodies, embarrassed by their southern wings, spent their
time in every annual meeting in ingenious skirmishing, in which the
main body sought to keep the peace between the active minority of
abolitionists, and the irritated, determined, dictatorial southern
brethren, whose sentiments were exactly expressed by Dr. Plummer, of
Virginia:
"If abolitionists will set the world in a blaze, it is but fair that
they should receive the first warming at the fire. Let them understand
that they will be caught if they come among us, and they will take good
heed to keep out of our way; there is not one among them that has any
idea of shedding his blood for his cause."
The ministers of the slaveholding region were driven on by the
unsparing, uncompromising slave-owners, and were the most high-handed
defenders of the system. Northern religious bodies, in order to carry
on their purposes in union with the South, were obliged to make
constant concessions at which their conscience revolted. The Methodist
church, in 1840, passed a law forbidding their colored members to
give testimony in church trials in slave States. The debates on this
question are worth looking back to now, as they give a dramatic reality
to the great driving, pushing process which was then going on in favor
of slavery.
A trembling brother, after voting for this astounding prohibition,
which took away the last hope of even a hearing in Christ's church for
the poor hunted slave--rose the day after he had helped pass it, and
humbly and plaintively tried to get it taken back.
He said that the resolution "was introduced under peculiar
circumstances, during considerable excitement, and he went for it as
a peace offering to the South, without sufficiently reflecting upon
the precise import of its phraseology, but after a little deliberation
he was sorry! He was convinced that if the resolution remained on the
journal, it would be disastrous to the whole Northern church."
Dr. A. J. Few, of Georgia, arose, and it is instructive to see how
resolute men, who have made up their minds, and know exactly what they
mean to do, despise timid men, who are divided between policy and
conscience. Dr. Few said:
"Look at it! What do you declare to us, in taking this course! Why,
simply, as much as to say, 'We cannot sustain you in the condition
which you cannot avoid! We cannot sustain you in the necessary
conditions of slaveholding; one of its necessary conditions being
the rejection of negro testimony!' If it is not sinful to hold slaves,
under all circumstances, it is not sinful to hold them in the only
condition, and under the only circumstances in which they can be held.
The rejection of negro testimony is one of the necessary circumstances
under which slaveholding can exist; indeed, it is utterly impossible
for it to exist without it; therefore it is not sinful to hold slaves
in the condition and under the circumstances in which they are held at
the South, inasmuch as they can be held under no other circumstances.
* * * If you believe that slaveholding is necessarily sinful, come
out with the abolitionists, and honestly say so. If you believe that
slaveholding is necessarily sinful, you believe we are necessarily
sinners; and if so, come out and honestly declare it, and let us leave
you. * * * We want to know distinctly, precisely and honestly the
position which you take. We cannot be tampered with by you any longer.
We have had enough of it. We are tired of your sickly sympathies. * * *
If you are not opposed to the principles which it involves, unite with
us, like honest men, and go home, and boldly meet the consequences."
From this it appears that the Southern slaveocracy was not only a
very united, determined body, but also remarkably logical as to the
necessary ways and means which were essential to the support of their
system, and that not only they were prepared to go the whole length
themselves, but they meant to have nothing to do with any one who would
not go the whole length with them.
The result of this one victory was to split the Methodist church
in two. Mr. Peck was right in supposing that there was yet enough
conscience in the Northern Methodists to feel the impossibility of
holding a book of discipline which called slavery "the sum of all
villainies," and yet keeping union with those who were making it the
first object of life to uphold it. Some such crisis of conscience,
always brought on by the slave-driving, dictatorial, determined and
logical South, in time rent asunder all the principal denominations
into a northern and southern wing. For however they might have been
disposed towards the policy of non-intervention, the South never
allowed them to stand long on that ground. They must not only cease to
remonstrate against slavery, but help them by consenting to positive
laws and measures in its defence. So great was the power of this
dictatorial spirit, that when the New School Presbyterian church had
broken off from the great body of southern churches, who went with
the Old School, yet the one or two synods who were left among them
extorted from the whole body the decree that "masters ought not to be
disciplined for selling slaves without their consent, even when fellow
members of the same churches with themselves."
Now this history of what went on in the church of America--for the
church, meaning by it all the religious denominations, did embody as
a general fact, the whole religious and moral force of the country,
shows more strongly than anything else what was likely to be going on
in bodies that did not profess any moral character or considerations.
If this was the state to which the dictation of the southern slavepower
had driven the church, what was to be hoped of the political world and
the world of trade?
Mr. Garrison looked over this dark field, and saw the battle--for there
was a battle all over the land--a battle in which the truth and the
right were being steadily, daily and everywhere beaten. The church and
the world seemed to be vieing with each other who could retreat fastest
before their victorious masters, and every day some new right of
humanity was thrown down for the pursuing army to worry and tear--just
as retreating fugitives throw back a lamb or a dog to stop a pack of
hungry wolves.
Garrison saw at once that the root of all this defeat and disaster
was the desire of UNION with slaveholders, and forthwith he unfurled
his banner and sounded his trumpet to the watchword, NO UNION WITH
SLAVEHOLDERS.
Immediately the Constitution of the United States was brought up before
him. Does not the constitution form a union with slaveholders? Has it
not express compromises designed to protect slave property? Is not the
basis of representation throughout all the southern states made on
three-fifths of a slave population? Now Mr. Garrison, what do you say
to that?
"What I say," said Garrison, "is, that slavery is a sin against God
and man, and if the constitution of the United States does agree to
defend and protect it, it is a sinful league, and it is a covenant with
death, and an agreement with hell," and out came the Liberator with
the solemn curses of the old prophets at its head, and the Garrisonian
abolitionists organized themselves on the principle that they would
hold no union with slaveholders in church or in state, they would
belong to no religious or secular body which did not treat slavery
as a sin against God, and they would lift up their testimony against
every person, party or denomination in church or in state that made any
concession to the slaveholding power, for the sake of accomplishing
any purpose whatsoever.
Here we see the whole scope of subject-matter for the Liberator, and
for all the lectures and speeches from the platforms of the Garrisonian
abolition societies for years and years. For as there was scarcely a
thing in society in those days that was not the joint work of the North
and the South, and as the South never made a concession, of course
there was through all the various ramifications of political, social
and religious life, a continued series of concessions on the part
of the North. These concessions were always, everywhere unsparingly
discussed, reproved and denounced by the Garrisonians, and so there was
controversy constantly and everywhere.
The ministry of New England, from the days of President Edwards, had
adopted a peculiar and pungent style of preaching immediate repentance
of sin. They repudiated all half efforts, insensible approaches,
dream-like floatings toward right, and narrowed the question of
individual responsibility down to the present moment, and urged
repentance on the spot as the duty of all. Garrison had received his
early education in this school, and he drove his preaching of immediate
repentance for the sin of slavery, his requirements for an instant
clearing of the soul from all complicity with it, with the solemnity
of an old Puritan. He had the whole language of the Old Testament at
his tongue's end, and a text from the old prophets ready like an arrow
on a bow-string, to shoot into every loop-hole of the concessions and
compromises that were constantly going on. He reproved without fear or
favor, ministers, elders, Christians, statesmen, governors, authors,
and denounced the whole church as contaminated by the sanction and
support it gave to the accursed thing.
He was denounced in turn by the church as an infidel and an opposer
of religion, but he persisted in hurling right and left the stern
denunciations of the Old Testament: "When thou sawest a thief, thou
consentedst with him--thou hast been partaker with adulterers,"
and he declared that the visible union of church and state with an
organization which practiced systematic robbery on four millions of
human beings, and made legal marriage among them an impossibility,
was in the very highest sense consenting with thieves, and being made
partakers with adultery.
There is not the least doubt that the course of entire separation
from slaveholders in church and state, would have been a perfect and
efficient stop to the evil, could it have been compassed. Could we
once imagine a state of things in which every man and woman in the
United States who admitted that slavery was an injustice, should come
to the point of refusing all fellowship or connection with it, either
in church or state, or in any of the traffic or intercourse of life,
we should imagine a state in which there would have been immediately
a majority which could have revised the constitution of the United
States, and cast out the offensive clauses, as has since been done.
But measures so stringent and thorough, supposed an education of the
public conscience which had not yet taken place, and the Garrisonian
Abolitionists therefore were always a small minority, extremely
unfashionable and every where spoken against. Small as they were,
they were the indispensables of the great conflict--its very heart.
Garrison and his band of coadjutors formed a steady force which
acted night and day with unvarying consistency. While everybody else
in the United States had something else to conserve, some side issues
to make, some other point to carry, Garrison and his band had but one
thing to say--that American slavery is a sin; but one thing to do--to
preach immediate repentance and forsaking of sin. They withdrew from
every organization which could in any way be supposed to tolerate or
hold communion with it, and walked alone, a small, but always active
and powerful body. They represented the pure, abstract form of every
principle as near as it is possible for it to be represented by human
frailty. Free speech, free inquiry and freedom of conscience found
perfect expression in their meetings, and the Liberator was the
one paper in which any honest, well-meaning person might print any
conscientious opinion, however contrary to those generally received in
society. Of course it became the channel for much crude thought, for
much startling and strange expression; and its circulation was confined
almost entirely to the small party whose opinions it expressed. A
large portion of the Liberator was every week devoted to extracts cut
from southern papers, giving a vivid picture of the barbaric state of
society, produced by slavery. Here, without note or comment, came the
accounts clipped from different southern papers, of the assaults, frays
and murders daily perpetrated by white men on each other in a land
where violence was ever above law. There were, too, the advertisements
of slave auctions and runaway negroes; of blood-hounds kept for human
hunting; while in a weekly corner called the "Refuge of Oppression,"
all the violent doctrines of the most rabid slave holders found every
week a faithful reproduction in their own language. For an exact
picture of the image and body of the most extreme form of southern
slave holding and its results on society, the Liberator was as
perfect a moral daguerreotype as could be produced.
A solemn instance of the terrible sequence of Divine retribution has
been presented to this generation which will not soon be forgotten.
All this disgusting, harrowing, dreadful record of cruelty, crime and
oppression which the Liberator went on, year after year, in vain
holding up to the inspection of the North, as being perpetrated within
the bounds of slaveholding society, was shrunk from as too dreadful and
disgusting to be contemplated.
"We do not wish to have our feelings harrowed; we do not wish to be
appalled and disgusted with records of cruelty and crime," was the
almost universal voice of good society at the North, as they went
steadily on, compromising with and yielding to the exactions of a
barbarous oligarchy. God so ordered it in return, that the cup of
trembling which had so long been drunk by the slave alone, should be
put into the hands of thousands of the sons and daughters of the free
North. Thousands of them were starved, tortured, insulted, hunted by
dogs, separated from home and friends, and left to linger out a cruel
death in life, through the barbarity of those very slaveholders, with
whose sins we had connived, with whose cruelties practiced on the
helpless negroes we had refused to interfere. So awful a lesson of the
justice of a living God we trust will never be forgotten. If every
northern man and woman had from the very first been as careful in
regarding the rights of the slave, as determined to hold no fellowship
with evil as Garrison, the solution of our great national question
might have been a far more peaceful one.
In the days of the great conflict, Mr. Garrison was accused of being in
a bad spirit, of the utterance of violent, angry and abusive language.
A very mistaken idea of his personal character, in fact, went abroad in
the world.
In his personal intercourse he is peculiarly bland and urbane, one of
the few men capable of conducting an argument on the most interesting
subject without the slightest apparent excitement of voice or manner,
allowing his adversary every polite advantage and admitting all his
just statements with perfect fairness. It is said that a fiery young
southerner once fell into a discussion on slavery with him when he was
travelling incog., on board a steamboat. Garrison quite won his heart
by the fairness and courtesy with which he discussed the subject, and
brought him to admissions which the frank southerner in a good humor
was quite willing to make. On parting he said to him, "If that Garrison
there in Boston were only like you, we should be more ready to listen
to him."
A great deal of this amiability doubtless is owing to the singular
steadiness and healthiness of Garrison's nervous system. In this he
was one of the most peculiarly constituted men, in whom nature ever
combined traits expressly for a great work. All his personal habits are
those of a methodical unexcitable man, and not in the least like the
hurry and enthusiasm of a fanatic. He is methodical, systematic and
precise in all his arrangements, neat and careful in respect to the
minutest trifle.
His handwriting is always of the finished completeness of a writing
master, and in the most vehement denunciations, not a letter was
ever misplaced or a comma or exclamation point, omitted. Every thing
he ever wrote was perfected for the press as it left his pen. Such
habits as these speak a composed and equable nervous system. In fact,
Garrison's nerves never knew what it was to shiver and vibrate either
with irritation or with fear. He is gifted with the most perfect
imperturbable cheerfulness, which no outward discomposure seems to have
any power to shake.
His politely bowing to the furious Boston mob before descending to put
himself in their hands, is a very characteristic thing, and during
all the tossings and tumults of the hour that followed, Garrison was
probably the serenest person that ever had his clothes torn off his
back for expressing his opinions.
That language in the Liberator which looked to the world as if it must
have been uttered in a passion, because it was so far above the usual
earnestness of expression on such subjects, was in his case the result
of a deliberate system.
Garrison said that the world blinded conscience and made false issues
with itself by the habitual calling of things by the wrong names;
that there was no kind of vice which might not be disguised under a
polite phrase. Theft might be spoken of as an ingenious transfer of
property--adultery as a form of the elective affinity, and so on, but
that all such phraseology had an immoral tendency.
In like manner the stealing of men and women from Africa--the
systematic appropriation of all the fruits of their industry and
labor--was robbery. Whoever did this was a thief.
Garrison called slaveholders, no matter of what rank in society, of
what personal amiabilities and virtues, man-thieves. Whoever formed
union with slaveholders, united with man-thieves, and as the partaker
in law is judged as being a thief, those who united with man-thieves
became themselves thieves.
Having reasoned this out logically, Garrison steadily and
systematically applied these terms wherever he thought they applied.
The Garrisonian tract, "The church a den of thieves," is a specimen
of this kind of logic, and this unsparing use of terms. Whatever may
be thought of the justice of such reasoning or the propriety of such
logical application of terms, we still wish the fact to stand out
clear, that these denunciations were not boiled up by heated passions,
but reasoned out by logic, and that it was a part of a systematic
plan to bring back the moral sense of society by a habit of calling
things by discriminating names. Thus in the Liberator every agent of
the United States who helped to catch and return a slave was always
spoken of as a kidnapper--all defences of the fugitive slave law were
familiarly denominated defences of kidnapping. Theodore Parker, in his
sermons about the time of the fugitive slave law, makes very effective
use of these terms, and it is not to be denied that the habit of thus
constantly using language which in a word makes a moral discrimination
is a very powerful influence in forming popular opinion.
People will boggle a great while about fulfilling constitutional
obligation when catching a slave is put in those terms, but when it is
put as "kidnapping," the question becomes far more direct and simple.
The Garrisonians doubtless were philosophical in the precision of the
moral nomenclature they adopted, and their success in stimulating
drugged and paralyzed moral sentiment was largely owing to it.
To be sure, in the application of wholesale moral syllogism to
particular individual cases, there was often something that appeared
extremely hard and unjust to the individual. When an amiable northern
Doctor of Divinity, who never owned a slave in his life and never
expected to, found himself cited in the Liberator by the familiar
designation of a man-thief, because he had been in the General
Assembly, good naturedly uniting with a large body of southern
slaveholders in suppressing all inquiry into their great systematic
robbery, the northern Doctor was naturally indignant and so were all
his friends and adherents.
To be sure it was only a skillful turning of that syllogistic crank
by which New England theology demonstrated that every individual not
conscious of a certain moral change of heart, was a malignant enemy of
God, and had not a spark of moral excellence of any kind, no matter
what sort of a man he might be, or what moral virtues he might practice.
Garrison simply reversed the crank and turned this unsparing kind of
logic back on the church and clergy, who felt some of the surprise
and pain of the eagle in the fable who found himself shot through by
an arrow feathered from his own wing; and in both cases it may be
doubted whether great moral syllogisms do not involve many instances of
individual and personal injustice.
But it is best to let Garrison state his own case as he did in the
Liberator:
"I am accused of using hard language. I admit the charge. I have not
been able to find a soft word to describe villainy, or to identify the
perpetrator of it. The man who makes a chattel of his brother--what is
he? The man who keeps back the hire of his laborers by fraud--what is
he? They who prohibit the circulation of the Bible--what are they? They
who compel three millions of men and women to herd together, like brute
beasts--what are they? They who sell mothers by the pound, and children
in lots to suit purchasers--what are they? I care not what terms are
applied to them, provided they do apply. If they are not thieves, if
they are not tyrants, if they are not men-stealers, I should like
to know what is their true character, and by what names they may be
called. It is as mild an epithet to say that a thief is a thief, as it
is to say that a spade is a spade.
"The anti-slavery cause is beset with many dangers; but there is one
which we have special reason to apprehend. It is that this hollow cant
about hard language will insensibly check the free utterance of thought
and close application of truth which have characterized abolitionists
from the beginning. As that cause is becoming popular, and many may be
induced to espouse it from motives of policy rather than from reverence
for principle, let us beware how we soften our just severity of speech,
or emasculate a single epithet. The whole scope of the English language
is inadequate to describe the horrors and impurities of slavery.
Instead therefore, of repudiating any of its strong terms, we rather
need a new and stronger dialect.
       *       *       *       *       *
"The cry of hard language has become stale in my ears. The faithful
utterance of that language has, by the blessing of God, made the
anti-slavery cause what it is, ample in resources, strong in numbers,
victorious in conflict. * * * Soft phrases and honeyed accents
were tried in vain for many a year;--they had no adaptation to the
subject. 'Canst thou draw out the leviathan, Slavery, with a hook?
or his tongue with a cord which thou lettest down? Canst thou put a
hook into his nose? or bore his jaw through with a thorn? Will he
make many supplications unto thee? wilt thou take him for a servant
forever? Shall not one be cast down at the sight of him? Out of his
nostrils goeth smoke, as out of a seething pot or caldron. His breath
kindleth coals, and a flame goeth out of his mouth. His heart is as
firm as a stone; yea, as hard as a piece of the nether mill-stone.
When he raiseth up himself, even the mighty are afraid. He esteemeth
iron as straw, and brass as rotten wood.' O, the surpassing folly
of those 'wise and prudent' men, who think he may be coaxed into a
willingness to be destroyed, and who regard him as the gentlest of all
fish--provided he be let alone! They say it will irritate him to charge
him with being a leviathan; he will cause the deep to boil like a pot.
Call him a dolphin, and he will not get angry! If I should call these
sage advisers by their proper names, no doubt they would be irritated
too."
The era of mob violence, which swept over the country in consequence of
the anti-slavery agitation, led to a discussion of the peace question,
in which Garrison took an earnest part as a champion of the principles
of non-resistance, and in 1838 he led the way in organizing the New
England Non-Resistance Society, whose declaration of sentiments was
prepared by him. The active part taken by the women of the country in
these moral changes, led to a discussion of the rights of women. Mr.
Garrison was at once an advocate for the principle that women should
be allowed liberty to do whatever God and nature qualified them to
do--to vote, to serve on committees, and to take part in discussions
on equal terms with the other sex. Upon this principle there was
a division in the Anti-Slavery Society in 1840; and in the World's
Anti-Slavery Convention, held that year in London, Mr. Garrison, being
delegate from that society, refused to take his seat because the female
delegates from the United States were excluded. Probably no act of Mr.
Garrison's eventful life was a more difficult and triumphant exercise
of consistent principle than this.
He had come over to England for sympathy, for at home he was despised,
and rejected, and hated, and Exeter Hall was filled with an applauding,
tumultuous crowd, ready to make him the lion of the hour, but not ready
to receive his female coadjutors.
As usual, Mr. Garrison conferred not with flesh and blood for a moment,
but rose, bade farewell to the society, and leaving his protest, walked
out serenely through the crowd, and thus sealed his protest in favor of
the equal rights of woman.
The consideration that he thus renounced an overwhelming public
sympathy, and cut himself loose from the patronage of all good society
in England, could not weigh a moment with him in comparison with a
principle, and the doctrine of the moral, social and political equality
of woman may be said to have found in Garrison its first public
champion.
The question now arises: If Garrison and his little band were indeed
morally right in their position--No union with slaveholders, on what
ground did the whole valiant anti-slavery corps proceed who did not
come out from the church or the state, but saw their way clear to
remain in existing organizations, and fight in and by them.
The free soil party of the political abolitionists generally were
headed by men of pure and vital moral sense, who believed just as
sincerely as Mr. Garrison that slavery was a wrong and an injustice.
How then could they avoid the inference that they could have no union
with slaveholders? The statement of this ground properly belongs to the
biographical sketches of Charles Sumner and Henry Wilson, which will
immediately follow this.
The Garrisonians, and Mr. Garrison at their head, had so perfect an
instinct in their cause that they always could feel when a party
was at heart morally sincere and in earnest. So, though they always
most freely and most profusely criticised the works and ways of the
political abolitionists, they were on the whole on excellent terms with
them.
They had gotten up such a name for speaking just their minds of every
body and thing, that their privilege of criticism came to be allowed
freely, and on the whole the little band was thought by the larger
one to do good political work by their more strictly and purely moral
appeals to the conscience of the community. Where there had been pretty
active Garrisonian labor in lecturing, came in the largest political
vote.
It is but justice to say that Mr. Garrison's conduct throughout
his course demonstrated that it was not a constitutional love
of opposition, or a delight in fault-finding which inspired his
denunciations of slavery and of the Union as the defence of slavery.
For from the time of the Emancipation Proclamation, Garrison became a
warm, enthusiastic Unionist. When the United States flag, cleansed of
all stain of slavery, was once more erected on Fort Sumter, Garrison
made the voyage down to testify by his presence at the scene his
devotion and loyalty to the flag of his country.
Garrison's non-resistant principles did not allow him to take any
active part in the war. But in the same manner they caused him to allow
perfect and free toleration to such of his sons as desired to enter the
army. The right of individual judgment in every human being was always
sacred with him, and the military command which took possession of
Charleston had among its officers a son of William Lloyd Garrison.
The scene in the Boston Music Hall, on the 1st of January, 1864, when
the telegraphic dispatch of the Emancipation Proclamation was received
by an enthusiastic concourse of citizens, and welcomed by the first
literary talent of Boston, was one of those occurrences of the visible
triumph of good men in their day and generation, of which the slavery
conflict gives many instances.
This scene was in all respects a remarkable one, as marking the moral
progress of Boston, but in order to feel its full power we must again
run our eye over the events of the past few years, of which it was the
