appearances are against the prisoner, and as the wallet was found in his
possession, he must be found guilty, unless that fact can be
satisfactorily explained."
"I have a witness who can explain it," said Dick.
"Where is he?"
Tim Ryan, who understood that his evidence was now wanted, came forward.
After being sworn, the judge asked, "What is your name?"
"Tim Ryan, sir."
"Where do you live?"
"In Mulberry Street."
"Tell what you know of this case."
"I was standing in Chatham Street, when I saw the ould gintleman with
the red face (here the prosecutor scowled at Tim, not relishing the
description which was given of him) standing at the corner of Pearl
Street. A boy came up, and put his hand into his pocket, and then run
away as fast as his legs could carry him, wid the wallet in his hand."
"Who was this boy? Do you know him?"
"Yes, sir."
"Tell his name."
"It was Micky Maguire," said Tim, reluctantly.
"And who is Micky Maguire?"
"He blacks boots."
"Then if this Micky Maguire took the wallet, how happened it that it was
found in this boy's possession?"
"I can tell that," said Tim. "I ran after Micky to see if he'd get off
wid the wallet. He hadn't gone but a little way when I saw him slip it
into Dick's pocket."
"I suppose you mean by Dick, the prisoner at the bar?"
"Yes, sir."
"And what became of this Micky?"
"He stopped runnin' after he'd got rid of the pocket-book, and a minute
after, up came the 'copp,' and took Dick."
"Why didn't you come forward, and explain the mistake?"
"I was afraid Micky'd beat me."
"Do you know this Micky Maguire?" said the judge, turning to the
officer.
"I do."
"What is his reputation?"
"Bad. He's been at the Island three or four times already."
"Did you see him anywhere about when you made the arrest?"
"I did."
"Do you know this boy who has just testified?"
"Yes. He is a good boy."
"The case seems a clear one. The prisoner is discharged from custody.
Arrest Micky Maguire on the same charge as early as possible."
The next case was called, and Dick was free.
Mr. Murdock came forward, and took him by the hand, which he shook
heartily.
"I congratulate you on your acquittal," he said.
"I feel a little better than I did," said Dick. "Tim, you're a good
fellow," he said, clasping Tim's hand. "I wouldn't have got off, if it
hadn't been for you."
"I ought to do that much for you, Dick, when you've been so kind to me."
"How are you getting along now, Tim?"
"Pretty well. Mother's got so she can work and we're doin' well. When
she was sick, it was pretty hard."
"Here's something to help you along," said Dick, and he drew a bill from
his pocket.
"Five dollars!" said Tim, in surprise.
"You can buy some new clothes, Tim."
"I ought not to take so much as that, Dick."
"It's all right, Tim. There's some more where that comes from."
They were in Centre Street by this time. Fosdick came up hurriedly.
"Have you got off, Dick?" he asked, eagerly.
"Yes, Fosdick. There's no chance of my being entertained at the expense
of the city."
"I didn't expect the trial was coming off so early. Tell me all about
it."
"What did they say at the house at my being away?" asked Dick.
"Miss Peyton inquired particularly after you. I said, as you directed
me, that you were detained by important business."
"What did she say then?"
Dick was so particular in his inquiries, fearing lest any suspicion
should have been formed of the real cause which had detained him. There
was no reason for it; but it had always been a matter of pride with him
in his vagabond days that he had never been arrested on any charge, and
it troubled him that he should even have been suspected of theft.
"You are fishing for compliments, Dick," said Fosdick.
"How do you make that out?"
"You want to know what Miss Peyton said. I believe you are getting
interested in her."
"When I am, just send me to a lunatic asylum," said Dick.
"I am afraid you are getting sarcastic, Dick. However, not to keep you
in suspense, Miss Peyton said that you were one of the wittiest young
men she knew of, and you were quite the life of the house."
"I suppose I ought to blush," said Dick; "but I'm a prey to hunger just
now, and it's too much of an effort."
"I'll excuse you this time," said Fosdick. "As to the hunger, that's
easily remedied. We shall get home to breakfast, and be in good time
too."
Fosdick was right. They were the first to seat themselves at the table.
Mr. Clifton came in directly afterwards. Dick felt a momentary
embarrassment.
"What would he say," thought our hero, "if he knew where I passed the
night?"
"Good-morning, Hunter," said Clifton. "You didn't favor us with your
presence at dinner last evening."
"No," said Dick. "I was absent on very important business."
"Dining with your friend, the mayor, probably?"
"Well, no, not exactly," said Dick, "but I had some business with the
city government."
"It seems to me that you're getting to be quite an important character."
"Thank you," said Dick. "I am glad to find that genius is sometimes
appreciated."
Here Miss Peyton entered.
"Welcome, Mr. Hunter," she said. "We missed you last evening."
"I hope it didn't affect your appetite much," said Dick.
"But it did. I appeal to Mr. Fosdick whether I ate anything to speak
of."
"I thought Miss Peyton had a better appetite than usual," said Fosdick.
"That is too bad of you, Mr. Fosdick," said Miss Peyton. "I'm sure I
didn't eat more than my canary bird."
"Just the way it affected me," said Dick. "It always improves my
appetite to see you eat, Miss Peyton."
Miss Peyton looked as if she hardly knew whether to understand this
remark as complimentary or otherwise.
That evening, at the dinner-table, Clifton drew a copy of the "Express"
from his pocket, and said, "By Jove, Hunter, here's a capital joke on
you! I'll read it. 'A boy, named Richard Hunter, was charged with
picking a pocket on Chatham Street; but it appearing that the theft was
committed by another party, he was released from custody.'"
Dick's heart beat a little quicker while this was being read, but he
maintained his self-possession.
"Of course," said he, "that was the important business that detained me.
But I hope you won't mention it, for the sake of my family."
"I'd make the young rascal change his name, if I were you," said
Clifton, "if he's going to get into the Police record."
"I think I shall," said Dick, "or maybe I'll change my own. You couldn't
mention a highly respectable name that I could take,--could you?"
"Clifton is the most respectable name I know of," said the young
gentleman owning that name.
"If you'll make me your heir, perhaps I'll adopt it."
"I'll divide my debts with you, and give you the biggest half," said
Clifton.
It is unnecessary to pursue the conversation. Dick found to his
satisfaction that no one at the table suspected that he was the Richard
Hunter referred to in the "Express."
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE CUP AND THE LIP.
While Dick's night preceding the trial was an anxious one, Gilbert and
Roswell Crawford passed a pleasant evening, and slept soundly.
"Do you think Mr. Rockwell would be willing to give me the same wages he
has paid to the boot-black?" he inquired with interest.
"Perhaps he won't take you at all."
"I think he ought to pay some attention to your recommendation," said
Mrs. Crawford. "You ought to have some influence with him."
"Of course," said Gilbert, "I shall do what I can in the matter; but
it's a pity Roswell can't give better references."
"He's never been with a decent employer yet. He's been very unlucky
about his places," said Mrs. Crawford.
She might have added that his employers had considered themselves
unfortunate in their engagement of her son; but, even if she had known
it, she would have considered that they were prejudiced against him, and
that they were in fault entirely.
"I will do what I can for him," continued Gilbert; "but I am very sure
he won't get as much as ten dollars a week."
"I can earn as much as the boot-black, I should hope," said Roswell.
"He didn't earn ten dollars a week."
"He got it."
"That's a very different thing."
"Well, if I get it, I don't care if I don't earn it."
"That's true enough," said Gilbert, who did not in his heart set a very
high estimate upon the services of his young cousin, and who, had the
business been his own, would certainly not have engaged him at any
price.
Roswell thought it best not to say any more, having on some previous
occasions been greeted with remarks from his cousin which could not by
any means be regarded as complimentary.
"Do you think I had better come in at ten o'clock, Cousin James?"
inquired Roswell, as breakfast was over, and Gilbert prepared to go to
the counting-room.
"Well, perhaps you may come a little earlier, say about half-past nine,"
said the book-keeper.
"All right," said Roswell.
Being rather sanguine, he made up his mind that he was going to have the
place, and felt it difficult to keep his good fortune secret. Now, in
the next house there lived a boy named Edward McLean, who was in a
broker's office in Wall Street, at a salary of six dollars a week. Now,
though Edward had never boasted of his good fortune, it used to disturb
Roswell to think that his place and salary were so much superior to his
own. He felt that it was much more respectable to be in a broker's
office, independent of the salary, than to run around the city with
heavy bundles. But if he could enter such an establishment as Rockwell &
Cooper's, at a salary of ten dollars, he felt that he could look down
with conscious superiority upon Edward McLean, with his six dollars a
week.
He went over to his neighbor's, and found Edward just starting for Wall
Street.
"How are you, Roswell?" said Edward.
"Pretty well. Are you going down to the office?"
"Yes."
"You've got a pretty good place,--haven't you?"
"Yes, I like it."
"How much do you get?"
"Six dollars a week."
"That's very fair," said Roswell, patronizingly.
"How do you like your place?" asked Edward. "I believe you're in a
dry-goods store on Sixth Avenue."
"Oh, no," said Roswell.
"You were?"
"Yes, I went in temporarily to oblige them," said Roswell, loftily;
"but, of course, I wouldn't engage to remain any length of time in such
a place, however large the inducements they might offer."
Considering Roswell's tone, it would hardly have been supposed that the
large inducements were four dollars a week, and that, even at that
compensation, his services were not desired.
"Then it wasn't a good place?" said Edward.
"Well enough for such as liked it," said Roswell. "I have no complaint
of Hall & Turner. I told them that it was not dissatisfaction with them
that led me to leave the place, but I preferred a different kind of
business."
"Have you got another place?"
"I have an offer under consideration," said Roswell, consequentially;
"one of the most solid firms in the city. They offer me ten dollars a
week."
"Ten dollars a week!" repeated Edward, somewhat staggered by the
statement. "That's big pay."
"Yes," said Roswell; "but I think I ought to get as much as that."
"Why, I thought myself lucky to get six dollars," said Edward.
"Yes, that's very fair," said Roswell, condescendingly. "In fact, I've
worked at that figure myself; but, of course, one expects more as he
grows older."
"I suppose you'll accept your offer," said Edward.
"I haven't quite made up my mind," said Roswell, carelessly. "I think I
shall."
"You'd better. Such places don't grow on every bush."
Though Edward did not more than half believe Roswell's statement, he
kept his disbelief to himself, feeling that it was a matter of
indifference to him whether Roswell received a large or small salary.
"I must be going down to the office," he said. "Good-morning."
"Good-morning," said Roswell, and he re-entered the house, feeling that
he had impressed Edward with a conviction of his superiority, and the
value set upon his services by the business men of New York. He went
upstairs, and picked out a flashy necktie from his drawer, tied it
carefully before the glass, and about nine set out for Rockwell &
Cooper's warehouse.
It is necessary for us to precede him.
Gilbert reached the counting-room at the usual time. His thoughts on the
way thither were pleasant.
"I shan't be subjected to that young rascal's impertinence," he
considered. "That's one satisfaction."
His astonishment, nay, dismay, may be imagined, therefore, when, on
entering the counting-room, the first object his eyes rested on was the
figure of Dick.
"Good-morning, Mr. Gilbert," said our hero, pleasantly.
"How came you here?" he demanded.
"I walked," said Dick. "I don't often ride. I think walkin's good for
the constitution."
"You know what I mean, well enough. How did you get out of prison?"
"I haven't been there."
"You were arrested for picking a man's pocket yesterday afternoon," said
Gilbert.
"Excuse me, Mr. Gilbert, you're slightly mistaken there. I was arrested
on suspicion of picking a man's pocket."
"The same thing."
"Not quite, as it has been proved that I was innocent, and the wallet
was taken by another boy."
"Have you been tried?"
"Yes, and acquitted."
Gilbert looked and felt disappointed. He could not conceive how Dick
could have escaped when the plot to entrap him had been so artfully
contrived.
"Well, young man," he said, "I'll give you a piece of advice, and if
you're wise you'll follow it."
"That's kind in you," said Dick.
"I pass over your impertinence this time, and will advise you as a
friend to resign your situation before Mr. Rockwell comes."
"Why should I?"
"It'll save your being discharged."
"Do you think he'll discharge me?"
"I know he will. He won't have any one in his employ who has been
arrested for picking pockets."
"Not even if he didn't do it?"
"Not even if he was lucky enough to get off," said Gilbert.
"You think I'd better give up my place?"
"That'll be the best course for you to pursue."
"But how'll I get another place?"
"I'll do what I can to help you to another place if you leave at once."
"I think I'll wait and see Mr. Rockwell first."
"I'll make all the necessary explanations to Mr. Rockwell," said the
book-keeper.
"I think I'd rather see him myself, if it doesn't make any difference to
you."
"You're acting like a fool. You'll only be kicked out of the store. If
you don't follow my advice, I shan't interest myself in getting you
another place."
"Do you think I took the wallet, Mr. Gilbert?" asked Dick.
"Of course I do."
"Then how could you recommend me to another place?"
"Because I think this may prove a lesson to you. You've been lucky
enough to escape this time, but you can't expect it always."
"I'm much obliged to you for your favorable opinion; but I don't think I
shall resign at once."
At this moment Mr. Rockwell entered the warehouse. He had been informed
of Dick's misfortune by Mr. Murdock, who had had occasion to call at his
house on his way from the trial.
"How's this, Richard?" he said, advancing, with a frank smile. "I hear
you got into strange quarters last night."
"Yes," said Dick; "but I didn't like it well enough to stay long."
"Why didn't you send for me?"
"Thank you, sir, I didn't like to trouble you. Mr. Murdock was very
kind."
"Have they got the real thief?"
"I don't know, sir."
"Well, 'all's well that ends well.' You can afford to laugh at it now."
Mr. Gilbert listened to this colloquy with very little satisfaction.
It seemed to show such a good understanding between Dick and his
employer that he perceived that it would be a very difficult thing to
supersede him.
"Mr. Rockwell seems to be infatuated with that boy," he muttered to
himself.
"I think I won't resign just yet," said Dick, in a low voice, to the
book-keeper.
"You'll be found out some day," said Gilbert, snappishly. "Go to the
post-office, and mind you don't stop to play on the way."
Dick started on his errand, and, in passing out into the street,
encountered Roswell Crawford, who, attired with extra care, had just
come down the street from Broadway. On seeing Dick, he started as if he
had seen a ghost.
"Good-morning, Roswell," said Dick, pleasantly.
"Good-morning," said Roswell, stiffly.
"Your cousin is in the counting-room. I am in a hurry, and must leave
you."
"I thought he was on his way to the Island by this time," thought
Roswell, perplexed. "What can it mean?"
It occurred to him all at once that Dick might just have been
discharged, and this thought cheered him up considerably. He entered the
counting-room with a jaunty step.
"Good-morning, Cousin James," he said.
Gilbert turned round, and said, in a surly tone, "You may as well take
yourself off. There's no chance for you here."
"Hasn't the boot-black been discharged?"
"No; and isn't going to be."
"How is that?" asked Roswell, looking very much disappointed.
"I can't stop to tell you now. You'd better go now, and I'll tell you
this evening."
"Just my luck!" said Roswell to himself, considerably crest-fallen. "I
wish I hadn't said a word to Edward McLean about the place."
CHAPTER XIX.
ANOTHER ARREST.
Micky Maguire, as the reader will remember, was by no means satisfied
with the compensation he received from Gilbert for his share in the plot
which came so near proving disastrous to our friend Dick.
He felt that the book-keeper had acted meanly to him, and he meant to
have his revenge if a good opportunity should ever offer. He was very
much disappointed to think he must do without the watch which he had set
his heart upon. He would have felt no particular scruples against
stealing it, but that would be rather dangerous. He began to wish he had
kept the pocket-book. Very probably it contained more than enough to buy
the watch.
But, in spite of his disappointment, he had one satisfaction. He had
avenged himself upon Dick, whom he had long disliked. He knew nothing of
Tim Ryan's testimony, and supposed there was no doubt of Dick's
conviction. He would like very well to have been present at the trial;
but he had unpleasant associations connected with the court-room at the
Tombs, having figured there on several occasions in an important but not
very enviable capacity.
As he was standing by the park railings, his particular friend and
admirer, Limpy Jim, came up.
"Mornin', Jim," said Micky. "What luck?"
"None at all," said Jim. "I haven't had a shine yet, and I'm precious
hungry."
"Come and take breakfast with me," said Micky, in an unusual fit of
generosity; for he was generally more willing to be treated than to
treat.
"Have you got stamps enough?"
"Look at this," and Micky displayed the bill which he had received from
Gilbert.
"You're in luck, Micky. Did you make all that by shines?"
"Never mind how I made it. I guess it's good. Come along if you're
hungry."
Limpy Jim followed Micky across Printing-House Square to a cheap
restaurant on Nassau Street, between Ann and Beekman Streets, and they
were soon partaking with relish of a breakfast which, as they were not
very fastidious, proved abundantly satisfactory.
"I've got some news," said Micky, after he had drained his cup of
coffee. "You haven't forgot Ragged Dick, have ye?"
"He's set up for a gentleman. I saw him a week ago strutting round as if
he lived on Fifth Avenue."
"Well, he's set up for something else now."
"What's that?"
"A pick-pocket."
"What?" asked Jim, amazed.
"He stole an old chap's pocket-book yesterday afternoon, and I seed a
policeman haulin' him off to the p'lice station."
"That's where he gets his good clo'es from?" suggested Jim.
"Most likely. I expect he's on his way to the Island by this time."
"Serve him right for puttin' on airs. He won't pretend to be so much
better than the rest of us now."
"Wonder what Tom Wilkins'll say? He's a great friend of Dick's."
"He's a sneak," said Micky.
"That's so. I wanted to borrer a shillin' of him last week, and he
wouldn't lend it to me."
This Tom Wilkins was a boot-black like the two who were expressing so
unfavorable an opinion of his character. He had a mother and two sisters
partially dependent upon him for support, and faithfully carried home
all his earnings. This accounts for his being unwilling to lend Limpy
Jim, who had no one to look out for but himself, and never considered it
necessary to repay borrowed money. Tom had reason to feel friendly to
Dick, for on several occasions, one of which is mentioned in the first
volume of this series, Dick had given him help in time of need. He was
always ready to defend Dick, when reviled by Micky and his followers,
and had once or twice been attacked in consequence. Limpy Jim was right
in supposing that nothing would disturb Tom more than to hear that his
friend had got into trouble.
Micky, who was in a generous mood, bought a couple of cheap cigars, of
which he presented one to his satellite. These were lighted, and both
boys, feeling more comfortable for the hearty meal of which they had
partaken, swaggered out into the street.
They re-entered the park, and began to look out for patrons.
"There's Tom Wilkins now," said Limpy Jim.
Tom was busily engaged in imparting a scientific shine to the boots of
an old gentleman who was sitting on one of the wooden seats to be found
in the neighborhood of the City Hall.
When he had completed his task, and risen from his knees, Limpy Jim
advanced towards him, and said, with a sneer, "I've heard fine news
about your friend Dick."
"What's that?" asked Tom.
"He's got nabbed by a 'copp.'"
"I don't believe it," said Tom, incredulously.
"Isn't it so, Micky?" said Jim, appealing to his friend.
"Yes, it's true. I seed him hauled off for pickin' an old fellow's
pocket in Chatham Street."
"I don't believe it," repeated Tom; but he began to feel a little
uneasy. "I saw him and spoke to him yesterday mornin'."
"What if you did? It didn't happen till afternoon."
"Dick wouldn't steal," said Tom, stoutly.
"He'll find it mighty hard work provin' that he didn't," said Micky.
"You won't see him for the next three months."
"Why won't I?"
"Because he'll be at the Island. Maybe you'll go there yourself."
"If I do, it'll be for the first time," retorted Tom; "and that's more
than either of you can say."
As this happened to be true, it was of course regarded as offensive.
"Shut up, Tom Wilkins!" said Micky, "if you don't want a lickin'."
"None of your impudence!" said Limpy Jim, emboldened by the presence and
support of Micky, who was taller and stronger than Tom.
"I've only told the truth," said Tom, "and you can't deny it."
"Take that for your impudence!" said Micky, drawing off, and hitting Tom
a staggering blow on the side of the head.
Limpy Jim was about to assist Micky, when there was a very unlooked-for
interruption. Micky Maguire was seized by the collar, and, turning
indignantly, found himself in the grip of a policeman.
"So you are fighting, are you, my fine fellow?" demanded the guardian of
the public peace.
"He insulted me," said Micky, doggedly, not attempting resistance, which
he knew would be ineffectual. "Didn't he, Jim?"
But Jim had already disappeared. He had a prejudice, easily accounted
for, against the metropolitan police, and had as little communication
with them as possible.
"I don't know anything about that," said the policeman. "All I know is
that you're wanted."
"Just for hittin' him? I didn't hurt him any."
"He didn't hurt me much," said Tom, generously, not desiring to see
Micky get into trouble on his account.
"He says I didn't hurt him," urged Micky. "Can't you let me go?"
"That isn't what I want you for," said the policeman.
Micky was astonished. The real cause of his arrest never once occurred
to him, and he could not understand why he was "wanted."
"What is it, then?" he asked in some surprise. "What 'ave I been doin'?"
"Perhaps you don't remember relieving an old gentleman of his
pocket-book yesterday in Chatham Street."
"'Twasn't me."
"Who was it then?"
"Ragged Dick,--the feller that was took at the time. I seed him pick the
man's pocket."
"It seems that you remember something about it."
"But it was Dick that did it. If he says I did it, he lies."
"I've nothing to do with that. You must tell your story to the judge."
"Has he let Dick go?"
"Yes."
Micky received this intelligence with dismay. Somehow it had got out
that he was the real thief, and he began to think that his chance of
getting off was small. Just then, while in custody of the policeman, he
saw advancing towards him the man who had inveigled him into the
plot,--Gilbert, the book-keeper. His anger against Gilbert overcame his
prudence, and he said, "Well, if I did take the pocket-book, I was paid
for doin' it, and that was the man that hired me."
With some surprise, the policeman listened to this story.
"If you don't believe me, just wait till I speak to him."
"Mr. Gilbert!" called Micky.
Gilbert, who had not till now noticed his confederate, looked up, and,
rapidly understanding what had happened, determined upon his course.
"Who speaks to me?" he said, quietly.
"You've got me into trouble, Mr. Gilbert," said Micky, "and I want you
to get me out of it."
"What does he mean?" asked Gilbert, coolly, addressing the policeman.
"You hired me to steal a man's pocket-book, and I'm took up for it,"
said Micky. "I want you to help me, or I'll be sent to the Island."
"The boy must be crazy," said Gilbert, shrugging his shoulders.
"You give me a dollar to do it," said Micky, very much incensed at the
desertion of his confederate.
"Do you know the boy?" asked the policeman respectfully, for he put no
faith in Micky's statement.
"He blacked my boots once," said Gilbert. "That's all I know about him.
What is he arrested for?"
"For picking pockets. There was another boy arrested on suspicion, but
it appeared on trial that he was innocent, and that this boy really took
the wallet."
"He looks like a young scamp," said Gilbert, coolly. "I'm much obliged
to him for introducing my name into the matter. I hope he'll get his
desserts."
This was too much for Micky's patience. He assailed Gilbert with such a
shower of oaths that the policeman tightened his grip, and shook him
vigorously. Gilbert shrugged his shoulders, and walked off with apparent
unconcern.
"Wait till I get free," said Micky, furiously. "I'll fix him."
In regard to Micky, I have only to say further at this time, that he was
at once conveyed to the Tombs, summarily tried and convicted, and spent
the same night on Blackwell's Island, where we leave him for three
months.
CHAPTER XX.
BEFORE THE PARTY.
"You'll be able to attend Ida Greyson's party after all, Dick," said
Fosdick, on Tuesday evening.
"Yes," said Dick, "I was afraid that I should be wanted to grace the
fashionable circles at Blackwell's Island; but as my particular friend
Micky Maguire has kindly offered to go in my place, I shall be able to
keep my other engagement."
"Micky's a bad fellow."
"I'm afraid he is," said Dick; "but he's never had a fair chance. His
father was a drunkard, and used to beat him and his mother, till Micky
ran away from home, and set up for himself. He's never had any good
example set him."
"You speak kindly of Micky, considering he has always been your enemy."
"I haven't any ill will against Micky," said Dick, generously. "If I
ever can do him a good turn I will. I've been luckier than he and most
of my old companions, I'm going to do all I can to help them along.
There's good in them if you can only bring it out."
Dick spoke earnestly, in a very different tone from his usual one. He
had a certain philosophy of his own, and had always taken the world
easily, however it treated him; but he had a warm and sympathizing heart
for the sufferings of others, and he felt that he was in a position to
befriend his old associates, and encourage them to higher aims and a
better mode of life.
"You're a good fellow, Dick," said Fosdick. "It isn't everybody that is
so charitable to the faults of others."
"I know one," said Dick, smiling.
"You mean me; but I'm afraid you are mistaken. I can't say I feel very
well disposed towards Micky Maguire."
"Maybe Micky'll reform and turn out well after all."
"It would be a wonderful change."
"Haven't both of us changed wonderfully in the last eighteen months?"
"You were always a good fellow, even when you were Ragged Dick."
"You say that because you are my friend, Fosdick."
"I say it because it's true, Dick. You were always ready to take the
side of the weak against the strong, and share your money with those who
were out of luck. I had a hard time till I fell in with you."
"Thank you," said Dick; "if I ever want a first-rate recommendation I'll
come to you. What a lot of friends I've got! Mr. Gilbert offered to get
me another place if I'd only resign my situation at Rockwell &
Cooper's."
"He's a very disinterested friend," said Fosdick, laughing. "Do you
think of accepting his offer?"
"I'm afraid I might not be suited with the place he'd get me," said
Dick. "He thinks I'm best fitted to adorn the office of a boot-black.
Maybe he'd appoint me his private boot-black; but I'm afraid I shouldn't
be able to retire on a fortune till I was two or three hundred, if I
accepted the situation."
"What shall we wear to the party, Dick?"
"We've got good suits of clothes. We can carry them to a tailor's and
have them pressed, and they will look well enough. I saw a splendid
necktie to-day at a store on Broadway. I'm going to buy it."
"You have a weakness for neckties, Dick."
"You see, Fosdick, if you have a striking necktie, people will look at
that, and they won't criticise your face."
"There may be something in that, Dick. I feel a little nervous though.
It is the first fashionable party I ever attended."
"Well," said Dick, "I haven't attended many. When I was a boot-black I
found it interfered with my business, and so I always declined all the
fashionable invitations I got."
"You'd have made a sensation," said Fosdick, "if you had appeared in the
costume you then wore."
"That's what I was afraid of. I don't want to make a sensation. I'm too
modest."
In fact both the boys, though they were flattered by Ida's invitation,
looked forward rather nervously to the evening of the party. For the
first time they were to meet and mingle on terms of equality with a
large number of young people who had been brought up very differently
from themselves. Dick could not help remembering how short a time had
elapsed since, with his little wooden box strapped to his back, he used
to call out, "Black your boots?" in the city park. Perhaps some of his
old customers might be present. Still he knew that he had improved
greatly, and that his appearance had changed for the better. It was
hardly likely that any one seeing him in Mr. Greyson's drawing-room,
would identify him as the Ragged Dick of other days. Then there was
another ground for confidence. Ida liked him, and he had a sincere
liking for the little girl for whom he had a feeling such as a brother
has for a cherished younger sister. So Dick dressed himself for the
party, feeling that he should "get through it somehow."
I need not say, of course, that his boots shone with a lustre not to be
surpassed even by the professional expert of the Fifth Avenue Hotel. It
was very evident that Dick had not forgotten the business by which he
once gained his livelihood.
When Dick had arranged his necktie to suit him, which I am bound to
confess took at least quarter of an hour, had carefully brushed his
hair, and dusted his clothes, he certainly looked remarkably well. Dick
was not vain, but he was anxious to appear to advantage on his first
appearance in society. It need not be added that Fosdick also was neatly
dressed, but he was smaller and more delicate-looking than Dick, and not
likely to attract so much attention.
As the boys were descending the stairs they met Miss Peyton.
"Really, Mr. Hunter," said that young lady, "you look quite dazzling
this evening. How many hearts do you expect to break this evening?"
"I'm not in that line of business," said Dick. "I leave all that to
you."
"You're too bad, really, Mr. Hunter," said Miss Peyton, highly pleased,
nevertheless. "I never think of such a thing."
"I suppose I must believe you," said Dick, "but why is it that Mr.
Clifton has looked so sad lately?"
"Mr. Clifton would not think of poor me," said Miss Peyton.
"If you only knew what he said about you the other day."
"Do tell me."
"I couldn't."
"If you will, I'll give you--"
"Thank you," interrupted Dick, gravely; "but I never accept kisses from
ladies over six years old."
"How can you say so, Mr. Hunter?"
"I'm sorry to disappoint you, Miss Peyton, but I really couldn't."
"As if I ever thought of such a thing!" said Miss Peyton, in affected
horror.
"I appeal to my friend Fosdick."
"Did I say so, Mr. Fosdick?"
Fosdick smiled.
"You mustn't appeal to me, Miss Peyton. You and Mr. Hunter are so
brilliant that I don't pretend to understand you."
"Then you won't tell me what Mr. Clifton said. It is too bad. I shan't
sleep to-night for thinking of it."
"Suppose you ask Mr. Clifton."
"I don't know but I will."
Miss Peyton went into the parlor, her heart fluttering with the thought
that she had made a conquest of the gentleman referred to. As Mr.
Clifton was a clerk on a small salary, continually in debt, and with no
expectations, he could not be considered a very brilliant match; but
Miss Peyton was not very particular, and she would have readily changed
her name to Clifton if the chance should present itself. As we may not
have occasion to refer to her again, it may be as well to state that Mr.
Clifton's pecuniary affairs came to a crisis some months afterwards. He
had always been in the habit of laughing at Miss Peyton; but in his
strait he recollected that she was mistress of a few thousand dollars
over which she had absolute control. Under these circumstances he
decided to sacrifice himself. He accordingly offered his heart and hand,
and was promptly accepted. Miss Peyton informed him that he was "the
object of her heart's tenderest affection, her first and only love." Mr.
Clifton expressed no doubt of this, though he was aware that Miss Peyton
had been laying her snares for a husband for nearly ten years.
The marriage took place at the boarding-house, Dick and Fosdick being
among the invited guests.
Mr. Clifton with his wife's money bought a partnership in a retail store
on Eighth Avenue, where it is to be hoped he is doing a good business.
Any one desirous of calling upon him at his place of business is
referred to the New York City Directory for his number. Whether Mr. and
Mrs. Clifton live happily I cannot pretend to say, not being included in
the list of their friends; but I am informed by my friend Dick, who
calls occasionally, that Mrs. Clifton is as fascinating now as before
her marriage, and very naturally scorns the whole sisterhood of old
maids, having narrowly escaped becoming one herself.
CHAPTER XXI.
IDA GREYSON'S PARTY.
When Dick and his friend reached Mr. Greyson's house, two carriages
stood before the door, from each of which descended young guests, who,
like themselves, had been invited to the party. One of these brought two
young girls of twelve, the other two boys of twelve and fourteen, and
their sister of ten. Entering with this party, the two boys felt less
embarrassed than if they had been alone. The door was opened by a
servant, who said, "Young ladies' dressing-room, second floor, left-hand
room. Young gentlemen's dressing-room opposite."
Following directions, the boys went upstairs and entered a spacious
chamber, where they deposited their outer garments, and had an
opportunity to arrange their hair and brush their clothes.
"Is your sister here this evening?" asked one of the boys, addressing
Dick.
"No," said Dick, soberly; "she couldn't come."
"I'm sorry for that. She promised to dance with me the first Lancers."
"Wouldn't I do as well?" asked Dick.
"I don't think you would," said the other, laughing. "But I'll tell you
what,--you shall dance with my sister."
"I will, with pleasure," said Dick, "if you'll introduce me."
"Why, I thought you knew her," said the other, in surprise.
"Perhaps I did," said Dick; "but I exchanged myself off for another boy
just before I came, and that makes a difference, you know. I shouldn't
have known you, if you hadn't spoken to me."
"Do you know me now?" asked the other boy, beginning to understand that
he had made a mistake.
"You live on Twenty-First Street,--don't you?"
"Yes," was the unexpected reply, for Dick had by a curious chance
guessed right. "You're Henry Cameron, after all."
"No," said Dick; "my name is Richard Hunter."
"And mine is Theodore Selden; but I suppose you knew that, as you knew
where I live. If you're ready, we'll go downstairs."
"Come, Fosdick," said Dick.
"We're going to have the Lancers first," said Theodore. "Ida told my
sister so. Have you a partner engaged?"
"No."
"Then I'll introduce you to my sister. Come along."
I may explain here that Dick, and Fosdick also, had several times danced
the Lancers in the parlor at the boarding-house in the evening, so that
they felt reasonably confident of getting through respectably. Still his
new friend's proposal made Dick feel a little nervous. He was not
bashful with boys, but he had very little acquaintance with girls or
young ladies, and expected to feel ill at ease with them. Still he could
not think of a good reason for excusing himself from the promised
introduction, and, after going up to Ida in company with his new friend,
and congratulating her on her birthday (he would not have known how to
act if Theodore had not set him an example), he walked across the room
to where one of the young ladies who had entered at the time he did was
seated.
"Alice," said Theodore, "this is my friend Mr. Hunter, who would like to
dance with you in the first Lancers."
Dick bowed, and Alice, producing a card, said, "I shall be most happy.
Will Mr. Hunter write his name on my card?"
Dick did so, and was thankful that he could now write a handsome hand.
"Now," said Theodore, unceremoniously, "I'll leave you two to amuse each
other, while I go off in search of a partner."
"I'm in for it," thought Dick, seating himself on the sofa beside Alice.
"I wish I knew what to say."
"Do you like the Lancers?" inquired the young lady.
"Yes, I like it," said Dick, "but I haven't danced it much. I'm afraid I
shall make some mistakes."
"I've no doubt we shall get along well," said Alice. "Where did you
learn?"
"I learned at home," said Dick.
"I thought I had not met you at Dodworth's. I attended dancing school
there last winter."
"No," said Dick; "I never took lessons."
"Don't you like Ida Greyson?" inquired Alice.
"Yes, I like her very much," said Dick, sincerely.
"She's a sweet girl. She's a very intimate friend of mine. Who is that
boy that came into the room with you?"
"His name is Henry Fosdick."
"He's going to dance with Ida. Come, let us hurry and get in the same
set."
Dick offered his arm, and, as the sets were already being formed, led
his partner to the upper end of the room, where they were just in time
to get into the same set with Ida.
Theodore, with a girl about his own age, had already taken his position
opposite Dick. Fosdick and Ida were the first couple, and opposite them
Isaac and Isabella Selden, cousins of Theodore and Alice.
They had scarcely taken their places when the music struck up. Dick felt
a little flustered, but determined to do his best. Being very quick in
learning figures, and naturally gracefully in his movements, he got
through very creditably, and without a mistake.
"I thought you expected to make mistakes," said Alice Selden, as Dick
led her back to her seat. "I think you dance very well."
"It was because I had such a good partner," said Dick.
"Thank you for the compliment," said Alice, courtesying profoundly.
"Seems to me you're very polite, Alice," said Theodore, coming up.
"Mr. Hunter was paying me a compliment," said Alice.
"I wish you'd tell me how," said Theodore to Dick.
"I wish he would," interrupted Alice. "All your compliments are of the
wrong kind."
"It isn't expected that brothers should compliment their sisters," said
Theodore.
Mrs. Greyson came into the room during the dancing, and was pleased to
see that Dick and Henry Fosdick, instead of sitting awkwardly in the
corner, were taking their part in the evening's amusement. Dick made an
engagement with Alice for another dance later in the evening, but danced
the second with Ida Greyson, with whom, by this time, he felt very well
acquainted.
[Illustration]
"I didn't know you knew Alice Selden," said Ida. "Where did you meet
her?"
"Her brother Theodore introduced me this evening. I did not know her
before."
"You haven't been here lately, Dick," said Ida, familiarly.
"No," said he. "It's because I've been very busy."
"You don't work in the evening,--do you?"
"I study in the evening."
"What do you study, Dick?"
"French, for one thing."
"Can you speak French?"
"A little. Not much."
"I'm going to try you 'Comment vous portez-vous, monsieur?'"
"'Très bien, mademoiselle. Et vous?'"
"That's right," said Ida, gravely. "I can't talk much yet myself. Who
teaches you?"
"I have a private teacher."
"So have I. She comes twice a week. When I don't know my lesson, she
boxes my ears. Is your teacher cross?"
"No," said Dick, laughing. "He doesn't box my ears."
"That's because you're so large. I wish I could have you for my teacher.
I'd ask papa, if you could only speak it like a native."
"So I can," said Dick.
"You can, really?"
"Yes, like a native of New York."
Ida laughed, and was afraid that wouldn't do.
When the dance was over, and Dick was leading Ida to her seat, a
surprise awaited him. A boy came forward hastily, and said in a tone
blending amazement with gratification, "Is it possible that this is Dick
Hunter?"
"Frank Whitney!" exclaimed Dick, clasping his hand cordially. "How came
you here?"
"Just the question I was going to ask you, Dick. But I'll answer first.
I am spending a few days with some cousins in Thirty-Seventh Street.
They are friends of the Greysons, and were invited here this evening,
and I with them. I little dreamed of meeting you here. I must say, Dick,
you seem quite at home."
"Mr. Greyson has been a kind friend of mine," said Dick, "and I've met
Ida quite often. But I felt a little nervous about coming to this party.
I was afraid I'd be like a cat in a strange garret."
"You're a wonderful boy, Dick. You look as if you had been used to such
scenes all your life. I can hardly believe you're the same boy I met in
front of the Astor House a little more than a year ago."
"If I'm changed, it's because of what you said to me then, you and your
father. But for those words I might still have been Ragged Dick."
"I'm glad to hear you say that, Dick; but, for all that, a great deal of
credit is due to yourself."
"I've worked hard," said Dick, "because I felt that I had something to
work for. When are you going to enter college?"
"I expect to apply for admission in about two months."
"At Columbia College?"
"Yes."
"I am glad of that. I shall hope to see you sometimes."
"You will see me often, Dick."
Here the music struck up, and the boys parted. It is unnecessary to
speak farther of the events of the evening. Dick made several other
acquaintances, and felt much more at ease than he had anticipated. He
returned home, feeling that his first party had been a very agreeable
one, and that he had on the whole appeared to advantage.
CHAPTER XXII.
MICKY MAGUIRE RETURNS FROM THE ISLAND.
For three months Micky Maguire was not seen in his accustomed haunts.
During his involuntary residence at the Island he often brooded over the
treachery of Gilbert, to whom his present misfortune was due. He felt
that he had been selfishly left to his fate by his equally guilty
confederate. It had certainly been a losing speculation for poor Micky.
He had received but a paltry dollar for his services, and in return he
was deprived of his liberty for three months.
The disgrace of being sent to the Island Micky did not feel as Dick
would have done. He had been there too many times to care for that. But
he did not like the restraints of the place, and he did like the free
and independent life of the streets from which for a time he was
debarred.
The result of Micky's brooding was a strong thirst for vengeance upon
the author of his misfortunes. He could do nothing at present, but only
bide his time.
Meanwhile things went on pretty much as usual at the establishment in
Pearl Street. Gilbert liked Dick no better than he had done. In fact, he
disliked him more, but, seeing the friendly relations between Dick and
his employer, found it prudent to treat him well whenever Mr. Rockwell
was by. At other times he indulged in sneers and fault-finding, which
Dick turned off good-humoredly, or returned some droll answer, which
blunted the edge of the sarcasm, and made the book-keeper chafe with the
feeling that he was no match for the boy he hated. Dick, by faithful
attention to his duties, and a ready comprehension of what was required
of him, steadily advanced in the good opinion of every one except
Gilbert.
"Keep on as you have begun, Richard," said Mr. Murdock to him, "and
you'll be a member of the firm some time."
"Do you really think so, Mr. Murdock?" asked Dick, with a flush of
gratification.
"I really do. You have excellent abilities, Mr. Rockwell likes you, and
you have only to continue steady and faithful, and you'll be sure to
rise."
"You know what I was, Mr. Murdock."
"You are none the worse for that, Richard. It is a great credit to a boy
to earn his own living when circumstances force it upon him. If his
employment is an honest one, it is an honorable one."
By such remarks as these Dick was encouraged, and he felt that Mr.
Murdock was a true friend to him. Meanwhile a way was opening for his
advancement.
One day Micky Maguire appeared in his old haunts. The second day he met
Gilbert in the street; but the book-keeper took not the slightest notice
of him. That touched Micky's pride, and confirmed him in his resolution.
He decided to make known to Mr. Rockwell Gilbert's share in the little
plot, thinking that this would probably be the best method of injuring
him.
He ascertained, by means of a directory, with some difficulty, for
Micky's education was rather slight, the residence of Mr. Rockwell, and
about eight o'clock in the evening ascended the steps and rang the bell.
He might have gone to his place of business, but Gilbert would be there,
and he preferred to see Mr. Rockwell at home.
The servant stared at the odd and not particularly prepossessing figure
before her.
"Is Mr. Rockwell at home?" asked Micky.
"Yes."
"I want to see him."
"Did he tell you to call?"
"It's on particular business," said Micky.
"Stop here and I'll tell him," said the girl.
"There's a boy at the door wants to see you, Mr. Rockwell," said the
girl.
"Did you ask him in?"
"No sir. He looks like a suspicious carakter," said Bridget, laying the
stress on the second syllable.
Mr. Rockwell rose, and went to the door.
"What is your business?" he asked.
"It's about Dick,--Ragged Dick we used to call him," said Micky.
"You mean Richard Hunter."
"Yes," said Micky. "He was took up for stealin' a gentleman's
pocket-book three months ago."
"But he was proved innocent," said Mr. Rockwell, "so, if you have
anything to say against him, your time is thrown away."
"I know he was innocent," said Micky; "another boy took it."
"Who was he?"
"I did it."
"Then you did a wicked thing in stealing the money, and a mean thing in
trying to get an innocent boy into trouble."
"I wouldn't have done it," said Micky, "if I hadn't been paid for it."
"Paid for stealing!" said Mr. Rockwell, astonished.
