possessed a remarkable genius, or were compelled to toil 
for a livelihood. Neither of these reached my case. "Weari- 
ness and ennui staring me in the face, I actually envied 
those to whom fate had apportioned useful lives. 
I took up my books with a spasmodic effort. I practised 
music, read French and German, and indulged i;i long 
rambles. If Mr. St. John found me thus employed, a pe- 
culiar smile would wander across his face. We had both 
observed a long truce, and I had a misgiving that the 
battle would open soon. 
" How very industrious you have grown," he said, find- 
ing me on the balcony one afternoon. " What is the new 
aim?" 
" I am not sure that I have any aim," I answered, list- 
lessly. 
" You are despondent. Miss Adriance, it will never do 
to take a lover's defection so seriously. It is one of the 
chances of the service, you know." 
The hot blood rushed to my face. "I am not in the 
slightest degree lovelorn," I answered, shortly. 
 
"A female Alexander, grieved that there are no more 
empires to conquer. You have grown discouraged early 
in the fray." 
" I have no desire for such paltry triumphs," I returned, 
haughtily. 
" Paltry ! A man's heart thus to be contemned ! You 
are pitiless." 
" I have won no heart that could suffer in being cast 
aside." 
" You do not hold your lovers in very high esteem. It 
is like a woman." 
That roused me. " When one true lover sues to me, I 
shall respect him at least, if I cannot return his regard." 
" And all the rest is most convenient pastime flirting." 
" I have not flirted," I rejoined, angrily. 
" What do you call the episode with Mr. Channing ? " 
" Not that, at least." 
" Then you did love him ?" 
There was a fierce gleam in his hard eyes, and a sudden 
sharp frown settled about his brow. 
" I did not love him. I was strongly attracted, and per- 
haps overpcrsuaded by the apparent tenderness of his 
regard for me. I honestly tried to do my duty, and when 
I became convinced that I could not, asked to be released 
from my promise." 
" And this is a woman's boasted constancy ! So infatu- 
ated that she can listen to no reason, ready to throw her 
whole life away, and in six months' time so weary of her 
bond that she sues for release." 
" It is possible that one can be mistaken in a person. I 
do not pride myself upon my penetration or infallible judg- 
ment." 
"Alas, if love is held subject to idle caprices! And your 
mistake in Aylraer was one of wilful blindness. You were 
warned repeatedly." 
 
" How was I warned ? " I exclaimed, afljish with indig- 
nation. "You refused to do him even common justice. 
You were unreasonable, severe, and caustic. One is apt to 
espouse the cause of the wronged." 
"You are extremely generous, Miss Adriance! Mr. 
Channing requited your chivalrous affection very poorly 
indeed. I think I did him full justice in warning you at 
all. If I had not considered him likely to win a woman's 
favor, I should have held my peace, and thereby saved an 
immense reputation for cruelty." 
"A regard that is generous and tender always appeals 
powerfully," I said. " One can hardly be sufficiently sus- 
picious to question it in the beginning." 
"And these are the men who succeed!" he said, bitter- 
ly, curling his haughty lip. " They can fawn and flatter, 
and please a woman's fancy, while truth stands aloof, too 
proud to degrade itself." 
"No," I returned; "what we most desire is apprecia- 
tion. Occasionally we are betrayed by a semblance of it." 
"If half the time and talent spent in rendering women 
artificial and heartless was devoted to a better purpose, 
there would be something to appreciate," he said, savagely. 
" Why do not men offer a premium on the virtues, then ? 
The women who succeed the most brilliantly in life are 
not the high-toned, truthful, and pure in soul. Half a 
dozen really noble, natural girls, who have not made dress 
and attractiveness their highest study, will be eclipsed in a 
room by one handsome, elegantly attired woman, who has 
learned to make the most of herself in the manner society 
approves. Educated and accomplished men single her 
out, and pay her marked attention. Patient wives are not 
infrequently neglected for her, and hearts that have been 
musing over happy dreams, in all the sweetness of a first 
unshaken trust, find themselves rudely pierced by careless- 
 
ness on the part of the man from whom they have a right 
to expect better tilings." 
" But these are the acknowledged coquettes in society. 
Men do not so often seek them in marriage. ' 
"Pardon me. Some of these women have three chances 
for marriage where others have scarcely one." 
"Marriage being the great end and aim of existence," 
he said, sneeringly. 
" We must confess that it is. Ordinarily we do not find 
a single woman of forty the recipient of as many polite 
attentions as those who are younger. She is not held in 
the same esteem as if she had improved her chances for 
matrimony. She may have grown nobler and richer in 
many directions; more refined, capable of receiving higher 
truths and obeying the dictates of loftier virtues. The 
probability is that nine people out of ten 'will sneer a lit- 
tle, and remark how queer she has become." 
"You have been converted to a new faith, Miss Adri- 
ance. This was not the belief of your 'salad days,' as 
Cleopatra terms her unwisdom." 
U I have had the world to study since that time." 
" For Heaven's sake, don't become cynical. Leave that 
to the sterner sex." 
"Will not the armor answer equally well for both? If 
men can intrench themselves behind it, and fling out 
pointed arrows, indifferent as to whom they may wound, 
why may it not be pastime for a woman ? " 
For once I had met the enemy on his own ground. He 
bit his lip, and there was a moment's silence between us. 
"You are making rapid strides," he said, at length. 
"What do you propose to do next? I should really like 
to be forewarned." 
" What I do cannot be of much importance," I said, 
carelessly. "A woman's scope doesn't seem to be very 
extensive." 
 
" Oh, you can write a book, you know. That's a dernier 
resort after being in love." 
I would not let him rouse me to anger. 
"Since you advise it, I may possibly try," I returned, 
calmly. 
"No, I don't advise it. Reading German metaphysics 
is bad enough. But there is little danger, since you are 
not particularly amenable to counsel." 
" No one has ever taken sufficient interest in my wel- 
fare to counsel me in any of the great emergencies of life. 
If a woman possesses intellect and power, why should she 
not use it ? Must we be continually sent back to our mir- 
rors and our dresses ? " 
"Inconsequent, as your sex invariably prove." 
"If yours are so wise, why not instruct us?" 
"O!" he exclaimed, with sudden vehemence, "if human 
nature was not steeped in this blind, selfish egotism! If 
any one dared to live a true, honest life, instead of over- 
laying it with detestable shams ! Have not men in all 
ages given preference to fond, simple-hearted women, who 
were not too proud to glory in their birthright of pure, 
tender, endining affection, that no trials bhinch, no time 
dimmed ? And when they accept this for their mission, 
when the strength and sweetness of their souls tend to 
this high spiritual elevation, there will be no need of grasp- 
ing feverishly at fancied tasks." 
"Will it make a woman less tender to have noble aspi- 
rations or well-developed ideas of life?" 
" A dream rarely realized but then what dreams are ? " 
and he turned abruptly away. 
What dreams are ? It fell mournfully on my soul, like 
a strain of sad, dying music. Why did we live at all, if 
to be forever unsatisfied? Why were these wants pertain- 
ing to the pure and profound estates of mortal being given 
 
to us, if they were not to be realized in this land of their 
birth ? Would it not be pitiful for a soul to drop out of 
the world, never having known that completeness it felt 
surely fitted for? 
Something woke a new chord in my inmost being. I do 
not think I was born a poet; the glorious dawn, with its 
intense beauty, the silence of the purple twilight, with its 
mysterious charm, and the vague unrest of solitary nights, 
when the soul seems to brood in an unearthly atmosphere, 
thrilled me with speechless emotion. But there were 
other avenues for thought. Women had trod in these 
paths and found them pleasant. Even if I did not succeed 
brilliantly, would it not be better than this tiresome round 
of dressing, dancing, and admiration? 
Mr. St. John was a good deal surprised at the announce- 
ment of Aylmer Channing's marriage. Mrs. Lawrence 
had not recovered her equanimity on the subject. I fore- 
saw that she would have hard work to forgive me. Sweet 
as she was, she could show her displeasure in many ways, 
and occasionally made me feel quite uncomfortable. 
This matter was soon forgotten in one of much more 
importance. Mrs. Lawrence received word that a large 
investment in Cuba, which had hitherto been very profit- 
able, required immediate attention. Mr. Lawrence's sister 
had married a Spaniard ; and the brothers-in-law had 
both been concerned in the same business. Mr. Carme 
had met with heavy losses, and there would be important 
changes made. 
"I think I had better go at once," Mr. St. John pro- 
posed. "It is May now, and I can be back before the sea- 
son of extreme heat. A person on the spot can manage 
so much better, as writing delays interminably." 
Mrs. Lawrence was pleased, and the arrangements were 
speedily made. A brief absence to be sure, but I could 
 
not help thinking how odd Laurelwood would appear with- 
out Mr. St. John. 
" What a happy time you will have," he said, on the 
last evening of his stay, sauntering down to the window 
where I sat in the soft twilight of the moonless night. 
"For the next two months you will be quite free to follow 
your own devices." 
"Believe that I feel exceedingly grateful for all past 
care," I returned, with mock humility. 
"No, you don't, either;." and his tone was strangely ex- 
cited. "Think of the many times you have positively 
hated my interference. But for me you might have been 
a happy wife." . 
" You are cruel," I said, wounded to the quick. 
" And you are a mystery to me. Did he never call forth 
any responsive affection ? Doesn't the memory of some 
sweet phantom hope stir your heart with strange longings ? 
for you are neither ice nor marble. There is the fire 
of a very volcano in your eyes, and there must have been 
moments when it found vent and swept all before it. 
Great heavens! that such an offering should have been 
laid at a man's feet, and trampled upon ! " 
He was'moved from his usual self-poise, and his vehe- 
mence affected me singularly. I trembled in every limb. 
"I think you make some mistake in regard to Mr. 
Channing. He gave much and demanded little. He was 
engrossed with his own feelings and enjoyments, and never 
sought to fathorn the depths of my soul. If he had, I 
should have known the truth sooner myself." 
" And there was a place in your heart that his sweetness 
and beauty never touched. Some chord sacred to a mas- 
ter hand, that gave forth no responsive music? Yet you 
put on the semblance skilfully ! Miss Adriance, how much 
truth is there in a woman ? " 
 
His mocking words and scornful manner stung me, and 
I replied with some passion, 
"I was weary, heart-sick. You had shown yourself 
most ungentle ; ridiculed the faith I might have had, made 
light of my earnest endeavors, taunted me beyond endur- 
ance ! Sympathy and rest were sweet. It was my mis- 
fortune that I accepted too readily ; but that being done, I 
endeavored to perform my duty." 
"Well, why did you give up this high notion of duty?" 
" Because I found that another could be as dear to him. 
"Was it necessary to doom myself to misery for a strict 
point of honor ? " 
"But you couldn't have known this when " 
" I did," I confessed with a secret mortification. " I heard 
it before I had taken any positive step; but my resolve 
had been made long ore that." 
" I knew you never loved him. I read your secret in a 
dozen different ways. But you can bear no advice, no 
counsel! You would martyr yourself for pride's sake, 
while love stood shivering at the door where you refused 
him entrance." 
His masterly bearing, and stern, cutting tones, roused 
me to instant defiance. 
"When did you counsel?" I began, springing up. 
"You used to taunt me with being an undeveloped girl, 
ridicule my aims, my desires, my tenderest feelings, ur.til 
I was fain to hide them from your sight. But when did 
you ever speak of the rocks, the quicksands, of the torta- 
ous path where one might go forever astray? You were 
hard, and cold, and cruel ! " 
"As if anything could have made a difference with 
you ! " 
How he maddened mo ! I was not the strong, domi- 
nant, self-willed woman he would persist in believing rne. 
Could he ever understand ? 
 
He took my hands in his, and said, in a tone so low that 
it sounded like a mere whisper, but was wonderfully dis- 
tinct, 
" How many times will a woman's conscience allow her 
to repeat the most sacred words and endearments of love? 
Will they have any meaning when you utter them again?" 
and he made a gesture of bitter contempt. 
I felt my courage yielding. What right had he to 
torture me thus ? My eyes filled with tears of pain and 
shame. 
" I shall never utter them but once with truth," I said, 
vainly trying to steady my voice. " And that time is yet 
to come." 
Then I would have broken away, but his grasp upon 
me tightened. He turned me quite around so that my 
face came in range of the long rny of distant lamplight ; 
I could feel that his glance was like flame, and devoured 
every passing emotion. Scarlet flushes stole from brow 
to throat, and I trembled in every limb. 
" Yet to come," he repeated in. a tone that thrilled 
me, it had softened so exquisitely. " What surety have 
I that other false vows may not be breathed?" 
" None," I replied, impelled to the truth by his steady 
eye, "save that the mistakes of the past have proved so 
bitter that I should dread ever to renew them." 
"Let the past with all its failures be forgotten;" and 
he drew me towards him in a tender clasp. "The present 
is mine to make of it what I can. We will not rush into 
any headlong folly, but patiently abide our fate." 
Did I hear aright ! Every pulse throbbed and quivered 
with a new and intense emotion. I felt the sweet, lin- 
gering kisses of fire upon my -lips, absorbing soul and 
sense. O, I knew now what it was to love, to be beloved ? 
Nothing could ever make me prove recreant to that trust. 
 
What more might have been uttered I know not, but 
there was a gentle rustle in the hall, and Mrs. Lawrence 
entered the drawing-room. Mr. St. John released me 
without any perceptible stir, bending over once and whis- 
pering "Remember," and then we both were outwardly 
calm. 
She had thought ^of another item or two, and as he 
was to start early in the morning, explained them now. 
I sat by in silence, occasionally catching a fiery gleam 
from the eyes that were lakes of luminous light. I fancied 
there was a strange depth in his voice, and every intona- 
tion thrilled through me. We said no more that night, 
or in the morning either, for though I came down to the 
early breakfast, we were not alone. Perhaps he might 
have made an opportunity, but he carried himself with 
regal pride. I felt his power in the very air I breathed, 
and was subdued by the subtle magnetism. Now and 
then he gave me a peculiar bright, fascinating look, that 
was not a smile, and yet answered for both smile and 
words. 
" He shall see that I can deserve his trust," I mentally 
.resolved with my farewell. And yet a chill struck to the 
core of my heart how would we meet again ? 
 
CHAPTER XVI. 
MRS. LAWRENCE began to discuss our summer arrange- 
ments presently. Where should we go ? what should we 
do? She left the choice of place entirely to me. 
"We can hardly look for Stuart until the middle of 
July," she said. "He will be rather tired out with his 
jaunt, and' perhaps not care to undertake another, so we 
can inake our arrangements without reference to him." 
" Why should we go at all ? " I replied. " Laurelwood 
is as lovely as any place I have seen." 
"There will be very little society through the summer." 
"Never mind society for once. I think I should like to 
have a good long restful summer here." 
"Very well. We will stay until Stuart's return, at 
least." 
I was decidedly pleased. Not for worlds would I have 
been absent then. I had a gratifying belief that he would 
approve of this partial seclusion. 
And now I asked myself what I should do. To brood 
constantly over the beguiling visions that floated through 
my brain would hardly be wise. And then I remembered 
how oddly I was situated. 
I could not absolutely consider myself engaged ; indeed, 
as for real love-making, there had been very little. Mr. St. 
John was peculiar. Did I understand him at all? Was 
I certain that our natures would assimilate harmonize? 
 
I wondered if any woman had ever taken destiny in 
such a fashion before? There was only one fact of which 
I did feel confident. Through the exercise of some curious 
power, Mr. St. John was able to sw"ay every thought and. 
feeling. Was this love ? His approval was more to me 
than the opinion of the whole world besides. His very 
presence filled my soul with radiant delight, and yet I 
experienced a strange fear concerning him. The possibility 
of his being completely my master loomed threateningly 
before me. It would be sweet, indeed, to yield from a 
deep, tender, overpowering affection. 
A year ago I should have made an ideal and an idol of 
him at once. I seemed to have more self-poise, more 
wisdom, and though I was capable of experiencing a much 
deeper and more absorbing passion, I likewise appeared 
to demand more in return. Had I grown selfish, exacting? 
I left off thinking of myself, and turned to Nature. 
Never had she been lovelier. I indulged in long, solitary 
rambles and delightful communings; delicious reveries 
that inthralled both heart and brain. The fires of youth 
lost their fierceness, seeming more like the perfect golden 
glow of sunset. 
Mr. St. John wrote that the business was much more 
complicated than he supposed, and that he was unable to 
fix upon any period of return, but that it would be as 
speedy as circumstances would permit. We were rather 
quiet, for Mrs. Lawrence left me much to my own devices. 
In this mood of brooding repose a tiny flame of ambition 
sprang up. Mr. St. John had satirically said write a 
book. Have we not all a thread of romance within us? 
And so I began. 
How the days passed I scarcely remember. They were 
like dreams perfected by sweetest music. I neither looked 
forward nor backward, but simply waited. 
 
Suddenly the music censed ; the spell was broken, 
My eyes were wandering carelessly over the paper one 
morning as we still lingered in the breakfast-room, when 
my attention was suddenly arrested by the announcement 
of the failure of a large New York and Baltimore house, 
and the suicide of one of the partners. My fortune was 
swept away at a single blow ! 
I sat there in silence. When the fire has burned to 
ashes, one does not look for a torch to rekindle it. There 
must be wood to sustain a new flame. The old has per- 
ished beyond recall. 
"What is the matter, Sydnie ?" and I saw Mrs. Law- 
rence making a siufden movement towards me. "You are 
as pale as a ghost." 
" A poor way to bear misfortune; " and my lip quivered, 
failing miserably in an attempt at a smile. 
"Misfortune?" Her tone was incredulous. 
I handed her the paper. 
" An utter failure J O, it cannot be quite true. These 
things are always abominably exaggerated. How unfor- 
tunate that Stuart is away! I will send for Mr. Northrnp 
he may know how to advise;" and she did despatch 
a servant immediately for the county lawyer. 
We walked slowly through the hall. It was a warm, 
morning; but the fragrant air revived me. 
" My poor child, I cannot express my sorrow nor my 
sympathy. I only hope we shall not find it as bad as we 
expect." 
What did I expect ? Literally nothing. I felt crushed 
and overwhelmed. I cannot say that I had ever experi- 
enced any strong love for poverty, and now I shrank from 
the crisis with a trembling in every nerve. Very weak 
and ignoble perhaps, but I could not help it. 
Mr. Northrup was not at home ; and two days elapsed 
 
before he made his appearance. By this time the first 
accounts had become well authenticated. The old story 
of extravagant living, speculation, inevitable disgrace, and 
death. My sympathies were strangely interested in behalf 
of the family so suddenly plunged into deepest gloom. 
" My dear," Mrs. Lawrence said, in her sweetest tone, 
"if you only had married Aylmer. He would never have 
thought twice of the loss." 
My lip curled involuntarily. 
"I think it would be best to take a little trip north. 
Your outfit of last winter can be made beautifully availa- 
ble with very little expense ; and few will know of the 
misfortune. You still have your beauty." 
"No," I said, decisively, "I cannot take part in such a 
farce." 
" What will you do then ? " 
" Give music lessons or teach school," I answered, reck- 
lessly. 
" Sydnie, I beg you will not do anything rash nor fool- 
ish. You have many friends, and sufiicient attraction yet 
to make a good marriage. Look at the matter sensibly, 
now, I implore you. I have decided to go to Washington 
next winter, and I want you to feel that you would be 
most welcome to my care. I am sure that you can not 
only retrieve your fortune, but make yourself happy. You 
will marry sometime." 
She did not in the least suspect Mr. St. John of caring 
for me. But in her opinion poverty was a kind of pesti- 
lence that it was proper to take any method to be rid of. 
I felt proud and defiant. Would Mr. St. John deem me 
capable of mercenary motives ? 
Mr. Northrup found affairs in the wildest confusion. 
The first reports were but too true. 
" It is not worth while to wony Stuart with it," Mrs. 
 
Lawrence said. " He will be home soon, and then his 
hearing cannot mend matters. He will regret the unfor- 
tunate occurrence deeply." 
I hardly knew how I felt about Mr. St. John. Pride 
and delicacy revolted from making the slightest appeal to 
him. All the little tendernesses- I had planned, and the 
ready compliance I was to show, looked too much like 
interest. He could make my path very smooth in the 
manner pointed out by Mrs. Lawrence, The thought 
gave me an uncomfortable shiver. 
To please her I had gone on as usual. We had received 
an invitation to a birthnight party of a young lady, one 
of our neighbors, and a person I really admired. When I 
found that she expected me to accompany her, I made no 
demur; indeed, I anticipated much pleasure. Mrs. Darrell, 
the girl's mother, had been extremely sympathetic and 
cordial to me ; and I felt that no loss of fortune would 
ever change her regard for one she liked. 
The preparations roused me a little, brought me back 
to a more human state, I resolved to enjoy the gayeties 
with as much of the old zest as possible. 
"How bright and lovely you look!" Mrs. Lawrence 
said ; and I felt pleased with her commendation. 
It was indeed a gala scene; the lawn hung with.colored 
lanterns, and everywhere a profusion of fragrant flowers. 
Great wreaths of roses swaying in the soft June air> and 
the walks lined with blossoming shrubs of every variety, 
the porches covered, and the rooms decorated. How 
lovely it appeared ! and to make the enchantment more 
complete, musicians had been stationed in different parts 
of the ground, and sweet melodies went wandering through 
many a woodland path.. 
I felt my spirits rising. I knew I looked well. Why 
should I be shut out of enjoyment through a loss brought 
 
 
about by no fault of my own ? Was I not the same ? and 
did I not possess capabilities that had been mine a month 
ago ? My fortune had taken away no integral part of 
myself. 
They danced, chatted, laughed, and made themselves 
merry. The evening was half spent, perhaps, when I 
sauntered down a path, attracted by a strain of sweet 
melody the flutes and French horns were blowing out in 
tremulous summer gales. Then a voice near me said, 
" So Miss Adriance has lost her fortune. What will she do?" 
" Mrs. Lawrence is very fond of her. I suppose she will 
remain at Laurelwood, as she has no relatives," a voice that 
I recognized made answer. 
" And marry Mr. St. John." The sentence ended with 
a laugh. 
"Mr. St. John isn't considered a marrying man." 
" O, she will manage it. Beauty in tears is irresistible. 
Of course she will go to him for comfort and advice, and 
he being her guardian will feel moved in her behalf. You 
may count upon her being mistress of Laurelwood in six 
months." 
And then followed another mocking laugh that was like 
a stab to me. I had heard enough. Blinded by a sudden 
rush of emotion I could hardly find my way back to the 
brilliant lawn and the dancers. 
I had endured some petty slights before, but this stung 
me to the very heart. If I should marry Mr. St. John, how 
many would believe me actuated by purest affection, as 
I should be ? I was hurt, angry, and my enjoyment of the 
evening came to a sudden end. 
The next day I wrote to Mrs. Otis. Already she had 
shown me that I had one steadfest friend, at least, and 
invited me to visit her; indeed, she wished now that I 
would consider her home as my own. I should always be 
 
a most welcome guest. I had thanked her for this kind- 
ness when I was too deeply agitated to form any plans for 
the future. Indeed, I did not know as I had any right. 
But now some wild motive urged me on. I said frankly 
that henceforth I should be compelled to earn my own 
livelihood. There was but one avenue open to me at 
present teaching school. My musical abilities were of a 
high order, and I believed that I could take care of myself- 
Since the effort must be made some time, it would be as 
well, I thought, to start about it at once. But I seemed 
quite at loss to know to whom an application might better 
be made. If she could hear and advise me immediately, 
it would be of great assistance. 
I would show Mr. St. John and his sister that I dared 
brave the evils of poverty. He should not find me help- 
less, or positively in want of aught that he could give. I 
would not even make an indirect appeal for counsel. 
Whether it was pride that swayed me, or a just self- 
respect, I would not stop to consider. To be armed was 
all I cared for just now. 
Probably no reverse of fortune was ever pleasant. 
During these weeks I was in a measure shielded from 
gossip, because a large portion of the community had 
already started on the,ir phantom chase for summer pleas- 
ures. But now and then a sentence fell upon some bare, 
shrinking nerve, and gave me a momentary torture. I 
really did not dare to propose leaving Laurelwood, yet the 
days had lost all brightness and beauty. I grew morbidly 
sensitive, and longed to reach my true level, for I knew 
that in losing my fortune I had lost caste. 
Anne enclosed three advertisements in her reply two 
for a school, and one for a governess in one of the eastern 
counties of Maryland, where music was made a special 
requirement. This one attracted my fancy strongly, and I 
 
answered it immediately, telling as much of my story as 
was necessary, in order to account for my temerity in seek- 
ing a situation without reference, though I sent the name 
of Madame W., my former preceptress. What a flood 
of emotion this brought over me ! I remembered the 
day on which I had waited for Mr. St. John to come, the 
strange journey, the welcome here. Could I go away? 
Why, it would be like leaving my soul behind. 
I need not. I felt certain that Mr. St. John would con- 
sider himself bound by those few words spoken the night 
before his departure. What I wanted was not sympathy 
or sense of obligation, but love. Unless he could give me 
all that I desired, I would take nothing at his hands. If I 
must hunger, it should be in a desert, not in a land of 
plenty. 
By one of those odd circumstances that occasionally 
decide a fate, my application met with a fortunate recep- 
tion. Mrs. Ingalls had been pleased with it consulted 
her husband, who advised her to accept. There were two 
girls nearly grown and five younger children. The salary 
was very fair, although it seemed a pitifully small sum to 
me. My duties would commence on the first of September. 
That I might decline hardly appeared to enter the mind 
of Mrs. Ingalls. 
I was not prepared for so rapid a termination, and felt 
rather startled at my own haste and assurance. On the 
same morning a letter came from Mr. St. John, announcing 
that he should start in the next steamer. Then he would 
soon be home ! I owed him some duty, certainly. I had 
not a perfect right to dispose of myself without a slight 
consultation at least. He was my guardian, if no more. 
I decided to wait until I saw him before I took any 
positive step. The ease with which I had found this situa- 
tion gave me courage to believe that if it failed, I should 
 
be nble to secure something else without much difficulty. 
I i'elt armed, as it were, to fight any battle now. 
Such interminable days as these were! I was very quiet 
outwardly, but within reigned chaos resolves, prejudices, 
and events vibrating and influencing one another, until I 
felt strangely irresolute. Even the thought of love ceased 
to charm. 
The breach between Mrs. Lawrence and myself widened * 
perceptibly. There was nothing tangible in her demeanor; 
indeed, she sometimes appeared more solicitous ; but I had 
a consciousness that these phases were not real, and that 
she assumed them from a sense of duty. Disliking the 
senior Mrs. Channing, she could not approve Aylmer's mar- 
riage cordially, and held me in some degree answerable for 
it. Besides this, she experienced a pang of secret mortifi- 
cation that, with my many advantages, I was not married. 
The weather was growing intensely warm. A great 
cloud appeared to envelop me, full of slumbrous magnetic 
influences, not sufficiently charged for a crisis. I had a 
sensation of being cut off from the rest of the world. The 
very air about me grew stifling, and I drew my breath 
with great gasps of apprehension. And in this mood I 
counted up the days, until one morning, when I heard a 
stir among the servants. 
The master of Laurehvood had come! 
There were joyous greetings in the hall, the sweet voice 
of Mrs. Lawrence murmuring a pleasant welcome. Had I 
any part or lot in the matter? Should I thrust myself 
upon his attention in this first moment of his return ? 
Pride held me back. If he was very desirous of my pres- 
ence, he might signify it. But I waited in vain for any 
summons. What little events change the purposes of our 
lives! Any time dui ing that morning I could have been 
convinced by a word or a look of the great fact of his love j 
 
when the bell rang for luncheon, the hour of grace had 
passed. I felt calm, but bitter and cold. 
I hurried down, hoping to enter the dining-room first. 
He intercepted me in the hall. Somehow, I shall always 
remember the picture he made. The voyage had com- 
pleted the work of the tropical sun, and left him almost 
swarthy. His hair had been cut quite closely, displaying 
his broad forehead, and leaving a few stray curls at the 
temple. His eyes had a set look, that was fairly stern, 
while the flowing beard, with its peculiar bronze glitter, 
gave him a weird, foreign appearance. 
He flushed deeply in spite of the olive hue, and appeared 
at the first moment absolutely disconcerted. 
" You seem in no haste to welcome me," he said, rather 
sharply. " I had been counting on that, at least." 
" Your sister had the first right, I am sure," I answered, 
gravely. 
"And you none?" This was uttered in a tone of in- 
quiry. 
" None," I repeated. 
" At least you might ask if I were well ; " and he laughed 
rather nervously. 
" The fact is apparent. Allow me to congratulate you 
upon your safe return." 
At this juncture Mrs. Lawrence joined us. She looked 
somewhat discomposed, and glanced curiously at me. My 
sensitive pride took alarm at once. Did she fear that her 
brother would foolishly rush to the rescue, and marry me? 
Each one made an effort, and the meal passed most 
pleasantly, though the conversation was all upon Mr. St. 
John's journey. He was really delighted to be at home 
again ; that I could plainly see. We lingered over our 
dessert of fruit a long while, and as we rose he said, turn- 
ing to me, 
 
"May I see you in the library, Miss Adrinnce?" 
I crossed the hall with him, and then went over to the 
window. Just here we discussed my foolish engagement 
with such bitterness. How vividly it all carne back ! 
"Miss Adriance," he began presently, "my sister has 
informed me of your misfortune. I am most sorry that I 
should be absent at such a time; but I doubt if it is as bad. 
as she thinks. You are not quite disheartened." 
" I have sufficient courage to bear a reverse of fortune," 
I said, proudly. 
" You have both been looking at the darkest side. Such 
things alarm Isabelle a good deal. She knows so little 
about business." 
Then, after a pause, seeing that I made no reply, 
"I think I understand the matter perfectly, and can as- 
sure you that your fortune is not all gone. Have you no 
faith in my assertion, that you look so incredulous?" 
" Besides the lawyer's statement, I have heard from my 
friends at Baltimore, who were anxious to soften the blow 
as much as possible. There maybe a few thousands saved, 
but even that is doubtful." 
" Half at least," he said-, walking down the room, his face 
turned partly from me. 
I imagined his motive in an instant, and though it gave 
me a quick thrill, I could not endure to be the recipient 
of his generosity. 
"Mr. St. John," I said, trying to keep the touch of ex- 
citement out of my voice, "I can understand that you con- 
sider yourself in some manner answerable for this misfor- 
tune ; but I do not hold you so. It was Mr. Anthon's 
investment, and one cannot always guard against losses. 
I am satisfied that it is nearly all gone, and have made 
some arrangements for the future." 
He paused suddenly. " What arrangements ? " he asked, 
in a sharp tone. 
 
u I have already obtained a situation ns governess. It 
is necessary that I should depend upon my own exertions, 
and this offer came to me with a very litt'e trouble." 
"Governess!" He accompanied the word with such a 
disdainful gesture that it angered me. 
'You are in haste, I think, Miss Adriance. "It is pay- 
ing a poor compliment to your friends," he went on, with 
a scornful inflection. 
"I do not propose to test friendship that far," I said, 
haughtily. "Dependence would not be pleasant for me." 
"O, you arc strong-minded. It will not harm you to 
nir your theories occasionally; but you have forgotten one 
important fact. I am still your guardian." 
'There is no longer a necessity for supervision. When 
people are at work, they seldom fall into mischief." 
"It is still tin/ duty to provide you a home, and yours 
to remain there," he said, not attempting to disguise the 
power in his tone. 
"You can insist upon this for some time longer," I re- 
turned, coldly; "but it would not be an agreeable experi- 
ment. I question if a young lady with no fortune would 
be considered a valuable acquisition to Laurel wood society." 
"That is pure pride." 
"I am proud; I confess it." 
"And willing to make everything bow to this demon !" 
His tone was bitter, unjust, I thought. 
"The demon, as you style it, will not have many wor- 
ship] ers. There is nothing to be rendered subservient." 
"Nothing!" 
lie strode up and down the room, his face clouded, his 
lips compressed, and his eyes coming to points of flame. 
Had I gone too far? At all events, I could not be a sup- 
pliant for his love, and, truth to tell, he seemed in no haste 
to offer it. 
 
"This governessing is an absurd idea," he flung' out 
angrily. 
" I see nothing so absurd in a woman having courage to 
meet any exigency, and a desire not to become a burden 
to her friends." 
" I believe friends never were very weighty considera- 
tions with you." 
The taunt was too bitter. A scarlet heat flamed up in 
my face. 
"I have consulted some friends, in whom I have confi- 
dence," and my breath as well as my words came slowly, 
for I knew this was a cruel thrust. 
As if it had not touched him at all, he came nearer. 
"Can nothing induce you to give up this wild idea? You 
will find the routine very different from your fancy con- 
cerning it." 
"I do not expect a path of roses. I have some sense, at 
least," I returned, with warmth and passion. 
" And fortitude equal to any emergency," he retorted, 
with caustic dryness. 
Could this man ever have loved me? Love was kind 
and tender, shielding its object from every chilling blast, 
but he was more bitter and cutting than storm itself. I 
felt sick at heart. 
" It is not necessary to discuss the matter any farther," 
I said, rising. 
" I shall make a strict examination into this unfortunate 
business, and until then " 
He paused. I was so near that our hands almost clasped 
of their own accord. What invisible barrier kept us 
apart ? 
He made a sudden gesture, then he let me go without 
another word. 
I went directly to my room and answered Mrs. Ingalls's 
letter, promising to be at my post at the appointed time. 
It had been folly to delay it. What sweet, wild dreams I 
had indulged in for a brief space ! Gone, to the faintest 
shadow. I had always idealized Mr. St. John. He was 
not as grand and tender as the hero of my imagination, 
nny, he had never loved me as I wished to be loved. At 
times he had swayed me by his immense personal power, 
but the woman who won him must be a slave, and content 
to yield every atom of her own individuality. This did 
not quite satisfy me. 
I despatched my note at once. Passing through the 
hall, Mrs. Lawrence called me to ask about some trifle, 
but with more real kindliness in her manner than had been 
apparent of late. 
"Stuart told you, I suppose, that he believes the loss 
involved in the failure has been exaggerated. I am really 
glad for your sake. It's delightful to have some one in- 
spire us with a little courage." 
"I think he is mistaken," I answered, gravely. 
"At all events we can hope for the best. I've been a 
poor comforter, but bad news of any kind always has a 
depressing effect upon my nerves;" and she ended with 
a faint, sweet smile, 
I had learned my lesson to some purpose, and was not 
to be beguiled by this small display of graciousness. Per- 
haps I was hard and faithless, but my wound was bitter 
also. 
That night I found a note on my dressing-table. I 
recognized the writing instantly. What could Mr. St. 
John wish to say to me in this manner? Some neighbors 
had been in to spend the evening, and Mr. St. John had 
proved most entertaining. 
I broke the seal with no little trepidation, and then, 
drawing up the nearest chair, sat down to read. 
 
It was not the passionate declaration of love one 
might expect from such a man, but a rather stately offer 
of his hand, fortune, Laurel wood, the place I had professed 
to hold in such high regard. It was kind and exquisitely 
worded, but the heart seemed left out, as if he were more 
desirous of saving me from hardship and making my outer 
life luxurious and pleasant, than aiming to reach any true 
and high soul existence. For a long while I sat in deep 
thought. The world would believe that I considered this 
the best means of retrieving my fallen fortunes, but what 
would he think? He had not made one appeal to my 
regard for himself. Did he really hold that women were 
always swayed by mercenary considerations, and that to 
satisfy these was the royal road to their hearts? 
To live with him and not be allowed the fullest liberty 
to love, and to express it, would be simply torture. With 
me the regard must soon become a passion, and repression 
would be harder to endure than total loss and absence. 
I will not deny that pride was strongly concerned. I 
thought he had not treated me fairly, justly. I had a right 
to expect something better at his hands. 
I had somewhere read of a little boat floating over the 
sea, holding a slumbering lady, whose stiing of pearls had 
become unfastened, and the gems were slowly dropping 
into the water. She woke and grasped it, terrified at see- 
ing her precious pearls slip away. I had been a traveller 
drifting down a sunny stream, gathering priceless pearls 
human hearts. Now they began to drop away. Should 
I reach out my hand to save any ? 
Mr. St. John was calm and inscrutable at breakfast the 
next morning. No look or gesture on his part betrayed 
the slightest concern. I believe his very self-possession 
roused all the angry strength of my soul. I should never 
be able to decide whether he loved me, and must take my 
step in the darkness of unbelief. 
 
I intended to answer him in his own fashion, and yet 
dreaded to say the fatal words, to cut myself off from hope. 
So I rambled about the grounds, lingering in shady nooks 
that I loved so well. It would be hard to go. 
I came suddenly upon him at a turn in the path. For a 
moment we faced each other. 
" Miss Adriauce," he said, in a strange, husky tone, yet 
with a touch of fierce impatience, "you must have read my 
note. Answer me now I cannot wait." 
The old imperious manner. There was no instinct of 
serfdom in me. I would not be forced into fetters. Every 
drop of blood in my veins revolted. 
" It is easily said. No man's gold can buy my heart." 
"Easily!" 
It was an ill-chosen word. One bitter lightning glance, 
that seemed to scorch the very springs of life, and he 
turned was lost to me. Should I utter a cry of agony, 
and bring him back ? 
When I could rouse myself from this stupor, I con- 
tinued my walk. An interposing fate had settled all my 
perplexity. I was quite free to go. But Eve's wail of 
desolation seemed borne to me on every breath of the 
summer air. It would be rending body and soul asunder. 
 
CHAPTER XVII. 
" I see thecurse on gestures proud and cold, 
And looks of proud defiance and calm bate, 
And such despair as mocks itself with smiles." 
SHELLET. 
A QUICK step crossed the wide balcony, and a cheery 
voice fell upon ray ear. I turned to behold Philip Wes- 
tervelt. 
" What a ghostly face ! " he exclaimed. " Isn't St. John 
home ? I saw his name amongst the arrivals, and flew 
down from Washington to have a look at our travelled 
hero. Don't disappoint me by any evil tidings." 
" Mr. St. John came home yesterday, and is very well," 
I returned ; and in another instant the master's voice 
sounded from ^he library. 
Philip vaulted into the open window. I ran away to 
my room, and took one glimpse of myself in the long mirror 
that had told me so many flattering tales. I fancied that 
I could see suffering already written in my face. 
" This will never do," I said to myself. " It is cowardly 
to take the marks of the first evil blow fate gives." 
So I summoned my resolution, and sought to bury the 
dead hopes out of my sight. One dream too bright, too 
perfect for earthly realization. There are many trials and 
crosses before one enters the promised land. I might have 
known that so fair a prospect was but a mirage, and that 
my life could be no more perfect than any other human 
lot. Yet had I not bereft it of all hope ? Would it ever 
blossom with the promise of golden fruitage ? 
