and the balance of this sum was handed to the skipper.
If there ever was a grateful man in the world, that man was the captain
of the "Wel tevreeden." In addition to the energetic speeches he made
through the interpreter, he indulged in some very pretty and significant
gesticulations, which the officers and crew could comprehend. The
students were happy in the good deed they had done--quite as happy as
the the skipper himself. In addition to the sum expended, there was five
hundred and fifty-four guilders in the hands of the treasurer, which was
to be used for some similar object when presented to them.
While Mr. Fluxion was absent at Flushing, Mr. Lowington had gone on
board of the Josephine, and, taking Paul into his state-room, had
exhibited the fictitious note to him, stating the charge made against
him by Mr. Hamblin.
"I need not say, Captain Kendall, that this is a very serious charge,"
added the principal, solemnly.
"I think it is, sir," replied Paul, blushing deeply. "If you think I
wrote that letter, sir, I hope you will do your duty."
"I certainly shall, though it break my heart."
"Whatever you do, sir, it will not alter my regard for you."
"I am already accused of partiality towards you, Captain Kendall," added
Mr. Lowington. "I confess that I never had a pupil for whom I cherished
so high an esteem and so warm a regard."
"Thank you, sir. You are now, as you always have been, very kind to me,"
replied Paul, hardly able to restrain the tears in which his emotions
demanded expression.
"I must say that I deem this charge groundless and absurd; but I cannot
explain it away. The writing in the note resembles yours in some
respects; and the fact that the kind of paper on which the note is
written is found in your possession alone has not been explained. Do you
know anything about this note?"
"Nothing, sir; only that it came in the mail with the rest of the
Josephine's letters."
"When did you get the paper which Mr. Hamblin found in your writing
desk?"
"I bought it in Antwerp on Tuesday afternoon, when we went on shore,"
replied Paul, promptly.
"I shall be obliged to inquire further into this matter. You will have
all hands called."
They left the state-room together, and the first lieutenant ordered the
ship's company to be piped to quarters. Without any definite
explanation, the principal directed all the students to bring their
stock of stationery on deck, and they passed in review before him,
exhibiting the quality of their paper. At the same time Mr. Stoute
searched the steerage for any which might have been concealed. If any
student had purchased paper in Antwerp, it was not of the kind on which
the forged letter had been written.
"Young gentlemen," said Mr. Lowington, mounting his rostrum, "a
practical joke is the stupidest thing in the world, when perpetrated at
the expense of the feelings of others. Some one has put such a joke upon
Mr. Hamblin, the very last person in the world to appreciate this
species of humor. One of your number is charged with the act."
"The old lunatic has laid it to the captain," whispered Terrill, who
thus interpreted the mysterious proceedings of the principal and Paul.
"The particular kind of paper on which the letter to Mr. Hamblin was
written is found only in the possession of that one student," continued
the principal, with an emotion he could not wholly conceal. "I desire,
if any of you have any information in regard to the note, that you will
communicate it at once."
Mr. Lowington paused, and the boys looked blankly at each other. Even to
them, at that moment, a practical joke seemed to be the stupidest thing
in the world. There was a tremendous sensation among them; but no one
volunteered to give the desired information.
"Young gentlemen, although the evidence in my possession is not
sufficient to condemn the student charged with the offence, it is enough
to justify grave suspicions, and I shall be under the painful necessity
of suspending him, and sending him on board of the ship for further
examination."
Paul was not half so much disturbed by this announcement as he had been
by the trying scene with Mr. Hamblin, a few days before. It is the
guilt, and not the loss of honor, the disgrace, which is hard to bear
when one is charged with misconduct or crime. He stood with folded arms,
submissive to the authority of the principal, and satisfied that the
truth would prevail in the end.
"Who is he?" asked one of the students in a suppressed tone, when the
silence became painful.
"Captain Kendall," replied the principal; and this name produced a
tremendous thrill in the hearts of the ship's company.
"No, sir! No, sir!" shouted some of the students.
"Silence, young gentlemen! I know how you feel," interposed Mr.
Lowington. "Although it would seem to me impossible that Captain Kendall
should have written this letter, Mr. Hamblin distinctly charges him with
the act, and I am sorry to add that there is some evidence to prove the
charge."
Mr. Lowington was more grieved than any other person on board, and it is
more than probable that, in his great anxiety to avoid partiality, he
ran into the opposite extreme, and exposed himself to the peril of
doing injustice to his young friend.
"Captain Kendall, you will consider yourself under arrest, and report on
board of the ship," added the principal, turning to Paul.
The young commander bowed submissively, and the boys wondered how he was
able to take the matter so coolly.
"It's a shame!" exclaimed Terrill, in a low tone, to Pelham.
"Mr. Terrill," continued Mr. Lowington, "the command of the Josephine
devolves upon you until further orders, and you will go to sea as soon
as Mr. Fluxion returns."
The first lieutenant started when his name was called, and suspected
that he was to be taken to task for the remark he had just made. It was
fortunate for him, perhaps, that the principal did not hear his
energetic words, or the command might have been given to the second
lieutenant, for Terrill's impulsive nature would have led him into some
intemperate speech, so deeply did he feel for the captain.
"I hope my command will be of very short duration, sir," said he, as the
principal stepped down from the hatch.
"I hope so, Mr. Terrill," answered Mr. Lowington. "Captain Kendall, you
will repair to the ship in the barge."
"I will be ready in a moment, sir," replied Paul, as he went below to
obtain a few needed articles.
"Captain Kendall, I am downright sorry for this," said Terrill,
following him into his state-room.
"Don't be at all disturbed about it," answered Paul, cheerfully. "I am
glad Mr. Lowington has taken this course. I expect to be able to prove
that I could not have written the letter, and I shall be restored as
soon as we reach Rotterdam. It is a good deal better to be proved
innocent than to be suspected of being guilty. Here is the key of the
safe," he added, as he took it from his pocket and handed it to his
successor.
"It's lucky for old Hamblin he isn't on board of the Josephine," said
Terrill, with an ominous shake of the head. "I think the fellows would
throw him overboard before the vessel gets to Rotterdam if he were."
"That isn't the right spirit, Terrill; and as a particular favor to me,
I ask that you will not say a word about Mr. Hamblin. I have my own
opinion in regard to him; and I suppose every fellow has; but the least
said is the soonest mended. I hope you will not let the officers and
crew indulge in any demonstrations of disapproval."
"Not let them! I can't help it. I believe if old Hamblin was on board, I
would join with the rest of the fellows in making a spread eagle of him
on the fore shrouds," answered the commander pro tem.
"Don't think of such a thing. Two wrongs won't make a right," said Paul,
anxiously. "You and I have been first-rate friends, Terrill, and for my
sake do not encourage or tolerate any demonstrations."
"I will do the best I can, but I feel just like making the biggest row I
was ever in since I was born."
"Keep cool; you are going to sea right off, and you will have enough to
do to look out for the vessel."
"I shall do as you tell me, if I can; but only because you wish it. I
think the fellows ought to give a few hearty groans, so as to be sure no
one mistakes their sentiments."
"Don't do it, Terrill," said Paul, as he led the way to the deck, with
his bundle in his hand.
When they went on deck, Mr. Fluxion had just returned in the first
cutter; and great was his astonishment, and that of the boat's crew,
when informed of the exciting event which had just transpired. The
interview with the Dutch skipper changed the current of thought on board
for the moment; but as soon as he departed, nothing was talked of but
the arrest of the captain.
Paul stepped into the barge with the principal, who was very sad and
silent. As soon as they were on board of the Young America, and the
barge hoisted up, orders were given to fill away again.
"What does that mean?" asked Perth, when the barge was hoisted up, as he
ran up to Wilton.
"What?"
"Why, there is Captain Kendall on the quarter-deck of the ship, and the
Josephine is getting under way without him."
"There's been a row somewhere; Kendall is one of the flunkies, but he's
a good fellow for all that," added Wilton, who could not help giving
Paul this tribute.
"I'll tell you what it is," said Howe,--who was one of the barge's crew,
and had heard all the proceedings on board of the Josephine,--as he
joined them, "Kendall has been suspended, broken, turned out of office
for writing that letter to old Hamblin."
"Is that so?" demanded Perth.
"That's so; but all the fellows in the Josephine say he didn't do it."
"It would be a new idea for Kendall to do anything wrong--even to sneeze
in prayer time."
The order to man the braces interrupted the conversation; but the news
went through the ship even before she had begun to gather headway. The
matter was thoroughly discussed, and it was perfectly understood that
Mr. Hamblin had preferred the charge upon which Paul had been broken or
suspended. The commander of the Josephine was almost as popular in the
ship as he was in the consort; and the indignation against the professor
of Greek was hardly less violent in the one than in the other.
"Captain Kendall, you will occupy the spare state-room in the after
cabin, next to Flag-officer Gordon's," said Mr. Lowington to Paul, as
they met after the ship was underway.
"Thank you, sir," replied the young commander, who had seated himself
near the companion-way.
"As soon as supper is disposed of, I propose to examine into the charge.
You shall have a fair trial."
"I have no doubt of that."
Mr. Lowington walked away, and Paul, who was much embarrassed by the
continued expressions of sympathy extended to him by the officers of the
ship, retired to his state-room to consider his line of defence.
Mr. Hamblin, satisfied before, was delighted now. Justice seemed to be
extending her tardy hand in his favor. The rebel against his mighty
will had been suspended, and was actually under arrest. Of course the
principal had acknowledged the validity of the evidence he had
presented. The motive for such an annoying practical joke was patent to
all in the squadron, while the quality of the paper and the resemblance
of the writing were enough to convict the offender.
The professor was enjoying his triumph, not vindictively, he persuaded
himself, but in the sense that his own personal action and motives were
on the eve of being justified. As the ship moved majestically down the
river, he walked up and down, athwart ships, in a better mood to enjoy
the scene which presented itself than ever before since he joined the
squadron. He walked from rail to rail because Paul was seated on the
quarter-deck, and he did not care to meet him. When the young commander
went below, he walked fore and aft.
The deck was crowded with students waiting for the supper bell to ring;
and many an ugly and dissatisfied look was bestowed upon him; but the
learned gentleman, in his triumph, was too well pleased with himself to
notice them. Mr. Hamblin involuntarily extended his walk, from time to
time, until it was continued to the forecastle, where the crew were
collected in large numbers. Hardly had he passed the foremast on his
first round, than he was saluted by a universal groan, so deep and
hearty that he stopped short and looked at the crowd. They were silent
then.
"Young gentlemen," said the savant, sternly, "if that was intended as
an expression of--"
The remark of censure was brought to an abrupt termination by a very
annoying incident. Mr. Hamblin had halted directly under the weather
fore yard-arm, braced up so as to take the wind on the beam. Before he
had reached this point of his remark, a new fellow by the name of
Little, remarkable for his agility, dropped from the yard directly upon
the top of the learned gentleman's hat, in fact, sitting down upon his
"tile" as fairly and squarely as though the deed had been done on
purpose, bringing with him the slack of the weather clew-garnet.
The professor was prostrated to the deck by the weight of the little
seaman,--for Little's name precisely described his stature,--while the
unfortunate boy was thrown forward flat upon his face.
"O, I'm killed, I'm killed!" cried Little, rising with much real or
apparent difficulty, and pressing one hand upon his hip.
"You rascal, you!" roared Mr. Hamblin from the inside of his hat, as a
dozen boys sprang forward to pick him up.
The professor was not a fashionable man, and did not wear a hat which
would simply rest upon the top of his head, or which would pinch the
depository of his ancient lore, and the weight of the student had
pressed it far down over his eyes. With some labor he extricated his
learned pate from its imprisonment, and glanced with dismay at the
hat--a new one which he had bought in Antwerp to replace the one he had
lost overboard in the hurricane.
"You scoundrel!" repeated the savant, when he had removed the
mutilated tile.
"He didn't mean to do it, sir," said Perth, pointing to the bloody face
of Little; "he's almost killed himself."
"Are you hurt, Little?" demanded Mr. Lowington, rushing forward when he
discovered what had happened.
"Yes, sir; almost killed," groaned the poor boy, making the wryest face
a boy ever made, and twisting himself into a contortion of body which
none but an India-rubber youth like himself could have accomplished.
"Pass the word for Dr. Winstock," added the principal, anxiously. "Are
you much injured, Mr. Hamblin?"
"I believe there is a conspiracy to take my life," growled the
professor, without replying to the direct question.
"Are you hurt, sir?"
"Not so much in body as in my feelings," answered Mr. Hamblin, holding
out his damaged hat. "It was done on purpose, sir."
Dr. Winstock now appeared on the forecastle, and as Little seemed to be
the greater sufferer, he attended to his case first. He examined the
face of the boy, for by the most assiduous rubbing with his right hand
while his left was devoted to the hip, he had contrived to besmear his
face all over with the blood which flowed freely from his nose. The
surgeon could find no wound on the face, and it was plain that there was
nothing more terrible about the head than the nosebleed.
"Where are you hurt, Little?" asked the doctor.
"In the hip; it's broke!" replied the sufferer with an explosive groan.
Dr. Winstock laid the patient down upon the deck, and proceeded to
examine him with the greatest care. He declared that no bones were
broken.
"He appears to be suffering great pain," said the principal, anxiously.
"He has probably wrenched a muscle in his fall, and that is almost as
painful as a broken bone. He has received no serious injury," replied
the doctor, as he lifted the patient from the deck.
"I am glad it is no worse. How did it happen, Little?"
"I was coming in from the weather yard-arm, sir. I should have gone down
the leech of the foresail if you had not told me not to, sir. O!" gasped
Little, distorting his face, and doubling up his lithe little body.
"Never mind it now," added the principal, kindly.
"I feel a little better, sir. Mr. Hamblin began to say something to the
fellows on deck, and I stopped to listen. O!"--and Little doubled up
again. "I caught hold of the clew-garnet, sir--O! I was leaning down to
hear what Mr. Hamblin said, and bore my whole weight on the clew-garnet.
It wasn't belayed, sir,--O!--and it let me down."
Mr. Lowington desired to know what hands were stationed at the fore
clew-garnets; but when they appeared, they were very confident they had
belayed these ropes as usual. Little was advised to go below and turn
in; but he preferred to remain on deck. As soon as the principal and the
doctor had gone aft, the young reprobate turned to his companions, put
his thumb to his bloody nose, and wiggled his fingers. Indeed, a
remarkable cure seemed suddenly to have been wrought in his particular
case; for he walked as nimbly as ever, until some of the officers came
forward, when, unfortunately, he had a sudden relapse, from which he did
not recover--when the "powers that be" were around--for several days.
After supper Paul was sent for, and repaired to the main cabin, where he
found the principal, the surgeon, Mr. Hamblin, and several of the
professors. Mr. Lowington stated the charge preferred against Captain
Kendall, mentioning the evidence in support of it. He then inquired of
the professor if he had anything to add to what he had already said on
the subject.
Mr. Hamblin had something to add, but it was in the nature of an
argument against the accused, rather than a statement of fact. He
reviewed his life on board the Josephine since the troubles had
commenced, enlarging upon the zeal with which he had discharged his
duties. He gave his view of the difficulty between himself and the
captain, as he had given it before; but he adduced no new proofs of the
charges he preferred.
"The only question before us at the present time, Mr. Hamblin, is in
regard to the authorship of the letter purporting to come from Monsieur
Rogier," interposed Mr. Lowington. "Have you any new evidence to bring
forward?"
"No, sir; I think the charge has been fully proved," replied Mr.
Hamblin.
"Captain Kendall, if you have any defence to make, I am ready to hear
it," added the principal, turning to Paul.
"I did not write the letter, and I had no knowledge whatever of it until
Mr. Hamblin received it. Perhaps the writing resembles mine, but not
very much. Will you let me take the letter, sir?"
The note was handed to him, and he pointed out several letters which
were different from any in the exercises by which the similarity had
been shown.
"Of course he would disguise the handwriting," interposed Mr. Hamblin.
"The writing alone would not prove anything," added Mr. Lowington.
"So far as the kind of paper is concerned," continued Paul, picking up
the half quire which the professor had taken from his state-room, "I
bought it in Antwerp for a particular purpose." He did not think it
necessary to state that it was for his letters to Miss Grace Arbuckle.
"Are you quite sure you bought it in Antwerp?" demanded the professor.
"I shall prove that I did," replied Paul, indignantly. "I wish to say I
had a hint that the officers and crew were very much dissatisfied with
Mr. Hamblin, and--"
"With me!" exclaimed the savant, as though it were quite impossible
for the students to be dissatisfied with him.
"Allow Captain Kendall to make his statement, if you please," said the
principal.
"But, Mr. Lowington, his statement is incorrect. I have been on the best
of terms with the majority of my pupils. Only a few of the worst of
them have manifested any ill-will towards me."
"Go on, Captain Kendall," said the principal.
"I am prepared to prove all I say. If I had known that this
investigation was to take place to-day, I should have asked for the
attendance of several witnesses. I used all my influence to prevent any
one from playing practical jokes upon Mr. Hamblin. I desire to have the
first lieutenant of the Josephine, and Duncan, examined."
"What have they to do with it?" asked the professor, impatiently.
"After doing what I could to prevent others from annoying Mr. Hamblin by
practical jokes, it is not likely that I should indulge in them myself."
"That is a good point; and to-morrow the witnesses shall be called,"
said Mr. Lowington.
"I will now ask Dr. Winstock to make his statement," added Paul, turning
to the surgeon.
"The letter is postmarked 'Anvers,'" said the doctor, picking up the
letter from the table. "It is utterly impossible that Captain Kendall
had anything to do with this document."
"Why so, sir?" demanded Mr. Hamblin, nervously.
"This letter passed through the Antwerp post-office. If Captain Kendall
had mailed it there, I should have seen him do it. He was not out of my
sight a single moment from the time we left the Josephine till we
returned to her. This paper," added the doctor, taking up the half
quire, "was purchased in Antwerp. I went into the shop with Captain
Kendall, and looked at the quality of it before it was done up."
"Are you satisfied, Mr. Hamblin?" asked the principal.
"No, sir, I am not," replied the professor, decidedly. "I am by no means
certain that the paper on which this letter was written was obtained in
Antwerp. It does not follow because Dr. Winstock did not see Mr. Kendall
mail this letter, that it was not mailed by him. I did not see him mail
it; Mr. Lowington did not see him mail it. He could have sent it to the
post-office by a dozen of his confederates."
"Since Captain Kendall desires that the first lieutenant and Duncan
should be heard, we will continue the examination till to-morrow," added
the principal, rising from his chair.
The hearing was adjourned, and Paul returned to his room.
CHAPTER XVII.
MORE ABOUT THE DIKES AND DITCHES.
The pilot of the ship was discharged at eight o'clock in the evening,
and the two vessels stood on their course to the northward, with a fresh
breeze from the south-west. They kept just outside of the continuous
chains of shoals on the coast, but for nearly the whole time within
sight of the numerous lighthouses which mark the various entrances of
the Scheldt and the Maas. The masters on duty were kept very busy in
consulting the charts and the sailing directions; but at one o'clock the
squadron was off the Brielle Gat, which is the deepest entrance to the
river.
There are two principal passages by which vessels may reach Rotterdam
from the sea. At the mouth of the Maas, or of the river which includes
the Rhine, Waal, and Maas, there is a large island called the Voorne. At
the north of it is the Brielle Gat, which is the most direct sea passage
to the city; but the bar at its mouth has only seven and a half feet of
water at low tide. At the south of the island is the Goeree Gat, by
which the largest ships must enter, passing through the island in a
canal.
The Dutch pilot who boarded the ship, after learning her draught,
declared that she could go over the bar of the Brielle Gat, and both
vessels went up by this passage. At five o'clock in the morning the
squadron came to anchor in the broad bay before the city of Rotterdam.
Paul Kendall, free from all care, and not much disturbed by the cloud
which hung over him, had turned out early to see the sights on the
river. He had a splendid prospect of windmills, dikes, and ditches. The
Dutch pilot spoke intelligible English, and the young inquirer laid him
under contribution for his stores of knowledge. Paul asked a great many
questions, which the pilot good-naturedly answered.
Vlaardingen, the principal port engaged in the herring fishery, was
pointed out to him. Every year this place sends out about a hundred and
fifty vessels, or more than one half of the whole number engaged in this
branch of the fisheries. On the 10th or 11th of June, in each year, the
officers of the herring fleet go to the Stadhuis, or town hall, and
take the prescribed oath to observe the laws regulating the fisheries of
Holland. Three days later they hoist their flags on board, and go to
church to pray for a season of success. On the following day, which is
kept as a holiday in the town, the fleet sails. The fishing season ends
on the 1st of November.
The herring are highly prized by the Dutch, and the first which are
caught by the fleet are sent home in the fastest vessels; and when they
are expected, watchmen are stationed in the Vlaardingen steeple to
announce their approach. The first kegs are sent to the king and his
chief officers of state. One of these first cargoes produces about
three hundred and twenty-five dollars, or eight hundred guilders.
With a dense cloud of smoke hanging above it stood the town of Schiedam,
which contains nearly two hundred distilleries for the manufacture of
gin. Holland gin and Schiedam schnapps are regarded by those who indulge
in these beverages as the best in the world. The place was surrounded by
windmills, which are a principal feature of the scenery in all parts of
Holland proper.
After breakfast the signal was hoisted for the Josephines to attend the
lecture on board the ship, and a boat was sent ashore, in charge of the
steward, to procure the mail. The students were perched in the rigging,
observing the strange scenes which presented themselves on every hand.
The river was full of market boats loaded with vegetables, the principal
of which was a coarse plant, with large, straggling leaves, used as
cabbage or greens. There were large and small steamers plying in every
direction, and the scene was quite lively.
The Josephine's ship's company came on board, and all hands were piped
to lecture. Professor Mapps was at his post, with the map of the
Netherlands hanging on the foremast. His description of the dikes and
ditches of Holland was very full; but such portions of it as have been
given by Mr. Stoute will be omitted.
"Young gentlemen," he began, "I have already called your attention to
the physical geography of the Netherlands. The Rhine, which in Germany
is the Rhein, and in Holland the Rhyn, has its mouths in Holland.
Its length is nine hundred and sixty miles, and it is of vast importance
to Europe in a commercial point of view, being navigable for large
vessels to Cologne, and nearly to its source for smaller ones, though
occasionally interrupted by falls and rapids above Basle. Vessels of one
hundred tons go up to Strasbourg.
"The Rhine enters Holland, and immediately divides into two branches,
the southern being the Waal, and the northern retaining the original
name. The Waal is the larger of the two, and flows west until it unites
with the Maas, or Meuse, in Belgium, on one of whose estuaries our ship
now floats. About ten miles below the Waal branch, the original Rhine
divides again, the northern branch being called the Yssel, which flows
north into the Zuyder Zee. Thirty miles below the Yssel, it divides for
a third time, the southern branch being called the Leek, of which the
arm that flows by Rotterdam is the more direct continuation, though all
these branches are connected by frequent cut-offs. The original Rhine
pursues its way to the German Ocean. The dunes, or sand-hills, formerly
closed up this branch, and for a long period the water did not flow
through it; but at the beginning of the present century a canal was
opened through the old bed.
"The Yssel formerly flowed into a fresh-water lake, where the Zuyder
Zee, or Southern Sea, now is. Nearly the whole of the space occupied by
this sea was then dry land; but the ocean, in the course of time, swept
away its barriers, and covered the region with water, which is
navigable, however, only for small vessels. Amsterdam is situated on an
arm of this sea, called the Ij, or Eye, as it is pronounced. From the
Helder, a point of land at the southern entrance to the Zuyder Zee, a
ship canal, fifty miles in length, extends to the city. This is the
'great ditch' of Holland. It is eighteen feet deep, and broad enough for
two large ships to pass each other, having a double set of locks at each
end, in order to keep the water of uniform height, as in a dock.
"You are already familiar with the peculiar conformation of Holland.
There is not a hill, a forest, or a ledge of rocks worth mentioning in
the whole region. A large portion of its territory has been redeemed
from the ocean by the most persevering labor, and by the most
unremitting care and watchfulness is it kept from destruction. The sea
is higher than the land, the lowest ground in the country being from
twenty-four to thirty feet below high-water mark. The keel of the Young
America, floating in some of the waters of Holland, would be higher than
the ridge-pole of the Dutchman's cottage on the other side of the dike.
"These low grounds, formerly swamps and lagoons, which lie below the sea
level, are called polders. These were originally charged with water,
and merely shutting out the sea was only half the battle. As in Ireland,
the principal fuel of the people is peat, or turf, ten million tons of
which are annually used. Immense excavations have been made in the
polders to obtain the peat; and the inhabitants stand an ultimate chance
of being robbed of their country by fire as well as by water.
"The natural lakes and the peat-holes--the latter from twelve to twenty
feet deep--formed extensive water-basins. Some of you will remember the
turf diggings in the great bog in Ireland, as we passed through it on
our way to Killarney. The peat was not dug out in trenches, but the
entire surface of the land was skimmed off, just as workmen in the city
dig away a hill. It was so in Holland; and you must understand that the
bottom of these peat-beds forms the land now improved as gardens and
farms.
"These depressions of the surface were filled with water. The first
thing to be done is to shut out the ocean and its tributaries--all those
rivers of which I have been speaking, that form a network of canals all
over the country. For this purpose a dike is built on the border of the
land to be enclosed. Take, for example, the Island of Ysselmonde,--the
land next south of us,--and Holland really consists of nothing but
islands formed by the rivers and the natural and artificial canals. It
will, therefore, be a correct specimen of the system of dikes and
ditches throughout the country, though some of the sections are subject
to greater or less difficulty in the drainage, owing to various causes,
which will be explained.
"When the dike around Ysselmonde is finished, the country is protected
from inundation from without. Sometimes in winter the river may be
blocked with ice, which stops the passage of the water. All the ice from
the Rhine and Meuse must pass through these rivers on their way to the
sea, and, being stopped in a narrow place, it forms a dam. In 1799 a
large portion of Holland was threatened with total destruction, on
account of one of these blockades. Behind the dam the water rose seven
feet in one hour, overflowing the dikes, and breaking through them. This
danger is incurred every winter; but disaster is generally warded off by
the vigilance of the dike-keepers.
"We will suppose that the dike we have built around Ysselmonde protects
it from the exterior water; but as the water in the Maas, at high tide,
or even at low tide, is above the surface of the polders, they cannot be
drained by the ordinary ditches; and it is necessary to remove the water
by mechanical means. For this purpose windmills are erected on the
dike,--as you see them in every direction,--many of which work
water-wheels, pumps being but seldom used. The apparatus for removing
the water is of several kinds, including a scoop-wheel, the screw of
Archimedes, and the inclined scoop-wheel. The water is not lifted to any
considerable height by these instruments.
"When the height to which the water is to be raised is too great to be
accomplished by the agency of one machine, a series of them is
introduced. Supposing the land in the middle of Ysselmonde to be twenty
feet below the level of the Maas, four series of operations would be
required to lift the water. The central portion is enclosed by a dike,
with a ringsloot, or canal, outside of it. The windmills raise the
water five feet. Outside of this, as the level of the land rises,
another canal and ditch are made, and the water is lifted another five
feet; and the process is repeated until the water is finally discharged
into the river. The ditches which separate the different tracts of land
are used as highways, for conveying the harvest to market, the
difference of level being overcome by locks. Of course the character of
these works depends upon the formation of the land.
"The soil of the polders thus drained is remarkably rich and productive.
The two chief exports of Holland are butter and cheese, the low lands
furnishing excellent pasturage for cattle.
"In the service of the government is a special corps of engineers,
called Waterstaat, who are employed in watching the waters and the
dikes, and in guarding against any breaking of the latter. In the winter
time, which is the period of the greatest peril to the dikes, these men,
many of whom are gentlemen of the highest scientific culture, are
stationed near the places where danger is apprehended. Buildings
containing all the necessary materials and tools for repairing the
embankments are provided, and, indeed, all precautions which skill, and
science, and care can bring are at hand; for the safety of the country
depends upon these structures.
"The coat of arms of one of the Dutch provinces is a lion swimming,
having this motto: Luctor et emergo, 'I strive and keep my head above
water,' which seems to be the whole business of the Dutch people,
figuratively and literally. If you visit the great dike of the Helder,
as I hope you will, you may stand on the low land within it, and hear
the thunder of the sea, as it beats against the dike, fifteen feet
higher than your head.
"The canals of Holland serve a triple purpose. They are the highways of
the country, they drain the land, and they serve as fences. You travel
all over the region in the canals, and all the productions are conveyed
upon them. The roads are for the most part built on the tops of the
dikes, but they are not solid enough to permit their use by
heavily-loaded wagons. Many of them are paved with bricks, on account of
their spongy nature, which answers very well for the passage of light
vehicles.
"The people seem to have a peculiar affection for these ditches, and you
will often find that the Dutchman has his little private canal,
extending around his house, apparently only to gratify his national
vanity, though perhaps really it is his fence. Even here in Rotterdam, I
have noticed a filthy ditch, from four to ten feet wide, between the
house and the road. It is nearly filled with water, which is covered
with a vile green scum. The wonder is, that this stagnant water does not
breed a pestilence.
"The principal canals are sixty feet wide, and six feet deep, though of
course many in the cities and elsewhere, intended for the passage of
large vessels, are broader and deeper.
"With this imperfect statement of the physical characteristics, as a
basis for your observation, I leave the subject to say a few words about
the government and history of the country.
"William III. is the present king of the Netherlands. He is forty-seven
years old, and is a lineal descendant of William of Orange, and a
grandson, on the mother's side, of Czar Paul I. of Russia. He has a
salary, or civil list, of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars a year,
which is pretty fair pay for ruling over a kingdom about the size of the
State of Maryland, or of Massachusetts and Connecticut united, and
containing a population about equal to that of the State of New York.
"The government is a limited monarchy, the whole legislative power being
vested in the two chambers called the States General. The First Chamber
consists of thirty-nine members, elected by provincial councils, from
those inhabitants who pay the highest grade of taxes. The Second Chamber
contains seventy-two members, elected by general ballot; but only those
who pay taxes to the amount of fifty dollars a year are voters. All
measures appropriating money for any purpose must originate in the
Second Chamber, which is the popular body, and become laws only when
assented to by the sovereign and the First Chamber. The king executes
the laws with the aid of seven ministers, who receive a salary of five
thousand dollars a year.
"Free toleration is allowed to all religious sects. Protestants are
largely in the majority, the proportion being as twenty to twelve.
Education is generally diffused among the people. In 1863 the revenue of
the Netherlands amounted to forty-one millions of dollars. The Dutch
have extensive colonial possessions in the East and West Indies, and on
the west coast of Africa. The regular home army contains fifty-nine
thousand officers and men. Its navy consists of fifty-eight steamers and
eighty-one sailing vessels.
"I do not think you will be likely to realize the poetic ideal of the
Dutchmen, young gentlemen. Though they drink a great deal of beer and
Schiedam schnapps, you will seldom find them intoxicated; and I have
never been able to see that they smoke any more than the people of our
own country. They are not necessarily fat and clumsy. The men are of
medium stature, in no special degree distinguished from other people in
Europe and America. The women are very domestic, and very cleanly in
their persons and in their dwellings. The Dutch people are prudent,
economical, beforehanded.
"In the brief sketch I gave you at Antwerp of the history of the
Netherlands, that of Holland was included up to the period of the murder
of the Prince of Orange, which occurred in 1584, while he was
Stadtholder of the Seven United Provinces. At his death, his son, Prince
Maurice, was elected Stadtholder in his father's place. He was then only
seventeen years of age, but he proved to be a young man of great
military ability, and commenced a glorious career, which ended only with
his life, in 1625. With the bright example of Prince Maurice before
them, I think our young captains of his age may be encouraged."
This remark "brought down the house," and more than fifty of the
students glanced at Paul Kendall, whose "improbable" achievements in the
Josephine were the admiration of everybody in the squadron, except
Professor Hamblin.
"Philip II. died in 1598, and his successor continued his efforts to
conquer the Dutch, but without success. By this time Holland had created
the most powerful navy in the world, and with her seventy thousand
seamen swept the commerce of the Spaniards from the seas, even in the
remotest waters of the globe. The galleons and treasure ships from the
colonies of Spain were captured, and their rich booty poured into the
exchequer of the Dutch. The monarch of Castile was almost impoverished
by these losses; and, deprived of the means to carry on the war of
subjugation, he agreed, in 1609, to a truce of twelve years.
"Religious dissensions then broke out in Holland, which soon assumed a
political turn. The Stadtholder, Prince Maurice, was ambitious to become
the hereditary sovereign of Holland, in which he was opposed by
Barneveldt, a venerable judge, aided by De Groot, or Grotius, a noted
Dutch scholar and statesman. The opposition were styled 'remonstrants.'
The judge was charged with a plot to hand his country over to the
tyranny of Spain; and though he was a pure patriot, he was condemned and
executed. Grotius, by an expedient which would have been deemed
improbable in a novel, escaped from the Castle of Loevestein.
"At the expiration of the truce, Spain renewed her efforts to conquer
Holland; but, after a war of twenty-seven years, the independence of the
country was acknowledged in the peace of Westphalia. During this period
the Dutch maintained their supremacy on the sea, attacking the Spanish
possessions in all parts of the world, and especially in the East
Indies, where they commenced the foundation of their empire in that part
of the globe.
"The growing naval power of Holland excited the apprehensions of
England, and war was the consequence, in which the Dutch Admirals Van
Tromp De Ruiter, and De Witt, as well as Admiral Blake of the British
navy, won imperishable renown.
"Prince Maurice was succeeded at his death by his brother Henry; but, in
1650, the office of Stadtholder was abolished, and that of Grand
Pensionary substituted. John De Witt held the position.
"In 1668, France having seized upon the Spanish Netherlands, Holland
united with England and Sweden to check the power of the French monarch;
but Charles II., subsidized by Louis XIV. of France, deserted his ally.
England and France united, won Sweden over, and formed a league against
Holland. Louis invaded Holland with an army six times as large as the
Dutch could bring into the field, and conquered three provinces. The
quarrel between the house of Orange and the party headed by the Grand
Pensionary still continued to rage. The supreme power was in the hands
of the States General. De Witt proposed to establish the government of
Holland in the East India possessions, as Portugal did in Brazil, rather
than submit. The representative of the house of Orange encouraged the
people to resist at home, and declared that he would 'die in the last
ditch.' As the formation of the country rendered it exceedingly probable
that the 'last ditch' was to be found somewhere in Holland, the advice
of this Prince of Orange was adopted. The popular current turned in his
favor, and against the Grand Pensionary, who was murdered by a mob at
The Hague.
"The Prince of Orange was elected Stadtholder, and is known as William
III. Instead of seeking the 'last ditch' himself, he opened it for the
benefit of the invaders. The dikes were cut, and the country was so
thoroughly inundated that the French army was forced to retire, after
sustaining very heavy losses. Peace was made with England in 1674, and
three years later, the Stadtholder married Mary, daughter of James, Duke
of York, who became king of England at the death of his brother Charles
II. By the revolution of 1688, William and Mary were declared joint
sovereigns of England.
"When William III. died, his cousin and next heir was not recognized as
Stadtholder of Holland, the anti-Orange party being in the ascendant. A
republic was again organized under Heinsius; but, in 1747, the prince
again prevailed, and the line of the Stadtholders was resumed under
William IV., who was succeeded by William V. In 1795 the Batavian
Republic was established, under the influence of the French Revolution,
France having conquered the country.
"In 1806, Napoleon remodelled the government, and placed his brother
Louis, the father of the present French emperor, upon the throne. Louis,
who was a very moderate and sensible man, offended his brother by ruling
his kingdom in the interest of Holland rather than France, and, after a
brief reign of four years, was compelled to abdicate. Napoleon then
annexed Holland to France.
"At the downfall of Napoleon the Netherlands were erected into a
kingdom, which included Belgium, as I have before stated, and the Prince
of Orange was made king, under the title of William I. The present
sovereign is his grandson. The Belgian Revolution of 1830 deprived
Holland of one half of its territory, and more than half of its people;
but these events I mentioned in my lecture at Antwerp."
Mr. Mapps retired, and Mr. Lowington took his place.
"Young gentlemen," said the principal, "this afternoon we shall make a
steamboat excursion to Dort, and through some of the arms of the sea, to
enable you to see Dutch life from the water. On Monday we shall start on
a grand excursion through Holland, visiting the following places in the
order in which they are mentioned: Delft, The Hague, Leyden, Harlem,
Amsterdam, Sardam, Broek, Alkmaar, The Helder, and Utrecht. The
programme will enable you to see all the interesting points of Holland,
including the capital, the drained lake of Harlem, and the great dike of
the Helder.
"The water of Holland is very bad, and drank in any considerable
quantities would probably make you sick. Spring water, brought from
Utrecht in stone jars, may be obtained in the large towns. Whenever it
is practicable, I shall see that you are supplied with it; but avoid the
common water. You will now resume your studies."
Mr. Hamblin took his place with the other professors, and the studies of
the ship went on as usual. The mail came on board, and, when school was
dismissed, the letters were distributed. The first lieutenant of the
Josephine and Duncan were invited to the main cabin to give their
evidence in regard to the trouble between Paul and the professor.
CHAPTER XVIII.
AN EXCURSION AMONG THE DIKES.
Terrill and Duncan, with the letters in their hands which they had just
received, entered the main cabin. They were called upon, in the presence
of Mr. Lowington and Mr. Hamblin, as well as Captain Kendall, to give
their testimony, which went to show that the commander was thoroughly
and heartily opposed to any demonstration against the obnoxious
instructor.
"What did Mr. Kendall say to you?" asked Mr. Hamblin.
"He asked me to use my influence with the fellows to prevent anything
being done, and wished me to let them all know that he would not
tolerate anything irregular," replied Duncan.
"Did he, indeed!" sneered Mr. Hamblin.
"He did, indeed," answered Duncan, with a twinkle of the eye.
"How happened he to say as much as this to you?" demanded the professor.
"Because, being an old friend and schoolmate of Captain Kendall, I
happened to tell him that the fellows were inclined to haze Mr.
Hamblin."
"To haze me!" exclaimed Mr. Hamblin.
"I understand that we are to tell the whole truth here," added Duncan,
who seemed to enjoy the confusion of the learned gentleman. "I didn't
hear of any particular plans; but the fellows kept hinting at
something."
"Did they, indeed?"
"They did, indeed."
"But you don't know what they were?"
"I do not, sir."
"Can you tell me who wrote the letter I asked you to translate?"
"No sir, I cannot."
Mr. Lowington asked some questions of the witness; and it was evident to
him that the disaffection on board of the Josephine was more general
than he had before suspected. Terrill was called upon to explain still
further the position of the captain; and Duncan opened his letters,
being, as all the boys were, anxious to hear from home. He had two
letters. Besides the one from his mother, there was another postmarked
at Cologne, which he read after he had finished the first.
As Duncan read this Cologne letter his face became quite red, and he was
not a little agitated. By the time he had finished both of them, the
first lieutenant had told all he knew in regard to the captain's
position. He was very candid in making his statement, and took no pains
to conceal the general disgust felt on board of the consort at the
conduct of Mr. Hamblin; and he took no pains to conceal the fact that he
shared the feelings of his shipmates.
"I should like to add something to my former statement, if you please,
Mr. Lowington," said Duncan, rising, with the Cologne letter in his
hand.
"What do you wish to add?" asked the principal.
"I know now who wrote the letter to Mr. Hamblin."
"Who?"
"Richard H. Linggold."
"Who is he?"
"He is an old schoolmate of mine, whom I met in Antwerp the afternoon we
first went ashore there," replied Duncan, who now appeared to be
considerably embarrassed.
"Was he a schoolmate of Mr. Kendall also?" demanded Mr. Hamblin, who was
more anxious to connect the letter with him than to promote the
discipline of the students.
"No, sir; I don't think Captain Kendall ever saw Linggold."
"We are to conclude, Duncan, that you put him up to this mischief,"
added Mr. Lowington.
"Yes, sir; I did," answered Duncan, candidly.
"Why did you virtually deny all knowledge of the letter when I appealed
to the ship's company before the suspension of Captain Kendall,"
continued Mr. Lowington, sternly.
"I will explain. I met Linggold in Antwerp, and spent an hour with him
at the Hôtel St. Antoine, where he was staying with his uncle. He wanted
to know about the academy squadron, and I told him all about both
vessels. As the trouble we had had in the Josephine was uppermost in the
minds of all of us, I told him all about that."
"Did you, indeed?'? said Mr. Hamblin.
"I did, indeed. I am willing to acknowledge that I intended to join with
the rest of the fellows in hazing Mr. Hamblin."
"Are you, indeed?" sneered the professor, so wrathy that it was
impossible for him to keep his seat, and he began to stride up and down
the cabin.
"I am, indeed. About a dozen of us were going to write letters to Mr.
Hamblin from all the big bugs, including Louis Napoleon, the King of
Holland, the King of Belgium, and all the Ministers of State whose names
we could find out."
"Were you, indeed?" gasped the savant, passing before the witness.
"We were, indeed. I told Linggold what we were going to do, and he
promised to help me, being a first-rate French and German scholar; but I
told him we didn't want any help, and that he would get me into a scrape
if he meddled with the matter. I meant to have the letters mailed in
some place where none of us ever went. I told Linggold I wanted him to
take the letters and mail them at Cologne, and other places he went to
in his travels; and he promised to do so. I didn't think of such a thing
as his writing any letter after what I said. I left him then, and
haven't seen or heard from him since till now. He must have written the
letter right off, and mailed it at once, for it came on board the
Josephine that night."
"Do you mean to say that you didn't know this letter was to be written?"
demanded Mr. Hamblin, sharply.
"Yes, sir."
"When I asked you to give me a translation of it, were you not aware
that it was a forgery?"
"I supposed it was."
"You knew it was!"
"No, sir; I did not. I had no knowledge whatever in regard to the
writer. It did not occur to me, after what had passed between Linggold
and me, that he wrote the letter. I believed it was done by some fellow
on board. When the captain was arrested, all the fellows tried to find
out who had sent the letter, but no one would acknowledge it."
"Did you write any letters of this description, Duncan?" asked the
principal.
"No, sir. I had two conversations with the captain; and when he asked me
to do what I could to prevent any tricks being played upon the
professor, I determined not to have anything to do with the letters, or
any practical jokes of any kind. I can bring a dozen fellows to prove
that I said all I could to keep them from playing any tricks."
"What does your friend say in his letter?"
"He says the joke was so good he couldn't resist the temptation to send
the first letter to the professor himself, and wants to know why I
didn't send the letters to him that I promised?"
"Why didn't you?"
"After what the captain said, I persuaded the fellows not to write the
letters, and I did not write any myself. This letter is on the same kind
of paper as that," added Duncan, pointing to that which Paul had.
"Are you satisfied, Mr. Hamblin?" asked Mr. Lowington.
"No, sir, I am not," replied the professor, decidedly. "It appears that
there was an organized conspiracy against me in the consort."
"But it does not appear that Captain Kendall had anything to do with
it," added the principal, mildly.
"These boys are deceitful."
"Some of them are," replied Mr. Lowington, taking his pen and writing a
few lines. "Duncan, I am not satisfied with your conduct."
"I am not satisfied with it myself, sir," answered Duncan. "Perhaps I
ought to have known where that letter came from when Mr. Hamblin asked
me to translate it; but I supposed some of the fellows on board had done
it."
"Didn't you recognize the writing of your friend?"
"No, sir; it is very much like that of half a dozen fellows on board."
"It is very much like Mr. Kendall's," said Mr. Hamblin.
"Linggold, Captain Kendall, and myself, all learned to write in the same
school."
"Then Mr. Kendall knows this Linggold?"
"No, sir; he didn't go to the school till Captain Kendall left."
"I suppose not," added the incredulous professor. "I am still of the
opinion that Mr. Kendall wrote that letter."
"I am entirely satisfied that he did not write it. Duncan, you will
remain on board of the ship. Mr. Terrill, you will return to the
Josephine, pipe to muster, and read this order. Captain Kendall will
return with you."
"What is the order?" demanded Mr. Hamblin.
"'All charges against Captain Kendall being disproved, he is hereby
reinstated, and ordered to resume the command of the Josephine,'"
replied the principal, reading the order.
"Mr. Lowington, I protest--"
"I have heard you patiently, Mr. Hamblin, and have given my decision,"
interposed the principal, directing the students present to retire.
Paul bowed to Mr. Lowington, and left the cabin. The investigation had
ended as he had supposed from the beginning that it would end.
"Mr. Lowington, I protest against this decision," repeated Mr. Hamblin,
angrily. "I feel obliged to say that there has been a great lack of
judgment in managing this unpleasant business."
"And I feel obliged to remind you, Mr. Hamblin, that I am the principal
of this academy squadron. My decision is final," replied Mr. Lowington,
with dignity, as he rose from his chair and left the cabin.
"Snubbed by the boys, snubbed by the principal!" exclaimed the learned
gentleman. "Dr. Winstock, did you ever witness a more ridiculous farce
in your life?"
"Never, sir," replied the surgeon. "It seems to me that you insist upon
condemning Captain Kendall, guilty or innocent."
"I have no doubt whatever of his guilt. Those boys are all in league
with each other, Kendall included. There is a conspiracy to annoy me,
and to get rid of me; but they will find they have mistaken their man
in me, if they haven't in anybody else! Dr. Winstock, I tell you the
letter Duncan held in his hand was a fiction! I have been with students
all my life, and I know them."
"Why a fiction?"
"That Duncan, who is a very plausible young man, and a friend of
Kendall, mind, is at the bottom of all this mischief. He wrote the
Cologne letter himself. It was got up, and sent enclosed to the
postmaster at Cologne, who of course forwarded it to Rotterdam. It is a
trick to disprove the charge against Kendall."
Mr. Hamblin was very much excited, and developed his theory in full to
the surgeon, who quietly pointed out its discrepancies. He insisted that
the students of the Josephine had thorned and irritated him for the sole
purpose of getting rid of him, and that Paul was at the bottom of the
mischief.
"When Mr. Lowington has been among students as long as I have, he will
understand them better," he added, triumphantly, for he was satisfied
that he had established his position. "The Josephine is an utter
failure! The plan is absurd and ridiculous. The senior professor has no
authority; or it is divided with a boy who hates Greek!"
Dr. Winstock had heard quite enough on the subject, and it was a great
relief to him when the dinner-bell rang. At this moment three times
three rousing cheers came over the water from the Josephine. It was not
