While the people rapturously shouted forth their joy at the signal
success of our arms at Forts Henry and Donelson, they hardly
comprehended the magnificent results of these victories. The strong
positions of the rebels at Bowling Green and Columbus were flanked,
and the enemy were compelled to evacuate them. The Gibraltar of the
West, strengthened with so much labor and expense, could no longer
be held, and its garrison was transferred to Island No. 10, down the
river, leaving the Mississippi open to the northern line of Arkansas.
The Tennessee and Cumberland rivers were also open, and the dreaded
gunboats penetrated to the interior of the Confederacy. Nashville fell,
and was speedily occupied by the national troops, while the rebel
armies and the rebel legislature fled to safer localities.
At this period in Grant's eventful history, while he was beating down
the rebel stronghold, General William T. Sherman stepped prominently
upon the stage. He had rendered efficient service to Grant, as a
subordinate of Halleck, in urging forward reënforcements, and after
the victory warmly congratulated him. Grant replied in a feeling
letter, in which he made use of this sentence, so characteristic of
the man's motives: "I care nothing for promotion so long as our arms
are successful, and no political appointments are made." They had
been together one year at West Point, Sherman being graduated three
years earlier than Grant; but in their mutual sympathy, appreciation,
and kindness at this trying period of the war, really commenced the
friendship of these two remarkable men. Before any brilliant lustre had
been shed upon the name of either, they were united by a bond which
no circumstances could weaken, and by an association so intimate and
tender as to become the solace of each in the hour of adversity. It was
certainly a poetical friendship, faithful and genuine, by which the
nation, as well as the individuals themselves, have been benefited.
CHAPTER XV.
    Wherein Captain Galligasken follows the illustrious Soldier
    through the Period of his temporary Disgrace and triumphant
    Vindication to the opening scenes at Shiloh.
The great strategic line of the rebels in the West had been broken;
all its strong places had been taken or evacuated; and the network of
railroads in Kentucky and Tennessee was in possession of the national
troops. The new line of defence was along the railroad extending from
Memphis on the Mississippi to Charleston on the Atlantic. As the
rebels had fought for Nashville at Fort Donelson, and lost it, so they
indicated their intention to fight for Memphis at Island No. 10.
It was of the utmost importance to the Confederacy that the new line
of defence should be held, in order to control one of the principal
means of communication with the Atlantic States, by which the army and
the people were to be supplied with food. This line included several
important railway junctions, from which roads extended down to New
Orleans and Mobile. From Chattanooga a road passed through Eastern
Tennessee, then in possession of the rebels, to Virginia, being the
most direct route to Richmond; and another went to Atlanta, where
lines diverged to the east, west, and south, by which all the southern
and eastern cities of the Confederacy were reached.
The new defensive line was established, and strengthened with all the
men and material which the resources of the Confederacy would admit.
The ablest and most experienced generals in its service were sent to
the command of the rebel armies there. The presence of both Albert
Sidney Johnston and Beauregard attested the importance with which the
rebel leaders regarded this line; for, driven from it, another move to
the south would drive them down to within two hundred miles of the Gulf
of Mexico. This line had now become the objective point of the Union
generals in the West.
On the day following the surrender of Fort Donelson, General Grant
issued his first order, taking command of the new military district
of West Tennessee, whose limits, however, were not defined in his
appointment by General Halleck. General Smith, whom Grant still
regarded as his "right-hand man," and whom he had already strongly
recommended for promotion to the rank of major general, was sent fifty
miles up the Cumberland, to occupy Clarksville. The timid counsels of
Halleck restrained and annoyed the commander of the new district. His
superior was constantly prating about the risk of a general battle, and
urging extreme caution.
General Buell, in command of the Department of the Ohio, who had
occupied Bowling Green, now moved forward and occupied Nashville. As
Grant's district limits had not been defined, he visited Nashville
for the purpose of consulting Buell in regard to this subject and the
disposition of the troops of the two armies.
In the mean time, by the order of General Halleck, Grant was engaged
in organizing an expedition to go up the Tennessee River, to attack
the rebel line of defence, and cut the communications at Corinth,
Mississippi--the junction of the Mobile and Ohio with the Memphis
and Charleston Railroads. While these preparations were in progress,
Halleck sent a growling complaint to Washington, which I cannot help
transcribing here, though more to show the excellent spirit of Grant
under the most terrible provocation, than to exhibit the littleness of
Halleck:--
"I have had no communication with General Grant for more than a week.
He left his command without my authority, and went to Nashville. His
army seems to be as much demoralized by the victory of Fort Donelson
as was that of the Potomac by the defeat of Bull Run. It is hard to
censure a successful general immediately after a victory; but I think
he richly deserves it. I can get no returns, no reports, no information
of any kind from him. Satisfied with his victory, he sits down and
enjoys it without any regard to the future. I am worn out and tired by
this neglect and inefficiency. C.F. Smith is almost the only officer
equal to the emergency."
Grant seems to have been better satisfied with his victory than Halleck
was.
Up to this time Grant had not received even a hint that his conduct
was not approved by his superior, and it is doubtful whether Halleck
meant that he should know it until the crushing blow fell upon the
head of the conqueror. His significant mention of General Smith in
his snarling, ill-natured communication to the general-in-chief at
Washington sufficiently indicates his purpose. The next day Grant
was ordered to place Major General Smith in command of the Tennessee
expedition, and remain at Fort Henry himself. He was shelved, and in
disgrace! With this order came the first indication he had received of
the cause of his superior's displeasure. "Why do you not obey my orders
to report strength and position of your command?" was the snapper at
the end of the despatch.
Grant replied that the order should be obeyed; that he was not aware
of having ever disobeyed an order from Halleck's headquarters. He had
certainly never intended such a thing. He had reported almost daily the
condition and position of his troops. In conclusion, he declared that
he would carry out all instructions to the extent of his ability.
To this Halleck replied, repeating some of the allegations of his
letter to the general-in-chief, declaring that his going to Nashville
was a matter of very serious complaint at Washington, and that he was
advised to arrest Grant on his return! The hero defended himself from
the charges, showing conclusively that he had performed his whole duty.
He stated that he had done all he could to get returns of the strength
of his command; that every move was reported daily to the chief of
staff at St. Louis; that he had averaged more than one letter a day
since he left Cairo; and that his visit to Nashville was solely for
the good of the service, not to gratify any desire of his own. "I have
done my very best to obey orders, and to carry out the interests of the
service," he wrote. "If my course is not satisfactory, remove me at
once. I do not wish in any way to impede the success of our arms." In
conclusion, he asked to be relieved from further duty in the department.
Halleck continued to pour in repeated rebukes and censures, and Grant
reiterated his application to be relieved. Among other things, he
alleged that Grant had permitted marauding, in violation of the orders
issued to prevent such irregularities. The general replied by referring
his superior to his own orders to suppress marauding, and by pointing
out to him the fact that he had arrested and sent to St. Louis several
officers for the offence indicated.
Grant was under a shadow, so far as his military superiors were
concerned, though the people knew very little about the difficulty at
the time. He was in disgrace. The man whom the loyal nation was lauding
to the skies was actually tottering beneath the disapprobation of his
commanding officer. Halleck had based a portion of his severe censure
upon an anonymous letter! He appears to have been too willing to take
up a cause of complaint, though Grant had bitter enemies in those who
were jealous of his rising fame. It appears almost incredible that
Halleck, at such a time, when the hero's name was on every tongue,
should have preferred his severe charges and uttered his galling
reflections to the authorities at Washington, without having previously
investigated them, or even intimating to the subject of his displeasure
that he was suspected of misconduct.
It looks as though Halleck, after the strong representations--or,
rather, misrepresentations--he had made to Washington, expected a
peremptory order to remove Grant, and appoint Smith in his place.
It seems, if this was his desire and anticipation, that he had been
reckoning without his host. Perhaps, if he had not been a timid man, he
would have done the foul deed himself. Instead of the order wished for
came one of a different sort:--
                                           "HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY, }
                                           ADJUTANT GENERAL'S OFFICE, }
                                           WASHINGTON, March 10, 1862.}
    "MAJOR GENERAL H.W. HALLECK, U.S.A.,
      Commanding Department of the Mississippi:
    "It has been reported that soon after the battle of Fort Donelson,
    Brigadier General Grant left his command without leave. By
    direction of the president, the secretary of war directs you to
    ascertain and report whether General Grant left his command at any
    time without proper authority, and if so, for how long; whether he
    has made to you proper reports and returns of his forces; whether
    he has committed any acts which were unauthorized, or not in
    accordance with military subordination or propriety, and if so,
    what.
                                        L. THOMAS, Adjutant General."
It was evident that before Grant could be sent into obscurity, even
for a time, a searching investigation into the conduct of the culprit
was to be had. The president and the secretary of war were not
willing blindly to consign the hero of Fort Donelson to obloquy and
disgrace. Mr. Stanton only a few days before had thrillingly defined
the "organization of victory," as set forth in the words of Grant;
and he was not prepared to have the author of that electric sentence
shoved out of the line of attack. He insisted upon knowing what wicked
deeds Grant had done, and Halleck had permission only to "ascertain and
report." He did "ascertain;" but as only five days intervene between
the date of the order and that of his reply, it is not probable that he
found it necessary to push his inquiries to any great extent. He did
"report," as follows:--
                         "HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE MISSISSIPPI,}
                                            ST. LOUIS, March 15, 1862.}
    "BRIGADIER GENERAL L. THOMAS,
    Adjutant General of the Army, Washington:
    "In accordance with your instructions of the 10th inst., I
    report that General Grant and several officers of high rank in
    his command, immediately after the battle of Fort Donelson, went
    to Nashville without my authority or knowledge. I am satisfied,
    however, from investigation, that General Grant did this from good
    intentions, and from a desire to subserve the public interests.
    Not being advised of General Buell's movements, and learning that
    General Buell had ordered Smith's division of his (Grant's) command
    to go to Nashville, he deemed it his duty to go there in person.
    During the absence of General Grant and a part of his general
    officers, numerous irregularities are said to have occurred at Fort
    Donelson. These were in violation of the orders issued by General
    Grant before leaving, and probably, under the circumstances, were
    unavoidable. General Grant has made the proper explanations, and
    has been directed to resume his command in the field; as he acted
    from a praiseworthy although mistaken zeal for the public service
    in going to Nashville and leaving his command, I respectfully
    recommend that no further notice be taken of it. There never has
    been any want of military subordination on the part of General
    Grant, and his failure to make returns of his forces has been
    explained, as resulting partly from the failure of colonels of
    regiments to report to him on their arrival, and partly from an
    interruption of telegraphic communication. All these irregularities
    have now been remedied.
                                        H.W. HALLECK, Major General."
But it did not take even five days for Halleck to arrive at the
conclusions set forth in this letter; for two days before its date
he declined to relieve Grant from his command. "Instead of relieving
you," he said, "I wish you, as soon as your new army is in the field,
to assume the immediate command, and lead it on to new victories." He
seems to have discovered, rather late in the day, that General Smith
was not "almost the only man equal to the emergency."
During this unpleasant period, while he was in disgrace at Fort Henry,
Grant conducted himself with signal prudence and discretion. He was
patient and submissive to authority. His replies, though sometimes
sharp and strong, are always dignified and manly. He was even
willing to be sacrificed for the good of the cause; and, while acting
as a sort of adjutant general to his own subordinate in rank, he
labored diligently in forwarding the preparations for the expedition
up the river. Though he had been virtually superseded by Smith, he
congratulated that officer upon his richly-deserved promotion, offering
him every assistance in his power--conduct in strong contrast with that
of others under analogous circumstances.
General Smith was the commandant at West Point while Grant was a cadet
in that institution. The former pupil had felt a peculiar awe for his
old commander, and acknowledged how unpleasant it was to give him
an order. But Smith, perceiving the embarrassment of his superior,
explained his position with becoming delicacy. "I am a subordinate now,
and I know a soldier's duty. I hope you will feel no awkwardness about
our new relations." Grant never had a more gallant or a more obedient
officer, though he was sixty years of age. The exposure he underwent at
Donelson brought on the dysentery, and he died at the camp up the river.
While Grant was under the shadow of Halleck's mighty displeasure, Smith
had gone up the river, and taken a position at Pittsburg Landing, only
twenty miles from Corinth, where the railroad from Mobile connected
with the Memphis and Charleston line. Grant hastened to this place, and
assumed the command of the forces. Injustice and petty tyranny had not
goaded him to a single act of disobedience, or tempted him to lay aside
the noble dignity of his bearing. He had conquered in the moral battle
which he fought with envy and malice, and returned to his command with
the laurel of this victory on his brow.
I see him now, dignified, but not triumphant, in his mien, manly
and resolute as ever, but with no tinge of vanity in his looks, his
words, or his manners. I see him now, as he received the hearty
congratulations of the true and trusty soldiers who were too noble to
be envious. He had endured a bitter trial, and the sympathy of a true
friend, like Sherman, was sweet to him. But not long could such a man
as Grant dally with private griefs or private joys. The cause he loved
was still in peril. The rebels were straining every nerve to counteract
the operations of the national army. At Corinth they were gathering
an overwhelming force to crush the army at Pittsburg Landing, and the
restored commander could not waste a moment. Promptly he examined into
the condition of his forces, and within an hour after his arrival
he issued orders for their immediate concentration, for they were
scattered about at several localities in the vicinity.
Grant, though relieved from disgrace, was still tethered by the will of
his tyrant at St. Louis, who continually hampered him with instructions
and prohibitions. His hands were tied; he was only a second in command.
He was forbidden to do anything which should bring on a general battle,
and was required merely to stand on the defensive. Though he was too
good a soldier to disobey his orders, either in the letter or in the
spirit, he chafed under the restraint. He had views of his own which he
desired to carry out. Every day the strength of the enemy at Corinth
was increasing, and Grant was not permitted to do anything until the
arrival of Buell, who was leisurely marching in that direction with
forty thousand men.
Grant arrived at Pittsburg Landing March 17; but he established his
headquarters at Savannah, nine miles below, in order to superintend
the organization of troops arriving from Missouri, and because this
point was more convenient for him to communicate with Buell. He visited
the army daily, and kept himself thoroughly acquainted with all the
details of the camp. But a question of rank having been raised at the
front, he decided, two days before the great battle, to remove his
headquarters to Pittsburg Landing, in order to obviate the difficulty.
As he was about to carry out his purpose, he received a message from
Buell, requesting him to remain at Savannah, where he should arrive on
the following day, April 4. It was of the utmost consequence that he
should see the commander of the army of the Cumberland at the earliest
possible moment, for there had been frequent skirmishes along the line,
and the period of actual operations could not be much longer delayed,
even to please the autocrat at St. Louis.
Grant, having made his arrangements to meet Buell at Savannah on the
6th of April, went up to the camp. He rode to the front with Sherman,
and both of them agreed that there was no danger of an immediate
attack, though there had been a heavy reconnoissance by the enemy. As
Grant was riding back to the Landing, his horse stumbled and fell,
throwing his rider beneath him, and severely injuring him. He suffered
great pain for several days, and was partially disabled for a week.
On Saturday, April 5, the cavalry of the rebels was very bold, but
still it was not believed that a battle was imminent. The advance
of Buell's army, in command of Nelson, arrived at Savannah on this
day, and was sent up the river by General Grant, to a position five
miles from Pittsburg Landing, on the other side of the Tennessee, in
readiness to reënforce the army at the front. Grant was all ready to
go to the scene of the expected battle, and only waited to keep his
engagement with Buell.
CHAPTER XVI.
    Wherein Captain Galligasken views the illustrious Soldier in the
    Battle of Shiloh, and corrects some popular Errors in regard to
    that savage Fight.
In approaching the battle of Shiloh, or Pittsburg Landing, I find
myself coming to a point which envy, jealousy, and misrepresentation
have battered against with the utmost fury. No action of the war
has been so little understood, none so grossly misstated, none so
thoroughly and maliciously criticised. It was one of the severest,
if not the severest conflict of the whole war; but more doubt and
uncertainty seem to hang over it than over any other event connected
with the history of the national arms during the rebellion. There is no
good reason that its facts should be so grossly perverted, nor that any
of its details should be concealed, or apologized for.
Viewing General Grant as the central figure in this tremendous
conflict, every word he spoke was the right word, every movement he
made was the right one. I find nothing in his conduct that needs to
be excused, nothing to be explained, and nothing to be undone. As in
every other battle of the war in which he was engaged, he was heroic,
self-possessed, skilful, and, by his personal influence and exertions,
saved the hard-fought field on the first day. I do not mean to say
that no mistakes were made; only that Grant did not make them. It is
one of his crowning triumphs that he counteracted the errors of others,
that he saved the army from the full consequences of the blunders,
disobedience, and tardiness of subordinates, and of the partial
demoralization among the raw troops. I am only surprised that we were
not overwhelmed and driven into the Tennessee, instead of holding the
ground at the end of that awful fight, which began at daylight and
continued until night.
The national troops were posted on a line three miles in length,
extending from a creek on the right to another on the left, each of
which had overflowed its banks and effectually protected the flanks
of the army. The Union troops numbered at the beginning of the battle
thirty-three thousand men. At Crump's Landing, four miles distant, was
General Lew Wallace's division of five thousand more.
The rebel troops were reported by Beauregard to be over forty thousand;
but there were some discrepancies in his statements which render it
probable that he magnified the results of the first day by understating
his force. The forward movement of the Union army into the first
heart of the Confederacy had startled the rebel leaders, and they had
decided to make a gigantic effort to overwhelm the daring invaders.
For this purpose General A.S. Johnston, the most accomplished soldier
in the enemy's ranks, was sent to the scene of operations, with the
most reliable troops in their army. Beauregard, who, in spite of his
sensational style, was a very able soldier, whose name carried a
prestige no other rebel chief had won, was the leading spirit of the
battle, while Hardee, Bragg, and Polk, all educated military men, were
in command of divisions. On the other side, only Grant and Sherman were
trained soldiers.
The Confederacy was smarting under its overwhelming defeat at Donelson.
The boasted superiority of Southern soldiers had been disproved,
and, in addition to the necessity of saving the rebel cause from the
disaster of having its railway communications severed, lost honor and
lost prestige were to be recovered. Never was an army more thoroughly
stimulated to valor and desperation than that which was hurled upon the
national lines at Pittsburg Landing. A stirring appeal had been issued
by General Johnston, in which he inflamed the zeal of the soldiers to
the highest pitch, pointing out to them the bitter results of defeat,
all of which were fully realized in the ultimate issue. Everything
which could rouse the men to desperation in the approaching fight was
done with unsparing energy. Thus goaded to madness by the hopes and
fears of the future, the confident army of the Mississippi marched out
of Corinth, under Johnston, three days before the great battle.
The Union generals were on the alert, and during the three days that
the armies confronted each other there was much heavy skirmishing.
On the morning of Sunday, the first day of the battle, Prentiss,
in the centre of the line, sent out a regiment at three o'clock to
reconnoitre the position of the enemy. He had doubled his pickets on
Saturday, thus carefully guarding himself against the possibility of a
surprise. On Friday, the day on which he was injured by the fall of
his horse, Grant was at the front with Sherman, to make sure that every
preparation had been made to receive a sudden attack, though none was
yet expected.
At five o'clock in the morning the regiment Prentiss had sent out
engaged the advance pickets of the rebels, which Beauregard declares
was the commencement of the fight, when Johnston gave orders to begin
the movement. My excellent friend Mr. Pollard, in "The Lost Cause,"
says, "The magnificent army was moving forward to the deadly conflict;
but the enemy"--the national troops--"scarcely gave time to discuss the
question of attack, for soon after dawn he commenced a rapid fire on
the Confederate pickets."
Some envious, hypercritical Union men made the astonishing discovery
that Sherman, the old soldier, who had been skirmishing for three days
with the enemy, was surprised; but happily the rebels themselves have
not found it out to this day. If ever an army was wide awake at an
early hour in the morning, that army was Grant's at Shiloh. When the
enemy came, they found the nationals in force at the camps, and in
their advanced positions, and "in strong force along almost the entire
line," according to their own acknowledgment.
The onslaught was as fierce and terrible as the zeal of Johnston's
inflammatory appeal. The troops of Prentiss were raw and inexperienced;
they gave way, but formed again within their camp. Sherman's troops
were also new, and failed him in the critical moment, though it was
hardly to be wondered at that any troops should yield before that
impetuous assault of superior numbers. But the weak places in the line
were strengthened, and the ground was doggedly disputed, after the
recoil of the first tremendous shock. The battle raged with horrid fury
along the entire line.
Grant himself was at Savannah, in accordance with his engagement.
He was taking an early breakfast with his staff in order to be in
readiness to ride out and meet the commander of the army of the Ohio.
The scene of hostilities was nine miles distant, and the sound of the
booming guns reached his anxious ears. He wrote a hasty note to Buell,
informing him that the battle had begun, and that, instead of meeting
him, he must hasten up the river to join his forces.
Taking a steamer at the shore, he sped on his way to the scene of the
strife, only stopping a moment at Crump's Landing, to leave his orders
with General Lew Wallace, in anticipation of an emergency. Hurrying on,
he arrived at Pittsburg Landing at eight o'clock, and instantly dashed
to the front, as fast as horse could carry him. The condition of the
battle was not hopeful, but Grant went to work with his accustomed zeal
and energy. Messages were sent to Wallace and Nelson to hasten forward
their troops; wagon loads of ammunition were ordered up to the front,
stragglers and panic-stricken files of men were reorganized, and every
effort made to save the day.
Some six or eight thousand men were demoralized by the savageness of
the conflict; but in spite of this mortifying fact, the line remained
unbroken: indeed, only once during the day was it penetrated. Thinned
as it was by the misconduct of a fourth part of the troops, it
still permitted no opening for the enemy. The contest had become a
hand-to-hand fight, in which personal prowess and valor were to win
the day. It was only a question of pluck and endurance. Grant was
everywhere, encouraging the faithful, and stimulating the recreant.
Anxiously did the hard-pressed line wait the coming of the expected
reenforcements; but neither Nelson nor Wallace appeared in season to
render any efficient service. Step by step, inch by inch, the national
line was forced back, until darkness suspended the conflict. Johnston
had fallen; Beauregard was in command; and again and again did he hurl
his forces against the Union line: still it remained firm to the last,
and still it held the battle-field in spite of the ground it had lost.
My friend Pollard almost curses Beauregard for not striking the final
blow in this sharp battle; but doubtless that distinguished rebel knew
what he was about better than any civilian could teach him. He was fond
enough of display and sensation to finish up the battle if it had been
possible. He had found, after fighting the national forces from early
dawn, what it was made of, and, with the remotest hope of driving the
army of Grant into the river, he would not have given the order to
withdraw beyond the enemy's fire.
Though a portion of the army of the Tennessee misbehaved before the
enemy, it was not routed, nor, as an army, demoralized. Technically,
according to Sherman, it had gained the victory: it had certainly
repulsed the attack. It had not been driven into the river, and there
was no thought of surrender. No transports were sent for; no attempt to
bridge the river was made, in order to retreat and escape. The fiery
zeal, the mad enthusiasm, of the Confederates had carried them through
one of the severest fights of the war. The advantage, but not the
victory, was with them. It was a drawn battle.
As the conflict was suspended, Grant gave orders for his army to attack
on the following morning. Before Buell's main army was heard from, even
before Nelson's division had crossed the river, he had decided to renew
the fight at an early hour the next day, making the attack himself! It
was wicked for my friend Pollard to reproach his friend Beauregard for
not annihilating such a man; for not giving the finishing blow to an
army which was at that moment making its calculations to attack with
the next daylight.
After dark, in the midst of a pelting storm, almost worn out by the
heavy burdens of that day, and still suffering from the injuries he
had received by the fall of his horse, Grant went to the headquarters
of each general of division, assigned to him his position, and gave
him particular orders for the resumption of the battle at daylight.
At midnight he had completed his rounds, and returned to the Landing,
where he lay down upon the soaked ground, with his head on a stump for
a pillow, and slept soundly till morning. He was completely drenched
with the rain, but he was confident of the victory on the morrow, and
no discomfort was too great for him to endure in the holy cause in
which he had embarked.
While he slept, the two gunboats in the river kept up their fire over
his head, throwing shells into the rebel lines. It is a popular idea
that these gunboats saved the Union army from total destruction; that
without them the heroes of that hard-fought battle would have been
obliged to surrender, or be driven into the river. The men saved and
protected themselves by their strong right hands, though doubtless the
gunboats rendered considerable assistance. Even Pollard, who generally
has a proper respect for these terrible engines of war, says their fire
was terrific in sound, but did no damage.
A mile from the camp the wounded of the army lay in the agony of their
suffering. Nothing could be done for them, for they were within the
enemy's line. The exhausted troops slept on their arms, pelted by
the fierce tempest of the elements at night, as they had been by the
bullets of a savage foe through all the long day. They were safe, or
they could not have slept. Most of them had performed miracles of
valor, in strong contrast with the cowards who had fled.
Sherman had been wounded several times, and had three horses shot
under him. He had fought his own division and that of an inexperienced
general near him. His personal influence, backed up by his personal
heroism, had kept the line firm and united under the fierce onslaughts
of the enemy. Grant commended him on the battle-field for his noble
exertions, and there can be no doubt that, in the morning, Sherman had
saved the day.
At half past four in the afternoon, after the conflict had been raging
almost incessantly for twelve hours, it reached the culminating point
of its fierceness. Grant sat on his horse, calm, unmoved, and grand in
his thoughtful silence. The cannon roared fearfully on the left, and
seemed to be approaching nearer, as though the rebels were successful
in their attempt to flank the entire position, so as to cut off the
retreat of the nationals.
"Doesn't the prospect begin to look gloomy?" said an officer at his
side, just as another was killed within a few feet of him.
"Not at all," replied Grant, quietly. "They can't force our lines
around these batteries to-night--it is too late. Delay counts
everything with us. Tomorrow we shall attack them with fresh troops,
and drive them, of course."
During the night, Buell's divisions arrived, were ferried over the
river, and placed in line for the battle of the next day. It is almost
a pity that it can never be known what Grant would have done without
these reënforcements, though, for my own part, I am entirely satisfied
that the result would have been the same. I am quite sure that he had
impressed himself upon his officers and men in such a manner as to win
the victory by the plan he had laid down. His genius would have found a
way to overcome all obstacles, for his will was as resolute at night as
in the morning.
After the battle, General Buell, in a kindly way, indulged in some
criticisms on Grant's policy of fighting with the Tennessee in his rear.
"Where could you have retreated if you had been beaten, general?" asked
Buell.
"I didn't mean to be beaten," replied Grant.
"But suppose you had been beaten in spite of all your exertions."
"Well, there were all the transports to convey the remains of the
command across the river."
"But, general, your whole number of transports would not accommodate
more than ten thousand men, and you had thirty thousand engaged,"
persisted Buell.
"Well, if I had been beaten, transportation for ten thousand would have
been abundant for all there would have been left of us."
Such was the spirit of the man in the midst of the gigantic
difficulties which surrounded him. Demoralized troops, the tardiness of
his reënforcements, and the incapacity of some of his officers, failed
to overwhelm him. He rose above all obstacles, and looked confidently
to victory, even in the darkest hour of that desperate fight.
It ought to be added, in justice to our army, that "straggling" was
not confined to their ranks. The enemy suffered quite as much from
this evil, in spite of Johnston's stirring appeal. Bragg, in his
report, mentions the fact that the rebel ranks "were thinned by killed,
wounded, and stragglers, amounting in the whole to nearly one half our
force." The unparalleled length and severity of the contest may, to
some extent, explain this defection on both sides. But the result of
the day proved that, in pluck and endurance, the Northern army was the
equal, if not the superior, of its rival.
CHAPTER XVII.
    Wherein Captain Galligasken finishes the Battle of Shiloh, and
    sympathizes with the illustrious Soldier in his unmerited Disgrace
    while he is waiting, waiting, before Corinth.
The rebels had no intimation of the arrival of Buell's army, and though
they had lost one half of their force in the battle of the first day,
they stood their ground. If my innocent friend Mr. Pollard really
believed that it only required a smart dash to finish the army of the
Union, he must severely censure Beauregard for not following up his
advantage, not knowing that Buell had effected a junction with the army
of the Tennessee. If Beauregard himself believed the sensational report
he wrote of the battle, he would have made haste to drive his beaten
foe into the river. He was an early riser on emergencies like this,
but he does not seem to have had any fears that Grant would attempt to
escape in his alleged broken and helpless condition!
The rebel general knew better than he wrote, and his actions speak
louder than his words. He had lost half his army, according to his own
confession, which was a much greater loss in proportion to the force
engaged than the national army sustained. He had been repeatedly
repulsed during the preceding day, and he was in no hurry to resume the
conflict.
The battle of Monday commenced on the left and centre by the advance
of Nelson's fresh troops. The rebels fought well, notwithstanding the
fatigues of the previous day, and gallantly disputed every inch of
ground. The scene of Sunday was repeated, with the results reversed.
Slowly and steadily the Confederates were forced back, until all the
lost ground had been recovered. General Buell was in the field, and
exhibited the most conspicuous gallantry and skill.
At two o'clock in the afternoon the repulse of the rebels was complete,
and they had been driven from the battle-field. Before dark they
were five miles from Grant's front line on Sunday morning. Towards
night a regiment of Union troops was hard pressed by the enemy, in
their efforts to capture a certain position which it was desirable to
possess. The rebels, intent upon holding the point, had brought a heavy
force to bear upon their assailants, and the regiment had begun to give
way. Grant saw the struggles of the overmatched Union men, and deemed
it of the highest importance to capture the position.
An Ohio regiment, marching across the field, attracted his attention.
He immediately halted it, and, leading the way himself, ordered the men
to charge in support of the overpowered force. They recognized Grant,
and shouting with enthusiasm, promptly obeyed the command. He led them
into the battle himself, more exposed in person than any private in
the ranks. The breaking line, seeing their general bringing assistance
to them in this impressive manner, close up their files, and with
thundering cheers the two regiments went into the fight, driving the
enemy before them, and securing the last position on the field.
The battle was ended, and the day was won. Grant, desirous of fighting
the battle "through," expressed his wishes to two of Buell's division
commanders; but they protested that their men were exhausted by their
long march, and were in no condition to pursue the fleeing host, and
Grant was reluctantly compelled to content himself with the finale he
had already achieved; though a portion of Sherman's command followed
the rebels a short distance on the road to Corinth.
The entire loss of the national army in this bloody fight, in killed,
wounded, and missing, was twelve thousand two hundred and seventeen.
This number included the loss in the army of the Ohio. Beauregard
reported his total loss at ten thousand seven hundred; but he made a
mistake in his footings somewhere. Both he and Bragg declare that the
rebels could put only twenty thousand of the force they reported on
Sunday into the field for the second day's battle, which leaves a like
number to be accounted for on the first day's engagement. His loss was
heavy on the second day. He must have had at least fifteen thousand
stragglers and deserters, according to his own statements, or his loss
was much greater than he reported.
According to General Sherman, who ought to be regarded as the highest
authority, the battle of Shiloh was fought for prestige. The rebels
had marched out of Corinth, three days before, with the finest army
they could gather, with the ablest and most experienced officers in
their service in command, to overwhelm the "Northern hordes." They had
fought with a pluck and persistency, nay, with a savage ferocity, which
certainly had not been equalled at that time, and has not since been
surpassed. They were met with a correspondent obstinacy on the part of
the national forces.
"It was a contest for manhood," says Sherman--"man to man, soldier to
soldier. We fought and held our ground, and therefore counted ourselves
victorious. From that time forward we had with us the prestige. The
battle was worth millions and millions to us by reason of the fact of
the courage displayed by the brave soldiers on that occasion; and from
that time to this, I have not heard of the first want of courage on the
part of our Northern soldiers."
Thus said Sherman; and what he said Grant felt, as he showed in every
movement he made. To have lost that battle would have been to lose
vastly more than the field on which it was fought, and the attendant
military advantages which it secured. The grand lesson which all our
commanders had to learn was taught in this tremendous battle--that,
where the two armies were so equally matched in the material of which
their soldiers were composed, and in the military skill which their
officers brought into the field, great victories were to be achieved
only by hard fighting.
I have often heard Grant called a "butcher." I have often heard it
revilingly said of him that he won his battles by mere brute force.
On my honor and conscience as a soldier and a student of the solemn
lessons of history, I believe that Grant, in the matter of the
expenditure of human life, was the most economical commander which
the War of the Rebellion produced. When he fought a battle, he won
a victory from the very first to the very last. He did not waste a
single precious life in all his campaigns. The manes of no slaughtered
hero can rise up against him, saying, "You sacrificed me in a vain and
foolish battle, wherein nothing was gained, but much was lost. By your
timidity and weakness, by your vacillation and penny-wise wisdom, you
gave that to the enemy for which I fought and died." Not thus can the
ghost of the murdered patriots reproach Grant.
If five thousand noble and brave men died to win Shiloh and the
prestige which lighted up our banners from that glorious day, they also
died to save twenty thousand who would have been sacrificed in a more
protracted struggle, without that inspiration of victory which blazed
along the path of the army to Vicksburg, to Atlanta and Chattanooga,
and which was borne from the West to the East with the glorious hero
who had kindled it in the souls of the soldiers.
In giving up the lives of thousands of willing heroes he saved the
lives of tens of thousands. This was true economy, and this was Grant's
policy, solemnly chosen, after a broad view of the situation and the
fullest consideration of the awful responsibility which rests upon the
commander of an army. I believe he covenanted with the nation, before
God, wisely and prudently to expend the blessed lives placed in his
keeping. He is a gentle and humane man, incapable of revelling in the
flow of blood. I repeat emphatically that every life lost beneath his
victorious banner was a life which purchased its share in the nation's
redemption and peace.
As I have said before, no battle has been more thoroughly
misrepresented than that of Shiloh. In spite of the heroic and masterly
operations of Grant, in spite of the success which crowned his arms, he
was systematically vilified and abused. My blood boils with indignation
as I think of it, that he, the brilliant soldier, the most successful
commander even then upon the arena of battle, should be foully and
basely maligned by his inferiors and his superiors. It is mortifying
to think that his stanch friend, but former political opponent, Mr.
Washburne, found it necessary to defend the hero of Fort Donelson and
Shiloh on the floor of Congress, though it is pleasant to know that he
did it effectually and enthusiastically--in just such a spirit as I
would have done it had I been there.
Grant was accused of bad generalship, of incompetency, of being a
butcher, a drunkard, and a sheep-stealer, for aught I know. His
generalship was certainly of a different order from that which had been
exhibited to the waiting nation by the commanders of the Union, who
marched, countermarched, felt of the enemy, and then retired to recruit
for three or six months, rarely fighting a battle, unless compelled to
do so by the pertinacity of the enemy. It was Grant's policy to attack,
and not wait to be attacked--his policy from the beginning to the end;
and with what success it was attended is known now if it was not then.
Cowards and poltroons who had deserted the ranks at Shiloh told
exaggerated tales of the misfortunes of the battle. They were
frightened and demoralized--Grant was not. Those who believed in
carrying on war as a game of chess is played stood aghast at the real
battle which the hero fought. But his mode of operations will appear so
decidedly advantageous in contrast with that which immediately followed
under the leadership of one who believed only in "brilliant strategy,"
in chess-board movements, that it is not necessary to dwell upon his
defence.
Kid-glove critics, civilian correspondents of newspapers, and the
advocates of the checker-board theory, howled because Grant established
his camp on the left, instead of the right, bank of the Tennessee--on
the same side as the enemy, instead of on the opposite side. Certainly
the eastern shore was the safe side; but the invincible conqueror went
down in Tennessee for the purpose of capturing Corinth, and breaking
the line of the rebel railroad communication, and he had no idea of
posting himself where he could not get at the enemy. He knew very
well that he was able to defend himself; and when he fought the great
battle, though the enemy brought it on, he fought it for the possession
of Corinth; and if he had had his own way, he would have taken Corinth
within a fortnight after Shiloh. The position was selected by General
C.F. Smith, the veteran soldier; it was indorsed and retained by Grant;
and the result fully justifies his course.
The personal habits of the hero were maliciously stated to be bad. It
was affirmed that he was a drunkard--that he was intoxicated in the
field. Mr. Washburne was able to say at that time, "There is no more
temperate man in the army than General Grant. He never indulges in the
use of intoxicating liquors at all. He is an example of courage, honor,
fortitude, activity, temperance, and modesty; for he is as modest as he
is brave and incorruptible."
I have before shown that Grant was not surprised--for if his army had
been surprised, the fault would have been as justly chargeable to him
as though he had been personally present on the ground. He had been
to the front himself the night before and examined the situation; he
had placed Sherman--the tried and the true as he knew him then--in the
most advanced position. Grant himself says, "As to the talk of our
being surprised, nothing could be more false. If the enemy had sent us
word where and when they would attack, we could not have been better
prepared."
It was undeniable that the brave general, the successful commander,
was again under a cloud. All the false rumors were in time disproved;
but if there had been no malignant, jealous enemies, dreading a total
eclipse of their own farthing candles in his department, the country
would have believed in Grant after Shiloh, as they did after Donelson.
An effort was made to relieve him entirely from command, and to
extinguish the star which was steadily rising.
General Halleck painfully went through the necessary form of thanking
Generals Grant and Buell for their conduct at Shiloh, and immediately
repaired to the scene of operations to take command of the united
armies of Grant and Buell in person, now called "The Grand Army of the
Tennessee." It was largely reënforced, and numbered one hundred and
twenty thousand men. It was divided into three corps, under Thomas,
Pope, and Buell, with McClernand in the reserve. Grant was nominally in
command of the Tennessee district; but his army was placed beyond his
control, and orders were transmitted to his subordinates without any
knowledge on his part of their purport.
Grant was second in command, without power or influence in the camp.
Halleck consoled him with a sarcastic bit of philosophy, declaring
that the second in command, in case the chief was killed, ought not to
be embarrassed with the immediate control of a body of troops. Grant
did not appreciate the situation, and evidently believed that there
was no danger of his superior's falling in battle. The man who had won
Donelson and Shiloh so heroically could not be winked entirely out of
sight, or doubtless he would not have been permitted to retain even a
complimentary position. Grant was practically in disgrace, and was so
regarded in the army. His situation was intensely disagreeable, and
nothing but his unselfish devotion to the cause prevented him from
retiring in disgust from the field where he was insultingly ignored.
The grand army of the Tennessee, under Halleck, felt its way, behind
a series of intrenchments, to a position in front of Corinth, using
up six weeks in a progress of fifteen miles. Probably Beauregard at
Corinth had seventy thousand men, though he stated his force as below
fifty. The grand army was evidently superior in numbers, and both
officers and men were anxious to strike a blow, confident of their
ability to annihilate the rebel army. It made our blood boil to see
these glorious opportunities slipping away from us. Halleck only waited
and waited for the rebels to come out and attack him; but Beauregard
had been educated up to the point of prudence by Grant, and he stuck
to his works as closely as Halleck did. In a word, while Grant was
shelved as a second in command, the farce of Manassas was repeated
to the satisfaction of the admiring rebels, and to the disgust and
mortification of the loyal people.
But Grant was not idle, cipher as he was in the army. He watched the
enemy, and found, with unerring skill, the weak point in their line
of intrenchments. He shared the general feeling of impatience which
pervaded the army, and ventured to suggest to General Halleck that an
assault at the point indicated, followed up by a general movement,
would be successful. Halleck scouted the idea, and crustily told Grant
that when his suggestions were wanted, they would be called for.
All this time Beauregard was studying up a plan to escape without the
knowledge of the besiegers. On the 30th of May, after the grand army
had been nearly two months rusting in inactivity, the cunning rebel
made a deceptive movement, and the mighty general, hoodwinked and
deceived, deeming an attack imminent, drew up in line of battle his
vast army, the largest ever gathered in the West, and made elaborate
preparations to defend himself. But not a gun opened upon him, not a
rebel was to be seen.
Beauregard, with wonderful skill and prudence, had fled from the toils
of the overwhelming force on his front, leaving his wooden guns on
the ramparts where they had confounded General Halleck. Corinth was
evacuated, and the wily rebel had saved his army! General Halleck
marched in triumph into Corinth!
CHAPTER XVIII.
    Wherein Captain Galligasken treats of the Corinth Campaign,
    and admiringly calls Attention to the splendid Abilities of the
    illustrious Soldier as a District Commander.
During the quiet repose of the grand army of the Tennessee before
Corinth, events of vast importance had transpired in the West and
South. Island No. 10 had been captured by the indomitable flag-officer
Foote; New Orleans had been taken by the tremendous operations
of Farragut. In the East, Fort Pulaski had been battered down,
Fredericksburg captured; Fort Macon had fallen, following Burnside's
success in North Carolina; and Huntsville, Alabama, was occupied by
General Mitchell. McClellan had at last commenced a hopeful forward
movement with the army of the Potomac. With vast armies in the East
and in the West, with strong naval forces ascending and descending the
Mississippi towards its obstructed points, the national cause looked
exceedingly promising as the summer of 1862 opened. But the promise was
not realized. The summer sun glared on many a lost battle in the East,
though the conquest was uninterrupted in the West.
Halleck made no efficient pursuit of the enemy after they had
abandoned Corinth. Beauregard had been successfully hiding his weakness
from his prudent checker-board adversary, and, understanding his man,
outwitted him completely and handsomely. Grant had fought and won
Corinth, whether it was occupied in a week or in two months. He had
taught the vaunting rebels a lesson by which Halleck was too willing
to profit, as he peacefully pursued his siege operations till the 1st
of June. Buell was a prudent man, and he was sent out to catch the
retreating and demoralized foe. Pope had been despatched on the same
errand; but their united forces accomplished nothing. During this time,
Grant remained at Corinth. The grand army was then broken up, and Buell
sent in the direction of Chattanooga. From Shiloh the vast army marched
up the hill and then marched down again, in humble imitation of the
King of France in the nursery rhyme. Nothing was done except what Grant
had accomplished.
By the continued successes of the flotilla on the Mississippi, Memphis,
after a brilliant naval engagement, fell into the hands of the Union
force. Grant, as the commander of the Tennessee district, established
his headquarters at this city. Pope was ordered to Virginia, to
supersede Fremont, where he established his celebrated "headquarters in
the saddle."
McClellan had gradually felt his way down to the vicinity of Richmond,
when the rebels, out of patience with him, fell upon his forces, and
drove him to the shelter of the gunboats on the James, after his
glorious army had fought some of the most brilliant defensive battles
of the war. The country cried out against him for this delay, derided
his use of the pick and shovel, and unhorsed him because he neglected
his opportunities. While he was still resting from his hard-fought
but useless battles, the government removed him from his position of
general-in-chief, and assigned General Halleck to his place, probably
on account of his brilliant operations before Corinth, where he had
played through the farce of "regular approaches," though with none of
the tragic features which attended it before Richmond.
Halleck was now in power, and one of his first acts, even before he
left for Washington, was to offer the command of the army of the
Tennessee to Colonel Allen, a quartermaster. This gentleman, who was to
be promoted to the required rank, to enable him to accept the command,
had the good sense to decline it, and Grant was permitted to retain
his position. He was deprived of nearly his entire force, and left to
maintain a defensive position. He made his headquarters at Corinth,
protecting the railroad communications, and holding what had before
been gained. He spent the summer in this manner, though with enough to
do to keep him busy, for he was continually harassed and threatened by
the enemy under Van Dorn and Price.
Halleck, in his new capacity of general-in-chief, had his hands full in
attending to McClellan and Pope. Grant seems to have been forgotten,
and was thereby permitted to manage the affairs of his district without
being hampered with instructions. The North was in danger of invasion
in Maryland, rendered possible by the disastrous battles of Pope, and
in Ohio by the rebel army under General Bragg, who had out-generaled
the prudent and deliberate Buell. In these emergencies, Grant's men
were taken from him, till the smallness of his force afforded even him
no little anxiety.
Van Dorn, in command of the rebels in this section, ordered Price to
seize Iuka, which was done. Van Dorn himself was four days' march to
the south-west, threatening Corinth. Grant wished to overwhelm Price
at Iuka, without exposing Corinth to capture by Van Dorn. He sent out
two columns, one under Rosecrans and the other under Ord, to accomplish
this purpose. A sharp battle followed, but the intention to capture
Price's army failed, on account of a delay of one of the columns in
reaching the point of attack. The rebels escaped, and effected a
junction with Van Dorn.
Placing Rosecrans in command of Corinth, Grant established his
headquarters at Jackson, Tennessee, where he could better control
the affairs of his district. On the 2d of October, the rebels united
all their forces in this vicinity, and attacked Corinth, making a
good fight, and gaining decided advantages; but in the end they were
defeated, and the place saved. The force of the enemy was double that
of Rosecrans, who behaved with distinguished gallantry. The defensive
works which had been erected under Grant's direction proved to be of
immense service, and showed that the general who had been severely
criticised for neglecting them before knew when and where to use
them--knew when they were necessary, and where they were a hinderance.
Grant had marked out this campaign himself; and though the battle of
Corinth had been fought, and the rebels defeated, there was to be a
sequel to the affair. Reading the intention of the foe to attack his
strong place, he sent McPherson with a brigade to the assistance of
Rosecrans; but he arrived only in season to witness the conclusion
of the fight, being obliged to make a detour in order to effect his
junction. Grant, with his usual confidence in the success of his
combinations, had also sent Generals Ord and Hurlbut, each with a
brigade, to punish still further the audacious foe in his retreat.
He had notified Rosecrans of his plan, and directed him to follow
up the retreating enemy vigorously, as well to insure his complete
discomfiture, as to save either Ord or Hurlbut from being separately
overwhelmed by a superior force. But these two commanders had joined
their brigades, and Ord posted the whole so as to cover a bridge on the
Hatchie River.
Van Dorn's column pushed on, and its advance crossed the bridge, when
Ord's force attacked vigorously, and immediately routed it. A battery
of artillery and several hundred men were captured, and the advance
scattered, many of the rebels being drowned in their attempt to cross
the river. Ord held the bridge, but had not strength enough to attack
the entire rebel army, which he compelled to retrace its steps, and
seek another bridge six miles distant. Unfortunately, Ord was wounded
in the conflict, and Hurlbut, who succeeded to the command, did not
deem it prudent even to harass the fleeing rebels in the rear or on the
flanks.
Rosecrans permitted his men, weary after their two days' hard fight,
to rest till the next morning, when he started to obey Grant's order.
Then he mistook his road, marched eight miles in the wrong direction,
