after what had happened. There was something deep under it; but Fitz
was deep himself.
"Perhaps you might help me in finding my papers. Of course I don't care
a straw for the three hundred and fifty dollars or so which was stolen
with them," suggested Mr. Checkynshaw.
"Perhaps I might; perhaps I have some skill in business of that kind,
though I suppose it doesn't exactly become me to say so," added Fitz,
stroking his chin. "But if you mean to intimate that I know anything
about them, you are utterly and entirely mistaken. I'm an honest
man--the noblest work of God."
"I will give you ten dollars a week for the future, if you will
return," said Mr. Checkynshaw, impatiently.
"Of course he will," almost gasped the eager mother.
Fitz was deep. The banker was anxious. It meant something. Fitz thought
he knew what it meant.
"On the whole, I think I will not return," replied he, deliberately.
"Are you crazy, Fitz?" groaned Mrs. Wittleworth, in despair.
"Never a more sane man walked the earth. Mr. Checkynshaw knows what he
is about; I know what I am about."
"We shall both starve, Fitz!" cried his mother.
"On the contrary, mother, we shall soon be in possession of that block
of stores, with an income of five or six thousand a year," added Fitz,
complacently.
"The boy's an idiot!" exclaimed the banker, as he took his hat, and
rushed out of the house.
CHAPTER XI.
THE MOUSE BUSINESS.
While Maggie Maggimore took upon herself the blessed task of nursing
the barber, Leo charged himself with the duty of providing for the
wants of the family. Each had assumed all that one person could be
expected to achieve. It was no small thing for a girl of fifteen to
take the entire care of a helpless invalid; and it was no small thing
for a boy of fifteen to take upon himself the task of providing for the
expenses of the house, and the medical attendance of the sick man.
It would have been much easier for Leo to fail in his assumed task than
for Maggie to do so. Even a young man of so much importance as
Fitzherbert Wittleworth, upon whom the salvation of the great house of
Checkynshaw, Hart, & Co. seemed to depend, toiled for the meagre
pittance of five dollars a week. Leo had some acquaintance with the
late clerk in the private office of the banker, and he had listened
with wonder to the astounding achievements of Fitz in the postal and
financial departments of the house. Of course Mr. Wittleworth would be
a partner in the concern as soon as he was twenty-one, if not before;
for, besides his own marvellous abilities, he had the additional
advantage of being a relative of the distinguished head of the concern.
Leo was abashed at his own insignificance when he stood in the presence
of the banker's clerk. If such an astonishing combination of talent as
Mr. Wittleworth possessed could be purchased for five dollars a week,
what could he, who was only a mere tinker, expect to obtain? Half that
sum would have been an extravagant valuation of his own services, under
ordinary circumstances. But beneath the burden which now rested upon
him, he felt an inspiration which had never before fired his soul; he
felt called upon to perform a miracle.
He was born with a mechanical genius, and he felt it working within
him. There was no end of wooden trip-hammers, saw-mills, and other
working machines he had invented and constructed. Under the pressure of
the present necessity he felt able to accomplish better things.
Something must be done which would produce fifteen, or at least ten,
dollars a week. It was no use to think it couldn't be done; it must be
done. It looked like a species of lunacy on his part to flatter himself
that it was possible to make even more than a journeyman mechanic's
wages.
Leo had in his busy brain half a dozen crude plans of simple machines.
Often, when he saw people at work, he tried to think how the labor
might be done by machinery. As he sat in the kitchen, where Maggie was
sewing or preparing the dinner, he was devising a way to perform the
task with wood and iron. Only a few days before the illness of the
barber, he had seen her slicing potatoes to fry, and the operation had
suggested a potato slicer, which would answer equally well for
cucumbers, onions, and apples.
Sitting on the bench, he was thinking of this apparatus, when fifteen
dollars a week became a necessity. But the machine required more iron
than wood work, and he had not the means to do the former, and no
capital to invest in other people's labor. Then he turned his attention
to a new kind of boot-jack he had in his mind--an improvement on one he
had seen, which could be folded up and put in a traveller's carpet-bag.
As this implement was all wood except the hinges and screws, it looked
more hopeful. He could make half a dozen of them in a day, and they
would sell for half a dollar apiece. He was thinking of an improvement
on the improvement, when the stampede of the mice deranged his ideas;
but they gave him a new one.
White mice were beautiful little creatures. Their fur was so very
white, their eyes so very pink, and their paws so very cunning, that
everybody liked to see them. Even the magnificent Mr. Checkynshaw had
deigned to regard them with some attention, and had condescended to say
that his daughter Elinora would be delighted to see them. Then the
houses, and the gymnastic apparatus which Leo attached to them,
rendered them tenfold more interesting. At a store in Court Street the
enterprising young man had seen them sold for half a dollar a pair;
indeed, he had paid this sum for the ancestral couple from which had
descended, in the brief space of a year and a half the numerous tribes
and families that peopled the miniature palaces on the basement walls.
At this rate his present stock was worth seventy-five dollars--the
coveted salary of five whole weeks! In another month, at least fifty
more little downy pink-eyes would emerge from their nests, adding
twenty-five dollars more to his capital stock in trade!
Leo had already decided to go into the mouse business.
He was counting his chickens before they were hatched, and building
magnificent castles in the air; but even the most brilliant success, as
well as the most decided failure, is generally preceded by a vast
amount of ground and lofty tumbling in the imagination. If the man in
Court Street could sell a pair of white mice for fifty cents, and a
beggarly tin box with a whirligig for a dollar, making the
establishment and its occupants cost a dollar and a half, why would not
one of his splendid palaces, with two or three pairs of mice in it,
bring three, or even five dollars? That was the point, and there was
the argument all lying in a nutshell.
Leo had faith. What would a rich man care for five dollars when he
wanted to please his children? He had watched his mice day after day,
and week after week, by the hour at a time, and had never failed to be
amused at their gambols. Everybody that came to the house was delighted
with them. If the man in Court Street could sell them, he could. There
was money in the speculation, Leo reasoned, and it should not fail for
the want of a fair trial.
He could make houses of various sizes, styles, and prices, and thus
suit all tastes. He could stock each one with as many mice as the
customer desired. He could make a pretty elaborate establishment in two
days--five-dollar size; and of the smaller and plainer kind--two-dollar
pattern--he could make two in a day.
The palace on the bench was nearly completed, and he went to work at
once and finished it. It had a glass front, so that the dainty little
occupants of the institution could not get out, and the foe of white
mice, the terrible cat, could not get in. This establishment had been
intended for Mr. Stropmore; but as that gentleman had not been informed
of his purpose to present it, Leo decided that it should be used to
initiate the experiment on whose success so much depended.
It was ten o'clock at night when the grand palace on the bench was
finished. Leo put some cotton wool into the sleeping apartments, and
then transferred three pairs of mice from the most densely populated
house to the new one. He watched them for a while, as they explored
their elegant hotel, going up stairs and down, snuffing in every
corner, standing upon their hind legs, and taking the most minute
observations of the surroundings.
Leo was entirely satisfied with the work of his hands, and with the
conduct of the mice who had been promoted to a residence in its elegant
and spacious quarters. If there was not five dollars in that
establishment, then the rich men of Boston were stingy and ungrateful.
If they could not appreciate that superb palace, and those supple
little beauties who held court within its ample walls, why, they were
not worthy to be citizens of the Athens of America!
Leo went up stairs. André still slept, and Maggie sat by the bedside,
patiently watching him in his slumbers. He crept softly into the front
room, and looked at the pale face of his father. His heart was lighter
than it had been before since the news of the calamity was told to him.
He was full of hope, and almost believed that he had solved the problem
of supplying all the wants of the family.
"You must sleep yourself, Maggie," said he, in a whisper.
"Hush!" said she, fearful that the sleeper might be disturbed, as she
led the way into the rear room.
"I will sit up half the night, Maggie."
"No, Leo; there is no need of that. I wake very easily, and I can sleep
enough in the rocking-chair. You seem to be quite cheerful now, Leo,"
added she, noticing the change which had come over him.
"I feel so, Maggie. You say we shall want fifteen dollars a week."
"No, you said so, Leo. I might take in sewing; but I don't think both
of us can make anything like that sum. I am very much worried. I don't
know what will become of us."
"Don't be worried any more. I'm going to make that money myself. You
needn't do anything but take care of father; and I'll help you do the
housework," added Leo, cheerfully.
"What are you going to do?"
"I'm going into the mouse business."
"Into what?"
"The mouse business," replied Leo, gravely.
"What do you mean by that?" asked Maggie, puzzled as much by his
gravity as by the unintelligible phrase he had used.
Leo explained what he meant, and argued the case with much skill and
enthusiasm.
Maggie would have laughed if she had not been solemnly impressed by the
condition of her father, and by the burden of responsibility that
rested upon her as his nurse. She went into the basement, and looked at
the house which Leo had just finished. It was certainly very pretty,
and the mice in it were very cunning.
"You don't think any one will give you five dollars for that house--do
you?" said she, as she joined him in the back room again.
"I mean to ask six for it, and if folks won't give it, they are mean.
That is all I've got to say about it," replied Leo.
"But they won't."
"Why, the mice alone are worth a dollar and a half; and there is two
days' work in the house, besides the stock and the glass. I certainly
expect to get six dollars for the concern, though I shall not complain
if I don't get but five. I can make from three to a dozen of them in a
week, and if I don't make at least fifteen dollars a week out of the
mouse business, I shall be disappointed--that's all."
"I am afraid you will be disappointed, Leo," replied Maggie, with a
sigh, as she thought what a sad thing it would be when the brilliant
air-castle tumbled to the ground.
"Perhaps I shall; if I do, I can't help it. But if this fails, I have
got another string to my bow."
"What's that?"
"I shall go into the boot-jack business next; and I hope to get up my
machine for slicing potatoes, and such things, soon."
"O, dear, Leo! You are full of strange ideas. I only hope that some of
them will work well," added Maggie.
"I'm going to be reasonable, sis. I'm not going to give up if a thing
fails once, twice, or nineteen times. I'm going to keep pulling. I've
got half a dozen things in my head; if five of them fail, I shall make
a big thing out of the sixth."
"I hope you will; you are so patient and persevering that you ought to
succeed in something."
"O, I shall; you may depend upon that! Make or break, I'm bound to
succeed in something."
"What do you mean by 'make or break,' Leo? It sounds just as though you
meant to make money if you sacrificed everything."
"I don't mean that."
"I would rather go to the almshouse than be dishonest. I can't think of
anything more horrid than being wicked."
"Nor I either. I don't mean to be dishonest, Maggie. I would rather be
a good man than a rich one, any day; but I think a man can be both. A
good man, with lots of money, is better than a good man without it; for
he can do good with it. When I say, 'make or break,' I don't mean
anything bad by it. I'll tell you what I mean, Maggie. It seems to me,
when I get hold of a good thing, I ought to keep pulling till I carry
my point, or pull away till something breaks. I don't mean to risk
everything on a turn of the wheel of fortune; nothing of that sort. I
mean to persevere and stick to anything so long as there's any chance
of success--till the strings break, and the whole thing tumbles down.
That's my idea."
The idea was satisfactory to Maggie, and she returned to her patient,
while Leo went up to bed; but not to sleep for hours, for the "mouse
business" excited his brain, and kept him awake.
CHAPTER XII.
LEO'S WONDERFUL PERFORMERS.
Maggie, at the sick bed of André, slept even more than Leo. She had a
lounge in the room, placed near her charge, on which she rested
comfortably, though she rose several times in the night to assure
herself that all was well with her father. In the morning André seemed
to be in the entire possession of his faculties. He had slumbered
quietly all night, hardly opening his eyes after he took the doctor's
prescription.
He awoke before his attentive nurse. He had but a faint remembrance of
the events of the preceding evening; for, after he came out of the fit,
he was in a kind of stupor. He had noticed Maggie and Leo at the house
of the banker; but everything seemed like a dream.
"Maggie," said he, as he looked around the familiar apartment, and saw
her lying on the lounge.
She sprang to her feet, and went to him, glad to hear the sound of his
voice, but fearful that the call might be the prelude of another
attack. He smiled as she approached him, and made an effort to extend
his right hand to her; but he could not move it.
"Father!" exclaimed the fond girl, as she bent over him and kissed his
pale face, now slightly flushed with fever.
"I have been very ill," he added.
"You have, indeed; but you are better now; and I am so glad, mon
père!"
"Ah, ma fille, you are a good girl! You have been by my side all
night. It was selfish for me to wake you."
"No, no! It was not. I'm glad you did. I am so happy to find you
better!"
"What ails me? I can't move my right arm, nor my right leg," asked
André, struggling to raise his limbs. "There is no feeling in my right
side."
"The doctor will come by and by, and tell you all about it."
"My head feels very strange," added the sufferer.
"I am sorry, mon père. What can I do?" said Maggie, tenderly.
"Give me some cold water."
She gave him the drink, supporting his head with her arm. It was plain,
even to Maggie, that André was in a very bad way.
"Go up stairs, and go to bed now, Maggie. You have been up all night,"
said he, with a loving glance at her.
"No, mon père, I have no need to go to bed. I have slept on the
lounge nearly all night. I feel quite bright, only I'm so sad to think
you are sick."
"I shall be well soon. I must be well soon," he added, looking
anxiously at her.
"I hope you will be well soon; but it may be several weeks before you
are able to go out," replied Maggie, wishing to have him reconciled to
his lot as soon as possible.
"Several weeks, Maggie! O, no! I must go to the shop sooner than that."
"You must be very patient, mon père."
"I will be patient, Maggie; but I must go to the shop soon."
"Don't think of the shop yet."
"My poor children! What will become of you? I have no money. I must
work, or you will starve, and be turned out of the house because the
rent is not paid. Indeed I must go to the shop, Maggie."
"But you cannot. You are not able to lift your right arm at all, and
you are so weak you could not stand up. Do be patient, and not think at
all of the shop."
"I must do as you bid me now, Maggie."
"Then don't think of the shop, or anything but our nice little home,
where we have always been so happy."
"How shall we pay the rent if I lie here? Where will you get food to
eat and clothes to wear?" demanded André, with something like a shudder
of his paralyzed frame.
"Don't think of those things."
"I must. I was wicked not to save up some money."
"No, you were not wicked; you were always as good as you could be. The
good God will take care of us."
"They will send us all to the almshouse."
"No, no; Leo is going to make heaps of money!" replied Maggie, though
she had not much confidence in her brother's brilliant scheme, or even
in the inventions that reposed in his active brain. "Can't you go to
sleep again, mon père?"
"I will try," replied he, meekly. "I will if you go to bed, and sleep.
What should I do if you were sick?"
"I shall not be sick. I have slept enough. I will go and make you some
beef tea, and get breakfast for Leo. I shall hear you if you call."
Leo had made the fire in the cooking-stove, and in a short time the
odor of fried sausages pervaded the house; the beef tea was in course
of preparation, and the coffee was boiling on the stove. Maggie was as
busy as a bee; but every five minutes she ran into the front room, and
asked André if he wanted anything. She went to the front door, where
the baker had deposited half a dozen two-cent rolls, each of which was
nearly as big as one sold for five cents now.
For a girl of fifteen, Maggie was an excellent cook; indeed, she would
have been regarded as a prodigy in this respect in our day and
generation. She had acquired all her skill from André, whose
accomplishments were almost unlimited. When he first came to Boston, he
had boarded out; but, when Maggie was eight years old, he had taken
this house. At first he had done the housework himself, with what
little help she could give him, till now she had entirely relieved him
from any care of this kind. At this time he had taken Leo from the
almshouse, to be her companion in his absence.
Breakfast was soon ready; and Leo was called up from the workshop,
where he had already got out a portion of the stock for four small
mouse-houses, each intended to accommodate a single pair of mice. He
was still cheerful and hopeful, and went in to see André before he sat
down at the table. He told his father he was sure he could make ten
dollars a week by his splendid enterprise. He intended to take the
palace he had finished up to State Street, for sale, at noon that day.
The problem would soon be solved, and he was already nearly as well
satisfied as though he had the price of his curious merchandise in his
pocket.
After breakfast he returned to the shop. He was sad when he thought of
staying away from school, and of giving up the medal he had set his
heart upon; but, then, it was a very great pleasure to do something for
his devoted father, who had been so good to him. It was a great
sacrifice that he was called upon to make; but there was no help for
it, and he tried to yield cheerfully to the necessity of the occasion.
Gladly and hopefully he sawed and planed, and squared, and grooved, and
mortised his work, and nailed the parts together.
At ten o'clock the doctor came. He was as gentle and kind as he had
been the evening before. André was partially paralyzed on one side of
his frame; but Dr. Fisher was quite hopeful of his patient, though it
was not likely that he could go to work for some months. The physician
was much pleased with Maggie, and when he was taking his leave he asked
for Leo.
"He is in his shop at work," said Maggie. "Every one that comes here
goes down to see his white mice; perhaps you would like to do so."
"I would," replied the doctor, with one of those benevolent smiles
which all who knew him will remember to the end of their days.
Maggie conducted him to the basement, and then returned to Andre's
chamber. The doctor examined the cages and palaces with wondering
interest, though the mice were all asleep in their lairs. Leo put a
little canary seed in the grand parade of each house, and this was
quite enough to rouse them from their slumbers, and induce them to
exhibit themselves to the astonished visitor.
"These are my performing mice," said Leo, pointing to a house in which
seven full-grown ones were nibbling the seed.
"What do they perform?" laughed the doctor.
"I'll show you, sir."
Leo swept out the canary seed from the grand parade, so that the little
actors should have nothing to distract their attention. Taking six
little sticks--that looked something like guns--he rapped with his
finger-nail on the floor of the house. The seven mice stood up on their
hind legs, in a straight line, like a file of soldiers. He then gave
each of the first six his musket, and to the seventh a sword.
"Shoulder--arms!" said he, with a movement of his forefinger, which
probably had more effect than the words.
The mice, with becoming gravity, obeyed the order, and successively
went through four movements in the manual of arms. Then one of the
little soldiers was deprived of his gun, and Leo explained that he was
a deserter, and was to be shot for his crime. At a movement of the
boy's forefinger, the culprit took his station at one side of the grand
parade, while his companions formed a line on the other side, with
their muskets pointed at the deserter.
"Fire!" said Leo, at the same time dropping a torpedo on the floor of
the house, which exploded.
The infamous wretch of a white mouse, which had basely deserted his
flag, dropped upon his back, and lay as still as though he had actually
suffered the extreme penalty of martial law. It must be added that the
captain of the firing party was so frightened by the noise of the
torpedo that he scampered away into his nest, much to the mortification
of Leo; but he was recalled, and compelled to face the music at the
head of his squad.
Leo rapped again on the floor, and the defunct mouse was suddenly
resurrected. The tragedy completed, the squad was dismissed, and
immediately became white mice again, snuffing about the parade,
doubtless wondering what had become of the canary seed, which was
choice food, served out only on extra occasions.
"That is really wonderful," said Dr. Fisher. "Did you train them
yourself?"
"Partly; but my father did most of it," replied Leo, who proceeded to
explain the method by which the little creatures had been educated.
"Leo," said the doctor, as he was about to depart, "your sister seems
to be a very sensitive young lady. I wanted to ask her some questions;
but I did not feel quite equal to it. I will ask them of you; but I
wish you to understand that I do so as your friend."
The good physician then inquired into the circumstances of the poor
barber. Leo told him the exact truth, but assured him the family were
in no need of assistance, and did not feel like accepting charity.
Modestly, and with much enthusiasm, he then stated in what manner he
intended to support the family.
"Certainly there are plenty of people who would be glad to have some of
your beautiful little pets, especially in these elegant houses you
make," added the physician. "I would take one myself if I had time to
attend to them." The doctor was a bachelor.
"I have no doubt I can sell them, sir."
"I hope you will not take it amiss if I mention the fact among my
friends and patients that you have them for sale," added Dr. Fisher.
"No, sir; I'm sure I should not! I should be very much obliged to you."
"Then I will recommend your wares to those who are able to buy them;
and I trust you will drive a large trade in the mouse business."
The doctor went away; and Leo, encouraged by the promise of the
powerful influence of his visitor, resumed his work. At twelve o'clock,
when Maggie called him to dinner, he had made considerable progress in
the four houses in process of construction. When he had finished his
noonday meal, he went out and found Tom Casey, an Irish boy whom he had
befriended in various ways. Tom agreed to go with him to State Street;
and the new "HOTEL DES MICE"--as it was labelled in large letters on
the front gable--was loaded upon a little wagon of Leo's build, and
they started for the busy street, attended by a crowd of curious
youngsters, of both sexes and of all conditions.
The mice were astonished at the sudden revolution which was taking
place in their affairs; and Leo was as anxious as though the fate of
the nation depended upon his success.
CHAPTER XIII.
WITTLEWORTH vs. CHECKYNSHAW.
Mr. Checkynshaw did a rushing business on the day his papers were
stolen from the safe; therefore he rushed out of the humble abode of
Mrs. Wittleworth. It is more than probable that he was entirely sincere
when he called Fitz an idiot; but whether he was or not, that young
gentleman's mother was satisfied that truer words had never been
spoken. The banker had actually offered to give him ten dollars a week,
and Fitz had declined to return. It was a degree of lunacy which she
could neither understand nor appreciate. She was both grieved and
angry. She wept, and reproached the reckless youth.
"I must give up in despair, Fitz," said she, bitterly. "If I could
support you, I would."
"I don't want you to support me, mother," replied Fitz, stung by the
reproach. "If you will leave this matter to me, I will manage it
right."
"Leave it to you, Fitz! That would bring starvation to our door."
"No, mother; you look on the dark side. Here's five dollars for my
week's salary," he added, handing her the money. "I give you the whole
of it this week."
"This may keep off the wolf for a week or two," sighed Mrs.
Wittleworth.
"I shall get into another place soon, mother; don't worry about it."
"But why didn't you take the place when he offered it to you at double
wages, Fitz? It seems to me you are crazy."
"No, I am not crazy. I know what I am about, and Checkynshaw knows what
he is about. What do you suppose induced him to double my salary so
readily?"
"Because he saw how poor we were."
"What does he care for that? There is no more soul in him than there is
in a brickbat, mother. It wouldn't trouble him if you starved to
death--though you are his first wife's sister. That wasn't the reason."
"What was the reason, then, Fitz?" asked she, curiously.
"Checkynshaw is afraid of me," replied Fitz, stopping in his walk up
and down the room, and looking into his mother's face to note the
effect of this startling announcement.
"Afraid of you, Fitz! You are losing your senses!" exclaimed she, with
an expression of strong disgust.
"It's just as I say, mother. He's afraid of me."
"Why should he be afraid of you? You are not so very terrible as to
alarm a man in his position."
"Mother, that block of stores ought to be yours. You should have had
the income of it ever since Checkynshaw came from France with his wife.
I tell you that child died of the cholera, when Mrs. Checkynshaw had
it. That is just as plain to me as the nose on a man's face."
"Nonsense, Fitz! Do you suppose Mr. Checkynshaw would keep me out of it
if it belonged to me?"
"I know he would. I know the man. I haven't been in his office two
years for nothing. I keep my eyes open--I do," answered Fitz, holding
up his head till his neck was stretched to its full length.
"Checkynshaw may be an honest man, as things go; but you can't make me
believe he would give up that block of stores while he could hold on to
it by hook or by crook. He wants me under his thumb, where he can know
what I'm about. He has lost his papers, and he feels nervous about
them. In my opinion, there's something or other among those documents
which would let the light in upon that block of stores. That's why he
is so anxious to find out where they are. That's why he don't care for
the money that was stolen. He knows what he is about, and I know what
I'm about."
"What is the use for us to think anything about the block of stores?
You don't know that little Marguerite died," added Mrs. Wittleworth,
interested, in spite of herself, in the extravagant pretensions of her
son.
"I don't know it, I admit; but I think we ought to find out.
Checkynshaw says the child is still living with the Sisters of Charity,
somewhere in France. We have nothing but his word for it."
"That's enough. He says the child is living, and he don't like to have
her ill-treated by her mother-in-law. She is happy at the boarding
school, and when her education is finished, doubtless she will come
home."
"That's all bosh! Did any one ever see a letter from her? Did
Checkynshaw ever write a letter to her? Does he ever send her any
money?"
"But he goes to see her every year or two, when he visits Europe."
"Perhaps he does, and then perhaps he don't. Did any one else ever see
the child? Has any one any knowledge of her existence except through
Checkynshaw? I think not. Don't tell me, mother, that a man would leave
his daughter in a foreign country for ten years, and only go to see her
every year or two. In my opinion,--and I think my opinion is worth
something,--the child died in the hospital. Checkynshaw keeps up this
fiction because it puts five or six thousand dollars a year into his
pocket. No one has ever claimed the block of stores, and of course he
will hold on to it till some one does."
Mrs. Wittleworth could not help thinking, while starvation or the
almshouse stared her full in the face, what a blessing that block of
stores would be to her. If her sister's child was dead, it rightfully
belonged to her. It was certainly proper for Mr. Checkynshaw to prove
that Marguerite was still living, or at least to satisfy her privately
on the point.
"What can we do, Fitz?" she asked.
"What can we do, mother? That's the question. When I was in Summer
Street, this evening, I thought I would call upon my friend Choate.
Choate is a gentleman and a scholar--he is."
"Pshaw, Fitz!" ejaculated the poor woman. "Why will you talk about
your friend Choate? He is not your friend. He would not touch you with
a ten-foot pole. He looks down upon you from an infinite height."
"Not he. Choate always treats everybody like a gentleman. He always
treated me like a gentleman. I believe in Choate--I do."
"It is ridiculous for you to talk about his being your friend."
"He is my friend in very deed. I called upon him at his residence, in
Winthrop Place, this evening. He treated me like a gentleman. He was
glad to see me. He shook hands with me, and welcomed me to his house,
as though I had been the governor of the state. Everett was there, and
Winthrop came in before I left. I heard them speak of Webster, and I
suppose he was expected. I was introduced to Everett and Winthrop."
"You!" exclaimed his mother.
"I, mother!"
"Poor child, they were making fun of you!" sighed Mrs. Wittleworth.
"Not they. Everett bowed to me as gracefully as though I had been the
President. Winthrop was a little stiff; but what did I care for him, as
long as Choate and Everett were on good terms with me?"
"Your head is turned, Fitz."
"No matter if it is, so long as it is turned in the right direction.
Choate told Everett and Winthrop that I had formerly occupied a place
in his office, and that he had a high regard for me. He smiled
pleasantly, and so did Everett. Winthrop didn't take much notice of me.
Choate asked me if I wanted to see him for anything particular. I told
him I did; I wanted a little legal advice in the matter of Wittleworth
vs. Checkynshaw. He smiled very kindly upon me; he smiled as only
Choate can smile."
"What did he say to you?" demanded Mrs. Wittleworth, impatiently.
"He apologized for his inability to attend to the case at that time, as
he was engaged upon a matter of politics with Everett and Winthrop; but
he hoped he should find time to see me in the course of a week. Of
course I didn't care about breaking up his conference with Everett and
Winthrop; so I apologized for the interruption, and promised him I
would call upon him at his office the next day."
"I suppose he was very sorry he could not attend to the case," added
Mrs. Wittleworth.
"He appeared to be. He expressed his regrets; and, as he was attending
to the affairs of the nation, I could not be hard on him, you know."
"Certainly not," said his mother, amused in spite of the weakness of
her son.
"Choate is a good fellow--Choate is," added Fitz, rubbing his chin, and
puffing out his lips. "When he gets hold of this case, he will make
things fly, mother."
"What are you going to do, Fitz?" asked Mrs. Wittleworth, seriously.
"I'm not going to mince the matter any longer. I am going to bring a
suit against Checkynshaw for the block of stores, and the income
received from them for the last ten years," replied Fitz,
magnificently.
"You are!"
"I am; that is, when I say I am, of course I am going to do it in your
name, for I am the next heir to you. That will bring things to a head,
and we shall soon find out whether Checkynshaw is ready to stand trial
or not."
"We have no money to go to law with," pleaded the poor woman.
"We don't want any, mother. I have looked into this business, and what
I don't know about it isn't worth knowing. I know something about law,
for I used to keep my eyes and ears open when I was in the law
business."
Mr. Wittleworth had been an errand boy in Mr. Choate's office!
"I don't think you can go to law without money, Fitz. I have always
heard it was very expensive," added Mrs. Wittleworth.
"All we want, mother, is a copy of my grandfather's will. We attach the
block of stores, if necessary. Under the will it belongs to you, unless
Checkynshaw can produce your sister's child."
"Suppose he should produce her?"
"That's the very thing he can't do. If he does, of course our case
falls to the ground; but he can't."
"But if he does produce the child, where is the money to pay the
expenses?"
"The expenses won't be much. I shall say to Choate, 'Choate,' says I,
'here's a piece of property which belongs to my mother. You can go up
to the Registry of Probate, and read the will yourself. Give my mother
legal possession of it, and I will pay you five or ten thousand
dollars'--I haven't just decided exactly what to offer him. He takes
the case, brings the suit, and gets the property for you."
"Suppose he doesn't get it?"
"Then he will get nothing. When I was in the law business, cases were
sometimes taken in this way."
Mrs. Wittleworth was encouraged by this hopeful statement, and disposed
to let Fitz have his own way. Abject poverty was so terrible that she
could not afford to lose such a chance. Mr. Checkynshaw's conduct in
leaving his child in France, among strangers, for ten years, was
singular enough to beget suspicion.
The conversation was continued till the fire went out, and the chill
air of the room drove the intended litigants to their chambers. Fitz
did not come down till breakfast time the next morning. He lay in his
warm bed, building castles in the air, and thinking what a great man he
should be when the block of stores and its revenues were reclaimed from
the grasp of Mr. Checkynshaw. He thought it quite possible that he
could then go into a barber's shop and be shaved without any one having
the impudence to laugh at him.
Mrs. Wittleworth had thought a great deal about the property, but she
could not quite make up her mind to take such decided steps as those
indicated by her son. If the attempt was made, and proved to be a
failure, Mr. Checkynshaw would never forgive her, and might injure her
in revenge. When she came down stairs, she had decided to call upon the
banker, and state the case to him. If he chose to satisfy her that
Marguerite was still living, it would save trouble and future
disappointment.
"You can see him if you like, mother. I have no doubt he will smooth
you over. Checkynshaw is a plausible man--Checkynshaw is. He carries
too many guns for a woman. I would call myself if it were not for
letting myself down to his level," said Mr. Wittleworth, stroking his
chin, when his mother was ready to go.
"Don't be so silly, Fitz!"
"Checkynshaw won't stand trial, in my opinion. He is shrewd--he is."
"I only intend to ask him what he means to do," added Mrs. Wittleworth.
"He means to hold on to the property--that's what he means to do,
mother. He may try to buy you off--don't do it, on any account. Leave
this matter all to me. Me and Choate will fix it right. Now, be careful
what you do."
"I will not do anything," said his mother, as she put on her bonnet.
"I will see Choate to-day. Me and Choate will touch off a volcano under
Checkynshaw's feet in the course of a week or two," he added, as his
mother left the house.
CHAPTER XIV.
MR. CHECKYNSHAW IS LIBERAL.
Mrs. Wittleworth went directly to the door of the private office. She
had her doubts in regard to the interview which was to take place. Mr.
Checkynshaw had never treated her very handsomely. She had called upon
him only once since the downfall of her husband. The banker had
listened very coldly to her story of hardship and suffering. He had
taken Fitz into his employ at that time; but her reception was so cold,
and the great man's manner so forbidding, that she had resolved that
nothing but imminent starvation should induce her to repeat the visit.
Mr. Checkynshaw was a hard, selfish, money-getting man. He was not one
whom a poor relative would willingly approach with a tale of suffering.
Though this was not Mrs. Wittleworth's present errand, she dreaded the
result almost as much as though she had been an applicant for charity.
The banker was overbearing and haughty in his way. He bullied his
social inferiors, and looked upon them from a height which was
appalling to them. She opened the door and entered. The banker was
alone, sitting in the stuffed arm-chair at his desk.
"Ellen?" said he, glancing at her with an inquiring look, probably
satisfied that she had come to plead for the return of her son to the
place from which he had been discharged.
It did not occur to him that human impudence could extend so far as to
permit such people to bring a suit against him for their rights,
however well defined or clearly established. If he owed them anything,
or they had any claims against him, it was their duty to be solemnly
impressed by the loftiness of his social position, and humbly to beg
for what belonged to them.
"I thought I would come up and see you this morning, Mr. Checkynshaw,"
stammered the poor woman; and poverty had so subdued her, and so broken
her spirit, that she hardly knew how to introduce the subject upon her
mind.
"If you come to ask me to take Fitz back, it will do no good. You
permit the puppy to insult me," replied the banker, in the most
forbidding tones.
"I don't permit him to insult you. I did what I could to make him speak
properly to you," replied Mrs. Wittleworth, meekly.
"It's all the same; it was bad bringing up. I can't have him in my
office again," added Mr. Checkynshaw, though at that moment, for some
reason best known to himself, he would have been very glad to forgive
the young man's insolence, and take him back at double salary. "That
boy has outraged my good-nature. When I saw how hard the times were
with you, I was willing to give him double wages; but the ingrate only
insulted me for it."
"He is very wilful; I wish he was not so headstrong."
"I can't take him back now; at least not till he has apologized for his
impudence, and promised better things for the future," continued the
banker, shaking his head, as though his mind was firmly made up for the
issue.
"I did not come to ask you to take him back," added Mrs. Wittleworth.
"O, you didn't!"
"No, sir; he is not yet willing to come."
"What did you come for--to beg?"
"I don't come to you to beg," replied she with a little display of
spirit.
"What do you want, then?"
"You mustn't be angry with me, Mr. Checkynshaw."
"I'm not angry with you. If you have anything to say, say it. I hate
long stories," said the banker, impatiently.
"Fitz has taken it into his head that the block of stores which my
father gave to Mary belongs to us," continued Mrs. Wittleworth, looking
down to the floor, as if fearful that the great man's glance would
blast her if she beheld it.
"Has he, indeed?"
If Mrs. Wittleworth had looked at the banker instead of the floor, she
might have seen that his face flushed slightly; that his lip quivered,
and his chest heaved; but, as she did not look at him, the banker had
time to suppress these tell-tale emotions.
"He thinks so; and he seems to be determined that something shall be
done about it," added the poor woman, still gazing intently at the
floor.
"And you encourage such ridiculous notions--do you, Ellen?" said Mr.
Checkynshaw, severely.
"I don't know that I encourage them. I can't help his thoughts."
"Probably you don't wish to help them. Well, you can do as you please
about it. If you choose to get him and yourself into difficulty, I
suppose nothing I can say will have any influence with you."
"I don't want to get into trouble, or to spend any money in going to
law."
"I should judge, from the appearance of your house, that you hadn't
much to spend in that way," sneered the banker.
"I have not, indeed. I said all I could to dissuade Fitz from doing
anything about the matter; but he is bent upon it. He has been to see
Mr. Choate about it."
"To see Mr. Choate!" exclaimed the banker, springing out of his chair;
and now his face was deadly pale.
But in an instant Mr. Checkynshaw was conscious that he was revealing
the weakness of his position, and he sat down in his chair again, with
a placid smile upon his face.
"Am I to understand that Fitz and you intend to fight me in the law
upon this matter?" demanded he, with a sardonic grin on his face,
indicating both fear and malice.
"Fitz says there will be no fighting about it. We are to bring a suit
to recover the property, according to the terms of my father's will,
with the income for ten years."
"Fitz says so--does he?"
"He thinks Marguerite died when your present wife had the cholera. He
says all you have to do is to produce the child. If you do, that will
be the end of it; if not, the property certainly belongs to us."
"What makes Fitz think that Marguerite is not living?" asked Mr.
Checkynshaw, more mildly than he had yet spoken.
"Well, he has his reasons," replied she, not quite certain that she
might not say something which would compromise her son.
"What are his reasons?"
"I don't know that it is necessary to mention them. I think myself it
is very strange that you haven't brought her home. She must be fifteen
years old by this time."
"That is her age."
"I don't want any trouble about this business, Mr. Checkynshaw; so I
thought I would come up and see you. Perhaps you can show me some
letters from Marguerite, or something else that will convince Fitz that
she is alive."
"I have no letters here."
"Have you any at your house?" asked Mrs. Wittleworth.
"Not that I am aware of. I never preserve any but business letters. If
I understand you, Ellen, Fitz's modest claim is for the block of stores
and the income of them for the last ten years."
"That's what he said."
"Are you aware of the amount of this claim?" asked the banker,
nervously.
"I don't know, exactly."
"I suppose not," said Mr. Checkynshaw, pausing to reflect. "I don't
wish to bring Marguerite home till her education is completed, and this
thing may cause me some annoyance."
"I'm sure I don't want to annoy you," pleaded Mrs. Wittleworth.
"Perhaps you do not; but Fitz does. If you refuse to be a party to this
suit, of course he can do nothing. He has no rights yet in the premises
himself, and he is under age."
"I think myself the matter ought to be settled up somehow or other,"
replied Mrs. Wittleworth, timidly. "I am so poor I can hardly keep soul
and body together, and Fitz has lost his place."
"I will give him his place, at ten dollars a week. I will see that you
have a good house, properly furnished, and a sufficient income to live
on. If I had known that you were so badly off, I should have done
something for you before. Why didn't you come to me?"
"I don't like to ask favors; besides, we have been able to get along
till times came on so hard this winter that I couldn't get any work."
"I don't wish to be bothered with this thing, and be compelled to go to
France in the middle of the winter after Marguerite. Fitz saw that he
could annoy me, and he has taken this means to vent his spite upon me.
But the suit depends upon you. He can do nothing without you. Mr.
Choate will have nothing to do with it. He doesn't take cases of this
kind; but Fitz can find some unprincipled lawyer who will undertake the
case, and compel me to derange my plans."
"Could you show me some letters from Marguerite, or some bill you have
paid for her board or tuition?"
"Perhaps I may be able to find something of the kind at my house. I'll
see. But I think we had better settle up this business between
ourselves, without Fitz."
Mr. Checkynshaw looked troubled, and Mrs. Wittleworth could see it now.
"How can we settle it, if you have nothing to show me to prove that
Marguerite is living?" asked the poor woman.
"Marguerite is living, or was eighteen months ago, when I was in
France."
"Haven't you heard from her for eighteen months?"
"Of course I have; but that is neither here nor there. I don't wish to
be annoyed in this way, or to have your son boasting that he has a
claim on me. I don't choose to submit to that sort of thing any longer.
Neither is it my intention to bring Marguerite home till she is
eighteen years old. She is very much attached to the institution in
which she spent her childhood."
"I should think you would wish to see her oftener than once in two
years," added Mrs. Wittleworth, the remark prompted by her woman's
heart.
"So I would. But you know just how it is. I can't bring her home
without having trouble in my family; and she is perfectly happy where
she is. I ought to have done more for you, Ellen, than I have; but I
didn't know the world went so hard with you. I blame myself for not
thinking more about it; but I am plunged in business, so that I hardly
have time to think of my own family. I don't see how I can do it in any
other way than by settling a fixed sum upon you at once. Then I can do
all that I have to do at one time, and you will not have to depend upon
my bad memory."
"I'm sure I've no claims on you of that kind," replied Mrs.
Wittleworth, amazed at this outburst of generosity.
"I know you have no legal claims upon me; but you are the sister of my
first wife. I have not forgotten her yet, and I never shall," continued
Mr. Checkynshaw, with a gush of sentiment such as the poor woman had
never before seen proceed from him. "Property from your father's estate
came into my family, and it would not be right for me to permit you to
want for the comforts of life, to say nothing of the necessities. I'm
going to do something for you here and now--something so that you shall
not be dependent upon Fitz, whether I forget you for the time or not.
Do you think you could live on the income of ten thousand dollars a
year? That would be six hundred dollars, or about twelve dollars a
week."
"That is more than I have had for years," gasped Mrs. Wittleworth.
"Very well; I will give you a check for that sum; or I will invest it
for you in the best paying stocks I can find."
"You are too good! I did not expect this!" exclaimed the poor woman,
wiping the tears from her eyes.
"I shall do no more than my duty--what I ought to have done before,"
replied the banker, magnanimously. "And, by the way, it would be as
well for you to sign a paper, so as to set this business at rest, and
prevent Fitz from annoying me," said the banker, as he took down his
check-book, and shuffled the papers about the desk with assumed
indifference.
"What paper am I to sign?" asked Mrs. Wittleworth, beginning to open
her eyes.
"I mean a quitclaim deed on the block of stores; but of course that has
nothing to do with the ten thousand dollars I am to pay you."
Mrs. Wittleworth knew what a quitclaim deed was. It was a deed by which
she relinquished all her right, title, and interest in the block of
stores.
"I think I will not sign it to-day, Mr. Checkynshaw," said she, rather
fearfully.
The banker urged her in vain. Fitz had warned her against such a step,
and she had more confidence in Fitz's judgment at that moment than ever
before.
"Very well; I will have the deed drawn, and fill out the check ready
for you the next time you call," added the banker, more disappointed
than his manner indicated.
Mrs. Wittleworth went home.
CHAPTER XV.
A SUCCESS IN THE MOUSE BUSINESS.
"Now, Tom, if you will draw the wagon, I will steady the house, and see
that the mice don't get out and run away," said Leo, when he had drawn
the chariot of the beauties a short distance.
"Small loss if they do," replied Tom Casey, who had already made up his
mind that they were going on a fool's errand.
"Not a bit of it, Tom. These mice are worth fifty cents a pair," added
Leo, as he placed himself by the house, and his companion took the pole
of the wagon.
"Fifty cints--is it? Sure who'd give fifty cints for those bits o'
crayturs? I wouldn't give fifty cints for a tousand of 'em, let alone a
pair of 'em."
"When I come back with five or six dollars in my pocket, which I shall
get for this establishment, you will change your tune, Tom."
"Well, the house is foist rate, and you may get five dollars for that.
Sure I think it's worth it; but I wouldn't give two cints for all the
mice that's in it."
"Perhaps you wouldn't, Tom. You haven't any taste for white mice."
"Taste--is it? Sure, would anyone ate 'em?"
Tom Casey was a recent importation from the Green Isle, and the emerald
dust had not been rubbed off him by the civilizing and humanizing
influence of the public schools; but he brought with him from Ireland a
big heart, which was worth more than polish and refinement, though both
go very well together. In spite of the grave responsibility which
rested upon him, Leo laughed heartily at the blunder, and took the
trouble to explain the meaning of taste in its artistic sense.
The procession--for the crowd of boys and girls was augmented
continually when the mouse-car reached High Street--advanced towards
its destination, and Leo had all he could do to keep the youngsters
from crowding upon and upsetting the wagon, in their eagerness to see
the mice and their magnificent dwelling-house.
"Just twig 'em, Jimmy!" shouted one who had tipped over half a dozen of
his companions in his enthusiasm. "Their tails is as long as Seven's
rope."
"Hotel dees mice," said another, spelling out the sign over the grand
parade. "What does that mean, Billy?"
"They're going to take 'em to a hotel to make soup of. I guess there's
some Chinamen at the Tremont. They say them coveys eats rats. Twig the
red eyes they has!"
Leo kept the youngsters at bay as well as he could, and hurried Tom
along, till they reached State Street, where he took a stand in front
of the Exchange. A crowd of curious merchants, clerks, and curb-stone
brokers immediately gathered around the palace to examine the structure
and its inhabitants. It was a novel establishment, and excited no
little attention.
"What have you there, my boy?" asked a well-dressed gentleman, working
his way into the interior of the ring.
"White mice, sir," replied Leo.
"They are cunning little creatures," added the gentleman, bending down
and looking into the grand parade, where the mice were now feeding on
canary seed.
They had become somewhat accustomed to the crowd, and, as if conscious
that they were for sale, put the best foot forward.
"What's the price of them?" asked the gentleman.
"Six dollars for the mice and house," replied Leo; but the words almost
choked him.
"Six dollars!" exclaimed the questioner, edging off. "That's a very
modest price, young man."
"The mice bring fifty cents a pair, and there's a great deal of work in
the house, besides the stock."
"But you don't expect any one to give you six dollars for a trap like
that, with half a dozen rats in it--do you?"
"I think it is worth that, sir. Do you wish to buy it?"
