
"This is a very strange story, Buck; and I don't much blame Captain
Fishley for not believing it," said Clarence. "Somebody gave you a
hundred dollars, and you would not tell who, even to save yourself from
going to jail. I can't blame him."

"Nor I either, so far as that was concerned; but I do blame Ham, for he
knew very well that I did not rob the mail."

"But why can't you tell who gave you the money?"

"Because I promised not to do so, and because my telling would do an
injury to the person who gave it to me."

"I don't like the looks of this thing, Buck," added Clarence, shaking
his head.

"I know it don't look very well," I replied, rather sheepishly, for I
realized that my brother had his suspicions.

"Why should a man give you a hundred dollars?"

"Because I saved his life," I answered, desperately.

"If you did, he ought to be the first one to give you the credit for the
noble deed."

"There's the hitch."

"So I think," said my brother, shaking his head.

"Clarence, I know Buckland is honest and true," interposed Flora. "He is
the best brother that ever was, and you mustn't think hard of him."

"Perhaps you know more about it than I do, Flora; but it looks bad for
him. Why a man should give him a hundred dollars for saving his life,
and then not be willing that he should mention his name, passes my
comprehension."

"The gentleman had been drinking a little too much, and that was what
made him fall into the water," I added, goaded on to reveal thus much by
the doubts and suspicions of my brother.

"Well, that makes it a little more plausible," replied Clarence. "Was
there no one present when the man fell overboard?"

"I shall not say any more about it, whether you believe it or not," I
answered, rather indignantly. "I made a promise, and I intend to keep
it."

"I am satisfied the young man is honest, Mr. Bradford," said the
merchant.

"I know he is," added Emily, with an enthusiasm which was worth the
testimony of all the others.

"After the noble deed he has done, after risking his life to save that
of an entire stranger, as he did for my daughter, I know he is not
capable of robbing the mail," continued Mr. Goodridge.

"Saved your daughter?" asked Clarence, with an inquiring look at Emily
and her father.

Flora volunteered to tell the story of the events following the
steamboat explosion, and my modesty will not permit me to set down the
pleasant speeches which Emily added to the narrative.

"Well, Buck, I am willing to grant that you are a hero," said Clarence,
good-naturedly; "and you have done things for which I should have been
slow to give you the credit, if the facts were not fully attested by all
these witnesses. So you have made a voyage from Torrentville to New
Orleans on a raft?"

"I have, and brought Flora with me."

"You have proved yourself to be a smart boy, and I only wish you had
left a better reputation behind you at Torrentville."

I thought this remark was a little harsh. I do not wish to say anything
against my brother, but I was very much disappointed in the view which
he took of the robbery question. I know that he valued reputation as the
apple of his eye, and keenly felt that it was cowardice for an innocent
person to run away from the appearance of evil. I know that he was very
indignant at the treatment which the Fishleys had bestowed upon Flora
and me; but he seemed to believe that I had exaggerated it, and that I
had fled from Torrentville solely to escape the consequences of robbing
the mail.

He was not satisfied with my conduct, and declared that my character
must be cleared from all suspicion. The name he bore must not be tainted
even by the appearance of a crime. He had been an honest man; his father
had been an honest man; and he would rather have his brother sunk in the
deepest depths of the Mississippi than that the stigma of a crime
should be fastened upon him. I was awed and abashed by the dignity of
his bearing and his speech.

"Buck, dare you go back to Torrentville?" he asked.

"I should only be thrown into jail if I went."

"No matter for that. Dare you trust to your own integrity for the final
result?"

"I can't bring the gentleman into court to say that he gave me the
money, which is the only thing against me."

"Have you told the person how you are situated, and of the charge
against you?"

"No, I haven't seen him. He lives a hundred miles from Torrentville."

"I suppose so. Such witnesses are always a great way off when they are
wanted," added my brother, with an ill-concealed sneer.

"I see that you think I am guilty, Clarence," I replied, wounded beyond
measure at his severe conclusions.

"I confess that the affair looks to me like a trumped-up story."

"No, no, Clarence," interposed poor Flora, her eyes filled with tears,
as she came to my chair and put her arm lovingly around my neck. "Dear
Buckland, I know you are innocent!"

"So do I," exclaimed Emily.

"Hookie!" ejaculated Sim Gwynn, who had been sitting in silence, with
his eyes and mouth wide open, but rather nervous when the battle seemed
to be going against me.

I wanted to cry myself, for I felt that my brother was very hard upon
me. While the others were reaching conclusions through their feelings
alone, he was taking the common-sense view of the case. The facts were
stubborn, as I had been obliged to acknowledge before; and all I could
bring to attest my innocence was my simple word. But the conference was
interrupted by the coming of the family physician, who had been sent for
to see Emily. She and her father left the room.

Clarence went over the history of the robbery again; and the more he
considered, the more dissatisfied he became with me. Dear Flora pleaded
for a more gentle judgment, and told him how ill Ham and Mrs. Fishley
treated me.

"I don't blame you for leaving the Fishleys," he added. "I blame myself
for permitting you to remain there, after you complained of them; but I
had just been taken into partnership with my employers, and I could not
well be absent. But I do blame you for leaving them with a stain upon
your character. Something must be done immediately. I will not permit
them to think you are guilty, unless you are so. If you are guilty, you
are no brother of mine."

"I am not guilty," I protested.

"Then you must prove it."

"I can't prove it."

"Are you willing to take your oath before God, in court, that you saw
Ham Fishley take the money and burn the letter?"

"I am."

"Very well. Then you shall go to Torrentville, and face your accusers."

"I am willing to do what you think is best."

"I can't believe you are guilty of this crime; but you were foolish to
run away from it."

"I will write to the person who gave me the money, and he may do as he
pleases about helping me out of the scrape."

"My business is nothing compared with this matter, and I will go with
you. Now, where is this raft?"

He wished to see it, and Sim and I went with him to the levee.




CHAPTER XXIV.

UP THE RIVER.


Clarence called a dray, and had all Flora's things conveyed to the house
he was fitting up as his residence. The raft and its apparatus he sold,
and he gave me the money. This was the end of the craft which had
brought us on our voyage of seventeen hundred and fifty miles. We
returned to the house of Mr. Goodridge in the afternoon.

The physician had only repeated his advice that Emily must have a change
of climate. Her father had already decided to accompany her to the North
himself. Clarence declared that Flora must not stay in the city during
the sickly season. He had been married a month before, and if we had
remained in Torrentville, the letter he wrote to us just before the
happy event would doubtless have reached us. It had been his plan to
start for New York early in August, and to return to New Orleans by the
way of the West in October, taking Flora and me with him. Our unexpected
arrival changed his purpose. In the course of a week it was arranged
that we should go to Torrentville at once, and Mr. Goodridge and his
daughter were to accompany us.

Flora and I remained at the house of the merchant during our stay in the
city, though we frequently saw my brother's wife. She soon became much
attached to Flora; the gentle invalid was so patient and loving that she
could not help it. If there had been no cloud hanging over me, I should
have been very happy in the bright prospect before me; but I hoped, when
we arrived at Torrentville, that Squire Fishley would find a way to
extricate me from my dilemma.

"Buck," said Clarence to me, on the day before we started, "you begin
life under brighter auspices than I did. Mr. Goodridge has just paid
over to me the sum of ten thousand dollars, to be invested for you, and
to be paid over to you when you are of age."

"Ten thousand dollars!" I exclaimed, amazed at the magnitude of the sum.

"And the same sum for Flora. Well, twenty thousand dollars is not much
for him. He is a very rich man, and Emily is his pet. He has three sons;
but all of them are bad boys, and all his hope in this world rests in
his daughter. You are a lucky fellow, Buck."

"I didn't think of anything of this kind," I added, filled with wonder
at my good fortune.

"I don't say you didn't deserve it; for, according to all accounts, you
behaved well, and the girl would certainly have been drowned if you had
not saved her. I am proud of you, Buck; but I wish you were well out of
this Torrentville scrape."

That worried him; and, indeed, it worried me, after I had heard so much
said about it. If I had understood the matter as well in the time of it
as I did afterwards, doubtless I should not have trusted to flight for
safety, but faced my accusers. My sudden departure could not have failed
to confirm the suspicions of Captain Fishley, and probably Ham had made
the best use of the circumstances.

The next day we went on board of a fine steamer bound to St. Louis.
State-rooms had been engaged for the whole party, and I should be glad
to tell the story of the journey if space would permit. We enjoyed it
very much, and on the way I pointed out to my companions the various
objects of interest connected with the slower voyage of the raft. At
first Emily was timid on board of the steamer; but her father introduced
the captain to her, and he assured her that the boilers were new, and
that he never raced with other boats under any circumstances. She
acquired confidence. Her health had improved a great deal, and she was
able to sit up all day.

At St. Louis we took another steamer, and from that were transferred to
a third, which went up the Wisconsin River. When we arrived at
Riverport, I felt as though I was at home, though I dreaded to appear
again in Torrentville. At St. Louis I had written a long letter to
Squire Fishley, narrating all the facts of the robbery of the mail, and
the charge against me. I assured him I should keep the promise I had
made to him, if I had to die in jail for doing so, and that he might do
as he pleased about assisting me. I told him our party would be in
Riverport by the 10th of June, and wished him to write me there,
advising me what to do.

On my arrival at Riverport I went to the post-office, and obtained the
letter which was waiting for me. The senator wrote that he would meet me
in Riverport as soon after the 10th of June as his business would
permit. He thanked me very warmly for keeping his secret so well, and
assured me I should not suffer for my fidelity to him.

This letter made me happy. I told Clarence that the gentleman who had
given me the money was coming to my relief, and would be in Riverport
within a few days. As the party were pleasantly situated at the hotel,
it was decided to remain until the "mysterious personage," as Clarence
called him, made his appearance. Then the awkward fact that when he did
come he would be recognized, by my friends, as the tippler who had
fallen overboard, would be disclosed; and I blamed myself for what I had
said to them. I stated my dilemma to Clarence, and he placed the whole
party under the seal of secrecy.

I had promised not to tell who had given me the money. I had not done
so; but I had said enough to enable my friends to know who he was when
the squire came. It was awkward, but I could not help it, though I
blamed myself for saying even as much as I did.

Emily and I had become fast friends. Before we started from New Orleans,
Clarence had dressed me up in a new suit of black clothes, and I
flattered myself that I was not a bad-looking fellow. I was satisfied
that Emily did not think I was an ill-favored young man. We had some
pleasant walks at the places where we stopped.

I was very impatient for the arrival of Squire Fishley. I expected him
the day after we reached Riverport; but he did not come. In the evening
I went to the vicinity of the post-office, and had a view of Darky and
the wagon; but it was driven by a strange boy, who had been employed to
take my place. I did not care to be recognized by any one from
Torrentville; but as this boy did not know me, I ventured to go up and
pat my friend the black horse on the neck. The old fellow seemed to
know me, and whether he enjoyed the interview or not, I am sure I did.
While I was caressing the horse, the new boy came out of the office with
the mail-bag in his hand. He looked curiously at me, and seemed to
wonder how I happened to be on such good terms with his horse.

"What's the news up to Torrentville?" I asked.

"Nothing particular, as I know of," he replied, looking hard at me.

"Is Captain Fishley there now?"

"Yes."

"How's Ham?"

"First rate."

"How long have you driven the mail team?"

"Going on three weeks. You see the feller that drove it before robbed
the mail, and had to run away."

"Did he? What became of him?"

"That's what puzzles 'em. They can't git no clew to him. He cleared
about two months ago, and they hain't seen hide nor hair on him sence.
Do you know him?"

"Know whom?" I asked, startled by this direct question.

"Buck Bradford, the feller that robbed the mail and run away."

"Why do you ask?"

"O, nothin'; only the postmaster here told me to tell Captain Fishley
that a letter came here for Buck Bradford, and that a young feller took
it out. You haven't seen nothin' on him--have you?"

I did not choose to answer this question, and I edged off, without
making any reply. It appeared that I was generally known in Torrentville
as the mail robber, who had run away to escape the consequences of his
crime. The reflection galled me; but the day of redemption was at hand.
I did not quite like it that the postmaster had sent word of my presence
in Riverport to my tyrants; for I did not wish to be taken up before the
arrival of my most important witness. I deemed it prudent, therefore, to
keep out of sight to some extent, though I did not put myself out much
about it.

Squire Fishley did not come on the second day after our arrival, to my
very great disappointment, for I began to fear that I should be snapped
up by some greedy constable. The keeper of the hotel, who did not
recognize me in the trim suit I wore, had a very handsome keel boat,
prettily painted, which he kept for the use of the pleasure travel
frequenting his house. Sim and I had rowed our friends up and down the
river in this boat, and I engaged it for the third day, as soon as I
found that the senator was not a passenger on the down-river steamer. I
intended to make a long excursion in her, as much to keep myself out of
the way, as for the fun of it. I invited Emily and Flora to go, and they
gladly accepted the invitation.



After breakfast we embarked, with a plentiful supply of luncheon on
board, for we did not mean to return till the middle of the afternoon. I
proposed to go up the creek, and then up the branch to the swamp, where
we had started on our long voyage upon the raft. Sim and I pulled
cheerfully, and our passengers were delighted with the trip. We entered
the gloomy swamp; but the river had fallen, so that its banks were no
longer covered with water. I showed Emily the place where Sim and I had
built the raft. We landed, and walked up the slope far enough for her to
see the house and store of the Fishleys. In the cool shade of the
swamp we lunched, and enjoyed ourselves to the utmost. My fair companion
was an interested listener, and wished to know every particular in
regard to the raft, which had been the means of saving her life.

About three o'clock we started to return, and the passage was so
pleasant that it seemed like a dream of fairy-land. I sat at the after
oar, with Emily directly in front of me; and I am not altogether sure
that this circumstance was not the origin of the fairy idea; at any
rate, her presence enhanced the joy of the occasion. All went merry as a
marriage bell till we reached a part of the river called the Ford.

At this stage of the river the water was not three feet deep; and, just
as we were passing the shoalest part of the Ford, two men leaped into
the water, and waded out to the boat. Sim and I were resting on our oars
at the time, and so sudden was the movement that I had no time to get
out of the way.

One of these men seized the boat, and the other, in whom I recognized
Stevens, the constable from Torrentville, grasped me by the collar, and
dragged me out of the boat to the shore.

"We have got you at last," said the officer.

"Hookie!" shouted Sim, as he stood up in the boat gazing at me, with his
eyes distended, and his mouth wide open.

My tyrants had me again.




CHAPTER XXV.

TWO HOURS IN JAIL.


The appearance of the constable was a sufficient explanation of the
misfortune which had befallen me. The man with him was a stranger to me.
The mail boy had delivered his message to Captain Fishley, and the
constable had been sent down to Riverport to arrest me; but not finding
me there, and probably learning from the hotel-keeper where I had gone,
he lay in wait for me at the Ford.

The officer and his companion were unnecessarily rough and insulting to
me, I thought; but when I consider the exceedingly bad reputation which
I had made, I am not much surprised. I was dragged out of the boat, my
legs soused into the water, and my elaborate toilet--made in view of the
fact that I was to face Miss Emily Goodridge during the excursion--was
badly deranged.

Of course Emily and Flora screamed when I was pulled out of the boat;
but I could hardly help laughing, in spite of my mishap, when I saw Sim
Gwynn standing on the seat of the boat so as to exhibit his bow legs to
the best advantage, with the stupid stare of wonder and terror on his
face. The boat was floating down the river with the current, bearing my
companions away from me.

"Row back to the hotel, Sim, and tell my brother I have been taken up,"
I shouted.

"Hookie!" responded Sim.

Before I could say any more, my savage captors, with as much parade and
violence as though I had been a grizzly bear, dragged me to the wagon in
the road, in which sat Captain Fishley. I was satisfied that Sim, after
he recovered his senses, would be able to conduct the boat in safety to
the hotel, and I did not worry about my companions.

"Well, Buck Bradford," said my old tyrant, "you are caught at last."

"Yes, I am caught at last," I replied; for I had resolved to put a
cheerful face upon the matter.

"What have you done with the money you stole from the letter?" he
demanded, gruffly.

"I didn't steal any money from the letter. You will have to ask Ham
Fishley what has become of that money."

"He seems to be dressed better than he was. I suppose he laid it out for
fine clothes," added the constable.

"Do you persist in saying that Ham Fishley robbed the mail?" said the
captain, angrily.

"I do; and I think I shall be able to prove it, too."

"You see, the fellow is a black-hearted scoundrel," said the postmaster,
turning to the man who was a stranger to me, and who, I afterwards
learned, was a post-office agent or detective. "This boy has been in my
family for several years, but he tries to screen himself by laying his
crime to my son."

"Have you got any money about you?" asked the constable.

"I have," I replied.

"Search him," added the captain, eagerly.

"You needn't be so savage about it," said I, when the constable came at
me as though I had been a royal Bengal tiger, with dangerous claws and
teeth. "I'll submit without any pounding."

I turned out my pockets. I had bought a new porte-monnaie in New
Orleans, and all my funds were in it. My old one, which contained the
burnt envelope, was in my carpet-bag at the hotel, so that I had no
motive for concealing anything. The officer opened the porte-monnaie,
and counted fifty-one dollars in bills, which he took from it. The trip
down the river had cost me about seventy dollars, but the proceeds of
the raft and its furniture had added twenty-five dollars to my
exchequer. As my brother had paid all my expenses on the journey up the
river, I had only spent a few dollars, mostly for the hotel boat.

"Here is more money than was taken from the letter," said the constable.

"That only proves that he has robbed the mail more than once," replied
Captain Fishley.

The post-office agent opened his eyes, and seemed to me to look
incredulous.

"Has this boy had anything to do with the mail during the last two
months?" asked he.

"Not that I know of," replied the postmaster.

The agent nodded his head, and did not seem to be quite satisfied. I
surmised that Ham had been robbing other letters.

"Where have you been for two months?" asked the agent, turning to me.

"I have been to New Orleans," I answered.

"You haven't been about here, then?"

"No, sir."

"Put him in the wagon, and we will drive home," said Captain Fishley.

The post-office agent took me in charge, and he was not so rude and
rough as the constable. He placed me on the back seat of the wagon, and
sat beside me himself. All three of my companions plied me with
questions on the way, and I told them all about my trip to New Orleans
on the raft.

"Is Clarence in Riverport?" asked Captain Fishley, much astonished, and
I thought troubled also.

"He is."

"What did you come back here for, after you had robbed the mail?" he
demanded.

"I came back to prove that I didn't rob the mail."

"I guess you can't prove that."

"I guess I can."

"How long has Clarence been in Riverport?"

"Three days."

"Why don't he come up to Torrentville and see the folks?"

"He's coming. We were waiting in Riverport to see a gentleman first," I
answered.

After I had told my story, they ceased questioning me, and I had an
opportunity to consider my position. Ham Fishley would not be glad to
see me. It would be more convenient for him not to have any examination
into the circumstances attending the robbing of the mail. From one or
two remarks of the post-office agent, I had come to the conclusion that
other letters than Miss Larrabee's were missing. Besides, the demeanor
of this man towards me was so considerate after I told my story, that I
was confident he had his doubts in regard to my guilt.

Captain Fishley drove up to the door of the store, and I was told to get
out. I obeyed, and went into the store. There I saw Ham Fishley. I
fancied that he looked pale, and that his lip quivered when he saw me.

"Got back--have you, Buck?" said he, with a ghastly grin.

"Yes, I've got back," I replied, with becoming dignity.

"They say the way of the transgressor is hard," he added.

"I think you will find it so, Ham, before this business is finished."

"You still lay it to me," he added, angrily.

Mrs. Fishley, hearing of my arrival, hastened into the shop to see me.

"So, you monster, you! you have come back--have you?" she began, in the
same refreshing, snarling tones which had so often enlivened my
existence in the past.

"I have come back, Mrs. Fishley; or rather I have been brought back," I
replied, pleasantly; for I felt that I could afford to be good-natured.

"Yes, mother; and he still sticks to it that I robbed the mail--that I
did!" added Ham, with the same sickly grin.

"I should like to know!" exclaimed she, placing her arms a-kimbo, and
staring me full in the face. "I should like to know! Haven't we done
enough for you, Buck Bradford, that you want to use us in this way? How
du'st you run away, and take Flora with you? You will make her as bad as
yourself byme-by."

"I hope not," I replied, smiling.

"She went all the way to New Orleans with him on a raft, and so did that
Sim Gwynn," interposed the captain.

"Well, there's no end of wonders with bad boys. But where's Flora now?"
asked Mrs. Fishley.

"She's at the hotel in Riverport, with Clarence and his wife."

My female tyrant wanted to know all about it, and I told her; but I will
omit the torrent of snapping, snarling, and abuse she poured out upon me
for my base ingratitude to her who had always treated me like a son. By
this time the news had begun to circulate in the village that "the mail
robber" had been caught, and men, women, and children came to see the
awful monster. It was an awkward and uncomfortable situation for me; but
I consoled myself by anticipating the triumphant acquittal which
awaited me. When the people had gazed at me to their satisfaction, the
constable conducted me to the jail. I did not shudder, as I supposed I
should, when I was cast into the lonely cell, for I knew I was innocent.

I had been there but a couple of hours, when the door was opened, and
Clarence came in. Sim had succeeded in navigating the boat back to the
hotel, and the story of my mishap had been told by Flora.

"The steamer arrived just before I left," said my brother. "A gentleman
came to the hotel inquiring for you. Who was he, Buck?"

"He will tell you himself, if he chooses. I suppose he is the person I
wish to see."

"Buck, I have had my doubts from the beginning; but I feel more
confident now that you are innocent," he added, taking me by the hand,
and exhibiting much emotion. "I have given bail for your appearance
before the magistrate in the morning, and you may come with me now."

"I just as lief stay here as not; I am innocent," I replied.

"I have been talking with the post-office detective, who appears to be
a very fair man. He says a valuable letter, which failed to reach its
owner, has been traced to this office since you went away. Of course you
could not have taken that."

"Nor the other."

We left the jail and went to the hotel in Torrentville, where we met the
detective. I gave him some information in regard to Ham Fishley's
habits, and he called in the keeper of the livery stable connected with
the hotel. This man assured him that Ham had paid him over thirty
dollars within two months for the use of his best team. I suggested that
he should visit Crofton's, and ascertain what presents Miss Elsie had
received from her lover, for this was the relation my young tyrant
sustained to her, in spite of his and her tender age. He was not quite
willing to ask her himself, but he purposed to find out by some means. I
was very sure that Ham's father had not given him thirty dollars for
horse hire within two months.

I did not sleep much that night, I was so nervous and excited. Early the
next morning I went down to Riverport with Clarence. As we drove by the
post-office I saw Captain Fishley and the senator come out of the house.
I felt safe then. How Flora hugged me when I met her! How she wept when
I told her I had been put in jail! And how glad Emily was to see me!

We breakfasted with our friends, and as my examination before the
magistrate was to take place at ten o'clock, the whole party started for
Torrentville immediately. Sim Gwynn had some doubts about going up to
Torrentville, and said "Hookie" with more than usual emphasis, when the
thing was proposed to him; but Mr. Goodridge promised to save him from
Barkspear's wrath, and he consented to go.

At ten o'clock our entire party, seven in number, entered the office of
Squire Ward, where the preliminary examination was to take place.




CHAPTER XXVI.

CONCLUSION.


"You are the fellow that stole the money Ethan sent me," squealed Miss
Larrabee, as I entered the office.

"Not much," I replied.

"O, but I know you did it; Ham Fishley says so, and I reckon he knows
who took it."

"I reckon he does, too," I answered, as I took a seat assigned to me by
the constable.

Captain Fishley and Ham soon appeared, attended by the squire, the
latter of whom, to the apparent horror of his brother, took the trouble
to come to me, and cordially shake my hand.

"You ought to have told me about this trouble before," said he, in a
whisper.

"I meant to keep my promise, whatever happened to me," I replied,
cheered by his kindness and good will.

Ham Fishley looked very pale, and his father looked very ugly. Quite a
number of witnesses were present, including the postmaster of Riverport.
The examination was commenced, and I pleaded not guilty. Clarence had
employed the smartest lawyer in town to manage my case, and I had had a
long talk with him the night before. The missing letter was traced to
the Riverport office, after which it had disappeared. Captain Fishley
swore that I brought the mail up to Torrentville, and Ham that he had
seen me counting what appeared to be a large sum of money, on the night
when the letter should have arrived, according to the testimony of the
postmaster at Riverport, who distinctly remembered the address.

Then Ham was placed "on the gridiron," and slowly broiled by Squire
Pollard, the lawyer who managed my case. He was asked where he spent the
evening, what time he got home, when he had sorted the mail; and before
he was "done," he became considerably "mixed." But Ham's time had not
come yet, and he was permitted to step down.

Captain Fishley had testified that I had no means of obtaining money
honestly, and that I had run away. The captain seemed to be greatly
astonished when his brother was called to the witness stand for the
defence.

"Mr. Fishley, were you in Torrentville two months ago?" asked Squire
Pollard.

"I was," replied the senator.

"Did you see the defendant at that time?"

"Yes, sir."

"Did you give him any money?"

"Yes, sir."

"How much?"

"The young man drove me up from Riverport on the night in question. I
gave him between forty and fifty dollars at that time, and enough more
the next day to make a hundred dollars."

"You gave him a hundred dollars, in two payments?" repeated the lawyer,
glancing round at the crowd which filled the room.

"Yes, sir, that was the amount I gave him," replied Squire Fishley; but
I saw that he looked troubled.

"You gave him between forty and fifty dollars the first time?"

"Forty-six dollars, I think, was the exact amount."

"Could this have been the money which Ham Fishley saw the defendant
counting in the hay-loft?"

"I have no doubt it was, as I fix the time from the testimony of the
witnesses."

"Why did you pay the boy this large sum?" asked the justice.

"Because he had rendered me a very important service," answered the
senator, coloring deeply.

"What was that service?" continued the magistrate.

"I had the misfortune to fall into the river, and the young man saved my
life," added Squire Fishley, now very much embarrassed.

"Ah, indeed!" said the justice on the bench, nodding his head in full
satisfaction.

"But the defendant refused to tell where he got the money, and the
presumption was, that he stole it."

"I desired him not to mention the matter for reasons of my own."

"I submit, your honor," interposed Squire Pollard, "that this matter is
foreign to the case. Squire Fishley testifies that he gave the
defendant one hundred dollars, and that he desired the young man not to
mention the matter. This testimony explains where the defendant obtained
his money, and why he declined to tell where he got it. The material
facts are all elicited."

Not only Squire Ward, but many others in the room, were very anxious to
know why this silence had been imposed upon me. There was something dark
about it, and the people were not satisfied. Squire Fishley was
troubled, and, though my lawyer, who seemed to understand the matter,--I
had told him nothing,--had influence enough to save him from any
exposure, yet he was not content to leave the dark point in its present
obscurity.

"There does not seem to be any good reason for this concealment," added
the justice.

"All the essential facts have come out, your honor," said Squire
Pollard.

"I wish to explain it fully," interposed the senator, very much to my
surprise. "Since this event, I have been elected president of a total
abstinence society. I took the pledge two months ago, on my return home
from Torrentville."

"What has this to do with the case?" demanded the justice, impatiently.

"I will explain," resumed the senator. "I had never been in the habit of
drinking more than one glass of intoxicating liquor in a day; but
meeting some friends on the steamer, I exceeded my limit. In a word, I
was somewhat intoxicated when I fell into the river, and this was the
reason why I wished to conceal the facts. The events of that night made
me a total abstinence man, and with God's help I will never taste the
intoxicating cup again."

"Ah, indeed!" said the magistrate.

Squire Fishley stepped down from the stand, wiping the perspiration from
his brow. After this humiliating confession, I think there was not a man
present who did not respect and honor him for his manly acknowledgment.

"There appears not to be a particle of evidence against the defendant,"
said Squire Pollard. "I move that he be discharged."

I was discharged.

My friends gathered around me, as the court broke up, to congratulate me
on the happy event. Clarence was satisfied, and how warmly Emily
Goodridge pressed my trembling hand! In my heart I thanked God for this
issue. Captain Fishley seemed to be stunned by the result; and Mrs.
Fishley, who came in after the examination commenced, "wanted to know!"
Ham was confounded; and as he was moving out of the office, the
post-office agent placed a heavy hand upon his shoulder.

My junior tyrant looked ghastly pale when he was conducted back to the
magistrate's table. His guilty soul was withering in his bosom. Tyrants
as his father and mother had been to me, I pitied them, for they were
not guilty of his crime.

"What do you mean by that?" demanded Captain Fishley, angrily, as the
detective dragged his son up to the bar of justice.

"I arrest him for robbing the mail."

"Me!" exclaimed Ham, his lips as white as his face, and his knees
smiting each other in his terror.

"I should like to know!" ejaculated his mother, holding up both her
hands in horror and surprise.

"Do you mean to say that Ham robbed the mail!" demanded Captain
Fishley.

"I am afraid he did."

"Then you are going to believe what that wretch says," gasped Mrs.
Fishley, pointing to me.

The justice immediately organized his court for the examination of the
new culprit, and Captain Fishley was called as the first witness.

"Does your son receive wages for his services?" asked the detective, who
managed the case for the post-office.

"No, not exactly wages. I give him what money he wants."

"How much money do you give him?"

"As much as he wants," replied the witness, sourly.

"How much have you given him during the last two months?"

"I don't know."

"What do you think?"

"I don't know."

"Answer the question to the best of your knowledge and belief,"
interposed the justice.

"Perhaps fifteen or twenty dollars," replied the captain, determined to
make the sum large enough to cover the case, though I believed that the
sum he named was double the actual amount he had given Ham.

"Did it exceed twenty?"

"No, I think not."

The detective then inquired particularly into the management of the
mails, as to who opened them and sorted the letters. I was then placed
on the stand. I told my story, as I have related it before. I produced
the fragment of the envelope I found in the fireplace on the morning
after the destruction of the letter. Captain Fishley was overwhelmed,
and Mrs. Fishley wrung her hands, declaring it was all "an awful lie."

Captain Fishley immediately called in Squire Pollard, who had done so
well for me, to defend his son. The skilful lawyer subjected me to a
severe cross-examination, in which I told the simple truth, with all the
collateral circumstances about the party at Crofton's, the hour, the
weather, the day, and twenty other things which he dragged in to confuse
me. Truth is mighty always, in little as well as in great things, and
she always stands by her friends.

The stable-keeper appeared with his memorandum-book, and astonished
Captain Fishley by swearing that Ham had paid him over thirty dollars,
within two months, for the use of his best team. The witness also
testified that he had seen Ham pay four dollars for two suppers at the
hotel in Tripleton, ten miles distant, and that the defendant had told
him not to tell his father that he hired the team.

The evidence was sufficient to commit the prisoner for trial before the
United States Court. His father and his uncle became his bail. The
detective had also ascertained that he had given his "lady love" jewelry
to the amount of at least thirty dollars, which she indignantly sent
back as soon as the facts transpired.

People wanted to know why I had not told of Ham before. I had told his
father, but he would not believe me. I was afraid that Squire Fishley
would blame me for the testimony I had given; but he did not, much as he
regretted his brother's misfortune.

Our party left the office together. As we were going out, Mr. Barkspear
put his hand on Sim Gwynn's arm, and frightened him nearly out of his
scanty wits. The poor fellow flew to the protection of Mr. Goodridge.

"That boy ran away from me," said the miserly farmer.

"He didn't give me enough to eat," howled Sim.
