"But remember that this explanation is made for your benefit, and not
for that of the students in the steerage. They have chosen their own
remedy, and they must abide the issue. You are now dismissed."
"Not yet, if you please, Mr. Lowington," interposed Grace, who had
stationed herself, with her mother on the port side of the mizzen-mast.
"If the young gentlemen will pass this way, they shall be decorated
with the white ribbon of the Order of the Faithful."
"The Order of the Faithful!" exclaimed Mr. Lowington, laughing, while
all the students applauded. "You will pass forward on the port side of
the mizzen-mast, and be initiated into the Order of the Faithful."
"I shall join that order," said Commodore Kendall, as he placed himself
in the single line formed by the boys.
"Let the flag-officer go first," added some of the students, dragging
Paul to the head of the column.
"Commodore Kendall, you are received into the Order of the Faithful,"
said Grace, as she pinned upon the left breast of his coat the white
ribbon, which was doubled, so that the two ends hung down.
"Thank you, Miss Arbuckle. I will endeavor to be faithful," replied the
flag-officer, as he touched his cap to the fair initiator.
Captain Shuffles followed him, and in half an hour the entire party
were duly initiated and decorated. As fast as Mrs. Arbuckle could cut
off and double the ribbons, Grace adjusted them. She explained that she
had purchased a large quantity of narrow white and blue ribbon in Paris
to make trimmings for a dress; and when the principal had spoken of a
distinguishing mark for those who did their duty, it had suggested to
her the white ribbon of the Order of the Faithful. She was delighted to
have her idea so well received.
"We have had some secret societies on board this ship," laughed Paul
Kendall, after he had received his decoration. "I move you we form
another--the Order of the Faithful."
"We have already taken the obligation," added Shuffles.
"And we have been initiated by Miss Arbuckle," said Gordon.
The suggestion was received with favor, though rather as a pleasantry
than as a serious matter; and, after the faithful had all marched by
the mizzen-mast, the subject was again taken up in the waist.
"I move you that Commodore Kendall be chosen Grand Commander of the
Order of the Faithful," said Shuffles.
"I beg you will excuse me. I couldn't walk if I had to carry around
with me such a magnificent title as that," replied Paul, shrugging his
shoulders like a Frenchman. "I suggest that Miss Grace Arbuckle be the
chief of the order, and that no one be admitted unless initiated by
her. As she is the founder of the order, it is fair that she should be
its head."
"Good!" shouted several of the officers and seamen.
"What shall her title be?" added Shuffles.
"Queen," replied Gordon.
"No; that's too commonplace," answered Haven.
"What shall it be, then?"
"Something outlandish, just for the fun of the thing," said Haven, who
was not a very warm advocate of secret societies.
"The Amazon," suggested one of the seamen.
"O, no! don't call her an Amazon," protested Paul. "It would be a libel
upon her."
"The Queen of the Fairies."
"We are not fairies," objected Haven.
"She is one, at any rate."
"Call her the Empress."
"Simply the President."
"No; the Directress."
The question seemed to be a trying one; and one after another suggested
titles which were satisfactory to no one but the proposers.
"How will the Protectress do?" inquired Shuffles.
"Rather formidable and commonplace," replied Haven. "Make it the Grand
Protectress, and I am with you."
"I like Protectress," added Paul Kendall.
"So do I," said half a dozen others.
"Grand Protectress is better," persisted Haven, who could not help
making a burlesque of the affair.
"Grand Protectress!" shouted a dozen others, who believed in
high-sounding titles.
"Put it to vote," suggested Shuffles.
"Ay, ay! put it to vote."
"Those in favor of Grand Protectress say, ay," continued Haven.
"Ay!" responded a large number.
"Opposed."
"No."
"The ayes have it. Grand Protectress it is."
"I move you that Commodore Kendall and Captain Shuffles be a committee
to wait upon Miss Arbuckle, and inform her that she has been
unanimously chosen Grand Protectress of the Order of the Faithful.
Those in favor say, ay; those opposed, no. It is a vote."
The committee went to the quarter-deck, where Grace and her mother were
conversing with Mr. Lowington. Paul, who was by seniority the
spokesman, touched his cap, and looked as dignified as though he had
been the minister plenipotentiary of one of the great powers.
"Miss Arbuckle, I have the honor--and I should do injustice to my own
feelings if I did not add, the pleasure--to inform you, that you have
been unanimously chosen Grand Protectress of the Order of the
Faithful."
"The what?" asked Grace.
The principal, usually very solemn and dignified, laughed heartily.
"Grand Protectress," replied Paul, gravely. "The order has been duly
established; and, as you have initiated all the members, it is
eminently proper that you should preside over its destinies."
"Please to assure the members of the order, that I accept the high
position, and that I am very grateful to them for the honor they have
done me," answered Grace, when she could restrain her laughter so as to
speak.
"I am happy to be the bearer of such a pleasant message," said Paul, as
he bowed and retired.
"Grand Protectress!" laughed Grace, repeating in measured tones her
magnificent title.
Paul reported the acceptance of the Grand Protectress; and the society
was further organized by the choice of a secretary, whose only duty was
to keep a record of the names of the members.
"Now, we want a motto," said Gordon; "something that will express, in
few words, the objects of the society."
"I don't happen to know what the objects of the society are," replied
Haven; "but I suggest, 'Honi soit qui mal y pense.'"
"The Queen of England has a mortgage on that motto," said Paul.
"Semper paratus will be better."
"What does it mean?" asked a student.
"Some praties," replied a wag.
"Let us have a motto in plain English, and one that has not been used
by all the engine companies in the United States," added Haven.
"Semper paratus is good, I think," persisted Paul. "Always ready to
answer the boatswain's call, and always ready to do our duty."
"But it is worn out," protested Haven. "I move you we invite the Grand
Protectress to give us a motto."
The motion was carried, and the same committee appointed to make the
request. Paul led the way to Grace again, who was still highly amused
at the grand honor which had been conferred upon her.
"The Order of the Faithful instructs me humbly to petition the Grand
Protectress for a motto suitable to the needs, and expressive of the
objects, of the association," said Paul.
"O, dear me!" exclaimed Grace. "If you ask such things as that of me, I
shall not wish to be Grand Protectress. I think, as your great
philosopher said, it will be paying too dear for the whistle. Must it
be in English, French, Latin, or German?"
"That must be left to the discretion of your Grand Protectresship,"
answered Paul, gravely.
"Please to help me, father," said she, appealing to Mr. Arbuckle.
"Whatever the Grand Protectress vouchsafes to give us shall be
cherished by the order," added Paul.
Mr. Arbuckle wrote a sentence on a slip of paper, and handed it to
Grace.
"Ah, here is your motto!" exclaimed she, laughing heartily.
"Please to repeat it," said Captain Shuffles.
"Vous ne pouvez pas faire un sifflet de la queue d'un cochon," added
Grace, reading from the paper, which she handed to Paul, choking with
mirth.
"Thanks, most excellent Grand Protectress," replied the commodore, who
found it very difficult to maintain his gravity.
"It is a literal translation of the English proverb, and perhaps the
idea is not expressed in similar phrase in French," said Mr. Arbuckle;
"but I think it will answer very well for a motto."
Paul smoothed down his face as well as he could, and conveyed the motto
to the assembled order in the waist.
"I have the honor to inform you that the Grand Protectress has provided
a motto," said he.
"What is it?" demanded a dozen.
"It is in French."
"The motto!" called the impatient Faithfuls.
"Vous ne pouvez pas faire un sifflet de la queue d'un cochon."
Only two or three laughed, for only a few were as good French scholars
as Paul and Shuffles.
"What's the English of it?" asked several at the same time.
"You must excuse me, for I do not think it is quite proper to translate
the motto," replied Paul.
Those who understood it enjoyed the joke too much to afford the others
any light on the subject. Haven was delighted with the motto, and moved
that it be accepted. As it had been furnished by the Grand Protectress,
it was unanimously adopted. The weak scholars were very curious to know
the meaning of the mystic words. Most of them could make out a part of
the sentence, but not enough to translate it. The business of the
meeting was completed, and the members separated, all of them feeling
that the mutiny of the Young America was more like a merrymaking than
anything else. To be decorated with the white ribbon of the order by a
beautiful young lady was a privilege which they appreciated, and all of
them were thankful that they had not been led astray by the evil
counsels which had prevailed in the steerage.
"If you do not like the motto, I can give you another now," said Grace,
when Paul joined the little party on the quarter-deck.
"The one you gave was unanimously adopted by the order," replied Paul.
"Was it, really?" asked Grace, laughing more heartily than before.
"Certainly it was."
"Did they understand its meaning?"
"Some of them did."
"If you like this one better, it is at your service: 'High aims produce
noble deeds.'"
"While I hope we all believe in the English one, I think the members of
the order prefer the French one."
"If they are suited, I am," replied Grace, cheerfully.
The ship was still going along under easy sail, though the weather
promised to be unfavorable before morning. At eight o'clock, the
starboard watch, with the first and third lieutenants in charge, took
the deck, and the port watch went below. They were to be ready for duty
at twelve. Everything on deck was as pleasant as a merry-making. None
of the passengers were seasick.
Everything was not so lovely in the steerage, and it is necessary to go
back a few hours in order to ascertain what passed among the mutineers.
CHAPTER VI.
IN THE STEERAGE.
After the students finished their supper, those who had decided to
rebel against the authorities of the ship retired to the mess-rooms,
agreeably to the instructions of the leaders. There were forty-four of
them, including the eighteen runaways who still remained in the ship as
seamen, and who were the real mischief-makers, forming a class by
themselves, hardening their hearts in sheer ugliness against the
discipline of the ship. In their exploit with the Josephine, they had
"bucked" against authority, and had suffered the consequences, which
unfortunately had not produced a favorable impression upon them. They
were disposed to do the same thing again.
The rest of the mutineers belonged to a different class. They were
generally well-disposed boys, fond of fun and excitement, not exactly
the "lambs" of the flock, but certainly not the black sheep. If some of
them had assisted in creating the confusion during the drill, they had
not done so with any malicious purpose, as the runaways had, but from a
thoughtless love of sport and excitement. They would never have thought
of such an expedient as rebellion if they had not been cunningly worked
upon by the real mischief-makers. They were not strong-minded young
men, who dare to do right under all circumstances. With good impulses
in the main, their principle was not hardened into that solid element
which constitutes a reliable conscience. They were easily led away, and
believing they had a real grievance, they resorted to doubtful means
for its redress.
Of this class Raymond had been the leading spirit. He would have
resented the appellation of mutineer as an insult. All he expected and
desired to obtain was an explanation; and he was confident that when
two thirds of the crew mildly, and even respectfully, declined to do
duty, the principal, either in person or by deputy, would come below to
ascertain the nature of the difficulty. He had cautioned his party to
be perfectly respectful to the officers, and especially to the
principal and professors. If it was to be a mutiny in any sense of the
word, it was to be a very gentlemanly one. Having reduced the intended
rebellion to this mild form, he had no fear that the rough hand of
Peaks would be laid upon them, or that the party would be driven by
force from the mess-rooms.
"How do you suppose it will come out?" asked Hyde, one of Raymond's
messmates, in a low tone, as a group of the rebels gathered in their
room.
"It will come out all right," replied the leader of the mild mutineers,
confidently.
"I'm not so sure of that," added Hyde, shaking his head. "Mr. Lowington
is a great stickler for discipline; and he is not exactly the man to
come below, and coax us to attend to our duty."
"I don't expect he will coax us to do it. But there are so many of us
in the scrape that he can hardly do anything else."
"How many do you suppose there are?" inquired Hyde.
"I can't tell exactly, but I am satisfied that more than two thirds of
the whole crew will stand out."
"I don't know about that."
"I know that every fellow in the ship is mad because the trip to the
Rhine is given up; and I think that at least two thirds of them are mad
enough to do something about it. I should not be surprised if not a
single fellow answered the boatswain's call."
"I should; for I know half a dozen who have said they should; but they
mean to let the principal know that all the fellows are dissatisfied
with the idea of being cheated out of the run into Germany. I'm not
sure that this wouldn't be the better way."
"O, it wouldn't amount to a row of pins! What does the principal care
whether the fellows are satisfied or not? We must do something to prove
that we are somebody," persisted Raymond.
"That's so," added Lindsley, earnestly. "I don't believe in all Howe's
nonsense, but there is a good deal of truth in what he says. We are not
common sailors, but the sons of wealthy men. We were sent to this ship
because we could have a chance to see the world while we were getting
an education; and it isn't just the thing to deprive us of the
privileges we pay for. Of course we don't mean to make any row. If the
principal don't choose to set us right, why, we must go to our duty,
and make the best of it; but for one, I shall write to my father, and
tell him just how the matter stands."
"That's the idea," responded Raymond. "I shall do the same thing, and I
know my father will send for me immediately. My mother would be glad
enough to have me go home."
"I'll tell you what it is, fellows," added Lindsley, warmly; "if about
fifty of us will only hang together, we can have our own way. If we
write home that we are dissatisfied, that the principal is rough on us,
and won't let us see the country, we can blow up the Academy Ship
higher than a kite."
"I think we have seen the country pretty well," suggested Wilde.
"Yes; but we are not to go into Germany," replied Raymond. "We are to
go to sea, just because the new captain demands it."
"For my own part, I like the ship first rate, and should hate to have
my father send for me," continued Wilde. "I don't believe there are a
dozen fellows on board who wouldn't think it a hard case if they had to
leave."
"Not if we are to be treated in this manner. If we are allowed to see
the country, and have a good time, every fellow will be satisfied,"
replied Raymond. "But I think it will all come round right if we keep a
stiff upper lip, and stand up for our rights. I like Lindsley's idea
first rate. We can talk that up, and it will help us out, if nothing
else will. We can easily get forty or fifty of the fellows to say they
will ask their fathers to take them away from the ship if they don't
have fair play. Then we can mildly suggest the idea to Mr. Lowington;
and, I tell you, he can see that the loss of fifty of us would make an
end of his big idea."
"I'm not ready to say I will ask my father to take me out of the ship,"
protested Wilde.
"I am," said Raymond.
"So am I," added Lindsley.
"And I," chimed in others.
"While we are waiting, suppose we circulate the idea."
At this moment Tremere and Willis, who were the other occupants of the
mess-room, came in, and the proposition was stated to them.
"No!" exclaimed Tremere, very decidedly. "When the boatswain pipes, I
shall go on deck, and do my duty as long as I have two legs to stand
on, and two hands to work with."
"So shall I," added Willis. "I don't believe half the stories that have
been told through the ship. In my opinion, if any of the fellows don't
go down the Rhine this year, it will be because they are rebels or
runaways. I shall take my station when the boatswain pipes, if I am the
only fellow on board that does so."
"If you haven't spunk enough to stand up for your rights, you deserve
to lose them," replied Raymond, disgusted with the answers of those
high-toned students.
"My rights! Humph! I value them too highly to throw them away by any
such stupid conduct as you suggest," answered Willis.
Lindsley, thinking that Tremere and Willis did not understand their
plan, volunteered to explain that they did not intend to use any
violent measures; that they meant to be entirely respectful to the
officers and to the faculty.
"Disobedience is disobedience, whether you are respectful or
disrespectful; whether you say 'no' squarely, or 'excuse me;' only the
former is less cowardly than the latter," said Tremere, in reply. "As I
understand the matter, you are getting up a row, asking fellows to
write to their fathers to take them away from the ship."
"All hands, up anchor, ahoy!" shouted the boatswain, at the main hatch.
Raymond returned to the mess-room, while the two incorruptible fellows
hastened to their stations on deck.
"Now we are in for it!" said Lindsley.
"Let us stick to our text," added Raymond, fearful that some of the
party would back out as the decisive moment had come.
"Ay, ay! Stick to the text!" added Hyde.
"Hold on, and I will see how many fellows answer the call," continued
Raymond, nervously, as he stationed himself at the door of the room,
where he could see the seamen who went up the ladder.
"Count them," said Lindsley.
It was an exciting moment to the rebels, for however real they believed
their grievances to be, probably not many of them were satisfied with
the expediency or the justice of the measure they had adopted to
redress them.
"Only twelve!" exclaimed Raymond, when the last of the faithful had
ascended the ladder.
"That's bully!" said Hyde, rubbing his hands with satisfaction at the
assumed success of the scheme.
"Are you sure that you counted right?" inquired Lindsley.
"I counted ten, and added Tremere and Willis to the number, for they
had gone up before I began. I didn't expect even as many as that would
go."
But the enthusiastic rebel had made a blunder. A portion of those who
intended to obey orders, having no motive for remaining below, had gone
on deck as soon as they finished their suppers. Sixteen of these, added
to the twelve who went up from the steerage, made the twenty-eight who
first answered the call.
"Only twelve!" repeated Hyde.
"If we have nearly the whole crowd, we can do something more than
explain our position," said Lindsley.
"I'm not in favor of doing anything more than that," added Raymond,
shaking his head.
"All hands, up anchor, ahoy!" shouted the boatswain, the second time,
at the main hatch.
"It's all right," said Howe, appearing at the door; "not a fellow
answers it."
"Only a dozen have gone on deck in all," added Raymond.
"Is that all?" asked the runaway.
"That's all; I counted them."
"Good! We shall make a big thing of it," answered Howe, as he left the
room to look into others, in all of which it is safe to say that the
strong-minded rebels were engaged in stiffening the backs of the weaker
ones, for a large portion of them were in a very novel position.
"Some one will be down very soon to know what the matter is," said
Hyde, fidgeting about his berth, where he had stretched himself to
await the time.
"Who shall speak for us?" asked Raymond.
"You shall," replied Lindsley.
"Very well; I will do the best I can," answered Raymond, modestly. "I
am to say, very respectfully, that the fellows are dissatisfied with
the idea of going to sea, and giving up the trip to the Rhine."
"Yes; and we respectfully request that the principal will make good his
promise to take us into Germany," added Hyde.
"Don't you mean to say anything about the letters to our fathers,
asking them to take us away from the ship?" inquired Lindsley.
"That looks a little like a threat," objected Raymond. "Besides, we
don't know how many fellows will agree to send such letters."
"Let us go round and see," suggested Lindsley.
"We will, if there is time."
As the record of the preceding chapter testifies, there was an
abundance of time to carry out this or any other preliminary measure.
Raymond and Lindsley proceeded to canvass the rebels in regard to the
letters. The eighteen runaways were ready to assent to anything, but
only about half of the others were willing to give in their allegiance
to what they regarded as a mean scheme. Some even declared they would
back out if anything of this sort was to be attempted. Raymond was
politic enough not to press the measure very hard, and he returned to
his room with the names of only thirty, instead of fifty, which he had
expected to obtain.
"That's enough to make a show with," said Lindsley.
"But I don't intend to say anything about the letters to the principal,
if he is willing to do the fair thing by us."
"What are they about on deck? It is half an hour since the boatswain
piped all hands," said Hyde, jumping out of his berth.
"I'm sure I don't know," replied Lindsley, uneasily. "I should think
they had found out by this time that something was the matter."
"I know one thing," said Wilde, with a significant shake of the head,
as though he had made an important discovery.
"What's that?" demanded the others, in the same breath.
"They have put the grating on the main hatch, so that we can't go on
deck if we wish to do so," replied Wilde, who had begun to be regarded
as one with a weak back.
"No matter for that," answered Raymond, with an effort to laugh, though
he was far from being satisfied with the situation as indicated by the
closed hatch. "As we don't want to go on deck, it makes no difference
to us."
"That's so," added Lindsley. "They have put on the grating to make a
show. They can't do anything while sixty of the crew are below."
"Are you sure there are sixty?" asked Hyde, doubtfully.
"Take twelve from the whole crew, and it leaves sixty. But count them
for yourself, if you are not satisfied with my figures."
"I will;" and he left the mess-room for this purpose.
He had the curiosity to look up the hatch, and made another
discovery--that the stout boatswain was there, apparently keeping
watch. The faithful had just marched to the quarter-deck, to indicate
that they were willing to "keep their own counsel," as requested by the
principal. Hyde returned to the room to report the fact. It looked like
decided measures to him.
"I think we are caged," said he.
"No matter if we are," replied Raymond, with a sneer. "One thing is
plain enough; they can't go to sea without us."
"No; twelve fellows can't get the anchor up, even with the help of
Peaks," added Lindsley.
"O, we've got them," persisted Raymond. "We are a majority of all
hands, even if you count the officers on the other side; and I happen
to know they are as much dissatisfied as we are."
Hyde left the room again, and succeeded in making a count of all the
seamen in the steerage.
"Humph!" snuffed he, on his return. "You counted the fellows with your
elbows, Raymond. There are only forty-four in the steerage."
"Forty-four!" sneered Raymond. "Does twelve from seventy-two leave
forty-four?"
"No; but twenty-eight from seventy-two leaves forty-four," retorted
Hyde. "I'm sure I'm right."
Raymond was not satisfied, and counted for himself, but with no
different result; and Lindsley suggested that some of the twenty-eight
were on deck when the boatswain's call sounded.
"Well, what's the odds?" demanded the mortified leader of the moderate
party. "They can't get the ship under way with twenty-eight much better
than with twelve. It takes thirty-two to man the capstan. What are they
doing on deck?"
"I don't know," replied Hyde. "I was going up the ladder to ascertain,
but Peaks drove me away. I heard them lowering boats, but I could not
make out what they intend to do."
"O, it's all right. You needn't fret about it," added the leader.
Probably no one was more disturbed than he. The lowering of the boats
was discussed in full, but nothing could be made of it, though Raymond
insisted that the ship could not go to sea while the boats were away.
Half an hour later they heard the faithful on deck hoisting up the
boats. Hyde stood at the door of the mess-room watching the hatchway,
for any chance revelation of the principal's intentions. The same doubt
and uncertainty, as well as curiosity in regard to the movements on
deck, prevailed in all the other mess-rooms. It had been agreed that
all hands should remain in their rooms; but this agreement was now
violated, and most of the mutineers were gathered at the doors, anxious
to obtain intelligence from the deck.
Suddenly the grating was removed from the hatch.
"All hands, up anchor, ahoy!" shouted the boatswain, for the third,
and, as it proved, the last time.
But no one came below to remonstrate, or ask for the explanation which
a majority of the rebels were now exceedingly anxious to give. The
moment the call sounded, Wilde walked towards the ladder.
"Where are you going?" demanded Raymond, angrily.
"I have had enough of this thing," he replied, and, without waiting for
any further parley, went on deck, though the rebels hissed him.
Another seaman from one of the other mess-rooms followed his example,
though Howe seized him by the collar, and attempted to detain him by
force. Fortunately he was a stout fellow, and shook off his assailant.
A storm of hisses and abuse followed him as he went up the ladder.
Doubtless this treatment of the weak-backed, as they were considered,
deterred others from imitating their example, for the faithful had only
these two added to their number.
"I'm glad we are rid of them," said Raymond. "Fellows with weak backs
don't do us any good."
"They add to our number, at any rate," replied Hyde, who, if he could
have escaped the odium of the movement, would have gone on deck
himself.
"No matter for that; we have forty-two left, and the ship can't go to
sea without our help," added Raymond.
"I'm not quite sure of that," answered Hyde.
"No matter if she does go to sea," said Lindsley.
"But she can't go," persisted Raymond. "All we want is a chance to
state our grievances; and the principal is not going to let us stay
down here a great many days without knowing what the matter is."
"Hark!" said Hyde, as the boatswain's whistle sounded on deck.
"Man the capstan!" shouted Goodwin, the first lieutenant.
"Doesn't that look as though the ship was going to sea?" added the
sceptical Hyde. "I tell you what it is, fellows, we are sold!"
"Sold? Not a bit of it! We are in the winning boat."
"Not exactly."
The rebels listened to the merry pipe of those who walked around the
capstan, and heard the grating of the chain cables as they passed
through the tiers into the lockers in the hold. It was plain enough
that thirty-two hands had been found to man the capstan, for the anchor
was certainly coming up from its miry bed. These sounds produced
something like consternation among the mutineers, for they indicated at
least a partial failure of the scheme in which they had trusted for
redress.
"Go ahead!" shouted the executive officer through his trumpet.
"Go ahead?" repeated Raymond, as he went to the sky-light. "Not a sail
has been set."
"But she is moving," said Hyde. "I see how it is. They have taken a
tug-steamer."
"They are not going to tow the ship to Belfast," answered Raymond, as
he went to one of the port gangways from which the mess-rooms opened.
"There goes the Josephine, under sail. In my opinion, they are only
dropping down to another anchorage. The principal will not think of
such a thing as going to sea with only thirty seamen. It isn't safe to
do so."
"When it isn't safe, Peaks will be down here, and you will have to turn
out and do duty," said Hyde.
At that instant, as if to verify the prophecy of the croaker, the
stalwart boatswain, with the assistance of the carpenter, lifted the
grating off the main hatch. Most of the rebels retreated to their
rooms; but it was a false alarm, for the two adult seamen, instead of
coming below themselves, only lifted up the ladder, and drew it on
deck, restoring the grating when it was done.
"That looks like something," said Lindsley.
"I tell you we are sold," added Hyde. "The principal isn't coming down
here to ask us for an explanation. It isn't his style."
"Don't croak any more, Hyde," protested Raymond, in disgust.
"I only say we are sold, and you can't deny it."
"Wait and see."
They did wait, and after a while they heard the order to shake out the
topsails. Looking up through the main skylight, they saw lieutenants,
masters, and midshipmen, on the yards. They listened to the voices of
Paul Kendall, Gordon, and Haven, issuing orders which were usually
given by the lieutenants. From what they saw and what they heard, they
were enabled to arrive at a tolerably correct solution of the means by
which the ship was at present handled. They understood that the larger
portion of the officers were doing duty as seamen, while the past
officers were serving as volunteers under the captain.
"We might as well cave in, and go on deck," said Hyde, after the
movements on deck had been thoroughly discussed.
"Humph! You can't get on deck, to begin with," replied Raymond. "But I
haven't any idea of giving it up so."
"The plan has failed--that's plain enough," added Hyde.
"Not yet."
"I think it has. We are whipped out, and the sooner we make our peace
with Mr. Lowington, the better it will be for us."
"If you mean to back out, say so, Hyde."
"I don't want to back out while the rest of the fellows stick."
"How will it do to send a messenger to the principal, state our
grievances, and have the thing over?" suggested Johnson.
This idea met with considerable favor, but the principal objection to
the measure was, that the messenger could not get on deck, as the
ladder was removed from the main hatch, and the forward one was closed.
The ship careened, the waves dashed against the bow, and it was evident
that she was going to sea in good earnest. A large portion of the
rebels were now studying up a plan to get out of the scrape, rather
than to establish their rights. The boatswain's whistle sounded on
deck, and all hands were piped to muster. Vainly the mutineers tried to
ascertain what was going on, while Mr. Lowington was making his
explanation to the faithful; but the parties were on the quarter-deck
beyond their sight and hearing. Only the applause which followed
Grace's proposition to decorate the members of the Order of the
Faithful reached their ears. The ceremony itself, which took place in
the waist, indicated that those on deck were having an exceedingly
jolly time, though the nature of the performance was not understood.
Then, when the Grand Protectress was elected, the hilarious mirth of
the Faithful was positively sickening to the rebels. Those on deck
appeared to be making fun of those below, for what else could they be
laughing at, since the refusal of the rebels to do duty must be the
all-absorbing topic on board? The situation was very unsatisfactory to
the mild mutineers, and not very hopeful to the runaways.
"Let them laugh," said Raymond, whistling up his courage, so that he
could maintain the dignity and firmness of a leader. "If we hold out,
we shall carry our point. I have looked at the tell-tale, and the ship
is headed to the north-west. If the course means anything, it means
Belfast."
"What's the use of talking?" exclaimed Johnson. "The plan I proposed is
the only one now. I move you we send a messenger to the principal."
"You can't get on deck," retorted Raymond.
"We can hail some one on deck, or knock at the door of the main cabin."
"It looks like backing out," added Lindsley.
"That is what we shall have to do in the end, and we may as well do it
first as last," said Hyde.
"Hold on! Here comes Howe," continued Lindsley. "Let us hear what he
has to say."
"I don't care what he says," muttered Hyde, who, like many other of the
mild rebels, was not willing to join hands with the virulent and
intense ones.
"I say, fellows, we are not making much on this tack," Howe began, as
he joined the group at the door of the mess-room. "We are going to have
a meeting abaft the foremast, to decide what shall be done next. All
hands are invited."
Howe moved on to extend the invitation to others.
CHAPTER VII.
THE VISIT TO THE HOLD.
"I don't attend any meeting with those fellows," said the prudent Hyde,
as the rebels began to gather at the place indicated.
"There is no harm in hearing what they have to say," replied Lindsley.
"I don't care what they have to say. I won't have anything to do with
them. In my opinion they are trying to get us all into a scrape."
"You are in one now, and you may as well be hung for an old sheep as a
lamb."
"I would rather be hung for a lamb," answered Hyde, turning on his
heel, and walking as far from the foremast as the limits of the
steerage would permit.
About a dozen others followed his example, for the meeting was
understood to be called by the runaways, who represented the most
virulent type of rebellion. They had already lost all their privileges
for the season, which could be restored only by the grace of the
principal, and they had nothing to sacrifice. It was not prudent to
enter into their counsels, and the mildest rebels, like Hyde and
Johnson, avoided them.
"We are not making much on this tack," said Howe, when the rebels, who
chose to take part in the meeting, had assembled.
"That's so!" exclaimed Lindsley.
"Well, what's to be done? That's the next question."
"Nothing," added Raymond, who dreaded any extreme measures, and did not
mean that Howe's party should obtain control of the movement. "As I
understand the matter, all is going on right. We have only to hold out,
and everything will end well for us."
"But we are shut up in the steerage. We are prisoners. The tables are
turned upon us," replied Howe.
"Not at all. We have carried our point so far. We refused to do duty,
and we haven't done any. I am in favor of fighting it out in this
manner to the end."
"It is a milk-and-water affair as it is now, and won't amount to
anything."
"What's the reason it won't?" demanded the champion of the mild party.
"Suppose the main hatch were opened, and the boatswain should call all
hands--how many of us do you suppose would be left? There are a dozen
of your chickens that would back down so quick it would make your eyes
smart," added the champion of the intense party, pointing to the group
which had collected around Hyde, who appeared to be forming a party of
his own. "And the next time the call was made, a lot more would slump.
Before long we should be so reduced in numbers that the brig would hold
us all, and a few of us would have to stand the punishment for the sins
of the crowd. You led us into the scrape; now you must help us out of
it."
"Who led you into it?" asked Raymond, indignantly.
"You and your fellows, of course," retorted the heavy champion.
"I don't see it."
"Don't you? Then you are as green as a tame pigeon," continued Howe,
smartly. "Our fellows--of course you know I mean those who ran away in
the Josephine--are under the ban already. Did you suppose we were going
into an affair like this alone? Not much! We went in because you did;
to back up your movement. Now we are in it, you want to back out, and
let your fellows show the white feather."
"I don't mean to back out," protested Raymond.
"But those fellows out there do," added the wily rogue.
"Well, there are thirty of us here, who will stick to the end. What do
you say, fellows?"
"Of course we will," replied several, very mildly.
"Will you agree, upon your word and honor, to stick as long as any one
does?"
"That depends upon circumstances," interposed Lindsley.
"I suppose it does," sneered Howe. "It isn't fair to leave us to bear
the brunt of the whole."
"All we ever proposed to do was simply to refuse to do duty till we had
explained our position to the principal," added Raymond.
"And kiss the rod, whether you get fair play or not," replied Howe.
"We can't do anything more than that. When the principal understands
that over forty of us are dissatisfied, we have gained our point."
"Have you indeed!" flouted Howe. "Then I fancy you have already gained
it, for he has found out that you are dissatisfied by this time."
"Well, what do you want to do?" demanded Raymond.
"It's no use to mince the matter. We have made a failure of it so far.
The lambs on deck are having a good time, laughing, cheering, and
carrying on--making game of us, no doubt, while we are shut up here as
prisoners," replied Howe, rolling up his sleeves, as though he intended
to do something savage. "We ought to make ourselves felt, which we
haven't done yet, for the rest of the ship's company seem to regard our
movement as a good joke, and to think we are having the worst of it.
Well, I think we are; and we must make ourselves felt."
"Do you call it making yourselves felt when you are pounded on the head
with belaying pins, as you were in the Josephine?" inquired Lindsley,
dryly.
"We raised a breeze there, and we are bound to do it here."
"A breeze that first knocks you down yourself. I would rather have the
wind blow another way," added Raymond.
"I don't mean to get up a fight, or anything of that sort."
"Well, what do you mean?" asked Raymond, impatiently.
"We have plans of our own; but we are not going to disclose them till
we have some assurance that the other fellows will stand by us,"
answered the cautious leader of the intense party. "We are going to
make ourselves felt."
"We are not going to agree to anything without knowing what it is,"
said Lindsley.
"And we are not going to let on to fellows that may go to the
principal, and blow the whole thing. I will say this: If your fellows
will pledge themselves, word and honor, to stand by us to the end, I
will agree that the ship shall return to Havre, or some other port in
France, within twenty-four hours, and that the tables shall be turned
in our favor."
"How are you going to do it?" asked Lindsley.
"Leave that to me. I have a plan which cannot fail. Do the fair thing
by us, and we will get you out of the scrape."
"I will agree to this, and nothing more: I will stand out till we have
a chance to be heard," replied Raymond, who began to have some hope of
the mysterious movements of Howe. "I will do nothing but stand out."
"We don't ask you to do anything else. We will do the rest, if you back
us up."
"We don't back you up, for we don't even know what you are going to
do."
"We will tell you what we are going to do."
"Hold on! Perhaps we had better not know anything about it," interposed
Raymond.
"No, you don't!" exclaimed Howe. "We will tell those who will take the
oath."
"The oath!" ejaculated Lindsley. "Are we joining the Knights of the
Golden Fleece?"
"No, no! I mean the promise," answered Howe, impatiently. "Word and
honor--that's all I want."
The runaway portion of the rebels were doubtless already familiar with
the extraordinary means which was to turn the ship back to the ports of
France. The others, who attended the meeting, were largely influenced
by curiosity. They were intensely mortified at the defeat, which they
were unwilling to acknowledge. It would afford them immense
satisfaction to have the tables turned in their favor; but they were
utterly unable to imagine what powerful machinery Howe and his
associates could bring to bear upon the obdurate principal; how they
were to compel him to put the ship about, and return to France.
The mild party retired to consider whether it would be prudent for them
to enter into a compact of this description with such dangerous
characters as the runaways. They were prejudiced against the measure,
but victory in the undertaking, in which they had engaged, was so
earnestly coveted, that they were tempted to join hands even with Howe,
Little, Wilton, and other desperate fellows. When a person has once
gone astray, the inducements to go farther increase. But Raymond and
his friends were not quite willing to pledge themselves in advance to
measures which they were not allowed to understand; and they finally
agreed to bind themselves to secrecy, in regard to the nature of the
scheme, if Howe would explain it on these terms, and then engage in it
if it were not too wicked. The party returned to the foremast, and
Raymond stated their position.
"That won't go down," promptly replied Howe, with his bullying,
self-sufficient air. "We are to tell you what our plan is, and let you
adopt it or not, as you please! No, sir!"
"We pledge ourselves beforehand to keep your secret, whether we join
with you or not."
"We won't trust you."
"Very well," added Raymond, decidedly. "Nothing more need be said.
Come, fellows."
The leader of the mild party turned on his heel, and moved aft,
followed by his adherents.
"What do you suppose they mean to do?" asked Lindsley, as they halted
under the skylight, near the middle of the steerage.
"I don't know; but it must be something desperate to compel the
principal to put back," replied Raymond. "It may be to make a few
auger-holes in the bottom of the ship."
"I wouldn't do anything of that sort," added Lindsley, shaking his
head.
"No matter what it is; we offered to do the fair thing."
"Suppose you had agreed to keep still, and they had proposed to bore
holes in the bottom of the ship; would you have kept your promise, and
said nothing about it?" asked Lindsley.
"I would not have let them do it; and then there would have been
nothing to conceal," answered Raymond.
"Precisely so! That's a good idea. Why not agree to their proposition,
and then, if they mean to do anything which endangers the ship, we can
easily prevent them from doing it," said Lindsley, who was exceedingly
curious to know what the runaways wished to do.
Others were affected with the same desire, and their curiosity was
rapidly overcoming their prudence. While they were discussing the
question, Hyde and his party, seeing that Raymond and his associates
had withdrawn from the runaways, came to the spot, and disturbed the
conference with irrelevant questions. If all the mild mutineers could
be induced to cling together, they could easily overrule Howe and his
party. Just then, there was not that unity which alone insures success.
There were actually three parties in the steerage, and it was necessary
to reconcile them, or the rebellion would end in an ignominious
failure. But this was found to be quite impossible, so far as Hyde and
his party were concerned; for if the boatswain's call had sounded at
that moment, they would have returned to their duty, if permitted to do
so. Raymond would not consent to make terms with Howe, without the
concurrence of all the others, including Hyde.
Howe was quite as much disgusted with the situation as any of the
milder rebels. He had hoped and expected to drag them into any
desperate scheme which might be adopted, and after Raymond and his
party retired, he looked rather blankly at his friends.
"They are nothing but babies--little spoonies!" said he,
contemptuously. "It isn't safe to do anything with them."
"Nor without them," suggested Spencer.
"I don't believe that," added Little. "They are in for it already. They
will be held responsible for anything done below, as well as we. Let's
go on with the job, just as we intended."
After considerable discussion, the suggestion of the little villain was
adopted, with a modification, however, proposed by himself, by which
the whole party were to be implicated in the mischief. No time was to
be lost, for a portion of the faithful, who appeared still to be having
a good time on deck, would soon come below to turn in. Howe and Little
went to the main scuttle, which opened into the hold, and raised it.
"What are you going to do?" asked Raymond.
"We are going to hide in the hold, just for the fun of the thing,"
replied Little. "Won't you come down with us?"
"That's not a bad idea," suggested Lindsley. "When they come down to
look for us, they won't find us. That will make a sensation, at least,
and then we shall not be entirely ignored."
"Are you going to stay there all night?" inquired Raymond.
"Yes--why not?" answered Lindsley. "It is not quite so comfortable a
place to sleep as the mess-rooms; but we can stand it for one night."
Even the mild rebels, Hyde and Johnson, were pleased with the plan, for
it looked like an adventure. The persuasions of Lindsley induced them
to yield whatever scruples they had. It would be a rich thing to have
the principal or the officers come down into the steerage, and find it
empty. There was still a chance to make the principal do something,
even if it were only to call them up for punishment; for anything
seemed better than being entirely ignored.
Little and Howe, each with a lantern in his hand, which he had taken
from the lamp-room forward, led the way into the hold. All the members
of the three parties followed; the mild rebels regarding the movement
rather as a piece of fun than as anything which added to the guilt they
had already incurred. When the last one had descended the ladder, Howe
put on the scuttle, and the steerage was "like some banquet hall
deserted," for the stewards were either on deck or in the kitchen,
where they spent their leisure hours.
As soon as the rebels were all in the hold, they separated into three
parties again, as they had been in the steerage. Little, with his
lantern, went forward, where he was soon joined by the rest of the
runaways; Hyde and his companions went aft; and Raymond's party
remained near the main scuttle. The hold was divided into store-rooms,
forward and aft, while the space amidships was devoted to the stowage
of boxes, barrels, water casks, and other articles. The water tanks
were near the heel of the foremast, where Howe and his party had
located themselves. They contained the entire supply of the ship, while
she was going from port to port, or lying in harbor. They had been
fitted up under the direction of Mr. Lowington. The water was drawn
from them by means of a pump in the kitchen, the pipe of which could be
adjusted to either of them with screw connections.
"We must do the job quick, and get out of this place, or we may be
fastened down here, as we were in the steerage," said Little, in a low
tone, though he need not have troubled himself to use this precaution,
for the dashing of the sea against the side of the vessel made so much
noise, that those who were twenty feet distance could not have heard
him.
"Are you sure we are not burning our own fingers?" asked Ibbotson. "My
experience in the Josephine, when we were short of water, taught me
what it was to be without it, especially when you have to feed on salt
horse and hard bread."
"That's so," added Spencer.
"Can't we save some for ourselves?" inquired Wilton.
"What's the use? We shall return to Havre as soon as the officers find
that the water tanks are empty," added Little.
"But why not save some?" persisted Wilton. "There are lots of bottles
on the ballast, and a tunnel on the vinegar barrel. Hurry up, and fill
a bottle for each fellow."
A dozen of the rebels rushed aft, and procured the bottles, while
Little started the faucets which were used in drawing off the water,
when it was necessary to clean out the tanks, or for use when the pump
above was out of order. This was the precious scheme by which the
intense rebels intended to compel the principal to return to port
immediately. There could be no doubt that it would be an effectual one,
for with no fresh water the ship could not remain a single day at sea
without causing great discomfort, if not actual suffering, to those on
board. This happy expedient had been devised by Little, and it was
diabolical enough to be the invention of his fertile genius.
The bottles were brought up, and with the aid of the tunnel, a dozen
and a half of them were filled--just enough for the Howe party, for
they did not intend to look out for the comfort of those who would not
fully join them in their plans. The water rushed from the tanks, and
flowed away into the ballast underneath. The faucets were large, and in
a short time the tanks were empty. As the ship rolled each way, almost
the last drop in them was poured out.
"Now let us get out of here before we are fastened in," said Little,
after he had adjusted the faucets.
"There will be a sweet row when they find out the tanks are empty,"
added Howe, fully believing that the party had now done something to
make themselves felt.
"It will please me to hear them howl," continued Wilton.
"Keep your bottles out of sight," said Howe. "Don't let those fellows
see them, or they will smell a mice."
"Don't you suppose they know what we have been doing?" inquired Monroe.
"How should they? The swashing of the sea made so much noise they
couldn't hear the water running out," answered Little.
"Don't let on."
The party concealed their bottles under their clothing, and moved
towards the ladder by which they had descended.
"What were you doing with all those bottles?" asked Raymond.
"What bottles?" demanded Little.
"We saw you take a lot of bottles from the ballast there," replied
Raymond, whose party had been discussing the probable use to which they
were to be applied, though they reached no satisfactory conclusion.
"Well, I'll tell you what they were for," answered Little. "We were
going to have some fun, pelting them with stones, just as we used to
play duck on shore, you know; but we concluded not to do so, lest the
stewards in the kitchen should hear the noise, and make a row about
it--that's all."
"Where are you going now?" inquired Lindsley, who was not quite
satisfied with this lucid explanation--as though fellows engaged in a
mutiny would care to amuse themselves pelting bottles!
"We have just made up our minds that it is not quite safe to stay down
here any longer."
"Why not?"
"Suppose they should fasten us in?"
"Suppose they should? I thought you intended to stay down here," said
Raymond, who concluded that the runaways were very fickle in their
purposes.
"We did intend to do so; but we hadn't looked over all the ground. It
has just occurred to us that the thirty lambs, who kiss the rod that
smites them, would not come into the steerage to-night. It will take
about the whole of them to stand watch, and if any of them go below,
they will sleep on the floor of the main and after cabins, where they
cannot be corrupted by such wicked fellows as you and I, Raymond. So,
you see, if we can't get up any sensation by sleeping on the ballast,
what's the use of making yourself uncomfortable for nothing. That's the
idea. Let us go into the steerage, and turn in for the night."
"I don't believe in backing out," said Raymond, not very well pleased
to hear Little class him with himself.
"Don't back out, then, my dear fellow. Stay here all night, and have a
