"I will send and inquire, if you will write your name on this card."
Dick thought it would be best to send his own name, as that of Fosdick
might lead Mr. Bates to guess the business on which they had come.
He accordingly wrote the name,
  Richard Hunter,
in his handsomest handwriting, and handed it to the clerk.
That functionary touched a bell. The summons was answered by a servant.
"James, go to No. 147, and see if Mr. Bates is in. If he is, give him
this card."
The messenger departed at once, and returned quickly.
"The gentleman is in, and would be glad to have Mr. Hunter walk up."
"Come along, Fosdick," said Dick, in a low voice.
Fosdick obeyed, feeling very nervous. Following the servant upstairs,
they soon stood before No. 147.
James knocked.
"Come in," was heard from the inside, and the two friends entered.
They found themselves in a comfortably furnished room. A man of
fifty-five, rather stout in build, and with iron-gray hair, rose from
his chair before the fire, and looked rather inquiringly. He seemed
rather surprised to find that there were two visitors, as well as at
the evident youth of both.
"Mr. Hunter?" he said, inquiringly, looking from one to the other.
"That is my name," said Dick, promptly.
"Have I met you before? If so, my memory is at fault."
"No, sir, we have never met."
"I presume you have business with me. Be seated, if you please."
"First," said Dick, "let me introduce my friend Henry Fosdick."
"Fosdick!" repeated Hiram Bates, with a slight tinge of color.
"I think you knew my father," said Fosdick, nervously.
"Your father was a printer,--was he not?" inquired Mr. Bates.
"Yes, sir."
"I do remember him. Do you come from him?"
Fosdick shook his head.
"He has been dead for two years," he said, sadly.
"Dead!" repeated Hiram Bates, as if shocked. "Indeed, I am sorry to
hear it."
He spoke with evident regret, and Henry Fosdick, whose feelings towards
his father's debtor had not been very friendly, noticed this, and was
softened by it.
"Did he die in poverty, may I ask?" inquired Mr. Bates, after a pause.
"He was poor," said Fosdick; "that is, he had nothing laid up; but his
wages were enough to support him and myself comfortably."
"Did he have any other family?"
"No, sir; my mother died six years since, and I had no brothers or
sisters."
"He left no property then?"
"No, sir."
"Then I suppose he was able to make no provision for you?"
"No, sir."
"But you probably had some relatives who came forward and provided for
you?"
"No, sir; I had no relatives in New York."
"What then did you do? Excuse my questions, but I have a motive in
asking."
"My father died suddenly, having fallen from a Brooklyn ferry-boat and
drowned. He left nothing, and I knew of nothing better to do than to go
into the streets as a boot-black."
"Surely you are not in that business now?" said Mr. Bates, glancing at
Fosdick's neat dress.
"No, sir; I was fortunate enough to find a friend,"--here Fosdick
glanced at Dick,--"who helped me along, and encouraged me to apply for
a place in a Broadway store. I have been there now for a year and a
half."
"What wages do you get? Excuse my curiosity, but your story interests
me."
"Eight dollars a week."
"And do you find you can live comfortably on that?"
"Yes, sir; that is, with the assistance of my friend here."
"I am glad you have a friend who is able and willing to help you."
"It is not worth mentioning," said Dick, modestly. "I have received as
much help from him as he has from me."
"I see at any rate that you are good friends, and a good friend is
worth having. May I ask, Mr. Fosdick, whether you ever heard your
father refer to me in any way?"
"Yes, sir."
"You are aware, then, that there were some money arrangements between
us?"
"I have heard him say that you had two thousand dollars of his, but
that you failed, and that it was lost."
"He informed you rightly. I will tell you the particulars, if you are
not already aware of them."
"I should be very glad to hear them, sir. My father died so suddenly
that I never knew anything more than that you owed him two thousand
dollars."
"Five years since," commenced Mr. Bates, "I was a broker in Wall
Street. As from my business I was expected to know the best
investments, some persons brought me money to keep for them, and I
either agreed to pay them a certain rate of interest, or gave them an
interest in my speculations. Among the persons was your father. The way
in which I got acquainted with him was this: Having occasion to get
some prospectuses of a new company printed, I went to the office with
which he was connected. There was some error in the printing, and he
was sent to my office to speak with me about it. When our business was
concluded, he waited a moment, and then said, 'Mr. Bates, I have saved
up two thousand dollars in the last ten years, but I don't know much
about investments, and I should consider it a favor if you would advise
me.'
"'I will do so with pleasure,' I said. 'If you desire it I will take
charge of it for you, and either allow you six per cent, interest, or
give you a share of the profits I may make from investing it.'"
"Your father said that he should be glad to have me take the money for
him, but he would prefer regular interest to uncertain profits. The
next day he brought the money, and put it in my hands. To confess the
truth I was glad to have him do so, for I was engaged in extensive
speculations, and thought I could make use of it to advantage. For
a year I paid him the interest regularly. Then there came a great
catastrophe, and I found my brilliant speculations were but bubbles,
which broke and left me but a mere pittance, instead of the hundred
thousand dollars which I considered myself worth. Of course those who
had placed money in my hands suffered, and among them your father.
I confess that I regretted his loss as much as that of any one, for
I liked his straightforward manner, and was touched by his evident
confidence in me."
Mr. Bates paused a moment and then resumed:--
"I left New York, and went to Milwaukie. Here I was obliged to begin
life anew, or nearly so, for I only carried a thousand dollars out
with me. But I have been greatly prospered since then. I took warning
by my past failures, and have succeeded, by care and good fortune,
in accumulating nearly as large a fortune as the one of which I once
thought myself possessed. When fortune began to smile upon me I thought
of your father, and tried through an agent to find him out. But he
reported to me that his name was not to be found either in the New
York or Brooklyn Directory, and I was too busily engaged to come on
myself, and make inquiries. But I am glad to find that his son is
living, and that I yet have it in my power to make restitution."
Fosdick could hardly believe his ears. Was he after all to receive the
money which he had supposed irrevocably lost?
As for Dick it is not too much to say that he felt even more pleased
at the prospective good fortune of his friend than if it had fallen to
himself.
CHAPTER III.
FOSDICK'S FORTUNE.
Mr. Bates took from his pocket a memorandum book, and jotted down a few
figures in it.
"As nearly as I can remember," he said, "it is four years since I
ceased paying interest on the money which your father entrusted to me.
The rate I agreed to pay was six per cent. How much will that amount
to?"
"Principal and interest two thousand four hundred and eighty dollars,"
said Dick, promptly.
Fosdick's breath was almost taken away as he heard this sum mentioned.
Could it be possible that Mr. Bates intended to pay him as much as
this? Why, it would be a fortune.
"Your figures would be quite correct, Mr. Hunter" said Mr. Bates, "but
for one consideration. You forget that your friend is entitled to
compound interest, as no interest has been paid for four years. Now,
as you are do doubt used to figures, I will leave you to make the
necessary correction."
Mr. Bates tore a leaf from his memorandum book as he spoke, and handed
it with a pencil to Richard Hunter.
Dick made a rapid calculation, and reported two thousand five hundred
and twenty-four dollars.
"It seems, then, Mr. Fosdick," said Mr. Bates, "that I am your debtor
to a very considerable amount."
"You are very kind, sir," said Fosdick; "but I shall be quite satisfied
with the two thousand dollars without any interest."
"Thank you for offering to relinquish the interest; but it is only
right that I should pay it. I have had the use of the money, and I
certainly would not wish to defraud you of a penny of the sum which it
took your father ten years of industry to accumulate. I wish he were
living now to see justice done his son."
"So do I," said Fosdick, earnestly. "I beg your pardon, sir," he said,
after a moment's pause.
"Why?" asked Mr. Bates in a tone of surprise.
"Because," said Fosdick, "I have done you injustice. I thought you
failed in order to make money, and intended to cheat my father out of
his savings. That made me feel hard towards you."
"You were justified in feeling so," said Mr. Bates. "Such cases are so
common that I am not surprised at your opinion of me. I ought to have
explained my position to your father, and promised to make restitution
whenever it should be in my power. But at the time I was discouraged,
and could not foresee the favorable turn which my affairs have since
taken. Now," he added, with a change of voice, "we will arrange about
the payment of this money."
"Do not pay it until it is convenient, Mr. Bates," said Fosdick.
"Your proposal is kind, but scarcely business-like, Mr. Fosdick," said
Mr. Bates. "Fortunately it will occasion me no inconvenience to pay
you at once I have not the ready money with me as you may suppose, but
I will give you a cheque for the amount upon the Broadway Bank, with
which I have an account; and it will be duly honored on presentation
to-morrow. You may in return make out a receipt in full for the debt
and interest. Wait a moment. I will ring for writing materials."
These were soon brought by a servant of the hotel and Mr. Bates filled
in a cheque for the sum specified above, while Fosdick, scarcely
knowing whether he was awake or dreaming, made out a receipt to which
he attached his name.
"Now," said Mr. Bates, "we will exchange documents."
Fosdick took the cheque, and deposited it carefully in his pocket-book.
"It is possible that payment might be refused to a boy like you,
especially as the amount is so large. At what time will you be
disengaged to-morrow?"
"I am absent from the store from twelve to one for dinner."
"Very well, come to the hotel as soon as you are free, and I will
accompany you to the bank, and get the money for you. I advise you,
however, to leave it there on deposit until you have a chance to invest
it."
"How would you advise me to invest it, sir?" asked Fosdick.
"Perhaps you cannot do better than buy shares of some good bank. You
will then have no care except to collect your dividends twice a year."
"That is what I should like to do," said Fosdick. "What bank would you
advise?"
"The Broadway, Park, or Bank of Commerce, are all good banks. I will
attend to the matter for you, if you desire it."
"I should be very glad if you would, sir."
"Then that matter is settled," said Mr. Bates. "I wish I could as
easily settle another matter which has brought me to New York at this
time, and which, I confess, occasions me considerable perplexity."
The boys remained respectfully silent, though not without curiosity as
to what this matter might be.
Mr. Bates seemed plunged in thought for a short time. Then speaking, as
if to himself, he said, in a low voice, "Why should I not tell them?
Perhaps they may help me."
"I believe," he said, "I will take you into my confidence. You may be
able to render me some assistance in my perplexing business."
"I shall be very glad to help you if I can," said Dick.
"And I also," said Fosdick.
"I have come to New York in search of my grandson," said Mr. Bates.
"Did he run away from home?" asked Dick.
"No, he has never lived with me. Indeed, I may add that I have never
seen him since he was an infant."
The boys looked surprised.
"How old is he now?" asked Fosdick.
"He must be about ten years old. But I see that I must give you the
whole story of what is a painful passage in my life, or you will be in
no position to help me.
"You must know, then, that twelve years since I considered myself rich,
and lived in a handsome house up town. My wife was dead, but I had
an only daughter, who I believe was generally considered attractive,
if not beautiful. I had set my heart upon her making an advantageous
marriage; that is, marrying a man of wealth and social position. I
had in my employ a clerk, of excellent business abilities, and of
good personal appearance, whom I sometimes invited to my house when I
entertained company. His name was John Talbot. I never suspected that
there was any danger of my daughter's falling in love with the young
man, until one day he came to me and overwhelmed me with surprise by
asking her hand in marriage.
"You can imagine that I was very angry, whether justly or not I will
not pretend to say. I dismissed the young man from my employ, and
informed him that never, under any circumstances, would I consent to
his marrying Irene. He was a high-spirited young man, and, though he
did not answer me, I saw by the expression of his face that he meant to
persevere in his suit.
"A week later my daughter was missing. She left behind a letter stating
that she could not give up John Talbot, and by the time I read the
letter she would be his wife. Two days later a Philadelphia paper was
sent me containing a printed notice of their marriage, and the same
mail brought me a joint letter from both, asking my forgiveness.
"I had no objections to John Talbot except his poverty; but my
ambitious hopes were disappointed, and I felt the blow severely. I
returned the letter to the address given, accompanied by a brief line
to Irene, to the effect that I disowned her, and would never more
acknowledge her as my daughter.
"I saw her only once after that. Two years after she appeared suddenly
in my library, having been admitted by the servant, with a child in
her arms. But I hardened my heart against her, and though she besought
my forgiveness, I refused it, and requested her to leave the house. I
cannot forgive myself when I think of my unfeeling severity. But it is
too late too redeem the past. As far as I can I would like to atone for
it.
"A month since I heard that both Irene and her husband were dead, the
latter five years since, but that the child, a boy, is still living,
probably in deep poverty. He is my only descendant, and I seek to
find him, hoping that he may be a joy and solace to me in the old age
which will soon be upon me. It is for the purpose of tracing him that
I have come to New York. When you," turning to Fosdick, "referred to
your being compelled to resort to the streets, and the hard life of a
boot-black, the thought came to me that my grandson may be reduced to
a similar extremity. It would be hard indeed that he should grow up
ignorant, neglected, and subject to every privation, when a comfortable
and even luxurious home awaits him, if he can only be found."
"What is his name?" inquired Dick.
"My impression is, that he was named after his father, John Talbot.
Indeed, I am quite sure that my daughter wrote me to this effect in a
letter which I returned after reading."
"Have you reason to think he is in New York?"
"My information is, that his mother died here a year since. It is not
likely that he has been able to leave the city."
"He is about ten years old?"
"I used to know most of the boot-blacks and newsboys when I was in the
business," said Dick, reflectively; "but I cannot recall that name."
"Were you ever in the business, Mr. Hunter?" asked Mr. Bates, in
surprise.
"Yes," said Richard Hunter, smiling; "I used to be one of the most
ragged boot-blacks in the city. Don't you remember my Washington coat,
and Napoleon pants, Fosdick?"
"I remember them well."
"Surely that was many years ago?"
"It is not yet two years since I gave up blacking boots."
"You surprise me Mr. Hunter," said Mr. Bates "I congratulate you on
your advance in life. Such a rise shows remarkable energy on your part."
"I was lucky," said Dick, modestly. "I found some good friends who
helped me along. But about your grandson: I have quite a number of
friends among the street-boys, and I can inquire of them whether any
boy named John Talbot has joined their ranks since my time."
"I shall be greatly obliged to you if you will," said Mr. Bates. "But
it is quite possible that circumstances may have led to a change of
name, so that it will not do to trust too much to this. Even if no boy
bearing that name is found, I shall feel that there is this possibility
in my favor."
"That is true," said Dick. "It is very common for boys to change their
name. Some can't remember whether they ever had any names, and pick one
out to suit themselves, or perhaps get one from those they go with.
There was one boy I knew named 'Horace Greeley'. Then there were 'Fat
Jack,' 'Pickle Nose,' 'Cranky Jim,' 'Tickle-me-foot,' and plenty of
others.[1] You knew some of them, didn't you, Fosdick?"
"I knew 'Fat Jack' and 'Tickle-me-Foot,'" answered Fosdick.
"This of course increases the difficulty of finding and identifying the
boy," said Mr. Bates. "Here," he said, taking a card photograph from
his pocket, "is a picture of my daughter at the time of her marriage. I
have had these taken from a portrait in my possession."
"Can you spare me one?" asked Dick. "It may help me to find the boy."
"I will give one to each of you. I need not say that I shall feel most
grateful for any service you may be able to render me, and will gladly
reimburse any expenses you may incur, besides paying you liberally for
your time. It will be better perhaps for me to leave fifty dollars with
each of you to defray any expenses you may be at."
"Thank you," said Dick; "but I am well supplied with money, and will
advance whatever is needful, and if I succeed I will hand in my bill."
Fosdick expressed himself in a similar way, and after some further
conversation he and Dick rose to go.
"I congratulate you on your wealth, Fosdick," said Dick, when they
were outside. "You're richer than I am now."
"I never should have got this money but for you, Dick. I wish you'd
take some of it."
"Well, I will. You may pay my fare home on the horse-cars."
"But really I wish you would."
But this Dick positively refused to do, as might have been expected.
He was himself the owner of two up-town lots, which he eventually sold
for five thousand dollars, though they only cost him one, and had three
hundred dollars besides in the bank. He agreed, however, to let Fosdick
henceforth bear his share of the expenses of board, and this added two
dollars a week to the sum he was able to lay up.
    [Footnote 1: See sketches of the Formation of the Newsboys'
    Lodging-house by C. L. Brace, Secretary of the Children's Aid Society.]
CHAPTER IV.
A DIFFICULT COMMISSION.
It need hardly be said that Fosdick was punctual to his appointment at
the Astor House on the following day.
He found Mr. Bates in the reading-room, looking over a Milwaukie paper.
"Good-morning, Mr. Fosdick," he said, extending his hand. "I suppose
your time is limited, therefore it will be best for us to go at once to
the bank."
"You are very kind, sir, to take so much trouble on my account," said
Fosdick.
"We ought all to help each other," said Mr. Bates. "I believe in that
doctrine, though I have not always lived up to it. On second thoughts,"
he added, as they got out in front of the hotel, "if you approve of my
suggestions about the purchase of bank shares, it may not be necessary
to go to the bank, as you can take this cheque in payment."
"Just as you think best, sir. I can depend upon your judgment, as you
know much more of such things than I."
"Then we will go at once to the office of Mr. Ferguson, a Wall Street
broker, and an old friend of mine. There we will give an order for some
bank shares."
Together the two walked down Broadway until they reached Trinity
Church, which fronts the entrance to Wall Street. Here then they
crossed the street, and soon reached the office of Mr. Ferguson.
Mr. Ferguson, a pleasant-looking man with sandy hair and whiskers, came
forward and shook Mr. Bates cordially by the hand.
"Glad to see you, Mr. Bates," he said. "Where have you been for the
last four years?"
"In Milwaukie. I see you are at the old place."
"Yes, plodding along as usual. How do you like the West?"
"I have found it a good place for business, though I am not sure
whether I like it as well to live in as New York."
"Shan't you come back to New York some time?"
Mr. Bates shook his head.
"My business ties me to Milwaukie," he said. "I doubt if I ever return."
"Who is this young man?" said the broker, looking at Fosdick. "He is
not a son of yours I think?"
"No; I am not fortunate enough to have a son. He is a young friend
who wants a little business done in your line and, I have accordingly
brought him to you."
"We will do our best for him. What is it?"
"He wants to purchase twenty shares in some good city bank. I used to
know all about such matters when I lived in the city, but I am out of
the way of such knowledge now."
"Twenty shares, you said?"
"Yes."
"It happens quite oddly that a party brought in only fifteen minutes
since twenty shares in the ---- Bank to dispose of. It is a good bank,
and I don't know that he can do any better than take them."
"Yes, it is a good bank. What interest does it pay now?"
"Eight per cent."[2]
"That is good. What is the market value of the stock?"
"It is selling this morning at one hundred and twenty."
"Twenty shares then will amount to twenty-four hundred dollars."
"Precisely."
"Well, perhaps we had better take them. What do you say, Mr. Fosdick?"
"If you advise it, sir, I shall be very glad to do so."
"Then the business can be accomplished at once, as the party left us
his signature, authorizing the transfer."
The transfer was rapidly effected. The broker's commission of
twenty-five cents per share amounted to five dollars. It was found on
paying this, added to the purchase money, that one hundred and nineteen
dollars remained,--the cheque being for two thousand five hundred and
twenty-four dollars.
The broker took the cheque, and returned this sum, which Mr. Bates
handed to Fosdick.
"You may need this for a reserve fund," he said, "to draw upon if
needful until your dividend comes due. The bank shares will pay you
probably one hundred and sixty dollars per year."
"One hundred and sixty dollars!" repeated Fosdick, in surprise. "That
is a little more than three dollars a week."
"Yes."
"It will be very acceptable, as my salary at the store is not enough to
pay my expenses."
"I would advise you not to break in upon your capital if you can avoid
it," said Mr. Bates. "By and by, if your salary increases, you may be
able to add the interest yearly to the principal, so that it may be
accumulating till you are a man, when you may find it of use in setting
you up in business."
"Yes, sir; I will remember that. But I can hardly realize that I am
really the owner of twenty bank shares."
"No doubt it seems sudden to you. Don't let it make you extravagant.
Most boys of your age would need a guardian, but you have had so much
experience in taking care of yourself, that I think you can get along
without one."
"I have my friend Dick to advise me," said Fosdick.
"Mr. Hunter seems quite a remarkable young man," said Mr. Bates. "I can
hardly believe that his past history has been as he gave it."
"It is strictly true, sir. Three years ago he could not read or write."
"If he continues to display the same energy, I can predict for him a
prominent position in the future."
"I am glad to hear you say so, sir. Dick is a very dear friend of mine."
"Now, Mr. Fosdick, it is time you were thinking of dinner. I believe
this is your dinner hour?"
"Yes, sir."
"And it is nearly over. You must be my guest to-day. I know of a quiet
little lunch room near by, which I used to frequent some years ago when
I was in business on this street. We will drop in there and I think
you will be able to get through in time."
Fosdick could not well decline the invitation, but accompanied Mr.
Bates to the place referred to, where he had a better meal than he was
accustomed to. It was finished in time, for as the clock on the city
hall struck one, he reached the door of Henderson's store.
Fosdick could not very well banish from his mind the thoughts of
his extraordinary change of fortune, and I am obliged to confess
that he did not discharge his duties quite as faithfully as usual
that afternoon. I will mention one rather amusing instance of his
preoccupation of mind.
A lady entered the store, leading by the hand her son Edwin, a little
boy of seven.
"Have you any hats that will fit my little boy?" she said.
"Yes, ma'am," said Fosdick, absently, and brought forward a large-sized
man's hat, of the kind popularly known as "stove-pipe."
"How will this do?" asked Fosdick.
"I don't want to wear such an ugly hat as that," said Edwin, in dismay.
The lady looked at Fosdick as if she had very strong doubts of his
sanity. He saw his mistake, and, coloring deeply, said, in a hurried
tone, "Excuse me; I was thinking of something else."
The next selection proved more satisfactory, and Edwin went out of the
store feeling quite proud of his new hat.
Towards the close of the afternoon, Fosdick was surprised at the
entrance of Mr. Bates. He came up to the counter where he was standing,
and said, "I am glad I have found you in. I was not quite sure if this
was the place where you were employed."
"I am glad to see you, sir," said Fosdick.
"I have just received a telegram from Milwaukie," said Mr. Bates,
"summoning me home immediately on matters connected with business. I
shall not therefore be able to remain here to follow up the search upon
which I had entered. As you and your friend have kindly offered your
assistance, I am going to leave the matter in your hands, and will
authorize you to incur any expenses you may deem advisable, and I will
gladly reimburse you whether you succeed or not."
Fosdick assured him that they would spare no efforts, and Mr. Bates,
after briefly thanking him, and giving him his address, hurried away,
as he had determined to start on his return home that very night.
   [Footnote 2: This was before the war. Now most of the National Banks
    in New York pay ten per cent., and some even higher.]
CHAPTER V.
INTRODUCES MARK, THE MATCH BOY.
It was growing dark, though yet scarcely six o'clock, for the day was
one of the shortest in the year, when a small boy, thinly clad, turned
down Frankfort Street on the corner opposite French's Hotel. He had
come up Nassau Street, passing the "Tribune" Office and the old Tammany
Hall, now superseded by the substantial new "Sun" building.
He had a box of matches under his arm, of which very few seemed to
have been sold. He had a weary, spiritless air, and walked as if quite
tired. He had been on his feet all day, and was faint with hunger,
having eaten nothing but an apple to sustain his strength. The thought
that he was near his journey's end did not seem to cheer him much. Why
this should be so will speedily appear.
He crossed William Street, passed Gold Street, and turned down
Vandewater Street, leading out of Frankfort's Street on the left. It
is in the form of a short curve, connecting with that most crooked of
all New York avenues, Pearl Street. He paused in front of a shabby
house, and went upstairs. The door of a room on the third floor was
standing ajar. He pushed it open, and entered, not without a kind of
shrinking.
A coarse-looking woman was seated before a scanty fire. She had
just thrust a bottle into her pocket after taking a copious draught
therefrom, and her flushed face showed that this had long been a habit
with her.
"Well, Mark, what luck to-night?" she said, in a husky voice.
"I didn't sell much," said the boy.
"Didn't sell much? Come here," said the woman, sharply.
Mark came up to her side, and she snatched the box from him, angrily.
"Only three boxes gone?" she repeated. "What have you been doing all
day?"
She added to the question a coarse epithet which I shall not repeat.
"I tried to sell them, indeed I did, Mother Watson, indeed I did,"
said the boy, earnestly, "but everybody had bought them already."
"You didn't try," said the woman addressed as Mother Watson. "You're
too lazy, that's what's the matter. You don't earn your salt. Now give
me the money."
Mark drew from his pocket a few pennies, and handed to her.
She counted them over, and then, looking up sharply, said, with a
frown, "There's a penny short. Where is it?"
"I was so hungry," pleaded Mark, "that I bought an apple,--only a
little one."
"You bought an apple, did you?" said the woman, menacingly. "So that's
the way you spend my money, you little thief?"
"I was so faint and hungry," again pleaded the boy.
"What business had you to be hungry? Didn't you have some breakfast
this morning?"
"I had a piece of bread."
"That's more than you earned. You'll eat me out of house and home, you
little thief! But I'll pay you off. I'll give you something to take
away your appetite. You won't be hungry any more, I reckon."
She dove her flabby hand into her pocket, and produced a strap, at
which the boy gazed with frightened look.
"Don't beat me, Mother Watson," he said, imploringly.
"I'll beat the laziness out of you," said the woman, vindictively. "See
if I don't."
She clutched Mark by the collar, and was about to bring the strap
down forcibly upon his back, ill protected by his thin jacket, when a
visitor entered the room.
"What's the matter, Mrs. Watson?" asked the intruder.
"Oh, it's you, Mrs. Flanagan?" said the woman, holding the strap
suspended in the air. "I'll tell you what's the matter. This little
thief has come home, after selling only three boxes of matches the
whole day, and I find he's stole a penny to buy an apple with. It's for
that I'm goin' to beat him."
"Oh, let him alone, the poor lad," said Mrs. Flanagan, who was a
warm-hearted Irish woman. "Maybe he was hungry."
"Then why didn't he work? Them that work can eat."
"Maybe people didn't want to buy."
"Well, I can't afford to keep him in his idleness," said Mrs. Watson.
"He may go to bed without his supper."
"If he can't sell his matches, maybe people would give him something."
Mrs. Watson evidently thought favorably of this suggestion, for,
turning to Mark, she said, "Go out again, you little thief, and mind
you don't come in again till you've got twenty-five cents to bring to
me. Do you mind that?"
Mark listened, but stood irresolute:
"I don't like to beg," he said.
"Don't like to beg!" screamed Mrs. Watson. "Do you mind that, now, Mrs.
Flanagan? He's too proud to beg."
"Mother told me never to beg if I could help it," said Mark.
"Well, you can't help it," said the woman, flourishing the strap in a
threatening manner. "Do you see this?"
"Yes."
"Well, you'll feel it too, if you don't do as I tell you. Go out now."
"I'm so hungry," said Mark; "won't you give me a piece of bread?"
"Not a mouthful till you bring back twenty-five cents. Start now, or
you'll feel the strap."
The boy left the room with a slow step, and wearily descended the
stairs. I hope my young readers will never know the hungry craving
after food which tormented the poor little boy as he made his way
towards the street. But he had hardly reached the foot of the first
staircase when he heard a low voice behind him, and, turning, beheld
Mrs. Flanagan, who had hastily followed after him.
"Are you very hungry?" she asked.
"Yes, I'm faint with hunger."
"Poor boy!" she said, compassionately; "come in here a minute."
She opened the door of her own room which was just at the foot of the
staircase, and gently pushed him in.
It was a room of the same general appearance as the one above, but was
much neater looking.
"Biddy Flanagan isn't the woman to let a poor motherless child go
hungry when she's a bit of bread or meat by her. Here, Mark, lad, sit
down, and I'll soon bring you something that'll warm up your poor
stomach."
She opened a cupboard, and brought out a plate containing a small
quantity of cold beef, and two slices of bread.
"There's some better mate than you'll get of Mother Watson. It's cold,
but it's good."
"She never gives me any meat at all," said Mark, gazing with a look of
eager anticipation at the plate which to his famished eye looked so
inviting.
"I'll be bound she don't," said Mrs. Flanagan. "Talk of you being lazy!
What does she do herself but sit all day doing nothin' except drink
whiskey from the black bottle! She might get washin' to do, as I do, if
she wanted to, but she won't work. She expects you to get money enough
for both of you."
Meanwhile Mrs. Flanagan had poured out a cup of tea from an old tin
teapot that stood on the stove.
"There, drink that, Mark dear," she said. "It'll warm you up, and
you'll need it this cold night, I'm thinkin'."
The tea was not of the best quality, and the cup was cracked and
discolored; but to Mark it was grateful and refreshing, and he eagerly
drank it.
"Is it good?" asked the sympathizing woman, observing with satisfaction
the eagerness with which it was drunk.
"Yes, it makes me feel warm," said Mark.
"It's better nor the whiskey Mother Watson drinks," said Mrs. Flanagan.
"It won't make your nose red like hers. It would be a sight better for
her if she'd throw away the whiskey, and take to the tea."
"You are very kind, Mrs. Flanagan," said Mark, rising from the table,
feeling fifty per cent. better than when he sat down.
"Oh bother now, don't say a word about it! Shure you're welcome to the
bit you've eaten, and the little sup of tea. Come in again when you
feel hungry and Bridget Flanagan won't be the woman to send you off
hungry if she's got anything in the cupboard."
"I wish Mother Watson was as good as you are," said Mark.
"I aint so good as I might be," said Mrs. Flanagan; "but I wouldn't be
guilty of tratin' a poor boy as that woman trates you, more shame to
her! How came you with her any way? She aint your mother, is she."
"No," said Mark, shuddering at the bare idea. "My mother was a good
woman, and worked hard. She didn't drink whiskey. Mother was always
kind to me. I wish she was alive now."
"When did she die, Mark dear?"
"It's going on a year since she died. I didn't know what to do, but
Mother Watson told me to come and live with her, and she'd take care of
me."
"Sorra a bit of kindness there was in that," commented Mrs. Flanagan.
"She wanted you to take care of her. Well, and what did she make you
do?"
"She sent me out to earn what I could. Sometimes I would run on
errands, but lately I have sold matches."
"Is it hard work sellin' them?"
"Sometimes I do pretty well, but some days it seems as if nobody wanted
any. To-day I went round to a great many offices, but they all had as
many as they wanted, and I didn't sell but three boxes. I tried to sell
more, indeed I did, but I couldn't."
"No doubt you did, Mark, dear. It's cold you must be in that thin
jacket of yours this cold weather. I've got a shawl you may wear if you
like. You'll not lose it, I know."
But Mark had a boy's natural dislike to being dressed as a girl,
knowing, moreover, that his appearance in the street with Mrs.
Flanagan's shawl would subject him to the jeers of the street boys. So
he declined the offer with thanks, and, buttoning up his thin jacket,
descended the remaining staircase, and went out again into the chilling
and uninviting street. A chilly, drizzling rain had just set in, and
this made it even more dreary than it had been during the day.
CHAPTER VI.
BEN GIBSON.
But it was not so much the storm or the cold weather that Mark cared
for. He had become used to these, so far as one can become used to
what is very disagreeable. If after a hard day's work he had had a
good home to come back to, or a kind and sympathizing friend, he
would have had that thought to cheer him up. But Mother Watson cared
nothing for him, except for the money he brought her, and Mark found it
impossible either to cherish love or respect for the coarse woman whom
he generally found more or less affected by whiskey.
Cold and hungry as he had been oftentimes, he had always shrunk from
begging. It seemed to lower him in his own thoughts to ask charity of
others. Mother Watson had suggested it to him once or twice, but had
never actually commanded it before. Now he was required to bring home
twenty-five cents. He knew very well what would be the result if he
failed to do this. Mother Watson would apply the leather strap with
merciless fury, and he knew that his strength was as nothing compared
to hers. So, for the first time in his life, he felt that he must make
up his mind to beg.
He retraced his steps to the head of Frankfort Street, and walked
slowly down Nassau Street. The rain was falling, as I have said, and
those who could remained under shelter. Besides, business hours were
over. The thousands who during the day made the lower part of the city
a busy hive had gone to their homes in the upper portion of the island,
or across the river to Brooklyn or the towns on the Jersey shore. So,
however willing he might be to beg, there did not seem to be much
chance at present.
The rain increased, and Mark in his thin clothes was soon drenched to
the skin. He felt damp, cold, and uncomfortable. But there was no rest
for him. The only home he had was shut to him, unless he should bring
home twenty-five cents, and of this there seemed very little prospect.
At the corner of Fulton Street he fell in with a boy of twelve, short
and sturdy in frame, dressed in a coat whose tails nearly reached the
sidewalk. Though scarcely in the fashion, it was warmer than Mark's,
and the proprietor troubled himself very little about the looks.
This boy, whom Mark recognized as Ben Gibson, had a clay pipe in his
mouth, which he seemed to be smoking with evident enjoyment.
"Where you goin'?" he asked, halting in front of Mark.
"I don't know," said Mark.
"Don't know!" repeated Ben, taking his pipe from his mouth, and
spitting. "Where's your matches?"
"I left them at home."
"Then what'd did you come out for in this storm?"
"The woman I live with won't let me come home till I've brought her
twenty-five cents."
"How'd you expect to get it?"
"She wants me to beg."
"That's a good way," said Ben, approvingly; "when you get hold of a
soft chap, or a lady, them's the ones to shell out."
"I don't like it," said Mark. "I don't want people to think me a
beggar."
"What's the odds?" said Ben, philosophically. "You're just the chap to
make a good beggar."
"What do you mean by that, Ben?" said Mark, who was far from
considering this much of a compliment.
"Why you're a thin, pale little chap, that people will pity easy. Now I
aint the right cut for a beggar. I tried it once, but it was no go."
"Why not?" asked Mark, who began to be interested in spite of himself.
"You see," said Ben, again puffing out a volume of smoke, "I look too
tough, as if I could take care of myself. People don't pity me. I
tried it one night when I was hard up. I hadn't got but six cents, and
I wanted to go to the Old Bowery bad. So I went up to a gent as was
comin' up Wall Street from the Ferry, and said, 'Won't you give a poor
boy a few pennies to save him from starvin'?'"
"'So you're almost starvin', are you, my lad?'" says he.
"'Yes, sir,' says I, as faint as I could.
"'Well, starvin' seems to agree with you,' says he, laughin'. 'You're
the healthiest-lookin' beggar I've seen in a good while.'
"I tried it again on another gent, and he told me he guessed I was
lazy; that a good stout boy like me ought to work. So I didn't make
much beggin', and had to give up goin' to the Old Bowery that night,
which I was precious sorry for, for there was a great benefit that
evenin'. Been there often?"
"No, I never went."
"Never went to the Old Bowery!" ejaculated Ben, whistling in his
amazement. "Where were you raised, I'd like to know? I should think you
was a country greeny, I should."
"I never had a chance," said Mark, who began to feel a little ashamed
of the confession.
"Won't your old woman let you go?"
"I never have any money to go."
"If I was flush I'd take you myself. It's only fifteen cents," said
Ben. "But I haven't got money enough only for one ticket. I'm goin'
to-night."
"Are you?" asked Mark, a little enviously.
"Yes, it's a good way to pass a rainy evenin'. You've got a warm room
to be in, let alone the play, which is splendid. Now, if you could only
beg fifteen cents from some charitable cove, you might go along of me."
"If I get any money I've got to carry it home."
"Suppose you don't, will the old woman cut up rough?"
"She'll beat me with a strap," said Mark, shuddering.
"What makes you let her do it?" demanded Ben, rather disdainfully.
"I can't help it."
"She wouldn't beat me," said Ben, decidedly.
"What would you do?" asked Mark, with interest.
"What would I do?" retorted Ben. "I'd kick, and bite, and give her one
for herself between the eyes. That's what I'd do. She'd find me a hard
case, I reckon."
"It wouldn't be any use for me to try that," said Mark. "She's too
strong."
"It don't take much to handle you," said Ben, taking a critical survey
of the physical points of Mark. "You're most light enough to blow away."
"I'm only ten years old," said Mark, apologetically. "I shall be bigger
some time."
"Maybe," said Ben, dubiously; "but you don't look as if you'd ever be
tough like me."
"There," he added, after a pause, "I've smoked all my 'baccy. I wish
I'd got some more."
"Do you like to smoke?" asked Mark.
"It warms a feller up," said Ben. "It's jest the thing for a cold, wet
day like this. Didn't you ever try it?"
"No."
"If I'd got some 'baccy here, I'd give you a whiff; but I think it
would make you sick the first time."
"I don't think I should like it," said Mark, who had never felt any
desire to smoke, though he knew plenty of boys who indulged in the
habit.
"That's because you don't know nothin' about it," remarked Ben. "I
didn't like it at first till I got learned."
"Do you smoke often?"
"Every day after I get through blackin' boots; that is, when I aint
hard up, and can't raise the stamps to pay for the 'baccy. But I guess
I'll be goin' up to the Old Bowery. It's most time for the doors to
open. Where you goin'?"
"I don't know where to go," said Mark, helplessly.
"I'll tell you where you'd better go. You won' find nobody round here.
Besides it aint comfortable lettin' the rain fall on you and wet you
through." (While this conversation was going on, the boys had sheltered
themselves in a doorway.) "Just you go down to Fulton Market. There
you'll be out of the wet, and you'll see plenty of people passin'
through when the boats come in. Maybe some of 'em will give you
somethin'. Then ag'in, there's the boats. Some nights I sleep aboard
the boats."
"You do? Will they let you?"
"They don't notice. I just pay my two cents, and go aboard, and snuggle
up in a corner and go to sleep. So I ride to Brooklyn and back all
night. That's cheaper'n the Newsboys' Lodgin' House, for it only costs
two cents. One night a gentleman came to me, and woke me up, and said,
'We've got to Brooklyn, my lad. If you don't get up they'll carry you
back again.'
"I jumped up and told him I was much obliged, as I didn't know what my
family would say if I didn't get home by eleven o'clock. Then, just
as soon as his back was turned, I sat down again and went to sleep.
It aint so bad sleepin' aboard the boat, 'specially in a cold night.
They keep the cabin warm, and though the seat isn't partic'larly soft
its better'n bein' out in the street. If you don't get your twenty-five
cents, and are afraid of a lickin', you'd better sleep aboard the boat."
"Perhaps I will," said Mark, to whom the idea was not unwelcome, for
it would at all events save him for that night from the beating which
would be his portion if he came home without the required sum.
"Well, good-night," said Ben; "I'll be goin' along."
"Good-night, Ben," said Mark, "I guess I'll go to Fulton Market."
Accordingly Mark turned down Fulton Street, while Ben steered in the
direction of Chatham Street, through which it was necessary to pass in
order to reach the theatre, which is situated on the Bowery, not far
from its junction with Chatham Street.
Ben Gibson is a type of a numerous class of improvident boys, who live
on from day to day, careless of appearances, spending their evenings
where they can, at the theatre when their means admit, and sometimes
at gambling saloons. Not naturally bad, they drift into bad habits from
the force of outward circumstances. They early learn to smoke or chew,
finding in tobacco some comfort during the cold and wet days, either
ignorant of or indifferent to the harm which the insidious weed will do
to their constitutions. So their growth is checked, or their blood is
impoverished, as is shown by their pale faces.
As for Ben, he was gifted with a sturdy frame and an excellent
constitution, and appeared as yet to exhibit none of the baneful
effects of this habit. But no growing boy can smoke without ultimately
being affected by it, and such will no doubt be the case with Ben.
CHAPTER VII.
FULTON MARKET.
Just across from Fulton Ferry stands Fulton Market. It is nearly fifty
years old, having been built in 1821, on ground formerly occupied by
unsightly wooden buildings, which were, perhaps fortunately, swept away
by fire. It covers the block bounded by Fulton, South, Beekman, and
Front Streets, and was erected at a cost of about quarter of a million
of dollars.
This is the chief of the great city markets, and an immense business is
done here. There is hardly an hour in the twenty-four in which there is
an entire lull in the business of the place. Some of the outside shops
and booths are kept open all night, while the supplies of fish, meats,
and vegetables for the market proper are brought at a very early hour,
almost before it can be called morning.
Besides the market proper the surrounding sidewalks are roofed over,
and lined with shops and booths of the most diverse character, at which
almost every conceivable article can be purchased. Most numerous,
perhaps, are the chief restaurants, the counters loaded with cakes and
pies, with a steaming vessel of coffee smoking at one end. The floors
are sanded, and the accommodations are far from elegant or luxurious;
but it is said that the viands are by no means to be despised. Then
there are fruit-stalls with tempting heaps of oranges, apples, and in
their season the fruits of summer, presided over for the most part by
old women, who scan shrewdly the faces of passers-by, and are ready on
the smallest provocation to vaunt the merits of their wares. There are
candy and cocoanut cakes for those who have a sweet tooth, and many a
shop-boy invests in these on his way to or from Brooklyn to the New
York store where he is employed; or the father of a family, on his
way to his Brooklyn home, thinks of the little ones awaiting him, and
indulges in a purchase of what he knows will be sure to be acceptable
to them.
But it is not only the wants of the body that are provided for at
Fulton Market. On the Fulton Street side may be found extensive booths,
at which are displayed for sale a tempting array of papers, magazines,
and books, as well as stationery, photograph albums, etc., generally at
prices twenty or thirty per cent. lower than is demanded for them in
the more pretentious Broadway or Fulton Avenue stores.
Even at night, therefore, the outer portion of the market presents a
bright and cheerful shelter from the inclement weather, being securely
roofed over, and well lighted, while some of the booths are kept open,
however late the hour.
Ben Gibson, therefore, was right in directing Mark to Fulton Market,
as probably the most comfortable place to be found in the pouring rain
which made the thoroughfares dismal and dreary. Mark, of course, had
been in Fulton Market often, and saw at once the wisdom of the advice.
He ran down Fulton Street as fast as he could, and arrived there
panting and wet to the skin. Uncomfortable as he was, the change from
the wet streets to the bright and comparatively warm shelter of the
market made him at once more cheerful. In fact, it compared favorably
with the cold and uninviting room which he shared with Mother Watson.
As Mark looked around him, he could not help wishing that he tended
in one of the little restaurants that looked so bright and inviting to
him. Those who are accustomed to lunch at Delmonico's, or at some of
the large and stylish hotels, or have their meals served by attentive
servants in brown stone dwellings in the more fashionable quarters of
the city, would be likely to turn up their noses at his humble taste,
and would feel it an infliction to take a meal amid such plebeian
surroundings. But then Mark knew nothing about the fare at Delmonico's,
and was far enough from living in a brown stone front, and so his ideas
of happiness and luxury were not very exalted, or he would scarcely
have envied a stout butcher boy whom he saw sitting at an unpainted
wooden table, partaking of a repast which was more abundant than choice.
But from the surrounding comfort Mark's thoughts were brought back to
the disagreeable business which brought him here. He was to solicit
charity from some one of the passers-by, and with a sigh he began to
look about him to select some compassionate face.
"If there was only somebody here that wanted an errand done," he
thought, "and would pay me twenty-five cents for doing it, I wouldn't
have to beg I'd rather work two hours for the money than beg it."
But there seemed little chance of this. In the busy portion of the day
there might have been some chance, though this would be uncertain; but
now it was very improbable. If he wanted to get twenty-five cents that
night he must get it from charity.
A beginning must be made, however disagreeable. So Mark went up to
a young man who was passing along on his way to the boat, and in a
shamefaced manner said, "Will you give me a few pennies, please?"
The young man looked good-natured, and it was that which gave Mark
confidence to address him.
"You want some pennies, do you?" he said, with a smile, pausing in his
walk.
"If you please, sir."
"I suppose your wife and family are starving, eh?"
"I haven't got any wife or family, sir," said Mark.
"But you've got a sick mother, or some brothers or sisters that are
starving, haven't you?"
"No, sir."
"Then I'm afraid you're not up to your business. How long have you been
round begging?"
"Never before," said Mark, rather indignantly.
"Ah, that accounts for it. You haven't learned the business yet. After
a few weeks you'll have a sick mother starving at home. They all do,
you know."
"My mother is dead," said Mark; "I shan't tell a lie to get money."
"Come, you're rather a remarkable boy," said the young man, who was a
reporter on a daily paper, going over to attend a meeting in Brooklyn,
