The old story and the old temptation. Whether he should 
barter his soul and his happiness for these broad acres ? 
Ah, they were broad and smiling in bronze and crimson 
tints, and the deep green of cedar, pine, and hemlock, the 
murmur of the old river beyond, the background of moun 
tain lying in purple gloom, and this mansion where generations 
of Gilliats had been born and ruled, small princes in their way. 
Then Kirke Gilliat looked at the paltry ten thousand and the 
woman to whom he owed fealty. 
Beatrice Levasseur listening heard the soft step that paced 
the floor all night long. She knew then that his heart was at 
stake, and ground her white teeth with bitter envy. She did 
love him Kirke Gilliat, master of Rothermel, not the poor 
man with his ten thousand dollars ; and she hated this other 
one who had come between. 
Grave, silent, and pale was he for several days. He took 
long solitary walks and longer solitary rides, his poor beast 
coming home sometimes with strained eyes and his glossy coat 
covered with foam. Aunt Laura was weak and motherly, 
Beatrice quiet, reserved, distant. In truth the very reserve be 
gan to pique him, at length. He had this much of the boy 
still about him, that if you put up a barrier he desired to 
demolish it, or at least test his strength in the endeavor. Never 
had Beatrice looked handsomer than in her deep mourning 
dress, just relieved at throat and wrists with folds of wreath- 
like illusion. Never had her voice been sweeter, or her eyes 
worn softer lights. 
To a man fond of refinement, elegance, and that nameless 
grace above, yet often confused with high breeding, the con 
stant picture of such a woman may become a dangerous fasci 
nation. He ceased to fret against the will, resolving on making 
  
a pretence that he would go away, would be true to the 
promise so sacredly given to another. And because he felt 
that he could leave Rothermel, he lingered, toying with the 
temptation. All this while not a word had been said on either 
side. 
Then he began to ask himself how much right he had to 
crowd Beatrice out of this birthright for a stranger's sake. He 
also tasted the sweets of possession, the delicate allurement of 
authority. To be master here to rear his children in this 
grand old mansion, with its family heirlooms, its plate of gold 
and silver, to have the ease and comfort of this wealth ah ! 
that made the poverty look bleak and bitter by contrast. 
He had promised from an overwhelming impulse of tender 
ness : for the sake of having his grandfather die in peace. He 
hated to give pain when he was present to witness the suffer 
ing. And although he knew then he could not keep his 
word, he smoothed the matter over to his conscience, putting 
off the evil day. 
And now the tempter said why not put it off altogether ? 
Turn which ever way he might, there would be some sin, 
some broken promise. Which would bring the greater loss 
and discomfort ! 
Day by day he weighed them in the balance. It is always 
the present woman who has the greater advantage, and Beatrice 
understood hers and used it warily, surrounding it with a kind 
of high emprise. She would snatch him from the dangerous 
influences that had crept into his path : she would really restore 
him to position, wealth, and honor! 
These two skilfully concealed the truth from each other, 
and the deeper blackness of their own treachery and selfish 
ness. Had the pure Gilliat blood come to the dregs ? 
Kirke remained three weeks, then went away without a word 
as to his intentions. In a fortnight he returned, and Beatrice 
knew then that she had won her cause. True, he was nervous 
and ill at ease, and came to have a kind of haggard look. 
The servants, and good Doctor Parmlee, as well as Aunt 
Laura, ascribed it to grief; but there were two not so easily 
blinded. 
"He was a fool to allow himself to become entangled," 
muttered Moreau, watching him stealthily. 
"He has ceased to love her," commented Beatrice, inwardly. 
Kirke Gilliat was to marry his cousin in six months before 
three had passed they were engaged. The wedding would 
necessarily be quiet. 
Glancing down the future, he strove to soothe his con 
science. " For the sake of possible children," he said. 
Ah, he had yet to learn that a man might wake from his 
ambitious dreams, to find himself cursed by a woeful progeny, 
the punishment stretching from this near life to that afar, leav 
ing in its track ruin and desolation. 
CHAPTER II. 
IT seemed to Victor Hurst that the long summer day would 
never come to an end. Since seven o'clock this morning he 
had stood in his place amid heat, and smoke, and cinders, 
the only music this incessant crunch and whirr of machinery, 
the ponderous ring of the hammer, the click of fifty sharp 
instruments that cut as clean as a guillotine, a hundred or 
two more that punched and riveted and joined a general cho 
rus of hideous sounds. 
There had been an hour's intermission at noon, to be sure. 
He sat on the dusty window-ledge, in the coolest part of the 
shop, and ate his lunch. His mother had wrapped it in a 
snowy napkin, which his first touch defiled. Every day she 
did the same thing. He smiled bitterly, seeing it. Clouds 
of smoke and grime blew in the cobwebbed window, settling 
on the flaky biscuit and rich golden butter ; the thin sliced 
ham, the green currant pie in a white saucer, the cheese, rich 
and soft a feast to a man with a wholesome appetite. But 
the first mouthful choked him. 
"Hillo, Hurst! star-gazing, as usual! Look in the bot 
tom of a well, at midday, man. Come and have some beer !" 
A rough but friendly invitation. Three men lounged over 
opposite, their lunch spread on an anvil, with a newspaper for 
table-cloth. A great stone pitcher filled with ale graced the 
centre, from which the group filled their tin cups liberally. 
"He's temp'rance, he is," said another: a small, wiry fel 
low, with eyes hidden far behind shaggy brows, after the 
manner of a ferret's. " Should a' said grace for us, Parson. 
Here's a heal " 
The pint cup was emptied at a breath, and placed on the 
improvised table with a force that made it ring. 
"Come, Hurst, be neighborly." 
Ned Connor was always social over his ale. A man of five- 
and-forty, rough, unkempt, unshorn. A great, brawny fellow 
better for a man's friend than his enemy, and not to be 
desired for either. 
"Thank you, no." 
There was a clean sound in the youth's voice, albeit a little 
husky. 
" Let him alone ! What does he want o' yale ! Parson's souls 
must be temp'rit, and set a good 'xample. Isn't the day but 
Monday, and the young un's head full o' yesterday's sermon ?" 
They all laughed. 
" When 'ill 'ee take to a gown and pulpit?" said the third. 
"There's no gowns here, save over to the church of the 
gentry. Chapel and school 'us folks don't need 'em." 
"Mayhap his daddy was a shoemaker." 
"Hold your tongue, Garrick," interrupted Connor. "His 
daddy's a good man, if I do say it ! An' let him alone. If 
he won't drink, he won't. He's as well off, if he thinks so. " 
' ' Wise child that knows his father, Iv'e hearn tell. Don't 
favor th' parson much \vi' his red hair." 
Connor raised his brawny fist, but while it was still in mid 
air, a cry arrested it : 
"Not for me, Connor, not for me !" and the voice rang out 
sharp and clear. " No quarrel among comrades for my sake." 
Like a flash he stood beside them. Connor's face was 
flushed, Garrick's sullen and glowering. 
" I don't drink, you know not altogether because my father 
preaches against it, but I've no taste for anything of the kind. 
It's not worth words or blows among friends." 
"True enough." The vice-like fist fell and unclosed, then 
grasped the mug of ale again. "Health," he said, almost 
brusquely. 
 
Hurst went back to his window, crushed the scarcely tasted 
lunch to a jelly, and was about to thrust it back into the basket. 
"It will only fret her," he murmured to himself. "And 
some one may be hungering." 
He vaulted over the broken, grimy ledge just as the three, 
all good-natured again, burst into a noisy chorus. Glancing 
down the hot, unsheltered street sent a shiver over him. It was 
so pitiless ! Shops and factories with the listless, midday air, 
sidewalks strewn with debris, and here and there a muddy 
stream oozing slowly through its bed of cobble-stones, but 
baking to a crust before it reached the main gutter. 
Victor Hurst shrank from it all with an intense disgust He 
picked his way over bars of iron and the remnant of a broken 
engine, through a dingy alleyway too narrow for the sun to 
penetrate, and out to the next street, which looked rather more 
inviting. A group of ragged urchins were pitching pennies in 
the shade, and a beggar-girl with her basket sat on the step 
of a rickety stoop. 
"Here, "he said, thrusting the parcel into her thin, dirty 
hand, napkin and all. 
She nodded her head, but did not move her eyes from the 
group of boys. 
Then he went onward rapidly, in spite of the hot noon. 
Some demon within seemed urging with fiercer heat than this 
broiling sun showered down. And yet whither ? What point 
of coolness and rest spread out before him? 
He saw it now. It was worth all the walk. Far beyond the 
river that men had prisoned in sluggish bonds for selfish pur 
poses, coining its clean, clear throbs into their vile gold, far 
beyond the smoke and red haze, the squalid houses, the unclean 
sights and sounds, rose the distant mountains. 
It was odd, but one verse of an old hymn, heard a month 
ago in prayer-meeting, kept floating through his brain with a 
strange persistence : 
 
" Sweet fields beyond the swelling flood 
Stand dressed in living green, 
So to the Jews old Canaan stood, 
While Jordan rolled between." 
More than once he had come out here to view the spot. To 
be sure, this muddy Jordan had to be glorified by the eye of 
faith, but beyond, beyond ! How one long ridge swel-led up 
browner and browner, until it took a tint of purple blackness ; 
rounding crag and headland, opening interminable vistas, 
haunts where one might lie and dream forever with the clouds 
of green waving above his head. It was so cool, so restful, in 
the tender silence. The dense mass of pine and waving hem 
lock, relieved here and there by birch and maple, or a stray 
poplar, with its quivering silver. Ah, how sweet, how lovely ! 
To go there and live even a hermit's life would be keenest 
enjoyment ! Anything to take one beyond this noise into a 
heaven of peace. 
The midday hush began to be broken. Crowds of men and 
boys jostled each other with a rude jest or merry quip ; frowsy- 
headed women, with their sleeves rolled above their elbows, 
came to street-doors and laughed shrilly in response to some 
neighborly greeting. But he never stirred until the sharp 
steam -whistles pierced the air with their hideous shrieks. 
It needed but a few moments to stride back. The men were 
all in their places, the engines had begun, the hammers were 
crashing, and the click, click of the smaller works was like 
the undertone of some diabolical harmony. It rasped every 
nerve. 
Now and then some one sang a stave of popular melody, 
coarse, perhaps, but cheerful. They all enjoyed this common 
place life, with its hurry, and bustle, and smoke, and grime. 
Some of the men took great pride in it, fashioned iron and 
steel into shapes and bodies that held a power akin to life, 
action at least. Why should he dislike it so ? 
Would the day ever come to an end? He glanced out of 
 
his window. Nothing but the dingy orange-red sunshine, and 
the hazy, bleared. sky. Was there a God up above ? Did He 
care for all these millions of souls debased and degraded, with 
not one clean, wholesome idea, who toiled from childhood to 
old age, or until they dropped into an unhonored grave ? What 
good came of it, what great truths were evolved in the course 
of their existence? Would not the brave old planet have been 
as well without them ? 
Latterly he had taken to nursing his heterodox fancies over 
the fire. He smiled grimly now and then when he thought of 
the dross being purged out of a human soul in the same fashion. 
He had been taught it from childhood. The lake burning for 
ever and ever like this. But to-day he did not smile. Neither 
did he believe. 
Six o'clock came at last. Several of the men went to wash 
in a huge trough beside the boiler, and shaking the cinders 
out of their hair, combed it with their fingers, threw off their 
leathern aprons, and hurried away. Hurst waited until the last. 
He let the water out and turned in some fresh. 
" Mighty perticerler you are I" said the foreman, with a kind 
of good-humored sneer. "In my young days, what was good 
enough for their betters was good enough for boys. " 
"You don't grudge me a little cold water?" Victor said, 
almost angrily. 
" Not the water, no, not the water ;" in a deliberate way. 
"But while I'm here, Hurst, I zw#give you a bit of advice. 
Men never like 'prentice boys to be taking on airs. You'll 
want a place when you're out of your time, and there's nothing 
like making friends for a young man. Feeling's pretty strong, 
sometimes. And when a fellow gets the ill-will of his mates " 
"I shall never ask anything of them !" in a haughty tone. 
Now that he had washed his face clean it had not been free 
from grime since morning you could see, as he held it bravely 
up to Baxter, that it was an unusual face, to say the least. The 
forehead was clear and white as a girl's, and the hair clustering 
 
about it was of a peculiar color, a very deep auburn, with the 
bronze rather than red tint, fine, soft, a great mane curling 
in loose rings at the ends. His eyes were large and gray, his 
nose straight, with those wonderfully flexible nostrils that con 
tracted and distended with a breath. A rather wide mouth, with 
a line of bronze moustache on the lip, and the lower part of the 
face not filled out, too thin for beauty of contour, since at the 
temples it was very broad. Now there was more defiance in it 
than any other expression. 
"You're standing in your own light, Hurst, I can tell you 
that I" 
"No, I'll never ask aught of them, or of any master. I 
hate the whole thing ! Every shop may sink to " perdi 
tion he was about to say, but the thought of his father's calling 
restrained him, and so he added "for all I care." 
"You'll be wanting daily bread as well as the rest of us," 
with a half smile of contempt at the boy's foolish energy. 
" I'll get it some other way." 
"If it is black work it makes white money. And no one 
can say that Norcross is a hard master. " 
" I've no fault to find with him. The work is good enough 
for those who like it. I don't." 
With that he turned away, combing out his long light hair 
until it glittered like a sunset sea. 
Baxter thought him an odd compound of vanity and Miss 
Nancyism, his figure of speech for anything foolishly nice. 
t Then he came back a step. 
" Hurst," he said kindly, "you've some odd idees stored in 
your brain. May be it comes of being a parson's son ; but 
your father hasn't a bit of such pride. He's a good man is 
John Hurst. I shall never forget the night he stood over my 
Jem, never. And that he's up in heaven I haven't a doubt 
along of your father's good words. I'm not a religious man, 
Obut I know the genooine article when I see it. I should be 
sorry to have his son go to the bad as parson's sons often do." 
Q 
 
Victor Hurst uttered not on word in reply. His face 
changed from scarlet to white, and a blue line settled about his 
lips. Not altogether anger, either. There was somewhere in 
the words a deep thrust that he could not analyze, and it hurt 
him. 
But Baxter, having given his advice, walked away. Victor 
finished his rude toilet, gave his trousers a brush, put on his 
coat, and went out also, taking up his little basket as he passed 
a shelf. 
The walk was long enough to allow his temper to cool. He 
was hot and hasty, but always it seemed there lay in the depths 
of his heart a soreness that some words rasped into an open 
wound. Why was he so sensitive, so keenly susceptible to 
every look or tone ? 
The streets of Weareham were not marvels of beauty. No 
purely manufacturing town ever can be. The river would have 
given the finest locations ; for on the opposite side the bank was 
very irregular here sloping down into what might have been 
verdurous lawns, there rising into small bluffs which a house 
would have rendered picturesque in the extreme. But instead 
there were shops, with their tall chimneys ; sheds for coal, lime, 
and timber of all kinds ; sloops and schooners flapping their sails 
listlessly in the late afternoon breeze, and two brisk-looking 
steamboats, with a black tug sandwiched between. A busy, 
thriving place, a town in which fortunes were made, where 
the few prospered and the many lived and died unknown 
perhaps not the less happy. God, keeping watch over it all, 
decides. 
It was a long walk out to the little cottage. John Hurst had 
gone thither for cheapness, and to be nearer his work. Not 
but what he could have found enough in the town ; but people 
in this busy place had to swarm everywhere, and a true minis 
ter of God is never at a loss. The men who sent him knew 
that he was doing a good work, and further than that they gave 
themselves little trouble. 
 
But Victor used to wish the cottage elsewhere. The longest 
way round was pleasanter ; but to-night, with his eyes fixed on, 
the eternal hills, he cared little for the minor wayside beauties. 
The branching elms drooping in the summer heat, the glossy 
green maples, the dense horse-chestnuts, scarcely won a glance. 
Now and then he half stumbled over some group of playing 
children ; but not being in a patient mood, he scarcely noted 
the exclamations. 
Through the dusty streets, still smoky and hazy, looking 
dimmer in the orange-red glow of the sunset, the dingy houses 
brightened a bit here and there by some stray gleam. 
Presently they grew more irregular, with larger gardens and 
a few attempts at flowers. He knew of one window where he 
would see a pot of carnations in bloom. A hump-backed 
woman with large sad eyes sat here and sewed. He saw her 
early in the morning and late at night. Was life wearisome to 
her ? Did she never wish to be out of it all ? He thought he 
should, if by any mischance he lost youth and health. 
There she was ! A sweet, placid face, with her silvery hair 
gathered beneath a Quaker cap. Was there something in this 
religion that kept people always at peace? 
On a little farther. Here the ground was quite open, with 
a background of straggling trees, great pines, and chestnuts 
with bare, scraggy trunks and thick masses of foliage above, 
that shut out the view of the mountains beyond. He held 
a grudge against them for that. One had been scathed by 
lightning. A jagged fissure going nearly into the heart, 
twisting the bark away, charring and blackening, and it was 
now a mass of dead branches, save one green twig high atop. 
The cottage had once been a soft light-brown in color, but 
it was sadly faded by time and lack of care. The little garden 
in front was a mass of bloom, and over the porch was trained 
honeysuckle and clematis Virgin's bower. Both displayed 
some scattering flowers, sprays of snowy white, like stars among 
the green, and the yellow and scarlet of the other. The win- 
 
dow-curtains were like drifts of snow, and on each wide ledge 
stood a saucer containing a mound of flowers. 
The woman within heard the stride, and with her work still 
in hand went down the path to meet her son. She knew by 
the step that something had fretted and discomposed him. 
The cloudy face and firmly-set lips were a tacit confession the 
moment he glanced into her eyes. He almost wished that 
she could not fathom his moods quite so readily. 
"Are you tired, Victor?" 
A sweet, clear, trusty voice. You put faith in the woman 
the instant you heard it. 
" Tired no," with a short, forced laugh. " What should 
make a great fellow like me tired ?" 
This time he cast his eyes down to the stone flagging, 
scoured to the farthest verge of cleanliness. 
"It has been a very warm day." 
"Yes, "briefly. 
He passed through the hall and up stairs. The mere face 
and hand washing at the shop never sufficed for him. He had 
partitioned off a small corner of his room, near the chimney, 
and fitted it up with some cheap bathing conveniences. So 
when he had refreshed himself, scoured off the grime and dirt, 
and was arrayed in clean linen, he began to feel more com 
fortable. Perhaps too it washed away the ill-humor. 
He possessed a girlish, nervous love for cleanliness. The 
water rippling cool over his fine, soft skin ; the white, fragrant 
clothes, always laid in dried rose-leaves and sweet baisley, filled 
his whole soul with delight. The damp curls clustered loosely 
above his forehead like a restful crown. 
Then he went down the broad stairs, uncarpeted, but like 
everything else scrupulously clean. The table was spread in 
the middle of the floor. What if the cloth was coarse and the 
ware plain delf it was neatly arranged, and just before his 
plate a slender vase containing some flowers. She did not 
always do this. 
 
"Where is father?" glancing out of the window. 
"He was called to a man in Kent's Lane said to be dying. 
It is not likely that he will be home to supper." 
Still, she had placed a plate for him. If he had gone away 
for a week she would have paid him the same respect. 
The young man drew his brows to a little frown. "The peace- 
fulness that made him look like a young god only a moment 
ago was gone. 
"If the earth could open and swallow Kent's Lane it would 
be so much misery and crime and pollution taken out of the 
world ! Oh, mother, does he believe their souls are worth sav 
ing that they have any ?" 
"Victor !" 
She glanced up in amazement. A tall, slender woman, look 
ing young for her forty years. Her son might have, nay, did 
inherit a certain delicacy and refinement from her it hung 
about her as fragrance hangs about the rose. But her hair was 
very dark, with purplish tints, and her eyes nearly black ; her 
mouth small, her nose not nearly so fine as her son's, and 
the contour of the face altogether different, with something 
wider than the space of the twenty years that lay between 
them. 
"Yes ;" nothing daunted by the look and tone. " It seems 
too that there is something sweet and pure in a human soul 
that will struggle up to the light. The forlornest plant in a 
dark cellar crawls toward some crevice, you know, even if it 
has to drag a yard of thread-like stem, that can hardly sustain 
the weight of a bud." 
"But these creatures faugh !" 
The haughty nostrils curled in disgust. 
"God made them. They are His creatures. And if they 
cannot save themselves, some one must help. Was not Cain 
his brother's keeper ?" 
" Did God make them ?" 
" Victor!" in a sad, pained tone this time. 
"Mother, I wish you had called me John after my father. 
I wonder that he indulged you in such a romantic fancy." 
The young man gave a grim, bitter smile. 
" It was my fancy. Then you do not like it ?" 
There was something deeper than disappointment in the 
faltering voice. 
"Yes, I like it ;" with a peculiar exultant ring. "Victor" 
softly, as if he were petting a child. "The name for a man 
who is to triumph." 
"Yes I thought of it then. There comes some kind of 
trial in all our lives ;" and there was a strand of reverie in her 
tone while her thoughts seemed engrossed with an inward 
sight. "And you will gain the victory make a good fight," 
she added, as an afterthought. 
"With what, mother?" 
"Your own soul, I think ;" rather hesitatingly. 
"And what am I to do with it, mother? Bring it up to the 
earthly height for which it longs so madly, like a chained 
prisoner for freedom ; or cross it and thwart it, wrap it in the 
coarseness of sackcloth or the foulness of ashes, and when it 
has been despoiled of every human attribute, of every desire 
and hope, call it a thing fit for Heaven, and offer it to God ? 
Why, it appears monstrous. " 
 ' Victor, you are tempted of the evil one to-night. " 
He was toying with his plate of blackberries, turning them 
over in the hoar-frost of sugar that lay in little mounds atop. 
"Which is the devil, and which is God?" 
His voice was hoarse with some but half-suppressed emotion, 
and dangerous steely lights flashed into his eyes. She saw it 
all with pain and anguish, deeper than he could ever guess. 
" Yes. Decide for me if you can ;" and his words rang out 
sharply. "For the clear and pure impulses that lift me above 
the grovelling lives that I see daily about me the instinct 
which would keep me from theft, drunkenness, vileness, lying, 
forger)^, and perhaps murder, makes me hate my surrounding 
 
so bitterly that the whole world grows black before me ! I loathe 
every day, every hour, save perhaps an evening like this." 
She knew what made this better than ordinary, why she had 
placed the flowers before his plate and sprinkled the white 
sugar over his berries. There was a fine and subtle antago 
nism growing up between the father and the son. She, standing 
midway, with love on one side, and duty on the other, such 
as few women ever could owe, had tried to be blind to the 
fatal differences. Ah, God, what if her whole life had proved 
a mistake! 
"Yes, which is the Devil?" All day there has been a hot, 
smothering fire in my very soul. Why, at noon I could have 
throttled Garrick, low brute ! for something he said, only this 
same impulse withheld me because his coarse skin and mat 
ted .beard would have struck hard and foul against my sensitive 
fingers not that his life had any sacredness in my eyes." 
" Does God's grace implant such desires?" 
Her voice had a sudden bravery in it, her face lighted up 
with a peculiar martyr-like strength. The issue that she had 
staved off so long, and temporized with in her woman's tender 
way, must be met 
" Has God anything to do with it ? It appears sometimes as 
if we were creatures of blind chance. Place a man in the right 
groove, and he goes up, thrust him outside of the pale, and' it 
is only a longer or shorter road to perdition according to my 
father's belief;" and he smiled bitterly. 
' ' Oh, Victor I thought you in the right way once " and 
there was a great fear and trembling in her voice. 
"I thought so too. We did have a few months of perfect 
peace then, a little glimpse of what heaven might be. I tried 
to be patient with my work. I comforted myself with brave 
old St. Paul's courage and strength and heroism. But perhaps 
he had a natural aptitude for tent-making, and I yes, I hate 
the sight and sound and grime and smoke of that place down 
yonder ! You don't know. Snatches of coarse, ribald songs, 
 
jeering, swearing ! What does it do toward purifying a man's 
soul ? Not that Norcross is to blame. He wants the best 
workmen he can find ; and if they are brawny and sure of eye 
and hand, what matters a few gallons of beer inside, or a few 
oaths without, so long as his work is all right and he makes 
money? It is no worse there than anywhere else. My father 
thought it would crush the pride and take the whims out of 
me. It has taken the religion, if I had any !" 
His tone was deep and desperate. 
"And what has come in its place? Has your soul any 
better anchor ?" 
"Nothing but this great hungry discontent gnawing on my 
vitals like a vulture. And to-day it seems as if all the ache 
and agony had culminated. I've found the best way out. 
I've resolved upon my course." 
"And that is ?" her face growing gray and wan with 
apprehension. 
"I am going away. I am glad to have this talk with you 
to-night, for to-mojrow I shall leave Weareham and go out to 
a new world." 
"Oh, my son ! my son !" 
A wild, pained ciy, like that of the mother-bird who finds 
her nest despoiled and her birdlings gone.
CHAPTER III. 
THE passionate love, the strong and impetuous anxieties of 
a mother, the grief of separation rending her soul asunder, the 
settled conviction that much was wrong, but the utter inca 
pacity to right it, all spoke in her cry. 
Victor Hurst sprang up and came round to her side, press 
ing his flushed cheek against the pale one, smoothing the soft 
hair, and catching at the imploring hands. 
"Oh, mother, mother, listen and forgive! If you could 
look into my soul its blackness, its hunger, its mad struggles 
you would bid me go." 
Oh, pitiless youth ! In the impatient intensity of his pain he 
forgot hers. Perhaps God has willed wisely that the soul of 
the child should not be so far reaching as that of the parent, 
else the weight of care would crush. 
"I do not make you happy. I fret my father continually/ 
I am so different from either of you. Mother, where did I get 
this nature ?" he went on vehemently. 
A look of stony terror seemed to freeze in her face. Was 
that old time, buried she thought in a deep, hidden grave, 
rising up to confront her ? Her tongue was dry and dumb, 
her lips seemed for the moment palsied. 
"You will be happier without me. You and he can live 
your self-denying, blameless lives, and work for the salvation of 
the perishing, if so be that you can save. And I shall be 
trying my strength with the gray old world beyond, in a hand- 
to-hand fight. If I have anything, I must wrest it from fate !" 
His face was in a strange, passionate glow : the eyes sublimed 
to daring intensity, the hair thrown back from his forehead like 
an aureole of sunset, the scarlet lips parted, showing the strong 
white teeth. So brave, so beautiful ; but God made him hers 
first of all ! 
"No, "she said. "If you go, you will take my very life. 
Better a hundred times to die by your hand, here at your feet, 
than to know the long, long agony of starvation ! Oh, Victor !" 
He raised himself and studied her. A grave face always, 
looking as if some light, sad to miss, had gone out of it. But 
to-night, the terror and ap{ rehension in it startled him. He 
felt himself on an uncertain sea again, with no chart or 
compass. 
"No, you could not go," she began in a slow, wandering 
tone. "There are the indentures, you know, your father's 
word and your own." 
"As if ?" But he came to a sudden pause. 
" It does hold you," clinging to the words with her soft voice, 
like the drowning mariner to a floating spar. "And it is not 
so long to wait. Next ^lay you can go honorably then. Don't 
begin life wrong, with a meanness that would always make you 
ashamed !" 
He flushed hotly. 
" I don't know that I owe any one much ! I went to the 
business against my will." 
It was too true ; she knew it. In this sore strait her mind 
seemed to grow confused. 
" For my sake ! for my sake ! Have children no pity?" 
He stared at her blankly. There had been times when he 
fancied her placid, yielding nature deficient in any of the 
stronger passions. But how strangely it was roused now ! 
The d-eep eyes were like lakes of subtle, quivering flame. 
" Mother," he said, " if you knew all !" 
"Tell me." 
" It is so hard to stay there. No companionship, no interest, 
a weary dragging out of the days like a galley-slave ! And 
eveiy month, every week, the longing has grown upon me. To 
 
be free, to be the veriest vagabond on the face of the earth, so 
that I might come and go at will, try all things until I found 
the one which satisfied me, filled my soul with boundless 
content." 
" It can never come in this world ;" shaking her head sadly. 
" But it does to some." 
"Who first learn to moderate their desires? In this life of 
probation " 
"Mother, don't!" as if he had been suddenly stung. "I 
know the preachers' theory. But does God fill human souls 
with high, pure aspirations, courage to do, patience to wait, and 
hope only that you must strangle them all in the way, stamp 
them down into nameless graves, and do continually that 
which you hate ? Then your God, and that of my father, is 
cruel." 
"Oh Victor, think how you are talking!" she cried be 
seechingly. 
"I cannot help it," with a kind of sullen despair. " It has 
been forced upon me. Gbd knows that I tried to believe, 
tried to cheat myself into the semblance of content. But why 
should a man lie against his own soul? I will no longer at 
tempt to practise this deceit. I am restless, miserable, perhaps 
possessed of a devil who knows?" gloomily. 
He looked as if he might be, with that lurid light in his eyes. 
" Pray, pray !" she implored. 
"For what shall I pray? Freedom to follow out my own 
devices ? For that is the only thing I need. " 
"And yet you were once happy in in your father's way." 
And she seemed to question him with her slow, sad eyes. 
"I fancied so ; but I have fallen from grace." 
"My g r "ce shall be sufficient for thee?" she said, in the low 
tone of repetition. 
" Perhaps I never had any. I think I yielded in part to my 
father's importunity. And this old demon of unrest, that must 
have been born with me, was always goading me to something. 
Since I could not have it in the companionship of brother? 
and sisters, I ought to have had it in the free life of other boys. 
But I was strictly brought up you. know that. Once I smug 
gled some books into the house, and my father burnt them. He 
put me in a machine-shop because I liked clean hands, and 
tidy collars, and wristbands. It was to crush out my pride, to 
make a man of me, to bring me on a level with the poorest of 
God's creatures ! I was to despise no one, to feel myself above 
no one ; and, mother, I tell you in all honesty, that if I ever 
fancied that I should come down to the level of Connor 
and Garrick, I should open a vein, and let out the life-blood 
that pains you by this continual rebellion." 
" He did not mean that he did not mean that!" she cried, 
wildly. " He goes among such men, and labors to raise them ! 
His whole pure, self-sacrificing life is spent in it. He lives on 
a crust and water, that he may minister to the bodies of the 
destitute as well as their souls. He is a good man !" 
' ' With a narrow creed. I don't know why he is my father, 
but there is an antagonism between us. His likes, and aims, 
and wishes are not mine. He thwarts me in my tenderest 
points. So it is best for us to go our separate ways. Other 
sons try the world for themselves." 
"Oh, you will never know all you owe him." 
"I don't understand how we incur such debts. Do we ask 
to be born ? And is it not the mother who cradles us in her 
tired arms, who soothes us through our restless nights, who 
stands between us and harm, displeasure, even ? For I think, 
sometimes, in my boyhood he would have struck me but for 
your beseeching eyes. I am glad that he never did. But 
I owe you oh, a thousand times the more." 
He kissed the cold, colorless lips with the sudden rapture of 
a man's love. 
"Then I take the debt," she said," almost joyfully. "Pay 
me by staying. Finish your time honorably. Some day you 
may be glad to have no stain upon your name." 
 
"But it is so hard," he moaned. 
"My son, a mother's love may lighten the burden, even if 
you cast out the higher support." 
" Did I cast it out ? I think I never understood it as you 
and my father do. I wanted the peace it promised, and I 
clung to something. I prayed. I fancied that I heard voices 
in the air, and yielded with great joy. God will bear me 
witness that I meant to be honest." 
"And if you had kept the faith," she gasped. 
"The old discontent and rebellion came back, the longing 
for a new and different life, the man's awakening when he has 
ceased to be a child, the conflicting forces of the soul. Sub 
mission to the inevitable may be a virtue, but my lot can be 
changed, and that is why I beat against my prison -bars. Why 
then did the faith die, if it was grounded upon the Rock ? No, 
mother, we were all mistaken, I never had it." 
Her eyes were downcast, sorrowful. 
"And I ask myself if I sjjall ever find it ! But there seems 
so many more " 
"Not more necessary things, Victor ;" in affright. "He said, 
'Seek first the kingdom, and all these shall be added unto 
you.'" 
" What has been added to my father? He spends his life for 
the grovelling souls down yonder ; he gives his time, his energy, 
his ambitions, if he ever had any, for the miserable pittance " 
"No, for the love of Christ, for the crown incorruptible; 
and if so be any of those poor beings may prove worthy to 
wear it, his joy will be the greater. There is something higher 
than earthly ambition." 
Her voice was strong and clear now, when she felt sure of 
her ground. 
"Did he think so in his youth ?" 
" No at least I did not know him then. He was a grave, 
kindly man when I first met him not young ; but I think he 
never could have had any restless longings or ambitions." 
 
" And I am so different. The blood of some old ancestors 
runs in my veins rather than his. Can I help it?" 
The hand on his arm shivered a little, the breath came in 
hurried gasps, and the startled eyes gazed into vacancy, to the 
garden without, to the grove of trees beyond ; anything rather 
than her child's face. What did she fear to read there ? 
"You are disappointed because I am not more like him 
my father. In those days you loved him with a passion, I 
suppose, as young girls do. He was your ideal. And it 
seemed strange to find a hawk where one looked for a dove, 
iu the nest." 
" What do you know about love ?" she said, hoarsely. 
"Only what I read, and imagine." 
"He loved me," as if she were talking to herself. "He 
was one man out of a thousand. You can never understand 
all his nobleness." 
He smiled a little pityingly. Did women always cling thus 
to the heroes of their youth ? see in their commonplace vir 
tues knightly grace and prowess ? A hard, cold, rigid, self- 
contained man, he should have said, with only average ability, 
and not concentrating in either person or mind the beauty or 
tenderness necessary to win a woman's undying love. 
"No," he made answer. "There are many things about 
him that I shall never understand. And it seems to me that 
our paths lie in different directions." 
"But not now. Bear it a little longer for my sake. Be 
victor over yourself." 
Her voice moved him strangely, in spite of the hot impa 
tience of youth, in spite of all his resolves. Perhaps it would 
have been better if he had risen while the morning stars were 
still in the sky, and begun his pilgrimage mountain-ward, leav 
ing behind him only the note he had planned so many times 
that afternoon. Ah, he could not tell now. It might be that 
he did owe some duty. 
He went round to his place, and sat down in the quaint 
 
splint-bottomed chair, thinking oddly enough that it was his 
father's work, and that he could, in country parlance, "turn 
his hand to anything" even shoemaking ; and that brought a 
sense of aversion, disgust. So he finished his berries slowly, 
sipped the tea, but ate no more. 
While he sat by the window watching the twilight flank the 
woods in grotesque shapes, as if posting sentinels from some 
weird world, his mother began to pile up her cups and 
saucers, and set away the remnants of provision, watching 
him stealthily. 
Yes, he was handsome, with more in his youthful face than 
one usually discerns, or at least the mother's partial eyes had 
discovered it long ago. Tall, straight, supple, rounded with 
surpassing symmetry ; hands browned and hardened by toil, 
but shapely as if carved out of marble, and feet that were their_ 
counterpart. Nobler than the vision she had seen long ago, for 
all the smile was cynical instead of sweet; the eyes almost fiery 
in their impatience ; the brows contracting with every trifling 
emotion. 
And what of his soul ? Her life had been so quiet, so gov 
erned by rules springing from the wishes of another, that she had 
hardly looked at her child's future in the light in which she now 
saw it. Some old taint of ancestry cropping out that terrified her. 
When the dishes were washed and put away, and the 
table moved to its accustomed place, she came and stood by 
her son, threading his silken hair with her soft fingers, and 
starting a little at the bounding throb in his temples. 
" It is a hard fight, my son. " 
"Yes." 
" I think God never turned away from the soul that cried 
unto Him." 
" I have cried !" gloomily. 
"With faith?" 
"Not with faith, rather despair. For I have no faith in 
what can be done here. When I go away " 
"You will wait until you can go honorably." Something in 
her voice appeared to guide and repress. 
"I will wait." He uttered the words coldly, and they gave 
her no secret thrill. He had yielded from a sense of persua 
sion, perhaps duty, not any tender son's love for her, not any 
pity for her loneliness. 
And then she thought of another who had not hesitated to 
trample upon her crushed and bleeding soul, to leave her 
perishing by. the wayside; and of the good Samaritan who 
had bound up the wounds and given her a home in his heart 
freely. To which of the two owed she the most fealty ? 
The darkness fell around them. A cricket began to chirp in 
the corner, adding his voice to the chorus outside. Far down 
the woods the Whip-poor-will sent out his plaintive note ; and 
the fire-flies sunned themselves in each other's radiance. All 
was still and lovely, and the air made fragrant with the dewy 
sweet-brier. 
But neither of them spoke. She drew her low rocking- 
chair beside him, and began to sing in a soft, untrained voice, 
a grand old hymn, for she had long ago done with sweet 
girlish ballads. 
*' Judge not the Lord by feeble sense, 
But trust Him for His grace." 
The sound and the words passed idly through the son's ears. 
He was brooding over the wreck of plans that looked so fair an,d 
feasible a few hours ago. Almost ten months to wait. Oh, 
if he had not yielded so weakly, so easily. After all, was it 
any point of honor ? His father had bound him at the Nor- 
cross Machine Works, knowing that he disliked it ; that he 
had no taste for the business, except a peculiar vein for me 
chanics which cropped out now'and then in some odd improve 
ment about the house, or a fantastic design of drawing, rude 
yet bold. 
For John Hurst had a horror of lawless, vagabondish ways. 
This boy, who had now and then played truant from school, 
spent nights in the mountain wilds, and whom he had once 
found playing cards at the tavern, needed the strictest watch 
and ward to keep him from going to ruin. Some alien blood 
ran in his veins. 
At sixteen the bonds had been entered into. A tall, slender 
stripling then, standing in strange awe of his father. Now he 
was little past twenty. 
But he, clinching his fist softly in the darkness, wondered how 
deep a debt he owed John Hurst. Ah, how short-sighted and 
ungrateful is youth ! A little money, he fancied, would make 
it all straight between them. And if he managed to earn that 
sum and send it to them, the rest of his time and his daily life 
would be his own, subject to no scrutiny. But ah, the long 
intervening months ! 
The voice faltered its last tender cadence, and they sat silent 
in the dark, her eyes seeming to wander over his face with a 
pathetic hungering. Day and night it was ever present to her 
mind, for the mother vision was always illumined. But the 
fingers trailed slowly over his, and a few foolish tears quietly 
dropped. Her son should have been a gentleman. 
"Victor," she said presently, and her voice sounded like an 
angel's, cleaving the darkness, "I think you will never regret 
the sacrifice you have made for my sake." 
"Not for your sake," almost ungraciously. His heart was 
so sore and tossed about by the whirlwind of defeat. "That 
my father's word might not be broken. He shall not say that 
I marred his good name." 
"Thank you in his stead. And if you could be happy in 
the consciousness of duty " 
" No, I cannot; at least, not untii I am sure which is my 
duty. If it is right to stay in this place and become a clod, to 
stifle all those keen and fine aspirations, for something in my 
soul tells me that I might do a nobler work than moulding steel 
and iron into various given shapes. However, it is all done ;" 
with a bruskness in his voice. " I'll wait until I'm twenty-one, 
 
and then no man shall be my master. I'll draw a free breath 
for once." 
He rose and groped his way to the mantel, striking a match 
so savagely that the phosphorus fell on the hearth at his feet. 
Then another, and this time he lighted the candle. 
"Good-night;" coldly, going toward the door. 
"Good-night;" over seas of tears that would fall unheeded 
by her child. 
The dull, smothered fires had broken out at last. The lurid 
breath seemed to scorch her very soul. Would it have been if 
this boy had never known any guardianship but hers? Ah, 
would anything have been better? The hard present was here, 
and if it carried the result of mistakes and failures, lapsing into 
it from that far past, what then ? Nothing could be undone ; 
that was dreariest misery of all ! 
So she sat there crying softly. Did God keep watch and 
ward over all, and heed the call of useless ravens ? For twenty 
years she had been trying to do her duty faithfully, and the 
child of her love, of her anxious hours and many prayers, 
was ready to turn away and leave her desolate. 
After awhile, ten o'clock, perhaps, she heard a slow, weary 
step coming down the street, and springing up lighted her 
candle, giving a glimpse at herself as she passed the little 
mirror. Not to see if her dusky hair was smooth, or her plain 
collar neat as usual. But she pulled out a little bunch of 
withered madeira blossoms, still sweet, and started at the heavy 
eyes, with the dark circle about them plainly visible. 
"You are tired, John," she said, with gentle pity, as he 
sank into a chair. 
"The flesh is weak yes ; and poor human nature shrinks 
from watching even one hour with the Master in His agony." 
He wiped his pale face and drew a long breath. 
"Was the man very ill?" 
"Yes. He has gone to his last account. Oh, why will 
men put off the great work of salvation until the hour of death ? 
 
Why will they slight the mercy held out to them until the very 
grave opens to receive them, and the jaws of hell yawn beyond ? 
If they find a limit to God's mercy, they have but themselves 
to blame." 
"We cannot set limits," she returned, gently. 
Somehow she pitied these poor creatures with a new and 
infinite pity to-night. If she, with her opportunities, went 
groping around in the dark, how much more they? 
' ' As the tree falls, so it shall lie. There is no device in the 
grave. " 
How hard and cold the text seemed, merciless even ! And yet 
this morning she would have preached it without a misgiving. 
" Will you not have a cup of tea?" she asked, timidly. " I 
kept the kettle upon the coals." 
"Why should I pamper my vile body to-night? Rather it 
should be fasting and prayer for those poor souls possessed by 
devils, who are hourly rushing down to perdition." 
She spread a napkin over the table and brought out a plate 
of bread, and filled a glass with cool water. 
" Or if you will have milk " with a little hesitation. 
"No." 
