for my care of the repertation of my fam’ly would be her ill-will, and
to be ‘cused by other people of stealin’, and for the rest of my days
she’d do all she could to spite me. For I’m sure as I stand here, Miss
Mabel, that she knew, or thought she knew, somethin’ ‘bout that poor,
despisable wretch that died up in the garret. What else brought him
a-spyin’ ‘round here, and what was there to make her faint when she
ketched sight of him a-lookin’ in at her through the winder? and what
COULD a sent her upstars when everybody else was asleep, fur to haul his
close about, and poke them fine white fingers of hern into his pockets,
and pull his WHISKERY face over to the light so’s to see it better?
Depend ‘pon it, there’s a bad story at the bottom of this somewhere.
I’ve hearn of many a sich that came of gentlemens’ marrying forringers
what nobody knowed anything about. Anyhow, I want you to take keer of
this ‘ere pocketbook. Ef I was to die all of a suddent, and ‘twas found
‘mong my things, some mischief mought be hatched out on it. It’s safer
in your hands nor it is in mine. Now, I’ll jest light your lamp, and
you can ‘xamine it, and pitch it into the fire, ef you like, when you’re
through.”
In a cooler moment Mabel would have hesitated to obey the advice of an
ignorant, prejudiced person, her inferior in station and intelligence.
But in the whirl of astonishment, incredulity, and speculation created
by the tale she had heard, she untied the string which formed the
primitive fastening of the worn wallet, and unclosed it.
The main compartment contained four tickets, issued by as many different
pawnbrokers, testifying that such and such articles had been deposited
with them for and in consideration of moneys advanced by them to Thomas
Lindsay; a liquor-seller’s score against William Jones--unpaid; and a
tavern bill, in which brandy and water, whiskey and mint-juleps, were
the principal items charged against Edmund Jackson. This last was
the only paper which bore the indorsement “Rec’d payment,” and this
circumstance had, probably, led to its preservation. The adjoining
division of the wallet was sewed up with stout black thread and Mabel
had to resort to her scissors before she could get at its contents.
These were a couple of worn envelopes, crumpled and dog-eared, and
stained with liquor or salt water, but still bearing the address, in a
feminine hand, of “Lieutenant Julius Lennox, U. S. N.” In addition to
this, one was directed to Havana, Cuba; the other to Calcutta, in care,
of a mercantile or banking-house at each place. A third cover bore the
superscription, “CERTIFICATE,” in bold characters.
The negress’ watchful eyes dilated with greedy expectancy at Mrs.
Dorrance’s ghastly face when this last had been examined, but she
was foiled if she hoped for any valuable addition to her store of
information, or anything resembling elucidation of her pet mystery.
“It will take me some time to read all these,” remarked Mabel, still
scanning the half-sheet she held. “You had better not wait, Mammy. They
are safe with me. No one else shall see them, and no harm can come to
you through them.”
She promised mechanically what she supposed would soonest buy for
her privacy and needed quiet, and gave no heed to the manifest
disappointment of her visitor.
When she was at last alone, Mrs. Dorrance relocked the door, and bent
close to the lamp, as if more light upon the surface of the document
would tend to clear up the terrible secret thus strangely committed
to her discretion and mercy. The paper was a certificate, drawn up in
regular form, and signed by a clergyman, whose address was appended
below, in a different hand writing--of a marriage between Julius Lennox
and Clara Louise Dorrance.
“Her very name!” repeated the whitening lips. “I remember asking her
once what the ‘L’ in her signature stood for.”
But while she said it, there was a look in the reader’s eye that bespoke
inability or reluctance to grapple with the revelation threatened by the
discovery.
“The letters may tell me more!” she added, in the same frightened
whisper, refolding the certificate.
They did--for they were in the long, sloping chirography of her
sister-in-law, and signed “Your ever-fond, but lonely wife.” Each
contained, moreover, allusions to “Ellis,” to “Clermont,” to “Julia,”
 and to “Herbert”--all family names in the Dorrance connection; spoke
gratefully of her parents’ kindness to his “poor Louise” in the absence
of “her beloved Julius;” and was liberally spiced with passionate
protestations of her inconsolableness and yearnings for his return. Both
were dated ten years back, and the paper was yellow with time, besides
being creased and thumbed as by many readings.
“What am I to do?” thought Mabel, sinking into her chair, trembling all
over with terror and incertitude.
If there were one sentiment in Winston Aylett’s heart that equalled
his haughtiness, it was love for his wife. But could it be that he had
totally forgotten pride and his habitual caution in the selection of
the woman who was to be the partner of his home, fortune, and
reputation--possibly the mother of children who were to perpetuate
the noble name he bore? By what miracle of unrighteous craft, what
subornation of witnesses, what concealments, what barefaced and
unscrupulous falsehoods had this adventuress been imposed upon him as
unmarried, when the evidence of her former wedlock was held by a low
stroller--a drunken wretch who might betray it in an unguarded or
insane hour, and who, judging from his exterior, would not be averse
to publishing or selling the information if he could make more money
by doing this than by preserving the secret. And how came he by these
papers?
Confused, partly by his numerous aliases, more by incapacity to conceive
of such depth and complication of horror as were revealed by the
idea, the perplexed thinker did not, for a while, admit to herself the
possibility that the nameless vagabond may have been Clara’s living
husband, instead of a mercenary villain who had secured surreptitiously
the proofs of a marriage she wished the world to forget. Having learned
that she had wedded, a second time, in her maiden name, and that
her antecedents were unsuspected in her present home, the thought
of extorting a bribe to continued silence, from the wealthy lady of
Ridgeley, would have occurred to any common rascal with more audacity
than principle. It was but a spark--the merest point of light that
showed her the verge of the precipice toward which one link after
another of the chain of circumstantial evidence was dragging her.
Groping dizzily among her recollections of that Christmas night, there
gleamed luridly upon her the vision of Mrs. Aylett’s strange smile,
as she said, “It may be that his wife, if she were cognizant of his
condition, would not lift a finger or take a step to save his life, or
to prolong it for an hour!”
Then, in response to Mabel’s indignant reply--the momentary passion
darting from her hitherto languorous orbs, and vibrating in her accents,
in adding--“There are women in whose hearts the monument to departed
affection is a hatred that can never die.”
If this man were a stranger, from whom she had nothing to fear, why her
extraordinary agitation at seeing him, even imperfectly, through the
window? She must have known him well to recognize him in the darkness
and at that fleeting glimpse. Perhaps she had believed him dead, until
then! This would account for her clandestine visit to his chamber, to
which Mrs. Sutton and her niece had gone, without effort at concealment;
explain the rigid examination of his clothing ensuing upon her scrutiny
of his features.
“I must be mad!” Mabel said, here, pressing her hand to her head. “There
does not live the woman, however wicked and hypocritical, who could sit
at ease in the midst of ill-gotten luxury, on an inclement night, and
talk smilingly of other things, if she suspected that one she had known,
much less loved, lay dying in wretchedness and solitude so near her.”
The vagrant was some evil-disposed spy, whose person Clara knew, and
whose intentions she had reason to dread were unfriendly. Had she
dared--for she was daring--to attempt this nefarious plot against the
fair fame and happiness of an honorable gentleman, her family would not
have become her accomplices. They could not have blinded themselves to
the perils of the enterprise, the extreme probabilities of detection,
the consequences of Winston’s anger. Herbert, at least, would have
forbidden the unlawful deceit. When his sister was wedded to Winston,
he believed that her first husband was no longer in the land of the
living--as she must also have done.
“For he is a good--an upright man!” thought the wife. “But he was privy
to the fact of her previous marriage! Why have I never heard of it? He
has invariably spoken of Clara as having lived single in her mother’s
house up to the date of her union with my brother.”
She could not but remember, likewise, that there was a certain tone
about the Dorrance connection she had never quite comprehended or
liked--a reticence with respect to details of family history, while
they were voluble upon generalities, over-fond of lauding one another’s
exploits, virtues, and accomplishments; referring in wonderful pride to
“our beloved father,” and extolling “our precious mother,” who, by the
way, was so little in request among the children, that she had, since
Clara’s marriage, occupied apartments in a second-rate boarding-house in
Boston. Mabel, when convinced of the futility of her hope of having
Aunt Rachel with her, had proposed to offer Mrs. Dorrance a house in
the commodious mansion of her youngest son; but Herbert, with no show
of gratification at what he must have known was a sacrifice of her
inclinations, had coolly reasoned down the suggestion. The whole
tribe--if she excepted her husband, and perhaps Clara--had, to her
perception, a tinge of Bohemianism, although all were in comfortable
circumstances, and lived showily. Mabel had often chided herself for
uncharitable judgment and groundless prejudice, in admitting these
impressions of her relatives-in-law; but they returned upon her in this
twilight reverie with the force of convictions she was, each moment,
less able to combat. What darker secret lay back of the concealment
her rectitude of principle and sense of justice declared to be
unjustifiable? and might not this concerted and persistent reserve imply
others yet more culpable?
It showed her correct estimate of her brother’s character, that she
never for a second accused him of connivance in the deceit practised
upon his relations and neighbors. He would not have scrupled to wed
a widow, knowing and acknowledging her to be such. Nothing--not love,
tenfold more ardent and irrational than that he felt for his siren
wife--could have wrought upon him to introduce to the world, as Mrs.
Aylett of Ridgeley, one who had been before married, and was ashamed,
for any cause whatever, to avow this. The blemish left by the acrid
breath of common scandal upon a woman’s fame was to him ineffaceable by
any process yet discovered by pitying man or angels. The maligned one
may not have erred from the straitest road of virtue and discretion, but
she had been “talked about,” and was no consort for him. In his State
and caste, private marriages were things disallowed, and but one shade
more respectable than liasons that did not pretend to the sanctity of
wedlock. What would he say when the contents of this dingy pocket-book
were spread before him? Ought his sister to do this?
COULD she? He had not earned compassionate consideration from her by
any act of gentleness and forbearance. He had handled the lopping-knife
without ruth, and let the gaping wounds bleed as long as the bitter
ichor would ooze from her heart. She had learned hardness and
self-control from the lesson, but not vindictiveness. Now that the power
was hers to visit upon his haughty spirit something of the humiliation
and distress he had not spared her; that it was her turn to
harangue upon mesalliances and love-matches, and want of circumspect
investigation into early records before committing one’s self to
a contract of marriage--she recoiled at the thought; felt, in her
exceeding pity for the trustful husband, a stirring of the love she had
herself once borne him in the days when the changed homestead was her
world, and its master a king among men.
And yet--and yet--was it the truest friendship--the most prudent course
to prolong the ignorance which left him liable at any moment to be
shocked into the perpetration of some desperate deed by the discovery,
through some other channel, of his wife’s perfidy, and the abominable
snare that bad been woven about him!
CHAPTER XIV. -- “BORN DEAD.”
MABEL was still turning the vexed question of right and expediency over
in her fast-heating brain, the next evening, as she sat in the parlor,
and feigned to hearken to the diligent duett-practising going on at the
piano, her husband and Mrs. Aylett being the performers.
Mrs. Sutton had gone home that afternoon, engaging to return for a
longer sojourn in the course of a month. Mr. Aylett read his newspaper
at one side of the centre table, and his sister employed her fingers and
eyes at the other with a trifle of fancy-work---an antimacassar she
was crocheting for her hostess. Her industrious or fidgetty habits were
chronic and inveterate, and people, in remarking upon them, did not
reflect that this species of restlessness is in itself a disease, seldom
analyzed, more seldom cured. There are few students or physicians of
human nature, in this world of superficial observers, who go deep enough
into the springs of man’s action to distinguish the external symptoms
of heart-cancer from ossification, or to learn the difference between
satiety and atrophy. A night of nervous sleeplessness, a day of
irresolution and dread, had aggravated almost beyond her control the
restlessness which in Mabel was the unerring indication of unhealthiness
of mind and body. To sit still was impracticable; to talk connectedly
and easily would soon be as difficult. She was glad to see Aunt Rachel
go--immeasurably relieved when a musical evening was proposed by the
brother and sister, seconding the motion with alacrity that called forth
a pleased smile from the one, and a look of surprised inquisitiveness
from the other.
“You have grown more fond of instrumental music,” said Mrs. Aylett, half
interrogatively. “You used always to prefer vocal.”
“Try me and see what an appreciative listener I am,” rejoined Mabel,
with a sickly smile, and the concert commenced.
Overmuch thought upon the revelation of the preceding day had begotten
in her, fears of the imminence of the dangers to Winston’s peace of
mind--a persuasion that the birds of the air and the restless air itself
might bear to him the news she still withheld. Mammy had averred, upon
her cross-examination, that “not a living soul had ever seen the wallet”
 since it fell from the dying man’s pocket--an affirmation Mabel could
not decide whether to believe or discredit. If she could but be certain
that the secret was all hers!
She trembled guiltily when her brother folded his last paper, and
sauntered around to the back of her chair, leaning upon it, while he
affected to be interested in her work, and the too-ready scarlet blood
pulsed now hotly in her cheeks with each moment of his mute observation.
“I heard a piece of news to-day,” he said, presently, in his most even
tone; but Mabel’s start upon her seat was almost a leap, while her
fingers moved faster and more irregularly.
“I suspect, from your unsettled demeanor this evening, that it reached
you before it did me,” continued he. “I can attribute your badly
suppressed pertubation to no other cause. Mrs. Sutton is such an
indefatigable gossip, that this item could hardly have passed her by.
Has she told you that Rosa Tazewell is shortly to become Mrs. Chilton?”
“She has.”
He thought she was nerving herself to a simulation of hardihood, and the
long-indulged habit of censorship was strong upon him.
“I had trusted, until to-day, Mabel, that you had conquered that
disgraceful weakness,” he resumed, yet more pitilessly.
Domination was one of his besetting sins. He never saw a helpless or
cowering thing without feeling the inclination to set his foot upon it,
and the least show of resistance in such, piqued him into despotism.
“I was aware that it was not dead when you married a man worth a
thousand such scoundrels as that fellow in Philadelphia. I believed that
the sentiment was powerful in impelling you to that marriage, and that
this irrevocable measure would be an antidote to the evil. It was a wise
course, and I commended you for pursuing it. But I am too well read in
your countenance and moods not to see that there is something far amiss
with you. You have been playing a part for twenty-four hours, and you
have played it wretchedly. Your nervous flutters and laugh, your sudden
changes of complexion, and the incoherence of your language, would
betray you to the least penetrating observer. I caution you to be on
your guard lest your husband should take just offence at all this. The
need of dissimulation is the evidence that something is radically wrong
in your moral nature, and is derogatory to your lawful partner. I am
ashamed to remind you of the golden maxim of wedded life--that without
perfect and mutual confidence there can be no substantial happiness.
Does Dorrance know of your escapade at the Springs?”
“If you refer to my engagement to Mr. Chilton, I told him of it before
our marriage.”
“I rejoice to hear it--am pleased at this one proof of good sense and
right feeling,” in lofty patronage. “You owed him no less. You have,
without doubt been informed long since how I obtained the most important
proof against that villain?”
“I have not heard Mr. Chilton’s name in a year until yesterday,” said
Mabel, the scarlet spots ceasing to flicker, and her voice hard as was
his own.
Unable to interpret her sudden steadiness of demeanor and accent,
Winston leaped to the irritating conclusion that she was sullen, and
meditated a defiant retreat from this untimely usurpation of his olden
authority.
“It was injudicious--miserably ill-judged in Dorrance not to acquaint
you with this. I have always feared lest his indulgence might not be the
most salutary method of repressing your self-will and pride of opinion.
You, more than any other woman I know, require the tight rein of
vigilant discipline. I intimated as much to Dorrance when he asked my
consent to your engagement. But this is his lookout, not mine. What I
began to say was that, in MY opinion, he would have acted more sensibly
had he not encouraged your squeamish repugnance to talking of your early
fault and its mortifying consequences.”
“Fortunately for me, my husband is a man of feeling and delicacy!” Mabel
was goaded to boast. “I said to him, the evening of our betrothal, that
the subject you have chosen to revive to-night was painful to me, and he
has respected the reluctance you condemn.”
“He would have overcome it more quickly and thoroughly had he informed
you that he had had the honor of horse-whipping your ci-devant
betrothed!” sneered Winston, with white dinted nostrils. “That he was
the author of the letter, a portion of which I copied for your perusal,
when I announced the dissolution of your provisional engagement--the
main agent, in effect, of the rupture, since but for him I should
have had much difficulty in proving what I had believed from the
beginning--that the rascal ought to be shot for presuming to think of
you in any other light than as the merest acquaintance. And he should
never have been that, had I been with you that unlucky summer.”
“We have been over that ground so often, Winston, that both of us should
be tolerably familiar with it,” rejoined Mabel, decidedly. “I prefer
that, instead of reviewing the circumstances of what you term my ‘early
fault,’ you should show me the evidence of your singular assertion
respecting Mr. Dorrance’s agency in a matter in which he could not at
that time have had the slightest personal interest. Or, shall I ask him?
It is an enigma to me.”
Without other answer than a contemptuous laugh, Winston left the room,
unnoticed by the musicians. But before she could form a conjecture as
to the meaning of his abrupt movement, he was back with a letter in his
hand.
“Documentary testimony!” he said, shortly, passing it to her. “I should
have forwarded it entire, instead of transcribing an extract, but for
Clara’s fear lest you should be led thereby to dislike her brother
before you had ever seen him. I take it there is no danger of
prejudicing you against him now!”
The letter was from Herbert Dorrance, and began thus:
“Mr. Aylett:
“Dear Sir,--Your favor of the 15th, enclosed in one from my sister,
reached me this morning.”
Then followed the expose of Frederic Chilton’s misdeeds, which Winston
had transferred to his own epistle to Mabel, as the leading argument in
his refusal to sanction her engagement.
Mabel read it through without flinching; then turned over to the first
page and put her finger upon a paragraph.
“Who was the lady here mentioned?”
Mr. Aylett shrugged his fine shoulders.
“I have never interested myself to inquire. Beyond the statement of your
friend’s rascality, the story was nothing to me.”
“Herbert!”
The ringing call--sharp and clear--checked the pianists in the middle of
a bar.
“Step here a moment, if you please!”
The novelty of the imperative tone and the glitter of his wife’s eyes
moved Mr. Dorrance to more prompt compliance than he would have adjudged
to be dignified and husbandly in the case of another man.
Mabel held out the letter at his approach, still pointing to the passage
she had asked her brother to explain.
“To whom does this refer? Who was the relative whose husband was a naval
officer?”
Herbert Dorrance’s constitutional phlegm was a valuable ally in the very
contracted quarters into which this question drove him, but his sister
was his deliverer. Affecting forgetfulness of the letter and its
contents, he glanced down one page, Mrs. Aylett leaning upon his arm,
and reading with him.
“I don’t think you need mind telling the name, here and at this late
day, Herbert,” she said, seriously and slowly, “provided Mabel will
never repeat the story when it can do harm. Have you never heard any of
us speak of poor Ellen Lester, my mother’s niece, who died several
years before your marriage?” accosting her sister-in-law, with a face so
devoid of aught resembling cowardly or guilty fears, that Mabel’s brain,
tried and shaken, tottered into disbelief at her own wild surmises.
“Not that I remember!”
“Is that so? Yet it might easily have been. She accompanied her husband
upon his last voyage, and the ship was never heard of again. Her
parents are dead, too, so there are few to cherish her memory. She was a
school-fellow of mine, and Herbert loved her as a sister.”
Mabel was gazing fixedly at her husband’s stolid countenance and averted
eyes, and made no rejoinder until the silent intensity of her regards
compelled him to look up. Reading distrust and alarm in these, he shook
off his sister’s warning hold.
“When you wish to catechise me upon family matters, Mabel, it is my wish
that you should do it in private,” he said, roughly. “Then you shall
learn all that it concerns you to know. There are subjects into which
only prurient curiosity cares to pry.”
“I beg your pardon!” answered Mabel, quietly. “I have but to say, in
self-defence, that I did not ask to see the letter.”
“It is a matter of profound indifference to me whether you did or not,”
 was the reply. “For aught that I know or cared, you may have read it a
year and a half ago. I retract nothing that is set down there. Clara,
shall we go on with our music?”
Glancing around stealthily at the finale of the (sic) he saw that
Mabel’s chair was vacant, and Mr. Aylett was reading composedly beneath
the lamp.
Clara made the same discovery at the same moment, and came forward
laughing to her husband.
“What had you been saying to our dear, excitable Mabel, that challenged
the introduction of that unfortunate document?”
“Told her of Frederic Chilton’s intended marriage!” curtly, and without
laying aside his volume.
“Preposterous!”
“I agree with you--but it is the truth.”
Herbert stood apart glowing at the fire.
“You must have approached the subject unskilfully,” urged the
peacemaker. “These old sores are oest left alone.”
“It is best for married woman to have none,” retorted Winston, doggedly.
“She does not persist in doubting his unworthiness, does she?” queried
the wife, aside, but not so cautiously that her brother did not hear
her.
He wheeled about suddenly.
“She SHALL believe it, or call me a liar to my face!” he uttered,
angrily. “I will put a stop to this sentimental folly!”
“You are late in beginning your reforms,” observed Mr. Aylett, dryly.
“You are a less sensible man than I give you credit for being, if you
ever begin!” interposed his sister.
“Leave Mabel to herself until she recovers from the shock--if it be
one--of this intelligence. The surest means of keeping alive a dying
coal is to stir and blow upon it. And even we”--lifting the heavy locks
of her husband’s hair in playful dalliance--“even we are mortal. We
have had our peccadilloes and our repentances, and have now our little
concealments of affairs that would interest nobody but ourselves. Do
you hear what I am saying, Herbert! Leave off your high tragedy airs and
attend to reason, as expressed in your sister’s advice. While your wife
is my invalid guest, I will not have her subjected to any inquisitorial
process. There is a time for everything under the sun, saith the
preacher. This is the season for tender forbearance, and if need be, of
forgiveness.”
Herbert blessed her humane tolerance in his alarmed heart, when Mabel
awoke from her troubled slumbers at midnight, in extreme pain, that
culminated before dawn, in convulsions.
Two physicians were hastily summoned, and when Mrs. Sutton arrived about
noon, she met Phillis outside the door of the sick-chamber, carrying a
lifeless infant in her arms, and weeping bitterly.
This was the end of the months of hopeful longing and glad anticipation
which were Heaven’s messengers of healing and comfort to the sick and
lonely heart. The cunningly-fashioned robes were never to have a wearer,
the clasping arms to remain still empty. Oh wondrous mystery--past
finding out--of the human soul! Had the lungs once heaved with breath,
the heart given one throb; the eyes caught one beam of Heaven’s light
ere they were sealed fast in eternal darkness, she, who travailed with
the infant through the inexpressible agony of birth, would have been
written a mother among women; have had the right accorded her, without
the cavil of formalist or the disputations of science, to claim the
precious thing as her own still--a living baby-spirit that had fluttered
back to the bosom of the Almighty Father, after alighting, for one
painful moment, upon the confines of the lower world. As it was, custom
ordained that there should be no mourning for what had never really
been. Anguish, hope, and the patient love at which we do not scoff when
the mother-bird broods over the eggs that may never hatch--these were to
be no more named or remembered. In silence and without sympathy she must
endure her disappointment. The tenderest woman about whose knees cluster
living children, and who has sowed in tears the blessed seed, that in
the resurrection-morn shall be gathered in beauteous sheaves of richest
recompense--would smile in pitying contempt over the tiny headstone
which should be lettered--“Born Dead.”
All this and much more Mabel was to learn with the return of health and
reason, but she lay now, like one who had passed for herself the narrow
sea that separates the Now from the Hereafter; her features chiselled
into the unmoving outlines of a waxen image, only a feeble flutter of
breath and pulse telling that this was lethargy, not death. They watched
her all night, Mrs. Sutton on one side and Phillis on the other, the
family physician stealing in with slippered tread from hour to hour, to
note with his sensitive touch if the few poor drops of vital blood yet
trickled from veins to heart, always with the same directions, “Give her
the stimulant while she can swallow it. It is the only hope of saving
her.”
Armed with this, the two devoted women fought the Destroyer, praying
inaudibly, while they wrought, for the life of the child they had reared
to her sorrowful womanhood.
“HE’S asleep, and so is SHE!” whispered Phillis, once, pointing
alternately to the adjoining room where Herbert Dorrance awaited the
issue of this critical stage of his wife’s illness, and to Mrs. Aylett’s
chamber across the hall. “The Lord forgive ‘em both! It won’t be they
two that will shed many tears if so be she doesn’t see the light of
another day--the murdered lamb! They tormented the life out of her. I
passed by her room last night before bed-time, and heard her a-sobbin’
and talkin’ to herself, and walkin’ up and down the floor, and THEY
a-bangin’ away on the pyano down in the parlor!”
The faithful creature’s prejudice wronged one of the hated pair. Mrs.
Aylett’s slumbers upon her downy couch might be none the less serene for
her sister-in-law’s danger, but Herbert’s was the sleep of exhaustion,
not callousness. He had been up all the previous night, and racked by
the wildest anxiety throughout the intervening day, and to compass this
vigil was beyond his physical powers. Mabel would not miss him, and
he could do nothing for her--would only be in the way, being totally
unpractised in the art of nursing, he reasoned; and there was no telling
what new draught upon his strength the morrow might bring. He would just
lie down for an hour; then he would be fresh for whatever service might
be required of him. With this prudent resolve, he threw himself along
the bed in the spare-room, and was oblivious of everything sublunary
until sunrise.
“If there should be any change, call me!” Mrs. Aylett had enjoined,
plaintively. “Winston will not hear of my sitting up, but I shall not
close my eyes all night, so do not hesitate to disturb me, if I can be
of any use whatever.”
Which, it is idle to remark, was the last thing either of the nurses
thought of doing. If their darling were, in truth, dying, they were
the fittest persons to receive her latest sigh; for had they not been
present at her birth, and did not her mother go to glory from their
supporting arms?
There was a change, and not a favorable one, before daybreak. The
patient, from mutterings and restless starts, passed into violent
delirium, laughing, crying, and singing in a style so opposed to the
prescribed diagnosis of her case, as to lash the provincial doctor to
his wits’ end, and extinguish in Aunt Rachel’s sanguine heart the faint
hope to which she had clung until now. Herbert, awakened finally by the
turbulent sounds from the room he had been told must be kept perfectly
quiet, jumped up, and showed himself, with disordered hair and blinking
eyes, in the door of communication, just as Mabel struggled to rise, and
pleaded weepingly with those who held her down that they would restore
her child to her.
“I had her in my arms not a moment ago!” she insisted. “See! the print
of her little head is here on my breast! You have taken her away among
you! I saw it all--those who ordered that it should be done and those
who did it, when I was too weak to hold her, or to keep them back!”
And passing from the height of furious invective to deadly and earnest
calm, she told them off upon her fingers.
“Clara Aylett! Rosa Tazewell! Winston Aylett! (he married Clara Louise
Dorrance, you know!) Herbert Dorrance! JULIUS LENNOX!”
The household was astir by this time, and Mrs. Aylett entered from the
hall as her brother did from his bedroom. There was but one spectator
who was sufficiently composed to note and marvel at the scared look
exchanged by the two at the sound of the last name. This was Mr. Aylett,
who, from his position behind his wife, had an excellent view of all the
actors in the exciting tableau before she fell back, swooning, in his
arms.
He was alone with her in their chamber when she revived, and the
earliest effort of her restored consciousness was to seize both
his hands in hers, and scan his face searchingly--it would seem
agonizingly--until his fond smile dispelled the unspoken dread.
“Ah!” she murmured, hiding her face upon his bosom, “she is still alive,
then! I thought--I thought”--a mighty sob--“Don’t despise your weak,
silly wife, darling! but it was very terrible! I believed it was the
last struggle, and was appalled at the sight. And my poor Herbert! he
was frightfully overcome. Did you notice him? Will you send him to me,
dear? I can soothe him better than any one else--prepare him for what
is, I fear, inevitable. I shall not give way again to my terrors.”
The brother and sister were still together when word was brought, two
hours later that Mabel had fallen into a profound sleep--a good omen,
the doctor said.
“Thank Heaven!” ejaculated Herbert, fervently, his eyes softening until
he turned away to conceal his emotion.
He was haggard with solicitude, while Mrs. Aylett’s healthful bloom
betokened slight interest in the termination of the seizure, a glance
at which had thrown her into a faint. Nor did she echo the thanksgiving.
She waited until the messenger had gone, and continued the conversation
her entrance had interrupted.
“I incline to the belief that she caught the name, in some manner, on
Christmas before last. HE was delirious, too, and although doctor and
nurse reported that he did not speak articulately after he was brought
in, she may have heard more than they. From what has been told me, I
gather that she was in the room with him alone, while Mrs. Sutton was
down-stairs looking for Dr. Ritchie. In a lucid interval he may have
given his name--possibly some particulars of his history. Unless--are
you positive there has been no indiscretion on your part, or that others
may have talked negligently to her, because she was a member of the
family?”
“There are topics of which we--your mother, sister, and brothers--never
speak, even to one another. You may trust us that far,” rejoined
Herbert, emphatically. “Nor do I see what we can do, except wait for
other proof that Mabel really knows anything beyond a name she has
picked up at random and never, to my knowledge, repeated, save in her
ravings. Should she recover, the test can be easily applied, and we can
judge then, how to handle the dilemma.”
“Should she recover!” He said the words reluctantly, as loth to express
the doubt.
His sister’s lips twitched nervously into a sinister smile. It was as if
she would have whispered, had she dared, “Heaven forbid!”
“You have chosen a toilsome and a perilous path, Clara,” he resumed,
by and by. “I do not wonder that you are, with all your courage and
sanguine trust in your own powers, sometimes disquieted, and often
weary.”
“Who says that I am ever weary? And did you ever know me to disquiet
myself in vain?” with the low, musical ripple of laughter that belonged
to her sunniest mood. “Had I been born in the classic age, I should have
been a devout disciple of Epicurus. Don’t imagine that my success has
not, thus far, amply repaid me for my toil and ingenuity. Having lived
upon excitement all my days, I should starve without it. Pleasure, like
safety, is the dearer for being plucked from that evergreen nettle,
Danger!”
CHAPTER XV. -- THE GOOD SAMARITAN.
THE snows of ten winters had powdered the nameless stranger’s grave in
the servant’s burial-ground of the Ridgeley plantation. For nine years
the wallet taken from his person had lain unopened in a hidden drawer of
Mabel Dorrance’s escritoire, and the half-guessed secret been hidden
in her breast. Mammy Phillis had followed her mistress to the tomb,
six months after her removal from her beloved cottage to the despised
“quarters.” She never held up her head from the day of her degradation,
died from a broken heart, murmured those who best knew her--of a “fit
of spleen,” said Mrs. Aylett, in cool reprehension of her unmannerly
vassal.
Mabel had guarded the mystery well. Her husband examined her--covertly,
as he thought; awkwardly, according to her ideas--with regard to the
vagaries of her delirium, and was foiled by the grave simplicity of her
manner and replies.
“All she knows or remembers is substantially this,” Herbert jotted
down in his notes for his sister’s perusal: “she has associated in some
way--she cannot tell exactly how or why--the name with the tramp who
died in the garret. She is not sure that it was his designation. Thinks
it was not, or that, if used by him, it was an alias. Has an impression
that it was marked upon his clothing, or upon a paper found in his
pocket. Showed no agitation and little interest in the subject, except
when she inquired if I saw the stranger at all--living or dead. Was glad
I could reply truly, ‘No.’ Answer seemed to gratify her, which you may
consider a disagreeable augury. Am convinced that her illness
resulted from natural and unavoidable causes--that neither F---C---nor
J----L---had any connection with it. It will be months before mind and
body recover their tone.”
“Lawyerly! ergo, absurd and unsatisfactory!” pronounced the reader,
to whom the foregoing leaf had been committed on the morning of her
brother’s departure with his slowly-convalescing wife for their Albany
home. “But until the nettle pricks more nearly, I shall continue to
enjoy my roses.”
They had blossomed thickly about her path during this decade. Her
matronly beauty was the wonder and praise of the community. The changing
seasons that had bleached the locks upon her husband’s temples and
heightened his forehead had spared the bronzed chestnut of her luxuriant
tresses. Her figure was larger and fuller, but graceful, and more
queenly than of yore--if that could be. There was not an untuneful
inflection in her voice, or a furrow between her brows. Under her
careful management the homestead wore every year an air of increased
elegance. No other furniture for many miles on both sides of the river
could compare with hers; no other servants were so well-trained, no
grounds so beautifully ornamented and trimly kept.
“But for all that Ridgeley is a lonely, desolate place to me,” said Mrs.
Sutton, one early spring morning to her niece and crony, Mrs. William
Sutton. “A house without children is worse than a last year’s bird’s
nest. It is a riddle to me how Clara Aylett contrives to occupy her
time.”
“She should have some of these socks to darn, if it hangs upon her
hands,” replied Mrs. William, humorously, running her five fingers
through the toe of one she had just picked up from the great willow
basket set between the two upon the porch-floor.
“The Lord isn’t very apt to make mothers out of that sort of material,”
 said the elder lady. “Nor fathers out of Winston Ayletts. They are so
wrapped up in their self-consequence as to have no thought for others.”
“Yet they say Mr. Aylett regrets that he has no heir. It is a great pity
Mabel lost her only child as she did. The family will become extinct in
another generation. It is such a noble estate, too!”
“Large families were never the rule among the Ayletts,” responded Aunt
Rachel. “But I did hope my dear Mabel would be an exception to the rest
in this respect. She would adopt a little girl, but her husband will not
consent. Those Dorrances are a cold-hearted race. He, too, is heaping up
riches, without knowing who shall gather them. Heigh-ho!”
Her darning-needle quilted the yawning heel of Tommy Sutton’s sock with
precision and celerity, and she ruminated silently upon the vicissitudes
and failures of mortal life until she was interrupted by Mrs. William’s
exclamation:
“There is Mrs. Tazewell’s carriage at the gate, and the driver has a
letter in his hand. I hope the old lady is not worse!”
Aunt Rachel met the man at the steps, with neighborly anxiety.
“How is your mistress, Jack?”
“‘Bout the same, ma’am. But Miss Rosa--she came last night very
unexpected, and it kinder worsted Mistis to see her so poorly. This note
is from Miss Rosa, ma’am, and I am to take back an answer.”
Mrs. Sutton read it standing in the porch--the scented leaflet that had
a look of the writer all over it, from the scarlet monogram at the
top of the sheet and upon the envelope, to the flourish of the
signature--“Rosa T. C.”--the curl of the C carried around the rest like
a medallion frame:
“DEAR, GOOD AUNT RACHEL,--I have come to Old Virginia to try and shake
off an uncomfortable cough which has haunted me all winter. The Northern
quacks can do nothing for me. One ray of this delicious sunshine is
worth all their nostrums. I was not prepared to find mamma helpless, or
I should not have descended upon her so unceremoniously. Being here, I
cannot retreat in good order or with safety to my health, nor without
wounding her. Frederic must return to Philadelphia next week, by which
time I hope to be quite invigorated. Now for my audacious proposal.
Can you come over and tell me how to get well in the quickest and least
troublesome way? Dear Auntie! you loved me once. When you see what a
poor, spiritless shadow I have grown--or lessened--to be, you will care
a little bit for me again, for the sake of lang syne.”
Mrs. Sutton wiped her spectacles and gave the note to her niece.
“There is but one thing for me to do, you see, my dear. Jack! I shall be
ready in twenty minutes.”
If the line of duty wavered before her sight during the three-mile
drive, it lay straight and distinct ahead of her when she stood in
Rosa’s chamber.
“My child!” she ejaculated, upon the threshold “you did not tell me that
you were confined to your bed!”
“I ought not to be!”
The rebellious pout and tone were Rosa’s, as were also the black
eyes--unnaturally large and bright though they were--but the pretty lips
were wan, and strained by lines of pain; the pomegranate flush was no
longer variable, and was nestled in hollows, and the hands were wasted
to translucency.
“I am quite strong enough to be up, and would be, if my tyrannical
doctors and their tractable tool, my lord and master, had not decreed
that I shall lie here until midday, if I am very obedient; eat my meals;
take their poisonous medicines, and abstain from coughing. If I offend
in any of these particulars I am not to rise until three o’clock--when
they are in an especially glum humor--not at all that day. But now you
are here, we shall combat them valorously. Dear Auntie!” putting the
thin arms about the old lady’s plump neck, and laughing through a spring
rain of tears, “how good and safe it is to be with you again! And you
are the same kind, lovely darling! no older by a day--no uglier by a
solitary wrinkle! I couldn’t sleep last night, for fearing you would not
come to me!”
“You should not have doubted it, dear!” said the motherly voice, blithe
as affectionate, while soft, agile fingers undid the tight embrace, and
commenced, from the force of habit, to arrange the tumbled bed-clothes.
“Wherever I can be of most use is the place in which I wish to be.”
“I know you have always lived for others,” answered Rosa, with an
involuntary sigh, a shadow glooming her eyes.
“For whom else should I live and work?” laughed Mrs. Sutton, in her
cheerful, guileless fashion. “My personal wants are few and easily
supplied, and I like to be busy. I account it a privilege to be able to
fuss about my friends when they are ailing.”
By way of doing as she liked, she attacked the disorderly room. Rosa’s
three trunks stood in a row against the wall--all of them open--the tray
of the largest lying beside it upon the carpet, the lid of this thrown
back and the contents in utter confusion; laces hanging over the sides
and trailing upon the floor. A casket of medicines was uppermost in the
next trunk, crushing a confused medley of collars, ribbons, gloves, and
handkerchiefs. A dressing-gown lay upon the seat of one chair, a skirt
over the back of another; boots and slippers peeped from the valance
of the antique bedstead; there was a formidable array of bottles upon
mantel and bureau--conspicuous among them cod-liver oil, cologne,
and laudanum--incongruous appendages to the various appliances of the
toilette scattered between them.
Mrs. Sutton understood it all--the hurry and agitation of the
unlooked-for arrival; the faintness and prostration of the consumptive;
the restless night, and the well-meant but inefficient ministrations
of negroes in an establishment where the mistress had been feeble for
years, and was now chained to her room and chair by paralysis.
“And Rosa was always an indolent flyabout in health; accustomed to have
a score of servants at her heels to pick up whatever she dropped or
threw aside,” she said to herself. “My Mabel was a pink of neatness and
order compared with her. Dear me! here is a bottle of oil, cracked, and
an immense grease-spot in the front breadth of a splendid silk dress! I
hope these things do not annoy her as they would me!”
Whether the universal disarray made Rosa uncomfortable or not, she
enjoyed the aspect of the tidy apartment, when her nurse brought her
noiseless labors to a close by exchanging her night-gown for a flannel
wrapper; putting clean linen upon her and the bed; combing the tangled
hair and washing her hands, wrists, and face in tepid water, interfused
with cologne.
“It prevents a sick person from taking cold when bathed, and freshens
her up wonderfully, I think,” was her explanation of the fragrant
preparation.
“YOU freshen me more than all things else combined!” said Rosa,
gratefully. “Ah, auntie! how often I have thought of, and wished for
you this tedious and dismal winter! I used to spend entire weeks in bed,
attended by a horrid hired nurse, who took snuff and drank--ugh! and
snubbed and terrified me whenever I--as she described it--‘took a notion
into my head;’ that is, when I asked for something she thought was too
troublesome for her ladyship to prepare, or wanted Fred to stay all
night in my room, or sit by me in the evening, and pet me. She ‘couldn’t
bear to have men around, cluttering up everything!’ she would growl the
instant his back was turned, with a deal more of the same talk, until
I was afraid to ask him to take a seat the next time he came in. He was
continually bringing home baskets of fruit, and game, and bouquets for
me. She let me have the flowers, but she ate nine-tenths of the nice
things herself, I never suspecting her, and he was too delicate to ask
if I enjoyed his presents. At length he surprised her in the act of
devouring a bunch of hot-house grapes, for which he had paid almost
their weight in gold, and then all came to light, and he sent her off in
a hurry. Poor Fred, there were great tears in his eyes when he learned
what persecution I had undergone, rather than vex him by complaints.”
“It would have been better had you told him sooner, dear! It would have
spared you and him much suffering.”
“I knew how engrossed he was by his business, and how ignorant he was of
household or medical matters, and I saved him all the bother I could.
I have tried, in some things and some times, to be a good wife, Aunt
Rachel! But often I have failed, O, how egregiously! and”--beginning to
weep--“the thought pierces my heart by day and by night. What if I never
have an opportunity of doing any better, of covering up the traces of my
footsteps?”
Mrs. Sutton patted the wasted hand with her cool one, but essayed no
other soothing.
“Where is your husband now? I understood from your note that he was with
you.”
“He rode over to Dr. Ritchie’s this morning, directly he had given me my
breakfast. He thinks highly of his skill, and he would not be contented
without bringing him to see me. I really believe he is anxious I should
get well! Strange--isn’t it? when I am such a burden upon his mind and
hands.”
Aunt Rachel smiled.
“Not at all strange, you ridiculous child! Two of the most dearly-loved
wives I ever knew were invalids, and bedridden, not for weeks only,
but for years. You can best show your gratitude for his affection and
kindness by getting better rapidly while he is here, that he may leave
you with a lighter heart.”
“He is kind! too kind!” murmured Rosa, composing herself among the
cushions, as if to sleep.
She was quiet so long that Mrs. Button had leisure for some reflections
relating to her own personal action in the somewhat embarrassing
position she occupied. She had never seen Frederic Chrlton from the day
he left Ridgeley as Mabel’s betrothed. His visits to the neighborhood
since his marriage had been few and brief, and she had studied to avoid
him whenever she happened to be with the William Suttons during one of
these. He might have guessed her design, or unwittingly favored it on
his own account. The meeting would not be more pleasant to him than to
her. But why had he allowed his wife to send for her? The alteration in
him must indeed be great, if he could, without a conflict with resentful
and painful memories, bow his pride to sue for the services of a
relative of the Ayletts, and formerly one of their household, even in
such a cause as that which now commanded her sympathies.
At this point of her cogitation she became aware that Rosa’s eyes were
wide open, and staring at her with a whimsical blending of curiosity,
melancholy, and gratification.
“Aunt Rachel!” she said, bluntly, “you are a very good woman! the best
and most forgiving human being I ever heard of. I should not feel one
particle of surprise to see you float up gently through the roof, at
any minute--cap, spectacles, and all--translated to the society of
your sister angels--and no questions asked by St. Peter at the gate of
Paradise!”
“My love!”
Well as she knew her erratic disposition and wild style of speech, Mrs.
Sutton moved her hand toward the patient’s pulse.
“I am not raving! I speak the words of truth and soberness--very sad
soberness, too! Believing as you do that Frederic was once the cause of
much sorrow to you and to one you loved, and having no reason to care
one iota for me, but rather to distrust me, you nevertheless obey my
call upon you for service, as if I had every right to make it. And
when here, you treat me just as you would Mabel, were her situation as
deplorable, her need equal to mine.”
“Why shouldn’t I?” questioned Mrs. Sutton, simply. “I have no ground for
a quarrel with you. And if I had--well, the truth is, my dear, I have a
poor memory for such things!”
Rosa caught at the scarcely perceptible emphasis upon the “YOU,” and
disregarded the remainder of the remark.
“You cannot yet acquit Frederic of wrong-doing! Indeed, Mrs. Sutton, he
has been foully wronged among you. It is not because he is my husband
that I say this. Mabel’s name has never passed his lips---nor mine in
his hearing, since I became his wife. And every one of the family has
been equally guarded when he was by. I doubt, sometimes, if he has ever
heard whom she married or where she lives--so carefully has he shunned
every reference to her or any of the Ridgeley people. During the nine
years we have lived together, he has given me no cause to suspect that
he ever thinks of her, or laments the broken engagement. If I have made
myself wretched by imagining the contrary, it was my fault, not
his--my foolish, wicked jealousy. I would scorn to imply a doubt of
his integrity, by reminding him of the charges proferred against him
by Winston Aylett, and believed by his sister--much less ask him to
contradict them. I never put any faith in them from the outset. It
comforts me to recollect that my confidence in him stood fast when
everybody else distrusted him--my noble, slandered darling! But my
declaration of his innocence is founded upon his blameless life and
upright principles. No one could be with him as I have been, and
doubt him. He is a perfect man--if there was ever a sinless
mortal--great-hearted, gentle, and sincere. Do not I know this? Have I
not proved him to the utmost?”
Her rapid, impassioned declamation was ended by a copious flood of grief
that provoked a frightful fit of coughing. When this was subdued she was
weaker than a year-old infant, and lay between stupor and dreaming for
so long a time, that Mrs. Sutton became alarmed.
There must be no repetition of this scene. She most ward off similar
mishaps by whatever measures she could force or cajole her conscience
into adopting. Rosa’s state was more precarious than her account had led
her friend to believe, or than the nurse’s experienced eye had seen at
their meeting. The main hope of her recovery was in the warmer climate
and assiduous attendance. Above all, she should not be allowed to
exhaust herself by talking, or hysterical paroxysms. She had no more
self-control than a child, and she must be treated as such. Mrs.
Sutton’s jesuitical resolve was to humor her by every imaginable device,
even to feigned friendship for Frederic Chilton.
Fortified by this resolution, she heard, without any show of pride or
trepidation, the clatter of horses’ hoofs in the yard; the sound of
voices below stairs, as Mr. Chilton ushered the physician into the
parlor, and the light, careful tread with which he mounted to his wife’s
apartment. His momentary pause at the entrance, and surprised look at
beholding the other tenant of the chamber, were the best passport to
her indulgence he could have desired. It was clear to her instantly that
poor Rosa’s passion for manoeuvring had survived the wreck of health and
prostration of spirits. She had never chosen the straight path if she
could find a crooked or a by-road, and her project for obtaining Mrs.
Sutton’s services and company had been put into execution, without
consultation with her husband. However reprehensible this might be in
the abstract, it was not in the kind old soul to betray her, as she
advanced, placidly and civilly, to reassure the startled man.
“How are you, Mr. Chilton? You hardly expected to meet me here, I
suppose? But I am a near neighbor of Mrs. Tazewell now, and hearing
that Rosa was sick, I came over to see if I could do anything for her,
knowing how infirm her mother is.”
“You are very kind!” He grasped her hand more tightly than he intended,
or was conscious of. “We were ignorant ourselves of Mrs. Tazewell’s
true condition. Mrs. Chilton’s sisters have forwarded more encouraging
reports to her of her mother’s illness than they would have been
warranted in doing by anything except the fear that a faithful account
would operate injuriously upon the daughter’s health. I should have
chosen some other home for my wife, had I known the actual state of
affairs here. Change of scene and climate was imperatively demanded.”
He spoke low and rapidly--hardly above his breath; but the black eyes,
unclosing, flashed upon him.
“So you have come back!” said Rosa’s weak voice. “You stayed away an
eternity!”
Her coquettish displeasure and the asperity of her accent contrasted
so oddly with her vehemently expressed attachment for her husband and
extolment of his virtues, that Mrs. Sutton regarded her in speechless
amazement. She submitted to his kiss, without returning it--even raising
her hand pettishly as to repel further endearments. “I should have died
of the blue devils if Aunt Rachel hadn’t, by the merest accident, heard
that I was ailing, and driven over, like the Good Samaritan she is, to
take pity upon me in my destitution; to pour oil--not cod-liver--into my
wounds, and wine into my mouth. She is better than all the men-doctors
that were ever created; so if you have brought your bearded Esculapius
home with you, you may tell him, with my compliments, that I won’t see
him yet awhile. He was an old beau of mine, and I hope I have too much
respect for what I used to be, to let him get a glimpse of me until
Dr. Sutton has set me up in better flesh and looks. She brought me some
enchanting jelly--one of her magical preparations for the amelioration
of human misery, and I am to have a bowl of her unparalleled
chicken-broth for dinner. I wish dinner-time were come! the very thought
makes me ravenous. I am to do nothing for a week, but eat, drink, and
sleep, at the end of which period I shall be dismissed as thoroughly
cured. So, Mr. Chilton, you can go back to your beloved clients whenever
you please!”
To Mrs. Sutton’s apprehension this was an infelicitous introduction of
herself to the husband’s toleration. Certainly, she did not know many
men who would have parried the thrusts at themselves with the dexterity
he manifested, and acknowledged her merits and kindly offices willingly
and gracefully. He did not apologize for his protracted absence, nor
insist upon conveying his physician to the sick-chamber; but he chatted
for five minutes or thereabouts upon such topics as he knew would
entertain the captious invalid, and finally arose from the bed-side,
