He disappeared behind the building, leaving the aroma of his pipe after
him. I thought his conduct was very strange; but then I had always
regarded him as a singular man. He had never gone to the landing when a
steamer arrived. If he wanted any stores, or wished to send to St.
Louis for anything, he always commissioned Matt or me to do his
business for him. He had never whispered a word in my hearing in regard
to his past history, though he took a great interest in me.
I went into the Castle, and found that Miss Ella was as comfortable as
the circumstances would permit. I put some pitch wood on the fire,
which made the room light enough to enable one to read in any part of
it. I prepared some supper, of which she ate very sparingly, though
when, like an accomplished housekeeper, I apologized for the fare, she
declared that it was very good.
I had to unload the wagon; but the barrel of flour was still too much
for me, and I asked Mr. Mellowtone to help me, and he came to the front
of the Castle for that purpose. I lighted a pitch-wood torch, and went
out. Miss Ella followed me, and insisted upon holding the torch, when I
began to thrust one end of it into the ground.
Mr. Mellowtone could not help seeing her; and when I was ready to roll
down the barrel of flour on the skids, I saw that he was gazing at her
very intently.
"What is this young lady's name, Phil Farringford?" he asked, in a low
tone.
"Ella Gracewood," I replied.
"My daughter!" exclaimed he, with deep emotion, as he sprang towards
her.
CHAPTER X.
IN WHICH PHIL VISITS PARADISE, AND FIRES AT AN INDIAN.
Ella raised the torch, and gazed earnestly into the face of Mr.
Mellowtone.
"Father!" exclaimed she, springing into his arms.
I took the torch from her hand, utterly confounded by the scene. I
could not see how Mr. Mellowtone could be the father of Miss Gracewood,
for I knew enough of the customs of society to be aware that the
daughter bore the parent's name. They wept and sobbed in each other's
arms, and I was so touched that I could not help crying, too.
"You are but little changed, Ella," said the father. "Only a little
taller."
He stepped back and gazed at her, as if to note the change which time
had wrought in her.
"And you don't look any older than when we parted; how well I remember
it!" replied Ella, her pretty face lighted up with joy. "Only your
clothes are different."
Mr. Mellowtone wore the costume of the woods--a blue hunting-shirt, or
frock, over pants stuffed into the tops of his boots, with a felt hat.
"I suppose, if I wore my black clothes, you would see no change at all
in me," replied the father. "But I will help you unload your flour,
Phil Farringford."
"I am in no hurry," I answered.
"Let us do it at once."
I handed the torch to Ella again, and we rolled the heavy barrel to the
ground.
"How funny it looks to see you doing such work, father!" said she,
laughing.
"But I am my own cook and my own servant. I chop my own wood, and shoot
my own dinner. You shall go to my island home to-morrow, and I think we
shall be very happy there."
"You needn't do anything more, Mr. Mellowtone," I interposed, when he
was going to help unload the rest of the goods. "You can go into the
house, and talk with your daughter."
"Why do you call him Mr. Mellowtone?" asked Ella. "That is not his
name."
"It is the name by which I am known here in the forest," added he.
"But your name is Henry Gracewood."
"And you may call me so, Phil Farringford, in future," said Mr.
Mellowtone. "My own name sounds strange to me now. I changed it to
escape impertinent questions which might possibly be put to me."
Father and daughter entered the Castle, and seated themselves before
the blazing fire. I rolled the barrel of flour into the store-room,
between the house and the barn. Disposing of the rest of the articles I
had bought in their proper places, my work was finished for the night.
"I will go to the block house now, Mr. Gracewood," I remarked, not
wishing to intrude myself upon the happy father and child in the
Castle.
"No, Phil Farringford," replied he; "I shall have no secrets from you
after this, for you have learned enough to make you desire to know
more."
"I don't wish to intrude, sir."
"Sit down, Phil Farringford. Now Matt Rockwood is gone, I shall regard
you both as my children," continued Mr. Gracewood, with more
sprightliness than I had ever seen him exhibit before.
I put some more pitch wood on the fire, and seated myself opposite the
father and daughter, where I could see the glowing faces of both.
"Now, Ella, tell me how you happen to be so far from St. Louis," said
Mr. Gracewood.
"We were going to Portland, Oregon. Mr. Sparkley failed in business,
and lost all his property," replied she.
"Mr. Sparkley is my brother-in-law, Phil," added Mr. Gracewood. "And
you are going with him, Ella?"
"Yes; Mr. Sparkley has a good chance to go into business there."
"Is your--is your mother with him?" asked Mr. Gracewood, with some
embarrassment.
"She is."
I was not a little puzzled by what I heard. My good friend spoke of the
mother of Ella, and I knew that she was his daughter. The mother,
therefore, was his wife, as I reasoned out the problem; but I could not
understand how he happened to be living in the backwoods, away from her
and his child. Mr. Gracewood was silent for a time, and I began to
realize that there was something unpleasant in his family relations,
though the matter was incomprehensible to me.
"I suppose your mother does not speak very kindly of me," said the
father, at last, with considerable emotion.
"I never heard her speak an unkind word of you, father," replied Ella,
promptly; and at the same time her eyes filled with tears.
"I am glad to hear that."
"It is true, father," added the daughter, wiping the tears from her
eyes.
"Don't cry, Ella; all may yet be well. Perhaps I was to blame, in
part."
"You will see mother when she comes back in the steamer--won't you,
father?" pleaded she.
"She may not wish to see me."
"I know she will be glad to see you."
Mr. Gracewood was moody and agitated again. I saw that he was
struggling with his feelings, and I hoped that the gentle words of his
daughter would lead to a reconciliation. She seemed like an angel of
peace to me, as she threw oil upon the troubled waters. But I felt like
an intruder in such a scene, and I left the Castle on the pretence of
attending to the horses. I did not return, feeling that I was not
needed in such an interview. I made up a bed in the block house, and
was about to turn in, when Mr. Gracewood joined me. He told me he had
attended to all the wants of his daughter, and that she would sleep in
the Castle.
"I know you were astonished at what you heard, Phil Farringford," said
he, as we lay down in the block house.
"I was, sir, and I felt very bad when your daughter wept."
"I am afraid, from what Ella says, that I am quite as much to blame as
her mother. Indeed, I had begun to think before that the fault was not
all on her side. When my father died, he left a handsome fortune, which
was divided between my brother and myself. I was educated at one of the
best colleges in the west, and intended to study the profession of law;
but the death of my father placed sufficient wealth in my possession to
enable me to live in luxury without any exertion. I was married, and
for a few years lived very happily.
"I had always been very fond of fishing and hunting, and while in
college I spent all my vacations in camp, on the prairie or in the
forest. After I was graduated, I used to devote two or three months of
the year to these pursuits. When I was married, I was not willing to
forego this luxury,--for such it was to me,--and without going into the
painful details, this subject became a source of difference between us.
I thought my wife was unreasonable, and she thought the same of me. Six
years ago she told me, if I went on my usual excursion, she would leave
me, never to return. I could not believe she was in earnest. I had
reduced the period of my absence to six weeks, and when I returned
found my house closed. Mrs. Gracewood was at the residence of her
brother, Mr. Sparkley. I sent her a note, informing her of my return.
"She wrote me in reply, that if I would promise to abandon my annual
hunting trip, or take her with me, she would come back. I replied that
I would travel with her wherever she desired to go, and at any time
except in June and July, and that a woman was out of place in a camp of
hunters. She positively refused to return or to see me on any other
than her own conditions. I met Ella every week at my own house, where
she came in charge of a servant. Neither of us would yield, and life
was misery to me. The next spring I placed all my property in the hands
of my brother, with instructions to pay my wife an annuity of three
thousand dollars a year, and made a will in favor of my child.
"I had been to this region before, and hunted upon the island where I
now live. To me it was a paradise, and I determined to spend the rest
of my days there. I felt that I had been robbed of all the joys of
existence in the love of my wife and child. Taking the materials for my
house, furniture, a piano, and my library, with a plentiful supply of
stores, I came up the river in a steamer, and have lived here ever
since."
"But didn't you wish to see your daughter?" I asked.
"Very much; but I was afraid that the sight of her would break down my
resolution, and induce me to yield the point for which I had contended.
A kind Providence seems to have sent my child to me, to open and warm
my heart."
"Do you still think you were right?" I asked.
"I do; my annual hunt was life and strength to me for the whole year. I
thought my wife's objections were unkind and unreasonable; but I
believe now, since I have seen Ella, that my manner was not
conciliatory; that I was arbitrary in my refusal. Perhaps, if I had
been kind and gentle, and taken the pains to convince her that my
health required the recreation, she would have withdrawn her
objections. Quarrels, Phil Farringford, oftener result from the manner
of the persons concerned than from irreconcilable differences."
I went to sleep, but I think it was a long night to Mr. Gracewood. When
I waked he had left the block house; but I found him with Ella, at
sunrise, on the bank of the river. He had called her up, and was going
to start at that early hour for Paradise, as he called his island. He
invited me to go up as soon as I could, declaring that there was no
danger from the Indians so long as Kit did not return. I was sorry to
lose my pretty visitor so soon; but she was as impatient to see the
home of her father as he was to have her do so.
I watched the beautiful boat as Mr. Gracewood pulled up the stream; but
I trembled when I considered the danger of losing my neighbors, for
Ella would not think of remaining long in such a lonely region. I took
care of the horses, and turned them out to feed on the new grass,
believing that they would be better able to take care of themselves in
my absence if the Indians visited the clearing. After breakfast, I
walked down to the landing, where I had a boat, as starting from there
would save me the labor of paddling a mile against the current. I soon
reached the island, and landed upon the lower end. I had taken my rifle
with me, so as to bring down any game I happened to see.
As I walked up the slope of the hill, I discovered in the water, on the
north side of the island, a couple of Indian dugouts. I was alarmed,
and hastened with all speed to the house of my good friend. I heard the
music of his piano, and was assured that the Indians had not yet done
any mischief. I went up to the door, which was wide open. Mr. Gracewood
sat at the instrument, with his pipe in his mouth, inspired by the
melody he was producing. At the same instant I perceived the head of an
Indian at a window behind the pianist. I saw him raise a rifle, as if
to take aim. As quick as my own thoughts, I elevated my own piece and
fired.
CHAPTER XI.
IN WHICH PHIL ENGAGES IN THE PURSUIT OF THE INDIANS.
The shot which I fired was instantly followed by a fierce and savage
yell. Until this moment the invaders had been creeping like cats up to
the house, and Mr. Gracewood and Ella had no suspicion of their
presence. In coming up the river I had crossed to the opposite side by
a diagonal course, partly to shorten the distance, and partly to avoid
a strong current, which swept in close to the shore above the mouth of
Fish Creek. The Indians must have been making the passage at the same
time; but the island was between them and me, so that I could not see
them.
They belonged to the same band that had attacked us at the Castle. The
fact that they had their dugouts with them assured me they had come
down Crooked River, the next stream above the Fish, on our side of the
Missouri. I concluded that they intended to renew the attack upon the
Castle, and had come in their boats so that they could approach on the
water side of the farm. They knew Mr. Gracewood very well, and meant to
plunder him first, for his share in the occurrences of the last week.
I could form no idea of the number of Indians on the island. I judged
that there were but few, for I could see only two dugouts on the bank
of the river. The savage at whom I had fired was in the act of stealing
in at the window. He had but just raised his head, and was the only one
I could see. His companions were near him, however, as I soon learned
from the yell they uttered.
Mr. Gracewood's house was large enough to contain two rooms below, and
two sleeping apartments in the attic. The front room, on the south side
of the building, was nearly half filled by a Chickering's grand
piano--a magnificent instrument, which was the joy and solace of the
recluse in his self-imposed exile. I had often sat for hours, while he
played upon it, listening to the wonderful melody he produced. He was
an enthusiast in music, and when he played he seemed to be inspired.
Almost invariably his pipe was in his mouth when seated at the
instrument, and I supposed his two joys afforded him a double rapture.
I used to think, if it had been my case, I could have dispensed with
the pipe, for it seemed like adding gall to honey.
The grand piano was a powerful instrument, and I had heard its tones
before I landed, and I listened to them with pleasure until my
attention was attracted by the sight of the dugouts. The front door was
open, and Mr. Gracewood glanced at me as I appeared at the door, but he
did not suspend his rapturous occupation. Behind him stood Ella,
enjoying the music; and both were totally unconscious of the deadly
peril that menaced them. At the same instant I discovered the head of
the Indian. He had evidently surveyed the interior of the room before,
and he did not see me. I fired, and he dropped. His companions yelled,
and Ella uttered a scream of terror. She was beside herself with fear,
and apparently thinking the house was full of Indians, she rushed out
at the open door as I entered. Mr. Gracewood seized his rifle, and a
revolver which hung on the wall.
I loaded my piece without delay, and followed the recluse out of the
house. I heard him fire before I overtook him. The plan of the savages
failed as soon as they were discovered, for they were too cowardly to
stand up before the rifles of the white man. As I hastened after Mr.
Gracewood, I glanced at the outside of the window through which I had
fired at the Indian. I supposed I had killed him, but his body was not
there. A terrible scream from Ella, followed by a cry of anguish from
her father, startled me at this moment, and I ran with all speed in the
direction from which the sounds came. Passing beyond the house, I
discovered four Indians in full retreat. Two of them were dragging the
shrieking Ella over the ground towards the point on the river where the
dugout lay. My blood ran cold with horror as I realized that they had
captured the fair girl.
The poor child, in her terror, had run away from the house to escape
the savages, who, she supposed, were in it, but only to encounter them
where we could not prevent her capture. The agony of her father was
fearful. He groaned in the heaviness of his soul. We could not fire
upon the Indians without danger of hitting Ella, whom her captors
cunningly used to protect their own bodies from our bullets.
Mr. Gracewood ran, but his limbs seemed to be partially paralyzed by
the agony of his soul. It was but a short distance to the river, and
before we could overtake the Indians they had dragged their prisoner
into one of the dugouts, and pushed off from the shore. I passed the
poor father, but reached the bank of the river too late to be of any
service to Ella. There were two Indians in each boat. They had gone but
a few rods before a bullet whistled near my head, and I retreated to
the shelter of a tree until Mr. Gracewood joined me.
"Heaven be merciful to me and to her!" groaned he, pressing both hands
upon his throbbing head. "What shall we do, Phil Farringford? Tell me,
for I am beside myself."
"Let us take your barge and follow them."
At that moment the shrill whistle of a steamer echoed over the island.
The sound came from up the river, and I was satisfied that it was the
boat in which Ella had been a passenger, returning for her.
"It will be a sad moment to her mother when she hears what has become
of Ella," groaned Mr. Gracewood.
"Let us get into your boat as quick as possible, and meet the steamer
as she comes down," said I.
We ran to the landing-place at the lower end of the island, and
embarked in the barge. Mr. Gracewood rowed with all his might up the
stream.
"Do you see the dugouts, Phil Farringford?" he asked, after he had
pulled to the upper end of the island.
"I can just see them. They are making for Crooked River."
"Do you see the steamer?"
"She is not in sight yet."
The mouth of Crooked River was half a mile above Paradise Island. Its
head waters were in the Indian country, but the most of its course was
through a more level region than that through which the two branches of
the Fish flowed, though the mouths of the two were not more than a
couple of miles apart. Crooked River was, therefore, practicable for
boats, while there were frequent rapids in Fish Creek and its
tributaries.
"There's the steamer," said I, after we had gone a short distance
farther.
"And where are the dugouts?"
"They have gone into Crooked River."
"Can the people in the steamer see them?" asked the anxious father.
"No," I replied, sadly.
Mr. Gracewood continued to pull with all his might, and in silence,
till we came within hail of the steamer.
"Hold on!" I shouted, making violent gestures with my arms.
The captain immediately recognized me, and the wheels of the steamer
stopped. Mr. Gracewood pulled the barge up to the steamer, and we went
on board.
"Where is the young lady we left at your wood-yard?" demanded the
captain, very much excited, as I stepped on deck.
"She was captured by the Indians less than an hour ago," I replied,
breathless with emotion. "They have taken her up into Crooked River. Do
put your boat about and chase them."
"Captured by the Indians!" exclaimed the captain, aghast at the
intelligence.
"Will you put about, and follow them, captain?" interposed Mr.
Gracewood.
"He is Ella's father," I added.
"I am," said he.
The captain directed the pilot to start the steamer, and head her up
the river, as we dragged the barge on deck.
"But we can't go up these small streams," he added.
"The Indians cannot have gone far, and the water is deep for several
miles," replied Mr. Gracewood.
"I will do the best I can. We have a detachment of troops which I am to
land at your yard, Phil," continued the captain.
"I'm glad to hear that. The Indians will give us no peace until they
have been punished for the mischief they have done."
"Did you say this gentleman was Ella's father?" asked the captain,
pointing to Mr. Gracewood, who had gone to the bow of the boat, and was
on the lookout for the Indians.
I told him all that had transpired since we met the evening before,
including the capture of Ella.
"If he is Ella's father, his wife is on board," said the captain. "I
suppose I must tell her what has happened to her daughter; but I don't
like to do it."
As he left me to perform this unpleasant duty, I saw two ladies and
three gentlemen, two of them officers, coming down the steps from the
boiler deck. I inferred that one of these ladies was the mother of
Ella. She had evidently received an intimation that something had
occurred to her daughter, for she was very much disturbed.
"What has happened, Captain Davis? Where is Ella?" she demanded, in
broken tones.
"I am sorry to say that the news is not as pleasant as I could wish,"
replied the captain.
"Where is she?" cried Mrs. Gracewood.
"Her father is here, and----"
"Her father!" exclaimed the anxious mother.
Mr. Gracewood, whose attention was attracted by the sound of her voice,
came up to the group, and was instantly recognized by his wife.
"O, Henry!" gasped she. "Forgive me!"
"Nay, I ask to be forgiven," he replied, choking with emotion.
Without any explanation or terms whatever, the reconciliation seemed to
be perfect.
"This must be a sad meeting, Emily, for I fear that Ella is lost to
us."
"Where is she?" demanded Mrs. Gracewood.
"In the hands of the Indians," replied the suffering father.
"O, mercy! mercy!" groaned the poor mother. "They will kill her!"
"Let us hope not," replied Mr. Gracewood, struggling to repress his
emotions.
But this intelligence was too heavy for the strength of the poor lady,
and she was borne fainting up the stairs to the saloon. Mr. Gracewood
assisted in this duty, and I was left to give the military officers the
information they needed. The steamer had already entered Crooked River,
and a leadman was calling out the depth of water.
"There they are!" I cried, when the boat turned a sharp bend in the
river, as I discovered the two dugouts paddling up the stream.
"We will make short work of them," replied Lieutenant Pope, who was in
command of the detachment of soldiers sent down for our relief.
The Indians saw the steamer, and immediately made for the shore, where
they landed.
CHAPTER XII.
IN WHICH PHIL TAKES DELIBERATE AIM AT ONE OF THE CAPTORS OF ELLA.
"What is your name, young man?" said Lieutenant Pope to me.
"Phil Farringford, sir."
"Are you acquainted with the country in this vicinity?"
"Yes, sir; I have been over it many times."
"Then you can act as a guide," added the officer, who had collected his
force on the forward deck, in readiness to disembark them.
Presently the steamer reached the point at which the Indians had
landed. The dugouts were hauled up on the shore; but we could see
nothing of the savages, who had disappeared in the forest, half a mile
from the stream, where the land began to rise.
"Can we make a landing here?" asked the captain.
"You can," I replied.
"Do so, captain," added Lieutenant Pope.
"I wouldn't land here," I interposed.
"Why not?"
"This boat can go three miles up the river, sure, and perhaps five. The
Indians must travel up stream in order to escape you. If you go up two
miles farther, you can head them off."
"Keep her a-going, captain," added the officer.
"Two or three miles east of us is Big Fish Creek. The Indians can't get
across below us without swimming."
"Then we shall have them between these two streams."
"Of course it is possible for them to get across the Big Fish, but it
won't be very easy, unless they get rid of their prisoner."
"How far is it across the country to the creek?" asked the lieutenant.
"About three miles here. Crooked River twists round in a half circle."
"You may be gone a week, Lieutenant Pope," interposed the captain. "I
can't wait here a great while."
"You need not wait an hour after you have landed my force," replied the
officer. "But you must take my stores down to the landing at the
wood-yard. I will send a sergeant and ten men to take charge of them."
The campaign, it appeared, was to be commenced at this point, and I was
to guide the soldiers to the Indian village north of our settlement.
Mr. Gracewood soon appeared on the forward deck, and the plan was
explained to him. His wife was a little better, and he was anxious to
join in the pursuit of the savages. I tried to prevail upon him to go
down to the landing with the soldiers; but he was resolute, and
declared that he would follow the Indians till he recovered his
daughter.
"One of us should go down with the soldiers, and take care of Mrs.
Gracewood; for I suppose she no longer thinks of going to Oregon," I
said.
"Why will you not go, Phil Farringford?" he replied.
"I am to act as the guide for the soldiers who pursue the Indians."
"I will guide them," added Mr. Gracewood.
"Either of you," interposed the lieutenant.
I was anxious to go with the soldiers myself, and to have a hand in
capturing the miscreants who had carried off Ella; but her father had a
stronger claim upon this duty, and I yielded. Two miles above the point
where we had passed the dugouts, the steamer made a landing. After I
had explained to Lieutenant Pope the nature of the country, and the
localities of the streams, he decided to take only half his force with
him, and to send the other half to the landing, with instructions to
march up the Little Fish towards the Indian village. The two
detachments would come together on the river before reaching their
final destination.
The soldiers who were to pursue the Indians landed, and the steamer
started again. It was about noon when we reached the landing at the
Castle. The captain, who had been detained so long by the events
narrated that he was impatient to be on his voyage up the river again,
hurried the soldiers on shore. Mrs. Gracewood bade adieu to her brother
and his wife, who proceeded on their long journey. It was hard to leave
without knowing the fate of poor Ella, but the circumstances were
imperative. I conducted Mrs. Gracewood to the shore, and the steamer
departed.
The poor mother was in a state bordering on frenzy. Her anxiety and
suspense were hardly endurable. I went up to the Castle, caught the
horses, harnessed them to the wagon, and conveyed her and her trunks to
the house. In the mean time the soldiers had marched up to the
clearing, and decided to pitch their tents near the block house, for
they were not to start for the upper country till the next morning,
lest the Indians should be alarmed before the other force could reach
the place of meeting.
The troops hauled their tents and provision to the camp ground with my
team; and the scene at the clearing was vastly more lively than I had
ever before seen there. Mrs. Gracewood could not stay in the Castle,
and she joined me in the field. I said all that I could to comfort and
console her. I know not how many times she asked me whether I thought
the savages would kill her daughter. I did not believe they would.
"Why should they, Mrs. Gracewood?" I reasoned. "They know very well
that such a murder would bring a terrible vengeance upon them. Before
this time they have seen that the soldiers are on their track."
"Why should they carry her off, then?" asked the poor mother, wiping
away the tears that so frequently blinded her.
"As a prisoner, alive and well, she may be of great value to her
captors. They may procure a large ransom for her, or they may protect
themselves by having her in their power. To kill her would bring
nothing but disaster to them."
"But they will at least abuse her."
"They may compel her to travel too fast for her strength, for the
soldiers will keep them moving at a rapid rate. Wasn't it very singular
that she was left behind last night?" I asked, wishing to change the
current of her thoughts a little, if possible.
"It seems strange now. I did not think of such a thing as that she was
not on the steamer. I supposed she was in her state-room reading till
evening. Her room was lighted, as usual; and when I retired, as the
light seemed to assure me she was there, I thought I would not disturb
her. The steamer stopped at the fort. She did not appear at breakfast,
and I went to her room. I was frightened when I saw that it had not
been occupied, and I ran to the captain. Inquiry proved that she had
not been seen since we left this landing. I was told that people lived
here, and that she would not suffer. As soon as the freight was
unloaded, the steamer returned."
While I was talking with her, the shrill screaming of a steamboat
whistle assured me I had another customer for wood. Slinging my rifle
over my shoulder,--for in these troublous times it was not safe to go
unarmed,--I rode old Firefly down to the landing. I sold twenty cords
of cotton-wood, and put eighty dollars into my pocket. I told the
captain all the news, while the hands were loading the fuel; and the
steamer went on her winding way up the river. In a short time she
disappeared beyond the bend. I was about to mount my horse, and return
to the Castle, when I discovered a dugout in the distance cautiously
stealing down the great river, under the shadow of the bank. It
contained two Indians; but I was thrilled with excitement when I
discovered a young lady seated between them.
It was Ella Gracewood.
I was in a clump of trees, where I had fastened Firefly, and the
savages could not see me. I unslung my rifle, and satisfied myself that
it was in condition for use. Breathless with interest and anxiety, I
watched the dugout. I realized that the Indians had doubled on the
soldiers in pursuit of them by returning to their boats, and coming
down Crooked River. They evidently intended to ascend the Fish River.
Aware that the troops were in hot pursuit of them, I could understand
that their only solicitude was to escape with their prisoner, whose
presence was a sort of guarantee of their own safety.
I hardly dared to breathe, lest the savages should discover me. I
crouched behind a bush, and watched the progress of the enemy, as they
rounded the point, and paddled up the Fish River. I could not make up
my mind what to do. If I went up to the camp to inform the soldiers of
what I had seen, I should lose sight of the dugout. I expected every
moment to see the other two Indians come round the point in the second
dugout, but they did not appear.
As the savages ascended the stream, I crawled out of my hiding-place.
Mr. Gracewood's barge had been left at the lauding by the steamer, and
I launched it as the dugout disappeared beyond a bend in the creek. I
rowed with the utmost caution up the stream, fearful that the quick ear
of the Indians might detect the sound of the oars. I took the
precaution to muffle the oars, using an old coat I found in the boat
for the purpose. At the bend where I had lost sight of the enemy, I
held the barge by an overhanging branch, until I had satisfied myself
that it was safe to proceed. The dugout was not in sight, and I
continued to pull up the stream, pausing at every turn to take an
observation.
As it was not safe for me to go forward while the dugout could be seen,
I had not obtained another view of it when I reached the junction of
the Big and Little Fish Creeks. As the soldiers were between the former
and Crooked River, I knew the fugitives would not take that branch, and
I confidently pulled up the Little Fish. Two miles above the junction
the rapids commenced, and boats could go no farther in this direction.
Unfortunately the stream was too straight to suit my purpose, and
seeing the dugout half a mile ahead of me, I landed, and determined to
walk in the path on the bank of the creek.
The trees enabled me to keep out of sight, and I quickened my pace, so
as to lessen the distance between myself and the enemy. As they made
but slow progress against the current, I was soon as near them as I
dared to go. In this manner I crept along the path till the dugout
arrived at the rapids. The Indians landed, and compelled Ella to do so.
I could not see her face, but I judged that she had in some degree
become reconciled to her situation.
The place where the fugitives landed was at the mouth of the little
brook up which Mr. Gracewood and I had followed the horse thieves. The
rapids were just above the mouth of this stream, and the locality was
my favorite fishing-ground. I supposed the savages would follow the
path on the bank of the creek, which led to the Indian village; but
instead of doing so, they struck into the woods by the route the horse
thieves had taken. I walked up to the mouth of the brook; but I knew
the Indians could go but a short distance in the direction they had
chosen. It was nearly sundown, and I concluded that they intended to
encamp for the night. I had about decided to return to the Castle, and
procure the assistance of the soldiers, when I heard one of the Indians
approaching. Concealing myself behind a tree, I waited to observe his
movements.
He went to the river, embarked in the dugout, and pushing out into the
middle of the stream, commenced fishing, not fifty yards from me. I
could not resist the temptation to open the battle, and taking
deliberate aim at the Indian with my rifle, I fired.
CHAPTER XIII.
IN WHICH PHIL AND HIS COMPANION ARRIVE AT THE CABIN OF KIT CRUNCHER.
If I had considered the matter a moment longer, probably I should not
have had the courage to open the battle; for, if I failed to hit the
Indian, my situation would become desperate, and with an empty rifle in
my hand, I could only depend upon my legs for safety, while the savages
would be able to escape with their prize before the soldiers could be
brought up.
Fortunately for me, I did not miss my aim. My bullet evidently passed
through the brain of the savage, for he threw up his arms, and dropped
over into the bottom of the dugout. His fall disturbed the boat, and
detached it from the overhanging branch by which he had secured it, to
enable him to fish. The current whirled it around, and carried it down
the river.
Though I could not rid myself of a certain sensation of horror, when I
found that I had actually taken a human life, I was well satisfied with
what I had done. My frame trembled with emotion and excitement as I
hastened to load my rifle again. I expected that the sound of the shot
would bring the other Indian to the spot, and I nervously awaited his
approach; but he did not appear. As the first Indian had come to the
creek to obtain food, his companion doubtless supposed he had fired at
some game. The wind wafted the smell of smoke to me, and I surmised
that the savage at the camp was preparing to cook the fish or game
which the other was to obtain.
The sun went down, and it began to be dark in the shades of the forest.
I had become composed and resolute again, after waiting half an hour
for the coming of the other redskin. I had arrived at the conclusion
that it was not worth while to return to the Castle for the soldiers. I
was sure that the Indian at the camp fire would soon come down to the
creek to ascertain what had become of his companion. To prevent him
from stumbling upon me, I retreated a little farther from the stream
into the forest. I could not be mistaken in my calculation, which was
soon verified by the sound of footsteps in the direction of the Indian
camp.
I found my heart beating violently again, and I dreaded the necessity
of shooting the savage almost as much as I did the consequences if I
failed to do so. It was still light enough for me to see him distinctly
when he made his appearance on the bank of the brook. I raised my rifle
with the intention of firing the instant he stopped long enough to
enable me to insure my aim, for I had not confidence enough to shoot
while he was in motion. But I was so agitated that I was not in
condition to do justice to my own skill. The savage walked rapidly to
the bank of the creek, and halted, looking up and down in search of the
dugout and his companion.
"Ugh!" grunted he, in order to express his dissatisfaction at the long
absence of his associate, I suppose.
Then he shouted, and waited for a response from his absent friend; but
he did not hold still long enough to enable me to cover his head with
the muzzle of my piece. I was so excited by the consideration of the
fatal consequences to me, and perhaps to Ella, if I failed to bring him
down, that I had not pluck enough to fire. I had slain one man, and it
was awful to think of killing another. I would have given all the gold
in my pocket if Kit Cruncher had stood by my side at that instant, and
relieved me of the fearful responsibility of the occasion.
Of course there was no response to the call of the Indian; and, after
glancing all around him, he walked rapidly down the path on the bank of
the creek in search of his lost mate. This movement on his part
afforded me a new hope. As Ella had not come to the stream with her
surviving captor, it was evident enough that he had left her at the
camp fire, probably tied to a tree, or otherwise secured.
I waited till the Indian had disappeared, and then hastened in the
direction of the camp. I did not take much pains to move without noise,
for I concluded that the Indian would have his ear to the ground
frequently, to obtain tidings of his missing associate. I ran with all
the speed I could command. I found Ella fastened to a tree near the
fire. Her hands were tied behind her, so that she was unable to help
herself.
"O, Phil Farringford!" cried she, as I approached.
"Don't make any noise, Ella," I replied, cutting the cords which bound
her. "Follow me, and be very careful."
"Where are the Indians?" she asked, in a whisper, her teeth chattering
with terror and excitement.
"I have shot one, and the other is not far off."
I conducted my fair companion a short distance down the brook, and
taking her in my arms, I bore her across the stream.
"Hark!" said I, as I placed her on the other side.
We listened, and I heard the Indian shouting for his companion. From
the direction of the sound I concluded that he was near the mouth of
the brook. Certainly he had retraced his steps from the point where he
was when I started to rescue Ella. It was probable that he had heard my
steps, but doubtless he supposed they were those of his missing mate. I
had made considerable noise when I scrambled up the steep bank of the
brook with my burden, which was immediately followed by his call.
"He has heard us," I whispered, preparing my rifle for use.
"What shall I do?" asked my trembling charge.
"Come with me. The brook is between him and us now, and I don't think
he will hear our steps, if we move very carefully."
I took her by the hand and led her through the dark forest. I intended
to proceed in an easterly direction till I came to Kit Cruncher's
Brook, and then follow the path along its bank to the Castle. I paused
occasionally to listen, but I heard no more shouting. The savage had
probably gone back to his camp, and discovered that his prisoner was
missing.
"We must hurry along as fast as we can, Ella," said I, finding that my
companion was inclined to go very slowly.
"I am very tired, Phil."
"I am sorry, but we cannot waste our time. If that Indian can find
where we crossed the brook, he will pursue us."
"How far must we go?"
"It is five miles to the Castle, but it is only two to Kit Cruncher's
cabin."
"I am very faint, for I have eaten nothing since we breakfasted on the
island very early this morning," added Ella.
"I think I can find something for you to eat when we get to Kit's
cabin."
"But where is my father, Phil?" asked Ella. "I hope nothing has
happened to him."
"Nothing has happened to him. He is with the soldiers who landed up
Crooked River. Did you not see the troops?"
"I saw them when they landed, but not afterwards."
"Did the Indians use you badly?" I inquired.
"No; they only compelled me to walk when I was so tired that every step
was painful."
"Where did you go after you left the dugouts?"
"I'm sure I don't know. We travelled till we came to another river."
"That was the Great Fish," I added.
"Two of the Indians left us then, and paddled across this river on a
log. They had a talk before they separated, and they pointed often at
me. I knew that it was about me."
"Where did you go then?" I asked, anxious, if possible, to ascertain
the plan of the savages.
"We walked back again till we came to the edge of the forest, not far
from the river. Here one of the Indians lay down on the ground, so that
the soldiers could not see him, and crawled to the stream. The other
led me through the woods towards the Missouri, two or three miles, I
should think; at any rate, I was completely exhausted. At last we
arrived at the great river, in sight of the island where my father
lived."
"But where were the soldiers?" I asked.
"I suppose they were beating about the woods, looking for us. The
Indian drove me down the steep bank of the river to the water-side. I
was terribly frightened, and if my savage conductor had not held my arm
I should have slipped down into the river. Here I was permitted to rest
myself for an hour, and then the other Indian came in the boat."
"Did you see the steamer that went up the river this afternoon?"
"I did; and when the Indians heard the whistle, they ran the boat into
a creek, and kept very quiet until she had passed. Then they paddled up
the river by the wood-yard."
"I saw you when you went by, and followed in your father's barge," I
added.
"Did you come all alone?"
"Yes; there are about thirty soldiers at the Castle; but I thought, if
I went after them, I should lose sight of you, and so I came up alone.
I have some good news for you, Ella."
"What is it?" she asked, faintly.
"Your father and mother met on board of the steamer, and are now good
friends."
"I am so glad! But I do wish we could rest," she added.
"Sit down on this log, Ella," I replied, conducting her to a fallen
tree. "I haven't heard anything from that Indian, and I don't believe
he is on our track."
"O, I hope not; but I couldn't run if I saw him this instant."
"We ought to get back to the Castle to-night, if it is possible," I
added.
"I don't believe I can walk so far."
"Your poor mother is suffering every moment. If she only knew you were
safe, I would not go farther than Kit's cabin to-night."
After resting for half an hour, we resumed the weary tramp through the
woods, and at last reached the brook on the other side of which was the
hunter's log hut. There was a light in it, which assured me Kit was at
home. I carried Ella over the stream in my arms, and we approached the
house. I took the precaution to reconnoitre the premises before I
entered, for it was not impossible that some of the enemy had taken
possession of the cabin; but through the open door I saw the tall
hunter at work over the fire, evidently cooking his supper.
"How are you, Kit?" said I, leading my charge into his presence.
"Are you hyer, Phil, boy!" exclaimed he. "Who's that with you?"
"It's Mr. Mellowtone's daughter."
"I never knowed he had a darter."
As briefly as possible, I told Kit what had occurred since he left the
clearing.
"I've jest kim in from the nor'ard," said he. "The Injuns is on the
rampage. There's more'n a hund'ed on 'em not more'n a two hours' tramp
up the Little Fish, and there's goin' to be more trouble. I was goin'
down to the Castle as soon as I'd eat my supper. I ain't sartin there
ain't some redskins 'tween hyer and the clearing. Leastwise, I don't
think it's safe to go down by the brook path."
I was surprised and annoyed at his last remark; and Kit, after putting
another slice of bacon in the pan over the fire, proceeded to explain
the ground of his fears.
CHAPTER XIV.
IN WHICH PHIL ROWS THE BARGE UP THE BIG FISH RIVER.
If there were any Indians between the Castle and Kit Cruncher's cabin,
we were certainly between two fires, and it was necessary that
something should be done very soon.
"What makes you think there are Indians below us, Kit?" I asked.
"I'll tell you, boy," replied the patriarchal hunter, as he turned a
slice of bacon in the pan. "I've seen Injun tracks p'inted that way."
"Where did you see them?"
"Over on the Little Fish. It has rained hard sence I went up the river,
and the tracks I see was new ones."
"Were they above or below the lower rapids?"
"Above, boy. I struck across the country above the swamp, and hit my
brook near the spring where it starts. Two Injuns had come down, I
know."
"Well, Kit, those were the two who crossed the Big Fish on a log--two
of the four who went to the island this morning and captured Miss
Gracewood. The other two came around by the river in the dugout, and
camped near the lower rapids. In my opinion, they had agreed to meet
there."
"Most like it is as you say, boy. I'm glad it's no wus. But 'tain't
safe for the gal to stay hyer. There'll be a hund'ed Injuns down hyer
to-morrow, mebbe as arly as daylight. I cal'late them two that come
over this mornin' is doggin' round the Castle now."
"If they are, they have found a camp of soldiers there, and not a very
good chance to plunder the place."
Kit Cruncher placed the frying-pan, in which the great slices of bacon
had been cooked, upon a chest, with a basket of crackers. Ella ate
heartily of the meat, for it was very good, in spite of the homely
manner in which it was served. We finished the meal without any
interruption from Indians or others. The poor girl declared that she
felt very much refreshed and strengthened, and was able to walk again.
"Now we are ready for a start," said Kit, when he had put his house in
order.
"How far is it through the woods to the Little Fish, Kit?" I asked.
"Across hyer 'tain't more'n a mile."
"Then I think we had better go that way," I added. "I left Mr.
Gracewood's boat not far from the place where the two rivers join, and
we can go down in that."
"Very well, boy; but I cal'late there's three Injuns atween us and the
Castle somewhar. But 'tain't no matter; if they show theirselves, my
rifle will make quick work on 'em."
We crossed the brook, and struck into the woods on the other side. Ella
walked by my side, holding my hand, while Kit led the way through the
gloomy forest.
"Where do you suppose my father is now, Phil?" asked the poor girl.
"With the soldiers."
"But where are the soldiers?"
"They are in the woods beyond the Big Fish, I suppose. They must have
scoured the woods down to the Missouri before dark. I have no means of
knowing whether they were able to find any tracks of the fugitives to
assist them; if not, they have been very much puzzled."
"And all this time my poor father thinks I am in the hands of the
Indians, and fears that I have been killed or abused," added Ella.
"I am very sorry; but I do not see that we can do anything to-night to
relieve his anxiety."
"No, Phil, I see that you cannot. You have been very brave and noble,
and very kind to me, and I shall remember you with gratitude as long as
I live."
"I don't ask for anything better than to serve you," I replied. "In the
morning the troops at the Castle will start, and I have no doubt they
will communicate with those beyond the Big Fish in the course of the
day."
"I do wish father were here. I am afraid he will expose himself to the
Indians, or wear himself out, he is so anxious for me."
"We will do the best we can to let him know that you are safe. Perhaps
Kit and I will try to find him, as soon as we have conducted you to the
Castle, and relieved the anxiety of your poor mother."
"We marched very cautiously through the woods, and with our rifles in
our hands ready for instant use. In a short time, under the skilful
lead of the hunter, we reached the river; but I had left the barge a
mile farther down the stream.
"I am not sure that we shall find the barge where I left it, Kit," said
I, as we took the path on the bank of the Little Fish.
"Most like you won't, boy. That Injun that went down to look for
t'other mought have took it."
"What will you do, then?" asked Ella.
"We shall be obliged to walk another mile, to the landing-place."
My trembling companion was constantly in fear of an attack from the
savages, or that a shot from them would hit her, or some other one of
the party. I said all I could to comfort and assure her; but the
circumstances were so novel to her that she could not be reconciled to
them. As I was not without fear myself, I could not take the matter so
coolly as Kit did. But the old hunter, steady and brave as he was in
peril, was a prudent man, and not at all disposed to be reckless. He
knew that an Indian bullet could kill him, as well as another man, and
he had none of that affectation of courage which so often belies the
boaster and the reckless man.
"Hyer's your barge," said Kit, ahead of us, when we had gone less than
half a mile down the stream.
"So it is; but I did not leave it here," I replied, as I glanced at the
boat.
"That Injun has come up stream in it, and left it hyer. Most like he
ain't fur from hyer."
I assisted Ella into the barge. Kit seated himself in the bow, and I
took the oars.
"Fotch her over under the further shore, boy," said Kit, as I pushed
off the boat. "Keep as fur as you kin from danger allus."
The old hunter's suggestion was certainly a good one, as was fully
demonstrated only a few minutes later. I pulled the barge to the other
side of the river; but we had gone only a few rods before the crack of
a rifle, followed by a whizzing bullet, assured us the enemy were at
hand. The barge was painted white, and was a shining mark in the night
for the savages to fire at.
"O, mercy!" cried Ella.
"Did it hit you?" I asked, alarmed by her cry.
"No, no--but----"
"Don't make any noise, then."
"Run the barge ashore hyer, boy," said Kit Cruncher, quietly.
I obeyed instantly; but another shot followed the first one, though,
fortunately, neither of them did any harm.
"Let the gal go ashore," added Kit.
I understood his plan, and assisted Ella to land.
"Run up the bank into the woods, and get behind a tree," I said to her,
as a third shot came across the river.
But the Indians were firing blindly in the dark, and though the last
bullet hit the boat, we were still safe. Kit stepped on the shore, and
we dragged the boat out of the water. The hunter paused on the bank of
the river, and gazed across in the direction from which the shots came.
"There's three on 'em over thyer," said Kit. "The shots was too near
together to come out of one barrel. Haul the barge up the bank afore
they hev time to load up agin."
The barge was light, and we had no difficulty in taking it up the bank
into the woods. For the present we were safe; but it was certain that
there were three savages on the bank of the river, and between us and
the Castle. We had, luckily, escaped injury so far, and Kit was not the
man to lead us into any unnecessary peril. We were now on the tongue of
land between the Big and the Little Fish Rivers, and only a short
distance above their junction. At the point where we landed it was less
than a quarter of a mile from one river to the other.
"We can't go down Fish River to-night," said I, when we had pulled the
boat up the bank.
"Not without resk, boy," replied Kit.
"What shall we do?" asked the frightened Ella.
"Don't be skeered, little gal," interposed Kit, in a tone more tender
than he was in the habit of using. "You are as safe hyer as you'd be in
your marm's lap."
"Can't the savages come over here?" she inquired.
"'Pears like they can't; leastwise, not without swimming, and we kin
stop 'em faster'n they kin come over. Rifle-balls travels fast,"
answered Kit, sagely. "But I don't reckon they'll want to come over
hyer."
"Do you suppose they know there are soldiers at the clearing?" I asked.
"I don't reckon they do. They mought know it, and they mought not; but
from what you say, I cal'late they hain't had time to go down and see."
"Perhaps they intended to go there to-night," I suggested.
"It mought be."
"I think they were looking for something to eat first. I believe the
two Indians who came across the river on the log were to meet the other
two at the camp on the brook where I went. They knew they could get
plenty of fish there. After I shot one of the party at the camp, the
remaining one must have come across the other two. They will keep
between us and the Castle."
"Most like they've been lookin' for the gal all the evenin'," added
Kit.
"It seems to me, if they knew the soldiers were at the clearing, they
would not stay here."
"'Tain't much use to guess at these things. You mought as well shoot at
nothin' in the dark. We can't go down Fish River to-night; that's all
that's sartin."
