been guilty of treachery to me and to the Gracewoods. I went all over
the boat, from the wheel-house to the main deck; but the captain was
not to be seen. The engineer, in answer to my inquiry, told me Captain
Davis had been up till after midnight, and probably had not yet turned
out.
"What time did the boat leave Kansas City?" I asked.
"About eleven o'clock; possibly it was half past eleven."
"Did you see anything of the Daylight?"
"Not a thing; and you won't see her till we have been in St. Louis two
or three days," replied the engineer. "She can't keep up with the Fawn.
Besides, we are full of freight and passengers now, and shall make no
long stops anywhere."
"That's mean," I growled, as I left the engineer.
I wanted to cry with vexation; but I had made up my mind that it was
not manly to shed tears. I walked up and down the hurricane deck till
breakfast time. This exercise had a tendency to cool my hot blood, and
I considered the situation in a calmer state of mind. I could be of no
service to the Gracewoods, and the father of the family was abundantly
able to take care of them. If I could only have been assured of their
safety I should have been satisfied.
I went to breakfast; but Captain Davis did not appear till most of the
passengers had left the table. I suspected that he did not wish to see
me; but that did not prevent me from taking a seat at his side, even at
the risk of spoiling his appetite.
"You told me you should not leave Kansas City till the Daylight
arrived, Captain Davis," I began.
"Not exactly, Phil. I told you she would probably be there in the
morning, or something of that kind."
"Why did you leave, then, before morning?"
"Because my passengers were indignant at the delay I had already made
for your friends."
"It was mean."
"Steady, Phil."
"It was mean to serve me such a trick."
"You seem to think, Phil, that we run this boat simply for your
accommodation. You are slightly mistaken. I have done more now than
most captains would have done. However, I suppose you feel bad, and I
won't blame you for being a little cross."
"I didn't mean to be cross," I added, rather vexed that I had spoken so
hastily. "I do feel bad. I have lost my money, and lost my friends."
"And I have done the best I could to help you find both."
"You have, Captain Davis. Excuse me for speaking so hastily."
"All right, Phil; but it's a poor way to blame your friends when things
go wrong."
"I know it is. Mr. Gracewood had all my money except what I lost, and
I haven't a dollar left."
"Well, your passage is paid to St. Louis, and, when the Fawn arrives
there, we will see what can be done for you."
"Thank you, sir. You have been very kind to me, and I am sorry I said
anything out of the way."
"That's all right now. I have no doubt your friends will come down in
the Daylight, and then all will be well with you. Keep cool, and don't
fret about anything."
I tried to follow this advice, but I found it very hard work. I talked
over all the possibilities and probabilities with the captain, and I
was almost convinced that I was worrying myself for nothing. We should
arrive at St. Louis in a couple of days more, and the Daylight would
soon follow us. I watched the ever-changing scene on the shores of
the river with far less delight than when Ella Gracewood sat at my
side. We passed large towns and small ones, and I saw the capital of
Missouri, with its State House and other public buildings. Early on the
morning of the third day after leaving Kansas City we passed into the
Mississippi. A little later in the day we were approaching the great
city of St. Louis.
I gazed, with wonder and astonishment, at the vast piles of buildings.
I saw the crowds of people hurrying to and fro on Front Street, which
borders the river; and I could not help feeling what an insignificant
mite I was in the mass of humanity. At the Castle, where I was brought
up, I was a person of no little consequence; but here, if I were to
figure at all, it must be as a zero. The people on board of the Fawn
seemed to catch the infection of bustling activity, for they began to
hurry back and forth, collecting their baggage, and making preparations
to land.
The boat ran up to the levee, and another lively scene ensued. Hackmen
struggled for the passengers, and porters and draymen added their share
to the din. I was bewildered, and gazed with my mouth wide open at
the bustling life before me. In about an hour the passengers had all
disappeared, and I was almost alone on the boiler deck, from which I
viewed the panorama of civilization, so new and strange, which was
passing before me. The drays were carting off the freight which we
had brought, some of it from the vicinity of the Rocky Mountains. The
captain had told me I might occupy my state-room, and take my meals
with him in the cabin, till the arrival of my friends. I had nothing
to do but wait, and when the scene in the vicinity of the Fawn became
rather tame, I went on shore. The levee for half a mile was flanked
with steamboats, and in several places the excitement I had just
witnessed was repeated.
Leaving Front Street, I walked up Market Street, till I came to the
Court House. Following Fourth Street, I halted, absolutely bewildered
by the magnificent proportions of the Planters' Hotel, which I believe
has since been destroyed by fire. But there was no end to my amazement,
and I will not attempt to paint the impressions of a green boy as he
gazed for the first time upon the elegant public buildings of St.
Louis, and at the splendid private residences. All day long I wandered
about the city, with my mouth, as well as my eyes and ears, wide open.
I gazed at the rich displays of dry goods in the shop windows, and
concluded that the people of the city were made of money if they could
afford to buy such gorgeous apparel. I looked for hours at the pictures
at the print-sellers', and stared at the costly equipages in which
elegantly-dressed ladies were riding. I only returned to the steamer
when my legs ached so that they would hardly sustain the weight of my
body.
In the cabin, at supper, I astonished the captain with a glowing
account of what I had seen, just as though the scene was as new and
strange to him as to me. The next day I repeated my explorations; but
at dinner time I examined all the steamers at the levee to satisfy
myself that the Daylight had not yet arrived. I ventured inside of the
Planters' Hotel, and some of the public buildings, and the interior of
them was even more wonderful to me than the exterior had been.
Two days familiarized me in some degree with the wonders of the great
city, and after that I was able to walk through the streets with my
mouth shut. I felt that I ought to be at work. It was time for me to
commence my new career of existence. In my walks through the city,
I had stopped frequently to observe the work where new buildings were
in process of erection. After examining the work for a while, I came
to the conclusion that I had a great deal to learn before I could be a
carpenter. However, I intended to make a beginning as soon as I could.
  [Illustration: PHIL AND CAPTAIN DAVIS. Page 67.]
"The Daylight is just coming in, Phil," said Captain Davis, as I came
in to supper after the tramps of the second day in the city.
"I am so glad!" I exclaimed.
"Eat your supper, Phil, and I will go with you then to the place where
she lies."
"Do you suppose the Gracewoods are on board of her?"
"I have no doubt they are; but I should not be at all alarmed even if
they were not."
"Why not?"
"They may have missed the boat; but we won't guess at anything again.
The Daylight passed us just as you came on board, and will make a
landing below."
I bolted my supper, and was so excited I could not have told whether I
was eating bread or shavings. When the captain had finished his meal,
we hastened down the levee, and were soon on board of the Daylight. The
passengers were just going on shore, and I watched the stairs by which
they were descending to the main deck to catch the first glimpse of any
familiar face. But I was disappointed; and when the last one came down,
my heart sank within me.
Captain Davis ascended to the cabin, and I followed, actually trembling
with anxiety. We found the clerk in his office, at work upon the
manifest.
"Did you take on any passengers at Delaware City?" asked Captain Davis.
"Yes; a dozen of them."
"Any by the name of Gracewood?"
"No," replied the clerk, after he had consulted the list.
"Are you sure, sir?" I asked, unwilling to believe the unpleasant
statement.
"Very sure."
"Please to look again," said I.
"You must excuse me; I am very busy. There is the list; you can
examine it for yourself."
I looked over the names, but that of Gracewood did not occur.
"They are not here, Phil," said Captain Davis.
"No, they are not," I replied, gloomily.
"We will wait a little while, till the hurry is over, and then we may
ascertain something about your friends."
We went out upon the boiler deck, where we could overlook everything
that transpired. The deck hands were landing freight and baggage, and
everybody was hurrying as though his life depended upon his celerity.
"I shall believe they were all drowned if I don't hear something from
them soon," I said.
"That is not at all probable, and I shall not believe anything of that
kind till I have positive evidence of it. It is just as easy, and a
great deal more pleasant, to think everything is right with them,
instead of wrong, until we get the facts."
"You haven't the same interest in the matter that I have, captain."
"That may be; but I don't believe in making myself miserable about
anything on mere guesswork. I think it is all right with your friends.
But I must say, if you don't hear from them to-day, we must make
different arrangements for you, for my owners intend to send the Fawn
down to New Orleans with a freight which we take on at Alton. We shall
go up there to-morrow."
"What will you do with Mr. Gracewood's goods and baggage?"
"Send them to the storehouse. There!" exclaimed he, suddenly, as he
pointed to a man who was wheeling a box on shore. "That is one of the
hands who went with the Gracewoods in the small boat. And there is the
other. We shall soon know what has become of your friends."
The fact that these two men had come down in the Daylight was hopeful,
at least, and Captain Davis and I hastened down to question them; but
the master of the steamer would not release them from their work, and
we were obliged to wait till the hurry was over before we obtained the
coveted information.
  CHAPTER VII.
  IN WHICH PHIL HEARS FROM HIS FRIENDS, AND VISITS MR. CLINCH.
The two deck hands, who had worked their passage down on the Daylight,
were relieved from duty as soon as the baggage of the passengers had
been put on shore. They followed Captain Davis to the Fawn, where we
drew from them all the information they had in regard to the Gracewoods.
"Where are the passengers who went with you?" was the first question
which the captain asked, when we started up the levee.
"At Delaware City, sir. The lady was sick, and not quite able to come
down in the Daylight," replied one of the men.
"Sick!" I exclaimed.
"Sick; but not very bad, I believe. She caught a cold coming down the
river," answered the spokesman.
"Where is she?"
"At a house in the town; I don't know whose it is."
"Was the young lady sick?" I inquired, anxiously.
"No; she was first rate."
"But how came you at Delaware City?"
"We couldn't help going there, Captain Davis," replied the spokesman of
the two, who was evidently embarrassed.
"You couldn't help it?" said the captain.
"No, sir; we could not. The current was very swift."
"Explain yourself, man. I didn't suppose I had sent a couple of hands
in the boat with those passengers who couldn't handle a pair of oars."
"I didn't think so, either. We did as well as any men could; the
gentleman will tell you so when you see him."
"Well, what did you do? What was the matter?" demanded the captain,
impatiently.
"There was a line stretched across that cut-off. I suppose the man that
owned the island used it to haul his bateau across by; for it was a
seven-mile current in the place."
"It was all of that," added the other man, by way of fortifying the
statement of his companion.
"Go on," said the captain.
"Well, sir, the boat ran on to that line, and it carried her bow clear
out of water," continued the spokesman. "In fact, the water came
in over the stern, and wet the lady who sat farthest aft. I sprang
forward to trim the boat, for I did not know what the matter was then.
In my hurry I lost my oar overboard. I couldn't help it, for I was
thinking only of saving the ladies from drowning, for both of them were
screaming with fright."
"That's so," said the other man. "They were scared out of their wits."
"When I went to the bow, I couldn't tell what the matter was. I took
the other oar, and sounded with it, to see if we were aground, and then
I felt the rope. It was caught just under the bow, where there was
a break in the iron shoe. I put the end of the oar on the line, and
crowded it down so that the boat could slide over it. But the blade
of the oar was split, and the line was jammed into the crack. The
boat went over, and when I tried to pull in the oar, it was fast. The
current took the boat, and gave me such a jerk that I had to let go, or
go overboard."
"And you left the oar fast to the line?"
"Yes, sir; I couldn't help it."
"Perhaps you couldn't; but go on."
"We went on in spite of ourselves. The current carried the boat through
the cut-off into the river. I tried to pull up one of the thwarts,
to use as a paddle, but we couldn't start them. It was very dark and
foggy, as you know, captain, and we couldn't see where we were. We
watched our chances as well as we could, and tried to get hold of
something."
"Why didn't you sing out?"
"That's what we did. But the current carried us over the other side of
the river from Leavenworth, and I suppose no one heard us; at any rate
no one came to help us. The poor lady who had got wet in the cut-off
was shivering with cold, and we tried everything we could think of to
stop the boat; but still we kept going down stream, whirling round now
and then."
"Well, how did you stop her at last?" demanded the captain, finding
that the spokesman was disposed to be rather diffuse in his narrative.
"After we had been going about two hours--Wasn't it two hours, Dick?"
"It wasn't less than that."
"No matter how long it was. Go on," interposed the captain, who did not
care to listen to a discussion on this point.
"Well, sir, we almost run into a man who was crossing the river in a
bateau, with a lot of groceries. We shouted to him, and he run his boat
alongside of us. We made fast to him, and he pulled us to the shore.
He told us we were on the other side of the river from Delaware City.
Mr. Gracewood made a trade with him to take us over to that place,
and I helped him row over, towing the boat astern of us. I reckon the
gentleman paid him well for his trouble."
"Where did they go then?" asked the captain.
"They went to a house in the town. The lady was all used up, and had
chills and fever that night; but they thought she was better in the
morning. They sent up to Leavenworth for a doctor."
"Then she was very sick," I added.
"No; the doctor didn't say so. He thought she would be out in a week."
"Where did you go then?" asked the captain.
"We found a place to sleep on the levee. Mr. Gracewood gave us five
dollars apiece, and--"
"And you got drunk," suggested the captain.
"No, sir; we did not. I won't say we didn't take something, for we were
cold."
"Why didn't you go up to Leavenworth, where you knew the boat would be
in the morning?"
"We meant to do that in the morning, as soon as it was daylight; but
Dick was afraid the Fawn might get there and start down the river
before we could tramp up to the place. Besides, we wanted to know how
the lady was, so as to let you know; and we didn't like to go to the
house so early in the morning," added the spokesman, glancing at his
companion.
"I thought it was safer to wait on the levee till the Fawn came down,"
said Dick. "We supposed, of course, she would stop there."
"I was of the same mind myself," continued the spokesman. "We waited
till most night, when the Daylight made a landing; and then we saw the
Fawn coming; but she stood off from the levee, and went down the river
at full speed. I hailed her as loud as I could, but she took no notice
of me. The captain of the Daylight let us work our passage down."
"Where is the boat?"
"On board the Daylight."
"How was Mrs. Gracewood when you left Delaware City?" I inquired.
"She was too sick to leave in the Daylight; but the doctor thought she
might be able to take a boat in two or three days," replied Dick.
"Now go and get the boat," added the captain.
"They may not come for a week," said I, as they departed.
"Perhaps not; but you can't tell much about it from the story of these
men."
"Don't you think they told the truth?"
"In the main, they did; but in my opinion they got drunk. If not, they
would have returned to Leavenworth. Probably they have stretched the
story a little. At any rate, you can't tell how sick the lady is from
anything they said."
"She got wet in the boat, and took cold, I suppose."
"I suppose so."
The news from my friends was not very cheering, but it was a relief to
be assured that no calamity had overtaken them. I would have gone to
them at once if I had had the money to pay my passage; and I said as
much to Captain Davis.
"That would be a useless step, Phil," he replied. "If the lady is sick,
you can do them no good. It would be a waste of money for you to do so."
"If I had it, I should be willing to waste it in that way," I added.
"Then it is fortunate that you haven't it, Phil. What do you mean to do
here in St. Louis? Does Mr. Gracewood intend to support you?"
"I don't intend to be supported by any one," I answered, perhaps with a
little indignation; "I mean to support myself."
"What do you intend to do?"
"I am going to learn the carpenter's trade, if I can find a place."
"All right, Phil. That's a sensible idea. I didn't know but you
expected to be a gentleman, as most of the boys do who come from the
country," said the captain. "Come with me, my boy, and we will see
about a place."
"That's just what I want, captain--a chance to learn the carpenter's
trade. I know something about it now."
I followed the captain on shore, and we went to a quiet street in one
of the humbler sections of the city, where he rang the bell at a house.
"Is Mr. Clinch at home?" asked Captain Davis of the woman who answered
the summons.
"Yes, sir; he has just come in from his work. Won't you walk in?"
We entered the house, and were shown to a very plainly furnished
parlor, where Mr. Clinch soon appeared. He was clothed in coarse
garments, but he had a very intelligent countenance, and I liked the
looks of him.
"O, Captain Davis," exclaimed the carpenter, grasping the hand of my
companion, "I am glad to see you."
"It always does me good to take your honest hand, Clinch. This young
man is Phil Farringford, and he comes from the upper Missouri. He is a
smart boy, and wants to learn your trade."
Mr. Clinch took me by the hand, and gave me a cordial greeting.
"I don't take any apprentices, now," he added. "I find it don't pay. As
soon as we get a boy so that he can drive a nail without pounding his
fingers, he wants a man's wages, or runs away as soon as he is worth
anything to me."
"If I make a trade, sir, I shall stick to it," I ventured to say.
"You look like an honest young man, but I can't take apprentices, as we
used to in former years."
"Phil knows something about the business now," interposed the captain.
"He is handy with tools, and is as tough as an oak knot. He knows what
hard work is, and has just come out of the woods."
"But I can't take a boy into my family," continued Mr. Clinch; "I
haven't room, and it makes the work too hard for my wife."
"He might board somewhere else," said the captain.
"That indeed. I like the looks of the boy."
"If you can do anything for him, I shall regard it as a favor to me,"
added my friend.
"I should be very glad to serve you, Captain Davis. I want more help,
but a boy isn't of much use. How old are you, Phil?"
"Thirteen, sir."
"You look older. What can you do?"
I told him what I could do; that I could handle a saw, axe, hammer, and
auger; that I had built a bateau, made boxes, and done similar work.
He seemed to be very sceptical, but finally agreed to give me three
dollars a week, which he thought would board and clothe me, if, upon
trial, I proved to be worth that. He told me where he was at work, and
wished me to be on hand the next morning.
  CHAPTER VIII.
  IN WHICH PHIL GOES TO WORK, AND MEETS AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.
"Everything depends upon yourself now, Phil," said Captain Davis, as we
walked back to the steamer. "When Clinch finds that you are worth more
than three dollars a week, he will give you more."
"I didn't expect any more than that," I replied. "If it will pay my
board for a time, I shall be satisfied. I will do the best I can, and I
hope my wages will be increased very soon."
"Now you want a boarding-house," continued the captain. "I don't know
where to look for one, but I suppose you will not think of living at
the Planters' Hotel?"
"Not exactly, sir."
We entered a grocery store, near the house of Mr. Clinch, where the
captain was acquainted, and he inquired for a suitable boarding-place
for a boy like me.
"If he's a good boy, I know just the place for him," replied the grocer.
"He is as good a boy as there is in the world," answered the captain,
with a zeal that caused me to blush.
"Mrs. Greenough, who lives over my store, spoke to me, a few days ago,
about a boy. She is an elderly woman, whose husband died about a year
ago, leaving her this house. She has no other property except her
furniture, and the rent of this store about pays her expenses. She is a
little timid, and does not like to be alone in the house at night. She
is a nice woman, and perhaps she will take your young man to board. She
wanted one of my young men to occupy a room up stairs, but both of them
live at home."
"We will go up and see her. This boy is going to work for Clinch
to-morrow, and this will be a good locality for him."
"Just the place," added the grocer, as he conducted us up stairs to the
rooms of Mrs. Greenough.
The house was a small one, and the store occupied the whole of the
ground floor, except a small entry. It was three stories high, with a
flat roof, and I judged that the tenement could not contain more than
four rooms. We were taken up stairs, and found the lady in her little
parlor. She was about fifty years old, and did not appear to be in good
health. The grocer explained our business, and having vouched for the
good character of Captain Davis, he left us.
"I didn't think of taking a boy to board," said Mrs. Greenough. "I
thought if I could get one of the young men in the store to sleep in
the house, I should feel safer. But I don't know but I might take him,
if he is a very steady boy."
"Steady as a judge, Mrs. Greenough," replied Captain Davis. "He's going
to be a carpenter."
"Is he? My poor husband was a carpenter," added the lady, wiping a tear
from her eye. "I am a lone woman now."
"Phil will be good company for you. He knows more than most boys of his
age. He has fought through one campaign against the Indians, and is a
dead shot with his rifle."
"Not always, captain," I remonstrated.
"He has brought down his man, at any rate. He speaks French, and--"
"O, no, I don't, captain. I have studied it, and can read it a little."
"I don't talk any French," added the old lady, with a smile; so that
won't make any difference. I thought, at one time, I would take a boy
who would help me, and work a little for his board, but I concluded I
couldn't afford to do that; for I don't have anything but the rent of
the store to live on."
"Well, Mrs. Greenough, you can split the difference. Phil can't afford
to pay much for his board. He can help you a little in the morning and
at night."
"I haven't much to do, except to bring up the wood and water from the
cellar, which is down two flights, and it's rather hard work for me,
for I'm not very strong."
"I shall be very glad to help you, Mrs. Greenough," I added.
"How much can you take him for, madam?" said the captain, beginning to
be a little impatient.
The old lady had not made up her mind on this important subject, and
the captain suggested two dollars a week as a fair price, if I helped
about the house when I had time. She was satisfied with this amount,
and I am sure I was; so the bargain was closed. Mrs. Greenough wanted
to know more about me, and the captain spoke so handsomely of me, that
my modesty will not permit me to quote his testimony. I walked back
to the steamer with Captain Davis, and after thanking him, from the
depths of my heart, for all his kindness and care, I took my leave of
him. He told me he should send all the effects of Mr. Gracewood to the
storehouse of his owners, where they could be obtained on his arrival.
He advised me to write to my friends at once, and I promised to do so
that night. Taking the box, which contained the few articles of value
I possessed, under my arm, and the rifle I had brought from my forest
home, I hastened to my new boarding-house.
Before I did anything else, I wrote the letter to Mr. Gracewood, and
carried it to the post-office. On my return, Mrs. Greenough showed me
my room. It was on the third floor, in the rear of her own apartment.
I must say that it looked like a boudoir in a palace to me. It was
plainly but very neatly furnished. She told me I could put my clothes
in the drawers of the bureau; but I answered that I had none to put
there, except a single woollen shirt, and a pair of socks, which I had
washed myself on board of the steamer. I wore a suit of "civilized
clothes," as we called them at the settlement; and I had a pair of
woollen shirts, and two pairs of socks. My landlady thought my wardrobe
was rather scanty, but I considered it all-sufficient, and did not
worry because I could not follow the fashion.
I opened my box, and took from it the little dress and other garments
which I had worn when old Matt Rockwood picked me up, on the Missouri
River. Mrs. Greenough's curiosity was excited, and I told her all I
knew about my past history. She was deeply interested in the narrative,
and asked me a great many questions about the Gracewoods, which I
answered to the best of my ability. I was well pleased with my new
home. My landlady was very kind and motherly, and when I retired that
night, I thanked God for his kindness in directing my steps to such a
pleasant abode.
When I awoke the next morning, I heard a church clock striking five.
I rose and made my simple toilet in less time than I could have done
it even a year later. I went down into the kitchen, which was the room
Mrs. Greenough occupied most of the time, and made a fire in the stove.
I had done everything I could find to do when the landlady came down.
"You are quite handy about house, Phil," said she, with a cheerful
smile.
"I ought to be. I used to keep house at the clearing. I can cook and
wash."
"What can you cook?"
"I can boil potatoes, bake or roast them; I can fry and boil bacon, and
I can bake bread. We didn't have so many things to work with as you do
here."
"Can you make pies and cake?"
"No; we never had those things at the clearing until Mrs. Gracewood
came there."
"They were rich folks, you said."
"Yes; they have plenty of money; but it did not do them much good out
in the woods. I should like to hear how Mrs. Gracewood is."
"I hope she is better. When they come you will have some strong
friends."
"Yes; but I intend to take care of myself. They will go among big
folks, where I cannot go; but I hope I shall see Miss Ella sometimes."
"Of course you will."
"She is a beautiful young lady," I added, warmly.
"But you may find your father and mother one of these days."
"I hardly expect to do that; I doubt whether they are living."
"From what you say, I should think you might find out who they are.
Of course they had some relations somewhere, and perhaps they will be
willing to take care of you."
"I don't want any one to take care of me; I mean to take care of
myself. Mr. Gracewood has fifteen hundred dollars belonging to me."
"Well, that's comfortable. If you should be sick, you will not want for
anything."
We talked over the past and the present till breakfast was ready. The
fried bacon and potatoes looked like old friends, and I did ample
justice to the fare. I am not sure that my landlady was not alarmed
when she realized my eating capacity, as compared with the price I was
to pay for my board. At half past six I started for the building which
Mr. Clinch was putting up. It was a large storehouse, near the levee.
"Good, Phil! I'm glad to see you on hand in season," said my employer.
"I mean to be on time always, sir."
"I'm paying my best men two dollars a day now," added Mr. Clinch.
"Does that young man get two dollars a day?" I asked, pointing to a boy
of eighteen or nineteen, who was putting on his overalls in front of
the building.
"No; that's Morgan Blair. He came down from Illinois last spring. I
give him a dollar a day. He doesn't know the business, and that is more
than he is worth. You will work with Conant."
Calling one of the workmen who answered to this name, he directed him
to take me under his charge. The frame of the building was up, and we
were to be engaged in boarding it.
"Come along, my boy; we will take the stiffening out of you in about
two hours," said Conant, as he led the way to the stage.
"All right; when I break down I will give you leave to bury me."
"Do you think you can lift your end of a board?"
"I can; and lift both ends, if need be."
"You have got the pluck, but it's hard work for a boy."
"I will keep my side up."
Mr. Clinch had given me a hammer and a bag of nails, which I tied
around my body, as I saw the other men do. I was strong and tough, and
could easily handle any lumber used on the work. I carried my end of
each board up to the frame, and I am sure I drove as many nails as
Conant. But I will not describe the process by which the building was
erected. I did my full share of the work until noon.
"Don't you want to go to bed now?" asked Conant, when we knocked off.
"Go to bed! No. Why should I?"
"Ain't you tuckered out?"
"No, not at all; I don't feel quite so fresh as I did this morning, but
I shall be all right again when I get my dinner."
"You are a tough 'un, then."
"Well, Conant, how does Phil get along?" asked Mr. Clinch, as we came
down from the stage.
"Tip-top; he has done a man's work--twice as much as Morgan," replied
Conant, with more magnanimity than I had given him credit for.
"All right. Phil, I am glad you are getting along well. It will be
easier work when we get the building covered."
In going home to dinner, I went pretty near the steamboat levee.
A boat had just come in, and I wanted to know if it had come from
the Missouri, for I was very anxious to hear from the Gracewoods. I
hastened towards the landing. I met the passengers as they came up, and
on inquiry of one of them learned that the steamer was from St. Joe,
but she had not stopped at Delaware City; so of course the Gracewoods
could not have come in her.
I was about to leave, when I perceived Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne coming
across the levee. I thought that I had business with him, and I
hastened to resume the relations with him which had been interrupted at
Leavenworth.
  CHAPTER IX.
  IN WHICH PHIL MEETS A SEEDY GENTLEMAN BY THE NAME OF FARRINGFORD.
Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne, otherwise Lynch, had a small valise in his
hand, and was sauntering leisurely along, as though earth had no sorrow
for him, and he was not responsible in St. Louis for an infamous act
done in Leavenworth. I wanted my money; in fact, I needed it. For
Mrs. Greenough's remarks had assured me that my wardrobe was entirely
inadequate to the requirements of civilized life.
"How do you do, Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne?" I began, making towards him.
He glanced at me very contemptuously, and continued on his way. I had
expected to astonish and confound him, but the result did not realize
my anticipations. It was decidedly a look of disdain that he bestowed
upon me, which I thought was adding insult to injury. So far I was
disgusted with his conduct; but I had no idea of abandoning the purpose
I had in view.
"I want to see you, Mr. Lynchpinne," I continued, following him, and
taking position at his side.
"Who are you?" he demanded, halting, and giving me another contemptuous
look.
"Don't you know me, Mr. Lynchpinne?"
"My name is not Lynchpinne."
"Lynch, then. Don't you know me?"
"No."
"Yes, you do."
"You impertinent puppy!"
"O, yes! All that's very pretty, but I want my money."
"What money? What do you mean, you saucy young cub?"
"Perhaps I am saucy; so was Nathan when he said to David,'Thou art the
man!' and that's just what I say to you."
"Go about your business," said he, angrily, as he resumed his walk.
"My business, just now, is to get back the money you stole from me;
and I'm going to stick to it, too."
"Stole! How dare you use that word to me?"
"Because I believe in speaking the truth, even when it is not pleasant
to do so."
"Clear out, and don't come near me again."
"Hand over my money, and I shall be glad to do so."
"If you don't leave, I'll call a policeman."
"I wish you would. I should like to tell him my story. If you don't
call one, I shall, as soon as I see him. I'll follow you till your legs
or mine give out."
"You evidently take me for some other person, boy," said he, halting on
Front Street, perhaps afraid that we might meet a policeman--a thing
which has been known to happen.
"No, I don't; I take you for Lynch, the man that stole my money, and I
want a policeman to take you for that, too."
"See here, boy; I can't be annoyed in this manner in the public
street," he replied, in a kind of confidential tone. "What do you want
of me?"
"I told you what I wanted--my money."
"I know nothing about your money. If you want to see me, come to the
Planters' Hotel at eight o'clock this evening, and I will meet you."
"I think not. I don't mean to lose sight of you, Lynch."
"If you don't clear out, I'll chastise you on the ground for an
impudent puppy."
"Well, sir, when you get ready to chastise, you begin," I replied, as I
glanced at his slender form. "If I don't keep up my end, you can have
the money you stole."
"How dare you--"
But he checked himself, for two or three persons had already stopped;
and their example was so contagious, in a populous city, that there was
danger of collecting a crowd, to which my sensitive friend seemed to
have very strong constitutional objections. He moved on, and I followed
him into Market Street. I was anxious to meet a policeman, that I might
state my case to him, and invoke his aid; but the officers, justifying
all the traditions of their craft, were somewhere else, because they
were wanted in Market Street.
Lynch quickened his pace, and turned into Fourth Street; but I kept
close to his heels till we were near the Planters' Hotel. I concluded
that he was going to this grand establishment, and that he expected to
shake me off within its sumptuous walls. I did not believe he would,
though the want of an officer was a sore inconvenience to me. Just
as he was about to cross the street, a shabby genteel and very seedy
gentleman confronted him.
"How are you, Lynch?" exclaimed the dilapidated individual, extending
his hand.
"How do you do, Farringford?" replied Lynch.
Farringford! This must be the decayed steamboat owner of whom Lynch had
before spoken to me. He was apparently about forty-five years of age,
and he looked as though the world had used him very roughly.
"I'm glad to see you, Lynch," said Farringford. "I'm always glad to see
an old friend. I'm hard up, and I want to borrow a dollar."
Lynch took two half dollars in silver from his pocket. Perhaps the
present generation of young people never saw a half dollar; but it
is true that there was a time when such a coin was in general use!
He handed the money to the seedy gentleman, and then said something
to him in a whisper, which I could not hear, though I had planked
myself close by the side of the villain. Lynch then turned to cross the
street, and I started to follow him.
  [Illustration: PHIL MEETS LEONIDAS LYNCHPINNE. Page 100.]
"See here, my lad," said Farringford, grasping me by the arm.
"Let me alone!" I cried, struggling to escape, fearful that I should
lose sight of Lynch.
"Hold still, my lad. I only want to speak to you," replied Farringford,
in cheerful tones, though he did not relax his grasp. "Don't be afraid.
I won't hurt you. I've known you ever since you were a baby."
"Known me?"
I was startled by his words, for they seemed to have some relation to
the mystery of my being.
"Certainly I have, Phil."
"Do you know me?" I demanded, forgetting, for the moment, all about
Lynch and my hard money.
"Known you from your babyhood, my lad," said he, glancing towards the
hotel.
This act reminded me of my business again. I turned my face towards the
hotel. Lynch had disappeared.
"That's all, Phil; you can go now," said Farringford, laughing.
"What do you mean, sir?"
"That's all, my lad. I only stopped you to prevent you from following
my friend."
"You said you knew me."
"Never saw you or heard of you before in my life," chuckled he,
evidently pleased at the trick he had played upon me.
I left him, and rushed into the hotel. I looked for Lynch in all the
public rooms, but I could not find him. I inquired at the office for
him, and the clerks answered me, very curtly, that no such person was
in the house. I asked a porter, who sat near the entrance, describing
Lynch. He had seen the gentleman, but did not know where he was; he had
not taken a room or registered his name, and had probably gone away
again. It seemed to me that everything was going against me. I had to
go home to dinner, as I could spend no more time in looking for him
then; but I determined to renew the search in the evening.
As I walked down Fourth Street, I overtook Farringford, who had
evidently spent a portion of the dollar borrowed of Lynch for liquor.
I accosted him, for I thought that I might recover my money through his
agency, as he evidently knew Lynch.
"Ah, my lad! You didn't find him," chuckled the toper.
"I did not. I have heard of you, Mr. Farringford, and I can put you in
the way of making some money."
"Can you? Then I'm your man. Most distinctly, I'm your man," he
replied with emphasis. "There's only two things in this world that I
want, and those are money and whiskey. If I get the whiskey, I don't
care for the money; and if I have the money, I can always get the
whiskey."
"I should like to meet you somewhere this evening, for I am in a hurry
now."
"I will be in the bar-room of the Planters' Hotel at seven o'clock this
evening, if you have any money for me. But what's it all about? Can't
you tell me now?"
"I haven't time now."
"Very well. Planters' Hotel--bar-room--seven o'clock. I'll be there if
they don't turn me out before that time. If they do, you will find me
in the street."
Although I was not very confident he would keep his appointment, it
was the best I could do. If he failed to be there, he was evidently
a character so noted, that I could easily find him. I hastened to my
dinner, and reached Mrs. Greenough's rather late. I explained the
reason of my tardiness, which was quite satisfactory. My landlady
hoped that I should recover my money, and I hoped so too--a degree of
unanimity which does not always exist between landlady and boarder.
I was on the work as the clock struck one, but I had to do some running
that noon, in order to protect my reputation. Conant did not drive
business in the afternoon as he had in the forenoon, when I think he
intended to wear me out. We worked steadily, and I kept my end of the
board up. I was not sorry to hear the clock strike six, for I was
tired, though perhaps not more so than Conant himself. I went home, ate
my supper, did my chores in the house, and at seven o'clock I was in
the bar-room of the Planters' Hotel. It was no place for a boy, or a
man either, for that matter. No one was what could be called, in good
society, disreputably drunk, unless it was the seedy gentleman whom I
met by appointment; and even he was able to handle himself tolerably
well. No doubt he would have been more intoxicated if he had not drank
up the dollar he had borrowed; but his wits were not wholly stupefied.
"Well, my lad, you have come, and so have I," said Farringford, when I
entered the room. "Both come, and that makes two of us, all told."
"Yes. I wanted to see you about--"
"Stop a minute, my lad," interposed he, putting his trembling hand upon
my shoulder. "Let us go to work right. When I used to run steamboats,
we had to put in wood and water before we could get up steam."
"When did you run steamboats?" I asked.
"Ten or fifteen years ago. I was a rich man then; but now I'm as poor
as a church mouse with his hair all singed off. I am; but I'm jolly;
yes, I am jolly. Let's proceed to business."
"Did you own a steamboat--"
"Stop, my lad; I owned half a dozen of them. But that's no matter now.
Do you happen to have a dollar in your pocket--one dollar, my lad."
"No, sir; I have not."
"Not a dollar?"
"No, I have not."
"Do you happen to have half a dollar in your pocket, my lad?"
"Not even half a dollar, sir."
"Your name is--somebody told me your name," said he, musing.
"Phil, sir."
"Phil, do you always speak the truth?"
"I always endeavor to do so," I replied.
"I hope so. Truth is mighty, and must prevail. You should always speak
the truth."
"As you did, to-day, when you said you had known me from my babyhood."
"Boys must speak the truth, whether men do or not. Did you speak the
truth when you said you had not even half a dollar?"
"I did."
"Have you any money?"
"I have thirty cents."
"Then lend me a quarter."
"It's all I have."
"We can't do any business till this little matter is attended to," said
he, with tipsy solemnity. "You shall be paid, my lad; you shall be
paid--when I pay the rest of my creditors."
Finding it impossible to proceed any farther without complying with his
request, I reluctantly gave him the quarter; but I felt guilty in doing
so. He went to the bar, drank, and returned to the corner where he had
left me.
  CHAPTER X.
  IN WHICH PHIL LISTENS TO A VERY IMPRESSIVE TEMPERANCE LECTURE.
Farringford was very chipper when he returned to me. He had drank
half a tumbler of whiskey, and appeared to be prepared, to his own
satisfaction, for any business which might be presented to him.
"Now, my lad, I'm ready. I'm refreshed. I'm invigorated. I'm inspired.
In a word, I'm prepared for the consideration of the important matter
you proposed to bring before me," said he.
"I am very glad to hear it, sir; I wish to tell you--"
"Stop a moment, my lad. You have a name, doubtless. Do you happen to
remember what it is?"
"Very distinctly, Mr. Farringford. You may call me Phil."
  [Illustration: PHIL MEETS A SEEDY INDIVIDUAL NAMED FARRINGFORD.
  Page 109.]
"Phil; that is very good as far as it goes. Phil may stand for Philip,
Phillimore, Philippians, Philosophy."
"It stands for Philip with me, sir."
"Philip; I had a brother once of that name, but he is no longer living.
If he were, he would blush to own his brother. But no matter; that is
all past and gone. You can proceed with your business, Philip."
Placing his elbows upon the little table between us, he rested his chin
upon his trembling hands, and fixed his gaze upon me. He was a singular
man, and, tipsy as he was, I was deeply interested in him.
"You know Lynch, the person you met opposite the Planters' Hotel to-day
noon."
"I know him, Philip; but, in a word, I don't know any good of him. Go
on."
"That man robbed me of all the money I had, except thirty cents--nearly
a hundred dollars."
"Philip, you told me you were in the habit of speaking the truth; or
rather that you endeavored to speak the truth."
"Yes, sir; I do endeavor to speak the truth. I am willing to go a
point farther, and say that I have thus far been very successful."
"The statement that Lynch robbed you of nearly a hundred dollars
implies the statement that you had nearly a hundred dollars," said he,
with his tipsy solemnity, which was amusing. "It is self-evident that
he could not have robbed you of this money, if you had not had it."
"Certainly not sir. I did have it."
"Where and by what means should a boy of your tender years obtain
nearly a hundred dollars? In a word, Philip, where did you get your
money?"
"It was a part of what was left me by my foster-father, who died last
spring. I had it with me to pay my expenses till I could get into
business and pay my way. I expect my friends will be in St. Louis in a
few days, and then I shall be able to prove all I say. In the mean time
I refer to Captain Davis, of the steamer Fawn."
"That's all straightforward, Philip, and for the present I accept your
statement as true. You were robbed of nearly a hundred dollars by this
man, Lynch, of whom I know no good thing, except that he lent me a
dollar to-day, which I shall return to him when I pay the rest of my
creditors."
"Could you find this man, Mr. Farringford?" I asked.
"Doubtless I could. He may be seen, almost any night, at the
gambling-houses."
"Will you help me get my money back?"
"Wherefore should I soil the dignity of a gentleman by becoming a
thief-taker?"
"Because you will do me a favor, and promote the ends of justice by
doing so."
"Very true, Philip; you rightly apprehend the character of the
gentleman you address. Whatever I may seem to be, no man can say
that Edward Farringford ever soiled his soul by a dishonorable or a
dishonest act."
"If you can induce Lynch to give me back my money, I will pay you
twenty-five dollars."
"Twenty-five dollars!" exclaimed he. "Two hundred and fifty drinks!
Philip, I will do the best I can for you; not for the sake of the
money, but to subserve the ends of justice, and to save a deserving
young man from want and hardship. The cause is a good one."
"It is, sir. If you do not succeed, I shall call upon the police as
soon as my friends arrive."
"It is well, Philip. Lynch will return the money rather than be driven
from St. Louis."
"You understand that he must pay the money to me," I added, as it
occurred to me that I should never see it if it came into the hands of
the dilapidated gentleman before me.
"Wouldn't it be just as well that he should pay it over to me, and I
will pass it to you?"
"Just as well, sir; but he will want some assurance from me that this
is the end of the matter. I prefer that he should pay it to me."
"You are right, Philip. It shall be paid to you. Stop!" exclaimed he,
with a sudden start.
"What is the matter, Mr. Farringford?"
"This business is wrong."
"Wrong?"
"Wrong! No living man has been, or shall ever be, able to say that
Edward Farringford stained his soul with a foul, dishonorable act."
"Do you think it would be wrong, sir?"
"It would be compounding a felony," he added, solemnly.
I did not know what he meant by this technical phrase, but I could
not see that it was wrong for me to get my money if I could. Mr.
Farringford asked me when, where, and in what manner I had been robbed;
and I related my adventure on the night I was at Leavenworth.
"You are the only witness, Philip, and it would be difficult to prove
the crime. I will see Lynch. I will charge him with the base deed, and
be governed, in my further proceedings, by the circumstances of the
case. Where do you live, Philip?"
I gave him the address of Mrs. Greenough, and told him where I was
at work. I was satisfied that the promised reward would stimulate
him to great activity in the pursuit of Lynch, and I had some hope
that he would be successful. Having disposed of the important part
of my business with my seedy companion, I was rather curious to know
more about him. I almost dared to believe that he could give me some
information in regard to the steamer which had been burned on the upper
Missouri, and from which I had been saved by my foster-father.
That steamer had borne the name of this man, and he had been her owner.
Of course he knew all about her, and it was possible, even probable,
that he knew who had lost a little child in the fearful calamity. I
actually trembled when I thought of it, when I considered that, at
the opening of this singular man's lips, I might be told who and what
my father was, and whether my parents had perished or not. It was an
anxious moment, and my heart was in my throat. I had not the courage to
ask the momentous question, and Farringford rose unsteadily from his
chair, to leave me.
"Stop a moment, Mr. Farringford, if you please," I interposed; and he
dropped back into his chair.
"Isn't our business finished, Philip?"
"Yes, sir; but I have been told that you were formerly a large
steamboat owner."
"Who told you so?"
"You did, for one. If you don't object, I should like to ask you
something about those steamers," I continued, with much embarrassment.
"Do you wish to go into the steamboat business, Philip? If you do,
some of my old captains are still on the river, and I can get you a
situation. But I must have one more drink before I say anything."
"I wouldn't take any more, sir," I ventured to say.
"It is a necessity of my being, Philip."
He rose from his chair, and went to the bar. I saw him drink another
half tumbler of whiskey. He tottered back to the table where I sat.
Such a wreck of a man I had never seen. Though his step was unsteady,
he was not overcome by the potions he had taken. His nerves, rather
than his brain, seemed to be affected.
"I haven't drank much to-day, Philip. I wasted half the dollar I
borrowed in getting something to eat," said he, dropping into his
chair. "It is a bad habit, my boy. Never take any whiskey, Philip: in
a word, never begin to drink liquor, and you will never have to leave
off; for it is a great deal harder to leave off than it is to begin.
This is disinterested advice: in a word, it is the counsel of one who
knows all about drinking."
"I would stop it if I were you, Mr. Farringford."
"If you were Edward Farringford, you could no more leave off drinking
liquor, and drinking all you could get, than you could leave off
eating. I can live without eating much, but I can't live without
drinking."
"I think you can leave off, sir; I hope you will try."
"You speak like a boy. You never drank any whiskey. You don't know what
