“ You ’ve alwavs been so good-natured and full of 
fun, and now you seem so sober.” 
“ I want to be just as good-natured and pleasanter 
than ever before.” 
Charlie looked at her as if he was afraid she had 
lost her wits, then he said, “ Why, Katliie ? ” 
“ Because,” very slowly and with an effort, “ I am 
trying to be better.” 
“ You always were good enough.” 
Not quite ” ; and Katlie gave a faint smile. 
“ But do you think it wrong to play ? ” and Charlie 
looked alarmed. 
“ No, indeed, only mamma wants me a good deal 
of the time, and I am trying to think of her. It ’s 
about all I can do to make her happy.” 
Charlie was grave enough. “ You ’re better than 
the rest of us, Katliie,” he said, with much gentle- 
ness. “ Only I hope you can come to-morrow.” 
Katliie hoped so too as much as anybody. “ I ’ll 
try,” she answered, cheerily. 
Then she hunted up Freddy, who didn’t want to 
go home a hit, and felt sure he was a big boy and 
could do as he liked. 
“ Remember what mamma said,” Katliie whispered, 
and he walked reluctantly by her side, casting long- 
ing looks backward. 
“ Just wait till I ’m as large as Rob,” he said, half 
crying. “ You won’t make me mind then.” 
“ Oh Freddy, it isn’t for me at all,” she said in a 
low, half-disheartened tone. “ And I ’d be happier if 
you were a grown-up man.” 
The child’s fancy caught at the idea, and he began 
to make plans for the coming manhood. 
 
CHAPTER III. 
AN ENCHANTED PALACE. 
“ Mamma,” Kathie said on Saturday morning, “ do 
you think I could go and play with the children this 
afternoon ? They mean to have a great time in the 
snow-house.” 
“ I shall have to indulge you, I suppose. You 
have been very industrious for several days.” 
“ But will you need me very much ? ” 
“You can get all your work done this morning, 
and there is no particular sewing.” 
That made Kathie exceedingly light-hearted. She 
was as brisk as a bee, making beds, sweeping, and 
dusting, while her mother attended to the baking and 
the extra cooking for Sunday. Rob was very good- 
natured, and did the errands. The time passed so 
rapidly that it was noon before Kathie thought. 
“ What a short morning ! ” 
Aunt Ruth answered her bright smile. “ You 
don’t need to look very far for fairies now,” she said. 
 
f< It ’s so odd, Aunt Ruth ; nothing has bothered 
me this whole morning. Everything fitted into some 
little space of time ; and it seems to me that on some 
days, do my best, all goes wrong.” 
“ Is it your best ? ” 
“ I don’t believe it is. Aunt Ruth ” ; and Kathie 
gave a little laugh. “ Do you know I ’ve been think- 
ing a good fairy must attend you, and that her name 
is Patience ? It is hard to sit here day after day and 
sew and knit. Wouldn’t you like to go out ? ” 
“ Certainly I should ; but, as you said the other 
night, I can’t walk, and there ’s no one to take me in 
a carriage.” 
“When Rob grows up, I hope he will be a rich 
man.” 
“And have a generous heart.” 
“ But you played when you were a little girl ? ” 
“ Yes, my dear. We had a happy home and many 
comforts.” 
Aunt Ruth sighed softly. It had been a hard 
struggle not to repine. She had striven very ear- 
nestly for a meek and quiet spirit. 
“ I wish you could go out, and the snow is so 
splendid now. Aunt Ruth, I wonder why rich 
 
people never think of the pleasure they might give 
poorer ones. If I was rich and had a sleigh — ” 
Kathie went off into a somewhat lengthy vision. 
When she roused herself from it, she said, slowly, 
“ Playing fairy isn’t quite so good as the real 
thing.” 
“ But rich people have their own business and 
their own pleasures, and many demands upon them ; 
they cannot think of everybody,” Aunt Ruth re- 
joined. “ And when we do the best we can, that 
is all that is required of us. So if you are a fairy in 
an humble sphere you must do what you can, and be 
content.” 
Kathie thought of the star, shining on and on ; 
that was it. 
After dinner Kathie helped wash the dishes, and 
then dressed herself. She was a pretty little girl, 
with golden ringlets and cheeks that brightened with 
a word. Her eyes were soft and dark, neither blue 
nor hazel, but like shady lakes ; and they always had 
such a tender expression that any one would guess at 
once that she had an affectionate heart. She looked 
very sweet in her gray cloak and dainty scarlet hood 
edged with white, that Aunt Ruth had made her for 
Christmas. Rob, all impatience, had started on 
before. 
“ Freddy must be a good boy and mind sister,” 
was Mrs. Alston’s parting command. 
They ran off to the school-house eagerly. Quite a 
number were already assembled and discussing what 
the play should be. The boys wanted war. The 
party must be divided into two factions, and the snow- 
house should be a camp or castle, — it didn’t matter 
which, — and one should try to take it from the other. 
“ But then you ’ll have to batter it down,” said 
Harry Cox, “ and that would be a shame. Why, we 
might play in it ever so long.” 
“ O, that ’s all the fun ! Can’t we build another ? ” 
Rob, like the hero of old, was for war. The voices 
rose high and eager. 
“ But then the girls can’t play,” exclaimed Charlie 
Darrell ; “ snowballing is too hard for them. When 
the house begins to look old and rusty we can do 
that.” 
“ Yes,” said Kathie, “ we would all like to play.” 
Then a diversion was created by the appearance 
of Sophie Dorrance, followed by their fat, jolly-look^ 
ing black woman, who was carrying a huge basket 
 
“ Oh Sophie ! ” was the general chorus. 
“ I begged mother to give us something to eat, and 
Chloe made such lots of cookies ! We re going to 
have real fun. What are you doing?” 
“ Nothing. We can’t make up our minds what 
to play. The boys wanted war and prisoners.” 
“Just like boys,” said Sophie, with a twinkle in 
her eye. 
“ Well, what then ? ” asked Rob. 
“ Something nice, where there \s a princess and lots 
of servants. Kathie Alston, let ’s have a fairy play. 
You ’re so capital at that. And we have a snow- 
palace.” 
“ Fudge ! ” returned Rob, disdainfully. “ Who cares 
for such tilings ? ” 
“ We ought to play something to please the girls,” 
said Charlie Darrell, in his manly fashion. “We can 
have a good row and racket by ourselves some time, 
so let ’s take the fairy play. A little girl must be 
stolen from her father’s palace and changed into — 
what, Kathie ? — and we ’ll all go search for her. 
There must be a good fairy and a wicked fairy.” 
“ First-rate, Charlie ” ; and Sophie laughed. “ Why, 
you ’re almost as good as Kathie. There must be 
 
soldiers — and — Oh yes, boys, you can have your 
battle — and by and by the princess gets safely home. 
There must be a prince too, and I ’ll choose him, — 
Charlie Darrell ! ” 
“ Hurrah ! ” shouted half a dozen voices. 
“ And the boys must choose the princess.” 
For a few moments there was a good deal of merry 
confusion, and then the voices assumed a definite 
sound, — “ Kathie Alston ! ” 
“ Oh no,” said Kathie, in her sweet, timid fashion. 
“ If I am anything, I think I had better be the fairy 
godmother. And little Rose Gordon will make such 
a sweet princess.” 
Sure enough. Rose had long golden curls as well 
as Kathie, but she was wrapped in a snowy hood and 
cloak so nearly white that she looked almost like a 
veritable fairy child. 
Rob declared noisily for Rose. By degrees the 
boys fell into the line, but Charlie Darrell was last. 
“ I wish it had been you,” he whispered softly to 
Kathie. 
“ But you must be a good prince,” was her low 
reply. 
“ And now what about it ? ” began Sophie 
 
“ Mustn’t there be a christening first ? And while 
everybody is feasting this wicked fairy must come 
and steal the baby. Kathie, fix it all up nice for us.” 
So Kathie began to plan. The table was to be 
prepared for a feast, and all the fairies were to bring 
their gifts. The boys and girls went to work eagerly. 
They brought in some branches of evergreens and 
ornamented the wall of the palace as well as the 
table, and then they found some long icicles out 
of which they made pyramids for the table. There 
were to be soldiers and servants and a king, — 
Tom Utley, being the largest, was chosen for this po- 
sition. Bose was to be called the Princess Golden, be- 
cause her hair was so soft and shining. Charlie was 
to be called Prince Bertram, and the godmother was 
to be Pearl, and the wicked fairy, Malice. But who 
would be the wicked fairy ? At this there was a 
general drawback. 
“ Well,” said Sophie, “ I think I will. Somebody 
must, you know, or the play will be spoiled. And 
I ’ll try to look as ugly as possible.” 
All the children laughed, for Sophie was always 
so good-natured and merry, and had such a round, 
smiling face. 
 
The play began. One after another the guests 
came to the frost-palace, bowing low to the king 
and queen, and then went over to the cradle of ever- 
greens where the Princess Golden was lying, and the 
little mischief of a Iiose had hard work to keep her 
face sober. They deposited their gifts at her feet, and 
wished her all manner of good fortune. Then came 
the fairy Pearl, who touched her with her wand and 
said that she would be the wisest, loveliest, and best 
princess that the world had ever known, but that 
she must never be left alone until she was seven 
years old, or some very great misfortune would hap- 
pen to her. Then she kissed the little one and they 
all went to the feast. 
The table looked very pretty indeed with its glit- 
tering ice, dark evergreens, and sparkling dishes of 
snow filled with cake. They had a gay time, you 
may be sure, and in the midst of the laughing and 
talking a dark figure crept in, as she couldn’t fly 
through the air like a veritable fairy. The children 
pretended not to see her, and the nurse whose business 
it was to watch the princess had fallen asleep. So, j ust 
as Prince Bertram was asking her hand in marriage, 
Malice lifted her out of the cradle and took her away. 
 
When the feast was through, Prince Bertram drew 
off a ring for the princess to wear when she was large 
enough. The king led the way to the princess’s 
cradle, and behold, it was empty ! The poor nurse 
had tumbled on the floor. They picked her up and 
shook her soundly, but she was so bewildered that 
she could tell them nothing. They marched her off 
to prison, and then they called upon Fairy Pearl to 
know where the princess was. 
She looked through a magic glass, waved her wand, 
which was a long icicle, three times over the cradle, 
but all in vain. 
“ The wicked fairy Malice has stolen her away,” 
she said, presently. “ With her arts she has doubt- 
less changed her into some other form. She must 
be searched for seven years, and when she is found I 
will restore her to her true shape.” 
With that Prince Bertram declared he would be 
one to go and look for her. He took his sword in 
his hand and marched out as brave as a real knight. 
The courtiers followed, bowing to the king and queen, 
who were very sorrowful indeed. Every year they 
were to come back and report progress. 
Their years were not very long, you may be sure. 
 
First, they searched the kingdom of Highwood, which 
was the great pile of w r ood for school use. The king 
of this domain came out to meet them very peace- 
ably, and offered them every courtesy, but no princess 
did they find. That took them a whole year, and 
then they returned to the king, who was very much 
disappointed. 
Next they searched the Lake kingdom, their large 
sliding-pond, around one side of which grew some 
clumps of alders and willows. The fairy knocked on 
the ice with her wand, but in vain. Not a sign of 
any princess did they see. Then they went to the 
Forest kingdom, which was supposed to be inhabited 
by malicious elves. Sure enough, just as they reached 
it a shower of balls greeted them. Prince Bertram, 
being very courageous, led his men to the fight, and 
they had a great time. Such whoops and shouts and 
yells as issued from the trees ! you would have 
thought it a pack of Indians instead of fairies or 
Christian people. In the midst of the melee they 
saw the fairy Malice flying with the Princess Golden, 
but she went so swiftly that they could not over- 
take her. But then they had some news for the poor 
king, and he concluded that he would join in the 
search, instead of staying at home. 
 
Well, they went everywhere, fought battles with 
elves and brownies and giants, and the seven years 
were almost ended. They were now in the kingdom 
of Snow, and this was where some of the boys had 
thrown a great heap against the fence as they were 
cleaning out the paths. Fairy Pearl tried some spells 
with her magic wand, and found that the Princess 
Golden was surely here. Just back of the fence 
stood the stump of a great sycamore, and the attend- 
ant of the fairy Malice had built her a little hut. 
Of course she pretended to think no one could ever 
find her here, but looking out one morning she saw 
that her place was besieged. So she called up her 
soldiers and bade them prepare for battle, while she 
shut the princess in the hollow tree so that she 
would soon become a part of it, and then she could 
never return to her father, since, if they did not find 
her iiL the seven years, all search would be vain. 
Prince Bertram was a good soldier, though. They 
gained the day as before, and took the fairy Malice 
and all her servants prisoners. They threatened to 
chain the evil fairy in a dungeon unless she would 
confess what she had done with the Princess Golden, 
but she was obstinate, and would not open her 
 
mouth, so they marched her off. As she had dropped 
her wand in the fight, she could not free herself 
from their power, but she looked back to the tree and 
shook her head mysteriously. 
“ We ’ll find her,” said Fairy Pearl, exultantly ; and 
with that she went up to the tree and touched it 
with her long icicle. It did look just as if the Prin- 
cess Golden came out of the tree, and there was a 
great shout of triumph. Prince Bertram took her 
in his arms and carried her home, and they all re- 
counted their adventures. Another feast followed 
this, at which the cookies were all demolished, and 
they found that it was beginning to grow dusky in 
the snow-palace. 
“ Let ’s go out and have one good ride down hill,” 
said some one, and they all assented immediately. 
Charlie Darrell took his princess down once, and 
then he insisted that Kathie should try. 
“ It ’s splendid ! ” she said, her sweet face all in a 
glow. 
After two or three turns she declared  that it was 
time to go home. 
“ You always get in a hurry,” Piob exclaimed. 
“ You ne'ver can let a fellow have his fun in peace ! ” 
This was rather unkind, considering that it was so 
late ; but when Rob was having a good time he never 
wanted it to end. 
The moon was just coming up, and every little point 
of snow sparkled as if set with a diamond. The long, 
sloping hill looked like a glittering bay. It was hard 
to leave it. 
“We had better go,” Kathie said again, and this 
time several others joined her. 
“ I mean to ride you home on my sled,” Charlie 
Darrell exclaimed. “ You ’re going to be my princess 
now.” 
A warm glow stole up in Ivathie’s cheeks, quite 
different from the one made by the cold and the 
rapid exercise. 
“ I want to ride too,” exclaimed Freddy, beginning 
to whine a little, for lie was getting tired and sleepy. 
“ You can’t, Freddy,” said Charlie, rather positively. 
At this the child cried outright. 
“ Can’t I hold him on my lap ? ” suggested Kathie, 
in her most winsome voice. 
“ O no ; it would tire you half to death and not 
any pleasure at all. I ’ll tell you what we will do, 
Freddy, and he turned to the little one with an air 
 
of animation ; “ we'll be the horses to take Fairy Pearl 
home, and we will make believe that this is an ele- 
gant chariot. Your name will be Firefly because you 
are such a fast horse. Come, Firefly, and let me put 
your bridle on.” 
Freddy laughed till he made dimples in his fat, 
rosy cheeks, though the tears were still shining in 
his eyes. 
“ Come, Firefly, let ’s start.” 
Kathie said good by to the girls and seated herself 
on Charlie’s sled. Freddy was quite elated with the 
idea of being of so much importance, and ran with all 
his might. Charlie would rather have been alone, as 
he had counted on making his sled fly like a bird, but 
he was very patient and sweet for Kathie’s sake. It 
was a nice ride, and when they stopped at the little 
cottage Kathie expressed her thanks. 
“ It ’s a great pleasure to me,” said Charlie ; and his 
eyes were in a glow of satisfaction ; “ only it isn’t 
half long enough. If you ’ll try it again some day ! ” 
“ Maybe I will. Oh,” she said, with a sudden 
burst of feeling, “ isn’t it just lovely to be well and 
strong, and to run about and take comfort in every- 
thing ! ” 
 
“ Do you know any one who is not ? ” asked Charlie, 
in a little amaze. 
“Yes, — Aunt Ruth. She hasn’t been out since 
cold weather commenced. When it is so slippery 
she has to stay in the house, because she ’s lame and 
weakly. I wish I could make her well and strong.” 
“ What a good little thing you are ! ” and Charlie 
looked at the sweet, earnest face. 
“ I must go in,” said Ivathie. “ Good night.” 
“ Good night, little Firefly ” ; and Charlie gave 
Freddy a hug. 
The two children stamped the snow off their feet 
and ran up stairs. The supper-table was already 
spread. 
“Why, mamma, is it so late ?” exclaimed Kathie. 
“ We had such a grand time ; didn’t we, Fred ? ” 
“ And a fairy who stole a little baby, only it was 
Rose Gordon ; and we had cakes to eat, and a great 
throne, and Charlie Darrell was prince, and I was a 
horse Firefly. Didn’t we drag you nice, Kathie ? ” 
Aunt Ruth laughed at the queer jumble. 
“ It ’s all true, and Rose was hid in a tree, hut 
I ’m awful sleepy and hungry. Can I have some 
supper right away ? ” 
 
“ Where ’s Rob ? ” 
Rob answered the question in person. He bolted 
through the door, slammed it shut, threw his cap 
down in one chair and his coat in another, and began 
tugging at one boot while he balanced himself on 
the other foot. 
“We -Ve had a splendid time, and I feel as if I 
could almost eat a bear ! ” 
“ Not quite so boisterous, Rob,” said his mother, 
while Aunt Ruth put her hand to her forehead. 
“ Oh, I didn’t mean to ” ; and the refractory boot 
was landed on the opposite side of the hearth with 
a jerk. “ I never can be still, mamma.” 
“ I ’m — so — hungry.” 
Kathie put Fred in his place. Rob drew up Aunt 
Ruth, chair and all, and in a few moments they were 
at supper 
“ How late you stayed ! ” Mrs. Alston said, pres- 
ently. 
“ I guess we didn’t think it was so late,” returned 
Kathie. 
“ I hope you haven’t taken cold. Were you out 
of doors all the time ? ” 
Kathie began to explain what they had been do- 
 
in g, and Rob made frequent interruptions. Aunt 
Ruth was a good deal interested. 
Kathie put Fred to bed, and then brought her little 
chair beside Aunt Ruth, taking the thin white hand 
in hers. 
“ Oh Aunt Ruth,” she said, “ I wish you were a 
little girl again, and just as well as I am.” 
The pale lips pressed a fond kiss on those beside 
her, so young and warm and sweet. 
 
CHAPTER IY. 
THINKING OF OTHERS. 
Charlie Darrell drew a hassock close to his sis- 
ter Jessie, who sat crocheting. He had reached home 
just in time for supper, and described the afternoon’s 
amusement in glowing terms. But now he felt a lit- 
tle drowsy and a little lazy, and he was very fond 
of watching Jessie. She was seventeen, three years 
older than Charlie, and they had a sister still older, 
who was married. 
Charlie loved her dearly. In fact she was a very 
lovable, sweet-tempered girl, nearly always ready to 
listen, and to assist him in any way that she could. 
And in return he was very obliging, and tried to be 
quiet and well-behaved as well as kind. 
He looked round the room now, and couldn’t help 
feeling how cheerful and pretty it was. A large 
open-front stove, where the coals glowed ruddily and 
shot up feathery dancing spires of scarlet and blue 
flame. There was a soft rug before it, with the pic- 
ture of a hunting-dog plunging through reeds, sedge- 
grass, and lilies for some ducks in the distance. 
A great, comfortable -looking house-cat lay upon it, 
stretching herself and purring out her gratitude. The 
carpet was bright, some pictures hung around the 
walls, a bookcase was in one wide recess, and the 
bay-window was filled with Jessie’s flowers. There 
was a lamp burning on the centre-table, and the por 
celain shade was beautifully ornamented with several 
tiny pictures. It was a charming, cosey room. 
And as Charlie enjoyed this in a half-sleepy way 
another picture came into his mind, — a plain, low- 
ceiled room, with a rather worn rag-carpet on the 
floor, very common furniture, and a faded chintz- 
covered lounge, very few books, no pictures worth 
mentioning, two tired-looking women always sewing, 
and dear little Kathie. What a hard life she had ! 
“Jessie,” he said, “I think Kathie Alston is the 
best and noblest little girl that I ever knew.” 
“She seems very nice and pleasant. I like her 
because she always looks so cheerful.” 
“And she isn’t a bit selfish. She would give up 
anything if some one else wanted it. And she ’s 
continually thinking of others, and wishing they were 
happy-” 
 
" The right spirit, I am sure” 
“ And Kob ’s such a — well, he 's rude and 
thoughtless, and never seems to appreciate what 
she does. He is good-natured to us boys, and a 
capital fellow for fun, but I wish Kathie had a 
nice home — ” 
“ Isn’t her home pleasant ? Mrs. Alston appears 
to be a very kind woman.” 
“ Oh, I like her and Kathies Aunt Euth, but it is 
sad to be poor, and to have to work hard.” 
“Yes, indeed,” Jessie said. 
“ Kathie ’s always thinking of her Aunt Ruth, and 
wishing she was well. It s real hard to be sick and 
lame.” 
“ I have met Miss Conover several times, and I 
think she bears her burdens very patiently.” 
“ But it ’s hard, all the same.” 
“Yes, Charlie, it is”; and Jessie drooped her 
thoughtful brown eyes. 
There was a pause, and presently Charlie began 
again : “ Jessie, do you think we could do anything 
to make Miss Conover happier.” 
“ I don’t know, Charlie ; have you thought of any 
plan ? ” 
 
“ Only ” — Charlie hesitated a little — “ if we 
could take her out to ride.” 
“ Do you think she would go ? ” 
“ Why, yes ” ; and then Charlie repeated the few 
words that had passed between him and Kathie. 
‘'We might do that. Dolly is so gentle that no 
one would be afraid with her. Sleigh-riding did you 
mean ? ” 
“ Yes. Wouldn’t it be nice ? Kathie would feel 
so delighted.” 
“ Suppose we go next week, the first nice day ? 
We will take the two-seat sleigh, and invite both 
Kathie and her aunt.” 
“ Splendid ! ” said Charlie. 
“ And I can do it very nicely. Mrs. Thomas asked 
me the other day whom she could get to do some 
fine needlework. I ’ll go and see if Miss Conover 
can undertake it, and then we will ask them to drive 
with us.” 
“ Just the thing. 
Then he came to kiss Jessie, and went off to bed 
thankful that he had discovered a way of making 
some one happy, and, most of all, Kathie. 
The next day being Sunday there was no playing 
 
or snow-balling. It was cold but clear, and sunny as 
a midsummer day. The children were none the worse 
for their ice-palace party ; even Freddy, when he woke 
up, was as bright as a daisy. 
Sunday was always a long day to Eob. He went 
to church in the morning with his mother and Kathie, 
and to Sunday school in the afternoon ; but it seemed 
as if he had read every book in the house and heard 
everything. 
“ Oh dear,” he said after supper, as Kathie was 
washing up the dishes, — for on Sunday they had a fire 
in the parlor, as the room fronted the street, and look- 
ing at the people passing made a pleasant break in 
Aunt Euth’s monotonous days, — “O dear, I don’t 
know what to do with myself ! ” 
“ You ’ll have to fight a giant,” Kathie answered, 
soberly. 
“ Let ’s hear about that, Kathie ” ; and, for a won- 
der, Eob was quite interested. 
“ You know I was telling you the other day that 
Aunt Euth said our evil tempers and feelings soon 
grew to be giants if we didn’t make war upon them. 
And that part of fairy-stories is true, for some people 
do set out to kill giants.” 
 
“ Which one shall I go at ? ” 
“ I think, Rob,” — and Katlne hesitated a little, — 
“that the Sunday giant is Restlessness,” 
“ I can’t help it. I ’m a boy, and I can’t be still.” 
“ Not if you try very hard ? ” Katliie smiled hei 
sweetest. 
“ Well — ” Rob looked rather undecided. “ About 
the Monday giant then?” 
Katliie laughed. “ Are you going to have a giant 
for every day ? ” she asked. 
“ I dare say you could find a dozen.” 
“ But, Rob, I ’m not trying to ; I love you dearly.” 
“ Giant number two ? Go on.” 
“ One giant is Thoughtlessness. He ’s troubled 
me a good deal too.” 
“ Well, number three ? ” 
“You Te — pretty — boisterous, sometimes,” Katliie 
said, slowly. 
“ I can’t help that, Katliie, I positively can’t. I 
think everything makes more noise with me than with 
any other fellow in the world. If I touch a chair, it’s 
sure to fall over ; if I go for coal, ever so many pieces 
drop out ; and water always slops over, and I catch 
my foot in the carpet, and — and — I 'm a bother 
 
generally. I wish I was n’t. I ; d rather be a nice 
fellow like Charlie Darrell.” 
That was a great admission for Rob to make. 
Generally he thought himself as good as anybody. 
“ But, Rob, dear, one can take pains.” 
“ I always forget ” ; and Rob brought his fist down 
on the table so vigorously that all the dishes rattled. 
“ Katliie,” said her mother, looking in, “ what is the 
matter ? ” 
“ There, that ’s just it. I seem bound to make a 
noise anyhow. I was only telling Kathie some- 
thing.” 
“ Don’t tell quite so loud. I thought the dishes 
were broken.” 
“ Now I ’in all done,” said Kathie, cheerily. “ Rob, 
I ’m pretty bad about remembering, so I made up my 
mind to fight that giant. Every time that I forget I 
just stop and do something that isn’t so pleasant by 
way of punishment.” 
“ Like what ? ” Rob was fond of illustrations. 
“ Well, the other morning I couldn’t find my 
lunch-basket, and when I went to school I saw 
that Miss Moore had hung it up amongst the mis- 
laid articles. I felt pretty badly, for I didn’t mean to 
get one discredit this quarter ; but I thought that 
wasn’t quite enough, so I made myself stay in while 
the others were having a good time. It was real 
hard. And since, when I ’ve left some things un- 
done, or forgotten what mamma told me, I go and 
do whatever is the greatest hardship.” 
Rob whistled thoughtfully. It wasn’t exactly a 
Sunday tune, to be sure ; but he was doing some 
pretty good thinking. 
“ Kathie,” he said presently, “ everybody likes you 
so. Charlie Darrell wishes you were his sister.” 
“ I ’m not going to be anybody’s sister but yours, 
dear old Rob ” ; and Kathie gave the curly, chestnut- 
colored head a fond squeeze, and then kissed the 
warm, rosy lips. 
Rob winked away some tears. “ Is it easy to be 
good, Kathie ? ” 
“ Not — very ; but I guess the more you do of it 
the easier it conies. And then it makes others so 
much happier.” 
Rob put his feet on the stove-hearth and his elbows 
on his knees, and was lost in a brown study. " I think 
I ’ll look after some of the giants,” he said, lighting 
his lamp to go to bed. 
 
CHAPTER V. 
A PLEASANT SURPRISE. 
On Monday afternoon Katliie hurried home from 
school to help her mother finish some sewing. She 
had hardly seated herself and found her thimble and 
scissors, when there was a jingle of bells before the 
door. She sprang up and ran to the window. 
“ Oh mamma, it’s Charlie and Miss Jessie Darrell! 
and Miss Jessie ’s coming in. O mamma, if we 
only had a fire in our parlor ! ” 
“ Never mind about that, my dear ; go to the door 
at once.” 
Kathie obeyed, thinking that there didn’t a great 
many people live in their kitchens altogether. 
Miss Jessie was smiling and social. She wished 
Kathie good afternoon, and asked if she could see her 
aunt, Miss Conover. 
So there was no other course but to invite her into 
the kitchen. She wore a beautiful gray empress- 
cloth that looked like heavy silk, trimmed with 
 
scarlet velvet ; lier cloak was lovely pearl-colored 
material, with tiny blue and scarlet dots ; and Katliie 
knew that she had an elegant velvet one beside. Her 
white French felt hat was trimmed with bands of 
scarlet velvet and a dainty scarlet plume. She looked 
so very pretty that she almost shamed the plain, 
faded room. 
And yet she never appeared to notice it at all. 
She sat down in the rush-bottomed chair and made 
herself quite at home, inquiring very cordially how 
both ladies were, and talking of the fine weather and 
the delightful sleigh-riding. Then she asked Miss 
Conover about the embroidering. 
“Mrs. Thomas will have quite a good deal,” she 
said, “ and she is willing to pay liberally to some one 
who will do it neatly ; and so I thought I ’d see you 
about it.” 
Miss Jessie’s sweet voice and gracious manner 
made this seem a real compliment. Aunt Ruth 
colored with a flush of gratified feeling. 
“ I could undertake it after a week or two,” she 
answered. Then she asked Katliie to get some pieces 
of needlework from a drawer in the front room. 
“These are very handsomely done,” M’js Jessie 
 
said ; “ I know Mrs. Thomas will be pleased to have 
hers in such neat hands. I ’ll tell her to-morrow.” 
Aunt Ruth thanked her for the kind interest. 
“ Are you as well as you were in the summer ? ” 
Miss Jessie asked next. 
“ Not quite,” said Aunt Ruth ; “ I can’t have as 
much air and exercise. In this slippery weather I 
don’t, dare to go out at all.” 
“ It would be a great deprivation to me, and I dare 
say it is to you. And, now that it happens to be so 
very convenient, suppose you and Kathie should take 
a little ride with us ? We were just going out for 
pleasure.” 
“ Oh ! ” exclaimed Kathie, her eyes as bright as 
stars. Aunt Ruth looked rather doubtful. 
“ Please don’t disappoint me. Charlie will be 
delighted to have a sleigh full, and our horse is very 
gentle. It isn’t bitterly cold either, and, now that 
the weather is beginning to moderate, the sleighing 
may soon come to an end.” 
Jessie’s face was so sweet and .entreating that 
Aunt Ruth found it very hard to resist. 
“ I ’m quite a trouble,” she answered, “ and Rob 
isn’t here to help.” 
 
“ But I could,’ exclaimed Kathie, eagerly. “ Oh 
Aunt Ruth, please do go. I ’ve been wishing some- 
thing nice would happen to you, and this is splen- 
did.” 
“ I heard of your being a fairy godmother the 
other day, so I suppose you have only to desire any- 
thing and it comes to pass. I think I must have 
happened in in answer to your wish.” 
Miss Jessie smiled in such a lovely fashion that 
Kathie’s heart was won. 
“ I ’d like to be able to wish nice things for 
everybody, and have them come to pass,” she said. 
“ You ’ll have to get your wand and touch Aunt 
Ruth, so that she can be transported to the sleigh.” 
“ This wand,” said Katliie ; and her arms were 
around Aunt Ruth’s neck, while the eager lips kissed 
a reluctant assent. 
“ I ’m afraid Miss Jessie will think us a good deal 
of trouble.” 
“ Oh no, indeed. Katliie, will you run and tell 
Charlie to tie the horse and come in a moment ? ” 
Katliie was off like a flash. 
“ I thought you weren’t ever coming,” Charlie ex- 
claimed, for he had begun to grow impatient. “ But 
 
I ’m so glad. Now, Dolly, we ’ll be off in a 
trice.” 
Mrs. Alston bundled lier sister up nice and warm, 
and Charlie helped her into the sleigh with the air of 
a gentleman. Jessie took a seat behind her, saying, 
“ We ’ll put Kathie in front to keep off the wind ” ; at 
which Charlie laughed. 
There was Kathie in her scarlet and white hood, 
looking pretty enough for any fairy in the land. 
Charlie tucked her in with a soft blanket and drew 
up the wolf-skin. 
“ I suppose Charlie drives a good deal,” Aunt Ruth 
said. The first dash rather started her. 
“ O yes. Papa trusts him with all our horses 
except one. We have a very fiery fast horse that 
is rather beyond Charlie.” 
“ You won ’t mind if we go fast ; will you. Aunt 
Ruth ? ” Kathie asked, after she and Charlie had been 
indulging in a whispered consultation. 
“ No ” ; and Aunt Ruth smiled. She was begin- 
ning to feel quite courageous. 
Dolly pricked up her ears, shook her glossy mane, 
and started off, skimming over the snow like a bird. 
The roads were in a very fine condition, and the air 
 
keen and bracing without the sting of the coldest 
days. A faint pink came to Aunt Ruth’s cheeks. 
Her memory went back to the time when she had 
been as young as Miss Jessie, and enjoying a happy, 
care-free life. Brave Brother Robert had been her es- 
cort in those days, — dear Rob sleeping somewhere 
under an Indian sky, the fortune lost, and generous- 
hearted Fred Alston dead. What changes there had 
been since Rob left them, ten years before ! 
Kathie was wild with delight. For children the 
present is all sufficient, and to see Dolly flying along, 
her slender legs looking like a mere thread, and 
hear Charlie Darrell’s pleasant voice, was enjoyment 
enough. The warm blood seemed to race from pulse 
to pulse, her heart beat rapidly with her great joy, 
and the fresh wind made her rosy cheeks rosier than 
ever. Down the south went the sun, and presently 
dropped out of sight. They were homeward bound. 
Miss J essie took good care that Aunt Ruth should be 
comfortable. 
“ Hasn’t it been splendid!” ejaculated Kathie, in 
a breathless fashion. “O Miss Jessie, I ’m so 
thankful ! ” 
“ And I am very glad to have given you so much 
pleasure. Some time we will try it again.” 
 
Charlie thought that he. would like to have Kathie 
know how much of the plan was his, but he didn’t 
see any good way of telling it. 
So they were both helped out, and Rob was there
to receive them. He had half a mind to drive back 
with Charlie, but on the whole he concluded it was 
best to resist the temptation, as his mother was pre- 
paring supper. 
Kathie was in the gayest spirits, praising the 
ride, the horse, and most of all Miss Jessie. 
“ I say,” put in Fred, rather aggrieved, “ it ’s real 
mean that you didn’t take me. I could have 
crowded down in the. blankets.” 
“ But you weren’t here, Fred.” 
“Well, you might have waited a teeny little while. 
I did come home real soon.” 
“ Hush, Fred,” said his mother. “ Kathie had noth- 
ing to do with it except to go when she was asked.” 
Aunt Ruth was quite tired, and after supper lay on 
the lounge. Kathie caught sight of the unfinished 
work, and her tender conscience smote her. 
“ Mamma,” she began, “ I meant to help you sew 
this afternoon, and I ran off and forgot all about 
 
“ I didn’t expect you to stay at home ; indeed, I 
should not have allowed you to.” 
“ Rut the forgetting, mamma, and when I am try- 
ing so hard to remember ! ” Kathies eyes filled with 
tears. 
“ Never mind, my dear ; I don’t know as any one 
ever becomes so perfect as always to think of every- 
thing.” 
“ But I ’ll sew now.” 
“ No, Kathie, it isn’t worth while. After being 
out in the wind for so long you ’ll soon find yourself 
getting sleepy. I ’ll take the kind will for the deed.” 
After putting Fred to bed, Kathie drew a stool up 
to the lounge and talked to Aunt Ruth. Some way , 
the conversation turned upon the lost Uncle Robert. 
Kathie had heard the story many times before, but 
to-night it seemed to interest her specially. 
“ Don’t you believe he ever will come back ? ” 
Kathie asked, earnestly. “ Wouldn’t it be nice if 
some day he took us all by surprise, and came home 
rich as Mr. Darrell ? ” 
Aunt Ruth sighed. “ That will never be, dear. 
Robert wasn’t the man to forget his sisters so man}' 
years.” 
 
“ But you never heard that he was dead ? ” 
“ True, only we know if he had been living he 
would have written.” 
Kathie wanted to be a fairy more than ever, and 
bring Uncle Robert back in some queer way that 
would astonish them all. And then she wondered if 
he was like Brother Bob or Charlie Darrell What 
a dear, lovely afternoon it had been ! How delightful 
it was to be well and have pleasant things happen to 
you, and — There was a rosy mist before Kathie’s 
eyes and a weight settling upon her brain. Over 
came the little head on Aunt Ruth’s arm. 
“ I am sleepy, sure enough,” said Kathie, with a 
little laugh. “ I guess I ’ll go to bed. Good night, 
mamma; good night, dear Aunt Ruthie. Let’s all 
pray that God will send Uncle Robert back.” 
How many vain prayers had passed Aunt Ruth’s 
lips ! Yet Kathie’s sweet, cheery voice seemed to stir 
hope again. 
“ What a comfort the child is ! ” she said to Mrs. 
Alston. “ For her sake I wish we were more pros- 
perous. I sometimes wonder how you will get them 
all educated.” 
“We must trust in God,” Mrs. Alston replied. 
 
“ And not worry about the bridge until we have to 
cross it. But poor Bob ! I wonder if he found any 
friends at the last.” 
“Let us hope that he did,” was the tremulous 
reply. 
At times life seemed a hard burden indeed to Mrs. 
Alston. Her husband had died after a short illness, 
just as he was beginning to prosper, and when Freddy 
was but a month old. To this shock succeeded a long 
and severe illness, and when she was able to resume 
her place once more, it was but to hear of fresh mis- 
fortunes. The income that had been left to Buth and 
herself from her father’s property was swept away by 
a financial reversion, and they found themselves nearly 
penniless. Mr. Alston’s partner offered them, in lieu 
of money, a house in a pretty country town, which he 
represented as likely to increase in value, and elo- 
quently set forth the advantages of having a home ; 
and just then, feeling that it made no difference to 
her where she went, she accepted his proposal. In 
the mean while Buth had a severe and dangerous fall, 
which was likely to leave her a cripple for life. Dis- 
couraged to the uttermost, it was with a heavy heart 
that Mrs. Alston removed to Brookside. Here a fresh 
 
disappointment awaited her. The house was old and 
out ot repair, and she was indeed a stranger in a 
strange land. If she could have sold again, she would 
have returned immediately to the city, where she had 
some friends ; but that was quite impossible. She had 
parted with her most valuable furniture, so with the 
remnants she tried to give the place a homelike look. 
Ruth recovered slowly, and Mrs. Alston soon found 
that her small income would not support them all. 
She could think of nothing but sewing, and she man- 
aged to earn considerable by this, while Ruth did em- 
broidering and various kinds of needlework. They 
did not want for any of the necessaries of life, but 
they had not many of its luxuries. 
Since their arrival in Brookside they had not heard 
from their brother, who had gone to China some three 
years before. He had rambled about considerably, 
their last news of him being dated at Bombay, and 
Mrs. Alston knew at once that he had missed a letter 
from Rutli detailing their misfortunes. Several times 
