do."
"You'll be here in time for dinner, Rufus?"
"Yes," said our hero, and putting on his hat he made his escape, feeling
considerably relieved when he was fairly in the open air.
"I s'pose I'll get used to it after a while," he said to himself.
"I am glad you have come, Miss Manning," said Mrs. Colman, extending her
hand. "You will be able to relieve me of a great deal of my care. The
children are good, but full of spirits, and when I have one of my
nervous headaches, the noise goes through my head like a knife. I hope
you won't find them a great deal of trouble."
"I don't anticipate that," said the new governess, cheerfully; "I am
fond of children."
"Do you ever have the headache?"
"Very seldom."
"Then you are lucky. Children are a great trial at such a time."
"Have you the headache this morning, Mrs. Colman?" asked Miss Manning,
in a tone of sympathy.
"Not badly, but I am seldom wholly free from it. Now suppose we talk a
little of our plans. It is time the children were beginning to learn to
read. Can your little girl read?"
"A little; not very much."
"I suppose it will be better not to require them to study more than an
hour or two a day, just at first. The rest of the time you can look
after them. I am afraid you will find it quite an undertaking."
"I am not afraid of that," said Miss Manning, cheerfully.
"The children have no books to study from. Perhaps you had better take
them out for a walk now, and stop on your way at some Broadway
bookseller's, and get such books as you think they will need."
"Very well."
"Are we going out to walk?" said Jennie. "I shall like that."
"And I too," said Carrie.
"I hope you won't give Miss Manning any trouble," said their mother.
"Here is some money to pay for the books;" and she handed the new
governess a five-dollar bill.
The children were soon ready, and their new governess went on with them.
She congratulated herself on the change in her mode of life. When solely
dependent on her labors as a seamstress, she had been compelled to sit
hour after hour, from early morning until evening, sewing steadily, and
then only earned enough to keep soul and body together. What wonder if
she became thin, and her cheek grew pale, losing the rosy tint which it
wore, when as a girl she lived among the hills of New England! Better
times had come to her at length. She would probably be expected to
spend considerable time daily out of doors, as her pupils were too young
to study much or long at a time. It was a blessed freedom, so she felt,
and she was sure that she should enjoy the society of the two little
girls, having a natural love for children. She did not expect to like
them as well as Rose, for Rose seemed partly her own child, but she
didn't doubt that she should ere long become attached to them.
Then, again, she would not only enjoy an agreeable home, but for the
first time would receive such compensation for her services as to be
quite at ease in her pecuniary circumstances. Five dollars a week might
not be a large sum to a lady with expensive tastes; but Miss Manning had
the art of appearing well dressed for a small sum, and, as she made her
own clothes, she estimated that three dollars a week would clothe both,
and enable her to save two dollars weekly, or a hundred dollars a year.
This was indeed a bright prospect to one who had been engaged in a
hand-to-hand struggle with poverty for the last five years.
She went into a Broadway bookstore, and purchased primers for her new
pupils, and a more advanced reading-book for Rose. At the end of an hour
they returned home. They found an express wagon at the door. Two men
were lifting out a sofa and a rocking-chair.
"They are for your room, Miss Manning," said Jennie. "I heard ma tell pa
this morning, to stop at a furniture place and buy them."
Mr. Colman had certainly been prompt, for, though it was still early,
here they were.
When they were carried upstairs, and placed in her room, Miss Manning
looked about her with pardonable pride and satisfaction. Though the room
was on the fourth floor, it looked quite like a parlor. She felt that
she should take great comfort in so neat and pleasant a room. It was a
great contrast to her dull, solitary, laborious life in the shabby room,
for which, poor as it was, she oftentimes found it difficult to provide
the weekly rent.
There were no lessons that morning, for Miss Manning had her trunk to
unpack, and Rose's clothes and her own to lay away in the
bureau-drawers. She had about completed this work when the bell rang
for lunch. Taking Rose by the hand, she led her downstairs to the
basement, where, as is common in New York boarding-houses, the
dining-room was situated.
There were five ladies and children at the table, the gentlemen being
obliged, on account of the distance, to take their lunch down town,
somewhere near their places of business.
"You may take this seat, Miss Manning," said the landlady, indicating
one near herself. "Your little girl can sit between us, and Jennie and
Carrie on the other side. I will trouble you to take care of them. Their
mother seldom comes down to lunch."
The repast was plain but plentiful, the principal meal, dinner, being at
six, an hour more convenient for men of business. I state this for the
benefit of those of my readers who live in the country, and are
accustomed to take dinner in the middle of the day.
Miss Manning was introduced to Mrs. Pratt, a stout, elderly lady, with a
pleasant face, who sat opposite her; to Mrs. Florence, a young lady
recently married, who sat at her left; and to Mrs. Clifton, formerly
Miss Peyton, who, as well as her husband, will be remembered by the
readers of the second and third volumes of this series. Mr. Clifton kept
a dry goods store on Eighth Avenue.
In the afternoon, Miss Manning gave her first lesson, and succeeded in
interesting her young pupils, who proved quite docile, and seemed to
have taken a fancy to their new governess.
Meanwhile Rufus had succeeded in making an arrangement which promised to
add to his weekly income. Of this an account will be given in the next
chapter.
CHAPTER VII.
A NEW ENTERPRISE.
Rufus felt some doubts as to whether he had done wisely in agreeing to
board at Mrs. Clayton's. His own board, together with what he paid for
his sister's board and clothes, would just take up the whole of his
salary. However, he would have the interest on his five hundred dollars,
now deposited in a savings-bank, and yielding six per cent. interest
annually. Still this would amount only to thirty dollars, and this would
not be sufficient to pay for his clothes alone, not to mention
miscellaneous expenses, such as car-fares and other incidental expenses.
He felt that he should like now and then to go on an excursion with his
sister and Miss Manning, or perhaps to a place of amusement. For all
this, one hundred dollars a year would be needed, at a moderate
calculation. How should he make up this amount?
Two ways suggested themselves to Rufus. One was, draw upon his
principal. Probably he would not be obliged to do this very long, as, at
the end of six months, it was probable that his salary would be raised
if he gave satisfaction, and this he meant to do. Still, Rufus did not
like this plan, for five hundred dollars seemed a good round sum, and he
wanted to keep it all. The other way was to make up the necessary sum by
extra work outside of the office. This idea he liked best. But it
suggested another question, which was not altogether easy to answer.
"What should he do, or what kind of work should he choose?"
He might go back to his old employment. As he was not required to be at
the office before nine o'clock, why should he not spend an hour or two
in the early morning in selling newspapers? He felt confident that he
could in this way clear two dollars a week. But there were two
objections which occurred to him. The first was, that as Mrs. Clayton's
breakfast was at half-past seven in the winter, and not earlier than
seven in the summer, he would be obliged to give it up, and take
breakfast at some restaurant down town. His breakfasts, probably, would
come to very nearly the sum he would make by selling papers, and as Mrs.
Clayton took him under her usual price, it was hardly to be expected
that she would make any allowance for his absence from the morning meal.
Besides, Rufus had left his old life behind him, and he did not want to
go back to it. He doubted, also, whether his employer would like to have
him spend his time before office hours in selling papers. Then, again,
he was about to board at a house of very good rank, and he felt that he
did not wish to pass among his new acquaintances as a newsboy, if he
could get something better to do. Of course it was respectable, as all
honest labor is; but our hero felt that by this time he was suited to
something better.
The more Rufus balanced these considerations in his mind, the more
perplexed he became. Meanwhile he was walking down Broadway on his way
to the office.
Just as he was crossing Canal Street, some one tapped him on the
shoulder. Turning round, he recognized a young man whom he remembered as
clerk in a stationery store in Nassau Street. His name was George
Black.
"Rough and Ready!" he exclaimed, in surprise. "Is this you? Why are you
not selling papers? You got up late this morning, didn't you?"
"I've given up selling papers," said Rufus.
"How long since?"
"Only a few days."
"What are you up to now?"
"I'm in an office in Wall Street."
"What sort of an office?"
"A banker's,--Mr. Turner's."
"Yes, I know the firm. What do you get?"
"Eight dollars a week."
"That's pretty good,--better than selling papers."
"Yes, I like it better, though I don't make any more money than I did
before. But it seems more like business."
"Well, you've found a place, and I've lost one."
"How is that?"
"My employer failed, and the business has gone up," said Black.
"I suppose you are looking for a new place."
"Yes; but I wouldn't if I only had a little capital."
"What would you do then?"
"I was walking up Sixth Avenue yesterday, when I saw a neat little
periodical and fancy goods store for sale, on account of the owner's
illness. It's a very good location, and being small does not require
much capital to carry it on. The rent is cheap,--only twenty dollars a
month. By adding a few articles, I could make a thousand dollars a year
out of it."
"Why don't you take it?"
"Because I haven't got but a hundred dollars in the world, and I expect
that will be gone before I get a new place."
"What does the owner want for his stock?"
"He says it cost him seven hundred dollars; but he's sick, and wants to
dispose of it as soon as possible. He'll sell out for five hundred
dollars cash."
"Are you sure the stock is worth that much?" asked Rufus.
"Yes, I am sure it is worth more. I've been in the business, and I can
judge."
"Why don't you borrow the money?"
"It is easy enough to say that, but where shall I find anybody to lend
it?"
"You might take a partner with money."
"So I might, if I could find one."
"Look here, Mr. Black," said Rufus, in a businesslike tone, "what offer
will you make to any one who will furnish you the money to buy out this
shop?"
"Do you know of anybody who has got the money?" asked the young man.
"Perhaps I do, and perhaps I don't; but maybe I might find somebody."
"I'll tell you what I'll do. If any one will set me up there, I will
give him a third of the profits after paying expenses."
"And you think that you can make a thousand dollars a year?"
"Yes, I feel sure of it."
"That's a good offer," said Rufus, meditatively.
"I'm willing to make it. At that rate I shall make fourteen dollars a
week, and I have never been paid but twelve for clerking it. Besides, I
should be my own master."
"You might not make so much."
"If I make less I can live on less. There's a small room in back, where
I can put in a bed, that will save me room-rent. My meals I can buy at
the restaurants. I don't believe it will cost me over three hundred and
fifty dollars to live."
"So that you could save up money."
"Yes, I should be sure to. After a while I could buy out the whole
business."
Rufus was silent for a moment. He had five hundred dollars. Why should
he not set up George Black in business on the terms proposed? Then,
instead of getting a paltry thirty dollars' interest for his money, he
would get two or three hundred dollars, and this would abundantly make
up what he needed to live in good style at Mrs. Clayton's, and afford
Rose and himself occasional recreation. Of course a good deal depended
on the honesty of George Black. But of this young man Rufus had a very
good opinion, having known him for two or three years. Besides, as
partner he would be entitled to inquire into the state of the business
at any time, and if anything was wrong he would take care that it was
righted.
"What are you thinking about?" inquired the young man, observing his
silence.
"How would you like me for a partner?" asked Rufus, looking up suddenly.
"I'd just as lief have you as anybody, if you had the money," said
George Black.
"I have got the money," said our hero.
"You don't mean to say you've got five hundred dollars?" asked Black, in
surprise.
"Yes, I do."
"How did you get it? You didn't make it selling papers in the street."
"You may bet on that. No; I found part of it and the rest I had given
me."
"Tell me about it."
Rufus did so.
"Where is the money?"
"I keep it in a savings-bank."
"I'll tell you what, Rufus," said George, "if you'll buy out the shop
for me, and come in as my partner, I'll do what I said, and that'll be
a good deal better than the savings-bank can do for you."
"That's true; but there'll be more risk."
"I don't think there will. I shall manage the business economically, and
you can come in any time and see how it's going on. But I never thought
you had so much money."
"If you had, maybe you'd have thought more of me," said Rufus.
"Maybe I should. 'Money makes the mare go' in this world. But when will
you let me know about it? I've only got two days to decide in."
"I should like to see the shop myself," said Rufus, with commendable
prudence.
"Of course; that's what I'd like to have you do. When will you come
round with me and see it?"
"I can't come now," said our hero, "for it would make me late at the
office. Is it open in the evening?"
"Yes."
"Then I'll tell you what. I'll meet you there this evening at eight
o'clock. Just give me the number, and I'll be sure to be there."
"All right. Have you got a pencil?"
"Yes; and here's one of our cards. You can put it down here."
The address was put down, and the two parted.
George Black went round to the shop at once to say that he would
probably be able to make an arrangement. In the evening, at the
appointed hour, the two met at the periodical store.
Rufus was favorably impressed on first entering. The room was small, but
it was very neat. It had a good window opening to the street, and it
appeared well filled with stock. A hasty survey satisfied our hero that
the stock was really worth more than the amount asked for it.
The proprietor seemed a sickly-looking man, and the plea of ill-health,
judging from his appearance, might readily be credited.
"This is the capitalist I spoke of this morning," said George Black,
introducing Rufus.
"He seems young,", said the proprietor, a little surprised.
"I'm not very aged yet," said Rufus, smiling.
"The main thing is, that he's got the money," said Black. "He's in
business in Wall Street, and is looking about for an investment of his
spare funds."
Rufus was rather pleased with this way of stating his position. He saw
that it heightened his importance considerably in the mind of the owner
of the shop.
"He'll do well to invest here," said the latter. "It's a good stand. I
wouldn't sell out if my health would let me hold on. But confinement
doesn't suit me. The doctor says I shan't live a year, if I stay here,
and life is better than money."
"That's so."
"How long has this shop been established?" asked Rufus.
"Five years."
"It ought to be pretty well known."
"Yes; it's got a good run of custom. If the right man takes hold of it,
he'll make money. He can't help it."
"What do you think of it, Rufus?" asked George Black, turning to our
hero. "Isn't it as I represented?"
"Yes," said Rufus. "I should think a good business might be done here."
"If I get hold of it, a good business shall be done here," said Black,
emphatically. "But it all depends on you. Say the word, and we'll close
the bargain now."
"All right!" said Rufus, promptly. "I'll say the word. We'll take the
shop."
CHAPTER VIII.
THE NEW BOARDING-HOUSE.
It might be considered hazardous for Rufus to invest all his money in a
venture which depended to so great an extent upon the honesty of
another. But there is no profit without risk, and our hero felt
considerable confidence in the integrity of his proposed partner. It
occurred to him, however, that he might need some money before he should
receive any from the business. Accordingly, as the young man had told
him that he had a hundred dollars, he proposed that he should contribute
one half of that sum towards the purchase of the shop, while he made up
the balance,--four hundred and fifty dollars. This would leave him fifty
dollars for contingent expenses, while George Black would have the same.
Our hero's street-life had made him sharp, and he determined to secure
himself as far as possible. He accordingly proposed to George Black that
they should go to a lawyer, and have articles of agreement drawn up.
For this, however, he did not have time till the next morning.
One article proposed by Rufus was, that he should draw fifty dollars a
quarter towards the third share of the profits, which it was agreed that
he should receive, and at the end of the year any balance that might
remain due. No objection was made by George Black, who considered this
provision a fair one. The style of the firm,--for as most of the capital
was furnished by Rufus, it was thought that his name should be
represented,--was "RUSHTON & BLACK."
A new sign was ordered, bearing their names, and it was arranged that
the new proprietors should take possession of the store at the
commencement of the next week, when it would probably be ready.
Rufus hesitated about announcing his new venture to Miss Manning and
Rose, but finally concluded not to do so just at present. It would be
time, he thought, when they had got fairly started.
Meanwhile he had transferred himself to the room at Mrs. Clayton's
boarding-house. He felt rather bashful at first about appearing at the
table. Half an hour before the time, he reached the house, and went up
at once to Miss Manning's room.
"O Rufie!" said Rose, jumping up from the sofa and running to meet him,
"have you come to stay?"
"Yes, Rosie," he answered, sitting down on the sofa, and taking her in
his lap.
"I am so glad. You are going down to dinner, aint you?"
"Yes, I suppose so."
"We have such nice dinners,--don't we, Miss Manning?"
"Very nice, Rose."
"A great deal better than I ever had before. I wonder where you will
sit, Rufie."
"He will sit next to you, Rose; I spoke to Mrs. Clayton about it. Rufus
will take care of you, and I am to look after Jennie and Carrie."
"That will be very nice."
"How do you like the little girls, Rose?" asked her brother.
"Very much. They have given me some of their dolls."
"And which knows the most,--you or they?"
"Oh, I know ever so much more," said Rose, positively.
"Is that true, Miss Manning, or is Rose boasting?" asked Rufus.
"Rose is farther advanced than either Jennie or Carrie," answered Miss
Manning. "They have studied comparatively little yet, but I find them
docile, and I think they will soon improve."
By the time Rufus had combed his hair, and put on a clean collar, the
dinner-bell rang. He followed Miss Manning down into the dining-room.
"Good-evening, Mr. Rushton," said Mrs. Clayton. "I am glad to see you."
"His name isn't Mr. Rushton," said Rose. "His name is Rufie."
"It is the first time Rose ever heard me called so," said Rufus,
smiling. "She will soon get used to it."
He was rather pleased than otherwise to be called Mr. Rushton. It made
him feel more like a man.
"You may take that seat, Mr. Rushton," said the landlady. "Your little
sister will sit beside you."
Rufus took the chair indicated.
Next to him was seated a lady of thirty or more, whose hair fell in
juvenile ringlets. This was Mrs. Clifton, formerly Miss Peyton, who will
be remembered by the readers of "Fame and Fortune." Rufus was introduced
to her.
"I am very glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Rushton," said Mrs.
Clifton, graciously. "You have a very sweet little sister."
"Yes; she is a very good little girl," said Rufus, better pleased with a
compliment to Rose than he would have been with one to himself.
"I understand you are in business in Wall Street, Mr. Rushton."
"Yes," said Rufus. "I am in the office of Mr. Turner."
"I sometimes tell Mr. Clifton I wish he would go into business in Wall
Street. He keeps a dry-goods store on Eighth Avenue."
"Can't remember ever hearing you mention the idea, Mrs. C----," remarked
her husband, who sat on the other side, in a pause between two
mouthfuls. "There aint much money in dry goods just now, by jove! I'll
open in Wall Street, if you say the word."
Mrs. Clifton slightly frowned, and did not see fit to answer the remark
made to her. Her husband was not very brilliant, either in business,
wit, or in any other way, and she had married him, not from love, but
because she saw no other way of escaping from being an old maid.
"Do you know, Mr. Rushton," said Mrs. Clifton, "you remind me so much of
a very intimate friend of mine, Mr. Hunter?"
"Do I?" added Rufus. "I hope he is good-looking."
"He's very handsome," said Mrs. Clifton, "and so witty."
"Then I'm glad I'm like him," said Rufus.
For some reason he did not feel so bashful as he anticipated,
particularly with Mrs. Clifton.
"He's soon going to be married to a very rich young lady,--Miss Greyson;
perhaps you know her."
"That's where he has the advantage of me," said Rufus.
"Mr. Clifton," said his wife, "don't you think Mr. Rushton looks very
much like Mr. Hunter?"
"Yes," said her husband; "as much as I look like the Emperor Napoleon."
"Don't make a goose of yourself, Mr. Clifton," said his wife, sharply.
"Thank you, I don't intend to. A goose is a female, and I don't care to
make such a change."
"I suppose you think that is witty," said Mrs. Clifton, a little
disdainfully.
It is unnecessary to pursue the conversation. Those who remember Mrs.
Clifton when she was Miss Peyton will easily understand what was its
character. It had the effect, however, of putting Rufus at his ease. On
the whole, considering that he was only used to cheap restaurants, he
acquitted himself very well for the first time, and no one suspected
that he had not always been accustomed to live as well. The dinner he
found excellent. Mrs. Clayton herself superintended the preparation of
dinner, and she was not inclined to undue economy, as is the case with
many landladies.
"I'm glad I came here," thought Rufus. "It's worth the difference in
price."
As they rose from the table, Mrs. Colman asked Miss Manning, "Is that
the brother of your little girl?"
"Yes," answered Miss Manning.
"He has a very good appearance; I should like to have you bring him into
our room a while."
Miss Manning communicated this invitation to Rufus. He would have
excused himself gladly, but he felt that this would have been hardly
polite; therefore he accepted it.
"I am glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Rushton," said Mrs. Colman.
"Thank you," said Rufus.
"I hear that you have come to board with us."
"Yes," he answered, wishing that he might think of something more to
say, but not succeeding.
"It is a pleasant boarding-place; I hope you will like it."
"I think I shall."
"You have a very nice little sister; my little girls like her very much.
She will be a great deal of company for them."
"I think she is a very good little girl," said Rufus; "but then I am
her brother, so I suppose it is natural for me to think so."
"You are in an office in Wall Street, I am told," said Mr. Colman.
"Yes, sir," said Rufus.
"Whose, may I ask?"
"Mr. Turner's."
"He is an able business-man, and stands high. You could not learn
business under better auspices."
"I like him very much," said Rufus; "but then I have not been long in
his office."
"I find Miss Manning relieves me of a great deal of care and trouble,"
said Mrs. Colman (her new governess being just then out of the room). "I
feel that I was fortunate in securing her services."
"I think you will like her," said Rufus. "She is very kind to Rose. I
don't know what I should do with little sister, if I did not have her to
look after her."
"Then your mother is not living, Mr. Rushton."
"No," said Rufus; "she has been dead for two years."
"And you are the sole guardian of your little sister?"
"Yes, ma'am."
After half an hour's call, which Rufus found less embarrassing and more
agreeable than he anticipated, he excused himself, and went upstairs.
On Tuesday of the nest week, he decided to reveal his new plans to Miss
Manning. Accordingly, he managed to reach home about half-past four in
the afternoon, and invited her and Rose to take a walk with him.
"Where shall we walk?" she asked.
"Over to Sixth Avenue," said Rufus. "I want to show you a store there."
Miss Manning soon got ready, and the three set out.
It was not far,--scarcely ten minutes' walk. When they arrived opposite
the store, Rufus pointed over to it.
"Do you see that periodical store?" he asked.
"Yes," said Miss Manning.
"How do you like it?"
"Why do you ask?" she inquired, puzzled.
"Look at the sign," he answered.
"RUSHTON & BLACK," read Miss Manning. "Why, that is your name!"
"And I am at the head of the firm," said Rufus complacently.
"What does it all mean?" asked Miss Manning. "How can it be?"
"I'll tell you," said Rufus.
A few words made her understand.
"Now," said Rufus, "let us go over to my store, and look in."
"What, is it your store, Rufie?" asked Rose.
"Yes, little sister, it's part mine."
When they entered, they found George Black behind the counter, waiting
on a customer, who directly went out.
"Well, George, how's business?" asked Rufus.
"It opens well," said his partner, cheerfully. "It's a good stand, and
there's a good run of custom."
"This is my friend, Miss Manning," said Rufus, "and my little sister
Rose."
"I am glad to see you, Miss Manning," said the young man. "I hope," he
added, smiling, "you will give us a share of your patronage."
"We'll buy all our slate-pencils at Rufie's store, won't we, Miss
Manning?" said Rose.
"Yes, I think so," answered Miss Manning, with a smile.
"Then," said Rufus, "we shall be certain to succeed, if there's a large
profit on slate-pencils, George."
"Yes, if you charge high enough."
After a little more conversation they left the store.
"What do you think of my store, Miss Manning?" asked Rufus.
"It's a very neat one. I had no idea you had become so extensive a
business-man, Rufus."
"Is Rufie an extensive man?" asked Rose.
"I hope to be some day," said Rufus, smiling.
CHAPTER IX.
AT THE END OF THREE MONTHS.
Rufus soon became accustomed to his new boarding-house, and came to like
it. It gratified his pride to perceive that he was regarded as an equal
by his fellow-boarders, and that his little sister Rose was a general
favorite. It seemed almost a dream, and a very disagreeable one, the
life they had formerly lived in the miserable tenement-house in Leonard
Street; but still the remembrance of that time heightened his enjoyment
of his present comforts and even luxuries. He usually spent the evening
in Miss Manning's room, and, feeling the deficiencies in his education,
commenced a course of study and reading. He subscribed to the Mercantile
Library, and thus obtained all the books he wanted at a very moderate
rate.
By way of showing how they lived at this time, I will introduce the
reader to Miss Manning's room one evening, about three months after
Rufus had begun to board in the house.
Miss Manning was seated at the table sewing. Her young pupils were gone
to bed, and she had the evening to herself. Rufus was reading Abbott's
"Life of Napoleon," which he found very interesting. Little Rose had
fallen asleep on the sofa.
"What are you sewing upon, Miss Manning?" asked Rufus, looking up from
his book.
"I am making a dress for Rose."
"When you get tired, just let me know, and I will sew a little for you."
"Thank you, Rufus," said Miss Manning, smiling, "but I suppose it won't
hurt your feelings much, if I doubt your abilities as a seamstress."
"I am afraid I shouldn't make a very good living at that, Miss Manning.
Times have changed a little since you used to sew from morning till
night."
"Yes, they have. I used to see some hard times, Rufus. But everything
has changed since I got acquainted with you and little Rose. I sometimes
am tempted to regard you as my good angel."
"Thank you, I don't know much about angels, but I'm afraid I don't look
much like one. They never have red cheeks, and do business in Wall
Street, do they?"
"From what I have heard, I don't believe Wall Street is a favorite
resort with them. But, seriously, everything seems to have prospered
since I met you. Really, I am beginning to be a capitalist. How much
money do you think I have saved up out of the three dollars a week which
you pay me?"
"You've bought some things for yourself and Rose, haven't you?"
"Yes, we have each had a dress, and some little things."
"Then I don't see how you could save up much."
"I made the dresses myself, and that was a great saving. Let me see,
you've paid me forty-two dollars, in all, for fourteen weeks. I will see
how much I have left."
She went to the bureau, and took out her pocket-book.
"I have twenty-five dollars," she said, counting the contents. "Am I not
growing rich?"
"Perhaps you'd like to speculate with it in Wall Street?" suggested
Rufus.
"I think I'd better keep the money, or put it in a savings-bank."
"When you have money enough, I can buy you a fifty-dollar government
bond."
"I shall have to wait a while first."
"Well, as for me," said Rufus, "I can't tell exactly how I do stand. I
took fifty dollars out of that five hundred I had in the savings-bank. I
think I've got about half of it left. The rest of it went for a trunk,
car fare, and other expenses. So, you see, I've been going down hill,
while you've been climbing up."
"Have you drawn anything from your store yet, Rufus? You were to draw
fifty dollars a quarter, I believe."
"Yes; and that reminds me that George Black promised to call this
evening, and pay the money. It's about time to expect him."
Rufus had hardly spoken, when a servant knocked at the door.
Rufus opened it.
"There's a young man downstairs, that would like to see you, Mr.
Rushton," she said.
"Where is he, Nancy?"
"In the parlor."
"I'll go right down. I think it must be Black," he said, turning to Miss
Manning.
"If it is, of course you will bring him up."
"Yes, I should like to. We can't talk very well in such a public place."
Rufus went down, and shortly reappeared with George Black.
"Good-evening, Mr. Black," said Miss Manning; "take a seat. I hope you
are well."
"I'm thriving," said Black. "How pleasant and cheerful you look!"
"Yes, the room is rather high up; but it is pleasant when you get to
it."
"We were just speaking of you, when the girl came to let us know that
you were here."
"I hope you said nothing very bad about me."
"Not very."
"I think I shall be welcome, as I have brought you some money."
"Money is always welcome here," said Rufus. "I'll take care of all you
can bring."
"I have brought fifty dollars, according to our agreement."
"Can you spare that amount without affecting the business?"
"Oh, yes."
"I suppose you can't tell me what the profits have been for the last
three months."
"Not exactly; but I have made a rough calculation. As it was the first
quarter, I knew you would like to know."
"Well, what is your estimate?"
"As well as I can judge we have cleared about two hundred and fifty
dollars."
"That is at the rate of a thousand dollars a year."
"Yes; isn't that doing well?"
"Capitally. Do you think the business will hold out at that rate?"
"I feel sure of it. I hope to improve upon it."
"Even if you don't, that will give you nearly seven hundred dollars a
year, and me over three hundred."
"That's better than clerking,--for me, I mean."
"Perhaps you might get more as a clerk."
"Perhaps I might; but now I am my own master, and then I shouldn't be.
Besides, I have plans in view which I think will increase our custom,
and of course our profits also."
"Success to the firm of Rushton & Black!" said Miss Manning, smiling.
"Thank you," said Rufus; "I like that sentiment, and I'd drink to it if
I saw anything to drink. Have you got any champagne in the closet, Miss
Manning?"
"All that I ever had there, Rufus. If a glass of water will do as well,
I can give you that."
At this moment a knock was heard at the door. Miss Manning rose and
opened it. The visitor proved to be Mrs. Clifton, of whom mention has
already been made.
"Good-evening, Mrs. Clifton," said the governess; "come in."
"Thank you, but I didn't know you had company."
"Don't stand on ceremony, Mrs. Clifton," said Rufus; "my friend, Mr.
Black, is perfectly harmless, I assure you. He is neither a bull nor a
bear."
"What spirits you have, Mr. Rushton!"
"No spirits at all, Mrs. Clifton. Miss Manning has just been offering us
some water as a substitute."
"You are so lively, Mr. Rushton. You remind me so much of my friend,
Mr. Hunter."
"I suppose he was one of your admirers before you became Mrs. Clifton."
"Really, Mr. Rushton, you mustn't say such things. Mr. Hunter and I were
very intimate friends, but nothing more, I assure you."
"Is Mr. Clifton well?" asked Miss Manning.
"He hasn't got home from the store. You know the dry goods stores always
keep open late. Really, I might as well have no husband at all, it is so
late when Mr. Clifton gets home, and then he is so sleepy that he can't
keep his eyes open."
It was generally believed that Mr. and Mrs. Clifton did not live
together as happily as they might have done,--a fact that will not at
all surprise those who are familiar with their history before their
marriage, which was quite a business arrangement. Mrs. Clifton married
because she did not want to be an old maid, and Mr. Clifton because he
knew his prospective wife had money, by means of which he could
establish himself in business.
"Are you in business in Wall Street, Mr. Black?" inquired Mrs. Clifton.
"No; I keep a store on Sixth Avenue."
"Indeed! my husband keeps a dry goods store on Eighth Avenue."
"Mine is a periodical and fancy goods store. Mr. Rushton here is my
partner."
"Indeed, Mr. Rushton, I am surprised to hear that. You have not left
Wall Street, have you?"
"No; I have only invested a portion of my extensive capital. My friend
Black carries on the business."
Thus far, Rufus had said nothing in the house about his connection with
the Sixth Avenue store; but now that it was no longer an experiment he
felt that there was no objection to doing so. Mrs. Clifton, who liked to
retail news, took care to make it known in the house, and the impression
became general that Rufus was a young man of property. Mr. Pratt, who
was an elderly man, rather given to prosy dissertations upon public
affairs, got into the habit of asking our hero's opinion upon the
financial policy of the government, to which, when expressed, he used to
listen with his head a little on one side, as though the words were
those of an oracle. This embarrassed Rufus a little at first; but as
during the day he was in a situation to hear considerable in reference
to this subject, he was generally able to answer in a way that was
regarded as satisfactory.
"That young man," remarked Mr. Pratt to his wife in private, "has got a
head upon his shoulders. He knows what's what. Depend upon it, if he
lives long enough, he will become a prominent man."
"I can't judge of that," said good-natured Mrs. Pratt; "but he's a very
agreeable young man, I am sure, and his sister is a little darling."
CHAPTER X.
MR. MARTIN AGAIN APPEARS ON THE SCENE.
The success of the periodical store put Rufus into good spirits. He saw
that it would yield him, if only the present degree of prosperity
continued, at least three hundred dollars a year, which would make quite
a handsome addition to his income. He felt justified in going to a
little extra expense, and determined to celebrate his good luck by
taking Martha and Rose to a place of amusement. It happened that at this
time a company of Japanese jugglers were performing at the Academy of
Music, which, as my New York readers know, is situated on Fourteenth
Street.
Meaning it to be a surprise, he said nothing to Rose or Martha, but
before going down town the next day, went to the box-office, and secured
three reserved seats in an excellent situation. They were expensive;
but Rufus was resolved that he would not spare expense, for this
occasion at least.
When he reached home at half-past five in the afternoon, he went up at
once to Martha's room.
"Miss Manning," he said, "have you any engagement this evening?"
"It is hardly necessary to ask, Rufus," she replied; "my company is not
in very great demand."
"You have heard of the Japanese jugglers at the Academy of Music?"
"Yes; Mrs. Florence was speaking of them this morning. She and her
husband went last evening."
"And we are going this evening. Wouldn't you like to go, Rosy?"
"Ever so much, Rufie. Will you take me?"
"Yes, I have got tickets: see here;" and Rufus drew out the three
tickets which he had purchased in the morning.
"Thank you, Rufus," said Miss Manning; "I shall like very much to go. It
is long since I went to any place of amusement. How much did the tickets
cost?"
"A dollar and a half apiece."
"Isn't that rather extravagant?"
"It would be if we went every week; but now and then we can afford it."
"You must let me pay for my ticket, Rufus."
"Not if I know it," said Rufus. "It's a pity if a Wall Street banker
can't carry a lady to a place of amusement, without charging her for the
ticket."
"If you put it that way, I suppose I must yield," said Miss Manning,
smiling.
Rose was highly excited at the idea of going to see the Japanese, whose
feats, as described by Mrs. Florence at the breakfast-table, had
interested her exceedingly. The prospect of sitting up till eleven in
the evening also had its charm, and she was quite too excited to eat
much dinner.
"Really," said Mrs. Clifton, "I quite envy you, Miss Manning. I tried to
get Mr. Clifton to buy tickets, but he hasn't done it."
"First time I heard of it," said her husband.
"You pay very little attention to what I ask,--I am aware of that," said
Mrs. Clifton, in an aggrieved tone.
"We'll go now, if you say so."
"We couldn't get any decent seats. When did you buy yours, Mr. Rushton?"
"This morning."
Mrs. Clifton, who was thoroughly selfish, hinted that probably Rose
wouldn't care about going, and that she should be glad to buy the
ticket, and accompany Rufus and Miss Manning; but this hint failed to be
taken, and she was forced unwillingly to stay at home.
To tell the truth, Miss Manning was scarcely less pleased than Rose at
the idea of going. Until recently she had been a poor seamstress,
earning scarcely enough to subsist upon, much less to pay for
amusements. Sometimes in the early evening she had passed the portals of
places of amusement, and wished that she were able to break the tedious
monotony of her daily life by entering; but it was quite out of the
question, and with a sigh she would pass on. Now she was very
differently situated, and her life was much pleasanter.
"Can I wear my new dress, Martha?" asked Rose.
"Yes, Rosy. It was fortunate that I got it finished to-day."
"And will you wear yours, too, Martha?"
"Yes, I think so," she said. "Rufus has bought us nice seats, and we
must look as well as we can."
When both were dressed, they surveyed themselves with satisfaction. Miss
Manning was not above the weakness, if it is a weakness, of liking to
appear well dressed, though she was not as demonstrative as Rose, who
danced about the room in high enjoyment.
When they were quite ready, Rufus came into the room. He had a pair of
kid gloves in his hand, which he twirled about in rather an embarrassed
way.
"I can't get the confounded things on, Miss Manning," he said. "I've
been trying for some time, but it's no go. The fact is, I never owned a
pair of kid gloves before. I'd enough sight rather go without any, but I
suppose, if I am going to sit in a fashionable seat, I must try to look
fashionable."
Miss Manning soon explained to Rufus how the gloves should go on. This
time the success was better, and he was soon neatly gloved.
"They are pretty gloves, Rufus," she said.
"I don't like the feeling of them," said Rufus; "they feel strange."
"That is because you are not used to them. You'll like them better
soon."
"I wonder what some of my old street friends would say to see me now,"
said Rufus, smiling. "They'd think I was a tip-top swell."
Though the gloves did not feel comfortable, Rufus looked at his hands
with satisfaction. Step by step he was getting into the ways of
civilized life, and he was very anxious to leave as far behind him as
possible his street experiences.
Soon after dinner they left the house, and, proceeding to Broadway,
walked up as far as Union Square. Then they turned down Fourteenth
Street, and a few minutes brought them to the Academy of Music.
The entrance and vestibule were brilliantly lighted. On the steps and in
front were a number of speculators, who were eagerly offering their
tickets to those who appeared unprovided.
Rufus pushed his way through, with Martha and Rose at his side. His
tickets were taken at the gate, but the portion indicating the number
of their reserved seats was torn off, and given back to them. On showing
them to the usher, they were conducted to their seats, which were in the
sixth row from the stage, and fronting it.
"We'll have a good view here, Miss Manning," he said.
Soon the curtain rose, and the performance commenced. To those who have
not seen the Japanese in their peculiar performance, it is enough to say
that they show marvellous skill and agility in their feats, some of
which are so difficult as to seem almost impossible.
All three enjoyed the performance. Miss Manning, though so much older,
was almost as much unaccustomed as little Rose herself to such scenes,
and took a fresh interest in it, which those who go often cannot feel.
Every now and then, little Rose, unable to restrain her enthusiasm,
exhibited her delight openly.
I should like, for the benefit of my younger readers, to give a detailed
account of some portions of the performance which seemed most wonderful;
but my memory is at fault, and I can only speak in general terms.
It was a little after ten when the curtain finally fell.
"Is that all?" asked Rose, half in disappointment.
"That's all, Rosy. Are you sleepy?"
"Not a bit," said Rose, vivaciously; "I should like to stay here an hour
longer. Wasn't it perfectly beautiful, Rufie?"
"Yes; it was very good," said Rufus; "I don't know but I like it almost
as well as the Old Bowery."
Though he had risen in the social scale, he had not quite lost his
relish for the style of plays for which the Old Bowery, the favorite
theatre with the street boys, is celebrated. But that he had a suspicion
that it was not exactly a fashionable place of amusement, he would like
to have taken Rose and Miss Manning there this evening. He would hardly
have liked to mention it at the table afterwards, however.
The audience rose from their seats, and Rufus with them. Slowly they
moved towards the door, and at last made their way to the entrance. Had
Rufus known who was waiting there, he might have felt a little nervous.
But he did not know, and it devolves upon us to explain.
Three days before, Mr. Martin, who had been sentenced to the
penitentiary for three months, on account of his attempt at picking
pockets, which we have already chronicled, was released. To say the
least, he left the prison no better than he had entered it. Better in
one sense he was, for he had been forced for three months to abstain
from drink, and this he felt to be a great hardship. But it had a
favorable influence upon his health, and his skin was clearer, and his
nose not quite so ruddy as when he was arrested. But so far as good
intentions went, he had not formed any during his exile from society,
and now that he was released he was just as averse to living by honest
industry as before.
However, his resources were still limited. Money had never been very
plentiful with him, and just at present he was not encumbered with any.
It did not occur to him that the shortest way to obtain some was to go
to work; or, if it did, the suggestion did not strike him favorably. It
did occur to him, however, that there were charitable persons in the
metropolis who might be induced to help him, and he resolved to act upon
this suggestion. Accordingly, he haunted the neighborhood of the Academy
of Music, until the stream of people began to pour out from it, and then
he felt that the time had come for him to carry out his plans.
He went up to a gentleman who was coming out with a young lady leaning
on his arm.
"Will you listen to me a minute, sir?" he said, in a whining tone. "I
haven't eaten anything since yesterday, and I have no money to pay for a
night's lodging."
"Why don't you go to work?" said the gentleman.
"I can't get anything to do, sir. I've been trying for something all
day."
The fact was that Mr. Martin had been lounging about a low bar-room all
day.
"Here, take this, and clear the way."
The gentleman, more to get rid of him than anything else, dropped five
cents into his hand, and passed on.
"He might have given a quarter," grumbled Martin; "it wouldn't have hurt
him."
He looked up, intending to make a similar application to the next
person, when he uttered an exclamation of surprise and exultation. Close
before him he saw Rufus and his little sister, accompanied by Miss
Manning.
CHAPTER XI.
MR. MARTIN'S WILD-GOOSE CHASE.
Probably nothing could have given Martin greater pleasure than this
unexpected meeting with his step-children. He did not reflect that the
pleasure might not be mutual, but determined to make himself known
without delay. Hurrying forward, he placed one hand on the shoulder of
Rufus, saying, "Glad to see you, Rufus; what have you been up to lately?
Here's Rose too, I expect she's glad to see me."
At the first sound of his voice poor Rose began to tremble. Clinging
closer to her brother, she said, "Don't let him take me, Rufie."
"He shan't touch you, Rose," said Rufus, manfully.
"You don't seem very glad to see me," said Martin, smiling maliciously.
"That's where you're right," said Rufus, bluntly. "We are not glad to
see you. I suppose that don't surprise you much. Come along, Rose."
He tried to leave Martin, but Martin did not choose to be left. He
shuffled along by the side of our hero, considerably to the disgust of
the latter, who was afraid he might fall in with some acquaintance whose
attention would be drawn to the not very respectable-looking object who
had accosted him, and learn the relationship that existed between them.
"You seem to be in a hurry," sneered Martin.
"I am in a hurry," said Rufus. "It's late for Rose to be out."
"That's what I was thinking," said Martin. "Considerin' that I'm her
natural protector, it's my duty to interfere."
"A pretty sort of protector you are!" retorted Rufus, scornfully.
"You're an undootiful boy," said Martin, "to speak so to your father."
"Who do you mean?"
"Aint I your father?"
"No, you are not. If you were, I'd be ashamed of you. Mr. Martin, we
haven't anything to do with each other. You can go your way, and I'll
go mine. I shan't interfere with you, and I shan't allow you to
interfere with me."
"Ho, ho!" said Martin, "when was you twenty-one, I'd like to know?"
"It doesn't make any difference when. Good-night."
"You don't get rid of me so easy," said Martin. "I'll follow you home."
By this time they had reached the corner of Broadway and Union Square.
Rufus was placed in an awkward position. He had no authority to order
Martin away. He might follow them home, and ascertain where they lived,
and probably would do so. Rufus felt that this would never do. Were
their home known to Mr. Martin, he would have it in his power to lie in
wait for Rose, and kidnap her as he had done once before. He would never
feel easy about his little sister under these circumstances. Yet what
could he do? If he should quicken his pace, Martin would do the same.
"What do you want to follow us for?" he asked. "What good is it going to
do you?"
"Don't you trouble yourself about that," said Martin, exulting in our
hero's evident perplexity. "Considerin' that you two are my children, I
may want to come and see you some time."
Here Rose began to cry. She had always been very much afraid of Martin,
and feared now that she might fall into his hands.
"Don't cry, Rose," said Rufus, soothingly. "He shan't do you any harm."
"Maybe he won't if you treat him well," said Martin. "Look here, Rufus.
I'm hard up--dead broke. Haven't you a dollar to spare?"
"Are you going to follow us?"
"Maybe I won't if you'll give me the dollar."
"I can't trust you," said Rufus, suspiciously. "I'll tell you what," he
added, after a little thought; "go up to Madison Park, and sit down on
one of the seats, and I'll come up in half an hour, or three quarters at
most, and give you the dollar."
"Do you think I'm so green?" sneered Martin. "I might stop there all
night without seein' you. All you want is a chance to get away without
my knowin' where."
"No," said Rufus; "I'll do what I promise. But you must go up there now,
and not follow us."
"That don't go down," said Martin. "You don't ketch a weasel asleep."
