 Sicilian cause, and her manifestations on behalf of the antislavery
 cause in the United States. Her kindness to William and Ellen Craft
 must be well known there; and it is also related in the newspapers,
 that she bequeathed a legacy to a young American to assist him under
 any disadvantages he might suffer as an abolitionist.

 'All these deeds were done under a heavy burden of ill health. Before
 she had passed middle life, her lungs were believed to be irreparably
 injured by partial ossification. She was subject to attacks so
 serious, that each one, for many years, was expected to be the last.
 She arranged her affairs in correspondence with her liabilities: so
 that the same order would have been found, whether she died suddenly
 or after long warning.

 'She was to receive one more accession of outward greatness before she
 departed. She became Baroness Wentworth in November, 1856. This is one
 of the facts of her history; but it is the least interesting to us, as
 probably to her. We care more to know that her last days were bright
 in honour, and cheered by the attachment of old friends worthy to pay
 the duty she deserved. Above all, it is consoling to know that she who
 so long outlived her only child was blessed with the unremitting and
 tender care of her grand-daughter. She died on the 16th of May, 1860.

 'The portrait of Lady Byron as she was at the time of her marriage
 is probably remembered by some of my readers. It is very engaging.
 Her countenance afterwards became much worn; but its expression of
 thoughtfulness and composure was very interesting. Her handwriting
 accorded well with the character of her mind. It was clear, elegant,
 and womanly. Her manners differed with circumstances. Her shrinking
 sensitiveness might embarrass one visitor; while another would be
 charmed with her easy, significant, and vivacious conversation. It
 depended much on whom she talked with. The abiding certainty was, that
 she had strength for the hardest of human trials, and the composure
 which belongs to strength. For the rest, it is enough to point to her
 deeds, and to the mourning of her friends round the chasm which her
 departure has made in their life, and in the society in which it is
 spent. All that could be done in the way of personal love and honour
 was done while she lived: it only remains now to see that her name and
 fame are permitted to shine forth at last in their proper light.'

We have simply to ask the reader whether a life like this was not the
best, the noblest answer that a woman could make to a doubting world.




CHAPTER V.

THE ATTACK ON LADY BYRON'S GRAVE.


We have now brought the review of the antagonism against Lady Byron
down to the period of her death. During all this time, let the candid
reader ask himself which of these two parties seems to be plotting
against the other.

Which has been active, aggressive, unscrupulous? which has been
silent, quiet, unoffending? Which of the two has laboured to make a
party, and to make that party active, watchful, enthusiastic?

Have we not proved that Lady Byron remained perfectly silent during
Lord Byron's life, patiently looking out from her retirement to see
the waves of popular sympathy, that once bore her up, day by day
retreating, while his accusations against her were resounding in his
poems over the whole earth? And after Lord Byron's death, when all
the world with one consent began to give their memorials of him, and
made it appear, by their various 'recollections of conversations,' how
incessantly he had obtruded his own version of the separation upon
every listener, did she manifest any similar eagerness?

Lady Byron had seen the 'Blackwood' coming forward, on the first
appearance of 'Don Juan,' to rebuke the cowardly lampoon in words
eloquent with all the unperverted vigour of an honest Englishman. Under
the power of the great conspirator, she had seen that 'Blackwood'
become the very eager recipient and chief reporter of the stories
against her, and the blind admirer of her adversary.

All this time, she lost sympathy daily by being silent. The world
will embrace those who court it; it will patronise those who seek its
favour; it will make parties for those who seek to make parties: but
for the often accused who do not speak, who make no confidants and no
parties, the world soon loses sympathy.

When at last she spoke, Christopher North says 'she astonished
the world.' Calm, clear, courageous, exact as to time, date, and
circumstance, was that first testimony, backed by the equally clear
testimony of Dr. Lushington.

It showed that her secret had been kept even from her parents. In words
precise, firm, and fearless, she says, 'If these statements on which
Dr. Lushington and Sir Samuel Romilly formed their opinion were false,
the responsibility and the odium should rest with me only.' Christopher
North did not pretend to disbelieve this statement. He breathed not a
doubt of Lady Byron's word. He spoke of the crime indicated, as one
which might have been foul as the grave's corruption, unforgivable as
the sin against the Holy Ghost. He rebuked the wife for bearing this
testimony, even to save the memory of her dead father and mother, and,
in the same breath, declared that she ought now to go farther, and
speak fully the one awful word, and then--'a mitigated sentence, or
eternal silence!'

But Lady Byron took no counsel with the world, nor with the literary
men of her age. One knight, with some small remnant of England's old
chivalry, set lance in rest for her: she saw him beaten back unhorsed,
rolled in the dust, and ingloriously vanquished, and perceived that
henceforth nothing but injury could come to any one who attempted to
speak for her.

She turned from the judgments of man and the fond and natural hopes of
human nature, to lose herself in sacred ministries to the downcast and
suffering. What nobler record for woman could there be than that which
Miss Martineau has given?

Particularly to be noted in Lady Byron was her peculiar interest in
reclaiming fallen women. Among her letters to Mrs. Prof. Follen, of
Cambridge, was one addressed to a society of ladies who had undertaken
this difficult work. It was full of heavenly wisdom and of a large and
tolerant charity. Fénelon truly says, it is only perfection that can
tolerate imperfection; and the very purity of Lady Byron's nature made
her most forbearing and most tender towards the weak and the guilty.
This letter, with all the rest of Lady Byron's, was returned to the
hands of her executors after her death. Its publication would greatly
assist the world in understanding the peculiarities of its writer's
character.

Lady Byron passed to a higher life in 1860.[25] After her death, I
looked for the publication of her Memoir and Letters as the event that
should give her the same opportunity of being known and judged by her
life and writings that had been so freely accorded to Lord Byron.

[Footnote 25: Miss Martineau's Biographical Sketches.]

She was, in her husband's estimation, a woman of genius. She was
the friend of many of the first men and women of her times, and
corresponded with them on topics of literature, morals, religion,
and, above all, on the benevolent and philanthropic movements of the
day, whose principles she had studied with acute observation, and in
connection with which she had acquired a large experience.

The knowledge of her, necessarily diffused by such a series of letters,
would have created in America a comprehension of her character, of
itself sufficient to wither a thousand slanders.

Such a Memoir was contemplated. Lady Byron's letters to Mrs. Follen
were asked for from Boston; and I was applied to by a person in
England, who I have recently learned is one of the existing trustees
of Lady Byron's papers, to furnish copies of her letters to me for the
purpose of a Memoir. Before I had time to have copies made, another
letter came, stating that the trustees had concluded that it was best
not to publish any Memoir of Lady Byron at all.

This left the character of Lady Byron in our American world precisely
where the slanders of her husband, the literature of the Noctes Club,
and the unanimous verdict of May Fair as recorded by 'Blackwood,' had
placed it.

True, Lady Byron had nobly and quietly lived down these slanders in
England by deeds that made her name revered as a saint among all those
who valued saintliness.

But in France and Italy, and in these United States, I have had
abundant opportunity to know that Lady Byron stood judged and condemned
on the testimony of her brilliant husband, and that the feeling against
her had a vivacity and intensity not to be overcome by mere allusions
to a virtuous life in distant England.

This is strikingly shown by one fact. In the American edition of
Moore's 'Life of Byron,' by Claxton, Remsen, and Haffelfinger,
Philadelphia, 1869, which I have been consulting, Lady Byron's
statement, which is found in the Appendix of Murray's standard edition,
is entirely omitted. Every other paper is carefully preserved. This
one incident showed how the tide of sympathy was setting in this New
World. Of course, there is no stronger power than a virtuous life; but,
for a virtuous life to bear testimony to the world, its details must be
told, so that the world may know them.

Suppose the memoirs of Clarkson and Wilberforce had been suppressed
after their death, how soon might the coming tide have wiped out the
record of their bravery and philanthropy! Suppose the lives of Francis
Xavier and Henry Martyn had never been written, and we had lost the
remembrance of what holy men could do and dare in the divine enthusiasm
of Christian faith! Suppose we had no Fénelon, no Book of Martyrs!

Would there not be an outcry through all the literary and artistic
world if a perfect statue were allowed to remain buried for ever
because some painful individual history was connected with its burial
and its recovery? But is not a noble life a greater treasure to mankind
than any work of art?

We have heard much mourning over the burned Autobiography of Lord
Byron, and seen it treated of in a magazine as 'the lost chapter in
history.' The lost chapter in history is Lady Byron's Autobiography
in her life and letters; and the suppression of them is the root of
this whole mischief.

We do not in this intend to censure the parties who came to this
decision.

The descendants of Lady Byron revere her memory, as they have every
reason to do. That it was their desire to have a Memoir of her
published, I have been informed by an individual of the highest
character in England, who obtained the information directly from Lady
Byron's grandchildren.

But the trustees in whose care the papers were placed drew back on
examination of them, and declared, that, as Lady Byron's papers could
not be fully published, they should regret anything that should call
public attention once more to the discussion of her history.

Reviewing this long history of the way in which the literary world
had treated Lady Byron, we cannot wonder that her friends should have
doubted whether there was left on earth any justice, or sense that
anything is due to woman as a human being with human rights. Evidently
this lesson had taken from them all faith in the moral sense of the
world. Rather than re-awaken the discussion, so unsparing, so painful,
and so indelicate, which had been carried on so many years around
that loved form, now sanctified by death, they sacrificed the dear
pleasure of the memorials, and the interests of mankind, who have an
indefeasible right to all the help that can be got from the truth of
history as to the living power of virtue, and the reality of that great
victory that overcometh the world.

There are thousands of poor victims suffering in sadness,
discouragement, and poverty; heart-broken wives of brutal, drunken
husbands; women enduring nameless wrongs and horrors which the delicacy
of their sex forbids them to utter,--to whom the lovely letters lying
hidden away under those seals might bring courage and hope from springs
not of this world.

But though the friends of Lady Byron, perhaps from despair of their
kind, from weariness of the utter injustice done her, wished to cherish
her name in silence, and to confine the story of her virtues to that
circle who knew her too well to ask a proof, or utter a doubt, the
partisans of Lord Byron were embarrassed with no such scruple.

Lord Byron had artfully contrived during his life to place his wife in
such an antagonistic position with regard to himself, that his intimate
friends were forced to believe that one of the two had deliberately
and wantonly injured the other. The published statement of Lady Byron
contradicted boldly and point-blank all the statement of her husband
concerning the separation; so that, unless she was convicted as a
false witness, he certainly was.

The best evidence of this is Christopher North's own shocked,
astonished statement, and the words of the Noctes Club.

The noble life that Lady Byron lived after this hushed every voice,
and silenced even the most desperate calumny, while she was in the
world. In the face of Lady Byron as the world saw her, of what use was
the talk of Clytemnestra, and the assertion that she had been a mean,
deceitful conspirator against her husband's honour in life, and stabbed
his memory after death?

But when she was in her grave, when her voice and presence and good
deeds no more spoke for her, and a new generation was growing up that
knew her not, then was the time selected to revive the assault on her
memory, and to say over her grave what none would ever have dared to
say of her while living.

During these last two years, I have been gradually awakening to the
evidence of a new crusade against the memory of Lady Byron, which
respected no sanctity,--not even that last and most awful one of death.

Nine years after her death, when it was fully understood that no
story on her side or that of her friends was to be forthcoming, then
her calumniators raked out from the ashes of her husband's sepulchre
all his bitter charges, to state them over in even stronger and more
indecent forms.

There seems to be reason to think that the materials supplied by Lord
Byron for such a campaign yet exist in society.

To 'The Noctes' of November 1824, there is the following note apropos
to a discussion of the Byron question:--

 'Byron's Memoirs, given by him to Moore, were burned, as everybody
 knows. But, before this, Moore had lent them to several persons. Mrs.
 Home Purvis, afterwards Viscountess of Canterbury, is known to have
 sat up all one night, in which, aided by her daughter, she had a
 copy made. I have the strongest reason for believing that one other
 person made a copy; for the description of the first twenty-four hours
 after the marriage ceremonial has been in my hands. Not until after
 the death of Lady Byron, and Hobhouse, who was the poet's literary
 executor, can the poet's Autobiography see the light; but I am
 certain it will be published.'

Thus speaks Mackenzie in a note to a volume of 'The Noctes,' published
in America in 1854. Lady Byron died in 1860.

Nine years after Lady Byron's death, when it was ascertained that her
story was not to see the light, when there were no means of judging
her character by her own writings, commenced a well-planned set of
operations to turn the public attention once more to Lord Byron, and
to represent him as an injured man, whose testimony had been unjustly
suppressed.

It was quite possible, supposing copies of the Autobiography to exist,
that this might occasion a call from the generation of to-day, in
answer to which the suppressed work might appear. This was a rather
delicate operation to commence; but the instrument was not wanting.
It was necessary that the subject should be first opened by some
irresponsible party, whom more powerful parties might, as by accident,
recognise and patronise, and on whose weakness they might build
something stronger.

Just such an instrument was to be found in Paris. The mistress of Lord
Byron could easily be stirred up and flattered to come before the world
with a book which should re-open the whole controversy; and she proved
a facile tool. At first, the work appeared prudently in French, and was
called 'Lord Byron jugé par les Témoins de sa Vie,' and was rather a
failure. Then it was translated into English, and published by Bentley.

The book was inartistic, and helplessly, childishly stupid as to any
literary merits,--a mere mass of gossip and twaddle; but after all,
when one remembers the taste of the thousands of circulating-library
readers, it must not be considered the less likely to be widely read
on that account. It is only once in a century that a writer of real
genius has the art to tell his story so as to take both the cultivated
few and the average many. De Foe and John Bunyan are almost the only
examples. But there is a certain class of reading that sells and
spreads, and exerts a vast influence, which the upper circles of
literature despise too much ever to fairly estimate its power.

However, the Guiccioli book did not want for patrons in the high places
of literature. The 'Blackwood'--the old classic magazine of England;
the defender of conservatism and aristocracy; the paper of Lockhart,
Wilson, Hogg, Walter Scott, and a host of departed grandeurs--was
deputed to usher into the world this book, and to recommend it and its
author to the Christian public of the nineteenth century.

The following is the manner in which 'Blackwood' calls attention to
it:--

 'One of the most beautiful of the songs of Béranger is that addressed
 to his Lisette, in which he pictures her, in old age, narrating to a
 younger generation the loves of their youth; decking his portrait with
 flowers at each returning spring, and reciting the verses that had
 been inspired by her vanished charms:--

  'Lorsque les yeux chercheront sous vos rides
  Les traits charmants qui m'auront inspiré,
  Des doux récits les jeunes gens avides,
  Diront: Quel fut cet ami tant pleuré?
  De mon amour peignez, s'il est possible,
  L'ardeur, l'ivresse, et même les soupçons,
  Et benne vieille, au coin d'un feu paisible
  De votre ami répétez les chansons.

  "On vous dira: Savait-il être aimable?
  Et sans rougir vous direz: Je l'aimais.
  D'un trait méchant se montra-t-il capable?
  Avec orgueil vous répondrez: Jamais!"'

 'This charming picture,' 'Blackwood' goes on to say, 'has been
 realised in the case of a poet greater than Béranger, and by a
 mistress more famous than Lisette. The Countess Guiccioli has at
 length given to the world her "Recollections of Lord Byron." The
 book first appeared in France under the title of "Lord Byron jugé
 par les Témoins de sa Vie," without the name of the countess. A
 more unfortunate designation could hardly have been selected. The
 "witnesses of his life" told us nothing but what had been told before
 over and over again; and the uniform and exaggerated tone of eulogy
 which pervaded the whole book was fatal to any claim on the part of
 the writer to be considered an impartial judge of the wonderfully
 mixed character of Byron.

 'When, however, the book is regarded as the avowed production of
 the Countess Guiccioli, it derives value and interest from its very
 faults.[26] There is something inexpressibly touching in the picture
 of the old lady calling up the phantoms of half a century ago; not
 faded and stricken by the hand of time, but brilliant and gorgeous as
 they were when Byron, in his manly prime of genius and beauty, first
 flashed upon her enraptured sight, and she gave her whole soul up to
 an absorbing passion, the embers of which still glow in her heart.

 [Footnote 26: The italics are mine.--H. B. S.]

 'To her there has been no change, no decay. The god whom she
 worshipped with all the ardour of her Italian nature at seventeen is
 still the "Pythian of the age" to her at seventy. To try such a book
 by the ordinary canons of criticism would be as absurd as to arraign
 the authoress before a jury of British matrons, or to prefer a bill of
 indictment against the Sultan for bigamy to a Middlesex grand jury.'

This, then, is the introduction which one of the oldest and most
classical periodicals of Great Britain gives to a very stupid book,
simply because it was written by Lord Byron's mistress. That fact, we
are assured, lends grace even to its faults.

Having brought the authoress upon the stage, the review now goes on to
define her position, and assure the Christian world that

 'The Countess Guiccioli was the daughter of an impoverished noble. At
 the age of sixteen, she was taken from a convent, and sold as third
 wife to the Count Guiccioli, who was old, rich, and profligate. A
 fouler prostitution never profaned the name of marriage. A short time
 afterwards, she accidentally met Lord Byron. Outraged and rebellious
 nature vindicated itself in the deep and devoted passion with which
 he inspired her. With the full assent of husband, father, and
 brother, and in compliance with the usages of Italian society, he was
 shortly afterwards installed in the office, and invested with all the
 privileges, of her "Cavalier Servente."'

It has been asserted that the Marquis de Boissy, the late husband of
this Guiccioli lady, was in the habit of introducing her in fashionable
circles as 'the Marquise de Boissy, my wife, formerly mistress to Lord
Byron'! We do not give the story as a verity; yet, in the review of
this whole history, we may be pardoned for thinking it quite possible.

The mistress, being thus vouched for and presented as worthy of
sympathy and attention by one of the oldest and most classic organs
of English literature, may now proceed in her work of glorifying the
popular idol, and casting abuse on the grave of the dead wife.

Her attacks on Lady Byron are, to be sure, less skilful and adroit
than those of Lord Byron. They want his literary polish and tact; but
what of that? 'Blackwood' assures us that even the faults of manner
derive a peculiar grace from the fact that the narrator is Lord Byron's
mistress; and so we suppose the literary world must find grace in
things like this:--

 'She has been called, after his words, the moral Clytemnestra of
 her husband. Such a surname is severe: but the repugnance we feel
 to condemning a woman cannot prevent our listening to the voice of
 justice, which tells us that the comparison is still in favour of
 the guilty one of antiquity; for she, driven to crime by fierce
 passion overpowering reason, at least only deprived her husband of
 physical life, and, in committing the deed, exposed herself to all its
 consequences; while Lady Byron left her husband at the very moment
 that she saw him struggling amid a thousand shoals in the stormy sea
 of embarrassments created by his marriage, and precisely when he more
 than ever required a friendly, tender, and indulgent hand to save him.

 'Besides, she shut herself up in silence a thousand times more cruel
 than Clytemnestra's poniard: that only killed the body; whereas
 Lady Byron's silence was destined to kill the soul,--and such a
 soul!--leaving the door open to calumny, and making it to be supposed
 that her silence was magnanimity destined to cover over frightful
 wrongs, perhaps even depravity. In vain did he, feeling his conscience
 at ease, implore some inquiry and examination. She refused; and the
 only favour she granted was to send him, one fine day, two persons to
 see whether he were not mad.

 'And, why, then, had she believed him mad? Because she, a methodical,
 inflexible woman, with that unbendingness which a profound moralist
 calls the worship rendered to pride by a feelingless soul,--because
 she could not understand the possibility of tastes and habits
 different to those of ordinary routine, or of her own starched life.
 Not to be hungry when she was; not to sleep at night, but to write
 while she was sleeping, and to sleep when she was up; in short, to
 gratify the requirements of material and intellectual life at hours
 different to hers,--all that was not merely annoying for her, but it
 must be madness; or, if not, it betokened depravity that she could
 neither submit to nor tolerate without perilling her own morality.

 'Such was the grand secret of the cruel silence which exposed Lord
 Byron to the most malignant interpretations, to all the calumny and
 revenge of his enemies.

 'She was, perhaps, the only woman in the world so strangely
 organised,--the only one, perhaps, capable of not feeling happy and
 proud at belonging to a man superior to the rest of humanity; and
 fatally was it decreed that this woman alone of her species should
 be Lord Byron's wife!'

In a note is added,--

 'If an imaginary fear, and even an unreasonable jealousy, may be her
 excuse (just as one excuses a monomania), can one equally forgive her
 silence? Such a silence is morally what are physically the poisons
 which kill at once, and defy all remedies; thus insuring the culprit's
 safety. This silence it is which will ever be her crime; for by it she
 poisoned the life of her husband.'

The book has several chapters devoted to Lord Byron's peculiar virtues;
and under the one devoted to magnanimity and heroism, his forgiving
disposition receives special attention. The climax of all is stated to
be that he forgave Lady Byron. All the world knew that, since he had
declared this fact in a very noisy and impassioned manner in the fourth
canto of 'Childe Harold,' together with a statement of the wrongs which
he forgave; but the Guiccioli thinks his virtue, at this period, has
not been enough appreciated. In her view, it rose to the sublime. She
says of Lady Byron,--

 'An absolute moral monstrosity, an anomaly in the history of types
 of female hideousness, had succeeded in showing itself in the light
 of magnanimity. But false as was this high quality in Lady Byron, so
 did it shine out in him true and admirable. The position in which
 Lady Byron had placed him, and where she continued to keep him by
 her harshness, silence, and strange refusals, was one of those which
 cause such suffering, that the highest degree of self-control seldom
 suffices to quiet the promptings of human weakness, and to cause
 persons of even slight sensibility to preserve moderation. Yet, with
 his sensibility and the knowledge of his worth, how did he act? what
 did he say? I will not speak of his "farewell;" of the care he took
 to shield her from blame by throwing it on others, by taking much too
 large a share to himself.'

With like vivacity and earnestness does the narrator now proceed to
make an incarnate angel of her subject by the simple process of denying
everything that he himself ever confessed,--everything that has ever
been confessed in regard to him by his best friends. He has been in
the world as an angel unawares from his cradle. His guardian did not
properly appreciate him, and is consequently mentioned as that wicked
Lord Carlisle. Thomas Moore is never to be sufficiently condemned
for the facts told in his biography. Byron's own frank and lawless
admissions of evil are set down to a peculiar inability he had for
speaking the truth about himself,--sometimes about his near relations;
all which does not in the least discourage the authoress from giving a
separate chapter on 'Lord Byron's Love of Truth.'

In the matter of his relations with women, she complacently repeats
(what sounds rather oddly as coming from her) Lord Byron's own
assurance, that he never seduced a woman; and also the equally
convincing statement, that he had told her (the Guiccioli) that his
married fidelity to his wife was perfect. She discusses Moore's account
of the mistress in boy's clothes who used to share Byron's apartments
in college, and ride with him to races, and whom he presented to
ladies as his brother.

She has her own view of this matter. The disguised boy was a lady
of rank and fashion, who sought Lord Byron's chambers, as, we are
informed, noble ladies everywhere, both in Italy and England, were
constantly in the habit of doing; throwing themselves at his feet, and
imploring permission to become his handmaids.

In the authoress's own words, 'Feminine overtures still continued
to be made to Lord Byron; but the fumes of incense never hid from
his sight his IDEAL.' We are told that in the case of
these poor ladies, generally 'disenchantment took place on his side
without a corresponding result on the other: THENCE many
heart-breakings.' Nevertheless, we are informed that there followed the
indiscretions of these ladies 'none of those proceedings that the world
readily forgives, but which his feelings as a man of honour would have
condemned.'

As to drunkenness, and all that, we are informed he was an anchorite.
Pages are given to an account of the biscuits and soda-water that on
this and that occasion were found to be the sole means of sustenance to
this ethereal creature.

As to the story of using his wife's money, the lady gives, directly in
the face of his own Letters and Journal, the same account given before
by Medwin, and which caused such merriment when talked over in the
Noctes Club,--that he had with her only a marriage portion of £10,000;
and that, on the separation, he not only paid it back, but doubled
it.[27]

[Footnote 27: In 'The Noctes' of November, 1824 Christopher North says,
'I don't call Medwin a liar.... Whether Byron bammed him, or he, by
virtue of his own stupidity, was the sole and sufficient bammifier of
himself, I know not.' A note says that Murray had been much shocked by
Byron's misstatements to Medwin as to money-matters with him. The note
goes on to say, 'Medwin could not have invented them, for they were
mixed up with acknowledged facts; and the presumption is that Byron
mystified his gallant acquaintance. He was fond of such tricks.']

So on the authoress goes, sowing right and left the most transparent
absurdities and misstatements with what Carlyle well calls 'a composed
stupidity, and a cheerful infinitude of ignorance.' Who should know,
if not she, to be sure? Had not Byron told her all about it? and was
not his family motto Crede Byron?

The 'Blackwood,' having a dim suspicion that this confused style of
attack and defence in reference to the two parties under consideration
may not have great weight, itself proceeds to make the book an occasion
for re-opening the controversy of Lord Byron with his wife.

The rest of the review is devoted to a powerful attack on Lady Byron's
character,--the most fearful attack on the memory of a dead woman we
have ever seen made by living man. The author proceeds, like a lawyer,
to gather up, arrange, and restate, in a most workmanlike manner, the
confused accusations of the book.

Anticipating the objection, that such a re-opening of the inquiry was
a violation of the privacy due to womanhood and to the feelings of a
surviving family, he says, that though marriage usually is a private
matter which the world has no right to intermeddle with or discuss,
yet--

 'Lord Byron's was an exceptional case. It is not too much to say,
 that, had his marriage been a happy one, the course of events of the
 present century might have been materially changed; that the genius
 which poured itself forth in "Don Juan" and "Cain" might have flowed
 in far different channels; that the ardent love of freedom which sent
 him to perish at six and thirty at Missolonghi might have inspired
 a long career at home; and that we might at this moment have been
 appealing to the counsels of his experience and wisdom at an age
 not exceeding that which was attained by Wellington, Lyndhurst, and
 Brougham.

 'Whether the world would have been a gainer or a loser by the exchange
 is a question which every man must answer for himself, according to
 his own tastes and opinions; but the possibility of such a change in
 the course of events warrants us in treating what would otherwise be a
 strictly private matter as one of public interest.

 'More than half a century has elapsed, the actors have departed from
 the stage, the curtain has fallen; and whether it will ever again be
 raised so as to reveal the real facts of the drama, may, as we have
 already observed, be well doubted. But the time has arrived when we
 may fairly gather up the fragments of evidence, clear them as far as
 possible from the incrustations of passion, prejudice, and malice, and
 place them in such order, as, if possible, to enable us to arrive
 at some probable conjecture as to what the skeleton of the drama
 originally was.'

Here the writer proceeds to put together all the facts of Lady Byron's
case, just as an adverse lawyer would put them as against her, and
for her husband. The plea is made vigorously and ably, and with an
air of indignant severity, as of an honest advocate who is thoroughly
convinced that he is pleading the cause of a wronged man who has been
ruined in name, ship-wrecked in life, and driven to an early grave, by
the arts of a bad woman,--a woman all the more horrible that her malice
was disguised under the cloak of religion.

Having made an able statement of facts, adroitly leaving out
ONE,[28] of which he could not have been ignorant had he
studied the case carefully enough to know all the others, he proceeds
to sum up against the criminal thus:--

[Footnote 28: This one fact is, that Lord Byron might have had an open
examination in court, if he had only persisted in refusing the deed of
separation.]

 'We would deal tenderly with the memory of Lady Byron. Few women have
 been juster objects of compassion. It would seem as if Nature and
 Fortune had vied with each other which should be most lavish of her
 gifts, and yet that some malignant power had rendered all their bounty
 of no effect. Rank, beauty, wealth, and mental powers of no common
 order, were hers; yet they were of no avail to secure her happiness.
 The spoilt child of seclusion, restraint, and parental idolatry,
 a fate (alike evil for both) cast her into the arms of the spoilt
 child of genius, passion, and the world. What real or fancied wrongs
 she suffered, we may never know; but those which she inflicted are
 sufficiently apparent.

 'It is said that there are some poisons so subtle that they will
 destroy life, and yet leave no trace of their action. The murderer
 who uses them may escape the vengeance of the law; but he is not the
 less guilty. So the slanderer who makes no charge; who deals in hints
 and insinuations: who knows melancholy facts he would not willingly
 divulge,--things too painful to state; who forbears, expresses pity,
 sometimes even affection, for his victim, shrugs his shoulders, looks
 with

        "The significant eye,
  Which learns to lie with silence,--"

 is far more guilty than he who tells the bold falsehood which may be
 met and answered, and who braves the punishment which must follow upon
 detection.

 'Lady Byron has been called

  "The moral Clytemnestra of her lord."

 The "moral Brinvilliers" would have been a truer designation.

 'The conclusion at which we arrive is, that there is no proof whatever
 that Lord Byron was guilty of any act that need have caused a
 separation, or prevented a re-union, and that the imputations upon him
 rest on the vaguest conjecture; that whatever real or fancied wrongs
 Lady Byron may have endured are shrouded in an impenetrable mist of
 her own creation,--a poisonous miasma in which she enveloped the
 character of her husband, raised by her breath, and which her breath
 only could have dispersed.

  "She dies and makes no sign. O God! forgive her."'

As we have been obliged to review accusations on Lady Byron founded
on old Greek tragedy, so now we are forced to abridge a passage from
a modern conversations-lexicon, that we may understand what sort of
comparisons are deemed in good taste in a conservative English review,
when speaking of ladies of rank in their graves.

Under the article 'Brinvilliers,' we find as follows:--

 'MARGUERITE D'AUBRAI, MARCHIONESS OF BRINVILLIERS.--The
 singular atrocity of this woman gives her a sort of infamous claim to
 notice. She was horn in Paris in 1651; being daughter of D'Aubrai,
 lieutenant-civil of Paris, who married her to the Marquis of
 Brinvilliers. Although possessed of attractions to captivate lovers,
 she was for some time much attached to her husband, but at length
 became madly in love with a Gascon officer. Her father imprisoned
 the officer in the Bastille; and, while there, he learned the art of
 compounding subtle and most mortal poisons; and, when he was released,
 he taught it to the lady, who exercised it with such success, that,
 in one year, her father, sister, and two brothers became her victims.
 She professed the utmost tenderness for her victims, and nursed them
 assiduously. On her father she is said to have made eight attempts
 before she succeeded. She was very religious, and devoted to works
 of charity; and visited the hospitals a great deal, where it is said
 she tried her poisons on the sick.'

People have made loud outcries lately, both in America and England,
about violating the repose of the dead. We should like to know what
they call this. Is this, then, what they mean by respecting the dead?

Let any man imagine a leading review coming out with language equally
brutal about his own mother, or any dear and revered friend.

Men of America, men of England, what do you think of this?

When Lady Byron was publicly branded with the names of the foulest
ancient and foulest modern assassins, and Lord Byron's mistress was
publicly taken by the hand, and encouraged to go on and prosper in her
slanders, by one of the oldest and most influential British reviews,
what was said and what was done in England?

That is a question we should be glad to have answered. Nothing was done
that ever reached us across the water.

And why was nothing done? Is this language of a kind to be passed over
in silence?

Was it no offence to the house of Wentworth to attack the pure
character of its late venerable head, and to brand her in her sacred
grave with the name of one of the vilest of criminals?

Might there not properly have been an indignant protest of family
solicitors against this insult to the person and character of the
Baroness Wentworth?

If virtue went for nothing, benevolence for nothing, a long life of
service to humanity for nothing, one would at least have thought, that,
in aristocratic countries, rank might have had its rights to decent
consideration, and its guardians to rebuke the violation of those
rights.

We Americans understand little of the advantages of rank; but we did
understand that it secured certain decorums to people, both while
living and when in their graves. From Lady Byron's whole history, in
life and in death, it would appear that we were mistaken.

What a life was hers! Was ever a woman more evidently desirous of
the delicate and secluded privileges of womanhood, of the sacredness
of individual privacy? Was ever a woman so rudely dragged forth,
and exposed to the hardened, vulgar, and unfeeling gaze of mere
curiosity?--her maiden secrets of love thrown open to be handled by
roués; the sanctities of her marriage-chamber desecrated by leering
satyrs; her parents and best friends traduced and slandered, till one
indignant public protest was extorted from her, as by the rack,--a
protest which seems yet to quiver in every word with the indignation of
outraged womanly delicacy!

Then followed coarse blame and coarser comment,--blame for speaking
at all, and blame for not speaking more. One manly voice, raised for
her in honourable protest, was silenced and overborne by the universal
roar of ridicule and reprobation; and henceforth what refuge? Only this
remained: 'Let them that suffer according to the will of God commit the
keeping of their souls to him as to a faithful Creator.'

Lady Byron turned to this refuge in silence, and filled up her life
with a noble record of charities and humanities. So pure was she, so
childlike, so artless, so loving, that those who knew her best, feel,
to this day, that a memorial of her is like the relic of a saint. And
could not all this preserve her grave from insult? O England, England!

I speak in sorrow of heart to those who must have known, loved, and
revered Lady Byron, and ask them, Of what were you thinking when you
allowed a paper of so established literary rank as the 'Blackwood,' to
present and earnestly recommend to our New World such a compendium of
lies as the Guiccioli book?

Is the great English-speaking community, whose waves toss from Maine
to California, and whose literature is yet to come back in a thousand
voices to you, a thing to be so despised?

If, as the solicitors of the Wentworth family observe, you might be
entitled to treat with silent contempt the slanders of a mistress
against a wife, was it safe to treat with equal contempt the
indorsement and recommendation of those slanders by one of your oldest
and most powerful literary authorities?

No European magazine has ever had the weight and circulation in America
that the 'Blackwood' has held. In the days of my youth, when New
England was a comparatively secluded section of the earth, the wit
and genius of the 'Noctes Ambrosianæ' were in the mouths of men and
maidens, even in our most quiet mountain-towns. There, years ago, we
saw all Lady Byron's private affairs discussed, and felt the weight of
Christopher North's decisions against her. Shelton Mackenzie, in his
American edition, speaks of the American circulation of 'Blackwood'
being greater than that in England.[29] It was and is now reprinted
monthly; and, besides that, 'Littell's Magazine' reproduces all its
striking articles, and they come with the weight of long established
position. From the very fact that it has long been considered the Tory
organ, and the supporter of aristocratic orders, all its admissions
against the character of individuals in the privileged classes have a
double force.

[Footnote 29: In the history of 'Blackwood's Magazine,' prefaced to
the American edition of 1854, Mackenzie says of the 'Noctes' papers,
'Great as was their popularity in England it was peculiarly in
America that their high merit and undoubted originality received the
heartiest recognition and appreciation. Nor is this wonderful when it
is considered that for one reader of "Blackwood's Magazine" in the old
country there cannot be less than fifty in the new.']

When 'Blackwood,' therefore, boldly denounces a lady of high rank as a
modern Brinvilliers, and no sensation is produced, and no remonstrance
follows, what can people in the New World suppose, but that Lady
Byron's character was a point entirely given up; that her depravity was
so well established and so fully conceded, that nothing was to be said,
and that even the defenders of aristocracy were forced to admit it?

I have been blamed for speaking on this subject without consulting Lady
Byron's friends, trustees, and family. More than ten years had elapsed
since I had had any intercourse with England, and I knew none of them.
How was I to know that any of them were living? I was astonished to
learn, for the first time, by the solicitors' letters, that there were
trustees, who held in their hands all Lady Byron's carefully prepared
proofs and documents, by which this falsehood might immediately have
been refuted.

If they had spoken, they might have saved all this confusion. Even
if bound by restrictions for a certain period of time, they still
might have called on a Christian public to frown down such a cruel
and indecent attack on the character of a noble lady who had been a
benefactress to so many in England. They might have stated that the
means of wholly refuting the slanders of the 'Blackwood' were in their
hands, and only delayed in coming forth from regard to the feelings
of some in this generation. Then might they not have announced her
Life and Letters, that the public might have the same opportunity as
themselves for knowing and judging Lady Byron by her own writings?

Had this been done, I had been most happy to have remained silent. I
have been astonished that any one should have supposed this speaking
on my part to be anything less than it is,--the severest act of
self-sacrifice that one friend can perform for another, and the most
solemn and difficult tribute to justice that a human being can be
called upon to render.

I have been informed that the course I have taken would be contrary to
the wishes of my friend. I think otherwise. I know her strong sense
of justice, and her reverence for truth. Nothing ever moved her to
speak to the public but an attack upon the honour of the dead. In her
statement, she says of her parents, 'There is no other near relative to
vindicate their memory from insult: I am therefore compelled to break
the silence I had hoped always to have observed.'

If there was any near relative to vindicate Lady Byron's memory, I
had no evidence of the fact; and I considered the utter silence to
be strong evidence to the contrary. In all the storm of obloquy and
rebuke that has raged in consequence of my speaking, I have had two
unspeakable sources of joy; first, that they could not touch her;
and, second, that they could not blind the all-seeing God. It is worth
being in darkness to see the stars.

It has been said that I have drawn on Lady Byron's name greater
obloquy than ever before. I deny the charge. Nothing fouler has been
asserted of her than the charges in the 'Blackwood,' because nothing
fouler could be asserted. No satyr's hoof has ever crushed this pearl
deeper in the mire than the hoof of the 'Blackwood,' but none of them
have defiled it or trodden it so deep that God cannot find it in the
day 'when he maketh up his jewels.'

I have another word, as an American, to say about the contempt shown
to our great people in thus suffering the materials of history to be
falsified to subserve the temporary purposes of family feeling in
England.

Lord Byron belongs not properly either to the Byrons or the Wentworths.
He is not one of their family jewels to be locked up in their cases.
He belongs to the world for which he wrote, to which he appealed, and
before which he dragged his reluctant, delicate wife to a publicity
equal with his own: the world has, therefore, a right to judge him.

We Americans have been made accessories, after the fact, to every
insult and injury that Lord Byron and the literary men of his day have
heaped upon Lady Byron. We have been betrayed into injustice and a
complicity with villany. After Lady Byron had nobly lived down slanders
in England, and died full of years and honours, the 'Blackwood' takes
occasion to re-open the controversy by recommending a book full of
slanders to a rising generation who knew nothing of the past. What
was the consequence in America? My attention was first called to the
result, not by reading the 'Blackwood' article, but by finding in a
popular monthly magazine two long articles,--the one an enthusiastic
recommendation of the Guiccioli book, and the other a lamentation over
the burning of the Autobiography as a lost chapter in history.

Both articles represented Lady Byron as a cold, malignant, mean,
persecuting woman, who had been her husband's ruin. They were so full
of falsehoods and misstatements as to astonish me. Not long after, a
literary friend wrote to me, 'Will you, can you, reconcile it to
your conscience to sit still and allow that mistress so to slander that
wife,--you, perhaps, the only one knowing the real facts, and able to
set them forth?'

Upon this, I immediately began collecting and reading the various
articles and the book, and perceived that the public of this generation
were in a way of having false history created, uncontradicted, under
their own eyes.

I claim for my country, men and women, our right to true history.
For years, the popular literature has held up publicly before our eyes
the facts as to this man and this woman, and called on us to praise or
condemn. Let us have truth when we are called on to judge. It is our
right.

