himself. The quantity eaten might make him uncomfortable, and even
slightly sick, but it would do the gourmand no real injury. The
captain returned to the steerage, where Ole had broken down on his
fourth slice of ham; but he regarded it wistfully, and seemed to
regret his inability to eat any more.

"That's good," said he, with emphasis. "It's the best supper I ever
ate in my life. I like this ship; I like the grub; and I mean to go to
America in her."

"We will see about that some other time; but if you don't tell us how
you happened to be off here, I am afraid we can do nothing for you,"
replied the captain. "If you feel better now, we will go and see the
principal."

"Who's he?" asked Ole.

"Mr. Lowington. You must tell him how you happened to be in that leaky
boat."

"Perhaps I will. I don't know," added Ole, doubtfully, as he followed
the commander into the main cabin.

Captain Cumberland explained to the principal the circumstances under
which Ole had come on board, and that he declined to say anything in
regard to the strange situation in which he had been discovered.

"Is the captain here?" asked the midshipman of the watch, at the
steerage door.

"Yes," replied Captain Cumberland.

"Mr. Lincoln sent me down to report a light on the lee bow, sir."

"Very well. Where is Mr. Beckwith?"

"In the cabin, sir."

The captain left the main cabin, and entered the after cabin, where he
found Beckwith, the first master, attended by the second and third,
examining the large chart of the North Sea.

"Light on the lee bow, sir," said the first master.

"Do you make it out?"

"Yes; we are all right to the breadth of a hair," added the master,
delighted to find that his calculations had proved to be entirely
correct. "It is Egero Light, and we are about fifty miles from the
Naze of Norway. We are making about four knots, and if the breeze
holds, we ought to see Gunnarshoug Light by one o'clock."

Captain Cumberland went on deck to see the light reported. Though it
was half past eight, the sun had but just set, and the light, eighteen
miles distant, could be distinctly seen. It created a great deal of
excitement and enthusiasm among the young officers and seamen, who had
read enough about Norway to be desirous of seeing it. For weeks the
young gentlemen on board the ship had been talking of Norway, and
reading up all the books in the library relating to the country and
its people. They had read with interest the accounts of the various
travellers who had visited it, including Ross Brown, in Harper's
Monthly, and Bayard Taylor, and had studied Harper, Murray, Bradshaw,
and other Guides on the subject. The more inquiring students had read
the history of Norway, and were well prepared to appreciate a short
visit to this interesting region.

They had just come from the United States, having sailed in the latter
part of March. The squadron had had a fair passage, and the students
hoped to be in Christiansand by the first day of May; and now nothing
less than a dead calm for forty-eight hours could disappoint their
hopes. Five years before, the Young America and the Josephine, her
consort, had cruised in the waters of Europe, and returned to America
in the autumn. It had been the intention of the principal to make
another voyage the next year, go up the Baltic, and winter in the
Mediterranean; but the war of 1866 induced him to change his plans.
Various circumstances had postponed the cruise until 1870, when it was
actually commenced.

The Young America was the first, and for more than a year the only,
vessel belonging to the Academy. The Josephine, a topsail schooner,
had been added the second year; and now the Tritonia, a vessel of the
same size and rig, was on her first voyage. The three vessels of the
squadron were officered and manned by the students of the Academy. As
on the first cruise, the offices were the rewards of merit bestowed
upon the faithful and energetic pupils. The highest number of merits
gave the highest office, and so on through the several grades in
the cabin, and the petty offices in the steerage. The routine and
discipline of the squadron were substantially the same as described in
the first series of these volumes, though some changes had been made,
as further experience suggested. Instead of quarterly, as before, the
offices were given out every month. Captains were not retired after a
single term, as formerly, but were obliged to accept whatever rank and
position they earned, like other students.

There was no change from one vessel to another, except at the end of a
school year, or with the permission of the principal. The ship had six
instructors, three of whom, however, lectured to all the students in
the squadron, and each of the smaller vessels had two teachers.
Mr. Lowington was still the principal. He was the founder of the
institution; and his high moral and religious principles, his love of
justice, as well as his skill, firmness, and prudence, had made it a
success in spite of the many obstacles which continually confronted
it. As a considerable portion of the students in the squadron were
the spoiled sons of rich men, who had set at defiance the rules of
colleges and academies on shore, it required a remarkable combination
of attributes to fit a gentleman for the difficult and trying position
he occupied.

Mr. Fluxion was the first vice-principal in charge of the Josephine.
He was a thorough seaman, a good disciplinarian, and a capital
teacher; but he lacked some of the high attributes of character
which distinguished the principal. If any man was fit to succeed Mr.
Lowington in his responsible position, it was Mr. Fluxion; but it was
doubtful whether, under his sole administration, the institution could
be an entire success. His love of discipline, and his energetic manner
of dealing with delinquents, would probably have increased the number
of "rows," mutinies, and runaways.

The second vice-principal, in charge of the Tritonia, was Mr. Tompion,
who, like his two superiors in rank, had formerly been an officer of
the navy. Though he was a good sailor, and a good disciplinarian, he
lacked that which a teacher needs most--a hearty sympathy with young
people.

The principal and the two vice-principals were instructors in
mathematics and navigation in their respective vessels. Mr. Lowington
had undertaken this task himself, because he felt the necessity of
coming more in contact with the student than his position as mere
principal required. It tended to promote friendly relations between
the governor and the governed, by creating a greater sympathy between
them.

The Rev. Mr. Agneau still served as chaplain. In port, and at sea when
the weather would permit, two services were held in the steerage every
Sunday, which were attended, at anchor, by the crew of all the vessels.
Prayers were said morning and evening, in the ship by the chaplain, in
the schooners by the vice-principal or one of the instructors.

Dr. Winstock was the instructor in natural philosophy and chemistry,
as well as surgeon and sanitary director. He was a good and true man,
and generally popular among the students. Each vessel had an adult
boatswain and a carpenter, and the ship a sailmaker, to perform such
work as the students could not do, and to instruct them in the details
of practical seamanship.

After the lapse of five years, hardly a student remained of those who
had cruised in the ship or her consort during the first voyage. But in
addition to the three vessels which properly constituted the squadron,
there were two yachts, each of one hundred and twenty tons. They were
fore-and-aft schooners, of beautiful model, and entirely new. The one
on the weather wing of the fleet was the Grace, Captain Paul Kendall,
whose lady and two friends were in the cabin. Abreast of her sailed
the Feodora, Captain Robert Shuffles, whose wife was also with him.
Each of these yachts had a first and second officer, and a crew of
twenty men, with the necessary complement of cooks and stewards. They
were part of the fleet, but not of the Academy Squadron.




CHAPTER II.

OFF THE NAZE OF NORWAY.


Mr. Lowington examined Ole Amundsen very carefully, in order to
ascertain what disposition should be made of him. He told where he was
born, how he had learned English, and where he had passed the greater
portion of his life, just as he had related these particulars to
Captain Cumberland.

"But how came you out here in an open boat?" asked the principal.

Ole examined the carpet on the floor of the cabin, and made no reply.

"Won't you answer me?" added Mr. Lowington.

The waif was still silent.

"You have been to sea?"

"Yes, sir; I was six months in a steamer, and over two years in
sailing vessels," answered Ole, readily.

"What steamer were you in?"

"I was in the Drammen steamer a while; and I have been three trips
down to Copenhagen and Gottenburg, one to Lübeck, one to Stettin, and
one to Stockholm."

"Have you been in a steamer this season?"

"No, sir."

"Then you were in a sailing vessel."

Ole would not say that he had been in any vessel the present season.

"Where is your home now?" asked the principal, breaking the silence
again.

"Haven't any."

"Have you a father and mother?"

"Both dead, sir."

"Have you any friends?"

"Friends? I don't believe I have."

"Any one that takes care of you?"

"Takes care of me? No, sir; I'm quite certain I haven't any one that
takes care of me. I take care of myself, and it's heavy work I find
it, sometimes, I can tell you."

"Do you ever go fishing?"

"Yes, sir, sometimes."

"Have you been lately?"

Ole was silent again.

"I wish to be your friend, Ole."

"Thank you, sir," added Ole, bowing low.

"But in order to know what to do for you, I must know something about
your circumstances."

"I haven't any circumstances, sir. I lost 'em all," replied Ole,
gravely and sadly, as though he had met with a very serious loss.

Dr. Winstock could not help laughing, but it was impossible to decide
whether the boy was ignorant of the meaning of the word, or was trying
to perpetrate a joke.

"How did you happen to lose your circumstances, Ole?" asked Mr.
Lowington.

"When my mother died, Captain Olaf took 'em."

"Indeed; and who is Captain Olaf?"

Ole looked at the principal, and then returned his gaze to the cabin
floor, evidently not deeming it prudent to answer the question.

"Is he your brother?"

"No, sir."

"Your uncle?"

"No, sir."

Ole could not be induced to say anything more about Captain Olaf,
and doubtless regretted that he had even mentioned his name. The waif
plainly confounded "circumstances" and property. Mr. Lowington several
times returned to the main inquiry, but the young man would not even
hint at the explanation of the manner in which he had come to be a
waif on the North Sea, in an open boat, half full of water. He had
told the captain that he was not wrecked, and had not been blown off
from the coast. He would make no answer of any kind to any direct
question relating to the subject.

"Well, Ole, as you will not tell me how you came in the situation in
which we found you, I do not see that I can do anything for you,"
continued Mr. Lowington. "The ship is bound to Christiansand, and when
we arrive we must leave you there."

"Don't leave me in Christiansand, sir. I don't want to be left there."

"Why not?"

Ole was silent again. Both the principal and the surgeon pitied him,
for he appeared to be a friendless orphan; certainly he had no friends
to whom he wished to go, and was only anxious to remain in the ship,
and go to America in her.

"You may go into the steerage now, Ole," said the principal,
despairing of any further solution of the mystery.

"Thank you, sir," replied Ole, bowing low, and backing out of the
cabin as a courtier retires from the presence of a sovereign.

"What do you make of him, doctor?" added Mr. Lowington, as the door
closed upon the waif.

"I don't make anything of him," replied Dr. Winstock. "The young
rascal evidently don't intend that we should make anything of him.
He's a young Norwegian, about fifteen years old, with neither father
nor mother; for I think we may believe what he has said. If he had no
regard to the truth, it was just as easy for him to lie as it was to
keep silent, and it would have been more plausible."

"I am inclined to believe that he is a runaway, either from the shore
or from some vessel," said the principal. "He certainly cannot have
been well treated, for his filthy rags scarcely cover his body; and he
says that the supper he had to-night was the best he ever ate in his
life. It was only coffee, cold ham, and bread and butter; so he cannot
have been a high liver. He seems to be honest, and I pity him."

"But he is too filthy to remain on board a single hour. I will attend
to his sanitary condition at once," laughed the doctor. "He will breed
a leprosy among the boys, if he is not taken care of."

"Let the purser give you a suit of clothes for him, for we can't do
less than this for him."

The doctor left the cabin, and Ole was taken to the bath-room by one
of the stewards, and compelled to scrub himself with a brush and soap,
till he was made into a new creature. He was inclined to rebel at
first, for he had his national and inborn prejudice against soap
and water in combination; but the sight of the suit of new clothes
overcame his constitutional scruples. The steward was faithful to his
mission, and Ole left dirt enough in the bath-tub to plant half a
dozen hills of potatoes. He looked like a new being, even before he
had donned the new clothes. His light hair, cut square across his
forehead, was three shades lighter when it had been scrubbed, and
deprived of the black earth, grease, and tar, with which it had been
matted.

The steward was interested in his work, for it is a pleasure to any
decent person to transform such a leper of filth into a clean and
wholesome individual. Ole put on the heavy flannel shirt and the blue
frock which were handed to him, and smiled with pleasure as he
observed the effect. He was fitted to a pair of seaman's blue
trousers, and provided with socks and shoes. Then he actually danced
with delight, and evidently regarded himself as a finished dandy; for
never before had he been clothed in a suit half so good. It was the
regular uniform of the crew of the ship.

"Hold on a moment, my lad," said Muggs, the steward, as he produced a
pair of barber's shears. "Your barber did not do justice to your
figure-head, the last time he cut your hair."

"I cut it myself," replied Ole.

"I should think you did, and with a bush scythe."

"I only hacked off a little, to keep it out of my eyes. Captain Olaf
always used to cut it."

"Who's Captain Olaf?" asked Muggs.

Ole was silent, but permitted the steward to remove at will the long,
snarly white locks, which covered his head. The operator had been a
barber once, and received extra pay for his services on board the ship
in this capacity. He did his work in an artistic manner, parting
and combing the waif's hair as though he were dressing him for a
fashionable party. He put a sailor's knot in the black handkerchief
under the boy's collar, and then placed the blue cap on his head, a
little on one side, so that he looked as jaunty as a dandy
man-of-war's-man.

"Now put on this jacket, my lad, and you will be all right," continued
the steward, as he gazed with pride and pleasure upon the work of his
hands.

"More clothes!" exclaimed Ole. "I shall be baked. I sweat now with
what I have on."

"It's hot in here; you will be cool enough when you go on deck. Here's
a pea-jacket for you, besides the other."

"But that's for winter. I never had so much clothes on before in my
life."

"You needn't put the pea-jacket on, if you don't want it. Now you look
like a decent man, and you can go on deck and show yourself."

"Thank you, sir."

"But you must wash yourself clean every morning."

"Do it every day!" exclaimed Ole, opening his eyes with astonishment.

"Why, yes, you heathen," laughed Muggs. "A man isn't fit to live who
don't keep himself clean. Why, you could have planted potatoes
anywhere on your hide, before you went into that tub."

"I haven't been washed before since last summer," added Ole.

"You ought to be hung for it."

"You spend half your time washing yourselves--don't you?"

"We spend time enough at it to keep clean. No wonder you Norwegians
have the leprosy, and the flesh rots off the bones!"

"But I always go into the water every summer," pleaded Ole.

"And don't wash yourself at any other time?"

"I always wash myself once a year, and sometimes more, when I get a
good chance."

"Don't you wash your face and hands every morning."

"Every morning? No! I haven't done such a thing since last summer."

"Then you are not fit to live. If you stay in this ship, you must wash
every day, and more than that when you do dirty work."

"Can I stay in the ship if I do that?" asked Ole, earnestly.

"I don't know anything about it."

"I will wash all the time if they will only let me stay in the ship,"
pleaded the waif.

"You must talk with the principal on that subject. I have nothing to
do with it. Now, go on deck. Hold up your head, and walk like a man."

Ole left the bath-room, and made his way up the forward ladder. The
second part of the starboard watch were on duty, but nearly every
person belonging to the ship was on deck, watching the distant light,
which assured them they were on the coast of Norway. The waif stepped
upon deck as lightly as a mountain sylph. The influence of his new
clothes pervaded his mind, and he was inclined to be a little
"swellish" in his manner.

"How are you, Norway!" shouted Sanford, one of the crew.

"How are you, America," replied Ole, imitating the slang of the
speaker.

"What have you done with your dirt?" added Rodman.

"Here is some of it," answered Muggs, the steward, as he came up the
ladder, with Ole's rags on a dust-pan, and threw them overboard.

"If you throw all his dirt overboard here, we shall get aground,
sure," added Stockwell, as Ole danced up to the group of students.

"No wonder you feel light after getting rid of such a load of dirt,"
said Sanford.

"O, I'm all right," laughed Ole, good-naturedly; for he did not seem
to think that dirt was any disgrace or dishonor to him.

"How came you in that leaky boat, Norway?" demanded Rodman; and the
entire party gathered around the waif, anxious to hear the story of
his adventure.

"I went into it."

"Is that so?" added Wilde.

"Yes, sir."

"I say, Norway, you are smart," replied Rodman.

"Smart? Where?"

"All over."

"I don't feel it."

"But, Norway, how came you in that old tub, out of sight of land?"
persisted Rodman, returning to the charge again.

"I went into it just the same as one of you Americans would have got
into it," laughed Ole, who did not think it necessary to resort to the
tactics he had used with the principal and the captain. "You could
have done it if you had tried as hard as I did."

"After you got in, then, how came the boat out here, so far from
land?"

"The wind, the tide, and the broken oar brought it out here."

"Indeed! But won't you tell us your story, Ole?"

"A story? O, yes. Once there was a king of Norway whose name was Olaf,
and half the men of his country were named after him, because--"

"Never mind that story, Ole. We want to hear the story about
yourself."

"About myself? Well, last year things didn't go very well with me; the
crop of potatoes was rather short on my farm, and my vessels caught
but few fish; so I decided to make a voyage up the Mediterranean, to
spend the winter."

"What did you go in, Norway?" asked Wilde.

"In my boat. We don't make voyages on foot here in Norway."

"What boat?"

"You won't let me tell my story; so I had better finish it at once. I
got back as far as the North Sea, and almost into the Sleeve, when a
gale came down upon me, and strained my boat so that she leaked badly.
I was worn out with fatigue, and dropped asleep one afternoon. I was
dreaming that the King of Sweden and Norway came off in a big
man-of-war, to welcome me home again. He hailed me himself, with,
"Boat, ahoy!" which waked me; and then I saw this ship. You know all
the rest of it."

"Do you mean to say you went up the Mediterranean in that old craft?"

"I've told my story, and if you don't believe it, you can look in the
almanac, and see whether it is true or not," laughed Ole. "But I must
go and show myself to the captain and the big gentleman."

"He's smart--isn't he?" said Sanford, as the young Norwegian went aft
to exhibit himself to the officers on the quarter deck.

"Yes; but what's the reason he won't tell how he happened out here in
that leaky tub?" added Rodman.

"I don't know; he wouldn't tell the captain, nor the principal."

"I don't understand it."

"No one understands it. Perhaps he has done something wrong, and is
afraid of being found out."

"Very likely."

"He's just the fellow for us," said Stockwell, in a low tone, after he
had glanced around him, to see that no listeners were near. "He speaks
the lingo of this country. We must buy him up."

"Good!" exclaimed Boyden. "We ought not to have let him go till we had
fixed his flint."

"I didn't think of it before; but there is time enough. If we can get
hold of his story we can manage him without any trouble."

"But he won't tell his story. He wouldn't even let on to the
principal."

"No matter; we must have him, somehow or other. Sanford can handle
him."

"I don't exactly believe in the scrape," said Burchmore, shaking his
head dubiously. "We've heard all about the fellows that used to try to
run away from the ship and from the Josephine. They always got caught,
and always had the worst of it."

"We are not going to run away, and we are not going to make ourselves
liable to any punishment," interposed Sanford, rather petulantly. "We
can have a good time on shore without running away, or anything of
that sort."

"What's the use?" replied Burchmore.

"The principal isn't going to let us see anything at all of Norway. We
are going to put in at Christiansand, and then go to Christiania. We
want to see the interior of Norway, for there's glorious fishing in
the lakes and rivers--salmon as big as whales."

"I like fishing as well as any fellow, but I don't want to get into a
scrape, and have to stay on board when the whole crowd go ashore
afterwards. It won't pay."

"But I tell you again, we are not going to run away."

"I don't see how you can manage it without running away. You are going
into the interior of Norway on your own hook, without the consent or
knowledge of the principal. If you don't call this running away, I
don't know what you can call it."

"No matter what we call it, so long as the principal don't call it
running away," argued Sanford.

"How can you manage it?" inquired Burchmore.

"I don't know yet; and if I did, I wouldn't tell a fellow who has so
many doubts."

"I shall not go into anything till I understand it."

"We don't ask you to do so. As soon as we come to anchor, and see the
lay of the land, we can tell exactly what and how to do it. We have
plenty of money, and we can have a first-rate time if you only think
so. Leave it all to me, and I will bring it out right," continued the
confident Sanford, who appeared to be the leader of the little squad.

The traditions of the various runaways who had, at one time and
another, attempted to escape from the wholesome discipline and
restraint of the Academy, were current on board all the vessels of the
squadron. The capture of the Josephine, and her cruise in the English
Channel, had been repeated to every new student who joined the fleet,
till the story was as familiar to the present students as to those of
five years before. There were just as many wild and reckless boys on
board now as in the earlier days of the institution, and they were as
sorely chafed by the necessary restraints of good order as their
predecessors had been. Perhaps it was natural that, visiting a foreign
country, they should desire to see all they could of its wonders, and
even to look upon some things which it was the policy of the principal
to prevent them from seeing.

Whenever any of the various stories of the runaways were related,
Sanford, Rodman, Stockwell, and others of similar tendencies, were
always ready to point out the defects in the plan of the operators.
They could tell precisely where Wilton, Pelham, and Little had been
weak, as they termed it, and precisely what they should have done to
render the enterprise a success. Still, running away, in the abstract,
was not a popular idea in the squadron at the present time; but
Sanford believed that he and his companions could enjoy all the
benefits of an independent excursion without incurring any of its
perils and penalties. Let him demonstrate his own proposition.

Ole Amundsen walked aft, and was kindly greeted by the officers on
the quarter-deck, who commented freely upon his improved personal
appearance, though they did it in more refined terms than their
shipmates on the forecastle had done. Some of them tried to draw from
him the explanation of his situation in the leaky boat, but without
any better success than had attended the efforts of others. He yielded
an extravagant deference to the gold lace on the uniforms of the
officers, treating them with the utmost respect.

"Well, Ole, you look better than when I saw you last," said Mr.
Lowington.

"Yes, sir; and I feel better," replied Ole, bowing low to the "big
gentleman."

"And you speak English very well, indeed."

"Thank you, sir."

"Can you speak Norwegian as well?"

"Yes, sir; better, I hope."

"Monsieur Badois, will you ask him a question or two in Norwegian,"
added the principal, turning to the professor of modern languages, who
prided himself on being able to speak fourteen different tongues; "I
begin to doubt whether he is a Norwegian."

"I will, sir," replied monsieur, who was always glad of an opportunity
to exhibit his linguistic powers. "Hvor staae det til?" (How do you
do?)

"Jeg takker, meget vel." (Very well, I thank you), replied Ole.

"Forstaaer De mig?" (Do you understand me?)

"Ja, jeg forstaaer Dem meget vel." (Yes, I understand you very
well.)

"That will do," interposed Mr. Lowington.

"He speaks Norsk very well," added the professor.

"So do you, sir," said Ole, with a low bow to Monsieur Badois.

"Meget vel," laughed the professor.

"I am satisfied, Ole. Now, have you concluded to tell me how you
happened to be in that boat, so far from the land."

The waif counted the seams in the quarter-deck, but nothing could
induce him to answer the question.

"I have given you a suit of clothes, and I desire to be of service to
you."

"I thank you, sir; and a good supper, the best I ever had, though I
have often fished with English gentlemen, even with lords and sirs."

"If you will tell me who your friends are--"

"I have no friends, sir."

"You lived on shore, or sailed on the sea, with somebody, I suppose."

Ole looked down, and did not deny the proposition.

"Now, if you will tell me whom you lived with, I may be able to do
something for you."

Still the waif was silent.

"Berth No. 72 in the steerage is vacant, and I will give it to you, if
I can be sure it is right for me to do so."

But Ole could not, or would not, give any information on this point,
though he was earnest in his desire to remain in the ship.

"Very well, Ole; as you will not tell me your story, I shall be
obliged to leave you on shore at Christiansand," said the principal,
as he walked away.

Dr. Winstock also tried to induce the youth to reveal what he plainly
regarded as a secret, but with no different result. Ole passed from
the officers to the crew again, and with the latter his answers were
like those given to Sanford and his companions. He invented strange
explanations, and told wild stories, but not a soul on board was the
wiser for anything he said. The waif was permitted to occupy berth No.
72, but was distinctly assured that he must leave the ship when she
arrived at Christiansand.

The wind continued light during the night, but at four o'clock in the
morning the squadron was off Gunnarshoug Point, and not more than four
miles from the land. The shore was fringed with innumerable islands,
which made the coast very picturesque, though it was exceedingly
barren and desolate. Most of the islands were only bare rocks, the
long swells rolling completely over some of the smaller ones. The
students on deck watched the early sunrise, and studied the contour
of the coast with deep interest, till it became an old story, and then
whistled for a breeze to take them along more rapidly towards their
port of destination. The fleet was now fully in the Skager Rack, or
Sleeve, as it is also called on the British nautical charts.

At eight bells, when, with the forenoon watch, commenced the regular
routine of study in the steerage, all the students had seen the Naze,
or Lindersnaes, as the Norwegians call it--the southern cape of
Norway. It is a reddish headland, beyond which were some hills covered
with snow in the spring time. Ole Amundsen remained on deck all day,
and had a name for every island and cliff on the coast. He declared
that he was competent to pilot the ship into the harbor, for he had
often been there. But when the fleet was off Ox-Oe, at the entrance
to the port, a regular pilot was taken, at three o'clock in the
afternoon. The Josephine and the Tritonia also obtained pilots soon
after. The recitations were suspended in order to enable the students
to see the harbor.

Ole was wanted to explain the various objects which were presented to
the view of the young mariners, but no one had seen him since the
pilot came on board. All the habitable parts of the vessel were
searched, and the stewards even examined the hold; but he could not be
found. Mr. Lowington was anxious to see him, to ascertain whether he
had changed his mind in regard to his secret; but Ole had disappeared
as strangely as he had come on board of the ship.




CHAPTER III.

AN ACCIDENT TO THE SECOND CUTTER.


The gentle breeze from the southward enabled the fleet to proceed
without delay up the fjord to the town of Christiansand; and, as there
was very little ship's duty to be done under such circumstances, the
students had an excellent opportunity to examine the islands and the
main shore. On board the ship and her two consorts the boys swarmed
like bees in the rigging, eagerly watching every new object that was
presented to their view. As nautical young gentlemen, they criticised
the Norwegian boats and vessels that sailed on the bay, comparing them
with those of their own country. The two yachts, which were not
restrained by any insurance restrictions, stood boldly up the fjord,
following closely in the wake of the two schooners.

The course of the vessels up the fjord was through an archipelago, or
"garden of rocks," as it is styled in the Norwegian language. The
rocky hills in the vicinity were of a reddish color, with a few fir
trees upon them. The country was certainly very picturesque, but the
students did not regard it as a very desirable place of residence. The
fleet passed between the Island of Dybing and the light on Odderö,
and came to anchor in the western harbor. For half an hour the several
crews were occupied in furling sails, squaring yards, hauling taut the
running rigging, and putting everything in order on board.

The accommodation ladder of the ship, which was a regular flight of
stairs, had hardly been rigged before a white barge, pulled by four
men, came alongside. The oarsmen were dressed in blue uniform, and
wore tarpaulin hats, upon which was painted the word "Grace,"
indicating the yacht to which they belonged. The bowman fastened his
boat-hook to the steps, and the rest of the crew tossed their oars in
man-of-war style. In the stern-sheets, whose seats were cushioned with
red velvet plush, were three persons, all of whom were old friends of
our readers. Captain Paul Kendall, the owner and commander of the
Grace, though he is a few inches taller and a few pounds heavier than
when we last saw him, was hardly changed in his appearance. Even his
side whiskers and mustache did not sensibly alter his looks, for his
bright eye and his pleasant smile were still the key to his
expression. The Grace carried the American yacht flag, and her
commander wore the blue uniform of the club to which he belonged.

Three years before, Paul Kendall had experienced a heavy loss in the
death of his mother. She had inherited a very large fortune, which,
however, was held in trust for her son, until he reached his majority.
At the age of twenty-one, therefore, Paul came to an inheritance
bequeathed by his grandfather, which made him a millionnaire. His
fortune had been carefully invested by the trustees, and now all he
had to do was to collect and spend his income, of which there was a
considerable accumulation when he attained his majority. Paul was a
young man of high moral and religious principle. He had never spent a
dollar in dissipation of any kind, and though he knew the world, he
was as child-like and innocent as when he was an infant.

His tastes were decidedly nautical, and the first large expenditure
from his ample wealth was in the building of the yacht Grace, which
was now anchored near the Young America. She was a beautiful craft in
every respect, constructed as strong as wood and iron could make her.
As her cabin was to be Paul's home during a portion of the year, it
was fitted up with every appliance of comfort, convenience, and
luxury. It contained a piano, a large library, and every available
means of amusement for the hours of a long passage. At the age of
twenty-one, Paul was more mature in experience and knowledge than many
young men at twenty-five; and hardly had he been placed in possession
of his inheritance than he sailed for Europe, and, of course, hastened
from Queenstown to Belfast, where Mr. Arbuckle, father of the lady who
occupied the stern-sheets of the barge, resided. Six months later he
was married to Grace, who still regarded him as "the apple of her
eye."

On his return to New York his yacht was finished, though too late
in the season for use that year. Her first voyage in the spring
was to Brockway, which was the residence of Mr. Lowington, and the
headquarters of the Academy Squadron. Learning that his old friend the
principal was about to sail for Europe with his charge, he promptly
decided to accompany him, and the Grace was one of the fleet that
crossed the Atlantic in April.

Mrs. Kendall was dressed in a plain travelling suit. She was taller
and more mature than when she went down the Rhine with the Young
Americans, but she was not less beautiful and interesting.

If Fortune had been very kind to Paul Kendall, she had not been so
constant to all who formerly sailed in the Young America, and who had
then basked in her sunny smile. The third person in the stern-sheets
of the barge was Mr. Augustus Pelham. He was a fine-looking fellow,
with a heavy mustache, dressed like his commander, in the uniform
of the yacht club. By one of those disasters common in American
mercantile experience, Pelham's father had suddenly been hurled from
apparent affluence to real poverty. Being well advanced in years, he
could do nothing better for himself and his family than to accept a
situation as secretary of an insurance company, which afforded him a
salary only sufficient to enable him to live in comfort. Augustus
had completed his course in the Academy ship when the change of
circumstances compelled him to abandon all luxurious habits, and work
for his own living. This was by no means a calamity to him, any more
than to other young men. Doubtless it was annoying to have his
allowance of pocket money suddenly stopped, and to find himself face
to face with one of the sternest realities of life. His training in
the Academy ship had been a blessing to him, for it had reformed his
life, and elevated his tastes above the low level of dissipation. It
had made a new man of him, besides preparing him for a useful
calling. He was competent, so far as nautical skill and knowledge were
concerned, to command any vessel to any part of the world, though he
lacked the necessary experience in the management of a miscellaneous
crew, and in the transaction of business. He was ready to accept a
situation as chief or second mate of a ship, when he happened to meet
Paul Kendall, and was immediately engaged as chief officer of the
Grace, at a salary of one hundred dollars a month. Another ex-student
of the ship, Bennington, upon whose father fickle Fortune had not
continued to smile, had been appointed second officer. Pelham had
shipped the crew of the Grace, and no better set of men ever trod a
deck.

The barge came up to the steps, and Paul and Pelham assisted Mrs.
Kendall out of the boat, and the three went upon the deck of the ship.
Mr. Lowington, who had not seen them, except at a distance, since the
fleet sailed from Brockway harbor, gave them a warm greeting, shaking
hands heartily with the lady first, and then with her companions.

"I am glad to see you looking so well, Mrs. Kendall," said the
principal.

"I have enjoyed myself every moment of the voyage, and have never been
sick a single hour," she replied.

"We have had a fine passage, and there was no excuse for an old salt
like you to be sick," laughed the principal.

"But I think we shall go on shore, and stay at a hotel a few days,
just for a change," added Paul.

"That's a good plan; of course you will see more of the town and the
people, than if you remain in your yacht."

"I am sure I like the cabin of the yacht better than any hotel I ever
visited," laughed Mrs. Kendall.

"But a change will do you good, my dear," suggested Paul.

"What did you pick up last evening, when you hove to, Mr. Lowington?"

"We picked up a young Norwegian, about sixteen years old," answered
the principal, detailing the circumstances under which Ole had been
taken on board.

"Where is he now?" asked Paul, looking about him to obtain a sight of
the stranger.

"We clothed and fed him, and had become quite interested in him; but
just as the pilot came alongside we missed him. I have had the ship
searched for him, but we have not been able to find him, though he
must be concealed somewhere on board."

"That's strange!" exclaimed Mrs. Kendall, glancing at her husband.

"Perhaps not very strange," continued the principal. "The boy refused
to tell us how he came in an open boat, half full of water, and out of
sight of land. Probably he has run away from his friends, and has
concealed himself to avoid being recognized by the pilot, or other
Norwegian people who may come on board. I judged by his appearance
that he had some reason for running away from his master or his
friends, for he was only half clothed, in the filthiest rags that ever
covered a human being."
