to calculate or reflect in these matters; and it is trial enough to
come down to our stupid way of living,—so different, you know, from the
gay life she has been leading.”
Miss Seymour’s saintship was somewhat rudely tested by this remark.
That anybody should think it a sacrifice to be John’s wife, and a
trial to accept the homestead at Springdale, with all its tranquillity
and comforts,—that John, under her influence, should speak of the
Springdale life as stupid,—was a little drop too much in her cup. A
bright streak appeared in either cheek, as she said,—
“Well, John, I never knew you found Springdale stupid before. I’m sure,
we have been happy here,”—and her voice quavered.
“Pshaw, Gracie! you know what I mean. I don’t mean that I find
it stupid. I don’t like the kind of rattle-brained life we’ve been
leading this six weeks. But, then, it just suits Lillie; and it’s so
sweet and patient of her to come here and give it all up, and say not
a word of regret; and then, you see, I shall be just up to my ears in
business now, and can’t give up all my time to her, as I have. There’s
ever so much law business coming on, and all the factory matters at
Spindlewood; and I can see that Lillie will have rather a hard time of
it. You must devote yourself to her, Gracie, like a dear, good soul,
as you always were, and try to get her interested in our kind of life.
Of course, all our set will call, and that will be something; and
then—there will be some invitations out.”
“Oh, yes, John! we’ll manage it,” said Grace, who had by this time
swallowed her anger, and shouldered her cross once more with a womanly
perseverance. “Oh, yes! the Fergusons, and the Wilcoxes, and the
Lennoxes, will all call; and we shall have picnics, and lawn teas, and
musicals, and parties.”
“Yes, yes, I see,” said John. “Gracie, isn’t she a dear little
thing? Didn’t she look cunning in that white wrapper this morning? How
do women do those things, I wonder?” said John. “Don’t you think her
manners are lovely?”
“They are very sweet, and she is charmingly pretty,” said Grace; “and I
love her dearly.”
“And so affectionate! Don’t you think so?” continued John. “She’s a
person that you can do any thing with through her heart. She’s all
heart, and very little head. I ought not to say that, either. I think
she has fair natural abilities, had they ever been cultivated.”
“My dear John,” said Grace, “you forget what time it is. Good-night!”
CHAPTER VII.
WILL SHE LIKE IT?
“JOHN,” said Grace, “when are you going out again to our Sunday school
at Spindlewood? They are all asking after you. Do you know it is now
two months since they have seen you?”
“I know it,” said John. “I am going to-morrow. You see, Gracie, I
couldn’t well before.”
“Oh! I have told them all about it, and I have kept things up; but then
there are so many who want to see you, and so many things that you
alone could settle and manage.”
“Oh, yes! I’ll go to-morrow,” said John. “And, after this, I shall
be steady at it. I wonder if we could get Lillie to go,” said he,
doubtfully.
Grace did not answer. Lillie was a subject on which it was always
embarrassing to her to be appealed to. She was so afraid of appearing
jealous or unappreciative; and her opinions were so different from
those of her brother, that it was rather difficult to say any thing.
“Do you think she would like it, Grace?”
“Indeed, John, you must know better than I. If anybody could make her
take an interest in it, it would be you.”
Before his marriage, John had always had the idea that pretty,
affectionate little women were religious and self-denying at heart, as
matters of course. No matter through what labyrinths of fashionable
follies and dissipation they had been wandering, still a talent for
saintship was lying dormant in their natures, which it needed only the
touch of love to develop. The wings of the angel were always concealed
under the fashionable attire of the belle, and would unfold themselves
when the hour came. A nearer acquaintance with Lillie, he was forced
to confess, had not, so far, confirmed this idea. Though hers was a
face so fair and pure that, when he first knew her, it suggested ideas
of prayer, and communion with angels, yet he could not disguise from
himself that, in all near acquaintance with her, she had proved to
be most remarkably “of the earth, earthy.” She was alive and fervent
about fashionable gossip,—of who is who, and what does what; she was
alive to equipages, to dress, to sightseeing, to dancing, to any thing
of which the whole stimulus and excitement was earthly and physical.
At times, too, he remembered that she had talked a sort of pensive
sentimentalism, of a slightly religious nature; but the least idea
of a moral purpose in life—of self-denial, and devotion to something
higher than immediate self-gratification—seemed never to have entered
her head. What is more, John had found his attempts to introduce such
topics with her always unsuccessful. Lillie either gaped in his face,
and asked him what time it was; or playfully pulled his whiskers, and
asked him why he didn’t take to the ministry; or adroitly turned the
conversation with kissing and compliments.
Sunday morning came, shining down gloriously through the dewy
elm-arches of Springdale. The green turf on either side of the wide
streets was mottled and flecked with vivid flashes and glimmers of
emerald, like the sheen of a changeable silk, as here and there long
arrows of sunlight darted down through the leaves and touched the
ground.
The gardens between the great shady houses that flanked the street were
full of tall white and crimson phloxes in all the majesty of their
summer bloom, and the air was filled with fragrance; and Lillie, after
a two hours’ toilet, came forth from her chamber fresh and lovely as
the bride in the Canticles. “Thou art all fair, my love; there is
no spot in thee.” She was killingly dressed in the rural-simplicity
style. All her robes and sashes were of purest white; and a knot of
field-daisies and grasses, with French dew-drops on them, twinkled
in an infinitesimal bonnet on her little head, and her hair was all
créped into a filmy golden aureole round her face. In short, dear
reader, she was a perfectly got-up angel, and wanted only some tulle
clouds and an opening heaven to have gone up at once, as similar angels
do from the Parisian stage.
“You like me, don’t you?” she said, as she saw the delight in John’s
eyes.
John was tempted to lay hold of his plaything.
“Don’t, now,—you’ll crumple me,” she said, fighting him off with a
dainty parasol. “Positively you shan’t touch me till after church.”
John laid the little white hand on his arm with pride, and looked down
at her over his shoulder all the way to church. He felt proud of her.
They would look at her, and see how pretty she was, he thought. And
so they did. Lillie had been used to admiration in church. It was one
of her fields of triumph. She had received compliments on her toilet
even from young clergymen, who, in the course of their preaching and
praying, found leisure to observe the beauties of nature and grace in
their congregation. She had been quite used to knowing of young men
who got good seats in church simply for the purpose of seeing her;
consequently, going to church had not the moral advantages for her that
it has for people who go simply to pray and be instructed. John saw the
turning of heads, and the little movements and whispers of admiration;
and his heart was glad within him. The thought of her mingled with
prayer and hymn; even when he closed his eyes, and bowed his head, she
was there.
Perhaps this was not exactly as it should be; yet let us hope the
angels look tenderly down on the sins of too much love. John felt as if
he would be glad of a chance to die for her; and, when he thought of
her in his prayers, it was because he loved her better than himself.
As to Lillie, there was an extraordinary sympathy of sentiment between
them at that moment. John was thinking only of her; and she was
thinking only of herself, as was her usual habit,—herself, the one
object of her life, the one idol of her love.
Not that she knew, in so many words, that she, the little, frail bit of
dust and ashes that she was, was her own idol, and that she appeared
before her Maker, in those solemn walls, to draw to herself the homage
and the attention that was due to God alone; but yet it was true
that, for years and years, Lillie’s unconfessed yet only motive for
appearing in church had been the display of herself, and the winning of
admiration.
But is she so much worse than others?—than the clergyman who uses the
pulpit and the sacred office to show off his talents?—than the singers
who sing God’s praises to show their voices,—who intone the agonies
of their Redeemer, or the glories of the Te Deum, confident on the
comments of the newspaper press on their performance the next week? No:
Lillie may be a little sinner, but not above others in this matter.
“Lillie,” said John to her after dinner, assuming a careless,
matter-of-course air, “would you like to drive with me over to
Spindlewood, and see my Sunday school?”
“Your Sunday school, John? Why, bless me! do you teach Sunday
school?”
“Certainly I do. Grace and I have a school of two hundred children and
young people belonging to our factories. I am superintendent.”
“I never did hear of any thing so odd!” said Lillie. “What in the world
can you want to take all that trouble for,—go basking over there in
the hot sun, and be shut up with a room full of those ill-smelling
factory-people? Why, I’m sure it can’t be your duty! I wouldn’t do it
for the world. Nothing would tempt me. Why, gracious, John, you might
catch small-pox or something!”
“Pooh! Lillie, child, you don’t know any thing about them. They are
just as cleanly and respectable as anybody.”
“Oh, well! they may be. But these Irish and Germans and Swedes and
Danes, and all that low class, do smell so,—you needn’t tell me,
now!—that working-class smell is a thing that can’t be disguised.”
“But, Lillie, these are our people. They are the laborers from whose
toils our wealth comes; and we owe them something.”
“Well! you pay them something, don’t you?”
“I mean morally. We owe our efforts to instruct their children, and
to elevate and guide them. Lillie, I feel that it is wrong for us to
use wealth merely as a means of self-gratification. We ought to labor
for those who labor for us. We ought to deny ourselves, and make some
sacrifices of ease for their good.”
“You dear old preachy creature!” said Lillie. “How good you must be!
But, really, I haven’t the smallest vocation to be a missionary,—not
the smallest. I can’t think of any thing that would induce me to take a
long, hot ride in the sun, and to sit in that stived-up room with those
common creatures.”
John looked grave. “Lillie,” he said, “you shouldn’t speak of any of
your fellow-beings in that heartless way.”
“Well now, if you are going to scold me, I’m sure I don’t want to go.
I’m sure, if everybody that stays at home, and has comfortable times,
Sundays, instead of going out on missions, is heartless, there are a
good many heartless people in the world.”
“I beg your pardon, my darling. I didn’t mean, dear, that you were
heartless, but that what you said sounded so. I knew you didn’t
really mean it. I didn’t ask you, dear, to go to work,—only to be
company for me.”
“And I ask you to stay at home, and be company for me. I’m sure it is
lonesome enough here, and you are off on business almost all your days;
and you might stay with me Sundays. You could hire some poor, pious
young man to do all the work over there. There are plenty of them, dear
knows, that it would be a real charity to help, and that could preach
and pray better than you can, I know. I don’t think a man that is busy
all the week ought to work Sundays. It is breaking the Sabbath.”
“But, Lillie, I am interested in my Sunday school. I know all my
people, and they know me; and no one else in the world could do for
them what I could.”
“Well, I should think you might be interested in me: nobody else can
do for me what you can, and I want you to stay with me. That’s just the
way with you men: you don’t care any thing about us after you get us.”
“Now, Lillie, darling, you know that isn’t so.”
“It’s just so. You care more for your old missionary work, now,
than you do for me. I’m sure I never knew that I’d married a
home-missionary.”
“Darling, please, now, don’t laugh at me, and try to make me selfish
and worldly. You have such power over me, you ought to be my
inspiration.”
“I’ll be your common-sense, John. When you get on stilts, and run
benevolence into the ground, I’ll pull you down. Now, I know it must
be bad for a man, that has as much as you do to occupy his mind all
the week, to go out and work Sundays; and it’s foolish, when you could
perfectly well hire somebody else to do it, and stay at home, and have
a good time.”
“But, Lillie, I need it myself.”
“Need it,—what for? I can’t imagine.”
“To keep me from becoming a mere selfish, worldly man, and living for
mere material good and pleasure.”
“You dear old Don Quixote! Well, you are altogether in the clouds above
me. I can’t understand a word of all that.”
“Well, good-by, darling,” said John, kissing her, and hastening out of
the room, to cut short the interview.
Milton has described the peculiar influence of woman over man, in
lowering his moral tone, and bringing him down to what he considered
the peculiarly womanly level. “You women,” he said to his wife, when
she tried to induce him to seek favors at court by some concession of
principle,—“you women never care for any thing but to be fine, and to
ride in your coaches.” In Father Adam’s description of the original
Eve, he says,—
    “All higher knowledge in her presence falls
     Degraded; wisdom, in discourse with her,
     Loses, discountenanced, and like folly shows.”
Something like this effect was always produced on John’s mind when he
tried to settle questions relating to his higher nature with Lillie. He
seemed, somehow, always to get the worst of it. All her womanly graces
and fascinations, so powerful over his senses and imagination, arrayed
themselves formidably against him, and for the time seemed to strike
him dumb. What he believed, and believed with enthusiasm, when he was
alone, or with Grace, seemed to drizzle away, and be belittled, when
he undertook to convince her of it. Lest John should be called a muff
and a spoon for this peculiarity, we cite once more the high authority
aforesaid, where Milton makes poor Adam tell the angel,—
                “Yet when I approach
    Her loveliness, so absolute she seems
    And in herself complete, so well to know
    Her own, that what she wills to do or say
    Seems wisest, virtuousest, discreetest, best.”
John went out from Lillie’s presence rather humbled and over-crowed.
When the woman that a man loves laughs at his moral enthusiasms, it is
like a black frost on the delicate tips of budding trees. It is up-hill
work, as we all know, to battle with indolence and selfishness, and
self-seeking and hard-hearted worldliness. Then the highest and holiest
part of our nature has a bashfulness of its own. It is a heavenly
stranger, and easily shamed. A nimble-tongued, skilful woman can so
easily show the ridiculous side of what seemed heroism; and what is
called common-sense, so generally, is only some neatly put phase of
selfishness. Poor John needed the angel at his elbow, to give him the
caution which he is represented as giving to Father Adam:—
                “What transports thee so?
    An outside?—fair, no doubt, and worthy well
    Thy cherishing, thy honor, and thy love,
    Not thy subjection. Weigh her with thyself,
    Then value. Oft-times nothing profits more
    Than self-esteem, grounded on just and right
    Well managed: of that skill the more thou knowest,
    The more she will acknowledge thee her head,
    And to realities yield all her shows.”
But John had no angel at his elbow. He was a fellow with a great
heart,—good as gold,—with upward aspirations, but with slow speech;
and, when not sympathized with, he became confused and incoherent, and
even dumb. So his only way with his little pink and white empress was
immediate and precipitate flight.
Lillie ran to the window when he was gone, and saw him and Grace get
into the carriage together; and then she saw them drive to the old
Ferguson House, and Rose Ferguson came out and got in with them.
“Well,” she said to herself, “he shan’t do that many times more,—I’m
resolved.”
No, she did not say it. It would be well for us all if we did put
into words, plain and explicit, many instinctive resolves and purposes
that arise in our hearts, and which, for want of being so expressed,
influence us undetected and unchallenged. If we would say out boldly,
“I don’t care for right or wrong, or good or evil, or anybody’s rights
or anybody’s happiness, or the general good, or God himself,—all I care
for, or feel the least interest in, is to have a good time myself, and
I mean to do it, come what may,”—we should be only expressing a feeling
which often lies in the dark back-room of the human heart; and saying
it might alarm us from the drugged sleep of life. It might rouse us to
shake off the slow, creeping paralysis of selfishness and sin before it
is for ever too late.
But Lillie was a creature who had lost the power of self-knowledge.
She was, my dear sir, what you suppose the true woman to be,—a bundle
of blind instincts; and among these the strongest was that of property
in her husband, and power over him. She had lived in her power over
men; it was her field of ambition. She knew them thoroughly. Women are
called ivy; and the ivy has a hundred little fingers in every inch of
its length, that strike at every flaw and crack and weak place in the
strong wall they mean to overgrow; and so had Lillie. She saw, at a
glance, that the sober, thoughtful, Christian life of Springdale was
wholly opposed to the life she wanted to lead, and in which John was to
be her instrument. She saw that, if such women as Grace and Rose had
power with him, she should not have; and her husband should be hers
alone. He should do her will, and be her subject,—so she thought,
smiling at herself as she looked in the looking-glass, and then curled
herself peacefully and languidly down in the corner of the sofa, and
drew forth the French novel that was her usual Sunday companion.
Lillie liked French novels. There was an atmosphere of things in them
that suited her. The young married women had lovers and admirers; and
there was the constant stimulus of being courted and adored, under the
safe protection of a good-natured “mari.”
In France, the flirting is all done after marriage, and the young
girl looks forward to it as her introduction to a career of conquest.
In America, so great is our democratic liberality, that we think
of uniting the two systems. We are getting on in that way fast. A
knowledge of French is beginning to be considered as the pearl of
great price, to gain which, all else must be sold. The girls must go
to the French theatre, and be stared at by French débauchées, who
laugh at them while they pretend they understand what, thank Heaven,
they cannot. Then we are to have series of French novels, carefully
translated, and puffed and praised even by the religious press, written
by the corps of French female reformers, which will show them exactly
how the naughty French women manage their cards; so that, by and by,
we shall have the latest phase of eclecticism,—the union of American
and French manners. The girl will flirt till twenty à l’Américaine,
and then marry and flirt till forty à la Française. This was about
Lillie’s plan of life. Could she hope to carry it out in Springdale?
CHAPTER VIII.
SPINDLEWOOD.
IT seemed a little like old times to Grace, to be once more going with
Rose and John over the pretty romantic road to Spindlewood.
John did not reflect upon how little she now saw of him, and how much
of a trial the separation was; but he noticed how bright and almost gay
she was, when they were by themselves once more. He was gay too. In the
congenial atmosphere of sympathy, his confidence in himself, and his
own right in the little controversy that had occurred, returned. Not
that he said a word of it; he did not do so, and would not have done so
for the world. Grace and Rose were full of anecdotes of this, that, and
the other of their scholars; and all the particulars of some of their
new movements were discussed. The people had, of their own accord,
raised a subscription for a library, which was to be presented to John
that day, with a request that he would select the books.
“Gracie, that must be your work,” said John; “you know I shall have an
important case next week.”
“Oh, yes! Rose and I will settle it,” said Grace. “Rose, we’ll get the
catalogues from all the book-stores, and mark the things.”
“We’ll want books for the children just beginning to read; and then
books for the young men in John’s Bible-class, and all the way
between,” said Rose. “It will be quite a work to select.”
“And then to bargain with the book-stores, and make the money go ‘far
as possible,’” said Grace.
“And then there’ll be the covering of the books,” said Rose. “I’ll tell
you. I think I’ll manage to have a lawn tea at our house; and the girls
shall all come early, and get the books covered,—that’ll be charming.”
“I think Lillie would like that,” put in John.
“I should be so glad!” said Rose. “What a lovely little thing she is!
I hope she’ll like it. I wanted to get up something pretty for her. I
think, at this time of the year, lawn teas are a little variety.”
“Oh, she’ll like it of course!” said John, with some sinking of heart
about the Sunday-school books.
There were so many pressing to shake hands with John, and congratulate
him, so many histories to tell, so many cases presented for
consultation, that it was quite late before they got away; and tea had
been waiting for them more than an hour when they returned.
Lillie looked pensive, and had that indescribable air of patient
martyrdom which some women know how to make so very effective. Lillie
had good general knowledge of the science of martyrdom,—a little spice
and flavor of it had been gently infused at times into her demeanor
ever since she had been at Springdale. She could do the uncomplaining
sufferer with the happiest effect. She contrived to insinuate at times
how she didn’t complain,—how dull and slow she found her life, and yet
how she endeavored to be cheerful.
“I know,” she said to John when they were by themselves, “that you and
Grace both think I’m a horrid creature.”
“Why, no, dearest; indeed we don’t.”
“But you do, though; oh, I feel it! The fact is, John, I haven’t a
particle of constitution; and, if I should try to go on as Grace does,
it would kill me in a month. Ma never would let me try to do any thing;
and, if I did, I was sure to break all down under it: but, if you say
so, I’ll try to go into this school.”
“Oh, no, Lillie! I don’t want you to go in. I know, darling, you could
not stand any fatigue. I only wanted you to take an interest,—just to
go and see them for my sake.”
“Well, John, if you must go, and must keep it up, I must try to go.
I’ll go with you next Sunday. It will make my head ache perhaps; but no
matter, if you wish it. You don’t think badly of me, do you?” she said
coaxingly, playing with his whiskers.
“No, darling, not the least.”
“I suppose it would be a great deal better for you if you had married a
strong, energetic woman, like your sister. I do admire her so; but it
discourages me.”
“Darling, I’d a thousand times rather have you what you are,” said
John; for—
                    “What she wills to do,
    Seems wisest, virtuousest, discreetest, best.”
“O John! come, you ought to be sincere.”
“Sincere, Lillie! I am sincere.”
“You really would rather have poor, poor little me than a woman like
Gracie,—a great, strong, energetic woman?” And Lillie laid her soft
cheek down on his arm in pensive humility.
“Yes, a thousand million times,” said John in his enthusiasm, catching
her in his arms and kissing her. “I wouldn’t for the world have you any
thing but the darling little Lillie you are. I love your faults more
than the virtues of other women. You are a thousand times better than
I am. I am a great, coarse blockhead, compared to you. I hope I didn’t
hurt your feelings this noon; you know, Lillie, I’m hasty, and apt to
be inconsiderate. I don’t really know that I ought to let you go over
next Sunday.”
“O John, you are so good! Certainly if you go I ought to; and I shall
try my best.” Then John told her all about the books and the lawn tea,
and Lillie listened approvingly.
So they had a lawn tea at the Fergusons that week, where Lillie was
the cynosure of all eyes. Mr. Mathews, the new young clergyman of
Springdale, was there. Mr. Mathews had been credited as one of the
admirers of Rose Ferguson; but on this occasion he promenaded and
talked with Lillie, and Lillie alone, with an exclusive devotion.
“What a lovely young creature your new sister is!” he said to Grace.
“She seems to have so much religious sensibility.”
“I say, Lillie,” said John, “Mathews seemed to be smitten with you. I
had a notion of interfering.”
“Did you ever see any thing like it, John? I couldn’t shake the
creature off. I was so thankful when you came up and took me. He’s
Rose’s admirer, and he hardly spoke a word to her. I think it’s
shameful.”
The next Sunday, Lillie rode over to Spindlewood with John and Rose and
Mr. Mathews.
Never had the picturesque of religion received more lustre than from
her presence. John was delighted to see how they all gazed at her
and wondered. Lillie looked like a first-rate French picture of the
youthful Madonna,—white, pure, and patient. The day was hot, and the
hall crowded; and John noticed, what he never did before, the close
smell and confined air, and it made him uneasy. When we are feeling
with the nerves of some one else, we notice every roughness and
inconvenience. John thought he had never seen his school appear so
little to advantage. Yet Lillie was an image of patient endurance,
trying to be pleased; and John thought her, as she sat and did nothing,
more of a saint than Rose and Grace, who were laboriously sorting
books, and gathering around them large classes of factory boys, to whom
they talked with an exhausting devotedness.
When all was over, Lillie sat back on the carriage-cushions, and
smelled at her gold vinaigrette.
“You are all worn out, dear,” said John, tenderly.
“It’s no matter,” she said faintly.
“O Lillie darling! does your head ache?”
“A little,—you know it was close in there. I’m very sensitive to such
things. I don’t think they affect others as they do me,” said Lillie,
with the voice of a dying zephyr.
“Lillie, it is not your duty to go,” said John; “if you are not made
ill by this, I never will take you again; you are too precious to be
risked.”
“How can you say so, John? I’m a poor little creature,—no use to
anybody.”
Hereupon John told her that her only use in life was to be lovely
and to be loved,—that a thing of beauty was a joy forever, &c., &c.
But Lillie was too much exhausted, on her return, to appear at the
tea-table. She took to her bed at once with sick headache, to the
poignant remorse of John. “You see how it is, Gracie,” he said. “Poor
dear little thing, she is willing enough, but there’s nothing of her.
We mustn’t allow her to exert herself; her feelings always carry her
away.”
The next Sunday, John sat at home with Lillie, who found herself too
unwell to go to church, and was in a state of such low spirits as to
require constant soothing to keep her quiet.
“It is fortunate that I have you and Rose to trust the school with,”
said John; “you see, it’s my first duty to take care of Lillie.”
CHAPTER IX.
A CRISIS.
ONE of the shrewdest and most subtle modern French writers has given
his views of womankind in the following passage:—
    “There are few women who have not found themselves, at least
    once in their lives, in regard to some incontestable fact,
    faced down by precise, keen, searching inquiry,—one of those
    questions pitilessly put by their husbands, the very idea
    of which gives a slight chill, and the first word of which
    enters the heart like a stroke of a dagger. Hence comes the
    maxim, Every woman lies—obliging lies—venial lies—sublime
    lies—horrible lies—but always the obligation of lying.
    “This obligation once admitted, must it not be a necessity
    to know how to lie well? In France, the women lie admirably.
    Our customs instruct them so well in imposture. And woman is
    so naïvely impertinent, so pretty, so graceful, so true, in
    her lying! They so well understand its usefulness in social
    life for avoiding those violent shocks which would destroy
    happiness,—it is like the cotton in which they pack their
    jewelry.
    “Lying is to them the very foundation of language, and
    truth is only the exception; they speak it, as they are
    virtuous, from caprice or for a purpose. According to their
    character, some women laugh when they lie, and some cry;
    some become grave, and others get angry. Having begun life
    by pretending perfect insensibility to that homage which
    flatters them most, they often finish by lying even to
    themselves. Who has not admired their apparent superiority
    and calm, at the moment when they were trembling for the
    mysterious treasures of their love? Who has not studied
    their ease and facility, their presence of mind in the midst
    of the most critical embarrassments of social life? There is
    nothing awkward about it; their deception flows as softly as
    the snow falls from heaven.
    “Yet there are men that have the presumption to expect to
    get the better of the Parisian woman!—of the woman who
    possesses thirty-seven thousand ways of saying ‘No,’ and
    incommensurable variations in saying ‘Yes.’”
This is a Frenchman’s view of life in a country where women are trained
more systematically for the mere purposes of attraction than in any
other country, and where the pursuit of admiration and the excitement
of winning lovers are represented by its authors as constituting the
main staple of woman’s existence. France, unfortunately, is becoming
the great society-teacher of the world. What with French theatres,
French operas, French novels, and the universal rush of American women
for travel, France is becoming so powerful on American fashionable
society, that the things said of the Parisian woman begin in some cases
to apply to some women in America.
Lillie was as precisely the woman here described as if she had been
born and bred in Paris. She had all the thirty-seven thousand ways
of saying “No,” and the incommensurable variations in saying “Yes,”
as completely as the best French teaching could have given it. She
possessed, and had used, all that graceful facility, in the story of
herself that she had told John in the days of courtship. Her power over
him was based on a dangerous foundation of unreality. Hence, during the
first few weeks of her wedded life, came a critical scene, in which she
was brought in collision with one of those “pitiless questions” our
author speaks of.
Her wedding-presents, manifold and brilliant, had remained at home, in
the charge of her mother, during the wedding-journey. One bright day,
a few weeks after her arrival in Springdale, the boxes containing the
treasures were landed there; and John, with all enthusiasm, busied
himself with the work of unpacking these boxes, and drawing forth the
treasures.
Now, it so happened that Lillie’s maternal grandfather, a nice, pious
old gentleman, had taken the occasion to make her the edifying and
suggestive present of a large, elegantly bound family Bible.
The binding was unexceptionable; and Lillie assigned it a proper place
of honor among her wedding-gear. Alas! she had not looked into it, nor
seen what dangers to her power were lodged between its leaves.
But John, who was curious in the matter of books, sat quietly down in
a corner to examine it; and on the middle page, under the head “Family
Record,” he found, in a large, bold hand, the date of the birth of
“Lillie Ellis” in figures of the most uncompromising plainness; and
thence, with one flash of his well-trained arithmetical sense, came the
perception that, instead of being twenty years old, she was in fact
twenty-seven,—and that of course she had lied to him.
It was a horrid and a hard word for an American young man to have
suggested in relation to his wife. If we may believe the French
romancer, a Frenchman would simply have smiled in amusement on
detecting this petty feminine ruse of his beloved. But American men
are in the habit of expecting the truth from respectable women as a
matter of course; and the want of it in the smallest degree strikes
them as shocking. Only an Englishman or an American can understand the
dreadful pain of that discovery to John.
The Anglo-Saxon race have, so to speak, a worship of truth; and they
hate and abhor lying with an energy which leaves no power of tolerance.
The Celtic races have a certain sympathy with deception. They have a
certain appreciation of the value of lying as a fine art, which has
never been more skilfully shown than in the passage from De Balzac we
have quoted. The woman who is described by him as lying so sweetly and
skilfully is represented as one of those women “qui ont je ne sais quoi
de saint et de sacré, qui inspirent tant de respect que l’amour,”—“a
woman who has an indescribable something of holiness and purity which
inspires respect as well as love.” It was no detraction from the
character of Jesus, according to the estimate of Renan, to represent
him as consenting to a benevolent fraud, and seeming to work miracles
when he did not work them, by way of increasing his good influence over
the multitude.
But John was the offspring of a generation of men for hundreds of
years, who would any of them have gone to the stake rather than have
told the smallest untruth; and for him who had been watched and guarded
and catechised against this sin from his cradle, till he was as true
and pure as a crystal rock, to have his faith shattered in the woman
he loved, was a terrible thing.
As he read the fatal figures, a mist swam before his eyes,—a sort of
faintness came over him. It seemed for a moment as if his very life was
sinking down through his boots into the carpet. He threw down the book
hastily, and, turning, stepped through an open window into the garden,
and walked quickly off.
“Where in the world is John going?” said Lillie, running to the door,
and calling after him in imperative tones.
“John, John, come back. I haven’t done with you yet;” but John never
turned his head.
“How very odd! what in the world is the matter with him?” she said to
herself.
John was gone all the afternoon. He took a long, long walk, all by
himself, and thought the matter over. He remembered that fresh,
childlike, almost infantine face, that looked up into his with such a
bewitching air of frankness and candor, as she professed to be telling
all about herself and her history; and now which or what of it was
true? It seemed as if he loathed her; and yet he couldn’t help loving
her, while he despised himself for doing it.
When he came home to supper, he was silent and morose. Lillie came
running to meet him; but he threw her off, saying he was tired. She was
frightened; she had never seen him look like that.
“John, what is the matter with you?” said Grace at the tea-table. “You
are upsetting every thing, and don’t drink your tea.”
“Nothing—only—I have some troublesome business to settle,” he said,
getting up to go out again. “You needn’t wait for me; I shall be out
late.”
“What can be the matter?”
Lillie, indeed, had not the remotest idea. Yet she remembered his
jumping up suddenly, and throwing down the Bible; and mechanically she
went to it, and opened it. She turned it over; and the record met her
eye.
“Provoking!” she said. “Stupid old creature! must needs go and put that
out in full.” Lillie took a paper-folder, and cut the leaf out quite
neatly; then folded and burned it.
She knew now what was the matter. John was angry at her; but she
couldn’t help wondering that he should be so angry. If he had laughed
at her, teased her, taxed her with the trick, she would have understood
what to do. But this terrible gloom, this awful commotion of the
elements, frightened her.
She went to her room, saying that she had a headache, and would go
to bed. But she did not. She took her French novel, and read till
she heard him coming; and then she threw down her book, and began to
cry. He came into the room, and saw her leaning like a little white
snow-wreath over the table, sobbing as if her heart would break. To
do her justice, Lillie’s sobs were not affected. She was lonesome and
thoroughly frightened; and, when she heard him coming, her nerves gave
out. John’s heart yearned towards her. His short-lived anger had burned
out; and he was perfectly longing for a reconciliation. He felt as if
he must have her to love, no matter what she was. He came up to her,
and stroked her hair. “O Lillie!” he said, “why couldn’t you have told
me the truth? What made you deceive me?”
“I was afraid you wouldn’t like me if I did,” said Lillie, in her sobs.
“O Lillie! I should have liked you, no matter how old you were,—only
you should have told me the truth.”
“I know it—I know it—oh, it was wrong of me!” and Lillie sobbed, and
seemed in danger of falling into convulsions; and John’s heart gave
out. He gathered her in his arms. “I can’t help loving you; and I can’t
live without you,” he said, “be you what you may!”
Lillie’s little heart beat with triumph under all her sobs: she had got
him, and should hold him yet.
“There can be no confidence between husband and wife, Lillie,” said
John, gravely, “unless we are perfectly true with each other. Promise
me, dear, that you will never deceive me again.”
Lillie promised with ready fervor. “O John!” she said, “I never should
have done so wrong if I had only come under your influence earlier. The
fact is, I have been under the worst influences all my life. I never
had anybody like you to guide me.”
John may of course be excused for feeling that his flattering little
penitent was more to him than ever; and as to Lillie, she gave a sigh
of relief. That was over, “anyway;” and she had him not only safe,
but more completely hers than before.
A generous man is entirely unnerved by a frank confession. If Lillie
had said one word in defence, if she had raised the slightest shadow
of an argument, John would have roused up all his moral principle to
oppose her; but this poor little white water-sprite, dissolving in a
rain of penitent tears, quite washed away all his anger and all his
heroism.
The next morning, Lillie, all fresh in a ravishing toilet, with
field-daisies in her hair, was in a condition to laugh gently at John
for his emotion of yesterday. She triumphed softly, not too obviously,
in her power. He couldn’t do without her,—do what she might,—that was
plain.
“Now, John,” she said, “don’t you think we poor women are judged
rather hardly? Men, you know, tell all sorts of lies to carry on their
great politics and their ambition, and nobody thinks it so dreadful of
them.”
“I do—I should,” interposed John.
“Oh, well! you—you are an exception. It is not one man in a hundred
that is so good as you are. Now, we women have only one poor little
ambition,—to be pretty, to please you men; and, as soon as you know
we are getting old, you don’t like us. And can you think it’s so very
shocking if we don’t come square up to the dreadful truth about our
age? Youth and beauty is all there is to us, you know.”
“O Lillie! don’t say so,” said John, who felt the necessity of being
instructive, and of improving the occasion to elevate the moral tone of
his little elf. “Goodness lasts, my dear, when beauty fades.”
“Oh, nonsense! Now, John, don’t talk humbug. I’d like to see you
following goodness when beauty is gone. I’ve known lots of plain old
maids that were perfect saints and angels; and yet men crowded and
jostled by them to get the pretty sinners. I dare say now,” she added,
with a bewitching look over her shoulder at him, “you’d rather have me
than Miss Almira Carraway,—hadn’t you, now?”
And Lillie put her white arm round his neck, and her downy cheek to
his, and said archly, “Come, now, confess.”
Then John told her that she was a bad, naughty girl; and she laughed;
and, on the whole, the pair were more hilarious and loving than usual.
But yet, when John was away at his office, he thought of it again, and
found there was still a sore spot in his heart.
She had cheated him once; would she cheat him again? And she could
cheat so prettily, so serenely, and with such a candid face, it was a
dangerous talent.
No: she wasn’t like his mother, he thought with a sigh. The “je ne sais
quoi de saint et de sacré,” which had so captivated his imagination,
did not cover the saintly and sacred nature; it was a mere outward
purity of complexion and outline. And then Grace,—she must not be
left to find out what he knew about Lillie. He had told Grace that
she was only twenty,—told it on her authority; and now must he become
an accomplice? If called on to speak of his wife’s age, must he
accommodate the truth to her story, or must he palter and evade? Here
was another brick laid on the wall of separation between his sister
and himself. It was rising daily. Here was another subject on which he
could never speak frankly with Grace; for he must defend Lillie,—every
impulse of his heart rushed to protect her.
But it is a terrible truth, and one that it will not hurt any of us to
bear in mind, that our judgments of our friends are involuntary.
We may long with all our hearts to confide; we may be fascinated,
entangled, and wish to be blinded; but blind we cannot be. The friend
that has lied to us once, we may long to believe; but we cannot. Nay,
more; it is the worse for us, if, in our desire to hold the dear
deceiver in our hearts, we begin to chip and hammer on the great
foundations of right and honor, and to say within ourselves, “After
all, why be so particular?” Then, when we have searched about for
all the reasons and apologies and extenuations for wrong-doing, are
we sure that in our human weakness we shall not be pulling down the
moral barriers in ourselves? The habit of excusing evil, and finding
apologies, and wishing to stand with one who stands on a lower moral
plane, is not a wholesome one for the soul.
As fate would have it, the very next day after this little scene,
who should walk into the parlor where Lillie, John, and Grace were
sitting, but that terror of American democracy, the census-taker. Armed
with the whole power of the republic, this official steps with elegant
ease into the most sacred privacies of the family. Flutterings and
denials are in vain. Bridget and Katy and Anne, no less than Seraphina
and Isabella, must give up the critical secrets of their lives.
John took the paper into the kitchen. Honest old Bridget gave in her
age with effrontery as “twinty-five.” Anne giggled and flounced, and
declared on her word she didn’t know,—they could put it down as they
liked. “But, Anne, you must tell, or you may be sent to jail, you
know.”
Anne giggled still harder, and tossed her head: “Then it’s to jail I’ll
have to go; for I don’t know.”
“Dear me,” said Lillie, with an air of edifying candor, “what a fuss
they make! Set down my age ‘twenty-seven,’ John,” she added.
Grace started, and looked at John; he met her eye, and blushed to the
roots of his hair.
“Why, what’s the matter?” said Lillie, “are you embarrassed at telling
your age?”
“Oh, nothing!” said John, writing down the numbers hastily; and then,
finding a sudden occasion to give directions in the garden, he darted
out. “It’s so silly to be ashamed of our age!” said Lillie, as the
census-taker withdrew.
“Of course,” said Grace; and she had the humanity never to allude to
the subject with her brother.
CHAPTER X.
CHANGES.
SCENE.—A chamber at the Seymour House. Lillie discovered weeping. John
rushing in with empressement.
“LILLIE, you shall tell me what ails you.”
“Nothing ails me, John.”
“Yes, there does; you were crying when I came in.”
“Oh, well, that’s nothing!”
“Oh, but it is a great deal! What is the matter? I can see that you
are not happy.”
“Oh, pshaw, John! I am as happy as I ought to be, I dare say; there
isn’t much the matter with me, only a little blue, and I don’t feel
quite strong.”
“You don’t feel strong! I’ve noticed it, Lillie.”
“Well, you see, John, the fact is, that I never have got through this
month without going to the sea-side. Mamma always took me. The doctors
told her that my constitution was such that I couldn’t get along
without it; but I dare say I shall do well enough in time, you know.”
“But, Lillie,” said John, “if you do need sea-air, you must go. I can’t
leave my business; that’s the trouble.”
“Oh, no, John! don’t think of it. I ought to make an effort to get
along. You see, it’s very foolish in me, but places affect my spirits
so. It’s perfectly absurd how I am affected.”
“Well, Lillie, I hope this place doesn’t affect you unpleasantly,” said
John.
“It’s a nice, darling place, John, and it’s very silly in me; but it is
a fact that this house somehow has a depressing effect on my spirits.
You know it’s not like the houses I’ve been used to. It has a sort of
old look; and I can’t help feeling that it puts me in mind of those who
are dead and gone; and then I think I shall be dead and gone too, some
day, and it makes me cry so. Isn’t it silly of me, John?”
“Poor little pussy!” said John.
“You see, John, our rooms are lovely; but they aren’t modern and
cheerful, like those I’ve been accustomed to. They make me feel pensive
and sad all the time; but I’m trying to get over it.”
“Why, Lillie!” said John, “would you like the rooms refurnished? It can
easily be done if you wish it.”
“Oh, no, no, dear! You are too good; and I’m sure the rooms are lovely,
and it would hurt Gracie’s feelings to change them. No: I must try and
get over it. I know just how silly it is, and I shall try to overcome
it. If I had only more strength, I believe I could.”
“Well, darling, you must go to the sea-side. I shall have you sent
right off to Newport. Gracie can go with you.”
“Oh, no, John! not for the world. Gracie must stay, and keep house for
you. She’s such a help to you, that it would be a shame to take her
away. But I think mamma would go with me,—if you could take me there,
and engage my rooms and all that, why, mamma could stay with me, you
know. To be sure, it would be a trial not to have you there; but then
if I could get up my strength, you know,”—
“Exactly, certainly; and, Lillie, how would you like the parlors
arranged if you had your own way?”
“Oh, John! don’t think of it.”
“But I just want to know for curiosity. Now, how would you have them if
you could?”
“Well, then, John, don’t you think it would be lovely to have them
frescoed? Did you ever see the Folingsbees’ rooms in New York? They
were so lovely!—one was all in blue, and the other in crimson, opening
into each other; with carved furniture, and those marquetrie tables,
and all sorts of little French things. They had such a gay and cheerful
look.”
“Now, Lillie, if you want our rooms like that, you shall have them.”
“O John, you are too good! I couldn’t ask such a sacrifice.”
“Oh, pshaw! it isn’t a sacrifice. I don’t doubt I shall like them
better myself. Your taste is perfect, Lillie; and, now I think of it,
I wonder that I thought of bringing you here without consulting you
in every particular. A woman ought to be queen in her own house, I am
sure.”
“But, Gracie! Now, John, I know she has associations with all the
things in this house, and it would be cruel to her,” said Lillie, with
a sigh.
“Pshaw! Gracie is a good, sensible girl, and ready to make any rational
change. I suppose we have been living rather behind the times, and are
somewhat rusty, that’s a fact; but Gracie will enjoy new things as much
as anybody, I dare say.”
“Well, John, since you are set on it, there’s Charlie Ferrola, one of
my particular friends; he’s an architect, and does all about arranging
rooms and houses and furniture. He did the Folingsbees’, and the
Hortons’, and the Jeromes’, and no end of real nobby people’s houses;
and made them perfectly lovely. People say that one wouldn’t know that
they weren’t in Paris, in houses that he does.”
Now, our John was by nature a good solid chip of the old Anglo-Saxon
block; and, if there was any thing that he had no special affinity
for, it was for French things. He had small opinion of French morals,
and French ways in general; but then at this moment he saw his Lillie,
whom, but half an hour before, he found all pale and tear-drenched,
now radiant and joyous, sleek as a humming-bird, with the light in her
eyes, and the rattle on the tip of her tongue; and he felt so delighted
to see her bright and gay and joyous, that he would have turned his
house into the Jardin Mabille, if that were possible.
Lillie had the prettiest little caressing tricks and graces imaginable;
and she perched herself on his knee, and laughed and chatted so gayly,
and pulled his whiskers so saucily, and then, springing up, began
arraying herself in such an astonishing daintiness of device, and
fluttering before him with such a variety of well-assorted plumage,
that John was quite taken off his feet. He did not care so much whether
what she willed to do were, “Wisest, virtuousest, discreetest, best,”
as feel that what she wished to do must be done at any rate.
“Why, darling!” he said in his rapture; “why didn’t you tell me all
this before? Here you have been growing sad and blue, and losing your
vivacity and spirits, and never told me why!”
“I thought it was my duty, John, to try to bear it,” said Lillie, with
the sweet look of a virgin saint. “I thought perhaps I should get used
to things in time; and I think it is a wife’s duty to accommodate
herself to her husband’s circumstances.”
“No, it’s a husband’s duty to accommodate himself to his wife’s
wishes,” said John. “What’s that fellow’s address? I’ll write to him
about doing our house, forthwith.”
“But, John, do pray tell Gracie that it’s your wish. I don’t want her
to think that it’s I that am doing this. Now, pray do think whether you
really want it yourself. You see it must be so natural for you to like
the old things! They must have associations, and I wouldn’t for the
world, now, be the one to change them; and, after all, how silly it was
of me to feel blue!”
“Don’t say any more, Lillie. Let me see,—next week,” he said, taking
out his pocket-book, and looking over his memoranda,—“next week I’ll
take you down to Newport; and you write to-day to your mother to meet
you there, and be your guest. I’ll write and engage the rooms at once.”
“I don’t know what I shall do without you, John.”
“Oh, well, I couldn’t stay possibly! But I may run down now and then,
for a night, you know.”
“Well, we must make that do,” said Lillie, with a pensive sigh.
Thus two very important moves on Miss Lillie’s checker-board of life
were skilfully made. The house was to be refitted, and the Newport
precedent established.
Now, dear friends, don’t think Lillie a pirate, or a conspirator, or a
wolf-in-sheep’s-clothing, or any thing else but what she was,—a pretty
little, selfish woman; undeveloped in her conscience and affections,
and strong in her instincts and perceptions; in a blind way using what
means were most in her line to carry her purposes. Lillie had always
found her prettiness, her littleness, her helplessness, and her tears
so very useful in carrying her points in life that she resorted to them
as her lawful stock in trade. Neither were her blues entirely shamming.
There comes a time after marriage, when a husband, if he be any thing
of a man, has something else to do than make direct love to his wife.
He cannot be on duty at all hours to fan her, and shawl her, and admire
her. His love must express itself through other channels. He must be a
full man for her sake; and, as a man, must go forth to a whole world of
interests that takes him from her. Now what in this case shall a woman
do, whose only life lies in petting and adoration and display?
Springdale had no beau monde, no fashionable circle, no Bois de
Boulogne, and no beaux, to make amends for a husband’s engrossments.
Grace was sisterly and kind; but what on earth had they in common
to talk about? Lillie’s wardrobe was in all the freshness of bridal
exuberance, and there was nothing more to be got, and so, for the
moment, no stimulus in this line. But then where to wear all these fine
French dresses? Lillie had been called on, and invited once to little
social evening parties, through the whole round of old, respectable
families that lived under the elm-arches of Springdale; and she had
found it rather stupid. There was not a man to make an admirer of,
except the young minister, who, after the first afternoon of seeing
her, returned to his devotion to Rose Ferguson.
You know, ladies, Æsop has a pretty little fable as follows: A young
man fell desperately in love with a cat, and prayed to Jupiter to
change her to a woman for his sake. Jupiter was so obliging as to grant
his prayer; and, behold, a soft, satin-skinned, purring, graceful woman
was given into his arms.
But the legend goes on to say that, while he was delighting in her
charms, she heard the sound of mice behind the wainscot, and left him
forthwith to rush after her congenial prey.
Lillie had heard afar the sound of mice at Newport, and she longed
to be after them once more. Had she not a prestige now as a rich young
married lady? Had she not jewels and gems to show? Had she not any
number of mouse-traps, in the way of ravishing toilets? She thought it
all over, till she was sick with longing, and was sure that nothing
but the sea-air could do her any good; and so she fell to crying, and
kissing her faithful John, till she gained her end, like a veritable
little cat as she was.
CHAPTER XI.
NEWPORT; OR, THE PARADISE OF NOTHING TO DO.
BEHOLD, now, our Lillie at the height of her heart’s desire, installed
in fashionable apartments at Newport, under the placid chaperonship
of dear mamma, who never saw the least harm in any earthly thing her
