how to find his house in the country; and now, when they came in upon
him at nine o’clock, he welcomed them with all his friendly heart. He
rose from the pile of morning’s letters to which he had but just sat
down; he placed them the easiest chairs; he made a feint of its not
being a busy hour with him, and would have had them look upon his
office, which was still damp and odorous from the porter’s broom, as a
kind of down-town parlor; but after they had briefly accounted to his
amazement for their appearance then and there, and Isabel had boasted of
the original fashion in which they had that morning seen New York, they
took pity on him, and bade him adieu till evening.
They crossed from Broadway to the noisome street by the ferry, and in
a little while had taken their places in the train on the other side of
the water.
“Don’t tell me, Basil,” said Isabel, “that Leonard travels fifty miles
every day by rail going to and from his work!”
“I must, dearest, if I would be truthful.”
“Then, darling, there are worse things in this world than living up at
the South End, aren’t there?” And in agreement upon Boston as a place of
the greatest natural advantages, as well as all acquirable merits, with
after talk that need not be recorded, they arrived in the best humor at
the little country station near which the Leonards dwelt.
I must inevitably follow Mrs. Isabel thither, though I do it at the cost
of the reader, who suspects the excitements which a long description of
the movement would delay. The ladies were very old friends, and they had
not met since Isabel’s return from Europe and renewal of her engagement.
Upon the news of this, Mrs. Leonard had swallowed with surprising ease
all that she had said in blame of Basil’s conduct during the rupture,
and exacted a promise from her friend that she should pay her the first
visit after their marriage. And now that they had come together, their
only talk was of husbands, whom they viewed in every light to which
husbands could be turned, and still found an inexhaustible novelty in
the theme. Mrs. Leonard beheld in her friend’s joy the sweet reflection
of her own honeymoon, and Isabel was pleased to look upon the prosperous
marriage of the former as the image of her future. Thus, with immense
profit and comfort, they reassured one another by every question and
answer, and in their weak content lapsed far behind the representative
women of our age, when husbands are at best a necessary evil, and the
relation of wives to them is known to be one of pitiable subjection.
When these two pretty, fogies put their heads of false hair together,
they were as silly and benighted as their great-grandmothers could have
been in the same circumstances, and, as I say, shamefully encouraged
each other, in their absurdity. The absurdity appeared too good and
blessed to be true. “Do you really suppose, Basil,” Isabel would say to
her oppressor, after having given him some elegant extract from the last
conversation upon husbands, “that we shall get on as smoothly as the
Leonards when we have been married ten years? Lucy says that things
go more hitchily the first year than ever they do afterwards, and that
people love each other better and better just because they’ve got used
to it. Well, our bliss does seem a little crude and garish compared with
their happiness; and yet”--she put up both her palms against his, and
gave a vehement little push--“there is something agreeable about it,
even at this stage of the proceedings.”
“Isabel,” said her husband, with severity, “this is bridal!”
“No matter! I only want to seem an old married woman to the general
public. But the application of it is that you must be careful not to
contradict me, or cross me in anything, so that we can be like the
Leonards very much sooner than they became so. The great object is not
to have any hitchiness; and you know you ARE provoking--at times.”
They both educated themselves for continued and tranquil happiness by
the example and precept of their friends; and the time passed swiftly
in the pleasant learning, and in the novelty of the life led by the
Leonards. This indeed merits a closer study than can be given here, for
it is the life led by vast numbers of prosperous New Yorkers who love
both the excitement of the city and the repose of the country, and who
aspire to unite the enjoyment of both in their daily existence.
The suburbs of the metropolis stretch landward fifty miles in every
direction; and everywhere are handsome villas like Leonard’s, inhabited
by men like himself, whom strict study of the time-table enables to
spend all their working hours in the city and all their smoking and
sleeping hours in the country.
The home and the neighborhood of the Leonards put on their best looks
for our bridal pair, and they were charmed. They all enjoyed the visit,
said guests and hosts, they were all sorry to have it come to an end;
yet they all resigned themselves to this conclusion. Practically, it had
no other result than to detain the travellers into the very heart of
the hot weather. In that weather it was easy to do anything that did
not require an active effort, and resignation was so natural with the
mercury at ninety, that I am not sure but there was something sinful in
it.
They had given up their cherished purpose of going to Albany by the day
boat, which was represented to them in every impossible phase. It
would be dreadfully crowded, and whenever it stopped the heat would be
insupportable. Besides it would bring them to Albany at an hour when
they must either spend the night there, or push on to Niagara by the
night train. “You had better go by the evening boat. It will be light
almost till you reach West Point, and you’ll see all the best scenery.
Then you can get a good night’s rest, and start fresh in the morning.”
 So they were counseled, and they assented, as they would have done if
they had been advised: “You had better go by the morning boat. It’s
deliciously cool, travelling; you see the whole of the river, you reach
Albany for supper, and you push through to Niagara that night and are
done with it.”
They took leave of Leonard at breakfast and of his wife at noon, and
fifteen minutes later they were rushing from the heat of the country
into the heat of the city, where some affairs and pleasures were to
employ them till the evening boat should start.
Their spirits were low, for the terrible spell of the great heat brooded
upon them. All abroad burned the fierce white light of the sun, in
which not only the earth seemed to parch and thirst, but the very air
withered, and was faint and thin to the troubled respiration. Their
train was full of people who had come long journeys from broiling cities
of the West, and who were dusty and ashen and reeking in the slumbers
at which some of them still vainly caught. On every one lay an awful
languor. Here and there stirred a fan, like the broken wing of a dying
bird; now and then a sweltering young mother shifted her hot baby from
one arm to another; after every station the desperate conductor swung
through the long aisle and punched the ticket, which each passenger
seemed to yield him with a tacit malediction; a suffering child hung
about the empty tank, which could only gasp out a cindery drop or two of
ice-water. The wind buffeted faintly at the windows; when the door was
opened, the clatter of the rails struck through and through the car like
a demoniac yell.
Yet when they arrived at the station by the ferry-side, they seemed to
have entered its stifling darkness from fresh and vigorous atmosphere,
so close and dead and mined with the carbonic breath of the locomotives
was the air of the place. The thin old wooden walls that shut out the
glare of the sun transmitted an intensified warmth; the roof seemed
to hover lower and lower, and in its coal-smoked, raftery hollow to
generate a heat deadlier than that poured upon it from the skies.
In a convenient place in the station hung a thermometer, before which
every passenger, on going aboard the ferry-boat, paused as at a shrine,
and mutely paid his devotions. At the altar of this fetich our friends
also paused, and saw that the mercury was above ninety, and exulting
with the pride that savages take in the cruel might of their idols,
bowed their souls to the great god Heat.
On the boat they found a place where the breath of the sea struck cool
across their faces, and made them forget the thermometer for the
brief time of the transit. But presently they drew near that strange,
irregular row of wooden buildings and jutting piers which skirts the
river on the New York aide, and before the boat’s motion ceased the air
grew thick and warm again, and tainted with the foulness of the street
on which the buildings front. Upon this the boat’s passengers issued,
passing up through a gangway, on one side of which a throng of
return-passengers was pent by a gate of iron barn, like a herd of wild
animals. They were streaming with perspiration, and, according to their
different temperaments, had faces of deep crimson or deadly pallor.
“Now the question is, my dear,” said Basil when, free of the press, they
lingered for a moment in the shade outside, “whether we had better walk
up to Broadway, at an immediate sacrifice of fibre, and get a stage
there, or take one of these cars here, and be landed a little nearer,
with half the exertion. By this route we shall have sights end smells
which the other can’t offer us, but whichever we take we shall be
sorry.”
“Then I say take this,” decided Isabel. “I want to be sorry upon the
easiest possible terms, this weather.”
They hailed the first car that passed, and got into it. Well for them
both if she could have exercised this philosophy with regard to the
whole day’s business, or if she could have given up her plans for it,
with the same resignation she had practiced in regard to the day boat!
It seems to me a proof of the small advance our race has made in true
wisdom, that we find it so hard to give up doing anything we have meant
to do. It matters very little whether the affair is one of enjoyment or
of business, we feel the same bitter need of pursuing it to the end. The
mere fact of intention gives it a flavor of duty, and dutiolatry, as one
may call the devotion, has passed so deeply into our life that we have
scarcely a sense any more of the sweetness of even a neglected pleasure.
We will not taste the fine, guilty rapture of a deliberate dereliction;
the gentle sin of omission is all but blotted from the calendar of
our crimes. If I had been Columbus, I should have thought twice before
setting sail, when I was quite ready to do so; and as for Plymouth Rock,
I should have sternly resisted the blandishments of those twin sirens,
Starvation and Cold, who beckoned the Puritans shoreward, and as soon as
ever I came in sight of their granite perch should have turned back to
England. But it is now too late to repair these errors, and so, on one
of the hottest days of last year, behold my obdurate bridal pair, in a
Tenth or Twentieth Avenue horse-car, setting forth upon the fulfillment
of a series of intentions, any of which had wiselier been left
unaccomplished. Isabel had said they would call upon certain people in
Fiftieth Street, and then shop slowly down, ice-creaming and staging
and variously cooling and calming by the way, until they reached
the ticket-office on Broadway, whence they could indefinitely betake
themselves to the steamboat an hour or two before her departure. She
felt that they had yielded sufficiently to circumstances and conditions
already on this journey, and she was resolved that the present half-day
in New York should be the half-day of her original design.
It was not the most advisable thing, as I have allowed, but it was
inevitable, and it afforded them a spectacle which is by no means
wanting in sublimity, and which is certainly unique,--the spectacle of
that great city on a hot day, defiant of the elements, and prospering
on with every form of labor, and at a terrible cost of life. The man
carrying the hod to the top of the walls that rankly grow and grow as
from his life’s blood, will only lay down his load when he feels the
mortal glare of the sun blaze in upon heart and brain; the plethoric
millionaire for whom he toils will plot and plan in his office till he
swoons at the desk; the trembling beast must stagger forward while the
flame-faced tormentor on the box has strength to lash him on; in all
those vast palaces of commerce there are ceaseless sale and purchase,
packing and unpacking, lifting up and laying down, arriving and
departing loads; in thousands of shops is the unspared and unsparing
weariness of selling; in the street, filled by the hurry and suffering
of tens of thousands, is the weariness of buying.
Their afternoon’s experience was something that Basil and Isabel could,
when it was past, look upon only as a kind of vision, magnificent at
times, and at other times full of indignity and pain. They seemed to
have dreamed of a long horse-car pilgrimage through that squalid street
by the river-side, where presently they came to a market, opening upon
the view hideous vistas of carnage, and then into a wide avenue, with
processions of cars like their own coming and going up and down the
centre of a foolish and useless breadth, which made even the tall
buildings (rising gauntly up among the older houses of one or two
stories) on either hand look low, and let in the sun to bake the dust
that the hot breaths of wind caught up and sent swirling into the shabby
shops. Here they dreamed of the eternal demolition and construction
of the city, and farther on of vacant lots full of granite boulders,
clambered over by goats. In their dream they had fellow-passengers,
whose sufferings made them odious and whom they were glad to leave
behind when they alighted from the car, and running out of the blaze
of the avenue, quenched themselves in the shade of the cross-street.
A little strip of shadow lay along the row of brown-stone fronts, but
there were intervals where the vacant lots cast no shadow. With great
bestowal of thought they studied hopelessly how to avoid these spaces
as if they had been difficult torrents or vast expanses of desert sand;
they crept slowly along till they came to such a place, and dashed
swiftly across it, and then, fainter than before, moved on. They seemed
now and then to stand at doors, and to be told that people were out and
again that they were in; and they had a sense of cool dark parlors,
and the airy rustling of light-muslined ladies, of chat and of fans and
ice-water, and then they came forth again; and evermore
     “The day increased from heat to heat.”
At last they were aware of an end of their visits, and of a purpose to
go down town again, and of seeking the nearest car by endless blocks
of brown-stone fronts, which with their eternal brownstone flights of
steps, and their handsome, intolerable uniformity, oppressed them like a
procession of houses trying to pass a given point and never getting by.
Upon these streets there was, seldom a soul to be seen, so that when
their ringing at a door had evoked answer, it had startled them with a
vague, sad surprise. In the distance on either hand they could see cars
and carts and wagons toiling up and down the avenues, and on the next
intersecting pavement sometimes a laborer with his jacket slung across
his shoulder, or a dog that had plainly made up his mind to go mad. Up
to the time of their getting into one of those phantasmal cars for the
return down-townwards they had kept up a show of talk in their wretched
dream; they had spoken of other hot days that they had known elsewhere;
and they had wondered that the tragical character of heat had been so
little recognized. They said that the daily New York murder might even
at that moment be somewhere taking place; and that no murder of the
whole homicidal year could have such proper circumstance; they
morbidly wondered what that day’s murder would be, and in what swarming
tenement-house, or den of the assassin streets by the river-sides,--if
indeed it did not befall in some such high, close-shuttered, handsome
dwelling as those they passed, in whose twilight it would be so easy to
strike down the master and leave him undiscovered and unmourned by
the family ignorantly absent at the mountains or the seaside. They
conjectured of the horror of midsummer battles, and pictured the anguish
of shipwrecked men upon a tropical coast, and the grimy misery of
stevedores unloading shiny cargoes of anthracite coal at city docks. But
now at last, as they took seats opposite one another in the crowded car,
they seemed to have drifted infinite distances and long epochs
asunder. They looked hopelessly across the intervening gulf, and mutely
questioned when it was and from what far city they or some remote
ancestors of theirs had set forth upon a wedding journey. They bade each
other a tacit farewell, and with patient, pathetic faces awaited the end
of the world.
When they alighted, they took their way up through one of the streets of
the great wholesale businesses, to Broadway. On this street was a throng
of trucks and wagons lading and unlading; bales and boxes rose and sank
by pulleys overhead; the footway was a labyrinth of packages of every
shape and size: there was no flagging of the pitiless energy that
moved all forward, no sign of how heavy a weight lay on it, save in
the reeking faces of its helpless instruments. But when the
wedding-journeyers emerged upon Broadway, the other passages and
incidents of their dream faded before the superior fantasticality of the
spectacle. It was four o’clock, the deadliest hour of the deadly summer
day. The spiritless air seemed to have a quality of blackness in it, as
if filled with the gloom of low-hovering wings. One half the street lay
in shadow, and one half in sun; but the sunshine itself was dim, as if
a heat greater than its own had smitten it with languor. Little gusts
of sick, warm wind blew across the great avenue at the corners of the
intersecting streets. In the upward distance, at which the journeyers
looked, the loftier roofs and steeples lifted themselves dim out of the
livid atmosphere, and far up and down the length of the street swept
a stream of tormented life. All sorts of wheeled things thronged it,
conspicuous among which rolled and jarred the gaudily painted Stages,
with quivering horses driven each by a man who sat in the shade of
a branching white umbrella, and suffered with a moody truculence of
aspect, and as if he harbored the bitterness of death in his heart for
the crowding passengers within, when one of them pulled the strap about
his legs, and summoned him to halt. Most of the foot-passengers kept to
the shady side, and to the unaccustomed eyes of the strangers they were
not less in number than at any other time, though there were fewer women
among them. Indomitably resolute of soul, they held their course with
the swift pace of custom, and only here and there they showed the effect
of the heat. One man, collarless, with waistcoat unbuttoned, and hat set
far back from his forehead, waved a fan before his death-white flabby
face, and set down one foot after the other with the heaviness of a
somnambulist. Another, as they passed him, was saying huskily to the
friend at his side, “I can’t stand this much longer. My hands tingle as
if they had gone to sleep; my heart--” But still the multitude hurried
on, passing, repassing, encountering, evading, vanishing into shop-doors
and emerging from them, dispersing down the side streets, and swarming
out of them. It was a scene that possessed the beholder with singular
fascination, and in its effect of universal lunacy, it might well have
seemed the last phase of a world presently to be destroyed. They who
were in it but not of it, as they fancied, though there was no reason
for this,--looked on it amazed, and at last their own errands being
accomplished, and themselves so far cured of the madness of purpose,
they cried with one voice, that it was a hideous sight, and strove
to take refuge from it in the nearest place where the soda-fountain
sparkled.
It was a vain desire. At the front door of the apothecary’s hung a
thermometer, and as they entered they heard the next comer cry out with
a maniacal pride in the affliction laid upon mankind, “Ninety-seven
degrees!” Behind them at the door there poured in a ceaseless stream
of people, each pausing at the shrine of heat; before he tossed off
the hissing draught that two pale, close-clipped boys served them from
either side of the fountain. Then in the order of their coming
they issued through another door upon the side street, each, as he
disappeared, turning his face half round, and casting a casual glance
upon a little group near another counter. The group was of a very
patient, half-frightened, half-puzzled looking gentleman who sat
perfectly still on a stool, and of a lady who stood beside him, rubbing
all over his head a handkerchief full of pounded ice, and easing one
hand with the other when the first became tired. Basil drank his soda
and paused to look upon this group, which he felt would commend itself
to realistic sculpture as eminently characteristic of the local life,
and as “The Sunstroke” would sell enormously in the hot season. “Better
take a little more of that,” the apothecary said, looking up from
his prescription, and, as the organized sympathy of the seemingly
indifferent crowd, smiling very kindly at his patient, who thereupon
tasted something in the glass he held. “Do you still feel like
fainting?” asked the humane authority. “Slightly, now and then,”
 answered the other, “but I’m hanging on hard to the bottom curve of that
icicled S on your soda-fountain, and I feel that I’m all right as long
as I can see that. The people get rather hazy, occasionally, and have
no features to speak of. But I don’t know that I look very impressive
myself,” he added in the jesting mood which seems the natural condition
of Americans in the face of all embarrassments.
“O, you’ll do!” the apothecary answered, with a laugh; but he said, in
answer to an anxious question from the lady, “He mustn’t be moved for an
hour yet,” and gayly pestled away at a prescription, while she resumed
her office of grinding the pounded ice round and round upon her
husband’s skull. Isabel offered her the commiseration of friendly words,
and of looks kinder yet, and then seeing that they could do nothing, she
and Basil fell into the endless procession, and passed out of the side
door. “What a shocking thing!” she whispered. “Did you see how all the
people looked, one after another, so indifferently at that couple, and
evidently forgot them the next instant? It was dreadful. I shouldn’t
like to have you sun-struck in New York.”
“That’s very considerate of you; but place for place, if any accident
must happen to me among strangers, I think I should prefer to have it
in New York. The biggest place is always the kindest as well as the
cruelest place. Amongst the thousands of spectators the good Samaritan
as well as the Levite would be sure to be. As for a sun-stroke, it
requires peculiar gifts. But if you compel me to a choice in the matter,
then I say, give me the busiest part of Broadway for a sun-stroke. There
is such experience of calamity there that you could hardly fall
the first victim to any misfortune. Probably the gentleman at the
apothecary’s was merely exhausted by the heat, and ran in there for
revival. The apothecary has a case of the kind on his hands every
blazing afternoon, and knows just what to do. The crowd may be a little
‘ennuye’ of sun-strokes, and to that degree indifferent, but they most
likely know that they can only do harm by an expression of sympathy, and
so they delegate their pity as they have delegated their helpfulness to
the proper authority, and go about their business. If a man was overcome
in the middle of a village street, the blundering country druggist
wouldn’t know what to do, and the tender-hearted people would crowd
about so that no breath of air could reach the victim.”
“May be so, dear,” said the wife, pensively; “but if anything did happen
to you in New York, I should like to have the spectators look as if they
saw a human being in trouble. Perhaps I’m a little exacting.”
“I think you are. Nothing is so hard as to understand that there are
human beings in this world besides one’s self and one’s set. But let us
be selfishly thankful that it isn’t you and I there in the apothecary’s
shop, as it might very well be; and let us get to the boat as soon as
we can, and end this horrible midsummer-day’s dream. We must have a
carriage,” he added with tardy wisdom, hailing an empty hack, “as we
ought to have had all day; though I’m not sorry, now the worst’s over,
to have seen the worst.”
III. THE NIGHT BOAT.
There is little proportion about either pain or pleasure: a headache
darkens the universe while it lasts, a cup of tea really lightens the
spirit bereft of all reasonable consolations. Therefore I do not think
it trivial or untrue to say that there is for the moment nothing more
satisfactory in life than to have bought your ticket on the night boat
up the Hudson and secured your state-room key an hour or two before
departure, and some time even before the pressure at the clerk’s office
has begun. In the transaction with this castellated baron, you have of
course been treated with haughtiness, but not with ferocity, and your
self-respect swells with a sense of having escaped positive insult; your
key clicks cheerfully in your pocket against its gutta-percha number,
and you walk up and down the gorgeously carpeted, single-columned,
two-story cabin, amid a multitude of plush sofas and chairs, a glitter
of glass, and a tinkle of prismatic chandeliers overhead, unawed even by
the aristocratic gloom of the yellow waiters. Your own stateroom as
you enter it from time to time is an ever-new surprise of splendors, a
magnificent effect of amplitude, of mahogany bedstead, of lace curtains,
and of marble topped wash-stand. In the mere wantonness of an unalloyed
prosperity you say to the saffron nobleman nearest your door, “Bring
me a pitcher of ice-water, quick, please!” and you do not find the
half-hour that he is gone very long.
If the ordinary wayfarer experiences so much pleasure from these things,
then imagine the infinite comfort of our wedding-journeyers, transported
from Broadway on that pitiless afternoon to the shelter and the quiet
of that absurdly palatial steamboat. It was not yet crowded, and by the
river-side there was almost a freshness in the air. They disposed of
their troubling bags and packages; they complimented the ridiculous
princeliness of their stateroom, and then they betook themselves to
the sheltered space aft of the saloon, where they sat down for the
tranquiller observance of the wharf and whatever should come to be seen
by them. Like all people who have just escaped with their lives from
some menacing calamity, they were very philosophical in spirit; and
having got aboard of their own motion, and being neither of them
apparently the worse for the ordeal they had passed through, were of a
light, conversational temper.
“What an amusingly superb affair!” Basil cried as they glanced through
an open window down the long vista of the saloon. “Good heavens! Isabel,
does it take all this to get us plain republicans to Albany in comfort
and safety, or are we really a nation of princes in disguise? Well, I
shall never be satisfied with less hereafter,” he added. “I am spoilt
for ordinary paint and upholstery from this hour; I am a ruinous
spendthrift, and a humble three-story swell-front up at the South End is
no longer the place for me. Dearest,
     ‘Let us swear an oath, and keep it with an equal mind,’
never to leave this Aladdin’s-palace-like steamboat, but spend our lives
in perpetual trips up and down the Hudson.”
To which not very costly banter Isabel responded in kind, and rapidly
sketched the life they could lead aboard. Since they could not help
it, they mocked the public provision which, leaving no interval between
disgraceful squalor and ludicrous splendor, accommodates our democratic
‘menage’ to the taste of the richest and most extravagant plebeian
amongst us. He, unhappily, minds danger and oppression as little as he
minds money, so long as he has a spectacle and a sensation, and it is
this ruthless imbecile who will have lace curtains to the steamboat
berth into which he gets with his pantaloons on, and out of which he may
be blown by an exploding boiler at any moment; it is he who will have
for supper that overgrown and shapeless dinner in the lower saloon, and
will not let any one else buy tea or toast for a less sum than he pays
for his surfeit; it is he who perpetuates the insolence of the clerk and
the reluctance of the waiters; it is he, in fact, who now comes out of
the saloon, with his womenkind, and takes chairs under the awning where
Basil and Isabel sit. Personally, he is not so bad; he is good-looking,
like all of us; he is better dressed than most of us; he behaves himself
quietly, if not easily; and no lord so loathes a scene. Next year he is
going to Europe, where he will not show to so much advantage as here;
but for the present it would be hard to say in what way he is vulgar,
and perhaps vulgarity is not so common a thing after all.
It was something besides the river that made the air so much more
sufferable than it had been. Over the city, since our friends had come
aboard the boat, a black cloud had gathered and now hung low upon
it, while the wind from the face of the water took the dust in the
neighboring streets, and frolicked it about the house-tops, and in the
faces of the arriving passengers, who, as the moment of departure drew
near, appeared in constantly increasing numbers and in greater variety,
with not only the trepidation of going upon them, but also with the
electrical excitement people feel before a tempest.
The breast of the black cloud was now zigzagged from moment to moment
by lightning, and claps of deafening thunder broke from it. At last the
long endurance of the day was spent, and out of its convulsion burst
floods of rain, again and again sweeping the promenade-deck where the
people sat, and driving them disconsolate into the saloon. The air was
darkened as by night, and with many regrets for the vanishing prospect,
mingled with a sense of relief from the heat, our friends felt the boat
tremble away from her moorings and set forth upon her trip.
“Ah! if we had only taken the day boat!” moaned Isabel. “Now, we shall
see nothing of the river landscape, and we shall never be able to put
ourselves down when we long for Europe, by declaring that the scenery of
the Hudson is much finer than that of the Rhine.”
Yet they resolved, this indomitably good-natured couple, that they would
be just even to the elements, which had by no means been generous to
them; and they owned that if so noble a storm had celebrated their
departure upon some storied river from some more romantic port than New
York, they would have thought it an admirable thing. Even whilst they
contented themselves, the storm passed, and left a veiled and humid sky
overhead, that gave a charming softness to the scene on which their eyes
fell when they came out of the saloon again, and took their places with
a largely increased companionship on the deck.
They had already reached that part of the river where the uplands begin,
and their course was between stately walls of rocky steepness, or wooded
slopes, or grassy hollows, the scene forever losing and taking grand
and lovely shape. Wreaths of mist hung about the tops of the loftier
headlands, and long shadows draped their sides. As the night grew,
lights twinkled from a lonely house here and there in the valleys; a
swarm of lamps showed a town where it lay upon the lap or at the foot of
the hills. Behind them stretched the great gray river, haunted with many
sails; now a group of canal-boats grappled together, and having an air
of coziness in their adventure upon this strange current out of their
own sluggish waters, drifted out of sight; and now a smaller and
slower steamer, making a laborious show of keeping up was passed, and
reluctantly fell behind; along the water’s edge rattled and hooted the
frequent trains. They could not tell at any time what part of the river
they were on, and they could not, if they would, have made its beauty a
matter of conscientious observation; but all the more, therefore, they
deeply enjoyed it without reference to time or place. They felt some
natural pain when they thought that they might unwittingly pass the
scenes that Irving has made part of the common dream-land, and they
would fair have seen the lighted windows of the house out of which
a cheerful ray has penetrated to so many hearts; but being sure of
nothing, as they were, they had the comfort of finding the Tappan Zee
in every expanse of the river, and of discovering Sunny-Side on every
pleasant slope. By virtue of this helplessness, the Hudson, without
ceasing to be the Hudson, became from moment to moment all fair and
stately streams upon which they had voyaged or read of voyaging, from
the Nile to the Mississippi. There is no other travel like river travel;
it is the perfection of movement, and one might well desire never to
arrive at one’s destination. The abundance of room, the free, pure air,
the constant delight of the eyes in the changing landscape, the soft
tremor of the boat, so steady upon her keel, the variety of the little
world on board,--all form a charm which no good heart in a sound body
can resist. So, whilst the twilight held, well content, in contiguous
chairs, they purred in flattery of their kindly fate, imagining
different pleasures, certainly, but none greater, and tasting to its
subtlest flavor the happiness conscious of itself.
Their own satisfaction, indeed, was so interesting to them in
this objective light, that they had little desire to turn from its
contemplation to the people around them; and when at last they did so,
it was still with lingering glances of self-recognition and enjoyment.
They divined rightly that one of the main conditions of their present
felicity was the fact that they had seen so much of time and of the
world, that they had no longer any desire to take beholding eyes, or
to make any sort of impressive figure, and they understood that their
prosperous love accounted as much as years and travel for this result.
If they had had a loftier opinion of themselves, their indifference to
others might have made them offensive; but with their modest estimate
of their own value in the world, they could have all the comfort of
self-sufficiency, without its vulgarity.
“O yes!” said Basil, in answer to some apostrophe to their bliss from
Isabel, “it’s the greatest imaginable satisfaction to have lived
past certain things. I always knew that I was not a very handsome or
otherwise captivating person, but I can remember years--now blessedly
remote--when I never could see a young girl without hoping she would
mistake me for something of that sort. I couldn’t help desiring that
some fascination of mine, which had escaped my own analysis, would have
an effect upon her. I dare say all young men are so. I used to live
for the possible interest I might inspire in your sex, Isabel. They
controlled my movements, my attitudes; they forbade me repose; and yet
I believe I was no ass, but a tolerably sensible fellow. Blessed be
marriage, I am free at last! All the loveliness that exists outside of
you, dearest,--and it’s mighty little,--is mere pageant to me; and I
thank Heaven that I can meet the most stylish girl now upon the
broad level of our common humanity. Besides, it seems to me that our
experience of life has quieted us in many other ways. What a luxury it
is to sit here, and reflect that we do not want any of these people to
suppose us rich, or distinguished, or beautiful, or well dressed, and do
not care to show off in any sort of way before them!”
This content was heightened, no doubt, by a just sense of their contrast
to the group of people nearest there,--a young man of the second or
third quality--and two young girls. The eldest of these was carrying
on a vivacious flirtation with the young man, who was apparently an
acquaintance of brief standing; the other was scarcely more than a
child, and sat somewhat abashed at the sparkle of the colloquy. They
were conjecturally sisters going home from some visit, and not skilled
in the world, but of a certain repute in their country neighborhood for
beauty and wit. The young man presently gave himself out as one who, in
pursuit of trade for the dry-goods house he represented, had travelled
many thousands of miles in all parts of the country. The encounter was
visibly that kind of adventure which both would treasure up for future
celebration to their different friends; and it had a brilliancy and
interest which they could not even now consent to keep to themselves.
They talked to each other and at all the company within hearing,
and exchanged curt speeches which had for them all the sensation of
repartee.
Young Man. They say that beauty unadorned is adorned the most.
Young Woman (bridling, and twitching her head from side to side, in the
high excitement of the dialogue). Flattery is out of place.
Young Man. Well, never mind. If you don’t believe me, you ask your
mother when you get home.
(Titter from the younger sister.)
Young Woman (scornfully). Umph! my mother has no control over me!
Young Man. Nobody else has, either, I should say. (Admiringly.)
Young Woman. Yes, you’ve told the truth for once, for a wonder. I’m
able to take care of myself,--perfectly. (Almost hoarse with a sense of
sarcastic performance.)
Young Man. “Whole team and big dog under the wagon,” as they say out
West.
Young Woman. Better a big dog than a puppy, any day.
Giggles and horror from the younger sister, sensation in the young man,
and so much rapture in the young woman that she drops the key of her
state-room from her hand. They both stoop, and a jocose scuffle for it
ensues, after which the talk takes an autobiographical turn on the part
of the young man, and drops into an unintelligible murmur. “Ah! poor
Real Life, which I love, can I make others share the delight I find in
thy foolish and insipid face?”
Not far from this group sat two Hebrews, one young and the other old,
talking of some business out of which the latter had retired. The
younger had been asked his opinion upon some point, and he was expanding
with a flattered consciousness of the elder’s perception of his
importance, and toadying to him with the pleasure which all young men
feel in winning the favor of seniors in their vocation. “Well, as I was
a-say’n’, Isaac don’t seem to haf no natcheral pent for the glothing
business. Man gomes in and wands a goat,”--he seemed to be speaking of a
garment and not a domestic animal,--“Isaac’ll zell him the goat he wands
him to puy, and he’ll make him believe it ‘a the goat he was a lookin’
for. Well, now, that’s well enough as far as it goes; but you know and
I know, Mr. Rosenthal, that that ‘s no way to do business. A man gan’t
zugzeed that goes upon that brincible. Id’s wrong. Id’s easy enough to
make a man puy the goat you want him to, if he wands a goat, but the
thing is to make him puy the goat that you wand to zell when he don’t
wand no goat at all. You’ve asked me what I thought and I’ve dold you.
Isaac’ll never zugzeed in the redail glothing-business in the world!”
“Well,” sighed the elder, who filled his armchair quite full, and
quivered with a comfortable jelly-like tremor in it, at every pulsation
of the engine, “I was afraid of something of the kind. As you say,
Benjamin, he don’t seem to have no pent for it. And yet I proughd him up
to the business; I drained him to it, myself.”
Besides these talkers, there were scattered singly, or grouped about in
twos and threes and fours, the various people one encounters on a Hudson
River boat, who are on the whole different from the passengers on other
rivers, though they all have features in common. There was that man of
the sudden gains, who has already been typified; and there was also the
smoother rich man of inherited wealth, from whom you can somehow know
the former so readily. They were each attended by their several retinues
of womankind, the daughters all much alike, but the mothers somewhat
different. They were going to Saratoga, where perhaps the exigencies
of fashion would bring them acquainted, and where the blue blood of a
quarter of a century would be kind to the yesterday’s fluid of warmer
hue. There was something pleasanter in the face of the hereditary
aristocrat, but not so strong, nor, altogether, so admirable;
particularly if you reflected that he really represented nothing in the
world, no great culture, no political influence, no civic aspiration,
not even a pecuniary force, nothing but a social set, an alien
club-life, a tradition of dining. We live in a true fairy land after
all, where the hoarded treasure turns to a heap of dry leaves. The
almighty dollar defeats itself, and finally buys nothing that a man
cares to have. The very highest pleasure that such an American’s money
can purchase is exile, and to this rich man doubtless Europe is a
twice-told tale. Let us clap our empty pockets, dearest reader, and be
glad.
We can be as glad, apparently, and with the same reason as the poorly
dressed young man standing near beside the guard, whose face Basil and
Isabel chose to fancy that of a poet, and concerning whom, they romanced
that he was going home, wherever his home was, with the manuscript of
a rejected book in his pocket. They imagined him no great things of a
poet, to be sure, but his pensive face claimed delicate feeling for him,
and a graceful, sombre fancy, and they conjectured unconsciously caught
flavors of Tennyson and Browning in his verse, with a moderner tint from
Morris: for was it not a story out of mythology, with gods and heroes of
the nineteenth century, that he was now carrying back from New York
with him? Basil sketched from the colors of his own long-accepted
disappointments a moving little picture of this poor imagined poet’s
adventures; with what kindness and unkindness he had been put to shame
by publishers, and how, descending from his high, hopes of a book, he
had tried to sell to the magazines some of the shorter pieces out of the
“And other Poems” which were to have filled up the volume. “He’s going
back rather stunned and bewildered; but it’s something to have tasted
the city, and its bitter may turn to sweet on his palate, at last, till
he finds himself longing for the tumult that he abhors now. Poor fellow!
one compassionate cut-throat of a publisher even asked him to lunch,
being struck, as we are, with something fine in his face. I hope he’s
got somebody who believes in him, at home. Otherwise he’d be more
comfortable, for the present, if he went over the railing there.”
So the play of which they were both actors and spectators went on about
them. Like all passages of life, it seemed now a grotesque mystery,
with a bluntly enforced moral, now a farce of the broadest, now a latent
tragedy folded in the disguises of comedy. All the elements, indeed,
of either were at work there, and this was but one brief scene of
the immense complex drama which was to proceed so variously in such
different times and places, and to have its denouement only in eternity.
The contrasts were sharp: each group had its travesty in some other; the
talk of one seemed the rude burlesque, the bitter satire of the next;
but of all these parodies none was so terribly effective as the two
women, who sat in the midst of the company, yet were somehow distinct
from the rest. One wore the deepest black of widowhood, the other was
dressed in bridal white, and they were both alike awful in their mockery
of guiltless sorrow and guiltless joy. They were not old, but the soul
of youth was dead in their pretty, lamentable faces, and ruin ancient as
sin looked from their eyes; their talk and laughter seemed the echo of
an innumerable multitude of the lost haunting the world in every land
and time, each solitary forever, yet all bound together in the unity of
an imperishable slavery and shame.
What a stale effect! What hackneyed characters! Let us be glad the night
drops her curtain upon the cheap spectacle, and shuts these with the
other actors from our view.
Within the cabin, through which Basil and Isabel now slowly moved, there
were numbers of people lounging about on the sofas, in various attitudes
of talk or vacancy; and at the tables there were others reading
“Lothair,” a new book in the remote epoch of which I write, and a very
fashionable book indeed. There was in the air that odor of paint and
carpet which prevails on steamboats; the glass drops of the chandeliers
ticked softly against each other, as the vessel shook with her
respiration, like a comfortable sleeper, and imparted a delicious
feeling of coziness and security to our travellers.
A few hours later they struggled awake at the sharp sound of the pilot’s
bell signaling the engineer to slow the boat. There was a moment of
perfect silence; then all the drops of the chandeliers in the saloon
clashed musically together; then fell another silence; and at last came
wild cries for help, strongly qualified with blasphemies and curses.
“Send out a boat!” “There was a woman aboard that steamboat!” “Lower
your boats!” “Run a craft right down, with your big boat!” “Send out a
boat and pick up the crew!” The cries rose and sank, and finally ceased;
through the lattice of the state-room window some lights shone faintly
on the water at a distance.
“Wait here, Isabel!” said her husband. “We’ve run down a boat. We don’t
seem hurt; but I’ll go see. I’ll be back in a minute.”
Isabel had emerged into a world of dishabille, a world wildly unbuttoned
and unlaced, where it was the fashion for ladies to wear their hair down
their backs, and to walk about in their stockings, and to speak to
each other without introduction. The place with which she had felt so
familiar a little while before was now utterly estranged. There was no
motion of the boat, and in the momentary suspense a quiet prevailed,
in which those grotesque shapes of disarray crept noiselessly round
whispering panic-stricken conjectures. There was no rushing to and
fro, nor tumult of any kind, and there was not a man to be seen, for
apparently they had all gone like Basil to learn the extent of the
calamity. A mist of sleep involved the whole, and it was such a
topsy-turvy world that it would have seemed only another dream-land,
but that it was marked for reality by one signal fact. With the rest
appeared the woman in bridal white and the woman in widow’s black, and
there, amidst the fright that made all others friends, and for aught
that most knew, in the presence of death itself, these two moved
together shunned and friendless.
Somehow, even before Basil returned, it had become known to Isabel and
the rest that their own steamer had suffered no harm, but that she had
struck and sunk another convoying a flotilla of canal boats, from which
those alarming cries and curses had come. The steamer was now lying by
for the small boats she had sent out to pick up the crew of the sunken
vessel.
“Why, I only heard a little tinkling of the chandeliers,” said one of
the ladies. “Is it such a very alight matter to run down another boat
and sink it?”
She appealed indirectly to Basil, who answered lightly, “I don’t think
you ladies ought to have been disturbed at all. In running over a common
tow-boat on a perfectly clear night like this there should have been no
noise and no perceptible jar. They manage better on the Mississippi, and
both boats often go down without waking the lightest sleeper on board.”
The ladies, perhaps from a deficient sense of humor, listened with
undisguised displeasure to this speech. It dispersed them, in fact; some
turned away to bivouac for the rest of the night upon the arm-chairs
and sofas, while others returned to their rooms. With the latter went
Isabel. “Lock me in, Basil,” she said, with a bold meekness, “and if
anything more happens don’t wake me till the last moment.” It was hard
to part from him, but she felt that his vigil would somehow be useful
to the boat, and she confidingly fell into a sleep that lasted till
daylight.
Meantime, her husband, on whom she had tacitly devolved so great a
responsibility, went forward to the promenade in front of the saloon, in
hopes of learning something more of the catastrophe from the people whom
he had already found gathered there.
A large part of the passengers were still there, seated or standing
about in earnest colloquy. They were in that mood which follows great
excitement, and in which the feeblest-minded are sure to lead the talk.
At such times one feels that a sensible frame of mind is unsympathetic,
and if expressed, unpopular, or perhaps not quite safe; and Basil,
warned by his fate with the ladies, listened gravely to the voice of the
common imbecility and incoherence.
The principal speaker was a tall person, wearing a silk travelling-cap.
He had a face of stupid benignity and a self-satisfied smirk; and he was
formally trying to put at his ease, and hopelessly confusing the loutish
youth before him. “You say you saw the whole accident, and you’re
probably the only passenger that did see it. You’ll be the most
important witness at the trial,” he added, as if there would ever be any
trial about it. “Now, how did the tow-boat hit us?”
“Well, she came bows on.”
“Ah! bows on,” repeated the other, with great satisfaction; and a little
murmur of “Bows on!” ran round the listening circle.
“That is,” added the witness, “it seemed as if we struck her amidships,
and cut her in two, and sunk her.”
“Just so,” continued the examiner, accepting the explanation, “bows on.
Now I want to ask if you saw our captain or any of the crew about?”
“Not a soul,” said the witness, with the solemnity of a man already on
oath.
“That’ll do,” exclaimed the other. “This gentleman’s experience
coincides exactly with my own. I didn’t see the collision, but I did see
the cloud of steam from the sinking boat, and I saw her go down. There
wasn’t an officer to be found anywhere on board our boat. I looked about
for the captain and the mate myself, and couldn’t find either of them
high or low.”
“The officers ought all to have been sitting here on the promenade
deck,” suggested one ironical spirit in the crowd, but no one noticed
him.
The gentleman in the silk travelling-cap now took a chair, and a number
of sympathetic listeners drew their chairs about him, and then began an
interchange of experience, in which each related to the last particular
all that he felt, thought, and said, and, if married, what his wife
felt, thought, and said, at the moment of the calamity. They turned the
disaster over and over in their talk, and rolled it under their tongues.
Then they reverted to former accidents in which they had been concerned;
and the silk-capped gentleman told, to the common admiration, of a
fearful escape of his, on the Erie Road, from being thrown down a steep
embankment fifty feet high by a piece of rock that had fallen on the
track. “Now just see, gentlemen, what a little thing, humanly speaking,
life depends upon. If that old woman had been able to sleep, and hadn’t
sent that boy down to warn the train, we should have run into the rock
and been dashed to pieces. The passengers made up a purse for the boy,
and I wrote a full account of it to the papers.”
“Well,” said one of the group, a man in a hard hat, “I never lie down
on a steamboat or a railroad train. I want to be ready for whatever
happens.”
The others looked at this speaker with interest, as one who had invented
a safe method of travel.
“I happened to be up to-night, but I almost always undress and go to
bed, just as if I were in my own house,” said the gentleman of the silk
cap.
“I don’t say your way isn’t the best, but that’s my way.”
The champions of the rival systems debated their merits with suavity and
mutual respect, but they met with scornful silence a compromising spirit
who held that it was better to throw off your coat and boots, but keep
your pantaloons on. Meanwhile, the steamer was hanging idle upon the
current, against which it now and then stirred a careless wheel, still
waiting for the return of the small boats. Thin gray clouds, through
rifts of which a star sparkled keenly here and there, veiled the
heavens; shadowy bluffs loomed up on either hand; in a hollow on the
left twinkled a drowsy little town; a beautiful stillness lay on all.
After an hour’s interval a shout was heard from far down the river; then
later the plash of oars; then a cry hailing the approaching boats, and
the answer, “All safe!” Presently the boats had come alongside, and the
passengers crowded down to the guard to learn the details of the search.
Basil heard a hollow, moaning, gurgling sound, regular as that of the
machinery, for some note of which he mistook it. “Clear the gangway
there!” shouted a gruff voice; “man scalded here!” And a burden was
carried by from which fluttered, with its terrible regularity, that
utterance of mortal anguish.
Basil went again to the forward promenade, and sat down to see the
morning come.
The boat swiftly ascended the current, and presently the steeper shores
were left behind and the banks fell away in long upward sloping fields,
with farm-houses and with stacks of harvest dimly visible in the
generous expanses. By and by they passed a fisherman drawing his nets,
and bending from his boat, there near Albany, N. Y., in the picturesque
immortal attitudes of Raphael’s Galilean fisherman; and now a flush
mounted the pale face of the east, and through the dewy coolness of the
dawn there came, more to the sight than any other sense, a vague menace
of heat. But as yet the air was deliciously fresh and sweet, and Basil
bathed his weariness in it, thinking with a certain luxurious compassion
of the scalded man, and how he was to fare that day. This poor wretch
seemed of another order of beings, as the calamitous always seem to the
happy, and Basil’s pity was quite an abstraction; which, again, amused
and shocked him, and he asked his heart of bliss to consider of sorrow a
little more earnestly as the lot of all men, and not merely of an alien
creature here and there. He dutifully tried to imagine another issue to
the disaster of the night, and to realize himself suddenly bereft of her
who so filled his life. He bade his soul remember that, in the security
of sleep, Death had passed them both so close that his presence might
well have chilled their dreams, as the iceberg that grazes the ship in
the night freezes all the air about it. But it was quite idle: where
love was, life only was; and sense and spirit alike put aside the burden
that he would have laid upon them; his revery reflected with delicious
caprice the looks, the tones, the movements that he loved, and bore him
far away from the sad images that he had invited to mirror themselves in
it.
IV. A DAY’S RAILROADING
Happiness has commonly a good appetite; and the thought of the
fortunately ended adventures of the night, the fresh morning air, and
the content of their own hearts, gifted our friends, by the time the
boat reached Albany, with a wholesome hunger, so that they debated with
spirit the question of breakfast and the best place of breakfasting in
a city which neither of them knew, save in the most fugitive and sketchy
way.
They decided at last, in view of the early departure of the train, and
the probability that they would be more hurried at a hotel, to breakfast
at the station, and thither they went and took places at one of the
many tables within, where they seemed to have been expected only by
the flies. The waitress plainly had not looked for them, and for a time
found their presence so incredible that she would not acknowledge the
rattling that Basil was obliged to make on his glass. Then it appeared
that the cook would not believe in them, and he did not send them, till
they were quite faint, the peppery and muddy draught which impudently
affected to be coffee, the oily slices of fugacious potatoes slipping
about in their shallow dish and skillfully evading pursuit, the pieces
of beef that simulated steak, the hot, greasy biscuit, steaming
evilly up into the face when opened, and then soddening into masses of
condensed dyspepsia.
The wedding-journeyers looked at each other with eyes of sad amaze.
They bowed themselves for a moment to the viands, and then by an equal
impulse refrained. They were sufficiently young, they were happy, they
were hungry; nature is great and strong, but art is greater, and before
these triumphs of the cook at the Albany depot appetite succumbed. By
a terrible tour de force they swallowed the fierce and turbid liquor
in their cups, and then speculated fantastically upon the character and
history of the materials of that breakfast.
Presently Isabel paused, played a little with her knife, and, after a
moment looked up at her husband with an arch regard and said: “I was
just thinking of a small station somewhere in the South of France where
our train once stopped for breakfast. I remember the freshness and
brightness of everything on the little tables,--the plates, the napkins,
the gleaming half-bottles of wine. They seemed to have been preparing
that breakfast for us from the beginning of time, and we were hardly
seated before they served us with great cups of ‘cafe-au-lait’, and the
sweetest rolls and butter; then a delicate cutlet, with an unspeakable
gravy, and potatoes,--such potatoes! Dear me, how little I ate of it! I
wish, for once, I’d had your appetite, Basil; I do indeed.”
She ended with a heartless laugh, in which, despite the tragical
contrast her words had suggested, Basil finally joined. So much
amazement had probably never been got before out of the misery inflicted
in that place; but their lightness did not at all commend them. The
waitress had not liked it from the first, and had served them with
reluctance; and the proprietor did not like it, and kept his eye upon
them as if he believed them about to escape without payment. Here, then,
they had enforced a great fact of travelling,--that people who serve the
public are kindly and pleasant in proportion as they serve it well. The
unjust and the inefficient have always that consciousness of evil which
will not let a man forgive his victim, or like him to be cheerful.
Our friends, however, did not heat themselves over the fact. There was
already such heat from without, even at eight o’clock in the morning,
that they chose to be as cool as possible in mind, and they placidly
took their places in the train, which had been made up for departure.
They had deliberately rejected the notion of a drawing-room car as
affording a less varied prospect of humanity, and as being less in
the spirit of ordinary American travel. Now, in reward, they found
themselves quite comfortable in the common passenger-car, and disposed
to view the scenery, into which they struck an hour after leaving the
city, with much complacency. There was sufficient draught through the
open window to make the heat tolerable, and the great brooding warmth
gave to the landscape the charm which it alone can impart. It is
a landscape that I greatly love for its mild beauty and tranquil
picturesqueness, and it is in honor of our friends that I say they
enjoyed it. There are nowhere any considerable hills, but everywhere
generous slopes and pleasant hollows and the wide meadows of a grazing
country, with the pretty brown Mohawk River rippling down through all,
and at frequent intervals the life of the canal, now near, now far away,
with the lazy boats that seem not to stir, and the horses that the train
