which pleased the old fellow amazingly. 
He had a paper in his hand which he showed 
to Fly. He always had a paper in his hand. It 
was a petition to the Legislature of the State of 
Massachusetts, with illustrated margins of etch- 
ings in pen and ink. The designs ran all to
foliage, — indiscriminate underbrush at first glance ; 
upon examination, forests came out in rows ; upon 
study, hands came out from the forests, hundreds 
of them, from bough, from twig, from stem, from 
leaf. The forest on the left margin wrung its 
hands, it seemed. The forest on the right margin 
clapped them smartly. 
" What for ? " asked Fly, politely. 
" Is it not written," said the old man, solemnly, 
" that in that day all the trees of the field shall 
clap their hands ? " 
" But what about ? " persisted Fly. 
" The voice said, ' Cry ! ' " said Bijah, shrilly ; 
"and I said, 'What shall I cry?'" He lifted 
his petition to the Legislature of the State of 
Massachusetts in his shaking hand, and fixed his 
bleared eyes over it upon Fly's pretty, fright- 
ened face. " What shall I cry ? ' And thou 
saidst in thine heart, I shall be a lady forever ; so 
that thou didst not lay these things to thy heart, 
neither didst remember the latter end of it I ' " 
" O dear ! " said Fly, and rippled away. 
"A Hebrew prophet and a canary-bird," 
thought Perley, when she heard of it. 
Fly rippled out into the hall, where the stir 
and stop seemed to have centred. The hostess 
was there, talking to Sip Garth in a low tone. 
Dirk Burdock was there, having found Sip, he 
said, half-way over ; and a young Irish girl 
whom Sip had with her, a fine-featured little 
creature, with heavy sodden circles about her eyes 
and mouth. ' 
She was sorry to be so late, Sip was saying, 
"But Maggie 'd set her heart so on coming, you 
see ; and there she lay and fainted, and I have 
n't been able to bring her round enough to get 
over here till this minute. Her folks was all 
away, and I couldn't seem to leave her ; and 
she did so set her heart on coming ! She -has 
been carried in a faint out of the mill four times 
to-day — out into the air, and a dash of water — 
and back again ; and down again. The ther- 
mometer has stood at 115° in our room to-day. 
It hasn't been below 110° not since last Satur- 
day. It's 125° in the dressing-room. There's 
men in the dressing-room with the blood all 
gathered black about their faces, just from heat ; 
they look like men in a fit ; they 're all pur- 
ple. You 'd ought to see the clothes we wear ! — 
drenched like fine folks' bathing-clothes. I could 
virring mine out. We call it the lake of fire, — our 
room. That 's all I could think of since Sunday : 
the Last Day and the lake with all the folks in it. 
I haven't been in such a coolness not since I 
was here last time, Miss Kelso. It 's most as bad 
as hell to be mill-folks in July ! " 
"A blowzy, red-faced girl," Miss Van Doozle 
thought, when the reader came in. 
" My Lords ! " began the red-faced reader, " I 
impart to you a novelty. The human race ex- 
ists " . . . . 
" We have nothing so popular," whispered 
Miss Kelso, " as that girl's readings and recitations.
They ring well." 
" An unappreciated Siddons, perhaps ? " The 
pale Van Doozle eyes assumed the homoeopathic 
trituration of a sarcasm. The Van Doozle eyes 
were not used to Sip exactly. 
"I have thought that there might be greater 
than . Siddons in Sip," replied Miss Kelso,
musingly ; " but not altogether of the Siddons sort, I 
admit." 
Sip followed Miss Kelso, in the breaking up of 
the evening, after the books and the ices were 
out of the way. They had some plan about the 
little Irish girl already ; a week's rest at least. 
There was that family on the Shore Line ; and 
the hush of the sea ; where they took such care of 
poor Bert Bush. If Catty were well, Sip would 
take her down. 
" I know the girl. She must be got away till 
this drought 's over. She 'll work till the breath 
is out of her, but she 'll work ; has a brother in 
an insane asylum, and likes to pay his board. 
Maggie's obstinate as death about such things. 
You 'd ought to see her pushing back her hair 
and laughing out, when she come out of those 
faints to-day, and at it again, for all anybody 
could say. You wouldn't think that she 'd ever 
take to Jim, would you ? But got over it, I guess. 
Had a hard time, though. Look here ! I found 
a piece in a newspaper yesterday, and cut it out 
to show to you." 
Sip handed to Miss Kelso, with a smile, a slip 
from one of the leading city dailies, reading 
thus : — 
" What is generally written about Lorenzo fac- 
tory-girls is sensational and pure nonsense. They 
are described as an overworked class, rung up, 
rung out, rung in ; as going to their labors worn, 
dispirited, and jaded ; as dreading to meet their 
task-masters in those stifling rooms, where they 
have cultivated breathing as a iine art ; as
coming home from their thraldom happy but for 
thoughts of the resumption of their toil on the 
morrow. The fact is, sympathy has been offered 
where it was not needed. The officers of the mills 
and the girls themselves will tell you the tasks 
are not exhaustive. No one gets so tired that 
she cannot enjoy the evening, every thought 
of work dismissed. Her employment is such that 
constant attention is not demanded. She may 
frequently sit thinking of the past or planning 
for the future. She earns nearly four dollars per 
week, beside her board. The pleasantest rela- 
tions subsist between her and her overseer, who 
is frequently the depositary of her funds, who 
perhaps goes with her to buy her wedding or 
household outfit, who is her counsellor and pro- 
tector. Her step is not inelastic, but firm 
The mills are high studded, well ventilated, and 
scrupulously clean. The girls are healthy and well 
looking, and men and women, who have worked 
daily for twenty or thirty years, are still in
undiminished enjoyment of sound lungs and limbs." 
" I never was in Lorenzo," said Sip, drily, as 
Perley folded the slip, " but mills are mills. I 'd 
like to see the fellow that wrote that." 
Fly and her friends had sifted into the library, 
while Miss Kelso's guests were thinning. 
" This, I suppose," Mrs. Silver was sadly saying,
" is but a specimen of our poor dear Perley's 
life." 
" You speak as if she were dead and buried, 
mamma," said Fly, making a dazzling little heap 
of herself upon a cricketful of pansies. 
" So she is," affirmed Mrs. Silver, plaintively, 
— " so she , is, my dear, as far as Society is 
concerned, r have been struck this evening by the 
thought, what a loss to Society ! Why, Miss 
Kenna, I am told that this superb house has 
been more like a hospital or a set of public soup- 
rooms for six months past, than it has like the 
retiring and secluded home of a young lady. 
Those people overrun it. They are made wel- 
come to it at all hours and under all circum- 
stances. She invites them to tea, my dear! 
They sit down at her very table with her. I 
have known her to bring out Mirabeau from town 
to furnish their music for them. Would you 
credit it .'' Mirabeau ! In the spring she bought 
a Bierstadt. I was with her at the time. ' I 
have friends in Five Falls who have never seen 
a Bierstadt,' she said. Now what do you call 
that .' T call it morbid," nodded the lady, making 
soft gestures with her soft hands, — " morbid ! " 
" I don't suppose anybody knows the money 
that she has put into her libraries, and her model 
tenements, and all that, either," mused Fly, from 
her cricket. 
"It does well enough in that Mr. Garrick," 
proceeded Mrs. Silver, in a gentle bubble of de- 
spair ; "I don't object to fanatical benevolence in 
a man like him. It is natural, of course. He is 
self-made entirely ; twenty years ago might have 
come to Miss Kelso's evenings himself, you 
know. It is excusable in him, though awkward 
in the firm, as I had reason to know, when he 
started to build that chapel. Now there is 
another of poor Perley's freaks. What does 
she do but leave Dr. Dremaine's, where she 
had at least the dearest of rectors and the best 
pew-list in Five Falls, on the ground that the 
mill-people do not frequent Dr. Dremaine's, and 
take a pew in the chapel herself! They have a 
young preacher there fresh from a seminary, 
and Perley and the mill-girls will sit in a row 
together and hear him ? Now that may be 
Christianity," adds Mrs. Silver, in a burst of 
heroism, " but I call it morbidness, sheer
morbidness ! " 
" But these people are very fond of Perley, 
mamma," urged Fly, lifting some honest trouble 
in her face out of the pretty shine that she made 
in the dim library. 
" They ought to be ! " said Mrs. Silver, with 
unwonted sharpness. 
Now Fly, in her own mind, had meant to find 
out something about that ; she went after the 
Hugo reader, it just occurring to her, and took 
her into a corner before everybody was gone. 
She made a great glitter of herself here too ; 
she could not help it, in her shirred lace and 
garnets. Sip looked her over, smiling as she 
would at a pretty kitten. Sip was more gentle 
in her judgments of " that kind of folks " than 
she used to be. 
" What do we think of her ?" Sip's fitful face 
flushed. " How can I tell you what we think of 
her ? There 's those of us here, young girls of us," 
Nynee Mell's blue ribbons, just before them, were 
fluttering through the door, " that she has saved 
from being what you wouldn't see in here to-night. 
There 's little children here that would be little 
devils, unless it was for her. There 's men of us 
with rum to fight, and boys in prison, and debts to 
pay, and hearts like hell, and never a friend in 
this world or the other but her. There 's others 
of us, that — that — God bless her ! " broke off 
Sip, bringing her clenched little hands together, 
— " God bless her, and the ground she treads on, 
and the air she breathes, and the sky that is over 
her, and the friends that love her, and the walls 
of her grand house, and every dollar of her 
money, and every wish she wishes, and all the 
prayers she prays — but I cannot tell you, young 
lady, what we think of her I " 
" But Society," sighed Mrs. Silver, — " Society 
has rights which every lady is bound to respect ; 
poor Perley forgets her duties to Society. Where 
we used to meet her in our circle, three times, we 
meet her once now." 
" Once of Perley is equal to three times of 
most people," considered Fly, appearing with 
Maverick (who had slipped in as the "evening" 
slipped out) from some lovers' corner. " And she 
doesn't rust, you must own, mamma ; and seems 
to enjoy herself so, besides." 
" I have understood," observed the elder Miss 
Van Doozle, "that she has been heard to say 
that she could never spend an evening in an 
ordinary drawing-room party happily again." 
This, in fact, was a report very common about 
Miss Kelso at one time. Those well acquainted 
with her and with her movements in Five Falls 
will remember it. 
" Poor Perley " herself came in just in time to 
hear it then. 
" I always forgave the falsity of that, for the 
suggestiveness of it," she said, laughing. 
" A thoughtful set of guests you have here," 
said Fly. " We have been finding fault with you 
all the evening." 
" That is what I expected." 
" So we supposed. Perley ! " 
" Well, my dear ? " 
" Are you happy ? " 
" Quite happy. Fly." 
" I should be so miserable ! " said Fly, with a 
shade of the honest trouble still on her pretty 
face. 
" I have been saying," began Mrs. Silver, " that 
Society is a great loser by your philanthropy, 
Perley." 
Perley lighted there. 
" Society ! " she said, " I feel as if I had but 
just begun to go into society ! " 
" But, on your theories," said Kenna Van 
Doozle, with a clumsy smile of hers, " we shall 
have our cooks up stairs playing whist with us, 
by and by." 
" And if we did ? " quietly. " But Miss Van 
Doozle, I am not a reformer ; I haven't come to 
the cooks yet ; I am only a feeler. The world 
gets into the dark once in a while, you know ; 
throws out a few of. us for groping purposes." 
" Kenna and I, for instance, being spots on the 
wings .' " asked Fly. 
" Naturalists insist that the butterfly will pause 
and study its own wings, wrapt in — " 
" O Maverick ! " 
" Admiration," finished Maverick. 
" But one must feel by something," persisted 
Fly, " guess or measure. It is all very beautiful 
in you, Perley. But it seems to me such a 
venture. I should be frightened out of it a dozen 
times over." 
Perley took a little book out of a rack upon one 
of the tables, where Mr. Mell's ice-cream saucer yet 
lay unremoved, — Isaac Taylor in bevelled board. 
" Here," she said, " is enough to feel by, even 
if I feel my way to your cook, Miss Kenna." 
"' To insure, therefore, its large purpose of good- will 
to man, the law of Christ spreads out its 
claims very far beyond the circle of mere pity or 
natural kindness, and in absolute and peremptory 
terms demands for the use of the poor, the igno- 
rant, the wretched, and demands from every one 
who names the name of Christ, the whole residue 
of talent, wealth, time, that may remain after 
primary claims have been satisfied! " 
CHAPTER XII. 
MAPLE LEAVES. 
AN incident connected with Miss Kelso's 
experiments in Five Falls, valuable chiefly 
as indicative of the experimenter, and rather as a 
hint than as history, occurred in the ripening 
autumn. It has been urged upon me to find 
place for it, although it is fragmentary and 
incomplete. 
A distant sea-swell of a strike was faintly 
audible in Hayle and Kelso. 
Hayle and Kelso were in trouble. Standfast 
Brothers, of Town, solid as rock and old as 
memory, had gone down ; gone as suddenly and 
blackly as Smashem & Co. of yesterday, and 
gone with a clutch on Five Falls cotton, under 
which Five Falls shook dizzily. 
The serene face of the senior partner took, for 
the first time since 1857, an anxious, or, it might 
rather be called, an annoyed groove. All the 
manufacturing panics of the war had fanned it 
placidly, but Standfast Brothers were down, and 
behold, the earth reeled and the foundations 
thereof. 
Two things, therefore, resulted. The progress 
of the new mill was checked, and a notice of 
reduction of wages went to the hands. 
The sea-swell murmured. 
Hayle and Kelso heard nothing. 
The sea-swell growled. 
Hayle and Kelso never so much as turned the 
head. 
The sea-swell splashed out a few delegates and 
a request, respectful enough, for consultation and 
compromise. 
" We will shut down the mills first ! " said 
young Mr. Hayle between his teeth. 
So the swell broke with a roar the next " Lord's 
day." 
The groove grew a little jagged across the 
Senior's face. A strike, it is well known, is by no 
means necessarily an undesirable thing. Stock 
accumulates. The market quickens. You keep 
your finger on its pulse. You repair your ma- 
chinery and bide your time. A thousand people, 
living from hand to mouth, may be under your 
finger, empty-handed. What so easy as a little 
stir of the finger now and then ? You are not 
hungry meanwhile ; your daughter has her win- 
ter clothes. You sit and file handcuffs playfully, 
against that day when your " hands " shall have 
gone hungry long enough. No more striking 
presently ! Meantime, you may amuse yourself. 
There is something noteworthy about this 
term " strike." A head would think and out- 
wit us. A heart shall beat and move us. The 
" hands '' can only struggle and strike us, — 
foolishly too, and madly, here and there, and des- 
perately, being ill-trained hands, never at so much 
as a boxing-school, and gashing each other 
principally in the contest. 
There had been strikes in Hayle and Kelso 
which had not caused a ruffle upon the Senior's 
gentlemanly, smooth brow or pleasant smile ; but 
just now a strike was unfortunate. 
" Very unfortunate," said Mr. Hayle in the 
counting-room on pay-day, in the noise of the 
breaking swell. 
The Company were all upon the ground, silent 
and - disturbed. There was a heavy crowd at the 
gates, and the sound of the overseers' voices in 
altercation with them, made its way in jerks to 
the counting-room. 
By a chance Miss Kelso was in the counting- 
room ; had been over to put Mill's " Liberty " 
into the library, and had been detained by the 
gathering crowd. 
She was uneasy Uke the rest ; was in and out, 
taking her own measure of the danger. 
" There is nothing to be done," said Mr. Gar- 
rick, anxiously, the last time that she came into 
the little gloomy room where they were sitting. It 
was beginning to rain, and the windows, through 
which growing spots of lowering faces could be 
seen darkening the streets, were spattered and 
dirty. " There is nothing to do about it. If 
they will, they will. Had you better stay here .' 
We may have a noisy time of it." 
" There is one thing to do," said the young 
lady, decidedly, " only one. I wish, Mr. Garrick, 
that you had never shut me out of this firm. I 
belonged here ! You do not one of you know 
now what it is for your own interest to do ! " 
Mr. Hayle signified, smiling across his groove 
of anxiety, that she was at liberty, of course, to 
offer any valuable suggestion with which she 
might be prepared for such an emergency. 
" And fold my hands for a romantic woman 
after it. However, that does not alter the fact ; 
there is just one thing to do to prevent the most 
serious strike known in Five Falls yet. I know 
those men better than you do." 
" We know them well enough," said Maverick, 
with a polite sneer. " This is a specimen of 
' intelligent labor,' a fair one ! These fellows 
are like a horse blind in one eye ; they will run 
against a barn to get away from a barrel. Loose 
the rein, and there 's mischief immediately. You 
may invite them to supper to the end of their 
days. Miss Kelso ; but when you are in a genuine 
difficulty, they will turn against you just as they 
are doing now. There 's neither gratitude nor 
common business sense among them. There 's 
neither trust nor honor. They have no confidence 
in their employers, and no foresight for 
themselves. They would ruin us altogether for 
fifty cents a week. A parcel of children with the 
blessed addition of a few American citizens at 
their head!" 
" I was about to propose," said Perley, quietly, 
" that their employers should exhibit some trust 
or confidence in them. I want Mr. Garrick to 
go out and tell them why we must reduce their 
wages." 
" Truly a young lady's suggestion," said the 
Senior. 
" It is none of their business," said Maverick, 
" why we reduce their wages." 
Stephen Garrick said nothing. 
" Such a course was never taken in the company," 
said the Senior. 
" And never ought to be," said the Junior. " It 
is an unsuitable position for an employer to take, 
— unsuitable ! And disastrous as a precedent. 
Next thing we know, we should have them regu- 
lating the salary of our clerks and the size of 
our invoices. Outside of the fancy of a co- 
operative economist, such a principle would be 
im What a noise they 're making ! " 
" Every minute is precious," exclaimed Perley, 
rising nervously. " I tell you I know those men ! 
They will trust Mr. Stephen Garrick, if he treats 
them like reasonable beings before it is too 
late ! " , ' 
The counting-room door slammed there, behind 
a messenger from the clerk. Things looked badly, 
he said ; the Spinners' Union had evidently been 
at work ; there were a few brickbats about, and rum 
enough to float a schooner ; and an ugly kind of 
setness all around ; we were in for it, he thought, 
now. Were there any orders ? 
No, no orders. 
The counting-room door slammed again, and 
the noise outside dashed against the sound with 
a little spurt of defiance. 
" It would be a most uncommon course to 
take," said the Senior, uneasily ; " but the
emergency is great, and perhaps if Mr. Garrick felt 
inclined to undertake such an extraordinary — " 
Miss Kelso overrated his chances of success, 
Mr. Garrick said, but she did not overrate the 
importance of somebody's doing something. He 
was willing to make the attempt. 
The counting-room door slammed once more ; 
the spurt died down ; the swell reared its head, 
writhing a little to see what would happen. 
Mr. Garrick took his hat off. and stood in the 
door. 
It was an ugly crowd, with a disheartening 
" setness " about it. He wished, when he looked 
it over, that he had not come  but stood with 
his hat off, smiling. 
He was smiling still when he came back to 
the counting-room. 
"Well?" asked Parley. 
" For an unpopular master — " 
" O hush ! " said Perley. 
" For an unpopular master," repeated Mr. Gar- 
rick, " I did as well as I expected. In fact, just 
what I expected all the time has happened.. 
Listen ! " 
He held the door open. A cry came in from 
outside, — 
" Ask the young leddy !" 
" You see, you should have gone in the first 
place," said the unpopular master, patiently. 
" The rest of us are good for little, without your 
indorsement." 
" Call the young leddy ! Let 's hear what the 
young leddy says to 't ! The young leddy ! The 
young leddy ! " 
The demand came in at the counting-room 
door just as the " young leddy " went out. 
The people parted for her right and left. 
She stood in the mud, in the rain, among them. 
They made room for her, just as the dark day- 
would have made room for a sunbeam. The 
drunkest fellows, some of them, slunk to the circumference 
of the circle that had closed about 
her. Oaths and brickbats seemed to have been 
sucked out to sea by a sudden tide of respecta- 
bility. It has been said by those who witnessed 
it that it was a scene worth seeing. 
" She just stood in the mud and the rain," said 
Sip Garth, in telling the story. " If we 'd all 
been in her fine parlors, we wouldn't have been 
stiller. There was a kind of a shame and a sense 
came to us, to see her standing so quiet in the 
rain. The fellow that opened his lips for a 
roughness before her would ha' been kicked into 
the gutter, I can tell you. It was just like her. 
There 's never mud nor rain amongst us, but you 
look, and there she is ! That day there seemed 
to be a shining to her. We were all worked up 
and angered ; and she stood so white and still. 
There was a minute that she looked at us, and 
she looked — why, she looked as if she 'd be poor 
folks herself, if only she could say how sorry she 
was for us. Then she blazed out at us ! ' Did 
Mr. Garrick ever tell any man of us a word but 
honest truth ? ' she wanted to know. ' And has 
n't he proved himself a friend to every soul of 
you that needed friendliness ?' says she. 'And 
when he told you that he must reduce your 
wages, you shouldn't have sent for me ! ' says 
she. But then she talks to us about the trouble 
that the Company was in, and a foolishness 
creeps round amongst us, as if we wished we 
were at home. It 's not that they so much 
disbelieved Mr. Garrick," said Sip, "but when she 
said she couldn't afford to pay 'em, they believed 
that!' 
" I don't understand about these things," said 
Reuben Mell, slowly stepping out from the 
crowd. " It 's very perplexing to me. It doesn't 
mean a dollar's worth less of horses and carriages, 
and gra;nd parties to the Company, such a trouble 
as this don't seem to. And it means as we go 
without our breakfast so 's the children sha'n't be 
hungry ; and it means as when our shoes are wore 
out, we know no more than a babby in its cradle 
where the next pair is to come from. That 's 
what reduction o' wages means to us. I don't 
understand the matter myself, but I 'm free to 
say that we 'll not doubt as the young leddy does. 
I 'll take the young leddy's word for it, this time, 
for one." 
Mr. Mell, with this, peaceably stepped up and 
took the reduction from the counter, and peaceably 
went home with it. 
There was a little writhing of the flood-tide at 
this, and then an ebb. 
Miss Kelso came out of it, and left it to bub- 
ble by itself for a while. 
Within half an hour it had ebbed away, leaving 
only a few weeds of small boys and a fellow 
too drunk to float in sight of the mill-gate. 
Until at least next " Lord's day," there would 
be no strike in Hayle and Kelso. 
By that time Mr. Garrick hoped that we 
should be upon our feet again. 
Mr. Garrick walked home with Miss Kelso in 
the autumn rain. 
Unfortunately for the weed of a fellow stranded 
in the mill-yard, they passed and recognized him. 
It was the overseer, Irish Jim. Next morning 
he received his notice. They had borne with 
him too long, and warned him too often, Mr. 
Garrick insisted. Go he should, and go he did. 
- But Mr. Garrick walked home with Miss Kelso 
in the autumn rain. 
They passed between the cotton-house and 
the old boiler, in going out. Dirk Burdock had 
stepped through just before them, trying to over- 
take Sip in the distance, hurrying home. Either 
this circumstance or a mood of the mill-master's 
own recalled to his mind his midnight talk with 
the young watchman on that spot, and what Dirk 
had said of its being a " churchly place." It was 
a dreary, dingy place now, in the gray storm- 
light, prosaic and extremely rusty. He held the 
lady's cloak back from the boiler in passing by. 
His hand had but brushed the hem of her 
garment, but it trembled visibly. He touched a 
priestess in a water-proof Fire from heaven fell 
before his eyes upon the yellow boiler. Such a 
" churchliness " struck the mill-yard, that the 
man would have lifted his hat, but considered 
that he would take cold, and so kept it on like a 
sensible fellow. 
Of course he loved her. How should he help 
it ? Anybody but Perley would have thought 
of it, long ago. 
Yet, oddly enough, nobody had thought of it. 
Occasionally one meets people, though they are 
rather apt to be men than women, who seem to 
go mailed through life in a gossip-proof armor. 
Perley Kelso is one of them. Rumor winks and 
blinks and shuts its eyes upon her. Your un- 
pleasant stories, " had upon authority," pass her 
by unscathed. This young lady's life had been a 
peculiar, rather a public one, for now nearly two 
years, and in its most vital interests Stephen 
Garrick had stood heart and soul and hand in 
hand with her. Yet her calm eyes turned upon 
him that autumn afternoon as placidly as they 
did upon the old boiler. When she saw that 
tremble of the hand, she said : " You are cold !
It is growing chilly. The counting-room was 
close." 
How could man help it ? Of course he loved 
her. He had seen the shining of her rare, fine 
face in such strange places ! In sick-rooms and 
in the house of mourning he had learned to hsten 
for the stealing, strong sweetness of her young 
voice. They had met by death-beds and over 
graves. They had burrowed into mysteries of 
misery and sin, in God's name, together. Wher- 
ever people were cold, hungry, friendless, deso- 
late, in danger, in despair, she struck across his 
path. Wherever there was a soul for which no 
man cared, he found her footprints. Wherever 
there was a life to be lifted from miasmas to 
heights, he saw the waving of her confident 
white hand. If ever there were earnest work, 
solemn work, solitary work, mistrusted work, 
work misunderstood, neglected, discouraging, 
hopeless, thankless, — Christ's work, to be done, 
he faced her. 
Now, among several hundred factory-opera- 
tives, it naturally happened that he had thus 
faced her not infrequently. 
The woman's life had become a service in a 
temple, and he had lighted the candles for her. 
One would miss it, perhaps, to worship in the 
dark .' The man asked himself the question, turn- 
ing his face stiffly against the autumn storm. 
There had been no sun since yesterday. The 
sky was locked with a surcharged cloud. A fine, 
swift rain blurred the outlines of the river-banks 
and hills. 
" And yet," he said, " the day seems to be full 
of sun. Do you notice ? There is light about us 
everywhere." 
" It is from the hickories and maples," said 
Perley. 
Ripened leaves streaked and dotted their path, 
wreathed blazing arms about the pine groves, 
smouldered over the fields, flung themselves 
scorched into the water, flared across the dam, 
and lighted the little cascades luridly. The singular
effect of dying trees on a dead day was at 
its richest. One could not believe that the sun 
did not shine. 
"An unreal light," said Stephen Garrick, hardly, "
and ugly. We should find it cold to live 
by." 
" I had not thought of that," said Perley, 
smiling ; " I rather like it." 
Her face, as she lifted it to his, seemed to warm 
itself at its own calm eyes ; slowly, perhaps, as if 
the truant day had tried to leave a chill upon it, 
but thoroughly and brightly. 
Garrick turned, and looked it over and over 
and through and through, — the lifted haunting 
face ! 
What a face it was ! His own turned sharply 
gray. 
" I see no room for me there ! " he said, and 
stopped short where he stood. 
No ; he was right. There was no room. The 
womanly, calm face leaped with quick color, then 
drifted pale as his own. 
" Let us walk on," said Garrick, with a twang 
in his voice. 
They walked on nervously. Neither spoke 
just then. They walked on, under and through 
a solid arch of the unreal sunshine, which a pha- 
lanx of maples made in meeting over their heads. 
" I had hoped," said Stephen Garrick then, 
between his breath, " that I had — a chance. I 
have been — stupid, perhaps. A man is so slow 
to feel that he has — no chance. I have not 
played at love like — many men. There has 
been such an awfulness," said Stephen Garrick, 
passing his hand confusedly over his eyes, — 
" such an awfulness about the ground I have 
seen you tread upon. Most men love women in 
parlors and on play-days ; they can sing them 
little songs, they can tie up flowers for them, 
they can dance and touch their hands. I — I 
have had no way in which to love you. We 
have done such awful work together. In it, 
through it, by it, because of it, I loved you. I 
think there 's something — in the love — that is 
like the work. It has struck me under a ledge 
of granite, I believe. Miss Kelso, it would come 
up — hard." 
His hand dropped against his side, very slowly, 
but the blue nails clenched the flesh from its 
palm. 
What did the woman mean ? What should he 
do with the sight, sound, touch of her ; the rustle 
of her dress, the ripple of her sweet breath, the 
impenetrable calm of her grieving eyes .'' 
He felt himself suddenly lifted and swung from 
the centre of his controlled, common, regula- 
ted, and regulating days. Five Falls operatives 
ceased to appear absorbing as objects of life. 
How go dribbling ideal Christian culture through 
highways and hedges, if a man sat and starved on 
husks himself, before the loaded board .'' The 
salvation of the world troubled him yesterday. 
To-day there was only this woman in it. 
They two, in the mock light of dying leaves, 
they two only and together, stood, the Alpha and 
Omega, in the name of nature and in the sight 
of God. 
" I have loved you," said the man, trembling 
heavily, " so long ! My life has not been like 
that of — many people. I have taken it — hard 
and slowly. I have loved you slowly, and — 
hard. You ought to love me. Before God, I 
say you ought to love me ! " 
" The fact is — " said Perley, in her sensible, 
every-day voice. 
Stephen Garrick drew breath and straightened 
himself. His blanched face quivered and set 
into its accustomed angles. His shut fingers 
opened, and he cleared his throat. He struck to 
his orbit. Ah ! Where had he been ? Most 
too old a man for that ! See how he had let 
the rain drip on her. He grasped his umbrella. 
He could go to a Mission meeting now. All the 
women in the world might shake their beautiful 
heads at him under yellow maple-trees in an 
autumn rain ! 
" The fact is ? " he gravely asked. 
" The fact is,'' repeated Perley, " that I have no 
time to think of love and marriage, Mr. Garrick. 
That is a business, a trade, by itself to women. 
I have too much else to do. As nearly as I can 
understand myself, that is the state of the case. 
I cannot spare the time for it." 
And yet, as nearly as she understood herself, 
she might have loved this man. The dial of her 
young love and loss cast a little shadow in her 
sun to-day. She felt old before her time. All 
the glamour that draws men and women together 
had escaped her somehow. Possible wifehood 
was no longer an alluring dream. Only its prosaic
and undesirable aspects presented them- 
selves to her mind. No bounding impulse cried 
within her : That is happiness ! There is rest ! 
But only : It were unreasonable ; it is unwise. 
And yet she might have loved the man. In 
all the world, she felt as if he only came within 
calling distance of her life. Out of all the world, 
she would have named him as the knightly soul 
that hers delighted to honor. 
Might have loved him .'' Did she love him .' 
Garrick's hungry eyes pierced the lifted face 
again over and over, through and through. If 
not in this world, in another, perhaps .' In any .? 
Somewhere .' Somehow ? 
'.' I cannot tell," said the woman, as if she had 
been called ; '' I do not need you now. Women 
talk of loneliness. I am not lonely. They are 
sick and homeless. I am neither. They are 
miserable. I am happy. They grow old. I am 
not afraid of growing old. They have nothing 
to do. If I had ten lives, I could fill them ! No, 
I do not need you, Stephen Garrick." 
" Besides,'' she added, half smiling, half 
sighing, " I believe that I have been a silent partner 
long enough. If I married you, sir, I should in- 
vest in life, and you would conduct it. I suspect 
that I have a preference for a business of my 
own. Perhaps that is a part of the trouble." 
They had reached the house, and turned, faces 
against the scattering rain, to look down at the 
darkening river, and the nestling that the town 
made against the hill. The streets were full ; and 
the people, through the distance and the rain, 
had a lean look, passing to and fro before the 
dark, locked mills. 
Perley Kelso, with a curious, slow gesture, 
stretched her arms out toward them, with a face 
which a man would remember to his dying day. 
" Shall they call," she said, " and I not answer .' 
If they cried, should not I hear ? " 
" Mr. Garrick ! " She faced him suddenly on 
the dripping lawn. " If a man who loves a 
woman can take the right hand of fellowship 
from her, I wish you would take it from me ! " 
She held out her full strong hand. The rain 
dripped on it from an elm-tree overhead. Stephen 
Garrick gently brushed the few drops, as if they 
had been tears, away, and, after a moment's hesi- 
tation, took it. 
If not in this world in another, perhaps ? In 
any .' Somewhere .' Somehow ? 
" I shall wait for you," said the man. Perhaps 
he will. A few souls can. 
CHAPTER XIII. 
A FEVERISH PATIENT. 
'THE Pompeian statues in Hayle and Kelso 
 were on exhibition in a cleared and bur- 
nished condition for nearly a week last spring. 
That is to say, Hayle and Kelso were off work, 
for high water. It will be well remembered how 
serious the season's freshets were, and that Five 
Falls had her full share of drenching. 
The river had been but two days on the gallop 
before the operatives, wandering through their 
holidays in their best clothes, began to knot into 
little skeins about the banks, watching the leap 
that the current made over the dam. 
By the third day the new mill was considered 
in danger, and diked a little. 
By the fourth day heavy wagons were forbid- 
den the county bridge. 
The skeins upon the banks interwound and 
thickened. Five Falls became a gallery. Sun- 
break had flung back the curtain from a picture 
which hundreds crept up on tiptoe to see. 
Between the silent, thronged banks and the 
mute, unclouded sky, the river writhed like a 
thing that was tombed alive. The spatter of the 
cascades had become smooth humps, like a 
camel's. The great pulse of the dam beat hor- 
ribly. The river ran after it, plunged at it, would 
run full and forever. It looked as hopeless as 
sin, and as long as eternity. You gazed and de- 
spaired. There was always more, more, more. 
There was no chain for its bounding. There was 
no peace to its cries. No sepulchre could stifle 
it, no death still it. You held out your hands and 
cried for mercy to it. 
Beautiful whirlpools of green light licked the 
base of the stone river- walls. Flecks of foam 
were picked up in the fields. People stood for 
hours in the spray, clinging to the iron railings 
by the dam, deafened and drenched, to watch the 
sinuous trail of the under-tints of malachite and 
gold and umber that swung through. As one 
looked, the awful oncoming of the upper waters 
ceased to be a terror, ceased, or seemed to cease, 
to be a fact. Mightiness of motion became re- 
pose. The dam lay like a mass of veined agate 
before the eyes, as solid as the gates of the city 
whose builder and maker is God ; of the city in 
which sad things shall become joy, dark things 
light, stained things pure, old things new. 
The evening and the morning were the fifth 
day. Between their solemn passing. Sip and 
Catty sat alone in the little damp, stone house. 
The air was full of the booming of the flood, 
and Catty laid her head upon Sip's knee, listen- 
ing, as if she heard it. The wind was high and 
blew a kind of froth of noise in gusts against the 
closed windows and doors ; but never laid finger's 
weight upon the steady, deadly underflow of sound 
that filled the night. A dark night. Sip, going to 
the window, from whence she could dimly see the 
sparks of alarm-lights and the shadows of
watchmen on the endangered bridge, felt a little
displeasure with the night. It was noisy and confused 
her. It was wild and disturbed her. The 
crowds still lingered on the banks, where the 
green whirlpools had grown black, and where the 
tints of malachite and gold ai>d umber, swinging 
on their bright arms through the dam, had 
become purple and gray and ghastliness, and 
wrapped the stone piers in dark files, as if they 
had been mourners at a mighty funeral. Cries 
of excitement or fear cut the regular thud of the 
water, now and then, and there was unwonted 
light about the dikes of the new mill, and on the 
railway crossing, which had been loaded with the 
heaviest freight at command, in anticipation of 
the possible ruin and attack of the upper bridge. 
The water was still rising, and the wind. An 
undefined report had risen with them, through 
the day, of runaway lumber up the stream. Five 
Falls was awake and uneasy. 
" I don't wonder," thought Sip, coming back 
from the window. " It 's a kind of night that I 
can't make out. Can you. Catty .? " 
It was a night that Catty could hear, or thought 
she could, and this pleased her. 
" It is like wheels," she said, having nevet 
heard but those two things, the machinery in 
the mills'and this thunder. It carried her round 
and round, she signified, making circles with her 
fingers in the air. 
She got up presently and walked with the 
fancy in circles about the little kitchen. It 
seemed to perplex her that she always came back 
to her starting-point. 
" I thought I was going to get out," she said, 
stretching out her arms. 
" Don't ! " said Sip, uneasily, covering her eyes. 
