The last words were said as Uncle Jacob slipped into my hand an
envelope, containing a sum of money. "You'll need it," he said, "to
furnish your room; and hark'e! if you get into any troubles that you
don't want to burden your mother with, come to me."
There was warmth in the grip with which these last words were said, and
a sort of misty moisture came over his keen blue eye,--little signs
which meant as much from his shrewd and reticent nature as a caress or
an expression of tenderness might from another.
My mother's last words, after hours of talk over the evening fire, were
these: "I want you to be a good man. A great many have tried to be
great men, and failed; but nobody ever sincerely tried to be a good
man, and failed."
I suppose it is about the happiest era in a young fellow's life, when he
goes to college for the first time.
The future is all a land of blue distant mists and shadows, radiant as
an Italian landscape. The boundaries between the possible and the not
possible are so charmingly vague! There is a pot of gold at the end of
the rainbow forever waiting for each new comer. Generations have not
exhausted it!
De Balzac said, of writing his novels, that the dreaming out of them was
altogether the best of it. "To imagine," he said, "is to smoke enchanted
cigarettes; to bring out one's imaginations into words,--that is
work!"
The same may be said of the romance of one's life. The dream-life is
beautiful, but the rendering into reality quite another thing.
I believe every boy who has a good father and mother, goes to college
meaning, in a general way, to be a good fellow. He will not disappoint
them.--No! a thousand times, no! In the main, he will be a good
boy,--not that he is going quite to walk according to the counsels of
his elders. He is not going to fall over any precipices--not he--but he
is going to walk warily and advisedly along the edge of them, and take a
dispassionate survey of the prospect, and gather a few botanical
specimens here and there. It might be dangerous for a less steady head
than his; but he understands himself, and with regard to all things he
says, "We shall see." The world is full of possibilities and open
questions. Up sail, and away; let us test them!
As I scaled the mountains and descended the valleys on my way to
college, I thought over all that my mother and Uncle Jacob had said to
me, and had my own opinion of it.
Of course I was not the person to err in the ways he had suggested. I
was not to be the dupe of a boy and girl flirtation. My standard of
manhood was too exalted, I reflected, and I thought with complacency how
little Uncle Jacob knew of me.
To be sure, it is a curious kind of a thought to a young man, that
somewhere in this world, unknown to him, and as yet unknowing him, lives
the woman that is to be his earthly fate,--to affect, for good or evil,
his destiny.
We have all read the pretty story about the Princess of China and the
young Prince of Tartary, whom a fairy and genius in a freak of caprice
showed to each other in an enchanted sleep, and then whisked away again,
leaving them to years of vain pursuit and wanderings. Such is the ideal
image of somebody, who must exist somewhere, and is to be found
sometime, and when found, is to be ours.
"Uncle Jacob is all right in the main," I said; "but if I should meet
the true woman even in my college days, why that, indeed, would be quite
another thing."
CHAPTER VI.
MY DREAM-WIFE
All things prospered with me in my college life. I had a sunny room
commanding a fine prospect, and uncle Jacob's parting liberality enabled
me to furnish it commodiously.
I bought the furniture of a departing senior at a reduced price, and
felt quite the spirit of a householder in my possessions. I was well
prepared on my studies and did not find my tasks difficult.
My stock of interior garnishment included several French lithographs,
for the most part of female heads, looking up, with very dark bright
eyes, or looking down, with very long dark eyelashes.
These heads of dream-women are, after all, not to be laughed at; they
show the yearning for womanly influences and womanly society which
follows the young man in his enforced monastic seclusion from all family
life and family atmosphere. These little fanciful French lithographs,
generally, are chosen for quite other than artistic reasons. If we
search into it we shall find that one is selected because it is like
sister "Nell," and another puts one in mind of "Bessie," and then again,
there is another "like a girl I used to know." Now and then one of them
has such a piquant, provoking air of individuality, that one is sure it
must have been sketched from nature. Some teasing, coaxing,
"don't-care-what-you-think" sort of a sprite, must have wreathed poppies
and blue corn-flowers just so in her hair, and looked gay defiance at
the artist who drew it. There was just such a saucy, spirited gipsy over
my mantel piece, who seemed to defy me to find her if I searched the
world over--with whom I held sometimes airy colloquies--not in the least
was she like my dream-wife, but I liked her for all that, and thought I
would "give something" to know what she would have to say to me, just
for the curiosity of the thing.
The college was in a little village, and there was no particular amity
between the townspeople and the students. I believe it is the
understanding in such cases, that college students are to be regarded
and treated as a tribe of Bedouin Arabs, whose hand is against every
man, and they in their turn are not backward to make good the character.
Public opinion shuts them up together--they are a state within a
state--with a public sentiment, laws, manners, and modes of thinking of
their own. It is a state, too, without women. When we think of this, and
remember that all this experience is gone through in the most gaseous
and yeasty period of human existence, we no longer wonder that there are
college rows and scrapes, that all sort of grotesque capers become
hereditary and traditional; that an apple-cart occasionally appears on
top of one of the steeples, that cannon balls are rolled surreptitiously
down the college stairs, and that tutors' doors are mysteriously found
locked at recitation hours. One simply wonders that the roof is not
blown off, and the windows out, by the combined excitability of so many
fermenting natures.
There is a tendency now in society to open the college course equally to
women--to continue through college life that interaction of the
comparative influence of the sexes which is begun in the family.
To a certain extent this experiment has been always favorably tried in
the New England rural Academies, where young men are fitted for college
in the same classes and studies with women.
In these time-honored institutions, young women have kept step with
young men in the daily pursuit of science, not only without disorder or
unseemly scandal, but with manifestly more quietness and refinement of
manner than obtains in institutions where female association ceases
altogether. The presence of a couple of dozen of well-bred ladies in the
lecture and recitation rooms of a college would probably be a preventive
of many of the unseemly and clumsy jokes wherewith it has been customary
to diversify the paths of science, to the affliction of the souls of
professors.
But for us boys, there was no gospel of womanhood except what was to be
got from the letters of mothers and sisters, and such imperfect and
flitting acquaintance as we could pick up in the streets with the girls
of the village. Now though there might be profit, could young men and
women see each other daily under the responsibility of serious business,
keeping step with one another in higher studies, yet it by no means
follows that this kind of flitting glimpse-like acquaintance, formed
merely in the exchange of a few outside superficialities, can have any
particularly good effect. No element of true worthy friendship, of sober
appreciation, or manly or womanly good sense, generally enters into
these girl-and-boy flirtations, which are the only substitute for family
association during the barren years of student life. The students were
not often invited into families, and those who gained a character as
ladies' men were not favorably looked upon by our elders. Now and then
by rare and exceptional good luck a college student is made at home in
some good family, where there is a nice kind mother and the wholesome
atmosphere of human life; or, he forms the acquaintance of some woman,
older and wiser than himself, who can talk with him on all the multitude
of topics his college studies suggest. But such cases are only
exceptions. In general there is no choice between flirtation and
monastic isolation.
For my part, I posed myself on the exemplary platform, and remembering
my uncle Jacob's advice, contemplated life with the grim rigidity of a
philosopher. I was going to have no trifling, and surveyed the girls at
church, on Sunday, with a distant and severe air--as gay creatures of
an hour, who could hold no place in my serious meditations. Plato or
Aristotle, in person, could not have contemplated life and society from
a more serene height of composure. I was favorably known by my teachers,
and held rank at the head of my class, and was stigmatized as a "dig,"
by frisky young gentlemen who enjoyed rolling cannon balls down
stairs--taking the tongue out of the chapel bell--greasing the seats,
and other thread-bare college jokes, which they had not genius enough to
vary, so as to give them a spice of originality.
But one bright June Sunday--just one of those days that seem made to put
all one's philosophy into confusion, when apple-blossoms were bursting
their pink shells, and robins singing, and leaves twittering and talking
to each other in undertones, there came to me a great revelation.
How innocently I brushed my hair and tied my neck tie, on that fateful
morning, contemplating my growing moustache and whiskers hopefully in
the small square of looking-glass which served for me these useful
purposes of self-knowledge. I looked at my lineaments as those of a free
young junior, without fear and without anxiety, without even an
incipient inquiry what anybody else would think of them--least of all
any woman--and marched forth obediently and took my wonted seat in that
gallery of the village church which was assigned to the college students
of Congregational descent; where, like so many sheep in a pen, we joined
in the services of the common sheep-fold.
I suppose there is moral profit even in the decent self-denial of such
weekly recurring religious exercises. To be forced to a certain period
of silence, order, quiet, and to have therein a possibility and a
suggestion of communion with a Higher Power, and an out-look into
immortality, is something not to be undervalued in education, and
justifies the stringency with which our New England colleges preserve
and guard this part of their régime.
But it was to be confessed in our case, that the number who really
seemed to have any spiritual participation or sympathy in the great
purposes of the exercises, was not a majority. A general, dull decency
of demeanor was the most frequent attainment, and such small recreations
were in vogue as could be pursued without drawing the attention of the
monitors. There was some telegraphy of eyes between the girls of the
village and some of the more society-loving fellows, who had cultivated
intimacies in that quarter; there were some novels, stealthily
introduced and artfully concealed and read by the owner, while his head,
resting on the seat before him, seemed bowed in devotion; and some
artistic exercises in sketching caricatures on the part of others. For
my own part, having been trained religiously, I gave strict outward and
decorous attention; but the fact was that my mind generally sailed off
on some cloud of fancy, and wandered through dream-land, so that not a
word of anything present reached my ear. This habit of reverie and
castle-building, repressed all the week by the severe necessity of
definite tasks, came upon me Sundays as Bunyan describes the hot, sleepy
atmosphere of the enchanted ground.
Our pastor was a good man, who wrote a kind of smooth, elegant,
unexceptionable English; whose measured cadences and easy flow, were, to
use the scripture language, as a "very lovely song of one that hath a
pleasant voice, and can play sweetly upon an instrument." I heard him as
one hears murmurs and voices through one's sleep, while my spirit went
everywhere under the sun. I traveled in foreign lands, I saw pictures,
cathedrals; I had thrilling adventures and hair-breadth escapes; formed
strange and exciting acquaintances; in short, was the hero of a romance,
whose scenes changed as airily and easily as the sunset clouds of
evening. So really and so vividly did this supposititious life excite me
that I have actually found myself with tears in my eyes through the
pathos of these unsubstantial visions.
It was in one of the lulling pauses of such a romance, while I yet heard
the voice of our good pastor proving that "selfishness was the essence
of moral evil," that I lifted up my eyes, and became for the first time
conscious of a new face, in the third pew of the broad aisle below me.
It was a new one--one that certainly had never been there before, and
was altogether just the face to enter into the most ethereal perceptions
of my visionary life. I started with a sort of awakening thrill, such,
perhaps, as Adam had when he woke from his sleep and saw his Eve. There,
to be sure, was the face of my dream-wife, incarnate and visible! That
face, so refined, so spiritual, so pure! a baptized, Christianized Greek
face! A cross between Venus and the Virgin Mary! The outlines were
purely, severely classical, such as I have since seen in the Psyche of
the Naples gallery; but the large, tremulous, pathetic eyes redeemed
them from statuesque coldness. They were eyes that thought, that
looked deep into life, death, and eternity--so I said to myself as I
gazed down on her, and held my breath with a kind of religious awe. The
vision was all in white, as such visions must be, and the gauzy crape
bonnet with its flowers upon her head, dissolved under my eyes into a
sort of sacred aureole, such as surrounds the heads of saints. I saw
her, and only her, through the remaining hour of church. I studied every
movement. The radiant eyes were fixed upon the minister, and with an
expression so sadly earnest that I blushed for my own wandering
thoughts, and began to endeavor to turn my mind to the truths I was
hearing told; but, after all, I thought more about her than the
discourse. I saw her search the hymn-book for the hymn, and wished that
I were down there to find it for her. I saw her standing up, and looking
down at her hymns with the wonderful eyes veiled by long lashes, and
singing--
  "Call me away from earth and sense,
  One sovereign word can draw me thence,
  I would obey the voice divine,
  And all inferior joys resign."
How miserably gross, and worldly, and unworthy I felt at that moment!
How I longed for an ideal, superhuman spirituality,--something that
should make me worthy to touch the hem of her garment!
When the blessing was pronounced, I hastened down and stood where I
might see her as she passed out of church. I had not been alone in my
discoveries: there had been dozens of others that saw the same star, and
there were whisperings, and elbowings, and consultings, as a knot of
juniors and seniors stationed themselves as I had done, to see her pass
out.
As she passed by she raised her eyes slowly, and as it were by accident,
and they fell like a ray of sunlight on one of our number,--Jim
Fellows--who immediately bowed. A slight pink flush rose in her cheeks
as she gracefully returned the salutation, and passed on. Jim was
instantly the great man of the hour; he knew her, it seems.
"It's Miss Ellery, of Portland. Haven't you heard of her?" he said, with
an air of importance. "She's the great beauty of Portland. They call her
the 'little divinity.' Met her last summer, at Mount Desert," he added,
with the comfortable air of a man in possession of the leading fact of
the hour--the fact about which everybody else is inquiring.
I walked home behind her in a kind of trance, disdaining to join in what
I thought the very flippant and unworthy comments of the boys. I saw the
last wave of her white garments as she passed between the two evergreens
in front of deacon Brown's square white house, which at that moment
became to me a mysterious and glorified shrine; there the angel held her
tabernacle.
At this moment I met Miss Dotha Brown, the deacon's eldest daughter, a
rosy-cheeked, pleasant-faced girl, to whom I had been introduced the
week before. Instantly she was clothed upon with a new interest in my
eyes, and I saluted her with empressement; if not the rose, she at
least was the clay that was imbibing the perfume of the rose; and I
don't doubt that my delight at seeing her assumed the appearance of
personal admiration. "What a charming Sunday," I said, with emphasis.
"Perfectly charming," said Miss Brown, sympathetically.
"You have an interesting young friend staying with you, I observe," said
I.
"Who, Miss Ellery? oh, yes. Oh! Mr. Henderson, she is the sweetest
girl!" said Dotha, with effusion.
I didn't doubt it, and listened eagerly to her praises, and was grateful
to Miss Brown for the warm invitation to "call" which followed. Miss
Ellery was to make them a long visit, and she would be so happy to
introduce me.
That evening Miss Ellery was a topic of excited discussion in our entry,
and Jim Fellows plumed himself largely on his Mount Desert experiences,
which he related in a way to produce the impression that he had been
regarded with a favorable eye by the divinity.
I was in a state of silent indignation, at him, at all the rest of the
boys, at everybody in general, being fully persuaded that they were
utterly incapable of understanding or appreciating this wonderful
creature.
"Hal, why don't you talk?" said one of them to me, when I had sat
silent, pretending to read for a long time; "What do you think of her?"
"Oh, I'm no ladies' man, as you all know," I said, evasively, and
actually pretended not to have remarked Miss Ellery except in a cursory
manner.
Then followed a period of weeks and months, when that one image was
never for a moment out of my thoughts. By a strange law of our being, a
certain idea can accompany us everywhere, not stopping or interrupting
the course of the thought, but going on in a sort of shadowy way with
it, as an invisible presence.
The man or woman who cherishes an ideal is always liable to this
accident, that the spiritual image often descends like a mantle, and
invests some very ordinary person, who is, for the time being,
transfigured,--"a woman clothed with the sun, and with the moon under
her feet." It is not what there is in the person, but what there is in
us, that gives this passage in life its critical power. It would seem
as if there were in some men, and some women, preparation for a grand
interior illumination and passion, like that hoard of mystical gums and
spices which the phenix was fabled to prepare for its funeral pile; all
the aspiration and poetry and romance, the upheaval toward an infinite
and eternal good, a divine purity and rest, may be enkindled by the
touch of a very ordinary and earthly hand, and, burning itself out,
leave only cold ashes of experience.
Miss Ellery was a well-bred young lady, of decorous and proper demeanor,
of careful religious education, of no particular strength either of mind
or emotion, good tempered, and with an instinctive approbativeness that
made her desirous to please every body, which created for her the
reputation that Miss Brown expressed in calling her "a sweet girl." She
was always most agreeable to those with whom she was thrown, and for the
time being appeared to be, and was sincerely interested in them; but her
mind was like a well-polished looking-glass, retaining not a trace of
anything absent or distant.
She was gifted by nature with wonderful beauty, and beauty of that
peculiar style that stirs the senses of the poetical and the ideal; her
gentle approbativeness, and the graceful facility of her manner, were
such as not at least to destroy the visions which her beauty created. In
a quiet way she enjoyed being adored--made love to, but she never
overstepped the bounds of strict propriety. She received me with
graciousness, and I really think found something in my society which was
agreeably stimulating to her. I was somewhat out of the common track of
her adorers; my ardor and enthusiasm gave her a new emotion. I wrote
poems to her, which she read with a graceful pensiveness and laid away
among her trophies in her private writing-desk. I called her my star, my
inspiration, my light, and she beamed down on me with a pensive purity.
"Yes, she was delighted to have me read Tennyson to her," and many an
hour when I should have been studying, I was lounging in the little
front parlor of the Brown house, fancying myself Sir Galahad, and
reading with emotion, how his "blade was strong, because his heart was
pure;" and Miss Ellery murmured "How lovely!" and I was in paradise.
And then there came wonderful moonlight evenings--evenings when every
leaf stirring had a penciled reproduction flickering in light and shade
on the turf; and we walked together under arches of elm trees, and I
talked and quoted poetry; and she listened and assented in the sweetest
manner possible. All my hopes, my plans, my dreams, my speculations, my
philosophies, came out to sun themselves under the magic of those
lustrous eyes. Her replies and utterances were greatly in disproportion
to mine; but I received them, and made much of them, as of old the
priests of Delphi did with those of the inspired maiden. There must be
deep meaning in it all, because she was a priestess; and I was not
backward to supply it.
I have often endeavored to analyze the sources of the illusion cast over
men by such characters as that of Miss Ellery. In their case the
instinctive action of approbativeness assumes the semblance of human
sympathy, and brings them for the time being into the life-sphere, and
under the influence, of any person whom they wish to please, so that
they with a temporary sincerity reflect back the ideas and feelings of
others. There is just the same illusive sort of charm in this reflection
of our own thoughts and emotions from another mind, as there is in the
reflection of objects in a placid lake. There is no warmth and no
reality to it; and yet, for the time being, it is often the most
entrancing thing in the world, and gives back to you the glow of your
own heart, the fervor of your imagination, and even every little flower
of fancy, and twig of feeling, with a wonderful faithfulness of
reproduction.
It is not real sympathy, because, like the image in the lake, it is only
there when you are present; and when you are away, reflects with equal
facility the next comer.
But men always have been, and to the end of time always will be,
fascinated by such women, and will suppose this mere reflecting power of
a highly polished surface to be the sympathetic response for which the
heart longs.
So I had no doubt that Miss Ellery was a woman of all sorts of high
literary tastes and moral heroisms, for there was nothing so high or so
deep in the aspirations of poets or sages in my readings to her, that
could not be reflected and glorified in those wonderful eyes.
Neither are such women hypocrites, as they are often called. What they
give back to you is for the time being a sincere reflection, and if
there is no depth to it, if it passes away with the passing hour, it is
simply because their natures--smooth, shallow, and cold--have no deeper
power of retention.
The fault lies in expecting more of a thing than there is in its
nature--a fault we shall more or less all go on committing till the
great curtain falls.
I wrote all about her to my mother; and received the usual cautionary
maternal epistle, reminding me that I was yet far from that goal in life
when I was warranted in asking any woman to be my wife; and suggesting
that my taste might later with maturity; warning me against premature
commitments--in short, saying all that good, anxious mothers usually say
to young juniors in college in similar circumstances.
In reply, I told my mother that I had found a woman worthy the devotion
of a life--a woman who would be inspiration and motive and reward. I
extolled her purity and saintliness. I told my mother that she was
forming and leading me to all that was holy and noble. In short I meant
to win her though the seven labors of Hercules were to be performed
seven times over to reach her.
Now the fact is, my mother might have saved herself her anxiety. Miss
Ellery was perfectly willing to be my guiding star, my inspiration, my
light, within reasonable limits, while making a visit in an otherwise
rather dull town. She liked to be read to; she liked the consciousness
of being incessantly admired, and would have made a very good image for
some Church of the Perpetual Adoration; but after all, Miss Ellery was
as incapable of forming an ineligible engagement of marriage with a poor
college student, as the most sensible and collected of Walter Scott's
heroines.
Looking back upon this part of my life, I can pity myself with as quiet
and dispassionate a perception as if I were a third person. The
illusion, for the time being, was so real, the feelings called up by it
so honest and earnest and sacred; and supposing there had been a
tangible reality to it--what might not such a woman have made of me, or
of any man?
And suppose it pleased God to send forth an army of such women, as I
thought her to be, among the lost children of men, women armed not only
with the outward and visible sign of beauty, but with that inward and
spiritual grace which beauty typifies, one might believe that the golden
age would soon be back upon us.
Miss Ellery adroitly avoided all occasions of any critical commitment on
my part or on her's. Women soon learn a vast amount of tact and
diplomacy on that subject: but she gave me to understand that I was
peculiarly congenial to her, and encouraged the outflow of all my
romance with the gentlest atmosphere of indulgence. To be sure, I was
not the only one whom she thus held with bonds of golden gossamer. She
reigned a queen, and had a court at her feet, and the deacon's square,
white, prosaic house bristled with the activity and vivacity of Miss
Ellery's adorers.
Among them. Will Marshall was especially distinguished. Will was a
senior, immensely rich, good-natured as the longest summer day is long,
but so idle and utterly incapable of culture that only the liberality of
the extra sum paid to a professor who held him in guardianship secured
his stay in college classes. It has been my observation that money will
secure a great variety of things in this lower world, and among others,
will carry a very stupid fellow through college.
Will was a sort of favorite with us all. His good nature was without
limit, and he scattered his money with a free hand, and so we generally
spoke of him as "Poor Will;" a nice fellow, if he couldn't write a
decent note, and blundered through all his recitations.
Will laid himself, so to speak, at Miss Ellery's feet. He was flush of
bouquets and confectionery. He caused the village livery stable to
import forthwith a turnout worthy to be a car of Venus herself.
I saw all this, but it never entered my head that Miss Ellery would cast
a moment's thought other than those of the gentlest womanly compassion
on poor Will Marshall.
The time of the summer vacation drew nigh, and with the close of the
term closed the vision of my idyllic experiences with Miss Ellery. To
the last, she was so gentle and easy to be entreated. Her lovely eyes
cast on me such bright encouraging glances; and she accorded me a
farewell moonlight ramble, wherein I walked not on earth, but in the
seventh heaven of felicity. Of course there was nothing definite. I told
her that I was a poor soldier of fortune, but might I only wear her name
in my bosom, it would be a sacred talisman, and give strength to my arm,
and she sighed, and looked lovely, and she did not say me nay.
I went home to my mother, and wearied that much-enduring woman, all
through the vacation, with the hot and cold fits of my fever. Blessed
souls! these mothers, who bear and watch and rear the restless
creatures, who by and by come to them with the very heart gone out of
them for love of another woman--some idle girl, perhaps, that never knew
what it was either to love or care, and that plays with hearts as
kittens do with pinballs!
I wrote to Miss Ellery letters long, overflowing, and got back little
neatly-worded notes on scented paper, speaking in a general way of the
charms of friendship.
But the first news that met me on my return to college broke my
soap-bubble at one touch.
[Illustration: MY DREAM-WIFE.
"I told her that I was a poor soldier of fortune, but might I only wear
her name in my bosom, it would be a sacred talisman, and give strength
to my arm; and she sighed and looked lovely, and she did not say me
nay."]
"Hurrah! Hal--who do you guess is engaged?"
"I don't know."
"Guess."
"I couldn't guess."
"Why, Miss Ellery--engaged to Bill Marshall."
Alnaschar, in the Arabian tale, could not have been more astonished when
his basket of glass-ware fell in glittering nothingness. I stood stupid
with astonishment.
"She engaged to Will Marshall!--why, boys, he's a fool!"
"But you see he's rich. Oh, it's all arranged; they are to be married
next month, and go to Europe for their wedding tour," said Jim Fellows.
And so my idol fell from its pedestal--and my first dream dissolved.
CHAPTER VII.
THE VALLEY OF HUMILIATION.
Miss Ellery was sufficiently mistress of herself, and of circumstances,
to close our little pastoral in the most graceful and amiable manner
possible.
I received a beautiful rose-scented note from her, saying that the very
kind interest in her happiness which I always had expressed, and the
extremely pleasant friendship which had arisen between us, made her
desirous of informing me, &c., &c. Thereupon followed the announcement
of her engagement, terminating with the assurance that whatever new ties
she might form, or scenes she might visit, she should ever cherish a
pleasant remembrance of the delightful hours spent beneath the elms of
X., and indulge the kindest wishes for my future success and happiness.
I, of course, crushed the rose-scented missive in my hand, in the most
approved tragical style, and felt that I had been deceived, betrayed and
undone. I passed forthwith into that cynical state of young manhood, in
which one learns for the first time what a mere unimportant drop his own
most terribly earnest and excited feelings may be in the tumbling ocean
of the existing world.
This is a valley of humiliation, which lies, in very many cases, just a
day's walk beyond the palace, beautiful with all its fascinations.
The moral geographer, John Bunyan, to whom we are indebted for much
wholesome information, tells us that while it is extremely difficult to
descend gracefully into this valley, and pilgrims generally accomplish
it at the expense of many a sore trip and stumble, yet when once they
are fairly down, it presents many advantages of climate and soil not
other where found.
The shivering to pieces of the first ideal, while it breaks ruthlessly
and scatters much that is really and honestly good and worthy, breaks
up no less a certain stock of unconscious self conceit, which young
people are none the worse for having lessened.
The very assumption, so common in the early days of life, that we have
feelings of a peculiar sacredness above the comprehension of the common
herd, and for which only the selectest sympathy is possible, is one
savoring a little too much of the unregenerate natural man, to be safely
let alone to grow and thrive.
Natures, in particular, where ideality is largely in the ascendant, are
apt to begin life with the scheme of building a high and thick stone
wall of reticence around themselves, and enthroning therein an idol,
whose rites and service are to be performed with a contemptuous
indifference to all the rest of mankind.
When this idol is suddenly disenchanted by some stroke of inevitable
reality, and we discern that the image which we had supposed to be the
shrine of a divinity, is only a very earthly doll, stuffed with
saw-dust, one's pinnacles and battlements--the whole temple in short,
that we have prided ourselves on, comes tumbling down about us like the
walls of Jericho, not without a certain sense of the ridiculous. Though,
like other afflictions, this is not for the present joyous, still the
space thus cleared in our mind may be so cultivated as afterwards to
bring forth peaceable fruits of righteousness.
In my case, my idol was utterly defaced and destroyed in my eyes,
because I could not conceal from myself that she was making a marriage
wholly without the one element that above all others marriage requires.
Miss Ellery was perfectly well aware of the mental inferiority of poor
Bill Marshall, and had listened unreprovingly to the half-contemptuous
pity with which it was customary among us to speak of him. I remembered
how patronizingly I had often talked of him to her, "Really not a bad
fellow--only a little weak, you see;" and the pretty, graceful drollery
in her eyes. I remembered things that these same eyes had looked at me,
when he blundered and miscalled words in conversation, and a thousand
sayings and intimations, each by itself indefinite as the boundary
between two tints of the rainbow, by which she showed a superior sense
of pleasure in my conversation and society.
And was all this acting and insincerity? I thought not. I was and am
fully convinced that had I only been possessed of the wealth of Bill
Marshall, Miss Ellery would infinitely have preferred me as a life
companion; and it was no very serious amount of youthful vanity to
imagine that I should have proved a more entertaining one. I can easily
imagine that she made the decision with some gentle regret at
first,--regret dried up like morning dew in the full sunlight of wedding
diamonds, and capable of being put completely to sleep upon a couch of
cashmere shawls.
With what indignant bitterness did I listen to all the details of the
impending wedding from fluent Jim Fellows, who, being from Portland and
well posted in all the gossip of the circle in which she moved,
enlightened our entry with daily and weekly bulletins of the grandeur
and splendors that were being, and to be.
"Boys, only think! Her wedding present from him is a set of diamonds
valued at twenty-five thousand dollars. Bob Rivers saw them on
exhibition at Tiffany's. Then she has three of the most splendid
cashmere shawls that ever were imported into Maine. Captain Sautelle got
them from an Indian Prince, and there's no saying what they would have
cost at usual rates. I tell you Bill is going it in style, and they are
going to be married with drums and trumpets, cymbals and dances; such a
wedding as will make old Portland stare; and then off they are going to
travel no end of time in Europe, and see all the kingdoms of the world,
and the glory of them."
Now, I suppose none of us doubted that could Miss Ellery have attained
the diamonds and the cashmeres and the fortune, with all its
possibilities of luxury and self-indulgence, without the addition of the
husband, nothing would have been wanting to complete her good fortune;
but it is a condition in the way of a woman's making a fortune by
marriage, as it was with Faust's compact with an unmentionable party,
that it can only be ratified by the sacrifice of herself--herself, and
for life! A sacrifice most awful and holy when made in pure love, and
most fearful when made for any other consideration. The fact that Miss
Ellery could make it was immediate and complete disenchantment to me.
Mine is not, I suppose, the only case where the ideal which has been
formed under the brooding influence of a noble mother is shattered by
the hand of a woman. Some woman, armed with the sacramental power of
beauty, enkindles the highest manliness of the youth, and is, in his
eyes, the incarnate form of purity and unworldly virtue, the high prize
and incitement to valor, patience, constancy and courage, in the great
life-battle.
But she sells herself before his eyes, for diamonds and laces, and
trinkets and perfumes; for the liberty of walking on soft carpets and
singing in gilded cages; and all the world laughs at his simplicity in
supposing that, a fair chance given, any woman would ever do otherwise.
Is not beauty woman's capital in trade, the price put into her hand to
get whatever she needs; and are not the most beautiful, as a matter of
course, destined prizes of the richest?
Miss Ellery's marriage was to me a great awakening, a coming out of a
life of pure ideas and sentiment into one of external realities.
Hitherto, I had lived only with people all whose measures and valuations
had been those relating to the character--the intellect and the heart.
Never in my father's house had I heard the gaining of money spoken of as
success in life, except as far as money was needed to advance education,
and education was a means for doing good. My father had his zeal, his
earnestness, his exultations, but they all related to things to be
done in his life-work; the saving of souls, the conversion of sinners,
the gathering of churches, the repression of intemperance and
immorality, the advancement of education. My elder brothers had
successfully entered the ministry under his influence, and in counsels
with them where to settle, I had never heard the question of salary or
worldly support even discussed. The first, the only question I ever
heard considered, was What work was needed to be done, and what
fitness for the doing of it; taking for granted the record, that where
the Kingdom of God and its righteousness were first sought, all things
would be added.
Thus all my visions of future life had in them something of the innocent
verdancy of the golden age, when noble men strove for the favor of fair
women, by pureness, by knowledge, by heroism,--and the bravest won the
crown from the hand of the most beautiful.
And suddenly to my awakened eyes the whole rushing cavalcade of
fashionable life swept by, bearing my princess, amid waving feathers and
flashing jewels and dazzling robes and merry laughs and jests, leaving
me by the way-side dazed and covered with dust, to plod on alone.
Now first I felt the shame which comes over a young man, that he has not
known the world as old wordlings know it.
In the discussions among the boys, relating to this marriage, I first
learned the power of that temptation which comes upon every young man to
look on wealth as the first object in a life race.
Woman is by order of nature the conservator of the ideal. Formed of
finer clay, with nicer perceptions, and refined fiber, she is the
appointed priestess to guard the poetry of life from sacrilege; but if
she be bribed to betray the shrine, what hope for us? "If the salt have
lost its savor, wherewith shall it be salted?"
My acquaintance with Miss Ellery had brought me out of my scholastic
retirement, and made me an acquaintance of the whole bevy of the girls
of X. Miss Ellery had been invited and fêted in all the families, and
her special train of adorers had followed her, and thus I was "au
courant" of all the existing girl-world of our little town. It was
curious to remark what a silken flutter of wings, what an endless
volubility of tongues there was, about this engagement and marriage, and
how, on the whole, it was treated as the height of splendor and good
fortune. My rosy-faced friend, Miss Dotha, was invited to the festival
as bridesmaid, and returned thereafter "trailing clouds of glory" into
the primitive circles of X; and my cynical bitterness of soul took a
sort of perverse pleasure in the amplifications and discussions that I
constantly heard in the tea-drinking circles of the town.
"Oh, girls, you've no idea about those diamonds," said Miss Dotha;
"great big diamonds as large as peas, and just as clear as water! Bill
Marshall made them send orders to Europe specially for the purpose; then
she had a pearl set that his mother gave, and his sister gave an
amethyst set for a breakfast suit! and you ought to have seen the
presents! It was a perfect bazar! The Marshalls are an enormously rich
family, and they all came down splendidly: old uncle Tom Marshall gave a
solid silver dining set embossed with gold, and old Aunt Tabitha
Marshall gave a real Sévres china tea-set, that was taken out of one of
the royal palaces in France, at the time of the French Revolution.
Captain Atkins was in France about the time they were sacking palaces,
and doing all such things, and he brought away quite a number of things
that found their way into some of these rich old Portland families. Her
wedding veil was given by old Grandmamma Marshall, and was said to have
been one that belonged to Queen Marie Antoinette, taken by some of those
horrid women when they sacked the Tuilleries, and sold to Captain
Atkins; at any rate, it was the most wonderful point lace, just like an
old picture."
Fancy the drawing of breaths, the exclamations, the groans of delight,
from a knot of pretty, well-dressed, nice country girls, at these
wonderful glimpses into Paradise.
"After all," I said, "I think this custom of loading down a woman with
finery just at her marriage hour, is giving it when she is least able to
appreciate it. Why distract her with gew-gaws at the very moment when
her heart must be so full of a new affection that she cares for nothing
else? Miss Ellery is probably so lost in her love for Mr. Marshall, that
she scarcely gives a thought to these things, and really forgets that
she has them. It would be much more in point to give them to some girl
that hasn't a lover."
I spoke with a simple, serious air, as if I had most perfect faith in my
words, and a general gentle smile of amusement went round the circle,
rippling into a laugh out-right, on the faces of some of the gayer
girls. Miss Dotha said:
"Oh, come, now, Mr. Henderson, you are too severe."
"Severe!" said I; "I can't understand what you mean, Miss Dotha. You
don't mean, of course, to intimate that Miss Ellery is not in love
with the man she has married?"
"Oh, now!" said Miss Dotha, laughing, "you know perfectly, Mr.
Henderson--we all know--it's pretty well understood, that this wasn't
exactly what you call a love-match; in fact, I know," she added with
the assurance of a confidant, "that she had great difficulty in making
up her mind; but her family were very anxious for the match, and his
family thought it would be such a good thing for him to marry and settle
down, you know, so one way and another she concluded to take him."
"And, after all, Will Marshall is a good-natured creature," said Miss
Smith.
"And going to Europe is such a temptation," said Miss Brown.
"And she must marry some time," said Miss Jones, "and one can't have
every thing, you know. Will is certain to be kind to her, and let her
have her own way."
"For my part," said pretty Miss Green, "I'm free to say that I don't
blame any girl that has a chance to get such a fortune, for doing it as
Miss Ellery has. I've always been poor, and pinched and plagued; never
can go any where, or see anything, or dress as I want to; and if I had a
chance, such as Miss Ellery had, I think I should be a fool not to take
it."
"Well," said Miss Black, reflectively, "the only question is, couldn't
Miss Ellery have waited and found a man who had more intellect, and more
culture, whom she could respect and love, and who had money, too? She
had such extraordinary beauty and such popular manners, I should have
thought she might."
"Oh, well," said Miss Dotha, "she was getting on--she was
three-and-twenty already--and nobody of just the right sort had turned
up--'a bird in the hand'--you know. After all, I dare say she can love
Will Marshall well enough."
Well enough! The cool philosophic tone of this phrase smote on my ear
curiously.
"And pray, fair ladies, how much is 'well enough?'" said I.
"Well enough to keep the peace," said Miss Green, "and each let the
other alone, to go their own ways and have no fighting."
Miss Green was a pretty, spicy little body, with a pair of provoking
hazel eyes; who talked like an unprincipled little pirate, though she
generally acted like a nice woman. In less than a year after, by the by,
she married a home missionary, in Maine, and has been a devoted wife and
mother in a little parish somewhere in the region of Skowhegan, ever
since.
But I returned to my room gloriously misanthropic, and for some time my
thoughts, like bees, were busy gathering bitter honey. I gave up
visiting in the tea-drinking circles of X. I got myself a dark sombrero
hat, which I slouched down over my eyes in bandit style when I walked
the street and met with any of my former gentle acquaintances. I wrote
my mother most sublime and awful letters on the inconceivable vanity and
nothingness of human life. I read Plato and Æschylus, and Emerson's
Essays, and began to think myself an old Philosopher risen from the
dead. There was a melancholy gravity about all my college exercises,
and I began to look down on young freshmen and sophomores with a serene
compassion, as a sage who has passed through the vale of years and
learned that all is vanity.
The valley of humiliation may have its charms--it is said that there are
many flowers that grow there, and nowhere else, but for all that, a
young fellow, so far as I know, generally walks through the first part
of it in rather a surly and unamiable state.
To be sure, had I been wise, I should have been ready to return thanks
on my knees for my disappointment. True, the doll was stuffed with
saw-dust, but it was not my doll. I had not learned the cheat when it
was forever too late to help myself, and was not condemned to spend life
in vain attempts to make a warm, living friend of a cold marble statue.
Many a man has succeeded in getting his first ideal, and been a
miserable man always thereafter, and therefore.
I have lived to hear very tranquilly of Mrs. Will Marshall's soirées and
parties, as she reigns in the aristocratic circles of New York; and to
see her, still like a polished looking-glass, gracefully reflecting
every one's whims and tastes and opinions with charming suavity, and
forgetting them when their backs are turned; and to think that she is
the right thing in the right place--a crowned Queen of Vanity Fair.
I have become, too, very tolerant and indulgent to the women who do as
she did,--use their own charms as the coin wherewith to buy the riches
and honors of the world.
The world has been busy for some centuries in shutting and locking every
door through which a woman could step into wealth, except the door of
marriage. All vigor and energy, such as men put forth to get this golden
key of life, is condemned and scouted as unfeminine; and a woman
belonging to the upper classes, who undertakes to get wealth by honest
exertion and independent industry, loses caste, and is condemned by a
thousand voices as an oddity and a deranged person. A woman gifted with
beauty, who sells it to buy wealth, is far more leniently handled. That
way of getting money is not called unwomanly; and so long as the whole
force of the world goes that way, such marriages as Miss Ellery's and
Bill Marshall's will be considered en régle.
CHAPTER VIII.
THE BLUE MISTS.
My college course was at last finished satisfactorily to my mother and
friends. What joy there is to be got in college honors was mine. I
studied faithfully and graduated with the valedictory.
Nevertheless I came back home again a sadder if not a wiser man than I
went. In fact a tendency to fits of despondency and dejection had been
growing upon me in these last two years of my college life.
With all the self-confidence and conceit that is usually attributed to
young men, and of which they have their share undoubtedly, they still
have their times of walking through troubled waters, and sinking in deep
mire where there is no standing.
During my last year, the question "What are you good for?" had often
borne down like a nightmare upon me. When I entered college all was
distant, golden, indefinite, and I was sure that I was good for almost
anything that could be named. Nothing that ever had been attained by man
looked to me impossible. Riches, honor, fame, any thing that any other
man unassisted had wrought out for himself with his own right arm, I
could work out also.
But as I measured myself with real tasks, and as I rubbed and grated
against other minds and whirled round and round in the various
experiences of college life, I grew smaller and smaller in my own
esteem, and oftener and oftener in my lonely hours it seemed as if some
evil genius delighted to lord it over me and sitting at my bed-side or
fire-side to say "What are you good for, to what purpose all the pains
and money that have been thrown away on you? You'll never be anything;
you'll only mortify your poor mother that has set her heart on you, and
make your Uncle Jacob ashamed of you." Can any anguish equal the depths
of those blues in which a man's whole self hangs in suspense before his
own eyes, and he doubts whether he himself, with his entire outfit and
apparatus, body, soul, and spirit, isn't to be, after all, a complete
failure? Better, he thinks never to have been born, than to be born to
no purpose. Then first he wrestles with the question, What is life for,
and what am I to do or seek in it? It seems to be not without purpose,
that the active life-work of the great representative Man of Men was
ushered in by a forty days dreary wandering in the wilderness hungry,
faint, and tempted of the Devil; for certainly, after education has
pretty thoroughly waked up all there is in a man, and the time is at
hand that he is to make the decision what to do with it, there often
comes a wandering, darkened, unsettled, tempted passage in his life. In
Christ's temptations we may see all that besets the young man.
The daily bread question, or how to get a living,--the ambitious
heavings, or the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them, all to be
got by some yielding to Satan,--the ostentatious impulse to come down on
the world with a rush and a sensation,--these are mirrored in a young
man's smaller life just as they were in that great life. The whole
Heavens can be reflected in the little pool as in the broad ocean!
All these elements of unrest had been boiling in my mind during the last
year. Who wants to be nothing in the great world? No young man at this
time of his course. The wisdom of becoming nothing that he may possess
all things is too high for this stage of immaturity.
I came into college as simple, and contented, and satisfied, as a
huckleberry bush in a sweet-fern pasture. I felt rich enough for all I
wanted to do, and my path of life lay before me defined with great
simplicity.
But my intimacy with Miss Ellery, her marriage and all that pertained
to it, had brought before my eyes the world of wealth and fashion, a
world which a young collegian may try to despise, and about which he may
write the most disparaging moral reflections, but which has, after all,
its power to trouble his soul. The consciousness of being gloveless, and
threadbare in toilet, comes over one in certain atmospheres, as the
consciousness of nakedness to Adam and Eve. It is true that in the
institution where I attended, as in many other rural colleges in New
England, I was backed up by a majority of healthy-minded, hardy men, of
real mark and worth, children of honest toil and self-respecting
poverty, who were bravely working their way up through education to the
prizes and attainments of life. Simple economies were therefore well
understood and respected in the college.
Nevertheless there is something not altogether vulgar in the attractions
which wealth enables one to throw around himself. I was a social
favorite in college, and took a stand among my fellows as a writer and
speaker, and so had a considerable share of that sincere sort of
flattery which college boys lavish on each other. I was invited and made
much of by some whose means were ample, whose apartments were
luxuriously and tastefully furnished, but who were none the less good
scholars and high-minded gentlemanly fellows.
In their vacations I had been invited to their houses, and had seen all
the refinement, the repose, the ease and the quietude that comes from
the possession of wealth in the hands of those who know how to use it.
Wealth in such hands gives opportunities of the broadest culture,
ability to live in the wisest manner, freedom to choose the healthiest
surroundings both for mind and body, not restricted by considerations of
expense; and how could I think it anything else than an object ardently
to be sought?
It is true, my rich friends seemed equally to enjoy the vacations in my
little, plain, mountain home. People generally are insensible to
advantages they have always enjoyed, and have an appetite for something
new; so the homely rusticity of our house, the perfect freedom from
conventionalities, the wild, mountain scenery, the wholesome detail of
farm life, the barn with its sweet stores of hay, and its nooks and
corners and hiding places, the gathering in of our apples, and the
making of cider, the corn-huskings and Thanksgiving frolics, seemed to
have their interest and delights to them, and they often told me I was a
lucky fellow to be born to such pleasant surroundings. But I thought
within myself, It is easy to say this when you feel the control of
thousands in your pocket, when if you are tired you can go to any land
or country of the earth for change of scene.
In fact we see in history that the crusade of St. Francis in favor of
Poverty was not begun by a poor man, but by a young nobleman who had
known nothing hitherto but wealth and luxury. It is from the rich, if
from any, that our grasping age must learn renunciation and simplicity.
It is easier to renounce a good which one has tried and of which one
knows all the attendant thorns and stings than to renounce one that has
been only painted by the imagination, and whose want has been keenly
felt. When I came to the College I came from the controlling power of
home influences. At an early age I had felt the strength of that sphere
of spirituality that encircled the lives of my parents, and, being very
receptive and sympathetic, had reflected in my childish nature all their
feelings.
I had renounced the world before I knew what the world was. I had joined
my father's church and was looked upon as one destined in time to take
up my father's work of the ministry.
Four years had passed and I came back to my mother, weakened and
doubting, indisposed to take up the holy work to which in my early days
I looked forward with enthusiasm, yet with all the sadness which comes
from indecision as to one's life-object.
To be a minister is to embrace a life of poverty, of toil, of
self-denial. To do this, not only with cheerfulness but with an
enthusiasm which shall bear down all before it, which shall elevate it
into the region of moral poetry and ideality, requires a fervid,
unshaken faith. The man must feel the power of an endless life, be
lifted above things material and temporal to things sublime and eternal.
Now it is one peculiarity of the professors of the Christian religion
that they have not, at least of late years, arranged their system of
education with any wise adaptation to having their young men come out of
it Christians. In this they differ from many other religionists. The
Brahmins educate their sons so that they shall infallibly become
Brahmins; the Jews so that they shall infallibly be Jews; the
Mohammedans so that they shall be Mohammedans; but the Christians
educate their sons so that nearly half of them turn out
unbelievers--professors of no religion at all.
There is a book which the Christian world unite in declaring to be an
infallible revelation from Heaven. It has been the judgment of critics
that the various writings in this volume excel other writings in point
of mere literary merit as much as they do in purity and elevation of the
moral sentiment. Yet it is remarkable that the critical study of these
sacred writings in their original tongues is not in most of our
Christian colleges considered as an essential part of the education of a
Christian gentleman, while the heathen literature of Greece and Rome is
treated as something indispensable, and to be gained at all hazards.
It is a fact that from the time that the boy begins to fit for college,
his mind is so driven and pressed with the effort to acquire the
classical literature, that there is no time to acquire the literature of
the Bible, neither is it associated in his mind with the dignity and
respect of a classical attainment. He must be familiar with Horace and
Ovid, with Cicero and Plato, Æschylus and Homer in their original
tongues, but the majestic poetry of the Old Testament, and its sages and
seers and prophets, become with every advancing year more unintelligible
to him. A thoroughly educated graduate of most of our colleges is
unprepared to read intelligently many parts of Isaiah or Ezekiel or
