from me.”
“That’s a lie!” retorted Tom. “You never saw the money. There was a
gentleman down to Fulton Ferry that give it to me this morning.”
“That’s a likely story,” said granny, scornfully.
“If you don’t believe it you can ask him. He’s got an office on Wall
Street, No. —, and his name is Mr. Dunbar. Take me round there, and see
if he don’t say so.”
“Don’t believe her,” said granny. “She can lie as fast as she can talk.”
“Ask Mrs. Murphy then. She keeps an apple-stand corner of Nassau and
Spruce Streets.”
“You are sure she took this money from you?” inquired the policeman.
“Yes,” said Mrs. Walsh. “I put it in my drawer yesterday forenoon, and
when I come to look for it it was gone. Mrs. Molloy, that lives on the
next floor, told me she saw Tom, I mean Jane, come in about three
o’clock, when I was out to work. It was then that she took it.”
If granny had been dressed in her old fashion, she would have inspired
less confidence; but it must be remembered that, through money advanced
by the lawyer, she was now, in outward appearance, a very respectable
old woman; and appearances go a considerable way. The officer was,
therefore, disposed to believe her. If he had any doubt on the subject
it was settled by the interference of Mr. Lindsay, who had hitherto kept
aloof, but who now advanced, saying, “I know this woman, Mr. Officer,
and I can assure you that her story is correct. The child has been wild
and rebellious, and stolen money. But her grandmother does not wish to
have her arrested, as she might rightfully do. She prefers to take her
back, and do what she can to redeem her.”
Mr. Lindsay was in outward appearance a gentleman. His manner was quiet,
and calculated to inspire confidence.
“That is sufficient,” said the officer, respectfully. “Hark you,” he
added, addressing Tom, “you had better go away quietly with your
grandmother, or I shall advise her to give you in charge for theft.”
Granny had conquered. Tom saw that further immediate resistance would be
unavailing; without a word, therefore, she allowed herself to be led
away, mentally resolving, however, that her stay with granny would be
brief.
                              CHAPTER XXII
                       THE LAWYER AND HIS CLIENT.
Mr. Selwyn, the lawyer who has already been introduced to the reader,
sat in his office with a pile of papers before him, when a knock was
heard at the door. His clerk being absent, he arose and opened it. A
lady stood before him.
“Will you enter, madam?” he said.
“Is this Mr. Selwyn?” she asked.
“That is my name, madam.”
“My name will probably be familiar to you. I am Mrs. Lindsay.”
“I am glad to see you, madam. Will you be seated?”
She sat down, and the lawyer regarded with interest the client whom he
now saw for the first time. She was still young, less than forty
probably, and, though her face bore the impress of sorrow, she was still
beautiful.
“I suppose you have no news for me,” she said.
“I am sorry to say that I have as yet no trace of the child. Margaret
Walsh is on the lookout for her, and, as you have made it worth her
while, I do not doubt that she will eventually find her for you.”
“Do you think my child is still in the city?” asked Mrs. Lindsay,
anxiously.
“I have no doubt of it. A child, bred as she has been, does not often
leave the city voluntarily, unless in the case of those children who are
from time to time carried away to homes in the West, through the agency
of the Children’s Aid Society.”
“But may she not be of the number of these?”
“I thought it possible, and have accordingly inquired particularly of
the officers of the society whether any child answering to her
description has been under their charge, and I am assured that this is
not the case. She is probably earning a living for herself somewhere in
the streets, though we cannot tell in what way, or in what part of the
city. Having run away from Mrs. Walsh, whom I suspect she did not like,
she probably keeps out of the way, to avoid falling again into her
hands.”
“It is terrible to think that my dear child is compelled to wander about
the streets homeless, and no doubt often suffering severe privations,”
said Mrs. Lindsay, with a sigh.
“Have good courage, madam,” said the lawyer. “I am convinced that we
shall find her very soon.”
“I hope indeed that your anticipations may be realized,” said the
mother. “But I have not yet told you what brings me to New York at this
time.”
Mr. Selwyn bowed and assumed an air of attention.
“It is not pleasant,” said Mrs. Lindsay, after a slight pause, “to speak
ill of a relative; but I am obliged to tell you that the worst foe I
have is my brother-in-law, a younger brother of my late husband. It was
he who in the first place contrived the abduction of the child, and,
though he witnessed my distress, he has never relented, though it was
doubtless in his power, at any time, to restore her to me.”
“How lately have you become aware of his connection with the affair?”
“Only a few months since. One day I opened a desk belonging to him, in
search of an envelope, when I accidentally came upon a letter from
Margaret Walsh, written some years since, giving an account of her
arrival in New York with my dear child, and claiming from him a sum of
money which it appears he had promised as a compensation for her
services. This discovery astounded me. It was the first intimation I had
of my brother-in-law’s perfidy. He had always offered me such a delicate
and unobtrusive sympathy, and appeared to share so sincerely in my
sorrow, that I could scarcely believe the testimony of my senses. I read
the letter three times before I could realize his treachery. Of course I
did not make known to him the discovery I had made, but, calling on a
lawyer, I asked him to recommend to me some trustworthy gentleman in his
profession in this city. Your name was suggested, and I at once
authorized him to communicate with you, and employ you in the matter.”
“I trust I shall prove worthy of the recommendation,” said the lawyer,
inclining his head.
“There is one question which I should like to ask,” he continued. “In
what manner would your brother-in-law be likely to derive advantage from
your child’s disappearance?”
“My husband left a large property,” said Mrs. Lindsay. “Half of this was
bequeathed to me, the remaining half I was to hold in trust for my
child. If, however, she should die before reaching her majority, my
brother-in-law, Mr. James Lindsay, was to receive my child’s portion.”
“That constitutes a very powerful motive,” said the lawyer. “The love of
money is the root of all evil, you know.”
“I do not like to suspect my brother-in-law of such baseness,” said Mrs.
Lindsay, “but I fear I must.”
“How are his own means? Has he considerable property?”
“He had. Both my husband and himself inherited a large property; but I
have reason to think that, at the time I speak of, he had lost large
sums by gambling. He had passed two years abroad, and I heard from
acquaintances, who met him there, that he played for high stakes at
Baden Baden and other German gambling resorts, and lost very heavily. I
suspect that he must have reduced his means very much in this way.”
“You are probably correct, and this supplies what we lawyers always
seek—the motive. I can quite understand that to a man so situated a
hundred thousand dollars must have been a powerful temptation. I must
ask you another question. Has Mr. James Lindsay derived any advantage
from your child’s property thus far?”
“He has, though it was legally decided that he could not come into
absolute possession, since my child’s death was not definitely
ascertained; at least, until such time as, if living, she would have
attained her majority, it was decreed that the income derived from the
property should be paid to him, this payment to cease only in case of
Jenny’s restoration.”
“And has this been done?”
“It has.”
“Then Mr. James Lindsay has for the last six years received the income
of a hundred thousand dollars.”
Mrs. Lindsay inclined her head.
“And you never suspected his agency in the affair, in spite of all
this?”
“Never. I knew James profited by my dear child’s loss, but I was not
prepared to suspect him of such baseness.”
“I should have thought of it at once; but then we lawyers see so much of
the bad side of human nature that we are prone to suspect evil.”
“Then I should not wish to be a lawyer. It pains me to think ill of
others.”
“I respect you for the sentiment, madam, though in my profession I am
compelled to repudiate it. May I inquire whether your brother-in-law yet
suspects that you have discovered his complicity in the plot against
your child?”
“It is that which brings me to see you to-day. I feel sure that in some
way he has gained a knowledge of my secret, though I endeavored to
conceal it from him.”
“That is not surprising. He might accidentally have seen the
advertisement for Margaret Walsh, which, under your directions, I
inserted in the leading New York daily papers.”
“He must have found out in this way.”
“He will now doubtless do what he can to prevent your recovering
possession of her.”
“I fear he has already commenced. Three days since, he told me that he
was about to go to Washington, and possibly further south for a few
weeks. He added that, having much business to occupy him, he doubted if
he should be able to write often. I supposed this to be true, until
yesterday I heard that, instead of taking the cars to Baltimore, he had
bought a ticket for New York. This attempt to deceive me convinces me
that he has penetrated my secret.”
“Do you know where he is staying in New York?”
“No, I do not. I only reached the city to-day, and came at once to your
office to inform you of the new danger which menaced our cause.”
“The information is important, Mrs. Lindsay,” said the lawyer,
thoughtfully. “I must endeavor to guard against his machinations. No
doubt he will first try to find out Margaret Walsh, and when he has
found her will seek to buy her over to his interest. From what I know of
the woman, he will have no difficulty in succeeding.”
“What can we do?” asked Mrs. Lindsay, anxiously.
“I don’t care to bid against him, for, having such large interests at
stake, he will take care to go as high as we. We must do what we can to
keep them apart.”
“Will that be possible?”
“We can at least try. I must have time to think what methods are to be
used.”
“When shall you see Margaret?”
“To-morrow, probably. That is the day on which she has been accustomed
to come for her weekly allowance, and I must do her the justice to say
that she has never yet failed to present herself punctually. You will
remain in New York?”
“Yes,” said Mrs. Lindsay. “In my present state of mind I could not be
contented away from here.”
“What will be your address?”
“I have not thought.”
“Let me advise you not to stop at a hotel. Your arrival would in that
way become known to Mr. James Lindsay, as it would probably be published
in the ‘Evening Express.’”
“Can you recommend me a good boarding-house, Mr. Selwyn?”
“I know an excellent one on West Twenty-Fifth Street, where you will
have a fine room and every comfort. I will, if you desire it, give you a
letter to Mrs. Thurston, with whom I once boarded myself.”
“I shall feel much indebted to you, Mr. Selwyn, if you will do so.”
The lawyer turned to his desk, and wrote a brief note, which he handed
to his client. She took it, and rose from her seat, saying, “May I hope
to see you this evening, Mr. Selwyn? I am sorry to trespass upon your
time to such an extent, but you will appreciate a mother’s anxiety.”
“I can and I do,” said the lawyer; “and you may rest assured that my
best energies shall be devoted to your service.”
Within two hours Mrs. Lindsay found herself installed in a handsome
apartment at Mrs. Thurston’s boarding-house.
“I shall feel better,” she reflected, “now that I am in the city where
my child in all probability is leading a life of poverty and privation.
God grant that she may be restored to me, and that I may be able to make
up to her the care of which she has so cruelly been deprived for six
long years!”
                             CHAPTER XXIII
                  HOW GRANNY AND TOM BECAME SEPARATED.
It will be understood why Mr. Lindsay had visited New York, and opened
communication with Margaret Walsh. The knowledge that his sister-in-law
had discovered his agency in the disappearance of her child, and the
fear that she might recover her, and so deprive him of the large
property for which he had intrigued, alarmed him, and led him to exert
himself to frustrate, if possible, his sister’s plans.
Only two days after reaching the city, he had met Margaret in the
street. He recognized her at once, and discovered without much
difficulty the steps Mrs. Lindsay had this far taken. He at once offered
Margaret double the reward if she would serve his interests; and granny
consented, nothing loth. The first object was still to get possession of
Tom. How that was effected has already been told. We will now resume our
story where we left it at the end of the twenty-first chapter.
Tom walked quietly away with granny, feeling that there was no chance of
immediate escape. She meant to bide her time, and break away as soon as
she could. Mr. Lindsay walked on the other side of granny until they
reached the Astor House.
“Stop here a minute,” he said, “I will go in and inquire when the next
train starts on the Erie Road.”
The old woman did as directed. Tom could not help wondering how there
should be an acquaintance between granny and a well-dressed gentleman
like Mr. Lindsay. It seemed strange, yet there was an evident
understanding between them.
Mr. Lindsay came out in less than five minutes.
“A train starts in an hour,” he said. “We had better go to the depot at
once.”
Granny made some objection to the short notice, but he overruled it.
“It must be done,” he said, decidedly. “It is the only safe way.”
“I aint used to travellin’,” said Margaret.
“You’ve got a tongue in your head,” he said roughly. “All you’ve got to
do is to inquire when you are in doubt. I will go to the depot with you,
and buy your tickets.”
Mrs. Walsh made no further objection, and they took their way to the
depot.
“I wonder what’s up,” thought Tom.
They reached the depot and went into the reception-room. Mr. Lindsay
went out, and returned shortly with two strips of tickets, which he gave
to granny, explaining in what way they would be called for. He then took
out a roll of bills, and gave her. Then ensued a whispered conversation,
of which Tom only heard detached words, from which she was unable to
gather a definite idea. Then they entered the cars, and Mr. Lindsay left
them, with a last injunction, “Mind she don’t escape.”
“I’ll take care,” nodded granny.
Soon the cars were on their way. It was the first time within her
remembrance that Tom had ridden in the cars, and she looked out of the
window with great interest, enjoying the rapid motion and the changing
views. At last, yielding to curiosity, she turned and addressed the old
woman.
“Where are we goin’, granny?”
“Never you mind!” said granny.
“But I do mind. Are we goin’ far?”
“None of your business!”
“Who was that man that gave you money? Has he got anything to do with
me?”
“No,” said granny.
“Why did he give you money?”
“Because he’s a relation of mine,” said granny. “He’s my nephew.”
Tom was not in the least deceived. She knew that, if granny had a
nephew, he would be a far different man from Mr. Lindsay. However, she
had a curiosity to hear what granny would say, and continued asking
questions.
“Then he’s a relation of mine,” said Tom.
“No he isn’t,” said granny, sharply.
“Why isn’t he? Aint you my granny?”
Mrs. Walsh could not gainsay this argument. “He’s a little of a relation
to you,” she said. “He’s give me some money, so I can live with you out
West. You won’t have to sweep streets no longer.”
The mystery seemed to deepen. What truth there might be in granny’s
representations Tom could not tell. One thing was clear, however.
Relation or not, this man had given granny money, and would probably
give her more. Probably, if Tom remained with her, she would not fare as
hard as formerly; but this she did not intend to do. She had come to
dislike granny, who, she felt instinctively, was not really her
relation, and still cherished the intention of running away as soon as
there was a good opportunity.
Meanwhile the cars sped on till seventy-five miles separated them from
the city. Broad fields extended on either side the railway track. To
Tom, who was a true child of the city, who had rarely seen green grass,
since the round of her life had been spent within a short distance of
City Hall Park, it seemed strange. She wondered how it would seem to
live in the country, and rather thought she should not like it.
At length they came to a station where supper was to be obtained. Granny
was hungry and rose with alacrity.
“Shall I go with you?” asked Tom.
“No,” said Mrs. Walsh, “set right here. I’ll go and buy something for
you.”
They were so far away from the city now that granny had no fear of Tom’s
escaping, particularly as she had no money.
Tom retained her seat, therefore, and granny entered the station-house,
where some of her fellow-passengers were already hurrying down their
suppers.
She stepped up to the counter, and soon was engaged in a similar way.
“Will you have a cup of coffee, ma’am?” inquired the waiter.
“Haven’t you got some whiskey?” inquired the old woman.
“No, we don’t keep it.”
Granny looked disappointed. She was very fond of whiskey, and, having
plenty of money, saw no reason why she should be deprived of her
favorite beverage.
“Aint there any to be got near by?” she asked.
“There’s a saloon a few rods up the road,” was the reply.
“Could I find it easy?”
“Yes, there’s a sign outside. It’s a small one-story building. You can’t
miss it.”
Mrs. Walsh hastily bought a couple of cakes for Tom, and hurried out of
the building. There stood the cars, liable to start at any time. It was
the part of prudence to get in, and granny hesitated. But the desire for
a dram was strong within her, and she thought she could run over and get
a glass, and be back in time. The train stopped ten minutes for
refreshments, and she had not consumed more than five. The temptation
proved too strong for her to resist.
She reached the saloon, and, entering, said, “Give me a glass of
whiskey, quick. I’m going right off in the train.”
The whiskey was poured out, and granny drank it with a sense of
exquisite enjoyment.
“Give me another,” she said.
Another was poured out, and she had half drunk it, when the whistle was
heard. This recalled the old woman to the risk she incurred of being
left by the train. Setting down the glass hastily, she was hurrying out
of the saloon, when she was stopped by the bar-tender.
“You haven’t paid for your drinks, ma’am,” he said bluntly.
Granny saw the train just beginning to move.
“I can’t stop,” she said desperately. “I shall be left.”
“That don’t go down!” said the bar-tender, roughly; “you must pay for
your drinks.”
“I’ll send it to you,” said granny, trying to break away.
“That trick won’t work,” said the man, and he clutched the old woman by
the arm.
“I’ve got a gal aboard,” screamed granny, desperately, trying at the
same time to break away.
“I don’t care if you’ve got forty gals aboard, you must pay.”
Mrs. Walsh drew a bill from her pocket, and, throwing it down, rushed
for the train without waiting for the change. But too much time had
already been lost. The cars were now speeding along at a rate which made
it quite impossible for her to catch them, and get aboard.
“Stop!” she shrieked frantically, running with a degree of speed of
which she would have been thought incapable. “I’ve got a gal aboard. I
shall lose her.”
Some of the passengers saw her from the windows, and were inclined to
laugh rather than sympathize with her evident distress.
“Serves her right!” said a grouty old fellow. “Why didn’t she come back
in time?”
“There’s a woman left behind,” said another passenger to the conductor.
He shrugged his shoulders, and said, indifferently, “That’s her lookout.
If she didn’t choose to come to time, she must take the consequences.”
“Couldn’t you stop the train?” asked a kind-hearted little woman.
“No ma’am. Quite impossible. We’re behind time already.”
So the train sped on, leaving granny frantic and despairing, waving her
arms and screaming hoarsely, “Stop! I’ve got a gal aboard!”
“What would Mr. Lindsay say?” she could not help thinking. Only four
hours had passed since Tom had been placed in her charge, and they were
separated. She cared little or nothing for Tom, or her welfare, but for
her own interests, which were likely to be seriously affected, she cared
a great deal. She was to have a comfortable annuity as long as she kept
Tom safe in custody, and that was at an end unless she could manage to
get her back.
She went into the station-house, and inquired when the next train would
leave. She learned that several hours must elapse. Having plenty of
time, therefore, she went back to the saloon, and recovered the change
due her, taking an additional glass of whiskey, to drown her chagrin and
disappointment.
                              CHAPTER XXIV
                           TOM’S ADVENTURES.
Among those who looked out of the window, and witnessed granny’s frantic
gesticulations was Tom.
“Aint that rich?” she uttered, in high delight.
“What’s the matter?” asked an old lady, who sat just in front, bending
over and speaking to Tom.
“It’s my granny,” said Tom, laughing afresh. “She’s left behind. You
ought to see her shakin’ her fist at the cars.”
“Are you laughing at your grandmother’s disappointment?” asked the old
lady’s daughter, a prim-visaged maiden lady. “For shame, child!”
“I’m glad to get rid of her,” said Tom, coolly. “She aint my granny; she
only pretends to be.”
“Hasn’t she had the care of you?”
“No,” said Tom. “I’ve had the care of her. She took all the money I
earned, and spent it for rum.”
“What are you going to do?” inquired the old maid.
“I don’t know,” said Tom, her attention being now first called to the
embarrassment of her situation. She was nearly eighty miles from New
York, and this distance was fast increasing. She had no railway ticket
and no money. What was she to do?
“Have you had any supper, child?” asked the old lady.
“No,” answered Tom. “Granny went out to get some.”
“Priscilla,” said the old lady, “haven’t you got some of them cookies
left?”
“Yes, ma,” said the daughter.
“You’d better give some of them to the child.”
The younger lady took several hard seed-cakes from a paper bag, and
offered them to Tom, who accepted and ate them with avidity.
Meanwhile she was considering what was best to be done. She wanted to
get back to New York, where she felt at home. Then she could go back to
Mrs. Murphy’s, whom she had paid for a week’s board in advance. She had
no money, for granny had forcibly taken from her what she had left after
paying for her dinner. How she was to get back seemed rather a problem.
One thing, however, appeared evident: every moment carried her farther
away from the city. So Tom concluded that the sooner she got off, the
better.
When the cars reached the next stopping-place, Tom got up and went to
the door.
“Where are you going?” asked the old lady.
“I’m going to look out,” answered Tom, fearing that some impediment
might be placed in her way.
“Don’t you get off, or you may get lost too.”
“All right.”
Tom stepped on the platform, and, quietly jumping from the cars, ran
round the depot, to escape notice. The stop was a short one, and
directly she heard the noise of the departing train. When it was fairly
on the way, Tom began to look around her and consider her situation.
It was a small station, and there was scarcely a house near the depot.
It was already twilight, and to Tom, who was accustomed to the crowded
city, it appeared very lonely and desolate. She knew not where she
should pass the night. She had often been in that position in the city,
and it did not trouble her. Here, however, she was rather startled at
the unwonted solitude. Besides, being wholly ignorant of the country, it
occurred to her that she might meet some wild animal prowling around.
Just as this thought came into her mind, she saw advancing towards her a
cow, followed by a farmer’s boy, about two years older than herself. Now
Tom was brave enough constitutionally, but this was the first cow she
had ever seen, and the branching horns led her to suppose it fierce and
dangerous, like a lion, for example.
She rushed with headlong speed to a stone wall and climbed over.
“Ho! ho!” laughed the boy; “are you afraid of a cow?”
“Won’t she kill me?” asked Tom, a little reassured.
“She wouldn’t kill a fly. Didn’t you ever see a cow afore?”
“No, I didn’t,” said Tom. “I thought it was something like a lion.”
“Where’ve you lived all your life?” asked the boy, astonished at Tom’s
greenness, as he considered it.
“In New York.”
“I thought everybody’d seen cows. Where are you going?”
“I don’t know,” answered Tom.
“You aint stoppin’ to Doctor Simpson’s, be you?”
“I’m stoppin’ on this fence,” said Tom, rather humorously.
“Taint a fence; it’s a stone wall.”
“What’s the odds?”
“How did you come here?”
“By the cars,” said Tom. “I got left.”
“You did? Where are you going to sleep to-night?”
“I don’t know.”
“There’s a tavern in the village.”
“What’s that?”
“A tavern. Don’t you know? A hotel.”
“I haven’t got any money.”
“That’s queer,” said the boy, staring. “Where are you goin’ to sleep?”
“On the grass,” said Tom; “only I’m afraid of the wild animals.”
“Pooh! there aint no wild animals round here. But you mustn’t sleep
out-doors. You’ll catch cold. If you’ll come home with me, mother’ll let
you sleep in our house.”
“Thank you,” said Tom. “You’re a brick.”
“You talk queer for a girl. What’s your name?”
“Tom.”
“Tom? That’s a boy’s name.”
“They call me so. My right name is Jane.”
“Well, Jane, come along, and I’ll show you where we live.”
The two walked together, soon becoming sociable. The boy, James Hooper,
was amazed at Tom’s ignorance of the most common things pertaining to
country life, but found that in other ways she was sharp enough.
“You talk just like a boy,” he said.
“Do I?” said Tom. “I used to wish I was a boy, but I don’t know now. I
think I’d like to grow up a lady,—a tip-top one, you know,—and dress
fine.”
“Are all the girls in New York like you?” asked James, curiously.
“No,” said Tom. “There’s Mary Merton, she isn’t a bit like me. This is
the way she walks,” and Tom imitated Mary’s languid, mincing gait.
“I like you best,” said John. “But here we are. Do you see that house
down the lane?”
“Yes,” said Tom.
“That’s where we live.”
It was a large, square, comfortable farm-house, such as we often see in
farming towns. The farmer’s wife, a stout, comely woman, stood at the
door.
“Who’ve you got with you, James?” she asked.
“It’s a girl that got left by the train,” said James. “She’s got no
money to pay for her lodging. I told her you would let her sleep here.”
“Of course I will. Come right in, child. How did you get left?”
“I just got out a minute,” said Tom, “and the cars went off and left
me.”
“What a pity! Who was travelling with you?”
“My granny,” answered Tom.
“What’ll she do? She’ll be very much frightened.”
“I expect she will,” said Tom, who had made up her mind not to tell too
much.
“Were you going back to the city?”
Tom answered in the affirmative. I do not mean to defend the lie, for a
lie it was, but I have not represented Tom as perfect in any respect. In
the future she will improve, I hope, when placed under more favorable
circumstances. Her object in saying what she did was to prevent any
opposition being made to her return to the city.
“You haven’t had any supper, have you?” asked Mrs. Hooper.
“I ate a few cakes,” answered Tom.
“That isn’t hearty enough for a growing girl,” said the good woman. “You
must take some supper with us.”
The family supper had been eaten, but a tempting array of dishes was
soon set before Tom, whose appetite was always ready to answer any
reasonable demands upon it.
In the evening Tom’s best course was discussed. She expressed a strong
desire to return at once to the city, saying she would be all right
there.
“If your grandmother would not feel anxious about you,” said Mrs.
Hooper, “we should be glad to have you stop with us a day or two.”
“I guess I’d better go back,” said Tom, for, knowing that granny had
been left by the cars only five miles away, she was under some
apprehensions that she might find her way thither.
“You can take the nine-o’clock train to-morrow morning,” said James,
“and get to the city before night.”
“Before night? She’ll get there by one o’clock,” said his mother.
“I haven’t got any money to buy a ticket,” said Tom.
“We will lend you the necessary amount,” said the farmer, “and your
grandmother can pay it back whenever it is convenient.”
Tom felt a little reluctant to accept this money, for she knew that
there was no hope of repayment by granny; but she determined to accept
it, and work hard till she could herself save up money enough to pay the
debt incurred. She felt grateful to the farmer’s family for their
kindness, and was resolved that they should not suffer by it.
In the evening they gathered in the plain sitting-room, covered with a
rag-carpet. Tom helped James make a kite. She was ignorant, but learned
readily. In her interest, she occasionally let slip some street phrases
which rather surprised James, who was led to wonder whether Tom was a
fair specimen of New York girls. He had always fancied that he should
feel bashful in their society; but with Tom he felt perfectly at home.
In the morning he accompanied Tom to the depot, and paid for her ticket,
being supplied with money for the purpose by his mother.
“Good-by,” he said, shaking her hand as she entered the cars.
“Good-by, old fellow,” said Tom. “I’ll pay you back that money if granny
don’t.”
The train started and was soon whirling along at the rate of twenty
miles an hour. Half-way between this and the next station they passed a
train bound in an opposite direction. Looking through the window on the
side towards the other train, Tom caught a glimpse of granny’s face. The
old woman had been compelled to stop till morning, and had taken the
first train bound westward. She did not see Tom, who quickly moved her
head from the window.
“Sold again!” thought Tom, in high delight. “When granny catches me
again, she’ll know it.”
                              CHAPTER XXV
                         TOM FINDS HER MOTHER.
Tom sat back in her seat and enjoyed the prospect from the windows, as
the train sped along. She felt in unusually good spirits, knowing that
she had put granny entirely off the track, and that there was no
immediate chance of her recapture.
“If I only had that money granny took from me, I’d be all right,” she
said to herself. However, her board and lodging were paid at Mrs.
Murphy’s for a week in advance, and that was something.
About forty miles from New York a number of passengers got into the
cars. The seats were mostly occupied, but the one beside Tom was
untaken. A gentleman advanced up the aisle with a lady, looking about
him for a seat.
“Is this seat engaged?” he inquired of Tom.
“No,” answered Tom.
“Then you had better sit here, Rebecca,” said the gentleman. “I think
you will have no trouble. You won’t forget where you are to go,—Mrs.
Thurston’s, West Twenty-Fifth Street. I can’t recall the number, but a
glance in the Directory will settle that.”
“I wish you knew the number,” said the lady.
“It was very careless of me to lose it, I confess. Still, I think you
will have no trouble. But good-by, I must hurry out, or I shall be
left.”
“Good-by. Let me see you soon.”
The gentleman got out, and the lady settled down into her seat, and
looked about her. Finally her glance rested on her young companion. She
was inclined to be social, and accordingly opened a conversation with
Tom.
“Are you going to New York?” she inquired.
“Yes, ma’am.”
“I suppose you live there?”
“Yes.”
“I have never been there, and know nothing at all about the city.”
“It’s a big place,” remarked Tom.
“Yes, I suppose so. I have always lived in the country, and I am afraid
I shan’t feel at home there. But my sister, who is boarding with a Mrs.
Thurston, who keeps a large boarding-house on West Twenty-Fifth Street,
has invited me to come up and spend a few weeks, and so I have got
started.”
“I guess you’ll like it,” said Tom.
“Do you live anywhere near West Twenty-Fifth Street?”
“Not now,” said Tom. “I did live in West Sixteenth Street, but I don’t
now.”
“Are you travelling alone?”
“Yes,” said Tom.
“I suppose you live with your father and mother?”
“I haven’t got any,” answered Tom, laconically.
“I suppose you are well acquainted with the city?”
“Yes,” said Tom. “I know it like a book.”
The fact was, that Tom knew it a great deal better than a book, for her
book-knowledge, as we very well know, was by no means extensive.
“Do you board?”
“Yes,” said Tom. “I board with Mrs. Murphy, in Mulberry Street.”
It struck the lady that Murphy was an Irish name, but the name of the
street suggested nothing to her. She judged from Tom’s appearance that
she belonged to a family in comfortable circumstances.
“I wish I knew the number of Mrs. Thurston’s house,” said the lady
rather anxiously. “I’m so afraid I shan’t find it.”
“I’ll tell you what,” said Tom, “I’ll go with you, if you want me to.”
“I wish you would,” said the lady, much relieved. “It would be a great
favor.”
“I s’pose you won’t mind givin’ me a quarter,” added Tom, with a sharp
eye to the main chance; not unreasonably, since she was penniless.
“I’ll give you double that amount,” said the lady, “and thank you into
the bargain. I’m not much used to travelling, and feel as helpless as a
child.”
“I’ll take care of you,” said Tom, confidently. “I’ll take you to Mrs.
Thurston’s right side up with care.”
“She talks rather singularly,” thought the lady; but Tom’s confident
tone inspired her with corresponding confidence, and she enjoyed the
rest of her journey much more than she would otherwise have done. Tom’s
request for compensation did not surprise her, for she reflected that
children have always a use for money.
At length they reached the city, and Tom and her companion got out of
the cars.
“Come right along,” said Tom, taking the lady by the hand as if she were
a child.
“Carriage, ma’am?” asked several hackmen.
“Perhaps I’d better take a carriage,” said the lady, whose name, by the
way, was Mrs. Parmenter.
“Just as you say,” said Tom.
“I’ve got a nice carriage, ma’am. This way, please,” said a burly
driver.
“Look here, mister, what are you going to charge?” demanded Tom.
“Where do you want to go?”
“To Mrs. Thurston’s, West Twenty-Fifth street.”
“Whereabouts in the street? What number?”
“The lady don’t know.”
“Then how am I to carry you there?”
“Look into the Directory,” said Tom. “If it’s too much trouble for you,
we’ll take another man.”
The hackman made no further objections, but resolved to increase his
charge to compensate for the extra trouble. But here again Tom defeated
him, compelling him to agree to a price considerably less than he at
first demanded.
“Young lady,” said he, paying an involuntary tribute to Tom’s
shrewdness, “you’re about as sharp as they make ’em.”
“That’s so,” said Tom. “You’re right the first time.”
Mrs. Parmenter and Tom entered the carriage, and the driver mounted his
box.
“I don’t see how you dared to talk to that man so,” said the lady. “I
should have paid him whatever he asked.”
“Then you’d have got awfully cheated,” said Tom. “I know their tricks.”
“I’m sure I’m much obliged to you. I don’t know how I should have got
along without you.”
“I’ve always lived in the city,” said Tom; “so I’ve got my eye-teeth
cut. They can’t cheat me easy.”
“I’m afraid I’m selfish in taking you with me,” said Mrs. Parmenter. “I
hope your friends won’t be alarmed at your coming home late.”
“I don’t think they will,” said Tom, laughing.
“You said you had no relatives living in the city?”
“Not now. My granny’s just left New York. She’s travellin’ for her
health,” added Tom, with a burst of merriment, at which Mrs. Parmenter
was rather surprised.
“Where has she gone?”
“Out West. I went a little way with her, just to oblige. She was awful
sorry to part with me, granny was;” and Tom laughed again in a manner
that quite puzzled her companion, who mentally decided that Tom was a
very odd girl indeed.
“After we get to Mrs. Thurston’s,” said Mrs. Parmenter, “I’ll tell the
driver to carry you home. Shall I?”
Tom fancied the sensation she would produce in Mulberry Street, if she
should drive up to the door of the humble tenement house in which she
boarded, and declined the offer. She might have accepted, for the joke
of it, but she saw that the hackman took her for a young lady, and she
did not wish to let him discover the unfashionable locality in which she
made her home.
“Never mind,” said Tom. “I’d just as lieves ride in the cars.”
They stopped at a drug-store, and the driver, going in, ascertained
without difficulty, by an examination of the Directory, the number of
Mrs. Thurston’s boarding-house. A few minutes later, he drew up in front
of a very good-looking house, and, jumping from the box, opened the
door.
“Is this Mrs. Thurston’s?” asked Mrs. Parmenter.
“Yes, ma’am; it’s the number that’s put down in the Directory.”
“I’ll ring the bell and see,” said Tom.
She ran up the steps, and rang a loud peal, which was quickly answered.
“Is this Mrs. Thurston’s?” she asked.
“Yes.”
“Then here’s a lady that’s coming in,” said Tom. “It’s the right place,”
she added, going back to the carriage where Mrs. Parmenter was engaged
in paying the driver.
“Now, my dear,” said Mrs. Parmenter, “I hope you’ll accept this for your
kindness in guiding me.”
She drew a dollar from her purse, and handed it to Tom.
“Thank you,” said Tom, quite elated. “I’m glad I come with you.”
Mrs. Parmenter was about to enter the house, when another lady descended
the steps. It was Mrs. Lindsay, who had been recommended to this house,
as the reader may remember, by the Wall Street lawyer. She no sooner saw
Tom than she became excited, and grasped the balustrade for support.
“Child,” she said, eagerly, “what is your name?”
“Tom,” answered our heroine, surprised.
“Tom?”
“That’s what they call me. Jane is my real name.”
“Do you know a woman named Margaret Walsh?” continued Mrs. Lindsay, her
emotion increasing.
“Why, that’s my granny,” said Tom, surprised.
There was no more room for doubt. Mrs. Lindsay opened her arms.
“Found at last!” she exclaimed. “My dear, dear child!”
“Are you my mother?” asked Tom, in amazement.
“Yes, Jenny, your own mother, never again, I hope, to be separated from
you;” and Mrs. Lindsay clasped the astonished girl to her arms.
“You don’t look a bit like granny,” she said, scanning the refined and
beautiful features of her mother.
“You mean Margaret,” said Mrs. Lindsay, with a shudder. “She is a wicked
woman. It was she who stole you away from me years ago.”
“I played such a trick on her,” said Tom, laughing. “She wanted to carry
me off out West; but I left her, and she’s goin’ on alone.”
“Come in, my darling,” said Mrs. Lindsay. “Your home is with your mother
henceforth. You have much to tell me. I want to know how you have passed
all these years of cruel separation.”
She took Tom up to her own chamber, and drew from her the whole story.
Many parts gave her pain, as Tom recounted her privations and
ill-treatment; but deep thankfulness came at the end, because the child
so long-lost was at last restored.
“To-morrow I must buy you some new clothes,” said she. “Are these all
you have?”
“Yes,” said Tom, “they are a good deal nicer than I used to wear.”
“You shall have better still. I will try to make up to you for your past
privations.”
“I want to go out a little while,” said Tom. “I’d like to tell Mrs.
Murphy what’s happened to me. You see, I paid her for a week’s board,
and she’ll wonder where I am.”
“I can’t trust you out of my sight,” said Mrs. Lindsay; “but I’ll go
with you if you wish it.”
“Yes, I should like that.”
Great was the astonishment of worthy Mrs. Murphy, when Tom came up to
her stand with a handsomely dressed and stylish lady, whom she
introduced as her mother. I will not attempt to repeat the ejaculations
in which she indulged, nor her delight when Mrs. Lindsay bought one of
her apples for Tom, and paid for it with a ten-dollar bill, refusing
change.
“Shure, your mother’s a rale leddy, Tom dear,” she said; “and it’s I
that’s glad of it, for your sake.”
Mrs. Lindsay ordered dinner for herself and Tom in her own room, not
wishing to introduce her to her fellow-boarders until she had supplied
her with a more suitable wardrobe, for Tom’s dress was by this time
soiled and dirty. When the lawyer came up in the evening, his surprise
was great to find the child, whom he had exhausted his legal skill to
discover, already restored to her mother. He offered his sincere
congratulations, and, it may here be remarked, was handsomely paid for
the trouble he had taken in the matter.
By the next post, at Tom’s request, a letter was sent by Mrs. Lindsay to
the farmer’s wife who had sheltered Tom, enclosing the amount of money
paid for the railroad ticket, and thanking her earnestly for the
kindness shown to her child. Much to Tom’s delight, an extra ten dollars
was enclosed as a present to James Hooper from her.
                              CHAPTER XXVI
                              CONCLUSION.
When Tom was suitably dressed, it was easy to perceive a strong
resemblance between her mother and herself. This resemblance was
affected, to be sure, by a careless, independent expression produced by
the strange life she had led as a street Arab. No doubt her new life
would soften and refine her manners, and make her more like girls of her
own age.
Having no further occasion to remain in New York, Mrs. Lindsay took the
train for Philadelphia the next day, where Tom, whom we must now call
Jane Lindsay, found herself in an elegant home, surrounded by all that
wealth could supply. Her mother lost no time in supplying her with
teachers, that the defects of her education might be remedied. These
were great, as we know, but Jane—I had nearly said Tom—was quick, and
her ambition was excited, so that the progress which she made was indeed
remarkable. At the end of the year she was as far advanced as most girls
of her age.
At first our heroine found the change in her life not altogether
agreeable. She missed the free life of the streets, which, in spite of
all its privations and discomforts, is not without a charm to the
homeless young Arabs that swarm about the streets. But in a short time
she acquired new tastes, never, however, losing that fresh and buoyant
spirit, and sturdy independence, which had enabled her to fight her way
when she was compelled to do so. It was evident that Jane, whether from
her natural tendencies or her past experiences, was not likely to settle
down into one of those average, stereotyped, uninteresting young ladies
that abound in our modern society. Nature was sure to assert itself in a
certain piquancy and freshness of manner, which, added to her personal
attraction, will, I think, eventually make Tom—the name slipped from my
pen unintentionally—a great favorite in society. Her faults, at some of
which I have hinted, she did not at once get rid of; but the influence
of an excellent mother will, I am convinced, in time eradicate most of
them.
When James Lindsay learned that his sister-in-law had recovered her
child, he went abroad without seeing her, being ashamed no doubt to meet
one whom he had so deeply injured, and there was no difficulty in
reclaiming the property, the income of which had for some years been
wrongly diverted to his use.
Such of my readers as have conceived an admiration for granny may be
interested to learn that she kept on in her western journey, hoping to
come upon Tom somewhere; but of course she was disappointed. She arrived
at length in Chicago, and, having a considerable sum of money in her
possession, decided to stay there. She did not venture to open
communication with James Lindsay, lest he should take from her the money
she had at present, on account of her careless guardianship. Hiring a
room, she gave herself up to the delights of drinking and smoking. The
last habit proved fatal, when, one afternoon, she lay down with her
lighted pipe in her mouth. Falling asleep, the pipe fell upon the bed,
setting on fire the bedclothes, and next the clothing of Margaret
herself. Whether she was suffocated before awakening, or whether she
awoke too late for rescue, was never ascertained. Certain it is,
however, that when the smell of smoke called in the neighbors, granny
was quite dead, expiating by her tragical end the sins of her miserable
career.
I must sketch one more scene, and then this chronicle of Tom’s
adventurous life will close.
Fifteen months after Tom made the acquaintance of Captain Barnes, that
worthy officer returned to New York. He at once repaired to the house of
his sister, Mrs. Merton, expecting to find Tom. He had thought of her
very often while at sea, and pictured with pleasure the improvement
which she would exhibit after a year’s training and education.
“I have no child. I probably shall never have one,” he said to himself.
“If Jenny has become such a girl as I hope, I will formally adopt her,
and when I have become too old to go to sea, we will make a pleasant and
cosey little home together, and she shall cheer my declining years.”
Such thoughts as these warmed the heart of the sailor, and made him
anxious for the voyage to close. He had heard nothing from his sister
since he left, and was, therefore, ignorant of the fact that Tom was no
longer in her charge.
When he reached his sister’s house, and had kissed her and his nieces,
he inquired eagerly:—
“Where’s Jane? Has she improved?”
“Then you haven’t heard, Albert,” said his sister, not without
embarrassment, for she was about to deceive him.
“Heard! What is there to hear?” he said impatiently.
“Jane has not been with me for a year.”
“What has become of her?”
“Indeed I don’t know. She remained with me three months after you left,
and then suddenly disappeared. She must have got tired of a life so
different from that she had been accustomed to lead, and determined to
go back to her street life.”
“I am deeply grieved to hear it,” said Captain Barnes. “I have
anticipated meeting her with so much pleasure. And have you never seen
her since?”
“Never.”
“I thought you might accidentally have met her in the street.”
“No.”
“Had she improved while she did stay?”
“Yes,” said Mrs. Merton, with hesitation, “that is, a little. She was
not quite so wild and rude as at first; but I don’t think she would ever
have made up the deficiencies of her early training.”
Captain Barnes paced the floor, deeply disturbed. His disappointment was
a great one.
“I shall try to trace her,” he said at length. “I will apply to the
police for help.”
“That’s the best thing to do, uncle,” said Mary, with a sneer. “Very
likely you’ll find her at Blackwell’s Island.”
“For shame, niece,” said her uncle, sternly. “You might have a little
more charity for a poor girl who has not had your advantages.”
Mary was abashed, and regretted that she had spoken so unguardedly, for
she hoped to produce a favorable impression upon her uncle, in the hope
of becoming his heiress.
The silence was broken by the stopping of a carriage before the door.
Mary flew to the window.
“O mother,” she said, “there’s a beautiful carriage at the door, with a
coachman in livery, and there’s a lady and a young girl, elegantly
dressed, getting out.”
Quite a sensation was produced by the intelligence.
A moment later, and the servant brought in the cards of Mrs. Lindsay and
Miss Lindsay.
“I don’t remember the name,” said Mrs. Merton, “but you may show the
ladies in, Hannah.”
Directly afterwards Mrs. Lindsay and our heroine entered the room. They
were visiting friends in New York, and Jane had induced her mother to
call at the house where she had learned her first lessons in
civilization. She was very different now from the young Arab of fifteen
months since. She was now a young lady in manners, and her handsome
dress set off a face which had always been attractive. Neither Mrs.
Merton nor Mary dreamed of associating this brilliant young lady with
the girl whom they had driven from the house by a false charge.
“Good-morning, Mrs. Lindsay,” said Mrs. Merton, deferentially. “Won’t
you and the young lady take seats?”
“You are no doubt surprised to see me,” said Mrs. Lindsay, “but my
daughter wished me to call. She was for three months, she tells me, a
member of your family.”
“Indeed,” said Mrs. Merton, in surprise, “I think there must be some
mistake. I don’t remember that Miss Lindsay ever boarded with me.”
“Don’t you remember Tom?” asked Jane, looking up, and addressing Mrs.
Merton in something of her old tone.
“Good gracious! You don’t mean to say—” ejaculated the landlady, while
Mary opened wide her eyes in astonishment and dismay.
“For years,” explained Mrs. Lindsay, “my daughter was lost to me through
the cruel schemes of one whom I deemed a faithful friend; but, thank
God, she was restored to me within a week after she left your house.”
“Was that the reason of your leaving, Jane?” asked Captain Barnes.
“Mother,” said Jane, cordially grasping the hand of the captain, “this
is the kind gentleman who first found me in the street, and provided me
with a home.”
“Accept a mother’s gratitude,” said Mrs. Lindsay, simply, but with deep
feeling.
“I was sure you would turn out right, Jane,” said the captain, his face
glowing with pleasure. “Then you left my sister, because you found your
mother?”
“No, that was not the reason,” said Jane, looking significantly at Mrs.
Merton, who, knowing that she had suspected her of what was really her
daughter’s fault, felt confused and embarrassed.
“There was a—a little misunderstanding,” she stammered, “for which I
hope Miss Lindsay will excuse me. I found out my mistake afterwards.”
No further explanation was then given, but Captain Barnes required and
obtained an explanation afterwards. He blamed his sister severely, and
