which the uncanny and even the hor 
rible have for most minds. I have 
seen a delicate woman half fascinated, but 
wholly disgusted, by one of the most unseemly 
of reptiles, vulgarly known as the " blowing 
viper " of the Alleghanies. She would look at it, 
and turn away with irresistible shuddering and the 
utmost loathing, and yet turn to look at it again 
and again, only to experience the same spasm of 
disgust. In spite of her aversion she must have 
relished the sort of electric mental shock that 
the sight gave her. 
I can no more account for the fascination 
for us of the stories of ghosts and " appear- 
 
ances," and those weird tales in which the dead 
are the chief characters ; nor tell why we 
should fall into converse about them when 
the winter evenings are far spent, the* embers 
are glazing over on the hearth, and the listener 
begins to hear the eerie noises in the house. 
At such times one's dreams become of impor 
tance, and people like to tell them and dwell 
upon them, as if they were a link between the 
known and unknown, and could give us a 
clew to that ghostly region which in certain 
states of the mind we feel to be more real than 
that we see. 
Recently, when we were, so to say, sitting 
around the borders of the supernatural late at 
night, MANDEVILLE related a dream of his which 
he assured us was true in every particular, and 
it interested us so much that we asked him to 
write it out. In doing so he has curtailed it, 
and to my mind shorn it of some of its more 
vivid and picturesque features. He might have 
worked it up with more art, and given it a finish 
which the narration now lacks, but I think 
best to insert it in its simplicity. It seems to 
me that it may properly be called, 
 
A NEW "VISION OF SIN." 
IN the winter of 1850 I was a member of one 
of the leading colleges of this country. I was in 
moderate circumstances pecuniarily, though I was 
perhaps better furnished with less fleeting riches 
than many others. I was an incessant and indis 
criminate reader of books. For the solid sciences 
I had no particular fancy, but with mental modes 
and habits, and especially with the eccentric and 
fantastic in the intellectual and spiritual opera 
tions, I was tolerably familiar. All the literature 
of the supernatural was as real to me as the lab 
oratory of the chemist, where I saw the continual 
struggle of material substances to evolve them 
selves into more volatile, less palpable and coarse 
forms. My imagination, naturally vivid, stimu 
lated by such repasts, nearly mastered me. At 
times I could scarcely tell where the material 
ceased and the immaterial began (if I may so 
express it) ; so that once and again I walked, as 
it seemed, from the solid earth onward upon an 
impalpable plain, where I heard the same voices, 
I think, that Joan of Arc heard call to her in the 
garden at Domremy. She was inspired, how 
ever, while I only lacked exercise. I do not 
mean this in any literal sense ; I only describe a 
state of mind. I was at this time of spare habit, 
and nervous, excitable temperament. I was am 
bitious, proud, and extremely sensitive. I cannot 
deny that I had seen something of the world, and 
had contracted about the average bad habits of 
young men who have the sole care of themselves, 
and rather bungle the matter. It is necessary to 
this relation to admit that I had seen a trifle 
more of what is called life than a young man 
ought to see, but at this period I was not only 
sick of my experience, but my habits were as cor 
rect as those of any Pharisee in our college, and 
we had some very favorable specimens of that 
ancient sect. 
Nor can I deny that at this period of my life I 
was in a peculiar mental condition. I well remember an illustration of it. I sat writing late 
one night, copying a prize essay, a merely man 
ual task, leaving my thoughts free. It was in 
June, a sultry night, and about midnight a wind 
arose, pouring in through the open windows, full 
 
of mournful reminiscence, not of this, but of 
other summers, the same wind that De Quincey 
heard at noonday in midsummer blowing through 
the room where he stood, a mere boy, by the side 
of his dead sister, a wind centuries old. As I 
wrote on mechanically I became conscious of a 
presence in the room, though I did not lift my 
eyes from the paper on which I wrote. Gradually 
I came to know that my grandmother dead so 
long ago that I laughed at the idea was in the 
room. She stood beside her old-fashioned spin 
ning-wheel, and quite near me. She wore a plain 
muslin cap with a high puff in the crown, a short 
woollen gown, a white and blue checked apron, 
and shoes with heels. She did not regard me, 
but stood facing the wheel, with the left hand 
near the spindle, holding lightly between the 
thumb and forefinger the white roll of wool 
which was being spun and twisted on it. In her 
right hand she held a small stick. I heard the 
sharp click of this against the spokes of the 
wheel, then the hum of the wheel, the buzz of 
the spindles as the twisting yarn was teased by 
the whirl of its point, then a step backwards, a 
 
pause, a step forward and the running of the 
yarn upon the spindle, and again a backward 
step, the drawing out of the roll and the droning 
and hum of the wheel, most mournful, hopeless 
sound that ever fell on mortal ear. Since child 
hood it has haunted me. All this time I wrote, 
and I could hear distinctly the scratching of the 
pen upon the paper. But she stood behind me 
(why I did not turn my head I never knew), 
pacing backward and forward by the spinning- 
wheel, just as I had a hundred times seen her in 
childhood in the old kitchen on drowsy summer 
afternoons. And I heard the step, the buzz and 
whirl of the spindle, and the monotonous and 
dreary hum of the mournful wheel. Whether her 
face was ashy pale and looked as if it might 
crumble at the touch, and the border of her 
white cap trembled in the June wind that blew, 
I cannot say, for I tell you I did NOT see her. 
But I know she was there, spinning yarn that 
had been knit into hose years and years ago by 
our fireside. For I was in full possession of my 
faculties, and never copied more neatly and legi 
bly any manuscript than I did the one that night. 
 
And there the phantom (I use the word out of 
deference to a public prejudice on this subject) 
most persistently remained until my task was 
finished, and, closing the portfolio, I abruptly 
rose. Did I see anything ? That is a silly and 
ignorant question. Could I see the wind which 
had now risen stronger, and drove a few cloud- 
scuds across the sky, filling the night, somehow, 
with a longing that was not altogether born of 
reminiscence ? 
In the winter following, in January, I made an 
effort to give up the use of tobacco, a habit 
in which I was confirmed, and of which I have 
nothing more to say than this : that I should 
attribute to it almost all the sin and misery in 
the world, did I not remember that the old 
Romans attained a very considerable state of 
corruption without the assistance of the Virginia 
plant. 
On the night of the third day of my absti 
nence, rendered more nervous and excitable than 
usual by the privation, I retired late, and later 
still I fell into an uneasy sleep, and, thus into a 
dream, vivid, illuminated, more real than any 
 
event of my life. I was at home, and fell sick. 
The illness developed into a fever, and then a 
delirium set in, not an intellectual blank, but a 
misty and most delicious wandering in places 
of incomparable beauty. I learned subsequently 
that our regular physician was not certain to 
finish me, when a consultation was called, which 
did the business. I have the satisfaction of 
knowing that they were of the proper school. 
I lay sick for three days. 
On the morning of the fourth, at sunrise, I 
died. 
The sensation was not unpleasant. It was not 
a sudden shock. I passed out of my body as one 
would walk from the door of his house. There 
the body lay, a blank, so far as I was con 
cerned, and only interesting to me as I was 
rather entertained with watching the respect 
paid to it. My friends stood about the bedside, 
regarding me (as they seemed to suppose), while 
I, in a different part of the room, could hardly 
repress a smile at their mistake, solemnized as 
they were, and I too, for that matter, by my 
recent demise. A sensation (the word you see 
 
is material and inappropriate) of etherealization 
and imponderability pervaded me, and I was not 
sorry to get rid of such a dull, slow mass as I 
now perceived myself to be, lying there on the 
bed. When I speak of my death, let me be 
understood to say that there was no change, ex 
cept that I passed out of my body and floated to 
the top of a bookcase in the corner of the room, 
from which I looked down. For a moment I 
was interested to see my person from the out 
side, but thereafter I was quite ' indifferent to 
the body. I was now simply soul. I seemed 
to be a globe, impalpable, transparent, about six 
inches in diameter. I saw and heard everything 
as before. Of course, matter was no obstacle to 
me, and I went easily and quickly wherever I 
willed to go. There was none of that tedious 
process of communicating my wishes to the 
nerves, and from them to the muscles. I sim 
ply resolved to be at a particular place, and 
I was there. It was better than the tele 
graph. 
It seemed to have been intimated to me at 
my death (birth I half incline to call it) that I 
 
could remain on this earth for four weeks after 
my decease, during which time I could amuse 
myself as I chose. 
I chose, in the first place, to see myself de 
cently buried, to stay by myself to the last, and 
attend my own funeral for once. As most of 
those referred to in this true narrative are still 
living, I am forbidden to indulge in personali 
ties, nor shall I dare to say exactly how my 
death affected my friends, even the home circle. 
Whatever others did, I sat up with myself and 
kept awake. I saw the " pennies " used instead 
of the " quarters " which I should have preferred. 
I saw myself " laid out," a phrase that has come 
to have such a slang meaning, that I smile as 
I write it. When the body was put into the 
coffin I took my place on the lid. 
I cannot recall all the details, and they are 
commonplace besides. The funeral took place 
at the church. We all rode thither in carriages, 
and I, not fancying my place in mine, rode on 
the outside with the undertaker, whom I found 
to be a good deal more jolly than he looked to 
be. The coffin was placed in front of the pulpit 
 
when we arrived. I took my station on the pul 
pit cushion, from which elevation I had an ad 
mirable view of all the ceremonies, and could 
hear the sermon. How distinctly I remember 
the services. I think I could even at this dis 
tance write out the sermon. The tune sung was 
of the usual country selection, Mount Vernon. 
I recall the text. I was rather flattered by the 
tribute paid to me, and my future was spoken 
of gravely and as kindly as possible, indeed 
with remarkable charity, considering that the 
minister was not aware of my presence. I 
used to beat him at chess, and I thought, even 
then, of the last game ; for, however solemn the 
occasion might be to others, it was not so to 
me. With what interest I watched my kins 
folks and neighbors as they filed past for the 
last look ! I saw, and I remember, who pulled 
a long face for the occasion and who exhibited 
genuine sadness. I learned with the most dread 
ful certainty what people really thought of me. 
It was a revelation never forgotten. 
Several particular acquaintances of mine were 
talking on the steps as we passed out. 
" Well, old Starr 's gone up. Sudden, wasn't 
it ? He was a first-rate fellow." 
" Yes, queer about some things ; but he had 
some mighty good streaks," said another. And 
so they ran on. 
Streaks! So that is the reputation one gets 
during twenty years of life in this world. Streaks ! 
After the funeral I rode home with the family. 
It was pleasanter than the ride down, though it 
seemed sad to my relations. They did not men 
tion me, however, and I may remark, that al 
though I stayed about home for a week, I never 
heard my name mentioned by any of the family. 
Arrived at home, the tea-kettle was put on and 
supper got ready. This seemed to lift the gloom 
a little, and under the influence of the tea they 
brightened up and gradually got more cheer 
ful. They discussed the sermon and the sing 
ing, and the mistake of the sexton in digging the 
grave in the wrong place, and the large congre 
gation. From the mantel-piece I watched the 
group. They had waffles for supper, of which 
I had been exceedingly fond, but now I saw 
them disappear without a sigh. 
 
For the first day or two of my sojourn at home 
I was here and there at all the neighbors, and 
heard a good deal about my life and character, 
some of which was not very pleasant, but very 
wholesome, doubtless, for me to hear. At the 
expiration of a week this amusement ceased to 
be such, for I ceased to be talked of. I realized 
the fact that I was dead and gone. 
By an act of volition I found myself back at 
college. I floated into my own room, which was 
empty. I went to the room of my two warmest 
friends, whose friendship I was and am yet as 
sured of. As usual, half a dozen of our set were 
lounging there. A game of whist was just com 
mencing. I perched on a bust of Dante on the 
top of the book-shelves, where I could see two 
of the hands and give a good guess at a third. 
My particular friend Timmins was just shuffling 
the cards. 
" Be hanged if it isn't lonesome without old 
Starr. Did you cut ? I should like to see him 
lounge -in now with his pipe, and with feet on 
the mantel-piece proceed to expound on the du 
plex functions of the soul." 
 
" There misdeal," said his vis-a-vis. " Hope 
there 's been no misdeal for old Starr." 
" Spades, did you say ? " the talk ran on. " I 
never knew Starr was sickly." 
" No more was he ; stouter than you are, and 
as brave and plucky as he was strong. By 
George, fellows, how we do get cut down ! Last 
term little Stubbs, and now one of the best fel 
lows in the class." 
" How suddenly he did pop off, one for 
game, honors easy, he was good for the 
Spouts' Medal this year, too." 
" Remember the joke he played on Prof. A., 
freshman year ? " asked another. 
" Remember he borrowed ten dollars of me 
about that time," said Timmins's partner, gather 
ing the cards for a new deal. 
" Guess he is the only one who ever did," retorted some one. 
And so the talk went on, mingled with whist- 
talk, reminiscent of me, not all exactly what I 
would have chosen to go into my biography, but 
on the whole kind and tender, after the fashion 
of the boys. At least I was in their thoughts, 
and I could see was a good deal regretted, 
so I passed a very pleasant evening. Most of 
those present were of my society, and wore crape 
on their badges, and all wore the usual crape on 
the left arm. I learned that the following after 
noon a eulogy would be delivered on me in the 
chapel. 
The eulogy was delivered before members of 
our society and others, the next afternoon, in the 
chapel. I need not say that I was present. In 
deed, I was perched on the desk, within reach of 
the speaker's hand. The apotheosis was pro 
nounced by my most intimate friend, Timmins, 
and I must say he did me ample justice. He 
never was accustomed to " draw it very mild " 
(to use a vulgarism which! dislike) when he had 
his head, and on this occasion he entered into 
the matter with the zeal of a true friend, and a 
young man who never expected to have another 
occasion to sing a public " In Memoriam." It 
made my hair stand on end, metaphorically, 
of course. From my childhood I had been ex 
tremely precocious. There were anecdotes of 
preternatural brightness, picked up, Heaven 
 
knows where, of my eagerness to learn, of my 
adventurous, chivalrous young soul, and of my 
arduous struggles with chill penury, which was 
not able (as it appeared) to repress my rage, 
until I entered this institution, of which I had 
been ornament, pride, cynosure, and fair prom 
ising bud blasted while yet its fragrance was 
mingled with the dew of its youth. Once 
launched upon my college days, Timmins went 
on with all sails spread. I had, as it were, to 
hold on to the pulpit cushion. Latin, Greek, 
the old literatures I was perfect master of; all 
history was merely a light repast to me ; mathe 
matics I glanced at, and it disappeared ; in the 
clouds of modern philosophy I was wrapped but 
not obscured ; over the field of light literature I 
familiarly roamed as the honey-bee over the wide 
fields of clover which blossom white in the Junes 
of this world ! My life was pure, my character 
spotless, my name was inscribed among the 
names of those deathless few who were not 
born to die ! 
It was a noble eulogy, and I felt before he 
finished, though I had misgivings at the begin- 
 
ning, that I deserved it all. The effect on the 
audience was a little different. They said it 
was a " strong " oration, and I think Timmins 
got more credit by it than I did. After the 
performance they stood about the chapel, talk 
ing in a subdued tone, and seemed to be a good 
deal impressed by what they had heard, or per 
haps by thoughts of the departed. At least 
they all soon went over to Austin's and called 
for beer. My particular friends called for it 
twice. Then they all lit pipes. The old gro 
cery keeper was good enough to say that I was 
no fool, if I did go off owing him four dollars. 
To the credit of human nature, let me here 
record that the fellows were touched by this 
remark reflecting upon my memory, and imme 
diately made up a purse and paid the bill, 
that is, they told the old man to charge it over 
to them. College boys are rich in credit and 
the possibilities of life. 
It is needless to dwell upon the days I passed 
at college during this probation. So far as I 
could see, everything went on as it I were there, 
or had never been there. I could not even see 
 
the place where I had dropped out of the ranks. 
Occasionally I heard my name, but I must say 
that four weeks was quite long enough to stay 
in a world that had pretty much forgotten me. 
There is no great satisfaction in being dragged 
up to light now and then, like an old letter 
The case was somewhat different with the 
people with whom I had boarded. They were 
relations of mine, and I often saw them weep, 
and they talked of me a good deal at twilight 
and Sunday nights, especially the youngest one, 
Carrie, who was handsomer than any one I knew, 
and not much older than I. I never used to 
imagine that she cared particularly for me, nor 
would she have done* so, if I had lived, but death 
brought with it a sort of sentimental regret, 
which, with the help of a daguerreotype, she 
nursed into quite a little passion. I spent most 
of my time there, for it was more congenial than 
the college. 
But time hastened. The last sand of proba 
tion leaked out of the glass. One day, while 
Carrie played (for me, though she knew it not) 
one of Mendelssohn's " songs without words," I 
 
suddenly, yet gently, without self-effort or voli 
tion, moved from the house, floated in the air, 
rose higher, higher, by an easy, delicious, exult 
ant, yet inconceivably rapid motion. The ec 
stasy of that triumphant flight ! . Groves, trees, 
houses, the landscape, dimmed, faded, fled away 
beneath me. Upward mounting, as on angels' 
wings, with no effort, till the earth hung be 
neath me a round black ball swinging, remote, 
in the universal ether. Upward mounting, till 
the earth, no longer bathed in the sun's rays, 
went out to my sight, disappeared in the 
blank. Constellations, before seen from afar, I 
sailed among. Stars, too remote for shining on 
earth, I neared, and found to be round globes 
flying through space with a velocity only 
equalled by my own. New worlds continually 
opened on my sight ; new fields of everlasting 
space opened and closed behind me. 
For days and days it seemed a mortal for 
ever I mounted up the great heavens, whose 
everlasting doors swung wide. How the worlds 
and systems, stars, constellations, neared me, 
blazed and flashed in splendor, and fled away.' 
 
At length, was it not a thousand years ? I 
saw before me, yet afar off, a wall, the rocky 
bourn of that country whence travellers come 
not back, a battlement wider than I could guess, 
the height of which I could not see, the depth of 
which was infinite. As I approached, it shone 
with a splendor never yet beheld on earth. Its 
solid substance was built of jewels the rarest, 
and stones of priceless value. It seemed like 
one solid stone, and yet all the colors of the 
rainbow were contained in it. The ruby, the 
diamond, the emerald, the carbuncle, the topaz, 
the amethyst, the sapphire ; of them the wall 
was built up in harmonious combination. So 
brilliant was it that all the space I floated in was 
full of the splendor. So mild was it and so 
translucent, that I could -look for miles into its 
clear depths. 
Rapidly nearing this heavenly battlement, an 
immense niche was disclosed in its solid face. 
The floor was one large ruby. Its sloping sides 
were of pearl. Before I was aware I stood within 
the brilliant recess. I say I stood there, for I was 
there bodily, in my habit as I lived ; how, I can- 
 
not explain. Was it the resurrection of the 
body ? Before me rose, a thousand feet in 
height, a wonderful gate of flashing diamond. 
Beside it sat a venerable man, with long white 
beard, a robe of light gray, ancient sandals, 
and a golden key hanging by a cord from his 
waist. In the serene beauty of his noble fea 
tures I saw justice and mercy had met and 
were reconciled. I cannot describe the majesty 
of his bearing or the benignity of his appear 
ance. It is needless to say that I stood before 
St. Peter, who sits at the Celestial Gate. 
I humbly approached, and begged admission. 
St. Peter arose, and regarded me kindly, yet 
inquiringly. 
"What is your name?" asked he, "and from 
what place do you come ? " 
I answered, and, wishing to give a name well 
known, said I was from Washington, United 
States. He looked doubtful, as if he had never 
heard the name before. 
" Give me," said he, " a full account of your 
whole life." 
I felt instantaneously that there was no con- 
 
cealment possible ; all disguise fell away, and an 
unknown power forced me to speak absolute and 
exact truth. I detailed the events of my life as 
well as I could, and the good man was not a lit 
tle affected by the recital of my early trials, pov 
erty, and temptation. It did not seem a very 
good life when spread out in that presence, and 
I trembled as I proceeded ; but I plead youth, 
inexperience, and bad examples. 
" Have you bee'n accustomed," he said, after a 
time, rather sadly, " to break the Sabbath ? " 
I told him frankly that I had been rather lax 
in that matter, especially at college. I often 
went to sleep in the chapel on Sunday, when 
I was not reading some entertaining book. He 
then asked who the preacher was, and when I 
told him, he remarked that I was not so much 
to blame as he had supposed. 
" Have you," he went on, " ever stolen, or told 
any lie ? " 
I was able to say no, except admitting as to 
the first usual college " conveyances," and as to 
the last an occasional "blinder" to the profes 
sors. He was gracious enough to say that these. 
 
could be overlooked as incident to the occa 
sion. 
" Have you ever been dissipated, living riot 
ously and keeping late hours ? " 
" Yes." 
This also could be forgiven me as an incident 
of youth. 
" Did you ever," he went on, " commit the 
crime of using intoxicating drinks as a bever 
age ? " 
I answered that I had never been a habitual 
drinker, that I had never been what was called a 
" moderate drinker," that I had never gone to a 
bar and drank alone ; but that I had been ac 
customed, in company with other young men, on 
convivial occasions to taste the pleasures of the 
flowing bowl, sometimes to excess, but that I had 
also tasted the pains of it, and for months before 
my demise had refrained from liquor altogether. 
The holy man looked grave, but, after reflection, 
said this might also be overlooked in a young 
man. 
" What," continued he, in tones still more 
serious, " has been your conduct with regard 
to the other sex ? " 
 
I fell upon my knees in a tremor of fear. I 
pulled from my bosom a little book like the 
one Leperello exhibits in the opera of Don 
Giovanni. There, I said, was a record of my 
flirtation and inconstancy. I waited long for the 
decision, but it came in mercy. 
" Rise," he cried ; " young men will be young 
men, I suppose. We shall forgive this also to 
your youth and penitence." 
"Your examination is satisfactory," he in 
formed me, after a pause ; "you can now enter 
the abodes of the happy." 
Joy leaped within me. We approached the 
gate. The key turned in the lock. The gate 
swung noiselessly on its hinges a little open. 
Out flashed upon me unknown splendors. 
What I saw in that momentary gleam I shall 
never whisper in mortal ears. I stood upon 
the threshold, just about to enter. 
" Stop ! one moment/ exclaimed St. Peter, 
laying his hand on my shoulder ; "I have one 
more question to ask you." 
I turned toward him. 
" Young man, did you ever use tobacco f " 
 
" I both smoked and chewed in my lifetime," 
I faltered, "but " 
" THEN TO HELL WITH YOU ! " he shouted in 
a voice of thunder. 
Instantly the gate closed without noise, and I 
was flung, hurled, from the battlement, down ! 
down ! down ! Faster and faster I sank in a 
dizzy, sickening whirl into an unfathomable 
space of gloom. The light faded. Dampness 
and darkness were round about me. As before, 
for days and days I rose exultant in the light, 
so now forever I sank into thickening darkness, 
and yet not darkness, but a pale, ashy light 
more fearful. 
In the dimness, I at length discovered a wall 
before me. It ran up and down and on either 
hand endlessly into the night. It was solid, 
black, terrible in its frowning massiveness. 
Straightway I alighted at the gate, a dismal 
crevice hewn into the dripping rock. The gate 
was wide open, and there sat I knew him at 
once; who does not? the Arch Enemy of 
mankind. He cocked his eye at me in an im 
pudent, low, familiar manner that disgusted me. 
 
I saw that I was not to be treated like a gen 
tleman. 
"Well, young man," said he, rising, with a 
queer grin on his face, " what are you sent here 
for ? " 
" For using tobacco," I replied. 
" Ho ! " shouted he in a jolly manner, peculiar 
to devils, " that's what most of 'em are sent here 
for now." 
Without more ado, he called four lesser imps, 
who ushered me within. What a dreadful plain 
lay before me ! There was a vast city laid out 
in regular streets, biit there were no houses. 
Along the streets were places of torment and 
torture exceedingly ingenious and disagreeable. 
For miles and miles, it seemed, I followed my 
conductors through these horrors. Here was a 
deep vat of burning tar. Here were rows of fiery 
ovens. I noticed several immense caldron ket 
tles of boiling oil, upon the rims of which little 
devils sat, with pitchforks in hand, and poked 
down the helpless victims who floundered in the 
liquid. But I forbear to go into unseemly de 
tails. The whole scene is as vivid in my mind 
as any earthly landscape. 
 
After an hour's walk my tormentors halted 
before the mouth of an oven, a furnace heated 
seven times, and now roaring with flames. They 
grasped me, one hold of each hand and foot. 
Standing before the blazing mouth, they, with 
a swing, and a "one, two, THREE " 
I again assure the reader that in this narra 
tive I have set down nothing that was hot ac 
tually dreamed, and much, very much of this 
wonderful vision I have been obliged to omit. 
Hczc fabula docct: It is dangerous for a young 
man to leave off the use of tobacco. 
I could fitly celebrate the joy- 
ousness of the New England winter. 
Perhaps I could if I more thoroughly 
believed in it. But scepticism comes in with the 
south-wind. When that begins to blow, one 
feels the foundations of his belief breaking up. 
This is only another way of saying that it is 
more difficult, if it be not impossible, to freeze 
out orthodoxy, or any fixed notion, than it is to 
thaw it out ; though it is a mere fancy to suppose 
that this is the reason why the martyrs, of all 
creeds, were burned at the stake. There is said 
to be a great relaxation in New England of the 
ancient strictness in the direction of toleration of 
opinion, called by some a lowering of the standard, 
 
and by others a raising of the banner of liberality ; 
it might be an interesting inquiry how much this 
change is due to another change, the softening 
of the New England winter and the shifting of 
the Gulf Stream. It is the fashion nowadays to 
refer almost everything to physical causes, and 
this hint is a gratuitous contribution to the sci 
ence of metaphysical physics. 
The hindrance to entering fully into the joy- 
ousness of a New England winter, except far 
inland among the mountains, is the south-wind. 
It is a grateful wind, and has done more, I sus 
pect, to demoralize society than any other. It 
is not necessary to remember that it filled the 
silken sails of Cleopatra's galley. It blows over 
New England every few days, and is in some 
portions of it the prevailing wind. That it 
brings the soft clouds, and sometimes continues 
long enough to almost deceive the expectant 
buds of the fruit-trees, and to tempt the robin 
from the secluded evergreen copses, may be 
nothing ; but it takes the tone out of the mind, 
and engenders discontent, making one long for 
the tropics ; it feeds the weakened imagination 
on palm-leaves and the lotus. Before we know 
it we become demoralized, and shrink from the 
tonic of the sudden change to sharp weather, as 
the steamed hydropathic patient does from the 
plunge. It is the insidious temptation that as 
sails us when we are braced up to profit by the ' 
invigorating rigor of winter. 
Perhaps the influence of the four great winds 
on character is only a fancied one ; but it is evi 
dent on temperament, which is net altogether a 
matter of temperature, although the good old 
deacon used to say, in his humble, simple way, 
that his third wife was a very good woman, but 
her " temperature was very different from that of 
the other two." The north-wind is full of cour 
age, and puts the stamina of endurance into a 
man, and it probably would into a woman too if 
there were a series of resolutions passed to that 
effect. The west-wind is hopeful ; it has prom 
ise and adventure in it, and is, except to Atlan 
tic voyagers America-bound, the best wind that 
ever blew. The east-wind is peevishness ; it is 
mental rheumatism and grumbling, and curls one 
up in the chimney-corner like a cat. And if the 
chimney ever smokes, it smokes when the wind 
sits in that quarter. The south-wind is full of 
longing and unrest, of effeminate suggestions of 
luxurious ease, and perhaps we might say of mod 
ern poetry, at any rate, modern poetry needs 
a change of air. I am not sure but the south is 
the most powerful of the winds, because of its 
sweet persuasiveness. Nothing so stirs the 
blood in spring, when it comes up out of the 
tropical latitude ; it makes men " longen to gon 
on pilgrimages." 
I did intend to insert here a little poenr (as it 
is quite proper to do in an essay) on the south- 
wind, composed by the Young Lady Staying 
With Us, beginning, 
" Out of a drifting southern cloud 
My soul heard the night-bird cry," 
but it never got any farther than this. The 
Young Lady said it was exceedingly difficult to 
write the next two lines, because not only rhyme 
but meaning had to be procured. And this is 
true ; anybody can write first lines, and that is 
probably the reason we have so many poems 
 
which seem to have been begun in just this way, 
that is, with a south-wind-longing without any 
thought in it, and it is very fortunate when there 
is not wind enough to finish them. This emo 
tional poem, if I may so call it, was begun after 
Herbert went away. I liked it, and thought it 
was what is called " suggestive " ; although I 
did not understand it, especially what the night- 
bird was ; and I am afraid I hurt the Young 
Lady's feelings by asking her if she meant Her 
bert by the " night-bird," a very absurd sug 
gestion about two unsentimental people. She 
said, " Nonsense " ; but she afterwards told the 
Mistress that there were emotions that one could 
never put into words without the danger of being 
ridiculous ; a profound truth. And yet I should 
not like to say that there is not a tender lone- 
someness in love that can get comfort out of a 
night-bird in a cloud, if there be such a thing. 
Analysis is the death of sentiment. 
But to return to the winds. Certain people 
impress us as the winds do. Mandeville never 
comes in that I do not feel a north-wind vigor and 
healthfumess in his cordial, sincere, hearty man- 
HO  
ner, and in his wholesome way of looking at 
things. The Parson, you would say, was the 
east-wind, and only his intimates know that his 
peevishness is only a querulous humor. In the 
fair west-wind I know the Mistress herself, full of 
hope, and always the first one to discover a bit of 
blue in a cloudy sky. It would not be just to 
apply what I have said of the south-wind to any 
of our visitors, but it did blow a little while 
Herbert was here. 
II. 
IN point of pure enjoyment, with an intellect 
ual sparkle in it, I suppose that no luxurious 
lounging on tropical isles set in tropical seas 
compares with the positive happiness one may 
have before a great wood fire (not two sticks laid 
crossways in a grate), with a veritable New 
England winter raging outside. In order to get 
the highest enjoyment, the faculties must be 
alert, and not be lulled into a mere recipient 
dulness. There are those who prefer a warm 
bath to a brisk walk in the inspiring air, where 
 Ill 
ten thousand keen influences minister to the 
sense of beauty and run along the excited nerves. 
There are, for instance, a sharpness of horizon 
outline and a delicacy of color on distant hills 
which are wanting in summer, and which convey 
to one rightly organized the keenest delight, and 
a refinement of enjoyment that is scarcely sen 
suous, not at all sentimental, and almost passing 
the intellectual line into the spiritual. 
I was speaking to Mandeville about this, and 
he said that I was drawing it altogether too fine ; 
that he experienced sensations of pleasure in 
being out in almost all weathers ; that he rather 
liked to breast a north-wind, and that there was 
a certain inspiration in sharp outlines and in a 
landscape in trim winter-quarters, with stripped 
trees, and, as it were, scudding through the 
season under bare poles ; but that he must say 
that he preferred the weather in which he could 
sit on the fence by the wood-lot, with the spring 
sun on his back, and hear the stir of the leaves 
and the birds beginning their housekeeping. 
A very pretty idea for Mandeville ; and I fear 
he is getting to have private thoughts about the 
Young Lady. Mandeville naturally likes the ro 
bustness and sparkle of winter, and it has been 
a little suspicious to hear him express the hope 
that we shall have an early spring. 
I wonder how many people there are in New 
England who know the glory and inspiration of a 
winter walk just before sunset, and that, too, not 
only on days of clear sky, when the west is aflame 
with a rosy color, which has no suggestion of lan 
guor or unsatisfied longing in it, but on dull days, 
when the sullen clouds hang about the horizon, 
full of threats of storm and the terrors of the 
gathering night. We are very busy with our own 
affairs, but there is always something going on 
out-doors worth looking at ; and there is seldom 
an hour before sunset that has not some special 
attraction. And, besides, it puts one in the mood 
for the cheer and conrfort of the open fire at 
home. 
Probably if the people of New England could 
have a plebiscitum on their weather, they would 
vote against it, especially against winter. Almost 
no one speaks well of winter. And this suggests 
the idea that most people here were either born 
 
in the wrong place, or do not know what is best 
for them. I doubt if these grumblers would be 
any better satisfied, or would turn out as well, 
in the tropics. Everybody knows our virtues, 
at least if they believe half we tell them, and 
for delicate beauty, that rare plant, I should look 
among the girls of the New England hills as 
confidently as anywhere, and I have travelled as 
far south as New Jersey, and west of the Genesee 
Valley. Indeed, it would be easy to show that 
the parents of the pretty girls in the West emi 
grated from New England. And yet such is 
the mystery of Providence no one would expect 
that one of the sweetest and most delicate flow 
ers that blooms, the trailing arbutus, would blos 
som in this inhospitable climate, and peep forth 
from the edge of a snow-bank at that. 
It seems unaccountable to a superficial observer 
that the thousands of people who are dissatisfied 
with their climate do not seek a more congenial 
one or stop grumbling. The world is so small, 
and all parts of it are so accessible, it has so 
many varieties of climate, that one could surely 
suit himself by searching ; and, then, is it worth 
 
while to waste our one short life in the midst of 
unpleasant surroundings and in a constant friction 
with that which is disagreeable? One would 
suppose that people set down on this little globe 
would seek places on it most agreeable to them 
selves. It must be that they are much more 
content with the climate and country upon which 
they happen, by the accident of their birth, than 
they pretend to be. 
III. 
HOME sympathies and charities are most active 
in the winter. Coming in from my late walk, 
in fact driven in by a hurrying north-wind that 
would brook no delay, a wind that brought 
snow that did not seem to fall out of a bounteous 
sky, but to be blown from polar fields, I find 
the Mistress returned from town, all in a glow 
of philanthropic excitement. 
There has been a meeting of a woman's asso 
ciation for Ameliorating the Condition of some 
body here at home. Any one can belong to 
it by paying a dollar, and for twenty dollars one 
 
can become a life Ameliorator, a sort of life 
assurance. The Mistress, at the meeting, I 
believe, " seconded the motion " several times, 
and is one of the Vice-Presidents ; and this fam 
ily honor makes me feel almost as if I were a 
president of something myself. These little dis 
tinctions are among the sweetest things in life, 
and to see one's name officially printed stimu 
lates his charity, and is almost as satisfactory as 
being the chairman of a committee or the mover 
of a resolution. It is, I think, fortunate, and not 
at all discreditable, that our little vanity, which 
is reckoned among our weaknesses, is thus made 
to contribute to the activity of our nobler powers. 
Whatever we may say, we all of us like distinc 
tion ; and probably there is no more subtle flat 
tery than that conveyed in the whisper, " That 's 
he," "That's she." 
