thought. At last the witch urged her to speak out and be quick.
"If I were to choose--and wish for anything more," Matilda said
slowly,--"which I don't; but if I did wish for anything more, it
would be for a beautiful picture I have seen."
"Aha!" said the witch. "Where did you see it?"
"At Goupil's."
"And what picture was it?"
"It was the picture of the woman searching for the lost piece of money."
"Well. You are an odd child. You may go; and if there is anybody else
to come, let them make haste. I am as tired as if I were not a witch."
A minute after David entered the den.
"I know who you are," said the witch. "Speak your heart's desire; and
in one word, if you can."
"In one word, Hebrew."
"What of Hebrew?"
"To learn it."
"Learning is a thing I cannot do for you."
"No, but the means."
"What means?"
"Permission, time, books, and a teacher."
"You are another odd one. Is that your dearest heart's wish, David
Bartholomew?"
"I think it is the greatest I have, at present."
"Well. Leave it with me and go."
"Hallo, David!" exclaimed Norton as he came out into the hall; "the
people are all gone; the last one just had the door shut behind him."
"It's time," said David.
"Takes more than a party to shake you out of your gravity," said
Norton. "Time? why yes, it's past twelve."
"Sunday!" exclaimed Matilda.
The other three, they were together in the hall, all burst out laughing.
"It's Sunday; and Christmas is over, and the Christmas tree," said
Norton. "But the fruits keep. Extraordinary tree! Well, Pink; we have
got to go and sleep now. Do you want to take another look at the tree?"
They all went into the drawing-room which had been the scene of so much
festivity. The tree stood there yet in its tub, with ribbands and gilt
work hanging to it; but the lights were burnt out, and the splendour
was gone, and its riches were scattered. It was a thing of the past
already.
"The fruits will keep," Norton repeated. "Did you find out who the
witch was, David?"
"I thought I knew."
"I knew I knew," said Norton; "but she had somebody else to speak for
her. What a jolly witch! We shall hear from her some of these days.
Well, good night."
Kisses and thanks and good nights had to be exchanged with the older
members of the family; and Sunday was well begun when at last Matilda
shut her door behind her. She had to take one look at her watch; it was
no doubt a little beauty; and to Matilda's vision it was a very fruit
and embodiment of fairyland. Beyond even her wildest dreams of what was
possible from a Christmas tree. Her own watch! She could scarcely
believe it, even with the watch lying securely in her hand. And with
the delicate minute hand pointing but fifteen minutes off from one o'
clock, she still stood gazing and rapt. Then as the hand went on to
fourteen minutes, and thirteen, Matilda started and laid it down. To
have her own watch telling her it was time to go to bed! But she must
just look at Mrs. Bartholomew's present.
Hurriedly she untied the box and pulled off the silver paper. And
within the silver paper inside the box lay a dainty gold bracelet.
It was extremely pretty, and had cost a great deal, no doubt. It was
very kind of Judy's mother to give it. Nevertheless round the bracelet
crept a sort of cobweb of thoughts and feelings which were not all of
pleasure. It was too late to examine into them now. Matilda wrapped up
the trinket again and put it away, and went to bed; as happy as it
seemed possible for her to be.
Sunday morning was high and bright, it must be confessed, when she
awoke. Bells were ringing, the eight o' clock  bells she thought they
must be; but indeed they were the bells for Sunday school. Matilda did
not guess that, and so was not in an immediate hurry to get out of bed
and end the luxurious rest which the excitements and late hours of the
day before had made so welcome and so long. She lay still, shut her
eyes, and opened them upon the morning brightness, with a thrilling and
bounding rapture of recollection that there was a little gold watch in
her drawer which owned her for its mistress and would be her
inseparable friend and servant--and adornment--thenceforward. Matilda
lay still for very happiness. Turning her head a little towards the
window the next time she opened her eyes, it seemed to her that she saw
a picture standing there against the wall. Matilda shut her eyes and
told herself that she was not dreaming and had no business to see
visions in broad daylight. "I have been thinking so much about that
picture I suppose, and talking about it to the witch, that is the
reason I thought I saw it. But what did I see, that looked like a
picture?" She opened her eyes now and raised herself on her elbow to
look, for this was curious. More curious still! there, against the
wall, in plain view, in the broad light, stood the beautiful engraving
that had so captivated her.
"It's there!" was Matilda's thought. "The very thing! But what is it
there for?"
A half-formed suspicion made her jump out of bed very spryly and run to
the picture. There was a little ticket stuck in between the glass and
the frame.
"For Matilda Laval--with Mrs. Lloyd's thanks and approbation."
Matilda looked, rushed back into bed, and arranged herself so that she
could comfortably see the picture, while she thought about it.
"Mrs. Lloyd's thanks"--thanks for what? She must know, she must know,
about the shawl. Yes, she must; I guess mamma told her. And it is mine!
it is mine! There she is, that beautiful thing, the woman hunting for
her lost money; the odd little lamp, and all. It is mine to keep.
Certainly I ought not to wish for another thing for a whole year to
come; I have got so much. This and my watch. O delightful!--I ought to
be good! How lovely the light from that little old lamp is. And that is
the way Jesus looks for us--for people who are lost; lost in the dark.
So he looked for me, and found me. And there are such a great many
more lost, that are not found yet. Lost in the dark!--And if He cares
for them so, he must wish his servants to care too, and to look for
them, and save all they can. Then that woman with her pretty lamp just
shews me what I ought to do and how I ought to feel.--
Musing on in this way, very happy, leaning on her elbow to look at the
picture, too warm in the soft air of her room to be disturbed by the
necessity of getting dressed, Matilda noticed at last that the bells
had stopped ringing. It was eight o' clock past, she thought, and time
to get up; but she would look at her watch to see how eight o' clock
looked on its pretty white face. Lo, it was nine! Sunday schools
already beginning their services, while she stood there in her
night-gown; dressing and breakfast yet to be gone through. But the
afternoon was the time for school in the place where Matilda went; so
all was not lost.
And so ended the doings of that Christmas night.
CHAPTER III.
The experience of the morning certainly was rather scattering in its
tendency, as far as any sober thought or work was concerned. The young
people were brimful of life and fun and excitement; and it was not
possible for Matilda to escape the infection. Nevertheless after lunch
she had firmness enough left to put on her coat and hat and trudge off
to Sunday school by herself. Norton said he had not "slept out," and
would not go. Matilda went, with her little watch safe in her breast.
Getting out into the cold air and setting her feet upon the snowy
streets, had somewhat the effect of breaking a spell. For a while, that
seemed now a very long while, Matilda had been in a whirl of
expectation and pleasure and in a kind of dream of enchantment; nothing
but soft luxury and visions of delight and one thing after another to
make the child think she had got into very fairyland. But the streets
outside were not fairyland; and the sharp air pinched her cheek with a
grip which was not tender or flattering at all. The sense began to come
back to Matilda that everybody was not having such rose-coloured dreams
as she, nor living in summer-heated rooms. Nay, she saw children that
were ill dressed, on their way like her; some who were insufficiently
dressed; a multitude who were not nicely dressed; the contrast was very
unpleasant, and a certain feeling of uneasiness and of responsibility
and of desire to make other people comfortable crept over her anew.
Then she remembered that she could not reach many, she could not do
much; and she came into school and took her seat at last with a
concentrated desire to do at least something effectual towards rescuing
Sarah Staples from her miserable circumstances. After the lesson was
done and the scholars were dismissed, Matilda asked Mr. Wharncliffe if
she could speak to him?
"Is it a minute's work? or several minutes?" he inquired.
"I don't know, sir; I think, several minutes."
"Then wait a minute, and we will walk home together."
Matilda liked that, and presently in the clear late light of the waning
winter afternoon, she and her teacher sallied forth into the street
hand in hand.
"Now what is it?" he asked.
"About Sarah, Mr. Wharncliffe."
"Well? What about her?"
"I have been thinking a great deal, Mr. Wharncliffe, how to manage it;
because I had not a great deal of money myself, and I did not know
whether I could get help or no; but now I think I shall have some
help; and I wanted to consult you to know what I had best do."
"What do you want to do?"
"First, I want to get her out of that dreadful place into a comfortable
room somewhere."
"Suppose you do it, how is she going to stay in it?"
"What do you mean, sir?"
"The rent of such a room as you speak of would be, say seventy-five
cents or a dollar a week. How are Sarah and her mother to pay that?"
"O I should have to pay it for them. I could do that, I think."
"For how long?"
Matilda looked at her teacher and did not immediately answer. She had
not looked ahead so far as that.
"It is necessary to take all things into consideration," he said,
answering her look. "You would not wish to put Sarah and her mother
into a place of comfort for a little while, merely to let them fall out
of it again?"
"O no, sir!"
"How are they to be maintained in it?"
Matilda pondered.
"I could take care of the rent, I think, I mean we could, for a
while; for a year, perhaps; by that time couldn't they pay it, don't
you think?"
"How?"
"By their work; by their earnings."
"But now, and for a long time past, their work has not enabled them to
pay for anything better than they have got."
"Couldn't they do something better, Mr. Wharncliffe? something else?
that would give them more money?"
"What work could you help them to, that would pay better?"
"I don't know, sir," said Matilda, looking up wistfully in her
teacher's face. "I don't know anything about such things. Can you
tell me? What work is there that they could get. What the other poor
people do?"
"There are other things," said Mr. Wharncliffe thoughtfully. "There are
better and better paying sorts of sewing; what Mrs. Staples does is
very coarse, and she gets very little for it. But machine work
now-a-days puts hand work at a disadvantage."
"What is machine work, sir?"
"Work done on a sewing machine. With a machine a woman can do I
suppose, ten times as much in a day, and with more ease to herself."
"Well, wouldn't Mrs. Staples work on a machine?"
"I do not know. I think she used to take in washing once. She could do
that again, if she had a better room and conveniences."
"And does that pay better?"
"I believe so. Indeed I am sure."
"Then she might do washing," said Matilda; "and Sarah might sew on a
machine, Mr. Wharncliffe."
"She has not got one, you know."
"If we could get her one? Wouldn't that be nice, Mr. Wharncliffe?"
"My dear child, a good sewing machine costs a good deal of money."
"But if we could, Mr. Wharncliffe? I said if."
"Nothing could be better. Perhaps, by and by, it might be managed. In
the mean time, Sarah might learn, and possibly get work; or get a
machine and pay for it gradually by doing work for the makers. Such
arrangements are made."
"How much does a sewing machine cost?"
"From forty five to sixty dollars."
"Forty five," repeated Matilda gravely. "But, Mr. Wharncliffe, in the
first place the thing to do is to get them out of that place into a new
room. Might we not do that? and don't you think the rest can be
managed, somehow?"
"If we do that, the rest must be managed, if possible. It is always
greater kindness and a far greater benefit, Matilda, to help poor
people to take care of themselves, than to save them that care."
"Why, sir?"
"People are better and happier and stronger, working for their living
and earning it, and keeping the sense of independence, than they are
when living on the money of other people and losing their own
self-respect. That is very ruinous to character. Avoid it always, in
all your efforts to help people."
"Yes, I see," said Matilda thoughtfully. "But, Mr. Wharncliffe, Sarah
and her mother cannot do anything to get in a better way while they
live in that cellar. They want some help just at first. Don't they?"
"Certainly; and I think we have struck the right line of action to
pursue for them. Help to put them in the way of being comfortably
independent, is just what they want."
"Then the first thing is a lodging," said Matilda, with a relieved and
brightening face. "How can we find one, Mr. Wharncliffe? I don't want
them to know about it till we get it all settled and ready for them to
move into."
"Ready for them?" said Mr. Wharncliffe inquiringly.
"Yes, sir; you know they have nothing to put into a nice room now, if
they had one."
"Aren't you laying plans beyond your means?"
"Beyond mine; but I shall have some help. I don't know exactly how
much, but some."
"Well, you will let me help too if necessary," said the gentleman. "And
I will look out for a lodging."
"O thank you! Will you, sir?"
"To be sure. That is one way I am going to help."
"And when you have found one, you will let me know?"
"Whom else? Certainly, I will. I shall take no step without your
direction."
"O thank you, sir!" said Matilda again.
They had been walking up the Avenue during this talk, to have
uninterrupted time for it; now they had turned about to come home.
Clear and bright and cold the sun was leaving the streets and lingering
about the house roofs and chimneys; and the steeples of churches were
shining marks of light on one side, on the other dark spires against
the western sky. Mr. Wharncliffe and Matilda quickened their steps,
which the frosty air made it pleasant to do. She supposed that the
subject of their conversation was ended for the present, and so was
somewhat surprised to hear the next question from her companion. It
came out after some little pause.
"Matilda what has put this in your head?"
"This we have been talking of? Why I wanted to make Sarah comfortable.
I could not bear to have her in that dreadful place. Mr. Wharncliffe,
don't you think it is dreadful?"
"I do think it is dreadful; and your feeling very natural. Then you
want to go to this expense and trouble for the comfort of knowing that
she is comfortable?"
"I think so," said Matilda, somewhat puzzled. "I could not bear to
think of her there."
"All perfectly right, Matilda," said her friend smiling. "I only want,
while you are taking care of Sarah, to take care of you."
"How, sir?"
"There are so many ways in which good things may be done; and I wish
you to take the best."
"What ways do you mean, sir? I do not understand."
"There is one way of doing kind things, merely or chiefly to save one's
self from the uncomfortable feeling that the sight of misery gives.
Kind people of that sort are benevolent in spots, just when they see or
hear of something that touches them, and never at any other time.
Others do kind things because they like to have a name for generosity,
and giving money costs them nothing."
Matilda looked inquiringly up in Mr. Wharncliffe's face. "It made me
very uncomfortable to see Sarah in that place," she said; "and to think
of her in it."
"A third sort of kindness," Mr. Wharncliffe went on smiling, "is done
because people love the Lord Jesus, and so love all whom he loves, and
like to do the work he wants done."
"But it makes them feel badly to see people suffering?" said Matilda.
"Undoubtedly. They are the tenderest of all. But they will do as much
for people they never saw, as for those at hand; and their spring of
kindness never dries up. It is a perpetual flow. When they do not see
objects on which to spend it, they seek them out."
Matilda pondered matters a little. Then she lifted a very honest face
towards her companion.
"Which reason did you think made me want to do this for Sarah, sir?"
"I wanted you to think about it."
"Don't you think, Mr. Wharncliffe, it is very difficult to find out
really why one does things?"
"Very difficult," said Mr. Wharncliffe with a comical drawing of his
lips; "but very useful."
"I do not think," began Matilda again, very gravely, "I do not
think my wanting to do this for Sarah was just to make myself feel
comfortable."
"I do not think it, my child; but it is no harm to have your attention
directed to the question. In all such matters, keep your action pure;
let every thing be done for Christ, and then it will be all right. For
instance, Matilda, when the real motive is self, or when there is no
higher at work, one is easily tempted to do too much in a given case;
to indulge one's self with great effects and astonishing liberality;
when, if it were simply for Christ, one would be moderate and simple
and prudent, and keep a due proportion in things."
"Yes," said Matilda looking puzzled,--"I understand. You will help me
keep a 'proper proportion' in what I do for Sarah Staples, Mr.
Wharncliffe?"
"How much are you thinking of doing?"
"I want to get her into a comfortable room," said Matilda. "That is
first. Then--they have no furniture, Mr. Wharncliffe?"
"You want to get them some?"
"Would that be too much? a little? common things, of course, but what
they cannot be comfortable without."
"How much money do you propose to spend on Sarah at this time?"
"I do not know. I know about how much I have, but I can't tell yet how
much help I shall get. I want to do what ought to be done."
The last words were said with such an accent of earnest determination,
that Mr. Wharncliffe again had almost smiled at his scholar; but he did
not. He went on quite gravely:--
"A room and some necessary furniture, I should think, could be managed."
"Then we want to get them into a way of earning more."
"Yes. I will see about that. And about the room. And I can get what you
want in furniture, at a second hand place, where the articles will cost
very little."
"That's good," said Matilda. "Well, Mr. Wharncliffe, all that will
not be too much?"
"I think not."
Matilda hesitated, and then added doubtfully, "Don't you think they
want clean dresses?"
Mr. Wharncliffe smiled now.
"Where shall we stop?" said he.
"But they are very--uncomfortable," said Matilda, after waiting to
choose a word. Her teacher thought for a minute of Sarah's well-worn,
faded, lank, best dress, and how little evidently there was under it to
keep the child warm, and his brow grew very sober indeed, and his blue
eye misty.
"I'll not check you, Matilda," he said, "unless I see you going to some
great extravagance. Go on, and I'll help, and we'll try to make one bad
spot at least a little better. Good-bye!"
With a smile and a nod he parted from her at her own door, and Matilda
ran up the steps and ran in with a whole little gale of pleasure
freshening through her heart.
There was a gale of another sort blowing through the house that
evening, and making the household lively. Pleasure was not wanting to
it, though it was pleasure of another sort and largely mixed with
excitement. The three other young ones were full of plans for the
holiday week, reminiscences of the last evening, comparison and
discussion of presents, and of people. Matilda in the midst of them
listened and was amused, and thought of her gold watch and of Sarah
with great secret throbs of delight in her heart.
"So you were the witch, grandmother," said Norton. "I knew it. I was
sure of it. What did you do it for?"
"Do what, boy?"
"Take up a witch's trade?"
"I have not laid it down yet."
"No, ma'am; but what put it in your head?"
"I wanted my share of the fun," said the old lady.
"Did you get it, grandmamma?" asked David.
"Yes. A very good share."
"Did you ask everybody such questions as you asked us?" Norton inquired.
"I did not want to know the same thing about all of you."
"No, ma'am. Did you find out a good deal, grandmother?"
But Mrs. Lloyd laughed and declined to answer.
"There is something more I want to find out," she said. "I want to know
what makes this little girl look so happy. She doesn't say a word, but
her smiles speak for her!"
"Who, Matilda?" said Norton.
"It's easy enough to be smiling," said Judy with slight scorn.
"You might practise it then a little, and do no hurt," remarked Norton.
"Nobody ought to be always smiling," returned Judy. "It's vulgar. And
it doesn't mean anything, either."
"Hush, Judy," said her mother.
"What were you smiling about, Matilda?" Mrs. Lloyd asked.
"A great many things I was thinking of, ma'am."
But the little girl's face was so gleeful as she answered, and the
smile and the sparkle were so pleasant, that the old lady's curiosity
was raised.
"A great many things?" she repeated, "A great many things to be glad
of? I should like to know what they are. Come, I will make a bargain
with you. I will give you a silver penny for your thoughts; and my
silver penny shall be a golden half-eagle."
"For my thoughts, ma'am?" said Matilda, half bewildered; while the
other young ones burst out like a pack of hounds after their leader.
"A half-eagle," Mrs. Lloyd repeated, "for all your thoughts; if you
will give me them all. I want to know all the things you are feeling so
glad about."
"Grandmamma, you'll do as much for me?" cried Judy. "Only, mine will
take an eagle to bring them down. They fly high. You might have bought
hers, I am confident, for a duck or a pigeon."
"I should like to make a bargain too, grandmother," said Norton; "if
you are in that mood."
"Do you think your thoughts are worth anything?" said his
grandmother;--"to anybody but yourself?"
"Whose are?" said David.
"Mine are not," said Matilda. She had flushed high, for she saw that
the old lady was in earnest; and five dollars was a good deal to her
just now.
"Everything is worth what it will fetch, though," said David. "I advise
you to close with the offer, Matilda. Five dollars is five dollars, you
know."
Matilda's eyes went doubtfully to Mrs. Lloyd.
"Yes," said the old lady smiling. "I will stand to my part of the
bargain, if you will stand to yours. But mind, I want all."
"There were so many things," Matilda began; "it would take me a good
while to tell them."
"Never mind; we have nothing better to do," said Mrs. Lloyd. "We are at
leisure."
"Time's nothing," said Norton, in great amusement.
"At ten dollars or so an hour," added David.
Poor Matilda was in some difficulty. She was furnishing the
entertainment of the whole circle; for even Mrs. Bartholomew put down
her paper, and Mrs. Laval was smiling, and Mrs. Lloyd was waiting, and
the children were all open-eyed. But she had nothing to be ashamed of;
and five dollars!--
"I was feeling glad about my watch," she began, "and about my
picture--O so very glad! I think they have hardly been out of my mind
all day."
"Picture? what picture?" said Judy.
"Hush!" said her grandmother.
"She didn't have any picture!" Judy went on. Matilda looked at her and
said nothing.
"Did you?" said Judy. "What was it? Is it in a locket?"
"You can attend to her afterwards, Matilda," said Mrs. Lloyd. "At
present you are engaged with me. There is nobody here but you and me."
Matilda sincerely wished it had been so; but she had several curious
pairs of ears listening to her.
"Then I was glad, I believe, about all the pleasure of last night, and
the Christmas tree, and my other presents; but that wasn't all. To-day
has been so very pleasant, and this afternoon particularly."
"This afternoon!" cried Judy. "Why she was away at that horrid Sunday
school."
"She don't think it is horrid," said Norton, displeased.
"You don't mean she shall get through what she has to say," remarked
David.
"If you would all hold your tongues, there would be some chance," said
Mrs. Lloyd. "Try again, Matilda. Was there more? What made the
afternoon so pleasant?"
"It always is at that school," said Matilda. "But besides that, this
afternoon I believe I got some help for something I want to do; and
thinking about that, and about what I want to do, was part of I what
was feeling so glad about."
"Well if that isn't a confused statement of facts!" said Judy. "Feeling
so glad about,--when?"
"When Mrs. Lloyd asked me what I was smiling at."
"But I am to have your thoughts, you know," said Mrs. Lloyd, with a
rather pleasant smile. "You have not told me yet what it is you want
to do, the thought of which is so agreeable."
"I did tell it, to the witch last night," said Matilda. "Do you want me
to tell it again, now, ma'am?"
"Certainly. You don't think I am a witch, do you?"
On that point Matilda did not give her thoughts; but as desired, she
told the story, briefly, of Sarah and her home, and of the reforms
proposed in the latter. The attention of her hearers was marked,
although most of them indeed had known the matter before.
"What was there in all this to make you so very glad?" inquired Judy.
Matilda hesitated, and could not find what to say.
"Pink has her own ways of being happy you see," Norton remarked.
"She is not the only one, I hope," said David.
"The only one, what?" said Judy sharply. "You are as bad as she is,
David, to-night, for talking thick."
"Have we got through, my dear?" inquired Mrs. Lloyd kindly.
"Through all the things that were making me feel glad?" said Matilda.
"No, ma'am--not quite." And she stopped and flushed.
"Let us have it," said Mrs. Lloyd. "A bargain is a bargain."
"Yes, ma'am," said Matilda. "I am afraid--I was afraid--perhaps you
wouldn't understand me. I was glad of all these things;--and then, I
thought, I was so glad that I knew about Jesus; and that I am his
child; and that he has given me all these other things to be glad
about, and this work to do for Sarah!"
There was a profound silence for a minute or two. Judy was astonished
out of speech. David, perhaps, disgusted. Norton was a little proud
that Matilda had independence enough to dare to speak out, even if he
chafed a little under the subject of her plain speaking. The elder
ladies looked at one another with an odd expression in their eyes. When
Mrs. Lloyd spoke she went back to the practical question.
"How much money do you expect it will take, to do what you want for
these poor people, Matilda?"
"I don't know, ma'am, yet. My teacher will find out and tell me."
"Is it your teacher who has suggested the plan?"
"The plan?--O no, ma'am," said Matilda. "It is my plan. I have been
talking him into it."
"Who is he?" Mrs. Lloyd asked.
"Mr. Wharncliffe."
"What Wharncliffe? Is he any connection of General Wharncliffe?"
"His brother," said Norton.
This seemed, Matilda did not know why, to give satisfaction to her
elders. Mrs. Lloyd went on with an unbent face.
"How much money have you got, Matilda, to work with?"
"Not a great deal, ma'am; I have saved a little. It won't take such a
very great deal to get all I want. It is only common things."
"Saved!" Judy burst out. "Saved! Now we have got at it. This is the
secret. This is why we are such good temperance people and think it's
wicked to buy liqueur glasses. O yes! we save our money that way, no
doubt."
"Judy," said her brother, "I'm ashamed of you."
"No need," said Judy coolly. "Keep it for yourself, next occasion."
"What is all this?" said Mrs. Lloyd.
"Nothing that had better go any further," said Mrs. Laval. "Nothing of
any consequence, mother."
"It is of no consequence," said Judy, "because David and Norton made it
up."
"And Judy didn't," said Norton.
"Not I; it was your affair," said the young lady. "My connections are
not given to saving."
"That is very true indeed!" exclaimed Mrs. Bartholomew, bursting out
into a laugh; "and you, Judy, least of all your 'connections.'"
"But what is all this?" repeated Mrs. Lloyd, seeing that the faces
around her were moved by very various sorts of expression. It had to
come out. Judy and Norton told the story between them, with some
difficulty. Matilda felt very sorry, and very doubtful of the effect.
David looked exceedingly dissatisfied. Mrs. Lloyd listened with
unchanged gravity.
"There! you may call it what you like," Judy said in conclusion. "But I
like to have things go by their right names."
"It wouldn't be always best for you," said her brother.
"Do you think it is wrong, my dear, to drink wine?" Mrs. Lloyd asked,
addressing Matilda.
Matilda did not well know what to answer. She, a child, what business
had she to 'think' anything about the right or the wrong of things done
by people so much older and wiser than herself? And yet, that did not
change the truth, and the truth was what she must answer.
"I have promised not to do it," she said, almost shrinkingly.
"That affects your own drinking or not drinking. Do you think it is
wrong for other people?"
Again Matilda hesitated. She would have welcomed almost any
interruption of Judy's; but this time Judy kept as still as a mouse.
And so did everybody else. Matilda's colour came and went.
"If you please, ma'am," she said at last, "I don't want to say what you
will think rude."
"I will not think it rude," said Mrs. Lloyd with a little laugh. "I
want to know what notion such a child as you has got in her head. Do
you think it is wrong?"
"Yes, ma'am," Matilda-answered softly.
"Hear her!" cried Judy. "She has got an idea that wine is money in
another form, and heavy to drink."
Matilda thought that Judy had unwittingly put her very meaning into the
words; but she did not say so.
"My dear," said Mrs. Lloyd, "I have drunk wine all my life. It has
never hurt me."
Matilda was silent.
"Is that your notion, that it is unwholesome?"
"No, ma'am."
"What then?"
"People take too much of it," said Matilda; "and it ruins them; and if
all good people would let it alone, wouldn't it help to make the rest
let it alone?"
"Insufferable piggishness!" said Mrs. Bartholomew. "You must excuse me,
Zara. I hope you will teach your adopted child better manners, arid get
rid of a little of this superb folly."
"I am not so sure about the folly," said Mrs. Laval.
"I am sure about the manners," said Mrs. Lloyd. "She has said nothing
but what I have made her say. Now, my dear, you have fulfilled your
part of the bargain between us, and I will do my part."
The old lady produced a gold five dollar piece from her purse and put
it in Matilda's hand. Then drawing the child kindly towards her, she
added,
"And from this time you must call me grandmamma, will you? as the
others do; and I will call you my grandchild."
She kissed the astonished Matilda, and the subject was dismissed. At
least by the elders; the young people did not so easily let it drop. No
sooner were they by themselves than Judy held forth in a long tirade,
about "presumption" and "artfulness" and "underhand ways;" waxing warm
as she went on; till Norton was provoked to answer, and the debate
between them grew hot. Matilda said never a word, nor did David; she
kept outwardly very quiet; but an hour after, if anybody could have
seen her he would have seen a little figure cuddled down in a corner of
her own room and weeping abundant tears. So ended the Christmas Sunday
and the Christmas festival.
CHAPTER IV.
There were too many pleasant things on hand for Judy's behaviour to
have any very lasting effect on Matilda's spirits, besides that a good
share of independence was one of her valuable characteristics. With the
new light of Monday morning, her heart leapt up anew at thought of all
the comfort preparing for Sarah and at her growing stock of means for
the same. She got out her purse and counted her money. With the new
gold piece there was a nice little sum; not enough indeed, but Matilda
had hopes of David, and hopes floating and various, that somehow what
was needful would be forthcoming when the time came.
The week was about half gone, when one afternoon David came to
Matilda's door and knocked. Matilda had shut herself up to write a
letter to Maria, and opened the door to David with a good deal of
surprise and pleasure. The second time, this was. He came in and sat
down.
"Where do you think I have been?" said he.
"To see Sarah?" said Matilda eagerly.
"You are quick," said David smiling. "No, I have not been to see Sarah
exactly; but I have been to see where she lives and all about her."
"Did you see where she lives?"
"Yes."
"David, isn't it horrid?"
"It's disgusting!" said David.
"But she can't help it," said Matilda, again eagerly.
"No, she can't, but somebody ought to help it. There ought not to be
any such horror possible in such a city as this."
"So I think. But who ought to help it, David? How could anybody help
it?"
"There used to be a way among my people," said the boy proudly. "The
corners of the cornfields, and the last of the grapes on the vines, and
the dropped ears of corn, and the last beatings of the olives, were
commanded to be left for the poor."
"But there are no vines nor cornfields nor olives here," said Matilda.
"Nothing so good," replied David. "I believe people grow wicked in
cities."
"Then do you think it is wicked to build cities?"
"I don't know about that," said David; "that's another matter. Without
cities a great many good things would be impossible."
"Would they? what?" said Matilda.
"Well, commerce, you know; without great centres of commerce, there
could not be great commerce; and there would not be great fortunes
then; and without great for tunes there could not be the grand things
in music and painting and sculpture and architecture and books, that
there are now."
What "great centres of commerce" might be, Matilda could not tell; and
she did not like to ask David too many questions. She suddenly came out
with an objection.
"But Abraham did not live in a city."
David started, looked at her, and then laughed a little.
"Abraham! no, he did not; and he was a rich man; but one rich man
here and there could not do those things I spoke of."
"Then, wouldn't it be better there should be no cities?" said Matilda.
"Better than what? Better than have cities with such dreadful poor
people? Can't have the good without the bad, I suppose."
"You said, people grow wicked in cities."
"Well, they do."
"Then ought people to build cities?"
"I don't know how the world would get on, at that rate," said David
smiling. "Anyhow the cities are built; and we are living in one; and
one corner house in it gives you and me as much as we can do."
"A single room in it, David."
"Yes. Well, you know you consulted a witch the other night."
"Did I?" said Matilda.
"The witch gave me orders to search into your matter. I have done it,
and told her what I had found; and she has commissioned me to deliver
to you--this."
So saying, David produced a little gold piece, the very mate to the one
Matilda had earned by telling her thoughts.
"O David!" Matilda exclaimed,--"O David!"
"Well?" said David smiling. "What?"
"I am getting so much!"
"You will want it."
"But I don't see how it should take such a very great deal of money
just to do this little thing," said Matilda; and she went on to explain
Mr. Wharncliffe's propositions and helping agency. Before she had well
got through, Norton dashed in.
"Hallo! David here? All the better. Isn't she a jewel of a witch,
David?"
David looked up with a responsive twinkle in his eye; and Matilda asked
what he meant.
"Mean?" said Norton, "I mean the witch. You went to see the witch,
Pink; haven't you heard from her?"
"Yes! just this minute; but Norton, I don't know what you expected to
hear. What have you heard?"
"Glorious!" cried Norton, swinging his cap joyously. "We've got that
little room, Pink, for a greenhouse; and a stove in it for cold nights;
and shelves and benches and frames and all those things I'll put up my
self; and then we'll have a show of flowers. Your hyacinths will do a
great deal better up there."
"Will they?" said Matilda. "They are doing very nicely here; and they
look nicely."
"Now we can do all we've a mind to, Pink. I'll have some amaryllis
roots right off; and japonicas, japonicas, Pink; and everything you
like. Geraniums, and Bovardias, and Azaleas, and Cacti; and Cyclamens;
and Cassia and Arbutillon. Fuchsias too, and what you like!"
"Why that little room will not hold everything," said Matilda. "Can't
you have some roses?"
"Roses? O yes, and carnations; everything you like. Yes, it will hold
everything. Lots of tulips, too."
"How about the money?" David asked.
"It don't take a fortune to stock a little greenhouse."
"You haven't got a fortune."
"I have got enough."
"Have anything left for other objects?"
"What objects?" said Norton. "I haven't but one object at present.
One's enough."
"But Matilda has an object too," David said smiling enough to show his
white teeth; "and her object will want some help, I'm thinking."
"What object?" said Norton.
"Don't you remember? I told you, Norton, about Sarah"--
"O that!" said Norton with a perceptible fall of his mental
thermometer. "That's all your visions, Pink; impracticable; fancy. The
idea of you, with your little purse, going into the mud of New York,
and thinking to dean the streets."
"Certainly," said David, "and so she wauls a little help from our
purses, don't you see?"
"David Bartholomew!" Norton burst out, "you know as well as I do, that
it is no sort of use to try that game. Just go look at the mud; it will
take all we could throw into it, and never shew."
"No," said David; "we could clear up a little corner, I think, if we
tried."
"You!" cried Norton. "Are you at that game? You turned soft
suddenly?"
"Do no harm, that I see," replied David composedly.
"These people aren't your people," said Norton.
"They are your people," said David.
"They are not! I have nothing to do with them, and it is no use--Davie
Bartholomew, you know it's no use--to try to help them. Pink is so
tender-hearted, she wants to help the whole world; and it's all very
well for her to want it; but she can't; and I can't; and you can't."
"But we can help Sarah Staples," Matilda ventured.
"And then you may go on to help somebody else, and then somebody else;
and there's no end to it; only there's this end, that you'll always be
poor yourself and never be able to do anything you want to do."
Norton was unusually heated, and both his hearers were for a moment
silenced.
"You know that's the truth of it, Davie," he went on; "and it's no use
to encourage Pink to fancy she can comfort everybody that's in trouble,
and warm everybody that is cold, and feed everybody that is hungry,
because she just can't do it. You can tell her there is no end to
that sort of thing if she once tries it on. Suppose we all went to work
at it. Just see where we would be. Where would be Pink's gold watch,
and her picture? and where would be her gold bracelet? and where would
my greenhouse be? And where would this house be, for that matter? and
the furniture in it? and how should we all dress? Your mother wouldn't
wear velvet dresses, that you like so much; and mine wouldn't wear that
flimsy muslin stuff that she likes so much; and grandmamma's lace shawl
would never have been mended, for it never would have been here to get
burnt. It's all a lot of nonsense, that's what it is."
"There is law about it, though," David began again gravely.
"Law?" Norton echoed.
"The law of my people."
"O what is it, David?" cried Matilda; while Norton was grumly silent.
He did not want to debate David's Jewish law with him. David gave the
words very readily.
"'When there is with thee any needy one of one of thy brethren, in one
of thy cities, in thy land which Jehovah thy God is giving to thee,
thou dost not harden thy heart, nor shut thy hand from thy needy
brother; for thou dost certainly open thy hand to him, and dost
certainly lend him sufficient for his lack which he lacketh.'"
"That says what the people would do--not what they ought to do," said
Norton.
"I beg your pardon; it is a strong way of saying, in the Hebrew, what
they must do. Listen. 'Thou dost certainly give to him, and thy heart
is not sad in thy giving to him, for because of this thing doth Jehovah
thy God bless thee in all thy works, and in every putting forth of
thine hand; because the needy one doth not cease out of the land,
therefore I am commanding thee, saying, Thou dost certainly open thy
hand to thy brother, to thy poor, and to thy needy one, in thy land.'"
Matilda was thinking of other words, which she dared not bring forward;
being in a part of her Bible which David did not like. Neither was it
necessary. Norton had got quite enough, she could see. He was in a
state of fume, privately.
"I am going to give one side of the green house to you," he said,
turning to Matilda. "Now you have got to think and find out what you
will put in it. I shall have the shelves and all ready by the end of
the week; and next week, Pink,--next week!--we must put the plants in;
because the winter is going on, you know."
The conclave broke up, to go upstairs and look at the new greenhouse.
Norton explained his arrangements; the oil-cloth he was going to put on
the floor, the rising banks of green shelves, the watering and
syringing and warming of the little place; till Matilda almost smelt
the geranium leaves before they were there.
"Now, Pink, what will you have on your side?"
"I can't give more than a dollar to it, Norton," said Matilda very
regretfully.
"A dollar! A dollar, Pink? A dollar will get you two or three little
geraniums. What's to become of the rest of your shelves?"
"I shall have to give them back to you, I'm afraid."
"You've got money, plenty."
"But I can't spend it for plants."
"Because you are going to throw it into the mud, Pink? O no, you'll not
do that. I'll give you a catalogue of plants, and you shall look it
over; and you will find a dollar won't do much, I can tell you. And
then you will see what you want."
He was as good as his word; and Matilda sipped her glass of water and
eat her sponge cake at tea time between the pages of a fascinating
pamphlet, which with the delights it offered almost took away her
breath, and quite took away the taste of the sponge cake. Norton looked
over her shoulder now and then, well pleased to see his charm working.
"Yellow carnations?" cried Matilda.
"I don't like them best, though," said Norton. "There, that--La
purité--that's fine; and the striped ones, Pink; those double heads,
just as full as they can be, and just as sweet as they can be, and
brilliant carmine and white--those are what I like."
Matilda drew a long breath and turned a leaf.
"Violets!" she exclaimed.
"Do you like them?"
"Violets? Why, Norton, I don't like any thing better! I don't think I
do. Dear little sweet things! they do not cost much?"
"No," said Norton, "they do not cost much; and they don't make much
show, neither."
"But they don't take much room."
"No; and you want things that do take room, to fill your shelves. The
greenhouse ought to be all one mass of green and bloom all round."
Matilda heaved another sigh and turned another leaf.
"I don't know anything about tuberoses," she said. "Primroses? what are
they like? 'A thousand flowers often from one plant!' what are they
like, Norton?"
"Like?" said Norton. "I don't know what they are like."
"I'll tell you," said Judy, who as usual was pleasing herself with a
cup of strong coffee; "they are like buttercups come to town and grown
polished."
"They are not in the least like buttercups!" said Norton.
"That's what I said," replied Judy coolly; "they have left off their
country ways, and don't wear yellow dresses."
Matilda thought it was best to take no notice, so with another crumb of
sponge cake she turned over to the next flower in the catalogue.
"What are Bouvardias? I don't know anything about them."
"Of course," said Judy. "Not to be expected."
"Do you want to take care of your own flowers yourself, Pink?" inquired
Norton; "or do you mean to have me do it?"
"Why, I will do it, I suppose."
"Then you had better leave the Bouvardias to me. They are a little
particular about some things."
"Are they handsome?"
"Wait till you see. Splendid! You'll see, when I get them a going.
We'll have just a blaze of them."
"A blaze?" said Matilda. "What colour?"
"Flame colour, and scarlet, and white, and splendid crimson."
"Heliotrope. O I like heliotrope," Matilda went on.
"You can have those," said Norton. "They're  sweet and easy. And we
must have them, of course, on one side or the other. Begonias--those
you might have, too."
"Hyacinths I have got," said Matilda.
"Yes, but you will want more, now that you have room for them."
"Azaleas--O azaleas are lovely," said Matilda. "They are showy too; and
you want a show, Norton."
"So do you, Pink."
"Well, I like azaleas," said Matilda. "Do they cost much?"
"Not so very. I guess you can have some."
"O what a geranium!" Matilda exclaimed. "'Lady James
Vick'--'seventy-five cents each'--but what a lovely colour, Norton! O I
like geraniums next best to roses, I believe."
"You must go to another catalogue for your roses," said Norton.
"That is beautiful! I never saw such a colour. These roses are better
yet."
"You can't have roses enough in bloom at once. We want other things to
help make up the blaze of colour there ought to be. But that's easy."
Matilda turned the catalogue over and over with a disturbed mind. It
seemed to her that to have such a little greenhouse as Norton proposed,
full of beauties, would be one of the most enjoyable things that could
be. Every new page of the catalogue, every new detail of Norton's plan,
tugged at her heart-strings. She wanted to get those plants and
flowers. A few delicate tea roses, some crimson blush roses, some pots
of delicious purple heliotropes with spicy breath; two or three--or
four--great double carnations; bunches of violets, sweetest of all; she
wanted these! Then some azaleas, larger of course, to fill up the
shelves and make a beautiful show of colour, as Norton desired. Her
imagination went over and over the catalogue, always picking these out
for her choice; and then imagination took them to the little room
upstairs, which was going to be such a lovely little greenhouse, and
saw them there and almost smelt their fragrance. It would be so
pleasant to take care of them; she fancied herself watering them and
dressing them, picking off the dead leaves and tying up the long
wreaths of vines, and putting flowers into Mrs. Laval's stem glass for
her dressing table. But what use? she had not the money to buy the
plants, if she went on with her plans for Sarah's behoof; no counting
nor calculating could come to any other conclusion. She thought of it
by day and she thought of it by night; and the more she thought, the
more her desires grew. Then too, the wish to please Norton was a very
serious element in her cogitations. To disappoint him by utterly
failing to do all he wished and counted upon from her, was very hard to
do and very disagreeable to face. But Sarah? Matilda could not change
her line of action, nor divert more than one dollar from the fund saved
for her benefit. One dollar, Matilda thought, might be given for
flowers; but what would one dollar be worth, with all one side of the
little greenhouse to be filled.
It is not easy to tell, how much trouble all this question gave
Matilda. She thought it was quite strange and notable, that just when
she was trying to accomplish so right a thing as the helping of that
poor family in the cellar, this temptation of flowers should come up to
make it hard. In one of her windows stood three little pots, in which
three hyacinths were already bursting through the brown earth and
showing little stout green points of leaf buds which promised nicely
for other buds by and by. They had been a delight to Matilda's heart
only a week ago; now, it seemed as if that vision of heliotropes and
roses and geraniums had somehow swallowed them up.
When she went next to Sunday school, however, and saw Sarah's meek,
patient face, Matilda was very much astonished at herself, and not a
little ashamed. She sat next Sarah in the class, and could see without
seeming to see, how thin her dress was and how limp it was, as if she
had not enough petticoats under it to keep her warm. There was a patch
too in one place. And Sarah's shawl was a very poor wrap alongside of
the well covered shoulders under Matilda's thick coat. "No gloves!"
said Matilda to herself, as her eye glanced from her own very handsome
and warm ones; "how can she bear it? I wonder how it makes her feel, to
see mine? Another time I'll wear an older pair." But the contrast went
home to Matilda's heart. Why should she have so many good things, and
Sarah so few? and the words David had quoted from the Hebrew Scriptures
came back to her.
With an odd feeling as if there were wrong done for which she was
somehow chargeable, after the lesson was done and school dismissed she
asked Sarah "how she was?" The girl's meek eye brightened a little as
she answered that she was well.
"But you are hoarse," said Matilda. "You have got cold."
"O I often do, in the winter time," said Sarah. "I don't think anything
of it."
And that slight shawl and thin dress! Matilda's heart gave some painful
blows to her conscience.
"I didn't see you at your place the other day," she went on.
"That was Thursday," said Sarah. "No; I was too bad Thursday. I didn't
go out."
