the monotony of the remote solitudes. There was little con- 
versation, for the impressive scene overawed speech. I felt 
like the Last Man, neglected of the judgment, and left pin- 
nacled in mid-heaven, a forgotten relic of a vanished world. 
While the hush yet brooded, the messengers of the coming 
resurrection appeared in the East. A growing warmth suftused 
the horizon, and soon the sun emerged and looked out over the 
cloud-waste, flinging bars of ruddy light across it, staining its 
folds and billow-caps with blushes, purpling the shaded troughs 
between, and glorifying the massy vapor-palaces and cathedrals 
with a wasteful splendor of all blendings and combinations of 
rich coloring. 
It was the sublimest spectacle I ever witnessed, and I think 
the memory of it will remain with me always. 
CHAPTER LXXYII. 
I STUMBLED upon one curious character in the Island of 
Mani. lie became a sore annoj'ance to me in the course 
of time. My first glimpse of him was in a sort of public room 
in the town of Lahaina. He occupied a chair at the opposite 
side of the apartment, and sat eyeing our party with interest 
for some minutes, and listening as critically to what we were 
saying as if he fancied we were talking to him and expecting 
him to reply. I thought it very sociable in a stranger. Pres- 
ently, in the course of conversation, I made a statement bearing 
upon the subject under discussion — and I made it with due 
modesty, for there was nothing extraordinary about it, and it 
was only put forth in illustration of a point at issue. I had 
barely finished when this person spoke out with rapid utterance 
and feverish anxiety : 
" Oh, that was certainly remarkable, after a fashion, but you 
ought to have seen my chimney — you ought to have seen iny 
chimney, sir ! Smoke ! I wish I may hang if — Mr. Jones, 
you remember that chimney — you must remember that chim- 
ney ! No, no — I recollect, now, you warn't living on this side 
of the island then. But I am telling you nothing but the truth, 
and I wish I may never draw another breath if that chimney 
didn't smoke so that the smoke actually got caked in it and I 
had to dig it out with a pickaxe ! You may smile, gentlemen, 
but the High Sherilf 's got a hunk of it which I dug out before 
his eyes, and so it's perfectly easy for you to go and examine 
for yourselves." 
The interruption broke up the conversation, which had already
begun to lag, and we presently hired some natives and 
an out-rigger canoe or two, and went out to overlook a grand 
surf-bathing contest. 
Two weeks after this, while talking in a company, I looked 
lip and detected this same man boring through and through 
me with his intense eye, and noted again his twitching muscles 
and his feverish anxiety to speak. The moment I paused, he 
said : 
" Beg your pai-don, sir, beg your pardon, but it can only be 
'considered remarkable when brought into strong outline by 
isolation. Sir, contrasted with a circumstance which occurred 
in my own experience, it instantly becomes commonplace. No,, 
not that — for I will not speak so discourteously of any experience 
in the career of a stranger and a gentleman — but I am 
obliged to say that you could not, and you would not ever again 
refer to this tree as a large one, if you could behold, as I have, 
the great Yakmatack tree, in the island of Ounaska, sea of 
Kamtchatka— a tree, sir, not one inch less than four hundred 
and fifteen feet in solid diameter ! — and I wish I may die in a 
minute if it isn't so ! Oh, you needn't look so questioning, 
gentlemen ; here's old Cap Saltmarsh can say whether I know 
what I'm talking about or not. I showed him the tree." 
Captain Saltmarsh. — " Come, now, cat your anchor, lad — 
you're heaving too taut. Y on promised to show me that stunner,
and I walked more than eleven mile with you through the 
cussedest jungle I ever see, a hunting for it ; but the tree you 
showed me finally warn't as big around as a beer cask, and you 
know that your own self, Markiss." 
" Hear the man talk ! Of course the tree was reduced that 
way, but didn't I explain it ? Answer me, didn't I ? Didn't 
I say I wished you could have seen it when I first saw it ? 
When you got up on your ear and called me names, and said 
I had brought you eleven miles to look at a sapling, didn't I 
explain to you that all the whale-ships in the North Seas had 
been wooding off of it for more than twenty-seven years ? And 
did you s'pose the tree could last ior-emr, con-found it ? I 
don't see why yon want to keep back things that way, and try 
to injnre a person that's never done you any harm." 
Somehow this man's presence made me uncomfortable, and 
I was ghid when a native arrived at that moment to say that 
Muckawow, the most companionable and luxurious among the 
rude war-chiefs of the Islands, desired us to come over and help 
him enjoy a missionary whom he had found trespassing on his 
grounds. 
I think it was about ten days afterward that, as I finished a 
statement I was making for the instruction of a group of friends 
and acquaintances, and which made no pretence of being extraordinary,
a famihar voice chimed instantly in on the heels of 
my last word, and said : 
" But, my dear sir, there was notJiing remarkable about that 
horse, or the circumstance either — nothing in the world ! I 
mean no sort of offence when I say it, sir, but you really do 
not know anything whatever about speed. Bless your heart, 
if you could only have seen my mare Margaretta ; there was a 
beast ! — there was lightning for you ! Trot ! Trot is no name 
for it — she flew ! How she could whirl a bnggy along ! I 
started her out onee, sir — Colonel Bilgewater, you recollect 
that animal perfectly well— I started her out about thirty or 
thirty-live yards ahead of the awfullest storm I ever saw in my 
life, and it chased us upwards of eighteen miles ! It did, by 
the everlasting hills ! And I'm telling you nothing but the 
imvarnished truth when I say that not one single drop of rain 
fell on me — not a single drop sir ! And I swear to it ! But 
my dog was a-swimming behind the wagon all the way !" 
For a week or two I stayed mostly within doors, for I seemed 
to meet this person everywhere, and he had become utterly 
hateful to me. But one evening I dropped in on Captain Perkins 
and his friends, and we had a sociable time. About ten 
o'clock I chanced to be talking about a merchant friend of 
mine, and without really intending it, the remark slipped out 
that he was a little mean and parsimonious about paying his 
•workmen. Instantly, through the steam of a hot whiskey 
punch on the opposite side of the room, a remembered voice 
shot — and for a moment I trembled on the imminent verge of 
profanity : 
" Oh, my dear sir, really you expose yourself when you parade 
that as a surprising circumstance. Bless your heart and hide, 
you are ignorant of the very A B C of meanness ! ignorant as 
the unborn babe ! ignorant as unborn tivins ! You don't know 
any thing about it ! It is pitiable to see you, sir, a well-spoken 
and prepossessing stranger, making such an enormous pow-wow 
here about a subject concerning which your ignorance is perfectly 
humiliating ! Look me in the eye, if you please ; look 
me in the eye. John James Godfrey was the son of poor but 
honest parents in the State of Mississippi — boyhood friend of 
mine — bosom comrade in later years. Heaven rest his noble 
spirit, he is gone from us now. John James Godfrey was hired 
by the Hayblossom Mining Company in California to do some 
blasting for them — the " Incorporated Company of Mean Men," 
the boys used to call it. 
"Well, one day he drilled a hole about four feet deep 
and put in an awful blast 
of powder, and was standing over it ramming it 
down with an iron crowbar about nine foot long, when 
the cussed thing struck a spark and hred the powder, 
and scat ! away John Godfrey whizzed like a sky-rocket, him and his crow- 
bar ! Well, sir, he kept on going up in the air 
higher and higher, till he didn't look any bigger than 
a boy — and he kept going on up higher and higher, 
till he didn't look any bigger than a doll — and he kept on going up higher and higher, 
till he didn't look any bigger than a little small bee — and then 
he went out of sight ! Presently he came in sight again, look- 
ing like a little small bee — and he came along down further 
and further, till he looked as big as a doll again — and down 
farther and farther, till he was as big as a boy again — and 
further and farther, till he was a full-sized man once more ; and 
then him and his crowbar came awh-izzing down and lit right 
exactly in the same old tracks and went to r-ramming down, 
and r-ramming down, and r-ramming down again, just the same 
as if nothing had happened! Now do you know, that poor 
cuss warn't gone only sixteen minutes, and yet that Incorpo- 
rated Company of Mean Men docked hei for the lost time !' 
I said I had the headache, and so excused myself and went 
home. And on my diary I entered " another night spoiled ' 
by this oflensive loafer. And a fervent curse was set down 
with it to keep the item company. And the very next day I 
packed up, out of all patience, and left the Island. 
Almost from the very beginning, I regarded that man as a 
liar. 
The line of points represents an interval of years. At the 
end of which time the opinion hazarded in that last sentence 
came to be gratify ingly and remarkably- endorsed, and by 
wholly disinterested persons. The man Markiss was found 
one morning hanging to abeam of his own bedroom (the doors 
and windows securely fastened on the inside), dead ; and on 
his breast was pinned a paper in his own handwriting begging 
his friends to suspect no innocent person of having any thing 
to do with his death, for that it was the work of his own hands 
entirely. Yet the jury brought in the astounding verdict that 
deceased came to his death " by the hands of some person or 
persons unknown !" They explained that the perfectly unde- 
viating consistency of Markiss's character for thirty years tow- 
ered aloft as colossal and indestructible testimony, that what- 
ever statement he chose to make was entitled to instant and 
unqyestioning acceptance as a lie. And they furthermore 
stated their belief that he was not dead, and instanced the 
strong circumstantial evidence of his own word that he vjas 
dead — and beseeched the coroner to delay the funeral as long 
as possible, which was done. And so in the tropical climate 
of Lahaina the coffin stood open for seven days, and then even 
the loyal jury gave him up. But they sat on him again, and 
changed their verdict to " suicide induced by mental aberra- 
tion " — because, said they, with penetration, " he said he was 
dead, and he was dead ; and would he have told the truth if 
he had been in his right mind ? yes sir." 
CHAPTEE LXXVIII. 
AFTER half a year's luxurious vagrancy in the islands, I 
took shipping in a sailing vessel, and regretfully re- 
turned to San Francisco — a voyage in every way delightful, 
but without an incident : unless lying two long weeks in a dead 
calm, eighteen hundred miles from the nearest land, may rank 
as an incident. Schools of whales grew so tame that day after 
day they played about the ship among the porpoises and the 
sharks without the least apparent fear of us, and we pelted them 
with empty bottles for lack of better sport. Twenty-four hours 
afterward these bottles would be still lying on the glassy water 
under our noses, showing that the ship had not moved out of 
her place in all that time. The calm was absolutely breathless, 
and the surface of the sea absolutely without a wrinkle. For a 
whole day and part of a night we lay so close to another ship 
that had drifted to our vicinity, that we carried on conver- 
sations with her passengers, introduced each other by name, and 
became pretty intimately acquainted with people we had never 
heard of before, and have never heard of since. This was the 
only vessel we saw during the whole lonely voyage. We had 
fifteen passengers, and to show how hard pressed they were at 
last for occupation and amusement, I will mention that the 
gentlemen gave a good part of their time every day, during the 
calm, to trying to sit on an empty champagne bottle (lying on 
its side), and thread a needle without touching their heels to 
the deck, or falling over ; and the ladies sat in the shade of the 
mainsail, and watched the enterprise with absorbing interest. 
We were at sea five Sundays ; and yet, but for the almanac 
we never would have known but that all the other days were 
Sundays too. 
I was home again, in 
San Francisco, without means and without em- 
ployment. I tortured my brain for a saving scheme 
of some kind, and at last a public lecture occurred 
to me! I sat down and wrote one, in a fever of 
hopeful anticipation. I showed it to several friends, 
but they all shook their heads.
They said nobody would come to hear me, 
and I would make a humiliating failure of it. 
They said that as I had never spoken in public, I 
would break down in the delivery, anyhow. I was disconsolate 
now. But at last an editor slapped me on the back and told 
me to "go ahead." He said, " Take the largest house in town, 
and charge a dollar a ticket." The audacity of the proposition 
was charming ; it seemed fraught with practical worldly wisdom, 
however. The proprietor of the several theatres endorsed 
the advice, and said I might have his handsome new opera-house 
at half price — fifty dollars. In sheer desperation I took it — on 
credit, for sufficient reasons. In three days I did a hundred and 
fifty dollars' worth of printing and advertising, and was the 
most distressed and friglitened creature on the Pacific coast. I 
could not sleep — who could, under such circumstances ? For 
other people there was facetiousness in the last line of my 
posters, but to me it was plaintive with a pang when I wrote it ; 
" Doors open at 7. The trouble will begin at 8." 
That line has done good service since borrowed it frequently 
newspaper advertisement reminding school pupils in vacation 
what time next term would begin. As those three days of 
suspense dragged by, I grew more and more unhappy. I had 
sold two hundred tickets among my personal friends, but I feared 
they might not come. My lecture, which had seemed "humor- 
ous" to me, at first, grew steadily more and more dreary, till 
not a vestige of fun seemed left, and I grieved that I could not 
bring a coffin on the stage and turn the thing into a funeral. 
I was so panic-stricken, at last, that I went to three old friends, 
giants in stature, cordial by nature, and stormy-voiced, and said : 
" This thing is going to be a failure ; the jokes in it are so 
•dim that nobody will ever see them ; I would like to have you 
sit in the parquette, and help me through." 
They said they would. Then I went to the wife of a pop- 
ular citizen, and said that if she was willing to do me a very 
great kindness, I would be glad if she and her husband would 
sit prominently in the left-hand stage-box, where the whole 
house could see them. I explained that I should need help, and 
would turn toward her and smile, as a signal, when I had been 
delivered of an obscure joke — " and then," I added, " don't 
wait to investigate, but respond ! " 
Slie promised. Down the street I met a man I never had 
seen before. He had been drinking, and xas beaming with 
smiles and good nature. He said : 
" My name's Sawjer. You don't know me, but that don't 
matter. I haven't got a cent, but if you knew how bad I wanted 
to laugh, you'd give me a ticket. Come, now, what do you 
say ? " 
" Is your laugh hung on a hair-trigger ? — that is, is it critical, 
or can you get it off easy ? " 
My drawling infirniity of speech so affected him that he 
laughed a specimen or two that struck me as being about the 
article I wanted, and I gave him a ticket, and appointed him to 
sit in the second circle, in the centre, and be responsible for 
that division of the house. I gave him minute instructions 
about how to detect indistinct jokes, and then went away, and 
left him chuckling placidly over the novelty of the idea. 
I ate nothing on the last of the three eventful days — I only 
suffered. I had advertised that on this third day the box-office 
would be opened for the sale of reserved seats. I crept down 
to the theatre at fom* in the afternoon to see if any sales had 
been made. The ticket seller was gone, the box-office was 
locked up. I had to swallow suddenly, or my heart would have 
got out. " N'o sales," I said to myself; " I might have known 
it." I thought of suicide, pretended illness, flight. I thought 
of these things in earnest, for I was very miserable and scared. 
But of course I had to drive them away, and prepare to meet my 
fate. I could not wait for half-past seven — I wanted to face the 
horror, and end it — the feeling of many a man doomed to hang, 
no doubt. I went down 
back streets at six o'clock, 
and entered the tlieitre by 
the back door. I stumbled 
my way in the dark among the ranks of canvas scenery,
and stood on the stage. The house was gloomy and silent, 
and its emptiness depressing. I went 
into the dark among the 
scenes again, and for an 
hour and a half gave myself 
up to the horrors, wholly 
unconscious of everything 
else. Then I heard a murmur; it rose higher and 
higher, and ended in a crash, mingled with cheers. 
It made ray hair raise, it 
was so close to me, and so loud. There was a pause, 
and then another ; presently came a thii-d, and before I well knew what I was about, I 
was in the middle of the stage, staring at a sea of taces, bewildered 
by the fierce glare of the lights, and quaking in every limb 
with a terror that seemed like to take my life away. The 
bouse was full, aisles and all ! 
The tumult in my heart and brain and legs continued a full 
minute before I could gain any command over myself. Then 
I recognized the charity and the friendliness in the faces before 
me, and little by little my fright melted away, and I began to 
talk Within three or four minutes I was comfortable, and 
even content. My three chief allies, with three auxiliaries, 
were on hand, in the parquette, all sitting together, all armed 
with bludgeons, and all 
ready to make an onslaught 
upon the feeblest joke that might show its head. And 
whenever a joke did fall their bludgeons came down 
and their faces seemed to 
split from ear to ear ; Sawyer, whose hearty counte- 
nance was seen looming redly in the centre of the 
second circle, took it up, and the house was carried 
handsomely. Inferiorjokes 
never tared so royally before. Presently I delivered a bit of 
serious matter with impressive unction (it was my pet), and 
the audience listened with an absorbed hush that gratified me 
more than any applause ; and as I dropped the last word of 
the clause, I happened to turn and catch Mrs. 's intent 
and waiting eye ; my conversation with her flashed upon me, 
and in spite of all I could do I smiled. She took it for the 
signal, and promptly delivered a mellow laugh that touched 
off the whole audience ; and the explosion that followed was 
the triumph of the evening. I thought that that honest man 
Sawyer would choke himself; and as for the bludgeons, they 
perfonned like pile-drivers. But my poor little morsel of 
pathos was ruined. It was taken in good faith as an intentional
joke, and the prize one of the entertainment, and I 
wisely let it go at that. 
All the papers were kind in the morning ; my appetite 
returned ; I had abundance of money. All's well that ends 
well. 
 CHAPTER LXXIX. 
I LAUNCHED out as a lecturer, now, with great boldness. 
I had the field all to myself, for public lectures were almost 
an unknown commodity in the Pacific market. They are not 
so rare, now, I suppose. I took an old personal friend along 
to play agent for me, and for two or three weeks we roamed 
through Nevada and California and had a very cheerful time 
of it. Two days before I lectured in Virginia City, two stage- 
coaches were robbed within two miles of the town. The dar- 
ing act was committed just at dawn, by six masked men, who 
sprang up alongside the coaches, presented revolvers at the 
heads of the drivers and passengers, and commanded a general 
dismount. Everybody climbed down, and the robbers took 
their watches and every cent they had. Then they took gun- 
powder and blew up the express specie boxes and got their 
contents. The leader of the robbers was a small, quick-spoken 
man, and the fame of his vigorous manner and his intrepidity 
was in everybody's moutli when we arrived. 
The night after instructing Virginia, I walked over the 
desolate "divide" and down to Gold Hill, and lectured there. 
The lecture done, I stopped to talk with a friend, and did not 
start back till eleven. The " divide "- was high, unoccupied 
ground, between the towns, the scene of twenty midnight 
murders and a hundred robberies. As we climbed up and 
stepped out on this eminence, the Gold Hill lights dropped 
out of sight at our backs, and the night closed down gloomy 
audi dismal. A sharp wind swept the place, too, and chilled 
onr perspiring bodies through. 
" I tell you I don't like this place at night," said Mike the 
agent. 
" Well, don't speak so loud," I said. " You needn't remind 
anybody that we are here." 
Just then a dim figure approached me from the direction of 
Virginia — a man, evidently. He came straight at me, and I 
stepped aside to let him pass ; he stepped in the way and con- 
fronted me again. Then I saw that he had a mask on and 
was holding something in my face — I heard a click-click and 
recognized a revolver in dim outline. I pushed the barrel 
aside with my hand and said : 
" Don't ! " 
' He ejaculated sharply : 
" Your watch ! Your money ! " 
I said : 
" You can have them with pleasure — but take the pistol 
away from my face, please. It makes me shiver." 
" No remarks ! Hand out your money ! " 
'' Certainly— I—" 
" Put up your hands ! Don't you go for a weapon ! Put 
'em up ! Higher ! " 
I held them above my head. 
A pause. Then : 
" Are you going to hand out your money or not ?" 
I dropped my hands to my pockets and said : 
Certainly ! I—" 
" Put up your hands ! Do you want your heg,d blown off? 
Higher !" 
I put them above my head again. 
Another pause. 
A7'e you going to hand out your money or not f Ah-ah — • 
again ? Put up your hands ! By George, you want the head 
shot off you awful bad ! " 
" Well, friend, I'm trying my best to please you. You tell 
me to give up my money, and when I reach for it you tell me 
to put up my hands. If you would only — . Oh, now — don't ! 
All six of you at me ! That other man will get away while. — 
Now please take some of those revolvers out of my face — do 
if you please ! Every time one of them clicks, my liver comes 
up into my throat ! If you have a mother — any of you — or if 
any of you have ever had a mother — or a — grandmother — or 
a—" 
" Cheese it ! Will you give up your money, or have we 
got to — . There-there — none of that ! Put up our hands! " 
" Gentlemen — I know you are gentlemen by your — " 
" Silence ! If you want to be facetious, young man, there 
are times and places more fitting. This is a serious business." 
" You prick the marrow of my opinion. The funerals I 
have attended in my time were comedies compared to it. 
Now I  think—" 
" Curse your palaver ! Your money ! — your money ! — 
your money ! Hold ! — put up your hands ! " 
" Gentlemen, listen to reason. You see how I am situated 
• — now donH put those pistols so close — I smell the powder. 
You see how I am situated. If I had four hands — so that I 
could hold up two and — " 
" Throttle him ! Gag him ! Kill him !" 
" Gentlemen, donH ! Nobody'" watching the other fellow. 
Why don't some of you — . Ouch ! Take it away, please ! 
Gentlemen, you see that I've got to hold up my hands ; and 
so I can't take out my money — but if you'll be so kind as to 
take it out for me, I will do as much for you some — " 
" Search him Beauregard — and stop his jaw with a bullet, 
quick, if he wags it again. Help Beauregard, Stonewall." 
Then tlirce of them, with the small, spry leader, adjourned 
to Mike and fell to searching him. I was so excited that my 
lawless fancy tortured me to ask my two men all manner of 
facetious questions about their rebel brother-generals of the 
South, but, considering the order they had received, it was 
but common prudence to keep still. When everything had 
been taken from me, — watch, money, and a multitude of trifles 
of small value, — I supposed I was free, and forthwith put my 
cold hands into my empty pockets and began an inoffensive 
jig to warm my feet and stir up some latent courage — but in- 
stantly all pistols were at my head, and the order came again : 
" Be still ! Put up your hands ! And lieeiJ them up ! '* 
They stood Mike up alongside of me, with strict orders to 
keep his hands above his head, too, and then the chief high- 
wayman said : 
" Beauregard, hide behind that boulder ; Phil Sheridan, 
you hide behind that other one ; Stonewall Jackson, put your- 
self behind that sage-bush there. Keep your pistols bearing 
on these fellows, and if they take down their hands within ten 
minutes, or move a single peg, let them have it ! " 
Then three disappeared in the gloom toward the several 
ambushes, and the other three disappeared down the road to- 
ward Virginia. 
It was depressingly still, and miserably cold. Now this 
whole thing was a practical joke, and the robbers were per- 
sonal friends of ours in disguise, and twenty more lay hidden 
within ten feet of ns during the whole operation, listening. 
Mike knew all this, and was in the joke, but I suspected noth- 
ing of it. To me it was most uncomfortably genuine. 
When we had stood there in the middle of the road five 
minutes, like a couple of idiots, with our hands aloft, freezing 
to d-eath by inches, Mike's interest in the joke began to wane. 
He said : 
" The time's up, now, aint it ? " 
" No, you keep still. Do you want to take any chances with 
those bloody savages ? " 
Presently Mike said : 
" Now the time's up, anyway. I'm freezing." 
" Well freeze. Better freeze than carry your brains home 
in a basket. Maybe the time is up, but how do we know? — 
got no watch to tell by. I mean to give them good measure. 
I calculate to stand here fifteen minutes or die. Don't you 
move." 
So, without knowing it, I was making one joker very sick 
of his contract. When we took our arms down at last, they 
were aching with cold and fatigue, and when we went sneak- 
ing off, the dread I was in that the time might not yet be up 
and that we would feel bullets in a moment, was not sufficient 
to draw all my attention from the misery that racked my 
stiifened body. 
The joke of these highwayman friends of ours was mainly a 
joke upon themselves ; for they had waited for me on the cold 
hill-top two full hours before I came, and there was very little 
fun in that ; they were so chilled that it took them a couple of 
weeks to get warm again. Moreover, I never had a thought 
that they would kill me to get money which it was so perfect- 
ly easy to get without any such folly, and so they did not 
really frighten me bad enough to make their enjoyment worth 
the trouble they had taken. I was only afraid that their wea- 
pons would go olf accidentally. Their very numbers inspired 
me with confidence that no blood would be intentionally spilled. 
They were not smart ; they ought to have sent only one highwayman, 
with a double-barrelled shot gun, if they desired to 
see the author of this volume climb a tree. 
However, I suppose that in the long run I got the largest 
share of the joke at last ; and in a shape not foreseen by the 
highwaymen ; for the chilly exposure on the " divide " while 
I was in a perspiration gave me a cold which developed itself 
into a troublesome disease and kept my hands idle some three 
months, besides costing me quite a sum in doctor's bills. Since 
then I play no practical jokes on people and generally lose my 
temper when one is played upon me. 
When I returned to San Francisco I projected a pleasure 
journey to Japan and thence westward around the world ; but a 
desire to see home again changed my mind, and I took a berth 
in the steamship, bade good-bye to the friendliest land and 
livest, heartiest community on our continent, and came by 
the way of the Isthmus to New York — a trip that was not 
much of a pic-nic excursion, for the cholera broke out among 
us on the passage and we buried two or three bodies at sea 
every day. I found home a dreary place after my long ab' 
sence ; for half the children I had known were now wearing 
whiskers or waterfalls, and few of the grown people I had been 
acquainted with remained at their hearthstones prosperous and 
liappy — some of them had wandered to other scenes, some were 
in jail, and the rest had been hanged. These changes touched 
me deeply, and I went away and joined the famous Quaker 
City European Excursion and carried my tears to foreign 
lands. 
Thus, after seven years of vicissitudes, ended a " pleasure 
trip " to the silver mines of Nevada which had originally been 
intended to occupy only three months. However, I usually 
miss my calculations further than that. 
MOKAL. 
If the reader thinks he is done, now, and that this book 
bas no moral to it, he is in error. The moral of it is this : If 
you are of any account, stay at home and make your way by 
faithful diligence ; but if you are " no account," go away from 
home, and then you will liade to work, whether you want to 
or not. Thus you become a blessing to your friends by ceas- 
ing to be a nuisance to them — if the people you go among 
suffer by the operation. 
MORMONISM is only about forty years old, but its career has been full of 
Btir and adventure from the beginning, and is likely to remain so to the end. 
Its adherents have been hunted and hounded from one end of the country 
to the other, and the result is that for years they have hated all " Gentiles " 
indiscriminately and with all their might.' Joseph Smith, the finder of the 
Book of Mormon and founder of the religion, was driven from State to 
State with his mysterious copperplates and the miraculous stones he read 
their inscriptions with. Finally he instituted his " church " in Ohio and 
Brigham Young joined it. The neighbors began to persecute, and apostasy 
commenced. Brigham held to the faith and worked hard. He arrested 
desertion. He did more — he added -converts in the midst of the trouble. 
He rose in favor and importance with the brethren. He was made one of 
the Twelve Apostles of the Church. He shortly fought his way to a higher 
post and a more powerful — President of the Twelve. The neighbors rose 
up and drove the Mormons out of Ohio, and they settled in Missouri. 
Brigham went with them. The Missourians drove them out and they retreated 
to Nauvoo, Illinois. They prospered there, and built a temple which made 
some pretensions to architectural grace and achieved some celebrity in a 
section of country where a brick court-house with a tin dome and a cupola 
on it was contemplated with reverential awe. But the Mormons were 
badgered and harried again by their neighbors. All the proclamations 
Joseph Smitn could issue denouncing polygamy and repudiating it as utterly 
anti-Mormon were of no avail ; the people of the neighborhood, on both 
sides of the Mississippi, claimed that polygamy was practised by the Mor- 
mons, and not only polygamy but a little of everything that was bad. 
Brigham returned from a mission to England, where he had established a 
Mormon newspaper, and he brought back with him several hundred converts 
to his preaching. His influence among the brethren augmented with every 
move he made. Finally Nauvoo was invaded by the Missouri and Illinois 
Gentiles, and Joseph Smith killed. A Mormon named Rigdon assumed the 
Presidency of the Mormon church and government, in Smith's place, and even 
tried his hand at a prophecy or tv?o. But a greater than he was at hand. 
Brigham seized the advantage of the hour and without other authority than 
superior brain and nerve and will, hurled Rigdon from his high place and 
occupied it himself. He did more. He launched an elaborate curse at 
Rigdon and his disciples ; and he pronounced Rigdon's " prophecies " ema- 
nations from the devil, and ended by " handing the false prophet over to 
the buffetings of Satan for a thousand years " — probably the longest term 
ever inflicted in Illinois. The people recognized their master. They 
straightway elected Brigham Young President, by a prodigious majority, 
and have never faltered in their devotion to him from that day to this. 
Brigham had forecast — a quality which no other prominent Mormon has 
probably ever possessed. He recognized that it was better to move to the 
wilderness than ie moved. By his command the people gathered together 
their meagre effects, turned their backs upon their homes, and their faces 
toward the wilderness, and on a bitter night in February filed in sorrowful 
procession across the frozen Mississippi, lighted on their way by the glare 
from their burning temple, whose sacred furniture their own hands had 
fired ! They camped, several days afterward, on the western verge of Iowa, 
and poverty, want, hunger, cold, sickness, grief and persecution did their 
work, and many succumbed and died — martyrs, fair and true, whatever else 
they might have been. Two years the remnant remained there, wiiile 
Brigham and a small party crossed the country and founded Great Salt Lake 
City, purposely choosing a land which was outside the oicnersMp and juris- 
diction of the hated American nation. Note that. This was in 1847. 
Brigham moved his people there and got them settled just in time to see 
disaster fall again. For the war closed and Mexico ceded Brigham's refuge 
to the enemy — the United States ! In 1849 the Mormons organized a " free 
and independent " government and erected the " State of Desoret," with 
Brigham Young as its head. But the very next year Congress deliberately 
snubbed it and created the " Territory of Utah " out of the same accumula- 
tion of mountains, sage-brush, alkali and general desolation, — but made 
Brigham Governor of it. Then for years the enormous migration across the 
llains to California poured through the land of the Mormons and yet the 
church remained staunch and true to its lord and master. Neither hunger, 
thirst, poverty, grief, hatred, contempt, nor persecution could drive the Mor- 
mons from their faith or their allegiance ; and even the thirst for gold, 
which gleaned the flower of the youth and strength of many nations was 
not able to entice them ! That was the final test. An experiment that 
could survive that was an experiment with some substance to it somewhere. 
Great Salt Lake City throve finely, and so did Utah. One of the last 
things which Brigham Young had done before leaving Iowa, was to appear 
in the pulpit dressed to personate the worshipped and lamented prophet 
Smith, and confer the prophetic succession, with all its dignities, emolu- 
inents and authorities, upon " President Brigham Young ! " The people 
accepted the pious fraud with the maddest enthusiasm, and Brigham's 
power was sealed and secured for all time. Within five years afterward he 
openly added polygamy to the tenets of the church by authority of a " reve- 
lation " which he pretended had been received nine years before by Joseph 
Smith, albeit Joseph is amply on record as denouncing polygamy to the day 
of his death. 
Now was Brigham become a second Andrew Johnson in the small begin- 
ning and steady progress of his official grandeur. He had served succes- 
sively as a disciple in the ranks ; home missionary ; foreign missionary ; 
editor and publisher ; Apostle ; President of the Board of Apostles ; Presi- 
dent of all Mormondom, civil and ecclesiastical ; successor to the great 
Joseph by the will of heaven ; " prophet," " seer," " revelator." There was 
but one dignity higher which he could aspire to, and he reached out modestly 
and took that — he proclaimed himself a God ! 
He claims that he is to have a heaven of his own hereafter, and that he 
will be its God, and his wives and children its goddesses, princes and prin- 
cesses. Into it all faithful Mormons will be admitted, with their families, 
and will take rank and consequence according to the number of their wives 
and children. If a disciple dies before he has had time to accumulate 
enough wives and children to enable him to be respectable in the next 
world any friend can marry a few wives and raise a few children for him 
after he is dead, and they are duly credited to his account and his heavenly 
status advanced accordingly. 
Let it be borne in mind that the majority of tue Mormons have always 
been ignorant, simple, of an inferior order of intellect, unacquainted with 
the world and its ways ; and let it be borne in mind that the wives of these 
Mormons are necessarily after the same pattern and their children likely to 
be fit representatives of such a conjunction ; and then let it be remembered 
th&t for forty years these creatures have been driven, driven, driven, relent- 
lessly ! and mobbed, beaten, and shot down ; cursed, despised, expatriated ; 
banished to a remote desert, whither they journeyed gaunt with famine and 
disease, disturbing the ancient solitudes with their lamentations and mark- 
ing the long way with graves of their dead — and all because they were 
simply trying to live and worship God in the way which they believed with 
all their hearts and souls to be the true one. Let all these things be borne 
in mind, and then it will not be hard to account for the deathless hatred 
which the Mormons bear our people and our government. 
That hatred has " fed fat its ancient grudge " ever since Mormon Utah 
developed into a self-supporting realm and the church waxed rich and 
strong. Brigham as Territorial Governor made it plain that Mqrmondom 
was for the Mormons. The United States tried to rectify all that by ap- 
pointing territorial officers from New England and other anti-Mormon locali- 
ties, but Brigham prepared to make their entrance into his dominions 
difficult. Three thousand United States troops had to go across the plains 
and put these gentlemen in office. And after they were in office they were 
as helpless as so many stone images. They made laws which nobody 
minded and which could not be executed. The federal j udges opened court 
in a land filled with crime and violence and sat as holiday spectacles for in- 
solent crowds to gape at — for there was nothing to try, nothing to do, noth- 
ing on the dockets ! And if a Gentile brought a suit, the Mormon jury 
would do just as it pleased about bringing in a verdict, and when the judg- 
ment of the court was rendered no Mormon cared for it and no officer could 
execute it. Our Presidents shipped one cargo of officials after another to 
Utah, but the result was always the same — they sat in a blight for awhile, 
they fairly feasted on scowls and insults day by day, they saw every attempt 
to do their official duties find its reward in darker and darker looks, and in 
secret threats and warnings of a more and more dismal nature — and at last 
they either succumbed and became despised tools and toys of the Mormons, 
or got scared and discomforted beyond all endurance and left the Territory. 
If a brave officer kept on courageously till his pluck was proven, some pliant 
Buchanan or Pierce would remove him and appoint a stick in his place. In 
1857 General Harney came very near being appointed Governor of Utah. 
And so it came very near being Harney governor and Cradlebaugh judge ! — 
two men who never had any idea of fear further than the sort of murky 
comprehension of it which they were enabled to gather from the dictionary. 
Simply (if for nothing else) for the variety they would have made in a 
rather monotonous history of Federal servility and helplessness, it is a pity 
they were not fated to hold office together in Utah. 
Up to the date of our visit to Utah, such had been the Territorial record. 
The Territorial government established there had been a hopeless failure, 
and Brigham Young was the only real power in the land. He was an abso- 
lute monarch — a monarch who defied our President — a monarch who 
laughed at our armies when they camped about his capital — a monarch whO' 
received without emotion the news that the august Congress of the United 
States had enacted a solemn law against polygamy, and then went forth 
calmly and married twenty-five or thirty more wives. 
The persecutions which the Mormons suffered so long — and which they 
consider they still suffer in not being allowed to govern themselves — they 
have endeavored and are still endeavoring to repay. The now almost for- 
gotten " Mountain Meadows massacre " was their work. It was very famous 
in its day. The whole United States rang with its horrors. A few items 
will refresh the reader's memory. A great emigrant train from Missouri 
and Arkansas passed through Salt Lake City and a few disaffected Mormons 
joined it for the sake of the strong protection it afforded for their escape. 
In that matter lay sufficient cause for hot retaliation by the Mormon chiefs. 
Besides, these one hundred and forty-five or one hundred and fifty unsus- 
pecting emigrants being in part from Arkansas, where a noted Mormon 
missionary had lately been killed, and in part from Missouri, a State re- 
membered with execrations as a bitter persecutor of the saints when they 
were few and poor and friendless, here were substantial additional grounds 
for lack of love for these wayfarers. And finally, this train was rich, very 
rich in cattle, horses, mules and otlier property — and how could the Mormons 
consistently keep up their coveted resembhince to the Israelitish tribes and 
not seize the " spoil " of an enemy when the Lord had so manifestly 
" delivered it into their hand ? " 
Wherefore, according to Mrs. C. V. Waite's entertaining book, " The 
Mormon Prophet," it transpired that — 
" A ' revelation ' from Brigham Young, as Great Grand Archee or God, 
was dispatched to President J. C. Haight, Bishop Higbee and J. D. Lee 
(adopted son of Brigham), commanding them to raise all the forces they 
could muster and trust, follow those cursed Gentiles (so read the revelation), 
attack them disguised as Indians, and with the arrows of the Almighty make 
a clean sweep of them, and leave none to tell the tale ; and if they needed 
any assistance they were comnuinded to hin the Indians as their allies, 
promising them a share of the booty. They were to be neither slothful nor 
negligent in their duty, and to be punctual in sending the teams back to 
him before winter set in, for this was the mandate of Almighty God." 
The command of the " revelation " was faithfully obeyed. A large party 
of Mormons, painted and tricked out as Indians, overtook the train of emi- 
grant wagons some three hundred miles south of Salt Lake City, and made 
an attack. But the emigrants threw up earthworks, made fortresses of their 
wagons and defended themselves gallantly and successfully for five days ! 
Your Missouri or Arkansas gentleman is not much afraid of the sort of 
scurvy apologies for " Indians " which the southern part of Utah affords. 
He would stand up and fight five hundred of them. 
At the end of the five days the Mormons tried military strategy. They 
retired to the upper end of the " Meadows," resumed civilized apparel, 
washed off their paint, and then, heavily armed, drove down in wagons to 
the beleaguered emigrants, bearing a flag of truce ! When the emigrants 
saw white men coming they threw down their guns and welcomed them 
with cheer after cheer ! And, all unconscious of the poetry of it, no doubt, 
they lifted a little child a-loft, dressed in white, in answer to the flag of 
truce ! 
The leaders of the timely white " deliverers " were President Haight and 
Bishop John D. Lee, of the Mormon Church. Mr. Cradlebaugh, who served 
a term as a Federal Judge in Utah and afterward was sent to Congress from 
Nevada, tells in a speech delivered in Congress how these leaders next pro- 
ceeded : 
" They professed to be on good terms with the Indians, and represented 
them as being very mad. They also proposed to intercede and settle the 
matter with the Indians. After several hours parley they, having (appa- 
rently) visited the Indians, gave the ultimatum of the savages ; which was, 
that the emigrants should march out of their camp, leaving everything be- 
hind them, even their guns. It was promised by the Mormon bishops that 
they would bring a force and guard the emigrants back to the settlements. 
The terms were agreed to, the emigrants being desirous of saving the Uvea 
of their families. The Mormons retired, and subsequently appeared with 
thirty or forty armed men. The emigrants were marched out, the women 
and children in front and the men behind, the Mormon guard being in the 
rear. When they had marched in this way about a mile, at a given signal 
the slaughter commenced. The men were almost all shot down at the fi«rst 
fire from the guard. Two only escaped, who fled to the desert, and were 
followed one hundred and fifty miles before they were overtaken and 
slaughtered. The women and children ran on, two or three hundred yards 
further, when they were overtaken and with the aid of the Indians they 
were slaughtered. Seventeen individuals onlj', of all the emigrant party, 
were spared, and they were little children, the eldest of them being only 
seven years old. Thus, on the 10th day of September, 1857, was consum- 
mated one of the most cruel, cowardly and bloody murders known in our 
history." 
The number of persons butchered by the Mormons on this occasion was 
»ne hundred and twenty. 
With unheard-of temerity Judge Cradlebaugh opened his court and proceeded
to make Mormondom answer for the massacre. And what a spectacle 
it must have been to see this grim veteran, solitary and alone in his pride 
and his pluck, glowering down on his Mormon jury and Mormon auditory, 
deriding them by turns, and by turns " breathing threateuings and slaugh- 
ter!" 
An editorial in the Territorial Enterprise of that day says of him and of 
the occasion : 
" He spoke and acted with the fearlessness and resolution of a Jackson ; 
but the jury failed to indict, or even report on the charges, while threats of 
violence were heard in every quarter, and an attack on the U. S. troops in- 
timated, if he persisted in his course. 
" Finding that nothing could be done with the j uries, they were discharged, 
with a scathing rebuke from the judge. And then, sitting as a committing 
magistrate, he cammenced Ms task alone. He examined witnesses, mad© 
arrests in every quarter, and created a consternation in the camps of the 
saints greater than any they had ever witnessed before, since Mormondom 
was born. At last accounts terrified elders and bishops were decamping to 
save their necks ; and developments of the most startling character were 
being made, implicating the highest Churdi dignitaries in the many murders 
and robberies committed upon the Gentiles during the past eight years." 
Had Harney been Governor, Cradlebaugh would have been supported in 
his work, and the absolute proofs adduced by him of Mormon guilt in this 
massacre and in a number of previous murders, would have conferred gra- 
tuitous coffins upon certain citizens, together with occasion to use them. 
But Gumming was the Federal Governor, and he, under a curious pretense 
of impartiality, sought to screen the Mormons from the demands of justice. 
On one occasion he even went so far as to publish his protest against the use 
of the U. S. troops in aid of Cradlebaugh's proceedings. 
Mrs. C. V. Waite closes her interesting detail of the great massacre with 
the following remark and accompanying summary of the testimony — and 
the summary is concise, accurate and reliable : 
" For the benefit of those who may still be disposed to doubt the guilt of 
Young and his Mormons in this transaction, the testimony is here coUatea 
and circumstances given which go not merely to implicate but to fasten 
conviction upon them by ' confirmations strong as proofs of Holy Writ : ' 
" 1. The evidence of Mormons themselves, engaged in the affair, as shown 
by the statements of Judge Cradlebaugh and Deputy U. S. Marshal Rodgers. 
" 2. The failure of Brigham Young to embody any account of it in his 
Report as Superintendent of Indian Affairs. Also his failure to make any 
allusion to it whatever from the pulpit, until several years after the occur- 
rence. 
" 3. The flight to the mountains of men high in authority in the Mormon 
Church and State, when this affair was brought to the ordeal of a judicial 
investigation. 
" 4. The failure of the Deseret News, the Church organ, and the only 
paper then published in the Territory, to notice the massacre until several 
months afterward, and then only to deny that Mormons were engaged 
in it. 
" 5. The testimony of the children saved from the massacre. 
" 6. The children and the property of the emigrants found in possession 
of the Mormons, and that possession traced back to the very day after the 
massacre. 
" 7. The statements of Indians in the neighborhood of the scene of th© 
massacre : these statements are shown, not only by Cradlebaugh and 
Rodgers, but by a number of military officers, and by J. Forney, who was, 
in 1859, Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the Territory. To all these 
were such statements freely and frequently made by the Indians. 
" 8. The testimony of R. P. Campbell, Capt. 2d Dragoons, who was sent 
in the Spring of 1859 to Santa Clara, to protect travelers on the road to 
California and to inquire into Indian depredations." 
CONCERNING A FRIGHTFUL ASSASSINATION THAT WAS NEVER 
CONSUMMATED. 
[If ever there was a harmless man, it is Conrad Wiegand, of Gold Hill, 
Nevada. If ever there was a gentle spirit that thought itself unfired gun- 
powder and latent ruin, it is Conrad Wiegand. If ever there was an ojster 
that fancied itself a whale ; or a jack-o'lantern, confined to a swamp, that 
fancied itself a planet with a billion-mile orbit ; or a summer zephyr that 
deemed itself a hurricane, it is Conrad Wiegand. Therefore, what wonder is 
it that when he says a thing, he thinks the world listens ; that when he 
does a thing the world stands still to look ; and that when he suffers, there 
is a convulsion of nature ? When I met Conrad, he was " Superintendent of 
the Gold Hill Assay Office " — and he was not only its Superintendent, but its 
entire force. And he was a street jjreacher, too, with a mongrel religion of 
his own invention, whereby he expected to regenerate the universe. This 
was years ago. Here latterly he has entered journalism ; and his journalism 
is what it might be expected to be : colossal to ear, but pigmy to the eye. 
It is extravagant grandiloquence confined to a newspaper about the size of a 
double letter sheet. He doubtless edits, sets the type, and prints his paper, 
all alone ; but he delights to speak of the concern as if it occupies a block 
and employs a thousand men. 
[Something less than two years ago, Conrad assailed several jeople 
mercilessly iw his little " People's Tribune," and got himself into trouble. 
Straightway he airs the affair in the " Territorial Enterprise," in a commu- 
nication over his own signature, and I propose to reproduce it here, in all its 
native simplicity and more than human candor. Long as it is, it is well 
worth reading, for it is the richest specimen of journalistic literature the 
history of America can furnish, perhaps :] 
From the Territorial Enterprise, Jan. 20, 1870. 
A SEEMING PLOT FOR ASSASSINATION MISCARRIED. 
To THE Editou of thk ENTERPRISE : Months ago, when Mr. Sutro in- 
eidentally exposed mining management on the Comstock, and among others 
roused me to protest against its continuance, in great kindness you warned 
me that any attempt by publications, by public meetings and by legislative 
action, aimed at the correction of chronic mining evils in Storey County, 
must entail upon me {a) business ruin, (b) the burden of all its costs, (e) per- 
sonal violence, and if my purpose were persisted in, then (d) assassination, 
and after all nothing would be eifected. 
In large part at least your prophecies have been fulfilled, for (a) assaying, 
which was well attended to in the Gold Hill Assay Office (of which I am 
superintendent), in consequence of my publications, has been taken else- 
where, so the President of one of the companies assures me. With no 
reason assigned, other work has been taken away. With but one or two 
important exceptions, our assay business now consists simply of the gleaningt 
of the vicinity, (b) Though my own personal donations to the People's 
Tribune Association have already exceeded $1,500, outside of our own num- 
bers we have received (in money) less than $300 as contributions and sub- 
scriptions for the journal, (c) On Thursday last, on the main street in Gold 
Hill, liear noon, with neither warning nor cause assigned, by a powerful 
blow I was felled to the ground, and while down I was kicked by a man 
who jt. would seem had been led to believe that I had spoken derogatorily of 
him. By whom he was so induced to believe I am as yet unable to say. On 
Satur'ay last I was again assailed and beaten by a man who first informed 
me why he did so, and who persisted in making his assault even after the 
erroneous impression under which he oIho was at first laboring had been 
clearly and repeatedly pointed out. This same man, after failing through 
intb'iidation to elicit from me the names of our editorial contributors, against 
giving which he knew me to be pledged, beat himself vveary upon me with 
a raw hide, I not resisting, and then pantingly tlireatened me with permanent 
disfiguring mayhem, if ever again I should introduce his name into print, 
and who but a few minutes before his attack upon me assured me that the 
only reason I was " permitted " to reach home alive on Wednesday evening 
last (at which time the People's Tribune was issued) was, that he deems 
me only half-witted, and be it remembered the very next morning I was 
knocked down and kicked by a man who seemed to be prepared for flight. 
[He sees doom impending ;] 
WHEN "WTLL THE CIRCLE JOIN? 
How long before the whole of your prophecy will be fulfilled I carmot 
eay, but under the shadow of so much fulfillment in so short a time, and 
with such threats from a man who is one of the most prominent exponents 
of the San Francisco mining-ring staring me and this whole community 
defiantly in the face and pointing to a completion of your augury, do you 
