and, being a miser, he spent almost nothing on himself, so that his
hoards had increased to a considerable amount.
He looked up sharply, as Paul and Phil entered, and scanned them closely
with his ferret-like eyes.
CHAPTER XVI
THE FASHIONABLE PARTY
Eliakim Henderson, for this was the pawnbroker’s name, did not remember
Paul, though on one occasion our hero had called upon him. Nearly
all his customers came to pawn articles, not to purchase, and Eliakim
naturally supposed that the two boys had come on this errand. Before
entering, Paul said to Phil, “Don’t say anything; leave me to manage.”
As they entered, Phil espied a fiddle hanging up behind the counter,
and he saw at a glance that it was better than the one he had been
accustomed to play upon. But to his surprise, Paul did not refer to it
at first.
“What will you give me on this coat?” asked Paul, indicating the one he
had on.
He had no intention of selling it, but preferred to come to the fiddle
gradually, that the pawnbroker might not think that was his main object,
and so charge an extra price.
Eliakim scanned the garment critically. It was nearly new and in
excellent condition, and he coveted it.
“I will give you a dollar,” said he, naming a price low enough to
advance upon.
“That is too little,” said Paul, shaking his head.
“I might give you fifty cents more, but I should lose if you didn’t
redeem it.”
“I don’t think you would. I paid ten dollars for it.”
“But it is old.”
“No, it isn’t; I have only had it a few weeks.”
“How much do you want on it?” asked Eliakim, scanning Paul sharply, to
see how much he seemed in want of money.
“I don’t want any to-day. If I should want some next week, I will come
in.”
“It will be older next week,” said Eliakim, not wanting to lose the
bargain, for he hoped it would not be redeemed.
“Never mind; I can get along till then.”
“Can I do no business with you this morning?” asked Eliakim,
disappointed.
“I don’t know,” said Paul, looking carelessly around. “My friend here
would like a fiddle, if he can get one cheap. What do you ask for that
one up there?”
Eliakim took down the fiddle with alacrity. He had had it on hand for
a year without securing a customer. It had originally been pawned by a
poor musician, for a dollar and a quarter, but the unfortunate owner had
never been able to redeem it. Among his customers, the pawnbroker had
not found one sufficiently musical to take it off his hands. Here was a
slight chance, and he determined to effect a sale if he could.
“It is a splendid instrument,” he said, enthusiastically, brushing off
the dust with a dirty cotton handkerchief. “I have had many chances to
sell it.”
“Why didn’t you sell it, then?” demanded Paul, who did not believe a
word of this.
“Because it was only pawned. I kept it for the owner.”
“Oh, well; if you can’t sell it, it doesn’t matter.”
“It is for sale now,” said Eliakim, quickly. “He has not come for
it, and I shall keep it no longer. Just try it. See what a sp-l-endid
instrument it is!” said the pawnbroker, dwelling on the adjective to
give emphasis to it.
Paul tried it, but not knowing how to play, of course created only
discord. He did not offer it to Phil, because the young Italian boy
would have made it sound too well and so enhanced the price.
“It don’t sound very well,” said he, indifferently; “but I suppose it
will do to learn on. What do you want for it?”
“Five dollars,” said Eliakim, studying the face of Paul, to observe the
effect of his announcement.
“Five dollars,” repeated Paul. “Take it back, then, and wait till A. T.
Stewart wants one. I haven’t got five dollars to throw away.”
But the pawnbroker did not expect to get his first price. He named it,
in order to have a chance to fall.
“Stay,” he said, as Paul made a motion to leave; “what will you give me
for it?”
“I’ll give you a dollar and a half,” said Paul, turning back.
“A dollar and a half!” exclaimed Eliakim, holding up both hands in
horror. “Do you want to ruin me?”
“No, I think you want to ruin me. I am willing to pay a fair price.”
“You may have it for three dollars and a half.”
“No doubt you’d be glad to get that. Come, Phil, we’ll go.”
“Stay; you may have it for three dollars, though I shall lose by it.”
“So should I, if I paid you that price. I can wait till some other
time.”
But Eliakim did not intend to let this chance slip. He had found the
fiddle rather unsalable, and feared if he lost his chance of disposing
of it, it might remain on his hands for a year more. He was willing,
therefore, to take less than the profit he usually calculated upon in
the sale of articles which remained unredeemed.
“You may have it for two dollars and a half,” he said.
As far as Paul could judge, though he did not know much about the price
of violins, this was a reasonable price. But he knew that Eliakim must
have got it for considerably less, or he would not so soon have come
down to this sum. He did not hesitate, therefore, to try to get it a
little cheaper.
“I’ll give you two dollars and a quarter,” he said, “and not a penny
more.”
Eliakim tried hard to get ten cents more, but Paul saw that he was sure
of his purchase, and remained obdurate. So, after a pretense of putting
up the fiddle, the pawnbroker finally said, “You may have it, but I tell
you that I shall lose money.”
“All right,” said Paul; “hand it over.”
“Where is the money?” asked Eliakim, cautiously.
Paul drew from his pocket a two-dollar bill and twenty-five cents in
currency, and received the fiddle. The pawnbroker scrutinized the money
closely, fearing that it might be bad; but finally, making up his mind
on that point, deposited it in his money drawer.
“Well, Phil, we may as well go,” said Paul. “We’ve got through our
business.”
The pawnbroker heard this, and a sudden suspicion entered his mind that
Paul had been too sharp for him.
“I might have got twenty-five cents more,” he thought regretfully; and
this thought disturbed the complacency he felt at first.
“Well, Phil, how do you like it?” asked Paul, as they emerged into the
street.
“Let me try it,” said Phil, eagerly.
He struck up a tune, which he played through, his face expressing the
satisfaction he felt.
“Is it as good as your old one?”
“It is much better,” said Phil. “I will pay you for it;” and he drew out
the money the sailors had given him in the morning.
“No, Phil,” said his friend, “you may need that money. Keep it, and pay
me when you have more.”
“But I shall be away.”
“You will come to the city some day. When you do you will know where to
find me. Now go and play a tune to Jimmy. He is waiting for you. If you
remain in the streets, your old enemy, Tim Rafferty, may want to borrow
your fiddle again.”
“You are very kind to me, Paolo,” said Phil, raising his dark eyes with
a sudden impulse of gratitude.
“It’s nothing, Phil,” said Paul, modestly; “you would do the same for me
if I needed it.”
“Yes, I would,” said Phil; “but I am poor, and I cannot help you.”
“You won’t be poor always, Phil,” said Paul, cheerfully, “nor I either,
I hope. I mean to be a merchant some time on a bigger scale than now. As
for you, you will be a great player, and give concerts at the Academy of
Music.”
Phil laughed, but still seemed pleased at the prophecy.
“Well, Phil, I must bid you good-by for a little while, or my clerks
will be cheating me. I will see you at supper.”
“Addio, Paolo,” said Phil.
“Addio,” said Paul, laughing. “Wouldn’t I make a good Italian?”
Paul returned to his stand, and Phil took the direction of Mrs.
Hoffman’s rooms. While on his way he heard the sound of a hand-organ,
and, looking across the way, saw, with some uneasiness, his old enemy
Pietro, playing to a crowd of boys.
“I hope he won’t see me,” said Phil to himself.
He was afraid Pietro would remember his old violin, and, seeing the
difference in the instrument he now had, inquire how he got it. He
might, if not satisfied on this point, take Phil home with him, which
would be fatal to his plans. He thought it prudent, therefore, to
turn down the next street, and get out of sight as soon as possible.
Fortunately for him Pietro had his back turned, so that he did not
observe him. Nothing would have pleased him better than to get the
little fiddler into trouble, for, besides being naturally malicious, he
felt that an exhibition of zeal in his master’s service would entitle
him to additional favors at the hands of the padrone, whom he hoped some
day to succeed.
“Oh, what a beautiful fiddle!” said Jimmy, in admiration, as Phil
reappeared. “Do you think I could play on it?”
Phil shook his head, smiling.
“Don’t let Jimmy have it. He would only spoil it,” said Mrs. Hoffman. “I
don’t think he would succeed as well in music as in drawing.”
“Will you play something?” asked Jimmy.
Phil willingly complied, and for half an hour held Jimmy entranced with
his playing. The little boy then undertook to teach Phil how to draw,
but at this Phil probably cut as poor a figure as his instructor would
have done at playing on the violin.
So the afternoon wore away, happily for all three, and at five Paul
made his appearance. When supper was over Phil played again, and this
attracting the attention of the neighbors, Mrs. Hoffman’s rooms were
gradually filled with visitors, who finally requested Phil to play some
dancing tunes. Finding him able to do so, an impromptu dance was got
up, and Mrs. Hoffman, considerably to her surprise, found that she was
giving a dancing-party. Paul, that nothing might be left out, took a
companion with him and they soon reappeared with cake and ice cream,
which were passed around amid great hilarity; and it was not until
midnight that the last visitor went out, and the sound of music and
laughter was hushed.
“You are getting fashionable in your old age, mother,” said Paul, gayly.
“I think I shall send an account of your party to the Home Journal.”
“I believe it is usual to describe the dresses of the ladies,” said Mrs.
Hoffman, smiling.
“Oh, yes, I won’t forget that. Just give me a piece of paper and see how
I will do it.”
Paul, whose education, I repeat here, was considerably above that of
most boys in his position, sat down and hastily wrote the following
description, which was read to the great amusement of his auditors:
“Mrs. Hoffman, mother of the well-known artist, Jimmy Hoffman, Esq.,
gave a fashionable party last evening. Her spacious and elegant
apartments were crowded with finely dressed gentlemen and ladies from
the lower part of the city. Signor Filippo, the great Italian musician,
furnished the music. Mrs. Hoffman appeared in a costly calico dress, and
had a valuable gold ring on one of her fingers. Her son, the artist,
was richly dressed in a gray suit, purchased a year since. Miss Bridget
Flaherty, of Mott Street, was the belle of the occasion, and danced with
such grace and energy that the floor came near giving away beneath her
fairy tread. [Miss Flaherty, by the way, weighed one hundred and eighty
pounds.] Mr. Mike Donovan, newspaper merchant, handed round refreshments
with his usual graceful and elegant deportment. Miss Matilda Wiggins
appeared in a magnificent print dress, imported from Paris by A. T.
Stewart, and costing a shilling a yard. No gloves were worn, as they
are now dispensed with in the best society. At a late hour the guests
dispersed. Mrs. Hoffman’s party will long be remembered as the most
brilliant of the season.”
“I did not know you had so much talent for reporting, Paul,” said his
mother. “You forgot one thing, however.”
“What is that?”
“You said nothing of yourself.”
“I was too modest, mother. However, if you insist upon it, I will do so.
Anything at all to please you.”
Paul resumed his writing and in a short time had the following:
“Among those present we observed the handsome and accomplished Paul
Hoffman, Esq., the oldest son of the hostess. He was elegantly dressed
in a pepper-and-salt coat and vest, blue necktie, and brown breeches,
and wore a six-cent diamond breastpin in the bosom of his shirt. His
fifteen-cent handkerchief was perfumed with cologne which he imported
himself at a cost of ten cents per bottle. He attracted general
admiration.”
“You seem to have got over your modesty, Paul,” said his mother.
“I am sleepy,” said Jimmy, drowsily rubbing his eyes.
As this expressed the general feeling, they retired to bed at once, and
in half an hour were wandering in the land of dreams.
CHAPTER XVII
THE PADRONE IS ANXIOUS
The next morning Paul and Phil rose later that usual. They slept longer,
in order to make up for the late hour at which they retired. As they sat
down to breakfast, at half-past eight, Paul said: “I wonder whether the
padrone misses you, Phil?”
“Yes,” said Phil; “he will be very angry because I did not come back
last night.”
“Will he think you have run away?”
“I do not know. Some of the boys stay away sometimes, because they are
too far off to come home.”
“Then he may expect you to-night. I suppose he will have a beating ready
for you.”
“Yes, he would beat me very hard,” said Phil, “if he thought I did not
mean to come back.”
“I should like to go and tell him that he need not expect you. I should
like to see how he looks.”
“He might beat you, too, Paolo.”
“I should like to see him try it,” said Paul, straightening up with a
consciousness of strength. “He might find that rather hard.”
Phil looked admiringly at the boy who was not afraid of the padrone.
Like his comrades, he had been accustomed to think of the padrone as
possessed of unlimited power, and never dreamed of anybody defying him,
or resisting his threats. Though he had determined to run away, his soul
was not free from the tyranny of his late taskmaster, and he thought
with uneasiness and dread of the possibility of his being conveyed back
to him.
“Well, mother,” said Paul, glancing at the clock as he rose from the
breakfast table, “it is almost nine o’clock--rather a late hour for a
business man like me.”
“You are not often so late, Paul.”
“It is lucky that I am my own employer, or I might run the risk of
being discharged. I am afraid the excuse that I was at Mrs. Hoffman’s
fashionable party would not be thought sufficient. I guess I won’t have
time to stop to shave this morning.”
“You haven’t got anything to shave,” said Jimmy.
“Don’t be envious, Jimmy. I counted several hairs this morning. Well,
Phil, are you ready to go with me? Don’t forget your fiddle.”
“When shall we see you again, Philip?” said Mrs. Hoffman.
“I do not know,” said the little minstrel.
“Shall you not come to the city sometimes?”
“I am afraid the padrone would catch me,” said Phil.
“Whenever you do come, Phil,” said Paul, “come right to me. I will take
care of you. I don’t think the padrone will carry us both off, and he
would have to take me if he took you.”
“Good-by, Philip,” said Mrs. Hoffman, offering her hand. “I hope you
will prosper.”
“So do I, Phil,” said Jimmy.
Phil thus took with him the farewells and good wishes of two friends
who had been drawn to him by his attractive face and good qualities. He
could not help wishing that he might stay with them permanently, but he
knew that this could not be. To remain in the same city with the padrone
was out of the question.
Meanwhile we return to the house which Phil had forsaken, and inquire
what effect was produced by his non-appearance.
It was the rule of the establishment that all the boys should be back
by midnight. Phil had generally returned an hour before that time. When,
therefore, it was near midnight, the padrone looked uneasily at the
clock.
“Have you seen Filippo?” he asked, addressing his nephew.
“No, signore,” answered Pietro. “Filippo has not come in.”
“Do you think he has run away?” asked the padrone, suspiciously.
“I don’t know,” said Pietro.
“Have you any reason to think he intended to run away?”
“No,” said Pietro.
“I should not like to lose him. He brings me more money than most of the
boys.”
“He may come in yet.”
“When he does,” said the padrone, frowning, “I will beat him for being
so late. Is there any boy that he would be likely to tell, if he meant
to run away?”
“Yes,” said Pietro, with a sudden thought, “there is Giacomo.”
“The sick boy?”
“Yes. Filippo went in this morning to speak to him. He might have told
him then.”
“That is true. I will go and ask him.”
Giacomo still lay upon his hard pallet, receiving very little attention.
His fever had increased, and he was quite sick. He rolled from one side
to the other in his restlessness. He needed medical attention, but the
padrone was indifferent, and none of the boys would have dared to call
a doctor without his permission. As he lay upon his bed, the padrone
entered the room with a hurried step.
“Where is Giacomo?” he demanded, harshly.
“Here I am, signore padrone,” answered the little boy, trembling, as he
always did when addressed by the tyrant.
“Did Filippo come and speak with you this morning, before he went out?”
“Si, signore.”
“What did he say?”
“He asked me how I felt.”
“What did you tell him?”
“I told him I felt sick.”
“Nothing more?”
“I told him I thought I should die.’
“Nonsense!” said the padrone, harshly; “you are a coward. You have a
little cold, that is all. Did he say anything about running away?”
“No, signore.”
“Don’t tell me a lie!” said the tyrant, frowning.
“I tell you the truth, signore padrone. Has not Filippo come home?”
“No.”
“I do not think he has run away,” said the little boy.
“Why not?”
“I think he would tell me.”
“So you two are friends, are you?”
“Si, signore; I love Filippo,” answered Giacomo, speaking the last words
tenderly, and rather to himself than to the padrone. He looked up to
Phil, though little older than himself, with a mixture of respect
and devotion, leaning upon him as the weak are prone to lean upon the
strong.
“Then you will be glad to hear,” said the padrone, with a refinement of
cruelty, “that I shall beat him worse than last night for staying out so
late.”
“Don’t beat him, padrone,” pleaded Giacomo, bursting into tears.
“Perhaps he cannot come home.”
“Did he ever speak to you of running away?” asked the padrone, with a
sudden thought.
Giacomo hesitated. He could not truthfully deny that Filippo had done
so, but he did not want to get his friend into trouble. He remained
silent, looking up at the tyrant with troubled eyes.
“Why do you not speak? Did you hear my question?” asked the padrone,
with a threatening gesture.
Had the question been asked of some of the other boys present, they
would not have scrupled to answer falsely; but Giacomo had a religious
nature, and, neglected as he had been, he could not make up his mind to
tell a falsehood. So, after a pause, he faltered out a confession that
Phil had spoken of flight.
“Do you hear that, Pietro?” said the padrone, turning to his nephew.
“The little wretch has doubtless run away.”
“Shall I look for him to-morrow?” asked Pietro, with alacrity, for to
him it would be a congenial task to drag Phil home, and witness the
punishment.
“Yes, Pietro. I will tell you where to go in the morning. We must have
him back, and I will beat him so that he will not dare to run away
again.”
The padrone would have been still more incensed could he have looked
into Mrs. Hoffman’s room and seen the little fiddler the center of a
merry group, his brown face radiant with smiles as he swept the chords
of his violin. It was well for Phil that he could not see him.
CHAPTER XVIII
PHIL ELUDES HIS PURSUER
Phil had already made up his mind where to go. Just across the river was
New Jersey, with its flourishing towns and cities, settled to a large
extent by men doing business in New York. The largest of these cities
was Newark, only ten miles distant. There Phil decided to make his
first stop. If he found himself in danger of capture he could easily
go farther. This plan Paul approved, and it was to be carried into
execution immediately.
“I will go down to the Cortlandt Street Ferry with you, Phil,” said
Paul.
“I should like to have you, if it will not take you from your business,
Paolo.”
“My business can wait,” said Paul. “I mean to see you safe out of the
city. The padrone may be in search of you already.”
“I think he will send Pietro to find me,” said Phil.
“Who is Pietro?”
Phil explained that Pietro was the padrone’s nephew and assisted in
oppressing the boys.
“I hope he will send him,” said Paul.
Phil looked up in surprise.
“I should like to see this Pietro. What would he do if he should find
you?”
“He would take me back.”
“If you did not want to go?”
“I couldn’t help it,” said Phil, shrugging his shoulders. “He is much
bigger than I.”
“Is he bigger than I am?”
“I think he is as big.”
“He isn’t big enough to take you away if I am with you.”
Paul did not say this boastfully, but with a quiet confidence in his own
powers in which he was justified. Though by no means quarrelsome, he
had on several occasions been forced in self-defense into a contest with
boys of his own size, and in some instances larger, and in every case he
had acquitted himself manfully, and come off victorious.
“I should not be afraid if you were with me, Paolo,” said Phil.
“You are right, Phil,” said Paul, approvingly. “But here we are at the
ferry.”
Cortlandt Street is a short distance below the Astor House, and leads
to the ferry, connecting on the other side with trains bound for
Philadelphia and intermediate places.
Paul paid the regular toll, and passed through the portal with Phil.
“Are you going with me?” asked the little fiddler, in surprise.
“Only to Jersey City, Phil. There might be some of your friends on board
the boat. I want to see you safe on the cars. Then I must leave you.”
“You are very kind, Paolo.”
“You are a good little chap, Phil, and I mean to help you. But the boat
is about ready to start. Let us go on board.”
They walked down the pier, and got on the boat a minute before it
started. They did not pass through to the other end, but, leaning
against the side, kept their eyes fixed on the city they were about to
leave. They had not long to wait. The signal was heard, and the boat
started leisurely from the pier. It was but ten feet distant, when the
attention of Paul and Phil was drawn to a person running down the drop
in great haste. He evidently wanted to catch the boat, but was too late.
Phil clutched at Paul’s arm, and pointed to him in evident excitement.
“It is Pietro,” he said.
At that moment Pietro, standing on the brink, caught sight of the boy
he was pursuing, looking back at him from the deck of the ferry-boat.
A look of exultation and disappointment swept over his face as he saw
Phil, but realized that he was out of his reach. He had a hand-organ
with him, and this had doubtless encumbered him, and prevented his
running as fast as he might otherwise.
“So that is Pietro, is it?” said Paul, regarding him attentively in
order to fix his face in his memory.
“Yes, Paolo,” said Phil, his eyes fixed nervously upon his pursuer, who
maintained his place, and was watching him with equal attention.
“You are not frightened, Phil, are you?”
Phil admitted that he was.
“He will come over in the next boat,” he said.
“But he will not know where you are.”
“He will seek me.”
“Will he? Then I think he will be disappointed. The cars will start
on the other side before the next boat arrives. I found out about that
before we started.”
Phil felt relieved by this intelligence, but still he was nervous.
Knowing well Pietro’s malice, he dreaded the chances of his capturing
him.
“He stays there. He does not go away,” said Phil.
“It will do him no good, Phil. He is like a cat watching a canary bird
beyond his reach. I don’t think he will catch you to-day.”
“He may go in the cars, too,” suggested Phil.
“That is true. On the whole, Phil, when you get to Newark, I advise
you to walk into the country. Don’t stay in the city. He might find you
there.”
“I will do what you say, Paolo. It will be better.”
They soon reached the Jersey shore. The railroad station was close by.
They went thither at once, and Phil bought a ticket for Newark.
“How soon will the cars start?” inquired Paul of a railway official.
“In five minutes,” was the answer.
“Then, Phil, I advise you to get into the cars at once. Take a seat
on the opposite side, though there is no chance of your being seen by
Pietro, who will get here too late. Still, it is best to be on the safe
side. I will stay near the ferry and watch Pietro when he lands. Perhaps
I will have a little conversation with him.”
“I will go, Paolo.”
“Well, good-by, Phil, and good luck,” said Paul, cheerfully. “If you
ever come to New York, come to see me.”
“Yes, Paolo, I will be sure to come.”
“And, Phil, though I don’t think you will ever fall into the power
of that old brute again (I am sure you won’t if you take good care of
yourself), still, if he does get you back again, come to me the first
chance you get, and I will see what I can do for you.”
“Thank you, Paolo. I will remember your kindness always,” said the
little fiddler, gratefully.
“That is all right, Phil. Good-by!”
“Good-by!” said Phil, and, shaking the hand of his new friend, he
ascended the steps, and took a seat on the opposite side, as Paul had
recommended.
“I am sorry to part with Phil,” said Paul to himself. “He’s a fine
little chap, and I like him. If ever that old brute gets hold of him
again, he shan’t keep him long. Now, Signor Pietro, I’ll go back and see
you on your arrival.”
Phil was right in supposing that Pietro would take passage on the next
boat. He waited impatiently on the drop till it touched, and sprang on
board. He cursed the interval of delay, fearing that it would give Phil
a chance to get away. However, there was no help for this. Time and tide
wait for no man, but it often happens that we are compelled to wait for
them. But at length the boat touched the Jersey shore, and Pietro
sprang out and hurried to the gates, looking eagerly on all sides for a
possible glimpse of the boy he sought. He did not see him, for the cars
were already on their way, but his eyes lighted up with satisfaction as
they lighted on Paul, whom he recognized as the companion of Phil. He
had seen him talking to the little fiddler. Probably he would know where
he had gone. He walked up to Paul, who was standing near, and, touching
his cap, said: “Excuse me, signore, but have you seen my little
brother?”
“Your little brother?” repeated Paul, deliberately.
“Si, signore, a little boy with a fiddle. He was so high;” and Pietro
indicated the height of Phil correctly by his hand.
“There was a boy came over in the boat with me,” said Paul.
“Yes, yes; he is the one, signore,” said Pietro, eagerly.
“And he is your brother?”
“Si, signore.”
“That’s a lie,” thought Paul, “I should know it even if Phil had
not told me. Phil is a handsome little chap. He wouldn’t have such a
villainous-looking brother as you.”
“Can you tell me where he has gone?” asked Pietro, eagerly.
“Didn’t he tell you where he was going?” asked Paul, in turn.
“I think he means to run away,” said Pietro. “Did you see where he
went?”
“Why should he want to run away?” asked Paul, who enjoyed tantalizing
Pietro, who he saw was chafing with impatience. “Did you not treat him
well?”
“He is a little rascal,” said Pietro. “He is treated well, but he is a
thief.”
“And you are his brother,” repeated Paul, significantly.
“Did you see where he went?” asked Pietro, getting angry. “I want to
take him back to his father.”
“How should I know?” returned Paul, coolly. “Do you think I have nothing
to do but to look after your brother?”
“Why didn’t you tell me that before?” said Pietro, incensed.
“Don’t get mad,” said Paul, indifferently; “it won’t do you any good.
Perhaps, if you look round, you will see your brother. I’ll tell him you
want him if I see him.”
Pietro looked at Paul suspiciously. It struck him that the latter might
be making a fool of him, but Paul looked so utterly indifferent that
he could judge nothing from his appearance. He concluded that Phil was
wandering about somewhere in Jersey City.
It did not occur to him that he might have taken the cars for some
more distant place. At any rate, there seemed no chance of getting any
information out of Paul. So he adjusted his hand-organ and walked up the
street leading from the ferry, looking sharply on either side, hoping to
catch a glimpse of the runaway; but, of course, in vain.
“I don’t think you’ll find Phil to-day, Signor Pietro,” said Paul to
himself, as he watched his receding form. “Now, as there is nothing more
to be done here, I will go back to business.”
CHAPTER XIX
PIETRO’S PURSUIT
The distance from New York to Newark is but ten miles. Phil had been
there once before with an older boy. He was at no loss, therefore, as to
the proper place to get out. He stepped from the cars and found himself
in a large depot. He went out of a side door, and began to wander about
the streets of Newark. Now, for the first time, he felt that he was
working for himself, and the feeling was an agreeable one. True, he did
not yet feel wholly secure. Pietro might possibly follow in the next
train. He inquired at the station when the next train would arrive.
“In an hour,” was the reply.
It would be an hour, therefore, before Pietro could reach Newark.
He decided to walk on without stopping till he reached the outskirts
of the city, and not venture back till nightfall, when there would be
little or no danger.
Accordingly he plodded on for an hour and a half, till he came where the
houses were few and scattered at intervals. In a business point of view
this was not good policy, but safety was to be consulted first of all.
He halted at length before a grocery store, in front of which he saw a
small group of men standing. His music was listened to with attention,
but when he came to pass his cap round afterward the result was small.
In fact, to be precise, the collection amounted to but eight cents.
“How’s business, boy?” asked a young man who stood at the door in his
shirt-sleeves, and was evidently employed in the grocery.
“That is all I have taken,” said Phil, showing the eight cents.
“Did you come from New York this morning?”
“Yes.”
“Then you haven’t got enough to pay for your ticket yet?”
Phil shrugged his shoulders.
“I don’t believe you’ll make your fortune out here.”
Phil was of precisely the same opinion, but kept silent.
“You would have done better to stay in New York.”
To this also Phil mentally assented, but there were imperative reasons,
as we know, for leaving the great city.
It was already half-past twelve, and Phil began, after his walk, to
feel the cravings of appetite. He accordingly went into the grocery and
bought some crackers and cheese, which he sat down by the stove and ate.
“Are you going farther?” asked the same young man who had questioned him
before.
“I shall go back to Newark to-night,” said Phil.
“Let me try your violin.”
“Can you play?” asked Phil, doubtfully, for he feared that an
unpracticed player might injure the instrument.
“Yes, I can play. I’ve got a fiddle at home myself.”
Our hero surrendered his fiddle to the young man, who played passably.
“You’ve got a pretty good fiddle,” he said. “I think it’s better than
mine. Can you play any dancing tunes?”
Phil knew one or two, and played them.
“If you were not going back to Newark, I should like to have you play
with me this evening. I don’t have anybody to practice with.”
“I would not know where to sleep,” said Phil, hesitatingly.
“Oh, we’ve got beds enough in our house. Will you stay?”
Phil reflected that he had no place to sleep in Newark except such as he
might hire, and decided to accept the offer of his new friend.
“This is my night off from the store,” he said. “I haven’t got to come
back after supper. Just stay around here till six o’clock. Then I’ll
take you home and give you some supper, and then we’ll play this
evening.”
Phil had no objection to this arrangement. In fact, it promised to be an
agreeable one for him. As he was sure of a supper, a bed and breakfast,
there was no particular necessity for him to earn anything more
that day. However, he went out for an hour or two, and succeeded in
collecting twenty-five cents. He realized, however, that it was not so
easy to pick up pennies in the country as in the city--partly because
population is sparser and partly because, though there is less privation
in the country, there is also less money.
A little before six Phil’s new friend, whose name he ascertained was
Edwin Grover, washed his hands, and, putting on his coat, said “Come
along, Phil.”
Phil, who had been sitting near the stove, prepared to accompany him.
“We haven’t got far to go,” said Edwin, who was eighteen. “I am glad of
that, for the sooner I get to the supper table the better.”
After five minutes’ walk they stopped at a comfortable two-story house
near the roadside.
“That’s where I put up,” said Edwin.
He opened the door and entered, followed by Phil, who felt a little
bashful, knowing that he was not expected.
“Have you got an extra plate, mother?” asked Edwin. “This is a professor
of the violin, who is going to help me make some music this evening.”
“He is welcome,” said Mrs. Grover, cheerfully, “We can make room for
him. He is an Italian, I suppose. What is your name?”
“Filippo.”
“I will call you Philip. I suppose that is the English name. Will you
lay down your violin and draw up to the fire?”
“I am not cold,” said Phil.
“He is not cold, he is hungry, as Ollendorf says,” said Edwin, who had
written a few French exercises according to Ollendorf’s system. “Is
supper almost ready?”
“It will be ready at once. There is your father coming in at the front
gate, and Henry with him.”
Mr. Grover entered, and Phil made the acquaintance of the rest of the
family. He soon came to feel that he was a welcome guest, and shared
in the family supper, which was well cooked and palatable. Then Edwin
brought out his fiddle, and the two played various tunes. Phil caught
one or two new dancing tunes from his new friend, and in return taught
him an Italian air. Three or four people from a neighboring family
came in, and a little impromptu dance was got up. So the evening passed
pleasantly, and at half-past ten they went to bed, Phil sleeping in a
little room adjoining that in which the brothers Edwin and Harry slept.
After breakfast the next morning Phil left the house, with a cordial
invitation to call again when he happened to be passing.
Before proceeding with his adventures, we must go back to Pietro.
He, as we know, failed to elicit any information from Paul likely
to guide him in his pursuit of Phil. He was disappointed. Still,
he reflected that Phil had but a quarter of an hour’s start of
him--scarcely that, indeed--and if he stopped to play anywhere, he would
doubtless easily find him. There was danger, of course, that he would
turn off somewhere, and Pietro judged it best to inquire whether such a
boy had passed.
Seeing two boys playing in the street, he inquired: “Have you seen
anything of my little brother?”
“What does he look like?” inquired one.
“He is not quite so large as you. He had a fiddle with him.”
“No, I haven’t seen him. Have you, Dick?”
“Yes,” said the other, “there was a boy went along with a fiddle.”
This was true, but, as we know, it was not Phil.
“Did you see where he went?” demanded Pietro, eagerly.
“Straight ahead,” was the reply.
Lured by the delusive hope these words awakened, Pietro went on. He did
not stop to play on his organ. He was too intent on finding Phil. At
length, at a little distance before him, he saw a figure about the size
of Phil, playing on the violin. He hurried forward elated, but when
within a few yards he discovered to his disappointment that it was not
Phil, but a little fiddler of about his size. He was in the employ of a
different padrone. He was doubtless the one the boy had seen.
Disappointed, Pietro now turned back, and bent his steps to the ferry.
But he saw nothing of Phil on the way.
“I would like to beat him, the little wretch!” he said to himself,
angrily. “If I had not been too late for the boat, I would have easily
caught him.”
It never occurred to Pietro that Phil might have taken the cars for a
more distant point, as he actually did. The only thing he could think
of, for he was not willing to give up the pursuit, was to go back. He
remained in Jersey City all day, wandering about the streets, peering
here and there; but he did not find Phil, for a very good reason.
The padrone awaited his report at night with some impatience. Phil was
one of the smartest boys he had, and he had no mind to lose him.
“Did you find him, Pietro?” he asked as soon as his nephew entered his
presence.
“I saw him,” said Pietro.
“Then why did you not bring him back?”
Pietro explained the reason. His uncle listened attentively.
“Pietro, you are a fool,” he said, at length.
“Why am I a fool?” asked Pietro, sullenly.
“Because you sought Filippo where he is not.”
“Where is he?”
“He did not stop in Jersey City. He went farther. He knew that you were
on his track. Did you ask at the station if such a boy bought a ticket?”
“I did not think of it.”
“Then you were a fool.”
“What do you want me to do?”
“To-morrow you must go to Newark. That is the first large town. I must
have Filippo back.”
“I will go,” said Pietro, briefly.
He was mortified at the name applied to him by his uncle, as well as by
the fact of Phil’s having thus far outwitted him. He secretly determined
that when he did get him into his power he would revenge himself for all
the trouble to which he had been put, and there was little doubt that he
would keep his word.
CHAPTER XX
PIETRO’S DISAPPOINTMENT
Though Phil had not taken in much money during the first day of
independence, he had more than paid his expenses. He started on the
second day with a good breakfast, and good spirits. He determined to
walk back to Newark, where he might expect to collect more money than in
the suburbs. If he should meet Pietro he determined not to yield without
a struggle. But he felt better now than at first, and less afraid of the
padrone.
Nine o’clock found him again in Newark. He soon came to a halt, and
began to play. A few paused to listen, but their interest in music did
not extend so far as to affect their pockets. Phil passed around his hat
in vain. He found himself likely to go unrewarded for his labors. But
just then he noticed a carriage with open door, waiting in front of
a fashionable dry-goods store. Two ladies had just come out and taken
their seats preparatory to driving off, when Phil stepped up bareheaded
and held his cap. He was an unusually attractive boy, and as he smiled
one of the ladies, who was particularly fond of children, noticed him.
“What a handsome boy!” she said to her companion.
“Some pennies for music,” said Phil.
“How old are you?” asked the lady.
“Twelve years.”
“Just the age of my Johnny. If I give you some money what will you do
with it?”
“I will buy dinner,” said Phil.
“I never give to vagrants,” said the second lady, a spinster of
uncertain age, who did not share her niece’s partiality for children.
“It isn’t his fault if he is a vagrant, Aunt Maria,” said the younger
lady.
“I have no doubt he is a thief,” continued Aunt Maria, with acerbity.
“I am not a thief,” said Phil, indignantly, for he understood very well
the imputation, and he replaced his cap on his head.
“I don’t believe you are,” said the first lady; “here, take this,” and
she put in his hand twenty-five cents.
“Thank you, signora,” said Phil, with a grateful smile.
“That money is thrown away,” said the elderly lady; “you are very
indiscriminate in your charity, Eleanor.”
“It is better to give too much than too little, Aunt Maria, isn’t it?”
“You shouldn’t give to unworthy objects.”
“How do you know this boy is an unworthy object?”
“He is a young vagrant.”
“Can he help it? It is the way he makes his living.”
The discussion continued, but Phil did not stop to hear it. He had
received more than he expected, and now felt ready to continue his
business. One thing was fortunate, and relieved him from the anxiety
which he had formerly labored under. He was not obliged to obtain a
certain sum in order to escape a beating at night. He had no master
to account to. He was his own employer, as long as he kept out of the
clutches of the padrone.
Phil continued to roam about the streets very much after the old
fashion, playing here and there as he thought it expedient. By noon he
had picked up seventy-five cents, and felt very well satisfied with his
success. But if, as we are told, the hour that is darkest is just before
day, it also happens sometimes that danger lies in wait for prosperity,
and danger menaced our young hero, though he did not know it. To explain
this, we must go back a little.
When Pietro prepared to leave the lodging-house in the morning, the
padrone called loudly to him.
“Pietro,” said he, “you must find Filippo today.”
“Where shall I go?” asked Pietro.
“Go to Newark. Filippo went there, no doubt, while you, stupid that
you are, went looking for him in Jersey City. You have been in Newark
before?”
“Yes, signore padrone.”
“Very good; then you need no directions.”
“If I do not find him in Newark, where shall I go?”
“He is in Newark,” said the padrone, confidently. “He will not leave
it.”
He judged that Phil would consider himself safe there, and would prefer
to remain in a city rather than go into the country.
“I will do my best,” said Pietro.
“I expect you to bring him back to-night.”
“I should like to do so,” said Pietro, and he spoke the truth. Apart
from his natural tendency to play the tyrant over smaller boys, he felt
a personal grudge against Phil for eluding him the day before, and so
subjecting him to the trouble of another day’s pursuit, besides the
mortification of incurring a reprimand from his uncle. Never did agent
accept a commission more readily than Pietro accepted that of catching
and bringing Filippo to the padrone.
Leaving the lodging-house he walked down to the ferry at the foot
of Cortlandt Street, and took the first train for Newark. It was ten
o’clock before he reached the city. He had nothing in particular to
guide him, but made up his mind to wander about all day, inquiring from
time to time if anyone had seen his little brother, describing Phil.
After a while his inquiries were answered in the affirmative, and he
gradually got on the track of our hero.
At twelve o’clock Phil went into a restaurant, and invested thirty cents
in a dinner. As the prices were low, he obtained for this sum all he
desired. Ten minutes afterward, as he was walking leisurely along with
that feeling of tranquil enjoyment which a full stomach is apt to give,
Pietro turned the corner behind him. No sooner did the organ-grinder
catch sight of his prey, than a fierce joy lighted up his eyes, and he
quickened his pace.
“Ah, scelerato, I have you now,” he exclaimed to himself. “To-night you
shall feel the stick.”
But opportunely for himself Phil looked behind him. When he saw Pietro
at but a few rods’ distance his heart stood still with sudden fright,
and for an instant his feet were rooted to the ground. Then the thought
of escape came to him, and he began to run, not too soon.
“Stop!” called out Pietro. “Stop, or I will kill you!”
But Phil did not comprehend the advantage of surrendering himself to
Pietro. He understood too well how he would be treated, if he returned
a prisoner. Instead of obeying the call, he only sped on the faster. Now
between the pursuer and the pursued there was a difference of six years,
Pietro being eighteen, while Phil was but twelve. This, of course, was
in Pietro’s favor. On the other hand, the pursuer was encumbered by a
hand-organ, which retarded his progress, while Phil had only a violin,
which did not delay him at all. This made their speed about equal,
and gave Phil a chance to escape, unless he should meet with some
interruption.
“Stop!” called Pietro, furiously, beginning to realize that the victory
was not yet won.
Phil looked over his shoulder, and, seeing that Pietro was no nearer,
took fresh courage. He darted round a corner, with his pursuer half a
dozen rods behind him. They were not in the most frequented parts of
the city, but in a quarter occupied by two-story wooden houses. Seeing
a front door open, Phil, with a sudden impulse, ran hastily in, closing
the door behind him.
A woman with her sleeves rolled up, who appeared to have taken her arms
from the tub, hearing his step, came out from the back room.
“What do ye want?” she demanded, suspiciously.
“Save me!” cried Phil, out of breath. “Someone is chasing me. He is bad.
He will beat me.”
The woman’s sympathies were quickly enlisted. She had a warm heart, and
was always ready to give aid to the oppressed.
“Whist, darlint, run upstairs, and hide under the bed. I’ll send him off
wid a flea in his ear, whoever he is.”
Phil was quick to take the hint. He ran upstairs, and concealed himself
as directed. While he was doing it, the lower door, which he had shut,
was opened by Pietro. He was about to rush into the house, but the
muscular form of Phil’s friend stood in his way.
“Out wid ye!” said she, flourishing a broom, which she had snatched up.
“Is that the way you inter a dacint woman’s house, ye spalpeen!”
“I want my brother,” said Pietro, drawing back a little before the
amazon who disputed his passage.
“Go and find him, thin!” said Bridget McGuire, “and kape out of my
house.”
“But he is here,” said Pietro, angrily; “I saw him come in.”
“Then, one of the family is enough,” said Bridget. “I don’t want
another. Lave here wid you!”
“Give me my brother, then!” said Pietro, provoked.
“I don’t know anything of your brother. If he looks like you, he’s a
beauty, sure,” returned Mrs. McGuire.
“Will you let me look for him?”
“Faith and I won’t. You may call him if you plase.”
Pietro knew that this would do very little good, but there seemed
nothing else to do.
“Filippo!” he called; “come here. The padrone has sent for you.”
“What was ye sayin’?” demanded Bridget not comprehending the Italian.
“I told my brother to come.”
“Then you can go out and wait for him,” said she. “I don’t want you in
the house.”
Pietro was very angry. He suspected that Phil was in the rear room, and
was anxious to search for him. But Bridget McGuire was in the way--no
light, delicate woman, but at least forty pounds heavier than Pietro.
Moreover, she was armed with a broom, and seemed quite ready to use it.
Phil was fortunate in obtaining so able a protector. Pietro looked at
her, and had a vague thought of running by her, and dragging Phil out if
he found him. But Bridget was planted so squarely in his path that this
course did not seem very practicable.
“Will you give me my brother?” demanded Pietro, forced to use words
where he would willingly have used blows.
“I haven’t got your brother.”
“He is in this house.”
“Thin he may stay here, but you shan’t,” said Bridget, and she made a
sudden demonstration with the broom, of so threatening a character
that Pietro hastily backed out of the house, and the door was instantly
bolted in his face.
CHAPTER XXI
THE SIEGE
When the enemy had fairly been driven out of the house Mrs. McGuire
went upstairs in search of Phil. Our hero had come out from his place of
concealment, and stood at the window.
“Where is Pietro?” he asked, as his hostess appeared in the chamber.
“I druv him out of the house,” said Bridget, triumphantly.
“Then he won’t come up here?” interrogated Phil.
“It’s I that would like to see him thry it,” said Mrs. McGuire, shaking
her head in a very positive manner, “I’d break my broom over his back
first.”
Phil breathed freer. He saw that he was rescued from immediate danger.
“Where is he now?”
“He’s outside watching for you. He’ll have to wait till you come out.”
“May I stay here till he goes?”
“Sure, and you may,” said the warm-hearted Irishwoman. “You’re as
welcome as flowers in May. Are you hungry?”
“No, thank you,” said Phil. “I have eaten my dinner.”
“Won’t you try a bit of bread and cold mate now?” she asked, hospitably.
“You are very kind,” said Phil, gratefully, “but I am not hungry. I only
want to get away from Pietro.”
“Is that the haythen’s name? Sure I niver heard it before.”
“It is Peter in English.”
“And has he got the name of the blessed St. Peter, thin? Sure, St. Peter
would be mightily ashamed of him. And is he your brother, do you say?”
“No,” said Phil.
“He said he was; but I thought it was a wicked lie when he said it. He’s
too bad, sure, to be a brother of yours. But I must go down to my work.
My clothes are in the tub, and the water will get cold.”
“Will you be kind enough to tell me when he goes away?” asked Phil.
“Sure I will. Rest aisy, darlint. He shan’t get hold of you.”
Pietro’s disappointment may be imagined when he found that the victim
whom he had already considered in his grasp was snatched from him in
the very moment of his triumph. He felt nearly as much incensed at Mrs.
McGuire as at Phil, but against the former he had no remedy. Over the
stalwart Irishwoman neither he nor the padrone had any jurisdiction,
and he was compelled to own himself ignominiously repulsed and baffled.
Still all was not lost. Phil must come out of the house some time, and
when he did he would capture him. When that happy moment arrived he
resolved to inflict a little punishment on our hero on his own account,
in anticipation of that which awaited him from his uncle, the padrone.
He therefore took his position in front of the house, and maintained a
careful watch, that Phil might not escape unobserved.
So half an hour passed. He could hear no noise inside the house, nor
did Phil show himself at any of the windows. Pietro was disturbed by a
sudden suspicion. What if, while he was watching, Phil had escaped by
the back door, and was already at a distance!
This would be quite possible, for as he stood he could only watch the
front of the house. The rear was hidden from his view. Made uneasy by
