that both would be confiscated, and he would make nothing by doing so,
pecuniarily, and was liable to punishment besides. Bobtail thought it
would be a fine thing to own the Skylark, or even to have the use of her
for a season or two; and hoped the legal owner of her would have a
proper regard for his reputation, and not risk it by putting forward his
claim to her.
Certainly for the present Bobtail was in charge of her, and there was no
one to dictate what he should or should not do with her. He was willing
that everybody should see the boat; and, to enable any one who might
possibly throw light upon her ownership to do so, he thought it best to
sail her about the harbor. The tide was up now, and, with the
assistance of Monkey, he hoisted the mainsail and got up the anchor.
"Now, stand by the jib-halyards, Monkey," shouted the skipper, as he
took the helm.
"All clear, Bob," replied the hand before the mast.
"Hoist the jib."
Monkey knew all about a boat, and did his work well. The Skylark went
off with the fresh breeze on her quarter, and Bobtail felt like a lord
at the helm.
"Don't she spin!" said Monkey, as he seated himself in the
standing-room, and fixed his gaze on the swelling sails.
"She goes it like a locomotive," replied the skipper. "Now haul in on
the main sheet, and we will run up the harbor."
The Skylark, close-hauled, ran up to the head of the little bay, and
coming about, stood over close to the wharf, at the head of which the
fish market and several stores were located.
"Hollo, Bobtail!" shouted the skipper of the Islesboro' packet, which
had come in that morning, and lay alongside the wharf. "What boat's
that?"
"The Skylark," replied the skipper.
"Where did she come from?"
"I don't know. I picked her up yesterday, and want to find the owner,"
replied Bobtail, who, while he was looking for an owner, did not really
wish to find one, though he was prepared to do all that was fair and
right in the premises.
"Where did you pick her up?" asked the skipper of the packet.
As the Skylark was now almost out of hailing distance, Bobtail came
about, and ran up alongside the packet, skilfully spilling the sail at
the right moment, so that she hardly bumped against the other vessel,
though Monkey stood ready with the fenders.
"I picked her up near Blank Island," replied Bobtail.
"I seen a boat like her just about sundown last night. I couldn't make
her out, but I cal'late that's the craft I see," added the skipper. "But
how on airth came she adrift?"
"That's more than I know."
"Don't Captain Chinks know nothin' about her? He come over with me from
Isleboro' this mornin'."
"I saw him up in town this morning, but he didn't say anything about
her," answered Bobtail.
"I don't know's he knows anything about her; but he's pooty well
acquainted with all the boats in these parts. Was there anything on
board of her?"
"She's a pleasure craft. Come on board and look at her," replied
Bobtail, evasively.
The skipper of the packet accepted the invitation, and looked over the
Skylark. He was critical in his observations, and did not believe that
any of these fancy craft amounted to much in heavy weather. She was
"fixed up smart," and was "handsome's a picture;" but "he'd rather have
his homely boat when it blowed than a thousand sech highflyers." They
could "chalk a line up in to the wind in light weather, but they wan't
nothin' in a sea."
Bobtail did not indorse these critical remarks, for he had tried the
Skylark in a sea, and knew that she was equal to anything.
"I hope you'll find the owner, and I ca'late you'll make somethin' out
of the job," said the skipper, as he returned to his vessel.
Bobtail did not particularly hope so, for even if he made something out
of the job, he was afraid he should never be satisfied with the old tub
in which he had sailed the day before, if he bought her, now that he had
realized the glories of the Skylark.
"Shove her off, Monkey," said he, as he resumed his place at the helm.
Running along close to the wharves, he answered several hails of persons
who wished to know about the boat. It would soon be all over town that
he had picked up the yacht; and having in this manner sufficiently
advertised her, he stood off towards the open bay, passing between the
Spindles off the point.
"Where are you going to now, Bob?" asked Monkey.
"We will take a little sail, just to see how the boat works."
"She works fust rate, and no mistake," added Monkey, with admiration.
"I'd give more to own this boat than I would to be one of the
selectmen," continued Bobtail. "She's a tip-top sea boat. Take the helm,
Monkey, and see how nice she steers."
The Darwinian opened his mouth from ear to ear with pleasure as he
complied with the request. Of course he fully agreed with all the
skipper said. Bobtail walked forward, and then went below. It was about
time to be thinking of dinner, though he was not very hungry yet. He
looked over the stores of the yacht, to see if there was anything
besides bacon for the meal. In a small tub he found some salt pork. One
of the lockers under the transom was half full of potatoes; but he
discovered no other meat. After this survey he concluded to dine on
fish, for he had his lines and salt clams on deck. Returning to the
helm, he put the yacht about, and stood up to one of the best of the
fishing-grounds.
"Lower the jib," he called to his crew; and when this was done, he
directed him to throw over the anchor. "Now, Monkey, catch some fish
while I go below and make a fire."
In a few moments Bobtail had a fire in the stove. Washing some potatoes,
he pared and sliced them. Three big slices of salt pork in the pan soon
produced fat enough to fry them. By this time there was a movement on
deck. The Darwinian was pulling in a fish.
"A cod!" shouted Monkey. "He's a nice one, too."
"How big is he?" asked Bobtail.
"Five or six pounds."
"That's enough. Dress him, and cut him up to fry."
By the time the potatoes were cooked the fish was ready for the pan. The
cook covered the pieces with Indian meal, and the dinner was soon ready.
Bobtail had already set the table. He had put on plates, knives and
forks, and glasses for two, a pitcher of water, a plate of pickles, and
a dish of hard bread. The fish was placed on the casing of the
centre-board, in the middle of the table, consisting of two leaves,
which could be dropped down when not in use. Monkey was called, and the
dinner proceeded in due form. The Darwinian did not seem to be quite so
enthusiastic as at breakfast, perhaps because his table at home was
oftener garnished with fish and salt pork than with any other food.
However, he did ample justice to the bill of fare, and liberally praised
the cook for his skill in the art.
While they were thus pleasantly engaged, they heard a slight bump
against the side of the yacht, followed by the sound of voices. With the
instinct of a genuine boatman, Bobtail rushed upon deck to assure
himself that no harm befell the Skylark, when the other boat came
alongside. He found that Prince, in the white sloop, had just put
Captain Chinks on board, and had already shoved off. Bobtail looked at
the captain, and thought he had taken a great deal of trouble to pay him
this visit, for Prince had come about, and was standing up to the
village. He felt as though he should now be called upon to give up the
Skylark to her rightful owner.
"I'm glad to see you, Captain Chinks," exclaimed he; but what he said
was rather complimentary than strictly true--a society fib.
"Won't you come below, and take some dinner with us?"
The captain had been to dinner, for it was now two o'clock in the
afternoon, and he began to ask about the Skylark.
CHAPTER VII.
IN THE CABIN OF THE SKYLARK.
Little Bobtail was not particularly glad to see Captain Chinks when he
boarded the Skylark, at her anchorage on the fishing-grounds. It seemed
as though the captain had taken a great deal of trouble to come down
several miles from the village, probably hiring Prince to put him
alongside the yacht. Yet he could not help thinking that the slight
uneasiness which disturbed him was very absurd. He had permitted himself
to hope that the owner of the Skylark would not claim her, or, at least,
would not claim her till he had the use of her for a season, the longer
the better; but he felt that he had no right to hope any such thing. The
yacht was a beautiful craft, and it was in the very height of the
boating season. All his hopes, however, had been very vague, and were
not founded on any reasonable basis. He had been considering the
remotest of possibilities, rather than the slightest probabilities.
When Captain Chinks came on board, Bobtail felt that he had come to
claim the yacht. According to the general "speech of people," this man
of a doubtful reputation was, more likely than any other person in
Camden, the owner of the twenty cases of brandy. If he claimed the
yacht, he must claim the smuggled goods at the same time. Of course
Bobtail would be expected to keep the secret, and thereby become a party
to the fraud. He was not prepared for this issue. He did not want the
confidence of any smuggler. Whatever his own views of the contraband
trade, he would not break any law of the land himself, however leniently
he was disposed to regard others who neglected to pay duties to the
custom-house. He had always tried to be honest and upright, and he had a
perfect horror of being anything else.
"How's this, Bobtail?" said Captain Chinks, casting his eyes about him,
as if to examine the parts of the yacht. "This is a fine boat!"
"Tip-top, sir," replied the skipper, with proper enthusiasm.
"Some one up in the village said you picked her up adrift. Is that so?"
"That's so, Captain Chinks. I found her drifting out to sea, over near
Blank Island. Does she belong to you, sir?"
"To me?" exclaimed the visitor, with a slight start, which did not
escape the observation of Little Bobtail. "What makes you think she
belongs to me?"
"I didn't say I thought so. I only asked you if she did. Captain
Flipper, of the Islesboro' packet, said you might know something about
her."
"What made him think I knew anything about her?"
"I don't know that he did think so; only he said you came over from
Islesboro' with him this morning," Bobtail explained.
"What has that to do with it?"
"Nothing, that I know of. Captain Flipper said you knew about all the
boats in these parts."
"O, that's the reason he said I might know about her?" added Captain
Chinks, apparently relieved by the explanation.
"Yes, sir, I suppose so. Now, do you know anything about her?" asked
the young skipper, forcing the question home.
"Possibly I have seen her. I don't know."
"Then she don't belong to you?"
"Why do you keep asking me that question, Bobtail? Do you think I own
her?" demanded the captain, rather sharply.
"I don't think anything at all about it. I don't know. I can't tell by
the looks of a man whether he owns this boat or not. I'm looking for her
owner, and so I asked you the question."
"Well, I don't own her," said Captain Chinks, with more earnestness than
Bobtail thought the occasion required; but he could not help suspecting,
from his manner, that Captain Chinks knew something about the Skylark.
"Do you happen to know who does own her?" continued Bobtail.
"No, I don't know anything at all about her."
The Darwinian had left his dinner when Bobtail did, and had come as far
as the companion-way, where he stood listening to the conversation which
took place while the parties stood on deck. Captain Chinks had
discovered Monkey's presence only a moment before, and it was possible
that his decided answers were called forth by the fact that a third
person was near.
"Won't you take a bite with us?" continued Bobtail, when he happened to
remember that he had not finished his dinner.
"No; I had my dinner just before I came from home; but I will go below
with you," replied Captain Chinks, following Bobtail into the cabin.
The skipper and Monkey resumed their places at the table, and finished
the meal. While he was eating, Bobtail related all the particulars of
the finding of the Skylark, so far as the boat was concerned, but
prudently repressed all allusion to the twenty cases of brandy. Captain
Chinks appeared to be nervous and uneasy, though, as he did not own the
boat, and knew nothing at all about her, Bobtail could not see why he
should be so. The dishes were cleared away, washed, and carefully
deposited in the lockers. The cook-room was put in order, the cabin
floor swept, and every article of furniture put in its place. Bobtail
seated himself on the transom, opposite Captain Chinks, and wondered
more than ever why he had taken so much trouble to visit the Skylark
when she lay so far from the town.
"What do you suppose this boat is worth, Bobtail?" asked Captain Chinks,
as he glanced forward and then aft, as if to survey the quality and
capacity of the yacht.
"I'm sure I have no idea," replied the young skipper.
"They asked me twelve hundred dollars for one about this size in Newport
last year," added the captain.
"That's a big price for a boat."
"But it was three hundred dollars less than she cost her owner two years
before. This don't look like an old boat."
"No, she's nearly new. I looked into the run this morning, and the
timbers and plank are as fresh as though she had just been built."
"I reckon she is a year or two old," added the captain. "She isn't worth
less than a thousand dollars, though you may buy such a boat sometimes
for half that money."
"Five hundred dollars is about all any boat of this size is worth down
here."
"By the way, Bobtail, did she have any sort of a cargo in her when you
picked her up?" asked Captain Chinks, in a careless way, as he raised
and lowered the table-leaf in front of him, just as though he was more
intent on ascertaining how the leaf worked than in obtaining an answer
to his question.
This was a very important interrogatory on the part of the visitor,
notwithstanding the indifference with which it had apparently been
propounded; and Bobtail had been expecting it. In spite of all the
captain had said, and in spite of the fact that he had declared he knew
nothing about the Skylark, our hero could not help connecting his
visitor with the contraband cargo; perhaps because the captain was the
only man in Camden who had the reputation of being concerned in this
sort of business.
"This is a pleasure craft, and wasn't built to carry cargo," replied
Bobtail, who had already decided how to meet the question.
"That may be; but such boats do sometimes carry a small cargo. For
instance, you could put many thousand dollars' worth of some kinds of
goods in this cabin," added the captain, still fumbling over the
table-leaf, which seemed to be an inexplicable mystery to him, though it
may be added in defence of a man of his intelligence, and a
boat-builder, too, that he always built keel-boats, while the Skylark
was a centre-board.
"I dare say she could carry a million dollars' worth of gold or
diamonds," added Bobtail, cheerfully, for he felt that his wily visitor
was not getting much ahead of him.
"Yes; but she might carry heavier goods, such as cigars, liquors, silks,
and things of that sort, for it don't take a great lot to be worth a
thousand dollars. Did she have anything of this kind in her when you
picked her up, Bobtail?"
"Why should any one think of carrying cigars and liquors in such a craft
as this?" asked the skipper, laughing.
"That wan't exactly the question. I say, Monkey, won't you go on deck,
and see which way the wind is," added the captain, turning suddenly upon
the Darwinian, who was listening to the conversation with his mouth wide
open, and trying with, all his might to discover what Chinks was driving
at. "I reckon it's hauling more to the southward."
"Sartin; I'll see," replied Monkey, hastening on deck through the
cook-room.
"You don't answer the question, Bobtail," said the captain.
"What makes you think there was any cargo in her?" demanded the skipper.
"I didn't say I thought there was any; I only asked you if there was."
In spite of Little Bobtail's indefinite opinions in regard to the moral
turpitude of smuggling, he had very decided views on the subject of
lying. He believed in telling the truth, though, like most other boys, I
am afraid he did not invariably do so; but he always felt mean and
guilty when he told anything in the shape of a lie. In the present
instance he had made up his mind either to tell the truth or to keep
still, not only because it was wicked to tell a lie, but because, in a
smuggling case in which the government officers might soon have a hand,
it might prove extremely dangerous.
"Well, captain, I didn't say there was any cargo in her," answered
Bobtail, cautiously.
"I know you didn't; but I want you to tell me squarely whether there was
or not."
"Why do you want me to tell you?"
"No matter why. I want you to tell me: that's all."
"The wind's about nor'-west, Captain Chinks," said Monkey, crawling
into the cabin from the cook-room.
"It hasn't changed, then," added the visitor, vexed at the return of the
Darwinian, who seated himself near Bobtail, intent upon hearing the rest
of the conversation.
"No, sir, not a bit; it's been nor'-west all day, and I don't believe
its goin' to change afore night."
"I say, Monkey, I want some fish for breakfast. If you will catch me two
or three, and dress them, I'll make it all right with you."
Monkey did not like to lose any of the conversation about the boat; but
he reluctantly went on deck in the hope of making a trifle by the job.
"I want you to answer my question squarely, Bobtail," continued Captain
Chinks, returning vigorously to the charge, so vigorously that the
skipper was almost confirmed in his suspicion connecting his visitor
with the contraband cargo.
"I don't say there was or was not any cargo in her," replied Bobtail.
"But I want you to say," persisted the captain, sharply and sternly.
"Do you own this yacht, Captain Chinks?"
"I don't say whether I own her or not."
"And I don't say whether there was any cargo in her or not."
"What do you mean, Bobtail?"
"That depends upon what you mean, Captain Chinks."
"I don't understand you, Bobtail," said the visitor, struggling to
suppress his anger.
"That's just my trouble; I don't understand you," laughed the skipper.
"I reckon we don't understand each other at all."
"I asked you a question, Bobtail, and I want an answer," added the
captain, bringing his fist down upon the table-leaf, whose mysterious
mechanism he had by this time fully mastered.
"I asked you a question, Captain Chinks, and I want an answer,"
replied Bobtail.
"I don't want any of your impudence, and I won't take any of it."
"I didn't mean to be impudent, sir."
"But you talk to me just as though I was a boy like yourself. Now,
answer my question."
"I hope you will excuse me, sir, when I say I can't answer it. I mean to
be respectful, sir."
"You can answer it, Bobtail."
"I mean that, for certain reasons, I must decline to answer it."
"You must, eh?"
"Yes, sir."
"I didn't think this of you, Bobtail. This morning I got you out of a
bad scrape. If I hadn't done so, you would have been taken up for
stealing that letter, which contained five hundred dollars. Now, you go
back on me the same day," added the captain, more gently.
"I don't go back on you, sir. If you own this boat, I'll tell you all I
know about her."
"I don't say that I own her."
"I know you don't say so; and for that reason I can't say anything more
about her. You only told the truth about the letter."
"But I might have held my tongue, and I'm sorry now I didn't."
After this speech, Little Bobtail had no doubt that Captain Chinks was a
bad man, and he felt the necessity of extreme caution in dealing with
him.
"I don't see how you could keep still when Squire Gilfilian asked you
the question," added Bobtail, in his simplicity.
"If I had done by you as you are doing by me when I ask you a question,
I should have kept still, as you do."
"But I don't want to get any one into a scrape," pleaded the skipper.
"What do you mean by that? I only ask you to tell the truth, as I did
for you this morning," said the captain, in a coaxing tone.
"Squire Gilfilian owned that letter, and he had a right to ask about it.
If you say you own this boat, I shall feel that I am perfectly safe in
answering your questions."
"Perfectly safe! Then of course there was a cargo in her," added the
visitor.
"I don't say there was. Have you lost a cargo, Captain Chinks?"
The captain mused. To say that he had lost a cargo would be to
acknowledge that he was a smuggler, and he could not trust the secret to
a boy like Little Bobtail, who had the reputation of being an honest and
truthful boy. If called upon to give evidence, the boy would tell the
whole truth. He would rather lose both the cargo and the boat than be
convicted of smuggling.
"If there was no cargo in her, you would say so, Bobtail; so I have no
doubt there was a cargo in her," continued Captain Clunks, after a
silence of a few moments. "I take it for granted there was some sort of
goods in her."
"What makes you think so, sir?"
"I have a notion of my own on that subject. If I'm not greatly mistaken,
I saw this boat down to Bar Harbor. My idea is, that she went out to sea
somewhere, and took a lot of goods from some fishing vessel, and tried
to run them up to Camden, or some other port. I don't say it is so, but
it might be. Very likely some of those custom-house officers got wind of
the affair, and were on the lookout for the boat. Very likely the men in
charge of her abandoned her, and cleared out to save themselves."
"I wonder if they went over to Camden in the Islesboro' packet this
morning," suggested Bobtail, innocently.
"What do you mean, you young villain!" cried Captain Chinks, springing
forward over the table, and seizing the skipper by the throat. "Do you
mean to say I'm one of them?"
"Let me alone!" yelled Bobtail, struggling to shake off the hard gripe
of the visitor.
Our hero had a hard fist, if it was a small one, and he used it
vigorously upon the head and face of his assailant. He pounded so hard
that the captain, holding him at a disadvantage across the table and
centre-board, was compelled to release his hold.
"I am not to be trifled with," gasped Captain Chinks, panting from his
exertions, and smarting from the heavy blows which Bobtail had inflicted
upon his face.
"Nor I, either!" yelled the skipper, seizing a spare tiller which lay on
the transom. "If you put your finger on me again, I'll break your head!"
"What's the row?" shouted Monkey, rushing down into the cabin, his round
eyes distended to their utmost.
"I don't let anybody take me by the throat," replied Bobtail, shaking
his head, and adjusting his shirt collar at the same time.
"It's all right now, Monkey, go and catch your fish," added Captain
Chinks, mildly, feeling that his wrath had got the better of him, and
induced him to commit an imprudent act.
"It won't be all right if you put your hand on me again," said Bobtail,
still holding the spare tiller in his hand.
"You knew that I came over in the Islesboro' packet this morning."
"I wasn't thinking of you when I spoke," muttered Bobtail, who for the
first time saw the force of the suggestion he had made.
"I was only supposing a case," said the captain.
"What? when you caught me by the throat? I don't want you to suppose any
more cases, then."
"I won't, Bobtail. Perhaps the men had run the boat ashore, and were
looking for a place to hide the goods, when the wind blew her off, and
sent her adrift."
"Perhaps it was so; I don't know," answered the skipper, coldly.
"If she had a cargo in her, what have you done with it?"
"I didn't say she had any cargo, and I'm not going to say anything more
about it till the owner claims the boat. That's the end of it."
Little Bobtail rose from the transom, and walked towards the
companion-way. Captain Chinks looked very savage. He was evidently in a
dilemma, from which he could not extricate himself.
"One minute more, my lad," called the captain. "I may possibly come
across the person who lost this boat."
"If you do, send him to me, and he shall have his boat,
and--and--everything that belongs to her," replied Bobtail, who was
still full of wrath towards his late assailant.
"But, you see, if she had any smuggled goods on board of her--"
"I didn't say she had."
"You won't understand me! I say if she had. Now, perhaps I can make a
trade with the owner for you."
"I don't want you to make any trade for me. Send him to me, and he shall
have his boat. That's all."
"But he will be afraid to expose himself. Now, suppose he should offer
to let you keep the boat, if you would give up the goods, if you found
any goods in her. If I should happen to find him, or to hear of him,
shall I tell him you will make this sort of a trade with him?"
"No! Tell him he can have his boat and everything that belongs to her.
I've learned more about smugglers to-day than I ever knew before, and I
wouldn't touch one with a ten-foot pole; and I wouldn't make a trade
with him to cheat the government. I don't want to talk any more about
it. I've got a sore throat now."
Having thus delivered himself, Bobtail went on deck, and ordered the
crew to help him get up the anchor. In a few minutes the Skylark was
headed towards the town. Captain Chinks remained in the cabin, full of
wrath and disappointment.
CHAPTER VIII.
A CHANCE FOR BUSINESS.
Possibly, if Captain Chinks had not resorted to violent argument in
carrying his point, he might have succeeded better. As Little Bobtail
sat at the helm of the Skylark, he thought of the proposition which the
captain had made to him. It simply meant that, if he would give up the
cases of brandy, he might keep the boat. It was a very tempting offer,
and if he had not been smarting under the double injury to his throat
and his feelings, inflicted by his visitor, he might have considered it.
As it was, his only impulse was to have nothing further to do with such
a bad man, a man who could be sorry that he had spoken the simple truth,
and thus saved him from arrest for purloining the valuable letter.
Though Captain Chinks had resolutely denied the ownership of the
Skylark, and all knowledge of her cargo, Little Bobtail could not help
believing that the captain was the owner of both. He began to think that
he had not acted wisely in removing the cargo to the garret of the
cottage. His interview with the "gentleman of doubtful reputation"
convinced him that it was dangerous for him to have anything to do with
such men. He wished that he had handed both boat and cargo over to the
deputy collector of the port. Perhaps it was not too late to do so now.
The wind was north-west, and the skipper had to beat up the harbor. As
the yacht approached the wharf near the fish market, Captain Chinks came
on deck. He seated himself on the trunk of the cabin, and seemed to be
very much disturbed. Occasionally he cast a glance at Bobtail, as though
he wanted to say something more to him. The bow of the boat was run up
to the wharf, and Monkey was directed to "catch a turn" with the warp
line on a post, which he did, and the skipper waited for his dangerous
passenger to disembark.
"Well, Bobtail, have you thought over what I said to you?" said Captain
Chinks, as he rose from his seat.
"I have thought it over, but--"
"This is a fine boat, and if you will only give up the cargo, you will
own her, for nobody will ever claim her," interrupted the passenger.
"I haven't said there was any cargo in her," added Bobtail. "You seem to
know all about it. If you claim--"
"I don't claim anything," protested the captain, zealously.
"Then it's no use to say anything more about her. I'm not going to get
myself into any scrape, and I won't make any trade of any kind."
"You are making a mistake, Bobtail. In my opinion, there's something
about this business that don't appear on the face of it."
"That's just my idea."
"I don't know but you can make folks believe that you picked up this
boat, but I don't think you can," added the captain, with his teeth set,
and with difficulty keeping down his anger.
"It don't make any difference to me whether they believe it or not,"
replied Bobtail. "That's the truth."
"You'll find it will make a difference to you," said the captain, as he
stepped upon the wharf.
"Didn't you go back to Squire Gilfilian's office, after you left the
letter there?"
"No, I didn't."
"I'm not sure of that," replied Captain Chinks, shaking his head in a
threatening manner. "You overtook me down by the lime-kiln; so you got
behind me somehow or other."
Captain Chinks went off muttering and shaking his head, and Bobtail
could not imagine what he meant. So far as the lost letter was
concerned, he felt that he had done his whole duty, and he was not
disposed to worry about it; he wished his record in regard to the boxes
was as clean.
"Cast off, Monkey," said he; and putting the Skylark about, he ran down
to the deep water off the Portland Pier, where he anchored her.
Monkey's old dory had been towing astern during the trip, and after
putting everything in order on board of the yacht, the two boys went on
shore. Bobtail hastened to the cottage, hoping to find his mother there,
for he wanted to tell her all about the situation, and obtain her
advice. She had not yet returned. Ezekiel was just coming out of his
spree, for he had drank all his liquor. He was ugly as sin itself, and
began to abuse the boy again for "destroying his property." It was not
comfortable to stay in the house under such circumstances, and Little
Bobtail walked up to the village. The Bay View House was at this time
full of guests--people from other parts of Maine and elsewhere, spending
a few days or a few weeks at the sea-shore. Camden has lakes, and
mountains, and delightful drives, in addition to the attractions of the
sea, and people who went there once were very likely to go there again.
Bobtail walked up to the hotel, for the stage from Rockland, by which
his mother would return, stopped there.
"What boat's that you have, Bobtail?" asked Mr. Philbrook, the landlord
of the hotel.
"The Skylark."
"They say you picked her up."
"Yes; I got blown off yesterday, and I found her adrift near Blank
Island."
"I see you are using her. There is a party here from Augusta that want a
nice boat for to-morrow," added the landlord. "Can't you take them out?"
"I don't know; the owner of the boat may claim her."
"But you ought to have the use of her for taking care of her, and you
can make six or eight dollars a day with her, just as well as not."
"She isn't my boat, and I don't know's I ought to let her; but I will
see, and let you know in the morning," replied Bobtail, as the Rockland
stage drove up to the door.
Mrs. Taylor was one of the passengers, and her son assisted her to
alight. She wanted to know how her husband was, and Bobtail gave her the
information. As they walked towards the cottage he told her all about
the Skylark, and her suspicious cargo. Of course his mother was
astonished; but fortunately her views in regard to smuggling were more
clearly defined than Bobtail's, and she gave him excellent advice. She
declared that she could not sleep a wink with all those boxes in the
house.
"You must go to Squire Simonton right off, tell him all about it, and
let him take them away," said she, warmly. "Why, we are liable to be
sent to prison!"
"All right, mother; I will do just as you say," replied Bobtail.
"Besides, Robert, if your father should find the boxes, you know what
he would do," added Mrs. Taylor.
"I will attend to the matter right off, mother."
They reached the cottage, and after Bobtail had carried his mother's
carpet-bag into the house, he hastened to find Squire Simonton, who was
the deputy collector of the port. On his way up the street, he met this
gentleman, with another, whom he had often seen at the hotel.
"We want to see that boat you picked up, Little Bobtail," said Squire
Simonton, with the pleasant smile which his face always wore.
"I was just going up to see you about her," replied Bobtail. "I want to
ask you what I shall do with her."
"I don't know that you can do anything with her. Perhaps you had better
advertise her in the Camden and Rockland papers," replied the squire.
Bobtail did not like to say anything about the boxes before the other
gentleman; so he did not allude to them. At the steamboat wharf he
borrowed a small boat, and conveyed them on board of the Skylark.
"She is a fine boat--isn't she, Hines?" said the deputy collector, as
they stepped into the standing-room.
Mr. Hines agreed that she was a fine boat; and then he commented upon
her build, rig, and accommodations, as one who was perfectly familiar
with boats and boating. He looked her over with a critical eye, and then
expressed a desire to have a little sail in her, which the squire
seconded; and Bobtail was always ready for a sail. In a few moments they
were under way, with Mr. Hines at the helm. As they sailed down the bay
towards Rockland, Bobtail related the whole story of the finding of the
Skylark, and both the gentlemen suggested various theories in regard to
her being adrift; but the hero of the adventure said nothing about the
contraband boxes. He did not know that it was proper to do so before Mr.
Hines, though he was a jolly, good-natured gentleman.
"You didn't look into the cook-room--did you, Squire Simonton?" asked
Bobtail, who was very anxious to tell the rest of the story.
"I did not," replied the deputy collector. "I will do so now."
Bobtail conducted him through the cabin, which was rather low for a
gentleman of his eminent dignity, to the cook-room, where they seated
themselves on the lockers.
"I should want a little more room in my yacht," laughed the squire, as
he tried to put on his hat, which the height of the apartment would not
permit.
"I didn't tell you but half the story on deck, sir," said Bobtail. "I
didn't like to speak out before Mr. Hines; but you are the deputy
collector."
"And Mr. Hines is a custom-house officer," added Mr. Simonton.
"O, is he? I didn't know it. Well, sir, I think there's something wrong
about this boat, and I want to tell you the rest of the story."
"What do you mean by something wrong, Bobtail?"
"In the smuggling line."
"Then I think we had better let Mr. Hines hear the story, for it is part
of his duty to look up cases of this kind," replied Squire Simonton, as
he rose from his seat, and bumped his head against a deck-beam.
When they were seated on the cork cushions of the standing-room, the
deputy collector intimated that Little Bobtail had something to say, and
the boy rose to explain.
"When I picked this boat up, her cabin was half full of boxes," said he.
"Cigars?" said Mr. Hines.
"No, sir, I don't know's I had any business to open one of the boxes,
but I did. It was full of bottles," added Bobtail.
"Brandy?" said the inspector.
"The bottles were labelled 'JAMES HENNESSY & CO.--COGNAC.'"
"Just so; that's brandy. How many were there?" asked Mr. Hines.
"Twenty boxes, and each box contained two dozen. The bottles were in
kind of straw casing."
"I know," nodded the inspector. "What have you done with them?"
"I didn't know what to do with them. I meant to be on the safe side; so
I hid them in my father's garret."
"That's a bad place for them," said Squire Simonton, who was an earnest
and consistent temperance man, and had labored diligently to reform
Ezekiel Taylor.
"My father don't know anything at all about the matter."
"We must get them out of his way at once. I don't know but it would
have been just as well if you had emptied all the bottles into the bay,"
laughed the deputy collector.
"I thought of that, but I didn't think the fishes would like it."
"Of course this brandy is smuggled," added Mr. Hines. "Don't Captain
Chinks know anything about it?"
Bobtail related the particulars of his interview with the "gentleman of
doubtful reputation."
"But the captain don't claim the boat?" said Squire Simonton.
"He says she don't belong to him, and he knows nothing about the cargo."
The two custom-house officials discussed the case at considerable
length. As no one but Bobtail and his mother knew anything about the
boxes, it was thought best to keep all knowledge of them from the
public. The officers, in tracing out the guilty parties, could work
better in the dark than in the light. The following out of this case
might expose a dozen others. Captain Chinks was very sly, and what was
now suspected might be ultimately proved. The brandy must be seized, and
removed to a safe place.
"But what shall be done with the yacht," asked Little Bobtail.
"Nothing at present," replied Mr. Hines. "If we seize her, the game will
be up at once. You may keep her and use her, Bobtail. I will appoint you
her keeper, but you must not let any one steal her. The rascals may go
on board of her at night, and sail her out of the harbor."
"O, I will sleep on board of her every night," replied Bobtail,
delighted with the decision of the inspector.
"If any one claims her, let me know at once, and don't give her up
without an order from me or Mr. Simonton."
"I will not."
The Skylark returned to her anchorage, and the gentlemen were landed on
the wharf. Bobtail went home. An arrangement had been made for the
removal of the boxes, but the presence of Ezekiel Taylor seemed to
interfere with its execution. He was at home, sullen and ugly, and
nothing could be done while he was in the house. But after supper he
went out, shaking in every fibre of his frame, and hankering for a dram
to quiet his nerves.
After dark, Bobtail and his mother brought the boxes from their
hiding-place, and put them behind a row of currant bushes, in the
garden. Having informed the deputy collector where he could find them,
he went on board of the yacht to sleep. After midnight the boxes were
removed to the storehouse. No one was the wiser, and Bobtail was glad to
get them off his hands.
No one attempted to steal the yacht that night, and the next morning
Little Bobtail informed the landlord of the Bay View House that the
Skylark was at the service of the party who desired to sail. With Monkey
"before the mast," he gave entire satisfaction to the ladies and
gentlemen who went with them. He placed them where they caught an
abundance of fish, and then landed them upon Blank Island, while he made
a chowder, and fried fish and potatoes for their dinner. The party took
their meal in the cabin, and generously commended the cook. Before dark
he landed them at the wharf. He charged seven dollars for boat and crew,
by the advice of Mr. Hines, which was cheap enough for a yacht of her
size.
"Now, Monkey, you have worked first rate to-day," said Bobtail, when the
party had gone. "Of course I mean to pay you."
"I don't ask any pay for helpin' you, Bob," grinned the Darwinian.
"I want you every day when I have a job, and I shall pay you a dollar a
day," added the skipper; and he handed him the money.
"A dollar a day!" exclaimed Monkey, who had never possessed a dollar in
cash of his own in his life.
"Isn't it enough?"
"By gracious! I should think it was!" exclaimed Monkey, gazing with
wonder at the bill.
"Put it in your pocket then, and call it square for this day's work."
Before the Skylark left the wharf Mr. Philbrook appeared, and engaged
the yacht for the next day for another party. Bobtail went up to the
store at the head of the wharf, and expended a portion of his receipts
for coffee, sugar, and other supplies for the yacht. It seemed to him,
just then, that a great business was opening to him, and he was very
anxious to give satisfaction to those who employed him. The bow-line was
cast off, and the Skylark dropped down to her anchorage. The deck was
washed down, and everything put in the nicest order for the next day.
"Don't you think I ought to sleep on board with you, Bob?" asked the
Darwinian, as they pulled to the landing-steps at the railroad pier.
"What for?" asked Bobtail.
"To help you if anything should happen. You might break adrift, or some
vessel might run into you, and then there would be work to do."
"I should like your company very well; but don't your mother want you in
the house at night?"
"The old woman don't care where I am."
"Don't call your mother the old woman, Monkey. If you do I can't respect
you."
"Well, I won't, then," replied the crew, opening his mouth from ear to
ear in one of his cheerful smiles. "She calls me Monkey, jest as other
folks do. When I give her this dollar she'll be satisfied. Won't she
open her eyes some!"
"You shall take her another to-morrow."
"I'll come right back when I give it to her. I s'pose you'll have some
of that bacon for breakfast in the morning--won't you?"
"Yes, if you like," laughed Bobtail, who now understood that his crew
wanted to sleep on board in order to get a better breakfast than he
would have at home.
They parted at the cottage, and Bobtail went in to see his mother and
take his supper with her. For some reason which the son could not
understand, Mrs. Taylor was unusually sad and moody. Ezekiel was sober,
for a wonder, and did not appear to be so cross and ugly as he generally
was when recovering from his debauches. Neither of them said much, and
Bobtail wondered what had happened. After supper he went out and split
up the wood for the fire, and did other chores.
"What can be done about it?" he heard Ezekiel say, as he paused at the
door, after he had done his work.
"I don't know's anything can be done," replied Mrs. Taylor, gloomily.
Then there was a silence, and Bobtail went in.
"What's the matter, mother?" asked he, now satisfied that some calamity
impended.
"I'm afraid we shall lose the house, Robert," replied Mrs. Taylor.
"Lose the house? How can you lose it?"
"You know there's a mortgage upon it for five hundred dollars. Squire
Gilfilian wants the money, and says he must sell the place if it isn't
paid. He has been threatening to do it for a good while, and to-day he
has foreclosed the mortgage."
"I've been all over town to get somebody else to take the mortgage,"
added Ezekiel, "but I can't find nobody. The place is wuth a thousand
dollars of any man's money; but business is dull, and money's hard, and
I don't believe 'twill bring more'n the mortgage under the hammer. I
don't know what I'm goin' to do about it. I don't see's I can help
myself."
Probably just then Ezekiel Taylor reproached himself for his idle and
dissolute life, and realized that, if he had been industrious, and had
saved his money, he might have owned the place with no encumbrance at
the present time. It was about sunset, and Mrs. Taylor and her son
seated themselves on the front doorstep to talk over the impending
calamity.
"What vessel is that?" asked Mrs. Taylor, as a cloud of white canvas
emerged from behind Negro Island.
"It's a yacht!" exclaimed Bobtail. "There's a P in her burgee. It's
the Penobscot, of Belfast. She belongs to Colonel Montague. I saw her go
down the other day. She's the finest yacht in these waters. I must go
and see her."
Little Bobtail suddenly forgot all about the mortgage and the
prospective loss of the cottage as he gazed upon the white sails and the
beautiful hull of the Penobscot. She was a magnificent yacht, of about a
hundred tons. She had created a decided sensation in the bay, and our
young skipper had heard glowing accounts of her, which made him anxious
to see her with his own eyes. Her crew were hauling down her
gaff-topsails and her jib-topsail, and it was evident that she intended
to anchor in the harbor. Her foresail was lowered, and then her jib. As
she lost her headway, the anchor went overboard near where the Skylark
lay. Bobtail began to move off.
"I should like to see her, too, Robert. Can't you take me out to her?"
said Mrs. Taylor.
"Certainly, mother; come along," replied Little Bobtail; "but perhaps
they won't let us go on board of her, for I see some ladies on her
deck."
At the landing-steps they took a boat, and Bobtail pulled off to the
yacht.
CHAPTER IX.
THE PENOBSCOT.
Little Bobtail could not help looking behind him occasionally, as he
pulled the boat, to observe the beautiful proportions, and the comely,
tapering spars of the yacht. Beside the Penobscot, even the Skylark was
nowhere.
"Well that's the finest yacht I ever saw!" said he, lying upon his oars,
when he was near enough to take in the whole idea of the vessel. "She's
big enough to go around the world in, too."
"She's as nice as anything need be," replied Mrs. Taylor, with an
indifference which was very provoking to the young skipper.
She was looking at the people on the quarter-deck of the Penobscot,
rather than at the symmetrical hull and the graceful spars. There were
two ladies and two gentlemen. The old gentleman, seated near the wheel,
with long silver locks, and of grave and dignified mien, was the Hon.
Mr. Montague. His son, Colonel Montague, who had commanded a Maine
regiment during a portion of the war of the rebellion, was planking the
deck, dressed in the uniform of the New York Yacht Club. He was quite as
dignified as his father, though he was not forty yet. His wife was the
elegant lady who sat on a camp-stool gazing at the outline of the ragged
mountain which rises near the village. The young lady of twelve or
thirteen was Miss Grace Montague, the daughter of the colonel. She was
quite tall for her age, and looked very much like her mother. Mrs.
Taylor was gazing earnestly at these people.
Little Bobtail swung his boat about, and backed her up to the
accommodation-steps. The sailing-master, who also wore the Yacht Club
uniform, walked quietly to the ladder, shaking his head to intimate that
no visitors would be allowed on board. As Bobtail, who was not good at
taking a hint, especially when it did not agree with his inclination,
did not suspend his movements, the sailing-master walked down the steps
to the little platform.
"We don't allow any one to come on board to-night," said he, shoving off
the boat with his foot.
"Is this Colonel Montague's yacht?" asked Mrs. Taylor.
"It is."
"Well, I want to see him."
"O, if you wish to see the owner, you can come on board."
Just at that moment a steward in a white jacket called the party on deck
to supper. The old gentleman, Mrs. Montague, and her daughter descended
the companion-way first. As the colonel was about to follow them, the
sailing-master told him that the woman in the boat wished to see him. He
stepped over to the rail as Bobtail helped his mother upon the platform.
"Do you wish to see me, madam?" demanded the colonel, rather haughtily.
"My son wants to see this yacht very much. He's very fond of boats; and
I thought I'd make bold to ask you if he might," replied Mrs. Taylor;
and Bobtail thought then that his mother had more "cheek" than he had.
"You may come on board," replied the colonel, very much to the
astonishment of the young skipper, and apparently to the equal
astonishment of the sailing-master.
Bobtail went forward on the instant the permission was granted, leaving
his mother to follow at her leisure; but she stood for a moment talking
with the colonel. The young boatman examined the Penobscot in every part
except the cabin, which he was not permitted to enter while the family
were at supper. It would take all the exclamation marks in a fount of
type adequately to express his views of the Penobscot and her
appurtenances. The sailing-master followed him in his perambulations
above and below, and when the family had finished their meal, he
conducted him to the cabin, and permitted him to look into the
state-rooms. Bobtail had never seen anything half so magnificent, and he
expressed his delight and astonishment in the strongest language his
vocabulary afforded.
"Well, Robert, have you seen enough?" said his mother, when he returned
to the deck.
"I believe I've seen her through. I thought the Skylark was a big thing
before, but she's nothing but skim-milk compared with this yacht,"
replied he. "If I had such a yacht as this, I wouldn't go ashore at
all."
"Our people don't go on shore much," said the sailing-master, pleased
with the enthusiasm of the boy.
"I suppose she'll sail some--won't she?" added Bobtail.
"She has logged fifteen knots in a fresh breeze."
"How far have you been in her?"
"We have been down to Eastport and Mount Desert. We left Bar Harbor this
morning, and shall run up to Belfast to-morrow evening. Next week we go
to Newport, and up Long Island Sound."
"That's the life that suits me!" exclaimed Bobtail, with enthusiasm, as
he walked aft to the accommodation-steps.
Colonel Montague was smoking his cigar, and Little Bobtail thought he
was gazing very earnestly at him; but when he returned the gaze, the
dignified gentleman was looking some other way. He helped his mother
into the boat, and pulled her to the landing-steps.
"Do you know Colonel Montague, mother?" asked Bobtail.
"I used to work for him before you was born," replied Mrs. Taylor,
looking over the water at the Penobscot.
"He didn't seem to know you," added Bobtail.
"I haven't seen him before for years."
"I didn't think he'd let us go on board."
"I knew he would, if he recognized me."
"If he did recognize you, he was awful stiff about it. He hardly spoke
to you, if you did work for him before I was born."
"That's his way, Robert. He is a great man now, and I s'pose he don't
make much of folks beneath him. But he's a fine man, and I always liked
him."
"He may be a fine man, but he has a very awkward way of showing it. Why
didn't he shake hands with you, and look as though he had seen you
before?"
"That isn't his way, Robert; and he is rich enough to do just as he
pleases."
"I don't believe he is rich enough to be hoggish," added Bobtail, whose
impressions of Colonel Montague were not altogether favorable.
"But he is a good man, and has a very kind heart. He will do almost
anything for poor people."
"I should like to sail in that yacht first rate; but I would rather go
with somebody that isn't so stiff as Colonel Montague. That
sailing-master seems to be afraid of him, and daresn't say his soul's
his own."
"Did you expect Colonel Montague to take off his hat to you, and treat
you like a nabob?" asked Mrs. Taylor, indignantly.
"I didn't expect him to say anything to me; but if you used to work for
him, I should think he would have spoken a civil word or two to you."
"And so he did. He spoke to me when you were looking at the vessel; and
he spoke very kindly to me, too."
"He went below in two minutes after you reached the deck."
"Well, his supper was waiting for him. I was only his servant, and I
don't expect great folks to take much notice of me; and you won't after
you have lived to be half as old as I am."
Mrs. Taylor seemed to be entirely satisfied with Colonel Montague, and
she walked home, while her son, who was not so well satisfied with the
owner of the Penobscot, went off to the Skylark, where he was soon
joined by the Darwinian. At an early hour the captain and the crew
retired, and doubtless slept very well, for they were up at sunrise in
the morning. Monkey gorged himself with bacon at their early breakfast;
and long before the hour appointed for the party to come on board, the
Skylark was ready for their reception, with mainsail set, flags flying,
and the anchor hove up to a short stay.
Monkey had a great deal to say about the Penobscot, and Bobtail
described her cabin, state-rooms, kitchen, and forecastle while they
were waiting. She lay only a cable's length from the Skylark, and they
could see all that was going on upon her deck.
"That's Colonel Montague getting into that boat," said Bobtail, as the
owner of the Penobscot stepped into his barge.
The boat was manned by two sailors, each of whom pulled two oars. The
colonel seated himself in the stern-sheets, which were cushioned with
crimson velvet, and took the tiller-lines in his hand.
"She's coming this way," added Monkey, as the barge moved towards the
Skylark.
In a moment she was alongside, and Colonel Montague, to the surprise of
the skipper, stepped on board. He wondered greatly what had procured him
the honor of a visit from such a distinguished man.
"Good morning, my lad," said the colonel, with a pleasant smile, which
seemed to belie his conduct the evening before.
"Good morning, sir," replied Bobtail.
"Good morning, sir," added Monkey, exhibiting all the teeth in his head.
Colonel Montague glanced at the Darwinian, and possibly debated in his
own mind whether the crew of the Skylark was man or monkey.
"You have a fine little boat here," added the visitor.
"She's a first-rate boat; but she ain't much side of yours," replied
Bobtail, whose impressions in regard to the owner of the Penobscot were
undergoing a rapid change. "She'll sail some, and she's good when it
blows."
