city in which we had become so firmly planted, and to 
leave the German friends who made the place like home 
to us. One gets to love Germany and the Germans as 
he does no other country and people in Europe. There 
has been something so simple, honest, genuine, in our 
Munich life, that we look back to it with longing eyes 
from this land of fancy, of hand-organ music and squalid 
splendor. I presume the streets are yet half the day hid 
in a mountain fog ; but I know the superb military bands 
are still playing at noon in the old Marian Platz and in 
the Loggie by the Residenz ; that at half-past six in the 
evening our friends are quietly stepping in to hear the 
opera at the Hof Theatre, where everybody goes to hear 
the music, and nobody for display, and that they will be 
at home before half-past nine, and have despatched the 
servant for the mugs of foaming beer ; I know that they 
 
still hear every week the choice conservatou'e orchestral 
concerts in the Odeon ; and, alas that experience should 
force me to think of it ! I have no doubt that they sip, 
every morning, coffee which is as much superior to that 
of Paris as that of Paris is to that of London ; and that 
they eat the delicious rolls, in comparison with which 
those of Paris are tasteless. I wonder, in this land of 
wine, — and yet it must be so, — if the beer-gardens are 
still filled nightly ; and if it could be that I should sit at 
a little table there, a comely lass would, before I could ask 
for what everybody is presumed to want, place before me 
a tall glass full of amber liquid, crowned with creamy 
foam. Are the handsome officers still sipping their coffee 
in the Cafe Maximilian ; and, on sunny days, is the crowd 
of fashion still streaming down to the Isar, and the high, 
sightly walks and gardens beyond ? 
As I said, it was eleven o'clock of a clear and not very 
severe night ; for Munich had had no snow on the ground 
since November. A deputation of our friends were at 
the station to see us off, and the farewells between the 
gentlemen were in the hearty fashion of the country. I 
know there is a prejudice with us against kissing between 
men ; but it is only a question of taste : and the experi- 
ence of anybody will tell him that the theory that this 
sort of salutation must necessarily be desirable between 
opposite sexes is a delusion. But I suppose it cannot be 
denied that kissing between men was invented in Ger- 
many before they wore full beards. Well, our good-bys 
said, we climbed into our bare cars. There is no way of 
heating the German cars, except by tubes filled with hot 
water, which are placed under the feet, and are called 
foot-warmers. As we slowly moved out over the plain, 
we found it was cold ; in an hour the foot-warmers, not 
hot to start with, were stone cold. You are going to 
sunny Italy, our friends had said : as soon as you pass 
the Brenner you will have sunshine and delightful 
weather. This thought consoled us, but did not warm 
our feet. The Germans, when they travel by rail, wrap 
themselves in furs, and carry foot-sacks. 
We creaked along, with many stoppings. At two 
o'clock we were at Rosenheim. Rosenheim is a windy 
place, with clear starlight, with a multitude of cars on a 
multiplicity of tracks, and a large, lighted refreshment- 
room, which has a glowing, jolly stove. We stay there 
an hour, toasting by the fire and drinking excellent coffee. 
Groups of Germans are seated at tables playing cards, 
smoking, and taking coflfee. Other trains arrive ; and 
huge men stalk in, from Vienna or Russia, you would 
say, enveloped in enormous fur overcoats, reaching to the 
heels, and with big fur boots coming above the knees, in 
which they move like elephants. Another start, and a 
cold ride with cooling foot-warmers, droning on to Kurf- 
stein. It is five o'clock when we reach Kurfstein, which 
is also a restaurant, with a hot stove, and more Germans 
going on as if it were daytime ; but by this time in the 
morning the coffee had got to be wretched. After an 
hour's waiting, we dream on again, and, before we know 
it, come out of our cold doze into the cold dawn. 
Through the thick frost on the windows we see the faint 
outlines of mountains. Scraping away the incrustation, 
we find that we are in the Tyjol, — high hills on all 
sides, no snow in the valley, a bright morning, and the 
snow peaks are soon rosy in the sunrise. It is just as we 
expected, — little villages under the hills, and slender 
church-spires with brick-red tops. At nine o'clock we 
are in Innsbruck, at the foot of the Brenner. No snow 
yet. It must be charming here in the summer. 
Durino; the night we have got out of Bavaria. The 
waiter at the restaurant wants us to pay him nmety 
kreuzers for our coffee, which is only six kreuzers a cup 
in Munich. Remembering that it takes one hundred 
kreuzers to make a gulden in Austria, I launch out a 
Bavarian gulden, and expect ten kreuzers in change. I 
have heard that sixty Bavarian kreuzers are equal to 
one hundred Austrian ; but this waiter explains to me 
that my gulden is only good for ninety kreuzers. I, in 
my turn, explain to the waiter that it is better than the 
coffee ; but we come to no understanding, and I give up, 
before I begin, trying to understand the Austrian cur- 
rency. During the day I get my pockets full of coppers, 
which are very convenient to take in change, but appear 
to have a very slight purchasing power in Austria even, 
and none at all elsewhere, and the only use for which I 
have found is to give to Italian beggars. One of these 
pieces satisfies a beggar when it drops into his hat ; and 
then it detains him long enough in the examination of it, 
so that your carriage has time to get so far away that his 
renewed pursuit is usually unavailing. 
The Brenner Pass repaid us for the pains we had 
taken to see it, especially as the sun shone and took the 
frost from our windows, and we encountered no snow on 
the track ; and, indeed, the fall was not deep, except on 
the high peaks about us. Even if the engineering of the 
road were not so interesting, it was something to be again 
amidst mountains that can boast a height of ten thousand 
feet. After we passed the summit, and began the zigzag 
descent, we were on a sharp lookout for sunny Italy. I 
expected to lay aside my heavy overcoat, and sun myself 
at the first station among the vineyards. Instead of that, 
we bade good-by to bright sky, and plunged into a snow- 
storm, and, so greeted, drove down into the narrow 
gorges, whose steep slopes we could see were terraced to 
the top, and planted with vines. We could distinguish 
enough to know that, with the old Roman ruins, the 
churches and convent towers perched on the crags, and 
all, the scenery in summer must be finer than that of the 
Rhine, especially as the vineyards here are picturesque, 
— the vines being trained so as to hide and clothe the 
ground with verdure. 
It was four o'clock when we reached Trent, and colder 
than on top of the Brenner. As the Council, owing to 
the dead state of its members for now three centuries,   
was not in session, we made no long tarry. We went 
into the magnificent large refresliment-room to get warm ; 
but it was as cold as a New-England barn. I asked the 
proprietor if we could not get at a fire ; but he insisted 
that the room was warm, — that it was heated with a fur- 
nace, and that he burned good stove-coal, and pointed 
to a register high up in the wall. Seeing that I looked 
incredulous, he insisted that I should test it. Accord- 
ingly, I climbed upon a table, and reached up my hand. 
A faint warmth came out ; and I gave it up, and congrat- 
ulated the landlord on his furnace. But the register 
had no effect on the great hall. You might as well try 
to heat the dome of St. Peter's with a lucifcr-match. At 
dark, Allah be praised ! we reached Ala, where we went 
through the humbug of an Italian custom-house, and had 
our first glimpse of Italy in the picturesque-looking idlers 
in red-tasselled caps, and the jabber of a strange tongue. 
The snow turned into a cold rain : the foot-warmers, we 
having reached the sunny lands, could no longer be 
afforded ; and we shivered along, till nine o'clock, dark 
and rainy, brought us to Verona. We emerged from the 
station to find a crowd of omnibuses, carriages, drivers, 
runners, and people anxious to help us, all vociferating in 
the highest key. Amidst the usual Italian clamor about 
nothing, we gained our hotel omnibus, and sat there for 
ten minutes watching the dispute over our luggage, and 
serenely listening to the angry vituperations of policemen 
and drivers. It sounded like a revolution, but it was only 
the ordinary Italian way of doing things ; and we were at 
last rattling away over the broad pavements. 
Of course, we stopped at a palace turned hotel, drove 
into a court with double flights of high stone and marble 
stairways, and were hurried up to the marble-mosaic 
landing by an active boy, and, almost before we could ask 
for rooms, were shown into a suite of magnificent apart- 
ments. I had a glimpse of a garden in the rear, — 
flowers and plants, and a balcony up which I suppose 
Romeo climbed to hold that immortal love-prattle with 
the lovesick Juliet. Boy began to light the candles. 
Asked in English the price of such fine rooms. Reply in 
Italian. Asked in German. Reply in Italian. Asked in 
French, with the same result. Other servants appeared, 
each with a piece of baggage. Other candles were 
lighted. Everybody talked in chorus. The landlady, a 
woman of elegant manners and great command of her 
native tongue, appeared with a candle, and joined in the 
melodious confusion. What is the price of these rooms ? 
More jabber, more servants bearing lights. We seemed 
suddenly to have come into an illumination and a private 
lunatic asylum. The landlady and her troop grew more 
and more voluble and excited. Ah, then, if these rooms 
do not suit the signor and signoras, there are others ; 
and we were whisked off to apartments yet grander, — 
great suites with high, canopied beds, mirrors, and furni- 
ture that was luxurious a hundred years ago. The 
price ? Again a torrent of Italian ; servants pouring in, 
lights flashing, our baggage arriving, until, in the tumult, 
hopeless of any response to our inquiry for a servant who 
could speak any thing but Italian, and when we had 
decided, in despair, to hire the entire estabHshment, a 
waiter appeared who was accomplished in all languages, 
the row subsided, and we were left alone in our glory, 
and soon in welcome sleep forgot our desperate search 
for a warm climate. 
The next day it was rainy and not warm ; but the sun 
came out occasionally, and we drove about to see some 
of the sights. The first Italian town which the stranger 
sees he is sure to remember, the out-door life of the peo- 
ple is so different from that at the North. It is the 
fiction in Italy that it is always summer ; and the people 
sit in the open market-place, shiver in the open door- 
ways, crowd into corners where the sun comes, and try 
to keep up the beautiful pretence. The picturesque 
groups of idlers and traffickers were more interesting to 
us than the palaces with sculptured fronts and old Ro- 
man busts, or tombs of the Scaligers, and old gates. Per- 
haps I ought to except the wonderful and perfect Roman 
amphitheatre, over every foot of which a handsome boy 
in rags followed us, looking over every wall that we 
looked over, peering into every hole that we peered 
into, thus showing his fellowship with us, and at every 
pause planting himself before us, and throwing a somer- 
set, and then extending his greasy cap for coppers, as 
if he knew that the modern mind ought not to dwell 
too exclusively on hoary antiquity without some relief. 
Anxious, as I have said, to find the sunny South, we 
left Verona that afternoon for Florence, by way of Padua 
and Bologna. The ride to Padua was tJarough a plain 
at this season dreary enough, were it not, here and there, 
for the abrupt little hills and the snowy Alps, which 
were always in sight, and towards sundown and between 
showers transcendently lovely in a purple and rosy light. 
But nothing now could be more desolate than the rows 
of unending mulberry-trees, pruned down to the stumps, 
through which we rode all the afternoon. I suppose 
they look better when the branches grow out with the 
tender leaves for the silk-worms, and when they are 
clothed with grapevines. Padua was only to us a name. 
There we turned south, lost mountains and the near 
hills, and had nothing but the mulberry flats and ditches 
of water, and chilly rain and mist. It grew unpleasant 
as we went south. At dark we were riding slowly, very 
slowly, for miles through a country overflowed with 
water, out of which trees and houses loomed up in a 
ghastly show. At all the stations soldiers were getting 
on board, shouting and singing discordantly choruses 
from the operas ; for there was a rising at Padua, and 
one feared at Bologna the populace getting up insur- 
rections against the enforcement of the grist-tax, — a tax 
which has made the Government very unpopular, as it 
falls principally upon the poor. 
Creeping along at such a slow rate, we reached Bologna 
too late for the Florence train. It was eight o'clock, and 
still raining. The next train went at two o'clock in the 
morning, and was the best one for us to take. We had 
supper in an inn near by, and a fair attempt at a fire in 
our parlor. I sat before it, and kept it as lively as pos- 
sible, as the hours wore away, and tried to make believe 
that I was ruminating on the ancient greatness of Bo- 
logna and its famous university, some of whose chairs 
had been occupied by women, and upon the fact that it 
was on a little island in the Reno, just below here, that 
Octavius and Lepidus and Mark Antony formed the 
second Triumvirate, which put an end to what little 
Kberty Rome had left ; but in reality I was thinking of 
the draught on my back, and the comforts of a sunny 
clime. But the time came at length for starting ; and in 
luxurious cars we finished the night very comfortably, 
and rode into Florence at eight in the morning to find, 
as we had hoped, on the other side of the Apennines, a 
sunny sky and balmy air. 
As this is strictly a chapter of travel and weather, I 
may not stop to say how impressive and beautiful Flor- 
ence seemed to us ; how bewildering in art treasures, 
which one sees at a glance in the streets ; or scarcely to 
hint how lovely were the Boboli Gardens behind the 
Pitti Palace, the roses, geraniums, &c., in bloom, the 
birds singing, and all in a soft, dreamy air. The next 
day was not so genial ; and we sped on, following our 
original intention of seeking the summer in winter. In 
order to avoid trouble with baggage and passports in 
Rome, we determined to book through for Naples, 
making the trip in about twenty hours. We started at 
nine o'clock in the evening, and I do not recall a more 
thoroughly uncomfortable journey. It grew colder as 
the night wore on, and we went farther south. Late in 
the morning we were landed at the station outside of 
Rome. There was a general appearance of ruin and 
desolation. The wind blew fiercely from the hills, and 
the snow-flakes from the flying clouds added to the gene- 
ral chilliness. There was no chance to get even a cup 
of coffee, and we waited an hour in the cold car. If I 
had not been so half frozen, the consciousness that I was 
actually on the outskirts of the Eternal City, that I saw 
the Campagna and the aqueducts, that yonder were the 
Alban Hills, and that every foot of soil on which I looked 
was saturated with history, would have excited me. 
The sun came out here and there as we went south, and 
we caught some exquisite lights on the near and snowy 
hills ; and there was something almost homelike in the 
miles and miles of olive orchards, that recalled the apple- 
trees, but for their shining silvered leaves. And yet 
nothing could be more desolate than the brown marshy 
ground, the brown hillocks, with now and then a shabby 
stone hut or a bit of ruin, and the flocks of sheep shiv- 
ering near their corrals, and their shepherd, clad in 
sheepskin, as his ancestor was in the time of Eomulus, 
leaning on his staff, with his back to the wind. Now 
and then a white town perched on a hillside, its houses 
piled above each other, relieved the eye ; and I could 
imagine that it might be all the poets have sung of it, 
in the spring, though the Latin poets, I am convinced, 
have wonderfully imposed on us. 
To make my long story short, it happened to be colder 
next morning at Naples than it was in Germany. The 
sun shone ; but the north-east wind, which the natives 
poetically call the Tramontane, was blowing, and the 
white smoke of Vesuvius rolled towards the sea. It 
would only last three days, it was very unusual, and all 
that. The next day -it was colder, and the next colder 
yet. Snow fell, and blew about unmelted : I saw it in 
the streets of Pompeii. The fountains were frozen, 
icicles hung from the locks of the marble statues in the 
Chiaia. And yet the oranges glowed like gold amono- 
their green leaves ; the roses, the heliotrope, the gera° 
mums, bloomed in all the gardens. It is the most con- 
tradictory climate. We lunched one day, sittino- in our 
open carriage in a lemon grove, and near at hand the 
L.ucrine Lake was half frozen over. We feasted our eyes 
on the brilliant light and color on the sea, and the 
lovely outlined mountains round the shore, and waited 
for a change of wind. The Neapolitans declare that 
they have not had such weather in twenty years. It is 
scarcely one's ideal of balmy Italy. 
Before the weather changed, I began to feel in this 
great Naples, with its roaring population of over half a 
million, very much like the sailor I saw at the American 
consul's, who applied for help to be sent home, claiming 
to be an American. He was an oratorical bummer, and 
told his story with all the dignity and elevated language 
of an old Roman. He had been cast away in London. 
How cast away ? Oh ! it was all along of a boarding- 
house. And then he found himself shipped on an 
English vessel, and he had lost his discharge-papere ; 
and " Listen, your honor," said he, calmly extending his 
right hand, " here I am cast away on this desolate island, 
with nothing before me but wind and weather." 
RAVENNA. 
 
EAVENNA is so remote from the route of general 
travel in Italy, that I am certain you can have no 
late news from there, nor can I bring you any thing much 
later than the sixth century. Yet, if you were to see 
Ravenna, you would say that that is late enough. I am 
surprised that a city which contains the most interesting 
early Christian churches and mosaics, is the richest in 
undisturbed specimens of early Christian art, and con- 
tains the only monuments of Roman emperors still in 
their original positions, should be so seldom visited. 
Ravenna has been dead for some centuries ; and, be- 
cause nobody has cared to bury it, its ancient monuments 
are yet above ground. Grass grows in its wide streets, 
and its houses s'tand in a sleepy, vacant contemplation 
of each other : the wind must like to mourn about its 
silent squares. The, waves of the Adriatic once brought 
the commerce of the East to its wharves ; but the 
deposits of the Po and the tides have, in process of time, 
made it an inland town, and the sea is four miles away. 
In the time of Augustus, Ravenna was a favorite 
Roman port and harbor for fleets of war and merchan- 
dise. There Theodoric, the reat king of the Goths, 
set up his palace, and there is his enormous mausoleum. 
As early as A.D. 44 it became an episcopal see, with 
St. Apollinaris, a disciple of St. Peter, for its bishop. 
There some of the later Roman emperors fixed their 
residences, and there they repose. In and about it 
revolved the adventurous Ufe of Galla Placidia, a wo- 
  
man of considerable talent and no principle, the daugh- 
ter of Theodosius (the great Theodosius, who subdued 
the Arian heresy, the first emperor baptized in the 
true faith of the Trinity, the last who had a spark of 
genius), the sister of one emperor, and the mother 
of another, — twice a slave, once a queen, and once an 
empress; and she, too, rests there in the great mau- 
soleum builded for lier. There, also, lies Dante, in his 
tomb " by the upbraiding shore ; " rejected once of un- 
grateful Florence, and forever after passionately longed 
for. There, in one of the earliest Christian churches in 
existence, are the fine mosaics of the Emperor Justinian, 
and Theodora, the handsome courtesan whom he raised 
to the dignity and luxury of an empress on his throne in 
Constantinople. There is the famous forest of pines, 
stretching unbroken twenty miles down the coast to 
Rimini, in whose cool and breezy glades Dante and 
Boccaccio walked and meditated, which Dryden has 
commemorated, and Byron has invested with the fas 
cination of his genius ; and under the whispering boughs 
of which moved the glittering cavalcade which fetched 
the bride to Kimini, — the fair Francesca, whose sinful 
confession Dante heard in hell. 
We went down to Ravenna from Bologna one after- 
noon, through a country level and rich, riding along 
toward hazy evening, the land getting flatter as we pro- 
ceeded (you know, there is a difierence between level 
and flat), through interminable mulberry-trees and vines, 
and fields with the tender green of spring, with church- 
spires in the rosy horizon ; on till the meadows became 
marshes, in which millions of frogs sang the overture of 
the opening year. Our arrival, I have reason to believe, 
was an event in the old town. We had a crowd of 
mouldy loafers to witness it at the station, not one of 
whom had ambition enough to work to earn a sou by 
lilting our travelling-bags. We had our hotel to our- 
selves, and wished that anybody else had it. The rival 
house was quite aware of our advent, and watched us with 
 
jealous eyes ; and we, in turn, looked wistfully at it, for 
our own food was so scarce that, as an old traveller says, 
we feared tliat we shouldn't have enough, until we saw 
it on the table, when its quality made it appear too much. 
The next morning, when I sallied out to hire a convey- 
ance, I was an object of interest to the entire population, 
who seemed to think it very odd that any one should 
walk about and explore the quiet streets. If I were to 
describe Ravenna, I should say that it is as flat as Hol- 
land and as lively as New London. There are broad 
streets, with high houses, that once were handsome, 
palaces that were once the abode of luxury, gardens 
that still bloom, and churches by the score. It is an 
open gate through which one walks unchallenged into 
the past, with little to break the association with the early 
Christian ages, their monuments undimmed by time, un- 
touched by restoration and innovation, the whole struck 
with ecclesiastical death. With all that we saw that 
day, — churches, basilicas, mosaics, statues, mausoleums, 
— I will not burden these pages ; but I will set down 
enough to give you the local color, and to recall some 
of the most interesting passages in Christian history in 
this out-of-the-way city on the Adriatic. 
Our first pilgrimage was to the Church of St. Apol- 
linare Nuova ; but why it is called new I do not know, 
as Theodoric built it, for an Arian cathedral in about 
the year 500. It is a noble interior, having twenty-four 
inarble columns of gray Cippolino, brought from Con- 
stantinople, with composite capitals, on each of which is 
an impost with Latin crosses sculptured on it. These 
columns support round arches, which divide the nave 
from the aisles, and on the whole length of the wall of 
the nave so supported are superb mosaics, full-length 
fi:ures, in colors as fresh as if done yesterday, though 
they were executed thirteen hundred years ago. The 
mosaic on the left side — which is, perhaps, the finest 
oue of the period in existence — is interestmg on an- 
other account. It represents the city of Classis, with 
sea and ships, and a long procession of twenty-two 
virgins presenting offerings to the Virgin and Child, 
seated on a throne. The Virgin is surrounded by 
angels, and has a glory round her head, which shows 
that homage is being paid to her. It has been supposed, 
from the early monuments of Christian art, that the 
worship of the Virgin is of comparatively recent origin ; 
but this mosaic would go to show that Mariolatry was 
established before the end of the sixth century. Near 
this church is part of the front of the palace of Theo- 
doric, in which the Exarchs and Lombard kings sub- 
sequently resided. Its treasures and marbles Char- 
lemagne carried off to Germany. 
 
ITE drove three miles beyond the city, to the 
Church of St. Apollinare ia Classe, a lonely edi- 
fice in a waste of marsh, a grand old basilica, a purer 
specimen of Christian art than Rome or any other Italian 
town can boast. Just outside the city gate stands a 
Greek cross on a small fluted column, which marks the 
site of the once magnificent Basilica of St. Laurentius, 
which was demolished in the sixteenth century, its stone 
built into a new church in town, and its rich marbles car- 
ried to all-absorbing Rome. It was the last relic of the old 
port of Caesarea, famous since the time of Augustus. A 
marble column on a green meadow is all that remains 
of a once prosperous city. Our road lay through the 
marshy plain, across an elevated bridge over the slug- 
gish united stream of the Ronco and Montone, from 
which there is a wide view, including the Pineta (or 
Pine Forest), the Church of St. Apollinare in the midst 
of rice-fields and marshes, and on a clear day the Alps 
and Apennines. 
I can imagine nothing more desolate than this soli- 
tary church, or the approach to it. Laborers were 
busy spading up the heavy, wet ground, or digging 
trenches, which instantly filled with water, for the whole 
country was afloat. The frogs greeted us with clamor- 
ous chorus out of their slimy pools, and the mosquitoes 
attacked us as we rode along. I noticed about on 
the bogs, wherever they could find standing-room, half- 
naked wretches, with long spears, having several prongs, 
like tridents, which they thrust into the grass and shal- 
low water. Callins one of them to us, we found that 
his business was fishing, and that he forked out very 
fat and edible-looking fish with his trident. Shaggy, 
undersized horses were wading in the water, nipping 
ofi" the thin spears of grass. Close to the church is a 
rickety farmhouse. If I lived there, I would as lief be 
a fish as a horse. 
The interior of this primitive old basilica is lofty and 
imposing, with twenty-four handsome columns of the 
gray Cippolino marble, and an elevated high altar and 
tribune, decorated with splendid mosaics of the sixth 
century, — biblical subjects, in all the stiff faithfulness 
of the holy old times. The marble floor is green and 
damp and sHppery. Under the tribune is the crypt, 
where the body of St. Apollinaris used to lie (it is now 
under the high altar above) ; and, as I desired to see 
where he used to rest, I walked in. I also walked into 
about six inches of water, in the dim, irreligious light ; 
and so made a cold-water Baptist devotee of myself. In 
the side aisles are wonderful old sarcophagi, containing 
the ashes of archbishops of Ravenna, so old that the 
owners' names are forgotten of two of them, which shows 
that a man may build a tomb more enduring than his 
memory. The sculptured bas-reliefs are very interest- 
ing, being early Christian emblems and curious devices, 
— symbols of sheep, palms, peacocks, crosses, and the 
four rivers of Paradise flowing down in stony streams 
from stony sources, and monograms, and pious rebuses. 
At the entrance of the crypt is an open stone book, called 
the Breviary of Gregory the Great. Detached from the 
church is the Bell Tower, a circular campanile of a sort 
peculiar to Ravenna, which adds to the picturesqueness 
of the pile, and suggests the notion that it is a mast 
unshipped from its vessel, the church, which consequently 
stands there water-logged, with no power to catch any 
wind, of doctrine or other, and move. I forgot to say 
that the basilica was launched in the year 534. 
A little weary -with the good but damp old Christians, 
we ordered our driver to continue across the marsh to 
the Pineta, whose dark fringe bounded all our horizon 
toward the Adriatic. It is the largest unbroken forest in 
Italy, and by all odds the most poetic in itself and its 
associations. It is twenty-five miles long, and from one 
to three in breadth, a free growth of stately pines, whose 
boughs are full of music and sweet odors, — a succession 
of lovely glades and avenues, with miles and miles of 
drives over the springy turf At the point where we 
entered is a farmhouse. Laborers had been gathering 
the cones, which were heaped up in immense windrows, 
hundreds of feet in length. Boys and men were busy 
pounding out the seeds from the cones. The latter are 
used for fuel, and the former are pressed for their oil. 
They are also eaten : we have often had them served at 
hotel-tables, and found them rather tasteless, but not 
unpleasant. The turf, as we drove into the recesses of 
the forest, was thickly covered with wild-flowers, of many 
colors and delicate forms ; but we liked best the violets, 
for they reminded us of home, though the driver seemed 
to think them less valuable than the seeds of the pine- 
cones. A lovely day and history and romance united 
to fascinate us with the place. We were driving over 
the spot where, eighteen centuries ago, the Roman fleet 
used to ride at anchor. Here, it is certain, the gloomy 
spirit of Dante found congenial place for meditation, and 
the gay Boccaccio material for fiction. Here for hours, 
day after day, Byron used to gallop his horse, giving 
vent to that restless impatience which could not all 
escape from his fiery pen, hearing those voices of a past 
and dead Italy which he, more truthfully and patheti- 
cally than any other poet, has put into living verse. 
The driver pointed out what is called Byron's Path, 
where he was wont to ride. Everybody here, indeed, 
knows of Byron ; and I think his memory is more secure 
than any saint of them all in their stone boxes, — partly 
because his poetry has celebrated the region, perhaps 
  
rather from the perpetuated tradition of his generosity. 
No foreigner was ever so popular as he while he lived at 
Ravenna. At least, the people say so now, since they 
find it so profitable to keep his memory alive and to point 
out his haunts. The Italians, to be sure, know how to 
make capital out of poets and heroes, and are quick to 
learn the curiosity of foreigners, and to gratify it for a 
compensation. But the evident esteem in which Byron's 
memory is held in the Armenian monastery of St. 
Lazzare, at Venice, must be otherwise accounted- for. 
The monks keep his library-room and table as they 
were when he wrote there, and like to show his portrait, 
and tell of his quick mastery of the difficult Armenian 
tongue. We have a notable example of a Person who 
became a monk when he was sick ; but Byron accom- 
plished too much work during the few months he was on 
the Island of St. Lazzare, both in original composition 
and in translating English into Armenian, for one phy- 
sically ruined and broken. 
DANTE AND BYRON. 
THE pilgrim to Ravenna, wlio has any idea of what 
is due to the genius of Dante, will be disappointed 
when he approaches his tomb. Its situation is in a not 
very conspicuous corner, at the foot of a narrow street, 
bearing the poet's name, and beside the Church of San 
Francisco, which is interesting as containing the tombs 
of the Polenta family, whose hospitality to the wander- 
ing exile has rescued their names from oblivion. Op- 
posite the tomb is the shabby old brick house of the 
Polentas, where Dante passed many years of his life. 
It is tenanted now by all sorts of people, and a dirty 
carriage-shop in the courtyard kills the poetry of it. 
Dante died in 1321, and was at first buried in the neigh- 
boring church ; but this tomb, since twice renewed, was 
erected, and his body removed here, in 1482. It is a 
square stuccoed structure, stained light green, and cov- 
ered by a dome, — a tasteless monument, embellished 
with stucco medallions; inside, of the poet, of Virgil, 
of Brunetto Latini, the poet's master, and of his patron, 
Guido da Polenta. On the sarcophagus is the epitaph, 
composed in Latin by Dante himself, who seems to have 
thought, with Shakspeare, that for a poet to make his 
own epitaph was the safest thing to do. Notwithstand- 
ing the mean appearance of this sepulchre, there is none 
in all the soil of Italy that the traveller from America 
will visit with deeper interest. Near by is the house 
where Byron first resided in Ravenna, as a tablet re- 
cords. 
The people here preserve all the memorials of Byron ; 
and, I should judge, hold his memory in something like 
afiection. The Palace Guiccioli, in which he subse- 
quently resided, is in another part of the town. He 
spent over two years in Ravenna, and said he preferred 
it to any place in Italy. Why I cannot see ; unless it 
was reinote from the route of travel, and the desolation 
of it was congenial to him. Doubtless he loved these 
wide, marshy expanses on the Adriatic, and especially 
the great forest of pines on its shore ; but Byron was 
apt to be governed in his choice of a residence by 
the woman with whom he was intimate. The palace 
was certainly pleasanter than his gloomy house in the 
Strada di Porta Sisi, and the society of the Countess 
Guiccioli was rather than otherwise a stimulus to his 
literary activity. At her suggestion he wrote the Pro- 
phecy of Dante ; and the translation of Francesca da 
Kimini was " executed at Ravenna, where, five centuries 
before, and in the very house in which the unfortunate 
lady was born, Dante's poem had been composed." 
Some of his finest poems were also produced here,  =— 
poems for which Venice is as grateful as Ravenna. 
Here he wrote " Marino Faliero," " The Two Foscari," 
« Morganti Maggiore," " Sardanapalus," " The Blues," 
the fifth canto of " Don Juan," " Cain," " Heaven and 
Earth," and " The Vision of Judgment." I looked in 
at the court of the palace, — a pleasant, quiet place, — 
where he used to work, and tried to guess which were 
the windows of his apartments. The sun was shining 
brightly, and a bird was singing in the court ; but there 
was no other sign of life, nor any thing to remind one 
of the profligate genius who was so long a guest here. 
RESTING-PLACE OF CSARS. — PIC- 
TURE OF A BEAUTIFUL HERETIC. 
VERY different from the tomb of Dante, and dif- 
V ferent in the associations it awakes, is the Ro- 
tunda or Mausoleum of Theodoric the Goth, outside 
the Porta Serrata, whose daughter, Amalasuntha, as it 
is supposed, about the year 530, erected this imposing 
structure as a certain place " to keep his memory whole 
and mummy hid " forever. But the Goth had not lain 
in it long before Arianism went out of fashion quite, and 
the zealous Roman Catholics despoiled his costly sleep- 
ing-place, and scattered his ashes abroad. I do not 
know that any dead person has lived in it since. The 
tomb is still a very solid affair, — a rotunda built of solid 
blocks of limestone, and resting on a ten-sided base, 
each side having a recess surmounted by an arch. The 
upper story is also decagonal, and is reached by a flight 
of modern stone steps. The roof is composed of a single 
block of Istrian limestone, scooped out like a shallow 
bowl inside ; and, being the biggest roof-stone I ever 
saw, I will give you the dimensions. It is thirty-six feet 
in diameter, hollowed out to the depth of ten feet, four 
feet thick at the centre, and two feet nine inches at the 
edges, and is estimated to weigh two hundred tons. 
Amalasuntha must have had help in getting it up there. 
The lower story is partly 'under water. The green grass 
of the enclosure in which it stands is damp enough for 
frogs. An old woman opened the iron gate to let us in. 
Whether she was any relation of the ancient proprietor, 
I did not inquire ; but she had so much trouble in turn- 
ing the key in the rusty lock, and letting us in, that I 
presume we were the only visitors she has had for some 
centuries. 
Old women abound in Ravenna ; at least, she was not 
young who showed us the mausoleum of Galla Placidia. 
Placidia was also prudent and foreseeing, and built this 
once magnificent sepulchre for her own occupation. It 
is in the form of a Latin cross, forty-six feet in length 
by about forty in width. The floor is paved with rich 
marbles ; the cupola is covered with mosaics of the time 
of the empress ; and in the arch over the door is a fine 
representation of the Good Shepherd. Behind the altar 
is the massive sarcophagus of marble (its cover of silver 
plates was long ago torn off) in which are literally the 
ashes of the empress. She was immured in it as a mummy, 
in a sitting position, clothed in imperial robes ; and there 
the ghastly corpse sat in a cypress-wood chair, to be looked 
at by anybody who chose to peep through the aperture, 
for more than eleven hundred years, till one day, in 1577, 
some children introduced a lighted candle, perhaps out 
of compassion for her who sat so long in darkness, when 
her clothes caught fire, and she was burned up, — a 
warning to all children not to play with a dead and dry 
empress. In this resting-place are also the tombs of 
Honorius II., her brother, of Constantius III., her sec- 
ond husband, and of Honoria, her daughter. There are 
no other undisturbed tombs of the Csesars in existence. 
Hers is almost the last, and the very small last, of a 
great succession. What thoughts of a great empire in 
ruins do not force themselves on one in the confined 
walls of this little chamber I What a woman was she 
whose ashes lie there ! She saw and aided the ruin of 
the empire ; but it may be said of her, that her vices 
were greater than her misfortunes. And what a story 
is her life ! Born to the purple, educated in the palace 
at Constantinople, accomplished but not handsome, at the 
age of twenty she was in Rome when Alaric besieged it. 
Carried off captive by the Goths, she became the not 
unwilling object of the passion of King Adolphus, who at 
length married her at Narbonne. At the nuptials the 
king, in a Roman habit, occupied a seat lower than hers, 
while she sat on a throne habited as a Roman empress, 
and received homage. Fifty handsome youths bore to 
her in each hand a dish of gold, one filled with coin, and 
the other with precious stones, — a small part only, these 
hundred vessels of treasure, of the spoils the Goths 
brought from her country. When Adolphus, who never 
abated his fondness for his Roman bride, was assassinated 
at Barcelona, she was treated like a slave by his as- 
sassins, and driven twelve miles on foot before the horse 
of his murderer. Ransomed at length for six hundred 
thousand measures of wheat by her brother Honorius, 
who handed her over struggling to Constantius, one of 
his generals. But, once married, her reluctance ceased ; 
and she set herself to advance the interests of herself 
and husband, ruling him as she had done the first one. 
Her purpose was accomplished when he was declared 
joint emperor with Honorius. He died shortly after ; 
and scandalous stories of her intimacy with her brother 
caused her removal to Constantinople ; but she came 
back again, and reigned long as the regent of her son, 
Valentinian HI., a feeble youth, who never grew to have 
either passions or talents, and was very likely, as was 
said, enervated by his mother in dissolute indulgence, 
so that she might be supreme. But she died at Rome 
in 450, much praised for her orthodoxy and her devotion 
to the Trinity. And there was her daughter, Honoria, 
who ran off with a chamberlain, and afterward offered 
to throw herself into the arms of Attila, who wouldn't 
take her as a gift at first, but afterward demanded her, 
and fought to win her and her supposed inheritance. 
But they were a bad lot altogether ; and it is no credit 
to a Christian of the nineteenth century to stay in this 
tomb so long. 
Near this mausoleum is the magnificent Basilica of St. 
Vitale, built in the reign of Justinian, and consecrated in 
547. I was interested to see it because it was erected 
in confessed imitation of St. Sophia, at Constantinople, 
is in the octagonal form, and has all the accessories 
of Eastern splendor, according to the architectural au- 
thorities. Its eflfect is really rich and splendid ; and it 
rather dazzled us with its maze of pillars, its upper and 
lower columns, its galleries, complicated capitals, arches 
on arches, and Byzantine intricacies. To the student 
of the very early ecclesiastical art, it must be an object 
of more interest than even of wonder. But what I cared 
most to see were the mosaics in the choir, executed in 
the time of Justinian, and as fresh and beautiful as on 
the day they were made. The mosaics and the exquisite 
arabesques on the roof of the choir, taken together, are 
certainly unequalled by any other early church-deco- 
ration I have seen ; and they are as interesting as they 
are beautiful. Any description of them is impossible ; 
but mention may be made of two characteristic groups, 
remarkable for execution, and having yet a deeper in- 
terest. 
In one compartment of the tribune is the figure of the 
Emperor Justinian, holding a vase with consecrated offer- 
ings, and surrounded by courtiers and soldiers. Oppo- 
site is the figure of the Empress Theodora, holding a 
similar vase, and attended by ladies of Jaer court. There is 
a refinement and an elegance about the empress, a grace 
and sweet dignity, that is fascinating. This is royalty, 
— stately and cold perhaps : even the mouth may be 
a Httle cruel, I begin to perceive, as I think of her ; but 
she wears the purple by divine right. I have not seen 
on any walls any figure walking out of history so cap- 
tivating as this lady, who would seem to have been 
worthy of apotheosis in a Christian edifice. Can there 
be any doubt that this lovely woman was orthodox? 
She, also, has a story, which you doubtless have been 
recalling as you read. Is it worth while to repeat even 
its outlines? This charming regal woman was the 
daughter of the keeper of the bears in the circus at 
Constantinople ; and she early went upon the stage as 
a pantomimist and buffoon. She was beautiful, with 
regular features, a little pale, but with a tinge of natural 
color, vivacious eyes, and an easy motion that displayed 
to advantage the graces of her small but elegant figure. 
I can see all that in the mosaic. But she sold her charms 
to whoever cared to buy them in Constantinople ; she 
led a life of dissipation that cannot be even hinted at in 
these days ; she went off to Egypt as the concubine of 
a general ; was deserted, and destitute even to misery 
in Cairo ; wandered about a vagabond in many Eastern 
cities, and won the reputation everywhere of the most 
beautiful courtesan of her time ; re-appeared in Constan- 
tinople ; and, having, it is said, a vision of her future, 
suddenly took to a pretension of virtue and plain sew- 
ing ; contrived to gain the notice of Justinian, to inflame 
his passions as she did those of all the world besides, 
to captivate him into first an alliance, and at length a 
marriage. The emperor raised her to an equal seat 
with himself on his throne ; and she was worshipped 
as empress in that city where she had been admired 
as harlot. And on the throne she was a wise woman, 
courageous and chaste; and had her palaces on the 
Bosphorus ; and took good care of her beauty, and in- 
dulged in the pleasures of a good table ; had ministers 
who kissed her feet ; a crowd of women and eunuchs in 
her secret chambers, whose passions she indulged ; was 
avaricious and sometimes cruel ; and founded a convent 
for the irreclaimably bad of her own sex, some of whom 
liked it, and some of whom threw themselves into the 
sea in despak ; and when she died was an irreparable 
loss to her emperor. So that it seems to me it is a pity 
that the historian should say that she was devout, but a 
little heretic. 
THE splendid and tiresome ceremonies of Holy Week 
set in ; also the rain, which held up for two days. 
Kome without the sun, and with rain and the bone- 
penetrating damp cold of the season, is a wretched 
place. Squalor and ruins and cheap splendor need the 
sun ; the galleries need it ; the black old masters in the 
dark corners of the gaudy churches need it ; I think 
scarcely any thing of a cardinal's big, blazing footman, 
unless the sun shines on him, and radiates from his 
broad back and his splendid calves ; the models, who 
get up in theatrical costumes, and get put into pictures, 
and pass the world over for Roman peasants (and 
beautiful many of them are) can't sit on the Spanish 
Stairs in indolent pose when it rains ; the streets are 
slimy and horrible ; the carriages try to run over you, 
and stand a very good chance of succeeding, where there 
are no sidewalks, and you are limping along on the slip- 
pery, round cobble-stones ; you can't get into the coun- 
try, which is the best part of Rome : but when the sun 
shines all this is changed ; the dear old dirty town exer- 
cises its fascinations on you then, and you speedily forget 
your recent misery. 
Holy Week is a vexation to most people. All the 
world crowds here to see its exhibitions and theatrical 
shows, and works hard to catch a glimpse of them, and 
is tired out, if not disgusted, at the end. The things to 
see and hear are Palm Sunday in St. Peter's ; singing 
of the miserere by the pope's choir on Wednesday, 
Thursday, and Friday in the Sistine Chapel ; washing 
of the pilgrims' feet in a chapel of St. Peter's, and serv- 
ing the apostles at table by the pope on Thursday, with 
a papal benediction from the balcony afterwards ; Easter 
Sunday, with the illumination of St. Peter's in the even- 
ing ; and fireworks (this year in front of St. Peter's in 
Montorio) Monday evening. Raised seats are built up 
about the high altar under the dome in St. Peter's, which 
will accommodate a thousand, and perhaps more, ladies ; 
and for these tickets are issued without numbers, and 
for twice as many as they will seat. Gentlemen who 
are in evening dress are admitted to stand in the re- 
served places inside the lines of soldiers. For th 
miserere in the Sistine Chapel tickets are also issued. As 
there is only room for about four hundred ladies, and a 
thousand and more tickets are given out, you may ima- 
gine the scramble. Ladies go for hours before the singing 
begins, and make a grand rush when the doors are open. 
I do not know any sight so unseemly and cruel as a 
crowd of women intent on getting in to such a ceremony : 
they are perfectly rude and unmerciful to each other. 
They push and trample one another under foot ; veils 
and dresses are torn ; ladies faint away in the scrim- 
mage, and only the strongest and most unscrupulous get 
in. I have heard some say, who have been in the pell- 
mell, that, not content with elbowing and pushing and 
pounding, some women even stick pins into those who 
are in the way. I hope this latter is not true ; but it is 
certain that the conduct of most of the women is brutal. 
A weak or modest or timid woman stands no more 
chance than she would in a herd of infuriated Campagna 
cattle. The same scenes are enacted in the efforts to 
see the pope wash feet, and serve at the table. For the 
possession of the seats under the dome on Palm Sunday 
and Easter there is a like crush. The ceremonies do 
not begin until half-past nine ; but ladies go between 
five and six o'clock in the morning, and when the pas- 
sages are open they make a grand rush. The seats, 
except those saved for the nobility, are soon all taken ; 
and the ladies who come after seven are lucky if they 
can get within the charmed circle, and find a spot to sit 
down on a camp-stool. They can then see only a part 
of the proceedings, and have a weary, exhausting time 
of it for hours. This year Rome is more crowded 
than ever before. There are American ladies enough 
to fill all the reserved places ; and I fear they are ener- 
getic enough to get their share of them. 
It rained Sunday ; but there was a steady stream of 
people and carriages all the morning pouring over the 
Bridge of St. Angelo, and discharging into the piazza 
of St. Peter's. It was after nine when I arrived on the 
