the strangest thing to tell you it has hardly been out of 
my mind till just now. I couldn't have dreamed of such a 
surprise if I had tried." 
" Another donation, or another patient ? " 
" A donation ; but you never would guess ! I was that 
much astonished that I could not believe it at first. It la 
the Lord's hand, my dear; I see that as plain as the day 
Til go and get it." 
 
In the familiar room which opened on tht hall, the room 
with its old furnishings and antique Indian secretary that 
Madge always remembered so well, Miss Bright has laid 
her treasure. 
A plain white envelope, with her name in a bold, clear 
hand, that sent a tremor through Madge's whole frame. It 
was well that Miss Hetty was so engrossed that her agi- 
tation passed unremarked. 
"You would hardly believe it, but I knew it for God's 
own work Mr. Westlake came last night, just in the 
edge of the evening. I scarcely recognized him at first. 
I should as soon have expected the king." 
By this time Miss Hetty had the envelope open. There 
was a check, with a paper folded around it on which was 
written " For Miss Bright's Home. To be devoted to 
the sick and the needy as she thinks best. The gift of a 
dying woman May Westlake." 
"O!" and the tears filled Madge's eyes. She under- 
stood it even better than the recipient. 
"It is for a thousand dollars! I never had such a sur- 
prise in my life. I should as soon have looked for the 
moon to fall right into my lap. He talked a long while 
about her, and said she had been so much interested in 
Jenny Yates's death, though at that time she could hardly 
resign herself to a thought of the great change coming to 
her. I used to think her a foolish, flighty little thing, but 
I take it all back now. She changed a good deal in the 
last two months, he said, and at last saw her way quite 
clearly. Mr. Maurice had visited her, and I am sure an 
angel from heaven couldn't make things plainer than he 
does. A few days before she died, she wrote this out, and 
asked him to bring it to me as soon as he could, and tell 
me that she began to understand the worth of useful lives. 
He wanted it done before she was buried." 
" It was thoughtful and generous of her," Madge re 
turned, softly, trying to still the great throbbing at her 
heart. 
" He asked me so many questions about the house, and 
how I came to think of having a hospital. He wanted to 
hear about Miss Jessie's fortune too, and how you all came 
back to Home Nook. It may be an old woman's fancy, 
but I do believe he cared a great deal for Miss Jessie, and 
it just flashed into my mind if the fortune had been 
hers sooner " 
" It couldn't have helped or hindered," said Madge, with 
a gasp. "And Jessie never " 
"No, that comforted me again. And she loves Mr. 
Graham so very dearly ! You can see it in her eyes when- 
ever she speaks of him. But somehow I do believe the 
young man's life has had a gnarl or a tangle in it I 
can't quite make out. The madam, you know, was very 
proud and haughty, but he is noble and good to the very 
core. He sat here and called me Miss Hetty just like the 
old times. It is plain to see that his heart is not in the 
money or the grandeur, for he thinks of going away some- 
where and trying business. And there's his poor little 
motherless girl! I declare it made the tears come into my 
foolish old eyes. After all, youth seems the time to be 
happy, and I can't help fancying that he has missed some 
of the sweetest. Maybe the Lord will make it up to him 
in the end." 
Mrs. Farrand was coming down the stairs just then, and 
Madge was thankful for the interruption. Her heart waa 
too full to take up indifferent topics ; so, as soon as she could 
politely, she bade the ladies adieu, in spite of their entrea- 
ties that she would remain to supper. 
Once out of sight of questioning eyes, she gave way to 
her long-repressed feelings. It was seldom that she allowed 
herself the luxury of tears, but now they flowed forth un- 
restrained, and were a relief. She understood and appre- 
ciated the delicacy that had led Charles Westlake to keep 
her name in the background. It was strange, indeed, that 
Miss Hetty's clear sight had been so led astray in the 
 
earlier days. Madge was doubly grateful now, for com- 
ment on this point would be the one thing she could not 
endu?e. 
If they thought of it at home, no one made any sign, un- 
less it was to be tenderer to Madge. And at this juncture 
there was so much to divide attention ! Philip was pre- 
paring for his college terra, and Jessie made daily journeys 
to the city, often taking Madge for a companion. The 
new house was being furnished, and Madge declared that 
she luxuriated in extravagance, enjoying every dollar that 
Jessie spent. Her fortune had been re-invested very prof- 
itably, but she felt there was no necessity for her to be 
adding to it, and it seemed, with all the abundance, that it 
was no more than right to share some of her blessings 
with the household. And in her home they were to be no 
strangers. Clement and Rose were to be chief house- 
holders at Home Nook. Nellie would be married and 
gone by another spring, in all probability, and dear mamma 
would be in demand at every home. 
"For I cannot imagine our forgetting and falling apart, 
as some households do," Jessie said, as she sat in her 
mother's room the evening before Philip's departure. " If 
it is our troubles, and sorrows, and struggles that have 
bound us so closely together, I am almost ready to welcome 
them, now that we have come to sunshine once more." 
" I am thankful that we have had these pleasant weeks 
with each other," Philip replied, " for I suppose it will 
never be quite the same again. But, mother dear, where 
you are will be the rally ing-point for us all. I am glad 
that Clement and Rose have so planned that it will alwaya 
be here." 
" Dear Clement," said the mother, fondly. " And yet 
each one of you has borne the burden and heat of the day. 
I cannot tell you, my dear children, how doubly sweet 
your sympathy and assistance have been. Amid the losses 
and perplexities, each one has won something for this 
%nd I trust for the life to come." 
" Sorrow may endure for a night, but joy does come in 
the morning, some morning when we are not looking 
for it," said Jessie. " And it has come blessedly to us." 
"Yes," returned Philip. "Our gains have not been 
small. God has given us beauty for ashes, and the oil of 
joy for mourning. I sometimes look over the path by which 
we have been led, and its lessons sink deeply into my soul, 
We have learned that no wrong or thoughtless act stops 
between God and our own conscience, but bears its fatal 
fruit wide spread." 
"And causes misery to many innocent souls," said Madge. 
" It is not true that he who sins always bears the heaviest 
punishment." 
" It seems to me that God desires to teach us by this 
one indisputable fact, that humanity is linked together 
from this brief life to the far-reaching one that is to come 
after, and that while we make any compromise with wrong, 
we are rendered just that far incapable of decisions which 
are pure and honest." 
"And yet it does seem hard to suffer from the faults of 
others. I cannot make out how far any one has a right;" 
and Madge paused, one of the old troubled looks crossing 
her face. 
" My dear," said her mother, " we are not asked to make 
it out. We puzzle our heads over judgments and punish- 
ments as if we could find out all of God's ways, when He 
simply asks us to bear something for His sake, to prove 
our love and devotion. He, being innocent, suffered for the 
many, and I think, besides the grand doctrine of the atone- 
ment, it was to teach us that lesson, also. Wherein we 
Lave suffered innocently, we have followed a little in His 
footsteps." 
"I had not thought of that." 
" And we become the more careful of our own actions. 
Every relation of life has its own responsibility. We may 
hurt and hinder others through some selfish aggrandize- 
ment of our purposes that may look fair enough to our- 
 
selves from the outside. But we are to go deeper than 
that. We are to sift our motives. For He reads those." 
" And to learn that charity comes to mean, in daily life, 
a wise, tender, and generous forbearance, a helpful heart 
and ready hand; that holiness is no mystic, far-fetched 
quality, but an ever-living power, penetrating both soul 
and body, bringing humility, righteousness, and faith in 
its train. For close to us all is this living presence of God. 
We have only to reach out and take." 
" But you have so much faith, Philip. You see things 
so clearly !" 
" I have left the darkness behind ! I remember the day 
I enlisted. I said, I am here to do whatever God wills. If 
He open no other door, I will walk in this path, fulfilling its 
duties to the uttermost. And when He set my feet on 
high, how could I help but believe and trust?" 
" And my happiness came through that," said Jessie 
with a sound of tremulous joy in her voice. 
They thought of another cloud that had brought ik, 
silver lining to the day. No one remembered it now with 
:my sense of wrong. Rose's tenderness would have shamed 
them all if they had. 
"And we have learned that duties and blessings abound 
in the lowly paths of life as well as the loftiest," said Mrs. 
Ashburton ; " that brothers and sisters, parents and chil- 
dren, can bring forth good fruit in the simplest of daily 
work. And you, my children, have done this. It is not 
only high heroic deeds that bring a sweet reward. And 
when we comprehend how really grand a thing it is to 
live, we desire to give back to God the fruit of our prog- 
ress, our growth in the graces of spiritual life. And now, 
my darlings, good night." 
"I shall often miss the dear old home," said Philip, lin- 
gering at the door. " But I know that I shall keep my place 
in your hearts, and one of my happiest thoughts will be the 
reunions to come." 
On the morrow they said farewell to him. What a 
manly soul his was ! Truth and honor were ineffaceably 
stamped on his countenance. There would be no weak 
shipwrecks for him. He had been tried already " as by 
fire." 
Then Jessie began her preparations. A few trunks and 
boxes to be packed, for the furniture was to remain, 
part for Madge, and the rest for her mother. After she 
was fairly settled, Mr. and Mrs. Ashburton were to pay her 
a long visit. 
They missed the baby wonderfully, for Greta had been 
nearly taken possession of by Miss Wyverne. Hardly a day 
passed that either Madge or Eleanor did not make a flying 
call at the new house to have a glimpse of Jessie in all the 
glory of her pretty matronly ways. Mr. Graham insisted 
that presently they meant to take possession of Madge, 
adopt her and her genius legally. 
Mr. Wyverne would fain have had his marriage before 
the holidays, and pleaded earnestly that it might be so. 
Why Eleanor desired to wait until spring, was not very 
clear to herself. 
" There have been so many changes and leave takings ! " 
she said. " We must become a little used to these first, 
and not have too many vacant places at once.'* 
"But you will be so near! It is only such a very little 
change," he pleaded. " And you are quite sure of your 
own heart this time ? " 
" So sure that if aught came between us, my love would 
Btill be yours. It seems as if it must have begun with 
my very life. Do you know I sometimes feel afraid of 
its power and strength ? Have I been growing in vehe- 
mence ? " 
He glanced into the eloquent, dark eyes. She was a 
very beautiful woman in this full maturity, and appealed 
atrongly to his aesthetic sense. He watched her as one 
would a rare flower. 
 
"You seem to be unfolding into a fuller, freer life, my 
darling; aiid I am glad to think that it is through me, 
and for me. Because our sympathies are BO in unison, our 
tastes and feelings so much alike, I long to begin the new 
life with you. I am not afraid to dare it with my com- 
parative poverty." 
"As if you did not know how little these things move 
me now ; " and she smiled radiantly. " I am no romantic 
girl, as you are well aware, and yet the life with you would 
still be a pleasure to me if it were toil and sacrifice. If you 
were sick or unfortunate, I would gladly take your place : 
if any sorrow came, Heaven only knows how ready I should 
be to share it." 
" Why do you think of such things ? You have had 
enough of them in your life. It will be my whole study 
to shut them out. While I cannot give you luxury, I can 
bestow upon you comfort and the tenderest love." 
" Perhaps it is because I want to make myself sure of 
my affection that I try it by such tests." 
"I think sometimes that you are morbidly conscien- 
tious. When you have had years of happiness, you will 
smile over this." 
Eleanor repeated part of the conversation to Madge 
afterwards. 
" I think you have a curious feeling about it also. But, 
Nelly, there can be no mistake this time ; " and she studied 
her questioningly. 
" If you mean about the love, no, I would go to him 
to-morrow, any time he might ask. I never dreamed of 
loving any one in this manner. Is it making idols ? " 
" No, Nelly, not while we feel that the loved one is 
worthy, and that God holds all in the hollow of His hand. 
It must be right to give of our best, when we have 
the highest in return, as well. God doesn't weigh and 
measure to us. And though I came to sad and sorrowful 
times, it used to comfort me to think the love was so sweel 
I had it. I am glad that you can be happy, my 
dear sister." 
" Perhaps it is because I feel that I deserve so little of 
it," returned Eleanor, wiping away a few tears. 
" Nelly," began Madge, after a pause, " we can both take 
a lesson from Jessie. She didn't worry about what had 
been and what was to be. She took the joy that came to 
her, and was exceedingly thankful, and she bore the trials 
with a sweet patience. I think the secret was, that she 
lived in to-day, and found it broad enough and high 
enough for her. And God means that we shall enjoy what 
He sends us, even if it is taken away presently. Doubt 
is sometimes as bad as positive ingratitude." 
The girls kissed each other fondly. Madge felt a secret 
sympathy with Eleanor's past suffering, that was deeper 
than Jessie's joy. They two were growing into peculiar 
kinship, although they had appeared most antagonistic in 
the beginning. 
Had Eleanor Copland some vague presentiment that 
held her back fi Dm entering fully into the promised en- 
joyment? "In the spring," she said; and there she re- 
mained impregnable. If God meant that this great happiness 
should be hwfB, he would take it then thankfully. 
 
CHAPTER XXVII. 
CBOWNBD WITH THORNS. 
"A LETTEE for Eleanor," said Clement, on his return 
from the city one afternoon. 
" She and Greta are in the garden with Miss Wyverne ; " 
and Rose ran eagerly to carry the message. 
Eleanor opened it with careless haste, as her correspon- 
dence was generally mere business notes. 
A long, closely-written letter in a hand whose familiar- 
ity made her shiver. She cast one quick, frightened glance 
at the signature. 
" O, Eleanor ! " 
For it seemed at the first moment as if she would fall 
to the ground. Miss Wyverne clasped her arms around 
the swaying figure. 
" Let me go in," she entreated, faintly. 
Her face was deadly pale, and swift, shivering spasma 
ran through every nerve. Clara Wyverne supported her 
to the steps. 
" Not bad news, Nelly ? " queried Clement, in astonish- 
ment. 
"Strange news, at least," she replied, shudderingly. 
" Excuse me." 
How she found her way up stairs she never knew. The 
blackness of darkness seemed around her in thick clouds. 
She threw herself upon the bed with a cry of anguish. 
Mrs. Ashburton, hearing the sound, went to her. 
" You are ill, my child," she exclaimed, in alarm. 
" 
Is there no end to pain and trial ? " 
My darling ! " 
"You do not know;" in a weak, wandering voice, 
" He has corae back is in New York." 
"He! Who?" 
For it appeared as if Eleanor's senses were deserting 
her. The lips were quivering and bloodless, the eyes 
wild and appealing, as if vainly searching for help, refuge. 
M Gerald Copeland ! O, mother, mother ! " 
Mrs. Ashbnrton was speechless from surprise. Eleanor 
crushed the still unread letter in her hand. 
"O," she moaned, "how could he let me think him 
dead all these years, and then return ! It is cruel." 
Eleanor's strong, impatient sense of justice burst out 
there. Perhaps, too, the terrible consciousness that she 
no longer loved him, and was still his wife. 
" My child, it cannot be ! " 
" It is too true. I have not read the letter, but it begins, 
* My dear wife,' and is signed with his name. O, Heaven, 
how bitter ! " 
Mrs. Ashburton bent over her child. What could she 
gay in this hour of anguish, when all human comfort 
seemed unavailing? For she realized with a mother's 
keen pain and sorrow that this was no ordinary trial, no 
even tolerable surprise. 
She roused herself from her impotent moaning at length. 
" I am so weak, after all ! " she murmured, brokenly ; "but 
it is terrible ! To begin a new life, and then find myself 
chained to the old. Let me read my letter." 
She smoothed out the crumpled sheet, and her stony 
eyes wandered over it without taking in the sense. Only 
the one fact found lodgment in her brain Gerald Cope- 
land was alive ! 
Alive ! He had been in America but a fortnight, and 
with the curious kind of fortune that often befalls these 
thriftless souls, had again come in possession of considera- 
ble property. He had made inquiries, and now desired to 
 
see both Eleanor arid their child, and begged her to forget 
the past. There had been a strange misunderstanding l 
but he believed that he could explain everything. His 
regard for her had not changed through years of separa- 
tion, and now he desired to share his good fortune with 
her. 
"Read it;" and she placed it in her mother's hands, 
burying her face in the pillow, but not to weep. She 
seemed stunned, quite incapable of any feeling beyond a 
sense of bitter wrong and pain. 
Mrs. Ashburton bent over and kissed the cold cheek, 
which seemed to have turned to ice on this glowing 
autumn day. Why should this have fallen upon her 
child? Surely they had all borne enough. 
Eleanor stirred presently, and grasped at the arm en- 
circling her. 
"Is it not some horrible dream, dear mother? He 
surely cannot be alive ! How could my letter have been 
returned with that announcement ? " 
" It is too true. My darling, I thought we had come to 
brighter times. I rejoiced so in your happiness. God 
only knows the bitterness of this cup. But he will give 
us strength to bear it as he has in the former trials." 
" I tried to endure the other bravely. It was the result 
of my own weak cowardice, and the evil of being too 
easily persuaded. But this O, is there any help ? " 
Her despairing look and pathetic tones almost unnerved 
Mrs. Ashburton. She kissed the trembling lips again and 
again, while her tears fell softly on Eleanor's cheek. 
"My darling," she said, "you are not utterly wrecked, 
though many glad hopes go down with this. You will 
have much love, and sympathy, and assistance." 
" Yes, the brightest hope ! I don't know why, but it 
never appeared quite right to accept Mr. Wyverne's love. 
Did I have some presentiment ? And though it is hard 
to give up a dream so exquisitely sweet, still that is not 
the bitterest part." 
She shuddered violently, and lying there with her closed 
eyes, looked as if she might indeed go out of life without 
any difficult struggle. 
" For he must have known that I considered him dead 
Why did he allow me to believe anything so false ? And 
if I had taken any step ! " 
" A higher power has saved you from that" 
"Thank God!" 
Eleanor Copeland uttered this from her full heart, most 
grateful that she had not complicated her destiny by any 
hasty act. 
a Mamma," she said, presently, " you must go down to 
the others, for the dinner will soon be brought in. Tell 
them all afterwards, but do not let me be disturbed. It is 
best that I should be alone to think." 
Her brain was in a state of mental chaos. She could 
only hear the throb of her temples, and feel the dull ache 
of every nerve. Even the sense of outraged trust, of be- 
trayed hope and love and all tender emotions, scarcely 
moved her. She bowed her head to the storm, and let 
the waves sweep over her, half wishing they might drift 
her to some kinder shore. 
Clement made some inquiry as they took their places at 
the table, but Mrs. Ashburton's grave reply hushed present 
inquiry. They were not prepared for the story she had 
to tell them, it appeared so utterly incredible at first. 
" Then she was not with him at the time ? " Clement 
remarked. 
" No. She heard of his injury and illness, but it was 
difficult to leave her school, and the letter she sent was 
returned to her with the announcement of his death." 
" Then he must have known of it. I am not sure that 
the law can hold her as his wife if she wishes for freedom. 
At all events he has forfeited his claim upon her." 
Madge was in the wildest consternation, and espoused 
Clement's views warmly. That Eleanor should be made 
o Buffer anew appeared unpardonably cruel. 
"We must hear more about it befoie we can judge 
clearly," said Mr. Ashburton. " These questions are too 
momentous for a hasty decision." 
Mr. Wyverne called that evening. Madge ran up to 
Eleanor for counsel. 
" I cannot see him," was the sad answer. u Ask him to 
send Clara to me to-morrow. O, Madge ! " 
" It is too hard, Nelly ; " and the aching temples were 
pressed against the warm, fond heart. " Must it be ? Is it 
necessary to give him up, and he so good, so noble, so 
capable of making a happy home ? " 
Child, don't tempt me ! " 
Eleanor's voice was husky, and the feverish hands shook 
in the fond clasp. 
" Go. Don't tell him to-night. Clara may think of a 
better way." 
Then she was left alone again until her mother crept 
softly in through the darkness to comfort her, as only a 
heart so faithful and tender can comfort. 
Madge went slowly down to Mr. Wyverne. She had 
told him a few moments before that Eleanor was ill with a 
headache. Now she said, 
w She must be excused this evening. And she begs you 
to ask Clara to come over as early as she can to-morrow 
morning." 
" Madge," he exclaimed, with the quick alarm of love, 
" you do not apprehend a serious illness. I surely have a 
right to know." 
He was watching her so closely that she colored under 
the scrutiny in spite of her effort to appear calm. 
" It is not illuess," she returned, hurriedly ; " that 
is she will be well again in a day or two, and can 
explain all." 
" What is there for her to explain ? " and he smiled, 
with a touch of humor. " Do you suppose I am going to 
be such a tyrant that she will have to account for a simple 
beadache?" 
Madge laughed at the absurdity, though the tears in 
her throat almost choked her. How cruel that Mr. Wy- 
verne's hopes should be dashed to the ground in an 
instant ! She had taken so much pride and enjoyment in 
thinking of Eleanor's future, and her affection for Mr. 
Wyverne was full of sisterly strength. 
He remarked presently that she seemed absent and 
strangely excited, and after leaving many kind messages 
for Eleanor, bade Madge a kind good night. 
" O," she exclaimed to Rose, in tones of anguish, " how 
can he ever be told ! And it is no fault of his" 
" This Copeland has been a villain all the way through ! " 
declared Clement, indignantly. " He will find there are 
some deeds that cannot be easily forgiven. And she is by 
no means friendless." 
When Eleanor arose the next morning, it seemed as if 
phe had undergone a long fit of illness. Her limbs still 
tottered at every step, and her head was dizzy with the 
confusion of thought. But, ah, how kind and generous 
they all were ! If she had been so fond of them years ago, 
this might never have happened. 
"Circumstances must guide me," she said, feebly, in an- 
swer to the arguments of the others. "Of only one thing 
do I feel certain. I am Gerald Copeland's wife, and while 
he lives I can be the lawful wife of no other." 
All through her sleepless night she had been making 
this resolve, and now she uttered it with a certain haste, 
lest she might be tempted to weakness. 
"O, Nelly !" 
" But he has forfeited all right " 
"I married him of ray own free will I can never for- 
get that;" and Eleanor's quivering voice touched each 
heart. "He is Greta's father, and I have no power to set 
aside her claim from any selfish consideration. If I had 
been braver and truer in those girlish days, this might not 
have conie upon me. But now I desire to do only that 
which is right." 
 
" The law might give you liberty " 
Clement's sense of the cowardly injustice Eleanor's hus- 
band had dealt to her roused his warm impulses. 
" I feel that there is a higher right than mere human 
law." 
Her voice was very faint, and the pale lips quivered. 
"You surely do not mean to go back to him after thii 
unpardonable neglect ? " 
"I do not know. I cannot think." 
" We will look at the question in all its bearings before 
we decide," said Mr. Ashburton, gravely. 
"I must see him. He has asked for an interview, and 
I can judge better then what his claim really is." 
If they could have saved her any pang, how gladly they 
would have done it ! All the best hopes of her life dashed 
down at a single blow ! for they felt that her attachment 
to Mr. Wyverne had been true and strong, and understood 
that Gerald Copeland could not win back her heart, since 
he had lost even his light hold upon it. But a fiery trial 
lay before her, from which they would fain have shield- 
ed her. 
Clara Wyverne was more deeply shocked and surprised 
than the rest had been. She had prepared herself for 
some trouble, but such a blow was quite beyond the wild- 
est dream. 
" I want you to tell your brother," Eleanor said, amid 
her tears. "How deeply I regret bringing this sorrow 
upon him and destroying his bright hopes, I can never 
express in words." 
"And you think your decision final in any event?" 
questioned Clara. 
"I desire most of all to do right. God will bear me 
witness that I never had the most remote idea that Mr, 
Copeland was still alive. But whether I go back to him 
or not, I feel that I have no claim to any other true and 
honorable love." 
S
Clara understood that this was just, even if painful. 
"I cannot distort any law or reasoning to my own 
purely selfish wishes. God has permitted this revelation 
just in time to save me, to save us both, and I must heed 
him. I want to keep in the shadow of his guidance and 
protectior, knowing then that I cannot wander far astray. 
Of my own pain, and shame, and suffering, I cannot 
apeak." 
Miss Wyverne felt that she was right. Hard as it was 
to go against the best hopes of a lifetime, there was some- 
thing higher than mere personal desires. To be able to 
put away the longing, aching self, was a victory more 
noble than the enjoyment of happiness. 
" Will you see him ? " Clara's tone was very low. 
"Not at present;" and the pale lips quivered. "I 
think he, too, will feel that we shall be stronger to do 
right if we make no compromise with wrong. To see his 
pain would be more than I could bear." 
" I believe it is best." 
" And I can trust you to explain all. You have been 
too kind a sister to me to desert me in this hour of need, 
or make my trial harder to bear. I will not say, counsel 
him to forget me, but let him look upon me as some friend 
forever lost out of his orbit." 
Miss Wyverne kissed her sadly, tenderly. 
" You are too noble to have your life blighted in this 
manner," she said, with deep emotion. 
" We sometimes suffer for old sins." 
It was this that gave Eleanor much of her courage. A 
little through pride, and ambition, and weakness, she had 
suffered herself to be misled, and now the wrong-doing 
had brought its own downfall of tender, yet blind hope. 
Since she had been satisfied to marry Gerald Copeland 
without the purest and highest love, she would accept the 
bitter sacrifice, take up her burden, without casting about 
for loopholes of escape. 
 
" I want to say one thing," Miss Wy verne began, after a 
long pause. "You have had my brother's entire lo\e. 
No woman ever came very near his heart before, though 
he admires and reverences the sex. I think from the first 
you both suited, harmonized. It is quite possible for peo- 
ple to love who cannot render each other happy, who 
cannot go to the depth or breadth of the other soul, and 
this rare appreciation was my great pleasure in you both. 
It would have been such a happy marriage ! and Heaven 
knows they are sadly needed in this world." 
"O, don't!" pleaded Eleanor, in anguish. 
" Forgive the pain, dearest friend. But I must say & 
little more. I understand him so well ! It may be a com 
fort in some hard moment to know that through the year* 
to come his steadfast soul will never waver. He will see, 
as you do, that the bar between is of higher making than 
man's; but no other will ever fill your place. It will 
always be sacred." 
Eleanor pressed the hand, but dared not speak. And 
yet she was inexpressibly comforted. Both her lover and 
Clara recognized the higher right ; they would not tempt 
her by weak human persuasions. 
"You will not shut me out?" Clara said, softly. "Let 
me keep the sister's place that I was to have. At present 
my coming might be productive of pain, but when you 
have resolved upon your course, let me come and share 
some of the burdens. I never had a sister of my own, 
and you are doubly dear to me." 
Eleanor could only sob out her thanks for the tender- 
ness and the delicacy. 
The parting between the two was sad indeed, but 
Clara's friendship was true and strong. Perhaps Eleanor, 
in her depths of anguish, hardly realized what bridges of 
tender trust a woman's affection might rear for trembling, 
clinging souls to walk over. 
M But it is so hard ! " Madge exclaimed afterwards. tt I 
cannot make it right or just." 
" I think God teaches us, by slow degrees, that this is 
just what he does not want us to do. He has made the 
right and wrong already. When we go astray, he bids us 
bear the punishment of it, and not question the wisdom, 
We are not to form laws for ourselves." 
Madge was silent, though her tears dropped quietly. 
" I am thankful that Mr. Copeland came back in time to 
prevent any complication." 
" But if he had never come at all I " 
Eleanor shivered. 
And now that one painful duty was over, Eleanor 
nerved herself for another. The whole household had 
objected strongly to her again placing herself under Gerald 
Copeland's protection. Clement had insisted that his 
home should be hers, and Rose had joined him most cor- 
dially. 
Eleanor made several attempts to write to Mr. Cope- 
land, but the words would not come at her desire. It did 
seem best that she should grant the interview he asked, 
allow him to tell his story, and listen to the justification he 
might offer, if any were possible. For it appeared to her 
that the letter could not have been returned without hia 
knowledge. 
She finally sent a brief note, stating that he could see 
her at Home Nook, in her father's house, if he was still 
desirous, on second thoughts, that the meeting should take 
place. 
Ward Graham and Jessie were not behind in tender 
sympathy. They, too, had been fairly stunned with the 
first tidings. Ward inclined to Clement's view of the 
matter. Mr. Copeland had forfeited all right to her, and, 
no doubt, sufficient proofs could be found to procure her an 
honorable freedom. 
He had interested himself in making minute inquiries, 
and found that Mr. Copeland's record had not stood fair 
from the beginning. The small fortune inherited from his 
 
parents had been squandered, and by the time his uncle's 
handsome legacy reached him he was deeply in debt. 
Shortly after this he had met Eleanor Ashburton. To do 
Mrs. Waltham justice, she had not heard the darker side 
of the story. He was well connected, and no worse than 
the majority of idle young men. A wife would give him 
jnst the tone and steadiness that he needed. 
She reasoned that the marriage would be a good thing 
for him as well as for Eleanor. But he would not have 
taken a penniless girl. The false impression given by 
Mrs. Waltham had decided the matter. 
An elderly maiden aunt had endowed him a third time. 
The will had been made before his supposed death, and 
never altered. By the merest accident he had heard of it, 
and presented his claim. 
"He is a spendthrift," Mr Graham declared. "It will 
not do for Eleanor to put faith in any of his promises. In 
a few years she would find herself reduced to poverty 
again." 
Eleanor Copeland waited in a strange mood for the 
coming of the man who had been her husband. The very 
thought of him made her shiver. They had parted coldly 
the last time. She, in a moment of indignation and 
energy, had declared that she would a thousand times 
sooner support herself and her child by her own labor 
than share the uncertain and degrading pittance of a gam- 
bler. But how would they meet now ? 
A man with a subtler sense of refinement and delicacy 
would have hesitated a long while before intruding upon 
the woman he had wronged in so many respects. But in 
Mr. Copeland's narrow and commonplace estimation, 
money covered a multitude of sins. He judged Eleanor 
by his own view of the world, not from anything that he 
had ever learned of her character. In his mere material 
opinion she would be glad to give up her life of toil, and, 
perhaps, dependence upon her relations, for the compara- 
tive comfort he was able to offer her again. 
That there were some black facts in the past he could 
not deny to himself, but he meant to gloss them over. He 
had no such special regard for the truth that he would be 
likely to hesitate at any small infraction ; besides, he had 
one of those natures in which strong desire outruns purer 
motives. His wish to present a matter in a certain light 
nearly always made it appear so to him in the end. 
So it happened that he was much more cairn and assured 
when he presented himself at Home Nook than she who 
had been so sinned against, and was so earnestly striving 
to do her duty. It is not always the most blameless con- 
science that is entirely at ease. 
She came down tremblingly. How much both had 
changed in these few years! For Eleanor carried the 
impress of a pure, high soul in her face, and her steadfast 
eyes, that had wept so many bitter tears, were grave and 
clear, so sure to detect insincerity that he winced under 
their first slow moving glance. 
He had grown old rapidly. The boyish beauty and 
freshness had disappeared, and in the sallow complexion, 
sunken eyes, and generally wasted appearance, one could 
read marks of dissipation and neglect. Was she to blame 
that she shrank from him, that no old chord of tenderness 
was awakened ? 
He reached out his hand. 
"Eleanor," he said, with a strange fear and trembling, 
quailing before the dignity and purity of the woman who 
had gone so far beyond him when left to herself. 
She took the hand coldly. Every instinct within her 
seemed roused to aversion. He could not help remarking 
the slight shudder. 
"O," he exclaimed, with sudden vehemence, "you 
will not be hard and cruel, Eleanor, when I need you so 
much ! That I wronged you deeply, I confess ; but I 
desire an opportunity to make amends. It is in my 
power now." 
 
She motioned him to a seat. Somehow she was hardly 
prepared for this fervent pleading. 
"That there are some explanations due me you must 
admit," she answered, slowly. "Upon hearing of your 
danger I sent a letter, which was returned to me unopened, 
with the announcement of your death. Friendless and 
almost penniless in a strange land, what could I do but 
return to my patents, who, in the depths of misfortune 
and distress, generously gave me a shelter? You provided 
for me out of your abundance, they of their poverty and 
self-denial. Judge to whom I owe the highest duty and 
gratitude." 
A dull flush suffused his pale face as he glanced at her 
in amazement, every nerve quivering at the sound of her 
clear, calm voice, more forcible than the bitterest up- 
braiding. 
"I was thought dead at the hospital," he began. "It 
must have been during this time that your letter came." 
"But how could they have known my address?" 
There was no evading her with a clumsy excuse. His 
justification was weak at the best, but he was quite ready 
to patch it up with any convenient falsehood. 
"The nurse knew. I asked her to write one day;" 
which was true enough. " I am quite sure she directed 
an envelope. But she was called away then, and I re- 
member nothing for long afterwards. My recovery was 
very tedious. I wrote to you as soon as I could, but 
received no answer. When I was strong enough I went 
to Brussels, for I was longing to see you and our child ; 
but you had returned to America." 
She would never be able to know how much of this was 
true. Perhaps she had been too glad of her freedom ac- 
cepted it with unwise haste. 
"But here are the years between. Did you care so 
little whether I were living or dead that you never made 
an inquiry until now ? " 
 
"I knew you were with your relatives, happier, nc 
doubt, than I could have made you then. I would not 
drag you back to ray poverty. When I had gained a little 
something I meant to seek you ; but I was unlucky in 
everything I undertook. But when the news of this 
fortune reached me, my first thought was of you. O, 
Eleanor, I want you to believe that ! I ask you to share 
comfort and ease with me. I am a changed man. I have 
given up the fatal evil which brought us both so much 
misery. You shall have nothing to complain of in the 
future. Only come back to me. God knows that I never 
grudged you anything when I had it, and you shall have 
all now, to do just as you like." 
He broke into a fit of weak crying not the deep sobs 
that shake a man to the living centres, but a kind of dis- 
appointed, impatient sorrow, as if she wronged him by her 
greater dignity. 
Were these protestations love ? Could he neglect her, 
leave her to want, and suffering, and a danger like that she 
had so narrowly escaped, and fancy that a few tears and a 
little pathetic repentance could make amends? She saw 
clearly the shallowness and selfish under-current of his 
soul, and turned away sick at heart. 
"I have a story to tell you also," she said when she 
could command her voice. " If it excites your anger and 
blame, remember that your silence and absence have led 
to this fatal result." 
Briefly, yet with a certain unconscious pathos, she con- 
fessed the pleasant friendship that had so recently ripened 
into an engagement. He suffered through his narrow 
groundless jealousy and fear of loss only, for he was in- 
capable of anything higher. The years that had gone on 
ennobling her had done little for him, since his associates 
and habits had verged towards the lowest. 
"But my claim is the strongest, Eleanor; you must 
admit that," he interrupted, impatiently. 
 
"Whatever claim or right Mr. Wyverne had, ended on 
the day I received your letter. I shall never see him 
again willingly until we can meet as the commonest of 
friends. You have nothing to fear from that unfortunate 
episode." 
Were the lesson and the contrast nothing ? 
He went on with his entreaties. Her beauty and grace, 
her sad dignity and quiet manner, that did not utterly 
repel, woke the old, impulsive tenderness that she had 
mistaken for love before. He might deceive himself, but 
she had grown too surely wise to be blinded by this 
specious fondness. She had learned by sad experience to 
distinguish between the real and the counterfeit. 
" But I am your true and lawful husband," he ex- 
claimed. u You cannot deny that. Your friends may 
seek to prejudice you against me, or you may " 
She checked him there with her glance of conscious 
rectitude. 
" Whatever step I may take in the future, I want you 
to understand that Mr. Wyveme will have nothing to do 
with it. While you live, I shall not be the wife of any 
other man, even if the law set me free to-morrow. I hope 
you have still sufficient manliness to feel that I shall try 
to do what is right, irrespective of any weak or selfish 
desire." 
He studied her with a startled look. Was there some 
depth in her soul that he had never fathomed? Was 
there a knowledge beyond his comprehension, even ? 
He had counted on the new fortune being liis most 
effectual ally, and that she should treat his offer to release 
her from toil with indifference, amazed him. He had 
judged her by his own narrow, selfish, indolent nature. 
And now, although her truth and dignity held him, out- 
wardly, in awe, he was, at heart, afraid of his rival. But 
he did not clare threaten ; so he had recourse to pleading 
again. 
"Give me time," she said at last, torn by conflicting 
thoughts, and the fear of judging too severely. "I can 
decide upon nothing immediately. Leave me to think it 
over by myself. You will hear from me when I have 
resolved upon anything definite. And now let as end 
this painful interview." 
Her pale face and strained, sorrowful eyes moved him. 
He came forward and would have clasped her in his arms, 
but she shrank back ; so he had to content himself with 
kissing the cold lips. 
" You will forgive," he said. " You will give me an- 
other chance ! For now, Eleanor, I could make you so 
much happier ! Can you refuse to try ? " 
" If I only knew what was right, or what might be de- 
manded of me,' she said, wearily, finding refuge at last on 
her mother's faithful heart. " For while my forgiveness is 
pardoning all past acts that have pained or injured me, he 
makes it comprehend the future. How can I bring myself 
to accept life with him ? n 
" It is one of those matters that cannot be settled with 
an hour's talk," said Mrs. Ashburton. " If you still loved 
him!" 
" Ah, mamma, that is one of the bitterest dregs in this 
hopeless cup. I cannot shut my eyes to what I have 
known. I cannot put the false for the true. I have had 
a glimpse of blessedness such as I hardly dreamed of in 
my girlhood. Jessie's happy marriage, and intimate con- 
tact with two such men as Mr. Graham and Mr. Wyverne, 
have opened my blind eyes. I should be ashamed now to 
bring Gerald Copeland in our midst, to ask Clement or 
Philip to receive him as a brother." 
" With these feelings it is hardly right to attempt life 
with him. There is a limit to human endurance." 
" I have tried in vain to think that I could love him 
once more. I cannot!" and Eleanor shuddered with 
aversion. 
 
After a few days she resumed her wonted duties. By 
day and by night she seemed as if girt by fire. To see on 
the one hand the sweet and ennobling life, the richness of 
love and truth that she had but just touched, like the hem 
of a garment, and been made whole ; yet to understand 
that the healing in its most joyous and comprehensive 
sense was not for her ; to be thrust back to the wilderness 
of doubt and perplexity, her whole future irrevocably shad- 
owed, appeared at times more than she could endure. 
But she was not to be left in peace. Gerald's friends 
and relatives, who had paid her no attention beyond their 
first visit of condolence, became aware pf her existence. 
One cousin, who had been very attentive during the mar- 
riage, visited her now on Gerald's behalf, and insisted that 
his conduct had been really noble. 
"That he should have been content to live in silence 
and obscurity while he could do nothing for you, and come 
to you the instant he had anything to share, is to me a 
proof of the utmost devotion. Perhaps his remaining 
abroad was the best thing he could do after that fatal 
misunderstanding." 
" It might appear so to some women," Eleanor respond- 
ed ; " but before that I had to support myself and my 
child. He squandered his fortune recklessly, he spent 
