“You’re devil enough for anything, I know, and can lie as fast as you
can talk,” returned Mrs. Bray, in considerable irritation. “If I could
believe a word you said! But I can’t.”
“No necessity for it,” retorted Pinky, with a careless toss of her head.
“If you don’t wish to hunt in company, all right. I’ll take the game
myself.”
“You forget,” said Mrs. Bray, “I can spoil your game.”
“Indeed! how?”
“By blowing the whole thing to Mr.--”
“Mr. who?” asked Pinky, leaning forward eagerly as her companion paused
without uttering the name that was on her lips.
“Wouldn’t you like to know?” Mrs. Bray gave a low tantalizing laugh.
“I’m not sure that I would, from you. I’m bound to know somehow, and it
will be cheapest to find out for myself,” replied Pinky, hiding her real
desire, which was to get the clue she sought from Mrs. Bray, and which
she alone could give. “As for blowing on me, I wouldn’t like anything
better. I wish you’d call on Mr. Somebody at once, and tell him I’ve
got the heir of his house and fortune, or on Mrs. Somebody, and tell her
I’ve got her lost baby. Do it, Fan; that’s a deary.”
“Suppose I were to do so?” asked Mrs. Bray, repressing the anger that
was in her heart, and speaking with some degree of calmness.
“What then?”
“The police would be down on you in less than an hour.”
“And what then?”
“Your game would be up.”
Pinky laughed derisively:
“The police are down on me now, and have been coming down on me for
nearly a month past. But I’m too much for them. I know how to cover my
tracks.”
“Down on you! For what?”
“They’re after the boy.”
“What do they know about him? Who set them after him?”
“I grabbed him up last Christmas down in Briar street after being on his
track for a week, and them that had him are after him sharp.”
“Who had him?”
“I’m a little puzzled at the rumpus it has kicked up,” said Pinky, in
reply. “It’s stirred things amazingly.”
“How?”
“Oh, as I said, the police are after me sharp. They’ve had me before the
mayor twice, and got two or three to swear they saw me pick up the child
in Briar street and run off with him. But I denied it all.”
“And I can swear that you confessed it all to me,” said Mrs. Bray, with
ill-concealed triumph.
“It won’t do, Fan,” laughed Pinky. “They’ll not be able to find him
any more then than now. But I wish you would. I’d like to know this Mr.
Somebody of whom you spoke. I’ll sell out to him. He’ll bid high, I’m
thinking.”
Baffled by her sharper accomplice, and afraid to trust her with the
secret of the child’s parentage lest she should rob her of the last gain
possible to receive out of this great iniquity, Mrs. Bray became wrought
up to a state of ungovernable passion, and in a blind rage pushed Pinky
from her room. The assault was sudden and unexpected---so sudden that
Pinky, who was the stronger, had no time to recover herself and take
the offensive before she was on the outside and the door shut and locked
against her. A few impotent threats and curses were interchanged between
the two infuriated women, and then Pinky went away.
On the day following, as Mr. Dinneford was preparing to go out, he was
informed that a lady had called and was waiting down stairs to see him.
She did not send her card nor give her name. On going into the room
where the visitor had been shown, he saw a little woman with a dark,
sallow complexion. She arose and came forward a step or two in evident
embarrassment.
“Mr. Dinneford?” she said.
“That is my name, madam,” was replied.
“You do not know me?”
Mr. Dinneford looked at her closely, and then answered,
“I have not that pleasure, madam.”
The woman stood for a moment or two, hesitating.
“Be seated, madam,” said Mr. Dinneford.
She sat down, seeming very ill at ease. He took a chair in front of her.
“You wish to see me?”
“Yes, sir, and on a matter that deeply concerns you. I was your
daughter’s nurse when her baby was born.”
She paused at this. Mr. Dinneford had caught his breath. She saw the
almost wild interest that flushed his face.
After waiting a moment for some response, she added, in a low, steady
voice,
“That baby is still alive, and I am the only person who can clearly
identify him.”
Mr. Dinneford did not reply immediately. He saw by the woman’s face
that she was not to be trusted, and that in coming to him she had only
sinister ends in view. Her story might be true or false. He thought
hurriedly, and tried to regain exterior calmness. As soon as he felt
that he could speak without betraying too much eagerness, he said, with
an appearance of having recognized her,
“You are Mrs.----?”
He paused, but she did not supply the name.
“Mrs.----? Mrs.----? what is it?”
“No matter, Mr. Dinneford,” answered Mrs. Bray, with the coolness and
self-possession she had now regained. “What I have just told you is
true. If you wish to follow up the matter--wish to get possession of
your daughter’s child--you have the opportunity; if not, our interview
ends, of course;” and she made a feint, as if going to rise.
“Is it the child a woman named Pinky Swett stole away from Briar street
on Christmas day?” asked Mr. Dinneford, speaking from a thought that
flashed into his mind, and so without premeditation. He fixed his eyes
intently on Mrs. Bray’s face, and saw by its quick changes and blank
surprise that he had put the right question. Before she could recover
herself and reply, he added,
“And you are, doubtless, this same Pinky Swett.”
The half smile, half sneer, that curved the woman’s lips, told Mr.
Dinneford that he was mistaken.
“No, sir,” was returned, with regained coolness. “I am not ‘this same
Pinky Swett.’ You are out there.”
“But you know her?”
“I don’t know anything just now, sir,” answered the woman, with a chill
in her tones. She closed her lips tightly, and shrunk back in her chair.
“What, then, are your here for?” asked Mr. Dinneford, showing
considerable sternness of manner.
“I thought you understood,” returned the woman. “I was explicit in my
statement.”
“Oh, I begin to see. There is a price on your information,” said Mr.
Dinneford.
“Yes, sir. You might have known that from the first. I will be frank
with you.”
“But why have you kept this secret for three years? Why did you not come
before?” asked Mr. Dinneford.
“Because I was paid to keep the secret. Do you understand?”
Too well did Mr. Dinneford understand, and it was with difficulty he
could suppress a groan as his head drooped forward and his eyes fell to
the floor.
“It does not pay to keep it any longer,” added the woman.
Mr. Dinneford made no response.
“Gain lies on the other side. The secret is yours, if you will have it.”
“At what price?” asked Mr. Dinneford, without lifting his eyes.
“One thousand dollars, cash in hand.”
“On production of the child and proof of its identity?”
Mrs. Bray took time to answer. “I do not mean to have any slip in this
matter,” she said. “It was a bad business at the start, as I told Mrs.
Dinneford, and has given me more trouble than I’ve been paid for, ten
times over. I shall not be sorry to wash my hands clean of it; but
whenever I do so, there must be compensation and security. I haven’t the
child, and you may hunt me to cover with all the police hounds in the
city, and yet not find him.”
“If I agree to pay your demand,” replied Mr. Dinneford, “it can only be
on production and identification of the child.”
“After which your humble servant will be quickly handed over to the
police,” a low, derisive laugh gurgling in the woman’s throat.
“The guilty are ever in dread, and the false always in fear of
betrayal,” said Mr. Dinneford. “I can make no terms with you for any
antecedent reward. The child must be in my possession and his parentage
clearly proved before I give you a dollar. As to what may follow to
yourself, your safety will lie in your own silence. You hold, and will
still hold, a family secret that we shall not care to have betrayed. If
you should ever betray it, or seek, because of its possession, to annoy
or prey upon us, I shall consider all honorable contract we may have at
an end, and act accordingly.”
“Will you put in writing, an obligation to pay me one thousand dollars
in case I bring the child and prove its identity?”
“No; but I will give you my word of honor that this sum shall be placed
in your hands whenever you produce the child.”
Mrs. Bray remained silent for a considerable time, then, as if
satisfied, arose, saying,
“You will hear from me by to-morrow or the day after, at farthest.
Good-morning.”
As she was moving toward the door Mr. Dinneford said,
“Let me have your name and residence, madam.”
The woman quickened her steps, partly turning her head as she did so,
and said, with a sinister curl of the lip,
“No, I thank you, sir.”
In the next moment she was gone.
CHAPTER XXV.
NOTHING of all this was communicated to Edith. After a few weeks
of prostration strength came slowly back to mind and body, and with
returning strength her interest in her old work revived. Her feet went
down again into lowly ways, and her hands took hold of suffering.
Immediately on receipt of Freeling’s letter and affidavit, Mr. Dinneford
had taken steps to procure a pardon for George Granger. It came within
a few days after the application was made, and the young man was taken
from the asylum where he had been for three years.
Mr. Dinneford went to him with Freeling’s affidavit and the pardon, and
placing them in his hands, watched him closely to see the effect they
would produce. He found him greatly changed in appearance, looking older
by many years. His manner was quiet, as that of one who had learned
submission after long suffering. But his eyes were clear and steady, and
without sign of mental aberration. He read Freeling’s affidavit first,
folded it in an absent kind of way, as if he were dreaming, reopened and
read it through again. Then Mr. Dinneford saw a strong shiver pass over
him; he became pale and slightly convulsed. His face sunk in his hands,
and he sat for a while struggling with emotions that he found it almost
impossible to hold back.
When he looked up, the wild struggle was over.
“It is too late,” he said.
“No, George, it is never too late,” replied Mr. Dinneford. “You have
suffered a cruel wrong, but in the future there are for you, I doubt
not, many compensations.”
He shook his head in a dreary way, murmuring,
“I have lost too much.”
“Nothing that may not be restored. And in all you have not lost a good
conscience.”
“No, thank God!” answered the young man, with a sudden flush in his
face. “But for that anchor to my soul, I should have long ago drifted
out to sea a helpless wreck. No thank God! I have not lost a good
conscience.”
“You have not yet read the other paper,” said Mr. Dinneford. “It is your
pardon.”
“Pardon!” An indignant flash came into Granger’s eyes. “Oh, sir, that
hurts too deeply. Pardon! I am not a criminal.”
“Falsely so regarded in the eyes of the law, but now proved to be
innocent, and so expressed by the governor. It is not a pardon in any
sense of remission, but a declaration of innocence and sorrow for the
undeserved wrongs you have suffered.”
“It is well,” he answered, gloomily--“the best that can be done; and I
should be thankful.”
“You cannot be more deeply thankful than I am, George.” Mr. Dinneford
spoke with much feeling. “Let us bury this dreadful past out of our
sight, and trust in God for a better future. You are free again, and
your innocence shall, so far as I have power to do it, be made as clear
as noonday. You are at liberty to depart from here at once. Will you go
with me now?”
Granger lifted a half-surprised look to Mr. Dinneford’s face.
“Thank you,” he replied, after a few moments’ thought. “I shall never
forget your kindness, but I prefer remaining here for a few days, until
I can confer with my friends and make some decision as to the future.”
Granger’s manner grew reserved, almost embarrassed. Mr. Dinneford was
not wrong in his impression of the cause. How could he help thinking of
Edith, who, turning against him with the rest, had accepted the theory
of guilt and pronounced her sentence upon him, hardest of all to bear?
So it appeared to him, for he had nothing but the hard fact before him
that she had applied for and obtained a divorce.
Yes, it was the thought of Edith that drew Granger back and covered him
with reserve. What more could Mr. Dinneford say? He had not considered
all the hearings of this unhappy case; but now that he remembered the
divorce, he began to see, how full of embarrassment it was, and how
delicate the relation he bore to this unhappy victim of his wife’s
dreadful crime.
What could he say for Edith? Nothing! He knew that her heart had never
turned itself away from this man, though she had, under a pressure she
was not strong enough to resist, turned her back upon him and cast aside
his dishonored name, thus testifying to the world that she believed him
base and criminal. If he should speak of her, would not the young man
answer with indignant scorn?
“Give me the address of your friends, and I will call upon them
immediately,” said Mr. Dinneford, replying, after a long silence, to
Granger’s last remark. “I am here to repair, to any extent that in me
lies the frightful wrongs you have suffered. I shall make your cause my
own, and never rest until every false tarnish shall be wiped from your
name. In honor and conscience I am bound to this.”
Looking at the young man intently, he saw a grateful response in the
warmer color that broke into his face and in the moisture that filled
his eyes.
“I would be base if I were not thankful, Mr. Dinneford,” Granger
replied. “But you cannot put yourself in my place, cannot know what I
have suffered, cannot comprehend the sense of wrong and cruel rejection
that has filled my soul with the very gall of bitterness. To be cast out
utterly, suddenly and without warning from heaven into hell, and for no
evil thought or act! Ah, sir! you do not understand.”
“It was a frightful ordeal, George,” answered Mr. Dinneford, laying his
hand on Granger with the tenderness of a father. “But, thank God! it
is over. You have stood the terrible heat, and now, coming out of the
furnace, I shall see to it that not even the smell of fire remain upon
your garments.”
Still the young man could not be moved from his purpose to remain at the
asylum until he had seen and conferred with his friends, in whose hands
Mr. Dinneford placed the governor’s pardon and the affidavit of Lloyd
Freeling setting forth his innocence.
Mrs. Bray did not call on Mr. Dinneford, as she had promised. She had
quarreled with Pinky Swett, as the reader will remember, and in a fit
of blind anger thrust her from the room. But in the next moment she
remembered that she did not know where the girl lived, and if she lost
sight of her now, might not again come across her for weeks or months.
So putting on her hat and cloak hurriedly, she waited until she heard
Pinky going down stairs, and then came out noiselessly, and followed her
into the street. She had to be quick in her movements, for Pinky, hot
with anger, was dashing off at a rapid speed. For three or four blocks
Mrs. Bray kept her in view; but there being only a few persons in the
street, she had to remain at a considerable distance behind, so as not
to attract her attention. Suddenly, she lost sight of Pinky. She had
looked back on hearing a noise in the street; turning again, she could
see nothing of the girl. Hurrying forward to the corner which Pinky had
in all probability turned, Mrs. Bray looked eagerly up and down, but to
her disappointment Pinky was not in sight.
“Somewhere here. I thought it was farther off,” said Mrs. Bray to
herself. “It’s too bad that I should have lost sight of her.”
She stood irresolute for a little while, then walked down one of the
blocks and back on the other side. Halfway down, a small street or alley
divided the block.
“It’s in there, no doubt,” said Mrs. Bray, speaking to herself again.
On the corner was a small shop in which notions and trimmings were sold.
Going into this, she asked for some trifling articles, and while looking
over them drew the woman who kept the shop into conversation.
“What kind of people live in this little street?” she inquired, in a
half-careless tone.
The woman smiled as she answered, with a slight toss of the head,
“Oh, all kinds.”
“Good, bad and indifferent?”
“Yes, white sheep and black.”
“So I thought. The black sheep will get in. You can’t keep ‘em out.”
“No, and ‘tisn’t much use trying,” answered the shop-keeper, with a
levity of manner not unmarked by Mrs. Bray, who said,
“The black sheep have to live as well as the white ones.”
“Just so. You hit the nail there.”
“And I suppose you find their money as good as that of the whitest?”
“Oh yes.”
“And quite as freely spent?”
“As to that,” answered the woman, who was inclined to be talkative and
gossipy, “we make more out of the black sheep than out of the white
ones. They don’t higgle so about prices. Not that we have two prices,
but you see they don’t try to beat us down, and never stop to worry
about the cost of a thing if they happen to fancy it. They look and buy,
and there’s the end of it.”
“I understand,” remarked Mrs. Bray, with a familiar nod. “It may be
wicked to say so; but if I kept a store like this, I’d rather have the
sinners for customers than the saints.”
She had taken a seat at the counter; and now, leaning forward upon her
arms and looking at the shop-woman in a pleasant, half-confidential way,
said,
“You know everybody about here?”
“Pretty much.”
“The black sheep as well as the white?”
“As customers.”
“Of course; that’s all I mean,” was returned. “I’d be sorry if you knew
them in any other way--some of them, at least.” Then, after a pause, “Do
you know a girl they call Pinky?”
“I may know her, but not by that name. What kind of a looking person is
she?”
“A tall, bold-faced, dashing, dare-devil sort of a girl, with a snaky
look in her eyes. She wears a pink hat with a white feather.”
“Yes, I think I have seen some one like that, but she’s not been around
here long.”
“When did you see her last?”
“If it’s the same one you mean, I saw her go by here not ten minutes
ago. She lives somewhere down the alley.”
“Do you know the house?”
“I do not; but it can be found, no doubt. You called her Pinky.”
“Yes. Her name is Pinky Swett.”
“O-h! o-h!” ejaculated the shop-woman, lifting her eyebrows in a
surprised way. “Why, that’s the girl the police were after. They said
she’d run off with somebody’s child.”
“Did they arrest her?” asked Mrs. Bray, repressing, as far as possible,
all excitement.
“They took her off once or twice, I believe, but didn’t make anything
out of her. At any rate, the child was not found. It belonged, they
said, to a rich up-town family that the girl was trying to black-mail.
But I don’t see how that could be.”
“The child isn’t about here?”
“Oh dear, no! If it was, it would have been found long before this, for
the police are hunting around sharp. If it’s all as they say, she’s got
it hid somewhere else.”
While Mrs. Bray talked with the shop-woman, Pinky, who had made a
hurried call at her room, only a hundred yards away, was going as fast
as a street-car could take her to a distant part of the city. On leaving
the car at the corner of a narrow, half-deserted street, in which the
only sign of life was a child or two at play in the snow and a couple
of goats lying on a cellar-door, she walked for half the distance of
a block, and then turned into a court lined on both sides with small,
ill-conditioned houses, not half of them tenanted. Snow and ice blocked
the little road-way, except where a narrow path had been cut along close
to the houses.
Without knocking, Pinky entered one of these poor tenements. As she
pushed open the door, a woman who was crouching down before a small
stove, on which something was cooking, started up with a look of
surprise that changed to one of anxiety and fear the moment she
recognized her visitor.
“Is Andy all right?” cried Pinky, alarm in her face.
The woman tried to stammer out something, but did not make herself
understood. At this, Pinky, into whose eyes flashed a fierce light,
caught her by the wrists in a grip that almost crushed the bones.
“Out with it! where is Andy?”
Still the frightened woman could not speak.
“If that child isn’t here, I’ll murder you!” said Pinky, now white with
anger, tightening her grasp.
At this, with a desperate effort, the woman flung her off, and catching
up a long wooden bench, raised it over her head.
“If there’s to be any murder going on,” she said, recovering her powers
of speech, “I’ll take the first hand! As for the troublesome brat, he’s
gone. Got out of the window and climbed down the spout. Wonder he wasn’t
killed. Did fall--I don’t know how far--and must have hurt himself,
for I heard a noise as if something heavy had dropped in the yard, but
thought it was next door. Half an hour afterward, in going up stairs
and opening the door of the room where I kept him locked in, I found it
empty and the window open. That’s the whole story. I ran out and looked
everywhere, but he was off. And now, if the murder is to come, I’m going
to be in first.”
And she still kept the long wooden bench poised above her head.
Pinky saw a dangerous look in the woman’s eyes.
“Put that thing down,” she cried, “and don’t be a fool. Let me see;”
 and she darted past the woman and ran up stairs. She found the window
of Andy’s prison open and the print of his little fingers on the
snow-covered sill outside, where he had held on before dropping to the
ground, a distance of many feet. There was no doubt now in her mind as
to the truth of the woman’s story. The child had made his escape.
“Have you been into all the neighbors’ houses?” asked Pinky as she came
down hastily.
“Into some, but not all,” she replied.
“How long is it since he got away?”
“More than two hours.”
“And you’ve been sticking down here, instead of ransacking every hole
and corner in the neighborhood. I can hardly keep my hands off of you.”
The woman was on the alert. Pinky saw this, and did not attempt to put
her threat into execution. After pouring out her wrath in a flood
of angry invectives, she went out and began a thorough search of the
neighborhood, going into every house for a distance of three or four
blocks in all directions. But she could neither find the child nor get
the smallest trace of him. He had dropped out of sight, so far as she
was concerned, as completely as if he had fallen into the sea.
CHAPTER XXVI.
DAY after day Mr. Dinneford waited for the woman who was to restore
the child of Edith, but she did not come. Over a week elapsed, but she
neither called nor sent him a sign or a word. He dared not speak
about this to Edith. She was too weak in body and mind for any further
suspense or strain.
Drew Hall had been nearly thrown down again by the events of that
Christmas day. The hand of a little child was holding him fast to a
better life; but when that hand was torn suddenly away from his grasp,
he felt the pull of evil habits, the downward drift of old currents. His
steps grew weak, his knees trembled. But God did not mean that he should
be left alone. He had reached down to him through the hand of a little
child, had lifted him up and led him into a way of safety; and now that
this small hand, the soft, touch of which had gone to his heart and
stirred him with old memories, sad and sweet and holy, had dropped away
from him, and he seemed to be losing his hold of heaven, God sent
him, in Mr. Dinneford, an angel with a stronger hand. There were old
associations that held these men together. They had been early and
attached friends, and this meeting, after many years of separation,
under such strange circumstances, and with a common fear and anxiety
at heart, could not but have the effect of arousing in the mind of Mr.
Dinneford the deepest concern for the unhappy man. He saw the new peril
into which he was thrown by the loss of Andy, and made it his first
business to surround him with all possible good and strengthening
influences. So the old memories awakened by the coming of Andy did not
fade out and lose their power over the man. He had taken hold of the
good past again, and still held to it with the tight grasp of one
conscious of danger.
“We shall find the child--no fear of that,” Mr. Dinneford would say to
him over and over again, trying to comfort his own heart as well, as
the days went by and no little Andy could be found. “The police have the
girl under the sharpest surveillance, and she cannot baffle them much
longer.”
George Granger left the asylum with his friends, and dropped out
of sight. He did not show himself in the old places nor renew old
associations. He was too deeply hurt. The disaster had been too great
for any attempt on his part at repairing the old dwelling-places of his
life. His was not what we call a strong nature, but he was susceptible
of very deep impressions. He was fine and sensitive, rather than strong.
Rejected by his wife and family without a single interview with her or
even an opportunity to assert his innocence, he felt the wrong so deeply
that he could not get over it. His love for his wife had been profound
and tender, and when it became known to him that she had accepted the
appearances of guilt as conclusive, and broken with her own hands the
tie that bound them, it was more than he had strength to bear, and a
long time passed before he rallied from this hardest blow of all.
Edith knew that her father had seen Granger after securing his pardon,
and she had learned from him only, particulars of the interview. Beyond
this nothing came to her. She stilled her heart, aching with the
old love that crowded all its chambers, and tried to be patient and
submissive. It was very hard. But she was helpless. Sometimes, in the
anguish and wild agitation of soul that seized her, she would resolve
to put in a letter all she thought and felt, and have it conveyed to
Granger; but fear and womanly delicacy drove her back from this. What
hope had she that he would not reject her with hatred and scorn? It was
a venture she dared not make, for she felt that such a rejection would
kill her. But for her work among the destitute and the neglected, Edith
would have shut herself up at home. Christian charity drew her forth
daily, and in offices of kindness and mercy she found a peace and rest
to which she would otherwise have been stranger.
She was on her way home one afternoon from a visit to the mission-school
where she had first heard of the poor baby in Grubb’s court. All that
day thoughts of little Andy kept crowding into her mind. She could not
push aside his image as she saw it on Christmas, when he sat among the
children, his large eyes resting in such a wistful look upon her face.
Her eyes often grew dim and her heart full as she looked upon that
tender face, pictured for her as distinctly as if photographed to
natural sight.
“Oh my baby, my baby!” came almost audibly from her lips, in a burst
of irrepressible feeling, for ever since she had seen this child, the
thought of him linked itself with that of her lost baby.
Up to this time her father had carefully concealed his interview
with Mrs. Bray. He was in so much doubt as to the effect that woman’s
communication might produce while yet the child was missing that he
deemed it best to maintain the strictest silence until it could be
found.
Walking along with heart and thought where they dwelt for so large a
part of her time, Edith, in turning a corner, came upon a woman who
stopped at sight of her as if suddenly fastened to the ground--stopped
only for an instant, like one surprised by an unexpected and unwelcome
encounter, and then made a motion to pass on. But Edith, partly from
memory and partly from intuition, recognized her nurse, and catching
fast hold of her, said in a low imperative voice, while a look of wild
excitement spread over her face,
“Where is my baby?”
The woman tried to shake her off, but Edith held her with a grasp that
could not be broken.
“For Heaven’s sake,” exclaimed the woman “let go of me! This is the
public street, and you’ll have a crowd about us in a moment, and the
police with them.”
But Edith kept fast hold of her.
“First tell me where I can find my baby,” she answered.
“Come along,” said the woman, moving as she spoke in the direction Edith
was going when they met. “If you want a row with the police, I don’t.”
Edith was close to her side, with her hand yet upon her and her voice in
her ears.
“My baby! Quick! Say! Where can I find my baby?”
“What do I know of your baby? You are a fool, or mad!” answered the
woman, trying to throw her off. “I don’t know you.”
“But I know you, Mrs. Bray,” said Edith, speaking the name at a venture
as the one she remembered hearing the servant give to her mother.
At this the woman’s whole manner changed, and Edith saw that she was
right--that this was, indeed, the accomplice of her mother.
“And now,” she added, in voice grown calm and resolute, “I do not mean
to let you escape until I get sure knowledge of my child. If you fly
from me, I will follow and call for the police. If you have any of
the instincts of a woman left, you will know that I am desperately
in earnest. What is a street excitement or a temporary arrest by the
police, or even a station-house exposure, to me, in comparison with the
recovery of my child? Where is he?”
“I do not know,” replied Mrs. Bray. “After seeing your father--”
“My father! When did you see him?” exclaimed Edith, betraying in her
surprised voice the fact that Mr. Dinneford had kept so far, even from
her, the secret of that brief interview to which she now referred.
“Oh, he hasn’t told you! But it’s no matter--he will do that in good
time. After seeing your father, I made an effort to get possession of
your child and restore him as I promised to do. But the woman who had
him hidden somewhere managed to keep out of my way until this morning.
And now she says he got off from her, climbed out of a second-story
window and disappeared, no one knows where.”
“This woman’s name is Pinky Swett?” said Edith.
“Yes.”
Mrs. Bray felt the hand that was still upon her arm shake as if from a
violent chill.
“Do you believe what she says?--that the child has really escaped from
her?”
“Yes.”
“Where does she live?”
Mrs. Bray gave the true directions, and without hesitation.
“Is this child the one she stole from the Briar-street mission on
Christmas day?” asked Edith.
“He is,” answered Mrs. Bray.
“How shall I know he is mine? What proof is there that little Andy, as
he is called, and my baby are the same?”
“I know him to be your child, for I have never lost sight of him,”
 replied the woman, emphatically. “You may know him by his eyes and mouth
and chin, for they are yours. Nobody can mistake the likeness. But there
is another proof. When I nursed you, I saw on your arm, just above the
elbow, a small raised mark of a red color, and noticed a similar one on
the baby’s arm. You will see it there whenever you find the child that
Pinky Swett stole from the mission-house on Christmas day. Good-bye!”
And the woman, seeing that her companion was off of her guard, sprang
away, and was out of sight in the crowd before Edith could rally herself
and make an attempt to follow. How she got home she could hardly tell.
CHAPTER XXVII.
FOR weeks the search for Andy was kept up with unremitting vigilance,
but no word of him came to the anxious searchers. A few days after the
meeting with Mrs. Bray, the police report mentioned the arrest of both
Pinky Swett and Mrs. Bray, alias Hoyt, alias Jewett, charged with
stealing a diamond ring of considerable value from a jewelry store. They
were sent to prison, in default of bail, to await trial. Mr. Dinneford
immediately went to the prison and had an interview with the two women,
who could give him no information about Andy beyond what Mrs. Bray had
already communicated in her hurried talk with Edith. Pinky could get no
trace of him after he had escaped. Mr. Dinneford did not leave the two
women until he had drawn from them a minute and circumstantial account
of all they knew of Edith’s child from the time it was cast adrift. When
he left them, he had no doubt as to its identity with Andy. There was no
missing link in the chain of evidence.
The new life that had opened to little Andy since the dreary night on
which, like a stray kitten, he had crept into Andrew Hall’s miserable
hovel, had been very pleasant. To be loved and caressed was a strange
and sweet experience. Poor little heart! It fluttered in wild terror,
like a tiny bird in the talons of a hawk, when Pinky Swett swooped down
and struck her foul talons into the frightened child and bore him off.
“If you scream, I’ll choke you to death!” she said, stooping to his ear,
as she hurried him from the mission-house. Scared into silence, Andy did
not cry out, and the arm that grasped and dragged him away was so strong
that he felt resistance to be hopeless. Passing from Briar street, Pinky
hurried on for a distance of a block, when she signaled a street-car.
As she lifted Andy upon the platform, she gave him another whispered
threat:
“Mind! if you cry, I’ll kill you!”
There were but few persons in the car, and Pinky carried the child
to the upper end and sat him down with his face turned forward to the
window, so as to keep it as much out of observation as possible. He sat
motionless, stunned with surprise and fear. Pinky kept her eyes upon
him. His hands were laid across his breast and held against it tightly.
They had not gone far before Pinky saw great tear-drops falling upon the
little hands.
“Stop crying!” she whispered, close to his ear; “I won’t have it! You’re
not going to be killed.”
Andy tried to keep back the tears, but in spite of all he could do they
kept blinding his eyes and falling over his hands.
“What’s the matter with your little boy?” asked a sympathetic, motherly
woman who had noticed the child’s distress.
“Cross, that’s all.” Pinky threw out the sentence in at snappish,
mind-your-own-business tone.
The motherly woman, who had leaned forward, a look of kindly interest on
her face, drew back, chilled by this repulse, but kept her eyes upon the
child, greatly to Pinky’s annoyance. After riding for half a mile, Pinky
got out and took another car. Andy was passive. He had ceased crying,
and was endeavoring to get back some of the old spirit of brave
endurance. He was beginning to feel like one who had awakened from a
beautiful dream in which dear ideals had almost reached fruition, to
the painful facts of a hard and suffering life, and was gathering up
his patience and strength to meet them. He sat motionless by the side of
Pinky, with his eyes cast down, his chin on his breast and his lips shut
closely together.
Another ride of nearly half a mile, when Pinky left the car and struck
away from the common thoroughfare into a narrow alley, down which she
walked for a short distance, and then disappeared in one of the small
houses. No one happened to observe her entrance. Through a narrow
passage and stairway she reached a second-story room. Taking a key from
her pocket, she unlocked the door and went in. There was a fire in
a small stove, and the room was comfortable. Locking the door on the
inside she said to Andy, in a voice changed and kinder,
“My! your hands are as red as beets. Go up to the stove and warm
yourself.”
Andy obeyed, spreading out his little hands, and catching the grateful
warmth, every now and then looking up into Pinky’s face, and trying with
a shrewder insight than is usually given to a child of his age to read
the character and purposes it half concealed and half made known.
“Now, Andy,” said Pinky, in a mild but very decided way--“your name’s
Andy?”
“Yes, ma’am,” answered the child, fixing his large, intelligent eyes on
her face.
“Well, Andy, if you’ll be a good and quiet boy, you needn’t be afraid of
anything--you won’t get hurt. But if you make a fuss, I’ll throw you at
once right out of the window.”
Pinky frowned and looked so wicked as she uttered the last sentence that
Andy was frightened. It seemed as if a devouring beast glared at him out
of her eyes. She saw the effect of her threat, and was satisfied.
The short afternoon soon passed away. The girl did not leave the room,
nor talk with the child except in very low tones, so as not to attract
the attention of any one in the house. As the day waned snow began to
fall, and by the time night set in it was coming down thick and fast. As
soon as it was fairly dark, Pinky wrapped a shawl about Andy, pinning it
closely, so as to protect him from the cold, and quietly left the house.
He made no resistance. A car was taken, in which they rode for a long
distance, until they were on the outskirts of the city. The snow had
already fallen to a depth of two or three inches, and the storm was
increasing. When she left the car in that remote neighborhood, not a
person was to be seen on the street. Catching Andy into her arms, Pinky
ran with him for the distance of half a block, and then turned into a
close alley with small houses on each side. At the lower end she stopped
before one of these houses, and without knocking pushed open the door.
“Who’s that?” cried a voice from an upper room, the stairway to which
led up from the room below.
“It’s me. Come down, and be quiet,” answered Pinky, in a warning voice.
A woman, old and gray, with all the signs of a bad life on her wrinkled
face, came hastily down stairs and confronted Pinky.
“What now? What’s brought you here?” she demanded, in no friendly tones.
“There, there, Mother Peter! smooth down your feathers. I’ve got
something for you to do, and it will pay,” answered Pinky, who had shut
the outside door and slipped the bolt.
At this, the manner of Mother Peter, as Pinky had called her, softened,
and she said,
“What’s up? What deviltry are you after now, you huzzy?”
Without replying to this, Pinky began shaking the snow from Andy and
unwinding the shawl with which she had bound him up. After he was free
from his outside wrappings, she said, looking toward the woman,
“Now, isn’t he a nice little chap? Did you ever see such eyes?”
The worn face of the woman softened as she turned toward the beautiful
child, but not with pity. To that feeling she had long been a stranger.
“I want you to keep him for a few days,” said Pinky, speaking in
the woman’s ears. “I’ll tell you more about it after he’s in bed and
asleep.”
“He’s to be kept shut up out of sight, mind,” was Pinky’s injunction,
in the conference that followed. “Not a living soul in the neighborhood
must know he’s in the house, for the police will be sharp after him.
I’ll pay you five dollars a week, and put it down in advance. Give him
plenty to eat, and be as good to him as you can, for you see it’s a fat
job, and I’ll make it fatter for you if all comes out right.”
The woman was not slow to promise all that Pinky demanded. The house in
which she lived had three rooms, one below and two smaller ones above.
From the room below a stove-pipe went up through the floor into a
sheet-iron drum in the small back chamber, and kept it partially heated.
It was arranged that Andy should be made a close prisoner in this room,
and kept quiet by fear. It had only one window, looking out upon the
yard, and there was no shed or porch over the door leading into the yard
below upon which he could climb out and make his escape. In order to
have things wholly secure the two women, after Andy was asleep, pasted
paper over the panes of glass in the lower sash, so that no one could
see his face at the window, and fastened the sash down by putting a nail
into a gimlet-hole at the top.
“I guess thatt will fix him,” said Pinky, in a tone of satisfaction.
“All you’ve got to do now is to see that he doesn’t make a noise.”
On the next morning Andy was awake by day-dawn. At first he did not know
where he was, but he kept very still, looking around the small room and
trying to make out what it all meant. Soon it came to him, and a vague
terror filled his heart. By his side lay the woman into whose hands
Pinky had given him. She was fast asleep, and her face, as he gazed in
fear upon it, was even more repulsive than it had looked on the night
before. His first impulse, after comprehending his situation, was to
escape if possible. Softly and silently he crept out of bed, and made
his way to the door. It was fastened. He drew the bolt back, when it
struck the guard with a sharp click. In an instant the old woman was
sitting up in bed and glaring at him.
“You imp of Satan!” she cried, springing after him with a singular
agility for one of her age, and catching him by the arm with a vice-like
grip that bruised the tender flesh and left it marked for weeks, drew
him back from the door and flung him upon the bed.
“Stay there till I tell you to get up,” she added, with a cruel threat
in her voice. “And mind you, there’s to be no fooling with me.”
The frightened child crept under the bed-clothes, and hid his face
beneath them. Mother Peter did not lie down again, but commenced
dressing herself, muttering and grumbling as she did so.
“Keep where you are till I come back,” she said to Andy, with the same
cruel threat in her voice. Going out, she bolted the door on the other
side. It was nearly half an hour before the woman returned, bringing a
plate containing two or three slices of bread and butter and a cup of
milk.
“Now get up and dress yourself,” was her sharply-spoken salutation to
Andy as she came into the room. “And you’re to be just as still as a
mouse, mind. There’s your breakfast.” She set the plate on a table and
went out, bolting, as before, the door on the other side. Andy did not
see her again for over an hour. Left entirely alone in his prison,
his restless spirit chafed for freedom. He moved about the apartment,
examining everything it contained with the closest scrutiny, yet without
making any noise, for the woman’s threat, accompanied as it had been
with such a wicked look, was not forgotten. He had seen in that look a
cruel spirit of which he was afraid. Two or three times he thought he
heard a step and a movement in the adjoining chamber, and waited, almost
holding his breath, with his eyes upon the door, expecting every moment
to see the scowling face of his jailer. But no hand touched the door.
Tired at last with everything in the room, he went to the window and
sought to look out, as he had already done many times. He could not
understand why this window, was so different from any he had ever seen,
and puzzled over it in his weak, childish way. As he moved from pane to
pane, trying to see through, he caught a glimpse of something outside,
but it was gone in a moment. He stepped back, then came up quickly to
the glass, all the dull quietude of manner leaving him. As he did so a
glimpse of the outside world came again, and now he saw a little hole in
the paper not larger than a pin’s head. To scrape at this was a simple
instinct. In a moment he saw it enlarging, as the paper peeled off
from the glass. Scraping away with his finger-nail, the glass was soon
cleared of paper for the space of an inch in diameter, and through this
opening he stood gazing out upon the yards, below, and the houses that
came up to them from a neighboring street. There was a woman in one
of these yards, and she looked up toward the window where Andy stood,
curiously.
“You imp of Satan!” were the terrible words that fell upon his ears at
this juncture, and he felt himself caught up as by a vulture. He knew
the cruel voice and the grip of the cruel hands that had already left
their marks in his tender flesh. Mother Peter, her face red with passion
and her eyes slowing like coals of fire, held him high in the air,
and shook him with savage violence. She did not strike, but continued
shaking him until the sudden heat of her passion had a little cooled.
“Didn’t I tell you not to meddle with anything in this room?” and with
another bruising grip of Andy’s arms, she threw him roughly upon the
floor.
The little hole in the paper was then repaired by pasting another piece
of paper over it, after which Andy was left alone, but with a threat
from Mother Peter that if he touched the window again she would beat the
life out of him. She had no more trouble with him that day. Every half
hour or so she would come up stairs noiselessly, and listen at the door,
or break in upon the child suddenly and without warning. But she did not
find him again at the window. The restlessness at first exhibited had
died out, and he sat or lay upon the floor in a kind of dull, despairing
stupor. So that day passed.
On the second day of Andy’s imprisonment he distinctly heard the old
woman go out at the street door and lock it after her. He listened for a
long time, but could hear no sound in the house. A feeling of relief and
a sense of safety came over him. He had not been so long in his prison
alone without the minutest examination of every part, and it had not
escaped his notice that the panes of glass in the upper sash of the
window were not covered with paper, as were those below. But for the
fear of one of Mother Peter’s noiseless pouncings in upon him, he would
long since have climbed upon the sill and taken a look through the upper
sash. He waited now for full half an hour to be sure that his jailer had
left the house, and then, climbing to the window-sill with the agility
of a squirrel, held on to the edge of the lower sash and looked out
through the clear glass above. Dreary and unsightly as was all that lay
under his gaze, it was beautiful in the eyes of the child. His little
heart swelled and glowed; he longed, as a prisoner, for freedom. As he
stood there he saw that a nail held down the lower sash, which he had so
often tried, but in vain, to lift. Putting his finger on this nail, he
felt it move. It had been placed loosely in a gimlet-hole, and could
be drawn out easily. For a little while he stood there, taking out and
putting in the nail. While doing this he thought he heard a sound below,
and instantly dropped noiselessly from the window. He had scarcely done
so when the door of his room opened and Mother Peter came in. She looked
at him sharply, and then retired without speaking.
All the next day Andy listened after Mother Peter, waiting to hear her
go out. But she did not leave the house until after he was asleep in the
evening.
On the next day, after waiting until almost noon, the child’s impatience
of confinement grew so strong that he could no longer defer his
meditated escape from the window, for ever since he had looked over the
sash and discovered how it was fastened down, his mind had been running
on this thing. He had noticed that Mother Peter’s visits to his room
were made after about equal intervals of time, and that after she gave
him his dinner she did not come up stairs again for at least an hour.
This had been brought, and he was again alone.
For nearly five minutes after the woman went out, he sat by the untasted
food, his head bent toward the door, listening. Then he got up quietly,
climbed upon the window-sill and pulled the nail out. Dropping back upon
the floor noiselessly, he pushed his hands upward against the sash, and
it rose easily. Like an animal held in unwilling confinement, he did
not stop to think of any danger that might lie in the way of escape
when opportunity for escape offered. The fear behind was worse than any
imagined fear that could lie beyond. Pushing up the sash, Andy, without
looking down from the window, threw himself across the sill and dropped
his body over, supporting himself with his hands on the snow-encrusted
ledge for a moment, and then letting himself fall to the ground, a
distance of nearly ten feet. He felt his breath go as he swept through
the air, and lost his senses for an instant or two.
Stunned by the fall, he did not rise for several minutes. Then he got
up with a slow, heavy motion and looked about him anxiously. He was in
a yard from which there was no egress except by way of the house. It
was bitter cold, and he had on nothing but the clothing worn in the room
from which he had just escaped. His head was bare.
The dread of being found here by Mother Peter soon lifted him above
physical impediment or suffering. Through a hole in the fence he saw an
alley-way; and by the aid of an old barrel that stood in the yard, he
climbed to the top of the fence and let himself down on the other side,
falling a few feet. A sharp pain was felt in one of his ankles as his
feet touched the ground. He had sprained it in his leap from the window,
and now felt the first pangs attendant on the injury.
Limping along, he followed the narrow alley-way, and in a little while
came out upon a street some distance from the one in which Mother Peter
lived. There were very few people abroad, and no one noticed or spoke to
him as he went creeping along, every step sending a pain from the hurt
ankle to his heart. Faint with suffering and chilled to numbness, Andy
stumbled and fell as he tried, in crossing a street, to escape from a
sleigh that turned a corner suddenly. It was too late for the driver to
rein up his horse. One foot struck the child, throwing him out of the
track of the sleigh. He was insensible when taken up, bleeding and
apparently dead. A few people came out of the small houses in the
neighborhood, attracted by the accident, but no one knew the child or
offered to take him in.
There were two ladies in the sleigh, and both were greatly pained and
troubled. After a hurried consultation, one of them reached out her
hands for the child, and as she received and covered him with the
buffalo-robe said something to the driver, who turned his horse’s head
and drove off at a rapid speed.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
EVERY home for friendless children, every sin or poverty-blighted ward
and almost every hovel, garret and cellar where evil and squalor shrunk
from observation were searched for the missing child, but in vain. No
trace of him could be found. The agony of suspense into which Edith’s
mind was brought was beginning to threaten her reason. It was only by
the strongest effort at self-compulsion that she could keep herself to
duty among the poor and suffering, and well for her it was that she did
not fail here; it was all that held her to safe mooring.
One day, as she was on her way home from some visit of mercy, a lady
who was passing in a carriage called to her from the window, at the same
time ordering her driver to stop. The carriage drew up to the sidewalk.
“Come, get in,” said the lady as she pushed open the carriage door. “I
was thinking of you this very moment, and want to have some talk about
our children’s hospital. We must have you on our ladies’ visiting
committee.”
Edith shook her head, saying, “It won’t be possible, Mrs. Morton. I am
overtaxed now, and must lessen, instead of increasing, my work.”
“Never mind, about that now. Get in. I want to have some talk with you.”
Edith, who knew the lady intimately, stepped into the carriage and took
a seat by her side.
“I don’t believe you have ever been to our hospital,” said the lady as
the carriage rolled on. “I’m going there now, and want to show you how
admirably everything is conducted, and what a blessing it is to poor
suffering children.”
“It hurts me so to witness suffering in little children,” returned
Edith, “that it seems as if I couldn’t bear it much longer. I see so
much of it.”
“The pain is not felt as deeply when we are trying to relieve that
suffering,” answered her friend. “I have come away from the hospital
many times after spending an hour or two among the beds, reading and
talking to the children, with an inward peace in my soul too deep for
expression. I think that Christ draws very near to us while we are
trying to do the work that he did when he took upon himself our nature
in, the world and stood face to face visibly with men--nearer to us,
it may be, than at any other time; and in his presence there is
peace--peace that passeth understanding.”
They were silent for a little while, Edith not replying. “We have now,”
 resumed the lady, “nearly forty children under treatment--poor
little things who, but for this charity, would have no tender care or
intelligent ministration. Most of them would be lying in garrets or
miserable little rooms, dirty and neglected, disease eating out their
lives, and pain that medical skill now relieves, racking their poor worn
bodies. I sat by the bed of a little girl yesterday who has been in the
hospital over six months. She has hip disease. When she was brought here
from one of the vilest places in the city, taken away from a drunken
mother, she was the saddest-looking child I ever saw. Dirty, emaciated,
covered with vermin and pitiable to behold, I could hardly help crying
when I saw her brought in. Now, though still unable to leave her
bed, she has as bright and happy a face as you ever saw. The care and
tenderness received since she came to us have awakened a new life in her
soul, and she exhibits a sweetness of temper beautiful to see. After
I had read a little story for her yesterday, she put her arms about
my neck and kissed me, saying, in her frank, impulsive way, ‘Oh, Mrs.
Morton, I do love you so!’ I had a great reward. Never do I spend an
hour among these children without thanking God that he put it into the
hearts of a few men and women who could be touched with the sufferings
of children to establish and sustain so good an institution.”
The carriage stopped, and the driver swung open the door. They were
at the children’s hospital. Entering a spacious hall, the two ladies
ascended to the second story, where the wards were located. There were
two of these on opposite sides of the hall, one for boys and one for
girls. Edith felt a heavy pressure on her bosom as they passed into the
girls’ ward. She was coming into the presence of disease and pain, of
suffering and weariness, in the persons of little children.
There were twenty beds in the room. Everything was faultlessly clean,
and the air fresh and pure. On most of these beds lay, or sat up,
supported by pillows, sick or crippled children from two years of age
up to fifteen or sixteen, while a few were playing about the room. Edith
caught her breath and choked back a sob that came swiftly to her throat
as she stood a few steps within the door and read in a few quick glances
that passed from face to face the sorrowful records that pain had
written upon them.
“Oh, there’s Mrs. Morton!” cried a glad voice, and Edith saw a girl who
was sitting up in one of the beds clap her hands joyfully.
“That’s the little one I was telling you about,” said the lady, and she
crossed to the bed, Edith following. The child reached up her arms and
