in the neighborhood of St. Augustine. A young man from Massachusetts,
driven to seek health in a milder climate, has bought a spot of land for
a nursery-garden in the neighborhood of St. Augustine. We visited his
place, and found him and his mother in a neat little cottage, adorned
only with grasses and flowers picked in the wild woods, and living in
perfect familiarity with the birds, which they have learned to call in
from the neighboring forests. It has become one of the fashionable
amusements in the season for strangers to drive out to this cottage and
see the birds fed. At a cry from the inmates of the cottage, the
blue-jays and mocking-birds will come in flocks, settle on their
shoulders, eat out of their hands, or out of the hands of any one who
chooses to hold food to them. When we drove out, however, the birds were
mostly dispersed about their domestic affairs; this being the nesting
season. Moreover, the ample supply of fresh wild berries in the woods
makes them less anxious for such dry food as contented them in winter.
Only one pet mocking-bird had established himself in a neighboring tree,
and came at their call. Pic sat aloft, switching his long tail with a
jerky air of indifference, like an enfant gâté. When raisins were
thrown up, he caught them once or twice; but at last, with an evident
bird-yawn, declared that it was no go, and he didn't care for raisins.
Ungrateful Pic! Next winter, eager and hungry, he will be grateful; and
so with all the rest of them.
One of the charms of May not to be forgotten is the blossoming of the
great Cape jessamine that stands at the end of the veranda, which has
certainly had as many as three or four hundred great, white, fragrant
flowers at once.
As near as possible, this is the most perfect of flowers. It is as pure
as the white camellia, with the added gift of exquisite perfume. It is a
camellia with a soul! Its leaves are of most brilliant varnished green;
its buds are lovely; and its expanded flower is of a thick, waxen
texture, and as large as a large camellia. We have sat moonlight nights
at the end of the veranda, and enjoyed it. It wraps one in an atmosphere
of perfume. Only one fault has this bush: it blossoms only once a
season; not, like the ever-springing oleander, for months. One feels a
sense of hurry to enjoy and appropriate a bloom so rare, that lasts only
a few weeks.
Here in Florida, flowers form a large item of thought and conversation
wherever one goes; and the reason of it is the transcendent beauty and
variety that are here presented. We have just returned from St.
Augustine, and seen some gardens where wealth and leisure have expended
themselves on flowers; and in our next chapter we will tell of some of
these beauties.
  [Illustration]
ST. AUGUSTINE.
      MANDARIN, May 30, 1872.
The thermometer with us, during the third week in May, rose to
ninety-two in the shade; and as we had received an invitation from a
friend to visit St. Augustine, which is the Newport of Florida, we
thought it a good time to go seaward. So on a pleasant morning we
embarked on the handsome boat "Florence," which has taken so many up
the river, and thus secured all the breeze that was to be had.
"The Florence" is used expressly for a river pleasure-boat, plying every
day between Jacksonville and Pilatka. It is long and airy, and nicely
furnished; and one could not imagine a more delightful conveyance. In
hot weather, one could not be more sure of cool breezes than when
sailing up and down perpetually in "The Florence." Our destiny, however,
landed us in the very meridian of the day at Tekoi. Tekoi consists of a
shed and a sand-bank, and a little shanty, where, to those who require,
refreshments are served.
On landing, we found that we must pay for the pleasure and coolness of
coming up river in "The Florence" by waiting two or three mortal hours
till "The Starlight" arrived; for the railroad-car would not start till
the full complement of passengers was secured. We had a good
opportunity then of testing what the heat of a Florida sun might be,
untempered by live-oaks and orange shades, and unalleviated by
ice-water; and the lesson was an impressive one.
The railroad across to St. Augustine is made of wooden rails; and the
cars are drawn by horses.
There was one handsome car like those used on the New-York
horse-railroads: the others were the roughest things imaginable.
Travellers have usually spoken of this road with execration for its
slowness and roughness; but over this, such as it was, all the rank and
fashion of our pleasure-seekers, the last winter, have been pouring in
unbroken daily streams. In the height of the season, when the cars were
crowded, four hours were said to be consumed in performing this fifteen
miles. We, however, did it in about two.
To us this bit of ride through the Florida woods is such a
never-ceasing source of interest and pleasure, that we do not mind the
slowness of it, and should regret being whisked by at steam-speed. We
have come over it three times; and each time the varieties of shrubs and
flowers, grasses and curious leaves, were a never-failing study and
delight. Long reaches of green moist land form perfect flower-gardens,
whose variety of bloom changes with every month. The woods hang full of
beautiful climbing plants. The coral honeysuckle and the red bignonia
were in season now. Through glimpses and openings here and there we
could see into forests of wild orange-trees; and palmetto-palms raised
their scaly trunks and gigantic green fans. The passengers could not
help admiring the flowers: and as there were many stops and pauses, and
as the gait of the horses was never rapid, it was quite easy for the
gentlemen to gather and bring in specimens of all the beauties; and the
flowers formed the main staple of the conversation. They were so very
bright and gay and varied, that even the most unobserving could not but
notice them.
St. Augustine stands on a flat, sandy level, encompassed for miles and
miles by what is called "scrub,"--a mixture of low palmettoes and bushes
of various descriptions. Its history carries one back almost to the
middle ages. For instance, Menendez, who figured as commandant in its
early day, was afterwards appointed to command the Spanish Armada, away
back in the times of Queen Elizabeth; but, owing to the state of his
health, he did not accept the position.
In the year 1586, Elizabeth then being at war with Spain, her admiral,
Sir Francis Drake, bombarded St. Augustine, and took it; helping
himself, among other things, to seven brass cannon, two thousand pounds
in money, and other booty. In 1605 it was taken and plundered by
buccaneers; in 1702, besieged by the people of the Carolinas; in 1740,
besieged again by Gen. Oglethorpe of Georgia.
So we see that this part of our country, at least, does not lie open to
the imputation so often cast upon America, of having no historic
associations; though, like a great deal of the world's history, it is
written in letters of blood and fire.
Whoever would know, let him read Parkman's "Pioneers of France," under
the article "Huguenots in Florida," and he will see how the first
Spanish governor, Menendez, thought he did God service when he butchered
in cold blood hundreds of starving, shipwrecked Huguenots who threw
themselves on his mercy, and to whom he had extended pledges of shelter
and protection.
A government-officer, whose ship is stationed in Matanzas Inlet, told
me that the tradition is that the place is still haunted by the unquiet
ghosts of the dead. An old negro came to him, earnestly declaring that
he had heard often, at midnight, shrieks and moans, and sounds as of
expostulation, and earnest cries in some foreign language, at that
place; and that several white people whom he had taken to the spot had
heard the same. On inquiring of his men, Capt. H---- could find none who
had heard the noises; although, in digging in the sands, human bones
were often disinterred. But surely, by all laws of demonology, here is
where there ought to be the materials for a first-class ghost-story.
Here, where there has been such crime, cruelty, treachery, terror, fear,
and agony, we might fancy mourning shades wandering in unrest,--shades
of the murderers, forever deploring their crime and cruelty.
The aspect of St. Augustine is quaint and strange, in harmony with its
romantic history. It has no pretensions to architectural richness or
beauty; and yet it is impressive from its unlikeness to any thing else
in America. It is as if some little, old, dead-and-alive Spanish town,
with its fort and gateway and Moorish bell-towers, had broken loose,
floated over here, and got stranded on a sand-bank. Here you see the
shovel-hats and black gowns of priests; the convent, with gliding
figures of nuns; and in the narrow, crooked streets meet dark-browed
people with great Spanish eyes and coal-black hair. The current of life
here has the indolent, dreamy stillness that characterizes life in Old
Spain. In Spain, when you ask a man to do any thing, instead of
answering as we do, "In a minute," the invariable reply is, "In an
hour;" and the growth and progress of St. Augustine have been according.
There it stands, alone, isolated, connected by no good roads or
navigation with the busy, living world. Before 1835, St. Augustine was
a bower of orange-trees. Almost every house looked forth from these
encircling shades. The frost came and withered all; and in very few
cases did it seem to come into the heads of the inhabitants to try
again. The orange-groves are now the exception, not the rule; and yet
for thirty years it has been quite possible to have them.
As the only seaport city of any size in Florida, St. Augustine has many
attractions. Those who must choose a Southern home, and who are so
situated that they must remain through the whole summer in the home of
their choice, could not do better than to choose St. Augustine. It is
comparatively free from malarial fevers; and the sea-air tempers the
oppressive heats of summer, so that they are quite endurable.
Sea-bathing can be practised in suitable bathing-houses; but the sharks
make open sea-bathing dangerous. If one comes expecting a fine view of
the open ocean, however, one will be disappointed; for Anastasia
Island--a long, low sand-bar--stretches its barren line across the whole
view, giving only so much sea-prospect as can be afforded by the arm of
the sea--about two miles wide--which washes the town. Little as this may
seem of the ocean, the town lies so flat and low, that, in stormy
weather, the waves used to be driven up into it, so as to threaten its
destruction. A sea-wall of solid granite masonry was deemed necessary to
secure its safety, and has been erected by the United-States Government.
This wall affords a favorite promenade to the inhabitants, who there
enjoy good footing and sea-breezes.
What much interested us in St. Augustine was to see the results of such
wealth and care as are expended at the North on gardening being brought
to bear upon gardens in this semi-tropical region. As yet, all that we
have seen in Florida has been the beginning of industrial experiments,
where utility has been the only thing consulted, and where there has
been neither time nor money to seek the ornamental. Along the St. John's
you can see, to-day, hundreds of places torn from the forest, yet
showing the unrotted stumps of the trees; the house standing in a glare
of loose white sand, in which one sinks over shoes at every step. If
there be a flower-garden (and, wherever there is a woman, there will
be), its prospects in the loose sliding sands appear discouraging.
Boards and brick-edgings are necessary to make any kind of boundaries;
and a man who has to cut down a forest, dig a well, build a house, plant
an orange-grove, and meanwhile raise enough garden-stuff to pay his way,
has small time for the graces.
But here in St. Augustine are some families of wealth and leisure,
driven to seek such a winter-home, who amuse themselves during their
stay in making that home charming; and the results are encouraging.
In the first place, the slippery sand-spirit has been caught, and
confined under green grass-plats. The grass problem has been an earnest
study with us ever since we came here. What grass will bear a steady
blaze of the sun for six months, with the thermometer at a hundred and
thirty or forty, is a question. It is perfectly easy, as we have proved
by experiment, to raise flattering grass-plats of white clover, and even
of the red-top, during the cool, charming months of January, February,
and March; but their history will be summed up in the scriptural
account--"which to day is, and to-morrow is cast into the oven"--as soon
as May begins.
The chances of an enduring sod for ornamental purposes are confined to
two varieties,--the broad and the narrow leafed Bermuda grasses. These
have roots that run either to the centre of the earth, or far enough in
that direction for practical purposes; and are, besides, endowed with
the faculty of throwing out roots at every joint, so that they spread
rapidly. The broad-leafed kind is what is principally employed in St.
Augustine; and we have seen beautifully-kept gardens where it is cut
into borders, and where the grass-plats and croquet-grounds have been
made of it to admirable advantage. A surface of green in this climate is
doubly precious to the eye.
We were visiting in a house which is a model for a hot climate. A wide,
cool hall runs through the centre; and wide verandas, both above and
below, go around the whole four sides. From these we could look down at
our leisure into the foliage of a row of Magnolia grandiflora, now in
blossom. Ivy, honeysuckles, manrundia, and a host of other
climbing-plants, make a bower of these outside corridors of the house.
The calla-lilies blossom almost daily in shaded spots; and beds of
fragrant blue violets are never without flowers. Among the ornamental
shrubbery we noticed the chaparral,--a thorny tree, with clusters of
yellow blossoms, and long, drooping, peculiar leaves, resembling in
effect the willow-leafed acacia. The banana has a value simply as an
ornamental-leaf plant, quite apart from the consideration of its fruit,
which one can buy, perhaps, better than one can raise, in this part of
Florida; but it is glorious, when the thermometer is going up into the
hundreds, to see the great, fresh, broad, cool leaves of the banana-tree
leaping into life, and seeming to joy in existence. In groups of
different sizes, they form most beautiful and effective shrubbery. The
secret of gardening well here is to get things that love the sun. Plants
that come originally from hot regions, and that rejoice the hotter it
grows, are those to be sought for. The date-palm has many beautiful
specimens in the gardens of St. Augustine. A date-palm, at near view, is
as quaint and peculiar a specimen of Nature as one can imagine. Its
trunk seems built up of great scales, in which ferns and vines root
themselves, and twine and ramble, and hang in festoons. Above, the
leaves, thirty feet long, fall in a feathery arch, and in the centre,
like the waters of a fountain, shoot up bright, yellow, drooping
branches that look like coral. These are the flower-stalks. The fruit,
in this climate, does not ripen so as to be good for any thing.
One gentleman showed me a young palm, now six feet high, which he had
raised from a seed of the common shop date, planted four years ago. In
this same garden he showed me enormous rose-trees, which he had formed
by budding the finest of the Bourbon ever-blooming roses in the native
Florida rose. The growth in three years had been incredible; and these
trees are an ever-springing fountain of fresh roses. There is a
rose-tree in St. Augustine, in a little garden, which all the
sight-seers go to see. It is a tree with a trunk about the size of an
ordinary man's arm, and is said to have had a thousand roses on it at a
time. Half that number will answer our purpose; and we will set it down
at that. Rose-slugs and rose-bugs are pests unheard of here. The rose
grows as in its native home. One very pretty feature of the houses here
struck me agreeably. There is oftentimes a sort of shaded walk under
half the house, opening upon the garden. You go up a dusty street, and
stand at a door, which you expect will open into a hall. It opens, and a
garden full of flowers and trees meets your view. The surprise is
delightful. In one garden that we visited we saw a century-plant in
bud. The stalk was nineteen feet high; and the blossoms seemed to
promise to be similar to those of the yucca. The leaves are like the
aloe, only longer, and twisted and contorted in a strange, weird
fashion. On the whole, it looked as if it might have been one of the
strange plants in Rappicini's garden in Padua.
The society in St. Augustine, though not extensive, is very delightful.
We met and were introduced to some very cultivated, agreeable people.
There is a fair prospect that the city will soon be united by railroad
to Jacksonville, which will greatly add to the facility and convenience
of living there. We recrossed the railroad at Tekoi, on our way home, in
company with a party of gentlemen who are investigating that road with a
view of putting capital into it, and so getting it into active running
order. One of them informed me that he was also going to Indian River to
explore, in view of the projected plan to unite it with the St. John's
by means of a canal. Very sensibly he remarked, that, in order to really
make up one's mind about Florida, one should see it in summer; to which
we heartily assented.
By all these means this beautiful country is being laid open, and made
accessible and inhabitable as a home and refuge for those who need it.
On the steamboat, coming back, we met the Florida Thoreau of whom we
before spoke,--a devoted, enthusiastic lover of Nature as she reveals
herself in the most secluded everglades and forests. He supports
himself, and pays the expenses of his tours, by selling the curiosities
of Nature which he obtains to the crowd of eager visitors who throng the
hotels in winter. The feathers of the pink curlew, the heron, the crane,
the teeth of alligators, the skins of deer, panther, and wild-cat, are
among his trophies. He asserted with vehemence that there were
varieties of birds in Florida unknown as yet to any collection of
natural history. He excited us greatly by speaking of a pair of pet pink
curlews which had been tamed; also of a snow-white stork, with sky-blue
epaulet on each shoulder, which is to be found in the everglades. He was
going to spend the whole summer alone in these regions, or only with
Indian guides; and seemed cheerful and enthusiastic. He should find
plenty of cocoanuts, and would never need to have a fever if he would
eat daily of the wild oranges which abound. If one only could go in
spirit, and not in flesh, one would like to follow him into the
everglades. The tropical forests of Florida contain visions and wonders
of growth and glory never yet revealed to the eye of the common
traveller, and which he who sees must risk much to explore. Our best
wishes go with our enthusiast. May he live to tell us what he sees!
  [Illustration]
OUR NEIGHBOR OVER THE WAY.
      MANDARIN, May 14, 1872.
Our neighbor over the way is not, to be sure, quite so near or so
observable as if one lived on Fifth Avenue or Broadway.
Between us and his cottage lie five good miles of molten silver in the
shape of the St. John's River, outspread this morning in all its
quivering sheen, glancing, dimpling, and sparkling, dotted with
sail-boats, and occasionally ploughed by steamboats gliding like white
swans back and forth across the distance.
Far over on the other side, where the wooded shores melt into pearly
blue outlines, gleams out in the morning sun a white, glimmering spot
about as big as a ninepence, which shows us where his cottage stands.
Thither we are going to make a morning visit. Our water-coach is now
approaching the little wharf front of our house: and we sally forth
equipped with our sun-umbrellas; for the middle of May here is like the
middle of August at the North. The water-coach, or rather omnibus, is a
little thimble of a steamer, built for pleasuring on the St. John's,
called "The Mary Draper." She is a tiny shell of a thing, but with a
nice, pretty cabin, and capable of carrying comfortably thirty or forty
passengers. During the height of the travelling-season "The Mary Draper"
is let out to parties of tourists, who choose thus at their leisure to
explore the river, sailing, landing, rambling, exploring, hunting,
fishing, and perhaps inevitably flirting among the flowery nooks and
palmetto-hammocks of the shore. We have seen her many a time coming
gayly back from an excursion, with the voice of singing, and laugh of
youths and maidens, resounding from her deck, flower-wreathed and
flower-laden like some fabled bark from the fairy isles. But now, in the
middle of May, the tourists are few; and so "The Mary Draper" has been
turned into a sort of errand-boat, plying up and down the river to serve
the needs and convenience of the permanent inhabitants. A flag shown
upon our wharf brings her in at our need; and we step gayly on board, to
be carried across to our neighbors.
We take our seats at the shaded end of the boat, and watch the
retreating shore, with its gigantic live-oaks rising like a dome above
the orange-orchards, its clouds of pink oleander-trees that seem every
week to blossom fuller than the last; and for a little moment we can
catch the snow-white glimmer of the great Cape jessamine-shrub that
bends beneath the weight of flowers at the end of our veranda. Our
little cottage looks like a rabbit's nest beside the monster oaks that
shade it; but it is cosey to see them all out on the low veranda,--the
Professor with his newspapers, the ladies with their worsteds and
baskets, in fact the whole of our large family,--all reading, writing,
working, in the shady covert of the orange-trees.
From time to time a handkerchief is waved on their part, and the signal
returned on ours; and they follow our receding motions with a spyglass.
Our life is so still and lonely here, that even so small an event as our
crossing the river for a visit is all-absorbing.
But, after a little, our craft melts off into the distance, "The Mary
Draper" looks to our friends no larger than a hazel-nut, and the trees
of the other side loom up strong and tall in our eyes, and grow clearer
and clearer; while our home, with its great live-oaks and its
orange-groves, has all melted into a soft woolly haze of distance. Our
next neighbor's great whitewashed barn is the only sign of habitation
remaining; and that flashes out a mere shining speck in the distance.
Now the boat comes up to Mr. ----'s wharf; and he is there to meet and
welcome us.
One essential to every country-house on the St. John's is this accessory
of a wharf and boathouse. The river is, for a greater or less distance
from the shore, too shallow to admit the approach of steamboats; and
wharves of fifty or a hundred feet in length are needed to enable
passengers to land.
The bottom of the river is of hard, sparkling white sand, into which
spiles are easily driven; and the building and keeping-up of such a
wharf is a trifling trouble and expense in a land where lumber is so
plentiful.
Our friend Mr. ---- is, like many other old Floridian residents,
originally from the North. In early youth he came to Florida a condemned
and doomed consumptive, recovered his health, and has lived a long and
happy life here, and acquired a handsome property.
He owns extensive tracts of rich and beautiful land on the west bank of
the St. John's, between it and Jacksonville, destined, as that city
grows and extends, to become of increasing value. His wife, like himself
originally of Northern origin, has become perfectly acclimated and
naturalized by years' residence at the South; and is to all intents and
purposes, a Southern woman. They live all the year upon their place;
those who formerly were their slaves settled peaceably around them as
free laborers, still looking up to them for advice, depending on them
for aid, and rendering to them the willing, well-paid services of
freemen.
Their house is a simple white cottage, situated so as to command a noble
view of the river. A long avenue of young live-oak-trees leads up from
the river to the house. The ground is covered with a smooth, even turf
of Bermuda grass,--the only kind that will endure the burning glare of
the tropical summer. The walls of the house are covered with roses, now
in full bloom. La Marque, cloth-of-gold, and many another kind, throw
out their splendid clusters, and fill the air with fragrance. We find
Mrs. ---- and her family on the veranda,--the usual reception-room in a
Southern house. The house is the seat of hospitality; every room in it
sure to be full, if not with the members of the family proper, then with
guests from Jacksonville, who find, in this high, breezy situation, a
charming retreat from the heat of the city.
One feature is characteristic of Southern houses, so far as we have
seen. The ladies are enthusiastic plant-lovers; and the veranda is lined
round with an array of boxes in which gardening experiments are carried
on. Rare plants, slips, choice seedlings, are here nurtured and cared
for. In fact, the burning power of the tropical sun, and the scalding,
fine white sand, is such, that to put a tender plant or slip into it
seems, in the words of Scripture, like casting it into the oven; and so
there is everywhere more or less of this box-gardening.
The cottage was all in summer array; the carpets taken up and packed
away, leaving the smooth, yellow pine floors clean and cool as the
French parquets.
The plan of the cottage is the very common one of Southern houses. A
wide, clear hall, furnished as a sitting-room, opening on a veranda on
either end, goes through the house; and all the other rooms open upon
it. We sat chatting, first on the veranda; and, as the sun grew hotter,
retreated inward to the hall, and discussed flowers, farm, and dairy.
On the east bank of the St. John's, where our own residence is,
immediately around Mandarin, the pasturage is poor, and the cattle
diminutive and half starved. Knowing that our neighbor was an old
resident, and enthusiastic stock-raiser and breeder, we came to him for
knowledge on these subjects. Stock-breeding has received a great share
of attention from the larger planters of Florida. The small breed of
wild native Florida cattle has been crossed and improved by foreign
stock imported at great expense. The Brahmin cattle of India, as coming
from a tropical region, were thought specially adapted to the Floridian
climate, and have thriven well here. By crossing these with the Durham
and Ayrshire and the native cattle, fine varieties of animals have been
obtained. Mr. ---- showed me a list of fifty of his finest cows, each
one of which has its distinguishing name, and with whose pedigree and
peculiarities he seemed well acquainted.
In rearing, the Floridian system has always been to make every thing
subservient to the increase of the herd. The calf is allowed to run with
the cow; and the supply of milk for the human being is only what is over
and above the wants of the calf. The usual mode of milking is to leave
the calf sucking on one side, while the milker sits on the other, and
gets his portion. It is an opinion fixed as fate in the mind of every
negro cow-tender, that to kill a calf would be the death of the mother;
and that, if you separate the calf from the mother, her milk will dry
up. Fresh veal is a delicacy unheard of; and once, when we suggested a
veal-pie to a strapping Ethiopian dairy-woman, she appeared as much
shocked as if we had proposed to fricassee a baby. Mr. ----, however,
expressed his conviction that the Northern method of taking off the
calf, and securing the cow's milk, could be practised with success, and
had been in one or two cases. The yield of milk of some of the best
blood cows was quite equal to that of Northern milkers, and might be
kept up by good feeding. As a rule, however, stock-raisers depend for
their supply of milk more on the number of their herd than the quantity
given by each. The expenses of raising are not heavy where there is a
wide expanse of good pasture-land for them to range in, and no necessity
for shelters of any kind through the year.
Mr. ---- spoke of the river-grass as being a real and valuable species
of pasturage. On the west side of the river, the flats and shallows
along by the shore are covered with a broad-leaved water-grass, very
tender and nutritious, of which cattle are very fond. It is a curious
sight to see whole herds of cows browsing in the water, as one may do
every day along the course of this river.
The subject of dairy-keeping came up; and, at our request, Mrs. ---- led
the way to hers. It is built out under a dense shade of trees in an airy
situation, with double walls like an ice-house. The sight of the snowy
shelves set round with pans, on which a rich golden cream was forming,
was a sufficient testimony that there could be beautiful, well-kept
dairies in Florida, notwithstanding its tropical heats.
The butter is made every morning at an early hour; and we had an
opportunity of tasting it at the dinner-table. Like the best butter of
France and England, it is sweet and pure, like solidified cream, and as
different as can be from the hard, salty mass which most generally
passes for butter among us. The buttermilk of a daily churning is also
sweet and rich, a delicious nourishing drink, and an excellent adjuvant
in the making of various cakes and other household delicacies.
Our friend's experience satisfied us that there was no earthly reason in
the climate or surroundings of Florida why milk and butter should be the
scarce and expensive luxuries they are now. What one private gentleman
can do simply for his own comfort and that of his family, we should
think might be repeated on a larger scale by somebody in the
neighborhood of Jacksonville as a money speculation. Along the western
bank of this river are hundreds of tracts of good grazing land, where
cattle might be pastured at small expense; where the products of a dairy
on a large scale would meet a ready and certain sale. At present the
hotels and boarding-houses are supplied with condensed milk, and butter,
imported from the North: and yet land is cheap here; labor is
reasonable; the climate genial, requiring no outlay for shelter, and
comparatively little necessity of storing food for winter. Fine breeds
of animals of improved stock exist already, and can be indefinitely
increased; and we wonder that nobody is to be found to improve the
opportunity to run a stock and dairy farm which shall supply the hotels
and boarding-houses of Jacksonville.
After visiting the dairy, we sauntered about, looking at the
poultry-yards, where different breeds of hens, turkeys, pea-fowl, had
each their allotted station. Four or five big dogs, hounds and pointers,
trotted round with us, or rollicked with a party of grandchildren,
assisted by the never-failing addition of a band of giggling little
negroes. As in the old times, the servants of the family have their
little houses back of the premises; and the laundry-work, &c., is
carried on outside. The propensity at the South is to multiply little
buildings. At the North, where there is a winter to be calculated on,
the tactics of living are different. The effort is to gather all the
needs and wants of life under one roof, to be warmed and kept in order
at small expense. In the South, where building-material is cheap, and
building is a slight matter, there is a separate little building for
every thing; and the back part of an estate looks like an eruption of
little houses. There is a milk-house, a corn-house, a tool-house, a
bake-house, besides a house for each of the leading servants, making
quite a village.
Our dinner was a bountiful display of the luxuries of a Southern
farm,--finely-flavored fowl choicely cooked, fish from the river,
soft-shell turtle-soup, with such a tempting variety of early vegetables
as seemed to make it impossible to do justice to all. Mrs. ---- offered
us a fine sparkling wine made of the juice of the wild-orange. In color
it resembled the finest sherry, and was much like it in flavor.
We could not help thinking, as we refused dainty after dainty, from mere
inability to take more, of the thoughtless way in which it is often said
that there can be nothing fit to eat got in Florida.
Mr. ----'s family is supplied with food almost entirely from the
products of his own farm. He has the nicest of fed beef, nice tender
pork, poultry of all sorts, besides the resources of an ample, well-kept
dairy. He raises and makes his own sirup. He has sweet-potatoes, corn,
and all Northern vegetables, in perfection; peaches, grapes of finest
quality, besides the strictly tropical fruits; and all that he has, any
other farmer might also have with the same care.
After dinner we walked out to look at the grapes, which hung in profuse
clusters, just beginning to ripen on the vines. On our way we stopped
to admire a great bitter-sweet orange-tree, which seemed to make
"Hesperian fables true." It was about thirty feet in height, and with
branches that drooped to the ground, weighed down at the same time with
great golden balls of fruit, and wreaths of pearly buds and blossoms.
Every stage of fruit, from the tiny green ball of a month's growth to
the perfected orange, were here; all the processes of life going on
together in joyous unity. The tree exemplified what an orange-tree could
become when fully fed, when its almost boundless capacity for digesting
nutriment meets a full supply; and it certainly stood one of the most
royal of trees. Its leaves were large, broad, and of that glossy,
varnished green peculiar to the orange; and its young shoots looked like
burnished gold. The bitter-sweet orange is much prized by some. The pulp
is sweet, with a certain spicy flavor; but the rind, and all the inner
membranes that contain the fruit, are bitter as quinine itself. It is
held to be healthy to eat of both, as the acid and the bitter are held
to be alike correctives of the bilious tendencies of the climate.
But the afternoon sun was casting the shadows the other way, and the
little buzzing "Mary Draper" was seen puffing in the distance on her way
back from Jacksonville; and we walked leisurely down the live-oak
avenues to the wharf, our hands full of roses and Oriental jessamine,
and many pleasant memories of our neighbors over the way.
And now in relation to the general subject of farming in Florida. Our
own region east of the St. John's River is properly a little sandy belt
of land, about eighteen miles wide, washed by the Atlantic Ocean on one
side, and the St. John's River on the other. It is not by any means so
well adapted to stock-farming or general farming as the western side of
the river. Its principal value is in fruit-farming; and it will appear,
by a voyage up the river, that all the finest old orange-groves and all
the new orange-plantations are on the eastern side of the river.
The presence, on either side, of two great bodies of water, produces a
more moist and equable climate, and less liability to frosts. In the
great freeze of 1835, the orange-groves of the west bank were killed
beyond recovery; while the fine groves of Mandarin sprang up again from
the root, and have been vigorous bearers for years since.
But opposite Mandarin, along the western shore, lie miles and miles of
splendid land--which in the olden time produced cotton of the finest
quality, sugar, rice, sweet-potatoes--now growing back into forest with
a tropical rapidity. The land lies high, and affords fine sites for
dwellings; and the region is comparatively healthy. Then Hibernia,
Magnolia, and Green Cove, on the one side, and Jacksonville on the
other, show perfect assemblages of boarding-houses and hotels, where
ready market might be found for what good farmers might raise. A colony
of farmers coming out and settling here together, bringing with them
church and schoolhouse, with a minister skilled like St. Bernard both in
husbandry and divinity, might soon create a thrifty farming-village. We
will close this chapter with an extract from a letter of a Northern
emigrant recently settled at Newport, on the north part of Appalachicola
Bay.
       SEPT. 22, 1872.
       I have been haying this month: in fact I had mowed my
       orange-grove, a square of two acres, from time to time,
       all summer. But this month a field of two acres had a
       heavy burden of grass, with cow-pease intermixed. In some
       parts of the field, there certainly would be at the rate
       of three tons to the acre. The whole field would average
       one ton to the acre. So I went at it with a good Northern
       scythe, and mowed every morning an hour or two. The hay
       was perfectly cured by five P.M., same day, and put in
       barn. The land, being in ridges, made mowing difficult.
       Next year I mean to lay that land down to grass, taking
       out stumps, and making smooth, sowing rye and clover. I
       shall plough it now as soon as the hay is all made, and
       sow the rye and clover immediately. I have five cows that
       give milk, and four that should come in soon. These, with
       their calves, I shall feed through the months when the
       grass is poor. I have also a yoke of oxen and four young
       steers, with Trim the mule. I have already in the barn
       three to four tons of hay and corn-fodder, and two acres
       of cow-pease cured, to be used as hay. I hope to have five
       hundred bushels of sweet-potatoes, which, for stock, are
       equal to corn. I made a hundred and ten bushels of corn,
       twenty-five to the acre. My cane is doing moderately well.
       Hope to have all the seed I want to plant fourteen acres
       next year. Bananas thrive beautifully; shall have fifty
       offsets to set out this winter; also three or four
       thousand oranges, all large-sized and fair.
All these facts go to show, that, while Florida cannot compete with the
Northern and Western States as a grass-raising State, yet there are
other advantages in her climate and productions which make stock-farming
feasible and profitable. The disadvantages of her burning climate may,
to a degree, be evaded and overcome by the application of the same
patient industry and ingenuity which rendered fruitful the iron soil and
freezing climate of the New-England States.
  [Illustration]
THE GRAND TOUR UP RIVER.
The St. John's is the grand water-highway through some of the most
beautiful portions of Florida; and tourists, safely seated at ease on
the decks of steamers, can penetrate into the mysteries and wonders of
unbroken tropical forests.
During the "season," boats continually run from Jacksonville to
Enterprise, and back again; the round trip being made for a moderate
sum, and giving, in a very easy and comparatively inexpensive manner,
as much of the peculiar scenery as mere tourists care to see. On
returning, a digression is often made at Tekoi, where passengers cross a
horse-railroad of fifteen miles to St. Augustine; thus rendering their
survey of East Florida more complete. In fact, what may be seen and
known of the State in such a trip is about all that the majority of
tourists see and know.
The great majority also perform this trip, and see this region, in the
dead of winter, when certainly one-half of the glorious forests upon the
shore are bare of leaves.
It is true that the great number of evergreen-trees here make the shores
at all times quite different from those of a Northern climate; yet the
difference between spring and winter is as great here as there.
Our party were resolute in declining all invitations to join parties in
January, February, and March; being determined to wait till the new
spring foliage was in its glory.
When the magnolia-flowers were beginning to blossom, we were ready, and
took passage--a joyous party of eight or ten individuals--on the steamer
"Darlington," commanded by Capt. Broch, and, as is often asserted, by
"Commodore Rose."
This latter, in this day of woman's rights, is no mean example of female
energy and vigor. She is stewardess of the boat, and magnifies her
office. She is a colored woman, once a slave owned by Capt. Broch, but
emancipated, as the story goes, for her courage, and presence of mind,
in saving his life in a steamboat disaster.
Rose is short and thick, weighing some two or three hundred, with a
brown complexion, and a pleasing face and fine eyes. Her voice, like
that of most colored women, is soft, and her manner of speaking
pleasing. All this, however, relates to her demeanor when making the
agreeable to passengers. In other circumstances, doubtless, she can
speak louder, and with considerable more emphasis; and show, in short,
those martial attributes which have won for her the appellation of the
"Commodore." It is asserted that the whole charge of provisioning and
running the boat, and all its internal arrangements, vests in Madam
Rose; and that nobody can get ahead of her in a bargain, or resist her
will in an arrangement.
She knows every inch of the river, every house, every plantation along
shore, its former or present occupants and history; and is always ready
with an answer to a question. The arrangement and keeping of the boat do
honor to her. Nowhere in Florida does the guest sit at a more
bountifully-furnished table. Our desserts and pastry were really, for
the wilderness, something quite astonishing.
The St. John's River below Pilatka has few distinguishing features to
mark it out from other great rivers. It is so wide, that the foliage of
the shores cannot be definitely made out; and the tourist here,
expecting his palm-trees and his magnolias and flowering-vines, is
disappointed by sailing in what seems a never-ending great lake, where
the shores are off in the distance too far to make out any thing in
particular. But, after leaving Pilatka, the river grows narrower, the
overhanging banks approach nearer, and the foliage becomes more
decidedly tropical in its character. Our boat, after touching as usual
at Hibernia, Magnolia, and Green Cove, brought up at Pilatka late in the
afternoon, made but a short stop, and was on her way again.
It was the first part of May; and the forests were in that fulness of
leafy perfection which they attain in the month of June at the North.
But there is a peculiar, vivid brilliancy about the green of the new
spring-leaves here, which we never saw elsewhere. It is a brilliancy
like some of the new French greens, now so much in vogue, and reminding
one of the metallic brightness of birds and insects. In the woods, the
cypress is a singular and beautiful feature. It attains to a great age
and immense size. The trunk and branches of an old cypress are smooth
and white as ivory, while its light, feathery foliage is of the most
dazzling golden-green; and rising, as it often does, amid clumps of dark
varnished evergreens,--bay and magnolia and myrtle,--it has a singular
and beautiful effect. The long swaying draperies of the gray moss
interpose everywhere their wavering outlines and pearl tints amid the
brightness and bloom of the forest, giving to its deep recesses the
mystery of grottoes hung with fanciful vegetable stalactites.
The palmetto-tree appears in all stages,--from its earliest growth,
when it looks like a fountain of great, green fan-leaves bursting from
the earth, to its perfect shape, when, sixty or seventy feet in height,
it rears its fan crown high in air. The oldest trees may be known by a
perfectly smooth trunk; all traces of the scaly formation by which it
has built itself up in ring after ring of leaves being obliterated. But
younger trees, thirty or forty feet in height, often show a trunk which
seems to present a regular criss-cross of basket-work,--the remaining
scales from whence the old leaves have decayed and dropped away. These
scaly trunks are often full of ferns, wild flowers, and vines, which
hang in fantastic draperies down their sides, and form leafy and flowery
pillars. The palmetto-hammocks, as they are called, are often miles in
extent along the banks of the rivers. The tops of the palms rise up
round in the distance as so many hay-cocks, and seeming to rise one
above another far as the eye can reach.
We have never been so fortunate as to be able to explore one of these
palmetto-groves. The boat sails with a provoking quickness by many a
scene that one longs to dwell upon, study, and investigate. We have been
told, however, by hunters, that they afford admirable camping-ground,
being generally high and dry, with a flooring of clean white sand. Their
broad leaves are a perfect protection from rain and dew; and the effect
of the glare of the campfires and torch-lights on the tall pillars, and
waving, fan-like canopy overhead, is said to be perfectly magical. The
most unromantic and least impressible speak of it with enthusiasm.
In going up the river, darkness overtook us shortly after leaving
Pilatka. We sat in a golden twilight, and saw the shores every moment
becoming more beautiful; but when the twilight faded, and there was no
moon, we sought the repose of our cabin. It was sultry as August,
although only the first part of May; and our younger and sprightlier
members, who were on the less breezy side of the boat, after fruitlessly
trying to sleep, arose and dressed themselves, and sat all night on
deck.
By this means they saw a sight worth seeing, and one which we should
have watched all night to see. The boat's course at night is through
narrows of the river, where we could hear the crashing and crackling of
bushes and trees, and sometimes a violent thud, as the boat, in turning
a winding, struck against the bank. On the forward part two great
braziers were kept filled with blazing, resinous light-wood, to guide
the pilot in the path of the boat. The effect of this glare of red light
as the steamer passed through the palmetto hummocks and moss-hung
grottoes of the forest was something that must have been indescribably
weird and beautiful; and our young friends made us suitably regret that
our more airy sleeping-accommodations had lost us this experience.
In the morning we woke at Enterprise, having come through all the most
beautiful and characteristic part of the way by night. Enterprise is
some hundred and thirty miles south of our dwelling-place in Mandarin;
and, of course, that much nearer the tropical regions. We had planned
excursions, explorations, picnics in the woods, and a visit to the
beautiful spring in the neighborhood; but learned with chagrin that the
boat made so short a stay, that none of these things were possible. The
only thing that appears to the naked eye of a steamboat traveller in
Enterprise is a large hotel down upon the landing, said by those who
have tested it to be one of the best kept hotels in Florida. The aspect
of the shore just there is no way picturesque or inviting, but has more
that forlorn, ragged, desolate air that new settlements on the river
are apt to have. The wild, untouched banks are beautiful; but the new
settlements generally succeed in destroying all Nature's beauty, and
give you only leafless, girdled trees, blackened stumps, and naked white
sand, in return.
Turning our boat homeward, we sailed in clear morning light back through
the charming scenery which we had slept through the night before. It is
the most wild, dream-like, enchanting sail conceivable. The river
sometimes narrows so that the boat brushes under overhanging branches,
and then widens into beautiful lakes dotted with wooded islands.
Palmetto-hammocks, live-oak groves, cypress, pine, bay, and magnolia
form an interchanging picture; vines hang festooned from tree to tree;
wild flowers tempt the eye on the near banks; and one is constantly
longing for the boat to delay here or there: but on goes her steady
course, the pictured scene around constantly changing. Every now and
then the woods break away for a little space, and one sees orange and
banana orchards, and houses evidently newly built. At many points the
boat landed, and put off kegs of nails, hoes, ploughs, provisions,
groceries. Some few old plantations were passed, whose name and history
seemed familiar to Madam Rose; but by far the greater number were new
settlements, with orchards of quite young trees, which will require
three or four more years to bring into bearing.
The greater number of fruit-orchards and settlements were on the eastern
shore of the river, which, for the reasons we have spoken of, is better
adapted to the culture of fruit.
One annoyance on board the boat was the constant and pertinacious firing
kept up by that class of men who think that the chief end of man is to
shoot something. Now, we can put up with good earnest hunting or fishing
done for the purpose of procuring for man food, or even the fur and
feathers that hit his fancy and taste.
But we detest indiscriminate and purposeless maiming and killing of
happy animals, who have but one life to live, and for whom the agony of
broken bones or torn flesh is a helpless, hopeless pain, unrelieved by
any of the resources which enable us to endure. A parcel of hulking
fellows sit on the deck of a boat, and pass through the sweetest
paradise God ever made, without one idea of its loveliness, one gentle,
sympathizing thought of the animal happiness with which the Creator has
filled these recesses. All the way along is a constant fusillade upon
every living thing that shows itself on the bank. Now a bird is hit, and
hangs, head downward, with a broken wing; and a coarse laugh choruses
the deed. Now an alligator is struck; and the applause is greater. We
once saw a harmless young alligator, whose dying struggles, as he threw
out his poor little black paws piteously like human hands, seemed to be
vastly diverting to these cultivated individuals. They wanted nothing of
him except to see how he would act when he was hit, dying agonies are so
very amusing!
Now and then these sons of Nimrod in their zeal put in peril the nerves,
if not lives, of passengers. One such actually fired at an alligator
right across a crowd of ladies, many of them invalids; and persisted in
so firing a second time, after having been requested to desist. If the
object were merely to show the skill of the marksman, why not practise
upon inanimate objects? An old log looks much like an alligator: why not
practise on an old log? It requires as much skill to hit a branch, as
the bird singing on it: why not practise on the branch? But no: it must
be something that enjoys and can suffer; something that loves life,
and must lose it. Certainly this is an inherent savagery difficult to
account for. Killing for killing's sake belongs not even to the tiger.
The tiger kills for food; man, for amusement.
At evening we were again at Pilatka; when the great question was
discussed, Would we, or would we not, take the tour up the Okalewaha to
see the enchanted wonders of the Silver Spring! The Okalewaha boat lay
at the landing; and we went to look at it. The Okalewaha is a deep,
narrow stream, by the by, emptying into the St. John's, with a course as
crooked as Apollo's ram's horn; and a boat has been constructed for the
express purpose of this passage.
The aspect of this same boat on a hot night was not inspiriting. It was
low, long, and narrow; its sides were rubbed glassy smooth, or torn and
creased by the friction of the bushes and trees it had pushed through.
It was without glass windows,--which would be of no use in such
navigation,--and, in place thereof, furnished with strong shutters to
close the air-holes. We looked at this same thing as it lay like a
gigantic coffin in the twilight, and thought even the Silver Spring
would not pay for being immured there, and turned away.
A more inviting project was to step into a sail-boat, and be taken in
the golden twilight over to Col. Harte's orange-grove, which is
said--with reason, we believe--to be the finest in Florida.
We landed in the twilight in this grove of six hundred beautiful
orange-trees in as high condition as the best culture could make them.
The well-fed orange-tree is known by the glossy, deep green of its
foliage, as a declining tree is by the yellow tinge of its leaves. These
trees looked as if each leaf, if broken, would spurt with juice. Piles
of fish-guano and shell banks, prepared as top-dress for the orchard,
were lying everywhere about, mingling not agreeably with the odor of
orange-blossoms. We thought to ourselves, that, if the orange-orchard
must be fed upon putrefying fish, we should prefer not to have a house
in it. The employee who has charge of the orchard lives in a
densely-shaded cottage in the edge of it. A large fruit-house has
recently been built there; and the experiments of Col. Harte seem to
demonstrate, that, even if there occur severe frosts in the early
winter, there is no sort of need, therefore, of losing the orange-crop.
His agent showed us oranges round and fair that had been kept three
months in moss in this fruit-house, and looking as fresh and glossy as
those upon the trees. This, if proved by experience, always possible,
does away with the only uncertainty relating to the orange-crop.
Undoubtedly the fruit is far better to continue all winter on the trees,
and be gathered from time to time as wanted, as has always been the
practice in Florida. But, with fruit-houses and moss, it will be
possible, in case of a threatened fall of temperature, to secure the
crop. The oranges that come to us from Malaga and Sicily are green as
grass when gathered and packed, and ripen, as much as they do ripen, on
the voyage over. We should suppose the oranges of Florida might be
gathered much nearer ripe in the fall, ripen in the house or on the way,
and still be far better than any from the foreign market. On this point
fruit-growers are now instituting experiments, which, we trust, will
make this delicious crop certain as it is abundant.
Sailing back across the water, we landed, and were conveyed to the
winter country-seat of a Brooklyn gentleman, who is with great
enthusiasm cultivating a place there. It was almost dark; and we could
only hear of his gardens and grounds and improvements, not see them. In
the morning, before the boat left the landing, he took us a hasty drive
around the streets of the little village. It is an unusually pretty,
attractive-looking place for a Florida settlement. One reason for this
is, that the streets and vacant lots are covered with a fine green turf,
which, at a distance, looks like our New-England grass. It is a mixture
of Bermuda grass with a variety of herbage, and has just as good general
effect as if it were the best red-top.
There are several fine residences in and around Pilatka,--mostly
winter-seats of Northern settlers. The town has eight stores, which do a
business for all the surrounding country for miles. It has two large
hotels, several boarding-houses, two churches, two steam saw-mills, and
is the headquarters for the steamboats of the Upper St. John's and its
tributaries. Four or five steamers from different quarters are often
stopping at its wharf at a time. "The Dictator" and "City Point," from
Charleston, run to this place outside by the ocean passage, and,
entering the mouth of the St. John's, stop at Jacksonville by the way.
The "Nick King" and "Lizzie Baker," in like manner, make what is called
the inside trip, skimming through the network of islands that line the
coast, and bringing up at the same points. Then there are the
river-lines continually plying between Jacksonville and this place, and
the small boats that run weekly to the Ocklawaha: all these make Pilatka
a busy, lively, and important place.
With Pilatka the interest of our return-voyage finished. With Green-Cove
Springs, Magnolia, Hibernia, at all of which we touched on our way back,
we were already familiar; and the best sight of all was the cottage
under the oaks, to which we gladly returned.
  [Illustration]
OLD CUDJO AND THE ANGEL.
The little wharf at Mandarin is a tiny abutment into the great blue sea
of the St. John's waters, five miles in width. The opposite shores gleam
out blue in the vanishing distance; and the small wharf is built so far
out, that one feels there as in a boat at sea. Here, trundled down on
the truck along a descending tram-way, come the goods which at this
point await shipment on some of the many steamboats which ply back and
forth upon the river; and here are landed by almost every steamer goods
and chattels for the many families which are hidden in the shadows of
the forests that clothe the river's shore. In sight are scarce a dozen
houses, all told; but far back, for a radius of ten or fifteen miles,
are scattered farmhouses whence come tributes of produce to this point.
Hundreds of barrels of oranges, boxes of tomatoes and early vegetables,
grapes, peaches, and pomegranates, here pause on their way to the
Jacksonville market.
One morning, as the Professor and I were enjoying our morning stroll on
the little wharf, an unusual sight met our eye,--a bale of cotton, long
and large, pressed hard and solid as iron, and done up and sewed in a
wholly workmanlike manner, that excited our surprise. It was the first
time since we had been in Mandarin--a space of some four or five
years--that we had ever seen a bale of cotton on that wharf. Yet the
whole soil of East Florida is especially adapted not only to the raising
of cotton, but of the peculiar, long staple cotton which commands the
very highest market-price. But for two or three years past the annual
ravages of the cotton-worm had been so discouraging, that the culture of
cotton had been abandoned in despair.
Whence, then, had come that most artistic bale of cotton, so well
pressed, so trim and tidy, and got up altogether in so superior a style?
Standing by it on the wharf was an aged negro, misshapen, and almost
deformed. He was thin and bony, and his head and beard were grizzled
with age. He was black as night itself; and but for a glittering,
intellectual eye, he might have been taken for a big baboon,--the
missing link of Darwin. To him spoke the Professor, giving a punch with
his cane upon the well-packed, solid bale:--
"Why, this is splendid cotton! Where did it come from? Who raised it?"
"We raise it, sah,--me 'n' dis yer boy," pointing to a middle-aged
black man beside him: "we raise it."
"Where?"
"Oh! out he'yr a piece."
A lounging white man, never wanting on a wharf, here interposed:--
"Oh! this is old Cudjo. He lives up Julington. He's an honest old
fellow."
Now, we had heard of this settlement up Julington some two or three
years before. A party of negroes from South Carolina and Georgia had
been induced to come into Florida, and take up a tract of government
land. Some white man in whom they all put confidence had undertaken for
them the task of getting their respective allotments surveyed and
entered for them, so that they should have a solid basis of land to work
