Laura recognized that fact no doubt. The better part of her woman’s
nature saw it. Such a man might, years ago, not now, have changed her
nature, and made the issue of her life so different, even after her
cruel abandonment. She had a dim feeling of this, and she would like now
to stand well with him. The spark of truth and honor that was left in
her was elicited by his presence. It was this influence that governed
her conduct in this interview.
“I have come,” said Philip in his direct manner, “from my friend Mr.
Brierly. You are not ignorant of his feeling towards you?”
“Perhaps not.”
“But perhaps you do not know, you who have so much admiration, how
sincere and overmastering his love is for you?” Philip would not have
spoken so plainly, if he had in mind anything except to draw from Laura
something that would end Harry’s passion.
“And is sincere love so rare, Mr. Sterling?” asked Laura, moving her
foot a little, and speaking with a shade of sarcasm.
“Perhaps not in Washington,” replied Philip,--tempted into a similar
tone. “Excuse my bluntness,” he continued, “but would the knowledge
of his love; would his devotion, make any difference to you in your
Washington life?”
“In respect to what?” asked Laura quickly.
“Well, to others. I won’t equivocate--to Col. Selby?”
Laura’s face flushed with anger, or shame; she looked steadily at Philip
and began,
“By what right, sir,--”
“By the right of friendship,” interrupted Philip stoutly. “It may matter
little to you. It is everything to him. He has a Quixotic notion that
you would turn back from what is before you for his sake. You cannot
be ignorant of what all the city is talking of.” Philip said this
determinedly and with some bitterness.
It was a full minute before Laura spoke. Both had risen, Philip as if
to go, and Laura in suppressed excitement. When she spoke her voice was
very unsteady, and she looked down.
“Yes, I know. I perfectly understand what you mean. Mr. Brierly is
nothing--simply nothing. He is a moth singed, that is all--the trifler
with women thought he was a wasp. I have no pity for him, not the least.
You may tell him not to make a fool of himself, and to keep away. I say
this on your account, not his. You are not like him. It is enough for me
that you want it so. Mr. Sterling,” she continued, looking up; and there
were tears in her eyes that contradicted the hardness of her language,
“you might not pity him if you knew my history; perhaps you would not
wonder at some things you hear. No; it is useless to ask me why it
must be so. You can’t make a life over--society wouldn’t let you if you
would--and mine must be lived as it is. There, sir, I’m not offended;
but it is useless for you to say anything more.”
Philip went away with his heart lightened about Harry, but profoundly
saddened by the glimpse of what this woman might have been. He told
Harry all that was necessary of the conversation--she was bent on going
her own way, he had not the ghost of a chance--he was a fool, she had
said, for thinking he had.
And Harry accepted it meekly, and made up his own mind that Philip
didn’t know much about women.
CHAPTER XLV.
The galleries of the House were packed, on the momentous day, not
because the reporting of an important bill back by a committee was a
thing to be excited about, if the bill were going to take the ordinary
course afterward; it would be like getting excited over the empaneling
of a coroner’s jury in a murder case, instead of saving up one’s
emotions for the grander occasion of the hanging of the accused, two
years later, after all the tedious forms of law had been gone through
with.
But suppose you understand that this coroner’s jury is going to turn out
to be a vigilance committee in disguise, who will hear testimony for
an hour and then hang the murderer on the spot? That puts a different
aspect upon the matter. Now it was whispered that the legitimate forms
of procedure usual in the House, and which keep a bill hanging along for
days and even weeks, before it is finally passed upon, were going to
be overruled, in this case, and short work made of the measure; and so,
what was beginning as a mere inquest might, turn out to be something
very different.
In the course of the day’s business the Order of “Reports of Committees”
 was finally reached and when the weary crowds heard that glad
announcement issue from the Speaker’s lips they ceased to fret at the
dragging delay, and plucked up spirit. The Chairman of the Committee
on Benevolent Appropriations rose and made his report, and just then a
blue-uniformed brass-mounted little page put a note into his hand.
It was from Senator Dilworthy, who had appeared upon the floor of the
House for a moment and flitted away again:
“Everybody expects a grand assault in force; no doubt you believe, as I
certainly do, that it is the thing to do; we are strong, and everything
is hot for the contest. Trollop’s espousal of our cause has immensely
helped us and we grow in power constantly. Ten of the opposition were
called away from town about noon,(but--so it is said--only for one day).
Six others are sick, but expect to be about again tomorrow or next day,
a friend tells me. A bold onslaught is worth trying. Go for a suspension
of the rules! You will find we can swing a two-thirds vote--I am
perfectly satisfied of it. The Lord’s truth will prevail.
             “DILWORTHY. Mr. Buckstone had reported the bills from his
committee, one by one, leaving the bill to the last. When the House had
voted upon the acceptance or rejection of the report upon all but it,
and the question now being upon its disposal--Mr. Buckstone begged that
the House would give its attention to a few remarks which he desired to
make. His committee had instructed him to report the bill favorably;
he wished to explain the nature of the measure, and thus justify
the committee’s action; the hostility roused by the press would
then disappear, and the bill would shine forth in its true and noble
character. He said that its provisions were simple. It incorporated the
Knobs Industrial University, locating it in East Tennessee, declaring it
open to all persons without distinction of sex, color or religion, and
committing its management to a board of perpetual trustees, with power
to fill vacancies in their own number. It provided for the erection
of certain buildings for the University, dormitories, lecture-halls,
museums, libraries, laboratories, work-shops, furnaces, and mills. It
provided also for the purchase of sixty-five thousand acres of land,
(fully described) for the purposes of the University, in the Knobs of
East Tennessee. And it appropriated [blank] dollars for the purchase of
the Land, which should be the property of the national trustees in trust
for the uses named.
Every effort had been made to secure the refusal of the whole amount
of the property of the Hawkins heirs in the Knobs, some seventy-five
thousand acres Mr. Buckstone said. But Mr. Washington Hawkins (one of
the heirs) objected. He was, indeed, very reluctant to sell any part of
the land at any price; and indeed--this reluctance was justifiable when
one considers how constantly and how greatly the property is rising in
value.
What the South needed, continued Mr. Buckstone, was skilled labor.
Without that it would be unable to develop its mines, build its roads,
work to advantage and without great waste its fruitful land, establish
manufactures or enter upon a prosperous industrial career. Its laborers
were almost altogether unskilled. Change them into intelligent, trained
workmen, and you increased at once the capital, the resources of the
entire south, which would enter upon a prosperity hitherto unknown. In
five years the increase in local wealth would not only reimburse the
government for the outlay in this appropriation, but pour untold wealth
into the treasury.
This was the material view, and the least important in the honorable
gentleman’s opinion. [Here he referred to some notes furnished him by
Senator Dilworthy, and then continued.] God had given us the care of
these colored millions. What account should we render to Him of our
stewardship? We had made them free. Should we leave them ignorant? We
had cast them upon their own resources. Should we leave them without
tools? We could not tell what the intentions of Providence are in regard
to these peculiar people, but our duty was plain. The Knobs Industrial
University would be a vast school of modern science and practice, worthy
of a great nation. It would combine the advantages of Zurich, Freiburg,
Creuzot and the Sheffield Scientific. Providence had apparently reserved
and set apart the Knobs of East Tennessee for this purpose. What else
were they for? Was it not wonderful that for more than thirty years,
over a generation, the choicest portion of them had remained in one
family, untouched, as if, separated for some great use!
It might be asked why the government should buy this land, when it had
millions of acres, more than the railroad companies desired, which, it
might devote to this purpose? He answered, that the government had no
such tract of land as this. It had nothing comparable to it for the
purposes of the University: This was to be a school of mining, of
engineering, of the working of metals, of chemistry, zoology, botany,
manufactures, agriculture, in short of all the complicated industries
that make a state great. There was no place for the location of such a
school like the Knobs of East Tennessee. The hills abounded in metals
of all sorts, iron in all its combinations, copper, bismuth, gold and
silver in small quantities, platinum he believed, tin, aluminium; it
was covered with forests and strange plants; in the woods were found the
coon, the opossum, the fox, the deer and many other animals who roamed
in the domain of natural history; coal existed in enormous quantity
and no doubt oil; it was such a place for the practice of agricultural
experiments that any student who had been successful there would have an
easy task in any other portion of the country.
No place offered equal facilities for experiments in mining, metallurgy,
engineering. He expected to live to see the day, when the youth of the
south would resort to its mines, its workshops, its laboratories,
its furnaces and factories for practical instruction in all the great
industrial pursuits.
A noisy and rather ill-natured debate followed, now, and lasted hour
after hour. The friends of the bill were instructed by the leaders to
make no effort to check it; it was deemed better strategy to tire
out the opposition; it was decided to vote down every proposition to
adjourn, and so continue the sitting into the night; opponents might
desert, then, one by one and weaken their party, for they had no
personal stake in the bill.
Sunset came, and still the fight went on; the gas was lit, the crowd
in the galleries began to thin, but the contest continued; the crowd
returned, by and by, with hunger and thirst appeased, and aggravated the
hungry and thirsty House by looking contented and comfortable; but
still the wrangle lost nothing of its bitterness. Recesses were
moved plaintively by the opposition, and invariably voted down by the
University army.
At midnight the House presented a spectacle calculated to interest a
stranger. The great galleries were still thronged--though only with men,
now; the bright colors that had made them look like hanging gardens were
gone, with the ladies. The reporters’ gallery, was merely occupied by
one or two watchful sentinels of the quill-driving guild; the main body
cared nothing for a debate that had dwindled to a mere vaporing of dull
speakers and now and then a brief quarrel over a point of order; but
there was an unusually large attendance of journalists in the reporters’
waiting-room, chatting, smoking, and keeping on the ‘qui vive’ for the
general irruption of the Congressional volcano that must come when
the time was ripe for it. Senator Dilworthy and Philip were in the
Diplomatic Gallery; Washington sat in the public gallery, and Col.
Sellers was, not far away. The Colonel had been flying about the
corridors and button-holing Congressmen all the evening, and believed
that he had accomplished a world of valuable service; but fatigue was
telling upon him, now, and he was quiet and speechless--for once. Below,
a few Senators lounged upon the sofas set apart for visitors, and talked
with idle Congressmen. A dreary member was speaking; the presiding
officer was nodding; here and there little knots of members stood in the
aisles, whispering together; all about the House others sat in all the
various attitudes that express weariness; some, tilted back, had one or
more legs disposed upon their desks; some sharpened pencils indolently;
some scribbled aimlessly; some yawned and stretched; a great many lay
upon their breasts upon the desks, sound asleep and gently snoring. The
flooding gaslight from the fancifully wrought roof poured down upon
the tranquil scene. Hardly a sound disturbed the stillness, save the
monotonous eloquence of the gentleman who occupied the floor. Now and
then a warrior of the opposition broke down under the pressure, gave it
up, and went home.
Mr. Buckstone began to think it might be safe, now, to “proceed to
business.” He consulted with Trollop and one or two others. Senator
Dilworthy descended to the floor of the House and they went to meet him.
After a brief comparison of notes, the Congressmen sought their seats
and sent pages about the House with messages to friends. These latter
instantly roused up, yawned, and began to look alert. The moment the
floor was unoccupied, Mr. Buckstone rose, with an injured look, and
said it was evident that the opponents of the bill were merely talking
against time, hoping in this unbecoming way to tire out the friends of
the measure and so defeat it. Such conduct might be respectable enough
in a village debating society, but it was trivial among statesmen,
it was out of place in so august an assemblage as the House of
Representatives of the United States. The friends of the bill had been
not only willing that its opponents should express their opinions, but
had strongly desired it. They courted the fullest and freest discussion;
but it seemed to him that this fairness was but illy appreciated,
since gentlemen were capable of taking advantage of it for selfish and
unworthy ends. This trifling had gone far enough. He called for the
question.
The instant Mr. Buckstone sat down, the storm burst forth. A dozen
gentlemen sprang to their feet.
“Mr. Speaker!”
“Mr. Speaker!”
“Mr. Speaker!”
“Order! Order! Order! Question! Question!”
The sharp blows of the Speaker’s gavel rose above the din.
The “previous question,” that hated gag, was moved and carried. All
debate came to a sudden end, of course. Triumph No. 1.
Then the vote was taken on the adoption of the report and it carried by
a surprising majority.
Mr. Buckstone got the floor again and moved that the rules be suspended
and the bill read a first time.
Mr. Trollop--“Second the motion!”
The Speaker--“It is moved and--”
Clamor of Voices. “Move we adjourn! Second the motion! Adjourn! Adjourn!
Order! Order!”
The Speaker, (after using his gavel vigorously)--“It is moved and
seconded that the House do now adjourn. All those in favor--”
Voices--“Division! Division! Ayes and nays! Ayes and nays!”
It was decided to vote upon the adjournment by ayes and nays. This was
in earnest. The excitement was furious. The galleries were in commotion
in an instant, the reporters swarmed to their places. Idling members
of the House flocked to their seats, nervous gentlemen sprang to their
feet, pages flew hither and thither, life and animation were visible
everywhere, all the long ranks of faces in the building were kindled.
“This thing decides it!” thought Mr. Buckstone; “but let the fight
proceed.”
The voting began, and every sound ceased but the calling if the names
and the “Aye!” “No!” “No!” “Aye!” of the responses. There was not a
movement in the House; the people seemed to hold their breath.
The voting ceased, and then there was an interval of dead silence
while the clerk made up his count. There was a two-thirds vote on the
University side--and two over.
The Speaker--“The rules are suspended, the motion is carried--first
reading of the bill!”
By one impulse the galleries broke forth into stormy applause, and even
some of the members of the House were not wholly able to restrain their
feelings. The Speaker’s gavel came to the rescue and his clear voice
followed:
“Order, gentlemen--! The House will come to order! If spectators offend
again, the Sergeant-at-arms will clear the galleries!”
Then he cast his eyes aloft and gazed at some object attentively for a
moment. All eyes followed the direction of the Speaker’s, and then there
was a general titter. The Speaker said:
“Let the Sergeant-at Arms inform the gentleman that his conduct is an
infringement of the dignity of the House--and one which is not warranted
by the state of the weather.” Poor Sellers was the culprit. He sat
in the front seat of the gallery, with his arms and his tired body
overflowing the balustrade--sound asleep, dead to all excitements, all
disturbances. The fluctuations of the Washington weather had influenced
his dreams, perhaps, for during the recent tempest of applause he had
hoisted his gingham umbrella, and calmly gone on with his slumbers.
Washington Hawkins had seen the act, but was not near enough at hand
to save his friend, and no one who was near enough desired to spoil the
effect. But a neighbor stirred up the Colonel, now that the House had
its eye upon him, and the great speculator furled his tent like the
Arab. He said:
“Bless my soul, I’m so absent-minded when I get to thinking! I never
wear an umbrella in the house--did anybody ‘notice it’? What-asleep?
Indeed? And did you wake me sir? Thank you--thank you very much indeed.
It might have fallen out of my hands and been injured. Admirable
article, sir--present from a friend in Hong Kong; one doesn’t come
across silk like that in this country--it’s the real--Young Hyson, I’m
told.”
By this time the incident was forgotten, for the House was at war again.
Victory was almost in sight, now, and the friends of the bill threw
themselves into their work with enthusiasm. They soon moved and carried
its second reading, and after a strong, sharp fight, carried a motion to
go into Committee of the whole. The Speaker left his place, of course,
and a chairman was appointed.
Now the contest raged hotter than ever--for the authority that compels
order when the House sits as a House, is greatly diminished when it sits
as Committee. The main fight came upon the filling of the blanks with
the sum to be appropriated for the purchase of the land, of course.
Buckstone--“Mr. Chairman, I move you, sir, that the words ‘three
millions of’ be inserted.”
Mr. Hadley--“Mr. Chairman, I move that the words two and a half dollars
be inserted.”
Mr. Clawson--“Mr. Chairman, I move the insertion of the words five and
twenty cents, as representing the true value of this barren and isolated
tract of desolation.”
The question, according to rule, was taken upon the smallest sum first.
It was lost.
Then upon the next smallest sum. Lost, also.
And then upon the three millions. After a vigorous battle that lasted a
considerable time, this motion was carried.
Then, clause by clause the bill was read, discussed, and amended in
trifling particulars, and now the Committee rose and reported.
The moment the House had resumed its functions and received the report,
Mr. Buckstone moved and carried the third reading of the bill.
The same bitter war over the sum to be paid was fought over again, and
now that the ayes and nays could be called and placed on record, every
man was compelled to vote by name on the three millions, and indeed on
every paragraph of the bill from the enacting clause straight through.
But as before, the friends of the measure stood firm and voted in a
solid body every time, and so did its enemies.
The supreme moment was come, now, but so sure was the result that not
even a voice was raised to interpose an adjournment. The enemy were
totally demoralized. The bill was put upon its final passage almost
without dissent, and the calling of the ayes and nays began. When it
was ended the triumph was complete--the two-thirds vote held good, and a
veto was impossible, as far as the House was concerned!
Mr. Buckstone resolved that now that the nail was driven home, he
would clinch it on the other side and make it stay forever. He moved a
reconsideration of the vote by which the bill had passed. The motion
was lost, of course, and the great Industrial University act was
an accomplished fact as far as it was in the power of the House of
Representatives to make it so.
There was no need to move an adjournment. The instant the last motion
was decided, the enemies of the University rose and flocked out of the
Hall, talking angrily, and its friends flocked after them jubilant and
congratulatory. The galleries disgorged their burden, and presently the
house was silent and deserted.
When Col. Sellers and Washington stepped out of the building they were
surprised to find that the daylight was old and the sun well up. Said
the Colonel:
“Give me your hand, my boy! You’re all right at last! You’re a
millionaire! At least you’re going to be. The thing is dead sure. Don’t
you bother about the Senate. Leave me and Dilworthy to take care of
that. Run along home, now, and tell Laura. Lord, it’s magnificent
news--perfectly magnificent! Run, now. I’ll telegraph my wife. She must
come here and help me build a house. Everything’s all right now!”
Washington was so dazed by his good fortune and so bewildered by the
gaudy pageant of dreams that was already trailing its long ranks through
his brain, that he wandered he knew not where, and so loitered by the
way that when at last he reached home he woke to a sudden annoyance in
the fact that his news must be old to Laura, now, for of course Senator
Dilworthy must have already been home and told her an hour before. He
knocked at her door, but there was no answer.
“That is like the Duchess,” said he. “Always cool; a body can’t excite
her-can’t keep her excited, anyway. Now she has gone off to sleep again,
as comfortably as if she were used to picking up a million dollars every
day or two.”
Then he went to bed. But he could not sleep; so he got up and wrote
a long, rapturous letter to Louise, and another to his mother. And he
closed both to much the same effect:
“Laura will be queen of America, now, and she will be applauded, and
honored and petted by the whole nation. Her name will be in every one’s
mouth more than ever, and how they will court her and quote her bright
speeches. And mine, too, I suppose; though they do that more already,
than they really seem to deserve. Oh, the world is so bright, now, and
so cheery; the clouds are all gone, our long struggle is ended, our
troubles are all over. Nothing can ever make us unhappy any more. You
dear faithful ones will have the reward of your patient waiting now. How
father’s Wisdom is proven at last! And how I repent me, that there have
been times when I lost faith and said, the blessing he stored up for us
a tedious generation ago was but a long-drawn curse, a blight upon us
all. But everything is well, now--we are done with poverty, sad toil,
weariness and heart-break; all the world is filled with sunshine.”
Part 6.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER XLVI Disappearance of Laura, and Murder of Col. Selby in New
York
CHAPTER XLVII Laura in the Tombs and Her Visitors
CHAPTER XLVIII Mr Bolton Says Yes Again--Philip Returns to the Mines
CHAPTER XLIX The Coal Vein Found and Lost Again--Philip and the
Boltons--Elated and Then Cruelly Disappointed
CHAPTER L Philip Visits Fallkill and Proposes Studying Law With Mr
Montague--The Squire Invests in the Mine--Ruth Declares Her Love for
Philip
CHAPTER LI Col Sellers Enlightens Washington Hawkins on the Customs of
Congress
CHAPTER LII How Senator Dilworthy Advanced Washington’s Interests
CHAPTER LIII Senator Dilworthy Goes West to See About His
Re--election--He Becomes a Shining Light
CHAPTER LIV The Trial of Laura for Murder
ILLUSTRATIONS
155.  SENATOR DILWORTHY TRANQUIL 156.  “SHE AIN’T DAH, SAR” 157.  AS
THE WITNESSES DESCRIBED IT 158.  THE LEARNED DOCTORS 159.  IMPORTANT
BUSINESS 160.  COL. SELLERS AND WASHINGTON IN LAURA’S CELL
161.  PROMISED PATRONAGE 162.  NO LOVE LIKE A MOTHER’S 163.  CLEANED
OUT BUT NOT CRUSHED 164.  THE LANDLORD TAKING LESSONS 165.  TAILPIECE
166.  “WE’VE STRUCK IT” 167.  THE MINE AT ILIUM 168.  THE HERMIT
169.  TAIL PIECE 110.  ONE CHANCE OPEN 171.  WHAT HE EXPECTED TO BE
172.  ALAS! POOR ALICE 173.  HOW HE WAS DRAWN IN 174.  EVERYTHING
175.  TAIL PIECE 176.  “COME NOW, LETS CHEER UP” 177.  A SHINING EXAMPLE
178.  THE SEWING SOCIETY DODGE 179.  DILWORTHY ADDRESSES A SUNDAY SCHOOL
180.  TAIL PIECE 181.  THE JUDGE 182.  LAURA ON TRIAL 183.  MICHAEL
LANIGAN 184.  PATRICK COUGHLIN 185.  ETHAN DOBB 186.  MR HICKS
CHAPTER XLVI.
Philip left the capitol and walked up Pennsylvania Avenue in company
with Senator Dilworthy. It was a bright spring morning, the air was soft
and inspiring; in the deepening wayside green, the pink flush of the
blossoming peach trees, the soft suffusion on the heights of Arlington,
and the breath of the warm south wind was apparent, the annual miracle
of the resurrection of the earth.
The Senator took off his hat and seemed to open his soul to the sweet
influences of the morning. After the heat and noise of the chamber,
under its dull gas-illuminated glass canopy, and the all night struggle
of passion and feverish excitement there, the open, tranquil world
seemed like Heaven. The Senator was not in an exultant mood, but rather
in a condition of holy joy, befitting a Christian statesman whose
benevolent plans Providence has made its own and stamped with approval.
The great battle had been fought, but the measure had still to encounter
the scrutiny of the Senate, and Providence sometimes acts differently in
the two Houses. Still the Senator was tranquil, for he knew that there
is an esprit de corps in the Senate which does not exist in the House,
the effect of which is to make the members complaisant towards the
projects of each other, and to extend a mutual aid which in a more
vulgar body would be called “log-rolling.”
“It is, under Providence, a good night’s work, Mr. Sterling. The
government has founded an institution which will remove half the
difficulty from the southern problem. And it is a good thing for the
Hawkins heirs, a very good thing. Laura will be almost a millionaire.”
“Do you think, Mr. Dilworthy, that the Hawkinses will get much of the
money?” asked Philip innocently, remembering the fate of the Columbus
River appropriation.
The Senator looked at his companion scrutinizingly for a moment to see
if he meant anything personal, and then replied,
“Undoubtedly, undoubtedly. I have had their interests greatly at heart.
There will of course be a few expenses, but the widow and orphans will
realize all that Mr. Hawkins, dreamed of for them.”
The birds were singing as they crossed the Presidential Square, now
bright with its green turf and tender foliage. After the two had gained
the steps of the Senator’s house they stood a moment, looking upon the
lovely prospect:
“It is like the peace of God,” said the Senator devoutly.
Entering the house, the Senator called a servant and said, “Tell Miss
Laura that we are waiting to see her. I ought to have sent a messenger
on horseback half an hour ago,” he added to Philip, “she will be
transported with our victory. You must stop to breakfast, and see the
excitement.” The servant soon came back, with a wondering look and
reported,
“Miss Laura ain’t dah, sah. I reckon she hain’t been dah all night!”
The Senator and Philip both started up. In Laura’s room there were
the marks of a confused and hasty departure, drawers half open, little
articles strewn on the floor. The bed had not been disturbed. Upon
inquiry it appeared that Laura had not been at dinner, excusing herself
to Mrs. Dilworthy on the plea of a violent headache; that she made a
request to the servants that she might not be disturbed.
The Senator was astounded. Philip thought at once of Col. Selby. Could
Laura have run away with him? The Senator thought not. In fact it could
not be. Gen. Leffenwell, the member from New Orleans, had casually told
him at the house last night that Selby and his family went to New York
yesterday morning and were to sail for Europe to-day.
Philip had another idea which, he did not mention. He seized his hat,
and saying that he would go and see what he could learn, ran to the
lodgings of Harry; whom he had not seen since yesterday afternoon, when
he left him to go to the House.
Harry was not in. He had gone out with a hand-bag before six o’clock
yesterday, saying that he had to go to New York, but should return next
day. In Harry’s-room on the table Philip found this note:
“Dear Mr. Brierly:--Can you meet me at the six o’clock train, and be my
escort to New York? I have to go about this University bill, the vote of
an absent member we must have here, Senator Dilworthy cannot go.
             Yours, L. H.”
“Confound it,” said Phillip, “the noodle has fallen into her trap. And
she promised she would let him alone.”
He only stopped to send a note to Senator Dilworthy, telling him what he
had found, and that he should go at once to New York, and then hastened
to the railway station. He had to wait an hour for a train, and when it
did start it seemed to go at a snail’s pace.
Philip was devoured with anxiety. Where could they have gone? What
was Laura’s object in taking Harry? Had the flight anything to do with
Selby? Would Harry be such a fool as to be dragged into some public
scandal?
It seemed as if the train would never reach Baltimore. Then there was a
long delay at Havre de Grace. A hot box had to be cooled at Wilmington.
Would it never get on? Only in passing around the city of Philadelphia
did the train not seem to go slow. Philip stood upon the platform and
watched for the Boltons’ house, fancied he could distinguish its roof
among the trees, and wondered how Ruth would feel if she knew he was so
near her.
Then came Jersey, everlasting Jersey, stupid irritating Jersey, where
the passengers are always asking which line they are on, and where they
are to come out, and whether they have yet reached Elizabeth. Launched
into Jersey, one has a vague notion that he is on many lines and no one
in particular, and that he is liable at any moment to come to Elizabeth.
He has no notion what Elizabeth is, and always resolves that the next
time he goes that way, he will look out of the window and see what it
is like; but he never does. Or if he does, he probably finds that it is
Princeton or something of that sort. He gets annoyed, and never can
see the use of having different names for stations in Jersey. By and by
there is Newark, three or four Newarks apparently; then marshes; then
long rock cuttings devoted to the advertisements of patent medicines and
ready-made, clothing, and New York tonics for Jersey agues, and Jersey
City is reached.
On the ferry-boat Philip bought an evening paper from a boy crying
“‘Ere’s the Evening Gram, all about the murder,” and with breathless
haste--ran his eyes over the following:
SHOCKING MURDER!!!
TRAGEDY IN HIGH LIFE!!
A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN SHOOTS A DISTINGUISHED
CONFEDERATE SOLDIER AT THE SOUTHERN HOTEL!!!
JEALOUSY THE CAUSE!!!
This morning occurred another of those shocking murders which have
become the almost daily food of the newspapers, the direct result of
the socialistic doctrines and woman’s rights agitations, which have made
every woman the avenger of her own wrongs, and all society the hunting
ground for her victims.
About nine o’clock a lady deliberately shot a man dead in the public
parlor of the Southern Hotel, coolly remarking, as she threw down her
revolver and permitted herself to be taken into custody, “He brought it
on himself.” Our reporters were immediately dispatched to the scene of
the tragedy, and gathered the following particulars.
Yesterday afternoon arrived at the hotel from Washington, Col. George
Selby and family, who had taken passage and were to sail at noon to-day
in the steamer Scotia for England. The Colonel was a handsome man about
forty, a gentleman of wealth and high social position, a resident of
New Orleans. He served with distinction in the confederate army, and
received a wound in the leg from which he has never entirely recovered,
being obliged to use a cane in locomotion.
This morning at about nine o’clock, a lady, accompanied by a gentleman,
called at the office of the hotel and asked for Col. Selby. The Colonel
was at breakfast. Would the clerk tell him that a lady and gentleman
wished to see him for a moment in the parlor? The clerk says that the
gentleman asked her, “What do you want to see him for?” and that she
replied, “He is going to Europe, and I ought to just say good by.”
Col. Selby was informed; and the lady and gentleman were shown to the
parlor, in which were at the time three or four other persons. Five
minutes after two shots were fired in quick succession, and there was a
rush to the parlor from which the reports came.
Col. Selby was found lying on the floor, bleeding, but not dead. Two
gentlemen, who had just come in, had seized the lady, who made no
resistance, and she was at once given in charge of a police officer who
arrived. The persons who were in the parlor agree substantially as to
what occurred. They had happened to be looking towards the door when the
man--Col. Selby--entered with his cane, and they looked at him, because
he stopped as if surprised and frightened, and made a backward movement.
At the same moment the lady in the bonnet advanced towards him and said
something like, “George, will you go with me?” He replied, throwing
up his hand and retreating, “My God I can’t, don’t fire,” and the next
instants two shots were heard and he fell. The lady appeared to be
beside herself with rage or excitement, and trembled very much when the
gentlemen took hold of her; it was to them she said, “He brought it on
himself.”
Col. Selby was carried at once to his room and Dr. Puffer, the eminent
surgeon was sent for. It was found that he was shot through the breast
and through the abdomen. Other aid was summoned, but the wounds were
mortal, and Col Selby expired in an hour, in pain, but his mind was
clear to the last and he made a full deposition. The substance of it
was that his murderess is a Miss Laura Hawkins, whom he had known
at Washington as a lobbyist and had some business with her. She had
followed him with her attentions and solicitations, and had endeavored
to make him desert his wife and go to Europe with her. When he resisted
and avoided her she had threatened him. Only the day before he left
Washington she had declared that he should never go out of the city
alive without her.
It seems to have been a deliberate and premeditated murder, the woman
following him to Washington on purpose to commit it.
We learn that the murderess, who is a woman of dazzling and transcendent
beauty and about twenty six or seven, is a niece of Senator Dilworthy
at whose house she has been spending the winter. She belongs to a high
Southern family, and has the reputation of being an heiress. Like some
other great beauties and belles in Washington however there have been
whispers that she had something to do with the lobby. If we mistake
not we have heard her name mentioned in connection with the sale of the
Tennessee Lands to the Knobs University, the bill for which passed the
House last night.
Her companion is Mr. Harry Brierly, a New York dandy, who has been in
Washington. His connection with her and with this tragedy is not known,
but he was also taken into custody, and will be detained at least as a
witness.
P. S. One of the persons present in the parlor says that after Laura
Hawkins had fired twice, she turned the pistol towards herself, but that
Brierly sprung and caught it from her hand, and that it was he who threw
it on the floor.
Further particulars with full biographies of all the parties in our next
edition. Philip hastened at once to the Southern Hotel, where he
found still a great state of excitement, and a thousand different and
exaggerated stories passing from mouth to mouth. The witnesses of the
event had told it over so many times that they had worked it up into a
most dramatic scene, and embellished it with whatever could heighten its
awfulness. Outsiders had taken up invention also. The Colonel’s wife
had gone insane, they said. The children had rushed into the parlor and
rolled themselves in their father’s blood. The hotel clerk said that he
noticed there was murder in the woman’s eye when he saw her. A person
who had met the woman on the stairs felt a creeping sensation. Some
thought Brierly was an accomplice, and that he had set the woman on to
kill his rival. Some said the woman showed the calmness and indifference
of insanity.
Philip learned that Harry and Laura had both been taken to the city
prison, and he went there; but he was not admitted. Not being a
newspaper reporter, he could not see either of them that night; but the
officer questioned him suspiciously and asked him who he was. He might
perhaps see Brierly in the morning.
The latest editions of the evening papers had the result of the inquest.
It was a plain enough case for the jury, but they sat over it a long
time, listening to the wrangling of the physicians. Dr. Puffer insisted
that the man died from the effects of the wound in the chest. Dr. Dobb
as strongly insisted that the wound in the abdomen caused death. Dr.
Golightly suggested that in his opinion death ensued from a complication
of the two wounds and perhaps other causes. He examined the table
waiter, as to whether Col. Selby ate any breakfast, and what he ate, and
if he had any appetite.
The jury finally threw themselves back upon the indisputable fact that
Selby was dead, that either wound would have killed him (admitted by the
doctors), and rendered a verdict that he died from pistol-shot wounds
inflicted by a pistol in the hands of Laura Hawkins.
The morning papers blazed with big type, and overflowed with details of
the murder. The accounts in the evening papers were only the premonitory
drops to this mighty shower. The scene was dramatically worked up in
column after column. There were sketches, biographical and historical.
There were long “specials” from Washington, giving a full history of
Laura’s career there, with the names of men with whom she was said to
be intimate, a description of Senator Dilworthy’s residence and of his
family, and of Laura’s room in his house, and a sketch of the Senator’s
appearance and what he said. There was a great deal about her beauty,
her accomplishments and her brilliant position in society, and her
doubtful position in society. There was also an interview with Col.
Sellers and another with Washington Hawkins, the brother of the
murderess. One journal had a long dispatch from Hawkeye, reporting
the excitement in that quiet village and the reception of the awful
intelligence.
All the parties had been “interviewed.” There were reports of
conversations with the clerk at the hotel; with the call-boy; with the
waiter at table with all the witnesses, with the policeman, with the
landlord (who wanted it understood that nothing of that sort had ever
happened in his house before, although it had always been frequented
by the best Southern society,) and with Mrs. Col. Selby. There were
diagrams illustrating the scene of the shooting, and views of the hotel
and street, and portraits of the parties.
There were three minute and different statements from the doctors about
the wounds, so technically worded that nobody could understand them.
Harry and Laura had also been “interviewed” and there was a statement
from Philip himself, which a reporter had knocked him up out of bed
at midnight to give, though how he found him, Philip never could
conjecture.
What some of the journals lacked in suitable length for the occasion,
they made up in encyclopaedic information about other similar murders
and shootings.
The statement from Laura was not full, in fact it was fragmentary, and
consisted of nine parts of, the reporter’s valuable observations to
one of Laura’s, and it was, as the reporter significantly remarked,
“incoherent”, but it appeared that Laura claimed to be Selby’s wife, or
to have been his wife, that he had deserted her and betrayed her, and
that she was going to follow him to Europe. When the reporter asked:
“What made you shoot him, Miss Hawkins?”
Laura’s only reply was, very simply,
“Did I shoot him? Do they say I shot him?”. And she would say no more.
The news of the murder was made the excitement of the day. Talk of it
filled the town. The facts reported were scrutinized, the standing of
the parties was discussed, the dozen different theories of the motive,
broached in the newspapers, were disputed over.
During the night subtle electricity had carried the tale over all the
wires of the continent and under the sea; and in all villages and towns
of the Union, from the Atlantic to the territories, and away up and
down the Pacific slope, and as far as London and Paris and Berlin, that
morning the name of Laura Hawkins was spoken by millions and millions
of people, while the owner of it--the sweet child of years ago, the
beautiful queen of Washington drawing rooms--sat shivering on her
cot-bed in the darkness of a damp cell in the Tombs.
CHAPTER XLVII.
Philip’s first effort was to get Harry out of the Tombs. He gained
permission to see him, in the presence of an officer, during the day,
and he found that hero very much cast down.
“I never intended to come to such a place as this, old fellow,” he said
to Philip; “it’s no place for a gentleman, they’ve no idea how to treat
a gentleman. Look at that provender,” pointing to his uneaten prison
ration. “They tell me I am detained as a witness, and I passed the night
among a lot of cut-throats and dirty rascals--a pretty witness I’d be in
a month spent in such company.”
“But what under heavens,” asked Philip, “induced you to come to New York
with Laura! What was it for?”
“What for? Why, she wanted me to come. I didn’t know anything about that
cursed Selby. She said it was lobby business for the University. I’d no
idea what she was dragging me into that confounded hotel for. I suppose
she knew that the Southerners all go there, and thought she’d find her
man. Oh! Lord, I wish I’d taken your advice. You might as well murder
somebody and have the credit of it, as get into the newspapers the way I
have. She’s pure devil, that girl. You ought to have seen how sweet she
was on me; what an ass I am.”
“Well, I’m not going to dispute a poor prisoner. But the first thing is
to get you out of this. I’ve brought the note Laura wrote you, for one
thing, and I’ve seen your uncle, and explained the truth of the case to
him. He will be here soon.”
Harry’s uncle came, with other friends, and in the course of the day
made such a showing to the authorities that Harry was released, on
giving bonds to appear as a witness when wanted. His spirits rose with
their usual elasticity as soon as he was out of Centre Street, and he
insisted on giving Philip and his friends a royal supper at Delmonico’s,
an excess which was perhaps excusable in the rebound of his feelings,
and which was committed with his usual reckless generosity. Harry
ordered the supper, and it is perhaps needless to say that Philip paid
the bill.
Neither of the young men felt like attempting to see Laura that day, and
she saw no company except the newspaper reporters, until the arrival of
Col. Sellers and Washington Hawkins, who had hastened to New York with
all speed.
They found Laura in a cell in the upper tier of the women’s department.
The cell was somewhat larger than those in the men’s department, and
might be eight feet by ten square, perhaps a little longer. It was of
stone, floor and all, and tile roof was oven shaped. A narrow slit
in the roof admitted sufficient light, and was the only means of
ventilation; when the window was opened there was nothing to prevent the
rain coming in. The only means of heating being from the corridor, when
the door was ajar, the cell was chilly and at this time damp. It was
whitewashed and clean, but it had a slight jail odor; its only furniture
was a narrow iron bedstead, with a tick of straw and some blankets, not
too clean.
When Col. Sellers was conducted to this cell by the matron and looked
in, his emotions quite overcame him, the tears rolled down his cheeks
and his voice trembled so that he could hardly speak. Washington was
unable to say anything; he looked from Laura to the miserable creatures
who were walking in the corridor with unutterable disgust. Laura was
alone calm and self-contained, though she was not unmoved by the sight
of the grief of her friends.
“Are you comfortable, Laura?” was the first word the Colonel could get
out.
“You see,” she replied. “I can’t say it’s exactly comfortable.”
“Are you cold?”
“It is pretty chilly. The stone floor is like ice. It chills me through
to step on it. I have to sit on the bed.”
“Poor thing, poor thing. And can you eat any thing?”
“No, I am not hungry. I don’t know that I could eat any thing, I can’t
eat that.”
“Oh dear,” continued the Colonel, “it’s dreadful. But cheer up, dear,
cheer up;” and the Colonel broke down entirely.
“But,” he went on, “we’ll stand by you. We’ll do everything for you. I
know you couldn’t have meant to do it, it must have been insanity, you
know, or something of that sort. You never did anything of the sort
before.”
Laura smiled very faintly and said,
“Yes, it was something of that sort. It’s all a whirl. He was a villain;
you don’t know.”
“I’d rather have killed him myself, in a duel you know, all fair. I
wish I had. But don’t you be down. We’ll get you the best counsel, the
lawyers in New York can do anything; I’ve read of cases. But you must be
comfortable now. We’ve brought some of your clothes, at the hotel. What
else, can we get for you?”
Laura suggested that she would like some sheets for her bed, a piece
of carpet to step on, and her meals sent in; and some books and writing
materials if it was allowed. The Colonel and Washington promised to
procure all these things, and then took their sorrowful leave, a great
deal more affected than the criminal was, apparently, by her situation.
The colonel told the matron as he went away that if she would look to
Laura’s comfort a little it shouldn’t be the worse for her; and to the
turnkey who let them out he patronizingly said,
“You’ve got a big establishment here, a credit to the city. I’ve got a
friend in there--I shall see you again, sir.”
By the next day something more of Laura’s own story began to appear in
the newspapers, colored and heightened by reporters’ rhetoric. Some of
them cast a lurid light upon the Colonel’s career, and represented his
victim as a beautiful avenger of her murdered innocence; and others
pictured her as his willing paramour and pitiless slayer. Her
communications to the reporters were stopped by her lawyers as soon as
they were retained and visited her, but this fact did not prevent--it
may have facilitated--the appearance of casual paragraphs here and there
which were likely to beget popular sympathy for the poor girl.
The occasion did not pass without “improvement” by the leading journals;
and Philip preserved the editorial comments of three or four of them
which pleased him most. These he used to read aloud to his friends
afterwards and ask them to guess from which journal each of them had
been cut. One began in this simple manner:--
History never repeats itself, but the Kaleidoscopic combinations of
the pictured present often seem to be constructed out of the broken
fragments of antique legends. Washington is not Corinth, and Lais, the
beautiful daughter of Timandra, might not have been the prototype of
the ravishing Laura, daughter of the plebeian house of Hawkins; but the
orators add statesmen who were the purchasers of the favors of the one,
may have been as incorruptible as the Republican statesmen who learned
how to love and how to vote from the sweet lips of the Washington
lobbyist; and perhaps the modern Lais would never have departed from the
national Capital if there had been there even one republican Xenocrates
who resisted her blandishments. But here the parallel: fails. Lais,
wandering away with the youth Rippostratus, is slain by the women who
are jealous of her charms. Laura, straying into her Thessaly with the
youth Brierly, slays her other lover and becomes the champion of the
wrongs of her sex. Another journal began its editorial with less lyrical
beauty, but with equal force. It closed as follows:--
With Laura Hawkins, fair, fascinating and fatal, and with the dissolute
Colonel of a lost cause, who has reaped the harvest he sowed, we have
nothing to do. But as the curtain rises on this awful tragedy, we catch
a glimpse of the society at the capital under this Administration, which
we cannot contemplate without alarm for the fate of the Republic. A
third newspaper took up the subject in a different tone. It said:--
Our repeated predictions are verified. The pernicious doctrines which
we have announced as prevailing in American society have been again
illustrated. The name of the city is becoming a reproach. We may have
done something in averting its ruin in our resolute exposure of the
Great Frauds; we shall not be deterred from insisting that the outraged
laws for the protection of human life shall be vindicated now, so that a
person can walk the streets or enter the public houses, at least in
the day-time, without the risk of a bullet through his brain. A fourth
journal began its remarks as follows:--
The fullness with which we present our readers this morning the details
of the Selby-Hawkins homicide is a miracle of modern journalism.
Subsequent investigation can do little to fill out the picture. It
is the old story. A beautiful woman shoots her absconding lover in
cold-blood; and we shall doubtless learn in due time that if she was not
as mad as a hare in this month of March, she was at least laboring under
what is termed “momentary insanity.” It would not be too much to say
that upon the first publication of the facts of the tragedy, there was
an almost universal feeling of rage against the murderess in the Tombs,
and that reports of her beauty only heightened the indignation. It was
as if she presumed upon that and upon her sex, to defy the law; and
there was a fervent hope that the law would take its plain course.
Yet Laura was not without friends, and some of them very influential
too. She had in her keeping a great many secrets and a great many
reputations, perhaps. Who shall set himself up to judge human motives.
Why, indeed, might we not feel pity for a woman whose brilliant career
had been so suddenly extinguished in misfortune and crime? Those who had
known her so well in Washington might find it impossible to believe
that the fascinating woman could have had murder in her heart, and
would readily give ear to the current sentimentality about the temporary
aberration of mind under the stress of personal calamity.
Senator Dilworthy, was greatly shocked, of course, but he was full of
charity for the erring.
“We shall all need mercy,” he said. “Laura as an inmate of my family was
a most exemplary female, amiable, affectionate and truthful, perhaps too
fond of gaiety, and neglectful of the externals of religion, but a woman
of principle. She may have had experiences of which I am ignorant, but
she could not have gone to this extremity if she had been in her own
right mind.”
To the Senator’s credit be it said, he was willing to help Laura and her
family in this dreadful trial. She, herself, was not without money, for
the Washington lobbyist is not seldom more fortunate than the Washington
claimant, and she was able to procure a good many luxuries to mitigate
the severity of her prison life. It enabled her also to have her own
family near her, and to see some of them daily. The tender solicitude
of her mother, her childlike grief, and her firm belief in the real
guiltlessness of her daughter, touched even the custodians of the Tombs
who are enured to scenes of pathos.
Mrs. Hawkins had hastened to her daughter as soon as she received money
for the journey. She had no reproaches, she had only tenderness and
pity. She could not shut out the dreadful facts of the case, but it
had been enough for her that Laura had said, in their first interview,
“mother, I did not know what I was doing.” She obtained lodgings near
the prison and devoted her life to her daughter, as if she had been
really her own child. She would have remained in the prison day and
night if it had been permitted. She was aged and feeble, but this great
necessity seemed to give her new life.
The pathetic story of the old lady’s ministrations, and her simplicity
and faith, also got into the newspapers in time, and probably added to
the pathos of this wrecked woman’s fate, which was beginning to be felt
by the public. It was certain that she had champions who thought that
her wrongs ought to be placed against her crime, and expressions of this
feeling came to her in various ways. Visitors came to see her, and gifts
of fruit and flowers were sent, which brought some cheer into her hard
and gloomy cell.
Laura had declined to see either Philip or Harry, somewhat to the
former’s relief, who had a notion that she would necessarily feel
humiliated by seeing him after breaking faith with him, but to the
discomfiture of Harry, who still felt her fascination, and thought her
refusal heartless. He told Philip that of course he had got through with
such a woman, but he wanted to see her.
Philip, to keep him from some new foolishness, persuaded him to go
with him to Philadelphia; and, give his valuable services in the mining
operations at Ilium.
The law took its course with Laura. She was indicted for murder in
the first degree and held for trial at the summer term. The two most
distinguished criminal lawyers in the city had been retained for her
defence, and to that the resolute woman devoted her days with a courage
that rose as she consulted with her counsel and understood the methods
of criminal procedure in New York.
She was greatly depressed, however, by the news from Washington.
Congress adjourned and her bill had failed to pass the Senate. It must
wait for the next session.
CHAPTER XLVIII.
It had been a bad winter, somehow, for the firm of Pennybacker, Bigler
and Small. These celebrated contractors usually made more money during
the session of the legislature at Harrisburg than upon all their summer
work, and this winter had been unfruitful. It was unaccountable to
Bigler.
“You see, Mr. Bolton,” he said, and Philip was present at the
conversation, “it puts us all out. It looks as if politics was played
out. We’d counted on the year of Simon’s re-election. And, now, he’s
reelected, and I’ve yet to see the first man who’s the better for it.”
“You don’t mean to say,” asked Philip, “that he went in without paying
anything?”
“Not a cent, not a dash cent, as I can hear,” repeated Mr. Bigler,
indignantly. “I call it a swindle on the state. How it was done gets me.
I never saw such a tight time for money in Harrisburg.”
“Were there no combinations, no railroad jobs, no mining schemes put
through in connection with the election?
“Not that I knew,” said Bigler, shaking his head in disgust. “In fact it
was openly said, that there was no money in the election. It’s perfectly
unheard of.”
“Perhaps,” suggested Philip, “it was effected on what the insurance
companies call the ‘endowment,’ or the ‘paid up’ plan, by which a policy
is secured after a certain time without further payment.”
“You think then,” said Mr. Bolton smiling, “that a liberal and sagacious
politician might own a legislature after a time, and not be bothered
with keeping up his payments?”
“Whatever it is,” interrupted Mr. Bigler, “it’s devilish ingenious and
