dollar in my hand and said softly: 

“For my share of the chromo.” 

Rogers followed suit. 

Yes, it was an astonishing thing to see the Mississippi 
rolling between unpeopled shores and straight over the 
spot where I used to see a good big self-complacent 
town twenty years ago. Town that was county-seat of 
a great and important county; town with a big United 
States marine hospital ; town of innumerable fights — an 
inquest every day ; town where I had used to know the 
prettiest girl, and the most accomplished, in the whole 
Mississippi Valley; town where we were handed the 
first printed news of the Pennsylvania $ mournful disaster 
a quarter of a century ago ; a town no more — swal- 
lowed up, vanished, gone to feed the fishes; nothing 
left but a fragment of a shanty and a crumbling brick 
chimney ! 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 

REFRESHMENTS AND ETHICS 

I N regard to Island 74, which is situated not far from the 
former Napoleon, a freak of the river here has sorely 
perplexed the laws of men and made them a vanity and 
a jest. When the State of Arkansas was chartered, 
she controlled “to the center of the river ** — a most 
unstable line. The State of Mississippi claimed “to 
the channel ** — another shifty and unstable line. No. 
74 belonged to Arkansas. By and by a cut-off threw 
this big island out of Arkansas, and yet not within 
Mississippi. “ Middle of the river’ on one side of it, 
“ channel ’ on the other. That is as I understand the 
problem. Whether I have got the details right or 
wrong, this fact remains: that here is this big and ex- 
ceedingly valuable island of four thousand acres, thrust 
out in the cold, and belonging to neither the one State 
nor the other; paying taxes to neither, owing allegiance 
to neither. One man owns the whole island, and of 
right is “ the man without a country. 

Island 92 belongs to Arkansas. The river moved it 
over and joined it to Mississippi. A chap established 
a whisky-shop there, without a Mississippi license, and 
enriched himself upon Mississippi custom under 
Arkansas protection (where no license was in those 
days required). 

We glided steadily down the river in the usual privacy 
— steamboat or other moving thing seldom seen. 
Scenery as always ; stretch upon stretch of almost un- 
broken forest on both sides of the river; soundless- 
solitude. Here and there a cabin or two, standing in 
small openings on the gray and grassless banks — cabins 
which had formerly stood a quarter or half mile farther 
to the front, and gradually been pulled farther and 
farther back as the" shores caved in. As at Pilcher’s 
Point, for instance, where the cabins had been moved 
back three hundred yards in three months, so we were 
told ; but the caving banks had already caught up with 
them, and they were being conveyed rearward once 
more. 

Napoleon had but small opinion of Greenville, Miss., 
in the old times; but behold, Napoleon is gone to the 
catfishes, and here is Greenville full of life and 
activity, and making a considerable flourish in the Val- 
ley; having three thousand inhabitants, it is said, and 
doing a gross trade of two million five hundred thou- 
sand dollars annually. A growing town. 

There was much talk on the boat about the Calhoun 
Land Company, an enterprise which is expected to 
work wholesome results. Colonel Calhoun, a grandson 
of the statesman, went to Boston and formed a syndicate 
which purchased a large tract of land on the river, in 
Chicot County, Arkansas, — some ten thousand acres, 

— for cotton growing. The purpose is to work on a 
cash basis: buy at first hands, and handle their own 
product; supply their negro laborers with provisions 
and necessaries at a trifling profit, say eight or ten per 
cent,; furnish them comfortable quarters, etc., and 
encourage them to save money and remain on the 
place. If this proves a financial success, as seems 
quite certain, they propose to establish a banking-house 
in Greenville, and lend money at an unburdensome rate 
of interest — six per cent, is spoken of. 

The trouble heretofore has been — I am quoting re- 
marks of planters and steamboatmen — that the plant- 
ers, although owning the land, were without cash 
capital; had to hypothecate both land and crop to 
carry on the business. Consequently, the commission 
dealer who furnishes the money takes some risk and 
demands big interest — usually ten per cent., and two 
and one-half per cent, for negotiating the loan. The 
planter has also to buy his supplies through the same 
dealer, paying commissions and profits. Then when he 
ships his crop, the dealer adds his commissions, insur- 
ance, etc. So, taking it by and large, and first and 
last, the dealer’s share of that crop is about twenty- 
five per cent* 

A cotton-planter’s estimate of the average margin of 
profit on planting, in his section : One man and mule 
will raise ten acres of cotton, giving ten bales cotton, 
worth, say five hundred dollars; cost of producing, 
say three hundred and fifty dollars; net profit, one 
hundred and fifty dollars ; or fifteen dollars per acre. 
There is also a profit now from the cotton-seed, which 
formerly had little value — none where much transpor- 
tation was necessary; In sixteen hundred pounds crude 
cotton, four hundred are lint, worth, say, tqn cents a 
pound; and twelve hundred pounds of seed, worth 
twelve dollars or thirteen dollars per ton. Maybe in 
future even the stems will not be thrown away. Mr. 
Edward Atkinson says that for each bale of cotton 
there are fifteen hundred pounds of stems, and that 
these are very rich in phosphate of lime and potash ; 
that when ground and mixed with ensilage or cotton- 
seed meal (which is too rich for use as fodder in large 
quantities), the stem mixture makes a superior food, 
rich in all the elements needed for the production of 
milk, meat, and bone. Heretofore the stems have been 
considered a nuisance. 

Complaint is made that the planter remains grouty 
toward the former slave, since the war; will have noth- 
ing but a chill business relation with him, no sentiment 
permitted to intrude ; will not keep a “ store ” himself, 
and supply the negro’s wants and thus protect the 
negro’s pocket and make him able and willing to stay 
on the place and an advantage to him to do it, but lets 
that privilege to some thrifty Israelite, who encourages 
the thoughtless negro and wife to buy all sorts of things 
which they could do without — buy on credit, at big 
prices, month after month, credit based on the negro’s 
share of the growing crop ; and at the end of the 
season, the negro’s share belongs to the Israelite, the 
negro is in debt besides, is discouraged, dissatisfied, 
restless, and both he and the planter are injured; foi 
he will take steamboat and migrate, and the planter 
must get a stranger in his place who does not know 
him, does not care for him, will fatten the Israelite a 
season, and follow his predecessor per steamboat. 

It is hoped that the Calhoun Company will show, by 
its humane and protective treatment of its laborers, 
that its method is the most profitable for both planter 
and negro ; and it is believed that a general adoption 
of that method will then follow. 

And where so many are saying their say, shall not 
the barkeeper testify? He is thoughtful, observant, 
never drinks ; endeavors to earn his salary, and would 
earn it if there were custom enough. He says the 
people along here in Mississippi and Louisiana will 
send up the river to buy vegetables rather than raise 
them, and they will come aboard at the landings and 
buy fruits of the barkeeper. Thinks they “don’t 
know anything but cotton ” ; believes they don’t know 
how to raise vegetables and fruit — “ at least the most 
of them.” Says “ a nigger will go to H for a water- 
melon ” (“H” is all I find in the stenographer’s re- 
port — means Halifax probably, though that seems a 
good way to go for a watermelon). Barkeeper buys 
watermelons for five cents up the river, brings them 
down and sells them for fifty. “Why does he mix 
such elaborate and picturesque drinks for the nigger 
hands on the boat?” Because they won’t have any 
other. “They want a big drink: don’t make any 
difference what you make it of, they want the worth of 
their money. You give a nigger a plain gill of half-a- 
dollar brandy for five cents — will he touch it? No. 
Ain’t size enough to it. But you put up a pint of all 
kinds of worthless rubbish, and heave in some red stuff 
to make it beautiful — red’s the main thing — and he 
wouldn’t put down that glass to go to a circus.” All 
the bars on this Anchor Line are rented and owned by 
one firm. They furnish the liquors from their own 
establishment, and hire the barkeepers “ on salary.” 
Good liquors? Yes, on some of the boats, where 
there are the kind of passengers that want it and can 
pay for it. On the other boats? No. Nobody but 
the deck-hands and firemen to drink it. “ Brandy? 
Yes, I’ve got brandy, plenty of it; but you don’t want 
any of it unless you’ve made your will.” It isn’t as it 
used to be in the old times. Then everybody traveled 
by steamboat, everybody drank, and everybody treated 
everybody else. “ Now most everybody goes by rail- 
road, and the rest don’t drink.” In the old times, the 
barkeeper owned the bar himself, “ and was gay and 
smarty and talky and all jeweled up, and was the 
toniest aristocrat on the boat ; used to make two thou- 
sand dollars on a trip. A father who left his son a 
steamboat bar, left him a fortune. Now he leaves him 
board and lodging; yes, and washing if a shirt a trip 
will do. Yes, indeedy, times are changed. Why, do 
you know, on the principal line of boats on the Upper 
Mississippi they don't have any bar at all! Sound? 
like poetry, but it's the petrified truth.' ' 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 

TOUGH YARNS 

S TACK ISLAND. I remembered Stack Island; 

also Lake Providence, La. — which is the first 
distinctly Southern-looking town you come to, 
downward bound ; lies level and low-, shade-trees hung with 
venerable gray-beards of Spanish moss; “restful, 
pensive, Sunday aspect about the place * comments 
Uncle Mumford, with feeling — also with truth. 

A Mr. H. furnished some minor details of fact con- 
cerning this region which I would have hesitated to be- 
lieve, if I had not known him to be a steamboat mate. 
He was a passenger of ours, a resident of Arkansas 
City, and bound to Vicksburg to join his boat, a little 
Sunflower packet. He was an austere man, and had 
the reputation of being singularly unworldly, for a river 
man. Among other things, he said that Arkansas had 
been injured and kept back by generations of exaggera- 
tions concerning the mosquitoes there. One may 
smile, said he, and turn the matter off as being a small 
thing; but when you come to look at the effects pro- 
duced, in the way of discouragement of immigration 
and diminished values of property, it was quite the 
opposite of a small thing, or thing in any, wise to be 
coughed down or sneered at. These mosquitoes had 
been persistently represented as being formidable and 
lawless; whereas “ the truth is, they are feeble 
insignificant in size, diffident to a fault, sensitive ” — and so 
on, and so on , you would have supposed he was 
talking about his family. But if he was soft on the 
Arkansas mosquitoes, he was hard enough on the 
mosquitoes of Lake Providence to make up for it — 
“those Lake Providence colossi ’ as he finely called 
them. He said that two of them could whip a dog, 
and that four of them could hold a man down ; and 
except help come, they would kill him — “butcher 
him,” as he expressed it. Ref erred Jn a sort of casual 
way — and yet significant way, to “the fact that the 
life policy in its simplest form is unknown in Lake 
Providence — they take out a mosquito policy be- 
sides’ He told many remarkable things about those 
lawless insects. Among others, said he had seen them 
try to vole . Noticing that this statement seemed to be 
a good deal of a strain on us, he modified it a little ; said 
he might have been mistaken as to that particular, but 
knew he had seen them around the polls “canvassing.” 

There was another passenger — friend of H.’s — 
who backed up the harsh evidence against those 
mosquitoes, and detailed some stirring adventures 
which he had had with them. The stories were pretty 
sizable, merely pretty sizable; yet Mr. H. was con- 
tinually interrupting with a cold, inexorable “Wait — 
knockoff twenty-five percent, of that; now go on;” 
or, “Wait — you are getting that too strong; cut it 
down, cut it down — you get a leetle too much cos- 
tumery on to your statements : always dress a fact in 
tights, never in an ulster;” or, “ Pardon, once more; 
if you are going to load anything more on to that 
statement, you want to get a couple of lighters and tow the 
rest, because it’s drawing all the water there is in the 
river already; stick to facts — just stick to the cold 
facts; what these gentlemen want for a book is the 
frozen truth — ain’t that so, gentlemen?” He 
explained privately that it was necessary to watch this 
man all the time, and keep him within bounds; it 
would not do to neglect this precaution, as he, Mr. 
H., “ knew to his sorrow ' Said he, “ I will not 
deceive you ; he told me such a monstrous lie once that 
it swelled my left ear up, and spread it so that I was 
actually not able to see out around it; it remained so 
for months, and people came miles to see me fan 
myself with it.” 



CHAPTER XXXV. 

VICKSBURG DURING THE TROUBLE 

WE used to plow past the lofty hill-city, Vicksburg, 
down-stream ; but we cannot do that now. A 
cut-off has tf made a country town of it, like Osceola, 
St. Genevieve, and several others. There is current- 
less water — also a big island — in front of Vicksburg 
now. You come down the river the other side of the 
island, then turn and come up to the town, that is, in 
high water: in low water you can’t come up, but must 
land some distance below it. 

Signs and scars still remain, as reminders of Vicks- 
burg’s tremendous war-experiences; earthworks, trees 
crippled by the cannon-balls, cave refuges in the clay 
precipices, etc. The caves did good service during 
the six weeks’ bombardment of the city — May 18 to 
July 4, 1863. They were used by the non-combatants 
— mainly by the women and children ; not to live in 
constantly, but to fly to for safety on occasion. They 
were mere holes, tunnels driven into the perpendicular 
clay-bank, then branched Y shape, within the hill. 
Life in Vicksburg during the six weeks was perhaps — 
but wait; here are some materials out of which to 
reproduce it : 

Population, twenty-seven thousand soldiers and three 
thousand non-combatants ; the city utterly cut off from 
the world — walled solidly in, the frontage by gun- 
boats, the rear by soldiers and batteries; hence, no 
buying and selling with the outside ; no passing to and 
fro ; no Godspeeding a parting guest, no welcoming a 
coming one; no printed acres of world-wide news to 
be read at breakfast, mornings — a tedious dull absence 
of such matter, instead ; hence, also, no running to see 
steamboats smoking into view in the distance up or 
down, and plowing toward the town — for none came, 
the river lay vacant and undisturbed ; no rush and 
turmoil around the railway station, no struggling over 
bewildered swarms of passengers by noisy mobs of 
hackmen — all quiet there ; flour two hundred dollars 
a barrel, sugar thirty, corn ten dollars a bushel, bacon 
five dollars a pound, rum a hundred dollars a gallon, 
other things in proportion ; consequently, no roar and 
racket of drays and carriages tearing along the streets ; 
nothing for them to do, among that handful of non- 
combatants of exhausted means; at three o’clock in 
the morning, silence — silence so dead that the meas- 
ured tramp of a sentinel can be heard a seemingly im- 
possible distance; out of hearing of this lonely sound, 
perhaps the stillness is absolute : all in a moment come 
ground-shaking thunder-crashes of artillery, the sky is 
cobwebbed with the criss-crossing red lines streaming 
from soaring bomb-shells, and a rain of iron fragments 
descends upon the city, descends upon the empty 
streets — streets which are not empty a moment later, 
but mottled with dim figures of frantic women and 
children scurrying from home and bed toward the 
cave dungeons — encouraged by the humorous grim 
soldiery, who shout “Rats, to your holes !” and 
laugh. 

The cannon-thunder rages, shells scream and crash 
overhead, the iron rain pours down, one hour, two 
hours, three, possibly six, then stops; silence follows, 
but the streets are still empty; the silence continues; 
by and by a head projects from a cave here and there 
and yonder, and reconnoitres cautiously; the silence 
still continuing, bodies follow heads, and jaded, half- 
smothered creatures group themselves about, stretch 
their cramped limbs, draw in deep draughts of the 
grateful fresh air, gossip with the neighbors from the 
next cave ; maybe straggle off home presently, or take 
a lounge through the town, if the stillness continues; 
and will scurry to the holes again, by and by, when 
the war-tempest breaks forth once more. 

There being but three thousand of these cave- 
dwellers — merely the population of a village — would 
they not come to know each other, after a week or 
two, and familiarly; insomuch that the fortunate or 
unfortunate experiences of one would be of interest to 
all? 

Those are the materials furnislied by history. From 
them might not almost anybody reproduce for himself 
the life of that time in Vicksburg? Could you, who 
did not experience it, come nearer to reproducing it to 
the imagination of another non-participant than could 
a Vicksburger who did experience it? It seems im- 
possible ; and yet there are reasons why it might not 
really be. When one makes his first voyage in a ship, 
it is an experience which multitudinously bristles with 
striking novelties ; novelties which are in such sharp 
contrast with all this person’s former experiences that 
they take a seemingly deathless grip upon his imagina- 
tion and memory. By tongue or pen he can make a 
landsman live that strange and stirring voyage over 
with him ; make him see it all and feel it all. But if 
he wait? If he make ten voyages in succession — what 
then? Why, the thing has lost color, snap, surprise; 
and has become commonplace. The man would have 
nothing to tell that would quicken a landsman’s pulse. 

Years ago I talked with a couple of the Vicksburg 
non-combatants — a man and his wife. Left to tell 
their story in their own way, those people told it 
without fire, almost without interest. 

A week of their wonderful life there would have 
made their tongues eloquent forever perhaps; but they 
had six weeks of it, and that wore the novelty all out; 
they got used to being bomb-shelled out of home and 
into the ground; the matter became commonplace. 
After that, the possibility of their ever being startlingly 
interesting in their talks about it was gone. What the 
man said was to this effect : 

It got to be Sunday all the time. Seven Sundays in the week — to us, 
anyway. We hadn’t anything to do, and time hung heavy. Seven Sundays, 
and all of them broken up at one time or another, in the day or in the 
night, by a few hours of the awful storm of fire and thunder and iron. At 
first we used to shin for the holes a good deal faster than we did afterward. 
The first time I forgot the children, and Maria fetched them both along. 
When she was all safe in the cave she fainted. Two or three weeks 
afterward, when she was running for the holes, one morning, through a shell- 
shower, a big shell burst near her and covered her all over with dirt, 
and a piece of iron carried away her game-bag of false hair from the back 
of her head. Well, she stopped to get that game-bag before she shoved 
along again ! Was getting used to things already, you see. We all got so 
that we could tell a good deal about shells; and after that we didn’t always 
go under shelter if it was a light shower. Us men would loaf around and 
talk; and a man would say, “ There she goes ! *’ and name the kind of shell 
it was from the sound of it, and go on talking — if there wasn’t any danger 
from it. If a shell was bursting close over us, we stopped talking and stood 
still; uncomfortable, yes, but it wasn’t safe to move. When it let go, we 
went on talking again, if nobody was hurt — maybe saying, “That was a 
ripper!” or some such commonplace comment before we resumed; or, 
ma} f be, we would see a shell poising itself away high in the air overhead. 
In that case, every fellow just whipped out a sudden “ See you again, 
gents!” and shoved. Often and often I saw gangs of ladies promenad- 
ing the streets, looking as cheerful as you please, and keeping an eye 
canted up watching the shells; and I’ve seen them stop still when they 
were uncertain about what a shell was going to do, and wait and make 
certain; and after that they sa’ntered along again, or lit out for shelter, 
according to the verdict. Streets in some towns have a litter of pieces of 
paper, and odds and ends of one sort or another lying around. Ours hadn’t; 
they had iron litter. Sometimes a man would gather up all the iron
fragments and unbursted shells in his neighborhood, and pile them into a kind 
of monument in his front yard — a ton of it, sometimes. No glass left; 
glass couldn’t stand such a bombardment; it was all shivered out. Windows 
of the houses vacant — looked like eyeholes in a skull. Whole panes were 
as scarce as news. 

We had church Sundays. Not many there, along at first; hut by and 
by pretty good turnouts. I’ve seen sendee stop a minute, and everybody 
sit quiet — no voice heard, pretty funeral-like then — and all the more so on 
account of the awful boom and crash going on outside and overhead; and 
pretty soon, when a body could be heard, sendee would go on again. 
Organs and church music mixed up with a bombardment is a powerful 
queer combination — along at first. Coming out of church, one morning, 
we had an accident — the only one that happened around me on a Sunday. 
I was just having a hearty hand-shake with a friend I hadn’t seen for a 
while, and saying, “Drop into our cave to-night, after bombardment; 

we’ve got hold of a pint of prime wh ” Whisky, I was going to say, 

you know, but a shell interrupted. A chunk of it cut the man’s arm off, and 
left it dangling in my hand. And do you know the thing that is going to 
stick the longest in my memory, and outlast everything else, little and big, 
I reckon, is the mean thought I had then? It was, “ the whisky is saved” 
And yet, don’t you know, it was kind of excusable; because it was as 
scarce as diamonds, and we had only just that little; never had another 
taste during the siege. 

Sometimes the caves were desperately crowded, and always hot and 
close. Sometimes a cave had twenty or twenty- five people packed into it; 
no turning-room for anybody; air so foul, sometimes, you couldn’t have 
made a candle burn in it. A child was bom in one of those caves one 
night. Think of that; why, it was like having it born in a trunk. 

Twice we had sixteen people in our cave; and a number of times we 
had a dozen. Pretty suffocating in there. We always had eight; eight 
belonged there. Hunger and misery and sickness and fright and sorrow, 
and I don’t know what all, got so loaded into them that none of them were 
ever rightly their old selves after the siege. They all died but three of us 
within a couple of years. One night a shell burst in front of the hole and 
caved it in and stopped it up. It was lively times, for a while, digging out. 

Some of us came near smothering. After that we made two openings — 
ought to have thought of it at first. 

Mule meat ? No, we only got down to that the last day or two. Of 
course it was good; anything is good when you are starving. 


This man had kept a diary during — six weeks? 
No, only the first six days. The first day, eight close 
pages; the second, five; the third, one — loosely 
written; the fourth, three or four lines; a line or two 
the fifth and sixth days; seventh day, diary abandoned ; 
life in terrific Vicksburg having now become 
commonplace and matter of course. 

The war history of Vicksburg has more about it to 
interest the general reader than that of any other of the 
river-towns. It is full of variety, full of incident, full 
of the picturesque. Vicksburg held out longer than 
any other important river-town, and saw warfare in all 
its phases, both land and water — the siege, the mine, 
the assault, the repulse, the bombardment, sickness, 
captivity famine. 

The most beautiful of all the national cemeteries is 
here. Over the great gateway is this inscription : 

“ HERE REST IN PEACE l6,600 WHO DIED FOR THEIR 
COUNTRY IN THE YEARS l86l TO 1865 ” 

The grounds are nobly situated; being very high 
and commanding a wide prospect of land and river. 
They are tastefully laid out in broad terraces, with 
winding roads and paths ; and there is profuse adorn- 
ment in the way of semi-tropical shrubs and flowers ; 
and in one part is a piece of native wild-wood, left just 
as it grew, and, therefore, perfect in its charm. 
Everything about this cemetery suggests the hand of 
the national Government. The Government's work is 
always conspicuous for excellence, solidity, 
thoroughness, neatness. The Government does its work well in 
the first place, and then takes care of it. 

By winding roads — which were often cut to so great 
a depth between perpendicular walls that they were 
mere roofless tunnels — we drove out a mile or two and 
visited the monument which stands upon the scene of 
the surrender of Vicksburg to General Grant by 
General Pemberton. Its metal will preserve it from the 
hackings and drippings which so defaced its 
predecessor, which was of marble ; but the brick foundations 
are crumbling, and it will tumble down by and by. It 
overlooks a picturesque region of wooded hills and 
ravines; and is not unpicturesque itself, being well 
smothered in flowering weeds. The battered remnant 
of the marble monument has been removed to the 
National Cemetery. 

On the road, a quarter of a mile townward, an aged 
colored man showed us, with pride, an unexploded 
bombshell which had lain in his yard since the day it 
fell there during the siege. 

“I was a-stannin* heah, an* de dog was a-stannin* 
heah; de dog he went for de shell, gwine to pick a fuss 
wid it; but I didn’t; I says, 4 Jes’ make youseff at 
home heah; lay still whah you is, or bust up de place, 
jes’ as you’s a mind to, but Ts got business out in de 
woods,

Vicksburg is a town of substantial business streets 
and pleasant residences ; it commands the commerce of 
the Yazoo and Sunflower rivers; is pushing railways in 
several directions, through rich agricultural regions, and 
has a promising future of prosperity and importance. 

Apparently, nearly all the river towns, big and little, 
have made up their minds that they must look mainly 
to railroads for wealth and upbuilding, henceforth. 
They are acting upon this idea. The signs are that 
the next twenty years will bring about some noteworthy 
changes in the Valley, in the direction of increased 
population and wealth, and in the intellectual advance- 
ment and the liberalizing of opinion which go naturally 
with these. And yet, if one may judge by the past, 
the river towns will manage to find and use a chance, 
here and there, to cripple and retard their progress. 
They kept themselves back in the days of steamboating 
supremacy, by a system of wharfage dues so stupidly 
graded as to prohibit what may be called small retail 
traffic in freights and passengers. Boats were charged 
such heavy wharfage that they could not afford to land 
for one or two passengers or ,a light lot of freight. 
Instead of encouraging the bringing of trade to their 
doors, the towns diligently and effectively discouraged 
it. They could have had many boats and low rates ; 
but their policy rendered few boats and high rates 
compulsory. It was a policy which extended — and 
extends — from New Orleans to St. Paul. 

We had a strong desire to make a trip up the Yazoo 
and the Sunflower — an interesting region at any time, 
but additionally interesting at this time, because up 
there the great inundation was still to be seen in force 
— but we were nearly sure to have to wait a day or 
more for a New Orleans boat on return; so we were 
obliged to give up the project. 

Here is a story which I picked up on board the boat 
that night. I insert it in this place merely because it 
is a good story, not because it belongs here — for it 
doesn't. It was told by a passenger, — a college 
professor,— and was called to the surface in the course of 
a general conversation which began with talk about 
horses, drifted into talk about astronomy, then into 
talk about the lynching of the gamblers in Vicksburg 
half a century ago, then into talk about dreams and 
superstitions; and ended, after midnight, in a dispute 
over free trade and protection. . 



CHAPTER XXXVI. 

THE PROFESSOR’S YARN 

I T was 5n the early days. I was not a college pro- 
fessor then. I was a humble-minded young land- 
surveyor, with the world before me — to survey, in 
case anybody wanted it done. I had a contract to 
survey a route for a great mining ditch in California, 
and I was on my way thither, by sea — a three or four 
weeks’ voyage. There were a good many passengers, 
but I had very little to say to them; reading and 
dreaming were my passions, and I avoided conversa- 
tion in order to indulge these appetites. There were 
three professional gamblers on board — rough, repul- 
sive fellows. I never had any talk with them, yet I 
could not help seeing them with some frequency, foi 
they gambled in an upper-deck state-room every day 
and night, and in my promenades I often had glimpses 
of them through their door, which stood a little ajar to 
let out the surplus tobacco smoke and profanity. They 
were an evil and hateful presence, but I had to put up 
with it, of course. 

There was one other passenger who fell under my 
eye a good deal, for he seemed determined to be 
friendly with me, and I could not have gotten rid of 
him without running some chance of hurting his feel- 
ings, and I was far from wishing to do that. Besides, 
there was something engaging in his countrified 
simplicity and his beaming good-nature. The first time I 
saw this Mr. John Backus, I guessed, from his clothes 
and his looks, that he was a grazier or farmer from the 
backwoods of some Western State, — doubtless Ohio, — 
and afterward, when he dropped into his personal 
history, and I discovered that he was a cattle-raiser 
from interior Ohio, I was so pleased with my own 
penetration that I warmed toward him for verifying my 
instinct. 

He got to dropping alongside me every day, after 
breakfast, to help me make my promenade; and so, in 
the course of time, his easy-working jaw had told me 
everything about his business, his prospects, his family, 
his relatives, his politics — in fact, everything that 
concerned a Backus, living or dead. And meantime I 
think he had managed to get out of me everything I 
knew about my trade, my tribe, my purposes, my 
prospects, and myself. He was a gentle and 
persuasive genius, and this thing showed it; for I was not 
given to talking about my matters. I said something 
about triangulation, once; the stately word pleased his 
ear; he inquired what it meant; I explained. After 
that he quietly and inoffensively ignored my name, and 
always called me Triangle. 

What an enthusiast he was in cattle ! At the bare 
name of a bull or a cow, his eye would light and his 
eloquent tongue would turn itself loose. As long as I 
would walk and listen, he would walk and talk; he 
knew all breeds, he loved all breeds, he caressed them 
all with his affectionate tongue. I tramped along in 
voiceless misery while the cattle question was up. 
When I could endure it no longer, I used to deftly 
insert a scientific topic into the conversation ; then my 
eye fired and his faded ; my tongue fluttered, his 
stopped; life was a joy to me, and a sadness to him. 

One day he said, a little hesitatingly, and with somewhat 
of diffidence : 



“Triangle, would you mind coming down to my 
state-room a minute and have a little talk on a certain 
matter?” 

I went with him at once. Arrived there, he put his 
head out, glanced up and down the saloon warily, then 
closed the door and locked it. We sat down on the 
sofa and he said : 

“I’m a-going to make a little proposition to you, 
and if it strikes you favorable, it’ll be a middling good 
thing for both of us. You ain’t a-going out to Cali- 
forny for fun, nuther am I — it’s business , ain’t that 
so? Well, you can do me a good turn, and so can I 
you, if we see fit. I’ve raked and scraped and saved a 
considerable many years, and I’ve got it all here.” 
He unlocked an old hair trunk, tumbled a chaos of 
shabby clothes aside, and drew a short, stout bag into 
view for a moment, then buried it again and relocked 
the trunk. Dropping his voice to a cautious, low tone, 
he continued: “She’s all there — a round ten thou- 
sand dollars in yellow-boys ; now, this is my little idea: 
What I don’t know about raising cattle ain’t worth 
knowing. There’s mints of money in it in Calif orny. 
Well, I know, and you know, that all along a line 
that’s being surveyed, there’s little dabs of land that 
they call ‘gores,’ that fall to the surveyor free gratis 
for nothing. All you’ve got to do on your side is to 
survey in such a way that the * gores ’ will fall on good 
fat land, then you turn ’em over to me, I stock ’em 
with cattle, in rolls the cash, I plank out your share of 
the dollars regular right along, and ’ ’ 

I was sorry to wither his blooming enthusiasm, but it 
could not be helped. I interrupted and said severely: 

“I am not that kind of a surveyor. Let us change 
the subject, Mr. Backus.” 

It was pitiful to see his confusion and hear his awkward 
and shamefaced apologies. I was as much distressed as 
he was — especially as he seemed so far from having 
suspected that there was anything improper in his 
proposition. So I hastened to console him and lead 
him on to forget his mishap in a conversational orgy 
about cattle and butchery. We were lying at Acapulco,
and as we went on deck it happened luckily 
that the crew were just beginning to hoist some 
beeves aboard in slings. Backus’ melancholy vanished 
instantly, and with it the memory of his late mistake. 

“Now, only look at that!” cried he. “My good- 
ness, Triangle, what would they say to it in Ohio ? 
Wouldn’t their eyes bug out to see ’em handled like 
that? — wouldn’t they, though?” 

All the passengers were on deck to look, — even the 
gamblers, — and Backus knew them all, and had 
afflicted them all with his pet topic. As I moved 
away I saw one of the gamblers approach and accost 
him; then another of them; then the third. I halted, 
waited, watched; the conversation continued between 
the four men ; it grew earnest ; Backus drew gradually 
away ; the gamblers followed and kept at his elbow. I 
was uncomfortable. However, as they passed me 
presently, I heard Backus say with a tone of perse- 
cuted annoyance : 

“But it ain’t any use, gentlemen; I tell you again, 
as I’ve told you a half a dozen times before, I warn’t 
raised to it, and I ain’t a-going to resk it.” 

I felt relieved. “ His level head will be his sufficient 
protection,” I said to myself. 

During the fortnight’s run from Acapulco to San 
Francisco I several times saw the gamblers talking 
earnestly with Backus, and once I threw out a gentle 
warning to him. He chuckled comfortably and said : 

“ Oh, yes ! they tag around after me considerable — 
want me to play a little, just for amusement, they 
say — but laws-a-me, if my folks have told me once to 
look out for that sort of live-stock, they’ve told me a 
thousand times, I reckon.” 

By and by, in due course, we were approaching San 
Francisco. It was an ugly, black night, with a strong 
wind blowing, but there was not much sea. I was on 
deck alone. Toward ten I started below. A figure 
issued from the gamblers’ den and disappeared in the 
darkness. I experienced a shock, for I was sure it was 
Backus. I flew down the companion-way, looked 
about for him, could not find him, then returned to 
the deck just in time to catch a glimpse of him as he 
re-entered that confounded nest of rascality. Had he 
yielded at last? I feared it. What had he gone below 
for? His bag of coin? Possibly. I drew near the 
door, full of bodings. It was a-crack, and I glanced 
in and saw a sight that made me bitterly wish I had 
given my attention to saving my poor cattle-friend, 
instead of reading and dreaming my foolish time away. 
He was gambling. Worse still, he was being plied 
with champagne, and was already showing some effect 
from it. He praised the “ cider,” as he called it, and 
said now that he had got a taste of it he almost believed 
he would drink it if it was spirits, it was so good and so 
ahead of anything he had ever run across before. Sur- 
reptitious smiles at this passed from one rascal to another, 
and they filled all the glasses, and while Backus honestly 
drained his to the bottom they pretended to do the 
same, but threw the wine over their shoulders. 

I could not bear the scene, so I wandered forward and 
tried to interest myself in the sea and the voices of the* 
wind. But no, my uneasy spirit kept dragging me back 
at quarter-hour intervals, and always I saw Backus drink- 
inghis wine — fairlyand squarely, and the others throwing 
theirs away. It was the painfulest night I ever spent. 

The only hope I had was that we might reach out 
anchorage with speed — that would break up the game. 

I helped the ship along all I could with my prayers. 
At last we went booming through the Golden Gate, 
and my pulses leaped for joy. I hurried back to that 
door and glanced in. Alas ! there was small room for 
hope — Backus’ eyes were heavy and bloodshot, his 
sweaty face was crimson, his speech maudlin and thick, 
his body sawed drunkenly about with the weaving 
motion of the ship. He drained another glass to the 
dregs, while the cards were being dealt. 

He took his hand, glanced at it, and his dull eyes 
lit up for a moment. The gamblers observed it, and 
showed their gratification by hardly perceptible signs. 

"How many cards ?” 

"None !” said Backus. 

One villain — named Hank Wiley — discarded one 
card, the others three each. The betting began. 
Heretofore the bets had been trifling — a dollar or two ; 
but Backus started off with an eagle now, Wiley hesi- 
tated a moment, then saw it,” and " went ten '' 
lars better.” The other two threw up their hands. 

Backus went twenty better, Wiley said : 

"I see that, and go you a hundred better!” then 
smiled and reached for the money. 

"Let it alone,” said Backus, with drunken gravity., 

"What! you mean to say you’re going to cover it?* 

"Cover it? Well, I reckon I am — and lay another 
hundred on top of it, too.” 

He reached down inside his overcoat and produced 
the required sum. 

"Oh, that’s your little game, is it? I see your 
raise, and raise it five hundred !” said Wiley. 

"Five hundred better ” said the foolish bull-driver, 
and pulled out the amount and showered it on the pile. 
The three conspirators hardly tried to c* 'ceal their 
exultation. 

All diplomacy and pretense were dropped' now id 
the sharp exclamations came thick and fast, and the 
yellow pyramid grew higher and higher. At last ten 
thousand dollars lay in view. Wiley cast a bag of 
coin on the table, and said with mocking gentleness : 

‘ ‘ Five thousand dollars better, my friend from the 
rural districts — what do you say now ?" 

“I call you!’’ said Backus, heaving his golden 
shot-bag on the pile. “What have you got?’’ 

‘ ‘ Four kings, you d d fool ! ’ ’ and Wiley threw down 

his cards and surrounded the stakes with his arms. 

“ Four aces, you ass!’’ thundered Backus, covering 
his man with a cocked revolver. “ I'm a professional 
rambler myself, and I've been laying for you duffers 
*all this voyage !’ ’ 

Down went the anchor, rumbledy-dum-dum ! and 
the trip was ended. 

Well, well — it is a sad world. One of the three 
gamblers was Backus’ “ pal.’’ It was he that dealt the 
fateful hands. According to an understanding with 
the two victims, he was to have given Bac , four 
queens, but alas ! he didn t. 

A week later I stumbled upon Backus — arrayed in 
the height of fashion — in Montgomery street. He 
said cheerily, as -we were parting: 

“Ah, by the way, you needn’t mind about those 
owes. I don’t really know anything about cattle, ex- 
cept what I was able to pick up in a week’s apprentice- 
ship over in Jersey, just before we sailed. My cattle- 
culture and cattle-enthusiasm have served their turn — 
I sha’n’t need them any more.” 


Next day we reluctantly parted from the Gold Dust 
and her officers,, hoping to see that boat and all those 
officers again, some day. A thing which the fates 
were to render tragically impossible ! 



CHAPTER XXXVII. 


THE END OF THE ** GOLD DUST” 
