"I'll go with you, Ethan," said the squire; and together they left the
house.
"If they should keep the money, and divide it, Joel's widow would pay
off the mortgage on the house, and Bennington would settle up his
interest money on the first of July, I suppose," mused Ethan aloud, as
they walked along the street.
The landlord of the Island House appeared to be disposed to look the
facts squarely in the face, however disagreeable they might be. If the
money was divided, he could not expect to become the landlord of the new
hotel, which was the height of his ambition.
"I don't know," replied Squire Moses. "I don't go near Bennington now; I
don't say anything to him about the interest money; I don't want to
disturb him, or to set him a thinking. He not only promises to pay the
interest, but he promises to pay it on the first day of July. If he
don't do it at the right time, I shall foreclose. I believe the man is
ruined now; and the longer I wait, the more money I shall lose. He
ought to know that such a big hotel, furnished as extravagantly as the
new house, would not pay in such a place as Rockhaven. He can never
recover himself in the world."
"But, father, even if the boys don't divide the gold, Bennington's
customers will pay him enough to enable him to settle the interest,"
suggested Ethan, whose hopes were somewhat inflated by the reasoning of
his father.
"That may be; but Bennington owes everybody in town, and his expenses
for keeping those New Yorkers in his house are enough to swamp him. I
don't believe he'll think of the interest at all, he's so busy, till
after it is too late. He owes Jones three hundred dollars of borrowed
money, which Jones lent him till the first of July, when he is to pay
the mortgage on his house. I've already told Jones I couldn't wait a
single day for my money; and he will have to make Bennington pay. Then I
have hinted to Green, the market-man, Butler, the grocer, and others
Bennington owes, that they had better look out and get their pay before
the first of July. They are after him now, and he promises to pay them
all just as soon as these New York folks settle for their board. If
Bennington ain't short on the first of July, I'll lose my guess," said
the old man; and he believed that he had made things intensely hot for
his creditor. "I can count up over a thousand dollars he has promised to
pay by the first of July."
In justice to the landlord of the Sea Cliff House, it should be said
that Squire Moses had overstated the facts, for Mr. Bennington had not
promised to pay, but had merely expressed his hope and belief that he
should be able to do so in the month of July. He actually owed, besides
his interest, about seven hundred dollars; and his debts troubled him
sorely. He could only hope that his creditors would wait a few weeks,
though even now they harassed him every day of his life.
Squire Moses and Ethan entered the cottage of Joel's widow, and found
the family at dinner. They did not knock at the door, or stand upon any
ceremony.
"Stumpy, what's this story about the money found on the beach?" demanded
Squire Moses, as though he felt that he had a right to know.
Now, half a dozen persons had already spoken to Stumpy about the hidden
treasure, and he was aware the subject was no longer a secret.
"Leopold found a bag of gold buried on the beach," replied Stumpy; and
without reserve, he proceeded to tell all he knew about the treasure.
"And you and he are going to divide this money between you!" exclaimed
Squire Moses, jumping at once to the point, as soon as Stumpy had told
the story.
"Who says we are?" asked Stumpy, indignantly.
"That is what they say," added Ethan, who had, possibly, heard such a
suggestion, as the narrative became distorted in its passage along the
main street.
"I want to tell you, Susan Wormbury," continued Squire Moses, addressing
himself to "Joel's widow," as he and Ethan usually called her,--"I want
to tell you, Susan Wormbury, that I don't believe this boy has been
brought up right. You ought to have brought him up to be honest."
"Like his grandfather!" exclaimed Stumpy, sullenly.
"Yes, like your grandfather," added the squire, severely. "No man can
say that Moses Wormbury ever stole a cent from anybody."
This remark evidently indicated the boundary line of the squire's
homestead.
"Done just the same thing," muttered Stumpy.
"Why, father, Stumpy is a good boy," pleaded Mrs. Wormbury.
"If he takes any of this money, it will be just the same as stealing
it," added the squire, projecting the remark savagely at the trembling
widow of his lost son.
"Who is going to take any of it?" demanded Stumpy, springing to his
feet, with his mouth full of fried fish.
"You! you and Bennington's son are going to divide it between you!"
"Its no such thing," protested Stumpy. "I wish we were, though."
"Do you say you are not?"
"I do say so! Leopold thinks the money belongs to the heirs of the man
who buried it on the beach; and he is going to try to find them."
"That alters the case," replied the squire, more mildly. "I hope the
man's heirs will get the money for it belongs to them."
"I hope everybody will get what belongs to him," said Stumpy; but the
remark was too indefinite to be appreciated by his amiable grandfather.
"You have no right to a dollar of this money, Stumpy; and if you touch
it, I want you to understand that it will be stealing."
"I have nothing to do with the money. Le Bennington found it, and he
knows what to do with it. If he chooses to give me some of it, I will
take it fast enough."
Squire Moses and Ethan were both satisfied, so far as Stumpy was
concerned; and they were rejoiced to know that Leopold intended to keep
the gold until he could find the heirs of the man who had committed it
to the sand.
"Susan," said Squire Moses, as he turned to depart, "I told you that you
might stay in this house till the first of August; and so you may; but I
am going to foreclose the mortgage right off, so that I can get legal
possession sooner. It won't make any difference to you."
The old miser did not wait to hear any reply to this announcement; but
the tears dropped from the widow's eyes as the door closed upon the hard
old man. The squire and Ethan walked down to the main street, talking
with every one they met about the treasure, protesting that it ought to
be kept for the heirs of the rightful owner, and manufacturing public
sentiment which should compel the landlord of the Sea Cliff House and
his son to pursue this course. It is true that the people of Rockhaven
were very much surprised to hear Squire Moses and his son preaching such
a doctrine; but they were willing to accept it, for it seemed to be just
and right that the heirs should have what plainly belonged to them.
Unknown to them, and not yet with the entire approbation of his father,
Leopold was their ally in directing public sentiment. After dinner, the
parlor of the Sea Cliff House was filled by the New Yorkers and others
who desired to hear the narrative of the finding of the hidden treasure.
Leopold, in his best clothes, washed, dressed, and combed for a great
occasion, appeared at the door of the parlor with Harvey Barth's diary
in his hand. Stumpy, who had come over to see him in regard to the
exciting topic, followed him, and took a back seat in one corner of the
room. The money-digger was not a little abashed when he saw so many
pairs of eyes directed towards him; but he commenced his story, and soon
recovered his self-possession. He began with the wreck of the Waldo, for
the New Yorkers knew little or nothing of this exciting event. He then
came to the appearance of Harvey Barth at the Cliff House, and detailed
all the incidents relating to the diary, the visit of Miss Sarah
Liverage, and the finding of the journal when the chimney was pulled
down.
Leopold stated he had read only those portions of the diary which
related to the treasure; and then he read the description from the book
of the burying of the gold in the thunder and lightning. He had dug the
beach all over, under the instruction of the nurse; and he had been
unable to find the bag even after he read the journal, until he went
down to High Rock in a thunder shower. Then, for the first time, he
could distinguish Coffin Rock. Thus guided, he had found the treasure.
Leopold then gave his views in regard to the ownership of the gold, and
declared that he intended to keep the money in his uncle's safe till he
had seen the owners of the Waldo, and they had sent to Havana. This
statement to the astonishment and confusion of the money-digger, was
followed by hearty applause, in which even the ladies joined. Public
sentiment in the parlor earnestly indorsed his views.
"Leopold reads very well," said Mr. Hamilton; "and as we desire to rest
for an hour or two, I suggest that he read the diary to us from the time
the Waldo left Havana."
This suggestion was warmly applauded, and verbally seconded by half a
dozen of the party. Leopold consented under this pressure, and read for
a full hour, till he came to the afternoon of the day on which the brig
was lost; in a word, till he came to what Harvey Barth had just written
when Wallbridge came to the galley to light his pipe, as recorded in the
first chapter of this story. The steward did not believe the passenger's
name was Wallbridge, as written on the Waldo's papers. He did not see
what he had changed his name for, and hoped he hadn't done anything
wrong.
"'He gave his name as J. Wallbridge,' Leopold read from the diary; 'but
that was not the name I found on the paper in his state-room, when I
made up his bed on the day we sailed from Havana, though the initials
were the same. Then he lent me his Bible to read one day, and this other
name was written on it in forty places, wherever there was any blank
paper. I wanted to borrow the Bible again, but he would not lend it to
me; and I thought he remembered about his name being written in it so
many times. I saw the same name stamped on a white shirt of his, which
he hung up to air on deck to-day. The name was not J. Wallbridge either;
it was Joel Wormbury.'"
"My father!" shouted Stumpy, springing to his feet.
CHAPTER XVI.
GOLD AND BILLS.
Stumpy was an excited young man. He had come into the parlor on the
invitation of Leopold, and had very modestly coiled himself away in the
most obscure corner of the room. He was very much interested in the
reading of Harvey Barth's diary, and especially in regard to the
mysterious passenger. When Leopold read the name of "Joel Wormbury," he
could no longer contain himself. He leaped from his corner, and shouted
as though he had been hailing the Rosabel half a mile off.
"My father!" repeated he; and all eyes were fixed upon him.
Stumpy was excited, not so much, we must do him the justice to say,
because there was money involved in the fact, as because the name and
memory of his father were dear to him.
"That man was Stumpy's father as true as the world!" said Mr.
Bennington.
"It is a very remarkable affair," added Mr. Hamilton. "Such things don't
often happen."
"But I haven't the slightest doubt that this Wallbridge was Joel
Wormbury," replied the landlord.
"I'm sure of it," exclaimed Stumpy. "I know all about that Bible; I've
seen it twenty times; and mother always used to put it into father's
chest when he was going away fishing."
"I don't know about that, Stumpy," interposed Mr. Bennington, with a
smile of incredulity; "I'm afraid it won't hold water."
"What's the reason it won't?" demanded Stumpy, who was entirely
satisfied in regard to the identity of the sacred volume. "I used to
carry it to Sunday school sometimes; and I've seen my father's name
written in forty places in it, wherever there was a page or part of a
page not printed on, just as Harvey Barth says in his diary. I don't
believe there is any mistake about that."
"But the writer of this journal appears to have been considerably
exercised about the passenger's change of name," said Mr. Hamilton,
before the landlord had an opportunity to explain why he doubted the
truth of the statement in regard to the Bible. "Harvey Barth hoped Mr.
Wallbridge had not done anything wrong."
"He hadn't done anything wrong," protested Stumpy, warmly.
"Why should he change his name, then?" asked the ex-congressman. "For
the fact that he did so appears to be well established."
"There was a reason for it," replied the landlord, "though as Stumpy
says, Joel Wormbury had done nothing wrong. Joel was attacked by a man
in liquor, and in self-defence he struck the assailant on the head with
a bottle, and supposed that he had killed him. He left Rockhaven in a
great hurry, in order to escape the consequences. He did not even go to
his house before he left town, afraid, perhaps, of finding a constable
there waiting for him. He went off in such a hurry, that I don't believe
he thought to take his Bible with him."
The landlord bestowed a smiling glance upon Stumpy, satisfied that he
had as completely demolished the Bible argument as though he had been a
practised theologian.
"If my mother was only here, she could tell you all about that," said
Stumpy.
"Do you think he went home for the Bible before he left?" asked Mr.
Bennington.
"I know he didn't."
"Where did he get the Bible, then?" asked the landlord.
"I'll tell you; and I won't say a word that I can't prove," replied
Stumpy, warmly.
"You are not among enemies, or those who are at all inclined to doubt
your word, young man," added Mr. Hamilton.
"I'll tell you about it, then; but I wish my mother was here, with the
letters my father wrote to her."
"We are willing to believe all you say, Stumpy," said the landlord.
"You thought that what I said would not hold water, just now."
"But I explained why I thought so."
"And the doubt was certainly a reasonable one," added the merchant; "now
we only wait for you to remove it."
"I will do that and I can prove all I say by my father's last letter to
my mother, which is post-marked at Gloucester, Mass., in which he told
all about the fight, and gave the reasons why he cleared out."
In answer to a question asked by one of the ladies, Stumpy related more
fully the particulars of Joel Wormbury's departure from Rockhaven.
"About six months before my father went off for the last time, he
returned to Gloucester from a fishing trip to the Georges," continued
Stumpy. "He expected to go again in a few weeks; so he left his chest in
Gloucester. His Bible was in that chest; but, as he found work coopering
at home, he did not go again till he left after the fight. In his letter
to my mother, he said he had got his chest, and that he had the Bible
all right. He wrote, too, that he meant to read it more than he had ever
done before, and not use it to scribble in. That was the last letter we
ever got from father. We heard that he had gone out to attend to the
trawls, and was lost in a fog, not being able to find his way back to
the vessel. Of course we hadn't any doubt that he was dead, after we
got a letter from the captain of the schooner in which my father sailed.
That's all I know about it."
"But how came he in Havana?" asked Mr. Hamilton.
"That's more than I know, sir," answered Stumpy.
"Harvey Barth could not have known anything about Joel Wormbury," added
Leopold; "and he wrote his diary, it appears on the very day the Waldo
was lost."
"There can be no doubt that Wallbridge and Joel Wormbury were one and
the same person," said Mr. Hamilton. "The name which Harvey Barth found
on the paper, the initials, on his valise, the name on the shirt, and
written forty times in the Bible, fully establish the fact in my mind."
"And in mine, too," said Leopold. "Stumpy, the gold is yours, and I will
give it to you whenever you are ready to take it."
"This is a go!" exclaimed Stumpy, with a broad grin on his brown face.
"We need the money bad enough; and my mother will jump up six feet when
she hears the news. Somebody else won't feel good about it, I'll bet."
Stumpy did not explain to whom the last remark related; but he
experienced the most lively satisfaction when he thought of the pleasure
it would afford him to see his mother tender the seven hundred dollars
in payment of the mortgage note. It occurred to him then that the
business ought not to be postponed a single day, for Squire Moses had
announced his intention of foreclosing the mortgage at once.
"How much money is there in the bag?" asked the merchant.
"Twelve hundred dollars in gold," replied Leopold; "and the diary says
Joel Wormbury saved it in two years from his earnings in Cuba."
"Joel was an industrious and prudent man," added the landlord.
"It is very fortunate that the hidden treasure fell into honest hands,"
continued Mr. Hamilton, turning to Leopold; whereupon all the company
clapped their hands, and the skipper of the Rosabel blushed like a
school-girl.
"He's a noble fellow!" exclaimed Miss Rosabel.
"A pious swell," added Charley Redmond, with a sneer.
The business of the meeting having been thus happily accomplished, the
occupants of the parlor departed.
"Come Stumpy, I want to hand the money over to you," said Leopold.
"I don't want it now," replied Stumpy. "I shouldn't dare to take it into
the house, for fear my beloved grandad should steal it. I think he would
find some way to do it, without calling the deed by any hard name."
"What are you going to do with the gold, Stumpy?" asked Mr. Hamilton.
"Hand it over to my mother. Squire Moses is going to foreclose the
mortgage on the house we live in right off. I want to head him off on
that before night."
"But gold, you know, is worth a large premium just now. I saw by my
paper which came to-day that it was 208 in New York," continued the
merchant.
"I'll go and tell my mother about it," said Stumpy, moving off.
"Stop a moment, my boy," interposed Mr. Hamilton. "If you are going to
pay off the mortgage you should do so in currency, not in gold. I will
buy your coin, and assist you in this business."
"Thank you, sir," replied Stumpy, warmly.
"I will pay you the market rate for your gold, whatever the papers
report it to be for to-day."
Mr. Hamilton was certainly very kind; and Stumpy felt that, with such a
powerful friend, he had the weather-gage of his avaricious grandfather.
Leopold led the way to the shop of his uncle, and the New York merchant
joined them.
"I want the gold, uncle," said Leopold.
"What for you want him?" demanded Herr Schlager.
"I have found the owner."
"Donner and blitz! Den he is no more your golt."
"No, uncle; but I feel better in handing it over to Stumpy than I should
in spending it myself," laughed Leopold.
"Himmel! Stumpy!"
"Yes Stumpy." And the money-digger briefly stated the facts which had
been discovered.
"Donner and blitz! I'm glad for der poy, but sorry for you," added the
watch-maker, as he took from the safe the shot-bag containing the
treasure.
"Take it, Stumpy. It is yours," said Leopold. "Open it."
"I can't exactly believe in this thing yet, Le," replied Stumpy, as,
with trembling hand, he cut the red tape, and demolished the sacred seal
of Herr Schlager.
Turning the bag over, he poured the gold out upon the counter. The money
was American coin, which Joel Wormbury had probably purchased in Havana,
to avoid the necessity of exchanging it after his return to Rockhaven.
Mr. Hamilton counted the money, and found that Harvey Barth's statement
was again correct.
"Now figure it up, my boy. Then we will finish this transaction at
once," said the merchant. "I shall not be able to pay you in full for it
to-day; but I have credits in Belfast and Rockland, and you shall have
the whole of it by to-morrow night for we intend to cross the bay in the
Orion to-morrow."
Leopold and Stumpy both did the sum, multiplying twelve hundred by two
hundred and eight, and pointing off two decimals in the product.
"Twenty-four hundred and ninety-six dollars!" exclaimed Leopold.
"That's what I make it," added Stumpy, "What a pile of money!"
Mr. Hamilton, who had left New York prepared to pay the heavy expenses
of his yacht excursion, counted off twelve one hundred dollar bills,
which he handed to Stumpy.
"I will give you my note for the balance," said the merchant.
"Creation!" cried Stumpy, looking the bills over, his eyes dilated till
they were nearly as big as saucers--small saucers. "Here's more money
than I ever saw!"
Mr. Hamilton wrote the note, and gave it to Stumpy. It was made payable
to the order of Sarah Wormbury.
"But I don't want all this money. I don't know what to do with it,"
exclaimed Stumpy, embarrassed by his sudden riches.
"You shall have the rest to-morrow night," added Mr. Hamilton.
"I would rather not have it just yet."
"As you please. If I retain it, I shall pay you interest," replied the
merchant.
"Interest! Hold on, now, hold on, all!" almost shouted Stumpy, turning
from the bills which still lay on the counter, and looking Leopold
square in the face. "I'm a hog! I'm a pig, just out of the sty!"
"What's the matter now?" demanded Mr. Hamilton, laughing heartily at the
odd manner of Stumpy.
"Here I've been thinking of myself and my folks all the time! Here I've
been thinking of what I should do with all this money, and never had a
thought of Le, who found it, and kept it for me and my folks. I'll do
the fair thing Le."
"What do you mean?" asked the merchant.
"I shall divy with Le; I shall give him at least five hundred.
"Not a cent," protested Leopold.
"You bet!" added Stumpy. "I've been thinking all the time about getting
my mother out of trouble, and only just now it comes into my head that
Le's father is in hot water. I'll tell you what we'll do, Le: I'll give
you five hundred--"
"No, you won't! not a cent," said, Leopold, decidedly. "I should feel as
though I had been paid for being honest."
"I hope he won't take any part of the money which your father earned,
and kept sacredly for his family," interposed Mr. Hamilton. "I grant
that he deserves it."
"Not a cent," repeated Leopold.
"I never should have got a dollar of it, if it hadn't been for him,"
Stumpy argued.
"No matter for that," said Leopold.
"I know now!" exclaimed Stumpy, as if a new thought had taken possession
of him. "Just subtract seven hundred from twenty-four hundred and
ninety-six, Le."
"Seventeen hundred and ninety-six," replied Leopold.
"That's just the amount I don't want. Of course when I say 'I,' my folks
is meant. Now, Le, your father wants money just as badly as my mother
does; and we will lend the seventeen hundred and ninety-six dollars to
him, taking his note on interest, just as Mr. Hamilton would give it.
But I would rather give you five hundred of the money."
"You can't give me a dollar; but if you will lend some of the money to
my father, I should like it first rate."
"I will--the whole of it," protested Stumpy.
"This is quite a sensible arrangement, my boys," said the merchant; "and
I have so much confidence in Mr. Bennington's integrity, that I will
indorse his note. But it strikes me that you are going rather too fast,
Stumpy."
"Why, sir?"
"Perhaps I have led you too rapidly over the ground. Whatever property
your father left--this money included--belongs to his family. I suppose
an administrator ought to be appointed."
"Creation! That would be Squire Moses!" exclaimed Stumpy, aghast.
"No; your mother may be appointed."
"My mother! Well, now I think of it, I believe she was appointed. I
didn't know much about such things at the time."
"Be that as it may, before you lend the money to Mr. Bennington, or give
any to Leopold, you had better see your mother. I will go to the house
with you, for I am really quite interested in this matter."
"Thank you, sir; you are very kind, and I am ever so much obliged to
you," answered Stumpy. "But I shouldn't feel right--administrator or
not--if Le's father wasn't helped out of trouble."
"I was not aware that Mr. Bennington was in difficulty."
"He is--up to his eyes; and I know very well that my grandfather--that's
Squire Moses--means to get the Sea Cliff House away from him, if he can,
and let Ethan Wormbury have it. This money must save him. He's been a
good friend to me, and I should be a hog if I didn't help him out.
Mother will do it, too, I know; for if it hadn't been for Le, we
shouldn't have seen this money."
"We will talk with your mother about it," replied Mr. Hamilton, as he
put the gold back into the shot-bag, and asked the watch-maker to keep
it in the safe till the next day, when he intended to dispose of it in
Rockland.
Stumpy placed the twelve hundred dollars in bills in his wallet, and put
it in his pocket; but he did not remove his hand from it till he
reached his mother's house. If the widow's son was almost crazy in the
whirl of remarkable events which so suddenly altered the fortunes of the
family, it was hardly to be wondered at; and doubtless the ardor and
fury with which he rushed into the house, with his hand still clutching
the wallet in his pocket, would have startled his mother, if she had not
been sadly occupied with an affair of her own. Squire Moses, Ethan, and
the village lawyer were with her, and were about to give the legal
notice of the foreclosure of the mortgage. The old man was afraid that
he should be cheated out of his prey if he waited any longer. Stumpy
rushed into the house, followed by Mr. Hamilton and Leopold.
"O, my son," exclaimed Mrs. Wormbury, "the house is to be taken from
us!"
"Not now," interposed Squire Moses. "I told you that you might stay here
till the first of August. I'm not a hard man, to turn you out without
any notice. I always mean to do what is just right."
"Of course. I have been expecting it, after what you said; but it comes
very hard to be turned out of house and home," sobbed Mrs. Wormbury.
"You shall not be turned out, mother," cried Stumpy, blubbered himself,
when he saw the tears in his mother's eyes; "neither now nor on the
first of August."
"Why Stumpfield, what do you mean?"
"Perhaps the boy means to pay the note of seven hundred dollars,"
sneered Squire Moses. "But I don't want any nonsense about this
business."
"That's just what I'm going to do, grandpa," shouted Stumpy, drawing the
wallet from his pocket, and taking from it the roll of bills.
Squire Moses turned round, amazed at the announcement of his grandson,
and for the first time discovered the presence of Mr. Hamilton.
"I'm glad to see you, Mr. Hamilton," said he, extending his withered
hand to the merchant. "This is disagreeable business."
"I should think it was--to turn your son's widow out of house and home,"
replied the ex-congressman, dryly.
"The mortgage note has been due for years," pleaded the squire. "Of
course the widow can't pay it, and--"
"Yes, she can!" yelled Stumpy. "She never did get any favors from you,
and she don't ask for any now. Here's the seven hundred dollars. My
mother wants the note, and a release of the mortgage."
Squire Moses actually turned pale, as much from anger as from the
failure of a profitable operation for the future.
"I don't understand this," said he.
"Here's your money, when you give my mother the papers," replied Stumpy.
"That's easy enough to understand--isn't it?"
"Where did you get the money, Stumpy?" demanded the squire.
"That don't make any difference," added Stumpy, shaking his head.
"I don't think it does," interposed Mr. Hamilton. "The young man's
position appears to be quite correct."
Squire Moses looked at the merchant, and immediately concluded that this
rich New Yorker had advanced the money. He bit his lips till they bled,
but finally went off with Ethan and the lawyer, to procure the necessary
papers to discharge the mortgage.
"I don't understand it any better than Squire Moses," said Mrs.
Wormbury, when the hard creditor had gone.
"You will pay off the note, mother, with money earned by father's own
hands," replied Stumpy, gently.
"What do you mean, my son?" asked the widow, trembling with emotion.
Stumpy explained what he meant. Mrs. Wormbury listened, and wept when
she realized that her husband had perished in the waves, not on the
Georges, but within sight of his own home. The story was hardly finished
before Squire Moses returned alone, with the note and release. Mr.
Hamilton carefully examined the latter document, and declared that it
was correct.
"So it seems Joel was the passenger in the Waldo, who buried this
money," said the squire, as he put the bills in his pocket; for the
discovery made in the parlor of the Sea Cliff House was now following
the story of the hidden treasure up the main street.
"That's so," replied Stumpy; "and mother will always have the
satisfaction of knowing that this house was all paid for with his
earnings."
Squire Moses soon left, with the feeling that he had lost at least a
thousand dollars by the finding of the hidden treasure.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE FIRST OF JULY.
"Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!" shouted Stumpy, as soon as the door had closed
upon his amiable grandfather.
He threw up his hat to the ceiling, and demonstrated in the most
extravagant manner, to the great amusement of Mr. Hamilton and Leopold.
Mrs. Wormbury cried with joy, and was not less happy than her son.
"Come, Stumpfield, don't go crazy," said she.
"The house is paid for, mother, and you don't owe a single dollar in the
whole world to any man, woman or child--except Leopold," shouted Stumpy,
checking himself at the end of his enthusiastic discourse. "We ought to
give him five hundred dollars of this money."
"Not a cent of it to me!" protested the skipper of the Rosabel; "but you
may do it in the other way if you like."
"I will, and I know mother will.--Mother," continued Stumpy with energy,
"we owe all this to Leopold. He was honest, clear up to the hub; if he
hadn't been, we shouldn't have got a cent of this money which father
earned. We should have been turned out of the house on the first of
August, and had to grub our way worse than ever. Now the house is paid
for, and we have nearly eighteen hundred dollars in cash. That will give
us over a hundred dollars interest money, which will make it a soft
thing for us. No interest money to pay, either; so that we shall be a
hundred and fifty dollars better off than we were before; and all
because Leopold was honest, and did the right thing."
"I am sure I am very grateful to him, for my own and my children's
sake," added Mrs. Wormbury.
"That don't pay any bills, mother," protested Stumpy. "Leopold's father
is in trouble. My beloved grandad will come down upon him like a
thousand of bricks, on the first of July, if he don't pay the interest
on his note; and Le says his father can't do it."
"I'm very sorry," sighed Mrs. Wormbury.
"That don't pay any bills, mother; and we must do something more than
being sorry. I want to lend this money--this eighteen hundred
dollars--to Mr. Bennington right off. He will be able to pay us after
this season."
"I think you can safely do this, Mrs. Wormbury," added the merchant. "I
will indorse the landlord's note, and thus guarantee its payment."
"I'm sure I shall be very glad to do so," said the widow, with a
cheerful smile, which proved that she meant all she said.
"I shall be very much obliged to you, and consider myself more than paid
for anything I have done in this business," replied Leopold.
"I am sure you can depend upon Mr. Bennington," said Mr. Hamilton. "Was
any administrator appointed for the estate of your husband, Mrs.
Wormbury?"
"I was appointed administratrix."
"As your husband was not dead at the time, perhaps the appointment does
not hold good at present. You had better procure a reappointment. But in
the mean time I will be responsible for all your acts, and you may take
the landlord's note. I would assist Mr. Bennington myself if it were
not for depriving Stumpy of the pleasure of doing so."
The business was finished, and Mr. Hamilton and Leopold returned to the
hotel. The widow and her son had a long talk over their sudden accession
of fortune; but both of them were painfully perplexed by the revelations
of Harvey Barth's diary. The husband and father had lived more than two
years after they believed he was dead; but the events of this period
seemed to be forever sealed to them. In what manner he had been saved,
and how he came to be in Cuba, made a sad mystery to them; but in due
time the veil was lifted, and they heard the whole story.
The landlord of the Sea Cliff House was in the office when his son
returned. All the guests had gone to walk on the cliffs, and the house
was nearly empty. Mr. Bennington, as usual of late, was sad, perplexed,
and worried. His debts troubled him, and the dreaded first of July was
rapidly approaching. Jones had already told him he must have the three
hundred dollars due him before that time. Others were pressing him
sorely to pay their bills or notes. Two or three had already refused to
give him any further credit for supplies for the hotel, the market-man
among the number. It looked as though he must suspend on the first day
of July.
The finding of the hidden treasure, in spite of what Leopold had said
about keeping it for the possible heirs of the owner, to be discovered
in the future, had given him a strong hope that it might be available to
relieve him from his embarrassments. He thought only of using it to pay
his debts, and restoring it if the heirs were found. But after dinner
the heirs had been found in the family of Joel Wormbury. His hope from
this source was, therefore, plucked away from him almost as soon as it
was awakened. If the New Yorkers staid till the dreaded pay-day, even
the whole of their bills would not pay the amount of his indebtedness;
but it was not probable that they would remain at the house more than a
day or two longer. The most that he could expect from them was enough to
pay Jones, who had threatened to force him into insolvency if he was not
paid.
Everything, therefore looked very gloomy and dark to the landlord, when
his son entered the office.
"You were in a great hurry to get rid of the money you found, Leopold,"
said Mr. Bennington, rather reproachfully.
"I had to be honest, father," replied the son.
"If you had kept still for a few weeks, I might have used the money, and
paid it off in the fall. Of course I didn't mean to have you keep it;
but if I could have had the use of it even a month, it would have saved
me. As it is, I must fail," groaned the landlord. "I can't get over the
first of July any way in the world."
"How much do you owe, father?" asked Leopold.
"About a thousand dollars, which I must pay right off. Mr. Hamilton's
party will probably leave three or four hundred dollars with me; but
that won't save me."
"Well, father, you shall have money enough to pay all you owe, except
the mortgages, to-morrow night," added Leopold, lightly.
"What do you mean?" demanded the landlord, opening his eyes.
"By being honest I have made some good friends. After Stumpy had paid of
the mortgage on his mother's house, which Squire Moses was on the point
of taking from the family, he offered to lend you all the rest of the
money which the gold brings."
"Stumpy?"
"His mother agreed to it, and you will give her a note for the amount,
which Mr. Hamilton promised to indorse."
"But how much money will there be?" asked Mr. Bennington, bewildered by
this unexpected succor.
"Nearly eighteen hundred dollars."
"That will be more than I want."
"You need not take any more than you need; I think the hidden treasure
meets your case better than if I had not found the heirs so soon."
"I declare, I feel as if a ten-ton weight had been lifted from the top
of my head!" exclaimed the landlord.
"I feel better about it now than I should if I had stolen the hidden
treasure," added Leopold.
"So do I. But I will take only twelve hundred dollars of this money; and
I am satisfied that I shall be able to pay it at the end of the season."
The next day the Orion made her excursion to Rockland, and Leopold and
Stumpy were invited to join the party. Rosabel and Isabel were in
excellent spirits, and, as the bay was tolerably smooth, so was Charley
Redmond. Stumpy, dressed in his Sunday clothes, looked more like a
gentleman than usual. Mr. Redmond tried to make fun of him before the
girls, but Stumpy was too much for him, and retorted so smartly that he
turned the laugh upon the fop.
Rosabel's long auburn tresses floated on the breeze, and Leopold could
not help looking at her all the time, thinking that she was the
prettiest girl in the whole world. He was very attentive to her, and
when the yacht anchored in the harbor of Rockland, she permitted him to
hand her into the boat.
Stumpy, by his assiduous devotion to Miss Belle, and especially by his
sharp and witty retorts upon Mr. Redmond, had won her regard, and the
coxcomb had to step one side. Charley was disgusted and had to seek his
companions among the older people of the party, to whom he had much to
say about these "country swells."
Mr. Hamilton did his financial business in the city, disposing of the
gold at two hundred and nine, as the telegraph reported the rate to be
in New York.
In the afternoon the breeze freshened, and, with Leopold for a pilot,
the yacht sailed up the bay, and the party enjoyed the trip till the
last moment, when they landed in Rockhaven. In the evening the merchant
went to Mrs. Wormbury's house, and paid her the balance of the eighteen
hundred and eight dollars, which the gold had produced. With so much
money in the house, the widow and her eldest son could not sleep; but
early the next morning Mr. Bennington received, and gave his note for,
twelve hundred dollars of it, leaving Stumpy, who was the financier on
this occasion, embarrassed with six hundred more. He did not know what
to do with it, and Leopold advised him to put it in Herr Schlager's
safe. They went to the watch-maker's for this purpose. In front of the
shop they saw Deacon Bowman engaged in an earnest conversation with
Squire Moses Wormbury. Stumpy heard his grandfather say something about
"bonus" as he passed him.
"There's a trade," said he to Leopold, as they entered the shop. "My
beloved grandad is going to gouge the deacon out of some money, I know
by the looks of him."
"Deacon Bowman looks troubled," added Leopold.
"He wants to borrow money, I suppose," replied Stumpy. "Hark!"
Stumpy went out of the shop, and while he pretended to be looking at the
goods in Herr Schlager's window, he listened to the conversation till
the two men separated, and the deacon entered the watch-maker's shop.
"You are driving a hard trade, with Squire Moses," said Stumpy,
following the deacon into the shop.
"Did you hear it?" asked Deacon Bowman, with a troubled expression.
"I heard part of it. Squire Moses is to lend you six hundred dollars,
and you are to give him a note and mortgage on your house for seven
hundred--a bonus of one hundred, besides the interest," added Stumpy.
"I did not agree to it, but I want the money very badly. My son, who is
in business in Portland, is in trouble, and I am raising this money for
him," replied the deacon, with a shudder. "If I don't furnish it, my son
will be--Did you hear the rest?"
"No, sir, I did not, and I don't want to hear it."
"I'm glad you don't."
The deacon's son had forged an indorsement, and if the note was not
paid, exposure was certain; and Squire Moses was taking advantage of the
circumstances.
"Make the note and mortgage for six hundred dollars to Sarah Wormbury,
administratrix, and here is the money," added Stumpy, taking the balance
of the proceeds of the hidden treasure from his pocket, rejoiced to be
able to help the worthy deacon, and at the same time to head off a mean
act of his grandfather.
Deacon Bowman had heard all about the good fortune which had come to
Joel Wormbury's family, and he readily comprehended where the money in
the hands of the young man came from.
"I promised to meet Squire Moses here in an hour, and give him my final
answer," added he. "I will have the papers ready as soon as I can."
Herr Schlager put the money in his safe, as requested; but in less than
an hour Deacon Bowman came with his papers, the mortgage and note duly
signed, acknowledged, and witnessed. He received the money, and his
heart seemed to be glad. By the time the business was finished, Squire
Moses arrived, satisfied that the unfortunate deacon would be compelled
to accept his hard conditions.
"I shall not want the money, Squire Moses," said Deacon Bowman.
"Not want it!" exclaimed the old skinflint, taken all aback by this
announcement.
Squire Moses was very anxious to re-invest the sum he had received for
the mortgage of Joel's place, and he was greatly disappointed to lose so
good a speculation as that he had proposed to the deacon.
"I shall not want it; in fact I have been able to make a better
arrangement," replied Deacon Bowman.
"Where did you get the money?" demanded the squire.
"Your grandson, here, loaned it to me on his mother's account."
If Squire Moses was disappointed before, he was mad now. He looked
daggers at Stumpy, who was not afraid of him, now that the debt was
paid.
"Of course you told him about your son," sneered the money-lender.
"I did not," replied the deacon sadly.
"People will be likely to know all about it now."
"They will be likely to know at the same time that somebody required me
to mortgage my place for seven hundred dollars, in order to obtain six
hundred," added the deacon, sharply.
Squire Moses was startled, for he valued his reputation more than his
character as known to God and himself.
"Perhaps neither of us had better say anything," said he, biting his
lip, and leaving the shop.
"We will keep still till Squire Moses lets on," said Stumpy; and
everybody except the usurer was pleased.
Stumpy went home, and told his mother what he had done in her name, with
which she was entirely satisfied. In due time the release and the
mortgage were recorded; Mrs. Wormbury was re-appointed administratrix
and guardian of her children, and all other necessary legal steps were
taken to prevent any future difficulty, if Squire Moses was disposed to
question the widow's proceedings.
The first of July came. The New York party were still at the Sea Cliff
House, though nearly every day they made an excursion in the Orion. They
were still enjoying themselves to the utmost, and the hotel grew in
favor with them the longer they stayed. Mr. Bennington had quietly paid
every bill presented to him, without informing any one that he was "in
funds." Squire Moses had not been near him; in fact, the old man had
been to Bangor to look out for a piece of property on which he held a
mortgage, and about which there was "a hitch." In his absence, the
landlord's creditors, seeing that he was doing a good business, did not
disturb him. Even Jones kept away till the first day of the month; but
when he presented himself, his note was promptly paid.
While he was still in the office of the hotel, Squire Moses, who had
just returned from Bangor, entered, with his mortgage note in his hand.
He was very cross and very ugly, for he was in peril of losing the whole
or part of the money he had loaned on the Bangor property. As he had
stirred up all the landlord's creditors, he was confident that Mr.
Bennington would not be able to pay him.
"I want the interest money to-day," said he, sharply as he stepped up to
the counter, behind which the landlord stood.
"Can't you wait till next week? When these New York folks leave, I shall
have more money than I have now," replied Mr. Bennington, who, knowing
just what his hard creditor wanted, was disposed to thorn him a little.
"I must have the money to-day," added Squire Moses more mildly, for he
began to feel that the business was in just the condition he wished it
to be.
"It has been a pretty tight time with me for money," pleaded Mr.
Bennington.
"It has with everybody; but if you can't pay me my interest money, say
so."
"But suppose I can't pay it; you won't be hard with me--will you?"
"I expect folks to do just what they agree to do. I don't want any long
stories about it," added Squire Moses, who was secretly happy.
"Waiting till next week won't make any difference with you."
"I think I know my own business best. I understand you to say you can't
pay. Here is Jones, and in his presence, as a witness, I demand the
money."
"Just so," replied the landlord; "but if--"
"No buts about it, Mr. Bennington. I don't want to talk all day about
nothing. You can't pay; that's enough;" and the squire moved towards the
door, followed by Jones, who desired to pay his note.
"Squire Wormbury," called the landlord, "one word."
The usurer walked back to the counter, determined, however, not to
prolong the argument. Mr. Bennington took a well-filled pocket-book
from the iron safe, from which he counted out the amount due the squire.
"I thought you said you couldn't pay it," growled Squire Moses, whose
heart sank within him when he saw the bottom drop out of the nice little
plan--a very stupid one, by the way--which he had arranged with Ethan.
"I didn't say so. I only asked if you would wait till next week,"
laughed the landlord.
"Fooling with me--were you?" snapped the squire.
"I understood a while ago that the Sea Cliff House was to have a new
landlord about the first of July, and I wanted to see how you felt about
it to-day."
"Who said so?"
"Well, you and Ethan talked it over together. You were to take
possession, if I didn't pay the interest, turn me out and put your son
Ethan in."
"Who said I did?"
"No matter about that. You and he had the talk in the parlor of your
house; and I can prove it, if necessary."
But the landlord did not wish to do so, for it would expose Stumpy, who
had given the information to Leopold.
"I don't calculate to have anything which the law don't give me,"
growled Squire Moses, as he picked up his money, and indorsed the
payment on the back of the note.
"The law don't give you the Sea Cliff House, and it never will," added
Mr. Bennington, as the money-lender turned to leave.
"Hold on, Squire Moses," interposed Jones; "I want to take up that note
of mine."
"You needn't pay it yet," replied the usurer, who had over a thousand
dollars on hand now, which he had been unable thus far to invest, for he
did not believe in the government and the war, and refused to buy bonds.
"I want to pay it now. I won't owe you anything after what I have heard
to-day. I'm afraid I shall lose my place," answered Jones.
The debtor and creditor left together. Jones paid his note. People began
to believe that it was not prudent to borrow money of Squire Moses, for
he was "tricky" as well as hard.
In the course of that day Mr. Bennington paid every dollar of his
indebtedness in Rockhaven. Those who had refused him credit were profuse
in their apologies, and some of them confessed that they were "put up to
it" by Squire Moses.
The next day the Orion departed, with all her party, for New York.
Mr. Hamilton paid the bill, which amounted to over seven hundred
dollars, without a question, and promised to come again the next season.
Leopold assisted the party in going on board of the yacht, and shook
hands at parting with Rosabel. He watched the vessel, with the beautiful
girl waving her handkerchief to him, till she was out of sight. He was
sorry to have her go, for it was a pleasure for him to look at her. He
had sailed her to High Rock the day before, and she had said a great
many pleasant things to him. It was a quiet time at the Sea Cliff House
after the departure of the New York guests, but Leopold missed Rosabel
more than all others, and even then began to look forward to her
return.
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE COMING WAVE.
By the middle of July the Sea Cliff House was full. The report of the
New Yorkers among their friends that this hotel was the best on the
coast, induced a great many families and others to seek accommodations
at the house. By the first of August Mr. Bennington was obliged to
"colonize" his guests in the neighboring houses. The season was a
decidedly successful one to him, and his profits more than realized his
anticipations. In the fall he paid off the mortgage on his furniture,
and the note he owed to the widow Wormbury, and still had a large
balance in the bank. The Island House had hardly any business, for
people preferred to go to the Sea Cliff, even if they had to take rooms
outside of the hotel. Ethan did not make any money that season.
Leopold had all he could do in the boat, and made a small fortune for
himself by taking out parties. He raised his price to six dollars a day,
so that he could pay Stumpy two dollars a day for his services. The
affairs of Mrs. Wormbury were therefore in excellent condition.
After the season was finished, a man came over from Rockland and took
rooms at the Sea Cliff House. He inquired if there was such a person in
the place as Joel Wormbury. The guest was very much surprised to learn
that he was dead, and in the course of the day went to see his family.
He had come to offer Joel a situation on a plantation in Cuba, where he
had first met and known the deceased. The visitor was an engineer, by
the name of Walker, and had instructed Joel in his business, so that he
was able to run an engine on a plantation. Joel had told him his story.
He had been picked up by a passenger steamer, and carried to Liverpool.
There, after he had been drinking, he was induced to ship as a seaman in
a bark bound to Havana, where he first met Walker. He ran away from the
vessel, and went with his new friend to the plantation where the latter
was employed.
Joel was a mechanic, and understood an engine very well. Instructed in
the details of the business by Walker, he obtained a situation at very
good wages. He had written to his wife, but for some reason unknown his
letters failed to reach their destination. After working two years on
the plantation, he determined to go home, and ascertain what had become
of his family. Walker had gone with him to Havana, where Joel changed
his money into American gold, and embarked in the Waldo. That was the
last his friend had heard of him. Walker had come home on a visit to his
relatives in the interior of the state, and wished Joel to return with
him.
The mystery was solved; and the visitor declared that his friend had not
drank a drop of liquor during the two years he was in Cuba.
It was a great satisfaction to Mrs. Wormbury and her children to hear
this good report of the deceased husband and father; and Walker left,
sincerely grieved at the death of his friend, whom he highly esteemed.
In the winter Leopold went to the "academy," and studied hard to improve
his mind and increase his knowledge. He applied himself diligently to
German, under the instruction of Herr Schlager, so that he could talk in
that language with Rosabel when she came the next season, for it must be
confessed that he thought a great deal of her.
The spring came, bringing nearer to Leopold the coming of Rosabel. In
June a letter from the honorable Mr. Hamilton arrived, announcing the
intended visit of the family to the Sea Cliff House, and fixing the time
at about the first of July. He engaged his own rooms, and three others
for his party and they were to come in the Orion. This was the best of
news to Leopold. He was a year older than when he had last seen Rosabel,
and had grown much taller and stouter. An incipient mustache was coming
on his upper lip,--though he was not yet eighteen,--on which he bestowed
some attention. The young ladies in the academy had declared among
themselves that he was the handsomest young man in Rockhaven; and with
this indorsement there can be no doubt that he was a very good-looking
fellow. He dressed himself neatly, out of his own funds, and was very
particular in regard to his personal appearance.
As the first of July approached, he was even more particular than usual.
The dawning mustache was carefully trained, so that each hair was in the
most eligible position to produce an effect. For a boating dress, he
wore a gray woolen shirt, trimmed with pink, and secured in front with
black studs. But even in this garb, with his hair nicely combed, his
mustache adjusted, his broad shirt-collar, open down to his breast, and
held in place by a black handkerchief, tied in true sailor style,--in
this garb, even, he was a fellow upon whom a young lady would bestow a
second and even a third look, if the circumstances were favorable.
From early morning till dark, on the first day of July, Leopold kept an
eye on the sea-board side of the town, looking out for the Orion. She
did not appear; but on the afternoon of the next day, he discovered the
yacht as she rounded the point on which stood the light-house. Captain
Bounce knew his way into the river this time, and in a few moments more
the Orion reached the anchorage off the wharf. As soon as Leopold
recognized the vessel, he hastened to the Rosabel, his heart beating
wildly with the pleasant excitement of the occasion. Embarking in the
sloop, he was soon alongside the Orion. The accommodation-steps were
placed over the side for him, and he ascended to the deck.
"I am glad to see you, Leopold," said Mr. Hamilton, extending his hand
to the boatman.
"Thank you sir; we are all glad to see you and your family here again,"
replied Leopold, as he glanced towards the quarter-deck in search of
Rosabel. "Are Mrs. Hamilton and your daughter on board?"
"Yes, both of them; but I have a smaller party than I had last year."
At this moment Leopold saw Rosabel emerging from the companion-way. His
brown face flushed as he approached her, and she was as rosy as a
country girl when she offered him her little gloved hand, which he
gratefully clasped in his great paw.
"I am very glad to see you again, Miss Hamilton," said Leopold; and
certainly he never uttered truer words in his life.
"And I am delighted to see you again, Leopold," she replied gazing
earnestly into his handsome brown face, and then measuring with her eye
his form from head to foot. "How tall and large you have grown!"
We are inclined to believe, from the looks she bestowed upon him, that
she fully indorsed the opinion of the young ladies of the academy.
Rosabel was taller, more mature, and even more beautiful than when he
had seen her last. She was dressed to go on shore; but as soon as she
saw Leopold and the Rosabel, a new idea seemed to take possession of her
mind.
"I want to go to High Rock this minute!" exclaimed the fair girl. "I
