one of the antique galleys had suggested to me. 
They found it, nothing can be concealed outside 
of your own breast in such a school, and they 
carried me with my contrivance before the superior. 
He looked kindly but gravely at me : i My son, 
said he, " do you wish to be a priest ? Surely, 
reverend father, I answered in alarm, why not? 
fc Because these things are not for priests. Their 
thoughts must be upon other things. Consider 
well of it, my son, while there is yet time, he said, 
and he addressed me a long and serious discourse 
upon the life on which I was to enter. He was a 
just and conscientious and affectionate man ; but 
every word fell like burning fire in my heart. At 
the end, he took my poor plaything, and thrust it 
down among the coals of his scaldino. It made the 
scaldino smoke, and he bade me carry it out with 
me, and so turned again to his book. 
 
" My mother was by this time dead, but I could 
hardly have gone to her, if she had still been living. 
These tilings are not for priests ! kept repeating 
itself night and day in my brain. I was in despair, 
I was in a fury to see my uncle. I poured out my 
heart to him, and tried to make him understand 
the illusions and vain hopes in which I had lived. 
He received coldly my sorrow and the reproaches 
which I did not spare him ; he bade me consider 
my inclinations as so many temptations to be over 
come for the good of my soul and the glory of God. 
He warned me against the scandal of attempting 
to withdraw now from the path marked out for me. 
I said that I never would be a priest. And what 
will you do ? he asked. Alas ! what could I do ? 
I went back to my prison, and in due course I be 
came a priest. 
 It was not without sufficient warning that I 
took one order after another, but my uncle's words, 
What will you do ? made me deaf to these ad 
monitions. All that is now past. I no longer re 
sent nor hate ; I seem to have lost the power ; but 
those were days when my soul was filled with bit 
terness. Something of this must have showed it 
self to those who had me in their charge. I have 
heard that at one time my superiors had grave 
doubts whether T ought to be allowed to take orders. 
My examination, in which the difficulties of the 
sacerdotal life were brought before me with the 
greatest clearness, was severe ; I do not know how 
 
I passed it ; it must have been in grace to my 
uncle. I spent the next ten days in a convent, to 
meditate upon the step I was about to take. Poor 
helpless, friendless wretch ! Madamigella, even yet 
I cannot see how I was to blame, that I came forth 
and received the first of the holy orders, and in 
their time the second and the third. 
 I was a priest, but no more a priest at heart 
than those Venetian conscripts, whom you saw 
carried away last week, are Austrian soldiers. I 
was bound as they are bound, by an inexorable 
and inevitable law. 
" You have asked me why I became a priest. 
Perhaps I have not told you why, but I have told 
you how I have given you the slight outward 
events, not the processes of my mind and that 
is all that I can do. If the guilt was mine, I have 
suffered for it. If it was not mine, still I have suf 
fered for it. Some ban seems to have rested upon 
whatever I have attempted. My work, oh. I 
know it well enough ! has all been cursed with 
futility ; my labors are miserable failures or con 
temptible successes. I have had my unselfish 
dreams of blessing mankind by some great dis 
covery or invention ; but my life has been barren, 
barren, barren ; and save for the kindness that I 
have known in this house, and that would not let 
me despair, it would now be without hope." 
He ceased, and the girl, who had listened with 
her proud looks transfigured to an aspect of griev- 
 
ing pity, fetched a long sigh. " Oh, I am sorry for 
you ! " she said, " more sorry than I know how to 
tell. But you must not lose courage, you must not 
give up ! " 
Don Ippolito resumed with a melancholy smile. 
 There are doubtless temptations enough to be 
false under the best of conditions in this world. 
But something I do not know what or whom ; 
perhaps no more my uncle or my mother than I, 
for they were only as the past had made them 
caused me to begin by living a lie, do you not 
see ? " 
" Yes, yes," reluctantly assented the girl. 
"Perhaps who knows ? that is why no good 
has come of me, nor can come. My uncle's piety 
and repute have always been my efficient help. He 
is the principal priest of the church to which I am 
attached, and he has had infinite patience with me. 
My ambition and my attempted inventions are a 
scandal to him, for he is a priest of those like the 
Holy Father, who believe that all the wickedness 
of the modern world has come from the devices of 
science ; my indifference to the things of religion 
is a terror and a sorrow to him which he combats 
with prayers and penances. He starves himself and 
goes cold and faint that God may have mercy and 
turn my heart to the things on which his own is 
fixed. He loves my soul, but not me, and we are 
scarcely friends." 
Florida continued to look at him with steadfast, 
compassionate eyes. It seems very strange, al 
most like some dream," she murmured, "that you 
should be saying all tills to me, Don Ippolito, and 
I do not know why I should have asked you any 
thing." 
The pity of this virginal heart must have been 
very sweet to the man on whom she looked it. His 
eyes worshipped her, as he answered her devoutly, 
" It was due to the truth in you that I should seem 
to you what I am." 
" Indeed, you make me ashamed ! " she cried 
with a blush. " It was selfish of me to ask you to 
speak. And now, after what you have told me, I 
am so helpless and I know so very little that I 
don 't understand how to comfort or encourage you. 
But surely you can somehow help yourself. Are 
men, that seem so strong and able, just as power 
less as women, after all, when it comes to real 
trouble ? Is a man " 
" I cannot answer. I am only a priest," said 
Don Ippolito coldly, letting his eyes drop to the 
gown that fell about him like a woman's skirt. 
"Yes, but a priest should be a man, and so much 
more ; a priest " 
Don Ippolito shrugged his shoulders. 
" No, no ! " cried the girl. " Your own schemes 
have all failed, you say ; then why do you not 
think of becoming a priest in reality, and getting 
the good there must be in such a calling ? It is 
singular that I should venture to say such a thing 
 
to you, and it must seem presumptuous and ridicu 
lous for me, a Protestant but our ways are so 
different." .... She paused, coloring deeply, 
then controlled herself, and added with grave com 
posure,  If you were to pray " 
"To what, madamigella ? " asked the priest, 
sadly. 
" To what ! " she echoed, opening her eyes full 
upon him. " To God ! " 
Don Ippolito made no answer. He let his head 
fall so lo\v upon his breast that she could see the 
sacerdotal tonsure. 
" You must excuse me," she said, blushing again. 
" I did not mean to wound your feelings as a Cath 
olic. I have been very bold and intrusive. I ought 
to have remembered that people of your church 
have different ideas that the saints " 
Don Ippolito looked up with pensive irony. 
" Oh, the poor saints ! " 
 I don 't understand you," said Florida, very 
gravely. 
;t I mean that I believe in the saints as little as 
you do." 
"But you believe in your Church ? " 
" I have no Church." 
There was a silence in which Don Ippolito again 
dropped his head upon his breast. Florida leaned 
forward in her eagerness, and murmured, " You 
believe in God ? " 
The priest lifted his eyes and looked at her be 
seechingly. " I do not know," he whispered. 
 
She met his gaze with one of dumb bewilder 
ment. At last she said : " Sometimes you bap 
tize little children and receive them into the church 
in the name of God ? " 
" Yes." 
 Poor creatures come to you and confess their 
sins, and you absolve them, or order them to do 
penances ? " 
"Yes." 
" And sometimes when people are dying, you 
must stand by their death -beds and give them the 
last consolations of religion ? " 
It is true." 
 Oh ! " moaned the girl, and fixed on Don Ippo- 
lito a long look of wonder and reproach, which he 
met with eyes of silent anguish. 
 It is terrible, madamigella," he said, rising. u I 
know it. I would fain have lived single-heartedly, 
for I think I was made so ; but now you see how 
black and deadly a lie my life is. It is worse than 
you could have imagined, is it not ? It is worse 
than the life of the cruelest bigot, for he at least 
believes in himself." 
" Worse, far worse ! " 
" But at least, dear young lady," he went on pit- 
eously, " believe me that I have the grace to abhor 
myself. It is not much, it is very, very little, but 
it is something. Do not wholly condemn me ! " 
" Condemn ? Oh, I am sorry for you with my 
whole heart. Only, why must you tell me all this ? 
 
No, no ; you are not to blame. I made you speak ; 
I made you put yourself to shame." 
" Not that, dearest madamigella. I would unsay 
nothing now, if I could, unless to take away the 
pain I have given you. It has been more a relief 
than a shame to have all this known to you ; and 
even if you should despise me " 
" I don 't despise you ; that isn 't  for me ; but oh, 
I wish that I could help you ! " 
Don Ippolito shook his head. " You cannot help 
me ; but I thank you for your compassion ; I shall 
never forget it." He lingered irresolutely with his 
hat in his hand. " Shall we go on with the reading, 
madamigella ? " 
" No, we will not read any more to-day," she an 
swered. 
" Then I relieve you of the disturbance, madam 
igella," he said ; and after a moment's hesitation he 
bowed sadly and went. 
She mechanically followed him to the door, with 
some little gestures and movements of a desire to 
keep him from going, yet let him go, and so turned 
back and sat down with her hands resting noise 
less on the keys of the piano. 
XL 
THE next morning Don Ippolito did not come, 
but in the afternoon the postman brought a letter 
for Mrs. Vervain, couched in the priest's English, 
begging her indulgence until after the day of Cor 
pus Christi, up to which time, he said, he should be 
too occupied for his visits of ordinary. 
This letter reminded Mrs. Vervain that they had 
not seen Mr. Ferris for three days, and she sent to 
ask him to dinner. But he returned an excuse, and 
he was not to be had to breakfast the next morning 
for the asking. He was in open rebellion. Mrs. 
Vervain had herself rowed to the consular landing, 
and sent up her gondolier with another invitation to 
dinner. 
The painter appeared on the balcony in the linen 
blouse which he wore at his work, and looked down 
with a frown on the smiling face of Mrs. Ver 
vain for a moment without speaking. Then, " I'll 
come," he said gloomily. 
" Come with me, then," returned Mrs. Vervain. 
" I shall have to keep you waiting." 
" I don 't mind that. You'll be ready in five 
minutes." 
Florida met the painter with such gentleness that 
he felt his resentment to have been a stupid caprice, 
 
for which there was no ground in the world. He 
tried to recall his fading sense of outrage, but he 
found nothing in his mind but penitence. The sort 
of distraught humility with which she behaved gave 
her a novel fascination. 
The dinner was good, as Mrs. Vervain's dinners 
always were, and there was a compliment to the 
painter in the presence of a favorite dish. When 
he saw this, " Well, Mrs. Vervain, what is it? " he 
asked. " You needn 't pretend that you're treat 
ing me so well for nothing. You want something." 
" We want nothing but that you should not neg 
lect your friends. We have been utterly deserted 
for three or four days. Don Ippolito has not been 
here, either ; but he has some excuse ; he has to get 
ready for Corpus Christi. He's going to be in the 
procession." 
"Is he to appear with his flying machine, or his 
portable dining-table, or his automatic camera ? " 
" For shame ! " cried Mrs. Vervain, beaming re 
proach. Florida's face clouded, and Ferris macta 
haste to say that he did not know these inven 
tions were sacred, and that he had no wish to blas 
pheme them. 
" You know well enough what I meant," an 
swered Mrs. Vervain. " And now, we want you to 
get us a window to look out on the procession." 
" Oh, that's what you want, is it ? I thought 
you merely wanted me not to neglect my friends. 
" Well, do you call that neglecting them ? " 
" Mrs. Vervain, Mrs. Vervain ! What a mind you 
have ! Is there anything else you want? Me to go 
with you, for example ? " 
" We don 't insist. You can 'take us to the win 
dow and leave us, if you like." 
" This clemency is indeed unexpected," replied 
Ferris. " I' mreally quite unworthy of it." 
He was going on with the badinage customary 
between Mrs. Vervain and himself, when Florida 
protested, 
" Mother, I think we abuse Mr. Ferris's kind 
ness." 
" I know it, my dear I know it," cheerfully 
assented Mrs. Vervain. " It's perfectly shocking. 
But what are we to do? We must abuse somebody's 
kindness." 
" We had better stay at home. I d much rather 
not go," said the girl, tremulously. 
" Why, Miss Vervain," said Ferris gravely, " I'm 
very sorry if you've misunderstood my joking. 
I've never yet seen the procession to advantage, 
and I d like very much to look on with you." 
He could not tell whether she was grateful for 
his words, or annoyed. She resolutely said no more, 
but her mother took up the strain and discoursed 
long upon it, arranging all the particulars of their 
meeting and going together. Ferris was a little 
piqued, and began to wonder why Miss Vervain 
did not stay at home if she did not want to go. 
To be sure, she went everywhere with her mother ; 
 
but it was strange, with her habitual violent sub- 
missiveiiess, that she should have said anything in 
opposition to her mother's wish or purpose. 
After dinner, Mrs. Vervain frankly withdrew 
for her nap, and Florida seemed to make a little 
haste to take some sewing in her hand, and sat 
down with the air of a woman willing to detain her 
visitor. Ferris was not such a stoic as not to be 
dimly flattered by this, but he was too much of a 
man to be fully aware how great an advance it 
might seem. 
" I suppose we shall see most of the priests of 
Venice, and what they are like, in the procession 
to-morrow," she said. " Do you remember speak 
ing to me about priests, the other day, Mr. Fer 
ris?" 
" Yes, I remember it very well. I think I over 
did it ; and I could n t perceive afterwards that I 
had shown any motive but a desire to make trouble 
for Don Ippolito." 
" I never thought that," answered Florida, seri 
ously. " What you said was true, wasn 't it ? " 
" Yes, it was and it wasn 't, and I don 't know 
that it differed from anything else in the world, in 
that respect. It is true that there is a great distrust 
of the priests amongst the Italians. The young 
men hate them or think they do or say they 
do. Most educated men in middle life are mate 
rialists, and of course unfriendly to the priests. 
There are even women who are skeptical about re- 
 
ligion. But I suspect that the largest number of all 
those who talk loudest against the priests are really 
subject to them. You must consider how very in 
timately they are bound up with every family in the 
most solemn relations of life." 
" Do you think the priests are generally bad 
men ? " asked the young girl shyly. 
" I don t, indeed. I don 't see how things could 
hang together if it were so. There must be a great 
basis of sincerity and goodness in them, when all is 
said and done. It seems to me that at the worst 
they re merely professional people poor fellows 
who have gone into the church for a living. You 
know it isn 't  often now that the sons of noble fam 
ilies take orders ; the priests are mostly of humble 
origin ; not that they re necessarily the worse for 
that ; the patricians used to be just as bad in an 
other way." 
" I wonder," said Florida, with her head on one 
side, considering her seam, " why there is always 
something so dreadful to us in the idea of a priest." 
"They do seem a kind of alien creature to us 
Protestants. I can 't make out whether they seem 
so to Catholics, or not. But we have a repugnance 
to all doomed people, haven 't we ? And a priest 
is a man under sentence of death to the natural ties 
between himself and the human race. He is dead 
to us. That makes him dreadful. The spectre of 
our dearest friend, father or mother, would be ter 
rible. And yet added Ferris, musingly, " a nun 
isn 't  terrible." 
" No," answered the girl, " that's because a wo 
man's life even in the world seems to be a constant 
giving up. No, a nun isn 't  unnatural, but a priest 
is." 
She was silent for a time, in which she sewed 
swiftly ; then she suddenly dropped her work into 
her lap, and pressing it down with both hands, she 
asked. " Do you believe that priests themselves 
are ever skeptical about religion ? " 
" I suppose it must happen now and then. In 
the best days of the church it was a fashion to 
doubt, you know. I've often wanted to ask our 
friend Don Ippolito something about these matters, 
but I didn t see how it could be managed." Fer 
ris did not note the change that passed over Flor 
ida's face, and he continued. " Our acquaintance 
hasn t become so intimate as I hoped it might. 
But you only get to a certain point with Italians. 
They like to meet you on the street ; maybe they 
haven 't any indoors" 
" Yes, it must sometimes happen, as you say," 
replied Florida, with a quick sigh, reverting to the 
beginning of Ferris's answer. u But is it any 
worse for a false priest than for a hypocritical min 
ister ? " 
" It's bad enough for either, but it's worse for 
the priest. You see, Miss Vervain, a minister 
doesn 't set up for so much. He doesn t pretend 
to forgive us our sins, and he doesn 't ask us to con 
fess them ; he doesn 't offer us the veritable body 
 
and blood in the sacrament, and he doesn 't bear 
allegiance to the visible and tangible vicegerent of 
Christ upon earth. A hypocritical parson may be 
absurd ; but a skeptical priest is tragical." 
" Yes, oh yes, I see," murmured the girl, with a 
grieving face. " Are they always to blame for it ? 
They must be induced, sometimes, to enter the 
church before they Ve seriously thought about it, 
and then don 't know how to escape from the path 
that has been marked out for them from their child 
hood. Should you think such a priest as that was 
to blame for being a skeptic ? " she asked very 
earnestly. 
" No," said Ferris, with a smile at her serious 
ness, " I should think such a skeptic as that was to 
blame for being a priest." 
" shouldn 't you be very sorry for him ? " pur 
sued Florida still more solemnly. 
" I should, indeed, if I liked him. If I didn 't, 
I'm afraid I shouldn t," said Ferris; but he saAV 
that his levity jarred upon her. " Come, Miss Ver 
vain, you're not going to look at those fat monks 
and sleek priests in the procession to-morrow as so 
many incorporate tragedies, are you ? You'll spoil 
my pleasure if you do. I dare say they'll be all of 
them devout believers, accepting everything, down 
to the animalcula in the holy water." 
" If you were that kind of a priest," persisted 
the girl, without heeding his jests, " what should 
you do ? " 
 
" Upon my word, I don 't know. I can 't imagine 
it. Why," he continued, " think what a helpless 
creature a priest is in everything but his priesthood 
more helpless than a woman, even. The only 
thing he could do would be to leave the church, and 
how could he do that ? He's in the world, but he 
isn 't  of it, and I don 't see what he could do with it, 
or it with him. If an Italian priest were to leave 
the church, even the liberals, who distrust him now, 
would despise him still more. Do you know that 
they have a pleasant fashion of calling the Protes 
tant converts apostates ? The first thing for such 
a priest would be exile. But I'm not supposably 
the kind of priest you mean, and I don 't think just 
such a priest supposable. I dare say if a priest 
found himself drifting into doubt, he d try to avoid 
the disagreeable subject, and, if he couldn t, he d 
philosophize it some way, and would n t let his 
skepticism worry him." 
" Then you mean that they haven 't consciences 
like us ? " 
" They have consciences, but not like us. The 
Italians are kinder people than we are, but they re 
not so just, and I should say that they don 't think 
truth the chief good of life. They believe there are 
pleasanter and better things. Perhaps they re 
right." 
" No, no ; you don 't believe that, you know you 
don t," said Florida, anxiously. " And you haven 't 
answered my question." 
 
" Oh yes, I have. I 've told you it wasn 't a sup- 
posable case." 
" But suppose it was." 
" Well, if I must," answered Ferris with a laugh. 
" With my unfortunate bringing up, I could n t say 
less than that such a man ought to get out of his 
priesthood at any hazard. He should cease to be a 
priest, if it cost him kindred, friends, good fame, 
country, everything. I don 't see how there can be 
any living in such a lie, though I know there is. In 
all reason, it ought to eat the soul out of a man, 
and leave him helpless to do or be any sort of good. 
But there seems to be something, I don 't know 
what it is, that is above all reason of ours, some 
thing that saves each of us for good in spite of the 
bad that's in us. It's very good practice, for a 
man who wants to be modest, to come and live in a 
Latin country. He learns to suspect his own top 
ping virtues, and to be lenient to the novel combi 
nations of right and wrong that he sees. But as 
for our insupposable priest yes, I should say de 
cidedly he ought to get out of it by all means." 
Florida fell back in her chair with an aspect of 
such relief as comes to one from confirmation on an 
important point. She passed her hand over the 
sewing in her lap, but did not speak. 
Ferris went on, with a doubting look at her, for 
he had been shy of introducing Don Ippolito's 
name since the day on the Brenta, and he did not 
know what effect a recurrence to him in this talk 
 
might have. " I Ve often wondered if our own 
clerical friend were not a little shaky in his faith. 
I don 't think nature meant him for a priest. He 
always strikes me as an extremely secular-minded 
person. I doubt if he's ever put the question 
whether he is what he professes to be, squarely to 
himself he's such a mere dreamer." 
Florida changed her posture slightly, and looked 
down at her sewing. She asked, "But shouldn t 
you abhor him if he were a skeptical priest ? " 
Ferris shrugged his shoulders. " Oh, I don 't 
find it such an easy matter to abhor people. It 
would be interesting," he continued musingly, " to 
have such a dreamer waked up, once, and suddenly 
confronted with what he recognized as perfect truth 
fulness, and could n t help contrasting himself with. 
But it would be a little cruel." 
" Would you rather have him left as he was? " 
asked Florida, lifting her eyes to his. 
" As a moralist, no ; as a humanitarian, yes, Miss 
Vervain. He d be much happier as he was." 
" What time ought we to ba ready for you to 
morrow ? " demanded the girl in a tone of decision. 
" We ought to be in the Piazza by nine o clock," 
said Ferris, carelessly accepting the change of sub 
ject ; and he told her of his plan for seeing the pro 
cession from a window of the Old Procuratie. 
When he rose to go, he said lightly, " Perhaps, 
after all, we may see the type of tragical priest 
 
we Ve been talking about. Who can 'tell ? I say 
his nose will be red." 
" Perhaps," answered Florida, with unheeding 
gravity. 
XII. 
THE day was one of those which can come to the 
world only in early June at Venice. The heaven 
was without a cloud, but a blue haze made mystery 
of the horizon where the lagoon and sky met un 
seen. The breath of the sea bathed in freshness 
the city at whose feet her tides sparkled and slept. 
The great square of St. Mark was transformed 
from a mart, from a salon, to a temple. The shops 
under the colonnades that inclose it upon three 
sides were shut ; the caffes, before which the circles 
of idle coffee-drinkers and sherbet-eaters ordinarily 
spread out into the Piazza, were repressed to the 
limits of their own doors ; the stands of the water- 
venders, the baskets of those th.-t sold oranges of 
Palermo and black cherries of Padua, had vanished 
from the base of the church of St. Mark, which 
with its dim splendor of mosaics and its carven 
luxury of pillar and arch and fiiiial rose like the 
high-altar, ineffably rich and beautiful, of the vaster 
temple whose inclosure it completed. Before it 
stood the three great red flag-staffs, like painted 
tapers before an altar, and from them hung the 
Austrian flags of red and white, and yellow and 
black. 
In the middle of the square stood the Austrian 
military band, motionless, encircling their leader 
with his gold-headed staff uplifted. During the 
night a light colonnade of wood, roofed with blue 
cloth, had been put up around the inside of the 
Piazza, and under this now paused the long pomp 
of the ecclesiastical procession the priests of all 
the Venetian churches in their richest vestments, 
followed in their order by faechini, in white sandals 
and gay robes, with caps of scarlet, white, green, 
and blue, who bore huge painted candles and silken 
banners displaying the symbol or the portrait of the 
titular saints of the several churches, and supported 
the canopies under which the host of each was ele 
vated. Before the clergy went a company of Aus 
trian soldiers, and behind the facchini came a long 
array of religious societies, charity-school boys in 
uniforms, old paupers in holiday dress, little naked 
urchins with shepherds crooks and bits of fleece 
about their loins like John the Baptist in the Wil 
derness, little girls with angels wings and crowns, 
the monks of the various orders, and civilian peni 
tents of all sorts in cloaks or dress-coats, hooded or 
bareheaded, and carrying each a lighted taper. 
The corridors under the -Imperial Palace and the 
New and Old Procuratie were packed with specta 
tors ; from every window up and down the fronts 
of the palaces, gay stuffs were flung ; the startled 
doves of St. Mark perched upon the cornices, or 
fluttered uneasily to and fro above the crowd. 
The baton of the band leader descended with a 
 
crash of martial music, the priests chanted, the 
charity-boys sang shrill, a vast noise of shuffling 
feet arose, mixed with the foliage-like rustling of 
the sheets of tinsel attached to the banners and 
candles in the procession : the whole strange, gor 
geous picture came to life. 
After all her plans and preparations, Mrs. Ver 
vain had not felt well enough that morning to come 
to the spectacle which she had counted so much 
upon seeing, but she had therefore insisted the more 
that her daughter should go, and Ferris now stood 
with Florida alone at a window in the Old Procu- 
ratie. 
" Well, what do you think, Miss Vervain ? " he 
asked, when their senses had somewhat accustomed 
themselves to the noise of the procession ; " do you 
say now that Venice is too gloomy a city to have 
ever had any possibility of gayety in her?" 
" I never said that," answered Florida, opening 
her eyes upon him. 
" Neither did I," returned Ferris, " but I Ve 
often thought it, and I'm not sure now but I'm 
right. There's something extremely melancholy 
to me in all this. I don 't care so much for what 
one may call the deplorable superstition expressed 
in the spectacle, but the mere splendid sight and 
the music are enough to make one shed tears. I 
don 't know anything more affecting except a pro 
cession of lantern-lit gondolas and barges on the 
Grand Canal. It's phantasmal. It's the spectral 
 
resurrection of the old dead forms into the present. 
It's not even the ghost, it's the corpse, of other 
ages that's haunting Venice. The city ought to 
have been destroyed by Napoleon when he de 
stroyed the Republic, and thrown overboard St. 
Mark, Winged Lion, Bucentaur, and all. There is 
no land like America for true cheerfulness and 
light-heartedness. Think of our Fourth of Julys 
and our State Fairs. Selah ! " 
Ferris looked into the girl's serious face with 
twinkling eyes. He liked to embarrass her gravity 
with his antic speeches, and enjoyed her endeavors 
to find an earnest meaning in them, and her evident 
trouble when she could find none. 
" I in curious to know ho\v our friend will look," 
he began again, as he arranged the cushion on the 
window-sill for Florida's greater comfort in watch 
ing the spectacle, "but it won 't be an easy matter 
to pick him out in this masquerade, I fancy. Can 
dle-carrying, as well as the other acts of devotion, 
seems rather out of character with Don Ippolito, 
and I can 't imagine his putting much soul into it. 
However, very few of the clergy appear to do that. 
Look at those holy men with their eyes to the 
wind ! They are wondering who is the bella bionda 
at the window here." 
Florida listened to his persiflage with an air of 
sad distraction. She was intent upon the proces 
sion as it approached from the other side of the 
Piazza, and she replied at random to his comments 
on the different bodies that formed it. 
 
"It's very hard to decide which are my favor 
ites," he continued, surveying the long column 
through an opera-glass. " My religious disadvan 
tages have been such that I don 't care much for 
priests or monks, or young John the Baptists, or 
small female cherubim, but I do like little charity- 
boys with voices of pins and needles and hair cut d 
la dead-rabbit. I should like, if it were consistent 
with the consular dignity, to go down and rub their 
heads. I'm fond, also, of old charity-boys, I find. 
Those paupers make one in love with destitute and 
dependent age, by their aspect of irresponsible en 
joyment. See how briskly each of them topples 
along on the leg that he has n t got in the grave ! 
How attractive likewise are the civilian devotees in 
those imperishable dress-coats of theirs ! Observe 
their high collars of the era of the Holy Alliance : 
they and their fathers and their grandfathers before 
them have worn those dress-coats ; in a hundred 
years from now their posterity will keep holiday in 
them. I should like to know the elixir by which 
the dress-coats of civil employees render themselves 
immortal. Those penitents in the cloaks and cowls 
are not bad, either, Miss Vervain. Come, they add 
a very pretty touch of mystery to this spectacle. 
They re the sort of thing that painters are expected 
to paint in Venice that people sigh over as so 
peculiarly Venetian. If you've a single sentiment 
about you, Miss Vervain, now is the time to pro 
duce it." 
 
" But I haven 't. I'm afraid I have no sentiment 
at all," answered the girl ruefully. " But this 
makes me dreadfully sad." 
" Why that's just what I was saying a while 
ago. Excuse me, Miss Vervain, but your sadness 
lacks novelty ; it's a sort of plagiarism." 
" Don t, please," she pleaded yet more earnestly. 
" I was just thinking I don 't know why such an 
awful thought should come to me that it might 
all be a mistake after all ; perhaps there might not 
be any other world, and every bit of this power and 
display of the church our church as well as the 
rest might be only a cruel blunder, a dreadful 
mistake. Perhaps there isn 't  even any God ! Do 
you think there is ? " 
" I don 't think it," said Ferris gravely, " I know 
it. But I don 't wonder that this sight makes you 
doubt. Great God ! How far it is from Christ ! 
Look there, at those troops who go before the fol 
lowers of the Lamb : their trade is murder. In a 
minute, if a dozen men called out, Long live the 
King of Italy ! it would be the duty of those sol 
diers to fire into the helpless crowd. Look at the 
silken and gilded pomp of the servants of the car 
penter's son ! Look at those miserable monks, vol 
untary prisoners, beggars, aliens to their kind ! 
Look at those penitents who think that they can 
get forgiveness for their sins by carrying a candle 
round the square ! And it is nearly two thousand 
years since the world turned Christian ! It is 
 
pretty slow. But I suppose God lets men learn 
Him from their own experience of evil. I imagine 
the kingdom of heaven is a sort of republic, and 
that God draws men to Him only through their 
perfect freedom." 
" Yes, yes, it must be so," answered Florida, 
staring down on the crowd with unseeing eyes, 
" but I can 't fix my mind on it. I keep thinking 
the whole time of what we were talking about yes 
terday. I never could have dreamed of a priest's 
disbelieving ; but now I can 't dream of anything 
else. It seems to me that none of these priests or 
monks can believe anything. Their faces look false 
and sly and bad all of them ! " 
"No, no, Miss Vervain," said Ferris, smiling at 
her despair, "you push matters a little beyond 
as a woman has a right to do, of course. I don 't 
think their faces are bad, by any means. Some of 
them are dull and torpid, and some are frivolous, 
just like the faces of other people. But I've been 
noticing the number of good, kind, friendly faces, 
and they re in the majority, just as they are 
amongst other people ; for there are very few souls 
altogether out of drawing, in my opinion. I've 
even caught sight of some faces in which there was 
a real rapture of devotion, and now and then a very 
innocent one. Here, for instance, is a man I should 
like to bet on, if he'll only look up." 
The priest whom Ferris indicated was slowly ad 
vancing toward the space immediately under their 
 
window. He was dressed in robes of high ceremony, 
and in his hand he carried a lighted taper. He 
moved with a gentle tread, and the droop of his 
slender figure intimated a sort of despairing weari 
ness. While most of his fellows stared carelessly 
or curiously about them, his face was downcast and 
averted. 
Suddenly the procession paused, and a hush fell 
upon the vast assembly. Then the silence was 
broken by the rustle and stir of all those thousands 
going down upon their knees, as the cardinal-patri 
arch lifted his hands to bless them. 
The priest upon whom Ferris and Florida had 
fixed their eyes faltered a moment, and before he 
knelt his next neighbor had to pluck him by the 
skirt. Then he too knelt hastily, mechanically 
lifting his head, and glancing along the front of 
the Old Procuratie. His face had that weariness 
in it which his figure and movement had suggested, 
and it was very pale, but it was yet more singular 
for the troubled innocence which its traits ex 
pressed. 
"There," whispered Ferris, " that's what I call 
an uncommonly good face." 
Florida raised her hand to silence him, and the 
heavy gaze of the priest rested on them coldly at 
first. Then a light of recognition shot into his eyes 
and a flush suffused "his pallid visage, which seemed 
to grow the more haggard and desperate. His 
head fell again, and he dropped the candle from 
 
his hand. One of those beggars who went by the 
side of the procession, to gather the drippings of the 
tapers, restored it to him. 
" Why," said Ferris aloud, " it's Don Ippolito ! 
Did you know him at first ? " 
XIII. 
THE ladies were sitting on the terrace when Don 
Ippolito came next morning to say that he could 
not read with Miss Vervain that day nor for several 
days after, alleging in excuse some priestly duties 
proper to the time. Mrs. Vervain began to lament 
that she had not been able to go to the procession 
of the day before. " I meant to have kept a sharp 
lookout for you ; Florida saw you, and so did Mr. 
Ferris. But it isn 't  at all the same thing, you 
know. Florida has no faculty for describing ; and 
now I shall probably go away from Venice without 
seeing you in your real character once. 
Don Ippolito suffered this and more in meek 
silence. He waited his opportunity with unfailing 
politeness, and then with gentle punctilio took his 
leave. 
" Well, come again as soon as your duties will 
let you, Don Ippolito," cried Mrs. Vervain. " We 
shall miss you dreadfully, and I begrudge every one 
of your readings that Florida loses." 
The priest passed, with the sliding step which his 
impeding drapery imposed, down the garden walk, 
and was half-way to the gate, when Florida, who 
had stood watching hi, said to her mother, " I 
 
must speak to him again," and lightly descended 
the steps and swiftly glided in pursuit. 
"Don Ippolito ! " she called. 
He already had his hand upon the gate, but he 
turned, and rapidly went back to meet her. 
She stood in the walk where she had stopped 
when her voice arrested him, breathing quickly. 
Their eyes met ; a painful shadow overcast the face 
of the young girl, who seemed to be trying in vain 
to speak. 
Mrs. Vervain put on her glasses and peered 
down at the two with good-natured curiosity. 
" Well, madamigella," said the priest at last, 
" what do you command me ? " He gave a faint, 
patient sigh. 
The tears came into her eyes. " Oh," she be 
gan vehemently, " I wish there was some one who 
had the right to speak to you ! " 
" No one," answered Don Tppolito, " has so much 
the right as you. 
" I saw you yesterday," she began again, " and I 
thought of what you had told me, Don Ippolito." 
" Yes, I thought of it, too," answered the priest ; 
" I have thought of it ever since." 
" But haven 't you thought of any hope for your 
self ? Must you still go on as before ? How can 
you go back now to those things, and pretend to 
think them holy, and all the time have no heart or 
faith in them ? It's terrible ! " 
" What would you, madamigella?" demanded 
 
Don Ippolito, with a moody shrug. " It is my pro 
fession, my trade, you know. You might say to 
the prisoner," he added bitterly, " It is terrible to 
see you chained here. Yes, it is terrible. Oh, I 
don 't reject your compassion ! But what can I 
do?" 
" Sit down with me here," said Florida in her 
blunt, child-like way, and sank upon the stone seat 
beside the walk. She clasped her hands together 
in her lap with some strong, bashful emotion, while 
Don Ippolito, obeying her command, waited for her 
to speak. Her voice was scarcely more than a 
hoarse whisper when she began. 
" I don 't know how to begin what I want to say. 
I am not fit to advise any one. I am so young, and 
so very ignorant of the world." 
" I too know little of the world," said the priest, 
as much to himself as to her. 
"It may be all wrong, all wrong. Besides," she 
said abruptly, " how do I know that you are a good 
man, Don Ippolito? How do I know that you Ve 
been telling me the truth ? It may be all a kind 
of trap " 
He looked blankly at her. 
" This is in Venice ; and you may be leading me 
on to things to say you that will make trouble for 
my mother and me. You may be a spy " 
" Oh no, no, no ! " cried the priest, springing to 
his feet with a kind of moan, and a shudder, " God 
forbid ! " He swiftly touched her hand with the 
 
tips of his fingers, and then kissed them : an action 
of inexpressible humility. " Madamigella, I swear 
to you by everything you believe good that I would 
rather die than be false to you in a single breath 
or thought." 
" Oh, I know it, I know it," she murmured. " I 
don 't see how I could say such a cruel thing." 
" Not cruel ; no, madamigella, not cruel," softly 
pleaded Don Ippolito. 
" But but is there no escape for you ? " 
They looked steadfastly at each other for a mo 
ment, and then Don Ippolito spoke. 
" Yes," he said very gravely, "there is one way 
of escape. I have often thought of it, and once I 
thought I had taken the first step towards it ; but 
it is beset with many great obstacles, and to be a 
priest makes one timid and insecure." 
He lapsed into his musing melancholy with the 
last words ; but she would not suffer him to lose 
whatever heart he had begun to speak with. 
" That's nothing," she said, " you must think 
again of that way of escape, and never turn from it 
till you have tried it. Only take the first step and 
you can go on. Friends will rise up everywhere, 
and make it easy for you. Come," she implored 
him fervently, " you must promise." 
