barbacan, lune, or demi-lune, whichever it was. Iris and the Captain had
disappeared. At the second draw-bridge we came face to face with the
main entrance, surmounted by a tablet bearing an inscription and the
Spanish coat of arms.

“It seems to be two dragons, two houses for the dragons, and a supply of
mutton hung up below,” said Sara, irreverently making game of the royal
insignia of Spain. “Oh dear!” she sighed in an under-tone, “I ought to
have all this written down.”





“Here are the main facts, Miss St. John,” said John Hoffman, taking out
his notebook. “I collected them several years ago out of piles of
authorities; they are authentic skeletons as far as they go, and you can
fill them out with as many adjectives, fancies, and exclamation points
as you please.” He walked on, joining the others in the inner
court-yard, where the Professor, the old sergeant in charge, the piles
of cannon-balls, and all the ruined doorways were engaging in a wild
mêlée of information. Left alone, Sara and I read as follows: “Fort here
as far back as 1565. Enlarged several times, and finally finished much
as it now stands in 1755. The Appalachian Indians worked on it sixty
years; also Mexican convicts. The inscription over the entrance says
that the fort was finished when Ferdinand Sixth was King of Spain, and
Hereda Governor of Florida. It has been many times attacked, twice
besieged, never taken. Occupied in 1862 by the Fourth New Hampshire
regiment.”

We had read so far when Aunt Diana came out through the sally-port.
“Have you seen Iris?” she asked. “The sergeant is going to show us the
window through which the Coochy escaped.”

“The Coochy?”

“A cat, I believe; some kind of a wild-cat,” said Aunt Diana, vaguely,
as her anxious eyes scanned every inch of the moat and outworks in
search of the vanished niece. At length she spied a floating blue
ribbon. “There they are, back in that--in that illumined thing.”

“Oh, Aunt Di! Why, that is the demi-lune.”

“Well, whatever it is, do call Iris down directly.”

I went after the delinquents, discovering after some search the little
stone stairway, nicely masked by an innocent-looking wall, where was a
second stone tablet containing the two dragons, their two houses, and
the supply of mutton hung up below. There on the topmost grassy stair
were the two young people, and had it not been for that floating blue
ribbon, there they might have remained in ambush all the morning.

“Come down,” I cried, looking up, laughingly, from the foot of the
stair--“come down, Iris. Aunt Di wishes you to see the escaped cat.”

“I don’t care about cats,” pouted Iris, slowly descending. “I am glad he
escaped. Let him go; I do not want to see him.”



“Iris,” began Aunt Di, “pray what has occupied you all this time?”

“The study of fortifications, aunt; you have no idea how interesting it
is--that demi-lune.”

“Many persons have found it so,” observed John.

“We could not quite decide whether it was, after all, a demi-lune or a
barbacan,” pursued Iris.

“Many persons have found the same difficulty; indeed, visit after visit
has been necessary to decide the question, and even then it has been
left unsettled,” said John, gravely.

Following Aunt Diana, we all went into a vaulted chamber lighted by a
small high-up window, or rather embrasure, in the heavy stone wall.

“Through that window the distinguished Seminole chieftain Coa-coo-chee,
that is for to say, the Wild-cat, made his celebrated escape by starving
himself to an atomy, squirming up, and squeezing through,” announced
the sergeant, who stood in front as torch-bearer.

“Then it wasn’t a cat, after all,” said Iris.

“Only in a Pickwickian sense,” said John.

“Now I thought all the while it was Osceola,” said Sara, wearily.

“The Seminole war--” began the Professor.

“Captain, I am sure you know all about these things,” said Iris; “pray
tell me who was this Caloochy.”

“Well,” said Antinous, hesitating, “I believe he was the son of--son of
King Philip, and he had something to do with the Dade massacre.”

“King Philip? Oh yes, now I know,” said Iris. “Chapter twenty-seven,
verse five: ‘Philip, while hiding at Mount Hope, was heard to exclaim,
Alas, I am the last of the Wampanoags! Now indeed am I ready to die.’”

“Oh no, Iris dear,” said Miss Sharp, hastily correcting; “that was the
New England chieftain. This Philip was a Seminole--Philip of the
Withlacoochee.”



“Osceola is in it somewhere, I feel convinced,” persisted Sara; “he is
always turning up when least expected, like the immortal Pontiac of the
West. There is something about the Caloosahatchee too.”

“Are you not thinking of the distinguished chieftains Holatoochee and
Taholoochee, and the river Chattahoochee?” suggested John.

“For my part, I can’t think of any thing but the chorus of that
classical song, The Ham-fat Man, ‘with a hoochee-koochee-koochee,’ you
know,” whispered the Captain to Iris.

“Don’t I!” she answered. “I have a small brother who adores that melody,
and plays it continually on his banjo.”

The next thing, of course, was the secret dungeon, and we crossed the
court-yard, where the broad stone way led up to the ramparts, occupied
during the late war by the tents of the United States soldiers, who
preferred these breezy quarters to the dark chambers below. We passed
the old chapel with its portico, inner altar, and niches for holy-water;
the hall of justice. The furnace for heating shot was outside, and the
southeast turret still held the frame-work for the bell which once rang
out the hours over the water.

Standing in the gloomy subterranean dungeon, we listened to the old
sergeant’s story--the fissure, the discovery of the walled-up entrance,
the iron cage, and the human bones.

“Oh, do come out,” I said. “Your picturesque Spaniards, Sara, are too
much for me.”

“But who were the bones, I wonder?” mused Iris.

“Yes,” said Aunt Diana, “who were they? Mr. Mokes, what do you think?”

Mokes thought “they were rascals of some kind, you know--thieves,
perhaps.”

“Huguenots,” from John.

“Recreant priests,” from myself.

“The architect of the fort, imprisoned that the secrets of its
construction might die with him,” suggested Miss Sharp.

“A prince of the blood royal, inconvenient to have around, and therefore
sent over here to be out of the way,” said Iris.

“For my part, I feel convinced that the bones were the mortal remains of
‘Casper Hauser,’ the ‘Man with the Iron Mask,’ and ‘Have we a Bourbon
among us,’” said Sara. Mokes looked at her. He never was quite sure
whether she was simply strong-minded or a little out of her head. He did
not know now, but decided to move a little farther away from her
vicinity.

The Professor had left us some time before, and as we came out through
the sally-port we saw him down in the moat in company with the
fiddler-crabs, an ancient horse, and two small darkies.

“I have discovered the line of the counterscarp!” he cried, excitedly.
“This is undoubtedly the talus of the covered way. If we walk slowly all
around we may find other interesting evidences.”

But there was mud in the moat, not to speak of the fiddlers, whose
peculiarity is that you never can tell which way they are going--I don’t
believe they know themselves; and so our party declined the interesting
evidences with thanks, and passing the demi-lune again, went down to the
sea-wall. Miss Sharp looked back hesitatingly; but Aunt Diana had her
eye upon her, and she gave it up.

In the afternoon all the party excepting myself went over to the North
Beach in a sail-boat. I went down to the Basin to see them off.
“Osceola” was painted on the stern of the boat. “Of course!” said
Sara. She longed to look out over the broad ocean once more, otherwise
she would hardly have consented to go without me. The boat glided out on
the blue inlet, and Miss Sharp grasped the professor’s arm as the
mainsail swung round and the graceful little craft tilted far over in
the fresh breeze.





“If you are frightened, Miss Sharp, pray change seats with me,” I heard
Aunt Diana say. The Captain was not there, but Mokes was; and John
Hoffman was lying at ease on the little deck at the stern, watching the
flying clouds. The boat courtesied herself away over the blue, and, left
alone, I wandered off down the sea-wall, finding at the south end the
United States Barracks, a large building with broad piazzas overlooking
the water, and a little green parade-ground in front, like an oasis in
the omnipresent sand. At the north end of the wall floated the flag of
old San Marco, here at the south end floated the flag of the barracks,
and the two marked the limits of the Ancient City. The post is called
St. Francis, as the foundations of the building formed part of the old
Franciscan monastery which was erected here more than two centuries ago.
Turning, I came to a narrow street where stood a monument to the
Confederate dead--a broken shaft carved in coquina. Little St. Augustine
had its forty-four names inscribed here, and while I was reading them
over a shadow fell on the tablet, and, turning, I saw an old negro, who,
leaning on a cane, had paused behind me. “Good afternoon, uncle,” I
said. “Did you know the soldiers whose names are here?”

“Yas, I knowed ’em; my ole woman took car’ ob some ob dem when dey was
babies.”

“The war made great changes for your people, uncle.”

“Yas, we’s free now. I tank de Lord dat day de news come dat my
chil’en’s free.”



“But you yourself, uncle? It did not make so much difference to you?” I
said, noticing the age and infirmity of the old man. But straightening
his bent body, and raising his whitened head with a proud happiness in
his old eyes, he answered,

“I breave anoder breff ebber sense, mistis, dat I do.”

Farther on I found a woman sitting at the door of a little shop with
sweets to sell, and purchased some for the sake of making a mental
sketch of her picturesque head with its white turban. “I have not the
exact change, but will send it to you to-morrow,” I said, intending to
fee the Sabre to execute the errand. “Who shall I say it is?”

“Why, Viny, course. Every body knows Aunt Viny.”

“I want to go over to Africa, Aunt Viny. Can you tell me the way?”

“Certain. You goes--You know St. Francis Street?”

“No.”

“De Bravo’s Lane, den?”

“No.”

“Well, nebber mind. You goes ’long down Bridge Street--you knows dat?”

“No.”

“I declar’ for’t, mistis, I don’t jes know how to tell you, but
whenebber I wants to go dar, I jes goes.”

I laughed, and so did Aunt Viny. A colored girl came round the corner
with a pail on her head. “Dar’s Victoria; she’ll show yar,” said Aunt
Viny.

“Your daughter?”

“Yas. Victoria Linkum is her name, mistis. You see, she was jes borned
when Linkum died, and so I named her from him,” said the woman, with
simple earnestness.

The funny little Victoria showed me the way across a bridge over the
Maria Sanchez Creek.

“Why is it called so--who was this Maria?” I asked. But Victoria Linkum
did not know. Africa was a long straggling suburb, situated on a
peninsula in shape not unlike the real Africa, between the Maria Sanchez
Creek and the Sebastian River; it was dotted with cabins and an
easy-going idle population of freedmen, who had their own little church
there, and a minister whose large silver-rimmed spectacles gave dignity
to his ebony countenance. “They do not quite know how to take their
freedom yet,” said a lady, a fellow-boarder, that evening. “The colored
people of St. Augustine were an isolated race; they had been family
servants for generations, as there were few plantations about here, and,
generally speaking, they were well cared for, and led easy lives. They
held a great celebration over their freedom; but the truth is they don’t
know what to do with it yet, and their ideas take the oddest shapes. The
Sabre, for instance, always insists upon going and coming through the
front-door; he calmly brings in all his provisions that way--quarters of
venison, butter, fish, whatever it may be, no matter who is present.”

“Did you enjoy the afternoon, Sara?” I asked that evening.

“I can not tell you how much. If you could only have seen it--the blue
inlet, the island, and the two light-houses, the surf breaking over the
bar, and in front the broad ocean, thousands of miles of heaving water,
with no land between us and Africa.”

“You absurd child! as though that made any difference.”

“But it does make a difference, Martha. If I thought there was so much
as one Canary Island, the sense of vastness would be lost. I stood on
that beach and drew in a long breath that came straight from the Nile.”

“And Aunt Diana?”

“Oh, she was happy.”

“Iris smiled upon Mokes, then?”

“Conspicuously.”

“Naughty little flirt! And Miss Sharp?”

“One summer day--with pensive thought--she wandered on--the sea-girt
shore,” chanted Sara. “The madam-aunt had the Professor, and kept him!”

“And John Hoffman?”

“Mr. Hoffman said that we ought to be very thankful for the simple,
unalloyed enjoyment of the perfect day; how much better it was than the
gaudy glare of cities, and so forth.”

“I have noticed that no one ever says that who has not been well through
the g. g. aforesaid, and especially the and-so-forth, Sara, my dear.”

The sunny days passed; the delicious, indolent atmosphere affected us
all; we wandered to and fro without plan or purpose in a lazy enjoyment
impossible with Northern climate and Northern consciences.

“I feel as though I had taken hasheesh,” said Sara.

Crowds of tourists came and went, and liked or liked not the Ancient
City according to their tastes.

“You must let yourself glide into the lazy tropical life,” I explained
to a discontented city friend; “it is dolce far niente here, you
know.”

But the lady did not know. “Very uninteresting place,” she said;
“nothing to see--no shops.”

“What! going, Mr. Brown?” I asked one morning.

“Yes, Miss Martha, I am going,” replied the old gentleman, decidedly.
“I have been very much disappointed in St. Augustine--nothing to do, no
cemeteries to speak of.”

“Stay longer? No, indeed,” said a lady who had made three toilets a day,
and found nobody to admire them. “What you find to like in this old
place is beyond me!”

“She is not far wrong there,” commented Sara, sotto voce; “it is
beyond her; that is the very point of the thing.”

But, on the other hand, all those in search of health, all endowed with
romance and imagination, all who could appreciate the rare charming haze
of antiquity which hangs over the ancient little city, grew into love
for St. Augustine, and lingered there far beyond their appointed time.
Crowds of old ladies and gentlemen sunned themselves on the south
piazzas, and troops of young people sailed and walked every where,
waking up the sleeping woods and the dreaming water with song and
laughter. The enterprising tourists came and went with their accustomed
energy; they bought palmetto hats and twined gray moss around them; they
carried orange-wood canes and cigar boxes containing young alligators.
(Why young alligators must always travel North in cigar boxes in
preference to any other kind of box is a mystery; but in cigar boxes
they always go!) Once a hand-organ man appeared, and ground out the same
tune for two whole days on the Plaza.

“And what may be the name of that melody, Miss Iris--the one he is
playing now?” asked the Professor, endeavoring to assume a musical air.

“He can only play one tune, and he has been playing that steadily for
two days,” replied Iris. “As far as I can make out from the discords it
is intended to be Strauss’s Tausend und Eine Nacht.”

But the Professor, an expert in Hebrew, Greek, and Sanskrit, had never
condescended to a modern tongue.

“Pray translate it for me,” he said, playfully, with the air of an
affable Sphinx.

“It is a subject to which I have given profound thought, Sir,” said
Iris, gravely. “It is not ‘A thousand and one nights,’ because the last
night only is intended, and therefore the best way to translate it is, I
think, ‘The thousand and oneth.’ I will give you some verses on the
melody, if you like.”



The Professor liked, and Iris began:


“‘TAUSEND UND EINE NACHT.

            “‘The birds within their dells
    Are silent; hushed the shining insect throng--
            Now human music swells,
    And all the land is echoing with song;
            The serenade, the glee,
    The symphony--and forth, mit Macht und Pracht,
            Orchestral harmony
    Is thrilling out Tausend und Eine Nacht.

            “‘O thousand nights and one!
    The witching magic of thy opening bars,
            In little notes begun,
    Might move to swaying waltzes all the stars
            In all their shining spheres;
    Then, soft, a plaintive air the music sings--
            We dance, but half in tears--
    To dearest joy a sadness always clings.
            “‘O thousand nights and one!
    Could we but have a thousand nights of bliss!
            The golden stories spun
    By dark-eyed Arab girl ne’er equaled this.
            Soon over? Yes, we see
    The summer’s fading; but, when all is done,
            There lives the thought that we
    Were happy--not a thousand nights, but one!’

“Dancing at a watering-place, you know--two young people
waltzing--orchestra playing Tausend und Eine Nacht. You have danced to
it a hundred times I dare say.”

No, the Professor had neglected dancing in his youth, but still it might
not be too late to learn if--

“Oh, I beg your pardon,” said Iris, waking up from her vision. “I forgot
it was you, Sir; I thought you were--were somebody else.”

So the days passed. Iris strolled about the town with Mokes, talked on
the piazza with Hoffman, and wore his roses in her hair (Hoffman was
always seen with a fresh rose every morning); she even listened
occasionally to extracts from the Great Work. But the sea-wall by
moonlight was reserved for Antinous. Thus we dallied with the pleasant
weather until Aunt Diana, like a Spartan matron, roused herself to
action. “This will never do,” she said; “this very afternoon we will all
go over to the island and see the tombs.”

Aunt Di’s temper had been sorely tried. Going out with Mokes the
preceding evening to find Iris, who was ostensibly “strolling up and
down the wall” in the moonlight with the Captain, she had found no trace
of her niece from one end of the wall to the other--from the glacis of
San Marco to the flag-staff at the Barracks. Heroically swallowing her
wrath, she had returned to the hotel a perfect coruscation of stories,
bon-mots, and compliments, to cover the delinquency of her niece, and
amuse the deserted Mokes; and, to tell the truth, Mokes seemed very well
amused. He was not an ardent lover.

“Where do you suppose they are?” I said, sotto voce, to John Hoffman.

“The demi-lune!” he answered.

A sail-boat took us first down to Fish Island, which is really a part of
Anastasia, separated from it only by a small creek. The inlet, which is
named Matanzas River south of the harbor, and the North River above it,
was dotted with porpoises heaving up their unwieldy bulk; the shores
were bristling with oysters; armies of fiddler-crabs darted to and fro
on the sands; heavy old pelicans, sickle-bill curlews, ospreys, herons,
and even bald-headed eagles flew around and about us. We ran down before
the wind within sight of the mysterious old fortification that guards
the Matanzas channel--mysterious from the total absence of any data as
to its origin. “Three hundred and fifty Huguenots met their death down
there,” said John Hoffman; “massacred under the personal supervision of
Menendez himself. Their bones lie beneath this water, or under the
shifting sands of the beach, but the river perpetuates the deed in its
name, Matanzas, or slaughter.”

“Is there any place about here where there were no massacres?” asked
Sara. “Wherever I go, they arise from the past and glare at me. Between
Spanish, Huguenot, and Indian slaughter, I am becoming quite gory.”

The Professor, who was holding on his tall hat with much difficulty in
the fresh breeze, here wished to know generally if we had read the
remarkable narrative of Cabeça de Vaca, the true discoverer of the
Mississippi, who landed in Florida in 1527.

“Alas! the G. W. again,” murmured Sara in my ear. Miss Sharp, however,
wanted “so much to hear about it” that the Professor began. But the hat
kept interfering. Once Mokes rescued it, once John Hoffman, and the
renowned De Vaca suffered in consequence. The governess wore a white
scarf around her neck, one of those voluminous things called “clouds.”
She took it off, and leaned forward with a smile. “Perhaps if you were
to tie this over your hat,” she said, sweetly offering it.

But the Professor was glad to get it, and saw no occasion for sweetness
at all. He wanted to go on with De Vaca; and so, setting the hat firmly
on the back of his head, he threw the scarf over the top, and tied the
long ends firmly under his chin. The effect was striking, especially in
profile, and we were glad when the landing at Fish Island gave us an
opportunity to let out our laughter over hastily improvised and idiotic
jokes, while, all unconscious, the Professor went on behind us, and
carried De Vaca into the thirteenth chapter.

The island began with a morass, and the boatmen went back for planks.

“‘Away to the Dismal Swamp he speeds,’” said Iris, balancing herself on
an oyster shell, Mokes by her side (the Captain was absent--trust Aunt
Diana for that!). “Those verses always haunt one so, don’t they?”

Mokes, as usual in the rear, mentally speaking, wanted to know “what
verses?”

“Moore’s Dismal Swamp, of course. Sometimes I find myself saying it
over fifty times a day:

    ‘They have made her a grave too cold and damp
               For a soul so warm and true;
     She has gone to the Lake of the Dismal Swamp,
     Where all night long, by a fire-fly lamp,
               She paddles her white canoe.’

Be sure and pronounce ‘swamp’ to rhyme exactly with ‘damp’ and ‘lamp,’”
continued Iris; “the effect is more tragic.”

“Certainly,” said Mokes, “far more.”

Passing the morass on planks, we walked down a path bordered with
Spanish-bayonets, crossed the creek on a small boat lying there, and
entered the enchanted domain. It seemed to be a large plantation run to
waste; symmetrical fields surrounded by high hedges of the sour orange,
loaded with its fruit; old furrows still visible in the never-freezing
ground; every where traces of careful labor and cultivation, which had
made the sandy island blossom as the rose. In the centre of a broad lawn
were the ruins of a mansion, the white chimney alone standing, like a
monument to the past. Beyond, a path led down to a circle of trees with
even, dense foliage; there, in the centre, shut out from the glare of
the sunshine, alone in the greenery, stood a solitary tomb, massive and
dark, without date or inscription save what the little fingers of the
lichen had written. We stood around in silence, and presently another
pleasure party came down the path and joined us--gay young girls with
sprays of orange blossoms in their hats, young men carrying trailing
wreaths of the yellow jasmine. Together we filled the green tree circle;
and one of the strangers, a fair young girl, moved by a sudden impulse,
stepped forward and laid a spray of jasmine on the lonely tomb.



“‘Et in Arcadia ego,’” said John, who stood behind me. “Do you remember
that picture of the gay flower-decked Arcadians coming through a forest
with song and laughter, and finding there a solitary tomb with that
inscription? This is Arcadia, and we too have found the tomb.”

Strolling on down the island, we came to a long arched walk of
orange-trees trained into a continuous arbor.

“What a lovely wild old place!” said Iris. “What is its history? Does
any body know?”

“It has not been occupied for nearly a century, I am told,” said Aunt
Diana.

“Who would have expected traces of such careful cultivation down on this
remote island?” I said, as a new vista of symmetrical fields opened out
on one side.

“There you make the common mistake of all Northerners, Miss Martha,”
said John Hoffman. “Because the country is desolate and thinly settled,
you suppose it to be also wild and new, like the Western States and
Territories. You forget how long this far peninsula has been known to
the white man. These shores were settled more than a century before
Plymouth or Jamestown, and you can scarcely go out in any direction
around St. Augustine without coming upon old groves of orange and fig
trees, a ruined stone wall, or fallen chimney. Poor Florida! she is full
of deserted plantations.”

“But does any one know the story of the place?” repeated Iris, who
preferred any diversion to Mokes’s solo.

“Why insist upon digging it up?” said Sara. “Let it rest in the purple
haze of the past. The place has not been occupied for a hundred years.
We see this beautiful orange walk; yonder is a solitary tomb. Can we not
fill out these shadowy borders without the aid of prosaic detail?”

The Professor, who had been digging up vicious-looking roots, now joined
us. “When I was here some years ago,” he began, in his loud, distinct
tones, “I made a point of investigating--”

“Let us make a point of leaving,” murmured Sara, taking me off down
the walk. John Hoffman followed, so did Iris, and consequently Mokes,
likewise Aunt Di. Miss Sharp longed to stay, but did not quite dare; so
she compromised by walking on, as far as her feet were concerned, all
the rest of her, however, looking back with rapt attention. “Yes? How
interesting! Pray go on.”

The Professor went on; we heard his voice in the rear. “It was called El
Verjel (the garden), and its orange grove was the glory of St.
Augustine--”

“Hurry!” whispered Sara, “or we shall hear the whole.”

We hastened out into the sunny meadows, catching “killed by
lightning”--“1790”--“he sent his oranges to London;” then the voice died
away in the distance. John Hoffman kept with us, and we wandered on,
looking off over the Matanzas, sweeping on to the south, dotted with
sails, and the black dug-outs of the Minorcan fishermen anchored along
shore. The tide was out, and the coast-line bare and desolate.



“Nothing that H. H. ever wrote excels her ‘When the tide comes in,’” I
said. “Do you remember it?

            ‘When the tide goes out,
    The shore looks dark and sad with doubt’--

and that final question,

    ‘Ah, darling, shall we ever learn
     Love’s tidal hours and days?’”

“You believe, then, that love has its high and low tides?” said John,
lighting a fresh cigar.

“Low tide,” said Sara, half to herself--“low tide always.” She was
looking at the bare shore with a sadness that had real roots down
somewhere.

“Very low, I suppose,” commented John; “every thing is always very
high or very low with you ladies. You are like the man who had a steamer
to sell. ‘But is it a low-pressure engine?’ asked a purchaser. ‘Oh yes,
very low,’ replied the owner, earnestly.”

Sara flushed, and turned away.

“Do you do it on purpose, I wonder?” I thought, with some indignation,
as I glanced at John’s imperturbable face. I was very tender always with
Sara’s sudden little sadnesses. I think there is no one who comprehends
a girl passing through the shadow-land of doubt and vague questioning
that lies beyond youth so well as the old maid who has made the journey
herself, and knows of a surety that there is sunshine beyond. Obeying a
sudden impulse, I asked the question aloud. Sara was in front of us, out
of hearing.

“Do I do what on purpose, Miss Martha? Tell anecdotes?”

“You know what I mean very well, Mr. Hoffman. Her sadness was real for
the moment; why wound her?”

“Wound her! Is a woman wounded by a trifling joke?”

“But her nature is peculiarly sensitive.”

“You mistake her, I think, Miss Martha. Sara St. John is coated over
with pride like an armor; she is invulnerable.”

I could not quite deny this, so I veered a little. “She is so lonely,
Mr. Hoffman!” I said, coming round on another tack.

“Because she so chooses.”

“It may not be ‘choose.’ Mr. Hoffman, why should you not try to--”
Here I looked up and caught the satirical smile on my companion’s face,
and, vexed with myself, I stopped abruptly.

“You are a good friend, Miss Martha.”

“She has need of friends, poor girl!”

“Why poor?”

“In the first place she is poor, literally.”

“Poverty is comparative. Who so poor as Mokes with his millions?”

“Then she is poor in the loss of her youth; she is no longer young, like
Iris.”

“‘Oh, saw ye not fair Iris going down into the west’--a minute ago,”
said John, glancing after a vanishing blue ribbon. A suspicion, and not
for the first time either, crossed my mind. “So it is little Iris, after
all,” I thought. “Oh, man, man, how can you be so foolish!” Then aloud,
“I must go forward and join the others,” I said, with a tinge of
annoyance I could not conceal. John looked at me a moment, and then
strode forward. I watched him; he joined Sara. I followed slowly. “There
is a second tomb farther down the island,” he was saying as I came up;
“it is even more venerable than the first; a square inclosure of
coquina, out of which grows an ancient cedar-tree which was probably
planted, a mere slip, after the grave was closed. Will you walk that way
with me, Miss St. John?” And with bared head he stood waiting for her
answer.



“Thank you,” said Sara, “I do not care to walk farther.”

He bowed and left her.

Half an hour later, as Sara and I were strolling near the far point of
the island, we caught through the trees a glimpse of Iris seated in the
low, crooked bough of a live-oak, and at her feet John Hoffman,
reclining on the white tufted moss that covered the ground. “Absurd!” I
said, angrily.

“Why absurd? Is she not good and fair? To me there is something very
bewitching about Iris Carew. She is the most graceful little creature;
look at her attitude now, swinging in that bough! and when she walks
there is a willowy suppleness about her that makes the rest of us look
like grenadiers. Then what arch dark eyes she has, what a lovely
brunette skin, the real brune! Pretty, graceful little Iris, she is
always picturesque, whatever she does.”

“But she is a child, Sara, while he--”

“Is John Hoffman,” replied Sara, with a little curl of her lip. “Come,
Martha, I want to show you some Arcadians.”

“Arcadians?”

“Yes. Not the people who found the tomb in the forest, but some real
practical Arcadians, who enjoy life as Nature intended.”

“Who knows what she intended? I am sure I don’t,” I said, crossly.

Near the ruins of the mansion we found the Arcadians, a young man with
his wife and child, living in a small out-building which might have been
a cow-house. It was not more than ten feet square, the roof had fallen
in, and was replaced by a rude thatch of palmetto leaves; there was no
window of any kind, no floor save the sand, and for a door only an old
coverlet hung up and tied back like a curtain. Within we could see a low
settle-bed with some ragged coverings, a stool, powder, shot, and
fishing tackle hung up on one side, and an old calico dress on the
other; without was a table under a tree, a cupboard hung on the outside
of the house, containing a few dishes, and the ashes of the family fire
near at hand. Two thin dogs and a forlorn calf (oh, the cadaverous
cattle of Florida!) completed the stock of this model farm.

“They eat and cook out-of-doors all the year round, I suppose. What a
home! Did any one ever see such poverty,” I said, “and such indolence?
They do not even take the trouble to make a door.”

“What do they want of a door? There is nothing to keep out but Nature.
And as for poverty, they seem happy enough,” replied Sara.

They did. The woman came to meet us with her brown baby, and the young
husband took his gun and went out to find his supper--partridge from the
wood, probably, and oysters from the beach. They had lived there three
years, the woman said. Her name was Anita, her husband’s Gaspar, the
baby was Rafaello. No, they did not work much. They had a few
sweet-potatoes yonder, and sometimes she braided palmetto and took it
down to the city to sell. Gaspar had a dug-out, and sometimes he sold
fish, but not often. They had every thing they wanted. Did she know any
thing about this old place? No, she did not. Couldn’t she find out? Yes,
she supposed she could; her people had lived along the Matanzas for
years; but she never took the trouble to ask. Should she send that brown
baby to school when it grew larger?

“To school?” And the young mother laughed merrily, showing even, white
teeth, and tossing up the little Rafaello until he crowed with glee.
“None of us-uns goes to school, my lady.”

“But what will he do, then?”

“Do? Why, live here or somewhars, jes as we’re doing,” replied Anita.
“That’s all he wants.”

“A great many people come over here in the season, do they not?” I
asked, abandoning my educational efforts.

“Yes, pleasant days folks come.”

“Do you think the ladies are pretty?”

“Sometimes,” replied Anita, with a critical air.

“Wouldn’t you like to look as they do?”

“Oh no,” replied our “nut-brown mayde,” with a broad, contented smile.

“And the gentlemen. What do you think of them?”

“Eh? the mens, did you say? Oh, they’re so wimpsy!” And bursting into a
peal of laughter, the mother tossed up the baby again until he too
joined in the merriment over the “wimpsyness,” whatever that was, of the
tourists from the North.

“Do you know, I feel as though Calhoun himself was laughing at me from
his grave,” I said, as we walked away. “Your Arcadians, Sara, have made
me more conscious of my bodily defects than a whole regiment of fine
city people. What a shape that woman had! what eyes! what teeth! But
what did she mean by wimpsy?”

“Very likely she meant Mokes. He is certainly limpsy; then why not
wimpsy? There he is, by-the-way.”

So he was, sitting with (of all persons in the world!) the governess.
“In 1648 there were three hundred householders resident in St.
Augustine, Mr. Mokes,” we heard her say as we drew near.

“Must have wanted to--beast of a place,” commented Mokes. He looked up
doubtfully as we went by, but not having decided exactly how
strong-minded Sara might be, he concluded not to venture; the governess
at least never posed a fellow with startling questions.

“Poor Mokes!” I said.

“Oh yes, very poor!”

“I was thinking of his forlorn love affair, Sara.”





“Iris may still be Mrs. Mokes.”

“Oh no!”

“Do not be too sure, Martha. In my opinion--nay, experience--a young
girl is far more apt to be dazzled by wealth than an older woman. The
older woman knows how little it has to do with happiness, after all; the
young girl has not yet learned that.”

The Osceola carried us northward again, and then around into a creek
where was the landing-place of Anastasia Island.

“This Anastasia was a saint,” I said, as we strolled up the path leading
to the new light-house. “She belonged to the times of Diocletian, and we
know where to find her, which is more than I can say of Maria Sanchez
over in the village.”

“And who is this Maria Sanchez?” inquired Aunt Diana, in her affable,
conversational tone. Aunt Di always asked little questions of this kind,
not because she cared to know, but because she esteemed it a duty to
keep the conversation flowing.

“Ah! that is the question, aunt--who was she? There are persons of that
name in the town now, but this creek bore the name centuries ago;
wherefore, nobody knows. Maria is a watery mystery.”

The new light-house, curiously striped in black and white like a
barber’s pole, rose from the chaparral some distance back from the
beach, one hundred and sixty feet into the clear air; there was nothing
to compare it with, not a hill or rise of land, not even a tall tree,
and therefore it looked gigantic, a tower built by Titans rather than
men.

“Let us go up to the top,” said Iris, peeping within the open door. We
hesitated: one hundred and sixty feet of winding stairway may be
regarded as a crucial test between youth and age.

“Oh, Aunt Di, not you, of course! nor you either, Miss Sharp, nor the
Professor, nor Cousin Martha,” said Iris, heedlessly. “You can all sit
here comfortably in the shade while the rest of us run up; we shall not
stay long.”

Upon this instantly we all arose and began to climb up those stairs. Sit
there comfortably in the shade, indeed! Not one of us!

The view from the summit seemed wonderfully extensive--inland over the
level pine-barrens to the west; the level blue sea to the east; north,
the silver sands of the Florida main-land; and south, the stretch of
Anastasia Island, its backbone distinctly visible in the slope of the
low green foliage.

“How soft and blue the ocean looks!” said Iris. “I should like to sail
away to the far East and never come back.”

“If I only had my yacht here now, Miss Iris!” said Mokes, gallantly.
“But we should want to come back some time, you know. Egypt and the
Nile--well, they are dirty places; although I--er--I always carry every
thing with me, it is almost impossible to live properly there.”

We all knew what Mokes meant; he meant his portable bath. He aped
English fashions, and was always bringing into conversation that blessed
article of furniture, which accompanied him every where in charge of his
valet. So often indeed did he allude to it that we all felt, like the
happy-thought man, inclined to chant out in chorus, to the tune of the
Mistletoe Bough,

    “Oh, his portable ba-ath!
     Oh, his por-ta-ble ba-ath!”

“You have, I am told, Mr. Mokes, the finest yacht in this country,” said
John Hoffman.

Well, it wasn’t a bad one, Mokes allowed.

“I don’t know which I would rather own,” pursued John, “your yacht or
your horses. Why, Sir, your horses are the pride of New York.”

I glanced at John; he was as grave as a judge. Mokes glowed with
satisfaction. Iris listened with downcast eyes, and Aunt Diana, who had
at last reached the top stair, gathered her remaining strength to smile
upon the scene. Mokes came out of his shell entirely, and graciously
offered his arm to Aunt Diana for the long descent.

But Aunt Di could--“excuse me, Mr. Mokes”--really hold on “better by the
railing;” but “perhaps Iris--”

Yes, Iris could, and did.

John looked after the three as they wound down the long spiral with a
smile of quiet amusement.

“All alike,” he said to me, with the “old-comrade” freedom that had
grown up between us. “La richesse est toujours des femmes le grand
amour, Miss Martha.”

“Don’t quote your pagan French at me,” I answered, retreating outside,
where on the little platform I had left Sara gazing out to sea. She was
looking down now, leaning over the railing as if measuring the dizzy
height.

“If I should throw myself over,” she said, as I came up, “my body would
go down; but where would my soul go, I wonder?”

“Don’t be morbid, Sara.”

“Morbid? Nonsense! That is a duty word, a red flag which timid people
