" I was quite shocked to see Louis," he said, 
in an anxious tone. " He looks very poorly in- 
deed. We must try our best to nurse him back 
to health and strength. Rose, there is some 
more work to do." 

The voices up stairs were raised quite high in 
dispute. Louis gave a tantalizing laugh. 

We never quarrelled. I do not know that we 
were so much more amiable by nature ; but our 
disputes were of small importance, and never 
reached any great height. So we all started 
rather nervously. 

"Boys!' said Fan, sententiously. " O, papa, 
dearest, I am so glad that you came into the 
world a full-grown, evenly-tempered man, and 
that we all could not help being sweet if we 
tried, seeing that we follow your example." 

"Do you?' returned papa, archly. "I hope 
you do not use it all up, and that there is a 
little left for the parish." 

"And the stranger within our gates." 

There seemed to be no cessation, in the dis- 
cussion up stairs ; so, presently, papa asked that 
the bell might be rung. Stuart answered the 
summons, coming down two steps at a bound, 
and shaking the house. 

"Louis begs you to excuse him," he said, 
with a graceful inclination. "He is knocked up 
completely. He made such a muff of himself at 
the examinations, that he has been cross as a 
bear ever since. He has a lovely temper." 

There was a droll light in his eyes as he ut- 
tered this. 

"Your brother said he was in poor health. 
So he -failed then?' and papa's voice dropped 
softly. 

"Yes. Steve did not want him to try. He 
said there was no hurry about his getting into 
college. I only wish somebody would coddle 
me up, and tell me that I needn't study. I 
think the whole world is in a conspiracy against 
me.' 




You seem to thrive on it," returned papa. 
"O, there is no use of worrying one's sell' 
into the grave, so far as I can see. I belie vo 
in enjoying everything that I can squeeze a bit 
of inn out of. So I laugh at Louis, and lie 
gets angry." 

"It is just possible that he may not see the 
fun," said papa, soberly. 

" That is his lookout." 

"Is he really ill?' asked mamma. 

"Not much, I guess. But he is as full of 
whims as any old granny ! He should have been 
a girl." 

"Keep him on your side of the House," re- 
torted Fan. "It is a good thing that boys do 
not monopolize all the virtues." 

He looked at her with a peculiar stare, then 
laughed. He did seem brimming over with mer- 
riment, and rather pleased that Fanny had shown 
her colors. So they had a little gay sparring. 

"Do you not think your brother would like 
a cup of tea ? ' asked mamma. 

"When he gets in a fit like this, he gener- 
ally sulks it out," returned Stuart carelessly, ris- 
ing and sauntering out on the porch. 

Mamma could not resist, and presently went 
up stairs, tapping lightly at the half-open door. 

"I wish you would go away," said a voice, 
crossly. 

"It is I," exclaimed mamma, in her soft, yet 
firm, tones, that always commanded respect. 


"O! excuse me;' and Louis half raised his 
head. 

" Will you not have a cup of tea ? ' 

"No, thank you;' rather ungraciously. 

"Can I not do something for you? Does 
your head ache ? ' 

"Yes. I do not want anything but quiet." 

"Very well; you shall have that," she said, 
softly. 

She came down stairs, with a little sigh. 

"Is the bear still on exhibition, Mrs. Endi- 
cott ? ' asked Stuart. 

"I am afraid you, in your perfect health, do 
not realize how hard some things are to endure 
she said, with a touch of reproof in her voice. 

"I am glad I have not such a fearful temper. 
Miss Endicott, you play croquet, of course. I 
challenge you to a game." 

Fanny tripped gayly down the path. But 
mamma, I noticed, looked very grave. 



 




CHAPTER JV. 



Nelly, and Stuart played croquet until 
it was fairly dusk. There were shouts 
of laughter, and much hurrying around, 
as if no time was to be lost. Mamma and I went 
quietly about our duties ; and when I had the 
children in bed, I came into the nursery and 
sat down to have a brief talk with her. By this 
time the click of the balls had ceased, and the 
three were strolling up and down the street. 

"How odd it seems!' I said. I wonder if 
we shall get along nicely." 

"Don't begin to fear thus early, Mr. Faint- 
heart," returned mamma, smilingly. "It will not 
be as nice as haying our house to ourselves ; 
but we are not doing it for pure enjoyment. 
"When we are tired, and worried, and discouraged 
we must think of all the nice things we shall 
buy in the fall, and be comforted. We shall 


have papa a new study carpet, and get his chair 
freshly covered." 


"And if it could be Russia leather! That 
would last him all his life. At all events, we 
will spend half on him ; and I am sure he will 
deserve it. He will, likely, be the greatest suf- 
ferer by the confusion." 

"The boys will be out of doors much of the 


time, no doubt. "We must try to improve our 
invalid as rapidly as possible. Poor boy ! ' 

"Mamma," I said, "what a great generous 
heart you have ! You always pity every one. I 
have a suspicion that Mr. Louis is cross as well 
as sick." 

"Then we must minister to the mind as well 
as the body." 

"I am o-lad that Stuart is bright and cheerfull." 

" O, those children must come in ! she said, 
starting up. "Fanny is so thoughtless!' 

They answered the summons, but sat down 
on the porch step, where Stuart finished a story 
of boyish school-pranks, which was very amusing, 
to say the least. Papa came in time to hear the 
last of it, and shook his head rather sagely. 
It is past ten," announced mamma. 


Country bed-time ! ' said Stuart, gayly. '' I 
suppose, Mrs. Endicott, that is a hint for me to 
go stir up my bear, and listen to a few growls. 
A menagerie ; ten cents admittance. Who'll 
venture in ? Don't all speak at once, or the 
place may be crowded." 

" Perhaps, since he is not very well, you had 
better sleep in another room to-night," mamma 
said. 

" Because he might eat me up in the night, 
since he refused his supper. I am much obliged, 
Mrs. Endicott." 

Mamma came around a trifle, so that she faced 
him, and, standing in the shaded light, raised 
her soft, dark eves to his, and said, 



"This is out of consideration to him, and not 
the fear of what will happen to you. That will 
be the thought for vou to go to bed with, and 


see if you cannot resolve it into a lesson worth 
the learning. If I adopt you into my household, 
I shall train you as one of my children. And 
you will be astonished to see what marvels a 
little care for the feelings of others will work." 
Stuart blushed and smiled, said good night, 
and followed papa to the best guest-chamber, 
that I had put in such lovely order. And so 
there was quiet through the night. 


Louis did not make his appearance at break- 
fast ; but Stuart had been in stirring him up, for 
we heard the growls. But he was so merry and 
good-natured when he came down, that one had 
not the heart to find any fault. Indeed, he kept 
the children laughing all through the meal. 



"What is there to do in this queer little town, 
Mr. Endicott ? ' he asked presently. "Fishing. 
I suppose the staple amusement of lazy people. 
Any hunting ? ' 

"Xot at this season; and very little at any. 
There are some nice rambles, and the fishing, as 
you say." 

"Any young fellows that one would like ? ' 

"Yes a number; though some of them keep 
pretty busy during the day. And I forgot row- 
ing. There are boats to be had." 

"Thank you. I'll take a saunter round. I 
always do have the luck of finding some one." 

" And there are books in the library. You 
may like to keep fresh for fall. So your broth- 
er was a good deal disappointed at not passing '! ' 



"Yes. It wouldn't have troubled me. Steve 
was not a bit anxious ; so I should have let itj. 
go without a sigh. There is nothing like rejig 

Kit ion in this world.' 



 

"You are an admirable pattern of it," said 
Fanny. "I feel tempted to envy you. I have 
another fortnight of school ; and fearful exami- 
nations are hanging over my devoted head. 

"Couldn't I go in your stead? I am fresh 
from it all, and might save you much vanity 
and vexation of spirit." 

" Especially the vanity. Your kindness is only 
exceeded by your great beauty. Shakespeare" 

" Fanny ! ' said papa. 

Mamma rose from the table, and prepared a 
dainty breakfast upon a waiter, pouring the coffee 
in a pretty medallion cup that had been 
given her at Christmas. Then she took it her- 
self. Stuart sprang up with an instinct of gen- 
tlemanliiiess. 

" You are not going to carry that up stairs ? ' 
he asked, in surprise. 

"Why not?" 

"If you are not going to send a servant, I 
will take it." 

"You may carry it for me, if you like ; but I 
wish to make a call upon your brother." 

He was her attendant as far as the door ; but 
a - when her summons was answered, she dismissed 
tha\ m . Then she walked straight to the bedside, 
there -i n g her tray on a small table. 



 

' ' Are you rested this morning ? : she asked, 
gently. "I think you w r ill feel better for some 
breakfast. I am sorry that you should be so 
fatigued and ill, for a place seldom looks bright 
under such circumstances. But we will do our 
best for you, and you must try as well." 

The scowl remained in his forehead. He raised 
himself on his elbow, and turned towards her, 
though his eyes were still averted. 

"I am obliged for the trouble, though I do 
not need any breakfast," he said, rather gruffly. 

"I think you do need it. Here is a glass of 
cool spring water, and some fragrant coffee. A 
little of both may revive you. Does your head 
still ache ? If I had known just what to do for 
you, I should have come again last night." 

"Was it you who ' and his face flushed a 
swarthy scarlet. 

" Yes ; ' and mamma looked steadily at him 
out of her sweet brown eyes. 

lie moved uneasily, and in his heart wished 
she were away. 

"Was it you who* came last evening?' he 
asked, in a low, wondering tone. 

"Yes. I felt anxious about you. I knew you 
were in a strange place, and, doubtless, feeling 


awkward and lonesome. That must be my 
apology." 

"O," he exclaimed, "don't make any to me. 
I acted like a boor ! I am sorry and ashamed. 
And I don't deserve that you should take all 
this trouble for me. But I had been " 

"And I did sympathize with you to the ut- 
most. The disappointment must have proved 
great. But I do believe it will be much better 
for you to wait. You were not strong enough 
to take up a college course." 

"Yet I had said those things over and over 
again. I knew them fairly well, at least. And 
to have all those boobies set up and sneer ! I 
could have killed them ! ' 

He looked so at the moment. 

" O," mamma said, "you must not think of 
this now. Do not try to keep the angry flames 
alive. It is a bright, lovely morning ; .and if 
you could make the effort to come down on the 
porch, you would feel so much better ! Try this 
coffee to please me." 

"You are very kind and solicitous." 

There was a little tremble in his voice ; but 
he made no effort to touch the food. 

"If you appreciate it, you will begin youi 

breakfast before everything gets cold. You will 
feel more like rising then. Come, I mean to 
cheer you up in spite of yourself. This is not 
Doubting Castle, and I cannot take in Giant 
Despair." 

He smiled faintly then, and sipped his coffee. 

"There," mamma said, in her bright, cheery 
way, "you have made a small beginning, and 
that gives me faith in you. Now I must go 
back to my flock. Down stairs there is a cool, 
pleasant library, and a piano, which always stands 
open. I want you to feel at home." 

"You are good," he returned. "Can I have 
the library to myself, or only with Mr. Endi- 
cott?" 

"Yes ; or the parlor, either. Indeed, Mr. Endi- 
cott has finished his sermons, and will be out 
nearly all day." 

"Thank you." 

Stuart was lying in wait at the foot of the 
stairs. 

"Well," with a gay little laugh, "did you 
beard the lion in his den? I must go up and 
make him roar." 

"No," said mamma, laying her hand on his 
arm, "you must not go up; and I ask, as ? 




personal favor, that you will not tease him this 
whole day." 

" Tease him ! The baby ! Poor little thing ! " 

"I have promised him a quiet morning. You 
will not compel me to break my word ? ' 

"Then I shall have to go out and hunt up 
some fun." 

She smiled in her irresistable fashion, that 
conquered if it did not convince. 

We had made an exception, and done the most 
of our Saturday's work on Friday morning. 
So now there was only a little dusting, with 
the usual making of beds, and all that. I had 
just finished the other rooms, when Louis left 
his, and went quietly down to the study, shut- 
ting himself in. To mamma's satisfaction, he 
had eaten nearly all the breakfast she had pre- 
pared. 

I put the room in its usual order. Oddly 
enough, I found a withered rose under the pil- 
low, and it was still sweet. I remembered that 
Stephen was very fond of roses. There were 
ever so many small articles strewn about. I 
thought those big boys were as careless as the 
children. 

Papa came in just before dinner was ready. 



 

and had a little chat with Louis, though the 
young man was not disposed to be social. At 
dinner he seemed dreadfully awkward and em- 
barrassed, his sallow cheeks, flushing at the least 
word. Somehow I was glad Stuart was not 
there. Afterwards he went up to his room, and 
spent the whole afternoon alone. 

We had rather a funny time. Stuart came in 
late, and insisted upon having his dinp.er in the 
kitchen, telling Ann two or three puch laughable 
Irish stories, that they were friends straightway. 
Then he would insist upon carrying Fan's basket 
when she was ready to start o j i her visitation, 
as she called it. 

"It was as good as a play," he said after- 
wards. "I thought I should smile audibly at 
that old lady Mrs. Means, I believe you called 
her. She is an ungrateful wretch, Mrs. Endi- 
cott. ' She did not like such light, chaffy bread ; 
it had no heart. You might as well eat /sawdust.' 
And she wanted to know how many eggs were in 
the custard ; and when people sent c/irrants, she 
wished they would send sugar, too. '.Vasty, sour 
tilings ! ' Why, I had half a mind to hustle the 
gifts back in the basket, and bring th/im home." 

"We are not to get weary in well do'^g," said 
mamma. 



 

''I'm not sure but a little wholesome hun- 
ger would be good. And then that old Mrs. 
Bogert ! Doesn't she look funny there in the bed, 
with her little, wrinkled face and that napping 
cap-ruffle. And her talk, and the queer way in 
which she keeps questioning her maid 'Betty, 
how long is it since I was tuck sick ? ' in that 
high, cracked voice, which sounds like a smashed 
hand organ with a monkey grinding it. ' Betty, 
tell the gentleman how I fell down the cellar 
stairs. Betty, bring me my snuff-box ; mebby 
the young gentleman will take a pinch.' 

He imitated Mrs. Bogert's tone so exactly, 
that we could not help laughing. 

"Did you take a pinch?' asked Nelly. 

" Of course I did. And such sneezing ! ' 

"It was dreadful, ' : said Fan, with a reproach- 
ful look. "And not a bit in earnest.'' 

"How did you do it?' Nelly questioned. 

"This way." 

There isn't any method of spelling such terrific 
sneezing. No combination of letters would do 
it justice. I thought I wouldn't laugh ; but I 
did and the children screamed. 

"Good snuff wasn't it?' he said, with a 
droll wink. 



"I don't see how you can do it, all in 
said wide-eyed Daisy. 

"I do not believe I shall take you out with me 
again," commented Fan, severely. 

"But I know the way now. I shall drop in 
to see the old lady often, and get a pinch of 
snuff. O, dear ! I am almost worn, out with my 
arduous duties. Can any one stay me with a 
glass, and comfort me with cold water- -the 
literal for apples and love ? And then can't 
we dissipate on croquet ? If I sit still much 
longer I shall have the rickets. My physician 
prescribed active exercise." 

" You had better take the baby out in her 
carriage, if you want exercise," said Tiny Tim, 
having heard the two connected some way. 

He laughed. 

"For 

' Satan finds some mischief stilJ 
For idle hands to do.' 

Isn't that in the hymn book ? " 



" Not in mine," returned Fan. 

"Well, I am sure it is in the spelling-book. 
I learned it somewhere ; and it is about a busy 
bee. Good instructions, like pins, are never 
lost." 

"But pins an- lost. Your logic is faulty." 




"No they're always gone before that is, be- 
fore you want them." 

"You are too smart for your size," said Fan. 
"I am afraid you'll grow up a dunce." 

"Well, you cannot have all the virtues for a 
little money. As it is, I think of striking for 
higher wages." 

"You are not worth what you get now," said 
Fan, running away. 

Stuart did not venture up stairs until just be- 
fore supper. Louis declined to come down ; so 
mamma sent him some tea, berries, and biscuits. 

"I am afraid you are beginning in a way to 
make trouble for yourself," papa said, thought- 
fully, afterwards. 

"I am going to indulge him for a few days. 
He is nervous, and really bashful ; and I want 
him to learn to like us. But he cannot be 
forced to do anything." 

"I believe I like my girls the best," said 
papa, fondly. 

Saturday evenings, when no one dropped in, 
were our choicest time of all the week. Mam- 
ma played, and we all sang. This time no one 
came to disturb us. And we never knew, until 
long afterwards, that Louis Duncan listened 



 

with his eyes full of tears, and had not the 
courage to join us. But it always appeared to me 
like a little bit of heaven below. Papa's sweet 
tenor voice seemed to belong to some particular 
hymns, and it took me far above the petty work- 
day affairs. How good and lovely he was in 
his every-day walks and ways ! 

Louis began to get somewhat acquainted with 
us on Sunday. He did not go to church, but 
lay on the bed reading nearly all day. No one 
found any fault with him ; and Stuart's teasing 
tongue was hushed. I think he stood a little in 
awe of my mother, gentle as she was. It was 
plain to see that the boys had been brought up 
with mere outward forms of religion ; that they 
had no love and very little respect for it. How 
different they w T ere from Stephen ! 

But the enforced quiet was broken on Mon- 
day morning, there were some high w r ords, and 
then an unmistakable blow, followed by a strug- 
gle and a fall. Papa went up stairs. 

"Boys," he said, with severe but simple 
dignity, " are you brothers, and must you quar- 
rel ? If you have no respect for yourselves, I 
implore you to have a little for my house, that 
In is hitherto been the abode of harmony. I will 
not have it.' 

The combatants paused, and glared, at each 
other with angry eyes. Stuart had come off 
victor, for it was Louis who had fallen. He 
was deadly white now, with a blue line about 
the mouth. 

"I won't be struck as if I was a child," ex- 
claimed Stuart, with fierce determination; "and 
he struck me." 

" I told you to let that brush alone," said the 
other, sullenly. "Your own was there." 

" Stuart, go in the room opposite and finish 
your toilet. I shall expect an apology from you 
both when you come down stairs. Breakfast is 
ready." 

It seemed as if we were to have neither of 
them ; but when the meal was about half over 
Stuart entered the room. His face was flushed, 
and his eyes were still sending out fiery rays ; 
but he went straight to papa. 

"Mr. Endicott," he said, making an effort to 
steady his voice, "I am truly sorry that I should 
have been so rude and ungentlemanly in your 
house. I ask your pardon. And yours, Mrs. 
Endicott." 

"I pardon you on condition that a similar 
event never happens, while you are here, at 



least. You are both too old to fall into such 
rough-and-tumble school-boy fights." 

Mamma held out her hand to him as he 
passed her. He blushed deeply, but seized it 
with a thankful eagerness. After that our meal 
was very silent. 

Ann went up stairs to see if Louis would 
have any breakfast. 

" Sure, he's crosser than two sticks when the 
fire is kindlin'. He doesn't want sup nor bite; 
and if he did, it's little he'd get from me." 

So mamma judged that it was best to pay no 
further attention to him. He did not even come 
down at noon ; and then Stuart found that his 
door was locked. 

Quite late in the afternoon I was hurrying 
through the hall, when he opened his door sud- 
denly. His hair was tumbled, his cheeks scarlet, 
and his eyes wild and staring. 

"For God's sake, get me a drink of water!" 
he cried, hoarsely. 

I took it up to him, and knocked; but there 
was no answer. I made some ado opening the 
door, and walked in rather timidly. He was 
laughing and talking incoherently but clutched 
at the pitcher of water and drank great, desperate 
swallows. Then he sank back on the bed 
exhausted. 

I ran to mamma in affright. 

"Louis Duncan is sick and out of his mind! ' 
I cried. "O, mamma, I am sorry they came. 
We shall have our hands full of trouble." 

She went to the room with me. He did not 
appear to know either of us, and we could not 
rouse him to any . coherency. 

"It is a fever. The doctor must be sent for 
immediately. Tell Nelly to go. And, Rose, we 
must arrange the other room, and take him over 
there, since it may be a long illness. Well, we 
must have patience. God knows what is for the 
best." 

I soon had everything in order. Papa coming 
in, he partly led and partly carried Louis to the 
best room. Mamma bathed his head and put 
some draughts on his wrists and his feet. Now 
he lay quietly, with his eyes half open, breath- 
ing heavily. 

Dr. Hawley called just before supper. 

"A bad case," he said, gravely, "a bad case! 
Why, the fellow is worn to skin and bone al- 
ready, and looks as if he had had the jaundice 
for the last month. But we will do our best. 
He may be stronger than he appears/' 



Stuart felt pretty sober that evening. 

"I suppose I ought not to have stirred him 
up so this morning," he said. "But it is such 
fun ! And it was all about a trifle. I used his 
hair-brush ; and he is as particular as any old 
maid. Then I tormented him a little, and he 
seized the brush and gave me a box on the ear, 
which I won't take from any one without a 
row. I am not a baby. And it was awful 
mean of him ! And so we clinched. But he 
has been in a dreadful temper for the last month. 
He was mad because Stephen wouldn't let him 
go to Lake George with a lot of fellows." 

" It was fortunate that he did not," returned 
mamma. " And, Stuart, I hope, in the weeks 
to come, you will learn vour duty towards him. 


God has not given you this tie for you to disregard
so utterly." 

Stuart looked at her with wondering eyes, 
but made no answer. 

"Our first experience with boys seems to be 
rather trying," said Fanny, as we were going to 
bed that night. "I hope and pray that he may 
not die- -and in our house ! ' 

I thought of what Stephen had asked of me. 




CHAPTER V. 

An awesome quiet settled over the house. 
I did not remember a time when any 

 Mirer one had ever been very sick. The children 

gathered in groups, and spoke in whispers, and 
for a day or two Stuart appeared almost con- 
science-stricken. But his natural flow of spirits 
could not be repressed. Yet his laugh jarred 
on my nerves. We were used to caring so 
much for each other's welfare and comfort, and 
sympathizing with sorrows or trivial illnesses, that 
his carelessness seemed to us as something quite 
dreadful. Yet he was so pleasant and good- 
natured, so ready to do anything that was asked 
of him, though he never appeared to think that 
he might volunteer any little service. 

" We must make some allowance for them," 
mamma said, in her kindly fashion. " Remember 
that they have had no mother. Much of their 



 

lives has been spent at school ; and their uncle 
was a cold and rather arrogant man, papa 
thinks. So they have had no chance to acquire 
the graces of home life." 

When the tidings became noised abroad 
through the village, we were quite besieged. 
Mamma threw up the fortifications at the hall 
door. The old women, who were curious, or 
anxious, or even kindly-hearted in their officious 
way, heard all of the story there, or in the sit- 
. ting-room, that it was necessary for them to 
know. Aunt Letty Perkins was not last nor 
least. 

"Was it true, as she had understood, that 
these two young men came to study with Mr. 
Endicott ? She heard they were going in college, 
or something or other. She hoped he would 
get well paid for his trouble young college 
chaps were always pretty wild. There was no 
great loss without some small gain ; and if this 
young fellow was sick, he couldn't be kitin* 
round the village into all sorts of mischief." 

" No, to be sure not," returned mamma, with 
a smile at this sort of comfort. 

" But what are you to do ? You have your 
hands full already, with such a houseful of 



 

children ! I allers say that Mis' Enclicott's the 
most wonderful woman I know. I should think 
you'd a been worn out long ago ; and here you 
haven't scarcely a wrinkle in your face ! ' 

"I do not know why people should wrinkle 
up their faces when they have a number of 
healthy, happy children about them. Why, they 
keep you young, Mrs. Perkins. It takes you 
back to your own childhood continually." 

"I hope you're a going to get paid for all 
this." 

"I do not believe the Duncans will become 
chargeable to the parish, since they have for- 
tunes of their own," said mamma, rather dryly. 

" Rich, now? Well, that's good! Though 
rich men's sons are exposed to sights of temp- 
tations. No one knows!" and Aunt Letty shook 
her head solemnly. 

"I fancy there will not be many here at 
Wachusett." 

"Mean to keep them' the whole year?" 

"'No; only through vacation." 

"They have gardeens, I s'pose?' 

" Mr. Endicott is their sole guardian now, 
with the exception of an elder brother, who acts 
for them." 

"CM" 



 

