I suppose! I'm not quite blind yet, I hope, and I sha'n't go where
I'm not wanted. And now, if you'll give me those samples, Nellie, I'll
go to Arnold's and Stewart's and look up that dress for you, and then
I'll take your laces to the mender's. It's a good morning's work to go
up to that dark alley where she rooms; but I'll do it, now I'm about
it. I'm not so worn out yet but what I am acceptable to do errands for
you," said Aunt Maria, with gloomy satisfaction.
"Oh, Maria, how can you talk so!" said little Mrs. Van Arsdel, with
tears in her eyes. "You really are unjust."
"There's no use in discussing matters, Nellie. Give me the patterns
and the laces," said Aunt Maria, obdurately. "Here! I'll sort 'em
out. You never have anything ready," she said, opening her sister's
drawer, and taking right and left such articles as she deemed proper,
with as much composure as if her sister had been a seven-year-old
child. "There!" she said, shutting the drawer, "now I'm ready. Good
morning!"--and away she sailed, leaving her sister abased in spirit,
and vaguely contrite for she couldn't tell what.
Aunt Maria had the most disagreeable habit of venting her indignation
on her sister, by going to most uncomfortable extremes of fatiguing
devotion to her service. With a brow of gloom and an air of martyrdom,
she would explore shops, tear up and down stair-cases, perform
fatiguing pilgrimages for Nellie and the girls; piling all these coals
of fire on their heads, and looking all the while so miserably abused
and heart-broken that it required stronger discrimination than poor
Mrs. Van Arsdel was gifted with not to feel herself a culprit.
"Only think, your Aunt Maria says she won't go this evening," she said
in a perplexed and apprehensive tone to her girls.
"Glad of it," said Alice, and the words were echoed by Angelique.
"Oh, girls, you oughtn't to feel so about your aunt!"
"We don't," said Alice, "but as long as she feels so about us, it's
just as well not to have her there. We girls are all going to do our
best to make the first evening a success, so that everybody shall have
a good time and want to come again; and if Aunt Maria goes in her
present pet, she would be as bad as Edgar Poe's raven."
"Just fancy our having her on our hands, saying 'nevermore' at
stated intervals," said Angelique, laughing; "why, it would upset
everything!"
"Angelique, you oughtn't to make fun of your aunt," said Mrs. Van
Arsdel, with an attempt at reproving gravity.
"I'm sure it's the nicest thing we can make of her, Mammy dear,"
said Angelique; "it's better to laugh than to cry any time. Oh, Aunt
Maria will keep, never fear. She'll clear off by-and-by, like a
northeast rain-storm, and then we shall like her well as ever; sha'n't
we, girls?"
"Oh, yes; she always comes round after a while," said Alice.
"Well, now I'm going up to help Eva get the rooms ready," said
Angelique, and out she fluttered, like a flossy bit of thistle-down.
Angelique belonged to the corps of the laughing saints--a department
not always recognized by the straiter sort in the church militant, but
infinitely effective and to the purpose in the battle of life. Her
heart was a tender but a gay one--perhaps the lovingness of it kept it
bright; for love is a happy divinity, and Angelique loved everybody,
and saw the best side of everything; besides, just now she was barely
seventeen, and thought the world a very nice place. She was the very
life of the household, the one who loved to run and wait and tend; who
could stop gaps and fill spaces, and liked to do it: and so, this day,
she devoted herself to Eva's service in the hundred somethings that
pertain to getting a house in order for an evening reception.
       *       *       *       *       *
On the opposite side of the way, the projected hospitalities awoke
various conflicting emotions.
"Dinah, I don't really know whether I shall go to that company
to-night or not," said Mrs. Betsey confidentially to Dinah over her
ironing-table.
"Land sakes, Mis' Betsey," said Dinah, with her accustomed giggle,
"how you talk! What you 'feard on?"
Mrs. Betsey had retreated to the kitchen, to indulge herself with
Dinah in tremors and changes of emotion which had worn out the
patience of Miss Dorcas in the parlor. That good lady, having made up
her mind definitively to go and take Betsey with her, was indisposed
to repeat every half hour the course of argument by which she had
demonstrated to her that it was the proper thing to do.
But the fact was, that poor Mrs. Betsey was terribly fluttered by
the idea of going into company again. Years had passed in that old
dim house, with the solemn clock tick-tocking in the corner, and the
sunbeam streaming duskily at given hours through the same windows,
with no sound of coming or going footsteps. There the two ancient
sisters had been working, reading, talking, round and round on the
same unvarying track, for weeks, months and years, and now, suddenly,
had come a change. The pretty, gay, little housekeeper across the way
had fluttered in with a whole troop of invisible elves of persuasion
in the very folds of her garments, and had cajoled and charmed them
into a promise to be supporters of her "evenings," and Miss Dorcas was
determined to go. But all ye of womankind know that after every such
determination comes a review of the wherewithal, and many tremors.
Now Miss Dorcas was self-sufficing, and self-sustained. She knew
herself to be Miss Dorcas Vanderheyden, in the first place; and
she had a general confidence, by right of her family and position,
that all her belongings were the right things. They might be out of
fashion--so much the worse for the fashion; Miss Dorcas wore them
with a cheerful courage. Yet, as she frequently remarked, "sooner or
later, if you let things lie, fashion always comes round to them."
They had come round to her many times in the course of her life, and
always found her ready for them. But Mrs. Betsey was timorous, and had
a large allowance of what the phrenologists call "approbativeness." In
her youth she had been a fashionable young belle, and now she had as
many flutters and tremors about her gray curls and her caps as in the
days when she sat up all night in an arm-chair with her hair dressed
and powdered for a ball. In fact, an old lady's cap is undeniably a
tender point. One might imagine it to be a sort of shrine or last
retreat in which all her youthful love of dress finds asylum; and,
in estimating her fitness for any scene of festivity, the cap is
the first consideration. So, when Dinah chuckled, "What ye 'feard on,
honey?" Mrs. Betsey came out with it:
"Dinah, I don't know which of my caps to wear."
"Lor' sakes, Mis' Betsey, wear yer new one. What's to hender?"
"Well, you see, it's trimmed with lilac ribbons, and the shade don't
go with my new brown gown; they look horridly together. Dorcas never
does notice such things, but they don't go well together. I tried to
tell Dorcas about it, but she shut me up, saying I was always fussy."
"Well, laws! then, honey, wear your other cap--it's a right nice un
now," said Dinah in a coaxing tone.
"Trimmed with white ribbon--" said Mrs. Betsey, ruminating; "but you
see, Dinah, that ribbon has really got quite yellow; and there's a
spot on one of the strings," she added, in a tone of poignant emotion.
"Well, now, I tell ye what to do," said Dinah; "you jest wear your
new cap with them laylock ribbins, and wear your black silk: that are
looks illegant now."
"But my black silk is so old; it's pieced under the arm, and beginning
to fray in the gathers."
"Land sake, Mis' Betsey! who's agoin' to look under your arm?" said
Dinah. "They a'n't agoin' to set you up under one o' them sterry
scopes to be looked at, be they? You'll do to pass now, I tell ye; now
don't go to gettin' fluttered and 'steriky, Mis' Betsey. Why don't
ye go right along, like Mis' Dorcas? She don't have no megrims and
tantrums 'bout what she's goin' to wear."
Dinah's tolerant spirit in admitting this discussion was, however, a
real relief to Mrs. Betsey. Like various liquors which are under a
necessity of working themselves clear, Mrs. Betsey found a certain
amount of talk necessary to clear her mind when proceeding to act
in any emergency, and for this purpose a listener was essential; but
Dorcas was so entirely above such fluctuations as hers--so positive
and definite in all her judgments and conclusions--that she could not
enjoy in her society the unlimited amount of discussion necessary to
clarify her mental vision.
It was now about the fifth or sixth time that all the possibilities
with regard to her wardrobe had been up for consideration that day;
till Miss Dorcas, who had borne with her heroically for a season, had
finally closed the discussion by recommending a chapter in Watts on
the Mind which said a great many unpleasant things about people who
occupy themselves too much with trifles, and thus Mrs. Betsey was
driven to unbosom herself to Dinah.
"Then, again, there's Jack," she added; "I'm sure I don't know what
he'll think of our both being out; there never such a thing happened
before."
"Land sake, Mis' Betsey, jest as if Jack cared! Why, he'll stay with
me. I'll see arter him--I will."
"Well, you must be good to him, Dinah," said Mrs. Betsey,
apprehensively.
"Ain't I allers good to him? I don't set him up for a graven image and
fall down and washup him, to be sure; but Jack has good times with me,
if I do make him mind."
The fact was, that Dinah often seconded the disciplinary views of Miss
Dorcas with the strong arm, pulling Jack backward by the tail, and
correcting him with vigorous thumps of the broomstick when he fell
into those furors of barking which were his principal weakness.
Dinah had all the sociable instincts of her race; and it moved her
indignation that the few acquaintances who found their way to the
forsaken old house should be terrified and repelled by such distracted
tumults as Jack generally created when the door-bell rang. Hence her
attitude toward him had so often been belligerent that poor Mrs.
Betsey felt small confidence in leaving him to the trying separation
of the evening under Dinah's care.
"Well, Dinah, you won't whip Jack if he does bark? I dare say he'll be
lonesome. You must make allowances for him."
"Oh, laws, yes, honey, I'll make 'lowance, never you fear."
"And you really think the black dress will do?"
"Jest as sartin as I be that I'm here a ironin' this 'ere pillow-bier.
Why, honey, you'll look like a pictur, you will."
"Oh, Dinah, I'm an old woman."
"Well, honey, what if you be? Land sakes, don't I remember when you
was the belle of New York city? Lord love ye! Them was days! When
'twas all comin' and goin', hosses a-prancin', house full, and fellers
fairly a-tumblin' over each other jest to get a look at ye. Laws,
honey, ye was wuth lookin' at in dem days."
"Oh, Dinah, you silly old soul, what nonsense you talk!"
"Well, honey, you know you was de handsomest gal goin'. Now you knows
you was," said Dinah, chuckling and shaking her portly sides.
"I suppose I wasn't bad looking," said Mrs. Betsey, laughing in turn;
and the color flushed in her delicate, faded cheeks, and her pretty
bright eyes grew misty with a thought of all the little triumphs,
prides, and regrets of years ago.
To say the truth, Mrs. Betsey, though past the noon-time of
attraction, was a very pretty old woman. Her hands were still delicate
and white, her skin was of lily fairness, and her hair like fine-spun
silver; and she retained still all the nice instincts and habits of
the woman who has known herself charming. She still felt the discord
of a shade in her ribbons like a false note in music, and was annoyed
by the slightest imperfection of her dress, however concealed, to a
degree which seemed at times wearisome and irrational to her stronger
minded sister.
But Miss Dorcas, who had carried her in her arms, a heart-broken
wreck snatched from the waves of a defeated life, bore with her as
heroically as we ever can bear with another whose nature is wholly of
a different make and texture from our own.
In general, she made up her mind with a considerable share of good
sense as to what it was best for Betsey to do, and then made her do
it, by that power which a strong and steady nature exercises over a
weaker one.
Miss Dorcas had made up her mind that more society, and some little
change in her modes of life, would be a benefit to her sister; she
had taken a strong fancy to Eva, and really looked forward to her
evenings as something to give a new variety and interest in life.
       *       *       *       *       *
"Now, Jim," said Alice, in a monitory tone, "you know we all depend
on you to manage this thing just right to-night. You mustn't be too
lively and frighten the serious folks; but you must keep things
moving, just as you know how."
"Well, are you going to have 'our rector?'" said Jim.
"Certainly. Mr. St. John will be there."
"And of course, our little Angie," said Jim.
"Certainly. Angie, and Mamma, and Papa, and I, shall all be there,"
said Alice, with dignity. "Now, Jim!"
The exclamation was addressed not to anything which this young
gentleman had said, but to a certain wicked sparkle in his eye which
Alice thought predicted coming mischief.
"What's the matter now?" said Jim.
"I know just what you're thinking," said Alice; "and now, Jim, you
mustn't look that way to-night."
"Look what way!"
"Well, you mustn't in any way--look, sign, gesture or word--direct
anybody's attention to Mr. St. John and Angie. Of course there's
nothing there; it's all a fancy of your own--a very absurd one; but
I've known people made very uncomfortable by such absurd suggestions."
"Well, am I to wear green spectacles to keep my eyes from looking?"
"You are to do just right, Jim, and nobody knows how that is to
be done better than you do. You know that you have the gift of
entertaining, and there isn't a mortal creature that you can't please,
if you try; and you mustn't talk to those you like best to-night, but
bestow yourself wherever a hand is needed. You must entertain those
old ladies over the way, and get acquainted with Mr. St. John, and
talk to the pretty Quaker woman; in short, make yourself generally
useful."
"O. K.," said Jim. "I'll be on hand. I'll make love to all the old
ladies, and let the parson admonish me, as meek as Moses; and I'll
look right the other way, if I see him looking at Angie. Anything
more?"
"No, that'll do," said Alice, laughing. "Only do your best, and it
will be good enough."
       *       *       *       *       *
Eva was busy about her preparations, when Dr. Campbell came in to
borrow a book.
"Now, Dr. Campbell," said she, "you're just the man I wanted to see.
I must tell you that one grand reason why I want to be sure and
secure you for our evenings, and this one in particular, is I have
caught our rector and got his promise to come, and I want you to
study him critically, for I'm afraid he's in the way to get to heaven
long before we do, if he isn't looked after. He's not in the least
conscious of it, but he does need attention."
Dr. Campbell was a hale young man of twenty-five; blonde, vigorous,
high-strung, active, and self-confident, and as keen set after medical
and scientific facts as a race-horse for the goal. As a general thing,
he had no special fancy for clergymen; but a clergyman as a physical
study, a possible verification of some of his theories, was an object
of interest, and he readily promised Eva that he would spare no pains
in making Mr. St. John's acquaintance.
"Now, drolly enough," said Eva, "we're going to have a Quaker preacher
here. I went in to invite Ruth and her husband; and lo, they have got
a celebrated minister staying with them, one Sibyl Selwyn. She is as
lovely as an angel in a pressed crape cap and dove-colored gown; but
what Mr. St. John will think about her I don't know."
"Oh, Mrs. Henderson, there'll be trouble there, depend on it," said
Dr. Campbell. "He won't recognize her ordination, and very likely she
won't recognize his. You see, I was brought up among the Friends. I
know all about them. If your friend Sibyl should have a 'concern'
laid on her for your Mr. St. John, she would tell him some wholesome
truths."
"Dear me," said Eva. "I hope she won't have a 'concern' the very first
evening. It would be embarrassing."
"Oh, no; to tell the truth, these Quaker preachers are generally
delightful women," said Dr. Campbell. "I'm sure I ought to say so, for
my good aunt that brought me up was one of them, and I don't doubt
that Sibyl Selwyn will prove quite an addition to your circle."
Well, the evening came, and so did all the folks. But what they said
and did, must be told in another chapter.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE MINISTER'S VISIT.
Mr. St. John was sitting in his lonely study, contemplating with some
apprehension the possibilities of the evening.
Perhaps few women know how much of an ordeal general society is to
many men. Women are naturally social and gregarious, and have very
little experience of the kind of shyness that is the outer bark of
many manly natures, in which they fortify all the more sensitive part
of their being against the rude shocks of the world.
As we said, Mr. St. John's life had been that of a recluse and
scholar, up to the time of his ordination as a priest. He was, by
birth and education, a New England Puritan, with all those habits of
reticence and self-control which a New England education enforces.
His religious experiences, being those of reaction from a sterile and
severe system of intellectual dogmatism, still carried with them a
tinge of the precision and narrowness of his early life. His was a
nature like some of the streams of his native mountains, inclining to
cut for itself straight, deep, narrow currents; and all his religious
reading and thinking had run in one channel. As to social life, he
first began to find it among his inferiors; among those to whom he
came, not as a brother man, but as an authoritative teacher--a master,
divinely appointed, set apart from the ordinary ways of men. In his
rôle of priest he felt strong. In the belief of his divine and sacred
calling, he moved among the poor and ignorant with a conscious
superiority, as a being of a higher sphere. There was something in
this which was a protection to his natural diffidence; he seemed among
his parishioners to feel surrounded by a certain sacred atmosphere
that shielded him from criticism. But to mingle in society as man with
man, to lay aside the priest and be only the gentleman, appeared on
near approach a severe undertaking. As a priest at the altar he was
a privileged being, protected by a kind of divine aureole, like that
around a saint. In general society he was but a man, to make his way
only as other men; and, as a man, St. John distrusted and undervalued
himself. As he thought it over, he inly assented to the truth of what
Eva had so artfully stated--that this ordeal of society was indeed,
for him, the true test of self-sacrifice. Like many other men of
refined natures, he was nervously sensitive to personal influences.
The social sphere of those around him affected him, through sympathy,
almost as immediately as the rays of the sun impress the daguerreotype
plate; but he felt it his duty to subject himself to the ordeal the
more because he dreaded it. "After all," he said to himself, "what is
my faith worth, if I cannot carry it among men? Do I hold a lamp with
so little oil in it that the first wind will blow it out?"
It was with such thoughts as these that he started out on his usual
afternoon tour of visiting and ministration in one of the poorest
alleys of his neighborhood.
As he was making his way along, a little piping voice was heard at his
elbow:
"Mr. St. Don; Mr. St. Don."
He looked hastily down and around, to meet the gaze of a pair of dark
childish eyes looking forth from a thin, sharp little face. Gradually,
he recognized in the thin, barefoot child, the little girl whom he
had seen in Angie's class, leaning on her.
"What do you want, my child?"
"Mother's took bad, and Poll's gone to wash for her. They told me to
watch till you came round, and call you. Mother wants to see you."
"Well, show me the way," said Mr. St. John, affably, taking the thin,
skinny little hand.
The child took him under an alley-way, into a dark, back passage, up
one or two rickety staircases, into an attic, where lay a woman on a
poor bed in the corner.
The room was such a one as his work made only too familiar to
him--close, dark, bare of comforts, yet not without a certain
lingering air of neatness and self-respect. The linen of the bed was
clean, and the woman that lay there had marks of something refined and
decent in her worn face. She was burning with fever; evidently, hard
work and trouble had driven her to the breaking point.
"Well, my good woman, what can I do for you?" said Mr. St. John.
The woman roused from a feverish sleep and looked at him.
"Oh, sir, please send her here. She said she would come any time I
needed her, and I want her now."
"Who is she? Who do you mean?"
"Please, sir, she means my teacher," said the child, with a bright,
wise look in her thin little face. "It's Miss Angie. Mother wants her
to come and talk to father; father's getting bad again."
"He isn't a bad man," put in the woman, "except they get him to drink;
it's the liquor. God knows there never was a kinder man than John used
to be."
"Where is he? I will try to see him," said Mr. St. John.
"Oh, don't; it won't do any good. He hates ministers; he wouldn't hear
you; but Miss Angie he will hear; he promised her he wouldn't drink
any more, but Ben Jones and Jim Price have been at him and got him off
on a spree. O dear!"
At this, moment a feeble wail was heard from the basket cradle in the
corner, and the little girl jumped from the bed, and in an important,
motherly way, began to soothe an indignant baby, who put up his
stomach and roared loudly after the manner of his kind, astonished and
angry at not finding the instant solace and attention which his place
in creation demanded.
Mr. St. John looked on in a kind of silent helplessness, while the
little skinny creature lifted a child who seemed almost as large
as herself and proceeded to soothe and assuage his ill humor by
many inexplicable arts, till she finally quenched his cries in a
sucking-bottle, and peace was restored.
"The only person in the world that can do John any good," resumed the
woman, when she could be heard, "is Miss Angie. John would turn any
man, specially any minister, out of the house, that said a word
about his ways; but he likes to have Miss Angie come here. She has
been here Saturday afternoons and read stories to the children, and
taught them little songs, and John always listens, and she almost got
him to promise he would give up drinking; she has such pretty ways of
talking, a man can't get mad with her. What I want is, can't you tell
her John's gone, and ask her to come to me? He'll be gone two days
or more, and when he comes back he'll be sorry--he always is then;
and then if Miss Angie will talk to him; you see she's so pretty, and
dresses so pretty. John says she is the brightest, prettiest lady he
ever saw, and it sorter pleases him that she takes notice of us. John
always puts his best foot foremost when she is round. John's used to
being with gentlefolk," she said, with a sigh; "he knows a lady when
he sees her."
"Well, my good woman," said Mr. St. John, "I shall see Miss Angie this
evening, and you may be sure that I shall tell her all about this.
Meanwhile, how are you off? Do you need money now?"
"I am pretty well off, sir. He took all my last week's money when he
went, but Poll has gone to my wash-place to-day, and I told her to ask
for pay. I hope they'll send it."
"If they don't," said Mr. St. John, "here is something to keep things
going," and he slipped a bill into the woman's hand.
"Thank you, sir. When I get up, if you'll please give me some washing,
I'll make it square. I've been held good at getting up linen."
Poor woman! She had her little pride of independence, and her little
accomplishment--she could wash and iron! There she felt strong! Mr.
St. John allowed her the refuge, and let her consider the money as an
advance, not a charity.
He turned away, and went down the cracked and broken stairs with the
thought struggling in an undefined manner in his breast, how much
there was of pastoral work which transcended the power of man, and
required the finer intervention of woman. With all, there came a glow
of shy pleasure that there was a subject of intercommunication opened
between him and Angie, something definite to talk about; and to a
diffident man a definite subject is a mine of gold.
CHAPTER XVII.
OUR FIRST THURSDAY.
The Henderson's first "Evening" was a social success. The little
parlors were radiant with the blaze of the wood-fire, which gleamed
and flashed and made faces at itself in the tall, old-fashioned brass
andirons, and gave picturesque tints to the room.
Eva's tea-table was spread in one corner, dainty with its white
drapery, and with her pretty wedding-present of china upon it--not
china like Miss Dorcas Vanderheyden's, of the real old Chinese fabric,
but china fresh from the modern improvements of Paris, and so adorned
with violets and grasses and field flowers that it made a December
tea-table look like a meadow where one could pick bouquets. Every
separate tea-cup and saucer was an artist's study, and a topic for
conversation.
The arrangement of the rooms had been a day's work of careful
consideration between Eva and Angelique. There was probably not a
perch or eyrie accessible by chairs, tables, or ottomans, where
these little persons had not been mounted, at divers times of the
day, trying the effect of various floral decorations. The amount of
fatigue that can be gone through in the mere matter of preparing one
little set of rooms for an evening reception, is something that men
know nothing about; only the sisterhood could testify to that frantic
"fanaticism of the beautiful" which seizes them when an evening
company is in contemplation, and their house is to put, so to speak,
its best foot forward. Many an aching back and many a drooping form
could testify how the woman spends herself in advance, in this sort
of altar dressing for home worship.
But, as a consequence, the little rooms were bowers of beauty. The
pictures were overshadowed with nodding wreaths of pressed ferns and
bright bitter-sweet berries, with glossy holly leaves; the statuettes
had backgrounds of ivy which threw out their whiteness. Harry's
little workroom adjoining the parlor had become a green alcove, where
engravings and books were spread out under the shade of a German
student-lamp. Everywhere that a vase of flowers could make a pretty
show, there was a vase of flowers, though it was December, and the
ground frozen like lead. For the next door neighbor, sweet Ruth
Baxter, had clipped and snipped every rosebud, and mignonette blossom,
and even a splendid calla lily, with no end of scarlet geranium, and
sent them in to Eva; and Miss Dorcas had cut away about half of an
ancient and well-kept rose-geranium, which was the apple of her eye,
to help out her little neighbor. So they reveled in flowers, without
cutting those which grew on Eva's own bushes, which were all turned
to the light and arranged in appropriate situations, blossoming their
best. The little dining-room also was thrown open, and dressed, and
adorned with flowers, pressed ferns, berries, and autumn leaves; with
a distant perspective of light in it, that there might be a place of
withdrawal and quiet chats over books and pictures. In every spot
were disposed objects to start conversation. Books of autographs,
portfolios of sketches, photographs of distinguished people,
stereoscopic views, with stereoscope to explain them,--all sorts
of intervening means and appliances by which people, not otherwise
acquainted, should find something to talk about in common.
Eva was admirably seconded by her friends, from long experience
versed in the art of entertaining. Mrs. Van Arsdel, gentle, affable,
society-loving, and with a quick tact at reading the feelings of
others, was a host in herself. She at once took possession of Miss
Dorcas Vanderheyden, who came in a very short dress of rich India
satin, and very yellow and mussy but undeniably precious old lace, and
walked the rooms with a high-shouldered independence of manner most
refreshing in this day of long trains and modern inconveniences.
"Sensible old girl," was Jim Fellows's comment in Alice's ear as Miss
Dorcas marched in; for which, of course, he got a reproof, and was
ordered to remember and keep himself under.
As to Mrs. Betsey, with her white hair, and lace cap with lilac
ribbons, and black dress, with a flush of almost girlish timidity in
her pink cheeks, she won an instant way to the heart of Angelique,
who took her arm and drew her to a cosy arm-chair before a table of
engravings, and began an animated conversation on a book of etchings
of the "Old Houses of New York." These were subjects on which Mrs.
Betsey could talk, and talk entertainingly. They carried her back to
the days of her youth; bringing back scenes, persons, and places long
forgotten, her knowledge of which was full of entertainment. Angelique
wonderingly saw her transfigured before her eyes. It seemed as if an
after-glow from the long set sun of youthful beauty flashed back in
the old, worn face, as her memory went back to the days of youth and
hope. It is a great thing to the old and faded to feel themselves
charming once more, even for an hour; and Mrs. Betsey looked into the
blooming face and wide open, admiring, hazel eyes of Angelique, and
felt that she was giving pleasure, that this charming young person
was really delighted to hear her talk. It was one of those "cups
of cold water" that Angelique was always giving to neglected and
out-of-the-way people, without ever thinking that she did so, or why
she did it, just because she was a sweet, kind-hearted, loving little
girl.
When Mr. St. John, with an apprehensive spirit, adventured his way
into the room, he felt safe and at ease in a moment. All was light,
and bright, and easy--nobody turned to look at him, and it seemed the
easiest thing in the world to thread his way through busy chatting
groups to where Eva made a place for him by her side at the tea-table,
passed him his cup of tea, and introduced him to Dr. Campbell, who sat
on her other side, cutting the leaves of a magazine.
"You see," said Eva, laughing, "I make our Doctor useful on the
Fourier principle. He is dying to get at those magazine articles, so
I let him cut the leaves and take a peep along here and there, but I
forbid reading--in our presence, men have got to give over absorbing,
and begin radiating. Doesn't St. Paul say, Mr. St. John, that if women
are to learn anything they are to ask their husbands at home? and
doesn't that imply that their husbands at home are to talk to them,
and not sit reading newspapers?"
"I confess I never thought of that inference from the passage," said
Mr. St. John, smiling.
"But the modern woman," said Dr. Campbell, "scorns to ask her husband
at home. She holds that her husband should ask her."
"Oh, well, I am not the modern woman. I go for the old boundaries
and the old privileges of my sex; and besides, I am a good church
woman and prefer to ask my husband. But I insist, as a necessary
consequence, that he must hear me and answer me, as he cannot do if
he is reading newspapers or magazines. Isn't that case fairly argued,
Mr. St. John?"
"I don't see but it is."
"Well, then, the spirit of it applies to the whole of your cultured
and instructive sex. Men, in the presence of women, ought always to
be prepared to give them information, to answer questions, and make
themselves generally entertaining and useful."
"You see, Mr. St. John," said Dr. Campbell, "that Mrs. Henderson has
a dangerous facility for generalizing. Set her to interpreting and
there's no saying where her inferences mightn't run."
"I'd almost release Mr. St. John from my rules, to allow him to look
over this article of yours, though, Dr. Campbell," said Eva. "Harry
has read it to me, and I said, along in different parts of it, if
ministers only knew these things, how much good they might do!"
"What is the article?"
"It is simply something I wrote on 'Abnormal Influences upon the
Will;' it covers a pretty wide ground as to the question of human
responsibility and the recovery of criminals, and all that."
Mr. St. John remembered at this moment the case of the poor woman whom
he had visited that afternoon, and the periodical fatality which was
making her family life a shipwreck, and he turned to Dr. Campbell a
face so full of eager inquiry and dawning thought that Eva felt that
the propitious moment was come to leave them together, and instantly
she moved from her seat between them, to welcome a new comer who was
entering the room.
"I've got them together," she whispered to Harry a few minutes after,
as she saw that the two were turned towards each other, apparently
intensely absorbed in conversation.
The two might have formed a not unapt personification of flesh and
spirit. Dr. Campbell, a broad-shouldered, deep-breathed, long-limbed
man, with the proudly set head and quivering nostrils of a
high-blooded horse--an image of superb physical vitality: St. John,
so delicately and sparely built, with his Greek forehead and clear
blue eye, the delicate vibration of his cleanly cut lips, and the
cameo purity of every outline of his profile. Yet was he not without
a certain air of vigor, the outshining of spiritual forces. One could
fancy Campbell as the Berserker who could run, race, wrestle, dig, and
wield the forces of nature, and St. John as the poet and orator who
could rise to higher regions and carry souls upward with him. It takes
both kinds to make up a world.
And now glided into the company the vision of two women in soft,
dove-colored silks, with white crape kerchiefs crossed upon their
breasts, and pressed crape caps bordering their faces like a
transparent aureole. There was the neighbor, Ruth Baxter, round,
rosy, young, blooming, but dressed in the straitest garb of her sect.
With her back turned, you might expect to see an aged woman stricken
in years, so prim and antique was the fashion of her garments; but
when her face was turned, there was the rose of youth blooming amid
the cool snows of cap and kerchief. The smooth pressed hair rippled
and crinkled in many a wave, as if it would curl if it dared, and
the round blue eyes danced with a scarce suppressed light of cheer
that might have become mirthfulness, if set free; but yet the quaint
primness of her attire set off her womanly charms beyond all arts of
the toilet.
Her companion was a matronly person, who might be fifty or
thereabouts. She had that calm, commanding serenity that comes to
woman only from the habitual exaltation of the spiritual nature. Sibyl
Selwyn was known in many lands as one of the most zealous and best
accepted preachers of her sect. Her life had been an inspiration of
pity and mercy; and she had been in far countries of the earth, where
there was sin to be reproved or sorrow to be consoled, a witness
to testify and a medium through whom guilt and despair might learn
something of the Divine Pity.
She bore about with her a power of personal presence very remarkable.
Her features were cast in large and noble mould; her clear cut,
wide-open gray eyes had a penetrating yet kind expression, that seemed
adapted both to search and to cheer, and went far to justify the
opinion of her sect, which attributed to Sibyl in an eminent degree
the apostolic gift of the discerning of spirits. Somehow, with her
presence there seemed to come an atmosphere of peace and serenity,
such as one might fancy clinging about even the raiment of one just
stepped from a higher sphere. Yet, so gliding and so dove-like was
the movement by which the two had come in--so perfectly, cheerfully,
and easily had they entered into the sympathies of the occasion, that
their entrance made no more break or disturbance in the social circle
than the stealing in of a ray of light through a church window.
Eva had risen and gone to them at once, had seated them at the
opposite side of the little tea-table and poured their tea, chatting
the while and looking into their serene faces with a sincere
cordiality which was reflected back from them in smiles of confidence.
Sibyl admired the pictures, flowers, and grasses on her tea-cup with
the naïve interest of a child; for one often remarks, in intercourse
with her sect, how the æsthetic sense, unfrittered and unworn by the
petting of self-indulgence, is prompt to appreciate beauty.
Eva felt a sort of awed pleasure in Sibyl's admiration of her pretty
things, as if an angel guide were stooping to play with her. She felt
in her presence like one of earth's unweaned babies.
St. John, in one of the pauses of the conversation, looked up and saw
this striking head and face opposite to him; a head reminding him of
some of those saintly portraitures of holy women in which Overbeck
delights. We have described him as peculiarly impressible under actual
social influences. It was only the week before that an application had
been made to him for one Sibyl Selwyn to hold a meeting in his little
chapel, and sternly refused. His idea of a female preacher had been
largely blended with the mediæval masculine contempt of woman and his
horror of modern woman public teachers and lecturers. When this serene
vision rose like an exhalation before him, he did not at first recall
the applicant for his chapel, but he looked at her admiringly in a
sort of dazed wonder, and inquired of Dr. Campbell in a low voice,
"Who is that?"
"Oh," said Dr. Campbell, "don't you know? that's the Quaker preacher,
Sibyl Selwyn; the woman who has faced and put down the devil in places
where you couldn't and I wouldn't go."
St. John felt the blood flush in his cheeks, and a dim idea took
possession of him that, if some had entertained angels unawares,
others unawares had rejected them.
"Yes," said Dr. Campbell, "that woman has been alone, at midnight,
through places where you and I could not go without danger of our
heads; and she has said words to bar-tenders and brothel-keepers
that would cost us our lives. But she walks out of it all, as calm
as you see her to-night. I know that kind of woman--I was brought
up among them. They are an interesting physiological study; the
over-cerebration of the spiritual faculties among them occasions some
very peculiar facts and phenomena. I should like to show you a record
I have kept. It gives them at times an almost miraculous ascendancy
over others. I fancy," he said carelessly, "that your legends of the
saints could furnish a good many facts of the same sort."
At this moment, Eva came up in her authoritative way as mistress of
ceremonies, took Mr. St. John by the arm, and, walking across with
him, seated him by Sibyl Selwyn, introduced them to each other, and
left them. St. John was embarrassed, but Sibyl received him with the
perfect composure in which she sat enthroned.
"Arthur St. John," she said, "I am glad to meet thee. I am interested
in thy work among the poor of this quarter, and have sought the Lord
for thee in it."
"I am sure I thank you," said St. John, thus suddenly reduced
to primitive elements and spoken to on the simple plane of his
unvarnished humanity. It is seldom, after we come to mature years and
have gone out into the world, that any one addresses us simply by our
name without prefix or addition of ceremony. It is the province only
of rarest intimacy or nearest relationship, and it was long since St.
John had been with friend or relation who could thus address him. It
took him back to childhood and his mother's knee. He was struggling
with a vague sense of embarrassment, when he remembered the curt and
almost rude manner in which he had repelled her overture to speak
in his chapel, and the contempt he had felt for her at the time. In
the presence of the clear, saintly face, it seemed as if he had been
unconsciously guilty of violating a shrine. He longed to apologize,
but he did not know how to begin.
"I feel," he said, "that I am inexperienced and that the work is
very great. You," he added, "have had longer knowledge of it than I;
perhaps I might learn something of you."
"Thou wilt be led," said Sibyl, with the same assured calmness, "be
not afraid."
"I am sorry--I was sorry," said St. John, hesitating, "to refuse the
help you offered in speaking in my chapel, but it is contrary to the
rules of the church."
"Be not troubled. Thee follows thy light. Thee can do no otherways.
Thee is but young yet," she said, with a motherly smile.
"I did not know you personally then," he said. "I should like to talk
more with you, some time. I should esteem it a favor to have you tell
me some of your experiences."
"Some time, if we can sit together in stillness, I might have
something given me for thee; this is not the time," said Sibyl, with
quiet graciousness.
A light laugh seemed to cut into the gravity of the conversation.
Both turned. Angelique was the center of a gay group to whom she
was telling a droll story. Angie had a gift for this sort of thing;
and Miss Dorcas and Mrs. Betsey, Mrs. Van Arsdel and Mr. Van Arsdel
were gathered around her as, with half-pantomime, half-mimicry, she
was giving a street scene in one of her Sunday-school visitations.
St. John laughed too; he could not help it. In a moment, however, he
seemed to recollect himself, and sighed and said:
"It seems sometimes strange to me that we can allow ourselves to laugh
in a world like this. She is only a child or she couldn't."
Sibyl looked tenderly at Angelique. "It is her gift," she said. "She
is one of the children of the bride-chamber, who cannot mourn because
the bridegroom is with them. It would be better for thee, Arthur St.
John, to be more a child. Where the spirit of the Lord is, there is
liberty."
St. John was impressed by the calm decision of this woman's
manner, and the atmosphere of peace and assurance around her. The
half-mystical character of her words fell in with his devout
tendencies, and that strange, indefinable something that invests
some persons with influence seemed to be with her, and he murmured to
himself the words from Comus--
    "She fables not, and I do feel her words
    Set off by some superior power."
Mr. St. John had not for a moment during that whole evening lost the
consciousness that Angelique was in the room. Through that double
sense by which two trains of thought can be going on at the same
time, he was sensible of her presence and of what she was doing,
through all his talks with other people. He had given one glance,
when he came into the room, to the place where she was sitting and
entertaining Mrs. Betsey, and without any apparent watchfulness he
was yet conscious of every movement she made from time to time. He
knew when she dropped her handkerchief, he knew when she rose to get
down another book, and when she came to the table and poured for Mrs.
Betsey another cup of tea. A subtle exhilaration was in the air. He
knew not why everything seemed so bright and cheerful; it is as when
a violet or an orange blossom, hid in a distant part of a room, fills
the air with a vague deliciousness.
He dwelt dreamily on Sibyl's half mystical words, and felt as if an
interpreting angel had sanctioned the charm that he found in this
bright, laughing child. He liked to call her a child to himself, it
was a pleasant little nook into which he could retreat from a too
severe scrutiny of his feelings towards her; for, quite unknown to
himself, St. John's heart was fast slipping off into the good old way
of Eden.
But we leave him for a peep at other parties. It is amusing to think
how many people in one evening company are weaving and winding
threads upon their own private, separate spools. Jim Fellows, in the
dining-room, was saying to Alice:
"I'm going to bring Hal Stephens and Ben Hubert to you this evening;
and by George, Alice, I want you to look after them a little, as you
can. They are raw newspaper boys, tumbled into New York; and nobody
cares a hang for them. Nobody does care a hang for any stranger body,
you know. They haven't a decent place to visit, nor a woman to say
a word to them; and yet I tell you they're good fellows. Everybody
curses newspaper reporters and that sort of fellow. Nobody has a good
word for them. It's small salary, and many kicks and cuffs they get at
first; and yet that's the only way to get on the papers, and make a
man of yourself at last; and so, as I've got up above the low rounds,
I want to help the boys that are down there, and I'll tell you, Alice,
it'll do 'em lots of good to know you."
And so Alice was gracious to the new-comers and made them welcome, and
showed them pictures, and drew them out to talk, and made them feel
that they were entertaining her.
Some women have this power of divining what a man can say, and giving
him courage to say it. Alice was one of these; people wondered when
they left her how they had been made to talk so well. It was the best
and truest part of every one's nature that she gave courage and voice
to. This power of young girls to ennoble young men is unhappily one
of which too often they are unconscious. Too often the woman, instead
of being a teacher in the higher life, is only a flatterer of the
weaknesses and lower propensities of the men whose admiration she
seeks.
St. John felt frightened and embarrassed with his message to Angie.
He had dwelt on it, all his way to the house, as an auspicious key to
a conversation which he anticipated with pleasure; yet the evening
rolled by, and though he walked round and round, and nearer and
nearer, and conversed with this and that one, he did not come to the
point of speaking to Angie. Sometimes she was talking to somebody else
and he waited; sometimes she was not with anybody else, and then he
waited lest his joining her should be remarked. He did not stop to ask
himself why on earth it should be remarked any more than if he had
spoken to Alice or Eva, or anybody else, but he felt as if it would be.
At last, however, after making several circles about the table where
she sat with Mrs. Betsey, he sat down by them, and delivered his
message with a formal precision, as if he had been giving her a
summons. Angie was all sympathy and sweetness, and readily said she
would go and see the poor woman the very next day, and then an awkward
pause ensued. She was a little afraid of him as a preternaturally good
man, and began to wonder whether she had been laughing too loud, or
otherwise misbehaving, in the gaiety of her heart, that evening.
So, after a rather dry pause, Mr. St. John uttered some commonplaces
about the books of engravings before them, and then, suddenly seeming
to recollect something he had forgotten, crossed the room to speak to
Dr. Campbell.
"Dear me, child, and so that is your rector," said Mrs. Betsey. "Isn't
he a little stiff?"
"I believe he is not much used to society," said Angie; "but he is a
very good man."
The evening entertainment had rather a curious finale. A spirit of
sociability had descended upon the company, and it was one of those
rare tides that come sometimes where everybody is having a good time,
and nobody looks at one's watch; and so, ten o'clock was long past,
and eleven had struck, and yet there was no movement for dissolving
the session.
Across the way, old Dinah had watched the bright windows with longing
eyes, until finally the spirit of the occasion was too strong for
her, and, bidding Jack lie down and be a good dog, she left her own
precincts and ran across to the kitchen of the festal scene, to pick
up some crumbs for her share.
Jack looked at her in winking obedience as she closed the kitchen
door, being mindful in his own dog's head of a small slip of a pantry
window which had served his roving purposes before now. The moment
Dinah issued from the outer door, Jack bounced from the pantry window
and went padding at a discreet distance from her heels. Sitting down
on the front door-mat of the festive mansion, he occupied himself with
his own reflections till the door opening for a late comer gave him an
opportunity to slip in quietly.
Jack used his entrance ticket with discretion, watched, waited,
reconnoitered, till finally, seeing an unemployed ottoman next Mrs.
Betsey, he suddenly appeared in the midst, sprang up on the ottoman
with easy grace, sat up on his hind paws, and waved his front ones
affably to the public.
The general tumult that ensued, the horror of Miss Dorcas, the
scolding she tried to give Jack, the storm of applause and petting
which greeted him in all quarters, confirming him, as Miss Dorcas
remarked, in his evil ways,--all these may better be imagined than
described.
"A quarter after eleven, sister!"
"Can it be possible?" said Mrs. Betsey. "No wonder Jack came to bring
us home."
Jack seconded the remark with a very staccato bark and a brisk
movement towards the door, where, with much laughing, many hand
shakings, ardent protestations that they had had a delightful evening,
and promises to come again next week, the company dispersed.
CHAPTER XVIII.
RAKING UP THE FIRE.
The cream of an evening company is the latter end of it, after the
more ceremonious have slipped away and only "we and our folks" remain
to croon and rake up the fire.
Mr. and Mrs. Van Arsdel, Angelique, and Marie went home in the
omnibus. Alice staid to spend the night with Eva, and help put up the
portfolios, and put back the plants, and turn the bower back into a
workroom, and set up the vases of flowers in a cool place where they
could keep till morning; because, you know--you who are versed in
these things--that flowers in December need to be made the most of, in
order to go as far as possible.
Bolton yet lingered in his arm-chair, in his favorite corner, gazing
placidly at the coals of the fire. Dr. Campbell was solacing himself,
after the unsatisfied longings of the evening, with seeing how his own
article looked in print, and Jim Fellows was helping miscellaneously
in setting back flower-pots, re-arranging books, and putting chairs
and tables, that had been arranged festively, back into humdrum
household places. Meanwhile, the kind of talk was going on that
usually follows a social venture--a sort of review of the whole scene
and of all the actors.
"Well, Doctor, what do you think of our rector?" said Eva, tapping his
magazine briskly.
He lowered his magazine and squared himself round gravely.
"That fellow hasn't enough of the abdominal to carry his brain power,"
he said. "Splendid head--a little too high in the upper stories and
not quite heavy enough in the basement. But if he had a good broad,
square chest, and a good digestive and blood-making apparatus, he'd
go. The fellow wants blood; he needs mutton and beef, and plenty of
it. That's what he needs. What's called common sense is largely a
matter of good diet and digestion."
"Oh, Doctor, you materialistic creature!" said Eva, "to think of
talking of a clergyman as if he were a horse--to be managed by
changing his feed!"
"Certainly, a man must be a good animal before he can be a good man."
"Well," said Alice, "all I know is, that Mr. St. John is perfectly,
disinterestedly, heart and soul and body, devoted to doing good among
men; and if that is not noble and grand and godlike, I don't know what
is."
"Well," said Dr. Campbell, "I have a profound respect for all those
fellows that are trying to mop out the Atlantic Ocean; and he mops
cheerfully and with good courage."
"It's perfectly hateful of you, Doctor, to talk so," said Eva.
"Well, you know I don't go in for interfering with nature--having
noble, splendid fellows waste and wear themselves down, to keep
miserable scalawags and ill-begotten vermin from dying out as they
ought to. Nature is doing her best to kill off the poor specimens
of the race, begotten of vice and drunkenness; and what you call
Christian charity is only interference."
"But you do it, Doctor; you know you do. Nobody does more of that very
sort of thing than you do, now. Don't you visit, and give medicine and
nursing, and all that, to just such people?"
"I may be a fool for doing it, for all that," said the Doctor. "I
don't pretend to stick to my principles any better than most people
do. We are all fools, more or less; but I don't believe in Christian
charity: it's all wrong--this doctrine that the brave, strong good
specimens of the race are to torment and tire and worry their lives
out to save the scum and dregs. Here's a man who, by economy, honesty,
justice, temperance and hard work, has grown rich, and has houses,
and lands, and gardens, and pictures, and what not, and is having a
good time as he ought to have, and right by him is another who, by
dishonesty, and idleness, and drinking, has come to rags and poverty
and sickness. Shall the temperate and just man deny himself enjoyment,
and spend his time, and risk his health, and pour out his money, to
take care of the wife and children of this scalawag? There's the
question in a nutshell? and I say, no! If scalawags find that their
duties will be performed for them when they neglect them, that's all
they want. What should St. John live like a hermit for? deny himself
food, rest and sleep? spend a fortune that might make him and some
nice wife happy and comfortable, on drunkards' wives and children? No
sense in it."
"That's just where Christianity stands above and opposite to nature,"
said Bolton, from his corner. "Nature says, destroy. She is blindly
striving to destroy the maimed and imperfect. Christianity says, save.
Its God is the Good Shepherd, who cares more for the one lost sheep
than for the ninety and nine that went not astray."
"Yes," said Eva; "He who was worth more than all of us put together,
came down from heaven to labor and suffer and die for sinners."
"That's supernaturalism," said Dr. Campbell. "I don't know about
that."
"That's what we learn at church," said Eva, "and what we believe; and
it's a pity you don't, Doctor."
"Oh, well," said Dr. Campbell, lighting his cigar, previous to going
out, "I won't quarrel with you. You might believe worse things. St.
John is a good fellow, and, if he wants a doctor any time, I told him
to call me. Good night."
"Did you ever see such a creature?" said Eva.
"He talks wild, but acts right," said Alice.
"You had him there about visiting poor folks," said Jim. "Why,
Campbell is a perfect fool about people in distress--would give a
fellow watch and chain, and boots and shoes, and then scold anybody
else that wanted to go and do likewise."
"Well, I say such discussions are fatiguing," said Alice. "I don't
like people to talk all round the points of the compass so."
"Well, to change the subject, I vote our evening a success," said Jim.
"Didn't we all behave beautifully!"
"We certainly did," said Eva.
"Isn't Miss Dorcas a beauty!" said Jim.
