' ' that I saw him. When I think of that night, I feel that 
reconciliation is quite impossible. " 
"Still, you do not know just what a highly colored 
version Cameron gave him, or how false it might have 
been." 
" He could have said nothing worse than that I mar- 
ried him, and that was true. No, mamma, help me to 
be strong and patient, and comfort me with your love. 
This is so much better than my cruel loneliness and 
despair at Catherine's. It was my own fault, and I 
must bear the punishment." 
Mrs. Walsingham was far from being satisfied, but 
in their arguments, Dora always overruled her, in that 
sweet, submissive way, so hard to controvert. And 
yet, because she knew her child's heart was with this 
still adored husband, she would have made every over- 
ture possible. Had Tremaine been at home, she would 
have gone herself, and learned if there was the slightest 
basis of hope. 
" It is best not to annoy her at present," Mr. 
Eastman had said, confidentially. Her first marriage 
can be easily set aside, as it was procured by fraud. 
And I do not quite despair of Tremaine, who has the 
name of being a most honorable man." 
So Dora pleased herself by her gifts to the Colby 
daughters, though Mr. Eastman laughingly declared, 
they would have to appoint a guardian for her, or she 
would soon be reduced to poverty. 
"It does not look much like it, as yet," she returned 
gaily ; "but I am going to stop awhile." 
The little household of three, were very happy in each 
other's lore. Dora's nature was a grateful one, and 
there had not been so much affection in her path, hith- 
erto, that she felt at all inclined to undervalue this. 
Stacy was rapidly becoming very dear. His architect- 
ural studies evinced a high order of genius in this par- 
ticular branch, and his aim was to establish himself at 
this, his favorite pursuit. But he had many endearing 
home graces ; indeed, to Dora, who had studied so few 
men, he was a piquant and interesting revelation. 
More than one effort had been made to find Mrs. 
Cameron, but without success. Her nephew had so 
worked upon her fears, by an exaggerated confession of 
the failure of their schemes, that she was led into prom- 
ising anything for safety. He took possession of the 
important papers, and, in spite of her entreaties, left 
her, without the slightest clue as to his destination. 
Her love for this child had been the one passion of 
her solitary life. Having none of her own, she had 
spent her early days in efforts for his education. He 
had grown up, the possessor of a certain dangerous 
beauty, and hosts of dangerous vices — yet she, poor 
woman, had been blind to the latter. During the last 
year of Mr. Walsingham's life, she had filled the posi- 
tion of nurse and housekeeper, and so, became familiar 
with the provisions of the old man's will, which had no 
special interest for her, just then. Years afterward, she 
learned, Or fancied that she had, the secret of Dora's 
birth, when the idea entered her mind of marrying her 
to Jasper. It was not abaci speculation, the young 
man thought, but Dora was too immature to awaken 
any interest for herself. He married her, expecting to 
gain control of the fortune with little difficult}', when 
he announced the fact triumphantly to Mrs. Denver, 
keeping the secret of the fortune to himself, but declar- 
ing that he knew Dora to be the grandchild of Giles 
Walsingham. 
Mrs. Denver remembered well, the bitter enmity 
between Dora's mother and Giles Walsingham, and also 
her own oath that she would never divulge Dora's par- 
entage. Besides, she was filled with rage at the, thought 
of Dora's imprudent marriage. That Mr. Walsingham 
was dead, and Dora's relation to him of the slightest 
importance, never once occurred to her. 
In her anger, she dared Jasper Cameron to take any 
step. Where was his proof? " Bring Giles Walsing- 
ham here," she said, u and I will swear that Dora is my 
own child ! If you married her, thiuking it might ever 
prove a benefit to you, you were a fool for your pains." 
Indeed, Jasper thought so, when he came to take a 
cool survej* of the case. His aunt's suspicions hung on 
so slight a thread, that even the most astute lawyer 
could make nothing of them. So he cursed the luck, 
denounced his aunt for a prying, suspicious old fool, 
and made good Ins word to Dora, though it had been 
but the invention of the moment, to hurry her into mar- 
riage. She did not promise, in her fright and remorse, 
to be a very entertaining companion, and the trip to 
China, which might be made profitable, appeared the 
easiest way of getting out of the complication. 
After he was" gone beyond recall, the proofs fell into 
Mrs. Cameron's hands, by the death of Mrs. Denver. 
She resolved to hoard them, for her dearly loved Jasper. 
If she could but gain possession of Dora, also ! 
This effort failed. Gilbert Verner's treatment of her, 
and Dora's unwillingness, to listen to the least friendly 
overture, so exasperated her, that she kept her secret, 
for revenge. 
Then came the tidings of the wreck, and Jasper's 
death but she held to a strange, desperate faith, in his 
still being alive. 
She brooded over it, in her solitary home, until she 
actually began to count the days, for Jasper's return. 
There was something absolutely touching in this, more 
than mother's love. She had taken several old ladies 
to board, who had become trials to their families, and 
every penny of her earnings was scrupulously saved. 
Some day, he would comeback — the handsome gentle- 
man that he always was ! 
After seven j*ears of adventure, he had returned. 
Instead of being softened, by the devotion of the silly 
old idiot, as he called her, he had taken her money, 
and fallen in with her plans, at once. After his first 
interview with Colby, he had no further doubt. It 
was to his advantage, to make it appear, that there 
were no other heirs. Vhen he found that he had suc- 
ceeded in alarming the lawyer, he meant, if possible, 
to compromise, in some manner, and take a part of the 
fortune, without Dora. 
Mr. Colby had not the courage to bring the matter 
to a straightforward issue, but he did hope, by throw- 
ing himself upon Dora's pit}*, and espousing her cause, 
to make a better bargain for himself, and still preserve 
his good name. Cameron had frustrated this, in the 
very beginning, and Colby had weakly fallen into the 
toils, when a man of more honor, would have rescued 
both himself and Mrs. Tremaine. 
But through all their scheming, there had been an 
undercurrent, little suspected by either. At the ad- 
vent of Mrs. Walsingham, Colby had yielded to instant " 
despair, and thought only, how he could best extricate 
himself, for there was no longer any fortune to save. 
When Jasper Cameron took a survey of the rains, he 
laughed, with his usual indifference. He had made a 
thousand dollars out of Colby, and another thousand 
out of the Walsinghams. He tried to gain an interview 
with Dora, but these plans being frustrated, his fertile 
brain turned to others. For the present, nothing could 
be done. Mr. Tremaine was away, and it seemed hard- 
ly likely, that Dora would commence immediate pro- 
ceedings, for a legal separation from him. It would 
give her a public prominence, to which she did not as- 
pire, and connect her with the romantic story of the 
fortune. 
But presently, when the matter had died away, and 
he disappeared, as they, no doubt, charitably hoped he 
would, Mr. Eastman would undertake the case, in a 
quiet way. If, at this auspicious moment, he could 
pounce down upon Dora, probably she would be will- 
ing to pay him handsomely for his silence. Especially, 
if by this time, there had been some explanation, be- 
tween herself and Mr. Tremaine, as these 'misunder- 
standings rarely lasted a life time. 
Mr. Cameron was not wanting in resources, and he 
fancied, now, that a trip westward might prove bene- 
ficial. He did not wish his real character to become 
too well known, in New York, before his final denoue- 
ment. He certainly bore his reverses, with much phil- 
osophy. 
And so, the world went on its olden way, buying and 
selling, marrying and being given in marriage, little 
tragedies on every hand, making scarce a ripple on the 
broad surface. But Dora, looking from her window 
on the throngs below, seemed to have no part nor lot 
in the matter. A quiet life was to be hers, henceforth, 
and, if the day should come, when an added charm ren- 
dered it more endurable, she would thank God for His 
mercy. That was all the hope of her future. 
CHAPTER XXVI. 
jasper Cameron's last stake. 
IT was a frosty October night, with a keen, 
clear air. There was a cheerful grate fire, 
burning in the library at Woodlea, but the 
curtains were not drawn. Edith Merrivour thought 
the light, shining out on the lawn, would look pleasant 
to the homeward bound traveller, whom they had been 
expecting, for the last hour. She was seated at the 
center-table, with a basket of soft wools at her side, 
the brightest admissible color being purple, but that 
formed a pleasing contrast to the slender white fingers. 
Instead of the usual crape collar, her dress was relieved 
at the throat, by a fold or two of tulle, that was all soft- 
ness and grace. 
Her seat, there, might have been mere accident, but, 
to the man coming up the path, she, as well as the 
light, was a grateful vision. *The beautiful face in pro- 
file, the dainty fingers threading their way through the 
mazes of crocheting, and-now, the eyes, raised in anxious 
thought, that made his pulse beat more quickly, for an 
instant. 
She came to the door, herself. "Uh, Ralph!", she
exclaimed, and there was a world of welcome relief in 
the tone. It said that she had missed him, and was 
more than glad to have him back. How pleasant it 
was to be the object of some one's care. And then 
aunt* Lester with her motherly kisses, her smiles and 
tears. 
"How well you are looking, Ralph," Edith said. 
His six weeks' absence had indeed worked wonders. 
Dora would have pronounced him handsome, in an 
ecstacy of delight. For he was no longer gray and 
thin, the furrows in his brow and lines in his cheeks 
had filled out, and a fresh, healthy color, taken the place 
of the sallowness. Change, activity, and woik, instead 
of corroding thoughts, had wrought the alteration. 
And somehow, he could not help feeling in better heart 
and spirits, than two months ago. 
" And, what is the news?" he asked, cheerfully, as he 
dropped into his arm-chair before the fire. Everything 
about looked so snug and cosy, a little vase here and 
there, with a few flowers or geranium leaves, the maga- 
zines and papers, and aunt Lester, with her easy : indo- 
lence — a pretty enough picture of home. 
" Oh, do not ask u^for news ;" and Edith laughed, 
musically. "We have turned regular hermits, mamma 
and I. Why, we have not. been to the city in three 
weeks, I think." 
" And were you not lonesome?" 
" We missed you. But for the rest, the world and 
 
all that — when you have been kept year after year 
upon the treadmill, yon learn to love the quiet sanctity 
of home." 
She spoke truly. The only woman in the world to 
be envied, would be the presiding genius of this sweet 
home — Ralph Tremaine's happy wife I 
" And the servants ? " 
"Mrs. Maybin is certainly perfection! We have 
been delightfully comfortable, Ralph." 
"I am so glad." Then he gave a long gaze into the 
fire. 
Mrs. Lester began to question him concerning his 
own trip, and if it had been successful. 
" Unusually so," he said, " and very pleasant." 
Then the dinner bell rang. 
Mrs. Maybin received her master with stately cour- 
tesy. There seemed no break anywhere, no sense of 
loss. It startled him that the void should have been 
filled up so soon. 
A chatty, enjoyable meal, with much lingering over 
the desert ; Mrs. Lester's spirits rising, as she saw her 
nephew so well content. Now and then, she strayed 
into old times, or a careless woTd brought a vision be- 
fore Edith, that warmed the blood in her smooth cheek. 
"Did you keep the old papers?" he asked, when 
they returned to the library. 
Yes. Edith had saved them all. She brought them 
from a deep drawer in the book case. 
" Newspapers always seem a connecting link between 
you and the world," he said, as he began to glance 
them over. Trials, criminal proceedings, and arrests 
— he could not tell why he should haunt these columns, 
keeping up, the while, a desultory conversation with his 
cousin. A few failures of acquaintances, some changes 
in the political sky ; but, on the whole, the world had 
wagged as usual. Not a word of her, neither by land 
nor sea. 
Mrs. Lester nodded in her chair — indeed, slept so 
soundly presently, that she gave a little purring snore, 
that startled her daughter's fine ear. 
<x No, do not disturb her ! " Ralph reached out his 
hand, and barred Edith in her attempt to rise, and both 
smiled. " See how comfortable she looks ! Edith, did 
you ever think that a mother was necessary to make a 
home complete? I have, often ;" and his eyvs dropped 
fireward. . 
" Dear mamma ! She is so contented." 
" I have half a mind to bargain for her — that if j-ou 
go away, you shall leave her here ! " 
" Ralph, I think we have been trespassers on }*our 
hospitality, a long while." 
•' I asked you to come. I am glad to have you 
here. Somehow I could not bear to close the house — 
and to live in it alone — " 
' Have you never heard — " 
Edith asked the question under her breath, and 
paused, startled at her own temerity. 
" I ought to have told you before I went away, but 
my heart was so sad and sore — that she — decided to 
live with Jasper Cameron. I never liked the man, and 
could hardly resolve, whether he came to me so frankly 
out of revenge, or from some latent feeling of honor. 
But he was always her messenger." 
" You saw her, though? " 
" Only once. At times, I think it might have been 
very different, if she had come to me earlier, or I had 
gone to her. Perhaps I was too proud. I wanted her 
to love me so much better than him, that she would fly 
to me, at once — trust to my love and mercy. And 
then, the remembrance of being deceived, did rankle 
in my heart. I may have been cold, or too exacting. 
God forgive me, for nry heart was torn with anguish. 
He knows best." 
"Ralph," Edith said, with unconscious admiration, 
" if all men were as generous as you ! " 
" I do not deserve the praise. I think I would have 
taken her back, any time — because I needed her, be- 
cause I loved her so much." 
" She did care for him, it seems." 
There was a feeling of triumph and satisfaction in 
Edith's heart. 
" Yes ; " in a sad, dreamy fashion. " And so she is 
as one buried out of sight. But I like pleasant home 
associations ; and when you tire of the sameness and 
grave air, the old house must always carry, will you 
leave your mother here to comfort me?^ tize( 
" I shall never tire of it. Oh, Ralph, when I think 
of that long, dreary servitude, do yon wonder that I 
shrink from the idea of another master*— for tender 
and generous men are rare? " 
Her deep eyes were swimming in tears. How very, 
very lovely she looked ! Once she might have been his ! 
„ He did not follow out the train of thought, but sim- 
ply said, in his grave fashion — 
" Then I shall keep you both." 
And Edith, feeling that delicacy forbade any warmer 
demonstration, was quite content. 
For the next few days, Mr. Tremaine found himself 
much engrossed by the cares of business. No tidings 
of Dora or Cameron reached him — and yet it seemed 
as if he were in momentary expectation of something. 
Would he never get over the impression? When he 
was a little more at leisure, he would go to Catherine 
Dawson, for the particulars of the sad story, or, rather, 
when he could bear to hear of Dora's love for another. 
At this juncture, urgent business summoned him to 
St. Louis. A branch house in that city was reported 
to be in a very critical condition, owing to some fraud- 
ulent dealings. 
" It is too bad ! " Mrs. Lester moaned, " and just 
as we were all feeling so comfortable and happy ! " 
" You will soon have me back !" he exclaimed, with 
a grateful smile for her regard. 
The case was quite a complicated one, involving some 
loss, at the best — but Mr. Tremaine went at it with his 
cool, well-trained business faculties, and soon made 
himself master of the situation. Speculation and liv- 
ing beyond his means, had made a scoundrel of one, 
who, a few years before, had been a most promising 
man. Tremaine felt sick at each new development. 
Having lingered over the details longer than usual, 
one evening, instead of going directly to his hotel, he 
turned into a quiet street for a walk. It was not 
strange that his thoughts should revert to his own home, 
and the faces that watched by his fireside ; Edith in her 
proud, but tender beauty, her soft tones and refined 
ways — well, she was young, and would doubtless marry 
again, it would be a shame to keep such loveliness 
moped up at quiet Woodlea. 
Something startled him — a kind of scuffling and half- 
suppressed oaths. In the shadow of this doorway were 
two figures — and just as he reached them, he saw an 
upraised, gleaming steel, and heard a wild cry, followed 
by a horrible imprecation. The wounded man fell 
heavily, while his assailant sped by like a flash ; and 
ere Tremaine had summoned sufficient presence of mind 
to give an alarm, was out of sight. 
He raised the wounded man, and glanced at him, by 
the glimmer of the nearest lamp. A ghastly face, dis- 
torted with rage and pain, and yet strangely familiar. 
Where had he seen it? 
A crowd poured out of the room above — a second 
or third rate gambling den. An instant confusion of 
tongues, a dozen officious hands, and fifty eager ques- 
tions. Tremaine stood still, aghast. For, surely, that 
face, growing into a dead, frightful composure, was 
Jasper Cameron's ! 
He followed the men up-stairs, while an officer, just 
arrived, commanded silence, and began to make in- 
quiries. Tremaine told his story, and some one was 
despatched for the murderer — for the man had breathed 
his last. 
Of Cameron, they all appeared to know very little in- 
deed. He had frequented the place for the last fort- 
night, plaj-ing quite heavily, and invariably winning. 
The evening before, there bad been a violent altercation 
between him and his opponent, a well-known gambler, 
who had openly accused Cameron of cheating. Yet 
they had met again, and played together with the same 
result. The man had uttered no threats, but left a mo- 
ment after his adversary, and this had been the result. 
Tremaine stayed until after midnight. The dead 
body had been searched, and more than one evidence 
of his nefarious practices found, beside a considerable 
sum of money, and a packet of papers very securely 
sealed. 
" Gentleman," he said, " I have met this man in 
New York. Any private papers that he may have about 
him, should be delivered to his wife, I think. If you 
please, I will be responsible for their safe keeping and 
return. 
No one could guess, what it cost Tremaine to say 
that. Dora's husband ! The man with whom she had 
chosen to link her fate. 
Further than his few pergonal interviews with the 
deceased, Tremaine could give them no information. 
The inquest was appointed for the ensuing day, and the 
party dispersed. 
Ralph Tremaine's first business, the next morning, 
was to discover Cameron's place of abode, and if possi- 
ble, Dora. He shrank from seeing her, but it seemed 
doubly cruel to desert her in this hour of need. He 
found Cameron's name entered at a first-class hotel, 
but no wife. Had she been already condemned to ob- 
scurity? 
The coroner's jury brought in a verdict of murder. 
Selden, the assailant, was still at large. It was known 
that he was in the habit of carryiDg a sword-cane, and 
the two wounds had evidently been given with such a 
weapon. The body of the dead man was turned over 
to his friends, if, indeed, there were any, and efforts to 
capture the murderer redoubled. 
Tremaine gave orders for a quiet burial. He would 
see that his enemy lacked nothing — for Dora's sake. 
The papers being found to relate merely to personal 
matters, were delivered into his custody. 
He perused them, hoping to find some trace of Dora ; 
and a very curious one it was, that he could not under- 
stand at all ; a long, closely written letter, containing thr 
history of a child, and its mother's address, a foreign 
one, with an assumed name. There was also the copy 
of a marriage certificate between Eleanor Duprez and 
Giles Walsingham, a birth record of Dora Walsingham, 
child of the above parties, the address of Mildred 
Cameron in New York, and copy of a deposition sworn 
to by her, concerning the child. 
It seemed to him, that he had heard or read of a for- 
tune, claimed some time before by certain heirs named 
Walsingham. This letter was addressed to Gilbert 
Verner, and the child was not his sister's. Dora, fated 
always to be enveloped in some mystery. Did she 
know of this? 
He was not a man to puzzle or conjecture, he had no 
taste for plunging into secrets, or arranging difficult 
details from a slight clue. He could make nothing 
much out of the papers, neither could he remember the 
story he had heard, so he hurried his business into shape, 
and left for New York at the earliest possible moment. 
He had no desire to look in upon Edith and her 
mother, first of all. The hours seemed interminable- 
long, until he could set to work, and reach some fact, 
that would aid him to unravel the whole. And most of 
all, a desperate fear for Dora's safety and comfort nearly 
drove him wild. What if she were ill, neglected and 
suffering? Oh, why had he resigned her to the care of 
this plausible, treacherous villain ? Why had he not 
insisted upon hearing the truth from her own lips? 
Now, he could see his mistakes, his blindness and fail- 
ures. What if she had deceived him about her mar- 
riage? — he felt now, as he had that first night, that 
she could explain it all in a dozen words, were he to see 
her. 
He went stumbling about, through the ill lighted 
streets, not heeding the cold and cloudy November 
evening, with a mist that penetrated like a storm. Mrs. 
Mildred Cameron. At last he found her, and was 
ushered into the chilly parlor. 
"Have you any connection, by the name of Jasper 
Cameron?" he asked, abruptly, before he was seated. 
And then he glanced at her worn and anxious face — 
what if she were his mother ! 
The woman coughed and hesitated. "Jasper Cam- 
eron," she said, slowly. "What might you want of 
him." 
" Nothing of him. And if any one cared for him, 
if he were dear to any person — I bring the last tidings 
he or she will ever hear — for Jasper Cameron is dead." 
She staggered back to the wall, with a cry. " No, 
you do not mean it!" she moaned. "My Jasper! 
My brave, handsome boy ! No mother could have 
loved him better than I, but he was mine, mine ! " 
It was pitiful to see the poor creature wring her 
hands, and ramble from one unintelligible sentence to 
another. Tremaine tried to soothe her, and lead her to 
reason, and more than once almost despaired. 
"Do you know anything about his — wife?" he 
asked, at length, halting a little at the word. 
u Do I? The base, heartless creature ! For, when 
he would have brought her into a fortune, she turned 
her back upon him, and went off with her grand rela- 
tives. But he had his revenge ! Madame will never 
know that he poisoned her husband's mind, and made 
him believe that she had gone to live with him. Yes, 
he had his revenge ! " 
Ralph Tremaine was utterly astounded, for a moment. 
And then a strange, bewildering rush of joy, that half 
strangled him! Yet, where was Dora to be found? 
His own, true-hearted Dora ! 
The old woman maundered on, her brain and story 
alike confused with passionate bursts of grief. And 
Tremaine, from the tangled mass, gathered a few facts. 
That Dora was not Mrs. Denver's child, not Gilbert 
Verner's niece, that her marriage had been a subject of 
speculation with Jasper Cameron, and his unprincipled 
aunt, that she had kept certain papers very securely, 
but they had not brought her boy to good fortune. 
She denounced Dora in unmeasured terms, and yet, it 
was highest praise to her husband's ears ; and Mr. 
Colby came in for a share of vindictive anger. 
'  Colby." He knew something of the man, Why, he 
had in some way been connected with this Walsinghani 
fortune ! Perhaps it would be better to apply to him? 
He said nothing about the papers, but delivered to 
her the money that had been found on her nephew's 
body. Then he proposed to depart, for it was grow- 
ing late. 
"You will come again, and tell me about him, my 
poor, dear Jasper ! " she said, brokenly. ' ' And perhaps 
I will remember more of the story — how they all 
wronged him, and she most of all. For he was her 
lawful, wedded husband, and not the other. My mind 
does not seem clear to-night, and I am a lonely old 
. woman ! " 
He did pity her sincerely. Suffering alwaj-s touched 
his heart, and this feeble, trembling creature seemed so 
broken by the shock. Ah, Jasper Cameron! if you 
had spent your life, in ministering to her, and she had 
sinned less, for you both, accounts would have been 
fairer, at the judgment day. 
Tremaine took lodgings at a hotel, for the remainder 
of the night ; but though he was weary, he could not 
sleep. Would another day see the matter explained? 
But why Dora had not made one appeal to him, all 
this time, was a profound mystery. 
If you could have seen his vigil, fair Edith, on your 
downy pillow, your dreams would have been less sweet. 
For, already, in j-our f&noy, you reign mistress over this 
pleasant home. 
But he has well-nigh forgotten that there is any- 
thing to forgive, before he takes the wife he loves 
back to his heart. 
FACE TO FACE, AT LAST. 
Rfnlll. TREMAINE had not been able to decide, 
Hran the preceding evening, on which side Mr. 
Colby had arrayed himself. He had a very 
strong distaste for discussing his private and finer feel- 
ings, with people, who could have little interest in them, 
beyond curiosity ; and he did desire that Dora should 
make her own explanations ; otherwise, he could have 
gone at once to Catherine Dawson. Neither did he 
wish to see the lawyer. After some consideration, he 
despatched a note to Mr. Colby, requesting Mrs. Dora 
Tremaine's address. 
"Ross," he said, to his cashier, as he sauntered 
around in the interim of waiting, "do you remember 
the particulars of the Walsingham fortune ? Colby was 
connected with it in some way." 
"Why — yes. It was settled, about the time }-ou 
went to Europe, I think. Everybody believed Colby 
to be pretty well off, but it seems thi& fortnne was not 
his own, at all, only if the heirs did not make their ap- 
pearance, by a certain time, it was to revert to him. 
Unfortunately for Colby, they came to light, at the very 
last moment, and he was compelled to retire from his 
elegant brown*stone mansion. He always was rather 
pompous and consequential, though." 
But these other people ?" said Tremaine, impatiently. 
" How many were there ?" 
 The fortune had to be divided between a son and 
a daughter. It seems this Mr. Walsingham ran off to 
Europe, with a pretty girl, a foreigner and poor, so his 
father disowned him, but relented, on his death-bed, 
and made this curious will. It was odd that they 
should return to America just in time, and so little to 
spare ! It must have been a great blow to Colby. 
The son is a fine looking young fellow, and the mother 
was pointed out to me, in the street, one daj T — a girl- 
ish little thing, with a very foreign air. Eastman had 
the case." 
A very respectable story indeed. He did not care to 
ask about the daughter, and felt thankful that she was 
not included in the general gossip. 
Just then his message came. He gave one or two 
important orders, and left Ross, busy with a great pile 
of St. Louis papers. 
Ralph Tremaine had no very clear idea of what he 
should do. Somehow he did not want to think at all. 
He had thought and planned so much in the beginning, 
. but nothing had ever come of it. So he hailed the first 
car, and after seating himself, took out his paper and 
began reading. 
Mrs. Walsingham's residence was quite up town, but 
in a very convenient locality. Quiet and unpretending, 
the steps and walk freshly cleaned from last night's 
drizzle. 
"Was Mrs. Walsingham at home, and could he see 
her — on some business?" 
The tidy servant ushered him into the library, which 
was used as a general sitting-room, it being sunny, and 
Mrs. Walsingham having an old-world love for sunshine. 
" Would the gentleman give his name?" 
He hesitated— then said— " I am a stranger." 
A light step in the hall, and the entrance of a fair, 
pretty-looking woman, as every one said, in a soft blue 
cashmere morning-dress, with the daintest of slippered 
feet, and stray curls wandering out of her net, like a 
gleam of gold around her piquant face. Somehow he 
could hardly believe her any kin to Dora, and yet, Dora 
had just that turn of the head, that bright, arch, fear- 
less expression. 
He rose awkwardly, and flushed in his embarrass- 
ment. But then, he was such a plain, straightforward 
fellow, and never beat about for fanciful phrases, when 
the truth was at hand. 
"lam Ralph Tremaine," he said — "your daughter 
Dora's husband ! " 
She gave a little cry of surprise, and then glanced 
him over. The large, gray eyes looked so tender and 
pitiful, the soft lines about the mouth were hardly hidden 
by the narrow droop of moustache, the broad brow was 
frank and honorable ; just the kind of man one would 
take for a friend, and trust implicitly. With the words 
— " Tour daughter Dora's husband," still sounding in 
her brain, she gave him her band. 
' There has been a misunderstanding," he said, rather 
confusedly, "but, I believe, a few words can explain it. 
And — Jasper Cameron is dead ! " 
"Thank God! Dora is free, and will be — happy." 
'Tes, I hope — it is not too late ! Can I see Dora?" 
His voice was unsteady with emotion. Dora's mother 
had no arbitrary desire to hear the explanations first, 
and was off like a flash. When she returned, the low 
tone had in it the sound of hardly suppressed tears. 
' ' Will you come up to her room ? " 
She led the way, and he followed gravely, his heart 
beating at every step, as if it would strangle him. Mrs. 
Walsingham opened the door, and he entered alone. 
Dora had been lying on the sofa, with a breakfast 
shawl thrown lightly over her. She bad made it, last 
winter, and he remembered well the contrast of the 
scarlet with the soft chinchilli. As she rose, it slipped 
to the floor, and she stood there, strangely abashed, 
trembling, flushing, her eyes overflowing with tears. 
His glance took her in, instantly, from the shimmer- 
ing hair, down to the foot that hesitated in its next 
step. And then she was folded in his arms, clasped to 
his heart. 
"Oh, Dora ! " and there was a world of tenderesfc 
pathos, as well as softened upbraiding in his voice ; 
"oh, Dora, why have you waited? Why did you not 
fly to me before? What other refuge could there be, 
for you, like your husband's home and heart ? " 
She strove to unclasp his arms, and put him away. 
For, now she felt suddenly hard and cold towards him. 
When was this refuge open to her ? 
" Ralph," she said bitterly, " I have had no husband, 
since that June morning so long ago ! I have been an 
outcast, and suffered — God knows how deeply. Per- 
haps it was just — but that did not soften the pang." 
He glanced at her in dim amaze, and yet, it gave him 
an exquisite thrill. Since that day, he had been en- 
throned in her heart, and her truth and loyalty had 
never swerved. Oh, he had been wild, to think that 
any other man might win her love ! 
" If you had come ! If you had even sent a message 
during those first agonizing days ! Dora, had you so 
little faith in my love or pity, that you could not trust 
yourself to it?" 
" If I had sent a message ! " 
She uttered the words, in a faint, bewildered manner, 
questioning him in wide-eyed surprise. 
"Is it asking so much?" 
There was a tinge of tender reproach in his tone, 
and he stood a little apart. Surely all the advances 
could not be on his side. 
" Catherine sent a note. I was too frightened to 
think. You did not come." 
Even now, her cheek burned with a remembrance of 
the old neglect. 
He glanced at her, the grave, clear eyes, still clouded 
a little with the shadow of their past pain. 
"I do not understand," he began. "I returned 
home early that day — you had made me promise you 
know. You were not there, and Mrs. Maybin told me 
of the summons. Dora, you had refhsed to go with 
me ; " and his voice fell, a little, as if he were still 
pained by these discrepancies. "I went down to the 
station and waited. During the evening I learned that 
Barton saw you drive away from the New York Depot 
— with a stranger — " 
Oh, Heavens ! Dora Tremaine turned deathly white 
with apprehension. What strange story might not have 
been evolved out of the affair? She tried to rally her 
forces, but her very tongue seemed numb and speech- 
less. 
" Dora, do not torture me any longer with this terri- 
ble suspense. Tell me, at once — did you expect him ? 
Did you go to meet him, thinking — " 
" As God hears me, Ralph, I had believed him dead 
for years. A note came, that morning, from Mr. Colby, 
requesting an immediate interview, upon some impor- 
tant business. I could not understand it, at all, and 
started to bring it to you. Just as I stepped out of 
the cam I was confronted by Jasper Cameron. And 
it seemed, at that moment as if all my happy life had 
come to an end, that I was in some sort a criminal." 
She covered her face with her hands and drew a long, 
convulsive breath. 
" If you had gone to Catherine first ; " she cried, in 
passionate despair, as it seemed impossible for her ever 
to unravel the tangled mass. " She watched over me 
during those fearful days, and nights, when it appeared 
as if I must die, only, miserable people never do. And 
she knows every act, every thought, every wish of my 
heart." 
' * Am I never to know ? " 
A slow, wounded tone it was, that touched her deepfy, 
and made her feel quite like a culprit. 
" I was wild, Ealph, and hardly knew what I did. 
So we drove to the Park for a quiet talk. I dared not 
face you, with that man at my side, and when I learned 
that he was resolute to claim me, that he proposed 
still to love, and was ready to dare anything, I knew 
not which way to turn." 
"If you had come to me ! " 
"I know it all now, Ralph, to the very bitterest 
depths of shame and sorrow. Could I have confessed 
under the light of his cruel eyes, that I had deceived 
you, could I have endured jour surprise and perhaps 
condemnation, with him for a witness? I was wild 
with agony. I felt that I must see you alope, first, and 
explain the mystery. And after that, it seems like a 
horrible nightmare, until I saw Catherine standing in 
her own door, and fainted dead away in her arms." 
The terror overpowered her again. Weak and dizzy, 
she would have stumbled, had he not caught her in his 
arms and seated her tenderly on the sofa. 
"But this note to me," he said, " still in some con- 
fusion. "Catherine came to the office, one day, and 
failing to see me, left a message. Before that, I had 
heard Jasper Cameron's version. He had knowledge 
of every movement, he represented you as being — 
undecided, at least," and Tremaine's face flushed. 
"He made me understand that your wish was for se- 
clusion. Then, from Catherine^ note I inferred that 
she was quite anxious, but that you — " 
"Oh, Ralph, do not kill me!" she cried, passion- 
ately. " For, though I look so guilty in your eyes, I 
never wavered, one instant. I hated Jasper Cameron 
so bitterly, that I could have found it in my heart to 
murder him. Whatever vile falsehood he has told, I 
cannot now help, but I never so loved you, so longed 
for you, as through those dreary days. If it is all at 
an end, between us Ralph, if you can never forgive, 
still, I must love you, till I go to my grave ! " 
He took the flushed and tearful face in his hands, 
and kissed her, with such fever and tenderness, that she 
knew the past was to be put away, forever. 
"My darling," he said, with a great tremulousness 
in his voice. " Yon love me. I am hungering for the 
one word that acquits you, makes you blameless in my 
sight for all time. I always did believe that yon could 
explain the mystery, and now, that we are to begin our 
lives over again, I want to know — what I ought to 
have been told long before, what would, indeed, have 
saved us both all this trouble. Why was it kept from 
me?" 
He drew her head to a rest on his shoulder, with the 
old, fond, tender care. How had she lived without it 
these weary months ! 
"O, do not believe that I was base and deceitful, 
Ralph," she cried, piteously. " Uncle Verner promised 
to tell you the story, and gave me to understand that 
he had. I was really grateful to have you make no 
further reference to it, for it was most distasteful to 
me. And I never knew, until he lay dying, that lie 
had spoken of it as an engagement, merely. Jasper 
Cameron being dead, there could no harm come from 
the secret, he urged, while a confession of it now might 
bring me life-long unhappiness. I was a coward, and 
yielded, but it always stood between us. When you 
were fond, I sometimes felt as if I were taking your 
love under false pretences. Yet, you will think it 
strange, that I married Cameron, in the first place. 
Let me tell you all, now." 
There followed an account of her isolated girlhood, 
her girlish fancy, for it had been no more, though it 
led to such a serious. issue. Next, her foster-mother's 
death, and her going to Mr. Verner's. 
" And here is a link that I can supply ; " interrupted 
Mr. Tremaine- "A packet of papers has fallen into 
my hands, by accident, that may be of service to your 
mother. It contains Mrs. Denver's last letter and 
some other matters, and looking over them, gave me 
the first glimmering of the truth. The fortune was 
Cameron's aim, from the beginning, and the silence 
and estrangement furthered his plan. He told me his 
story, with great apparent frankness, but did not men- 
tion that you were ill, intimated, indeed* that it was by • 
your desire that he withheld j'our address. I may 
have been too proud, but it hardly seemed my duty to 
intrude upon you." 
"Yet, you would have come, if you" had known the 
truth?" 
Dora asked it, with the old, breathless eagerness, and 
her glowing ej'es sought his face. 
" Can you doubt it, my darling? " 
She crept closer to him, and the soft, wet cheek was 
pressed against his. Ah, she loved him now. She 
would never torment him again, with those half admis- 
sions, half reservations. 
u And then, that morning, Dora? You must have 
had some presentiment?" 
" I had a hundred, it seems to me. Perhaps it was 
because I had come to love you so well. If you had 
remained, I think I must have told you. And, if I 
could have suspected my message, I should have gone 
tQ the city, with you." 
"Everything conspired to keep me in the dark, it 
seems. I wonder that Colby did not send me word ! " 
They would never know the stronger motive, impell- 
ing Mr. Colby to secrecy, while they had been missing, 
and wrongly interpreting one another. It hardly 
seemed that they could have gone on so for months, 
when a single confession would have brought matters 
straight, so easily. 
"And yet," said Dora, "but for Jasper Cameron, 
I should not have known my mother." 
"We will put that to his credit, among so many 
evil deeds," was the answer. 
Dora roused presently, from the tender kisses that 
were showered upon lip, and cheek, and brow. 
" Ralph," and a crimson flush stained her fair face — 
' ' do you remember that I once went to Woodlea ? " 
A little tremor ran through the strong frame. That, 
too, was an interview of cross purposes. And then a 
smile hovered over the grave face. 
" You were jealous, Dora," yet he pressed her to his 
heart, as if the remembrance made her all the dearer. 
She raised her eyes, with their old, eager expression. 
"Bitterly so. To see that handsome woman in my 
place — " 
" Not in your place, my darling. God will bear me 
witness, that no such thought ever entered my mind. 
I invited them to-Woodlea, from motives of the most 
simple hospitality ; and if they had not come, I should 
have shut up the house. And, though I think Edith is 
a sweeter, better, and nobler woman, than when I first 
loved her, my heart was too full of loss and sorrow, to 
take in another. Will you believe me, Dora ? " 
" Yes," she said, softly, kissing him. " And I was 
unjust, that night — but I was wild with agony." 
"lama stupid old fellow, Dora. You know I never 
could fathom mysteries, nor even guess riddles. I al- 
wa}-s had to be told the plain truth. And if you will 
say, once more, that you love me, and that nothing 
shall ever come between us — " 
She met the sweet, grave smile with one as fond, 
but the tender Solemnity of his tones, brought the tears 
to her eyes. 
" I shall never be careless or willful, again," she said, 
with slow seriousness. "These months of anguish 
have taught me what you were to me, and though they 
have been very hard, the experience has opened our 
eyes to higher, truer J03S. And you are quite sure, 
that you forgive all?" 
" All, my darling." 
And then they were content to sit in silence, until 
they were disturbed by the ringing of a bell. 
" That is for lunch," Dora announced. "Will you 
go down and have some, with mamma, or shall it be 
brought up here?" 
He smiled, wistfully. 
" Since you do not come to lunch, very often, you 
must be indulged, I suppose!"
That was so like the old, bright Dora. And yet in 
some incomprehensible way, she was changed ; not less 
sweet or winsome, but with a shy, appealing grace, a 
kind of dependence and submission, that he had never 
observed in her before. 
The servant brought up a tray, and Dora arranged 
it to her liking, on a little table. . Some toast and choco- 
late, and a few tempting French dishes. 
"Mamma has quite spoiled me," she said. "lam 
afraid you will find me fanciful and troublesome, when 
you take me back. But, Ralph, it is so delightful to 
have a mother ! " 
"Yes. I am glad you found some comfort, out of 
all the care and suffering, and one dear friend." 
" Catherine was very good to me. I think, some- 
times, I must have died, but for her tenderness. And, 
Ralph, I am quite a rich woman, only I have disposed 
of part of my fortune." 
' c And now, you jnay dispose of it all." 
She laughed. In his eyes, she would be the same, 
without a penny. 
Afterward they took Mrs. Walsingham into their 
council. The missing packet was placed in her hands, 
ftnd she read aloud, Mrs. Denver's dying confession. 
When Tremaine added to that Mrs. Cameron's incoher- 
ent admissions, the matter was shorn of its mysteries, 
and reduced to plain facts. 
"It will be best to have another marriage," Tre- 
maine announced, in his straight-forward manner. 
' Not that any one is likely to trouble us again, but 
it will set all vexed questions at rest." 
"If Jasper Cameron were not dead — " said Dora, 
with trembling lips. 
" My darling, he surely is, and can never disturb us 
again. As for what might have occurred under other 
