at three and I remain yours respectful, 
"ROSE RAY." 
 
The Rev. Herman "Warriner Peters read these words 
over and over; then he went to breakfast, but ate 
nothing, and, coming back to his room, he remained 
the whole morning motionless in his chair. At 
first the red flamed in his cheek, but gradually it 
faded, and gave place to a pinched pallor ; he bowed 
his head upon his hands, communed with his own 
heart, and was still. As the dinner-bell rang he 
knelt down on the cold hearth, made a little fu- 
neral pyre of the note torn into fragments, watched 
it slowly consume, and then, carefully collecting the 
ashes, he laid them at the base of the large cross. 
At two o'clock he set out for the Grotto, a cave 
two miles from the village along the shore, used by the 
fishermen as a camp during the summer. The snow 
had continued falling, and now lay deep on the even 
ground; the pines were loaded with it, and every- 
thing was white save the waters of the bay, heaving 
sullenly, dark, and leaden, as though they knew the 
icy fetters were nearly ready for them. The parson 
walked rapidly along in his awkward, halting gait ; 
overshoes he had none, and his cloak was but a 
sorry substitute for the blankets and skins worn by 
the miners. But he did not feel cold when he 
opened the door of the little cabin which had been 
built out in front of the cave, and found himself 
face to face with the beautiful girl who had sum- 
moned him there. She had lighted a fire of pine 
 
knots on the hearth, and set the fishermen's rough 
furniture in order; she had cushioned a chair-back 
with her shawl, and heated a flat stone for a foot- 
warmer. 
"Take this seat, sir," she said, leading him thither. 
The parson sank into the chair and placed his 
old soaked gaiters on the warm stone; but he said 
not one word. 
" I thought perhaps you 'd be tired after your long 
walk, sir," continued the girl, " and so I took the lib- 
erty of bringing something with me." As she spoke 
she drew into view a basket, and took from it delicate 
bread, chicken, cakes, preserved strawberries, and a 
little tin coffee-pot which, set on the coals, straight- 
way emitted a delicious fragrance; nothing was for- 
gotten, cream, sugar, nor even snowy napkins. 
The parson spoke not a word. 
But the girl talked for both, as with flushed cheeks 
and starry eyes she prepared the tempting meal, us- 
ing many pretty arts and graceful motions, using in 
short every power she possessed to charm the silent 
guest. The table was spread, the viands arranged, 
the coffee poured into the cup; but still the parson 
spoke not, and his blue eyes were almost stern as 
he glanced at the tempting array. He touched noth- 
ing. 
"I thought you would have liked it all," said the 
girl at last, when she saw her little offerings de- 
 
spised. "I brought them all out myself and I 
was so glad thinking you'd like them and now " 
Her voice broke, and the tears flowed from her pretty 
soft eyes. A great tenderness came over the parson's 
face. 
" Do not weep," he said, quickly. " See, I am eat- 
ing. See, I am enjoying everything. It is all good, 
nay, delicious." And in his haste he partook of each 
dish, and lifted the coffee-cup to his lips. The girl's 
face grew joyous again, and the parson struggled bravely 
against his own enjoyment; in truth, what with the 
"warm fire, the easy-chair, the delicate food, the fra- 
grant coffee, and the eager, beautiful face before him, a 
sense of happiness came over him in long surges, and 
for the moment his soul drifted with the warm tide. 
"You do like it, don't you?" said the girl with 
delight, as he slowly drank the fragrant coffee, his 
starved lips lingering over the delicious brown drops. 
Something in her voice jarred on the trained nerves 
and roused them to action again. 
" Yes, I do like it, only too well," he answered ; 
but the tone of his voice had altered. He pushed 
back his chair, rose, and began pacing to and fro in 
the shadow beyond the glow of the fire. 
" Thou glutton body ! " he murmured. " But thou 
shalt go empty for this." Then, after a pause, he 
said in a quiet, even tone, "You had something to 
tell me, Miss Ray." 
 
The girl's face had altered ; but rallying, she told 
her story earnestly, of Steven Long, his fierce tem- 
per, his utter lawlessness, and his threats. 
" And why should Steven Long threaten me ? " said 
the parson. " But you need not answer," he contin- 
ued in an agitated voice. "Say to Steven Long, 
say to him," he repeated in louder tones, "that I 
shall never marry. I have consecrated my life to 
my holy calling." 
There was a long silence ; the words fell with 
crushing weight on both listener and speaker. We 
do not realize even our own determinations, some- 
times, until we have told them to another. The girl 
rallied first ; for she still hoped. 
"Mr. Peters," she said, taking all her courage in 
her hands and coining towards him, "is it wrong to 
marry ? " 
" For me it is." 
"Why?" 
"Because I am a priest." 
" Are you a Catholic, then ? " 
"I am a Catholic, although not in the sense you 
mean. Mine is the true Catholic faith which the 
Anglican Church has kept pure from the errors of 
Eome, and mine it is to make my life accord with 
the high office I hold." 
" Is it part of your high office to be cold and 
hungry and wretched?" 
"I am not wretched." 
" You are ; now, and at all times. You are killing 
yourself." 
" No ; else I had died long, long ago." 
" Well, then, of what use is your poor life as you 
now live it, either to yourself or any one else ? Do 
you succeed among the miners? How many have 
you brought into the church?" 
" Not one." 
"And yourself? Have you succeeded, so far, in 
making yourself a saint ? " 
" God knows I have not," replied the parson, cover- 
ing his face with his hands as the questions probed 
his sore, sad heart. " I have failed in my work, I 
have failed in myself, I am of all men most miser- 
able ! most miserable ! " 
The girl sprang forward and caught his arm, her 
eyes full of love's pity. "You know you love me," 
she murmured; "why fight against it? For I I 
love you ! " 
What did the parson do? 
He fell upon his knees, but not to her, and uttered 
a Latin prayer, short but fervid. 
" All the kingdoms of the world and the glory of 
them," he murmured, "would not be to me so much 
as this ! " Then he rose. 
" Child," he said, " you know not what you do." 
And, opening the door, he went away into the snowy 
 
forest. But the girl's weeping voice called after him, 
" Herman, Herman." He turned ; she had sunk upon 
the threshold. He came back and lifted her for a 
moment in his arms. 
" Be comforted, Eosamond," he said, tenderly. " It 
is but a fancy ; you will soon forget me. You do 
not really love me, such a one as I," he contin- 
ued, bringing forward, poor heart! his own greatest 
sorrow with unpitying hand. " But thank you, dear, 
for the gentle fancy." He stood a moment, silent; 
then touched her dark hair with his quivering lips 
and disappeared. 
~* Sunday morning the sun rose unclouded, the snow 
lay deep on the ground, the first ice covered the 
bay; winter had come. At ten o'clock the custom- 
ary service began in the Chapel of St. John and 
St. James, and the little congregation shivered, and 
whispered that it must really try to raise money 
enough for a stove. The parson did not feel the cold, 
although he looked almost bloodless in his white sur- 
plice. The Englishwoman was there, repentant, 
the sick child had not rallied under the new minis- 
tration ; Mrs. Malone was there, from sheer good-na- 
ture; and several of the villagers and two or three 
miners had strolled in because they had nothing else 
to do, Brother Saul having returned to the mine. 
Rose Ray was not there. She was no saint, so she 
stayed at home and wept like a sinner. 
 
The congregation, which had sat silent through the 
service, fell entirely asleep during the sermon on the 
"General Councils." Suddenly, in the midst of a 
sentence, there came a noise that stopped the par- 
son and woke the sleepers. Two or three miners 
rushed into the chapel and spoke to the few men 
present. " Come out," they cried, " come out to the 
mine. The thief 's caught at last ! and who do you 
think it is? Saul, Brother Saul himself, the hypo- 
crite ! They tracked him to his den, and there they 
found the barrels and sacks and kegs, but the stuff 
he 's made away with, most of it. He took it all, 
every crumb, and us a starving!" 
"We've run in to tell the town," said another. 
"We Ve got him fast, and we 're going to make a 
sample of him. Come out and see the fun." 
"Yes," echoed a third, who lifted a ruffianly face 
from his short, squat figure, " and we 'll take our own 
time, too. He 's made us suffer, and now he shall 
suffer a bit, if I know myself." 
The women shuddered as, with an ominous growl, 
all the men went out together. 
" I misdoubt they 'll hang him," said Mrs. Malone, 
shaking her head as she looked after them. 
"Or worse," said the miner's wife. 
Then the two departed, and the parson was left 
alone. Did he cut off the service ? No. Deliber- 
ately he finished every word of the sermon, sang a 
 
hymn, and spoke the final prayer; then, after put- 
ting everything in order, he too left the little sanctu- 
ary ; "but he did not go homeward, he took the road 
to the mine. 
" Don't-ee go, sir, don't ! " pleaded the English- 
woman, standing in her doorway as he passed. " You 
won't do no good, sir." 
"Maybe not," answered the parson, gently, "but 
at least I must try." 
He entered the forest; the air was still and cold, 
the snow crackled under his feet, and the pine-trees 
stretched away in long white aisles. He looked like 
a pygmy as he hastened on among the forest giants, 
his step more languid than usual from sternest vigil 
and fasting. 
" Thou proud, evil body, I have conquered thee ! " 
he had said in the cold dawning. And he had; at 
least, the body answered not again. 
The mine was several miles away, and to lighten 
the journey the little man sang a hymn, his voice 
sounding through the forest in singular melody. It 
was an ancient hymn that he sang, written long ago 
by some cowled monk, and it told in quaint lan- 
guage of the joys of "Paradise! O Paradise!" He 
did not feel the cold as he sang of the pearly gates. 
In the late afternoon his halting feet approached 
the mine ; as he drew near the clearing he heard a 
sound of many voices shouting together, followed by 
 
a single cry, and a momentary silence more fearful 
than the clamor. The tormentors were at work. The 
parson ran forward, and, passing the log-huts which 
lay between, came out upon the scene. A circle of 
men stood there around a stake. Fastened by a long 
rope, crouched the wretched prisoner, his face turned 
to the color of dough, his coarse features drawn apart 
like an animal in terror, and his hoarse voice never 
ceasing its piteous cry, " Have mercy, good gentle- 
men! Dear gentlemen, have mercy!" 
At a little distance a fire of logs was burning, 
and from the brands scattered around it was evi- 
dent that the man had served as a target for the 
fiery missiles ; in addition he bore the marks of blows, 
and his clothes were torn and covered with mud as 
though he had been dragged roughly over the ground. 
The lurid light of the fire cast a glow over the faces 
of the miners ; behind rose the Iron Mountain, dark 
in shadow; and on each side stretched out the ranks 
of the white-pine trees, like ghosts assembled as si- 
lent witnesses against the cruelty of man. The par- 
son rushed forward, broke through the circle, and 
threw his arms around the prisoner at the stake, 
protecting him with his slender body. 
" If ye kill him, ye must kill me also," he cried, 
in a ringing voice. 
On the border, the greatest crime is robbery. A 
thief is worse than a murderer ; a life does not count 
so much as life's supplies. It was not for the mur- 
derer that the Lynch law was made, but for the 
thief. For months these Algonquin miners had suf- 
fered loss ; their goods, their provisions, their clothes, 
and their precious whiskey, had been stolen, day 
after day, and all search had proved vain; exasper- 
ated, several times actually suffering from want, they 
had heaped up a great store of fury for the thief, 
fury increased tenfold when, caught at last, he 
proved to be no other than Brother Saul, the one 
man whom they had trusted, the one man whom 
they had clothed and fed before themselves, the one 
man from whom they had expected better things. 
An honest, bloodthirsty 'wolf in his own skin was 
an animal they respected; indeed, they were them- 
selves little better. But a wolf in sheep's clothing 
was utterly abhorrent to their peculiar sense of 
honor. So they gathered around their prey, and es- 
teemed it rightfully theirs; whiskey had sharpened 
their enjoyment. 
To this savage band, enter the little parson. 
" What ! are ye men ? " he cried. " Shame, shame, 
ye murderers ! " 
The miners stared at the small figure that defied 
them, and for the moment their anger gave way be- 
fore a rough sense of the ludicrous. 
"Hear the little man," they cried. "Hurrah, Pe- 
ter! Go ahead!" 
But they soon wearied of his appeal and began to 
answer back. 
" What are clothes or provisions to a life ? " said 
the minister. 
"Life ain't worth much without 'em, Parson," re- 
plied a miner. " He took all we had, and we Ve 
gone cold and hungry long of him, and he knowed 
it. And all the time we was a giving him of the 
best, and a believing his praying and his preaching." 
"If he is guilty, let him be tried by the legal 
authorities." 
" We 're our own legal 'thorities, Parson." 
"The country will call you to account." 
" The country won't do " nothing of the kind. 
Much the country cares for us poor miners, frozen 
up here in the woods ! Stand back, Parson. Why 
should you bother about Saul ? You always hated 
him." 
"Never! never!" answered the parson, earnestly. 
"You did too, and he knowed it. 'Twas because 
he was dirty, and couldn't mince his words as you 
do." 
The parson turned to the crouching figure at his 
side. " Friend," he said, " if this is true, and the 
heart is darkly deceitful and hides from man his 
own worst sins, I humbly ask your forgiveness." 
"O come! None of your gammon," said another 
miner, impatiently. " Saul didn't care whether you 
 
liked him or not, for he knowed you was only a 
coward." 
" Traid of a dog ! Traid of a dog ! " shouted half 
a dozen voices ; and a frozen twig struck the parson's 
cheek, and drew blood. 
" Why, he 's got blood ! " said one. " I never 
thought he had any." 
" Come, Parson," said a friendly miner, advancing 
from the circle, " we don't want to hurt you, but you 
might as well understand that we 're the masters here." 
"And if ye are the masters, then be just. Give 
the criminal to me; I will myself take him to the 
nearest judge, the nearest jail, and deliver him up." 
" He 'll be more likely to deliver you up, I reck- 
on, Parson." 
"Well, then, send a committee of your own men 
with me " 
" We 've got other things to do besides taking 
long journeys over the ice to 'commodate thieves, 
Parson. Leave the man to us." 
" And to torture ? Men, men, ye would not treat 
a beast so ! " 
"A beast don't steal our food and whiskey," sang 
out a miner. 
" Stand back ! stand back ! " shouted several voices. 
" You 're too little to fight, Parson." 
"But not too little to die," answered the minister, 
throwing up his arms towards the sky. 
 
For an instant his words held the men in check ; 
they looked at each other, then at him. 
" Think of yourselves," continued the minister. 
" Are ye without fault ? If ye murder this man, ye 
are worse than he is." 
But here the minister went astray in his appeal, 
and ran against the views of the border. 
" Worse ! Worse than a sneaking thief ! Worse 
than a praying hypocrite who robs the very men 
that feed him ! Look here, we won't stand that ! 
Sheer off, or take the consequences." And a burn- 
ing brand struck the parson's coat, and fell on the 
head of the crouching figure at his side, setting fire 
to its hair. Instantly the parson extinguished the 
light flame, and drew the burly form closer within 
his arms, so that the two stood as one. "Not one, 
but both of us," he cried. 
A new voice spoke next, the voice of the oldest 
miner, the most hardened reprobate there. "Let go 
that rascal, Parson. He 's the fellow that lamed you 
last spring. He set the trap himself; I seen him 
a doing it." 
Involuntarily, for a moment, Herman Peters drew 
back; the trap set at the chapel door, the deliber- 
ate, cruel intention, the painful injury, and its life- 
long result, brought the angry color to his pale face. 
The memory was full of the old bitterness. 
But Saul, feeling himself deserted, dragged his 
 
miserable body forward, and clasped the parson's 
knees. With desperate hands he clung, and he was 
not repulsed. Without a word the parson drew him 
closer, and again faced the crowd. 
" Why, the man 's a downright fool ! " said the old 
miner. "That Saul lamed him for life, and all for 
nothing, and still he stands by him. The man 's 
mad ! " 
"I am not mad," answered the parson, and his 
voice rung out clear and sweet. "But I am a min- 
ister of the great God who has said to men, 'Thou 
shalt do no murder.' O men! O brothers! look 
back into your own lives. Have ye no crimes, no 
sins to be forgiven ? Can ye expect mercy when ye 
give none ? Let this poor creature go, and it shall 
be counted unto you for goodness. Ye, too, must 
some time die ; and when the hour comes, as it often 
comes, in lives like yours, with sudden horror, ye will 
have this good deed to remember. For charity 
which is mercy shall cover a multitude of sins." 
He ceased, and there was a momentary pause. 
Then a stern voice answered, "Facts won't alter, 
Parson. The man is a thief, and must be punished. 
Your talk may do for women-folks, not for us." 
" Women-folks ! ** repeated the ruffian-faced man 
who had made the women shudder at the chapel 
" He 's a sly fox, this parson ! He didn't go out to 
meet Eosie Eay at the Grotter yesterday, O no ? " 
 
"Liar!" shouted a man, who had been standing 
in the shadow on the outskirts of the crowd, taking, 
so far, no part in the scene. He forced himself to 
the front; it was Steven Long, his face dark with 
passion. 
"No liar at all, Steve," answered the first. "I 
seen 'em there with my own eyes; they had things 
to eat and everything. Just ask the parson." 
" Yes, ask the parson," echoed the others ; and with 
the shifting humor of the border, they stopped to 
laugh over the idea. "Ask the parson." 
Steven Long stepped forward and confronted the 
little minister. His strong hands were clinched, his 
blood was on fire with jealousy. The bull-dog fol- 
lowed his master, and smelled around the parson's 
gaiters, the same poor old shoes, his only pair, 
now wet with melted snow. The parson glanced 
down apprehensively. 
" Traid of a dog ! Traid of a dog ! " shouted the 
miners, again laughing uproariously. The fun was 
better than they had anticipated. 
" Is it true ? " demanded Steven Long, in a hoarse 
voice. "Did you meet that girl at the Grotter yes- 
terday ? " 
"I did meet Eosamond Eay at the Grotto yes- 
terday," answered the parson; "but " 
He never finished the sentence. A fragment of 
iron ore struck him on the temple. He fell, and 
 
died, his small body lying across the thief, whom 
he still protected. even in death. 
The murder was not avenged; Steven Long was 
left to go his own way. But as the thief was also 
allowed to depart unmolested, the principles of bor- 
der justice were held to have been amply satisfied. 
The miners attended the funeral in a body, and 
even deputed one of their number to read the Epis- 
copal burial service over the rough pine coffin, since 
there was no one else to do it. They brought out 
the chapel prayer-books, found the places, and fol- 
lowed as well as they could ; for " he thought a deal 
of them books. Don't you remember how he was 
always carrying 'em backward and forward, poor little 
chap ! " 
The Chapel of St. John and St. James was closed 
for the season. In the summer a new missionary 
arrived; he was not ritualistic, and before the year 
was out he married Eosamond Ray. 
JEANNETTE. 
BEFOEE the war for the Union, in the times of 
the old army, there had been peace through- 
out the country for thirteen years. Kegiments ex- 
isted in their officers, but the ranks were thin, 
the more so the better, since the United States 
possessed few forts and seemed in chronic embar- 
rassment over her military children, owing to the 
flying foot-ball of public opinion, now "standing 
army pro," now " standing army con," with more or 
less allusion to the much-enduring Caesar and his 
legions, the ever-present ghost of the political arena. 
In those days the few forts were full and much 
state was kept up ; the officers were all graduates 
of West Point, and their wives graduates of the first 
families. They prided themselves upon their ante- 
cedents ; and if there was any aristocracy in the 
country, it was in -the circles of army life. 
Those were pleasant days, pleasant for the old 
soldiers who were resting after Mexico, pleasant 
for young soldiers destined to die on the plains of 
 
Gettysburg or the cloudy heights of Lookout Moun- 
tain. There was an esprit de corps in the little band, 
a dignity of bearing, and a ceremonious state, lost in 
the great struggle which came afterward. That great 
struggle now lies ten years back; yet, to-day, when 
the silver-haired veterans meet, they pass it over as 
a tiling of the present, and go back to the times of 
the " old army." 
Up in the northern straits, between blue Lake 
Huron, with its clear air, and gray Lake Michigan, 
with it's silver fogs, lies the bold island of Mackinac. 
Clustered along the beach, which runs around its 
half-moon harbor, are the houses of the old French 
village, nestling at the foot of the cliff rising behind, 
crowned with the little white fort, the stars and 
stripes floating above it against the deep blue sky. 
Beyond, on all sides, the forest stretches away, cliffs 
finishing it abruptly, save one slope at the far erjd 
of the island, three miles distant, where the British 
landed in 1812. That is the whole of Mackinac. 
The island has a strange sufficiency of its own ; 
it satisfies ; all who have lived there feel it. The 
island has a wild beauty of its own; it fascinates; 
all who have lived there love it. Among its aro- 
matic cedars, along the aisles of its pine-trees, in the 
gay company of its maples, there is companionship. 
On its bald northern cliffs, bathed in sunshine and 
swept by the pure breeze, there is exhilaration. 
Many there are, bearing the burden and heat of the 
day, who look back to the island with the tears that 
rise but do not fall, the sudden longing despondency 
that comes occasionally to all, when the tired heart 
cries out, " O, to escape, to flee away, far, far away, 
and be at rest ! " 
In 1856 Fort Mackinac held a major, a captain, 
three lieutenants, a chaplain, and a surgeon, besides 
those subordinate officers who wear stripes on their 
sleeves, and whose rank and duties are mysterious 
to the uninitiated. The force for this array of com- 
manders was small, less than a company; but what 
it lacked in quantity it made up in quality, owing 
to the continual drilling it received. 
The days were long at Fort Mackinac ; happy 
thought ! drill the men. So when the major had 
finished, the captain began, and each lieutenant was 
watching his chance. Much state was kept up also. 
Whenever the major appeared, " Commanding offi- 
cer; guard, present arms," was called down the line 
of men on duty, and the guard hastened to obey, 
the major acknowledging the salute with stiff pre- 
cision. By day and by night sentinels paced the 
walls. True, the walls were crumbling, and the whole 
force was constantly engaged in propping them up, 
but none the less did the sentinels pace with dig- 
nity. What was it to the captain if, while he 
sternly inspected the muskets in the block-house, the 
 
lieutenant, with a detail of men, was hard at work 
strengthening its underpinning ? None the less did 
he inspect. The sally-port, mended but imposing; 
the flag-staff with its fair-weather and storm flags ; 
the frowning iron grating ; the sidling white cause- 
way, constantly falling down and as constantly re- 
paired, which led up to the main entrance ; the well- 
preserved old cannon, all showed a strict military 
rule. When the men were not drilling they were 
propping up the fort, and when they were not prop- 
ping up the fort they were drilling. In the early 
days, the days of the first American commanders, 
military roads had been made through the forest, 
roads even now smooth and solid, although trees of 
a second growth meet overhead. But that was when 
the fort was young and stood firmly on its legs. In 
1856 there was no time for road-making, for when 
military duty was over there was always more or 
less mending to keep the whole fortification from 
sliding down hill into the lake. 
On Sunday there was service in the little chapel, 
an upper room overlooking the inside parade-ground. 
Here the kindly Episcopal chaplain read the chapters 
about Balaam and Balak, and always made the same 
impressive pause after "Let me die the death of the 
righteous, and let my last end be like his." (Dear 
old man ! he has gone. "Would that our last end 
might indeed be like his !) Not that the chaplain 
 
confined his reading to the Book of Numbers ; but 
as those chapters are appointed for the August Sun- 
days, and as it was in August that the summer vis- 
itors came to Mackinac, the little chapel is in many 
minds associated with the patient Balak, his seven 
altars, and his seven rams. 
There was state and discipline in the fort even on 
Sundays; bugle-playing marshalled the congregation 
in, bugle-playing marshalled them out. If the sermon 
was not finished, so much the worse for the sermon, 
but it made no difference to the bugle ; at a given 
moment it sounded, and out marched all the soldiers, 
drowning the poor chaplain's hurrying voice with 
their tramp down the stairs. The officers attended 
service in full uniform, sitting erect and dignified in 
the front seats. "We used to smile at the grand air 
they had, from the stately gray-haired major down 
to the youngest lieutenant fresh from the Point. 
But brave hearts were beating under those fine uni- 
forms ; and when the great struggle came, one and 
all died .on the field in the front of the battle. 
Over the grave of the commanding officer is inscribed 
"Major-General," over the captain's is "Brigadier," 
and over each young lieutenant is "Colonel" They 
gained their promotion in death. 
I spent many months at Fort Mackinac with Archie ; 
Archie was my nephew, a young lieutenant. In the 
short, bright summer came the visitors from below ; all 
 
the world outside is " below " in island vernacular. In 
the long winter the little white fort looked out over 
unbroken ice-fields, and watched for the moving black 
dot of the dog-train bringing the mails from the main- 
land. One January day I had been out walking on 
the snow-crust, breathing the cold, still air, and, re- 
turning within the walls to our quarters, I found my 
little parlor already occupied. Jeannette was there, 
petite Jeanneton, the fisherman's daughter. Strange 
beauty sometimes results from a mixed descent, and 
this girl had French, English, and Indian blood in her 
veins, the three races mixing and intermixing among her 
ancestors, according to the custom of the Northwestern 
border. A bold profile delicately finished, heavy blue- 
black hair, light blue eyes looking out unexpectedly 
from under black lashes and brows ; a fair white skin, 
neither the rose-white of the blonde nor the cream- 
white of the Oriental brunette ; a rounded form with 
small hands and feet, showed the mixed beauties of 
three nationalities. Yes, there could be no doubt but 
that Jeannette was singularly lovely, albeit ignorant 
utterly. Her dress was as much of a melange as her 
ancestry : a short skirt of military blue, Indian leggins 
and moccasins, a red jacket and little red cap embroid- 
ered with beads. The thick braids of her hair hung 
down her back, and on the lounge lay a large blanket- 
mantle lined with fox-skins and ornamented with the 
plumage of birds. She had come to teach me bead- 
 
work; I had already taken several lessons to while 
away the time, but found myself an awkward scholar. 
" Bonjou', madame" she said, in her patois of broken 
English and degenerate French. " Pretty here." 
My little parlor had a square of carpet, a hearth-fire 
of great logs, Turkey -red curtains, a lounge and arm- 
chair covered with chintz, several prints on the cracked 
walls, and a number of books, the whole well used 
and worn, worth perhaps twenty dollars in any town 
below, but ten times twenty in icy Mackinac. I be- 
gan the bead-work, and Jeannette was laughing at 
my mistakes, when the door opened, and our surgeon 
came in, pausing to warm his hands before going up 
to his room in the attic. A taciturn man was our sur- 
geon, Eodney Prescott, not popular in the merry garri- 
son circle, but a favorite of mine; the Puritan, the 
New-Englander, the Bostonian, were as plainly written 
upon his face as the French and Indian were written 
upon Jeannette. 
" Sit down, Doctor," I said. 
He took a seat and watched us carelessly, now and 
then smiling at Jeannette's chatter as a giant might 
smile upon a pygmy. I could see that the child was 
putting on all her little airs to attract his attention ; 
now the long lashes swept the cheeks, now they were 
raised suddenly, disclosing the unexpected blue eyes ; 
the little moccasined feet must be warmed on the fen- 
der, the braids must be swept back with an impatient 
 
movement of the hand and shoulder, and now and 
then there was a coquettish arch of the red lips, less 
than a pout, what she herself would have called " une 
p'tite moue." Our surgeon watched this pantomime 
unmoved. 
" Isn't she beautiful ? " I said, when, at the expira- 
tion of the hour, Jeannette disappeared, wrapped in her 
mantle. 
" No ; not to my eyes." 
" Why, what more can you require, Doctor ? Look 
at her rich coloring, her hair " 
"There is no mind in her face, Mrs. Corlyne." 
"But she is still a child." 
"She will always be a child; she will never ma- 
ture," answered our surgeon, going up the steep stairs 
to his room above. 
Jeannette came regularly, and one morning, tired of 
the bead-work, I proposed teaching her to read. She 
consented, although not without an incentive in the 
form of shillings; but, however gained, my scholar 
gave to the long winter a new interest. She learned 
readily ; but as there was no foundation, I was obliged 
to commence with A, B, C. 
" Why not teach her to cook ? " suggested the ma- 
jor's fair young wife, whose life was spent in hopeless 
labors with Indian servants, who, sooner or later, ran 
away in the night with spoons and the family apparel. 
"Why not teach her to sew?" said Madame Cap- 
 
tain, wearily raising her eyes from the pile of small 
garments before her. 
" Why not have her up for one of our sociables ? " 
hazarded our most dashing lieutenant, twirling his 
mustache. 
" Frederick ! " exclaimed his wife, in a tone of hor- 
ror : she was aristocratic, but sharp in outlines. 
" Why not bring her into the church ? Those French 
half-breeds are little better than heathen," said the 
chaplain. 
Thus the high authorities disapproved of my educa- 
tional efforts. I related their comments to Archie, and 
added, "The surgeon is the only one who has said 
nothing against it." 
" Prescott ? O, he 's too high and mighty to notice 
anybody, much less a half-breed girl. I never saw 
such a stiff, silent fellow ; he looks as though he had 
swallowed all his straightlaced Puritan ancestors. I 
wish he 'd exchange." 
"Gently, Archie " 
"O, yes, without doubt; certainly, and amen! I 
know you like him, Aunt Sarah," said my handsome 
boy-soldier, laughing. 
The lessons went on. We often saw the surgeon 
during study hours, as the stairway leading to his 
room opened out of the little parlor. Sometimes he 
would stop awhile and listen as Jeannette slowly read, 
" The good boy likes his red top " ; " The good girl can 
 
sew a seam"; or watched her awkward attempts to 
write her name, or add a one and a two. It was slow 
work, but I persevered, if from no other motive than 
obstinacy. Had not they all prophesied a failure? 
When wearied with the dull routine, I gave an oral 
lesson in poetry. If the rhymes were of the chiming, 
rhythmic kind, Jeannette learned rapidly, catching the 
verses as one catches a tune, and repeating them with 
a spirit and dramatic gesture all her own. Her favorite 
was Macaulay's " Ivry." Beautiful she looked, as, 
standing in the centre of the room, she rolled out the 
sonorous lines, her French accent giving a charming 
foreign coloring to the well-known verses : 
"Now by the lips of those ye love, fair gentlemen of France, 
Charge for the golden lilies, upon them with the lance ! 
A thousand spurs are striking deep, a thousand spears in rest, 
A thousand knights are pressing close behind the snow-white crest ; 
And in they burst, and on they rushed, while, like a guiding star, 
Amidst the thickest carnage blazed the helmet of Navarre." 
And yet, after all my explanations, she only half 
understood it; the "knights" were always "nights" 
in her mind, and the "thickest carnage" was always 
the "thickest carriage." 
One March day she came at the appointed hour, 
soon after our noon dinner. The usual clear winter 
sky was clouded, and a wind blew the snow from the 
trees where it had lain quietly month after month. 
" Spring is coming," said the old sergeant that morn- 
 
ing, as he hoisted the storm-flag ; " it 's getting wild- 
like." 
Jeannette and I went through the lessons, but to- 
ward three o'clock a north-wind came sweeping over 
the Straits and enveloped the island in a whirling 
snow-storm, partly eddies of white splinters torn from 
the ice-bound forest, and partly a new fall of round 
snow pellets careering along on the gale, quite unlike 
the soft, feathery flakes of early winter. " You can- 
not go home now, Jeannette," I said, looking out 
through the little west window; our cottage stood 
back on the hill, and from this side window we could 
see the Straits, going down toward far "Waugoschance ; 
the steep fort-hill outside the wall ; the long meadow, 
once an Indian burial-place, below; and beyond on 
the beach the row of cabins inhabited by the French 
fishermen, one of them the home of my pupil. The 
girl seldom went round the point into the village ; 
its one street and a half seemed distasteful to her. 
She climbed the stone-wall on the ridge behind her 
cabin, took an Indian trail through the grass in sum- 
mer, or struck across on the snow-crust in winter, 
ran up the steep side of the fort-hill like a wild 
chamois, and came into the garrison enclosure with 
a careless nod to the admiring sentinel, as she passed 
under the rear entrance. These French half-breeds, 
like the gypsies, were not without a pride of their 
own. They held themselves aloof from the Irish of 
 
Shanty-town, the floating sailor population of the 
summer, and the common soldiers of the garrison. 
They intermarried among themselves, and held their 
own revels in their beach-cabins during the winter, 
with music from their old violins, dancing and songs, 
French ballads with a chorus after every two lines, 
quaint chansons handed down from voyageur ancestors. 
Small respect had they for the little Roman Catholic 
church beyond the old Agency garden ; its German 
priest they refused to honor; but, when stately old 
Father Piret came over to the island from his her- 
mitage in the Chenaux, they ran to meet him, young 
and old, and paid him reverence with affectionate 
respect. Father Piret was a Parisian, and a gentle- 
man; nothing less would suit these far-away sheep 
in the wilderness ! 
Jeannette Leblanc had all the pride of her class ; 
the Irish saloon-keeper with his shining tall hat, the 
loud-talking mate of the lake schooner, the trim sen- 
tinel pacing the fort walls, were nothing to her, and 
this somewhat incongruous hauteur gave her the air 
of a little princess. 
On this stormy afternoon the captain's wife was in 
my parlor preparing to return to her own quarters 
with some coffee she had borrowed. Hearing my re- 
mark she said, "O, the snow won't hurt the child, 
Mrs. Corlyne; she must be storm-proof, living down 
there on the beach ! Duncan can take her home." 
 
Duncan was the orderly, a factotum in the garri- 
son. 
" Non" said Jeannette, tossing her head proudly 
as the door closed behind the lady, "I wish not of 
Duncan; I go alone." 
It happened that Archie, my nephew, had gone over 
to the cottage of the commanding officer to decorate 
the parlor for the military sociable ; I knew he would 
not return, and the evening stretched out before me 
in all its long loneliness. " Stay, Jeannette," I said. 
" We will have tea together here, and when the wind 
goes down, old Antoine shall go back with you." An- 
toine was a French wood-cutter, whose cabin clung 
half-way down the fort-hill like a swallow's nest. 
Jeannette's eyes sparkled; I had never invited her 
before; in an instant she had turned the day into 
a high festival "Braid hair?" she asked, glancing 
toward the mirror ; "faut que je ra' fasse belle." And 
the long hair came out of its close braids, enveloping 
her in its glossy dark waves, while she carefully 
smoothed out the bits of red ribbon that served as 
fastenings. At this moment the door opened, and the 
surgeon, the wind, and a puff of snow came in together. 
Jeannette looked up, smiling and blushing ; the falling 
hair gave a new softness to her face, and her eyes were 
as shy as the eyes of a wild fawn. 
Only the previous day I had noticed that Eodney 
Prescott listened with marked attention to the captain's 
cousin, a Virginia lady, as she advanced a theory that 
Jeannette had negro blood in her veins. " Those quad- 
roon girls often have a certain kind of plebeian beauty 
like this pet of yours, Mrs. Corlyne," she said, with a 
slight sniff of her high-bred, pointed nose. In vain I 
exclaimed, in vain I argued ; the garrison ladies were 
all against me, and, in their presence, not a man dared 
come to my aid ; and the surgeon even added, " I wish 
I could be sure of it." 
" Sure of the negro blood ? " I said, indignantly. 
"Yes." 
"But Jeannette does not look in the least like a 
quadroon." 
" Some of the quadroon girls are very handsome, Mrs. 
Corlyne," answered the surgeon, coldly. 
" yes ! " said the high-bred Virginia lady. " My 
brother has a number of them about his place, but we 
do not teach them to read, I assure you. It spoils 
them." 
As I looked at Jeannette's beautiful face, her deli- 
cate eagle profile, her fair skin and light blue eyes, I 
recalled this conversation with vivid indignation. The 
surgeon, at least, should be convinced of his mistake. 
Jeannette had never looked more brilliant; probably 
the man had never really scanned her features, he 
was such a cold, unseeing creature ; but to-night he 
should have a fair opportunity, so I invited him to 
join our storm-bound tea-party. He hesitated. 
 
" Ah, do, Monsieur Kodenai," said Jeannette, spring- 
ing forward. " I sing for you, I dance ; but, no, you 
not like that. Bien, I tell your fortune then." The 
young girl loved company. A party of three, no mat- 
ter who the third, was to her infinitely better than 
two. 
The surgeon stayed. 
A merry evening we had before the hearth-fire. 
The wind howled around the block-house and rattled 
the flag-staff, and the snow pellets sounded on the 
window-panes, giving that sense of warm comfort 
within that comes only with the storm. Our servant 
had been drafted into service for the military sociable, 
and I was to prepare the evening meal myself. 
"Not tea," said Jeannette, with a wry face; "tea, 
Jest me'decine!" She had arranged her hair in fan- 
ciful braids, and now followed me to the kitchen, 
enjoying the novelty like a child. "Cafe?" she said. 
"O, please, madame ! I make it." 
The little shed kitchen was cold and dreary, each 
plank of its thin walls rattling in the gale with a 
dismal creak; the wind blew the smoke down the 
chimney, and finally it ended in our bringing every- 
thing into the cosey parlor, and using the hearth fire, 
where Jeannette made coffee and baked little cakes 
over the coals. 
The meal over, Jeannette sang her songs, sitting 
on the rug before the fire, Le Beau Voyageur, Les 
 
Neriges de la Cloche, ballads in Canadian patois sung 
to minor airs brought over from France two hundred 
years before. 
The surgeon sat in the shade of the chimney-piece, 
his face shaded by his hand, and I could not discover 
whether he saw anything to admire in my protegee, 
until, standing in the centre of the room, she gave us 
" Ivry " in glorious style. Beautiful she looked as she 
rolled out the lines : 
" And if my standard-bearer fall, as fall full well he may, 
For never saw I promise yet of such a bloody fray, 
Press where ye see my white plume shine amidst the ranks of war, 
And be your oriflamme to-day the helmet of Navarre." 
Eodney sat in the full light now, and I secretly 
triumphed in his rapt attention. 
"Something else, Jeannette," I said, in the pride 
of my heart. Instead of repeating anything I had 
taught her, she began in French: 
" ' Marie, enfin quitte l'ouvrage, 
Voici l'etoile du berger." 
