with dignity.
“That’s the sort of fellow you are, Bill Stout!”
exclaimed Bark indignantly.—“No matter, Mr. Raimundo;
if Bill is too mean to pay his share, I will pay
it for him. You shall pay no more than one–third anyhow.”
“I am willing to pay my fair share,” said Bill, more
disturbed than ever to find Bark against him every
time. “Then three dollars for that lunch was a swindle.”
“I had to take what I could get under the circumstances,”
added Raimundo; “but you drank most of
the wine.”
“I was not consulted about ordering it,” growled
Bill.
“If there ever was an unreasonable fellow on the
face of the footstool, you are the one, Bill Stout!”
retorted Bark vigorously. “I have had enough of you.—How
much is the whole bill for each, Mr. Raimundo?”
“An equal division makes it two hundred and
seventy–eight reales and a fraction. That is thirteen
dollars and sixty cents.”
“But my money is in sovereigns.”
“Two and a half pence make a real. Can you figure
that in your head?”
Bark declined to do the sum in his head; but, standing
up under the dim light in the top of the compartment,
he ciphered it out on the back of an old letter.
The train had been in motion for some time, and it was
not easy to make figures; but at last he announced his
result.
“Two pounds and eighteen shillings, lacking a
penny,” said he. “Two shares will be five pounds and
sixteen shillings.”
“That is about what I had made it in my head,”
added Raimundo.
“Here are six sovereigns for Bill’s share and my
own,” continued Bark, handing him the gold.
“You needn’t pay that swindle for me,” interposed
Bill. “I shall not submit to having my money thrown
away like that.”
“Of course I shall not take it under these circumstances,”
replied the second master.
“I am willing to pay for the boat and the provisions,”
said Bill, yielding a part of the point.
Bark took no notice of him, but continued to press
the money upon Raimundo; and he finally consented
to take it on condition that a division of the loss
should be made in the future if Bill did not pay his
full share.
“You want four shillings back: here are five pesetas,
which just make it,” added Raimundo.
“Of course I shall pay you whatever you are out,
Bark,” said Bill, backing entirely out of his position,
which he had taken more to be ugly than because he
objected to the bill. “But I don’t like this swindle.
Here’s three sovereigns.”
“You need not pay it if you don’t want to. I did
not mean that Mr. Raimundo should be cheated out of
the money,” replied Bark.
“Stout,” said Raimundo, rising from his seat, “this
is not the first time, nor even the tenth, that you have
insulted me to–day. I will have nothing more to do
with you. You may buy your own tickets, and pay
your own bills; and we will part company as soon as
we leave this train.”
“I think I can take care of myself without any help
from you,” retorted Bill.—“Here is your money,
Bark.”
“I won’t take it,” replied Bark.
“Why not?”
“You have insulted Mr. Raimundo ever since we
started from Barcelona; and, after you say you have
been swindled, I won’t touch your money.”
“Are you going back on me, after all I have done
for you?” demanded Bill.
“What have you done for me?” asked Bark indignantly;
for this was a new revelation to him.
“I got you out of the Tritonia; didn’t I?”
“No matter: we will not jaw about any thing so
silly as that. I won’t touch your money till you have
apologized to Mr. Raimundo.”
“When I apologize to Mr. Raimundo, let me know
it, will you?” replied Bill, as he returned the sovereigns
to his pocket, and coiled himself away in the corner.
“That’s not my style.”
Nothing more was said; and, after a while, all of
the party went to sleep. But Bill Stout did not sleep
well, for he was too ugly to be entirely at rest. He
was awake most of the night; but, in the early morning,
he dropped off again. At seven o’clock the train
arrived at Valencia. Bill was still asleep. Raimundo
got out of the car; and Bark was about to wake his
fellow–conspirator, when the second master interposed:—
“Don’t wake him, Lingall, if you please; but come
with me. You can return in a moment.”
Bark got out of the carriage.
“I wish to leave before he wakes,” said Raimundo.
“I will go no farther with him.”
“Leave him here?” queried Bark.
“I will not even speak to him again,” added the
second master. “Of course, I shall leave you to do as
you please; though I should be glad to have you go
with me, for you have proved yourself to be a plucky
fellow and a gentleman. As it is impossible for me
to endure Stout’s company any longer, I shall have to
leave you, if you stick to him.”
“I shall not stick to him,” protested Bark. “He is
nothing but a hog,—one hundred pounds of pork.”
Bark had decided to leave Bill as soon as he could,
and now was his time. They took an omnibus for the
Fonda del Cid. They had not been gone more than
five minutes, before a porter woke Bill Stout, who
found that he was alone. He understood it perfectly.
CHAPTER XVI.
BILL STOUT AS A TOURIST.
Bill Stout indulged in some very severe reflections
upon the conduct of his fellow–conspirator
when he found that he was alone in the compartment
where he had spent the night. The porter who woke
him told him very respectfully (he was a first–class
passenger), in good Spanish for a man in his position,
that the train was to be run out of the station. Bill
couldn’t understand him, but he left the car.
“Where are the fellows that came with me?” he
asked, turning to the porter; but the man shook his
head, and smiled as blandly as though the runaway had
given him a peseta.
Bill was not much troubled with bashfulness; and he
walked about the station, accosting a dozen persons
whom he met; but not one of them seemed to know
a word of English.
“No hablo Ingles,” was the uniform reply of all.
One spoke to him in French; but, though Bill had
studied this language, he had not gone far enough to
be able to speak even a few words of it. He went into
the street, and a crowd of carriage–drivers saluted
him.
“Hotel,” said he, satisfied by this time that it was
of no use to talk English to anybody in Spain.
As this word is known to all languages, he got on so
far very well.
“Hotel Villa de Madrid!” shouted one of the drivers.
Though Bill’s knowledge of geography was very
limited, he had heard of Madrid, and he identified this
word in the speech of the man. He bowed to him to
indicate that he was ready to go to the hotel he named.
He was invited to take a seat in a tartana, a two–wheeled
vehicle not much easier than a tip–cart, and driven to
the hotel. Bill did not look like a very distinguished
guest, for he wore the garb of a common sailor when he
took off his overcoat. He had not even put on his best
rig, as he did not go ashore in regular form. He spoke
to the porter who received him at the door, in English,
thinking it was quite proper for those about a hotel to
speak all languages. But this man seemed to be no
better linguist than the rest of the Spaniards; and he
made no reply.
The guest was conducted to the hall where the landlord,
or the manager of the hotel, addressed him in
Spanish, and Bill replied in English.
“Habla V. Frances?” asked the manager.
“I don’t hablo any thing but English,” replied Bill,
beginning to be disgusted with his ill–success in finding
any one who could understand him.
“Parlez–vous Français?” persisted the manager.
“No. I don’t parlez–vous.”
“Parlate voi Italiano?”
“No: I tell you I don’t speak any thing but English,”
growled Bill.
“Sprechen Sie Deutsch?”
“No; no Dutch.”
The manager shrugged his shoulders, and evidently
felt that he had done enough, having addressed the
guest in four languages.
“Two fellows—no comee here?” continued Bill,
trying his luck with pigeon English.
Of course the manager shook his head at this absurd
lingo; and Bill was obliged to give up in despair. The
manager called a servant, and sent him out; and the
guest hoped that something might yet happen. He
seated himself on a sofa, and waited for the waters to
move.
“I want some breakfast,” said Bill when he had
waited half an hour; and as he spoke he pointed to his
mouth, and worked his teeth, to illustrate his argument.
The manager took out his watch, and pointed to the
“X” upon the dial, to indicate that the meal would be
ready at that hour. A little later the servant came in
with another man, who proved to be an English–speaking
citizen of Valencia. He was a valet de place, or
guide.
With his aid Bill ascertained that “two young fellows”
had not been to the Hotel Villa de Madrid that
morning. He also obtained a room, and some coffee
and bread to last him till breakfast time. When he
had taken his coffee, he went with the man to all the
hotels in the place. It was nearly ten o’clock when he
reached the Fonda del Cid. Two young gentlemen, one
of them an officer, had just breakfasted at the hotel,
and left for Grao, the port of Valencia, two miles distant,
where they were to embark in a steamer which
was to sail for Oran at ten. Bill had not the least idea
where Oran was; and, when he asked his guide, he was
astonished to learn that it was in Africa, a seaport of
Algeria. Then he was madder than ever; for he would
have been very glad to take a trip to Africa, and see
something besides churches and palaces. He dwelt
heavily upon the trick that Bark had played him. It
was ten o’clock then, and it would not be possible to
reach Grao before half–past ten. He could try it; the
steamer might not sail as soon as advertised: they
were often detained.
Bill did try it, but the steamer was two miles at sea
when he reached the port. He engaged the guide for
the day, after an effort to beat him down in his price of
six pesetas. He went back to the hotel, and ate his
breakfast. There was plenty of Val de Peñas wine on
the table, and he drank all he wanted. Then he went to
his room to take a nap before he went out to see the
sights of the place. Instead of sleeping an hour as he
intended, he did not wake till three o’clock in the afternoon.
The wine had had its effect upon him. He
found the guide waiting for him in the hall below. The
man insisted that he should go to the cathedral; and
when they had visited that it was dinner–time.
“How much do I owe you now?” asked Bill, when he
came to settle with the guide.
“Six pesetas,” replied the man. “That is the price
I told you.”
“But I have not had you but half a day: from eleven
till three you did not do any thing for me,” blustered
Bill in his usual style.
“But I was ready to go with you, and waited all that
time for you,” pleaded the guide.
“Here is four pesetas, and that is one more than you
have earned,” added Bill, tendering him the silver.
The man refused to accept the sum; and they had
quite a row about it. Finally the guide appealed to the
manager of the hotel, who promptly decided that six
pesetas was the amount due the man. Bill paid it
under protest, but added that he wanted the guide the
next day.
“I shall go with you no more,” replied the man, as
he put the money into his pocket. “I work for gentlemen
only.”
“I will pay you for all the time you go with me,”
protested Bill; but the guide was resolute, and left the
hotel.
The next morning Bill used his best endeavors to
obtain another guide; but for a time he was unable to
make anybody comprehend what he wished. An Englishman
who spoke Spanish, and was a guest at the
hotel, helped him out at breakfast, and told the manager
what the young man wanted.
“I will not send for a guide for him,” replied the
manager; and then he explained to the tourist in what
manner Bill had treated his valet the day before, all of
which the gentleman translated to him.
But we cannot follow Bill in all his struggles with
the language, or in all his wanderings about Valencia.
He paid his bill at the hotel Villa de Madrid, and went
to another. On his way he bought a new suit of
clothes, and discarded for the present his uniform,
which attracted attention wherever he was. He went
to the Fonda del Cid next; but he could not obtain a
guide who spoke English: the only one they ever
called in was engaged to an English party for a week.
The manager spoke English, but he was seldom in the
house. In some of the shops they spoke English; but
Bill was almost as much alone as though he had been
on a deserted island. The days wore heavy on his
hands; and about all he could do was to drink Val de
Peñas, and sleep it off. He wanted to leave Valencia,
but knew not where to go. He desired to get out of
Spain; and he had tried to get the run of the English
steamers; but as he could not read the posters, or
often find any one to read them for him, he had no
success.
He was heartily tired of the place, and even more
disgusted than he had been on board of the Tritonia.
He desired to go to England, where he could speak
the language of the country; but no vessel for England
came along, so far as he could ascertain. One day an
English gentleman arrived at the hotel; and Bill got up
a talk with him, as he did with everybody who could
speak his own language. He told him he wanted to
get to England; and the tourist advised him to cross
Spain and Portugal by rail, and take a steamer at Lisbon,
where one sailed every week for Southampton or
Liverpool, and sometimes two or three a week.
Bill adopted this suggestion, and in the afternoon
started for Lisbon. He had been nearly a week in
Valencia, and the change was very agreeable to him.
He found a gentleman who spoke English, in the
compartment with him; and he got along without any
trouble till he reached Alcazar, where his travelling
friend changed cars for Madrid. But, before he left
the train, he told Bill that he was too late to connect
for Lisbon, and that he would have to wait till half–past
one in the afternoon. He could obtain plenty to
eat in the station; but that ten hours of waiting at a
miserable shed of a station was far worse than learning
a lesson in navigation. He was on the high land, only ninety
miles from Madrid, and it was cold in the night.
There was no fire to warm him, and he had to walk to
keep himself comfortable. He could not speak a word
to any person; and, when any one spoke to him, he
had learned to say, “No hablo.” He had picked up a
few words of Spanish, so that he could get what he
wanted to eat, though his variety was very limited.
In the afternoon he took the train for Ciudad Real,
and arrived there at six o’clock. He was too tired to
go any farther that night; indeed, he was almost sick.
He found an omnibus at the station, and said “Hotel”
to the driver. He felt better in the morning, and
reached the railroad station at six o’clock. As at the
hotel, he gave the ticket–seller a paper and pencil; and
he wrote down in figures the price of a ticket to Badajos,
in reales. He had changed his money into Isabelinos,
and knew that each was one hundred reales. Bill had
improved a good deal in knowledge since he was
thrown on his own resources. He waited till the train
arrived from Madrid. It was quite a long one; but
the conductor seemed to know just where the vacant
seats were, and led him to the last carriage, where he
was assigned a place in a compartment in which four
passengers occupied the corners, and seemed to be all
asleep. The runaway took one of the middle seats.
He only hoped, that, when the daylight came, he might
hear some of his fellow–travellers speak English.
Unfortunately for him, they all spoke this language.
The light in the top of the compartment had gone out,
and the persons in the corners were buried in their
overcoats, so that he could not see them after the
conductor carried his lantern away.
The train started; and Bill, for the want of something
better to do, went to sleep himself. His bed at
the hotel had been occupied by a myriad of “cosas de
España” before he got into it; and his slumbers had
been much disturbed. He slept till the sun broke in
through the window of the compartment. He heard his
fellow–travellers conversing in English; and, when he
was fairly awake, he was immediately conscious that a
gentleman who sat in one of the opposite corners was
studying his features. But, as soon as Bill opened his
eyes, it was not necessary for him to study any longer.
The gentleman in the corner was Mr. Lowington,
principal of the academy squadron; and Bill’s solitary
wanderings had come to an end.
The principal knew every student in the fleet; but
Bill’s head had been half concealed, and his dress had
been entirely changed, so that he did not fully identify
him till he opened his eyes, and raised his head. The
other persons in the compartment were Dr. Winstock,
the captain, and the first lieutenant of the Prince.
“Good–morning, Stout,” said Mr. Lowington, as
soon as he was sure that the new–comer was one of
the runaways from the Tritonia.
Of course Bill was taken all aback when he realized
that he was on the train with the ship’s company of
the Prince. But the principal was good–natured, as he
always was; and he smiled as he spoke. Bill had
unwittingly run into the camp of the enemy; and that
smile assured him that he was to be laughed at, in
addition to whatever punishment might be inflicted
upon him; and the laugh, to him, was the worst of it.
“Good–morning, sir,” replied Bill sheepishly; and
he had not the courage to be silent as he desired to be
in that presence.
“Have you had a good time, Stout?” asked Mr.
Lowington.
“Not very good,” answered Bill; and by this time
the eyes of the doctor and his two pupils, who had not
noticed him before, were fixed upon the culprit.
“Where is Lingall?” inquired the principal. “Is
he on the train with you?”
“No, sir: he and Raimundo ran away from me in
Valencia.”
“Raimundo!” exclaimed Mr. Lowington. “Was
he with you?”
“Yes, sir; and they played me a mean trick,” added
Bill, who had not yet recovered from his indignation on
account of his desertion, and was disposed to do his
late associates all the harm he could.
“They ran away from you, as you did from the rest
of us,” laughed the principal, who knew Stout so well
that he could not blame his companions for deserting
him. “Do you happen to know where they have
gone?”
“They left Valencia in a steamer at ten o’clock in
the forenoon;” and Bill recited the particulars of his
search for his late companions, feeling all the time that
he was having some part of his revenge upon them for
their meanness to him.
“But where was the steamer bound?” asked the
principal.
“For Oban,” replied Bill, getting it wrong, as he was
very apt to do with geographical names.
“Oban; that’s in Scotland. No steamer in Valencia
could be bound to Oban,” added Mr. Lowington.
“This place is not in Scotland: it is in Africa,” Bill
explained.
“He means Oran,” suggested Dr. Winstock.
“That’s the place.”
Bill knew nothing in regard to the intended movements
of Raimundo and Bark.
“How happened Raimundo to be with you?” asked
the principal. “He left the Tritonia the night before
we came from Barcelona.”
“No, sir: he did not leave her at all. He was in
the hold all the time.”
As Bill was very willing to tell all he knew about
his fellow–conspirator and the second master,—except
that Bark and himself had tried to set the vessel on
fire,—he related all the details of the escape, and the
trip to Tarragona, including the affray with the boatman.
He told the truth in the main, though he did
not bring out the fact of his own cowardice, or dwell
upon the cause of the quarrel between himself and his
companions.
“And how happened you to be here, and on this
train? Did you know we were on board of it?”
inquired the principal.
“I did not know you were on this train; but I knew
you were over this way somewhere.”
“And you were going to look for us,” laughed Mr.
Lowington, who believed that the fellow’s ignorance
had caused him to blunder into this locality at the
wrong time.
“I was not looking for you, but for the Tritonias,”
replied Bill, who had come to the conclusion that penitence
was his best dodge under the circumstances. “I
was going over to Lisbon to give myself up to Mr. Pelham.”
“Indeed! were you?”
“Yes, sir: I did not intend to run away; and it was
only when Raimundo had a boat from the shore that I
thought of such a thing. I have had hard luck; and
I would rather do my duty on board than wander all
about the country alone.”
“Then it was Lingall that spoiled your fun?”
“Yes, sir; but I shall never want to run away
again.”
“That’s what they all say. But, if you wished to get
back, why didn’t you go to Barcelona, where the Tritonia
is? That would have been the shortest way for
you.”
“I didn’t care about staying in the brig, with no one
but Mr. Marline and Mr. Rimmer on board,” answered
Bill, who could think of no better excuse.
Bill thought he might get a chance to slip away at
some point on the road, or at least when the party
arrived at Lisbon. If there was a steamer in port
bound to England, he might get on board of her.
“We will consider your case at another time,” said
the principal, as the train stopped at a station.
The principal and the surgeon, after sending Bill to
the other end of the compartment, had a talk about
Raimundo, who had evidently gone to Africa to get out
of the jurisdiction of Spain. After examining Bradshaw,
they found the fugitives could take a steamer to
Bona, in Algeria, and from there make their way to
Italy or Egypt; and concluded they would do so.
CHAPTER XVII.
THROUGH THE HEART OF SPAIN.
Bill Stout concluded that he was not a success
as a tourist in Spain; but he was confident that he
should succeed better in England. He resolved to be
a good boy till the excursionists arrived in Lisbon, and
not make any attempt to escape; for it was not likely
that he could accomplish his purpose. Besides, he
had no taste for any more travelling in Spain. In fact,
he had a dread of being cast upon his own resources in
the interior, where he could not speak the language.
“Do you know what country you are in?” asked
Dr. Winstock, who sat opposite his pupils, as he had
come to call them.
“I reckon you’d know if you had seen it as I have,”
interposed Bill Stout, who had a seat next to Murray,
with a broad grin at the absurdity of the question.
“It is Spain,—the meanest country on the face of
the earth.”
“So you think, Stout; but you have had a rather
hard experience of it,” replied the doctor. “We have
had a very good time since we left Barcelona.”
“I suppose you know the lingo; and that makes all
the difference in the world,” added Bill.
“When I spoke of country, I referred to a province,”
continued Dr. Winstock.
“This is La Mancha,” answered Sheridan.
“The country of Don Quixote,” added the doctor.
“I saw a statue of Cervantes at Madrid, and I heard
one of the fellows say he was the author of ‘Don
Juan,’” laughed Murray.
“Cervantes wrote the first part at Valladolid, and it
produced a tremendous sensation. I suppose you have
read it.”
“I never did,” replied Bill Stout, who counted himself
in as one of the party. “Is it a good story?”
“It is so considered by those who are competent
judges.”
“I read it years ago,” added Sheridan.
“It is said to be a take–off on the knights of Spain,”
said Murray. “Is that so?”
“I don’t think that was his sole idea in writing the
book; or, if it was, he enlarged upon his plan. He was
a literary man, with some reputation, before he wrote
Don Quixote; and he probably selected the most
popular subject he could find, and it grew upon him
as he proceeded. Sancho Panza is a representative
of homely common–sense, unaided by any imagination,
while his master is full of it. He is used, in the first
part of the story, to act as a contrast to the extravagant
Don; and in this part of the work he does not use
any of the proverbs which is the staple of the typical
Spaniard’s talk. The introduction of this feature of
Sancho’s talk was a new idea to the author.”
“I suppose Cervantes was born and lived in La
Mancha,” said Murray.
“Not at all: he was born near Madrid, at Alcala de
Henares. He was a soldier in the early years of his
life. He fought in the battle of Lepanto, under Don
John. At one time he was a sort of custom–house
officer in Seville; but he got into debt, and was imprisoned
for three months, during which time he is
said to have been engaged in his great work. He was
also a prisoner in Algiers five years; and ten times he
risked his life in attempts to escape. He finally died
in neglect, poverty, and want.”
“Then this is where Don Quixote tilted at windmills,”
said Murray, looking out at the window; “and
there is one of them.”
“It is not in every province of Spain that the Don
could have found a windmill to tilt at,” added the
doctor.
About eight o’clock the train stopped for breakfast,
which the avant–courier had ordered.
“This is a vine and olive country,” said the doctor,
when the train was again in motion.
“Shall we have a chance to see how they make the
oil and how they make wine?” asked Sheridan.
“You will have a chance to see how it is done; but
you will not be able to see it done at this season of
the year. There is an olive–orchard,” continued the
doctor, pointing out of the window.
“The trees look like willows; and I should think
they were willows.”
“They are not. These trees last a great number of
years,—some say, hundreds.”
“There are some which look as though they were
planted by Noah after he left the ark. They are ugly–looking
trees,” added Murray.
“The people do not plant them for their beauty, but
for the fruit they yield. You see they are in regular
rows, like an apple–orchard at home. They start the
trees from slips, which are cut off in January. The end
of the slip is quartered with a knife, and a small stone
put into the end to separate the parts, and the slip stuck
into the ground. The earth is banked up around the
plant, which has to be watered and tenderly cared for
during the first two years of its growth. In ten years
these trees yield some returns; but they are not at their
best estate till they are thirty years old. The olives
we eat”—
“I never eat them,” interrupted Murray, shaking his
head.
“It is an acquired taste; but those who do like
them are usually very fond of them. The olive which
comes in jars for table use is picked before it is quite
ripe, but when full grown; and it is pickled for a week
in a brine made of water, salt, garlic, and some other
ingredients. The best come from the neighborhood
of Seville.”
“But I don’t see how they make the oil out of the
olive. It don’t seem as though there is any grease in
it,” said Sheridan.
“The berry is picked for the manufacture of oil when
it is ripe, and is then of a purple color. It is gathered
in the autumn; and I have seen the peasants beating
the trees with sticks, while the women and children
were picking up the olives on the ground. The women
drive the donkeys to the mill, bearing the berries in the
panniers. The olives are crushed on a big stone hollowed
out for the purpose, by passing a stone roller
over them, which is moved by a mule. The pulp is
then placed in a press not unlike that you have seen in
a cider–mill. The oil flows out into a reservoir under
the press, from which it is bailed into jars big enough
to contain a man: these jars are sunk in the ground
to keep them cool. The mass left in the press after the
oil is extracted is used to feed the hogs, or for fuel.”
“And is that the stuff they put in the casters?”
asked Murray, with his nose turned up in disgust.
“That is certainly olive–oil,” replied the doctor.
“You look as though you did not like it.”
“I do not: I should as soon think of eating lamp–oil.”
“Every one to his taste, lieutenant; but I have no
doubt you have eaten a great deal of it since you came
into Spain,” laughed the doctor.
“Not if I knew it!”
“You did not know it; but you have had it on your
beefsteaks and mutton–chops, as well as in the various
made–dishes you have partaken of. Spanish oil is not
so pure and good as the Italian. Lucca oil has the
best reputation. A poorer quality of oil is made here,
which is used in making soap.”
“Castile soap?”
“Yes; and all kinds of oils are used for soap.”
“How do they fresco it?” asked Murray.
“Fresco it! They give it the marble look by putting
coloring matter, mixed with oil, into the mass of soap
before it is moulded into bars. What place is this?”
said the doctor, as the train stopped.
“Almaden,” replied Sheridan, reading the sign on
the station.
“I thought so, for I spent a couple of days here.
Do you know what it is famous for?”
“I don’t think I ever heard the name of the place
before,” replied Sheridan.
“It contains the greatest mine of quicksilver in the
world,” added the doctor. “It was worked in the time
of the Romans, and is still deemed inexhaustible. Four
thousand men are employed here during the winter, for
they cannot labor in the summer because the heat
renders it too unhealthy. The men can work only six
hours at a time; and many of them are salivated and
paralyzed by the vapors of the mercury.”
“Is this the same stuff the doctors use?” asked
Murray.
“It is; but it is prepared especially for the purpose.
These mines yield the government of Spain a revenue
of nearly a million dollars a year.”
The country through which the tourists passed was
not highly cultivated, except near the towns. On the
way they saw a man ploughing–in his grain, and the implement
seemed to be a wooden one. But every thing
in the agricultural line was of the most primitive kind.
In another place they saw a farmer at work miles from
his house, for there was no village within that distance.
Though there is not a fence to be seen, every man
knows his own boundary–lines. In going to his day’s
work, he may have to go several miles, taking his
plough and other tools in a cart; and probably he
wastes half his day in going to and from his work.
But the Spanish peasant is an easy–going fellow, and he
does not go very early, or stay very late. Often in the
morning and in the middle of the afternoon our travellers
saw them going to or coming from their work in
this manner.
“Now we are out of La Mancha,” said the doctor,
half an hour after the train left Almaden.
“And what are we in now, sir?” asked Murray.
“We are in the province of Cordova, which is a part
of Andalusia. But we only go through a corner of
Cordova, and then we strike into Estremadura.”
In the afternoon the country looked better, though the
people and the houses seemed to be very poor. The
country looked better; but it was only better than the
region near Madrid, and, compared with France or
Italy, it was desolation. The effects of the mesta were
clearly visible.
“Medellin,” said Murray, when he had spelled out
the word on a station where the train stopped about
half–past two.
“Do you know the place?” asked Dr. Winstock.
“Never heard of it.”
“Yet it has some connection with the history of the
New World. It is mentioned in Prescott’s ‘Conquest
of Mexico.’”
“I have read that, but I do not remember this name.”
“It is the birthplace of Hernando Cortes; and in
Trujillo, a town forty miles north of us, was born
another adventurer whose name figures on the glowing
page of Prescott,” added the doctor.
“That was Pizarro,” said Sheridan. “I remember
he was born at—what did you call the place, doctor?”
“Trujillo.”
“But in Prescott it is spelled with an x where you
put an h.”
“It is the same thing in Spanish, whether you spell
it with an x or j. It is a strong aspirate, like h, but
is pronounced with a rougher breathing sound. Loja
and Loxa are the same word,” explained the doctor.
“So you will find Cordova spelled with a b instead of
a v; but the letters have the same power in Spanish.”
“What river is this on the right?” inquired Murray.
“That is the Guadiana.”
“And where are its eyes, of which Professor Mapps
spoke in his lecture?”
“We passed them in the night, and also went over
the underground river,” replied the doctor. “The
region through which we are now passing was more
densely peopled in the days when it was a part of the
Roman empire than it is now. Without doubt the same
is true of the period of the Moorish dominion. After
America was discovered, and colonization began, vast
numbers of emigrants went from Estremadura. In the
time of Philip II. the country began to run down; and
one of the reasons was the emigration to America.
About four o’clock we shall arrive at Merida,” added
the doctor, looking at his watch.
“What is there at Merida?”
“There is a great deal for the antiquarian and the
student of history. You must be on the lookout for it,
for there are many things to be seen from the window
of the car,” continued the doctor. “It was the capital
of Lusitania, and was called Emerita Augusta, from the
first word of which title comes the present name. The
river there is crossed by a Roman bridge twenty–five
hundred and seventy–five feet long, twenty–five wide,
and thirty–three above the stream. The city was surrounded
by six leagues of walls, having eighty–four
gates, and had a garrison of eighty thousand foot
and ten thousand horsemen. The ruins of aqueducts,
temples, forum, circus, and other structures, are still to
be seen; some of them, as I said, from the train.”
Unfortunately the train passed the portion of the
ruins of the ancient city to be seen from the window,
so rapidly that only a glance at them could be
obtained; but perhaps most of the students saw all
they desired of them. An hour and a half later the
train arrived at Badajos, where they were to spend
the night, and thence proceed to Lisbon the next morning.
Each individual of the ship’s company had been
provided with a ticket; and it was called for in the
station before he was permitted to pass out of the
building. As soon as they appeared in the open air,
they were assailed by a small army of omnibus–drivers;
but fortunately, as the town was nearly two miles from
the station, there were enough for all of them. These
men actually fought together for the passengers, and
behaved as badly as New York hackmen. Though all
the vehicles at the station were loaded as full as they
could be stowed, there was not room for more than
half of the party.
The doctor and his pupils preferred to walk. In
Madrid, the principal had received a letter from the
avant–courier; informing him how many persons could
be accommodated in each of the hotels; and all the
excursionists had been assigned to their quarters.
“We go to the Fonda las Tres Naciones,” said the
doctor as they left the station. “I went there when I
was here before. Those drivers fought for me as they
did to–day; and with some reason, for I was the only
passenger. I selected one, and told him to take me to
the Fonda de las cuatro Naciones; and he laughed as
though I had made a good joke. I made it ‘Four
Nations’ instead of ‘Three.’ Here is the bridge over
the Guadiana, built by the same architect as the Escurial.”
“What is there in this place to see?” asked Sheridan.
“Nothing at all; but it is an out–of–the–way old
Spanish town seldom mentioned by tourists.”
“I have not found it in a single book I have read,
except the guide–books; and all these have to say
about it is concerning the battles fought here,” added
Sheridan.
“Mr. Lowington has us stop here by my advice; and
we are simply to spend the night here. You were on
the train last night, and it would have been too much
to add the long and tedious journey to Lisbon to that
from Madrid without a night’s rest. Besides, you
should see what you can of Portugal by daylight; for
we are to visit only Lisbon and some of the places
near it.”
The party entered the town, and climbed up the
steep streets to the hotel. The place was certainly
very primitive. It had been a Roman town, and did
not seem to have changed much since the time of the
Cæsars. A peculiarly Spanish supper was served at
the Three Nations, which was the best hotel in the
place, but poor enough at that. Those who were fond
of garlic had enough of it. The room in which the
captain and first lieutenant were lodged had no window,
and the ceiling was composed of poles on which
hay was placed; and the apartment above them may
have been a stable, or at least a hay–loft. Some of the
students took an evening walk about the town, but
most of them “turned in” at eight o’clock.
The party were called at four o’clock in the morning;
and after a light breakfast of coffee, eggs, and bread,
they proceeded to the station. The train provided for
them consisted of second–class carriages, at the head
of which were several freight–cars. This is the regular
day train, all of the first–class cars being used on the
night train.
“Now you can see something of Badajos,” said the
doctor, as they walked down the hill. “It is a frontier
town, and the capital of the province. It is more of a
fortress than a city. Marshal Soult captured it in
1811; and it is said that it was taken only through the
treachery of the commander of the Spaniards. The
Duke of Wellington captured it in 1812. I suppose
you have seen pictures by the Spanish artist Morales,
for there are some in the Museo at Madrid. He was
born here; and, when Philip II. stopped at Badajos on
his way to Lisbon, he sent for the artist. The king
remarked, ‘You are very old, Morales.’—‘And very
poor,’ replied the painter; and Philip gave him a
pension of three hundred ducats a year till he died.
Manuel Godoy, the villanous minister of Charles IV.,
called the ‘Prince of Peace,’ was born also here.”
The train started at six o’clock, while it was still
dark. Badajos is five miles from the boundary–line of
Portugal; and in about an hour the train stopped at
Elvas. The Portuguese police were on hand in full
force, as well as a squad of custom–house officers. The
former asked each of the adult members of the party
his name, age, nationality, occupation, and a score of
other questions, and would have done the same with
the students if the doctor had not protested; and the
officers contented themselves with merely taking their
names, on the assurance that they were all Americans,
were students, and had passports. Every bag and valise
was opened by the custom–house officers; and
all the freight and baggage cars were locked and
sealed, so that they should not be opened till they
arrived at Lisbon. Elvas has been the seat of an
extensive smuggling trade, and the officers take every
precaution to break up the business.
The train was detained over an hour; and some of
the students, after they had been “overhauled” as they
called it, ran up into the town. Like Badajos, it is a
strongly fortified place; but, unlike that, it has never
been captured, though often besieged. The students
caught a view of the ancient aqueduct, having three
stories of arches.
The train started at last; and all day it jogged along
at a snail’s pace through Portugal. The scenery was
about the same as in Spain, and with about the same
variety one finds in New England. Dr. Winstock called
the attention of his pupils to the cork–trees, and described
the process of removing the bark, which forms
the valuable article of commerce. They saw piles of
it at the railroad stations, waiting to be shipped.
There were very few stations on the way, and hardly
a town was seen before four in the afternoon, when
the train crossed the Tagus. The students were almost
in a state of rebellion at this time, because they had
had nothing to eat since their early breakfast. They
had come one hundred and ten miles in ten hours;
and eleven miles an hour was slow locomotion on a
railroad. The courier wrote that he had made an
arrangement by which the train was to go to the junction
with the road to Oporto in seven hours, which
was not hurrying the locomotive very much; but the
conductor said he had no orders to this effect.
“This is Entroncamiento,” said the doctor, as the
train stopped at a station. “We dine here.”
“Glory!” replied Murray. “But we might starve if
we had to pronounce that name before dinner.”
The students astonished the keeper of the restaurant
by the quantity of soup, chicken, and chops they devoured;
but they all gave him the credit of providing
an excellent dinner. The excursionists had to wait a
long time for the train from Oporto, for it was more
than an hour late; and they did not arrive at Lisbon till
half–past nine. The doctor and his pupils were sent
to the Hotel Braganza, after they had gone through
another ordeal with the custom–house officers. Bill
Stout was taken to the Hotel Central on the quay by
the river. The runaway had been as tractable as one
of the lambs, till he came to the hotel. While the
party were waiting for the rooms to be assigned to
them, and Mr. Lowington was very busy, he slipped
out into the street. He walked along the river, looking
out at the vessels anchored in the stream. He
made out the outline of several steamers. While he
was looking at them, a couple of sailors, “half seas
over,”, passed him. They were talking in English, and
Bill hailed them.
“Do you know whether there is a steamer in port
bound to England?” he asked, after he had passed the
time of night with them.
“Yes, my lad: there is the Princess Royal, and she
sails for London early in the morning,” replied the
more sober of the two sailors. “Are you bound to
London?”
“I am. Which is the Princess Royal?”
The man pointed the steamer out to him, and insisted
that he should take a drink with them. Bill did
not object. But he never took any thing stronger than
wine, and his new friends insisted that he should join
them with some brandy. He took very little; but then
he felt obliged to treat his new friends in turn for their
civility, and he repeated the dose. He then inquired
where he could find a boat to take him on board of the
steamer. They went out with him, and soon found a
boat, in which he embarked. The boatman spoke a
little English; and as soon as he was clear of the shore
he asked which steamer his passenger wished to go to.
By this time the brandy was beginning to have its
effect upon Bill’s head; but he answered the man by
pointing to the one the sailor had indicated, as he supposed.
In a few moments the boat was alongside the steamer;
and Bill’s head was flying around like a top. He paid
the boatman his price, and then with an uneasy step
walked up the accommodation–ladder. A man was
standing on the platform at the head of the ladder, who
asked him what he wanted.
“I want to go to England,” replied the runaway, tossing
his bag over the rail upon the deck.
“This vessel don’t go to England; you have boarded
