fishin’ places was, and befriend ‘em what I could, and now they’ve
all forgot old Muff when he’s in trouble; but Tom don’t, and Huck
don’t-- they  don’t forget him, says I, ‘and I don’t forget them.’ Well,
boys, I done an awful thing--drunk and crazy at the time--that’s the only
way I account for it--and now I got to swing for it, and it’s right.
Right, and  best, too, I reckon--hope so, anyway. Well, we won’t talk
about that. I don’t want to make  you  feel bad; you’ve befriended me.
But what I want to say, is, don’t  you  ever get drunk--then you won’t
ever get here. Stand a litter furder west--so--that’s it; it’s a prime
comfort to see faces that’s friendly when a body’s in such a muck
of trouble, and there don’t none come here but yourn. Good friendly
faces--good friendly faces. Git up on one another’s backs and let me
touch ‘em. That’s it. Shake hands--yourn’ll come through the bars, but
mine’s too big. Little hands, and weak--but they’ve helped Muff Potter a
power, and they’d help him more if they could.”
Tom went home miserable, and his dreams that night were full of horrors.
The next day and the day after, he hung about the courtroom, drawn by an
almost irresistible impulse to go in, but forcing himself to stay out.
Huck was having the same experience. They studiously avoided each other.
Each wandered away, from time to time, but the same dismal fascination
always brought them back presently. Tom kept his ears open when idlers
sauntered out of the courtroom, but invariably heard distressing
news--the toils were closing more and more relentlessly around poor
Potter. At the end of the second day the village talk was to the effect
that Injun Joe’s evidence stood firm and unshaken, and that there was
not the slightest question as to what the jury’s verdict would be.
Tom was out late, that night, and came to bed through the window. He
was in a tremendous state of excitement. It was hours before he got to
sleep. All the village flocked to the courthouse the next morning, for
this was to be the great day. Both sexes were about equally represented
in the packed audience. After a long wait the jury filed in and took
their places; shortly afterward, Potter, pale and haggard, timid and
hopeless, was brought in, with chains upon him, and seated where all
the curious eyes could stare at him; no less conspicuous was Injun Joe,
stolid as ever. There was another pause, and then the judge arrived and
the sheriff proclaimed the opening of the court. The usual whisperings
among the lawyers and gathering together of papers followed. These
details and accompanying delays worked up an atmosphere of preparation
that was as impressive as it was fascinating.
Now a witness was called who testified that he found Muff Potter washing
in the brook, at an early hour of the morning that the murder was
discovered, and that he immediately sneaked away. After some further
questioning, counsel for the prosecution said:
“Take the witness.”
The prisoner raised his eyes for a moment, but dropped them again when
his own counsel said:
“I have no questions to ask him.”
The next witness proved the finding of the knife near the corpse.
Counsel for the prosecution said:
“Take the witness.”
“I have no questions to ask him,” Potter’s lawyer replied.
A third witness swore he had often seen the knife in Potter’s
possession.
“Take the witness.”
Counsel for Potter declined to question him. The faces of the audience
began to betray annoyance. Did this attorney mean to throw away his
client’s life without an effort?
Several witnesses deposed concerning Potter’s guilty behavior when
brought to the scene of the murder. They were allowed to leave the stand
without being cross-questioned.
Every detail of the damaging circumstances that occurred in the
graveyard upon that morning which all present remembered so well was
brought out by credible witnesses, but none of them were cross-examined
by Potter’s lawyer. The perplexity and dissatisfaction of the house
expressed itself in murmurs and provoked a reproof from the bench.
Counsel for the prosecution now said:
“By the oaths of citizens whose simple word is above suspicion, we have
fastened this awful crime, beyond all possibility of question, upon the
unhappy prisoner at the bar. We rest our case here.”
A groan escaped from poor Potter, and he put his face in his hands and
rocked his body softly to and fro, while a painful silence reigned
in the courtroom. Many men were moved, and many women’s compassion
testified itself in tears. Counsel for the defence rose and said:
“Your honor, in our remarks at the opening of this trial, we
foreshadowed our purpose to prove that our client did this fearful deed
while under the influence of a blind and irresponsible delirium produced
by drink. We have changed our mind. We shall not offer that plea.” [Then
to the clerk:] “Call Thomas Sawyer!”
A puzzled amazement awoke in every face in the house, not even excepting
Potter’s. Every eye fastened itself with wondering interest upon Tom as
he rose and took his place upon the stand. The boy looked wild enough,
for he was badly scared. The oath was administered.
“Thomas Sawyer, where were you on the seventeenth of June, about the
hour of midnight?”
Tom glanced at Injun Joe’s iron face and his tongue failed him. The
audience listened breathless, but the words refused to come. After a few
moments, however, the boy got a little of his strength back, and managed
to put enough of it into his voice to make part of the house hear:
“In the graveyard!”
“A little bit louder, please. Don’t be afraid. You were--”
“In the graveyard.”
A contemptuous smile flitted across Injun Joe’s face.
“Were you anywhere near Horse Williams’ grave?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Speak up--just a trifle louder. How near were you?”
“Near as I am to you.”
“Were you hidden, or not?”
“I was hid.”
“Where?”
“Behind the elms that’s on the edge of the grave.”
Injun Joe gave a barely perceptible start.
“Any one with you?”
“Yes, sir. I went there with--”
“Wait--wait a moment. Never mind mentioning your companion’s name. We
will produce him at the proper time. Did you carry anything there with
you.”
Tom hesitated and looked confused.
“Speak out, my boy--don’t be diffident. The truth is always respectable.
What did you take there?”
“Only a--a--dead cat.”
There was a ripple of mirth, which the court checked.
“We will produce the skeleton of that cat. Now, my boy, tell us
everything that occurred--tell it in your own way--don’t skip anything,
and don’t be afraid.”
Tom began--hesitatingly at first, but as he warmed to his subject his
words flowed more and more easily; in a little while every sound ceased
but his own voice; every eye fixed itself upon him; with parted lips and
bated breath the audience hung upon his words, taking no note of time,
rapt in the ghastly fascinations of the tale. The strain upon pent
emotion reached its climax when the boy said:
“--and as the doctor fetched the board around and Muff Potter fell, Injun
Joe jumped with the knife and--”
Crash! Quick as lightning the halfbreed sprang for a window, tore his
way through all opposers, and was gone!
CHAPTER XXIV
TOM was a glittering hero once more--the pet of the old, the envy of the
young. His name even went into immortal print, for the village paper
magnified him. There were some that believed he would be President, yet,
if he escaped hanging.
As usual, the fickle, unreasoning world took Muff Potter to its bosom
and fondled him as lavishly as it had abused him before. But that sort
of conduct is to the world’s credit; therefore it is not well to find
fault with it.
Tom’s days were days of splendor and exultation to him, but his nights
were seasons of horror. Injun Joe infested all his dreams, and always
with doom in his eye. Hardly any temptation could persuade the boy
to stir abroad after nightfall. Poor Huck was in the same state of
wretchedness and terror, for Tom had told the whole story to the lawyer
the night before the great day of the trial, and Huck was sore afraid
that his share in the business might leak out, yet, notwithstanding
Injun Joe’s flight had saved him the suffering of testifying in court.
The poor fellow had got the attorney to promise secrecy, but what of
that? Since Tom’s harassed conscience had managed to drive him to the
lawyer’s house by night and wring a dread tale from lips that had
been sealed with the dismalest and most formidable of oaths, Huck’s
confidence in the human race was wellnigh obliterated.
Daily Muff Potter’s gratitude made Tom glad he had spoken; but nightly
he wished he had sealed up his tongue.
Half the time Tom was afraid Injun Joe would never be captured; the
other half he was afraid he would be. He felt sure he never could draw a
safe breath again until that man was dead and he had seen the corpse.
Rewards had been offered, the country had been scoured, but no Injun
Joe was found. One of those omniscient and aweinspiring marvels, a
detective, came up from St. Louis, moused around, shook his head, looked
wise, and made that sort of astounding success which members of that
craft usually achieve. That is to say, he “found a clew.” But you can’t
hang a “clew” for murder, and so after that detective had got through
and gone home, Tom felt just as insecure as he was before.
The slow days drifted on, and each left behind it a slightly lightened
weight of apprehension.
CHAPTER XXV
THERE comes a time in every rightly-constructed boy’s life when he has
a raging desire to go somewhere and dig for hidden treasure. This desire
suddenly came upon Tom one day. He sallied out to find Joe Harper,
but failed of success. Next he sought Ben Rogers; he had gone fishing.
Presently he stumbled upon Huck Finn the Red-Handed. Huck would
answer. Tom took him to a private place and opened the matter to him
confidentially. Huck was willing. Huck was always willing to take a hand
in any enterprise that offered entertainment and required no capital,
for he had a troublesome superabundance of that sort of time which is
not money. “Where’ll we dig?” said Huck.
“Oh, most anywhere.”
“Why, is it hid all around?”
“No, indeed it ain’t. It’s hid in mighty particular places,
Huck--sometimes on islands, sometimes in rotten chests under the end of
a limb of an old dead tree, just where the shadow falls at midnight; but
mostly under the floor in ha’nted houses.”
“Who hides it?”
“Why, robbers, of course--who’d you reckon? Sunday-school
sup’rintendents?”
“I don’t know. If ‘twas mine I wouldn’t hide it; I’d spend it and have a
good time.”
“So would I. But robbers don’t do that way. They always hide it and
leave it there.”
“Don’t they come after it any more?”
“No, they think they will, but they generally forget the marks, or else
they die. Anyway, it lays there a long time and gets rusty; and by and
by somebody finds an old yellow paper that tells how to find the marks--a
paper that’s got to be ciphered over about a week because it’s mostly
signs and hy’roglyphics.”
“Hyro--which?”
“Hy’roglyphics--pictures and things, you know, that don’t seem to mean
anything.”
“Have you got one of them papers, Tom?”
“No.”
“Well then, how you going to find the marks?”
“I don’t want any marks. They always bury it under a ha’nted house or on
an island, or under a dead tree that’s got one limb sticking out. Well,
we’ve tried Jackson’s Island a little, and we can try it again some
time; and there’s the old ha’nted house up the Still-House branch, and
there’s lots of dead-limb trees--dead loads of ‘em.”
“Is it under all of them?”
“How you talk! No!”
“Then how you going to know which one to go for?”
“Go for all of ‘em!”
“Why, Tom, it’ll take all summer.”
“Well, what of that? Suppose you find a brass pot with a hundred dollars
in it, all rusty and gray, or rotten chest full of di’monds. How’s
that?”
Huck’s eyes glowed.
“That’s bully. Plenty bully enough for me. Just you gimme the hundred
dollars and I don’t want no di’monds.”
“All right. But I bet you I ain’t going to throw off on di’monds. Some
of ‘em’s worth twenty dollars apiece--there ain’t any, hardly, but’s
worth six bits or a dollar.”
“No! Is that so?”
“Cert’nly--anybody’ll tell you so. Hain’t you ever seen one, Huck?”
“Not as I remember.”
“Oh, kings have slathers of them.”
“Well, I don’ know no kings, Tom.”
“I reckon you don’t. But if you was to go to Europe you’d see a raft of
‘em hopping around.”
“Do they hop?”
“Hop?--your granny! No!”
“Well, what did you say they did, for?”
“Shucks, I only meant you’d  see  ‘em--not hopping, of course--what do
they want to hop for?--but I mean you’d just see ‘em--scattered around,
you know, in a kind of a general way. Like that old humpbacked Richard.”
“Richard? What’s his other name?”
“He didn’t have any other name. Kings don’t have any but a given name.”
“No?”
“But they don’t.”
“Well, if they like it, Tom, all right; but I don’t want to be a king
and have only just a given name, like a nigger. But say--where you going
to dig first?”
“Well, I don’t know. S’pose we tackle that old dead-limb tree on the
hill t’other side of Still-House branch?”
“I’m agreed.”
So they got a crippled pick and a shovel, and set out on their
three-mile tramp. They arrived hot and panting, and threw themselves
down in the shade of a neighboring elm to rest and have a smoke.
“I like this,” said Tom.
“So do I.”
“Say, Huck, if we find a treasure here, what you going to do with your
share?”
“Well, I’ll have pie and a glass of soda every day, and I’ll go to every
circus that comes along. I bet I’ll have a gay time.”
“Well, ain’t you going to save any of it?”
“Save it? What for?”
“Why, so as to have something to live on, by and by.”
“Oh, that ain’t any use. Pap would come back to thish-yer town some day
and get his claws on it if I didn’t hurry up, and I tell you he’d clean
it out pretty quick. What you going to do with yourn, Tom?”
“I’m going to buy a new drum, and a sure’nough sword, and a red necktie
and a bull pup, and get married.”
“Married!”
“That’s it.”
“Tom, you--why, you ain’t in your right mind.”
“Wait--you’ll see.”
“Well, that’s the foolishest thing you could do. Look at pap and my
mother. Fight! Why, they used to fight all the time. I remember, mighty
well.”
“That ain’t anything. The girl I’m going to marry won’t fight.”
“Tom, I reckon they’re all alike. They’ll all comb a body. Now you
better think ‘bout this awhile. I tell you you better. What’s the name
of the gal?”
“It ain’t a gal at all--it’s a girl.”
“It’s all the same, I reckon; some says gal, some says girl--both’s
right, like enough. Anyway, what’s her name, Tom?”
“I’ll tell you some time--not now.”
“All right--that’ll do. Only if you get married I’ll be more lonesomer
than ever.”
“No you won’t. You’ll come and live with me. Now stir out of this and
we’ll go to digging.”
They worked and sweated for half an hour. No result. They toiled another
halfhour. Still no result. Huck said:
“Do they always bury it as deep as this?”
“Sometimes--not always. Not generally. I reckon we haven’t got the right
place.”
So they chose a new spot and began again. The labor dragged a little,
but still they made progress. They pegged away in silence for some time.
Finally Huck leaned on his shovel, swabbed the beaded drops from his
brow with his sleeve, and said:
“Where you going to dig next, after we get this one?”
“I reckon maybe we’ll tackle the old tree that’s over yonder on Cardiff
Hill back of the widow’s.”
“I reckon that’ll be a good one. But won’t the widow take it away from
us, Tom? It’s on her land.”
“ She  take it away! Maybe she’d like to try it once. Whoever finds one
of these hid treasures, it belongs to him. It don’t make any difference
whose land it’s on.”
That was satisfactory. The work went on. By and by Huck said:
“Blame it, we must be in the wrong place again. What do you think?”
“It is mighty curious, Huck. I don’t understand it. Sometimes witches
interfere. I reckon maybe that’s what’s the trouble now.”
“Shucks! Witches ain’t got no power in the daytime.”
“Well, that’s so. I didn’t think of that. Oh, I know what the matter is!
What a blamed lot of fools we are! You got to find out where the shadow
of the limb falls at midnight, and that’s where you dig!”
“Then consound it, we’ve fooled away all this work for nothing. Now hang
it all, we got to come back in the night. It’s an awful long way. Can
you get out?”
“I bet I will. We’ve got to do it tonight, too, because if somebody sees
these holes they’ll know in a minute what’s here and they’ll go for it.”
“Well, I’ll come around and maow tonight.”
“All right. Let’s hide the tools in the bushes.”
The boys were there that night, about the appointed time. They sat in
the shadow waiting. It was a lonely place, and an hour made solemn by
old traditions. Spirits whispered in the rustling leaves, ghosts lurked
in the murky nooks, the deep baying of a hound floated up out of the
distance, an owl answered with his sepulchral note. The boys were
subdued by these solemnities, and talked little. By and by they judged
that twelve had come; they marked where the shadow fell, and began to
dig. Their hopes commenced to rise. Their interest grew stronger, and
their industry kept pace with it. The hole deepened and still deepened,
but every time their hearts jumped to hear the pick strike upon
something, they only suffered a new disappointment. It was only a stone
or a chunk. At last Tom said:
“It ain’t any use, Huck, we’re wrong again.”
“Well, but we  can’t  be wrong. We spotted the shadder to a dot.”
“I know it, but then there’s another thing.”
“What’s that?”.
“Why, we only guessed at the time. Like enough it was too late or too
early.”
Huck dropped his shovel.
“That’s it,” said he. “That’s the very trouble. We got to give this one
up. We can’t ever tell the right time, and besides this kind of thing’s
too awful, here this time of night with witches and ghosts a-fluttering
around so. I feel as if something’s behind me all the time;  and I’m
afeard to turn around, becuz maybe there’s others in front a-waiting for
a chance. I been creeping all over, ever since I got here.”
“Well, I’ve been pretty much so, too, Huck. They most always put in a
dead man when they bury a treasure under a tree, to look out for it.”
“Lordy!”
“Yes, they do. I’ve always heard that.”
“Tom, I don’t like to fool around much where there’s dead people. A
body’s bound to get into trouble with ‘em, sure.”
“I don’t like to stir ‘em up, either. S’pose this one here was to stick
his skull out and say something!”
“Don’t Tom! It’s awful.”
“Well, it just is. Huck, I don’t feel comfortable a bit.”
“Say, Tom, let’s give this place up, and try somewheres else.”
“All right, I reckon we better.”
“What’ll it be?”
Tom considered awhile; and then said:
“The ha’nted house. That’s it!”
“Blame it, I don’t like ha’nted houses, Tom. Why, they’re a dern sight
worse’n dead people. Dead people might talk, maybe, but they don’t come
sliding around in a shroud, when you ain’t noticing, and peep over your
shoulder all of a sudden and grit their teeth, the way a ghost does. I
couldn’t stand such a thing as that, Tom--nobody could.”
“Yes, but, Huck, ghosts don’t travel around only at night. They won’t
hender us from digging there in the daytime.”
“Well, that’s so. But you know mighty well people don’t go about that
ha’nted house in the day nor the night.”
“Well, that’s mostly because they don’t like to go where a man’s been
murdered, anyway--but nothing’s ever been seen around that house except
in the night--just some blue lights slipping by the windows--no regular
ghosts.”
“Well, where you see one of them blue lights flickering around, Tom,
you can bet there’s a ghost mighty close behind it. It stands to reason.
Becuz you know that they don’t anybody but ghosts use ‘em.”
“Yes, that’s so. But anyway they don’t come around in the daytime, so
what’s the use of our being afeard?”
“Well, all right. We’ll tackle the ha’nted house if you say so--but I
reckon it’s taking chances.”
They had started down the hill by this time. There in the middle of the
moonlit valley below them stood the “ha’nted” house, utterly isolated,
its fences gone long ago, rank weeds smothering the very doorsteps, the
chimney crumbled to ruin, the window-sashes vacant, a corner of the roof
caved in. The boys gazed awhile, half expecting to see a blue light flit
past a window; then talking in a low tone, as befitted the time and the
circumstances, they struck far off to the right, to give the haunted
house a wide berth, and took their way homeward through the woods that
adorned the rearward side of Cardiff Hill.
CHAPTER XVI
ABOUT noon the next day the boys arrived at the dead tree; they had come
for their tools. Tom was impatient to go to the haunted house; Huck was
measurably so, also--but suddenly said:
“Lookyhere, Tom, do you know what day it is?”
Tom mentally ran over the days of the week, and then quickly lifted his
eyes with a startled look in them--
“My! I never once thought of it, Huck!”
“Well, I didn’t neither, but all at once it popped onto me that it was
Friday.”
“Blame it, a body can’t be too careful, Huck. We might ‘a’ got into an
awful scrape, tackling such a thing on a Friday.”
“ Might ! Better say we  would ! There’s some lucky days, maybe, but
Friday ain’t.”
“Any fool knows that. I don’t reckon  you  was the first that found it
out, Huck.”
“Well, I never said I was, did I? And Friday ain’t all, neither. I had a
rotten bad dream last night--dreampt about rats.”
“No! Sure sign of trouble. Did they fight?”
“No.”
“Well, that’s good, Huck. When they don’t fight it’s only a sign that
there’s trouble around, you know. All we got to do is to look mighty
sharp and keep out of it. We’ll drop this thing for today, and play. Do
you know Robin Hood, Huck?”
“No. Who’s Robin Hood?”
“Why, he was one of the greatest men that was ever in England--and the
best. He was a robber.”
“Cracky, I wisht I was. Who did he rob?”
“Only sheriffs and bishops and rich people and kings, and such like. But
he never bothered the poor. He loved ‘em. He always divided up with ‘em
perfectly square.”
“Well, he must ‘a’ been a brick.”
“I bet you he was, Huck. Oh, he was the noblest man that ever was.
They ain’t any such men now, I can tell you. He could lick any man in
England, with one hand tied behind him; and he could take his yew bow
and plug a ten-cent piece every time, a mile and a half.”
“What’s a  yew  bow?”
“I don’t know. It’s some kind of a bow, of course. And if he hit that
dime only on the edge he would set down and cry--and curse. But we’ll
play Robin Hood--it’s nobby fun. I’ll learn you.”
“I’m agreed.”
So they played Robin Hood all the afternoon, now and then casting a
yearning eye down upon the haunted house and passing a remark about the
morrow’s prospects and possibilities there. As the sun began to sink
into the west they took their way homeward athwart the long shadows
of the trees and soon were buried from sight in the forests of Cardiff
Hill.
On Saturday, shortly after noon, the boys were at the dead tree again.
They had a smoke and a chat in the shade, and then dug a little in their
last hole, not with great hope, but merely because Tom said there were
so many cases where people had given up a treasure after getting down
within six inches of it, and then somebody else had come along and
turned it up with a single thrust of a shovel. The thing failed this
time, however, so the boys shouldered their tools and went away feeling
that they had not trifled with fortune, but had fulfilled all the
requirements that belong to the business of treasure-hunting.
When they reached the haunted house there was something so weird and
grisly about the dead silence that reigned there under the baking sun,
and something so depressing about the loneliness and desolation of the
place, that they were afraid, for a moment, to venture in. Then they
crept to the door and took a trembling peep. They saw a weedgrown,
floorless room, unplastered, an ancient fireplace, vacant windows,
a ruinous staircase; and here, there, and everywhere hung ragged and
abandoned cobwebs. They presently entered, softly, with quickened
pulses, talking in whispers, ears alert to catch the slightest sound,
and muscles tense and ready for instant retreat.
In a little while familiarity modified their fears and they gave the
place a critical and interested examination, rather admiring their own
boldness, and wondering at it, too. Next they wanted to look upstairs.
This was something like cutting off retreat, but they got to daring
each other, and of course there could be but one result--they threw their
tools into a corner and made the ascent. Up there were the same signs of
decay. In one corner they found a closet that promised mystery, but the
promise was a fraud--there was nothing in it. Their courage was up now
and well in hand. They were about to go down and begin work when--
“Sh!” said Tom.
“What is it?” whispered Huck, blanching with fright.
“Sh!... There!... Hear it?”
“Yes!... Oh, my! Let’s run!”
“Keep still! Don’t you budge! They’re coming right toward the door.”
The boys stretched themselves upon the floor with their eyes to
knotholes in the planking, and lay waiting, in a misery of fear.
“They’ve stopped.... No--coming.... Here they are. Don’t whisper another
word, Huck. My goodness, I wish I was out of this!”
Two men entered. Each boy said to himself: “There’s the old deaf and
dumb Spaniard that’s been about town once or twice lately--never saw
t’other man before.”
“T’other” was a ragged, unkempt creature, with nothing very pleasant
in his face. The Spaniard was wrapped in a serape; he had bushy white
whiskers; long white hair flowed from under his sombrero, and he wore
green goggles. When they came in, “t’other” was talking in a low voice;
they sat down on the ground, facing the door, with their backs to the
wall, and the speaker continued his remarks. His manner became less
guarded and his words more distinct as he proceeded:
“No,” said he, “I’ve thought it all over, and I don’t like it. It’s
dangerous.”
“Dangerous!” grunted the “deaf and dumb” Spaniard--to the vast surprise
of the boys. “Milksop!”
This voice made the boys gasp and quake. It was Injun Joe’s! There was
silence for some time. Then Joe said:
“What’s any more dangerous than that job up yonder--but nothing’s come of
it.”
“That’s different. Away up the river so, and not another house about.
‘Twon’t ever be known that we tried, anyway, long as we didn’t succeed.”
“Well, what’s more dangerous than coming here in the daytime!--anybody
would suspicion us that saw us.”
“I know that. But there warn’t any other place as handy after that fool
of a job. I want to quit this shanty. I wanted to yesterday, only it
warn’t any use trying to stir out of here, with those infernal boys
playing over there on the hill right in full view.”
“Those infernal boys” quaked again under the inspiration of this remark,
and thought how lucky it was that they had remembered it was Friday and
concluded to wait a day. They wished in their hearts they had waited a
year.
The two men got out some food and made a luncheon. After a long and
thoughtful silence, Injun Joe said:
“Look here, lad--you go back up the river where you belong. Wait there
till you hear from me. I’ll take the chances on dropping into this town
just once more, for a look. We’ll do that ‘dangerous’ job after I’ve
spied around a little and think things look well for it. Then for Texas!
We’ll leg it together!”
This was satisfactory. Both men presently fell to yawning, and Injun Joe
said:
“I’m dead for sleep! It’s your turn to watch.”
He curled down in the weeds and soon began to snore. His comrade stirred
him once or twice and he became quiet. Presently the watcher began to
nod; his head drooped lower and lower, both men began to snore now.
The boys drew a long, grateful breath. Tom whispered:
“Now’s our chance--come!”
Huck said:
“I can’t--I’d die if they was to wake.”
Tom urged--Huck held back. At last Tom rose slowly and softly, and
started alone. But the first step he made wrung such a hideous creak
from the crazy floor that he sank down almost dead with fright. He never
made a second attempt. The boys lay there counting the dragging moments
till it seemed to them that time must be done and eternity growing gray;
and then they were grateful to note that at last the sun was setting.
Now one snore ceased. Injun Joe sat up, stared around--smiled grimly upon
his comrade, whose head was drooping upon his knees--stirred him up with
his foot and said:
“Here!  You’re  a watchman, ain’t you! All right, though--nothing’s
happened.”
“My! have I been asleep?”
“Oh, partly, partly. Nearly time for us to be moving, pard. What’ll we
do with what little swag we’ve got left?”
“I don’t know--leave it here as we’ve always done, I reckon. No use to
take it away till we start south. Six hundred and fifty in silver’s
something to carry.”
“Well--all right--it won’t matter to come here once more.”
“No--but I’d say come in the night as we used to do--it’s better.”
“Yes: but look here; it may be a good while before I get the right
chance at that job; accidents might happen; ‘tain’t in such a very good
place; we’ll just regularly bury it--and bury it deep.”
“Good idea,” said the comrade, who walked across the room, knelt down,
raised one of the rearward hearth-stones and took out a bag that jingled
pleasantly. He subtracted from it twenty or thirty dollars for himself
and as much for Injun Joe, and passed the bag to the latter, who was on
his knees in the corner, now, digging with his bowie-knife.
The boys forgot all their fears, all their miseries in an instant. With
gloating eyes they watched every movement. Luck!--the splendor of it was
beyond all imagination! Six hundred dollars was money enough to make
half a dozen boys rich! Here was treasure-hunting under the happiest
auspices--there would not be any bothersome uncertainty as to where to
dig. They nudged each other every moment--eloquent nudges and easily
understood, for they simply meant--“Oh, but ain’t you glad  now  we’re
here!”
Joe’s knife struck upon something.
“Hello!” said he.
“What is it?” said his comrade.
“Half-rotten plank--no, it’s a box, I believe. Here--bear a hand and we’ll
see what it’s here for. Never mind, I’ve broke a hole.”
He reached his hand in and drew it out--
“Man, it’s money!”
The two men examined the handful of coins. They were gold. The boys
above were as excited as themselves, and as delighted.
Joe’s comrade said:
“We’ll make quick work of this. There’s an old rusty pick over amongst
the weeds in the corner the other side of the fireplace--I saw it a
minute ago.”
He ran and brought the boys’ pick and shovel. Injun Joe took the
pick, looked it over critically, shook his head, muttered something to
himself, and then began to use it. The box was soon unearthed. It was
not very large; it was iron bound and had been very strong before the
slow years had injured it. The men contemplated the treasure awhile in
blissful silence.
“Pard, there’s thousands of dollars here,” said Injun Joe.
“‘Twas always said that Murrel’s gang used to be around here one
summer,” the stranger observed.
“I know it,” said Injun Joe; “and this looks like it, I should say.”
“Now you won’t need to do that job.”
The halfbreed frowned. Said he:
“You don’t know me. Least you don’t know all about that thing. ‘Tain’t
robbery altogether--it’s  revenge !” and a wicked light flamed in his
eyes. “I’ll need your help in it. When it’s finished--then Texas. Go home
to your Nance and your kids, and stand by till you hear from me.”
“Well--if you say so; what’ll we do with this--bury it again?”
“Yes. [Ravishing delight overhead.]  No ! by the great Sachem, no!
[Profound distress overhead.] I’d nearly forgot. That pick had fresh
earth on it! [The boys were sick with terror in a moment.] What business
has a pick and a shovel here? What business with fresh earth on
them? Who brought them here--and where are they gone? Have you heard
anybody?--seen anybody? What! bury it again and leave them to come and
see the ground disturbed? Not exactly--not exactly. We’ll take it to my
den.”
“Why, of course! Might have thought of that before. You mean Number
One?”
“No--Number Two--under the cross. The other place is bad--too common.”
“All right. It’s nearly dark enough to start.”
Injun Joe got up and went about from window to window cautiously peeping
out. Presently he said:
“Who could have brought those tools here? Do you reckon they can be
upstairs?”
The boys’ breath forsook them. Injun Joe put his hand on his knife,
halted a moment, undecided, and then turned toward the stairway. The
boys thought of the closet, but their strength was gone. The steps came
creaking up the stairs--the intolerable distress of the situation woke
the stricken resolution of the lads--they were about to spring for the
closet, when there was a crash of rotten timbers and Injun Joe landed on
the ground amid the debris of the ruined stairway. He gathered himself
up cursing, and his comrade said:
“Now what’s the use of all that? If it’s anybody, and they’re up there,
let them  stay  there--who cares? If they want to jump down, now, and get
into trouble, who objects? It will be dark in fifteen minutes--and then
let them follow us if they want to. I’m willing. In my opinion, whoever
hove those things in here caught a sight of us and took us for ghosts or
devils or something. I’ll bet they’re running yet.”
Joe grumbled awhile; then he agreed with his friend that what daylight
was left ought to be economized in getting things ready for leaving.
Shortly afterward they slipped out of the house in the deepening
twilight, and moved toward the river with their precious box.
Tom and Huck rose up, weak but vastly relieved, and stared after them
through the chinks between the logs of the house. Follow? Not they. They
were content to reach ground again without broken necks, and take the
townward track over the hill. They did not talk much. They were too much
absorbed in hating themselves--hating the ill luck that made them take
the spade and the pick there. But for that, Injun Joe never would have
suspected. He would have hidden the silver with the gold to wait
there till his “revenge” was satisfied, and then he would have had the
misfortune to find that money turn up missing. Bitter, bitter luck that
the tools were ever brought there!
They resolved to keep a lookout for that Spaniard when he should come to
town spying out for chances to do his revengeful job, and follow him to
“Number Two,” wherever that might be. Then a ghastly thought occurred to
Tom.
“Revenge? What if he means  us, Huck!”
“Oh, don’t!” said Huck, nearly fainting.
They talked it all over, and as they entered town they agreed to believe
that he might possibly mean somebody else--at least that he might at
least mean nobody but Tom, since only Tom had testified.
Very, very small comfort it was to Tom to be alone in danger! Company
would be a palpable improvement, he thought.
CHAPTER XXVII
THE adventure of the day mightily tormented Tom’s dreams that night.
Four times he had his hands on that rich treasure and four times
it wasted to nothingness in his fingers as sleep forsook him and
wakefulness brought back the hard reality of his misfortune. As he lay
in the early morning recalling the incidents of his great adventure, he
noticed that they seemed curiously subdued and far away--somewhat as if
they had happened in another world, or in a time long gone by. Then it
occurred to him that the great adventure itself must be a dream! There
was one very strong argument in favor of this idea--namely, that the
quantity of coin he had seen was too vast to be real. He had never seen
as much as fifty dollars in one mass before, and he was like all boys of
his age and station in life, in that he imagined that all references to
“hundreds” and “thousands” were mere fanciful forms of speech, and that
no such sums really existed in the world. He never had supposed for
a moment that so large a sum as a hundred dollars was to be found in
actual money in any one’s possession. If his notions of hidden treasure
had been analyzed, they would have been found to consist of a handful of
real dimes and a bushel of vague, splendid, ungraspable dollars.
But the incidents of his adventure grew sensibly sharper and clearer
under the attrition of thinking them over, and so he presently found
himself leaning to the impression that the thing might not have been a
dream, after all. This uncertainty must be swept away. He would snatch a
hurried breakfast and go and find Huck. Huck was sitting on the gunwale
of a flatboat, listlessly dangling his feet in the water and looking
very melancholy. Tom concluded to let Huck lead up to the subject. If
he did not do it, then the adventure would be proved to have been only a
dream.
“Hello, Huck!”
“Hello, yourself.”
Silence, for a minute.
“Tom, if we’d ‘a’ left the blame tools at the dead tree, we’d ‘a’ got
the money. Oh, ain’t it awful!”
“‘Tain’t a dream, then, ‘tain’t a dream! Somehow I most wish it was.
Dog’d if I don’t, Huck.”
“What ain’t a dream?”
“Oh, that thing yesterday. I been half thinking it was.”
“Dream! If them stairs hadn’t broke down you’d ‘a’ seen how much dream
it was! I’ve had dreams enough all night--with that patch-eyed Spanish
devil going for me all through ‘em--rot him!”
“No, not rot him.  Find  him! Track the money!”
“Tom, we’ll never find him. A feller don’t have only one chance for such
a pile--and that one’s lost. I’d feel mighty shaky if I was to see him,
anyway.”
“Well, so’d I; but I’d like to see him, anyway--and track him out--to his
Number Two.”
“Number Two--yes, that’s it. I been thinking ‘bout that. But I can’t make
nothing out of it. What do you reckon it is?”
“I dono. It’s too deep. Say, Huck--maybe it’s the number of a house!”
“Goody!... No, Tom, that ain’t it. If it is, it ain’t in this one-horse
town. They ain’t no numbers here.”
“Well, that’s so. Lemme think a minute. Here--it’s the number of a
room--in a tavern, you know!”
“Oh, that’s the trick! They ain’t only two taverns. We can find out
quick.”
“You stay here, Huck, till I come.”
Tom was off at once. He did not care to have Huck’s company in public
places. He was gone half an hour. He found that in the best tavern, No.
2 had long been occupied by a young lawyer, and was still so occupied.
In the less ostentatious house, No. 2 was a mystery. The tavern-keeper’s
young son said it was kept locked all the time, and he never saw anybody
go into it or come out of it except at night; he did not know any
particular reason for this state of things; had had some little
curiosity, but it was rather feeble; had made the most of the mystery
by entertaining himself with the idea that that room was “ha’nted”; had
noticed that there was a light in there the night before.
“That’s what I’ve found out, Huck. I reckon that’s the very No. 2 we’re
after.”
“I reckon it is, Tom. Now what you going to do?”
“Lemme think.”
Tom thought a long time. Then he said:
“I’ll tell you. The back door of that No. 2 is the door that comes out
into that little close alley between the tavern and the old rattle trap
of a brick store. Now you get hold of all the doorkeys you can find, and
I’ll nip all of auntie’s, and the first dark night we’ll go there and
try ‘em. And mind you, keep a lookout for Injun Joe, because he said he
was going to drop into town and spy around once more for a chance to get
his revenge. If you see him, you just follow him; and if he don’t go to
that No. 2, that ain’t the place.”
“Lordy, I don’t want to foller him by myself!”
“Why, it’ll be night, sure. He mightn’t ever see you--and if he did,
maybe he’d never think anything.”
“Well, if it’s pretty dark I reckon I’ll track him. I dono--I dono. I’ll
try.”
“You bet I’ll follow him, if it’s dark, Huck. Why, he might ‘a’ found
out he couldn’t get his revenge, and be going right after that money.”
“It’s so, Tom, it’s so. I’ll foller him; I will, by jingoes!”
“Now you’re  talking ! Don’t you ever weaken, Huck, and I won’t.”
CHAPTER XXVIII
THAT night Tom and Huck were ready for their adventure. They hung about
the neighborhood of the tavern until after nine, one watching the alley
at a distance and the other the tavern door. Nobody entered the alley or
left it; nobody resembling the Spaniard entered or left the tavern
door. The night promised to be a fair one; so Tom went home with the
understanding that if a considerable degree of darkness came on, Huck
was to come and “maow,” whereupon he would slip out and try the keys.
But the night remained clear, and Huck closed his watch and retired to
bed in an empty sugar hogshead about twelve.
Tuesday the boys had the same ill luck. Also Wednesday. But Thursday
night promised better. Tom slipped out in good season with his aunt’s
old tin lantern, and a large towel to blindfold it with. He hid the
lantern in Huck’s sugar hogshead and the watch began. An hour before
midnight the tavern closed up and its lights (the only ones thereabouts)
were put out. No Spaniard had been seen. Nobody had entered or left the
alley. Everything was auspicious. The blackness of darkness reigned,
the perfect stillness was interrupted only by occasional mutterings of
distant thunder.
Tom got his lantern, lit it in the hogshead, wrapped it closely in the
towel, and the two adventurers crept in the gloom toward the tavern.
Huck stood sentry and Tom felt his way into the alley. Then there was
a season of waiting anxiety that weighed upon Huck’s spirits like a
mountain. He began to wish he could see a flash from the lantern--it
would frighten him, but it would at least tell him that Tom was alive
yet. It seemed hours since Tom had disappeared. Surely he must have
fainted; maybe he was dead; maybe his heart had burst under terror and
excitement. In his uneasiness Huck found himself drawing closer
and closer to the alley; fearing all sorts of dreadful things, and
momentarily expecting some catastrophe to happen that would take away
his breath. There was not much to take away, for he seemed only able to
inhale it by thimblefuls, and his heart would soon wear itself out, the
way it was beating. Suddenly there was a flash of light and Tom came
tearing by him: “Run!” said he; “run, for your life!”
He needn’t have repeated it; once was enough; Huck was making thirty or
forty miles an hour before the repetition was uttered. The boys never
stopped till they reached the shed of a deserted slaughter-house at the
lower end of the village. Just as they got within its shelter the storm
burst and the rain poured down. As soon as Tom got his breath he said:
“Huck, it was awful! I tried two of the keys, just as soft as I could;
but they seemed to make such a power of racket that I couldn’t hardly
get my breath I was so scared. They wouldn’t turn in the lock, either.
Well, without noticing what I was doing, I took hold of the knob, and
open comes the door! It warn’t locked! I hopped in, and shook off the
towel, and,  Great Caesar’s Ghost! ”
“What!--what’d you see, Tom?”
“Huck, I most stepped onto Injun Joe’s hand!”
“No!”
“Yes! He was lying there, sound asleep on the floor, with his old patch
on his eye and his arms spread out.”
“Lordy, what did you do? Did he wake up?”
“No, never budged. Drunk, I reckon. I just grabbed that towel and
started!”
“I’d never ‘a’ thought of the towel, I bet!”
“Well, I would. My aunt would make me mighty sick if I lost it.”
“Say, Tom, did you see that box?”
“Huck, I didn’t wait to look around. I didn’t see the box, I didn’t see
the cross. I didn’t see anything but a bottle and a tin cup on the floor
by Injun Joe; yes, I saw two barrels and lots more bottles in the room.
Don’t you see, now, what’s the matter with that ha’nted room?”
“How?”
“Why, it’s ha’nted with whiskey! Maybe  all  the Temperance Taverns have
got a ha’nted room, hey, Huck?”
“Well, I reckon maybe that’s so. Who’d ‘a’ thought such a thing? But
say, Tom, now’s a mighty good time to get that box, if Injun Joe’s
drunk.”
“It is, that! You try it!”
Huck shuddered.
“Well, no--I reckon not.”
“And I reckon not, Huck. Only one bottle alongside of Injun Joe ain’t
enough. If there’d been three, he’d be drunk enough and I’d do it.”
There was a long pause for reflection, and then Tom said:
“Lookyhere, Huck, less not try that thing any more till we know Injun
Joe’s not in there. It’s too scary. Now, if we watch every night, we’ll
be dead sure to see him go out, some time or other, and then we’ll
snatch that box quicker’n lightning.”
“Well, I’m agreed. I’ll watch the whole night long, and I’ll do it every
night, too, if you’ll do the other part of the job.”
“All right, I will. All you got to do is to trot up Hooper Street a
block and maow--and if I’m asleep, you throw some gravel at the window
and that’ll fetch me.”
“Agreed, and good as wheat!”
“Now, Huck, the storm’s over, and I’ll go home. It’ll begin to be
daylight in a couple of hours. You go back and watch that long, will
you?”
“I said I would, Tom, and I will. I’ll ha’nt that tavern every night for
a year! I’ll sleep all day and I’ll stand watch all night.”
“That’s all right. Now, where you going to sleep?”
“In Ben Rogers’ hayloft. He lets me, and so does his pap’s nigger man,
Uncle Jake. I tote water for Uncle Jake whenever he wants me to, and any
time I ask him he gives me a little something to eat if he can spare it.
That’s a mighty good nigger, Tom. He likes me, becuz I don’t ever act as
if I was above him. Sometime I’ve set right down and eat  with  him. But
you needn’t tell that. A body’s got to do things when he’s awful hungry
he wouldn’t want to do as a steady thing.”
“Well, if I don’t want you in the daytime, I’ll let you sleep. I won’t
come bothering around. Any time you see something’s up, in the night,
just skip right around and maow.”
CHAPTER XXIX
THE first thing Tom heard on Friday morning was a glad piece of
news--Judge Thatcher’s family had come back to town the night before.
Both Injun Joe and the treasure sunk into secondary importance for a
moment, and Becky took the chief place in the boy’s interest. He saw her
and they had an exhausting good time playing “hispy” and “gully-keeper”
 with a crowd of their schoolmates. The day was completed and crowned in
a peculiarly satisfactory way: Becky teased her mother to appoint
the next day for the long-promised and long-delayed picnic, and she
consented. The child’s delight was boundless; and Tom’s not more
moderate. The invitations were sent out before sunset, and straightway
the young folks of the village were thrown into a fever of preparation
and pleasurable anticipation. Tom’s excitement enabled him to keep
awake until a pretty late hour, and he had good hopes of hearing Huck’s
“maow,” and of having his treasure to astonish Becky and the picnickers
with, next day; but he was disappointed. No signal came that night.
Morning came, eventually, and by ten or eleven o’clock a giddy and
rollicking company were gathered at Judge Thatcher’s, and everything was
ready for a start. It was not the custom for elderly people to mar the
picnics with their presence. The children were considered safe enough
under the wings of a few young ladies of eighteen and a few young
gentlemen of twenty-three or thereabouts. The old steam ferry-boat was
chartered for the occasion; presently the gay throng filed up the main
street laden with provision-baskets. Sid was sick and had to miss
the fun; Mary remained at home to entertain him. The last thing Mrs.
Thatcher said to Becky, was:
“You’ll not get back till late. Perhaps you’d better stay all night with
some of the girls that live near the ferry-landing, child.”
“Then I’ll stay with Susy Harper, mamma.”
“Very well. And mind and behave yourself and don’t be any trouble.”
Presently, as they tripped along, Tom said to Becky:
“Say--I’ll tell you what we’ll do. ‘Stead of going to Joe Harper’s we’ll
climb right up the hill and stop at the Widow Douglas’. She’ll have
ice-cream! She has it most every day--dead loads of it. And she’ll be
awful glad to have us.”
“Oh, that will be fun!”
Then Becky reflected a moment and said:
“But what will mamma say?”
“How’ll she ever know?”
The girl turned the idea over in her mind, and said reluctantly:
“I reckon it’s wrong--but--”
“But shucks! Your mother won’t know, and so what’s the harm? All she
wants is that you’ll be safe; and I bet you she’d ‘a’ said go there if
she’d ‘a’ thought of it. I know she would!”
The Widow Douglas’ splendid hospitality was a tempting bait. It and
Tom’s persuasions presently carried the day. So it was decided to say
nothing to anybody about the night’s programme. Presently it occurred to
Tom that maybe Huck might come this very night and give the signal. The
thought took a deal of the spirit out of his anticipations. Still he
could not bear to give up the fun at Widow Douglas’. And why should he
give it up, he reasoned--the signal did not come the night before, so
why should it be any more likely to come tonight? The sure fun of the
evening outweighed the uncertain treasure; and, boy-like, he determined
to yield to the stronger inclination and not allow himself to think of
the box of money another time that day.
Three miles below town the ferryboat stopped at the mouth of a woody
hollow and tied up. The crowd swarmed ashore and soon the forest
distances and craggy heights echoed far and near with shoutings and
laughter. All the different ways of getting hot and tired were gone
through with, and by-and-by the rovers straggled back to camp fortified
with responsible appetites, and then the destruction of the good things
began. After the feast there was a refreshing season of rest and chat in
the shade of spreading oaks. By-and-by somebody shouted:
“Who’s ready for the cave?”
Everybody was. Bundles of candles were procured, and straightway there
was a general scamper up the hill. The mouth of the cave was up the
hillside--an opening shaped like a letter A. Its massive oaken door stood
unbarred. Within was a small chamber, chilly as an icehouse, and walled
by Nature with solid limestone that was dewy with a cold sweat. It was
romantic and mysterious to stand here in the deep gloom and look out
upon the green valley shining in the sun. But the impressiveness of the
situation quickly wore off, and the romping began again. The moment
a candle was lighted there was a general rush upon the owner of it; a
struggle and a gallant defence followed, but the candle was soon knocked
down or blown out, and then there was a glad clamor of laughter and a
new chase. But all things have an end. By-and-by the procession went
filing down the steep descent of the main avenue, the flickering rank of
lights dimly revealing the lofty walls of rock almost to their point of
junction sixty feet overhead. This main avenue was not more than
eight or ten feet wide. Every few steps other lofty and still narrower
crevices branched from it on either hand--for McDougal’s cave was but a
vast labyrinth of crooked aisles that ran into each other and out again
and led nowhere. It was said that one might wander days and nights
together through its intricate tangle of rifts and chasms, and never
find the end of the cave; and that he might go down, and down, and
still down, into the earth, and it was just the same--labyrinth under
labyrinth, and no end to any of them. No man “knew” the cave. That was
an impossible thing. Most of the young men knew a portion of it, and it
