discouragement. 
It came to an end just after the holidays, in the person 
of a rather stolid German, who had been well trained, and 
was exceedingly good natured, though rather slow. But 
poor Nelly had not reached any promised land yet. Mrs. 
Kinnard was taken ill with fever and rheumatism ; and, 
from that time until spring, there was nursing and amus 
ing. Yet out of this came an abundant reward. She 
conquered here a lasting peace. Feeble, querulous, and 
oftentimes tiresome ; yet the elder woman learned to love 
and appreciate her son's wife, to give her her due un 
grudgingly. 
Had it not been worth striving for? Two years, and 
two souls brought into her kingdom. Youth and age 
bowing down in simple homage, watching her with longing, 
wistful eyes, bringing her some first-fruit of love, tiying to 
make smooth ways for the often tired feet. 
Bertie paid his mother a chivalrous homage in spite of 
Aunt Adelaide's sneers, and would have thrashed imy boy 
of his size who dared to breathe a suspicion against step 
mothers. Mr. Herrick considered him a promising pupil ; 
and he had become quite a companion to his father. 
Slow of thought in some matters, yet he had a quaint, 
droll quickness in others. He grew fonder of his grand 
mother, too, and was delighted when he was allowed to 
take her out to drive. 
She had broken very much, and was quite an old \acly. 
The rather massive chignon was discarded ; and Nelly used 
to make a pretty coil of braids (for her hair was still 
abundant) , and some becoming finger-puffs brought down 
on the somewhat too high forehead. A dainty little 
square of lace with a bit of purple ribbon, and a soft 
ruche around her neck, quite transformed her. She would 
always be tall, and rather severe looking ; but the dark 
eyes had softened a little, and the voice taken on a gentler 
chord in weakness. 
" I'm sure no daughter ever could be better," she 
would occasionally say to Nelly. ' ' I never thought to be 
beholden to any one ; but you have such a sweet way of 
doing favors, as if it was no trouble. But I know well 
enough a sick old woman is a burthen." 
"Don't say 'beholden,'" and then Nelly gives her 
most beguiling smile. "It is such a hard, ungracious 
sort of a word. Am I not your daughter really, Barton's 
wife?" 
" Yes, my dear ; and I've come to see the day that I'm 
thankful. I don't believe he was ever very happy with 
Mary, though I picked her out, and thought she would 
make a good wife. She was always sweet enough to me ; 
but she had a terrible temper, and no pretty little ways 
toward him, as }~ou have. And then I never can forgive 
myself, though it didn't <lo any harm ; but I wanted him 
to marry Adelaide, if he married at all. One does dread 
stepmothers for young children ; and I did not know any 
thing about you, except that you were a very young girl. 
But I am sure no one could have been tenderer toward 
Bertie ; and, if he wasn't so large, you would make people 
believe he was your own child. It was all for the best, 
dear ; and I am sorry for the many times I must have 
pained you . You are quite sure you do not remember it 
against me? " 
"Mother dear!" and kisses stop the garrulous, wrinkled lips. 
" If you had not a sweet, forgiving nature, my dear, it 
would come up every now and then. But I shall try to 
make you happy in my poor way. You see I have only 
been used to doing, not loving ; and to me it is like learn 
ing new lessons. And I'm like Bertie. I sometimes 
forget when I don't really mean to ; but your sweetness 
sets it all straight. There's Barton's carriage ; and you. 
must run down to him. I can't have my son defrauded 
of a happiness, Mrs. Kinnard ; " and there is a twinkle 
in her eye that stops short of pure pleasantry-, because 
it meets with a tear. 
Such bits of confidence have become quite frequent. 
And, when Mrs. Kinnard is well enough to get down 
stairs, she finds a delightful easy-chair in her corner, and 
her own workstancl, as if she might have left it yesterday. 
Then, across the opposite corner, a luxurious lounge, and 
on it a pretty Afghan that Nelly has found time to 
crotchet, to throw over one's shoulders, if the room is 
chilly. 
" It was such a bright thought of yours, Nelly, having 
this place altered," says the mother. "The sun and 
the flowers make it so cheerful ! And I used to think 
flowers unhealthy, the absurd idea ! Why, the very 
sight of them is cheering, and makes a perpetual summer. 
My dear, it's because you have so much summer in your 
heart, I think, that your ideas are all so bright." 
" Halloo ! " cries the doctor with a genial laugh, as he 
comes in, and finds Bertie reading Kingsley's grand old 
fairy-tales aloud. "Why, this is quite a grandmother's 
corner, isn't it? I do believe mamma likes it better than 
she does my ' den.' I am quite jealous." 
"The old lady has failed very much," says Miss Grove 
as she goes around making calls, stiffer and colder than 
ever. "She has grown absolutely childish ; and Bertie 
will be good for nothing at all, she indulges him so. That 
child doesn't know as much as he did when his father first 
put him in school. He spends his time reading all kinds 
of nonsense. I always shall believe that novels and such 
things are very detrimental to any child. But, if they 
ruin him now, it cannot be helped : he is quite out of my 
hands. It is enough to make my poor sister turn in her 
grave." 
Mrs. Woodbury comes to spend the day with the child 
ish old lady, and finds her very companionable indeed ; 
quite agrees with her as to the virtues of " my son's wife." 
Rachel keeps the kitchen tidy, and sings at her work. 
Household matters go on smoothly ; and Nelly is out once 
more, riding beside her husband, and receiving friendly 
greetings. And then she thinks how little she has seen 
of Mr. Dudley this winter. She has had the sewing- 
society, and one or two business-meetings of church- 
women to consider waj-s and means ; for the chapel is 
getting over-crowded : but the good companionship of a 
year ago has vanished. She speaks of it now. 
"Oh ! that reminds me to mention well, I'll drive you 
around to see it," begins the doctor, rather disconnectedly. 
But N.elly knows his sentences always join somewhere. 
"You know the Warners, the new people who bought 
out the Chatham Mills ? Mr. James Warner has gone in 
heart and hand with Dudley, and has offered him ground 
enough for a church and rectory, if he will build both." 
" Why, that is magnificent ! " 
"Yes ; down Arlington Avenue the new end. It is a 
beautiful location. Dudley told me yesterday ; but it 
went out of my mind. There has been something just a 
little queer about him. " Nelly, did you ever think " 
And the doctor falls into a very brown study. 
"Think what?" and her soft voice rouses him. 
" That Daisy well, I cannot make it quite clear in my 
mind. He was in love with Daisy last summer, if ever 
man was in love at all. Whether he asked her, or whether 
she made it clear without asking, as some women can, 
anyhow, I know he was quite down-hearted in the winter. 
And the other day I joked him about the rectory. His 
face flushed a moment ; then there came in it such a look 
of intense pain, that I could have bit my tongue for 
punishment. I had really set my heart on it. But Daisy 
went off to stay with Rose, }*ou know ; and something 
surely has happened between them." 
Nelly looks grave. Daisy has shown very little dis 
position to come to Edgerly this spring. She has a new 
seriousness in her face, that appeared first during Rose's 
sore trouble : perhaps some experience of her own is 
blended with it. 
" So the church is to be built? " says Nelly, trying to 
shake olT a sense of pain that makes a discordance in the 
heavenly spring-air. 
' ' There is to be a vestry-meeting next week, when the 
matter will come up. Oh! of course, it is as good as 
settled ; and Dudley is just the man to carry it through. 
There, here is the spot ! When West Street is cut through, 
it will be on the corner. The rectory will stand here at 
the south side. In time, the property will be very valu 
able ; and it is a nice neighborhood already." 
' ' I am so glad and grateful ! ' ' 
" If you would like to subscribe a hundred dollars, 
Nelly, I thought we might each be put down for that, 
and, if they get hard up next year, we might help them 
out a little then." . 
"O Barton, how good j-ou are!" and the tears are 
shining in her eyes ; for her heart is very tender, thinking 
of Rose and Daisy. 
"I want to be good to you, little woman," he says 
 
almost gruffly ; and then makes a pretence of clearing his 
throat. 
A long while after, he breaks the silence with, "I 
can't get over it, Nelly. I have been so happy (thanks 
to your sweetness and patience), that I want Dudley to 
have a draught out of the same cup. Daisy and he would 
suit each other admirably. If they could only see and 
understand." 
"It may not be quite as you think," she says tremu 
lously. But, oh ! in her heart she is afraid of something 
sadder still behind it all, something that comes just 
like a flash, and opens her long blind eyes. 
They ride home in the soft spring twilight, winding in 
and out by the same river as when he brought her home a 
bride. The trees are in their first young greenish brown 
leaves and buds, the spruce and firs odorous, the meadows 
looking fit for fairy-rings. A blessedness springs up in 
the high places of their being : the flow of the river brings 
a great peace, a tenderness, a unison of heart and soul. 
To him it was a type of their close and peaceful affection : 
to her came a deeper thought, a remembrance of the 
river that made glad the City of God. Would they both 
wander there ? 
CHAPTER XVH. 
" Oh the little more ; and how much it is ! 
And the little less, and what worlds away ! " 
CIRCUMSTANCES had befriended both Daisy and Mr. 
Dudley in the concealment of -their unfortunate episode. 
That Daisy should be a little tired and grave was not 
wondered at when she reached home. Mrs. Endicott 
never worried at her girls for any confidence or confes 
sion, If there was any thing to tell, it came sooner or 
later. 
After a day or two, she exerted herself to talk about the 
many delightful events of the summer, Mrs. Gtyndon's 
perfect friendliness, Miss Howe's quaint originalit}*, Miss 
Graham's beautiful voice, the rides, walks, sails, and the 
pleasure-parties, that were so entertaining to Bess and 
Gertrude. When she once began, she found it a relief to 
herself. 
After the sad tidings, and her visit with Rose, no one 
questioned her right to a gentle sadness. - 
But she had not given up weakly to despondency. 
She realized that she had made a great and painful mis 
take. Her natural candor would not allow her to deceive 
herself. She had had a glimpse of a bewildering " might 
have been ; ' ' and yet it was not for her. She had loved 
this handsome, fascinating man unwittingly. Perhaps she 
would not have been so hard upon her own weakness, if 
she had known how he had tried to stir her girlish soul, 
what careful siege he had laid to her sincere innocence. 
 
In the depths of her heart there was a hungry, unap- 
peasecl desire to hear his rich and tender voice, to catch a 
glimpse of his ardent eyes, and feel all her pulses thrill 
and bound. There was such a wide, delicious possibility 
of love shown and withdrawn, like the blinding light we 
see when the heavens open. 
It was like a death to her. If she had been compelled 
to meet him frequently, she must have schooled herself to 
a certain tranquillity, and uprooted all remembrance ; 
rather it would have withered away for want of suste 
nance. As it was, she made daily pilgrimages to a grave. 
She would not allow herself to weep over the grassy 
mound, nor plant the daisies of pathetic tenderness ; but 
still it was a grave, and in it lay something that had 
gone out of the world for her. God would give many 
other things in his own good time ; and she could wait. 
As for Arthur Dudley, he did not relinquish hope at 
once. It seemed to him that Daisv Endicott must belong 
j O 
to him some daj-, because she fitted so cntirelj- into his 
life. He came home, and went to work with undismayed 
courage ; but, as the months passed, he began to think 
there was a positive avoidance on her part, and a great 
fear thrilled his soul with a shivering pain. Once he had 
exchanged with Mr. Endicott while she was away. 
The certainty seemed to gather itself into a vital pang 
without any further asking. The thing he so desired 
could not be. Instead of living in the very midst of 
breathless stillness and hope, he was in the outer ring of 
chaos. And he said then that he could not endure stay 
ing right along with so many remembrances of her, and 
not her own sweet, guileless self; that he must go away, 
and begin a new life. 
Go away like a fretful child, because God had set one 
thing out of his reach ? Refuse the daily blessings, and 
turn them from the bread of life into stone? No : he, of 
all other men, had no right to do this. He was to gather 
up the grains from that exhaustless storehouse, God's 
divinely appointed waj's, and inherit with that spirit 
apprehension other joys in the place of this one. 
So a new courage and manliness took possession of him. 
When the boats and bridges are burned at the river's edge, 
the soldiers fight on : there is no retreat. Wiry should 
he be ashamed of loving a sweet, pure woman, even if 
she never came to gladden his life ? 
He threw himself heart and soul into his work, infused 
a new vigor and earnestness into every sermon, every 
prayer, even the reading of a Irymn. People who had 
rather despised the small wayside chapel began to flock 
in ; and its straitness overflowed. Then came Mr. Warner 
with his generous offer. 
He had seen much less of the Kinnards than usual. 
Mrs. Kinnard had been so kept at home ; and there was no 
reason wiry he should run out there every few daj-s. But 
Dr. Kinnard' s cordial and unspoken sympathy was very 
sweet. A kind of brotherly nearness was growing up 
between the two men who were never to know the divinely 
appointed kinship of blood. Their temperaments were 
widely different. This broad-shouldered, deep-breathing 
man, with his intense vitality, his hobby of clean, strong 
bodies for pure and active souls, his free speaking, had a 
common-sense way of taking up the great problems of 
human life, that sometimes bordered almost upon irrever 
ence. His half doubt of religion as it was commonly prac 
tised, and his keen looking for fruit at the end of the season, 
were things with which he never disturbed Nelly. He used 
to admit to her that he had great faith in the Endicott 
religion, and smile to see her blush so distressfully. 
To Arthur Dudley, God was a living, ever-present 
reality. He had that calm serenity, the outgrowth of a 
generous faith, rather than severe spiritual exaltation, 
though he often found solace in those high regions of 
thought and devotion. To him, the ever-present spirit 
 
of love was nearest ; a childlike directness to accept the 
promises, to take what was offered, without question or 
cavilling. He took the beautiful signs with thankfulness, 
and read the underlying meanings in the heart of the 
great Father. He was to sow with faith, nothing waver 
ing : he was not to go outside the living pastures for 
strange gods or strange blossoms. But he did not make 
the bounds any narrower than they were set in the first 
instance. 
So Dr. Kinnard was drawn into the church-building 
project " for Nelly's sake," he said. Mr. Dudley found 
his strong, practical ideas of much importance. lie even 
asked two or three of his richer patients, who Avere quite 
inaccessible to Mr. Dudle}", to subscribe toward the 
building. 
" It will really be an ornament to this end of the town ; 
and, the prettier it is, the more attractive it will be," he 
would say with his shrewd, humorous smile. 
And then came summer, with its plans. Mrs. Ogden 
had one, and, with the new baby and the nurse, came to 
spend two or three days, and talk it over with Nelly. 
The new baby was a wee, sweet little girl. 
Miss Lucy Churchill had gone quietly to her appointed 
rest ; but it had made a great difference to those left 
behind. Not even little Rose could fill up the gap. 
" I think it is best for us to go- away, and have some 
thing quite different," said Fan, "something that will 
take us out of our old groove. Aunt Churchill spoke of 
Martha's Vineyard ; but that would bring back Lucy 
everywhere. You were at the seaside last summer ; and 
you will want mountains this year. Mother, father, and 
Bessie and Edith, will join us. Louis Duncan, who is 
just in orders, you know, is coming to take papa's place 
for a good long vacation. Isn't it odd? Louis is as 
much of a son to him as Stephen. Then Rose will come 
and stay with Daisy poor Rose. I feel occasionally as 
if I was taking what ought to go to the rest ; for it does 
seem as if I had every thing, quite enough to spoil me. 
So Winthrop decides for us. We are to stay right in 
the vicinity of the AVhite Mountains, have a great roomy 
old-fashioned cottage and farm to ourselves, take our 
own servants, and keep house. Winthrop cannot spend 
all the time with us ; but there will be papa and Uncle 
Churchill. And now, Nelly, if you will cast in your lot, it 
will be just perfect." 
When Mother Kinnard added her fancy, it turned the 
scale. 
" Why, yes," said the doctor, " I think you had better 
join, you and Bertie and mother; and I might get .off 
a week or two when Ogdcn comes up. The plan is 
really splendid, Mrs. Ogden. And Nelly has had so 
maivj- household worries this year, that she needs a rest. 
She has nothing to ke.ep her at home, either." 
"Ought we not ask Aunt Adelaide and Maud?" said 
Nelly, when she was alone with her husband. 
" It would be a daring piece of Irypocris}*, little woman 
for you know you do not want them. They would spoil 
your pleasure." 
" Is it Irypocritlcal to use every act of conciliation ? ' ' 
she returned with wistful eyes. 
" I pray devoutly that they will not care to go." 
And they did not. Maud " had seen the White Moun 
tains, and thought a whole summer there would be 
stupid." 
" And we have enough of them the rest of the year," 
was Aunt Adelaide's scornful comment. "Your father 
is so taken with the Endicott tribe, that he forgets he ever 
had any other relatives. I did not think your poor mother 
would fade out of his mind so soon; but s/ie," with a 
bitter emphasis, " has worked for that end since the first 
day she entered the house. I hope she is satisfied. But 
there is not a bit of style to any of them." 
Fan's visit was an unalloyed delight. She was so 
bright and gladsome, so full of winning and gracious 
ways, infusing blessedness in every little stream that 
flowed out; and there were many. And why not? God 
had given her all things richly to enjoy ; and her father 
had taught her, among her first lessons, that she was to 
give as she had received. There was an exquisite girlish 
sweetness about her motherhood, something rare and fine, 
a little, perhaps, of the charm of her own mother. 
But the baby was hardly out of Nelly's arms. Dr. 
Kinnard watched her with a strange, new emotion, as 
she hovered about it with sweet, caressing touches, or 
pressed the tiny pink-and-white face close to her own 
brilliant cheek, or smiled into e3 T es that were but half 
awake with a sense of living ; the white robe clinging 
around her like a cloud, the soft coo and gurgle to which 
she gave an answering laugh, as soft in return. 
If and two years of wedded life had gone by ! 
Well, he had her ; and that was no little. She should 
never know but what his content was supreme, perfect. 
There was another bustle, and pleasant huriyings to 
and fro, eager anticipations on Bertie's part, and a sort 
of tremulous fear on grandmother's. Miss Grove went 
about loftily. Maud aired her small pretensions when 
her father was not there : he was very apt to take the 
breeze of vanity out of them with a touch of humorous 
sarcasm, which she alwa} r s imagined she owed to her 
" stepmother's influence." 
The journey was rather tiresome, to be sure ; but the 
resting-place made amends for all, situated in a valley 
(though that was high), with "the everlasting hills" 
'above, around, at their very feet, even, speaking in 
tongues of grandeur, of peace, like a heavenly benedic 
tion. Somehow, Nelly liked it better than the restless, 
shifting sea, with its blaze of molten gloiy, and dia 
monded waves. And then she suddenly felt how much 
she needed rest. 
 
A household that might have been incongruous but for 
the kindly love permeating it, Mr. Churchill, still of the 
old school, with little courteous formalisms, that were 
akin to his low-tied shoes and his frilled bosom, an air of 
society before it had fallen into the free and easy ways 
of to-day ; Mr. Endicott, with his gentle, half absent- 
minded demeanor, and quaint, rippling bits of speech, 
the same homelikeness out here on a grand rock as by 
the study fireside at home ; and three grandmothers, two 
who were, and one who " might have been," going down 
to a serene, beautiful old age, more of a mother to her 
sister's son than his own, and, to these three babies, a 
relative quite indescribable ; (she almost rivalled Mrs. 
Endicott ; for was not Fan really and truly hers, from 
morning till night, lent out, now and then, for visits, as 
she had once borrowed her in the old days ?) and then a 
" big boy," such a thing as the Endicotts had never pos 
sessed before, past twelve, and at a very trj'ing age. It 
often took all Nelly's motherliness to restrain and guide, 
to keep him from teasing the little Ogdens, or leading 
them into danger, to make him courteous to his elders, to 
temper his frequent effusiveness. How much he did for 
love of her ! 
' ' Remember that you are to take good care of mam 
ma," had been his father's parting injunction. 
At first Grandmother Kinnard was a little stiff, and 
bristled up with some of her long-ago society-polish, 
whose tone and color had been set again by Aunt Ade 
laide ; but it wore away gradually, and she began to take 
a more thorough enjoyment than she had ever known in 
her life before. 
They were out among the farms. But a few miles 
distant were halting-places for larger parties, scattering 
hotels, boarding-houses, and wafts of patchoul}* and 
jockey-club to be stirred in with the scent of clover- 
blooms, freshly-cut grass, and the breezy odor of grow- 
ing trees. And there were excursions for one, two, or 
three daj-s, planned alwaj-s by Fan in the most felicitous 
manner. She never had to stop to turn her money over, 
to see how far it would go. Up on the grand peaks, where 
one seems to get nearer the Infinite, to take great breaths 
of the feast prepared centuries beforehand, to read the 
writing that God's finger had traced in these signs of 
grandeur, a glory that quivered and duplicated itself in 
air and sky, that pulsed and trembled, reaching up and 
up, changing, undulating, widening, diminishing, brought 
close and revealed with an answering blessedness that 
entered the deep places of the soul. 
They were scrambling over the moss and lichened 
rocks one day, half listening to some gay voices at a little 
distance, half looking to their own ways, three girls and 
their father, when a sudden turn brought them together. 
" O Mrs. Kinnard ! " cried some one. 
" What an unlooked-for pleasure!" This voice was 
deep, rich, and familiar. 
It was Elsie Graham and Mr. Van Alstyne, with a 
background of other people. For a moment Mrs. Kin 
nard was silent with astonishment. 
" That we should stumble over one another here ! Is 
Mrs. Glyndon with you? That would make it about even ; 
for we have some half-dozen Severn-point people at the 
hotel. Allow me to introduce my friends, Mrs. Sherrard, 
Mrs. Payne, Mr. Payne, Mr. St. John, Mr. Mallory." 
Mrs. Kinnard recovered from her surprise, and intro 
duced her party, in turn. 
There was a general asking of questions. Where were 
they staying? What were they doing? And for all 
summer? 
Mrs. Sherrard was a magnificent woman certainty. 
Mrs. Pa'ne looked very plain beside her. But there was 
something, too much of the flashing of silks and dia 
monds, too much of her in every waj-, from the bold, 
 
black ej'e down to the shapely foot that made itself con 
spicuous. 
They were all going up to the mountain- top. Both 
parties had brought lunch-baskets. 
" So there is no law against our making a social time 
of it," said Mr. Van Alstyne, beginning to conciliate 
Mr. Endicott at once. The rest paired off ; but Nelly 
kept Bess close beside her. Miss Graham joined them ; 
and presently they fell a little behind. Mrs. Sherrard 
was laughing and sparkling with repartee. 
"Isn't she just horrid!" exclaimed Miss Graham 
angrily. " And yet, you can't think, she has them all in 
her train, everybody worth noticing. I don't see how 
the men like her so ! You can see she is making a dead 
set at Mr. Van Alstyne ; and I never saw him so so" 
There was a bright red flush on the young girl's cheek, 
and a half-smothered fire in her eye. 
" Captivated? " appended Mrs. Kinnard at a venture. 
"Well," in a reluctant tone, " though I don't really 
believe it. But at the hotel they predict it will make a 
match. She met him in the spring. She had just come 
from Europe, and had trunks full of elegant clothes ; and 
ever since then she has followed him up." 
A troubled light crossed Nelly's face. It pained her 
to hear this young girl discussing these matters in such a 
tone. She looked at Bessie in all her fair ness and inno 
cence, and wished that fate had not led them in this 
direction to-day. To change the conversation, she asked 
who of the past summer's friends were at the hotel. 
" The Daventrys, and that Miss Ashton and hermother. 
She is going on the stage in the fall, with an opera troupe. 
Isn't it queer how we met? Mamma was so undecided 
about coming to the White Mountains ; and I almost 
wish" 
There was a fretted look on the face that marred its 
youthful sweetness. It seemed such a pity. Had she, 
 
too, poor moth, been caught in the net that looked so 
smooth and shining when Van Alstyne shook it out before 
women's faces? 
" But it's just royal ever} r where," declared Bessie. " I 
feel as if I could not get enough of it ; " and she drew a 
long, delicious breath. 
Miss Graham glanced at her sharply. Nelly noted the 
difference in the two faces, one tired, and a trifle faded, 
with a little frown between the brows, and a sharp com- 
jpression of the lips ; the other sweet, fresh, noble, and 
with the peculiar graciousness of a generous nature 
shining in it. And yet she, too, might sip some poisoned 
chalice. 
Presently Van Alstyne drifted back to them. Miss 
Graham's whole nature seemed to warm and change. 
She cared so much for him then ! 
By and by they reached a level spot, where the}* all sat 
down to rest ; and the lunch-baskets came out, for it was 
past noon. The conversation became general. Mrs. 
Ogden's brilliancy was heightened by her fine breeding, 
though Mrs. Sherrard was witty, and had that peculiar 
something termed fascination ; or was it a seductive 
aggressiveness? Her fine dark eyes were languishing; 
she put herself in picturesque attitudes ; she dazzled ; she 
smiled in the faces of her companions, showing pearly 
teeth, and tempting scarlet lips. Mrs. Payne evidently 
adored her. 
Mr. Mallory and Mr. Endicott had a discussion quite 
to themselves upon geological formations. Nelly stole a 
glance at this wayfarer. 
Six and twenty, perhaps, with a firm, vigorous but 
elastic frame, rather above middle height, and a certain 
slow grace in every movement. A face full of fine and 
kindly feeling ; handsome, too, in a manly way, quite 
different from Van Alstyne. His hair was a light, sunny 
brown ; but the brows and lashes were much darker, and 
gave the clear blue eyes a deeper shade. A broad fore 
head, firm and thoughtful, a kind of decisive nose, that 
seemed to strengthen the face, and a mouth that was arch 
and humorous, rich in kindly expressive lines, and not 
lacking firmness. Nelly felt drawn to him more than to 
any of the others. 
Up to the top of the glorious mountain after that ; 
but the additional party spoiled it somewhat for Nelly ; 
they filled it so with littleness and worldliness. Mrs. 
Payne thought " mountains were pretty much alike, 
after all." Mrs. Sherrard had Van Alst r ne's arm 
now, and was very effusive. Miss Graham was rather 
sullen. 
Nelly and Bess seated themselves on a gray rock, and 
Mr. Mallory came and talked to them. 
"What a delightful party you must have ! " he said. 
" Your father was tailing me about it. My mother and I 
have met your sister in New York, Mrs. Duncan : so I 
do not feel quite like a stranger. I wonder if it would 
be too great a favor or ought I to ask Mrs. Ogden ? 
if I might drive my mother over some day to call on }*ou? 
She is the loveliest old lady ' ' and he stopped with a 
blushing laugh. 
' ' Why, we should be very glad to see her, if she will 
come," answered Mrs. Kinnard. 
" You are most kind. To tell the truth, I fancy she is 
a little dull at the hotel. Don't you know that sometimes 
you happen to fall in with a host of agreeable people ; and 
at others " he stopped there, bit'his lip, and ended with 
a bright laugh. "I think it must be because there are 
no old ladies." 
"We have three," said Bess; "and one of them is 
just as handsome as any picture ; and one of them is 
better than any picture in the whole world." 
"And the third?" 
Bessie blushed crimson, and turned to Nelly. 
 
" The third rounds out the group. You can't have 
them all alike," said Nelly with merry audacitj T . 
" I am quite curious to see them. The one better than 
a picture is " 
" My mother," answered Bessie proudly. 
There was a sign of breaking up. They ^ scrambled 
down the mountain-side to where the paths diverged, and 
then said their good-bys. Mrs. Sherrard had tight hold 
of Van Alstyne's arm. Mrs. Kinnard bad given Miss 
Graham an invitation, earlier in the day, to visit her : so 
there were none exchanged now. Mr. Mallory followed 
them a little farther until they met John and the family 
carriage, and then said they might look for him to 
morrow. 
They sat in the moonlight that evening, and discussed 
the rencounter. 
" I like Mr. Mallo^," said Bessie frankly ; " but there 
is something about Mr. Van Alstyne that I should never 
trust. He either does, or pretends to, like Mrs. Sherrard 
a great deal. And then he acts queevly towards Miss 
Graham, while it seems as if Mr. St. John was bashfully 
in love with her ; and she snubs him. What tangles there 
are in this world ! Now, I think I should like to write 
a book, and make everybody fall in love with the right 
person." 
" Don't begin to bother your head about falling in love, 
Pussy," said her father. 
"I? Papa dear, I have a premonition that I shall be 
your f amity old maid." 
" So did Rose," saj-s Fan with a laugh. 
The next afternoon Mr. Mallory and his mother came 
over. 
A handsome old lady, surely, one of the women who 
are glad to be old, just as they were glad to be young, 
who keep the great joy of life shining through every 
thing. She had turned sixty now ; was of middle height 
and middle size, plump, fair, with, pink cheeks, hair of 
soft silver that had once been flaxen, a dimpled face, a 
sweet mouth, and a wonderful light gleaming in the blue 
eyes. Her fine striped gray- and- white silk dress had 
two ruffles on the skirt, and no overskirt. Her narrow 
collar, and the edge to her sleeves, was fine point. Her 
silver-grajr gloves fitted to a hair. Her pretty white chip 
hat was trimmed with black thread lace. An old- 
fashioned, ingrained rareness and purity, a clinging 
sense of fragrance about her, that was as delicate as if 
her clothes had lain in it for years, rather than any sharp 
obtrusivcness just sprinkled out of a smart scent-bottle. 
In her way, she was fully a match for Miss Churchill. 
And, with her, her son shone out in a new light. The 
love that had grown out of her very life had returned to 
be her stay and support. She wore her grace of mother 
hood like a crown ; -and his sonship was not less beautiful 
to see, his quiet, chivalrous attending, as if she were 
the " fairest lady in all the land." 
They sat out on the great porch, some in rocking- 
chairs, some on the wide wooden benches, and on the 
grass-plot : they did not call it lawn. Essie and Archie 
were tumbling about ; the baby was crowing in her nurse's 
arms ; and Bertie was swinging in a hammock. 
" It is worth coming to see, Eugene," cried his mother, 
in a tone that was glad and sweet, like herself. "And 
now, friends, don't leave off doing anything because I am 
here : the picture is perfect without any alteration. Just 
let me sit down in the midst." 
Bessie was on the step, crocheting with bright wools. 
Mr. Mallory found a place beside her, and they all talked. 
First it was of Mrs. Duncan (Mrs. Mallory had known the 
elder Duncan family) , then Mrs. Endicott, afterward the 
girls, before she came to the grandchildren. 
" You ought to be a happy woman with four such 
daughters," she exclaimed; and there was a tremulous 
light in her eyes. 
"There are two more at home, and a 'baby' some 
where," said Mr. Endicott. " Mother, where is Edith? " 
" Seven ! " exclaimed Mrs. Mallory. 
" Seven," laughed Mr. Endicott. 
"And I had four sons; but this is all I have now. 
God has been very good to you, Mrs. Endicott. I used 
to think I should like so to have a daughter. But, if I 
had not gone to him in my trouble and losses, I do not 
know how I should have lived. ' He brings us to the 
haven where we would be,' and just asks that we shall 
trust his promises ;" and her voice fell a little, as one's 
does unconsciously when speaking of a matter very near 
the heart, yet long past. " But there seems no lack of 
sons with j'ou, after all," she went on brightl}*. 
Mr. Endicott turned to her with his soft, friendly smile. 
Then the grandchildren were brought up ; and Bertie 
came with them. 
"She isn't my very own mamma," Bertie explained, 
in answer to some wondering comment ; " but papa loves 
her, and so do I." . -=- - 
"You had a deal of courage," said Mrs. Mallory, 
glancing almost sharply at Nell}*. 
" She had what is better than courage," remarked the 
elder Mrs. Kinnard, in an almost jealous tone, " good 
ness and kindliness." 
What an odd, charming, piquant call it was ! An hour 
passed before any one thought ; and at parting they urged 
her to come again. 
" I am sorry that I cannot offer a like entertainment; 
but I have seen more charming people than there are at 
our hotel. We were thinking of leaving next week. 
However, I must come over again ; for I have not half 
satisfied nryself. So adieu for a brief while." 
Fan, Nclby, Bess, and their father, went out to the gate. 
Mrs. Mallory nodded and smiled again. 
" That is what I call running straight into a rose-gar 
den, Eugene," she said to her son. 
CHAPTER XVIII. 
" All familiar things he touched, 
All common words he spake, became to me 
Like forms and sounds of a diviner world." 
SHELLEY. 
Miss GRAHAM brought Mr. Van Alstyne out with her 
when she came to spend the day at the cottage. She 
had offered him a great temptation in asking him ; and he 
did not desire to resist it. But she was full of smoulder 
ing jealousy because he and Bessie had a few bright 
passages at arms, and once went off together to look at 
a bird's nest. 
" I am very soriy for her,'* said Mrs. Ogden. " Why 
does she cany her heart so plainly on her sleeve ? And 
one can only suppose that he is trifling with her. Does 
she not see it ? " 
" She was so nice last summer ! " Nelly remarked in a 
kind of extenuating tone. 
" Did he care for her then? " 
" Not at all, or not especially. He is not a manying 
man ; ' ' and Nelly paused to wonder whether Daisy 
" Then he has no business to entangle any woman's 
affections," spoke out Mr. Churchill strongly. "It is 
one of the most selfish and cowardly things that can be 
done. And women should try to frown it down." 
" But too many of our modern girls take it as a tri 
umph," said Nelly. 
" And my opinion regarding Mr. Van Alstyne is, that 
Mrs. Shcrrard will succeed. She is one of the kind who 
 
always win when they make the attempt. I neither 
liked nor admired her ; but she is handsome and witt}*. 
Did Miss Graham tell you she had been divorced?" asked 
Fanny. 
" Yes. Then some one left her a fortune, and she went 
to Europe." 
" She is rather too pronounced ; but, as we do not care, 
we can let her alone." 
Mr. Van Alstyne would fain have effected a familiar 
entree at the cottage ; but the Fates forbade. Then he 
grew irritated, and started off suddenly ; but among one 
of the earliest marriages in the autumn was his and Mrs. 
Sherrard's. How she managed was a mystery. What the 
world did not know, was, that he had nearly run through 
with his fortune ; and the fascinating widow was both rich 
and prodigal. 
Ah, Daisy Endicott ! all the after-years did avenge you 
grandly. 
Mrs. Sherrard and the Paynes following so soon 
in the wake of Mr. Van Alstyne 's defection, the Mallorys 
changed their minds, and decided to stay. There came 
to be a very pleasant going back and forth. Mrs. Mai- 
lory was delightful on further acquaintance. She had 
been everywhere, and seen so many notable people, 
kings, queens, great generals, several remarkable artists 
and authors, and had so many charming reminiscences 
to relate, that her days were really red-letter days. 
Her husband had been abroad on several governmental 
appointments, though Eugene was but fourteen when he 
died. She added to the quartet of old ladies a won 
derful grace and interest ; and Mr. Mallory soon made 
himself a favorite. Yet they could not be blind. Some 
day papa would have to say, " And this one also." 
But no one spoke or jested. It seemed an almost holy 
thing that this young girl should go so simply forward to 
her fate, neither dreading, expecting, nor desiring, until 
 
the day came when her eyes should be opened with love's 
own rosy, beneficent touch. No glare of ball-rooms, no 
heat and flush of dancing, rivalry, a'nd excitement, no crowd 
of society -people, anxious to tear off the garment of sim 
plicity, and make her as worldly-wise as themselves, and 
dim the puritj^ of face and heart ; little family conven 
tions rather, a whole group gathered out on the porch, or 
under the trees ; Bessie playing with a baby, or doing a 
bit of bright fancy-work, which was her passion. Some 
where near her lingered Mr. Mallory. She fell into a 
fashion of referring to him, of asking him questions, 
sending him on trifling errands that would not take him 
out of sight, and thanking him with such a bewitching 
grace. She was piquant and flashing, rather than shy ; 
but with her it was the bravery of entire innocence, rather 
than any approach to boldness. Her admiration of Mr. 
Mallory was very outspoken just as she admired her 
father or Dr. Kinnard. 
" If I were a French woman, Mr. Endicott," said Mrs. 
Mallory one day, ' ' I should ask your daughter for my 
son. In some things, we might study our neighbors to an 
advantage. Their children have not altogether outgrown 
filial affection or reverence ; and certainly, the first part 
of courtship doss not need secrecy and affectation, as if 
it was a thing to be thrust out of sight He has met many 
women ; but so far I have been his most intimate friend. 
He is quite worthy of your daughter, and that is saying a 
great deal ; for I have seen no person until now that I 
coveted for him. You need not fear aught but the most 
motherly welcome for her." 
" She is so young ! " faltered the father, with a secret 
pang at seeing his household-nest thus despoiled of its 
treasures. 
" Mr. Endicott, I was sixteen when I married " (and 
in her more earnest tones there was a not unmusical 
sharpness, like a sweet-toned bell wildly shaken, that 
 
somehow thrilled j'ou), "and my husband died a little 
more than twelve years ago. All that time was not a 
day too long. I would not give up one hour's remem 
brance now, for a mint of gold. If my son makes as 
good a husband" and a tear trembled in the lustrous 
eye. 
" Yes, yes," said Mr. Endicott hurriedly, clasping the 
soft, dimpled hand. 
"And now the rest they can settle for themselves," 
she made answer with a smile. 
There came to be a sweet and gracious rival^ among 
these old ladies, a bringing-out of what was best and 
kindliest, just as they wore their pretty laces, fine quaint 
lawns, with suggestions of other summers in them, and 
their rich, soft silks. And Nelly could not see her 
family grandmother fall behind. A touch added here 
to-day, and there to-morrow, softening and refining ; an 
act of tender respect or graceful deference that roused 
the very springs of her nature, though the}* had been 
quite choked with the debris of other years. She used to 
go to ride with Bertie with a glad, proud air, as if she 
discerned the grace in her grandson, and appreciated it. 
Dr. Kinnard and "Winthrop Ogden were added to the 
party presently ; and there followed a fortnight of whole 
some, delightful enjoyment, a fresh, live moaning in 
every thing for them, from the mountain-tops at noon, 
to the suppers in the twilight ; from the splendor of a 
sunset to the bits and fragments of c very-day life. 
"I seem to realize more and more how we are giving 
up our places to others," Miss Churchill said to Mrs. 
Endicott. " We bring out the old-fashioned carnations 
that were the great things of our day ; and the new gene 
ration cultivate them into largeness and richness, though 
they can't make them much sweeter," \yth her grand 
smile. "But it is all right. If we had not labored, 
they might have no carnations to improve upon." 
"And so my pretty Queen Bess has been captured in 
my absence," said Dr. Kinnard to his wife in a rather 
disconsolate tone. " And she is to ' shine down ' all yon 
girls, even Mrs. Fan. Stephen Duncan was speaking of 
them. There is almost no end to Mrs. Mallory's wealth. 
She was one of the Livingstons, and inherited two or 
three fortunes in her own right. Now, if Bess had been 
tricked out in silks and diamonds, and gone to Newport 
or Saratoga " 
" Are you quite sure? " exclaimed Nelly, aghast at so 
overwhelming a prospect. "Why, we never thought 
I wonder that some of the girls at the hotel didn't prefer 
him to Mr. Van Alstyue, whom they all seemed so 
bewitched about." 
Nelly had kept that brief episode to confess personally, 
rather than trust it to a letter. But her husband had no 
fears now : " his heart safely trusted her." 
"Young women may not alwa}*s know;" and he 
shrugged his broad ' shoulders with a touch of humor. 
" But, if Boss had not liked him, twice that money would 
not have tempted her. I lay the flattering unction to 
my soul, that my money did not tempt you," with a 
funny little laugh. 
" Nelly," he said later, " I cannot understand the mar 
vellous change you have worked in mother. She is so 
much softer and kinder and more gracious ; and you 
make her look such a pretty old lady, I declare, I am 
very proud of her." 
"i think she softens herself by loving," Nelly an 
swered simply. 
And then they began to talk about going home. There 
were last walks and rides, going about to say good-by to 
every thing as Bessie phrased it. 
" Mamma," she said, as they sat on the porch one 
starlight night, when there was no moon, and the babies 
were all gathered inside, "mamma, I've been so 
happy all summer ! I have so many pictures treasured 
up, I sometimes wish I had a genius, like you or Fan. 
But after all," with her brightly-flavored laugh, "that 
could only take in a few ; and my memoiy is a bstter 
portfolio. I don't suppose I shall ever see any Alps or 
any Rhine, or streams of Wye or Severn, or even banks 
and braes of Doon ; but I am quite content and glad and 
strong, to go back home, and take up the little things, 
and talk over all these great things. And, if I never 
have another grand holiday in all my life, I think I shall 
be satisfied." 
Eugene Mallory sat on the step below, and listened, 
planning in his heart. And, when the dream became too 
sweet, he rose suddenly, and said, the thing farthest 
from his present thought, 
"Are you not cold, Queenie? The nights are begin 
ning to grow chilly. Let me get your shawl. There ! 
and now I must go. It is a long ride over to the hotel ; 
and mother will sit up waiting. Good-night, Mrs. 
Endicott." 
Bessie walked down to the gate with him, a lithe, 
graceful girl, with sunshine in her face, her hair, her 
heart. Some time she would ripen into a gracious and 
lovely woman, with that better charm than mere physical 
beauty. She seemed to him like a rosy, cheerful dawn, 
or a bright, warm spring day. How would he dare bring 
her any nearer, into his very life? It was so delicious, 
pausing here on the charmed threshold of manhood's 
sweet mystery. 
