beyond my wedding day in making plans. I remember, though, that when I
was engaged the first time you don’t know the man; it was just after
you went away, and I was only sixteen someone very ill-naturedly said I
should ‘marry in haste and repent at leisure,’ and that made me try to
imagine how it would seem to go on year after year with Gustavus who had
a dreadful temper, by the way and it worried me so to think of it that I
broke the engagement, and was so glad ever afterward.”
“You were a wise girl and I hope you’ll do it again if you find, after a
time, that you and Steve do not truly trust and respect as well as love
one another. If you don’t, you’ll be miserable when it is too late, as
so many people are who do marry in haste and have a lifetime to repent
it. Aunt Jessie says so, and she knows.”
“Don’t be solemn, Rose. It fidgets me to think about life-times, and
respecting, and all those responsible things. I’m not used to it, and I
don’t know how to do it.”
“But you must think, and you must learn how before you take the
responsibility upon yourself. That is what your life is for, and you
mustn’t spoil it by doing a very solemn thing without seeing if you are
ready for it.”
“Do you think about all this?” asked Kitty, shrugging up her shoulders
as if responsibility of any sort did not sit comfortably on them.
“One has to sometimes, you know. But is that all you wanted to tell me?”
 added Rose, anxious to turn the conversation from herself.
“Oh, dear, no! The most serious thing of all is this. Steve is putting
himself in order generally, and so I want to do my part, and I must
begin right away before my thoughts get distracted with clothes and all
sorts of dear, delightful, frivolous things that I can’t help liking.
Now I wish you’d tell me where to begin. Shouldn’t I improve my mind
by reading something solid?” And Kitty looked over at the well-filled
bookcase as if to see if it contained anything large and dry enough to
be considered “solid.”
“It would be an excellent plan, and we’ll look up something. What do you
feel as if you needed most?”
“A little of everything I should say, for when I look into my mind there
really doesn’t seem to be much there but odds and ends, and yet I’m sure
I’ve read a great deal more than some girls do. I suppose novels don’t
count, though, and are of no use, for, goodness knows, the people and
things they describe aren’t a bit like the real ones.”
“Some novels are very useful and do as much good as sermons, I’ve heard
Uncle say, because they not only describe truly, but teach so pleasantly
that people like to learn in that way,” said Rose, who knew the sort of
books Kitty had read and did not wonder that she felt rather astray when
she tried to guide herself by their teaching.
“You pick me out some of the right kind, and I’ll apply my mind to
them. Then I ought to have some ‘serious views’ and ‘methods’ and
‘principles.’ Steve said ‘principles,’ good firm ones, you know.”
 And Kitty gave a little pull at the bit of cambric she was cutting as
housewives pull cotton or calico when they want “a good firm article.”
Rose could not help laughing now, though much pleased, for Kitty was so
prettily in earnest, and yet so perfectly ignorant how to begin on the
self-improvement she very much needed, that it was pathetic as well as
comical to see and hear her.
“You certainly want some of those, and must begin at once to get them,
but Aunt Jessie can help you there better than I can, or Aunt Jane, for
she has very ‘firm’ ones, I assure you,” said Rose, sobering down as
quickly as possible.
“Mercy on us! I should never dare to say a word about it to Mrs. Mac,
for I’m dreadfully afraid of her, she is so stern, and how I’m ever to
get on when she is my mother-in-law I don’t know!” cried Kitty, clasping
her hands in dismay at the idea.
“She isn’t half as stern as she looks, and if you go to her without
fear, you’ve no idea how sensible and helpful she is. I used to be
frightened out of my wits with her, but now I’m not a bit, and we get on
nicely. Indeed, I’m fond of her, she is so reliable and upright in all
things.”
“She certainly is the straightest woman I ever saw, and the most
precise. I never shall forget how scared I was when Steve took me up to
see her that first time. I put on all my plainest things, did my hair
in a meek knob, and tried to act like a sober, sedate young woman. Steve
would laugh at me and say I looked like a pretty nun, so I couldn’t be
as proper as I wished. Mrs. Mac was very kind, of course, but her eye
was so sharp I felt as if she saw right through me, and knew that I’d
pinned on my bonnet strings, lost a button off my boot, and didn’t brush
my hair for ten minutes every night,” said Kitty in an awe-stricken
tone.
“She likes you, though, and so does Uncle, and he’s set his heart on
having you live with them by and by, so don’t mind her eyes but look
straight up at her, and you’ll see how kind they can grow.”
“Mac likes me, too, and that did please me, for he doesn’t like girls
generally. Steve told me he said I had the ‘making of a capital little
woman in me.’ Wasn’t it nice of him? Steve was so proud, though he does
laugh at Mac sometimes.”
“Don’t disappoint them, dear. Encourage Steve in all the good things he
likes or wants, make friends with Mac, love Aunt Jane, and be a daughter
to Uncle, and you’ll find yourself a very happy girl.”
“I truly will, and thank you very much for not making fun of me. I know
I’m a little goose, but lately I’ve felt as if I might come to something
if I had the right sort of help. I’ll go up and see Aunt Jessie
tomorrow. I’m not a bit afraid of her, and then if you’ll just quietly
find out from Uncle Doctor what I must read, I’ll work as hard as I
can. Don’t tell anyone, please, they’ll think it odd and affected, and I
can’t bear to be laughed at, though I daresay it is good discipline.”
Rose promised, and both worked in silence for a moment, then Kitty asked
rather timidly: “Are you and Charlie trying this plan too? Since you’ve
left off going out so much, he keeps away also, and we don’t know what
to make of it.”
“He has had what he calls an ‘artistic fit’ lately, set up a studio, and
is doing some crayon sketches of us all. If he’d only finish his things,
they would be excellent, but he likes to try a great variety at once.
I’ll take you in sometime, and perhaps he will do a portrait of you for
Steve. He likes girls’ faces and gets the likenesses wonderfully well.”
“People say you are engaged but I contradict it, because, of course, I
should know if you were.”
“We are not.”
“I’m glad of it, for really, Rose, I’m afraid Charlie hasn’t got ‘firm
principles,’ though he is a fascinating fellow and one can’t scold him.
You don’t mind my saying so, do you, dear?” added Kitty, for Rose did
not answer at once.
“Not in the least, for you are one of us now, and I can speak frankly
and I will, for I think in one way you can help Steve very much. You
are right about Charlie, both as to the principles and the fascination.
Steve admires him exceedingly, and always from a boy liked to imitate
his pleasant ways. Some of them are very harmless and do Steve good, but
some are not. I needn’t talk about it, only you must show your boy that
you depend on him to keep out of harm and help him do it.”
“I will, I will! And then perhaps, when he is a perfect model, Charlie
will imitate him. I really begin to feel as if I had a great deal to
do.” And Kitty looked as if she was beginning to like it also.
“We all have and the sooner we go to work the better for us and those we
love. You wouldn’t think now that Phebe was doing anything for
Archie, but she is, and writes such splendid letters, they stir him up
wonderfully and make us all love and admire her more than ever.”
“How is she getting on?” asked Kitty, who, though she called herself a
“little goose,” had tact enough to see that Rose did not care to talk
about Charlie.
“Nicely, for you know she used to sing in our choir, so that was a good
recommendation for another. She got a fine place in the new church at
L----, and that gives her a comfortable salary, though she has something
put away. She was always a saving creature and kept her wages carefully.
Uncle invested them, and she begins to feel quite independent already.
No fear but my Phebe will get on she has such energy and manages so
well. I sometimes wish I could run away and work with her.”
“Ah, my dear! We rich girls have our trials as well as poor ones, though
we don’t get as much pity as they do,” sighed Kitty. “Nobody knows what
I suffer sometimes from worries that I can’t talk about, and I shouldn’t
get much sympathy if I did, just because I live in a big house, wear
good gowns, and have lots of lovers. Annabel used to say she envied me
above all created beings, but she doesn’t now, and is perfectly absorbed
in her dear little Chinaman. Do you see how she ever could like him?”
So they began to gossip, and the sober talk was over for that time, but
when Kitty departed, after criticizing all her dear friends and their
respective sweethearts, she had a helpful little book in her muff, a
resolute expression on her bright face, and so many excellent plans for
self-improvement in her busy brain that she and Steve bid fair to turn
out the model couple of the century.
Chapter 14 AUNT CLARA’S PLAN
Being seriously alarmed by the fear of losing the desire of his heart,
Charlie had gone resolutely to work and, like many another young
reformer, he rather overdid the matter, for in trying to keep out of
the way of temptation, he denied himself much innocent enjoyment. The
“artistic fit” was a good excuse for the seclusion which he fancied
would be a proper penance, and he sat listlessly plying crayon or
paintbrush, with daily wild rides on black Brutus, which seemed to do
him good, for danger of that sort was his delight.
People were used to his whims and made light of what they considered a
new one, but when it lasted week after week and all attempts to draw him
out were vain, his jolly comrades gave him up and the family began
to say approvingly, “Now he really is going to settle down and do
something.” Fortunately, his mother let him alone, for though Dr. Alec
had not “thundered in her ear” as he threatened, he had talked with her
in a way which first made her very angry, then anxious, and, lastly,
quite submissive, for her heart was set on the boy’s winning Rose and
she would have had him put on sackcloth and ashes if that would have
secured the prize. She made light of the cause of Rose’s displeasure,
considering her extremely foolish and straitlaced, “for all young men
of any spirit had their little vices, and came out well enough when the
wild oats were sowed.” So she indulged Charlie in his new vagary, as she
had in all his others, and treated him like an ill-used being, which was
neither an inspiring nor helpful course on her part. Poor soul! She saw
her mistake by and by, and when too late repented of it bitterly.
Rose wanted to be kind, and tried in various ways to help her cousin,
feeling very sure she should succeed as many another hopeful woman has
done, quite unconscious how much stronger an undisciplined will is than
the truest love, and what a difficult task the wisest find it to undo
the mistakes of a bad education. But it was a hard thing to do, for at
the least hint of commendation or encouragement, he looked so hopeful
that she was afraid of seeming to promise too much, and, of all things,
she desired to escape the accusation of having trifled with him.
So life was not very comfortable to either just then; and while Charlie
was “mortifying soul and body” to please her, she was studying how to
serve him best. Aunt Jessie helped her very much, and no one guessed,
when they saw pretty Miss Campbell going up and down the hill with such
a serious face, that she was intent upon anything except taking, with
praiseworthy regularity, the constitutionals which gave her such a
charming color.
Matters were in this state when one day a note came to Rose from Mrs.
Clara.
MY SWEET CHILD, Do take pity on my poor boy and cheer him up with a
sight of you, for he is so triste it breaks my heart to see him. He has
a new plan in his head, which strikes me as an excellent one, if you
will only favor it. Let him come and take you for a drive this fine
afternoon and talk things over. It will do him a world of good and
deeply oblige
Your ever loving
AUNT CLARA.
Rose read the note twice and stood a moment pondering, with her eyes
absently fixed on the little bay before her window. The sight of several
black figures moving briskly to and fro across its frozen surface seemed
to suggest a mode of escape from the drive she dreaded in more ways than
one. “That will be safer and pleasanter,” she said, and going to her
desk wrote her answer.
DEAR AUNTY, I’m afraid of Brutus, but if Charlie will go skating with
me, I should enjoy it very much and it would do us both good. I can
listen to the new plan with an undivided mind there, so give him my
love, please, and say I shall expect him at three.
Affectionately, ROSE.
Punctually at three Charlie appeared with his skates over his arm and
with a very contented face, which brightened wonderfully as Rose came
downstairs in a sealskin suit and scarlet skirt, so like the one she
wore years ago that he involuntarily exclaimed as he took her skates:
“You look so like little Rose I hardly know you, and it seems so like
old times I feel sixteen again.”
“That is just the way one ought to feel on such a day as this. Now let
us be off and have a good spin before anyone comes. There are only a few
children there now, but it is Saturday, you know, and everybody will be
out before long,” answered Rose, carefully putting on her mittens as she
talked, for her heart was not as light as the one little Rose carried
under the brown jacket, and the boy of sixteen never looked at her with
the love and longing she read in the eyes of the young man before her.
Away they went, and were soon almost as merry and warm as the children
around them, for the ice was in good condition, the February sunshine
brilliant, and the keen wind set their blood a-tingle with a healthful
glow.
“Now tell me the plan your mother spoke of,” began Rose as they went
gliding across the wide expanse before them, for Charlie seemed to have
forgotten everything but the bliss of having her all to himself for a
little while.
“Plan? Oh, yes! It is simply this. I’m going out to Father next month.”
“Really?” and Rose looked both surprised and incredulous, for this plan
was not a new one.
“Really. You don’t believe it, but I am, and mother means to go with
me. We’ve had another letter from the governor, and he says if she can’t
part from her big baby to come along too, and all be happy together.
What do you think of that?” he asked, eyeing her intently, for they were
face to face as she went backward and he held both of her hands to steer
and steady her.
“I like it immensely, and do believe it now only it rather takes my
breath away to think of Aunty’s going, when she never would hear of it
before.”
“She doesn’t like the plan very well now and consents to go only on one
condition.”
“What is that?” asked Rose, trying to free her hands, for a look at
Charlie made her suspect what was coming.
“That you go with us.” And, holding the hands fast, he added rapidly,
“Let me finish before you speak. I don’t mean that anything is to be
changed till you are ready, but if you go, I am willing to give up
everything else and live anywhere as long as you like. Why shouldn’t you
come to us for a year or two? We’ve never had our share. Father would be
delighted, mother contented, and I the happiest man alive.”
“Who made this plan?” asked Rose as soon as she got the breath which
certainly had been rather taken away by this entirely new and by no
means agreeable scheme.
“Mother suggested it I shouldn’t have dared even to dream of such
richness. I’d made up my mind to go alone, and when I told her, she
was in despair till this superb idea came into her head. After that, of
course, it was easy enough for me to stick to the resolution I’d made.”
“Why did you decide to go, Charlie?” And Rose looked up into the eyes
that were fixed beseechingly on hers.
They wavered and glanced aside, then met hers honestly yet full of
humility, which made her own fall as he answered very low: “Because I
don’t dare to stay.”
“Is it so hard?” she said pitifully.
“Very hard. I haven’t the moral courage to own up and face ridicule, and
it seems so mean to hide for fear of breaking my word. I will keep it
this time, Rose, if I go to the ends of the earth to do it.”
“It is not cowardly to flee temptation, and nobody whose opinion is
worth having will ridicule any brave attempt to conquer one’s self.
Don’t mind it, Charlie, but stand fast, and I am sure you will succeed.”
“You don’t know what it is, and I can’t tell you, for till I tried to
give it up I never guessed what a grip it had on me. I thought it was
only a habit, easy to drop when I liked, but it is stronger than I, and
sometimes I feel as if possessed of a devil that will get the better of
me, try as I may.”
He dropped her hands abruptly as he said that, with the energy of
despair; and, as if afraid of saying too much, he left her for a minute,
striking away at full speed, as if in truth he would “go to the ends of
the earth” to escape the enemy within himself.
Rose stood still, appalled by this sudden knowledge of how much greater
the evil was than she had dreamed. What ought she to do? Go with her
cousin, and by so doing tacitly pledge herself as his companion on that
longer journey for which he was as yet so poorly equipped? Both heart
and conscience protested against this so strongly that she put the
thought away. But compassion pleaded for him tenderly, and the spirit of
self-sacrifice, which makes women love to give more than they receive,
caused her to feel as if in a measure this man’s fate lay in her hands,
to be decided for good or ill through her. How should she be true both
to him and to herself?
Before this question could be answered, he was back again, looking as if
he had left his care behind him, for his moods varied like the wind. Her
attitude, as she stood motionless and alone with downcast face, was so
unlike the cheerful creature who came to meet him an hour ago, it filled
him with self-reproach, and, coming up, he drew one hand through his
arm, saying, as she involuntarily followed him, “You must not stand
still. Forget my heroics and answer my question. Will you go with us,
Rose?”
“Not now that is asking too much, Charlie, and I will promise nothing,
because I cannot do it honestly,” she answered, so firmly that he knew
appeal was useless.
“Am I to go alone, then, leaving all I care for behind me?”
“No, take your mother with you, and do your best to reunite your
parents. You could not give yourself to a better task.”
“She won’t go without you.”
“I think she will if you hold fast to your resolution. You won’t give
that up, I hope?”
“No I must go somewhere, for I can’t stay here, and it may as well be
India, since that pleases Father,” answered Charlie doggedly.
“It will more than you can imagine. Tell him all the truth, and see how
glad he will be to help you, and how sincerely he will respect you for
what you’ve done.”
“If you respect me, I don’t care much about the opinion of anyone else,”
 answered Charlie, clinging with a lover’s pertinacity to the hope that
was dearest.
“I shall, if you go manfully away and do the duty you owe your father
and yourself.”
“And when I’ve done it, may I come back to be rewarded, Rose?” he asked,
taking possession of the hand on his arm as if it was already his.
“I wish I could say what you want me to. But how can I promise when I am
not sure of anything? I don’t love you as I ought, and perhaps I never
shall so why persist in making me bind myself in this way? Be generous,
Charlie, and don’t ask it,” implored Rose, much afflicted by his
persistence.
“I thought you did love me it looked very like it a month ago, unless
you have turned coquette, and I can’t quite believe that,” he answered
bitterly.
“I was beginning to love you, but you made me afraid to go on,” murmured
Rose, trying to tell the truth kindly.
“That cursed custom! What can a man do when his hostess asks him to
drink wine with her?” And Charlie looked as if he could have cursed
himself even more heartily.
“He can say ‘no.’”
“I can’t.”
“Ah, that’s the trouble! You never learned to say it even to yourself,
and now it is so hard, you want me to help you.”
“And you won’t.”
“Yes, I will, by showing you that I can say it to myself, for your
sake.” And Rose looked up with a face so full of tender sorrow he could
not doubt the words which both reproached and comforted him.
“My little saint! I don’t deserve one half your goodness to me, but I
will, and go away without one complaint to do my best, for your sake,”
 he cried, touched by her grief and stirred to emulation by the example
of courage and integrity she tried to set him.
Here Kitty and Steve bore down upon them; and, obeying the impulse to
put care behind them, which makes it possible for young hearts to ache
one minute and dance the next, Rose and Charlie banished their troubles,
joined in the sport that soon turned the lonely little bay into a
ballroom, and enjoyed the splendors of a winter sunset forgetful of
separation and Calcutta.
Chapter 15 ALAS FOR CHARLIE!
In spite of much internal rebellion, Charlie held fast to his
resolution, and Aunt Clara, finding all persuasions vain, gave in and in
a state of chronic indignation against the world in general and Rose in
particular, prepared to accompany him. The poor girl had a hard time of
it and, but for her uncle, would have fared still worse. He was a sort
of shield upon which Mrs. Clara’s lamentations, reproaches, and irate
glances fell unavailingly instead of wounding the heart against which
they were aimed.
The days passed very quickly now, for everyone seemed anxious to have
the parting over and preparations went on rapidly. The big house was
made ready to shut up for a year at least, comforts for the long voyage
laid in, and farewell visits paid. The general activity and excitement
rendered it impossible for Charlie to lead the life of an artistic
hermit any longer and he fell into a restless condition which caused
Rose to long for the departure of the Rajah when she felt that he would
be safe, for these farewell festivities were dangerous to one who was
just learning to say “no.”
“Half the month safely gone. If we can only get well over these last
weeks, a great weight will be off my mind,” thought Rose as she went
down one wild, wet morning toward the end of February.
Opening the study door to greet her uncle, she exclaimed, “Why, Archie!”
 then paused upon the threshold, transfixed by fear, for in her cousin’s
white face she read the tidings of some great affliction.
“Hush! Don’t be frightened. Come in and I’ll tell you,” he whispered,
putting down the bottle he had just taken from the doctor’s medicine
closet.
Rose understood and obeyed, for Aunt Plenty was poorly with her
rheumatism and depended on her morning doze.
“What is it?” she said, looking about the room with a shiver, as if
expecting to see again what she saw there New Year’s night. Archie was
alone, however, and, drawing her toward the closet, answered with an
evident effort to be quite calm and steady “Charlie is hurt! Uncle wants
more ether and the wide bandages in some drawer or other. He told me,
but I forget. You keep this place in order find them for me. Quick!”
Before he had done, Rose was at the drawer, turning over the bandages
with hands that trembled as they searched.
“All narrow! I must make some. Can you wait?” And, catching up a piece
of old linen, she tore it into wide strips, adding, in the same quick
tone, as she began to roll them, “Now, tell me.”
“I can wait those are not needed just yet. I didn’t mean anyone should
know, you least of all,” began Archie, smoothing out the strips as they
lay across the table and evidently surprised at the girl’s nerve and
skill.
“I can bear it make haste! Is he much hurt?”
“I’m afraid he is. Uncle looks sober, and the poor boy suffers so, I
couldn’t stay,” answered Archie, turning still whiter about the lips
that never had so hard a tale to tell before.
“You see, he went to town last evening to meet the man who is going to
buy Brutus.”
“And Brutus did it? I knew he would!” cried Rose, dropping her work to
wring her hands, as if she guessed the ending of the story now.
“Yes, and if he wasn’t shot already I’d do it myself with pleasure, for
he’s done his best to kill Charlie,” muttered Charlie’s mate with a grim
look, then gave a great sigh and added with averted face, “I shouldn’t
blame the brute, it wasn’t his fault. He needed a firm hand and--” He
stopped there, but Rose said quickly: “Go on. I must know.”
“Charlie met some of his old cronies, quite by accident; there was a
dinner party, and they made him go, just for a good-bye, they said. He
couldn’t refuse, and it was too much for him. He would come home alone
in the storm, though they tried to keep him, as he wasn’t fit. Down
by the new bridge that high embankment, you know the wind had put the
lantern out he forgot or something scared Brutus, and all went down
together.”
Archie had spoken fast and brokenly but Rose understood and at the last
word hid her face with a little moan, as if she saw it all.
“Drink this and never mind the rest,” he said, dashing into the next
room and coming back with a glass of water, longing to be done and away,
for this sort of pain seemed almost as bad as that he had left.
Rose drank, but held his arm tightly, as he would have turned away,
saying in a tone of command he could not disobey: “Don’t keep anything
back tell me the worst at once.”
“We knew nothing of it,” he went on obediently. “Aunt Clara thought he
was with me, and no one found him till early this morning. A workman
recognized him and he was brought home, dead they thought. I came for
Uncle an hour ago. Charlie is conscious now, but awfully hurt, and I’m
afraid from the way Mac and Uncle looked at one another that Oh! Think
of it, Rose! Crushed and helpless, alone in the rain all night, and I
never knew, I never knew!”
With that, poor Archie broke down entirely and, flinging himself into a
chair, laid his face on the table, sobbing like a girl. Rose had never
seen a man cry before, and it was so unlike a woman’s gentler grief that
it moved her very much. Putting by her own anguish, she tried to comfort
his and, going to him, lifted up his head and made him lean on her, for
in such hours as this women are the stronger. It was a very little to
do, but it did comfort Archie, for the poor fellow felt as if fate was
very hard upon him just then, and in this faithful bosom he could pour
his brief but pathetic plaint.
“Phebe’s gone, and now if Charlie’s taken, I don’t see how I can bear
it!”
“Phebe will come back, dear, and let us hope poor Charlie isn’t going to
be taken yet. Such things always seem worst at first, I’ve heard people
say, so cheer up and hope for the best,” answered Rose, seeking for some
comfortable words to say and finding very few.
They took effect, however, for Archie did cheer up like a man. Wiping
away the tears which he so seldom shed that they did not know where to
go, he got up, gave himself a little shake, and said with a long breath,
as if he had been underwater: “Now I’m all right, thank you. I couldn’t
help it the shock of being waked suddenly to find the dear old fellow in
such a pitiful state upset me. I ought to go are these ready?”
“In a minute. Tell Uncle to send for me if I can be of any use. Oh, poor
Aunt Clara! How does she bear it?”
“Almost distracted. I took Mother to her, and she will do all that
anybody can. Heaven only knows what Aunt will do if--”
“And only heaven can help her,” added Rose as Archie stopped at the
words he could not utter. “Now take them, and let me know often.”
“You brave little soul, I will.” And Archie went away through the
rain with his sad burden, wondering how Rose could be so calm when the
beloved Prince might be dying.
A long dark day followed, with nothing to break its melancholy monotony
except the bulletins that came from hour to hour reporting little change
either for better or for worse. Rose broke the news gently to Aunt
Plenty and set herself to the task of keeping up the old lady’s spirits,
for, being helpless, the good soul felt as if everything would go wrong
without her. At dusk she fell asleep, and Rose went down to order lights
and fire in the parlor, with tea ready to serve at any moment, for she
felt sure some of the men would come and that a cheerful greeting and
creature comforts would suit them better than tears, darkness, and
desolation.
Presently Mac arrived, saying the instant he entered the room: “More
comfortable, Cousin.”
“Thank heaven!” cried Rose, unclasping her hands. Then seeing how worn
out, wet, and weary Mac looked as he came into the light, she added in
a tone that was a cordial in itself, “Poor boy, how tired you are! Come
here, and let me make you comfortable.”
“I was going home to freshen up a bit, for I must be back in an hour.
Mother took my place, so I could be spared, and came off, as Uncle
refused to stir.”
“Don’t go home, for if Aunty isn’t there it will be very dismal. Step
into Uncle’s room and refresh, then come back and I’ll give you your
tea. Let me, let me! I can’t help in any other way, and I must do
something, this waiting is so dreadful.”
Her last words betrayed how much suspense was trying her, and Mac
yielded at once, glad to comfort and be comforted. When he came back,
looking much revived, a tempting little tea table stood before the fire
and Rose went to meet him, saying with a faint smile, as she liberally
bedewed him with the contents of a cologne flask: “I can’t bear the
smell of ether it suggests such dreadful things.”
“What curious creatures women are! Archie told us you bore the news like
a hero, and now you turn pale at a whiff of bad air. I can’t explain
it,” mused Mac as he meekly endured the fragrant shower bath.
“Neither can I, but I’ve been imagining horrors all day and made myself
nervous. Don’t let us talk about it, but come and have some tea.”
“That’s another queer thing. Tea is your panacea for all human ills
yet there isn’t any nourishment in it. I’d rather have a glass of milk,
thank you,” said Mac, taking an easy chair and stretching his feet to
the fire.
She brought it to him and made him eat something; then, as he shut his
eyes wearily, she went away to the piano and, having no heart to sing,
played softly till he seemed asleep. But at the stroke of six he was up
and ready to be off again.
“He gave me that. Take it with you and put some on his hair. He likes
it, and I do so want to help a little,” she said, slipping the pretty
flagon into his pocket with such a wistful look Mac never thought of
smiling at this very feminine request.
“I’ll tell him. Is there anything else I can do for you, Cousin?” he
asked, holding the cold hand that had been serving him so helpfully.
“Only this if there is any sudden change, promise to send for me, no
matter at what hour it is. I must say ‘good-bye’”.
“I will come for you. But, Rose, I am sure you may sleep in peace
tonight, and I hope to have good news for you in the morning.”
“Bless you for that! Come early, and let me see him soon. I will be very
good, and I know it will not do him any harm.”
“No fear of that. The first thing he said when he could speak was ‘Tell
Rose carefully,’ and as I came away he guessed where I was going and
tried to kiss his hand in the old way, you know.”
Mac thought it would cheer her to hear that Charlie remembered her, but
the sudden thought that she might never see the familiar little gesture
anymore was the last drop that made her full heart overflow, and Mac saw
the “hero” of the morning sink down at his feet in a passion of tears
that frightened him. He took her to the sofa and tried to comfort her,
but as soon as the bitter sobbing quieted she looked up and said quite
steadily, great drops rolling down her cheeks the while: “Let me cry it
is what I need, and I shall be all the better for it by and by. Go to
Charlie now and tell him I said with all my heart, ‘Good night!’?
“I will!” And Mac trudged away, marveling in his turn at the curiously
blended strength and weakness of womankind.
That was the longest night Rose ever spent, but joy came in the morning
with the early message: “He is better. You are to come by and by.” Then
Aunt Plenty forgot her lumbago and arose; Aunt Myra, who had come to
have a social croak, took off her black bonnet as if it would not be
needed at present, and the girl made ready to go and say “Welcome back,”
 not the hard “Good-bye.”
It seemed very long to wait, for no summons came till afternoon, then
her uncle arrived, and at the first sight of his face Rose began to
tremble.
“I came for my little girl myself, because we must go back at once,” he
said as she hurried toward him hat in hand.
“I’m ready, sir.” But her hands shook as she tried to tie the ribbons,
and her eyes never left the face that was full of tender pity for her.
He took her quickly into the carriage and, as they rolled away, said
with the quiet directness which soothes such agitation better than any
sympathetic demonstration: “Charlie is worse. I feared it when the pain
went so suddenly this morning, but the chief injuries are internal and
one can never tell what the chances are. He insists that he is better,
but he will soon begin to fail, I fear, become unconscious, and slip
away without more suffering. This is the time for you to see him, for he
has set his heart on it, and nothing can hurt him now. My child, it is
very hard, but we must help each other bear it.”
Rose tried to say, “Yes, Uncle” bravely, but the words would not
come, and she could only slip her hand into his with a look of mute
submission. He laid her head on his shoulder and went on talking so
quietly that anyone who did not see how worn and haggard his face had
grown with two days and a night of sharp anxiety might have thought him
cold.
“Jessie has gone home to rest, and Jane is with poor Clara, who has
dropped asleep at last. I’ve sent for Steve and the other boys. There
will be time for them later, but he so begged to see you now, I thought
it best to come while this temporary strength keeps him up. I have
told him how it is, but he will not believe me. If he asks you, answer
honestly and try to fit him a little for this sudden ending of so many
hopes.”
“How soon, Uncle?”
“A few hours, probably. This tranquil moment is yours make the most of
it and, when we can do no more for him, we’ll comfort one another.”
Mac met them in the hall, but Rose hardly saw him. She was conscious
only of the task before her and, when her uncle led her to the door, she
said quietly, “Let me go in alone, please.”
Archie, who had been hanging over the bed, slipped away into the inner
room as she appeared, and Rose found Charlie waiting for her with such
a happy face, she could not believe what she had heard and found it easy
to say almost cheerfully as she took his eager hand in both of hers:
“Dear Charlie, I’m so glad you sent for me. I longed to come, but waited
till you were better. You surely are?” she added, as a second glance
showed to her the indescribable change which had come upon the face
which at first seemed to have both light and color in it.
“Uncle says not, but I think he is mistaken, because the agony is all
gone, and except for this odd sinking now and then, I don’t feel so much
amiss,” he answered feebly but with something of the old lightness in
his voice.
“You will hardly be able to sail in the Rajah, I fear, but you won’t
mind waiting a little while we nurse you,” said poor Rose, trying to
talk on quietly, with her heart growing heavier every minute.
“I shall go if I’m carried! I’ll keep that promise, though it costs
me my life. Oh, Rose! You know? They’ve told you?” And, with a sudden
memory of what brought him there, he hid his face in the pillow.
“You broke no promise, for I would not let you make one, you remember.
Forget all that, and let us talk about the better time that may be
coming for you.”
“Always so generous, so kind!” he murmured, with her hand against
his feverish cheek; then, looking up, he went on in a tone so humbly
contrite it made her eyes fill with slow, hot tears.
“I tried to flee temptation I tried to say ‘no,’ but I am so pitiably
weak, I couldn’t. You must despise me. But don’t give me up entirely,
for if I live, I’ll do better. I’ll go away to Father and begin again.”
Rose tried to keep back the bitter drops, but they would fall, to hear
him still speak hopefully when there was no hope. Something in the mute
anguish of her face seemed to tell him what she could not speak, and a
quick change came over him as he grasped her hand tighter, saying in a
sharp whisper: “Have I really got to die, Rose?”
Her only answer was to kneel down and put her arms about him, as if she
tried to keep death away a little longer. He believed it then, and lay
so still, she looked up in a moment, fearing she knew not what.
But Charlie bore it manfully, for he had the courage which can face a
great danger bravely, though not the strength to fight a bosom sin and
conquer it. His eyes were fixed, as if trying to look into the unseen
world whither he was going, and his lips firmly set that no word of
complaint should spoil the proof he meant to give that, though he had
not known how to live, he did know how to die. It seemed to Rose as
if for one brief instant she saw the man that might have been if early
training had taught him how to rule himself; and the first words he
uttered with a long sigh, as his eye came back to her, showed that he
felt the failure and owned it with pathetic candor.
“Better so, perhaps; better go before I bring any more sorrow to you and
shame to myself. I’d like to stay a little longer and try to redeem the
past; it seems so wasted now, but if I can’t, don’t grieve, Rose. I’m no
loss to anyone, and perhaps it is too late to mend.”
“Oh, don’t say that! No one will find your place among us we never can
forget how much we loved you, and you must believe how freely we forgive
as we would be forgiven,” cried Rose, steadied by the pale despair that
had fallen on Charlie’s face with those bitter words.
“‘Forgive us our trespasses!’ Yes, I should say that. Rose, I’m not
ready, it is so sudden. What can I do?” he whispered, clinging to her as
if he had no anchor except the creature whom he loved so much.
“Uncle will tell you I am not good enough I can only pray for you.” And
she moved as if to call in the help so sorely needed.
“No, no, not yet! Stay by me, darling read something there, in
Grandfather’s old book, some prayer for such as I. It will do me more
good from you than any minister alive.”
She got the venerable book given to Charlie because he bore the good
man’s name and, turning to the “Prayer for the Dying,” read it brokenly
while the voice beside her echoed now and then some word that reproved
or comforted.
“The testimony of a good conscience.” “By the sadness of his countenance
may his heart be made better.” “Christian patience and fortitude.”
 “Leave the world in peace.” “Amen.”
There was silence for a little; then Rose, seeing how wan he looked,
said softly, “Shall I call Uncle now?”
“If you will. But first don’t smile at my foolishness, dear I want my
little heart. They took it off please give it back and let me keep it
always,” he answered with the old fondness strong as ever, even when he
could show it only by holding fast the childish trinket which she found
and had given him the old agate heart with the faded ribbon. “Put it on,
and never let them take it off,” he said, and when she asked if there
was anything else she could do for him, he tried to stretch out his arms
to her with a look which asked for more.
She kissed him very tenderly on lips and forehead, tried to say
“good-bye,” but could not speak, and groped her way to the door. Turning
for a last look, Charlie’s hopeful spirit rose for a moment, as if
anxious to send her away more cheerful, and he said with a shadow of
the old blithe smile, a feeble attempt at the familiar farewell gesture:
“Till tomorrow, Rose.”
Alas for Charlie! His tomorrow never came, and when she saw him next, he
lay there looking so serene and noble, it seemed as if it must be well
with him, for all the pain was past; temptation ended; doubt and fear,
hope and love, could no more stir his quiet heart, and in solemn truth
he had gone to meet his Father, and begin again.
Chapter 16 GOOD WORKS
The Rajah was delayed awhile, and when it sailed poor Mrs. Clara was
on board, for everything was ready. All thought she had better go to
comfort her husband, and since her boy died she seemed to care very
little what became of her. So, with friends to cheer the long voyage,
she sailed away, a heavyhearted woman, yet not quite disconsolate,
for she knew her mourning was excessively becoming and felt sure that
Stephen would not find her altered by her trials as much as might have
been expected.
Then nothing was left of that gay household but the empty rooms, silence
never broken by a blithe voice anymore, and pictures full of promise,
but all unfinished, like poor Charlie’s life.
There was much mourning for the bonny Prince, but no need to tell of it
except as it affected Rose, for it is with her we have most to do, the
other characters being of secondary importance.
When time had soothed the first shock of sudden loss, she was surprised
to find the memory of his faults and failings, short life and piteous
death, grew dim, as if a kindly hand had wiped out the record and given
him back to her in the likeness of the brave, bright boy she had loved,
not as the wayward, passionate young man who had loved her.
This comforted her very much, and folding down the last blotted leaf
where his name was written, she gladly turned back to reopen and reread
the happier chapters which painted the youthful knight before he went
out to fall in his first battle. None of the bitterness of love
bereaved marred this memory for Rose, because she found that the warmer
sentiment, just budding in her heart, had died with Charlie and lay cold
and quiet in his grave. She wondered, yet was glad, though sometimes a
remorseful pang smote her when she discovered how possible it was to go
on without him, feeling almost as if a burden had been lifted off, since
his happiness was taken out of her hands. The time had not yet come when
the knowledge that a man’s heart was in her keeping would make the pride
and joy of her life, and while she waited for that moment she enjoyed
the liberty she seemed to have recovered.
Such being her inward state, it much annoyed her to be regarded as a
brokenhearted girl and pitied for the loss of her young lover. She could
not explain to all the world, so let it pass, and occupied her mind with
the good works which always lie ready to be taken up and carried on.
Having chosen philanthropy as her profession, she felt that it was high
time to begin the task too long neglected.
Her projects were excellent, but did not prosper as rapidly as she
hoped, for, having to deal with people, not things, unexpected obstacles
were constantly arising. The “Home for Decayed Gentlewomen,” as the boys
insisted on calling her two newly repaired houses, started finely and
it was a pleasant sight to see the comfortable rooms filled with
respectable women busy at their various tasks, surrounded by the
decencies and many of the comforts which make life endurable. But,
presently, Rose was disturbed to find that the good people expected her
to take care of them in a way she had not bargained for. Buffum, her
agent, was constantly reporting complaints, new wants, and general
discontent if they were not attended to. Things were very neglected,
water pipes froze and burst, drains got out of order, yards were in
a mess, and rents behind-hand. Worst of all, outsiders, instead of
sympathizing, only laughed and said, “We told you so,” which is a most
discouraging remark to older and wiser workers than Rose.
Uncle Alec, however, stood by her staunchly and helped her out of many
of her woes by good advice and an occasional visit of inspection, which
did much to impress upon the dwellers there the fact that, if they did
not do their part, their leases would be short ones.
“I didn’t expect to make anything out of it, but I did think they would
be grateful,” said Rose on one occasion when several complaints had come
in at once and Buffum had reported great difficulty in collecting the
low rents.
“If you do this thing for the sake of the gratitude, then it is a
failure but if it is done for the love of helping those who need help,
it is a success, for in spite of their worry every one of these women
feel what privileges they enjoy and value them highly,” said Dr. Alec as
they went home after one of these unsatisfactory calls.
“Then the least they can do is to say ‘thank you.’ I’m afraid I have
thought more of the gratitude than the work, but if there isn’t any, I
must make up my mind to go without,” answered Rose, feeling defrauded of
her due.
“Favors often separate instead of attracting people nearer to one
another, and I’ve seen many a friendship spoilt by the obligation being
all on one side. Can’t explain it, but it is so, and I’ve come to the
conclusion that it is as hard to give in the right spirit as it is to
receive. Puzzle it out, my dear, while you are learning to do good for
its own sake.”
“I know one sort of people who are grateful and I’m going to devote
my mind to them. They thank me in many ways, and helping them is all
pleasure and no worry. Come into the hospital and see the dear babies,
or the Asylum, and carry oranges to Phebe’s orphans they don’t complain
and fidget one’s life out, bless their hearts!” cried Rose, cheering up
suddenly.
After that she left Buffum to manage the “Retreat,” and devoted her
energies to the little folks, always so ready to receive the smallest
gift and repay the giver with their artless thanks. Here she found
plenty to do, and did it with such sweet goodwill that she won her way
like sunshine, making many a little heart dance over splendid dolls, gay
picture books, and pots of flowers, as well as food, fire, and clothes
for the small bodies pinched with want and pain.
As spring came new plans sprang up as naturally as dandelions. The poor
children longed for the country; and, as the green fields could not come
to them, Rose carried them to the green fields. Down on the Point stood
an old farmhouse, often used by the Campbell tribe for summer holidays.
That spring it was set to rights unusually early, several women
installed as housekeeper, cook, and nurses, and when the May days grew
bright and warm, squads of pale children came to toddle in the grass,
run over the rocks, and play upon the smooth sands of the beach. A
pretty sight, and one that well repaid those who brought it to pass.
Everyone took an interest in the “Rose Garden,” as Mac named it, and the
womenfolk were continually driving over to the Point for something for
the “poor dears.” Aunt Plenty sowed gingerbread broadcast; Aunt Jessie
made pinafores by the dozen while Aunt Jane “kept her eye” on the
nurses, and Aunt Myra supplied medicines so liberally that the mortality
would have been awful if Dr. Alec had not taken them in charge. To him
this was the most delightful spot in the world and well it might be, for
he suggested the idea and gave Rose all the credit of it. He was often
there, and his appearance was always greeted with shrieks of rapture,
as the children gathered from all quarters creeping, running, hopping
on crutches, or carried in arms which they gladly left to sit on “Uncle
Doctor’s” knee, for that was the title by which he went among them.
He seemed as young as any of his comrades, though the curly head was
getting gray, and the frolics that went on when he arrived were better
than any medicine to children who had never learned to play. It was
a standing joke among the friends that the bachelor brother had the
largest family and was the most domestic man of the remaining four,
though Uncle Mac did his part manfully and kept Aunt Jane in a constant
fidget by his rash propositions to adopt the heartiest boys and
prettiest girls to amuse him and employ her.
On one occasion Aunt Jane had a very narrow escape, and the culprit
being her son, not her husband, she felt free to repay herself for many
scares of this sort by a good scolding, which, unlike many, produced
excellent results.
One bright June day, as Rose came cantering home from the Point on her
pretty bay pony, she saw a man sitting on a fallen tree beside the road
and something in his despondent attitude arrested her attention. As she
drew nearer he turned his head, and she stopped short, exclaiming in
great surprise: “Why, Mac! What are you doing here?”
“Trying to solve a problem,” he answered, looking up with a whimsical
expression of perplexity and amusement in his face which made Rose smile
till his next words turned her sober in a twinkling: “I’ve eloped with
a young lady, and don’t know what to do with her. I took her home, of
course, but mother turned her out of the house, and I’m in a quandary.”
“Is that her baggage?” asked Rose, pointing with her whip to the large
bundle which he held while the wild idea flashed through her head that
perhaps he really had done some rash deed of this sort.
“No, this is the young lady herself.” And, opening a corner of the brown
shawl, he displayed a child of three so pale, so thin and tiny that she
looked like a small scared bird just fallen from the nest as she shrank
away from the light with great frightened eyes and a hand like a little
claw tightly clutched a button of Mac’s coat.
“Poor baby! Where did it come from?” cried Rose, leaning down to look.
“I’ll tell you the story, and then you shall advise me what to do. At
our hospital we’ve had a poor woman who got hurt and died two days
ago. I had nothing to do with her, only took her a bit of fruit once or
twice, for she had big, wistful sort of eyes that haunted me. The day
she died I stopped a minute, and the nurse said she’d been wanting to
speak to me but didn’t dare. So I asked if I could do anything for her
and, though she could hardly breathe for pain being almost gone she
implored me to take care of baby. I found out where the child was, and
promised I’d see after her for the poor soul couldn’t seem to die till
I’d given her that comfort. I never can forget the look in her eyes as
I held her hand and said, ‘Baby shall be taken care of.’ She tried to
thank me, and died soon after quite peacefully. Well, I went today and
hunted up the poor little wretch. Found her in a miserable place, left
in the care of an old hag who had shut her up alone to keep her out of
the way, and there this mite was, huddled in a corner, crying ‘Marmar,
marmar!’ fit to touch a heart of stone. I blew up at the woman and took
the baby straightaway, for she had been abused. It was high time. Look
there, will you?”
Mac turned the little skinny arm and showed a blue mark which made Rose
drop her reins and stretch out both hands, crying with a tender sort
of indignation: “How dared they do it? Give her to me, poor little
motherless thing!”
Mac laid the bundle in her arms, and Rose began to cuddle it in the
fond, foolish way women have a most comfortable and effective way,
nevertheless and baby evidently felt that things were changing for
the better when warm lips touched her cheeks, a soft hand smoothed her
tumbled hair, and a womanly face bent over her with the inarticulate
cooings and purrings mothers make. The frightened eyes went up to this
gentle countenance and rested there as if reassured; the little claw
crept to the girl’s neck, and poor baby nestled to her with a long sigh
and a plaintive murmur of “Marmar, marmar” that certainly would have
touched a stony heart.
“Now, go on. No, Rosa, not you,” said the new nurse as the intelligent
animal looked around to see if things were all right before she
proceeded.
“I took the child home to mother, not knowing what else to do, but
she wouldn’t have it at any price, even for a night. She doesn’t like
children, you know, and Father has joked so much about ‘the Pointers’
that she is quite rampant at the mere idea of a child in the house. She
told me to take it to the Rose Garden. I said it was running over now,
and no room even for a mite like this. ‘Go to the Hospital,’ says she.
‘Baby isn’t ill, ma’am,’ says I. ‘Orphan Asylum,’ says she. ‘Not an
orphan got a father who can’t take care of her,’ says I. ‘Take her to
the Foundling place, or Mrs. Gardener, or someone whose business it is.
I will not have the creature here, sick and dirty and noisy. Carry it
back, and ask Rose to tell you what to do with it.’ So my cruel parent
cast me forth but relented as I shouldered baby, gave me a shawl to put
her in, a jumble to feed her with, and money to pay her board in some
good place. Mother’s bark is always worse than her bite, you know.”
“And you were trying to think of the ‘good place’ as you sat here?”
 asked Rose, looking down at him with great approval as he stood patting
Rosa’s glossy neck.
“Exactly. I didn’t want to trouble you, for you have your house full
already, and I really couldn’t lay my hand on any good soul who would be
bothered with this little forlornity. She has nothing to recommend her,
you see not pretty; feeble; shy as a mouse; no end of care, I daresay
yet she needs every bit she can get to keep soul and body together, if
I’m any judge.”
Rose opened her lips impulsively, but closed them without speaking and
sat a minute looking straight between Rosa’s ears, as if forcing herself
to think twice before she spoke. Mac watched her out of the corner of
his eyes as he said, in a musing tone, tucking the shawl around a pair
of shabby little feet the while, “This seems to be one of the charities
that no one wants to undertake, yet I can’t help feeling that my promise
to the mother binds me to something more than merely handing baby
over to some busy matron or careless nurse in any of our overcrowded
institutions. She is such a frail creature she won’t trouble anyone
long, perhaps, and I should like to give her just a taste of comfort, if
not love, before she finds her ‘Marmar’ again.”
“Lead Rosa I’m going to take this child home, and if Uncle is willing,
I’ll adopt her, and she shall be happy!” cried Rose, with the sudden
glow of feeling that always made her lovely. And gathering poor baby
close, she went on her way like a modern Britomart, ready to redress the
wrongs of any who had need of her.
As he led the slowly stepping horse along the quiet road, Mac could not
help thinking that they looked a little like the Flight into Egypt, but
he did not say so, being a reverent youth only glanced back now and
then at the figure above him, for Rose had taken off her hat to keep the
light from baby’s eyes and sat with the sunshine turning her uncovered
hair to gold as she looked down at the little creature resting on the
saddle before her with the sweet thoughtfulness one sees in some of
Correggio’s young Madonnas.
No one else saw the picture, but Mac long remembered it, and ever after
there was a touch of reverence added to the warm affection he had always
borne his cousin Rose.
“What is the child’s name?” was the sudden question which disturbed a
brief silence, broken only by the sound of pacing hoofs, the rustle of
green boughs overhead, and the blithe caroling of birds.
“I’m sure I don’t know,” answered Mac, suddenly aware that he had fallen
out of one quandary into another.
“Didn’t you ask?”
“No, the mother called her ‘Baby,’ and the old woman, ‘Brat.’ And that
is all I know of the first name the last is Kennedy. You may christen
her what you like.”
“Then I shall name her Dulcinea, as you are her knight, and call her
Dulce for short. That is a sweet diminutive, I’m sure,” laughed Rose,
much amused at the idea.
Don Quixote looked pleased and vowed to defend his little lady stoutly,
beginning his services on the spot by filling the small hands with
buttercups, thereby winning for himself the first smile baby’s face had
known for weeks.
When they got home Aunt Plenty received her new guest with her
accustomed hospitality and, on learning the story, was as warmly
interested as even enthusiastic Rose could desire, bustling about to
