“I have just furnished my house, uncle, and that cost me a good deal of
money,” I pleaded.
“But you got trusted for that,” said he, sharply.
“For only a small portion of it,” I answered, wondering how he could
know that I owed any thing.
“Paley, how much do you owe?” he demanded.
“O, only a few hundred dollars! I don’t know precisely how much, but
not more than I can pay in a short time.”
“I’m glad to hear it,” replied he, rather dryly. “In how short a time?”
“In a few weeks.”
“That won’t do. When I lend money to any one I expect him to pay me,
whether friend or foe, in the family or out of it. I’m afraid you are
getting along a little too fast.”
“I don’t think so.”
“Your wife is rather extravagant, I’m told.”
“I don’t think so.”
“Where have you taken a house.”
“In Needham street.”
“Humph! What do you pay for it?”
“Six hundred dollars.”
“Six hundred dollars!” exclaimed he, leaping to his feet.
“A very moderate rent for the house,” I added, not at all pleased at
what I considered the impudence of my uncle.
“That is more than I pay, Paley. I’m astonished!”
“I think it is a fair rent.”
“I don’t think so. What did it cost you to furnish it?” he continued,
fixing a severe gaze upon me.
“About eight hundred dollars,” I answered, not deeming it prudent to
give more than half of the actual cost.
“You are crazy, Paley! You will run yourself out in a couple of years,
at this rate. Eight hundred dollars! When I was married I didn’t spend
a hundred dollars on my house. Paley, I will give you three days to pay
this note. If you don’t do it in that time, I shall do the next thing.”
“What’s the next thing?” I asked, indignantly.
“I’ll trustee your salary!”
“You needn’t trouble yourself about the little sum I owe you; I will
pay you,” I replied, rising and walking towards the door. “The next
time I have occasion to ask a favor, I shall not go to a relation.”
Doubtless he regarded this as a very savage threat, though perhaps he
did not think its execution involved any great hardship on his own
part. I walked out of the insurance office with a degree of dignity and
self-possession which would have been creditable in a bank president.
My uncle must be paid. There was no doubt of that. I would not be
thorned by him for all the money in the world, for he was a very
uncomfortable sort of man to a debtor, and very obstinately insisted on
collecting his dues.
It was patent to me that some one had been talking to Captain Halliard.
Perhaps that mischievous stable-keeper had been in communication with
him; and it was possible that my friend Buckleton had mentioned the
trivial circumstance that I owed him eight hundred dollars. It was not
impossible that Mr. Bristlebach and my uncle had been discussing my
affairs. They were intimate acquaintances, and the captain did business
at the Forty-ninth.
I must pay Captain Halliard, or there would be a tempest about me at
once. Not that he would trustee my salary, or anything of that kind;
for this was only a hint that he would mention the matter to the
president of our bank. I must pay him, but how to do so, was a matter
about which I could not venture an opinion. I had little money, and I
had already bled my friends as much as it was prudent to bleed them. I
must “raise the wind,” or go under. I walked up State Street, trying
to think who should suffer next for my sins, when I met Tom Flynn.
We never passed each other without stopping to speak, though we stood
side by side in the bank during business hours. I saw that he looked
embarrassed, and it flashed upon my mind before he opened his mouth
that he wanted his money, and that he had made up his mind to ask me
for it. I did not regard it as proper for him to do so.
“Tom, I’m glad to see you,” I began. “I wanted to meet you.”
“That’s just my case. I was going down to the bank to find you, after
calling upon you at Mr. Oliphant’s. I wanted to see you very badly;”
and the honest fellow looked more embarrassed than ever.
“Well, that’s a coincidence,” I replied, deeming it my duty to spare
him any unnecessary embarrassment. “I have just had a call for a
little money I owe, and it was not convenient for me to pay it. It was
awkward, because I have a habit of paying up all these little things at
sight, even if I have to borrow the money to do so. I shall be flush in
three or four days, but I dislike to make this particular fellow wait.
Could you lend me a hundred dollars till Monday?”
“I am very sorry, Paley,” replied the poor fellow, the wind all taken
out of his sails. “The fact is, I’m short myself.”
“O, well, never mind it. I’m sorry I said any thing,” I continued.
“There was no harm in saying it to me,” laughed he, apparently more
troubled at my necessity than his own. “I had a chance to buy some
stock at a low figure, if I could raise the money to-day, so that the
owner can leave to-night for New York. I am one hundred short of the
amount required; but no matter; let it go.”
“I’m sorry I haven’t the amount about me,” I replied, with a troubled
look. “Perhaps I can raise it for you.”
“O, no! I don’t want you to do that. You said you should be flush in a
few days.”
“Yes; I shall have some money on Monday.”
“Well, then, Paley, since you can’t help me out, I can help you out,”
said the noble fellow, with a generous smile. “I can’t buy my stock,
and you may as well have the money as to let it remain idle.”
“Thank you, Tom,” I replied, warmly.
“You said a hundred dollars,” he continued, stepping into a doorway and
drawing out his wallet.
“I said a hundred dollars, but only because I had not the cheek to
mention more. I must raise three hundred to-morrow—but only till
Monday you know.”
“Three hundred,” said he musing. “I think I can help you out.”
“Thank you, Tom. Next Monday I will pay you this and the other hundred
I owe you. And by the way, I had quite forgotten that you held my note.”
“It’s of no consequence. I haven’t wanted it very badly. But I have a
chance to invest what little I possess next week, and if I can get it
then it will suit me better than to receive it now.”
“You shall have the whole next Monday, without fail,” I replied, though
I had no more idea where the money was to come from than I had of the
source of the Nile.
“That will fit my case exactly.”
“We will step into the bank, and I will give you a note.”
Every body had left the bank except the messenger, and I wrote the
note. I had the three hundred dollars in my fist. I was intent upon
taking the sting out of my uncle’s tongue. I meant to overwhelm him by
paying my note before I slept. I parted with Tom in the street, and
hastened to the insurance office, where I had left Captain Halliard.
I found him tipped back in his chair in the inner room, talking with
Mr. Bristlebach. I suspected that my case was the subject of their
discussion.
“Is that you, Paley?” called my uncle, as I made a movement to retire.
“Yes, sir; but I won’t trouble you now, if you are engaged,” I replied.
“Come in; we were talking about you, Mr. Glasswood,” said the
president. “I was just telling your uncle how well satisfied I am with
you.”
“Thank you, sir. I am very much obliged to you for your good opinion,
and I hope I shall always merit it,” I added, with becoming modesty.
“Do you wish to see me, Paley?” asked my uncle.
“Only for a moment, sir; but I will wait till you are at leisure.”
Mr. Bristlebach took his hat and left the office, saying he had no
particular business with my uncle.
“The president of the Forty-Ninth speaks well of you, Paley,” said my
uncle, good-naturedly. “I was glad to hear it, for I had a hint that
you were going a little too fast. Bristlebach and I talked the matter
over yesterday.”
“I’m glad you found it all right. Have you my note in your pocket now?”
I continued, rather stiffly.
“Yes, I have it.”
I drew my wallet, and took out the three hundred dollars I had just
borrowed.
“You needn’t trouble yourself about that just now,” said he, laughing.
“I don’t like to be driven into so close a corner as you put me into a
little while ago. Here is the amount of the note, with the interest.”
“What I said was spoken under a misapprehension. You needn’t pay the
note till you get ready.”
“I am ready now, uncle.”
“Of course, I don’t object to taking the money; but I didn’t mean to
press you.”
“Didn’t you, indeed? You gave me three days to pay the note, and
threatened to trustee my salary if it was not paid in that time. If
that was not pressing me, I took it as a gentle hint. If I don’t know
any better than to borrow money of my relations another time, I ought
to be hung for being a fool.”
“I am sorry now that I said any thing, Paley. I will take it all back.”
“Take principal and interest also, and I shall be satisfied.”
It was not in his nature to refuse money under any circumstances. He
gave up my note and pocketed the amount. It is quite probable that he
wondered where I had obtained the funds so readily, and he even hinted
at a desire to be enlightened on the subject. Perhaps he would suspect
that I had taken them from the vault of the bank; but if he consulted
Mr. Bristlebach on the matter, the messenger could inform him that the
vault had not been opened during my last visit. To remove any such
disagreeable impression as this from his mind, I said something about
having a sum of money due me from a friend which I had kept in reserve
for another purpose.
After the excellent character which the president had given me, I think
my uncle was satisfied. He apologized for the sharpness of his words
and declared that he had more regard for my moral welfare than for
any thing else. Perhaps he had, but his ideas of morality were very
indefinite, for he had helped me into my situation by pulling down Tom,
though I must do him the justice to say that he helped my friend into
his present situation, by declaring that new light entirely convinced
him of the innocence of Tom.
I left my uncle with the feeling that I had completely overwhelmed
him, and made him blush for his conduct. I was satisfied that I could
borrow five hundred dollars of him within a reasonable time, and with
a reasonable explanation of the necessity. The affairs of the day had
improved rather than injured my reputation. My integrity and honesty
stood at the highest point. I had made a friend of the cashier, who had
stupidly placed himself in my power when open conduct would have served
him better in the end. I owed no more than before, but I had hampered
myself with a promise to pay Tom Flynn four hundred dollars the next
Monday. I had said Monday, because I had a faint hope that I might go
down to Springhaven on Saturday and get the amount out of my aunt, who
had at least another thousand dollars salted down in her bureau.
There was time enough to think of this matter before the day of
payment; but, if the worst came, Tom could easily be cajoled, and even
made to insist upon my retaining the money another week or another
month. While all these events were transpiring, the unfortunate
relations which I sustained to my beautiful wife were hardly out of my
mind for a moment. It was nearly six o’clock when I started for home,
and all my thoughts were then of Lilian and the new house.
I was tempted to recede from my hard and trying situation, and I
probably should have done so if I had not been endowed with a certain
obstinacy, sometimes called firmness. It seemed to me that my wife was
not my wife while she remained in the home of “dear ma.” Her mother had
more influence over her than I had, and I could not be happy till I
had redeemed her from this bondage. My mother-in-law was swindling me
for the benefit of her unmarried daughters. I could not endure it any
longer, and come what would come, I would not. I entered the house the
saddest and most miserable man in the whole city.
The hour for final action had come. I had informed Lilian that I
should move into the English basement house that day. I had ordered an
express wagon to come for my luggage at seven o’clock. We had nothing
to move but our trunks, in which, for the want of suitable closets, our
clothing was still kept. I had seen Biddy in the morning, and told her
to have supper for me at half-past seven. I went up to our room. Lilian
was there. I saw that she had been crying, but whether from grief or
from anger I could not tell. I put my arm around her neck and kissed
her, as I always did, when I came into the house.
“You are late, Paley,” said she, in forced tones of calmness.
“I was detained at the bank by the president,” I replied. “But the
wagon will be here at seven, Lilian.”
“The wagon? What wagon?” she asked.
“The wagon to take our trunks to Needham Street, Lilian.”
“You do not mean that, Paley?” said she, looking up into my face, while
her lips quivered and her chest heaved with emotion.
“Of course I mean it, Lilian.”
“Do you mean to say that you intend to drag me to that house, whether I
am willing to go or not?”
“Certainly not. I have never hinted at any thing of the kind. I only
say that I am going; and going at seven o’clock this evening.”
“O, Paley! I did not think you would do such a thing!” sobbed she.
“I did not think, Lilian, after I had done all I could to please you;
after I had carried out the arrangement we agreed upon when we came to
board at your mother’s; after I had nearly ruined myself in fitting
up the house, that you would refuse to live in it,” I pleaded. “I
acknowledge that I have done wrong, but I cannot help it now. If you
will go to the new house with me, I will promise to give it up in a
reasonable time, if you are not happy there.”
“I will not go, Paley! I have said it, and I mean it,” said she,
spitefully.
“Very well. I am going at seven o’clock,” I replied, sadly enough.
I began to pack my trunk, while she sobbed in her chair.
CHAPTER IX.
A LONELY HOUSE.
“DO you mean to desert me, Paley?” asked Lilian, sobbing bitterly.
“Does it look as though I meant to desert you when I have nearly ruined
myself to provide a house that would please you?” I replied, as gently
as I could speak, for I was not angry.
“But you say you will go to that house without me?” she added, looking
up as if she had a gleam of hope that I did not mean what I said.
“I did say so, Lilian. I am going at seven o’clock, when the express
wagon comes.”
“Don’t you call that deserting me?”
“No, Lilian; it will not be that I desert you, but you desert me.”
“But I never will go into that house,” said she, sharply, as she dashed
away the tears that filled her eyes.
“Very well; then we need say no more about it,” I answered, placing the
last of my wearing apparel in the trunk, and locking it.
I did not think you would be so cruel, Paley.”
“Cruel, Lilian! Do I ask anything unreasonable?”
“I think you do. You come home, and wish to pack me off at half an
hour’s notice into a strange house.”
“I think I spoke of the matter last night, and told you I intended to
go. If the time is too short, you may fix a day yourself to move. Name
the time you will go, three days, a week, a month hence, and I will not
object.”
“I shall name no time. I will not live in that house!”
“Then we may as well settle the matter now as at any other time,” I
replied, with Spartan firmness.
“You will leave me, Paley?”
“I will.”
“O, Paley! Have I lost all influence over you?”
“I do not believe in this sort of influence. I repeat that I have done
everything to please you; and before I told you that the house was for
you, were you not delighted with it?”
This was a sore subject to her. I knew very well that she liked the
house herself. Her mother intended to keep us in our present quarters,
for the sake of the income to be derived from us. She could board
us for ten dollars a week, and make something even at that, for salt
fish and round steak form a cheap diet. I estimated that it cost five
hundred dollars a year apiece to clothe the two younger daughters, and
the profits on my board more than paid the bills. This was the whole
matter in a nutshell. I do not think that Lilian was a party directly
to the conspiracy, but she knew that it would upset all her mother’s
plans if we left. Unfortunately for me, I had given the impression that
I was made of money; that I not only had a large salary, but that I was
the heir of Aunt Rachel, whose wealth was supposed to equal the capital
of the Bank of England.
My wife was too proud to acknowledge that she had any interest in her
mother’s scheme; it was safer to say that she did not like the house.
I knew that her family was reduced to the greatest straits; that
Mr. Oliphant’s income was utterly insufficient to keep up the style
of former years. I knew that Mrs. Oliphant pinched herself in every
possible way, that the prospects of her two unmarried daughters might
not be injured. But I felt that I had done enough for the family when
I relieved them of one mouth to feed, and one form to clothe. It
certainly was not fair that I should pay the extravagant expenses of
making the world believe that my wife’s two sisters were fine ladies.
I was fighting the battle for my own independence, and not less for
that of my wife. I know that mothers-in-law are shamefully traduced,
but only because such a one as Mrs. Oliphant is taken as a type of the
whole class. I regard her as the exception, not the rule. Her plan
required that she should hold my wife as a slave within the maternal
home. In little things, I found that Lilian consulted the will of her
strong-minded mother, rather than my feelings. For example, I once
overheard Mrs. Oliphant tell my wife to induce me to go to a certain
concert, simply because Miss Bertha desired to go. Lilian did induce me
to go, and I went. She came up to the point by regular approaches. Not
a word was said about Miss Bertha till I was closing the door behind
me, as I went to the bank, when it was—“By the way, Paley, don’t you
think we had better ask Bertha to go with us?” Of course I thought so,
and she went with us. Lilian did not care a straw for the concert;
neither did I.
This is only a specimen of the manner in which I was victimized. I not
only dressed the two marriageable sisters, but I was to introduce them
into society, by paying their bills at concerts, theatres, parties and
balls. But this was not the most objectionable part of the arrangement.
I could not endure the thought of having my wife made the cat’s paw for
the monkey to pull the chestnuts out of the fire. She was not my wife,
in the just and proper sense of the word. She did not think so much
of my interests and my happiness as she did of her mother’s will and
wish. Neither of us was to live for each other, but both of us for the
Oliphants’ ambitious schemes. So thoroughly was I persuaded in my own
mind of the justness of my position, that I was determined to stick to
it, even if it resulted in a complete separation.
The door-bell rang, and we heard the sound of it in our room. I looked
out the window. An express wagon stood before the door. The crisis had
come, but I was as resolute as ever, and I expected to spend the night
alone in the house in Needham Street.
“A man at the door wants to see you, Paley,” said Mrs. Oliphant, who
did not keep a servant.
I went down to the door, and brought the man up with me. Lilian and
her mother stood aghast. They appeared to be utterly confounded, and
neither of them spoke in the presence of the stranger.
“That trunk,” I said to the expressman.
“Is that all?” asked he.
“That is all,” I replied, giving him the number of the house in Needham
Street.
The man picked up the trunk and I followed him down stairs. I paid
him, and he went off with my baggage. I was not willing to leave my
wife without saying good-by to her, for I had some hope that she would
yet relent. When my hand was on the door which I intended to close,
Lilian called me from the stairs above. She came down, followed by Mrs.
Oliphant. I hoped that both of them would understand me by this time.
“What’s the matter, Paley?” asked “dear ma,” trying to look pleasant.
“Nothing is the matter,” I replied, not caring to discuss the question
with her.
“Lilian tells me you are going to your new house.”
“Doubtless she told you that before.”
“But I did not think you would go off and leave her.”
“Such is my purpose, unless she decides to go with me.”
“Of course it is not for me to say any thing about it,” she added,
in her magnanimous way. “But I must say I think you are a little
unreasonable.”
“Well, Mrs. Oliphant, I don’t care about discussing the subject any
more. If Lilian chooses to desert me I can’t help myself.”
“Desert you! Goodness gracious! I should think it was just the other
way, and you are deserting her.”
“I think not. If I provide a suitable home for my wife, it seems to me
that she ought to occupy it with me,” I answered, meekly. “I do not
wish to be unreasonable, but I think Lilian will admit that our plan
discussed, and agreed to while we were on our bridal tour, was to go
to housekeeping. I have provided a pleasant house, near yours, and
furnished it in a style much better than I can afford. I have told her
that, after occupying the house for six months or a year, if it does
not suit her, I will conform to her wishes, whatever they may be. I
think my view is a reasonable one, and I intend to adhere to it.”
“Is she to go there whether she wants to or not?” demanded Mrs.
Oliphant.
“Am I to stay here whether I want to or not?” I replied. “In the matter
of housekeeping, I consulted her, and we were of the same mind.”
“You will not leave me, Paley, will you?” pleaded Lilian, satisfied
that her mother was making no headway in solving the problem.
“No; but you will leave me, Lilian. I am going now.”
“Don’t go, Paley!”
“Will you name a time when you will go with me, Lilian?”
“I cannot go, Paley! Indeed I cannot.”
“Good-by then, Lilian,” I replied, kissing her, while the tears gushed
from my eyes.
I rushed from the house, without stopping to close the door behind me.
I wiped away my tears as I crossed the street at a furious pace. I
walked till I had subdued the emotions which crowded upon me. It was
half an hour before I dared to present myself before the Biddy I had
engaged, lest she should fathom the secret that worried me. I rang the
bell at my house, and the servant admitted me. She opened her eyes wide
when she saw me alone.
“Where is the missus?” asked she.
“She has concluded not to come, to-night,” I replied, hanging up my hat
in the hall.
“The pretty crayture! Sure I’m dyin’ to have her in the house wit me!”
exclaimed Bridget. “Is it sick she is?”
“She don’t feel very well this evening,” I replied evasively.
“Sure the supper is all ready for the two of ye’s. The tay is drawn
this half hour, and the crame toast is breakin’ in flitters wid waitin’
for ye’s.”
“Very well; I will have my supper immediately.”
The tea and the toast were certainly good enough even for Lilian;
but it was the most miserable supper to which I ever sat down. My
heart seemed to be almost broken. I lighted the gas in the little
sitting-room, and threw myself into the rocking-chair. I looked around
the apartment. Everything was neat, tasty and pleasant. Was it possible
that Lilian refused to share such a palace with me? No; it was not
her fault. With her mother’s permission how gladly she would have
taken her place by my side. Mrs. Oliphant evidently had not given me
credit for any considerable amount of resolution. She was “the better
horse” in her own matrimonial relations, and she found it difficult
to comprehend any other than a similar arrangement in her daughter’s
family.
I tried to read the newspaper I had brought home with me, but my
thoughts were with Lilian. I turned over the leaves of the books I had
laid on the centre-table. I went into the dining-room and smoked. I was
almost worn out with fatigue and excitement. I was miserable beyond
description. I went to bed at midnight, and I went to sleep, but it was
only to dream of Lilian, goading and persecuting me, led on by a demon
who was always at her side.
I rose in the morning, and found my breakfast ready at the time I had
ordered it. It was such a breakfast as Lilian liked, but she was not
there to enjoy it, and I groaned in spirit. I must go to the bank. I
was not to see my wife, but I decided to write her a line—it was only
a line:
 “Dearest Lilian:—I shall hope to find you at our new home when I
 come up from the bank.
  “PALEY.”
I sent Biddy to deliver it, and told her not to wait for an answer.
I went to the bank. Everything was “lovely” there. Even Mr. Bristlebach
was “lovely;” and that was a most unusual attitude for him. Captain
Halliard dropped in to see me. He was “lovely.” Tom Flynn was in
excellent spirits; but he took occasion to tell me something about his
business affairs, so that I could distinctly understand what a sad
mishap it would be to him if I should fail to pay him the four hundred
dollars I owed him on Monday. I felt that I must pay him, and I decided
to visit Springhaven on Saturday, and cajole Aunt Rachel into lending
me the amount.
I went through my duties mechanically, but that day I lived on hope. I
had ordered my dinner at home at half past three, which was the hour
I usually dined. Lilian knew my habits, and I felt almost sure that I
should find her in Needham Street. I believed that she loved me, and I
could not believe that she would desert me. How my heart beat when I
went into the English basement house! How it sank within me when Biddy
failed to tell me that the “missus” was there. I dared not ask her
any questions, lest she should discover the anxiety under which I was
laboring.
I looked into the sitting-room. It was as empty as the tomb of all I
desired to see. I went into the dining-room. The table was set for two,
but one of the plates seemed to mock me. Lilian was not there. She was
not in the kitchen. I went up stairs, but the same oppressive vacancy
haunted every spot in the house. No Lilian was there, and without her
the house was not home. The casket and all its appliances were there,
but no jewel flashed upon my waiting, longing eyes.
There was no note in reply to mine. Biddy did not deliver any message
to me. It was plain enough that she had not heard from the “missus.” I
was sure that Lilian loved me, and that if left to herself she would
come to me, even if I had been lodged in a prison instead of the palace
I had provided for her. I ate my dinner alone and in silence. The
dinner was a good one, but it would have been the same thing to me if
the roast beef and mashed potato had been chips and shavings, so far as
I had any interest in their flavor.
When the meal was finished I left the house, and wandered about the
streets till tea-time. I kept walking without going anywhere; I kept
thinking without knowing what I was thinking about. After I had
been to supper, and Biddy had finished her work, she came into the
sitting-room where I was looking at the blank sheets of the newspaper
I held in my hand. She begged my pardon for coming. She wanted to know
when the “missus” was to be at the house. I evaded an answer. She told
me she couldn’t stay in a house with no missus in it. She didn’t “spake
to a sowl all day long,” and she couldn’t “shtop in a house wid only
a man in it. She had a charrackter, and people would be talking if
she shtopped in a house wid only a man in it.” Of course I was utterly
confounded at this complication of the difficulty, but I told her that
if the “missus” was not able to come by Monday she might go, and I
would pay her wages for an additional week.
“God bless your honor! but is the missus sick?” she asked.
“She is not very well, and does not like to leave her mother yet.”
She appeared to be satisfied, and I was permitted to spend another
miserable night in the loneliness of my new home. I heard nothing from
Lilian. I thought she might, at least, send me a note in reply to mine;
but I knew that she acted upon the advice of “dear ma.” That strong
minded woman evidently intended to bring me to terms. If possible, I
was more resolute than ever.
Before I went to the bank the next morning I decided to write one more
note—one which could not fail to bring the unpleasant matter to an
issue within twenty-four hours. It was in the form of an advertisement,
as follows:—
 “Whereas, my wife, Lilian O. Glasswood, has left my bed and board,
 without justifiable cause, I hereby give notice that I shall pay no
 debts of her contracting, after this date.
  “Boston, Aug.—.    PALEY GLASSWOOD.
 “Shall I insert the above in to-morrow’s papers?
  P. G.”
I sent this epistle to Mr. Oliphant’s by Biddy. Though it was directed
to Lilian, it was intended for her mother.
CHAPTER X.
MY WIFE AND I.
I KNEW very well that this note would produce a tremendous sensation in
the Oliphant family, and, as I walked down to the bank, I considered
whether so violent a demonstration was justifiable. But I soon came to
the conclusion that it was not a mere feint, and that if my wife would
not live with me in Needham Street, she could not live with me anywhere
else. If she did not choose to share my lot in the pretty residence I
had provided for her, I would not pay her board in Tremont Street.
I wanted my wife. I had not married Mrs. Oliphant, and was willing to
dispense with the benefit of her advice. Perhaps it was reckless in
me to do so, but no man had ever made up his mind on any point more
decidedly than I had made up mine on this one. I attended to my duties
as usual, but there was a sort of grimness about everything I did which
astonished me, if it did not any one else.
At my usual hour I rang the bell of my house with a more intense
anxiety than had before agitated me. If the savage measure I had taken
did not bring Lilian and her mother to their senses, nothing would,
and the breach must be regarded as permanent. I hoped and confidently
expected to find my wife in the house, and I braced my nerves for the
scene which must ensue. Biddy opened the door, with a sweet smile on
her face which augured well for my anticipations.
“There’s a bit of a letther on the table for ye’s, sir,” said she, as I
hung up my hat in the hall. “Shtop! and I’ll bring it to ye’s.”
“A bit of a letther!” Was that all? Of course it was from Lilian.
She did not intend to surrender without conditions, Biddy handed
me the missive. It was in my wife’s pretty hand-writing, but I was
disappointed, and more than ever disposed to be morose. I opened the
envelope.
 “Come and see me this afternoon, Paley.
  “LILIAN.”
That was all. The case did not look hopeful. If I went I must fight the
battle with “dear ma.” I promptly decided that it would be worse than
folly for me to heed this request. It was only an ingenious device of
Mrs. Oliphant to carry her point by some new strategy. To go would be
to throw myself into the toils of the enemy.
Biddy stood looking at me while I read the “bit of a letther.” If she
did not suspect the trouble, she was more stupid than I supposed. She
was a good girl, though her manners needed some improvement. If the
wife was ill, the place of the husband was at her side. My gem of the
Green Isle could reason out this proposition without exploding her
brain. She must understand that a family tempest was gathering.
“Av coorse the bit of a letther is from the missus,” said she. “I hope
she is betther.”
“Is dinner ready, Biddy?” I replied, trying to laugh.
“All ready, sir. Sure the missus must be betther, for she brought the
letther herself.”
“She is better, Biddy. There is trouble between us.”
“Faix, I knew it from the firsht!”
“Let me have my dinner now, and we will talk about it another time.”
She seemed to be proud to have even so much of my confidence, and she
flew around with an alacrity which was as creditable to her locomotive
powers as it was to her Irish heart. Even her looks were full of
respectful sympathy. I sat down to the table, and taking her place
behind my chair, she waited upon me with a zeal which would have shamed
the black coats of a fashionable hotel.
“In a word, Biddy, my wife refuses to live in this house with me.
That’s all the trouble we have,” said I, as I began to eat my dinner.
“Bad luck to her for that same!”
It was very undignified for me to say anything to my servant, or to
any one, indeed, about a matter of this kind, but I was absolutely
hungry for a confidant to whom I could pour out my griefs. If the
matter was to go any farther, I intended to send for Tom Flynn, and
talk over the situation with him. It seemed as though my brain would
burst, if I could not relieve it by exhibiting the cause of my sorrows.
If Biddy had not known so much I would not have told her any more. I
had informed her in the beginning about the “pleasant surprise” I was
preparing for my wife. She had seen Lilian when she called, and it
was stupid in me to attempt to conceal anything from her. I explained
to her the difficulty as far as I deemed it necessary. Biddy was my
strongest friend, then. She would not have left me even to save her
“charrackter.”
She rehearsed the whole matter, declared that I was an angel, and the
house a palace. It was not only unreasonable, but cruel and barbarous,
for my wife to refuse to share my lot. Thus spake Biddy, and I endorsed
her sentiments. When I had finished my dinner I wrote a brief note to
Lilian, declining to see her again, until we could meet in “our own
house.” Biddy was a zealous messenger. She was instructed to deliver
it without any words, and without answering any questions, for I was
afraid she would take the matter into her own hands, and complicate the
difficulty by attempting to fight my battle for me.
An hour later came the reply to my note. Lilian wrote that she was
“quite indisposed,” and unable to leave the house that day. She wished
to see me very much, and begged me not to deny her this favor. Perhaps
she was sick. So was I—sick at heart. It would not be strange if the
intense excitement attending this affair had made her ill; it had made
me so. But I knew she was not so ill that she could not leave the
house. She had delivered her own letter in the forenoon when she knew I
was at the bank. Yet, if I did not see her when she was sick, it would
make the story tell with damaging effect upon me. I decided to see
her at once—to see her as my sick wife, and not to make terms in the
quarrel.
In five minutes I rang the bell at the door of Mr. Oliphant’s house. It
was opened as usual by Mrs. Oliphant. A smile of triumph played upon
her face as she stood aside to permit me to pass into the hall.
“I am glad you have concluded to come, Paley,” said she.
This remark indicated that she was already in possession of the
contents of my last note; in fact that she, and not Lilian, was
fighting the battle.
“Is Lilian sick?” I inquired.
“She is not very well.”
“I will go up and see her.”
I went up.
“O, Paley! how can you be so cruel?” exclaimed she, with much nervous
excitement.
“Are you sick, Lilian?” I replied, taking her hand, and kissing her as
though nothing had happened.
“I am sick, Paley.”
“I am sorry, Lilian.”
“Do you think I am made of iron?”
“Shall I go for Dr. Ingoldson?”
“I do not need a doctor so much as I need peace.”
“We both need that.”
“Are you going to drive me into that hateful house?”
“Certainly not, Lilian.”
“Did you write that cruel note which came this morning, Paley? I cannot
believe it.”
“I did write it, Lilian; but if you are sick we will not talk about
that,” I replied, tenderly, but firmly.
“But we must talk about it. Do you mean to say that you will print that
horrid advertisement?”
“Most certainly I shall, if you persist in your present course. It is
not right for me to support a wife who will not live with me. If you
are sick, we will defer all action until you are better.”
“I am not well, but I wanted to see you about this awful business. Have
you ceased to love me, Paley?”
“No, Lilian.”
Perhaps Mrs. Oliphant had tried to stay down stairs, and permit her
daughter to pour out her griefs to me alone; but if she had tried, she
had not succeeded; and at this stage of the interview she entered the
room, without the ceremony of knocking.
“I am glad you have come, Paley, for we want to talk over this
disagreeable business.”
“Lilian’s note informed me that she was sick, and I came to see her,
but not to talk over any matter. If she is ill—”
“She isn’t very ill,” interposed Mrs. Oliphant.
I thought not; at least not too ill to discuss the exciting topic.
“I am glad she is not very ill. If she is, I will stay at her side and
do all that a husband should do for a sick wife.”
“O, we can take care of her! But I wanted to ask you if you really
intended to put that advertisement into the newspapers?”
“You will excuse me, but I have nothing to say on that subject beyond
what I expressed in my note. If Lilian does not need any assistance
from me, I will go. If Lilian is ill, I will defer the insertion of the
advertisement until Monday morning.”
“O, Paley!” gasped Lilian.
“Are you such a monster!” exclaimed Mrs. Oliphant, her lips compressed
and her eyes flashing in such a way as to indicate in what manner poor
Oliphant had been conquered.
“I have nothing more to say, madam,” I replied, with all the dignity I
could command.
I moved towards the door. Mrs. Oliphant was proceeding to rehearse the
enormity of my offence, when I clipped the wings of her rhetoric by
opening the door.
“Good-by, Lilian, if we are to meet no more,” I added. “On Monday it
will be too late.”
I retreated down the stairs, and fled from the house, though Mrs.
Oliphant made a lively pursuit as far as the street door, calling upon
me with all her might to return.
I know that my lady readers are branding me as a barbarian, but I
beg to remind them again that I was not fighting the battle with my
wife, but with her mother. I was striking for my own and for Lilian’s
independence. If I could not have her as my wife, I would not have her
at all. I did not go directly home. I called to see Tom Flynn. He was
not in, but I left a message for him to see me in Needham Street as
soon as he returned.
I was tolerably calm, considering the amount of actual suffering I
endured. Biddy was garrulous, and disposed to say harsh things of the
“missus.” I checked her, declaring that Lilian was an angel herself,
and that Mrs. Oliphant was the fomenter of the strife. Fortunately I
was relieved from her comments by the arrival of Tom Flynn. The noble
fellow looked sad when he entered, and I think he feared I intended
to say I could not pay him the four hundred dollars on Monday, as I
promised. He had not visited my house before, and he was lavish in
his praise of the good taste displayed in the furniture. Perhaps it
suggested him a doubt in regard to the safety of his money.
“Where is Lilian?” he asked. “I have not seen her for a month.”
The question opened the subject nearest to my heart. I began my story,
and related it in the most minute detail up to the interview which
had just taken place between my wife and myself. The noble fellow was
astonished at the recital, and his countenance beamed with generous
sympathy.
“I am very sorry for all this, Paley. It is an awkward and
uncomfortable predicament,” said he.
“What can I do?”
“I don’t know. I think you are right in your main position, though I am
not quite so sure in regard to your method of treatment,” he replied,
musing. “I should not quite like to advertise my wife.”
“I don’t like to do it; but as sure as my name is Paley Glasswood, I
will do it, if she does not come to this house before Monday morning!”
I replied, quite excitedly.
“However, I don’t think you will have occasion to do it,” he added.
“Oliphant has had the reputation of being a hen-pecked husband ever
since I first heard of him. His wife is a strong-minded woman, and I
suppose he found it cheaper to yield than to fight it out. He was a
prosperous man formerly, but they say his spirit was broken by this
domestic tyranny. I can’t advise you to back out, though I wish you had
consulted your wife before you furnished the house.”
“That would only have transferred the battleground to another location.
If I yield, I am lost.”
It was fully settled with the advice of my friend, that I should
not yield. I explained that if Lilian did not like the house or the
furniture after a reasonable trial, I would change either or both. Tom
Flynn stayed with me till midnight, and told me a great many things in
regard to the Oliphants that I was glad to know. It is enough for me to
add that I had not misapprehended the character of “dear ma.”
The next day was Saturday. I went to the bank at the usual hour, and
stayed there till the close of business. I wanted to go to Springhaven
that day to make my assault upon Aunt Rachel’s purse-strings. The last
train left at six o’clock. I was going home, and if my wife did not
appear, I intended to spend Sunday at home with my mother. It was the
last day of grace, both for Lilian and the money I was to pay Tom Flynn
on Monday.
Biddy admitted me, but she had no tidings of my wife. Lilian had not
come to my house, and had sent no message for me. Was it possible
that Mrs. Oliphant meant to let the affair take its course—to make
a “grass-widow” of her daughter rather than allow her to submit? It
looked so, incredible as it seemed. After I had eaten my dinner, I
wrote a note to Lilian, informing her that I intended to spend Sunday
at my mother’s, that I would call at our house in Needham Street on
Monday morning, and that, if I did not find her there, I should insert
the advertisement in all the newspapers. It was then after four
o’clock, and I sent the note by Biddy with the usual instructions.
I went up stairs to take a bath and dress for my visit. It was after
five when I came down. Biddy had returned, and was busy with her work.
I began to tell her where I was going when the door-bell rang.
“Bedad! the missus has come, and brought her mother with her!”
exclaimed she, as she rushed into the dining-room where I was smoking
away the half hour I had to spare before going to the train.
“Where are they?”
“In the parlor.”
It was not a very encouraging fact that Mrs. Oliphant had come with
her. I went into the sitting-room where were seated my guests, for as
such only could I yet regard them.
“I am glad you have come, Lilian,” said I, entering the room.
“But I have not come to stay,” she interposed, promptly.
“Then I am sorry you have come,” I added, as promptly.
“It is terrible, Paley, to think that my husband is prepared to desert
me, and to advertise me in the newspapers,” said she.
“It is just as terrible for me to be deserted as for you, Lilian. I
hope you will think well of it before it is too late.”
“I came over to see about this business, Mr. Glasswood,” interposed
Mrs. Oliphant, stiffly.
“Nothing need be said, madam. I must add that I decline to discuss the
question at all.”
“That’s a pretty way, sir!” continued she. “You married my daughter,
and you promised—”
“I know I did, madam, and she promised, too. If she does not choose to
occupy the house I have provided for her, that is the end of the whole
matter; and also the end of all argument. I am going to Springhaven
now. I have nothing more to say, except to add that when my wife
returns to me I will treat her as tenderly as I know how, bury the
past, and seek only her happiness.”
I moved towards the door. Lilian burst into tears. I saw her glance at
her mother, who sat in dignified stiffness on the sofa.
“Good-by, Lilian,” I said, glancing tenderly at her.
“No, no, Paley! You shall not go!” gasped she, springing into my arms.
“I will stay here!”
“Lilian!” exclaimed her mother, springing to her feet.
She was my wife then.
CHAPTER XI.
OVER THE PRECIPICE.
LILIAN was in my arms again, and all that I had suffered was
compensated for by the bliss of the moment. I think she had been
thoroughly aroused by the peril of her situation, and it was only at
the last possible moment, as she understood the case, that she yielded.
Lilian was human, like the rest of the world, and she was fond of her
own way. I was willing to let her have her own way, but when it came to
giving her mother the control of my affairs, I was rebellious.
My poor wife sobbed in my arms, and I could hardly restrain my own
tears. I would not have repressed them if Mrs. Oliphant had not been
present. Lilian was conquered, but I was sure she had only reached a
point which she had desired to attain before. I am not sure that this
same battle is not fought out by every man and wife, however gentle
and affectionate they may be. Some husbands are brutes, some wives
are head-strong, but each is always jealous of individual power and
influence. I think Lilian was disposed to adopt the tactics of her
mother, and rule her own household; but now she had suddenly become a
gentle and submissive wife, and had thus placed herself in a position
to be potential in regard to her husband.
Mrs. Oliphant was disgusted. She frowned savagely upon both of us. She
realized that her influence was gone forever, if this state of feeling
existed. Her cherished plan fell through and was a wreck beyond the
possibility of redemption. I do not wonder that she was disgusted, for
it was no trivial thing to be suddenly deprived of the handsome income
she derived from me, which I should have been very glad to pay her, if
I could have done so, though not under the egregious cheat of paying
her thirty dollars a week for board which was dear at ten.
“Lilian,” said Mrs. Oliphant, sternly, “I did not think you were so
weak and childish.”
“Weak and childish, mother? Shall I desert my husband?” added my wife,
gently.
“It is not for me to say any thing, for I never interfere between man
and wife,” continued “dear ma,” in the tone of a martyr. “But I can’t
help thinking that your husband is very unreasonable. It isn’t every
child that has so good a home as you have, and parents who are willing
to slave themselves to death for her! And this is all the thanks they
get for it!”
“Why, dear ma, what have I done?” asked Lilian, horrified at the
implied charge of ingratitude.
“Nothing, nothing! It is no matter!” replied Mrs. Oliphant, with a
vigorous effort to appear like a much-abused person. “I suppose it is a
mother’s lot to be deserted by her children.”
“Deserted, mother!” exclaimed my poor wife.
“I would not say any thing, Lilian,” I whispered to her.
“After I had made all my arrangements to board you, suddenly, and
without a word of notice you go off and leave me. What have I done to
merit this treatment?”
Lilian followed my suggestion, and made no reply.
“Well, I suppose I am not wanted here, and I may as well go,” she said,
flouncing up, and aiming for the door.
“On the contrary, Mrs. Oliphant, we shall both be very glad to have you
come here as often and stay as long as you can,” I added.
“Yes, mother, my house shall be your house,” said Lilian, warmly and
with much feeling.
“It is easier to talk than to do,” persisted Mrs. Oliphant, who was
determined to be an abused person. “I’ll go home alone.”
“I will go with you, mother if you desire it.” interposed Lilian.
Mrs. Oliphant did desire it. It is quite possible she expected still to
conquer our united forces.
“Send the wagon for my trunks, Paley, as soon as you please,” whispered
Lilian, as she left the house with her mother.
I need not say that I lost no time in complying with these stealthy
instructions. I hastened for the job wagon, but it was an hour before
I reached Mr. Oliphant’s with it, for I could not readily find a team
at that hour. The clock struck six, and I lost my train to Springhaven;
but I hardly noticed the circumstance, so intent was I upon healing the
breach in my domestic affairs.
When I arrived at the house, I found Lilian in tears, and a little
inclined to yield again; but the appearance of the expressman seemed to
strengthen her again. She permitted the trunks to be carried down, and
the man departed with them.
“I cannot go, Paley,” said she, as she dropped into a chair.
“Why not, Lilian?”
“Mother is terribly incensed against me.”
“She will get over it in a few days. What does your father say?”
“Nothing,” said she, looking up at me, as though she thought I asked a
curious question.
“The sooner we go, Lilian, the better it will be for all of us,” I
suggested.
“I will go, Paley, but I am afraid I shall never be happy again,” said
she, rising.
“Yes, you will, my dear. Your mother will be the same as ever by
to-morrow.”
We went down stairs, and found Mrs. Oliphant in the parlor.
“Good-by, mother. I shall come to see you every day,” said Lilian,
trying to be cheerful.
“Good-by, Lilian,” replied Mrs. Oliphant, in a tone which indicated the
depth of her despair.
Lilian said good-by to her sisters, and hoped both of them would come
to the house in Needham Street every day, Sundays not excepted. Then
we went home. Blessed word! It meant more to me than ever before. I
need hardly add that we talked of nothing during the evening but the
exciting topic of the day, though I tried frequently to change the
subject.
Biddy was the happiest girl outside of Ireland, for though my wife was
very sad, she was still the “missus” in her own house. Lilian confessed
to me that she liked the house very much; that she would not have had
it any different if she had been consulted, but her mother was so
anxious to have us remain at her house that she could not think of such
a thing as leaving her. If her mother could only be satisfied with the
new arrangement, she should be as happy as any mortal in existence.
I hoped for the best. I did not count upon any continued opposition
from Mrs. Oliphant, as it was so obviously for her interest to keep
the peace now that the Rubicon had been passed. If I had not been so
busily occupied in smoothing the path for Lilian, I should have made
myself very miserable over my failure to visit Springhaven. I had four
hundred dollars to pay on Monday, with nothing on hand to meet the
demand. It was an ugly subject, and I avoided it as much as possible
in my meditations, though it would often flash upon me. I could not
disappoint Tom Flynn.
I took an early walk on Sunday morning, and invited Tom to drop in upon
us to dinner that day, which he did. He was delighted to see Lilian in
her new home, and congratulated me privately upon the happy issue of
the difficulty. In the afternoon Mr. Oliphant called. We showed him all
over the house, and the old gentleman appeared to be in raptures. Then
Bertha and Ellen came, and they visited every part of the new mansion,
expressing their entire satisfaction with all the arrangements.
After church, Tom called again, for he never staid away from service
for any reason, forenoon or afternoon. We sang psalm tunes till nine
o’clock in the evening, and truly home was home to me then, as it had
never been before. Bertha was a splendid singer, and I noticed that
Tom, who was very fond of music, appeared to be more interested in her
than I had ever before observed. He went home with her, and I ventured
to hope that my example would not be without its influence upon him.
When I went to the bank the next morning, Tom told me, in the most
careless manner in the world, that Bertha was a very pretty girl, and a
magnificent singer. Of course I agreed with him, but the sight of my
friend thrust upon me, more forcibly than any other consideration, the
ugly fact that I owed him four hundred dollars, due that day. I had not
the courage to ask him for further time. My honor, and more than that,
my pride, were involved. What could I do?
I might run down to Springhaven at night. No, I could not leave, for,
at church and elsewhere, we had invited all our friends to call upon
us, and I expected to see company every evening during the week. I must
be at home. The money must be paid. There was no possible way by which
I could honorably postpone it.
“What time to-day do you want that little matter of money I owe you,
Tom?” I asked of my friend.
“As soon after bank hours as convenient.”
“You shall have it at half-past two. I must go up the street for it,
and can’t leave very well before the bank closes.”
“All right; it will do at three,” added my obliging friend.
What odds would it make to me whether the time was fixed at two or
three? I was just as unable to pay it at one time as the other. A lucky
thought occurred to me. I could call upon my uncle, Captain Halliard,
who would no doubt be glad to redeem his credit with me by lending me
any reasonable sum I wanted. In a week or so I could find time to see
Aunt Rachel, and as I was her favorite, she would put me in funds.
The bank closed. I was in a tremor of anxiety. Before balancing my
cash, I hastened out to find my uncle. He was in the Insurance Office
as usual at this hour. I asked him a great many stupid questions about
indifferent matters, without daring to put the main question. He
actually appeared to have forgotten that he had insulted and offended
me. He was rather patronizing and stiff in his manner, and the result
of the interview was that I did not mention the matter nearest to
my heart. I was sure he would refuse if I did; and I could not be
humiliated for nothing.
I was in despair. My heart was in my throat. My pride revolted at the
