Well, I must go and meet my fate, I suppose.'
'What does Mr. Charteris want with more land?' said Hazel, 
arranging the torn flounce.
'O, to serve Rollo out, you know, for being so mean.'
'Is that it!' said Wych Hazel. 'How? I do not understand.'
'Why,' said Josephine, watching the door, which she expected 
would open to admit the rider of the bay horse whoever he might 
be, 'papa has a bit of land not worth much to him, just above Mr. 
Morton's ground that that pirate has bought; just above the mills. If 
Paul Charteris can get that, he will know what use to put it to. That 
will do, my dear, I dare say. I am awfully obliged for your care of 
my respectability.'
'What use?' said Hazel seriously. 'Here is one more tear'
'O I don't understand those things. Do you know what water power 
means?'
'Yes.'
'Wellif Paul Charteris gets that land,and if I marry John 
Charteris he willhe'll cut off the water power. I don't know what 
it means, nor how he'll do it; but Mr. Rollo's mills will stop. And 
in that case, somebody at home will hate Paul Charteris! Well, 
she'd better have stood by me then.'
The young lady detached herself at last, with a kiss to Wych 
Hazel, and bowled away in her little basket-wagon.
CHAPTER VII.
THE EMERALD.
Hazel let her see herself out from the door of the drawing room, 
and then stood still in the middle of the floor with a hand on each 
side of her face. Not however considering the land question just 
then. She had seen Mr. Rollo but three times for a whole year,so 
ran the first thought. And she had not seen him at all, since the 
other night,so chimed in the second. And these three days of 
sleep and unconsciousness had confused the universe to that 
degree, that whether the world was round or triangular or square 
might be called a nicely balanced question. Had the bay horse 
stopped?then where was his rider?
Hazel darted out of a side door, and stood still to consider. Walked 
slowly along for a step or two, (flying about did not just agree with 
her to-day) then took her way to the red room, entering 
noiselessly; also by a side door. Blushing as if she had not done 
her duty in that respect the other day, and so had large arrears to 
make up; but not losing the delicate look even so.
'How do you do, Mr. Rollo?' she said softly, and holding out her 
hand,rather, it must be confessed, across a great easy chair 
which stood in the way. He had been making up the fire when she 
came in, and had looked up and let the tongs drop just before she 
spoke. Rollo was cool enough however to see the easy chair and 
come round it; but his greeting was grave and wordless. Perhaps 
he too remembered that she had not seen him since the other night. 
At any rate, anxiety and sympathy and infinite tenderness had 
more to express than could be put into words, for the power of 
words is limited. When he did speak, it was a simple demand to 
know how she did? 'Very well,' she said, softly as before.
'Is it very well?' he said earnestly. 'And how has it been these three 
days?'
'OI have been sleepy. As perhaps you heard,' she said, with the 
pretty curl of her lips.
He looked at her a minute, then suddenly releasing her, turned 
away to the fire and picked up his tongs again. 'I wish you would 
do something to comfort me!' he exclaimed. And the strong grey 
eyes were full of tears.
Hazel gave him an extremely astonished look, which went away, 
and came again, and once more came back, growing very wistful. 
She moved a step nearer to him, then stood still.
'What is it, Mr. Rollo?' she said with one of her sweet intonations, 
which was certainly 'comfort' so far as it went. 'What am I to do? I 
mean'she added timidly, 'what have I done?'for it was greatly 
Hazel's habit to somehow charge things back upon herself. But 
Rollo mended the fire with scrupulous exactness, put it in perfect 
order, set up his tongs; and then stood by the mantel-piece, leaning 
his elbows there and looking down at his work. Hazel watched 
him, at first with shy swift glances, then, as he did not look up, her 
look became more steady. What was he thinking of? It must be 
something she had done,something which he had just heard of, 
perhaps,some wild piece of mischief or thoughtlessness 
executed last summer or in the spring. Was he wondering whether 
he could ever bring her into order, and make her 'stand?'was he 
meditating the form of some new promise for her to take? winding 
in the ends of free action into a new knot which she was to draw 
tight? But (so circumstances do alter cases) it did not terrify her 
much, if he was; what did try her, was to see him stand there 
wearing such a face, and to feel that in some way she was the 
cause of it. So she stood looking at him, not quite knowing all 
there was in her own face the while; and began to feel tired, and 
moved a soft step back again, and rested her hand on the great 
chair.
'Mr. Rollo'she ventured,'you never used to mind telling me of 
anywaysof mine, which you did not like; orthingsI had 
done. And I suppose I can bear it just as well now. Though that is 
not saying much, I am afraid.'
At her first word he had looked up, and when she had finished, 
came and put her into the big chair and sat down beside it. She 
dared not look at him now; his eyes were snapping with fun.
'What is all this?' he said. 'What do you want me to tell you, 
Wych?'
'I thought Nothing,' she said rather hastily retreating within 
herself again. 'But I did not quite understand you, Mr. Rollo.'
'What do you consider the proper thing to do, when you do not 
understand me?'
A little inarticulate sound seemed to say that the course might vary 
in different cases. 'Generally,' said Hazel, 'I wait and puzzle it out 
by myself.'
'I would always like to help you.'
She laughed a little, shyly, as if asking help were quite another 
matter, especially about unknown things. But pondering this one a 
minuteit looked so harmless,out it came, in Hazel's usual 
abrupt fashion.
'What you said about "comfort" Mr. Rollo,I did not suppose you 
had ever wanted comfort in your life.'
'Didn't you?' He did not want much just now!
'Well, what did you mean?'
'You suppose that I have been in a contented state of mind all 
summer, for instance?'
'The point in hand is, why you are less contented to-day,' said 
Hazel preserving her gravity.
'What made you faint at Gyda's?and why have you slept three 
whole days since?' he said gravely. 'You had better not bring it up, 
Wych, or I shall want comfort again.'
'Othese three days?' said Hazel. 'I have just been having my own 
way; as I told Mr. Falkirk; and it has agreed with me splendidly. It 
was no doing of mine, to send for Dr. Marylandbut Byo always 
fidgets over me.'
'And the fainting?and the walk over the hill? over rough and 
smooth, where your little feet must have had a hard time of it;
and you laid it up against me?'
What had Gyda told him? Not that, for that was not true. But 
what? Hazel's head drooped lower.
'Mr. Rollo,' she said seriously, 'if you do not cure yourself of your 
habit of making statements, some day you will acquire the habit of 
making mistakes.'
'No, I shall not,' he said coolly. 'You will not let me.'
If that were one, Hazel made no attempt to correct it; having no 
mind just then to deal with any of his mistakes, in any shape; 
remembering too exactly what some of them had been. So she sat 
very still, looking down at the two small folded hands, and 
wondered to herself if Mr. Rollo had cross-questioned Gyda? if he 
meant to cross-question her?and if he did, where she should 
hide? That fainting, that walk across the hill!even now, with 
three long days of oblivion between, and the sorrow and the doubt 
all pushed aside; even now, she could hardly bear the recollection; 
and just caught the deep sigh that was coming, and shut her lips 
tight, and kept it back.
And that was what had troubled him! The colour flitted and 
changed in her cheeks, in the sort of live way Wych Hazel's colour 
had, and then the brown eyes gave a swift sidelong glance, to see 
what the owner of the grey ones was about?
He was studying her, as if he had a mind to find out all her 
thoughts in their secret hiding-places. But his attention was 
diverted now to something in his fingers, which he was unfolding 
and unwrapping; and presently he took one of the little folded 
hands, the left one, and put upon the forefinger a ring set with a 
very large emerald. The ring fitted; the stone was superb. Rollo 
laid the little hand, so beringed, in his own palm, and looked at it 
there; then his eye met Hazel's with a bright, sweet, peculiar smile.
'We shall never misunderstand each other again, Wych! Shall we?'
It was queer, to see the colour recede and get out of sight, as if 
gathering strength for its vivid return. But Hazel did not look at 
him, nor at the ring, not at anything,did not see anything, 
probably, just then. She caught her breath a little, finding her 
words one by one
'But Inevermisunderstoodyou,' she said.
'Would you like to stand an examination on that point?'
Hazel considered a little.
'I am willing to hear anystatements.'
'I thought just now you objected to them. However, it will be 
necessary for me to make a good many, sooner or later, just to 
make sure that you know what you are about in marrying me. But 
to begin with this emerald.Do you know what it means?'
It did occur to the girl, as she went on a foray after her thoughts, 
that she had no immediate intention of marrying anybody! But to 
use her own words, that was not the point in hand.
'Means?' she repeated,which of all the five hundred and forty 
things that it meant did Mr. Rollo wish to have set forth!'But 
you are to make statementsnot ask questions,' she said.
'It is an old jewel that I have had reset for you. I preferred it to a 
diamond, because it is a finer stone than any diamond in my 
possession, and because of the meaning, as I said. In the 
description of John's vision in the Revelation, it is said "there was 
a rainbow round about the throne, in sight like to an emerald."In 
Ezekiel's vision the word is, "as the appearance of the bow that is 
in the cloud in the day of rain." '
Partly shielding her face with her other hand, Hazel sat studying 
the ring, her eyes intent and grave and wide open as a child's.
'What does the rainbow mean?' he asked.
'It was a promise against desolationat first,' she said slowly; very 
unconsciously betraying what already the emerald was to her.
'The promise was against desolationthe bow was the sign for the 
faithfulness of the promiser. Where is your Bible?'
He went on, talking purposely to let Hazel find her composure, for 
he saw she was scarcely able to take her part in any conversation. 
So he went on. He knew she was listening.
'Do you see?the rainbow "like to an emerald"the rainbow 
"round about the throne,"that is the same as, "thy faithfulness 
round about thee," "O Lord,
 who is like unto thee, or to thy 
faithfulness round about thee!" So that is what the emerald 
means;faithfulness. First, your faith, and mine; and then, the 
strength and repose of that other faithfulness, which is round us 
both; in whichwe will both walk, Hazel, shall we not?'
He could not tell what she was thinking of. Not of him, apparently, 
for the look on the face was far away, as if thought had followed 
his words quite out of sight; yet more to something past than 
towards other things to come. So leaning her head on her hand she 
sat, and thenstill full of her thoughtlooked up at him, the same 
child's look of intentness, with words all ready on her lips.
'Then in those days,' she began But then came the sudden 
recollection of whom she was speaking to, and what a stranger he 
was, and that he was not a stranger at all; with probably some 
quick realization of what she was going to say; for the scarlet 
flushed up all over her face again, and her head went down on her 
hand, and she was silent.
'What "in those days?"I want the rest of it.'
'O, the rest of it is more than you think,' said Hazel. 'And it is a 
great way off. I should have to take you miles and miles. And I 
would rathernot.'
He smiled at her, seeing the beautiful shyness that did not separate 
her from him, but only put such a bloom on the fruitsuch a 
fragrance in the flower. He was content. The freedom and 
fearlessness of older affection would come in time, and it would be 
pleasant to see it come. He would not hurry her; indeed, as he once 
had told her he never asked for what he could not have, so neither 
did he care for what was enforced in the giving. Better a free smile 
than a kiss bestowed to order. He saw now that she was hardly 
ready for many things he had it in his heart to say. He could wait. 
The readiness was there, only latent. He played with the hand and 
the ring while he was thinking these things.
But now all through the old house rang out the sweet bugle call; 
signal for luncheon. No bells, as has been remarked, were heard at 
Chickaree. Just a moment's hesitation came over the young 
mistress, with visions of Dingee and possibilities of Mr. Falkirk, 
and one glance at her ring. Then she turned to Mr. Rollo, giving 
her timid invitation as she rose up. 'You will come?' she said,
and flitted off quick to lead the way, having no sort of mind to go 
in state. Rollo followed more slowly, smiling to himself.
'Do you often have company from the cottage at this time?' he 
inquired when he had again caught up with Wych Hazel in the 
dining room.
'Sometimesbut I gave Mr. Falkirk such a talk at breakfast that I 
shall hardly see him again before dinner. Dingee, where is the 
coffee? You know Mr. Rollo never touches chocolate.'
'Know dat sartain,' said Dingee; 'but Mas' Rollo come in so'
'Go fetch the coffee,' said Hazel, cutting him short.
Rollo remarked as he seated himself at the table, that he 'didn't feel 
as if he could stand Mr. Falkirk to-day.'
'He is very much the same as on most days,' said Hazel. 'I thought 
you always rather enjoyed "standing" him, Mr. Rollo?'
'It is becoming necessary for me to make so many statements,' said 
Rollo, 'that I am getting puzzled. I am very sorry for Mr. Falkirk. 
What sort of a talk did you give him?'
'Mr. Falkirk was so uncommonly glad to see me, that I should have 
been all sugar and cream if he had not beset me with business. As 
it was, I am afraid Iwasn't.'
'Not my business?'
'Your business? The mills?'
'Our business, then.'
'Hush!No! I have not got any,' said Hazel, whose spirits and 
daring were beginning to stir just a little bit once more, though she 
felt a little frightened at herself when the words were out. 'Mr. 
Falkirk wanted to know my sovereign pleasure about retaking the 
house we had last winter.'
'I am very sorry for Mr. Falkirk!' Rollo repeated gravely. 'Do you 
thinkby and by, when we have been married a year or two, and 
he is accustomed to it,we could get him to come and make home 
with us!'
Hazel looked at him for a second, as if he took her breath away; 
but then she looked at nothing elseor did not see it, which came 
to the same thing,for some time. Dingee appeared with baskets 
and bouquets, after the old fashion, which had grown to be an 
established one at Chickaree; and his mistress looked at them and 
ordered them away, and read the cards, and did not know what 
names she read. But in all the assortment of beauties there was 
never a rose one bit sweeter or fresher than the face that bent down 
over them.
CHAPTER VIII.
ACORNS AND ACORN-CUPS.
One afternoon, a day or two later, Rollo had begged for a walk in 
the woods; proposing that they should 'begin to get acquainted 
with each other.' The trees were beginning to shew crimson and 
gold and brown and purple, and the October light wove all hues 
into one regal drapery of nature, not richer than it was harmonious. 
The warm air was spicy; pines and hemlocks gave out resinous 
sweetness, and ferns and lichens and mosses and other wild things 
lent their wild wood flavour. It was rare in the Chickaree woods 
that day. Fallen leaves rustled under foot, squirrels chattered in the 
branches, partridges whirred away. Down through the shadow and 
the light they went, those two, talking irregularly of all sorts of 
things. Rollo was skilled in all wild wood lore and very fond of it. 
He could talk deliciously on this theme, and he did; telling Wych 
Hazel about trees and woodwork and hunter's sports and 
experiences, and then of lichens and the rocks they grew on.
Into the depths of the ravine they plunged, and then over a ridge 
into another; away from paths and roads and the possibility of 
wheels and riders. Then Rollo found a mossy dry bank where 
Wych Hazel might sit down and rest, with her back against the 
stem of a red oak. He roved about gathering acorns under the wide 
spreading boughs of the tree, and finally came and threw himself 
down at her feet.
'This is pleasant,' he said, looking along the brown slope, brown 
with mosses and fallen leaves, on which the wonderful light came 
so richly and so tenderly. 'This is pleasant! Is the sense of 
possession a strong one with you?'
'I love my woodsdearly! I never had much elsethat was my 
ownto care about.'
'I believe it is strong in me. I can enjoy other people's thingsbut I 
think I like them better when they are my own. I fancy it is a man's 
weakness.'
'What did you mean by "beginning to get acquainted?" ' said 
Hazel, from under the protecting shadow of her broad hat, and 
with her mind so full of unanswered questions that it seemed as if 
some of them must come out, even if they did get her into 
difficulties. 'I thought you thought you knew me pretty 
thoroughly.'
He rolled himself over on the bank, so that he could look up at her 
comfortably, and answered laughing,
'What did you think about me?'
'O I knew about you,' said Hazel.
'How long ago?'
'Different things at different times. Mr. Rollo,'with a little blush 
and hesitation,'will you tell me how you knew the size of my 
finger?'
'Let me look at it.' And he took the little hand, tried the ring up and 
down the finger, kissed it, and finally let it go.
'It fits' was all his remark.
If that is the way you are always ready to help me!Hazel 
thought. But as no such idea could venture out, and as the next 
question that stood ready was altogether too much "in line," a 
squirrel up in the tree had it all to himself for a few minutes. Rollo 
waited for the next question to come, but as it tarried he remarked 
quietly,
'You may remember, I had a glove of yours in my possession.'
'You. Where did you get it?'
'I picked it up. I have often done that for ladies' gloves;but I 
never kept one before.'
'You picked it up?' Hazel repeated slowly. 'I never lose my gloves. 
And you are not one of those silly people who steal them. Where 
did you pick it up, Mr. Rollo?'
A sort of shadow crossed his face, as he answered, 'One nightin 
the woodswhere it was a mere little point of light in the gloom.'
'O!' she said eagerly, looking up,'did you? that night? I 
remember. And you kept it. Then, Mr. Rollo?' The soft, 
surprised intonation of the last three words left them anything but 
incoherent.
'Well?' said he smiling.
'I wish I had known you had it. That glove gave me a great deal of 
trouble.'
'Why?'
'I was so much afraid it had got into the wrong hands. But when 
was this done?' she said, eyes and words going back to the ring 
again. 'Not sincethe other day?'
'Hardly! No. It was done last winter.' And Rollo's eyes flashed and 
laughed at her, a kind of soft lightning. Hazel laughed the least bit 
too, in return; but then her head went down as low as it gracefully 
could, and under the shadow of her broad hat she questioned.
Had she betrayed herself then, to him? What has she said? what 
had she done, that night? Her face rested on her hand in the very 
attitude of perplexity.
'Come,' said Rollo, 'you are finding out a good deal about me that 
you did not know before. You had better go on.'
'Did you buy up the whole Hollow?' said Hazel abruptly. 'All the 
way from the mills up to Gyda'sMrs. Boërresen'scottage?'
'No,' said Rollo, with a somewhat surprised recognition of the 
change of subjects; 'not yet. I have obtained possession only of the 
mills which were held by Morton himself. Those are the two 
cotton mills, and one of the woollen mills, which had lately 
reverted to him from the closing of the lease term and the inability 
of the former lessee to make any agreement for a new one. Further 
down the Hollow below me, lie the woollen mills of Paul 
Charteris.'
'And there is nothing above you yet, but the water and the land?'
'No. Nor like to be. The head of the valley is owned by Gov. 
Powder; and he has neither means nor inclination to do anything 
with it. It would be better for me to own it, though. Why, 
Hazel?'with a smile.
'Why had you better own it?'
'I want to get control of the whole Hollow as fast as I can; and 
then, I want to keep the control.'
'Well, but why don't you then?' said Hazel. 'What is the use of 
waiting?'
'I am not ready to build more mills yet. And there are other 
reasons, Hazel. Mr. Falkirk thinks I am jeopardizing my money. I 
do not think so, nor intend it. I believe in the long run I shall 
prosper. But for the present, and for awhile, I shall be at a 
disadvantage, it may be; because I am paying larger wages and 
receiving less profits than my neighbours, and I must keep capital 
free to bear me and my workmen out through the time of trialif 
it is to come. I mean never to have so much capital embarked in 
the mills, that I should have nothing to carry my hands and myself 
through a dead calm. You see' Rollo continued with again a 
smile,'being a careful navigator, I mean to carry the wind in my 
pocket.'
Hazel followed his words with attentive eyes as well as ears, and 
then went off into a brown study, with her chin on her hand.
'Well,' said Rollo, 'what is all this catechism for?'
'It is good practice,' she said, coming out of her abstraction with a 
laugh. 'I suppose you never knew before that there are two sides to 
a catechism?'
'Go on,' said Rollo. 'This is the beginning.'
'Beginningof what?'
'My catechism.'
'It is the end of it, for the present. But it seems to me, Mr. Rollo,
that is, I know it seems to you that I am talking great nonsense,' 
said Hazel breaking off again. 'Do you live up at Mrs. Boërresen's 
all the time?'
'For the most partexcept when I take a run down to my old 
home. But yes, I live at Gyda's.'
Unspoken questions came up in her eyes, but the words came not, 
and the eyes themselves went down to the crimson leaf she was 
thoughtfully drawing through her fingers. Rollo was silent too. 
Half sitting half lying on the leafy slope, he was busying himself 
with gathering together all the acorns and acorn-cups within his 
reach, examining them carefully one by one, and yet with a face 
that grew grave and became abstracted. More time passed than he 
knew probably, and Hazel had leisure to come out of her own 
abstractions and wonder at his. He did not look as if he 
remembered her presence; and yet a sensible woman has no 
objection to such indications in a man's face,even a man that 
loves her,as Hazel saw now; the grave purpose, the manly 
power, the thoughtful reserve. When at last he spoke and looked 
up, he was grave still.
'Have you any idea what you are to expect, Hazel?'
'Expect!'Then rather slowly, 'I believe I am not given to 
expectations.'
Then he smiled, but went on, 'Do you remember our talk that 
evening, last winter?'
'Of course.'
'Then you know in what service I have taken a commission?'
'I know.'
The quiet reserved voice seemed suddenly to lose its flexibility, 
and the crimson leaf came fluttering down from between her 
fingers.
'Are you content, Hazel? This fact will make my life more or less 
what people call singular.'
'But you were always called that,' she said without looking at him.
'Was I? It will be in another way now, Wych. How will you like 
it?'
'It? your life?very well, I suppose. If I like you,' she answered 
frankly, though in the same deliberate, abstracted way.
'But a soldier must obey orders, and has no choice. Are you 
content to go with me, upon such conditions?'
She turned upon him with eyes that seemed half inquiry, half 
surprise, her colour flitting back and forth in its vivid way. Then 
she rose suddenly to her feet, and setting her back against the tree 
and dropping her folded hands, stood looking down at him.
'Will you tell me exactly what you mean?' she said.
He rose too and stood beside her.
'It would never do for me to go one way, and my wife another.'
From under the shield of her drooping hat Hazel answered. 
'Suppose you have to meet that difficulty? Suppose I should say I 
am not content?'
'I will tell you, when you have said it.'
'No,' she said,'before. I am not content with anything till you do.'
'I should know in that case I had something to do, Hazel.'
'That is waiving the question.'
'No, for that something would beto make you willing.'
She unclasped her hands, putting behind her round the tree.
'How, Mr. Rollo?'
'I suppose'demurely'I should use my influence.'
'Twenty questions!' said Hazel. 'If I were not content, it would 
show that you had not much influence to use.'
'Are you content, Hazel?'
'How are you going to be singular?' she said abruptly.
'It's my turn'said he smiling, 'Hazel, are you content?'
'But you always ask suchunreasoningquestions.'
'Give me a reasonable answer."
'I am never anything but reasonable,' she said; 'it is you. You want 
to know if I am content to have you true to yourself,that is about 
the point, is it not? I think, on the whole, I am.'
'Will you help me?'
'So far as I can. But remember, that may not be very far.'
'I want your help a dozen ways at this moment.'
'Would you like to specify just a few?'
'You will see, as soon as you begin to get the run of what I am 
doing. I want counselI want coöperation. I want you to set me 
upon some of the woman's work that a man does not readily find 
out for himself. I am going to take you off to the Hollow as soon 
as you are quite strong enough.'
'I should think you would prefer to have me set myself upon the 
"woman's work," ' said Wych Hazel.
He smiled provokingly and observed that there was enough for her 
and him too.
'Well' said Hazel, with a certain postponement in her voice.
'Well, what?'
'There is no "what" in sight at present, Mr. Rollo.'
'I shall have to give you lessons severely! Look at that acorn.
Don't you like acorns?'
'Very much. But best, I think, in the spring, when they are 
struggling into life,shooting up and shooting down,shewing 
their possibilities. They are lovely then, with their little crumpled 
pink leaves.'
'That's the next stage. I want to make my life like that acorn as it is 
now, full rounded to its utmost fruitage. So many lives are like 
these empty cups,with the fruit lost.'
Hazel balanced one of the cups on the tip of her finger, 
thoughtfully. 'I suppose they are,' she said. 'Good for nothing but to 
look at.'
'Do you think such lives good to look at?'
'Sometimes pretty to look at. Just as this cup is, till you remember 
that it is empty.'
'Hazel, did you study the lesson I gave you last winter?'
'I have studied it. Yes.'
'And the result? '
Looking down at the olive moss tufts at her feet, she answered, 
slowly,
'I am notquitesure.'
'You can talk just as well if you are resting,' said Rollo; and he 
pulled her down to her place again, and threw himself on the bank 
beside her. 'Now go on,' he said, 'and tell me all about it.'
But "all about it" was a great deal. As the fireside musings, the 
long night watches, the fears and questionings and perplexities 
came up one by one and flung their shadows over her face, Hazel 
answered,
'No, I cannot do that.'
'I am the very person to help your perplexities.'
'But that is assuming you know what they are!'
'Never mind. You will find it is rue. What makes the confusion, 
Wych?'
The voice was a temptation; manly and clear, and thrilled through 
with a hidden tenderness in the last words. Rollo was not studying 
her face, but piling up his acorns on the ground between them.
'Everything helped make it.'
'Yes. Well?'
'It was not "well" at all,' said Hazel. 'I do not like tangles. And this 
was unmitigated. I could not pull out one single smooth thread, 
and present it for your inspection, Mr. Rollo.'
'Unpractical,' said Rollo. 'Make some statement of what you do 
know.'
'Statements are not precisely in my line,' said Hazel. 'And I am not 
the least in the habit of telling all I know.'
'Hitherto.'
Hazel did not immediately answer. She sat watching the heap of 
acorns and the hand that was arranging them, a quiet smile upon 
her lips. What had she said to Josephine about "diamonds from a 
hand that you do not love"?whereas even acorns, from a hand 
that
With a sudden scarlet flush she turned away, and bending down on 
the other side, began to gather mosses on her own account.
'Come, Hazel,' said her companion'the tangle has got to be 
encountered, and I think we shall go into it most safely together.'
'I could not tell you,' she said, 'and you could not tell me. Nobody 
but oneself can disentangle "why" and "whether" and "what".'
Rollo cast a quick glance up at her, which probably brought him 
all the intelligence he wanted; for he only remarked audaciously 
that she 'would know better some day.'
'I could not make you understand, Mr. Rollo. And unless you 
understood, you would just think there could not be room in my 
head for a single spark of sense.'
'You don't know what I think of your head. Wellif you see a 
little shoot of confidence in me starting up in your mind, 
encourage it, Hazel!'
'I shall never see it, Mr. Rollo.'
'Nor encourage it, of course. WellI am in a bad way.'
'Things pass the acorn stage, you know,' she said, laughing a little.
'Yes. Do you remember my having once had the honour to remark 
to you, that I objected to be treated as an old guardian?'
'No,' said Hazel,'you asked me if I expected to do it. But perhaps 
that meant the same thing in those days.'
'Perhaps it did. What do you think of it in these days?'
Hazel made a sudden transition.
'Will you like to come and go chestnutting in these woods, Mr. 
Rollo? The Powders all say that I promised them such a day, 
though I am sure I do not remember it.'
'I don't remember it,' said Rollo lazily.
'As you were not here when I am said to have made the promise, I 
do not see how you should. But it is needful I should ask you, or 
Mr. Falkirk will askas he did once before upon you non-
appearanceif you have offended me.'
'Is the day fixed?'
'No. But they say I have promised.'
'Then there's no help for it, I know. Hazelwhen you and I had a 
ride home in the dark one night, a year ago, did I misunderstand 
you then?'
Silence, instant and deep. Hazel took some time to frame her 
answer.
'What did you understand?'
The supreme flash of Rollo's eyes was instantly hidden by the 
lowered eyelids; and there was no laughter even in his voice as he 
answered,
'We understand each other now.'
They took their way home again through the glowing woodland 
and warm, still air, slowly and lingeringly. Near the house, Dane 
asked when Wych Hazel would go to the Hollow?
'The first day I can. Perhaps I had better wait one day more.'
'To-day is Friday. Yes, and I cannot be here to-morrow, either.'
'It is one of your busy days?'
'One of my busy days, and nights. It is my Exhibition evening. I 
cannot come here Sunday, either, Hazel. Monday you will be fit 
for a ride; and we will lunch with Gyda.'
'I was invited to go to the Reading Saturday night!' said Hazel with 
a half laugh, 'and I refused.'
'You had better. Don't you come, to complicate matters.'
'What should I complicate!I am the most straightforward person 
going.'
'I am getting too much distinguished society. But I want to talk to 
you about that institution, Hazel. I have a great deal to talk to you 
about. It is very singular that you have nothing to say to me.'
Arrived at the house, Dane lingered awhile in the red room, 
surveying its pretty tokens of pretty life, where among other things 
the two little Catskill sketches in dainty wooden frames hung upon 
the walls; but he refused an invitation to stay and dine with Mr. 
Falkirk.
'I cannot. Wych, I must get to the Hollow before the mills are 
closed.'
She gave him a grave, wistful look, but said nothing.
'I shall open a shorter cut, across fields, between here and the 
Hollow. It might save four or five miles. Gov. Powder owns some 
of the ground, the Kingslands, and I think one or two more, have 
the rest. I can easily manage it. Twelve miles is too far between 
you and me,' he added smiling.
'Yes.'
He stood looking at her; perhaps considering what the proper 
distance would be, or rather not be; and also probably thinking that 
it was too soon to trouble her with that question, for he presently 
came forward silently to bid her good-bye, and was off.
Miss Wych was still for a few minutes, till the last hoof-beat had 
died away, and then began slowly to mount the stairs. And as the 
tired little feet went on, one step at a time, of a sudden she burst 
forth into one of her scraps of songthe first time for many a long 
day. Apparently her talk with Josephine the other day, was still 
running in her head, for these were the words that came:
"His very tread has music in't,
"As he comes up the stair."
'I wonder what sort of stair-carpets they have in that part of 
Scotland!' she said to herself. And then suddenly realizing how 
very full-fledged her thoughts had become, Hazel blushed 
furiously, all alone as she was, and rushed up the remaining stairs 
so fast, that there was nothing for it but to drop into the nearest 
chair and take a lecture from Mrs. Bywank, before she was able to 
get ready for Mr. Falkirk and dinner.
The most remarkable thing about Miss Kennedy's dress lately, was 
that her fingers were so loaded with rings that the very glare would 
have hindered Mr. Falkirk's distinguishing any particular 
splendour.
CHAPTER IX.
ROLLO'S EXPERIMENT.
When people are just in the position, newly assumed, of these two, 
sixty hours of absence, it will be allowed, is a long time; and 
between Friday evening and Monday morning Dane could not 
make it shorter. Therefore nobody will be surprised that he made 
his appearance Monday morning in the breakfast room.
'You are early,' said Mr. Falkirk with an accent of some surprise, 
as he dropped his napkin and rose to take his guest's hand. Rollo 
picked up the napkin.
'It was necessary, if I meant to catch you at breakfast.'
'Wouldn't after breakfast do?'
'Well, no. I wanted a cup of coffee; and though no doubt my friend 
Mrs. Bywank would have supplied me later, I should have had to 
take it alone.'
'That is a very sensible way to get one's morning coffee,' returned 
the growler.
'You do not seem to act upon your principles.'
'I have a charge on my mind, you see. My coffee, if Gotham gave 
it to me, would always he flavoured with something worse than 
grounds. So I come here to get it clear. Have you brought 
business?'
'Not for you, sir, to-day.'
'Enough of your own in the Hollow by this time, haven't you?'
'Not so much but that I mean to have more.'
'More business?'
'If I can.'Then he asked Hazel how she did?
Hazel recollected in time that it would not be true to say that she 
felt "more like herself" to-day, and changed that form of reply into 
a demure 'Pretty well, I think.'
'Pretty well, I think,' Mr. Falkirk echoed. 'Nobody but one who has 
tried it can tell what it is to have the care of a witch. I have been 
trying for a week, Rollo, to discover when we are to go to town, 
and whether I am expected to secure a house; and it is past my 
power to find out, the one or the other.'
'You do not like Chickaree?' Rollo inquired with matter-of-fact 
composure.
'She don't, in winter.' It is to be remarked, that the elder guardian, 
completely thrown off his suspicions by the course of the past 
winter and summer, supposed himself indulging in safe 
pleasantries with the only one almost with whom he could venture 
them.
'My dear Mr. Falkirk!how can you say I dislike what I have 
never tried!' said Miss Wych.
'Can you inform me distinctly, Miss Hazel, whether you wish to 
try it?'
'Distinct information rather comes in the way of those vague 
desires which are supposed to beset me, sir.'
'I beg your pardon, Miss Hazel; I never supposed any such thing.'
'Well, sirI do not see why October need worry itself about 
December.'
'I do not see why it should,' chimed in Rollo lazily.
'Does it not, down in your Hollow?'
'Not at all.'
'What more work are you wishing for there?'
'I am thinkingby and byof building another mill.'
'Another mill!'Mr. Falkirk's surprise was evidently more than it 
was polite to shew.'You have not ground room, have you?'
'Not a present. I hope to be able to secure it. There is room, in the 
valley.'
'Then you expect your ventures to succeed?'
'Or I should not think of enlarging them.'
'But Charteris and others are underselling you now.'
'Yes.'
'And they will.'
'While they are able.'
'And what under heaven is the use and purpose of it all?' exclaimed 
Mr. Falkirk testily. 'I beg your pardonI know I am not your 
guardianbut what are you aiming to do?'
'Not to ruin myself. To do that would spoil my plan. There are 
several thousand people living in that Hollow, Mr. Falkirk.'
'I suppose so.'
'Do you know how they are living?'
'No. What business is it of mine?'
'Miss Kennedy is going this morning to see what business it is of 
mine.'
Mr. Falkirk pushed himself away from the table and presently left 
the room. The others mounted without delay and set off.
'When have you been on Jeannie before?' Rollo asked, when they 
had got quit of the Chickaree woods and were indulging in a good 
trot along the level country road.
'Not since the end of last November,the day before I went to 
town.'
'My little Wych!' said Rollo, riding close up alongside,'what sort 
of a year has this been?'
'Very mixed up. Part of the winter was pleasant.'
'The summer?'
'I suppose that was pleasant tooonly I did not enjoy it.'
'Why didn't you come home?'
'The old story,' she said laughing and colouring,'I did not want 
to come. Mr. Falkirk thinks I never have any other reason to give.'
'Might be a very good reason to give Mr. Falkirk. Now, do you 
know what you are going to look at?'
'Mill people and mill work.'
'In detail; but in general you are going to see what my friend Mrs. 
Powder calls "my experiment." A problem of life-work, if you 
will; the question being, what can be done with fifteen hundred 
human beings accustomed only to poverty and hard work, to bring 
them to their nearest attainment of happy and useful living.'
'Fifteen hundred unhappy people!'Hazel repeated. 'I should think 
everybody would be trying experiments.'
'You rode through the place once. You remember how they 
looked. Tell me what you would have tried first?'
'I remember. But I hardly knew what it meant, then.' There was a 
little emphasis upon the last word.
'Go on, and say what would occur to you to do.'
'Ah, you will only laugh and call me unpractical,' said Hazel 
smiling; 'but the first thing I should do, Mr. Rollo, would be to 
beautify the places where they live. I believe it does people good 
to bejust a littlesmothered in roses.'
'I believe in roses; but they were not the first thing I set about. For 
two reasons; they take time, and also they have to be in a certain 
degree prepared for. The old dwellings could not be beautified; I 
had to build new ones; but also, Hazel, and this is a more 
important thing, the desire for something better than the people 
knew, had to be excited. Roses are not a substitute for bread,to 
the uncultured mind,' he added smiling; 'and men that are ground 
in the dust of poverty need first of all to get ambition enough to 
raise their heads and wash their faces. The very first thing I did, 
was to make the pay sufficient for decent living. That gave them 
from the beginning some confidence in me, too.'
'Yes, of course. O that, I knew, you had done. I heard of it last 
winter.'
'Then in that connection there is another thing. I am beginning now 
to make the pay as far as it is possible follow the work done, 
instead of the time. I had to wait a good while before attempting 
this, because I could trust nobody to tell me or advise me, and 
before I could be competent to form my own judgment in the 
matter I had a great deal of study to do. And practice,' he added 
smiling. 'As far as practicable, I will have the pay dependent on the 
quantity and quality of the work. This stimulates effort and 
ministers to the sense of character, and also obviates several 
troublesome questions which are apt to come up between 
employers and employed. The people are not enlightened enough 
to like any change which they do not immediately feel for the 
better; but they will come into it, for they must; and then they will 
like it.'
Hazel looked amused. 'Is not that last clause an addition to the old 
code?' she said. 'The first two sound natural.'
Rollo smiled a little, but vouchsafed no further notice. 'Now,' he 
went on, 'to pursue your plan, I am building new cottages; and I 
shall leave the rose-planting to you.'
'In-doors and out.Do you know, Mr. Rollo, I should think you 
had done the very best possible preparatory work by getting it into 
the peoples' heads that somebody cared whether they had roses, or 
clean faces, or anything else. And there I can speak from 
experience.'
'What sort of experience?'
'Because I never had anybody to care,' said Hazel. 'So I know how 
it feels.'
'Never had anybody to carewhat?' said Dane, riding close up 
alongside and looking earnestly for the answer.
'What I did, or how I dressed, or what became of me generally,' 
said Hazel. 'O I suppose Mr. Falkirk cared, but he never shewed it 
in any way to do me a bit of good. There was no one I could 
please, and no one I could displease; and so while people thought I 
had everything, I used to feel all alone, and thought I had nothing.'
Rollo was silent and grave.
'I knewvery soonthat you cared,' she said, with the pretty soft 
fall of eyes and voice. 'I mean, cared for my sake.'
'Very soon?' said Rollo. 'How soon, you Wych?'
'Other people were thinking of what I was, and you of what you 
thought I ought to be; and it was very easy to feel the difference.'
'When?' said Rollo, scarce controlling a smile, 'When did you see 
it first, I mean?'
'I think you began to criticise me, almost as soon as I got here.'
'And then, Hazel, how long was it before you began to forgive 
me?'
'O there was no forgiveness in question,' she said, passing his 
words with a blush. 'The criticising shewed a little bit of real 
interest. And that is what I had been as hungry for, as your mill 
people for more tangible things. But I did not mean that I 
thoughtI did not think about it at all. Not much.'
'Not allnot much,' said Rollo. 'No. Only a little. I understand. 
And what should I have got for my pains, if I had pressed the final 
question a year ago?'
'I did not think a little,' said Hazel, looking flushed and 
downcast,'only when you made me. And when people talked.'
Rollo enjoyed the sight a minute or two, and then proposed a run. 
He kept it a very gentle run, however, and when they came to a 
talking pace again resumed the subject of the mills.
'How much have you thought about it?' he asked. 'What next 
would you propose?'
'Does your increase of wages let the children stay at home when 
they are sick? and the little ones when they are well?'
'I admit no children under twelve nor employ any families that 
send their little children to other mills. That was one of the first 
steps I took; to settle that. The other thing is somewhat less easy to 
manage. I cannot make a rule. There would be endless shamming. 
The only way is to keep a careful supervision myself, and send 
home any child manifestly unfit for work. In such a case I keep on 
the wages for one week; at the end of that time the child comes, or 
doesn't come. If the latter, I know something is very much amiss, 
and look after the case accordingly. And this matter, as yet, I can 
trust to nobody but myself.'
'You can trust me,' said Hazel. 'In such matters women's eyes are 
surer than men's.'
'At twelve miles distance?' said he smiling.
'You are going to open a short cut. And even twelve miles, upon 
Jeannie, is not much.'
Rollo rode a few yards in silence.
'She is your property, of course you know?'
'Thank you, Mr. Rollo!' Hazel said softly. She was smoothing out 
some locks of Jeannie's mane, which the wind and the run had 
tossed out of place.
'Take care!' said her companion. 'I shall not take thanks from you 
in that shape. Here is the Hollow. I am glad Charteris is at this 
end.'
The banks of the dell had risen up about them and the mill 
buildings began to appear. Paul Charteris' woollen mills came first, 
brown and dismal as such things are apt to look, surrounded with 
their straggling settlement of poor cottages. It was a glorious 
October day; fair over-head and glowing over all the earth; if 
atmosphere and colouring could have put a blessing upon misery 
the houses of Mill Hollow would have owned the blessing. But the 
clear golden light shewed the bare walls, the barren ground, the 
dingy, forlorn hopelessness of everything, in the full blank 
nakedness of the facts.
Slowly the riders walked their horses now, looking at it all. Slowly 
passed one mill after another with its straggling tenements for toil 
and discontent. Getting beyond these, and higher up the valley, 
new signs began to appear. Mills are mills indeed, and own no 
kindred with beauty. But along the slopes of the Hollow, behind 
and between the mill buildings, were tokens of life. Numbers of 
new cottages were risen, and rising, on the upper slopes of the 
banks, the new village even flowing over the crest of the hill upon 
the level land above. Most were of gray stone; some were frame 
houses painted white; each one that was finished having a space of 
ground enclosed within a little paling fence. You could see 
indications of change everywhere. Here some of the old huts were 
taking down, leaving room for new erections; there, certain old 
rubbish heaps had disappeared; the people they met seemed to 
wear a different air and to step more alertly. Further up the valley 
and close upon the roadway Hazel could see a building going up 
which was clearly no mill cottage; it was much too large. The 
cottages indeed were of different sizes, to suit different families 
and different tastes; this however was another affair. Low stone 
walls of considerably extent were getting a roof put on; the 
windows were large and many; yet it had hardly the look of a 
church. Builders and teamsters were at work over all this part of 
the valley.
The bright eyes had been very intent, the tokens of excitement in 
either cheek growing deeper and more defined; clearly, for Wych 
Hazel, Morton Hollow had changed names. But absorbed in her 
scrutiny she had given neither word nor look to anything but the 
Hollow.
Now she suddenly turned to her companion.
'What is that for?' she said. 'A church?'
'Not exactly. But given better wages and houses to live inwhat is 
the next step you would take in dealing with a very ignorant 
community, whom you wished to raise to a higher level?'
'Teach them, I suppose. Then is that your reading-room, Mr. 
Rollo?'
'HithertoI will shew you where I read,' he said, suddenly 
breaking off. And dismounting, he came to Wych Hazel and took 
her down, ordering the horses forward to the bend. They went then 
to the door of one of the mills near at hand and Rollo whistled. The 
door opening, they were admitted to a great, long, low room, at the 
back of which bales were stowed from floor to ceiling. A large 
space was more or less filled with bales standing about; evidently 
on the move, either to be hoisted away for use or stowed up like 
the rest for keeping.
'Here is my place,' said Rollo. 'When Saturday night comes, all is 
made snug as the deck of a frigate; this part of the floor is cleared 
and supplied with benches; I have lamps hung from the rafters, and 
yonder I stand on a cotton bale. Do you know what I do it for?
not mount a cotton bale, I mean, but what for I have gone into the 
whole thing?'
'I suppose I know,' said Hazel. 'To identify yourself, in a sort, with 
