forty years one wants a change.”
“You are very kind, sir;” and this faithful servant dropped another
curtsey and seemed disposed to retire. But she lingered a moment and
gave a timid, joyless smile. Newman was disappointed, and his fingers
stole half shyly half irritably into his waistcoat-pocket. His informant
noticed the movement. “Thank God I am not a Frenchwoman,” she said. “If
I were, I would tell you with a brazen simper, old as I am, that if you
please, monsieur, my information is worth something. Let me tell you so
in my own decent English way. It is worth something.”
“How much, please?” said Newman.
“Simply this: a promise not to hint to the countess that I have said
these things.”
“If that is all, you have it,” said Newman.
“That is all, sir. Thank you, sir. Good day, sir.” And having once
more slid down telescope-wise into her scanty petticoats, the old woman
departed. At the same moment Madame de Cintré came in by an opposite
door. She noticed the movement of the other portière and asked Newman
who had been entertaining him.
“The British female!” said Newman. “An old lady in a black dress and a
cap, who curtsies up and down, and expresses herself ever so well.”
“An old lady who curtsies and expresses herself?... Ah, you mean poor
Mrs. Bread. I happen to know that you have made a conquest of her.”
“Mrs. Cake, she ought to be called,” said Newman. “She is very sweet.
She is a delicious old woman.”
Madame de Cintré looked at him a moment. “What can she have said to you?
She is an excellent creature, but we think her rather dismal.”
“I suppose,” Newman answered presently, “that I like her because she has
lived near you so long. Since your birth, she told me.”
“Yes,” said Madame de Cintré, simply; “she is very faithful; I can trust
her.”
Newman had never made any reflections to this lady upon her mother and
her brother Urbain; had given no hint of the impression they made upon
him. But, as if she had guessed his thoughts, she seemed careful to
avoid all occasion for making him speak of them. She never alluded to
her mother’s domestic decrees; she never quoted the opinions of the
marquis. They had talked, however, of Valentin, and she had made no
secret of her extreme affection for her younger brother. Newman listened
sometimes with a certain harmless jealousy; he would have liked to
divert some of her tender allusions to his own credit. Once Madame
de Cintré told him with a little air of triumph about something that
Valentin had done which she thought very much to his honor. It was a
service he had rendered to an old friend of the family; something more
“serious” than Valentin was usually supposed capable of being. Newman
said he was glad to hear of it, and then began to talk about something
which lay upon his own heart. Madame de Cintré listened, but after a
while she said, “I don’t like the way you speak of my brother Valentin.”
 Hereupon Newman, surprised, said that he had never spoken of him but
kindly.
“It is too kindly,” said Madame de Cintré. “It is a kindness that costs
nothing; it is the kindness you show to a child. It is as if you didn’t
respect him.”
“Respect him? Why I think I do.”
“You think? If you are not sure, it is no respect.”
“Do you respect him?” said Newman. “If you do, I do.”
“If one loves a person, that is a question one is not bound to answer,”
 said Madame de Cintré.
“You should not have asked it of me, then. I am very fond of your
brother.”
“He amuses you. But you would not like to resemble him.”
“I shouldn’t like to resemble anyone. It is hard enough work resembling
one’s self.”
“What do you mean,” asked Madame de Cintré, “by resembling one’s self?”
“Why, doing what is expected of one. Doing one’s duty.”
“But that is only when one is very good.”
“Well, a great many people are good,” said Newman. “Valentin is quite
good enough for me.”
Madame de Cintré was silent for a short time. “He is not good enough for
me,” she said at last. “I wish he would do something.”
“What can he do?” asked Newman.
“Nothing. Yet he is very clever.”
“It is a proof of cleverness,” said Newman, “to be happy without doing
anything.”
“I don’t think Valentin is happy, in reality. He is clever, generous,
brave; but what is there to show for it? To me there is something sad in
his life, and sometimes I have a sort of foreboding about him. I don’t
know why, but I fancy he will have some great trouble--perhaps an
unhappy end.”
“Oh, leave him to me,” said Newman, jovially. “I will watch over him and
keep harm away.”
One evening, in Madame de Bellegarde’s salon, the conversation had
flagged most sensibly. The marquis walked up and down in silence, like a
sentinel at the door of some smooth-fronted citadel of the proprieties;
his mother sat staring at the fire; young Madame de Bellegarde worked at
an enormous band of tapestry. Usually there were three or four visitors,
but on this occasion a violent storm sufficiently accounted for the
absence of even the most devoted habitués. In the long silences the
howling of the wind and the beating of the rain were distinctly audible.
Newman sat perfectly still, watching the clock, determined to stay till
the stroke of eleven, but not a moment longer. Madame de Cintré had
turned her back to the circle, and had been standing for some time
within the uplifted curtain of a window, with her forehead against the
pane, gazing out into the deluged darkness. Suddenly she turned round
toward her sister-in-law.
“For Heaven’s sake,” she said, with peculiar eagerness, “go to the piano
and play something.”
Madame de Bellegarde held up her tapestry and pointed to a little white
flower. “Don’t ask me to leave this. I am in the midst of a masterpiece.
My flower is going to smell very sweet; I am putting in the smell with
this gold-colored silk. I am holding my breath; I can’t leave off. Play
something yourself.”
“It is absurd for me to play when you are present,” said Madame de
Cintré. But the next moment she went to the piano and began to
strike the keys with vehemence. She played for some time, rapidly and
brilliantly; when she stopped, Newman went to the piano and asked her
to begin again. She shook her head, and, on his insisting, she said, “I
have not been playing for you; I have been playing for myself.” She went
back to the window again and looked out, and shortly afterwards left the
room. When Newman took leave, Urbain de Bellegarde accompanied him, as
he always did, just three steps down the staircase. At the bottom stood
a servant with his overcoat. He had just put it on when he saw Madame de
Cintré coming towards him across the vestibule.
“Shall you be at home on Friday?” Newman asked.
She looked at him a moment before answering his question. “You don’t
like my mother and my brother,” she said.
He hesitated a moment, and then he said softly, “No.”
She laid her hand on the balustrade and prepared to ascend the stairs,
fixing her eyes on the first step.
“Yes, I shall be at home on Friday,” and she passed up the wide dusky
staircase.
On the Friday, as soon as he came in, she asked him to please to tell
her why he disliked her family.
“Dislike your family?” he exclaimed. “That has a horrid sound. I didn’t
say so, did I? I didn’t mean it, if I did.”
“I wish you would tell me what you think of them,” said Madame de
Cintré.
“I don’t think of any of them but you.”
“That is because you dislike them. Speak the truth; you can’t offend
me.”
“Well, I don’t exactly love your brother,” said Newman. “I remember now.
But what is the use of my saying so? I had forgotten it.”
“You are too good-natured,” said Madame de Cintré gravely. Then, as if
to avoid the appearance of inviting him to speak ill of the marquis, she
turned away, motioning him to sit down.
But he remained standing before her and said presently, “What is of much
more importance is that they don’t like me.”
“No--they don’t,” she said.
“And don’t you think they are wrong?” Newman asked. “I don’t believe I
am a man to dislike.”
“I suppose that a man who may be liked may also be disliked. And my
brother--my mother,” she added, “have not made you angry?”
“Yes, sometimes.”
“You have never shown it.”
“So much the better.”
“Yes, so much the better. They think they have treated you very well.”
“I have no doubt they might have handled me much more roughly,” said
Newman. “I am much obliged to them. Honestly.”
“You are generous,” said Madame de Cintré. “It’s a disagreeable
position.”
“For them, you mean. Not for me.”
“For me,” said Madame de Cintré.
“Not when their sins are forgiven!” said Newman. “They don’t think I am
as good as they are. I do. But we shan’t quarrel about it.”
“I can’t even agree with you without saying something that has a
disagreeable sound. The presumption was against you. That you probably
don’t understand.”
Newman sat down and looked at her for some time. “I don’t think I really
understand it. But when you say it, I believe it.”
“That’s a poor reason,” said Madame de Cintré, smiling.
“No, it’s a very good one. You have a high spirit, a high standard; but
with you it’s all natural and unaffected; you don’t seem to have stuck
your head into a vise, as if you were sitting for the photograph of
propriety. You think of me as a fellow who has had no idea in life but
to make money and drive sharp bargains. That’s a fair description of me,
but it is not the whole story. A man ought to care for something else,
though I don’t know exactly what. I cared for money-making, but I never
cared particularly for the money. There was nothing else to do, and
it was impossible to be idle. I have been very easy to others, and to
myself. I have done most of the things that people asked me--I don’t
mean rascals. As regards your mother and your brother,” Newman added,
“there is only one point upon which I feel that I might quarrel with
them. I don’t ask them to sing my praises to you, but I ask them to let
you alone. If I thought they talked ill of me to you, I should come down
upon them.”
“They have let me alone, as you say. They have not talked ill of you.”
“In that case,” cried Newman, “I declare they are only too good for this
world!”
Madame de Cintré appeared to find something startling in his
exclamation. She would, perhaps, have replied, but at this moment
the door was thrown open and Urbain de Bellegarde stepped across the
threshold. He appeared surprised at finding Newman, but his surprise
was but a momentary shadow across the surface of an unwonted joviality.
Newman had never seen the marquis so exhilarated; his pale, unlighted
countenance had a sort of thin transfiguration. He held open the
door for someone else to enter, and presently appeared old Madame de
Bellegarde, leaning on the arm of a gentleman whom Newman had not seen
before. He had already risen, and Madame de Cintré rose, as she always
did before her mother. The marquis, who had greeted Newman almost
genially, stood apart, slowly rubbing his hands. His mother came forward
with her companion. She gave a majestic little nod at Newman, and then
she released the strange gentleman, that he might make his bow to her
daughter.
“My daughter,” she said, “I have brought you an unknown relative, Lord
Deepmere. Lord Deepmere is our cousin, but he has done only to-day what
he ought to have done long ago--come to make our acquaintance.”
Madame de Cintré smiled, and offered Lord Deepmere her hand. “It is very
extraordinary,” said this noble laggard, “but this is the first time
that I have ever been in Paris for more than three or four weeks.”
“And how long have you been here now?” asked Madame de Cintré.
“Oh, for the last two months,” said Lord Deepmere.
These two remarks might have constituted an impertinence; but a glance
at Lord Deepmere’s face would have satisfied you, as it apparently
satisfied Madame de Cintré, that they constituted only a naïveté. When
his companions were seated, Newman, who was out of the conversation,
occupied himself with observing the newcomer. Observation, however,
as regards Lord Deepmere’s person; had no great range. He was a small,
meagre man, of some three and thirty years of age, with a bald head,
a short nose and no front teeth in the upper jaw; he had round, candid
blue eyes, and several pimples on his chin. He was evidently very shy,
and he laughed a great deal, catching his breath with an odd, startling
sound, as the most convenient imitation of repose. His physiognomy
denoted great simplicity, a certain amount of brutality, and probable
failure in the past to profit by rare educational advantages. He
remarked that Paris was awfully jolly, but that for real, thorough-paced
entertainment it was nothing to Dublin. He even preferred Dublin to
London. Had Madame de Cintré ever been to Dublin? They must all come
over there some day, and he would show them some Irish sport. He always
went to Ireland for the fishing, and he came to Paris for the new
Offenbach things. They always brought them out in Dublin, but he
couldn’t wait. He had been nine times to hear La Pomme de Paris. Madame
de Cintré, leaning back, with her arms folded, looked at Lord Deepmere
with a more visibly puzzled face than she usually showed to society.
Madame de Bellegarde, on the other hand, wore a fixed smile. The marquis
said that among light operas his favorite was the Gazza Ladra. The
marquise then began a series of inquiries about the duke and the
cardinal, the old countess and Lady Barbara, after listening to which,
and to Lord Deepmere’s somewhat irreverent responses, for a quarter of
an hour, Newman rose to take his leave. The marquis went with him three
steps into the hall.
“Is he Irish?” asked Newman, nodding in the direction of the visitor.
“His mother was the daughter of Lord Finucane,” said the marquis; “he
has great Irish estates. Lady Bridget, in the complete absence of
male heirs, either direct or collateral--a most extraordinary
circumstance--came in for everything. But Lord Deepmere’s title is
English and his English property is immense. He is a charming young
man.”
Newman answered nothing, but he detained the marquis as the latter was
beginning gracefully to recede. “It is a good time for me to thank you,”
 he said, “for sticking so punctiliously to our bargain, for doing so
much to help me on with your sister.”
The marquis stared. “Really, I have done nothing that I can boast of,”
 he said.
“Oh don’t be modest,” Newman answered, laughing. “I can’t flatter myself
that I am doing so well simply by my own merit. And thank your mother
for me, too!” And he turned away, leaving M. de Bellegarde looking after
him.
CHAPTER XIV
The next time Newman came to the Rue de l’Université he had the good
fortune to find Madame de Cintré alone. He had come with a definite
intention, and he lost no time in executing it. She wore, moreover, a
look which he eagerly interpreted as expectancy.
“I have been coming to see you for six months, now,” he said, “and I
have never spoken to you a second time of marriage. That was what you
asked me; I obeyed. Could any man have done better?”
“You have acted with great delicacy,” said Madame de Cintré.
“Well, I’m going to change now,” said Newman. “I don’t mean that I am
going to be indelicate; but I’m going to go back to where I began. I
am back there. I have been all round the circle. Or rather, I have
never been away from here. I have never ceased to want what I wanted
then. Only now I am more sure of it, if possible; I am more sure of
myself, and more sure of you. I know you better, though I don’t know
anything I didn’t believe three months ago. You are everything--you are
beyond everything--I can imagine or desire. You know me now; you must
know me. I won’t say that you have seen the best--but you have seen the
worst. I hope you have been thinking all this while. You must have seen
that I was only waiting; you can’t suppose that I was changing. What
will you say to me, now? Say that everything is clear and reasonable,
and that I have been very patient and considerate, and deserve my
reward. And then give me your hand. Madame de Cintré do that. Do it.”
“I knew you were only waiting,” she said; “and I was very sure this day
would come. I have thought about it a great deal. At first I was half
afraid of it. But I am not afraid of it now.” She paused a moment, and
then she added, “It’s a relief.”
She was sitting on a low chair, and Newman was on an ottoman, near her.
He leaned a little and took her hand, which for an instant she let him
keep. “That means that I have not waited for nothing,” he said. She
looked at him for a moment, and he saw her eyes fill with tears. “With
me,” he went on, “you will be as safe--as safe”--and even in his ardor
he hesitated a moment for a comparison--“as safe,” he said, with a kind
of simple solemnity, “as in your father’s arms.”
Still she looked at him and her tears increased. Then, abruptly, she
buried her face on the cushioned arm of the sofa beside her chair, and
broke into noiseless sobs. “I am weak--I am weak,” he heard her say.
“All the more reason why you should give yourself up to me,” he
answered. “Why are you troubled? There is nothing but happiness. Is that
so hard to believe?”
“To you everything seems so simple,” she said, raising her head. “But
things are not so. I like you extremely. I liked you six months ago, and
now I am sure of it, as you say you are sure. But it is not easy, simply
for that, to decide to marry you. There are a great many things to think
about.”
“There ought to be only one thing to think about--that we love each
other,” said Newman. And as she remained silent he quickly added, “Very
good, if you can’t accept that, don’t tell me so.”
“I should be very glad to think of nothing,” she said at last; “not to
think at all; only to shut both my eyes and give myself up. But I can’t.
I’m cold, I’m old, I’m a coward; I never supposed I should marry again,
and it seems to me very strange I should ever have listened to you.
When I used to think, as a girl, of what I should do if I were to marry
freely, by my own choice, I thought of a very different man from you.”
“That’s nothing against me,” said Newman with an immense smile; “your
taste was not formed.”
His smile made Madame de Cintré smile. “Have you formed it?” she asked.
And then she said, in a different tone, “Where do you wish to live?”
“Anywhere in the wide world you like. We can easily settle that.”
“I don’t know why I ask you,” she presently continued. “I care very
little. I think if I were to marry you I could live almost anywhere.
You have some false ideas about me; you think that I need a great many
things--that I must have a brilliant, worldly life. I am sure you are
prepared to take a great deal of trouble to give me such things. But
that is very arbitrary; I have done nothing to prove that.” She paused
again, looking at him, and her mingled sound and silence were so sweet
to him that he had no wish to hurry her, any more than he would have
had a wish to hurry a golden sunrise. “Your being so different, which
at first seemed a difficulty, a trouble, began one day to seem to me a
pleasure, a great pleasure. I was glad you were different. And yet if I
had said so, no one would have understood me; I don’t mean simply to my
family.”
“They would have said I was a queer monster, eh?” said Newman.
“They would have said I could never be happy with you--you were too
different; and I would have said it was just because you were so
different that I might be happy. But they would have given better
reasons than I. My only reason”--and she paused again.
But this time, in the midst of his golden sunrise, Newman felt the
impulse to grasp at a rosy cloud. “Your only reason is that you love
me!” he murmured with an eloquent gesture, and for want of a better
reason Madame de Cintré reconciled herself to this one.
Newman came back the next day, and in the vestibule, as he entered the
house, he encountered his friend Mrs. Bread. She was wandering about in
honorable idleness, and when his eyes fell upon her she delivered him
one of her curtsies. Then turning to the servant who had admitted him,
she said, with the combined majesty of her native superiority and of
a rugged English accent, “You may retire; I will have the honor of
conducting monsieur.” In spite of this combination, however, it appeared
to Newman that her voice had a slight quaver, as if the tone of command
were not habitual to it. The man gave her an impertinent stare, but he
walked slowly away, and she led Newman upstairs. At half its course the
staircase gave a bend, forming a little platform. In the angle of
the wall stood an indifferent statue of an eighteenth-century nymph,
simpering, sallow, and cracked. Here Mrs. Bread stopped and looked with
shy kindness at her companion.
“I know the good news, sir,” she murmured.
“You have a good right to be first to know it,” said Newman. “You have
taken such a friendly interest.”
Mrs. Bread turned away and began to blow the dust off the statue, as if
this might be mockery.
“I suppose you want to congratulate me,” said Newman. “I am greatly
obliged.” And then he added, “You gave me much pleasure the other day.”
She turned around, apparently reassured. “You are not to think that I
have been told anything,” she said; “I have only guessed. But when I
looked at you, as you came in, I was sure I had guessed aright.”
“You are very sharp,” said Newman. “I am sure that in your quiet way you
see everything.”
“I am not a fool, sir, thank God. I have guessed something else beside,”
 said Mrs. Bread.
“What’s that?”
“I needn’t tell you that, sir; I don’t think you would believe it. At
any rate it wouldn’t please you.”
“Oh, tell me nothing but what will please me,” laughed Newman. “That is
the way you began.”
“Well, sir, I suppose you won’t be vexed to hear that the sooner
everything is over the better.”
“The sooner we are married, you mean? The better for me, certainly.”
“The better for everyone.”
“The better for you, perhaps. You know you are coming to live with us,”
 said Newman.
“I’m extremely obliged to you, sir, but it is not of myself I was
thinking. I only wanted, if I might take the liberty, to recommend you
to lose no time.”
“Whom are you afraid of?”
Mrs. Bread looked up the staircase and then down and then she looked at
the undusted nymph, as if she possibly had sentient ears. “I am afraid
of everyone,” she said.
“What an uncomfortable state of mind!” said Newman. “Does ‘everyone’
wish to prevent my marriage?”
“I am afraid of already having said too much,” Mrs. Bread replied. “I
won’t take it back, but I won’t say any more.” And she took her way up
the staircase again and led him into Madame de Cintré’s salon.
Newman indulged in a brief and silent imprecation when he found that
Madame de Cintré was not alone. With her sat her mother, and in the
middle of the room stood young Madame de Bellegarde, in her bonnet and
mantle. The old marquise, who was leaning back in her chair with a hand
clasping the knob of each arm, looked at him fixedly without moving.
She seemed barely conscious of his greeting; she appeared to be musing
intently. Newman said to himself that her daughter had been announcing
her engagement and that the old lady found the morsel hard to swallow.
But Madame de Cintré, as she gave him her hand gave him also a look by
which she appeared to mean that he should understand something. Was it
a warning or a request? Did she wish to enjoin speech or silence? He
was puzzled, and young Madame de Bellegarde’s pretty grin gave him no
information.
“I have not told my mother,” said Madame de Cintré abruptly, looking at
him.
“Told me what?” demanded the marquise. “You tell me too little; you
should tell me everything.”
“That is what I do,” said Madame Urbain, with a little laugh.
“Let me tell your mother,” said Newman.
The old lady stared at him again, and then turned to her daughter. “You
are going to marry him?” she cried, softly.
“Oui, ma mère,” said Madame de Cintré.
“Your daughter has consented, to my great happiness,” said Newman.
“And when was this arrangement made?” asked Madame de Bellegarde. “I
seem to be picking up the news by chance!”
“My suspense came to an end yesterday,” said Newman.
“And how long was mine to have lasted?” said the marquise to her
daughter. She spoke without irritation; with a sort of cold, noble
displeasure.
Madame de Cintré stood silent, with her eyes on the ground. “It is over
now,” she said.
“Where is my son--where is Urbain?” asked the marquise. “Send for your
brother and inform him.”
Young Madame de Bellegarde laid her hand on the bell-rope. “He was to
make some visits with me, and I was to go and knock--very softly, very
softly--at the door of his study. But he can come to me!” She pulled
the bell, and in a few moments Mrs. Bread appeared, with a face of calm
inquiry.
“Send for your brother,” said the old lady.
But Newman felt an irresistible impulse to speak, and to speak in a
certain way. “Tell the marquis we want him,” he said to Mrs. Bread, who
quietly retired.
Young Madame de Bellegarde went to her sister-in-law and embraced her.
Then she turned to Newman, with an intense smile. “She is charming. I
congratulate you.”
“I congratulate you, sir,” said Madame de Bellegarde, with extreme
solemnity. “My daughter is an extraordinarily good woman. She may have
faults, but I don’t know them.”
“My mother does not often make jokes,” said Madame de Cintré; “but when
she does they are terrible.”
“She is ravishing,” the Marquise Urbain resumed, looking at her
sister-in-law, with her head on one side. “Yes, I congratulate you.”
Madame de Cintré turned away, and, taking up a piece of tapestry,
began to ply the needle. Some minutes of silence elapsed, which were
interrupted by the arrival of M. de Bellegarde. He came in with his
hat in his hand, gloved, and was followed by his brother Valentin, who
appeared to have just entered the house. M. de Bellegarde looked around
the circle and greeted Newman with his usual finely-measured courtesy.
Valentin saluted his mother and his sisters, and, as he shook hands with
Newman, gave him a glance of acute interrogation.
“Arrivez donc, messieurs!” cried young Madame de Bellegarde. “We have
great news for you.”
“Speak to your brother, my daughter,” said the old lady.
Madame de Cintré had been looking at her tapestry. She raised her eyes
to her brother. “I have accepted Mr. Newman.”
“Your sister has consented,” said Newman. “You see after all, I knew
what I was about.”
“I am charmed!” said M. de Bellegarde, with superior benignity.
“So am I,” said Valentin to Newman. “The marquis and I are charmed. I
can’t marry, myself, but I can understand it. I can’t stand on my head,
but I can applaud a clever acrobat. My dear sister, I bless your union.”
The marquis stood looking for a while into the crown of his hat. “We
have been prepared,” he said at last “but it is inevitable that in face
of the event one should experience a certain emotion.” And he gave a
most unhilarious smile.
“I feel no emotion that I was not perfectly prepared for,” said his
mother.
“I can’t say that for myself,” said Newman, smiling but differently from
the marquis. “I am happier than I expected to be. I suppose it’s the
sight of your happiness!”
“Don’t exaggerate that,” said Madame de Bellegarde, getting up and
laying her hand upon her daughter’s arm. “You can’t expect an honest old
woman to thank you for taking away her beautiful, only daughter.”
“You forgot me, dear madame,” said the young marquise demurely.
“Yes, she is very beautiful,” said Newman.
“And when is the wedding, pray?” asked young Madame de Bellegarde; “I
must have a month to think over a dress.”
“That must be discussed,” said the marquise.
“Oh, we will discuss it, and let you know!” Newman exclaimed.
“I have no doubt we shall agree,” said Urbain.
“If you don’t agree with Madame de Cintré, you will be very
unreasonable.”
“Come, come, Urbain,” said young Madame de Bellegarde, “I must go
straight to my tailor’s.”
The old lady had been standing with her hand on her daughter’s arm,
looking at her fixedly. She gave a little sigh, and murmured, “No, I did
not expect it! You are a fortunate man,” she added, turning to Newman,
with an expressive nod.
“Oh, I know that!” he answered. “I feel tremendously proud. I feel like
crying it on the housetops,--like stopping people in the street to tell
them.”
Madame de Bellegarde narrowed her lips. “Pray don’t,” she said.
“The more people that know it, the better,” Newman declared. “I haven’t
yet announced it here, but I telegraphed it this morning to America.”
“Telegraphed it to America?” the old lady murmured.
“To New York, to St. Louis, and to San Francisco; those are the
principal cities, you know. To-morrow I shall tell my friends here.”
“Have you many?” asked Madame de Bellegarde, in a tone of which I am
afraid that Newman but partly measured the impertinence.
“Enough to bring me a great many hand-shakes and congratulations. To
say nothing,” he added, in a moment, “of those I shall receive from your
friends.”
“They will not use the telegraph,” said the marquise, taking her
departure.
M. de Bellegarde, whose wife, her imagination having apparently taken
flight to the tailor’s, was fluttering her silken wings in emulation,
shook hands with Newman, and said with a more persuasive accent than the
latter had ever heard him use, “You may count upon me.” Then his wife
led him away.
Valentin stood looking from his sister to our hero. “I hope you both
reflected seriously,” he said.
Madame de Cintré smiled. “We have neither your powers of reflection nor
your depth of seriousness; but we have done our best.”
“Well, I have a great regard for each of you,” Valentin continued. “You
are charming young people. But I am not satisfied, on the whole, that
you belong to that small and superior class--that exquisite group
composed of persons who are worthy to remain unmarried. These are rare
souls; they are the salt of the earth. But I don’t mean to be invidious;
the marrying people are often very nice.”
“Valentin holds that women should marry, and that men should not,” said
Madame de Cintré. “I don’t know how he arranges it.”
“I arrange it by adoring you, my sister,” said Valentin ardently.
“Good-bye.”
“Adore someone whom you can marry,” said Newman. “I will arrange that
for you some day. I foresee that I am going to turn apostle.”
Valentin was on the threshold; he looked back a moment with a face
that had turned grave. “I adore someone I can’t marry!” he said. And he
dropped the portière and departed.
“They don’t like it,” said Newman, standing alone before Madame de
Cintré.
“No,” she said, after a moment; “they don’t like it.”
“Well, now, do you mind that?” asked Newman.
“Yes!” she said, after another interval.
“That’s a mistake.”
“I can’t help it. I should prefer that my mother were pleased.”
“Why the deuce,” demanded Newman, “is she not pleased? She gave you
leave to marry me.”
“Very true; I don’t understand it. And yet I do ‘mind it,’ as you say.
You will call it superstitious.”
“That will depend upon how much you let it bother you. Then I shall call
it an awful bore.”
“I will keep it to myself,” said Madame de Cintré, “It shall not bother
you.” And then they talked of their marriage-day, and Madame de Cintré
assented unreservedly to Newman’s desire to have it fixed for an early
date.
Newman’s telegrams were answered with interest. Having dispatched but
three electric missives, he received no less than eight gratulatory
bulletins in return. He put them into his pocket-book, and the next time
he encountered old Madame de Bellegarde drew them forth and displayed
them to her. This, it must be confessed, was a slightly malicious
stroke; the reader must judge in what degree the offense was venial.
Newman knew that the marquise disliked his telegrams, though he could
see no sufficient reason for it. Madame de Cintré, on the other hand,
liked them, and, most of them being of a humorous cast, laughed at them
immoderately, and inquired into the character of their authors. Newman,
now that his prize was gained, felt a peculiar desire that his triumph
should be manifest. He more than suspected that the Bellegardes were
keeping quiet about it, and allowing it, in their select circle, but a
limited resonance; and it pleased him to think that if he were to take
the trouble he might, as he phrased it, break all the windows. No man
likes being repudiated, and yet Newman, if he was not flattered, was
not exactly offended. He had not this good excuse for his somewhat
aggressive impulse to promulgate his felicity; his sentiment was of
another quality. He wanted for once to make the heads of the house of
Bellegarde feel him; he knew not when he should have another chance.
He had had for the past six months a sense of the old lady and her son
looking straight over his head, and he was now resolved that they should
toe a mark which he would give himself the satisfaction of drawing.
“It is like seeing a bottle emptied when the wine is poured too slowly,”
 he said to Mrs. Tristram. “They make me want to joggle their elbows and
force them to spill their wine.”
To this Mrs. Tristram answered that he had better leave them alone
and let them do things in their own way. “You must make allowances for
them,” she said. “It is natural enough that they should hang fire a
little. They thought they accepted you when you made your application;
but they are not people of imagination, they could not project
themselves into the future, and now they will have to begin again. But
they are people of honor, and they will do whatever is necessary.”
Newman spent a few moments in narrow-eyed meditation. “I am not hard on
them,” he presently said, “and to prove it I will invite them all to a
festival.”
“To a festival?”
“You have been laughing at my great gilded rooms all winter; I will show
you that they are good for something. I will give a party. What is the
grandest thing one can do here? I will hire all the great singers from
the opera, and all the first people from the Théâtre Français, and I
will give an entertainment.”
“And whom will you invite?”
“You, first of all. And then the old lady and her son. And then everyone
among her friends whom I have met at her house or elsewhere, everyone
who has shown me the minimum of politeness, every duke of them and his
wife. And then all my friends, without exception: Miss Kitty Upjohn,
Miss Dora Finch, General Packard, C. P Hatch, and all the rest.
And everyone shall know what it is about, that is, to celebrate my
engagement to the Countess de Cintré. What do you think of the idea?”
“I think it is odious!” said Mrs. Tristram. And then in a moment: “I
think it is delicious!”
The very next evening Newman repaired to Madame de Bellegarde’s salon,
where he found her surrounded by her children, and invited her to honor
his poor dwelling by her presence on a certain evening a fortnight
distant.
The marquise stared a moment. “My dear sir,” she cried, “what do you
want to do to me?”
“To make you acquainted with a few people, and then to place you in a
very easy chair and ask you to listen to Madame Frezzolini’s singing.”
“You mean to give a concert?”
“Something of that sort.”
“And to have a crowd of people?”
“All my friends, and I hope some of yours and your daughter’s. I want to
celebrate my engagement.”
It seemed to Newman that Madame de Bellegarde turned pale. She opened
her fan, a fine old painted fan of the last century, and looked at the
picture, which represented a fête champêtre--a lady with a guitar,
singing, and a group of dancers round a garlanded Hermes.
“We go out so little,” murmured the marquis, “since my poor father’s
death.”
“But my dear father is still alive, my friend,” said his wife. “I
am only waiting for my invitation to accept it,” and she glanced with
amiable confidence at Newman. “It will be magnificent; I am very sure of
that.”
I am sorry to say, to the discredit of Newman’s gallantry, that this
lady’s invitation was not then and there bestowed; he was giving all his
attention to the old marquise. She looked up at last, smiling. “I can’t
think of letting you offer me a fête,” she said, “until I have offered
you one. We want to present you to our friends; we will invite them all.
We have it very much at heart. We must do things in order. Come to me
about the 25th; I will let you know the exact day immediately. We shall
not have anyone so fine as Madame Frezzolini, but we shall have some
very good people. After that you may talk of your own fête.” The old
lady spoke with a certain quick eagerness, smiling more agreeably as she
went on.
It seemed to Newman a handsome proposal, and such proposals always
touched the sources of his good-nature. He said to Madame de Bellegarde
that he should be glad to come on the 25th or any other day, and that it
mattered very little whether he met his friends at her house or at his
own. I have said that Newman was observant, but it must be admitted that
on this occasion he failed to notice a certain delicate glance which
passed between Madame de Bellegarde and the marquis, and which we may
presume to have been a commentary upon the innocence displayed in that
latter clause of his speech.
Valentin de Bellegarde walked away with Newman that evening, and when
they had left the Rue de l’Université some distance behind them he said
reflectively, “My mother is very strong--very strong.” Then in answer to
an interrogative movement of Newman’s he continued, “She was driven to
the wall, but you would never have thought it. Her fête of the 25th was
an invention of the moment. She had no idea whatever of giving a fête,
but finding it the only issue from your proposal, she looked straight
at the dose--excuse the expression--and bolted it, as you saw, without
winking. She is very strong.”
“Dear me!” said Newman, divided between relish and compassion. “I don’t
care a straw for her fête, I am willing to take the will for the deed.”
“No, no,” said Valentin, with a little inconsequent touch of family
pride. “The thing will be done now, and done handsomely.”
CHAPTER XV
Valentin de Bellegarde’s announcement of the secession of Mademoiselle
Nioche from her father’s domicile and his irreverent reflections upon
the attitude of this anxious parent in so grave a catastrophe, received
a practical commentary in the fact that M. Nioche was slow to seek
another interview with his late pupil. It had cost Newman some disgust
to be forced to assent to Valentin’s somewhat cynical interpretation of
the old man’s philosophy, and, though circumstances seemed to indicate
that he had not given himself up to a noble despair, Newman thought it
very possible he might be suffering more keenly than was apparent. M.
Nioche had been in the habit of paying him a respectful little visit
every two or three weeks and his absence might be a proof quite as much
of extreme depression as of a desire to conceal the success with which
he had patched up his sorrow. Newman presently learned from Valentin
several details touching this new phase of Mademoiselle Noémie’s career.
“I told you she was remarkable,” this unshrinking observer declared,
“and the way she has managed this performance proves it. She has had
other chances, but she was resolved to take none but the best. She did
you the honor to think for a while that you might be such a chance. You
were not; so she gathered up her patience and waited a while longer. At
last her occasion came along, and she made her move with her eyes wide
open. I am very sure she had no innocence to lose, but she had all her
respectability. Dubious little damsel as you thought her, she had kept
a firm hold of that; nothing could be proved against her, and she was
determined not to let her reputation go till she had got her equivalent.
About her equivalent she had high ideas. Apparently her ideal has been
satisfied. It is fifty years old, bald-headed, and deaf, but it is very
easy about money.”
“And where in the world,” asked Newman, “did you pick up this valuable
information?”
“In conversation. Remember my frivolous habits. In conversation with a
young woman engaged in the humble trade of glove-cleaner, who keeps a
small shop in the Rue St. Roch. M. Nioche lives in the same house, up
six pair of stairs, across the court, in and out of whose ill-swept
doorway Miss Noémie has been flitting for the last five years. The
little glove-cleaner was an old acquaintance; she used to be the friend
of a friend of mine, who has married and dropped such friends. I often
saw her in his society. As soon as I espied her behind her clear little
window-pane, I recollected her. I had on a spotlessly fresh pair of
gloves, but I went in and held up my hands, and said to her, ‘Dear
mademoiselle, what will you ask me for cleaning these?’ ‘Dear count,’
she answered immediately, ‘I will clean them for you for nothing.’ She
had instantly recognized me, and I had to hear her history for the last
six years. But after that, I put her upon that of her neighbors. She
knows and admires Noémie, and she told me what I have just repeated.”
A month elapsed without M. Nioche reappearing, and Newman, who every
morning read two or three suicides in the Figaro, began to suspect
that, mortification proving stubborn, he had sought a balm for his
wounded pride in the waters of the Seine. He had a note of M. Nioche’s
address in his pocket-book, and finding himself one day in the
quartier, he determined, in so far as he might, to clear up his
doubts. He repaired to the house in the Rue St. Roch which bore the
recorded number, and observed in a neighboring basement, behind a
dangling row of neatly inflated gloves, the attentive physiognomy of
Bellegarde’s informant--a sallow person in a dressing-gown--peering into
the street as if she were expecting that amiable nobleman to pass
again. But it was not to her that Newman applied; he simply asked of
the portress if M. Nioche were at home. The portress replied, as the
portress invariably replies, that her lodger had gone out barely
three minutes before; but then, through the little square hole of her
lodge-window taking the measure of Newman’s fortunes, and seeing them,
by an unspecified process, refresh the dry places of servitude to
occupants of fifth floors on courts, she added that M. Nioche would have
had just time to reach the Café de la Patrie, round the second corner
to the left, at which establishment he regularly spent his afternoons.
Newman thanked her for the information, took the second turning to
the left, and arrived at the Café de la Patrie. He felt a momentary
hesitation to go in; was it not rather mean to “follow up” poor old
Nioche at that rate? But there passed across his vision an image of a
haggard little septuagenarian taking measured sips of a glass of sugar
and water and finding them quite impotent to sweeten his desolation.
He opened the door and entered, perceiving nothing at first but a dense
cloud of tobacco smoke. Across this, however, in a corner, he presently
descried the figure of M. Nioche, stirring the contents of a deep
glass, with a lady seated in front of him. The lady’s back was turned
to Newman, but M. Nioche very soon perceived and recognized his visitor.
Newman had gone toward him, and the old man rose slowly, gazing at him
with a more blighted expression even than usual.
“If you are drinking hot punch,” said Newman, “I suppose you are not
dead. That’s all right. Don’t move.”
M. Nioche stood staring, with a fallen jaw, not daring to put out
his hand. The lady, who sat facing him, turned round in her place
and glanced upward with a spirited toss of her head, displaying the
agreeable features of his daughter. She looked at Newman sharply, to see
how he was looking at her, then--I don’t know what she discovered--she
said graciously, “How d’ ye do, monsieur? won’t you come into our little
corner?”
“Did you come--did you come after me?” asked M. Nioche very softly.
“I went to your house to see what had become of you. I thought you might
be sick,” said Newman.
“It is very good of you, as always,” said the old man. “No, I am not
well. Yes, I am seek.”
“Ask monsieur to sit down,” said Mademoiselle Nioche. “Garçon, bring a
chair.”
“Will you do us the honor to seat?” said M. Nioche, timorously, and
with a double foreignness of accent.
Newman said to himself that he had better see the thing out and he took
a chair at the end of the table, with Mademoiselle Nioche on his left
and her father on the other side. “You will take something, of course,”
 said Miss Noémie, who was sipping a glass of madeira. Newman said that
he believed not, and then she turned to her papa with a smile. “What an
honor, eh? he has come only for us.” M. Nioche drained his pungent
glass at a long draught, and looked out from eyes more lachrymose in
consequence. “But you didn’t come for me, eh?” Mademoiselle Noémie went
on. “You didn’t expect to find me here?”
Newman observed the change in her appearance. She was very elegant
and prettier than before; she looked a year or two older, and it was
noticeable that, to the eye, she had only gained in respectability.
She looked “lady-like.” She was dressed in quiet colors, and wore her
expensively unobtrusive toilet with a grace that might have come from
years of practice. Her present self-possession and aplomb struck
Newman as really infernal, and he inclined to agree with Valentin de
Bellegarde that the young lady was very remarkable. “No, to tell the
truth, I didn’t come for you,” he said, “and I didn’t expect to find
you. I was told,” he added in a moment “that you had left your father.”
“Quelle horreur!” cried Mademoiselle Nioche with a smile. “Does one
leave one’s father? You have the proof of the contrary.”
“Yes, convincing proof,” said Newman glancing at M. Nioche. The old man
caught his glance obliquely, with his faded, deprecating eye, and then,
lifting his empty glass, pretended to drink again.
“Who told you that?” Noémie demanded. “I know very well. It was M. de
Bellegarde. Why don’t you say yes? You are not polite.”
“I am embarrassed,” said Newman.
“I set you a better example. I know M. de Bellegarde told you. He knows
a great deal about me--or he thinks he does. He has taken a great deal
of trouble to find out, but half of it isn’t true. In the first place,
I haven’t left my father; I am much too fond of him. Isn’t it so, little
father? M. de Bellegarde is a charming young man; it is impossible to be
cleverer. I know a good deal about him too; you can tell him that when
you next see him.”
“No,” said Newman, with a sturdy grin; “I won’t carry any messages for
you.”
“Just as you please,” said Mademoiselle Nioche, “I don’t depend upon
you, nor does M. de Bellegarde either. He is very much interested in me;
he can be left to his own devices. He is a contrast to you.”
“Oh, he is a great contrast to me, I have no doubt” said Newman. “But I
don’t exactly know how you mean it.”
“I mean it in this way. First of all, he never offered to help me to a
dot and a husband.” And Mademoiselle Nioche paused, smiling. “I won’t
say that is in his favor, for I do you justice. What led you, by the
way, to make me such a queer offer? You didn’t care for me.”
“Oh yes, I did,” said Newman.
“How so?”
“It would have given me real pleasure to see you married to a
respectable young fellow.”
“With six thousand francs of income!” cried Mademoiselle Nioche. “Do
you call that caring for me? I’m afraid you know little about women. You
were not galant; you were not what you might have been.”
Newman flushed a trifle fiercely. “Come!” he exclaimed “that’s rather
strong. I had no idea I had been so shabby.”
Mademoiselle Nioche smiled as she took up her muff. “It is something, at
any rate, to have made you angry.”
Her father had leaned both his elbows on the table, and his head, bent
forward, was supported in his hands, the thin white fingers of which
were pressed over his ears. In his position he was staring fixedly at
the bottom of his empty glass, and Newman supposed he was not hearing.
Mademoiselle Noémie buttoned her furred jacket and pushed back her
chair, casting a glance charged with the consciousness of an expensive
appearance first down over her flounces and then up at Newman.
“You had better have remained an honest girl,” Newman said quietly.
M. Nioche continued to stare at the bottom of his glass, and his
daughter got up, still bravely smiling. “You mean that I look so much
like one? That’s more than most women do nowadays. Don’t judge me yet
awhile,” she added. “I mean to succeed; that’s what I mean to do. I
leave you; I don’t mean to be seen in cafés, for one thing. I can’t
think what you want of my poor father; he’s very comfortable now. It
isn’t his fault, either. Au revoir, little father.” And she tapped the
old man on the head with her muff. Then she stopped a minute, looking
at Newman. “Tell M. de Bellegarde, when he wants news of me, to come
and get it from me!” And she turned and departed, the white-aproned
waiter, with a bow, holding the door wide open for her.
M. Nioche sat motionless, and Newman hardly knew what to say to him. The
old man looked dismally foolish. “So you determined not to shoot her,
after all,” Newman said presently.
M. Nioche, without moving, raised his eyes and gave him a long, peculiar
look. It seemed to confess everything, and yet not to ask for pity, nor
to pretend, on the other hand, to a rugged ability to do without it. It
might have expressed the state of mind of an innocuous insect, flat
in shape and conscious of the impending pressure of a boot-sole, and
reflecting that he was perhaps too flat to be crushed. M. Nioche’s gaze
was a profession of moral flatness. “You despise me terribly,” he said,
in the weakest possible voice.
“Oh no,” said Newman, “it is none of my business. It’s a good plan to
take things easily.”
“I made you too many fine speeches,” M. Nioche added. “I meant them at
the time.”
“I am sure I am very glad you didn’t shoot her,” said Newman. “I was
afraid you might have shot yourself. That is why I came to look you up.”
 And he began to button his coat.
“Neither,” said M. Nioche. “You despise me, and I can’t explain to you.
I hoped I shouldn’t see you again.”
“Why, that’s rather shabby,” said Newman. “You shouldn’t drop your
friends that way. Besides, the last time you came to see me I thought
you particularly jolly.”
“Yes, I remember,” said M. Nioche musingly; “I was in a fever. I didn’t
know what I said, what I did. It was delirium.”
“Ah, well, you are quieter now.”
M. Nioche was silent a moment. “As quiet as the grave,” he whispered
softly.
“Are you very unhappy?”
M. Nioche rubbed his forehead slowly, and even pushed back his wig a
little, looking askance at his empty glass. “Yes--yes. But that’s an old
story. I have always been unhappy. My daughter does what she will with
me. I take what she gives me, good or bad. I have no spirit, and when
you have no spirit you must keep quiet. I shan’t trouble you any more.”
“Well,” said Newman, rather disgusted at the smooth operation of the old
man’s philosophy, “that’s as you please.”
M. Nioche seemed to have been prepared to be despised but nevertheless
he made a feeble movement of appeal from Newman’s faint praise. “After
all,” he said, “she is my daughter, and I can still look after her. If
she will do wrong, why she will. But there are many different
paths, there are degrees. I can give her the benefit--give her the
benefit”--and M. Nioche paused, staring vaguely at Newman, who began to
suspect that his brain had softened--“the benefit of my experience,” M.
Nioche added.
“Your experience?” inquired Newman, both amused and amazed.
“My experience of business,” said M. Nioche, gravely.
“Ah, yes,” said Newman, laughing, “that will be a great advantage to
her!” And then he said good-bye, and offered the poor, foolish old man
his hand.
M. Nioche took it and leaned back against the wall, holding it a moment
and looking up at him. “I suppose you think my wits are going,” he
said. “Very likely; I have always a pain in my head. That’s why I can’t
explain, I can’t tell you. And she’s so strong, she makes me walk as she
will, anywhere! But there’s this--there’s this.” And he stopped, still
staring up at Newman. His little white eyes expanded and glittered for a
moment like those of a cat in the dark. “It’s not as it seems. I haven’t
forgiven her. Oh, no!”
“That’s right; don’t,” said Newman. “She’s a bad case.”
“It’s horrible, it’s horrible,” said M. Nioche; “but do you want to know
the truth? I hate her! I take what she gives me, and I hate her
more. To-day she brought me three hundred francs; they are here in my
waistcoat pocket. Now I hate her almost cruelly. No, I haven’t forgiven
her.”
“Why did you accept the money?” Newman asked.
“If I hadn’t,” said M. Nioche, “I should have hated her still more.
That’s what misery is. No, I haven’t forgiven her.”
“Take care you don’t hurt her!” said Newman, laughing again. And with
this he took his leave. As he passed along the glazed side of the café,
on reaching the street, he saw the old man motioning the waiter, with a
melancholy gesture, to replenish his glass.
One day, a week after his visit to the Café de la Patrie, he called upon
Valentin de Bellegarde, and by good fortune found him at home. Newman
spoke of his interview with M. Nioche and his daughter, and said he
was afraid Valentin had judged the old man correctly. He had found the
couple hobnobbing together in all amity; the old gentleman’s rigor was
purely theoretic. Newman confessed that he was disappointed; he should
have expected to see M. Nioche take high ground.
“High ground, my dear fellow,” said Valentin, laughing; “there is
no high ground for him to take. The only perceptible eminence in M.
Nioche’s horizon is Montmartre, which is not an edifying quarter. You
can’t go mountaineering in a flat country.”
“He remarked, indeed,” said Newman, “that he has not forgiven her. But
she’ll never find it out.”
“We must do him the justice to suppose he doesn’t like the thing,”
 Valentin rejoined. “Mademoiselle Nioche is like the great artists whose
biographies we read, who at the beginning of their career have
suffered opposition in the domestic circle. Their vocation has not
been recognized by their families, but the world has done it justice.
Mademoiselle Nioche has a vocation.”
