of the pillows with which her mother has propped 
her; on the bright-colored shawl which has been 
thrown over her lie her pale hands loosely holding 
her shut fan. Her mother stands half across the 
parlor from her, and wistfully surveys her work, to 
see if some touch may not yet be added for the 
girl's comfort. 
Mrs. Wyatt : u Yes, my child. He will stay. 
He told your father he would stayi" 
Constance : " That 's very kind of him. He 's 
very good." 
Mrs. Wyatt, seating herself before her daughter : 
" Do you really wish him to stay ? Remember 
 
 
how weak you are, Constance. If you are taking 
anything upon yourself out of a mistaken sense 
of duty, of compunction, you are not kind to your 
poor father or to me. Not that I mean to re- 
proach you." 
Constance : " Oh, no. And I am not unkind to 
you in the way you think. I 'm selfish enough in 
wishing him to stay. I can't help wanting to see 
him again and again, it's so strange, so strange. 
All this past week, whenever I 've caught a glimpse 
of him, it 's been like an apparition ; and when- 
ever he has spoken, it has been like a ghost speak- 
ing. But I haven't been afraid since the first 
 
time. No, there 's been a dreary comfort in it ; 
you won't understand it ; I can't understand it my- 
self; but I know now why people are glad to see 
their dead in dreams. If the ghost went, there 
would be nothing." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Constance, you break my heart ! " 
Constance : " Yes, I know it ; it 's because I Ve 
none." She remains a little space without speak- 
ing, while she softly fingers the edges of the fan 
lying in her lap. " I suppose we shall become 
more acquainted, if he stays ? " 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Why, not necessarily, dear. You 
need know nothing more of him than you do now. 
He seems very busy, and not in the least inclined 
to intrude upon us. Your father thinks him a little 
odd, but very gentlemanly." 
Constance, dreamily : " I wonder what he would 
think if he knew that the man whom I would have 
given ray life did not find my love worth having? 
I suppose it was worthless ; but it seemed so 
much in the giving ; it was that deceived me. He 
was wiser. Oh, me ! " After a silence : " Mother, 
why was I so different from other girls ? " 
Mrs. Wyatt : " So different, Constance ? You 
were only different in being lovelier and better 
than others." 
Constance : " Ah, that 's the mistake ! If that 
were true, it could never have happened. Other 
girls, the poorest and plainest, are kept faith with , 
but I was left. There must have been something 
about me that made him despise me. Was I silly, 
mother ? Was I too bold, too glad to have him 
care for me ? I was so happy that I couldn't help 
showing it. May be that displeased him. I must 
 
have been dull and tiresome. And I suppose I 
was somehow repulsive, and at last he couldn't 
bear it any longer and had to break with me. Did 
I dress queerly ? I know I looked ridiculous at 
times ; and people laughed at me before him." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Oh, Constance, Constance ! Can't 
you understand that it was his unworthiness alone, 
his wicked heartlessness ? " 
Constance, with gentle slowness : " No, I can't 
understand that. It happened after we had learned 
to know each other so well. If he had been fickle, 
it would have happened long before that. It was 
something odious in me that he didn't see at first. 
I have thought it out. It seems strange now that 
people could ever have tolerated me." Desolately : 
" Well, they have their revenge." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Their revenge on you, Constance ? 
What harm did you ever do them, my poor child ? 
Oh, you mustn't let these morbid fancies over- 
come you. Where is our Constance that used to 
be, our brave, bright girl, that nothing could 
daunt, and nothing could sadden ? " 
Constance, sobbing : " Dead, dead ! " 
 
Mrs. Wyatt : " I can't understand ! You are so 
young still, and with the world all before you. 
Why will you let one man's baseness blacken it 
all and blight your young life so ? " Where is your 
pride, Constance ? " 
Constance : " Pride ? What have I to do with 
pride ? A thing like me ! " 
Mrs. Wyatt: "Oh, child, you're pitiless! It 
seems as if you took a dreadful pleasure in tor- 
turing those who love you." 
Constance : " You 've said it, mother. I do. I 
know now that I am a vampire, and that it 's my 
hideous fate to prey upon those who are dearest to 
me. He must have known, he must have felt the 
vampire in me." 
Mrs. Wyatt: "Constance!" 
Constance : " But at least I can be kind to those 
who care nothing for me. Who is this stranger ? 
He must be an odd kind of man to forgive us. 
What is he, mother? if he is anything in him- 
self; he seems to me only a likeness, not a real- 
ity." 
Mrs. Wyatt: " He is a painter, your father says." 
 
Mrs. Wyatt gives a quick sigh of relief, and makes 
haste to confirm- the direction of the talk away 
from Constance : " He is painting some landscapes, 
here. That friend of his who went to-day is a 
cousin of your father's old friend, Major Cum- 
mings. He ? s a minister." 
Constance : " What is the painter's name ? Not 
that it matters. But I must call him something if 
I meet him again." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Mr. Bartlett." 
Constance: " Oh, yes, I forgot." She falls into 
a brooding silence. u I wonder if he will despise 
me if he will be like in that, too ? " Mrs. Wyatt 
sighs patiently. " Why do you mind what I say, 
mother? I 'm. not worth it. I must talk on, or 
else go mad with the mystery of what has been. 
We were so happy ; he was so good to me, so 
kind ; there was nothing but papa's not seeming to 
like him ; and then suddenly, in an instant, he 
turns and strikes me down ! Yes, it was like a 
deadly blow. If you don't let me believe that it 
was because he saw all at once that I was utterly 
unworthy, I can't believe in anything." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Hush, Constance ; you don't 
know what you 're saying." 
Constance : " Oh, I know too well ! And now 
this stranger, who is so like him who has all 
his looks, who has his walk, who has his voice, 
won't he have his insight, too ? I had better show 
myself for what I am, at once weak, stupid, 
selfish, false ; it 'll save me the pain of being found 
out. Pain ? Oh, I 'm past hurting ! Why do you 
cry, mother ? I 'm not worth your tears." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " You 're all the world to us, Con- 
stance ; you know it, child. Your poor father " 
Constance : " Does papa really like me ? " 
Mrs. Wyatt : Constance ! " 
Constance : " No ; but why should he ? He 
never liked him ; and sometimes I Ve wondered, 
if it wasn't papa's not liking him that first set 
him against me. Of course, it was best he should 
find me out, but still I can't keep from thinking 
that if he had never begun to dislike me ! I no- 
ticed from the first that after papa had been with 
us he was cold and constrained. Mother, I had 
better say it : I don't believe I love papa as I 
 
ought. There 's something in my heart some 
hardness against him when he 's kindest to me. 
If he had only been kinder to him" 
Mrs. Wyatt : "Kinder to him? Constance, you 
drive me wild ! Kind to a wolf, kind to a snake ! 
Kind to the thief who has robbed us of all that 
made our lives dear; who stole your love, and 
then your hope, your health, your joy, your pride, 
your peace ! And you think your father might 
have been kinder, to him ! Constance, you were 
our little girl when the war began, the last of 
brothers and sisters that had died. You seemed 
given to our later years to console and comfort us 
for those that had been taken ; and you were so 
bright and gay ! All through those dreadful days 
and months and years you were our stay and hope, 
mine at home, his in the field. Our letters 
were full of you, like young people's with their 
first child ; all that you did and said I had to tell 
him, and then he had to talk it over in his answers 
back. When he came home at last after the peace 
can you remember it, Constance ? " 
Constance: "I can remember a little girl that 
ran down the street, and met an officer on horse- 
back. He was all tanned and weather-beaten ; he 
sat his horse at the head of his troop like a statue 
of bronze. When he saw her come running, dan- 
cing down the street, he leaped from his horse and 
caught her in his arms, and hugged her close and 
kissed her, and set her all crying and laughing in 
his saddle, and walked on beside her; and the men 
burst out with a wild yell, and the ragged flags 
flapped, over her, and the music flashed out" 
She rises in her chair with the thrill of her recol- 
lection ; her voice comes free and full, and her pale 
cheeks flush ; suddenly she sinks back upon the pil- 
lows: "Was it really I, mother?" 
Mrs. Wyatt: "Yes, it was you, Constance. And 
do you remember all through your school-days, 
how proud and fond he was of you? what presents 
and feasts and pleasures he was always making 
you? I thought he would spoil you; he took you 
everywhere with him, and wanted to give you 
everything. When I saw you growing up with 
his pride and quick temper, I trembled, but I felt 
safe when I saw that you had his true and tender 
 
heart, too. You can never know what a pang it 
cost him to part with you when we went abroad, 
but you can't forget how he met you in Paris?" 
Constance: "Oh, no, no! Poor papa!" 
Mrs.Wyatt: "Oh, child! Arid I could tell you 
something of his bitter despair when he saw the 
man" 
Constance, wearily : " You needn't tell me. I 
knew it as soon as they met, without looking at 
either of them." 
Mrs. Wyatt: "And when the worst that he 
feared came true, he was almost glad, I believe. 
He thought, and I thought, that your self-respect 
would come to your aid against such treachery." 
Constance: "My self-respect? Now I know 
you 've not been talking of me." 
Mrs.Wyatt, desperately: "Oh, what shall I do?" 
Mary, the serving- woman, at the door: "If you 
please, Mrs. Wyatt, I can't open Miss Constance's 
hat-box." 
Mrs. Wyatt, rising : " Oh, yes. There 's some- 
thing the matter with the lock. I 'll come, Mary." 
She looks at Constance. 
 
Constance: "Yes, go, mother. I 'm perfectly 
well here. I like being alone well enough." As 
Mrs. Wyatt, after a moment's reluctance, goes out, 
the girl's heavy eyelids fall, and she lies motionless 
against her pillows, while the fan, released from 
her careless hold, slides slowly over the shawl, and 
drops with a light clash upon the floor. She starts 
at the sound, and utters a little involuntary cry at 
sight of Bartlett, who stands irresolute in the door- 
way on her right. He makes as if to retreat, but 
at a glance from her he remains. 
II. 
BARTLETT and CONSTANCE. 
Bartlett, with a sort of subdued gruffness : 
" I 'm afraid I disturbed you." 
Constance, passively: "No, I think it was my 
fan. It fell." 
Bartlett: "I *m glad I can lay the blame on the 
fan." He comes abruptly forward and picks it up 
for her. She makes no motion to receive it, and 
he lays it on her lap. 
Constance, starting from the abstraction in which 
she has been gazing at him: "Oh! Thanks." 
Bartlett, with constraint : " I hope you 're better 
this morning? " 
Constance : " Yes." She has again fallen into 
a dreamy study of him, as unconscious, apparently, 
as if he were a picture before her, the effect of 
which is to reduce him to a state of immovable 
 
awkwardness. At last he tears himself loose from 
the spot on which he has been petrifying, and takes 
refuge in the business which has brought him into 
the room. 
Bartlett : " I came to look for one of my brushes. 
It must have dropped out of my traps here, the 
other day." He goes up to the piano and looks 
about the floor, while Constance's gaze follows him 
in every attitude and movement. " Ah, here it is ! 
I knew it would escape the broom under the land- 
lady's relaxed regime. If you happen to drop 
anything in this room, Miss Wyatt, you needn't 
be troubled; you can always find it just where it 
fell." Miss Wyatt's fan again slips to the floor, 
and Bartlett again picks it up and restores it to 
her: "A case in point." 
Constance, blushing faintly : " Don't do it for 
me. It isn't worth while." 
Bartlett, gravely : " It doesn't take a great deal 
of time, and the exercise does me good." Con- 
stance faintly smiles, but does not relax her vigi- 
lance. "Isn't that light rather strong for you?" 
He goes to the glass doors opening on the balcony, 
and offers to draw down one of their shades. 
 
Constance : " It doesn't make any difference." 
Bartlett, bluffly : '* If it 's disagreeable it makes 
some difference. Is it disagreeable ? " 
Constance : " The light 's strong " Bartlett 
dashes the curtain down " but I could see the 
mountain." He pulls the curtain up. 
Bartlett : " I beg your pardon." He again falls 
into statue-like discomposure under Miss Wyatt's 
gaze, which does not seek the distant slopes of 
Ponkwasset, in spite of the lifted curtain. 
Constance : " What is the name ? Do you 
know ? " 
Bartlett: "Whose? Oh! Ponkwasset. It 'snot 
a pretty name, but it 's aboriginal. And it doesn't 
hurt the mountain." Kecovering a partial volition, 
he shows signs of a purpose to escape, when Miss 
Wyatt's next question arrests him. 
Constance: "Are you painting it, Mr. Bart- 
lett?" 
Bartlett, with a laugh : " Oh, no, I don't soar so 
high as mountains; I only lift my eyes to a tree 
here and there, and a bit of pasture and a few of 
the lowlier and friendlier sort of rocks." He now 
 
so far effects his purpose as to transfer his un- 
wieldly presence to a lateral position as regards 
Miss Wyatt. The girl mechanically turns her 
head upon the pillow and again fixes her sad eyes 
upon him. 
Constance : " Have you ever been up it ? " 
Harriett : " Yes, half a dozen times." 
Constance: " Is it hard to climb like the Swiss 
mountains?" 
Bartlett: " You must speak for the Swiss moun- 
tains after you 've tried Ponkwasset, Miss Wyatt. 
I 've never been abroad." 
Constance, her large eyes dilating with surprise: 
" Never been abroad ? " 
Harriett ; " I enjoy that distinction." 
Constance: "Oh! I thought you had been 
abroad." She speaks with a slow, absent, earnest, 
accent, regarding him, as always, with a look of 
wistful bewilderment. 
Harriett, struggling uneasily for his habitual 
lightness: "I'm sorry to disappoint you, Miss 
Wyatt. I will go abroad as soon as possible. 
I 'm going out in a boat this morning to work at a 
 
bit on the point of the island yonder, and I 'll take 
lessons in sea-faring." Bartlett, managing at last 
to get fairly behind Miss Wyatt's chair, indulges 
himself in a long, low sigh of relief, and taking 
out his handkerchief rubs his face with it. 
Constance, with sudden, meek compunction : 
" I 've been detaining you." 
Bartlett, politely coming forward again: "Oh, 
no, not at all ! I'm afraid I've tired you" 
Constance : " No, I 'in glad to have you stay." 
In the unconscious movement necessary to follow 
Bartlett in his changes of position, the young girl 
has loosened one of the pillows that prop her head. 
It slowly disengages itself and drops to the floor. 
Bartlett, who has been crushing his brush against 
the ball of his thumb, gives a start of terror, and 
looks from Constance to the pillow, and back again 
to Constance in despair. 
Constance : " Never mind." She tries to adjust 
her head to the remaining pillows, and then desists 
in evident discomfort. 
Bartlett, in great agony of spirit : " I I 'm 
afraid you miss it." 
 
Constance: " Oh, no." 
Bartlett: "Shall I call your mother, Miss Wy- 
att?" 
Constance: "No. Oh, no. She will be here 
presently, Thank you so much!' Bartlett eyes 
the pillow in renewed desperation. 
Bartlett : " Do you think do you suppose I 
could" Recklessly: "Miss Wyatt, let me put 
back that pillow for you!" 
Constance, promptly, with a little flush: "Why, 
you 're very good! I 'm ashamed to trouble you." 
As she speaks, she raises her head, and lifts her- 
self forward slightly by help of the chair-arms; two 
more pillows topple out, one on either side, un- 
known to her. 
Bartlett) maddened by the fresh disaster: "Good 
Lord!" He flings himself wildly upon the first 
pillow, and crams it into the chair behind Miss 
Wyatt; then without giving his courage time to 
flag, he seizes the others, and packs them in on top 
of it: "Will that do?" He stands hot and flushed, 
looking down upon her, as she makes a gentle at- 
tempt to adjust herself to the mass. 
 
Constance: "Oh, perfectly." She puts her hand 
behind her and feebly endeavors to modify Bart- 
lett' s arrangement. 
Bartlett: "What is it?" 
Constance: "Oh nothing. Ah would 
would you draw, tills one a little toward you? 
So ! Thanks. And that one out a little on the 
other side? You're very kind; that 's right. 
And this one under my neck lift it up a little? 
Ah, thank you ever so much." Bartlett, in a fine 
frenzy, obeying these instructions, Miss Wyatt at 
last reposes herself against the pillows, looks up 
into his embarrassed face, and deeply blushes ; 
then she turns suddenly white, and weakly catch- 
ing up her fan she passes it once or twice before 
her face, and lets it fall : " I 'm a little - faint." 
Bartlett seizes the fan, and after a moment of 
silent self-dedication kneels down beside her chair, 
and fans her. 
Constance, after a moment ; " Thanks, thanks. 
You are very good. I 'm better now. I 'm 
ashamed to have troubled you. But I seem to live 
only to give trouble." 
Bartlett, with sudden deep tenderness ; "Oh, 
Miss. Wyatt, you mustn't say that. I 'm sure I 
we all that is. shall I call your mother now 
Miss Wyatt?" 
Constance, after a deep breath, firmly: "No. 
I 'in quite well, now. She is busy. But I know 
I 'm keeping you from your work," with ever 
so slight a wan little smile. "I mustn't do that." 
Bartlett: "Oh, you 're not keeping me! There's 
no hurry. I can work later just as well." 
Constance: "Then," with a glance at his de- 
vout posture, of which Bartlett has himself become 
quite unconscious, "won't you sit down, Mr. 
Bartlett ? " 
Bartlett, restored to consciousness and con- 
fusion: "Thanks; I think it will be better." He 
rises, and in his embarrassment draws a chair to 
the spot on which he has been kneeling and sits 
down very close to her. He keeps the fan in his 
hand, as he talks : " It 's rather nice out there, 
Miss Wyatt, there on the island. You must be 
rowed out as soon as you can stand it. The Gen- 
eral would like it." 
 
Constance: "Is it a large place, the island?" 
Bartlett : " About two acres, devoted exclusively 
to golden-rod and granite. The fact is, I was 
going to make a little study of golden-rod and 
granite, there. You shall visit the Fortunate Isle 
in my sketch, this afternoon, and see whether 
you M like to go, really. People camp out there 
in the summer. Who knows, but if you keep on 
gaining this way, you may yet feel like camp- 
ing out there yourself before you go away? You 
do begin to feel better, don't you? Everybody 
cries up this air." 
Constance: "It's very pleasant; it seems fine 
and pure. Is the island a pretty place ? " 
Bartlett, glancing out at it over his shoulder: 
" Well, you get the best of it from the parlor win- 
dow, here. Not that it 's so bad when you 're on 
it ; there 's a surly, frugal, hard-headed kind of 
beauty about it, like the local human nature, 
and it has its advantages. If you were camping 
out there, you could almost provision yourself from 
the fish and wild fowl of the surrounding waters, 
supposing any of your party liked to fish or 
shoot. Does your father like shooting?" 
 
Constance: "No, I don't believe he cares for it." 
Bartlett: "I'm glad of that. I shall be spared 
the painful hospitality of pointing out the best 
places for ducks." At an inquiring look from Con- 
stance : "I'm glad for their sakes, not mine; I
don't want to kill them." 
Constance, with grave mistrust : " Not like shoot- 
ing?" 
JBartlett: " No, I think it 's the sneakingest sort 
of assassination ; it 's the pleasure of murder with- 
out the guilt. If you must kill, you ought to be 
man enough to kill something that you'll suffer 
remorse for. Do you consider those atrocious sen- 
timents, Miss Wyatt? I assure you that they're 
entirely my own." 
Constance, blankly : " I wasn't thinking I 
was thinking I supposed you liked shooting." 
Bartlett, laughing uneasily : " How did you get 
that impression ? " 
Constance, evasively: "I thought all gentlemen 
did." 
Bartlett: "They do, in this region. It's the 
only thing that can comfort them in affliction. The 
 
other day our ostler's brother lost his sweetheart, 
she died, poor girl, and the ostler and another 
friend had him over here to cheer him up. They 
took him to the stable, and whittled round among 
the stalls with him half the forenoon, and let him 
rub down some of the horses ; they stood him out 
among the vegetables and let him gather some of the 
new kind of potato-bugs ; they made him sit in the 
office with his feet on top of the stove ; they played 
billiards with him ; but he showed no signs of res- 
ignation till they borrowed three squirrel-guns and 
started with him to the oak woods yonder. That 
seemed to < fetch' him. You should have seen them 
trudging off together with their guns all aslant, 
this way, the stricken lover in the middle ! " Bart- 
lett rises to illustrate, and then at the deepening 
solemnity of Constance's face he desists in sudden 
dismay:, "Miss Wyatt, I've shocked you!" 
Constance: " Oh, no no !" 
Bartlett : " It was shocking. I wonder how I 
could do it! I I thought it would amuse you." 
Constance, mournfully : "It did, thank you, very 
much." After a pause : " I didn't know you liked 
joking." 
 
Bartlett: " Ah ! I don't believe I do all kinds.: 
Good Lord I beg your pardon." Bartlett turns 
away, with an air of guilty consciousness, and goes 
to the window and looks out, Constance's gaze fol- 
lowing him: "It 's a wonderful day!" He comes 
back toward her : "What a pity you couldn't be 
carried there in your chair!" 
Constance: "I'm not equal to that, yet." Pres- 
ently : " Then you like nature ? " 
JSartlett : " Why, that 's mere shop in a landscape 
painter. I get my bread and butter by her. At 
least I ought to have some feeling of gratitude." 
Constance, hastily : " Of course, of course. It V 
very stupid of me, asking." 
Bartlett, with the desperate intention of grappling 
with the situation : " I see you have a passion for 
formulating, classifying people, Miss Wyatt. That 's 
all very well, if one's characteristics were not so 
very characteristic of everybody else. But I gen- 
erally find in my moments of self-consciousness, 
when I've gone round priding myself that such 
and such traits are my peculiar property, that the 
first man I meet has them all and as many more 
 
and isn't the least proud of them. I dare say you 
don't see anything very strange in them, so far." 
Constance, musingly : " Oh, yes ; very strange 
indeed. They 're all wrong ! " 
Bartlett: "Well! I don't know I'm very 
sorry Then you consider it wrong not to like 
shooting and to be fond of joking and nature, 
and" 
Constance, bewilderedly : " Wrong ? Oh, no ! " 
Bartlett : " Oh, I 'm glad to hear it. But you 
just said it was." 
Constance, slowly recalling herself, with a painful 
blush, at last : " I meant I meant I didn't ex- 
pect any of those things of you." 
Bartlett, with a smile: "Well, on reflection, I 
don't know that I did, either. I think they must 
have come without being expected. Upon my 
word, I'm tempted to propose something very 
ridiculous." 
Constance, uneasily : " Yes ? What is that ? " 
Bartlett: "That you 'll let me try to guess you 
out. I Ve failed so miserably in my own case, that 
I feel quite encouraged." 
 
Constance, morbidly : " I 'm not worth the trouble 
of guessing out." 
Bartlett :  ' That means no. You always mean 
no by yes, because you can't bear to say no. That 
is the mark of a very deep and darkling nature. 
I feel that I could go on and read your mind per- 
fectly, but I 'm afraid to do it. Let 's get back to 
myself. I can't allow that you've failed to read 
my mind aright ; I think you were careless about it. 
Will you give your intuitions one more chance ? " 
Constance, with an anxious smile : " Oh, yes." 
Bartlett : " All those traits and tastes which we 
both find so unexpected in me are minor matters at 
the most. The great test question remains. If 
you answer it rightly, you prove yourself a mind- 
reader of wonderful power ; if you miss it The 
question is simply this : Do I like smoking ? " 
Constance, instantly, with a quick, involuntary 
pressure of her handkerchief to her delicate nos- 
trils : " Oh, yes, indeed ! " 
Bartlett, daunted and reddening : " Miss Wyatt, 
you have been deluding me. You are really a 
mind-reader of great subtlety." 
 
Constance: "I don't know I can't say that it 
was mind-reading exactly." She lifts her eyes to 
his, and in his embarrassment he passes his hand 
over his forehead and then feels first in one pocket 
and then in the other for his handkerchief; sud- 
denly he twitches it forth, and with it a pipe, half 
a dozen cigars, and a pouch of smoking tobacco, 
which fly in different directions over the floor. As 
he stoops in dismay and sweeps together these 
treasures, she cries: "Oh, it didn't need all that to 
prove it ! " and breaks into a wild, helpless laugh, 
and striving to recover herself with many little 
moans and sighs behind her handkerchief, laughs 
on and on: "Oh, don't! I oughtn't ! Oh dear, oh 
dear ! " When at last she lies spent with her re* 
luctant mirth, and uncovers her face, Bartlett is 
gone, and it is her mother who stands over her, 
looking down at her with affectionate misgiving. 
 III. 
MRS. WYATT and CONSTANCE. 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Laughing, Constance ? " 
Constance, with a burst of indignant tears : " Yes, 
yes! Isn't it shocking? It's horrible! He made 
me." 
Mrs. Wyatt: "He?" 
Constance, beginning to laugh again: "Mr. 
Bartlett; he's been here. Oh, I wish I wouldn't 
be so silly ! " 
Mrs. Wyatt: " Made you ? How could he make 
you laugh, poor child ? " 
Constance : " Oh, it's a long story. It was all 
through my bewilderment at his resemblance. It,, 
confused me. I kept thinking it wag he, as if it 
were some dream, and whenever this one men- 
tioned some trait of his that totally differed from 
his, don't you know, I got more and more confused,* 
 
and mamma ! " with sudden desolation "I 
know he knows all about it ! " 
Mrs. Wyatt : " I am sure he doesn't. Mr. Cum- 
min gs only told him that his resemblance was a 
painful association. He assured your father of 
this, and wouldn't hear a word more. I 'm cer- 
tain you 're wrong. But what made you think he 
knows ? " 
Constance, solemnly : " He behaved just as if he 
didn't." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Ah, you can't judge from that, my 
dear." Impressively : " Men are very different." 
Constance, doubtfully : " Do you think so, mam- 
ma?" 
Mrs. Wyatt: " I 'm certain of it." 
Constance, after a pause : " Mamma, will you 
help take this shawl off my feet ? I am so warm. 
I think I should like to walk about a little. Can 
you see the island from the gallery ? " 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Do you think you M better try to 
leave your chair, Constance?" 
Constance : " Yes, I 'm stronger this morning. 
And I shall never gain, lounging about this way.'  
 
She begins to loose the wraps from her feet, and 
Mrs. Wyatt coming doubtfully to her aid she is 
presently freed. She walks briskly toward the 
sofa, and sits down quite erectly in the corner of it. 
"There! that 's pleasanter. I get so tired of be- 
ing a burden." She is silent, and then she begins 
softly and wearily to laugh again. 
Mrs. Wyatt, smiling curiously: "What is it, Con- 
stance ? I don't at all understand what made you 
laugh." 
Constance: "Why, don't you know? Several 
times after I had been surprised that he didn't like 
this thing, and had ri't that habit and the other, he 
noticed it, and pretended that it was an attempt at 
mind-reading, and then all at once he turned and 
said I must try once more, and he asked, < Do I 
like smoking?' and I said instantly,  Oh, yes!' 
Why, it was like having a whole tobacconist's 
shop in the same room with you from the moment 
he came in ; and of course he understood what I 
meant, and blushed, and then felt for his handker- 
chief, and pulled it out, and discharged a perfect 
volley of pipes and tobacco, that seemed to be 
 
tangled up in it, all over the floor, and then I be- 
gan to laugh so silly, so disgusting, so perfectly 
flat! and I thought I should die, it was so ridic- 
ulous ! and Oh, dear, I 'm beginning again ! " 
She hides her face in her handkerchief and leans 
her head on the back of the sofa: "Say some- 
thing, do something to stop me, mother!" She 
stretches an imploring left hand toward the elder 
lady, who still remains apparently but half con- 
vinced of any reason for mirth, when General 
Wyatt, hastily entering, pauses in abrupt irresolu- 
tion at the spectacle of Constance's passion. 
IV. 
GENERAL WYATT, CONSTANCE, and MRS. WYATT. 
Constance: "Oh, ha, ha, ha! Oh, ha, ha, ha, 
ha!" , 
General Wyatt: "Margaret! Constance!" At 
the -sound of his voice, Constance starts up with a 
little cry, and stiffens into an attitude of ungracious 
silence, without looking at her father, who turns 
with an expression of pain toward her mother. 
. Mrs. Wyatt: "Yes, James. We were laughing 
at something Constance had been telling me about 
Mr. Bartlett. Tell your father, Constance." 
Constance coldly, while she draws through her 
hand the handkerchief which she has been pressing 
to her eyes: "I don't think it would amuse papa." 
She passes her hand across her lap, and does not 
lift her heavy eyelashes. 
Mrs. Wyatt, caressingly: "Oh, yes, it would; 
I 'm sure it would." 
 
Constance: "You can tell it then, mamma." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " No ; you, my dear. You tell it so 
funnily; and" in a lower tone "it's so long 
since your father heard you laugh." 
Constance: "There was nothing funny in it. It 
was disgusting. I was laughing from nervousness." 
Mrs. Wyatt: "Why, Constance" 
General Wyatt: Never mind, Margaret. An- 
other time will do." He chooses to ignore the cold- 
ness of his daughter's bearing toward himself. "I 
came to see if Constance were not strong enough 
to go out on the lake this morning. The boats are 
very good, and the air is so fine that I think she 'll 
be the better for it. Mr. Bartlett is going out to 
the island to sketch, and " 
Constance : " I don't care to go." 
Mrs. Wyatt: " Do go, my daughter! I know it 
will do you good." 
Constance : " I am not strong enough." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " But you said you were better, 
just now ; and you should yield to your father's 
judgment." 
Constance : " I will do whatever papa bids me." 
 
General Wyatt: "I don't bid you. Margaret, I 
think I will go out with Mr. Bartlett. We will be 
back at dinner." He turns and leaves the room 
without looking again at Constance. 
V. 
CONSTANCE and MRS. WYATT ; then BARTLETT. 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Oh, Constance ! How can you 
treat your father so coldly ? You will suffer some 
day for the pain you give him ! " 
Constance : " Suffer ? No, I 'm past that. I Ve 
exhausted my power of suffering."  
Mrs. Wyatt: "You haven't exhausted your 
power of making others suffer." 
Constance, crouching listlessly down upon the 
sofa: "I told you that I lived only to give pain. 
But it 's my fate, not my will. Nothing but that 
can excuse me." 
Mrs. Wyatt, wringing her hands : " Oh, oh ! Well, 
then, give me pain if you must torment somebody. 
But spare your father, spare the heart that loves 
you so tenderly, you unhappy girl." 
Constance, with hardness : " Whenever I see 
 
papa, my first thought is, If he had not been so 
harsh and severe, it might never have happened ! 
What can I care for his loving me when he hated 
him ? Oh, I will do my duty, mother ; I will 
obey ; I have obeyed, and I know how. Papa 
can't demand anything of me now that isn't easy. 
I have forgiven everything, and if you give me 
time I can forget. I have forgotten. I have been 
laughing at something so foolish, it ought to make 
me cry for shame." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Constance, you try me beyond all 
endurance ! You talk of forgiving, you talk of 
forgetting, you talk of that wretch ! Forgive him, 
forget him, if you can. If he had been half a man, 
if he had ever cared a tithe as much for you as for 
himself, all the hate of all the fathers in the world 
could not have driven him from you. You talk of 
obeying " 
Mary, the serving woman, flying into the room : 
" Oh, please, Mrs. Wyatt ! There are four men 
carrying somebody up the hill. And General Wy- 
att just went down, and I can't see him anywhere, 
and " 
 
Mrs. Wyatt : " You 're crazy, Mary ! He hasn't 
been gone a moment ; there isn't time ; it can't be 
he ! " Mrs. "Wyatt rushes to the gallery that over- 
looks the road to verify her hope or fear, and then 
out of one of the doors into the corridor, while 
Constance springs frantically to her feet and runs 
toward the other door. 
Constance : " Oh, yes, yes ! It 's papa ! It 's 
my dear, good, kind papa ! He 's dead ; he 's 
drowned ; I drove him away ; I murdered him ! 
Ah-h-h-h!" She shrinks back with a shriek at 
sight of Bartlett, whose excited face appears at the 
door : " Go ! It was you, you who made me hate 
my father! You made me kill him and now I 
abhor you! I" 
Bartlett: "Wait! Hold on! Wfcat is it all?" 
Constance : " Oh, forgive me ! I didn't mean 
I didn't know it was you, sir ! But where is he? 
Oh, take me to him! Is he dead?" She seizes his 
arm, and clings to it trembling. 
Bartlett: "Dead? No, he isn't dead. He was 
knocked over by a team coming behind him down 
the hill, and was slightly bi*uised. There 's no 
 
cause for alarm. He sent me to tell you ; they 've 
carried him to your rooms." 
Constance: "Oh, thank Heaven!" She bows 
her head with a sob, upon his shoulder, and then 
lifts her tearful eyes to his : " Help me to get to 
him ! I am weak." She totters and Bartlett me- 
chanically passes a supporting arm about her. 
"Help me, and don't don't leave me!" She 
moves with him a few paces toward the door, her 
head drooping; but all at once she raises her face 
again, stares at him, stiffly releases .herself, and with 
a long look of reproach walks proudly away to 
the other door, by which she vanishes without a 
word. 
Bartlett) remaining planted, with a bewildered 
glance at his empty arm : " Well, I wonder who 
and what and where I am ! " 
III. 
NOT AT ALL LIKE. 
BARTLETT and CUMMINGS. 
Bartlett : " Six weeks since you were here ? I 
shouldn't have thought that." Bartlett's easel 
stands before the window, in the hotel parlor ; he 
has laid a tint upon the canvas, and has retired a 
few paces for the effect, his palette and mahl-stick 
in hand, and his head carried at a critical angle. 
Cummings, who has been doing the duty of art- 
culture by the picture, regards it with renewed in- 
terest. Bartlett resumes his work : " Pretty good, 
Cummings ? " 
Cummings : " Capital ! The blue of that dis- 
tance " 
Bartlett with a burlesque sigh : " Ah, I looked 
into my heart and painted for that! Well, you 
find me still here, Cummings, and apparently more 
at home than ever. The landlord has devoted this 
 
parlor to the cause of art, makes the transients 
use the lower parlor, now, and we have this all 
to ourselves: Miss Wyatt sketches, you know. 
Her mother brings her sewing, and the General his 
bruises ; he hasn't quite scrambled up, yet, from 
that little knock-down of his ; a man doesn't, at 
his time of life, I believe ; and we make this our 
family-room ; and a very queer family we are ! 
Fine old fellow, the General ; he 's behaved himself 
since his accident like a disabled angel, and hasn't 
sworn, well, anything worth speaking of. Yes, 
here I am. I suppose it 's all right, but for all I 
know it may be all wrong." Bartlett sighs in un- 
guarded sincerity, "I don't know what I 'm here 
for. Nature began shutting up shop a fortnight 
ago at a pretty lively rate, and edging loafers to 
the door, with every sign of impatience ; and yet, 
here I am, hanging round still. I suppose this 
glimpse of Indian Summer is some excuse just 
now ; it 's a perfect blessing to the landlord, and 
he 's making hay rowen crop while the sun 
shines ; I 've been with him so long now, I take 
quite an interest in his prosperity, if eight dollars 
a week of it do come out of me ! What is talked 
of in < art-circles' down in Boston, brother Cuin- 
mings ? " 
Cummings : " Your picture." 
Bartlett, inattentively, while he comes up to his 
canvas, and bestows an infinitesimal portion of paint 
upon a destitute spot in the canvas : " Don't be 
sarcastic, Cummings." 
Cummings : " I 'm not, I assure you." 
Bartlett, turning toward him incredulously : " Do 
you mean to say that The First Gray Hair is 
liked?" 
Cummings: "I do. There hasn't been any pic- 
ture so much talked of this season." 
Bartlett: u Then it's the shameless slop of the 
name. I should think you 'd blush for your part 
in that swindle. But clergymen have no con- 
science, where they 've a chance to do a fellow a 
kindness, I 've observed." He goes up to Cum- 
mings with his brush in his mouth, his palette on 
one hand, and his mahl-stick in the other, and con- 
trives to lay hold of his shoulders with a few dis- 
engaged fingers. As Cummings shrinks a little 
 
from his embrace : " Oh, don't be afraid ; I shan't 
get any paint on you. You need a whole coat of 
whitewash, though, you unscrupulous saint!" He 
returns to his easel. " So The Old Girl that 's 
what I shall call the picture is a success, is she ? 
The admiring public ought to see the original elm- 
tree now; she hasn't got a hair, gray or green, 
on her head ; she 's perfectly bald. I say, Cum- 
mings, how would it do for me to paint a pendant, 
The Last Gray Hair ? I might look up a leaf or 
two on the elm, somewhere : stick it on to the point 
of twig ; they wouldn't know any better." 
Gumming s : "The leafless elm would make a 
good picture, whatever you called it." Bartlett 
throws back his shaggy head and laughs up at the 
ceiling. u The fact is, Bartlett, I Ve got a little 
surprise for you." 
Barthtt, looking at him askance : " Somebody 
wanting to chromo The Old Girl ? No, no ; it 
isn't quite so bad as that ! " 
Cummings, in a burst : " They did want to 
chromo it. But it 's sold. They Ve got you two 
hundred dollars for it." Bartlett lays down his 
 
brush, palette, and mahl-stick, dusts his fingers, 
puts them in his pockets, and comes and stands 
before Cummings, on whom, seated, he bends a 
curious look. 
Bartlett : " And do you mean to tell me, you 
hardened atheist, that you don't believe in the doc- 
