Then cups and plates and debris were packed away 
into the cart; the little fire had burnt itself out; 
fingers were washed in Eastern fashion, somebody 
 
pouring water over the others' hands; and at last 
worsted needles and knitting needles came into 
play again, and the circle was made up around Mr. 
Murray, who declared himself to be quite refreshed 
and rested. 
" Ready for questions, Uncle Eden? " 
" Are the questions very deep ? " 
"0 yes, Uncle Eden; none of us can answer 
them." 
" They had need to be profound ! How did they 
come up ? " 
"From Meredith's book. Ditto was reading to 
us some delicious stories about the old Saxons, ftnd 
their ways and their gods; and we have ever so 
many questions to ask you, Uncle Eden." 
" Have you any more of those Saxon stories on 
hand, Meredith?" 
" Plenty, sir." 
" Then I wish you would go on and read another; 
and so I should perhaps get into the atmosphere 
of your questions. Besides, I feel like being luxurious and lazy in this warm, spicy air. Suppose 
we have a story now, and the questions by and by ? " 
They were all agreed to that. Maggie settled 
herself to listen comfortably, and Mr. Murray lay 
on his elbow and looked thoughtfully into the 
readers face, or into the blue-green pine wilderness around, or above to the quiet, clear blue which 
stretched over all; but if Mr. Murray's body was 
resting, I am inclined to think his mind was busy 
enough. 
 
CHAPTER X. 
" The story that I am going to tell you now 
shall bear the heading, "The Hearts of the Children turned to the Fathers." I read it with a deal 
of trouble, in an old, yellowed manuscript which 
the mice had gnawed at. But it bears so entirely 
the impress of truth that it may speak for itself, 
although the things happened more than a thou 
sand years ago. I would rather, if I could, give it 
again exactly as it stood written in that manuscript; but I am unable to do so, because I only 
made extracts from it. I found the MS. in the 
library of the Town House at Luneburg, where I 
was staying for a few days just then, and with the 
permission of both the burgermasters of the city, I 
searched the Town House library through. When 
later I came to live in Luneburg for many years, 
these and other old MSS. were no longer to be 
found ; and I heard that a Jew, to whom the burgermasters had sold a number of old suits of ar 
mour and weapons, had probably demanded to have 
these manuscripts into the bargain, thinking that he 
might in England dispose of them for a high price. 
 
The MS. was entitled: "Res gestae Landolfi, Apostoli Salzonum, qui Horzge ripas ad habitant ;" i. e., 
"Acts of Landolf, the apostle to the Saxons who lived 
on tJie Oerze." I have told you already many things 
about this Landolf. It has been mentioned that he 
built the first wooden church in this whole region 
of country, there where the heathen god Woden's 
place of sacrifice had been ; which place, under the 
name of the "cold church," still belongs to the 
Hermannsburg glebe, ever since the church was 
burned down in a predatory inroad of the Wends, 
and Hermann Billing built the stone parish church 
in Hermannsburg. I have told you too of this Landolf, how he had gradually converted the whole 
region to Christianity, like a skilful general, consecrating to the 'Christian faith for the worship of 
the true God, precisely those places where the 
heathen had been wont to adore their false idols, 
so that the triumph of Christianity could in nothing have been more forcibly manifested than , in 
this founding of Christian altars and chapels on the 
very places where previously the heathen abominations had been enacted. 
"'One hour from Hermannsburg above on the 
Oerze, two little rivers, the Oerze and Wieze, flow 
into one another. Such meetings of two rivers are 
called in high German Miinden, in low German 
Midden; so accordingly the village situated at the 
meeting of the two rivers above mentioned bears 
the name of Miiden. Just a little above the place 
where the Wieze flows into the Oerze, in the mid- 
 
die of the latter river, lay a wonderfully beautiful 
little island, almost like an egg in circumference, 
which had a circuit of perhaps from ninety to a 
hundred paces. How often when I was a child 
have I visited that little island, and stayed there 
for hours at a time. In the whole surrounding region I knew no lovelier place, and it was always a 
'particular delight to me when I could wander that 
way. On both sides of the island the swift-flowing, 
clear waters of the Oerze went rushing past, transparent to the very bottom, over the glistening sands 
of which and among the long, thick, green tufts of 
the water ranunculus hosts of nimble trout played 
and darted about. A little bridge on each side 
connected the island with the two shores. If you 
crossed the bridge which spanned the left arm of 
the Oerze, you came into green meadows and the 
parsonage garden, which extended along the left 
bank of the river, enclosed with a hedge as high as 
the trees. If you went from the island over the 
bridge of the right arm of the Oerze, you were in 
the court-yard of the parsonage, where the pastor's 
dwelling stood. This island was entirely framed 
in with high oaks and alders; and a number of 
mighty old oaks, with large trunks and lifting their 
heads high in air, grew on the island and wholly 
overshadowed it with their green roof of leaves. So 
still it was, so cool, and so secluded, upon this island 
that even the fiercest summer had no power over 
it; it was green and fresh when everything around 
it was withered and dried up by the hot sunbeams. 
 
And now as I write this it stirs me with pain to 
be forced to say that this island has disappeared! 
How can that have come about? It has fallen a 
sacrifice to the idol of Utility. The fine oaks have 
been felled, and used for building timber ; the alders 
have been cut down and turned to firewood; the 
island is no more, for the two arms of the Oerze 
have been dammed up, and a straight river bed carries the Oerze now through green meadows which 
stretch along both shores. Yes, these are beautiful 
too, these green meadows, and they are very profitable also at the same time; but the wonderful 
beauty of the island is departed, vanished, with no 
trace of it left ; and in the entire valley of the Oerze 
there is not a place that can be compared to it. 
See, my dear readers, this is what is done by the 
much bepraised "Enclosings," which could have 
originated only in our earthly-minded age ; and 
which spare nothing, neither right nor usage; respect no old legend, no old custom ; have no eye at 
all for beauty, rate everything only according to 
its utility, and cannot endure anything round, but 
favour only straight lines and sharp corners. Even 
the very unreasoning beasts mourn over the way in 
which the "Enclosings" are carried on. The valley 
of the Oerze, once thickly peopled with nightingales 
on both shores of the river, now has not a single 
one to show; the poor creatures love the thicket, 
the dim light, the shade and solitude, where they 
sing their songs to God and men; but the new 
fangled clearings drive the whole away together. 
 
That is no matter; to be sure their singing brings 
no money in. 
" ' Well, on this old island in heathen times was 
the sanctuary of the god Thor, or Donner, as he 
was likewise called by our forefathers. Among 
these oaks and alders stood his altar, a big round 
stone of granite. Near this great stone lay a vast 
number of what are called thunderbolts ; for every 
thunderbolt that a Saxon found he laid down at 
Thor's, or Donner's, altar. Now if you do not know 
what thunderbolts are, go to your pastors or to some 
other learned folk, and they will tell you, and perhaps she you one. The learned called them Belemnites. They are longish, round, wedge-shaped stones, pointed below, growing broader above; at 
the point they are quite solid and- have a so-called 
Peddig, that is, a fine, round core, as in the middle 
of a tree-stem, which, however, is entirely turned 
to stone; towards the other end this core grows 
thicker and more crumbly, and at last the stone be 
comes quite hollow. These are petrifactions of sea 
animals, which have remained since the time of the 
flood. In my childhood the people still called these 
stones "thunderbolts," and the belief was generally 
prevalent that in heavy thunder showers such thunderbolts fall from the clouds upon the earth. That 
belief had its origin in the heathen time. It was the 
belief of our heathen ancestors, that Thor, or Donner, the son of their principal deity Woden, was 
the god of thunder; a man with a handsome, serious face and yellow beard, whose blast caused the 
 
thunder, and who in thunder-storms drove through 
the air in a chariot drawn by goats, and then in 
the lightning cast his thunderbolts on the earth, so 
that men might fear and honour him. And he 
was not only the god of thunder, in the belief of 
our forefathers, but the god of justice also. Who 
ever wished to confirm a contract with his neighbour, made it before the altar of Thor; and what 
ever had been promised " by Thor," could not be 
taken back. Also, as people believed, he watched 
over all laws and rights in the land; in the taking 
of oaths he was the witness appealed to. And 
woe to him who perverted law and justice, woe to 
him who swore a false oath; Thor's thunderbolt 
was sure to fall upon the audacious transgressor 
and dashed him to pieces. And so, from this it 
came that every thunderbolt found was laid down 
at Thor's altar, as witnesses for the god who guarded 
laws and rights, and punished covenant-breakers 
and false swearers with his strong hand. He dwelt 
among oaks, elders and alder-trees; for which reason these trees, which were sacred to him, were al 
ways found about the places where sacrifices were 
offered in his honour. Our forefathers were known 
for their inviolable truth. Even the heathen historian Tacitus says of them, that the word of a Sax 
on was worth more than the oath of a Roman, and 
that among them good customs were regarded with 
more reverence than good statues among the Romans. From this you can easily imagine in what 
high honour the god Thor was held by our fore- 
 
fathers, and how sacred was Thor's place of sacrifice. But alas, the full ferocity of heathenism also 
came out in the worship of Thor ; for human victims were slain in his honour, whenever through 
some failure of faith-keeping or breaking of a covenant a curse rested upon the community. And 
how often may not yonder little island as well have 
drunk the blood of slaughtered men ! 
"'Now in Landolf 's time, when he and the Christian doctrine had already been received at old Hermann Billing's, the priest of Thor's sacrificial altar 
on the island I have described, was a silver-haired 
old man, whom the MS. calls Henricus; i.e., Heinrich, who also for long years had been a faithful 
friend of Hermann. However, since Hermann had 
become a Christian, Heinrich had proudly with 
drawn from him; he held him to be a covenant- 
breaker, and threatened him with the judgment of 
Thor, which sooner or later would fall upon him 
because he had forsaken the faith of his fathers. 
Hermann sought an interview with his old friend, 
but the proud priest of Thor refused to give it. 
Now, when in the great assembly of the people at 
the stone-houses, of which I have formerly spoken, 
Landolf received permission to declare the Christian faith openly in the whole country, he did not 
fail to visit among other places also the sanctuary of Thor upon this island, and to preach the 
Gospel to the people who gathered there for the offering of sacrifices. Heinrich had no liberty or 
power to hinder the preaching; but when it was 
 
done he came out as its most decided opponent; 
and declared in unmeasured terms that the Saxons 
who had turned or who should turn to Christianity, 
were covenant-breakers, on whom Thor's vengeance 
would speedily fall. In flaming zeal, with these 
words he lifted one of the thunderbolt stones which 
lay beside Thor's altar, shewed it to the people, and 
threatened that with such weapons Thor would 
punish the apostates. Then arose Landolf 's commanding figure, and looking at old Heinrich with 
a gentle, happy, beaming smile, he spoke : 
" 'Brother, the Christian's God is better than 
your heathen god. See! all this while he, the 
only true God, has borne patiently with your heathen ways, has seen how you slew human sacri 
fices and became murderers of your fellow-men; 
and instead of punishing you for your sins and 
transgressions, he has borne with you in great 
love and patience; and now still, he is not lifting 
his arm of vengeance against you, but is saying; 
'Children, I have overlooked the times of ignorance ; but now the time  of salvation has come, I 
open to you my arms of grace and pray you be ye 
reconciled to your God.' But your god knows no 
love. Hermann has not transgressed in anywise; 
he has only become a Christian ; he simply abhors 
the transgressions which he used to commit. He 
proves his love towards you ; he has kept his friend 
ship for you; he has besought you; 'Brother, come 
let us talk together about our beliefs, and see whose 
faith is the right one.' The God of the Christians 
 
has taught him to love like this. But you, you 
hate the brother whom once you held dear, who 
has done nothing to harm you; you refuse him so 
much as a friendly interview; your heathen god 
has taught you to hate like this. Men," he went 
on, turning to the people who stood around them, 
"which is the right God? the God who loves 
and teaches to love, or the God that hates, and 
teaches to hate?" 
" ' The people maintained an agitated silence ; it 
had become as still as death, so that one could hear 
the very breaths that were drawn. Thereupon Landolf raised his voice again, and told the people of 
the love of our God, who parted his only-begotten 
Son from his fatherly breast and sent him down 
to poor sinners to take pity on them ; and then he 
went on to tell of the love of the Son of God, who 
forsook the throne of his Father, came to men, took 
part with their flesh and blood, in the heroism of 
love went about among men, followed by his faithful apostles; everywhere as the mighty one, God's 
champion, overcoming Satan, setting men free who 
were fast in his toils, opening the eyes of the blind 
and the ears of the deaf, making the lame to go 
and the sick to be well ; even laying hold of mighty 
Death with his divine hand and forcing him to let 
go his prey ; and how at last this true Hero of God, 
in order to save the whole captive world from its 
common oppression under the evil one, and that he 
might with justice and righteousness s'et them free, 
offered himself up for sinners, for them suffered 
 
death, went down into the grave and Hades to 
overcome death, hell, and the grave ; thence to rise 
victorious, and to go back to his Father, and to sit 
down again upon the throne of God, from which 
he had gone forth. And even there his love and 
pity never rest ; from thence he is constantly sending out his apostles and prophets; and has sent me 
to you. Not to punish, not to condemn; no, but 
to pray you, Be ye reconciled to God ; to shew you 
his arms of grace spread to receive you; and to tell 
you, Come, for all things are ready; the courts of 
heaven where Jesus reigns stand open to you. His 
blood has redeemed also you; he will forgive your 
sins, and has prepared mansions for you to dwell 
in. Repent and be baptized, that your sins may 
be forgiven and that you may be the children of 
God. 
" ' After giving such testimony, Landolf kneeled 
down, as it was always his wont to do after preach 
ing to the heathen, and prayed to the Lord Jesus 
that he would enlighten the minds of the heathen 
by his Holy Spirit to receive the word of divine 
teaching, and that he would open their hearts as 
once he opened Lydia's; he even had the boldness 
to ask the Lord to witness for himself, as the living 
God, among the people there assembled.' " 
"What did he mean? a miracle?" Flora asked. 
"I suppose, something like the signs that used 
to be asked for among the Jews in old time. Not 
a miracle exactly; and yet they were miracles too." 
" What, Ditto ? I don't remember," said Maggie. 
 
" Don't you remember how Samuel asked for a 
sign from heaven once, and the Lord sent thunder, 
though it was a time of year when storms never 
come. Then Elijah asked for a sign of fire, and 
the fire fell and burnt up his sacrifice with the wet 
pile of wood on which it lay, and licked up the 
water in the trench. Don't you recollect ? It was 
that sort of sign the Jews used to ask Jesus to give 
them, and he never would." 
" I wonder why," said Flora. 
"We must ask Mr. Murray. I do not know. 
Any more remarks? or shall I go on?" 
" go on, dear Ditto." 
" ' Landolf rose up, quiet and joyous. It seemed 
as if every man were pondering in his heart the 
preaching and the prayer; all were yet hanging 
upon his words; when up rose Hejnrich's three 
sons, priests of Thor like himself, along with his 
only daughter, a priestess of Freija, whose sanctuary was situated about three hours further up 
the Oerze. They cried in an open outburst of 
rage, " Our general assembly at the stone-houses 
has led the people astray, in suffering the Chris 
tian preacher to proclaim his Christian faith. Come 
over to us here, whoever is true to the gods of his 
fathers ! Death to apostates, and the vengeance of 
the gods ! " 
'"The people went over to the side of Heinrich's 
children. Landolf stood alone. 
" ' Landolf folded his hands in prayer, and looked 
up to heaven with sparkling eyes ; his heart accepted joyfully the martyr's crown, with which 
he thought God would adorn him. Once more he 
fell upon his knees to pray, and cried out in a 
clear voice, "0 Lord, my God, I see heaven opened. 
Lord, I come gladly, but bless this people. Bless 
these my countrymen ; do not charge their sins 
upon them ; bring them to the true, saving faith of 
the Christians, make them children of thy church." 
Then he stepped up to the people and said, " Put 
me to death. I go gladly to my Jesus in heaven." 
" ' Upon this, old Heinrich stepped out in front 
of this faithful witness of the Lord, and with emotion he had hard work to keep down, he spoke: 
"Thou hast a brave heart. Thou shalt not die a 
coward's death. I love thee ; thou art a hero, and 
thy Christ is a hero too. He died for sinners, thou 
sayst, and has vanquished death and the grave and 
hell. I will see if I can love him. I cannot yet." 
" ' Scarcely had he finished speaking, when Her 
mann hastily came up. He had followed after his 
beloved Landolf, that he might see what turn things 
would take ; for he knew that he was gone to the 
island. He stretched out his hand to Heinrich, 
and Heinrich did not turn away, but grasped it. 
And then the old man brought them both into his 
house. In the meanwhile the sky became over 
cast with dark clouds; before anybody was aware, 
the heavens had grown black, the thunder rolled 
and the lightnings darted. "Thor is driving in 
the clouds ! " cried the young priests ; " he is angry 
at the Christians ! " " The God of glory thundereth; the Lord is upon many waters; the voice of the Lord divideth the flames of fire " cried Laiidolf; and with Heinrich and Hermann he went 
over to the island. The crowd stood there hushed; 
every eye was fixed intently upon the black clouds 
and the flashing lightning. Then there came a 
crash through the air, a blinding blaze darted out 
of the clouds, passed through the crowd, and shattered to pieces the sacrifice stone. Not a man was 
hurt. Then Landolf called out aloud : " ' Lord God, 
gracious and merciful, long-suffering and abundant 
in goodness and truth, that forgiveth iniquity and 
will by no means clear the guilty ! ' Brothers, the 
Lord has spoken from heaven. It is not Thor that 
is God; surely else he would not have destroyed 
his own altar and borne witness against himself. 
The Lord, he is the God; He has shattered the 
altar and left you alive; give the glory to God." 
" The people dispersed. But Heinrich repaired 
to Hermannsburg with Hermann and Landolf, to 
the dwelling of the former, and remained there 
eight days; during which time he was instructed 
by Landolf in the Christian faith. This teaching 
took deep hold of him; yet more did the utter 
revolution in Hermann's domestic life. After the 
eight days, he went back with the two to the little 
island, and was baptized in the Oerze. And on 
the spot where the round stone had been, there 
was a little chapel built, with an altar, and on the 
altar stood the image of the crucified Christ. This 
was the second great victory that Landolf fought 
 
for and gained. From that time forward Heinrich 
was his faithful helper. All the great influence 
which until then he had enjoyed as the much rev 
erenced priest of Thor, he used now only for the 
glory of Christ. It seemed as if the old, grey-haired 
man had become young again. With all the zeal 
of a first love, with all a young convert's ardour, 
he witnessed for the Lord Jesus Christ, the mighty 
Hero, the Conqueror of Satan and of Thor, who had 
offered himself a sacrifice for men and died a hero's 
death ; and in crowds the Saxons came over to him, 
and by crowds they received baptism from Landolf. 
His own sons alone remained hard, and his daugh 
ter was unmoved. This last, Ikia the chronicle 
calls her, never entered her father's house again; 
and the three sons, Tyr, Freyr, and Schwerting, 
who had so tenderly loved their father and so 
deeply revered him, declared to him now that 
they were no longer sons of his, since he was no 
longer priest of Thor. So then the venerable old 
man, sometimes alone, sometimes with Landolf or 
Hermann for a companion, every week set out to 
pay a visit to his sons and his daughter and preach 
the Lord Jesus to them. In the winter he was not 
to be daunted by the snow, nor in summer by the 
burning sands; leaning on his staff he pressed on 
through it all. The love of Christ fired him, and 
love to his children urged him forward; he would 
so fain take them with him to heaven. He had 
brought them up in the idolatrous worship of Thor ; 
if they were lost, it seemed to him it would be by 
 
his own fault. Therefore he made his weekly pil 
grimages to them, since they avoided his house as 
though it were spotted with the plague. And then, 
when he had preached Christ to them, he went back 
to pray for them. Yes, he even made it a persistent petition that the Lord Christ would not let 
him die until he had seen his children walking in 
the Lord's way. 
'"A year and a half went by in this manner, and 
still the hearts of his children seemed unimpressible and hard as stone. But Heinrich walked, 
preached, and prayed indefatigably, until at last 
he gave way before the strain and the burden of 
years. Eight days he lay on his bed, and yet 
wrestled with God that he would not let him die 
before he had seen the conversion of his children. 
He sent messages to them, telling them that he was 
sick ; they never came near him. He sent to en 
treat them to come and receive his fatherly bless 
ing ; they answered, they did not want it. And so 
all hope seemed to melt away. But the Scripture 
says with truth, that Love is stronger than Death. 
And if human love upon earth is so strong, how 
great and strong must not the love of Jesus be I 
" ' One morning, Landolf was sitting beside his 
friend's couch, trying to comfort him, and as he 
thought, to prepare him for death, when in came 
Schwerting, the youngest of Heinrich's sons, and 
spoke : " Father, Ikia wants you. She is sick unto 
death, and wishes to ask you to forgive her; she 
sent me to you. But you cannot come," he went 
 
on; "you are sick unto death yourself, and it may 
be will die now before Ikia, your child ; and she 
is so troubled! for she has never seen you again 
since that day on the island, and that is her fault ! " 
At this, something like the glow of the sunlight 
swept over Heinrich's pale face, and leaning over 
to Landolf's ear, he whispered to him: "Pray to 
Christ with me, that I may go to Ikia, my daughter; and you will go along, that I may see her bap 
tized." And Landolf kneels down by his friend's 
couch and prays, and Heinrich on his bed joins in 
the prayer, and they hold up to the Lord the word 
that he had given "If two of you shall agree on 
earth as touching anything that ye shall ask, it 
shall be done for them of my Father which is in 
heaven;" and they doubt not that he is the Al 
mighty and living God; therefore they ask that 
He will give strength and grace, that Heinrich 
may come to his daughter Ikia and see her baptism. And when they had finished praying, Hein 
rich rose up from his couch; bade them bring his 
horse ; begged his friend and his son to help him 
to mount; and when he was seated on the beast's 
back he went forward, up the Oerze, towards the 
sanctuary of Freija, where Ikia was priestess. Lan 
dolf on one side, Schwerting on the other side, led 
the horse, and supported the tottering old man. 
Whoever met the procession joined it, for Gad's 
hand was plainly there; and after three hours of 
travelling Heinrich reached Ikia. He found her 
dying, but still in full possession of her senses. A 
 
happy smile flowed over her death-white features. 
"Father," said she, "the Christian's God is the true 
God. His hand has been too strong for me. I have 
been a godless child towards you; will you forgive 
me?" "My child," said her father, "I have for 
given you; and I have prayed to my God that he 
would not let me die till I have seen your conversion and that of your brothers, till I have seen you 
turn from false gods to the living God who has 
made heaven and earth, who has died for sinners 
and made intercession for the transgressors. I for 
give thee, my daughter, and Christ also forgives 
thee, if thou wilt be baptized for the remission of 
sins. See here," pointing to Landolf, " here is the 
priest of the Lord. Let Landolf baptize my child, 
before she dies. Ikia, wilt thou be baptized?" She 
said, "Father, will Christ take me?" "My child, I 
have received you and not been angry with you, 
and I am a sinful man. And Christ, my Lord, is 
the Son of God; he died for sinners; and now he 
lives, and has the keys of hell and of death. He 
will receive thee, only believe." She turned her 
eyes inquiringly upon Landolf, and he spoke ; " Ikia, 
it is written in the word of my God, * this is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ 
Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom 
I am chief.' So says the holy apostle Paul. And 
Jesus spoke to the thief on the cross, who had just 
been reviling him, but now had bethought himself, 
turned, and said, 'Lord, remember me when thou 
comest into thy kingdom' He said to him, 'Verily, I say unto thee, this day slialt thou be with me 
in paradise ! ' ' : " Then baptize me, father, before I 
die. I believe that Christ is the Son of God." And 
Schwerting went out and fetched water in a bowl, 
and handed the bowl to Landolf. But when Landolf had spoken the prayer over the water and was 
about to baptize Ikia in the name of the Triune 
God, then down kneeled Schwerting at the side of 
his sister's couch; and from the crowd of people 
collected before the open door hurriedly broke forth 
two tall men and kneeled down by Schwerting's 
side; and all three cried out, "Father, baptize us 
with our sister ! " The baptism was performed. 
And when it was done, and over the four newly 
baptized had been spoken the word " The God of 
all grace by whom you have been born again in 
the washing of regeneration and renewing of the 
Holy Ghost, strengthen you and uphold you firm 
in the faith unto the end. Peace be with you," 
then the voice of old Heinrich who had sunk on 
his knees, came out in a shout of joy. " Lord, now 
lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, for my 
eyes have seen the salvation which I prayed the 
Lord for ; that he would not suffer me to die before 
I had seen the conversion of my children." And 
when he had said that, he bowed his head and de 
parted; and Landolf caught the dying man in his 
faithful arms. Ikia however did not die ; the Lord, 
who had quickened her spiritually, gave her also her 
bodily life again. She recovered, and her recovery 
was a new salvation. For soon after, Freija's altar 
 
was broken to pieces, and an altar was dedicated to 
Christ on the same spot by the staunch Landolf, 
who founded a cloister there, monasterium, as it 
was called, from which the place took the name of 
Munster. Heinrich's body was laid to rest in the 
churchyard at Hermannsburg. So were the hearts 
of the children turned to the fathers; and it was 
not long before heathenism had disappeared from 
the valley of the Oerze, and the Lord Jesus was 
become the King to whom every knee in the coun 
try was bowed.' " 
 
CHAPTEK XI. 
" Uncle Eden," said Maggie, "do you like Meredith's story ?" 
"Yes." 
"Do you feel like talking now, Uncle Eden?" 
"What about?" 
"But I mean do you feel like talking about 
anything?" 
"Depends on the subject, Maggie. Hark to that 
woodpecker ! " 
" Mr. Murray does not feel like talking, I know," 
remarked Flora. "He feels if he ever feels! 
lazy." 
"No, Miss Flora, not exactly. And yet, how de 
licious this quiet is ! " 
"And the smell of the pines ! " 
"And the warm, luxurious air!" 
"And the light through the pine branches, and 
upon the coloured leaves yonder." 
" Yes, and the blue of the sky," said Mr. Murray, 
who lying upon his back had a good view. " Blue, 
through the pine needles. Such an ethereal, clear 
blue ; not like summer's intensity." 
 
"I like summer best," said Flora. 
"I like this. But what did you want to talk 
about, children?" 
"0 Uncle Eden, a great many things. You see, 
we do not all think alike." 
"Naturally." 
"And we want you to tell us how we ought to 
think." 
" You do" said Mr. Murray laughing. "That 
will answer for ten years old. I am sure the others are more independent." 
"But we want to know what you think, Uncle 
Eden about ever so many things. We have been 
saving them up till you came. Ditto wants to 
know what Christians ought to do, about some 
things." 
"And I hope you will tell him, Mr. Murray," 
said Flora, what Christians ought not to do about 
some things." 
Mr. Murray raised himself up on his elbows and 
looked at the young people around him. It was a 
very pretty picture. Fair young faces, that life 
had not clouded, intelligent and honest; bright 
young figures in all the freshness of neat attire 
and excellent personal care; the setting of the 
green wood, the brown carpet of pine needles, the 
hazy October air, here and there the crimson of a 
Virginia creeper, here and there the tawny hues of 
a cat briar or a wild grape vine ; stillness and soft 
ness over all, the chirrup of a cricket, the cawing 
of two crows flying over, the interrupted tap of the 
 
woodpecker, just making you notice how still and 
soft it was; and then the bright, living young faces 
raised or turned, and waiting upon him. Mr. Mur 
ray looked and smiled, and did not at once speak ; 
then he asked what subject came first? So many 
answers were begun at once that all had to stop ; 
then Maggie getting the field said, 
"We want to know how much a Christian ought 
really to give, Uncle Eden." 
" Say rather how much he ought to do," put in 
Meredith. 
"Yes," added Flora; "we do want instruction 
on that point. Some of us are rather wild." 
"Too big a subject for the present time and 
place," responded the referee of the little company. "To-morrow is Sunday; let us keep it for 
to-morrow, and come out here, or to some other 
place and discuss it." 
" That is delightful ! " cried Maggie clapping her 
hands. " Now what were some of the other things, 
Ditto?" 
"About the Saxons? But Mr. Murray did not 
hear our first story." 
" I know. I guess he knows. You do know 
about the old Saxons, don't you, Uncle Eden ? " 
" I know there was such a people." 
" And you know they were very good and very 
bad both at once; and we wanted to know how 
they could be so much worse, and yet so much 
better, than people nowadays." 
" How  so much better ' ? " 
 
"They told the truth, Uncle Eden." 
" There were no cowards and no marriage-break 
ers among them," Meredith added. 
" And then how ' so much worse ' ? " 
" they were cruel ! they offered human sacrifices; they were frightfully cruel." 
" Yes," said Mr. Murray thoughtfully, " the contrast seems strange. They were a noble people in 
many ways." 
"But Pastor Harms says they are not half so good 
now that they are Christians," Maggie went on. 
" If that is true, there must be a reason for it." 
" Yes, Uncle Eden ; of course." 
"And that reason cannot be found^in their Christianity." 
"But how is it, Uncle Eden?" 
" Human nature is very much alike at all times, 
my child." 
" But the old Saxons were not like the old Romans, Uncle Eden? the word of a Saxon was bet 
ter than a Roman's oath." 
" And the modern Saxons are not like their forefathers," said Meredith; "at least according to Pastor Harms." 
"I have no doubt he is right." 
"And Frenchmen are very different from Eng 
lishmen," added Flora. 
"And both from Americans. And the Dutch 
from all three. We might go on indefinitely." 
" Yet they are all descended from Noah's sons," 
Meredith remarked. 
 
" R is a very curious subject, and rather deep for 
some of the present company. Many things go to 
make the differences between one nation and an 
other. In the first place, the several families of 
Shem, Ham and Japheth are all strongly marked." 
" Are they, sir ? " 
"Then, among the tribes of any one family dif 
ferences grow up from many causes. From the sort 
of country they inhabit, the climate that prevails, 
the scenery their eyes rest on, the ease or difficulty 
of obtaining food and the means necessary to that 
end; from the religion they believe in, their situation with respect to commerce and intercourse with 
other nations ; their habits of life superinduced upon 
all these." 
"But the modern Saxons live where the old Sax 
ons did, sir ? " 
" Barely. The country was at that time all one 
wild tract of forest and moor ; where life had need be 
of the simplest, and where it was sustained in great 
measure by the chase and by a rude husbandry. 
No cities, no churches, no libraries, no merchants, 
no lawyers, no fine furniture, no delicate living. 
Nobody therefore wanted money; and nobody tried 
to get it. That makes all the difference in the 
world, children." 
" Money, Uncle Eden ? " 
"Look at the map of Germany now; run your 
eye over the cities. Kemember the treasures of art 
in this and that gallery ; the beautiful old buildings 
almost everywhere ; the great trading houses ; the 
 
life of complicated interests, political, literary, scientific, social, critical, artistic, mercantile ; think of 
the books, the pictures, the statuary, the jewellery, 
the carvings and engravings, the luxurious and 
magnificent living; everybody wants money now, 
and nearly everybody either has it, or is working 
hard for it." 
"Does money make so much odds in national 
character ? " Meredith asked. 
"It is the root of all evil," Mr. Murray said 
smiling. 
" But Mr. Murray, you do not seriously mean 
that ? " said Flora. 
"The Bible says it, Miss Flora; not I." 
"But what can you have, or do, that is worth 
anything, without money ? " 
" Exactly. That is the general opinion. So everybody is striving to get money." 
"Well, people would stagnate, if they did not 
strive for something." 
"Quite true. Nevertheless, the Bible award 
proves itself. If you examine facts, you will find 
that the love of money is at the bottom of nearly 
all the crimes that are committed ; and at the root 
of all the meannesses, speaking generally." 
" Then you would make out money to be a bad 
thing, Mr. Murray ! " 
" Not money necessarily. But ' if any man will 
be rich, he shall fall into temptation and a snare, 
and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which 
drown men in destruction and perdition.'" 
 
"Then was that the reason, Uncle Eden, why 
those old Saxons were so noble, because they had 
no money ? " 
" One reason, I fancy. Along with trade and 
riches, don't you see, comes the temptation to un 
derhand and false dealings, that money may be 
got faster ; and so comes cringing for the sake of 
advantage, and flattery for the same. And then, 
with luxury comes dislike of hardships, and neglect 
of manly living, and people's moral sense gets weak 
along with their bodily powers. Self-indulgence 
drives out the noble uprightness that was maintained when people feared nothing." 
" But religion Christianity ? " said Meredith. 
"That ought to have made more difference the 
other way." 
"So it would if it prevailed. But a name is not 
Christianity; and the real thing is only here and 
there. The wheat in the midst of tares, as the 
Lord said it would be." 
Maggie drew a long sigh. 
"The wheat must shew itself for what it is," said 
her uncle smiling at her, " and bear a fine head of 
fruit, to rebuke the tares. Your old Saxons however, were a fine stock to begin with." 
" I think I understand this question," said Meredith. 
"I do, too," said Maggie. 
" I am sony Mr. Murray thinks so ill of money " 
remarked Flora. 
"Of the love of it, say." 
 
"But how can one have it or not have it, for 
that matter and help loving it ? " 
" So the danger comes in. And the difficulty of 
giving it all to Christ." 
"0 Uncle Eden, you are getting upon another 
of our questions now." 
"And we have had enough serious talk for one 
time. Leave it till to-morrow, Maggie." 
"Shall I read some more?" said Meredith. "Or 
have you heard enough ? " 
" By all means, read. This is luxury." 
And Mr. Murray stretched himself comfortably 
on the pine needles and clasped his hands under 
his head, repeating, " This is luxury ! " while Meredith opened his book again. 
"Another Saxon story, Ditto?" Flora asked. 
" Out of the Saxon chronicles. Yes. ' The story 
that I am going to tell you now, happened in an 
cient times and at a place called Dageforde. 
" ' Our forefathers, the old Saxons, were then divided into ediling or nobles, freiling or free peas 
ants, and serfs. A freiling, by name Henning, 
lived on this farm, in the days when Hermann 
Billing was duke of Saxony. At that time, it is 
900 years ago, our country was already a Christian 
country, but still had hard fights to go through 
with the heathenish Wends, who made inroads 
almost yearly into our Eastphalian land, plundering and killing, and showing a special rage against 
the churches and the priests. The strong arm of 
the two excellent emperors, Heinrich and Otto, it 
is true, kept back these heathen and held them in 
awe ; but notwithstanding, they availed themselves 
of every opportunity to renew their murderous on 
slaughts. 
"'Now when once Kaiser Otto was gone to Italy, 
and staying a long while away, they were minded to 
profit by his absence ; for they supposed that now 
they could burn and lay waste to their heart's de 
sire, and with no hindrance. So they came with 
a great host, burned down the churches, killed the 
priests, dragged off men, women and children and 
treasures of booty, and came as far as to this part 
of the country. It is told of their frightful rage 
against Christianity, that on one occasion they 
took more than twenty Christian priests, stripped 
off their clothes, cut bloody crosses on their faces, 
breasts, bodies and backs, and then tied them by 
their feet to the tails of their horses, which they 
drove round and round till their victims were 
dragged to death.'" 
" It cost something in those days to be a Chris 
tian ! " said Meredith with something of a shudder. 
"There have been many such days in the history 
of the church," said Mr. Murray. "And yet, it 
pays, to be a Christian ! It did then." 
"I do not see, for my part, how people stood it, 
there and in other places," said Flora. " I should 
think they would not have dared to confess they 
were Christians." 
" They could not be Christians and not confess. 
Neither in those days nor in these days." 
 
"Why, Uncle Eden? "said Esther, who seldom 
said anything. 
" You know the Lord's declaration he will own 
those publickly who own him publickly; and nobody else" 
" But why couldn't they own him privately ? " 
" Will you tell me how that is to be done my 
dear?" 
"Why by beautiful Christian living and act 
ing," said Flora. 
"Don't you see, if such living could be found 
among those who are in name and profession not 
the Lord's, it would fight all against his cause and 
him ? What sort of confessing of him is that ? " 
Nobody answered and Meredith went on. 
"'In the meanwhile the valiant Duke Hermann 
had gathered his faithful followers and moved for 
ward to meet the enemy. All the ediling and freiling were called upon for such expeditions of war, 
none other having the right to bear arms. The ediling served on horseback and the fretting on foot, and 
each one brought his own weapons with him. And 
Henning, the freiling of Dageforde, was among 
the Christian warriors who accompanied the duke. 
Not far from here is the Hiinenburg, an extent 
of heath, on which there are a number of burial 
mounds. There it came to a battle between the 
Christians and the heathen. The fight was long 
and bloody; Christ led the one host, Satan the 
other. The Christians fought for their faith, the 
heathen fought for their prey. Before the battle, 
 
Hermann with his warriors had cast himself upon 
his knees and besought the Lord Christ that He 
would be their leader. Therewith came the storm 
of the heathen upon them, already certain of victory, for they were many and the Christian num 
ber was small ; Hermann in his noble eagerness to 
protect his poor people, not having had patience to 
wait for further reinforcements. But the Christians 
stood immovable, like a wall, and the heathen fell 
in heaps under their swords and spears. In the 
Christian army there were twelve priests wearing 
white garments, who bore a white banner with a 
red cross ; and wherever the fight raged most madly, 
thither they carried their banner, singing, "Kyrie 
Eleison, Christe Eleison, Kyrie Eleison;" the Christian warriors dashing after them, joining in the 
holy song, wielding their hacked swords, and with 
irresistible force driving the heathen back. In vain 
the heathen sought to slay the priests and to seize 
their white banner; every Christian presented his 
breast as its bulwark against the foe. Whichever way the banner turned, victory went with it. 
Louder and louder sounded the "Kyrie Eleison," 
with more and more valour and joy of victory 
the Christians pressed forward. Then one of the 
Wendish leaders, Zwentibold by name, gathered 
once more the bravest of his people to make a 
stormy effort for the banner of the cross. His rage 
of onset broke through some ranks of the Christians; already he had penetrated to the near neighbourhood of the priests; when a foot soldier from 
 
among the Christians manfully planted himself in 
his way and thrust his sharp spear against the 
heathen's broad breast so that the coat of chain ar 
mour he had on was broken, and the spear pierced 
through his heart. Now there was no stand made 
any longer; the heathen fled, and in terror they 
cried out, " Christ has conquered ! Christ has conquered ! " 
'"Duke Hermann looked about him to see the 
brave freiling who had done such a deed of hero 
ism; it was Henning, the freiling of Dageforde. 
For his reward, Hermann dubbed the brave man 
knight upon the field of battle ; and Henning returned to his house as an ediling. Though but for 
a little while. For Hermann was minded to profit 
by his victory and compel his stubborn enemies to 
keep the peace in future. So he pushed on with 
his army, now greatly reinforced, into the country 
of the Wends, and Henning went with his duke. 
" ' Not far from the Elbe there was a temple of 
the heathenish idol Eadegast; this temple stood 
within a strong fortress, called the fortress of Eade 
gast ; where now the village of Eadegast lies. The 
heathen had collected and carried to this place all 
the treasures of the prey they had seized in their 
plundering incursions. Hermann resolved to storm 
this fortress, and therewith to destroy the bulwark 
