  ——
BROWN GIBLET SOUP.
Cut each giblet into three pieces, and put on to boil in stock made of
the remnant of your mock turtle soup, diluted with water and strained.
Simmer all together one hour.
Chop the gizzard fine, pound the liver. Make what is called technically
a roux, by putting two tablespoonfuls of butter into a saucepan,
and when it bubbles, stirring in a teaspoonful of browned flour, and
continuing to stir until they are well mixed and smooth. Add, spoonful
by spoonful, half a cup of boiling soup, then the pounded liver; the
gizzard, juice of half a lemon, and half a glass of brown sherry. Stir
all this into the soup, and boil up once. Have in the tureen the yolks
of four hard-boiled eggs, each quartered with a keen knife, and pour
the soup upon them.
MINCED TURKEY AND EGGS.
Cut all the meat from the skeleton of the turkey. Put the bones,
sinews, skin, and stuffing into a pot with three quarts of cold water.
Set at the back of the range and let it simmer down to two quarts.
Season, and set away in your stock-pot.
Divide the meat intended for to-day into inch long pieces, tearing
rather than cutting it. Heat the skimmed gravy; add as much drawn
butter; two beaten eggs; pepper and salt; put in the minced turkey;
set back over the fire, and stir until very hot. Cover the bottom of
a pudding-dish with fine crumbs; pour in the mixture; strew crumbs on
top, and bake to a light brown in a quick oven. Serve in the bake-dish.
BAKED TOMATOES.
Please see Thursday of last week—the First Week in December. Add the
surplus juice to your turkey-bone “stock.”
STEWED POTATOES.
Pare and cut into small squares. Lay in cold water half an hour; cook
tender in hot water, a little salt. When done—or nearly—pour this off,
add a cup of cold milk, and when this begins to simmer, a tablespoonful
of butter rolled in flour, pepper, salt, and a little minced parsley.
Boil gently one minute, and pour into a deep dish.
CELERY.
Wash, scrape, and cut off the green leaves. Arrange the best stalks
in a celery-glass. Put two or three green pieces into to-morrow’s
soup-stock while boiling; and if you have time cut up the rest into
short bits, and put in a jar or wide-mouthed bottle of vinegar to keep
for salad-dressing.
A PLAIN RICE PUDDING.
1 large cup of rice; 2 quarts of milk; 8 tablespoonfuls of sugar; 1
teaspoonful of salt; 1 great spoonful of butter, melted; nutmeg and
cinnamon to taste.
Soak the rice two hours in a pint of the milk. Add, then, the rest of
the milk and the other ingredients. Bake, covered, two hours; brown,
and eat cold.
  Second Week.      Tuesday.
  ——
  Simple White Soup.
  Stewed Fillet of Veal.      Spinach.
  Boiled Beans.      Mashed Potatoes.
  ——
  Queen’s Toast.
  ——
SIMPLE WHITE SOUP.
Take the fat from the top of your turkey soup-stock; strain, rubbing
the dressing through the colander. Simmer one hour, with half a sliced
onion and four tablespoonfuls of soaked rice in it, or until the
rice is soft. Be careful that it does not scorch. Strain through the
soup-sieve into the tureen, add pepper and salt, if needed—finally a
cup of hot milk in which has been stirred and cooked for one minute two
beaten eggs.
STEWED FILLET OF VEAL.
Lard the fillet on top with strips of fat salt pork; lay a few slices
of corned ham in the bottom of a saucepan; on these the veal; cover
with sliced ham; season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of mace; pour
in a cup of yesterday’s soup, weakened with water. Cover closely and
stew two hours, turning the meat at the end of the first hour; take up
and keep the meat hot over boiling water; add some browned flour and a
tablespoonful of soaked gelatine to the gravy when you have strained
it, boil fast and hard until it is thick, and of a glassy brown. Pour
on the veal, set in the oven, the larded side upward, and shut the door
for a few minutes to “glaze” it. Garnish with light and dark green
celery-tops. Lay the ham about it.
SPINACH.
Boil in plenty of hot salted water, for twenty-five minutes. Drain,
chop very fine, put back in the saucepan with a teaspoonful of sugar,
a little pepper, salt, and mace, and a few spoonfuls of milk or cream.
Beat and toss until it is like a thick green custard, and pour out upon
slices of fried bread.
BOILED BEANS.
Soak all night. In the morning, put on in cold water, and cook gently
until soft. Drain, pepper and salt, and pour over them, when dished, a
little good drawn butter.
MASHED POTATOES.
Prepare as usual—without browning.
QUEEN’S TOAST.
Cut thick slices of stale baker’s bread into rounds with a cake-cutter
and fry to a nice brown in hot lard. Dip each slice into boiling water
to remove the grease; sprinkle with a mixture of powdered sugar and
cinnamon, and pile one upon the other. Serve a sauce made of powdered
sugar, dissolved in the strained juice of a lemon and thinned with a
glass of wine. Put a very little upon each round. Butter sauces are too
rich for queen’s toast.
  Second Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  Beef Gravy Soup.
  Cannelon of Veal, Oysters, and Sweetbreads.
  Potatoes Sautés.
  Succotash.      Cranberry Sauce.
  ——
  Impromptu Plum Pudding.
  ——
BEEF GRAVY SOUP.
4 lbs. of coarse lean beef; 3 lbs. of bones; 2 sliced onions; 2
turnips; 2 carrots; bunch of sweet herbs; 3 stalks of celery; pepper
and salt; 1 tablespoonful corn-starch, wet up in cold water; 5 quarts
of water.
Cut the beef in small strips and fry to a good brown, in plenty of
dripping. Take out the meat and lightly fry the bones. Remove these
and put with the meat into the soup-pot. Now fry in the same fat the
sliced onions; add these, when brown, to the meat and bones, and pour
on them the five quarts of water. Cook slowly one hour; take off the
scum, and put in the sliced carrots, turnips, the celery and herbs.
Boil gently four hours. Strain; pick out the meat and bones, and put,
well-seasoned, into the stock-jar. Pulp the vegetables into the soup;
season; pour all but two quarts into the stock-jar, and set aside. Cool
that left out for to-day, skim and re-heat; add the corn-starch, boil
up and serve.
CANNELON OF VEAL, OYSTERS, AND SWEETBREADS.
Chop the remains of your stewed fillet; boil, blanch, and cool two
sweetbreads, and mince very fine. Chop, also, twelve oysters. Mix all
these together with a cup of fine bread-crumbs; add plenty of seasoning
and two beaten eggs. Work to a paste; flour your hands and make into a
roll seven or eight inches long, and three or four inches in diameter.
Envelope this in a crust of good pie-paste, closing the open ends
with rounds of paste. Lay in a floured baking-pan, the joined edges
downward, and bake in a steady oven. Just before taking it up glaze
with butter.
POTATOES SAUTÉS.
Boil and slice while hot. Put into a frying-pan with a large spoonful
of butter, pepper, salt, and powdered parsley. Stir constantly until
very hot, and dish. They must not be at all brown or even dry. Serve
very hot.
SUCCOTASH.
Empty a can of succotash into a saucepan; cover with boiling water, a
little salt, and cook half an hour. Turn off the water; pour in a cup
of milk, and when this boils, stir in a tablespoonful of butter rolled
in flour; season with pepper and salt; boil once, and dish.
CRANBERRY SAUCE.
If you have none ready made, prepare according to receipt given for
Sunday of this week. It is well to make a good supply at a time, since
it keeps well in cold weather.
IMPROMPTU PLUM PUDDING.
2 cups of made mince-meat—“Atmore’s” is very good; 1½ cups prepared
flour; 6 beaten eggs.
Whip the yolks and stir (with additional sugar, if needed,) into the
mince-meat. Beat hard for two or three minutes. Put in whisked whites
and the flour alternately. Butter a large mould; put in the mixture,
leaving room for the swelling of the pudding, and boil, without the
intermission of a moment, for five hours. Turn out upon a hot dish;
pour brandy over it, and light just as it goes into the dining-room.
Eat with rich sauce.
  Second Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Tomato Soup.
  Glazed Ham.      Potato Puff.
  Chopped Cabbage, with Sauce.      Celery Salad.
  ——
  Corn-Starch Cup-Cake.
  Chocolate.
  ——
TOMATO SOUP.
Skim the fat from your soup-stock, and put it, meat bones and all,
over the fire with a can of tomatoes. Simmer one hour and strain,
rubbing the tomatoes through the colander. Season to taste; return
to the fire, and when it boils, put in a lump of sugar, and a
tablespoonful of butter cut up in half as much flour. Boil up once.
GLAZED HAM.
Put into cold water about ten o’clock on Wednesday night, and let it
soak until the fire is made next morning. Put on then in plenty of cold
water, and cook eighteen or twenty minutes per pound. Set out of doors
when done, in a large, shallow pan, and cover with the pot-liquor.
You should have made, meanwhile, the “glaze,” by boiling down a cup
of yesterday’s soup, with an equal quantity of strained pot-liquor,
until the result was a thick brown broth. Add a tablespoonful of soaked
gelatine, and set the mixture in boiling water. When the ham is nearly,
or quite cold, skim carefully; wash all over with the glaze, and set in
the oven to harden. If not quite thick enough, apply a second coat when
the first is dry. Twist frilled paper about the shank.
POTATO PUFF.
Whip hot boiled potatoes light and soft with milk, butter, and salt.
Beat in two whisked eggs, and heap irregularly within a buttered
bake-dish. Brown quickly, and serve in the dish in which it was baked.
CHOPPED CABBAGE WITH SAUCE.
Quarter a cabbage, and boil tender in hot salted water. Chop when you
have drained it; season with pepper and salt. Drain again, pressing out
the water; put into a hot dish and pour over it a cup of drawn butter,
having for a base some of the strained ham-liquor, into which have been
stirred a tablespoonful of celery vinegar and a little made mustard.
Send up hot.
CELERY SALAD.
Scrape and cut into short pieces. Put into a salad-bowl, and pour over
it a dressing such as was made for cold-slaw on Saturday, First Week in
December.
CORN-STARCH CUP-CAKE.
5 eggs; 1 cup of butter; 2 cups of sugar; 1 cup sweet milk; 1 cup of
corn-starch; 2 cups of prepared flour; vanilla flavoring.
Cream butter and sugar; beat in the yolks, the milk, the corn-starch
and flour mixed together, alternately with the whites—lastly, the
vanilla. Bake in small loaves, and eat while fresh. Pass hot chocolate
with them.
  Second Week.      Friday.
  ——
  Oyster Soup.
  Boiled Chickens.      Browned Potatoes.
  Baked Sweet Potatoes.      Scalloped Squash.
  ——
  Baked Custards.
  ——
OYSTER SOUP.
2 quarts of oysters; 1 quart of milk; 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; 1
teacupful hot water; pepper, salt and a blade of mace.
Strain all the liquor from the oysters; add the water, and heat. When
near the boil, add the seasoning, then, the oysters. Cook about five
minutes from the time they begin to simmer, until they “ruffle.” Stir
in the butter, cook one minute and pour into the tureen. Stir in the
boiling milk, and send to table.
BOILED CHICKENS.
Clean and truss the chickens, but do not stuff them. Sew up each in
a piece of mosquito-netting, and boil in plenty of hot salted water.
Allow about twelve minutes to the pound. Undo the netting; wipe the
chickens, and rub all over with butter. Send up in a boat a cup of
melted butter in which have been stirred the pounded yolks of two hard
boiled eggs, and some powdered or minced parsley. Pour a few spoonfuls
over the chickens.
BROWNED POTATOES.
Boil with their skins on. Throw off the water; take each potato in a
clean towel, and hold it while you strip off the skin. Lay them, when
peeled, in a greased baking-pan, and set this in a hot oven. Roast,
with good dripping, until they are well colored.
BAKED SWEET POTATOES.
Wash, and bake soft in a moderate oven. Serve in their “jackets.”
SCALLOPED SQUASH.
Pare, slice, and mash. Stir in, while it is hot, a good spoonful of
butter, pepper and salt to taste, and two beaten eggs. Pour into a
buttered dish; strew fine crumbs on the top, and bake, covered, half an
hour—then brown slightly.
BAKED CUSTARDS.
1 quart of milk; 4 beaten eggs; 5 tablespoonfuls of sugar, beaten with
the eggs; nutmeg, and 2 teaspoonfuls of flavoring extract.
Scald the milk; pour upon the other ingredients; stir together well;
flavor, and pour into stone-china cups. Set these in a pan of hot
water; grate nutmeg upon each, and bake until firm. Eat cold from the
cups.
  Second Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  Chicken and Sago Soup.
  Beefsteak Pudding.      Boiled Onions.
  Mashed Potatoes.      Fried Hominy.
  ——
  Sweet Potato Pie.
  ——
CHICKEN AND SAGO SOUP.
Take the top from your chicken pot-liquor; add the cracked bones of the
chickens, from which you cut the meat for “breakfast, luncheon, or
tea;” boil gently one hour. Strain, and season to taste; add a cup of
soaked sago, and simmer until it is soft and clear.
BEEFSTEAK PUDDING.
3 lbs. of rump steak; 3 eggs; 2 cups of milk; 5 tablespoonfuls of
prepared flour; pepper and salt; melted butter; parsley; French mustard.
Cut the steaks into pieces rather more than an inch wide and long.
Beat with a rolling-pin; pepper and salt, and dip each in a mixture of
melted butter and minced parsley, with a little French mustard. Lay
in the bottom of a greased bake-dish; pour over them a batter made of
the eggs, flour, and milk, bake an hour and a quarter. Serve in the
bake-dish.
BOILED ONIONS.
Cook and boil in salted water fifteen minutes; throw this off, and
cover with milk and water. Cook tender; drain; pepper and salt, and
pour in a cupful of drawn butter. Simmer five minutes, and turn out.
MASHED POTATOES.
Prepare in the usual manner, taking care not to get them too stiff.
FRIED HOMINY.
Boil hominy—the fine-grained—the day before you want to use it. When
perfectly cold and stiff, remove the skin from the top, and cut the
hominy into neat squares. Flour and salt these, and fry to a nice brown
in hot lard or dripping. Drain well, and eat hot.
SWEET POTATO PIE.
Parboil; skin; cool, and slice crosswise firm sweet potatoes. Line a
pie-dish with a good crust; put in a layer of sliced potatoes; sprinkle
abundantly with sugar; scatter in four or five whole cloves, and cover
with more slices. Fill the dish thus: put in a liberal tablespoonful of
melted butter; pour in a little water and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice;
cover with puff-paste, and bake. Eat cold. This is a Virginia dish, and
very nice.
  Third Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  Ox-tail Soup.
  Ducks à la Mode.      Canned Green Peas.
  Mashed Turnips.      Scalloped Cauliflower.
  ——
  Sponge Cake Soufflé Pudding.
  ——
OX-TAIL SOUP.
2 ox-tails; 1 onion; 2 turnips; 2 carrots; bunch of sweet herbs; 6
whole cloves; 2 tablespoonfuls of catsup; 1 glass of wine; pepper and
salt; ½ lb. of lean ham; butter; water.
Joint the tails, and slice the vegetables and ham. Put two
tablespoonfuls of butter into the soup kettle, with the tails, ham,
vegetables, herbs, and a pint of water. Cover closely, and simmer half
an hour after they begin to smoke. Add, then, six quarts of water,
if the tails are of a fair size, and simmer four hours, or until the
vegetables are boiled to pieces and the tails very tender. Do this on
Saturday; season the soup, and turn all into the stock-jar. On Sunday
take off the fat, and strain the soup, pulping the vegetables, and
taking out the pieces of tail. Put these into the stock-jar, with all
the soup you do not need for to-day; also the bits of ham. Heat the
portion left out for to-day; stir in a good spoonful of browned flour
wet in water, the catsup and wine, and boil up fairly before serving.
DUCKS À LA MODE.
Joint the ducks; pepper, salt, and flour them. Fry to a light
brown in a little butter. Put into a saucepan with a cup of your
soup-stock—strained off before pulping the vegetables—a tablespoonful
of minced onion, pepper and salt to taste. Cover, and stew tender; say
about forty minutes from the commencement of the boil. Keep hot over
boiling water while you strain the gravy; add a glass of wine, and
thicken with browned flour. Boil until thick, and pour over the ducks.
CANNED GREEN PEAS.
Drain, cover with boiling water, and cook tender. Pour off the water;
dish, and stir in a little hot butter, mixed with pepper, salt, and a
dust of powdered sugar. Toss and mix well, and serve hot.
MASHED TURNIPS.
See Sunday, Second Week in December.
SCALLOPED CAULIFLOWER.
Boil twenty minutes—tied up in netting—in hot salted water. Cut into
small clusters, rejecting the main stalk altogether. Set these closely
together in a buttered bake-dish; pour drawn butter over them, and sift
fine crumbs thickly upon the top. Bake in a good oven until browned.
SPONGE-CAKE SOUFFLÉ PUDDING.
12 square (penny) stale sponge-cakes; 5 eggs; 1 cup of milk; 2 glasses
of sherry; ½ cup of sugar.
Lay the cakes in a buttered pudding-dish; pour the wine over them, and
cover for half an hour. Heat the milk; pour upon the beaten yolks and
half the sugar. Stir over the fire until quite thick. Pour, gradually,
upon the cakes, letting it soak in well before adding more. Put into
the oven, and, when very hot, cover with the whites, whisked stiff with
the rest of the sugar, and shut the oven-door until the méringue is
colored. Make on Saturday, and eat cold on Sunday.
  Third Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Second Edition Soup.
  Boiled Corned Beef.      Roast Potatoes.
  Scalloped Cabbage.      Horseradish Sauce.
  ——
  Farina Pudding.
  ——
SECOND EDITION SOUP.
Strain off the soup from the meat in your stock-jar; heat slowly to a
boil; put in a cupful of the best parts of the meat, cut neatly from
the joints, and divided into square bits. Boil one minute, and pour out.
BOILED CORNED BEEF.
Put a piece of brisket, weighing six or eight pounds, in plenty of cold
water. Set at the back of the range out of everybody’s way, and cook
slowly, allowing eighteen minutes per pound. Take up; wipe carefully;
rub all over with butter, and dish. Serve horseradish sauce with it.
Pour the pot-liquor into the stock-jar.
ROAST POTATOES.
Select those of uniform size, and roast in a moderate oven until soft.
Wipe, and wrap in a napkin, spread upon a flat dish.
SCALLOPED CABBAGE.
When your beef has begun to boil fairly, put in a firm white cabbage,
from which you have stripped the outer leaves. Cook in the boiling
pot-liquor until tender. Take out, quarter, and let it cool rapidly.
When quite cold, chop; stir in pepper and salt, and put into a greased
bake-dish. Pour over it half a cupful of soup-stock; sift crumbs
thickly on the top, and bake, covered, half an hour, or until very hot
throughout; then brown.
HORSERADISH SAUCE.
Stir two tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish and a tablespoonful of
vinegar into a cup of drawn butter until it is like white cream. If
the horseradish be put up in vinegar, omit the tablespoonful of that
condiment.
FARINA PUDDING.
1 quart new milk; 4 tablespoonfuls of farina; 4 eggs; 5 tablespoonfuls
of sugar; nutmeg.
Soak the farina two hours in a little water. Scald the milk; stir in
the farina, and cook ten minutes, using the spoon constantly. Pour
upon the beaten eggs and sugar. Beat all together well. Put in nutmeg
to taste, and pour into a buttered pudding-dish. Bake half an hour, or
until firm and well colored. Eat warm—not hot.
  Third Week.      Tuesday.
  ——
  Split Pea Soup.
  Larded Mutton Chops.      Tomato Sauce.
  Lima Beans.      Macaroni à la Crême.
  ——
  Apple and Tapioca Pudding.
  ——
SPLIT PEA SOUP.
Soak a quart of split peas overnight. Next day, put on in the
pot-liquor from your corned beef—having removed the fat from the
latter. Add an onion, sliced, and three stalks of celery, with a few
sprigs of parsley, cut fine. Boil gently—adding boiling water should
the liquid sink too much—three hours. Rub through a colander; return to
the fire; pepper, and stir in a cup of milk, in which has been cooked
for one minute a tablespoonful of butter, cut up in a teaspoonful of
flour. Pour out at once upon dice of fried bread laid in the tureen.
LARDED MUTTON CHOPS.
Cut off the skin and fat. Lard the chops thickly with strips of fat
pork. Season them with a mixture of pepper, salt, and mace. Put into a
saucepan; cover with a little of yesterday’s soup, if you have no other
gravy, and a spoonful of tomato catsup. If you have a spoonful or two
of green peas left from Sunday, put them in, and a little minced onion.
Cover, and cook slowly half an hour. Turn the chops, and cook twenty
minutes longer. Take out, and keep warm. Strain the gravy; thicken with
browned flour and a tablespoonful of chopped cucumber pickle; boil two
minutes. Put in the chops, and simmer three minutes. Arrange the chops
upon a hot dish, and cover with the gravy.
TOMATO SAUCE.
Stew a can of tomatoes twenty minutes. Pulp through a colander, and put
back into the saucepan, with pepper, salt, sugar, and a great spoonful
of butter rolled in flour. Simmer twenty minutes more, or until the
sauce is of the consistency of boiled custard.
LIMA BEANS.
Soak the dried beans all night. Next day, cook soft, putting them on in
cold water, and boiling slowly. Drain; season with pepper, salt, and
butter, and dish.
MACARONI À LA CRÊME.
Cook—having broken it into short pieces—half a pound of macaroni ten
minutes in boiling water. Pour this off, and add a cupful of milk, with
a little salt. Stew tender in this. In another saucepan heat a cup of
milk, thicken with a teaspoonful of flour, stir in a tablespoonful of
butter, and, at last, a beaten egg. Drain the macaroni; dish; stir
through it two heaping tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, with a little
cayenne. Pour on the sauce, and serve.
APPLE AND TAPIOCA PUDDING.
1 teacupful tapioca; 6 pippins, pared and cored; 1 quart of water; 1
teaspoonful of salt; a little grated lemon-peel; sugar; cloves.
Cover the tapioca with three cups of tepid water, and set in a warm
place for five hours, stirring once in a while. Pack the apples in a
pudding-dish, with a pinch of lemon-peel in each. Add a cup of warm
water; cover closely, and cook in a moderate oven, turning as they cook
at the bottom. When soft, drain off the water, fill the centre of each
apple with sugar, put a clove in each, and pour over them the tapioca.
Cover, and bake one hour. Eat warm, with hard sauce.
  Third Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  Rabbit Soup.
  Venison Steaks.      Oyster Salad.
  Stewed Celery.      Potatoes à la Lyonnaise.
  ——
  Cottage Pudding.
  ——
RABBIT SOUP.
1 large rabbit; 2 lbs. of beef-bones; 2 slices lean corned ham; 1 large
onion; bunch of sweet herbs; 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce; 3
quarts of water; raw egg; crumbs.
Put the rabbit, jointed, the cracked bones, sliced ham and onion, and
chopped herbs on in the water. Fit a tight cover upon the pot; set a
weight on top, and stew four hours. The meat should be in rags. Strain,
rubbing the vegetables through the colander. Season, cool, and take off
the fat. Put over the fire, add some tomato sauce left from yesterday,
boil up, and pour out. Chop a little of the soup-meat fine while the
soup is cooling; season; work in some fine crumbs and a beaten egg.
Make into balls, flour well, and fry in dripping. Put these into the
tureen before the soup goes in.
VENISON STEAKS.
Trim off the hard skin, and flatten each steak with the side of a
hatchet. Butter the gridiron well, and have the fire clear and hot.
Turn often, not to lose a drop of the juice. Cook three or four minutes
longer than you would beefsteaks. The Vertical Broiler is admirably
adapted for broiling venison. Have ready, in a hot chafing-dish, a
tablespoonful of butter for each pound of venison, a pinch of salt, a
little pepper, a tablespoonful of currant jelly for each pound, and a
glass of wine for every four pounds. This should be warmed by the hot
water beneath the dish, by the time the venison is laid in it. Turn the
steaks twice in it; cover; put fresh boiling water below, or light the
lamp, and let it stand five minutes before serving.
OYSTER SALAD.
1 quart of oysters—cut, not chopped, to pieces; 1 bunch of celery, also
cut small; 2 tablespoonfuls best salad oil; 1 teaspoonful of powdered
sugar; ½ teaspoonful of salt, and the same of pepper and of made
mustard; yolks of 2 raw eggs; 4 tablespoonfuls cider vinegar.
Beat the yolks light, with sugar, salt, pepper, and mustard. Whip in,
gradually, the oil until the mixture is thick; add the vinegar—beating
still—a little at a time. Put the oysters, drained and cut up, with the
celery, into a salad-dish; pour over them the dressing; stir in well;
garnish with a fringe of delicate celery-tops, and serve as soon as
possible.
STEWED CELERY.
Scrape, and cut the stalks into rather short pieces. Cook tender in
boiling salted water; drain this off, and add a cupful of drawn butter,
well seasoned. Simmer in this five minutes, and pour into a deep dish.
POTATOES À LA LYONNAISE.
12 parboiled and cold potatoes; 1 chopped onion; chopped parsley,
pepper, and salt; butter, or dripping, for frying.
Slice, or chop the potatoes. Heat the dripping in a frying-pan. Put
in the onion, and fry one minute; then cook the potatoes, adding the
parsley and seasoning. Shake and stir constantly lest the potatoes
should stick to the pan, or brown. They should be done in five minutes.
Drain off the fat by shaking to and fro in a hot colander—then dish.
COTTAGE PUDDING.
1 cup of sugar; 1 tablespoonfuls of butter, creamed with the sugar; 2
eggs; 1 cup of milk; 3 cups of prepared flour; 1 teaspoonful—scant—of
salt.
Rub butter and sugar together; beat up with the yolks; add the milk,
the whipped whites—lastly, the flour. Bake in a buttered cake-mould.
Turn out, when done, upon a hot plate. In serving, cut in slices, and
eat with liquid sauce.
  Third Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Vermicelli Soup.
  Veal Cutlets à la Milanaise.      Stewed Beans.
  Hominy Pudding.      Hot Slaw.
  ——
  Pumpkin Pie.
  ——
VERMICELLI SOUP.
4 lbs. knuckle of veal; 1 lb. lean ham; 2 carrots; 1 onion; 4 stalks of
celery; bunch of herbs; 1 great spoonful of butter; 6 quarts of water;
4 tablespoonfuls of vermicelli, broken small, and boiled ten minutes in
hot salted water.
Cut up the veal and ham into small pieces; slice the vegetables; put
into a soup-pot in which you have melted a great spoonful of butter.
Set where it will heat slowly; cover closely, and leave it for one
hour, stirring now and then. Pour in, then, the cold water, and cook
gently four hours. Drain off the liquid, pick out meat and bones, and
put into the stock-jar; pour on all the soup not wanted for to-day’s
use, season, and set away. Pulp the vegetables into to-day’s soup;
season; cool, and remove the fat. Put over the fire, and boil and skim
five minutes. Add the vermicelli—simmer one minute, and pour out.
VEAL CUTLETS À LA MILANAISE.
Make your butcher cut the cutlets very thin—about half the thickness of
those usually sold. Flatten with the side of a hatchet; dip in beaten
yolk of egg, then in cracker-dust, mixed with pepper and salt. Fry to a
fine brown in hot dripping. Drain off the fat; lay upon a hot dish, and
put upon the middle of each slice (they should not be more than four
inches long by three wide) a spoonful of the following sauce: Make a
half-cup of drawn butter; stir in the stiffened white of an egg, with a
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Beat
light with your egg-whisk; heat very hot, and pour out.
STEWED BEANS.
Soak white beans all night. Put them on in the morning in cold water,
and cook soft. Drain, and pour over them some nice gravy—soup-stock,
if you have no other; add a little finely-minced onion, and simmer ten
minutes. Turn out without draining.
HOMINY PUDDING.
1 cupful of cold boiled hominy (the small-grained); 2 cups of milk; 1
heaping teaspoonful of butter-warmed; 1 teaspoonful of sugar; 3 eggs; a
little salt.
Mix all together in a smooth batter, and bake in a buttered
pudding-dish. Eat hot.
HOT SLAW.
Boil the cabbage in two waters. Drain, when tender; chop quickly,
press out all the water, and put into a deep dish. Heat in a saucepan
half a cup of vinegar, one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful
of sugar, pepper and salt at discretion. When scalding, add a half
teaspoonful of flour wet with water. Boil one minute, and pour upon the
cabbage. If you have celery vinegar at hand, use for this dressing.
PUMPKIN PIE.
See Friday, Fourth Week in November.
  Third Week.      Friday.
  ——
  Corn and Tomato Soup.
  Baked Halibut.      Stewed Pigeons.
  Mashed Potatoes.      Fried Salsify.
  ——
  Dorchester Cracker Plum-Pudding.
  ——
CORN AND TOMATO SOUP.
Take the fat from the top of your stock. Drain off the soup, and add a
can of corn, chopped fine, and the same of tomatoes, rubbed through a
colander. Cook all slowly one hour; add what seasoning is required, and
pour out.
BAKED HALIBUT.
Get a cut of halibut weighing five or six pounds, and lay for two hours
in salt and water. Wipe dry, and score the outer skin. Set in the
baking-pan; pour a cupful of boiling water, in which has been mixed a
tablespoonful of butter, over it, and bake one hour, basting often with
butter-and-water. When a fork will penetrate it easily, it is done.
Lay upon a hot dish; add a little boiling water to the gravy, stir in a
teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, the juice of half a lemon, and a little
browned flour, wet up with cold water. Serve in a boat when you have
boiled it one minute.
STEWED PIGEONS.
Clean the pigeons, tie them in shape, and cook precisely as you did the
grouse on Friday, First Week in December.
MASHED POTATOES.
Serve with the halibut.
FRIED SALSIFY.
Scrape, and boil until tender. Drain and cool. Mash to a paste, picking
out the fibres. Add a very little milk, a spoonful of butter and a
beaten egg and a half for each cupful of mashed salsify. Make into
flat, round cakes; roll in flour, and fry brown.
DORCHESTER CRACKER PLUM-PUDDING.
2 quarts of milk; 6 Boston crackers, split and buttered; 8 eggs, beaten
very light; 2 cups of sugar; nutmeg, cloves, and cinnamon to taste; 1
lb. of raisins, seeded and cut in two; 1 teaspoonful of salt.
Heat the milk almost to boiling, and pour upon the beaten eggs and
sugar, with the seasoning. Do not boil it again. Butter a pudding-dish;
put a layer of buttered crackers in the bottom, buttered side up, and
moisten with a few spoonfuls of custard. Cover thickly with raisins,
and these with crackers, buttered side downward. Moisten with hot
custard, and repeat the order given, until crackers and fruit are all
in the dish. Pour in custard until only the surface of the upper layer
is visible, but not enough to float them. Cover, and leave all night in
a cold place. Add the rest of the custard in the morning, at intervals
of five or six minutes between the cupfuls. Bake, covered, two hours in
a moderate oven; then brown. Eat hot, with sauce.
  Third Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  Sheep’s Head and Barley Soup.
  Bacon and Eggs.      Cheese Fondu.
  Canned String-Beans.      Mashed Turnips.
  ——
  Lemon Tartlets.
  ——
SHEEP’S HEAD AND BARLEY SOUP.
1 sheep’s head, carefully cleaned, with the skin on; 4 pig’s feet,
also cleaned nicely; 2 onions; 2 turnips; 2 carrots; bunch of sweet
herbs; 1 can of tomatoes; ½ cup of soup-barley, soaked two hours in a
little water; 7 quarts of water; pepper, salt, mace, and sugar.
Crack the bones of the head and feet; wash very well; put the sliced
vegetables and the herbs into a pot with the water, and cook gently
five hours. At the end of three hours add the tomatoes. Should the
liquid boil down to less than five quarts by the time you are ready to
add the tomatoes, replenish from the tea-kettle. When the five hours
are up, strain off the soup. Put bones and meat into the stock-jar, and
add all the clear soup you do not want to-day. Season, and set aside.
Now pulp the vegetables into the soup left out for Saturday’s dinner,
season, cool, and skim off the fat. Return to the fire with the barley,
and simmer half an hour.
BACON AND EGGS.
Cut one pound of streaked bacon into thin long slices; put into a
frying-pan and cook slowly, turning often, until quite crisp. Pour
off and strain the fat, and pour two tablespoonfuls of it into a
stone-china or block-tin dish. Add two larger spoonfuls of good gravy
left from yesterday’s pigeons, with as much cream, in which have been
mixed half a teaspoonful of flour and a pinch of soda. Set this in
a dripping-pan, with boiling water in the bottom, but not enough to
overflow the dish, and stir upon the top of the range until quite hot.
Then break upon it seven or eight, or more eggs, and put into a quick
oven to “set.” When firm, send to table with the bacon laid about them.
CHEESE FONDU.
1 cup dry and fine bread-crumbs; 2 scant cups of milk, with a pinch
of soda stirred in; ½ lb. dry cheese, grated; 3 beaten eggs; 1 small
tablespoonful of melted butter; pepper and salt.
Soak the crumbs in the milk; beat in eggs, butter, seasoning—finally
the cheese. Butter a pudding-dish; pour in the mixture, strew crumbs
on the top, and bake in a rather quick oven to a light brown. Serve at
once, as it soon falls.
CANNED STRING-BEANS.
Cut into short lengths; cover with hot, salted water, and cook forty
minutes. Drain; dish, and stir in pepper, salt, and butter.
MASHED TURNIPS.
See Sunday, Second Week in December.
LEMON TARTLETS.
5 eggs; 5 tablespoonfuls of sugar; 1 quart of milk; ⅓ cup of prepared
flour; 1 lemon, a large one—juice and grated peel; a pinch of salt.
Heat the milk; stir in the flour wet with a little cold milk, and heat
again, stirring all the while. Pour upon the beaten yolks and sugar;
cook for one minute. Take from the fire, and beat in the lemon-juice
and grated rind. Have ready, baked and hot, some shells of puff-paste
lining “patty-pans.” Fill with the mixture and cover each with a
méringue made of the whipped whites and a little powdered sugar. Put
into the oven to set, and lightly color the méringue. Eat fresh, but
not hot.
  Fourth Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  Clear Sago Soup.
  Roast Beef.      Potato Balls.
  Fried Sweet Potatoes.      Apple Sauce.
  Celery.
  ——
  Ribbon Blanc-Mange.
  Coffee and Cake.
  ——
CLEAR SAGO SOUP.
Remove the fat from your soup-jelly. Pour off as much as you need for
to-day, without disturbing the sediment. Heat, simmer and skim until
the scum ceases to rise; put in half a cup of German sago which has
been soaking one hour in a little water. Cook gently until clear.
ROAST BEEF.
Lay in a dripping-pan and pour a cup of boiling water over it. Roast
about ten minutes per pound, basting frequently and copiously. When
done, dish; pour the strained gravy into a bowl and set in ice-water to
throw up the fat. Remove this, return the gravy to the fire, pepper,
salt, and thicken with browned flour. Boil once, and serve in a boat.
POTATO BALLS.
Mash potatoes very light with butter, milk and salt, and beat in two
raw eggs. Put into a buttered saucepan, and stir until hot and stiff.
Turn out and let the paste get cold. Then make into balls; roll each in
flour; half an hour before taking up the roast beef, pour off nearly
all the gravy, and lay the balls about the meat in the dripping-pan.
Baste them whenever you baste the meat, and cook to a fine brown. Drain
off the grease, and serve as a garnish to the beef, when dished.
FRIED SWEET POTATOES.
Boil, peel, and let them get cold. Then slice lengthwise; pepper, salt,
flour, and fry quickly in good dripping. Drain well and serve hot.
APPLE SAUCE.
See Wednesday, Second Week in November.
CELERY.
See Monday Second Week in December.
RIBBON BLANC-MANGE.
1 quart of milk; 1 package Cooper’s gelatine; ¾ cup of sugar; 1 great
spoonful of grated chocolate, wet in a very little cold milk; beaten
yolk of one egg; 1 great spoonful of cranberry juice; vanilla extract.
Soak the gelatine one hour in a cup of the milk. Heat the rest to
scalding; add sugar and soaked gelatine, and stir eight minutes over
the fire. Strain through a muslin bag into four bowls, putting equal
portions in all. Color one brown by stirring in the wet chocolate;
another yellow, by beating in the yolk; a third, pink with cranberry
juice, or currant jelly. Leave the fourth white. Return each portion,
excepting this last, to the fire in its turn, and stir until very hot.
When all are cold and beginning to congeal, wet a mould, and pour in,
first, half of the white; next, half of the pink; thirdly, half of the
yellow; fourthly, half of the brown. Upon this brown empty the rest
of the white, and let the pink, yellow, and brown follow in course.
Let each of the eight courses get firm enough to bear the next before
adding more. Do all this on Saturday. On Sunday, turn out and pass with
light cake, followed by coffee. The vanilla extract is intended for the
chocolate only.
This is a beautiful dish, easy and safe.
  Fourth Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Cream Soup.
  Larded Beef.      Mashed Potatoes.
  Baked Tomatoes.      French Mustard.
  ——
  Apples, Oranges, and Nuts.
  Tea and Crackers.
  ——
CREAM SOUP.
Put the contents of your stock-pot over the fire; add as much boiling
water as is needed to make soup for to-day. First, however, take out
the sheep’s tongue, and lay it aside. Simmer the soup for one hour;
strain and season; return to the fire, and when it is hot, add a
tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour; next, the sheep’s tongue,
skinned and cut into dice. Boil up; pour into the tureen, and stir in a
cup of hot milk in which two beaten eggs have been cooked one minute.
LARDED BEEF.
Thrust lardoons of fat salt pork quite through your cold roast, when
you have trimmed off the ragged parts. Put into a deep pan; strew with
chopped herbs, and minced onion, pepper, salt, and four or five whole
cloves; also, a tablespoonful of chopped green pickle. Half cover with
broth made from yesterday’s skimmed gravy, and a little soup-stock.
Cover the pan closely, set in a moderate oven, and cook one hour—more,
if the piece be large. Turn, when the time is half gone. Dish the meat,
strain, and thicken the gravy. Give it one boil; pour a little upon the
meat, the rest into a boat.
MASHED POTATOES.
Mash, or whip up light with milk, butter and salt, and heap roughly
upon a hot dish.
BAKED TOMATOES.
See Thursday of First Week in December. Save the surplus juice.
APPLES, ORANGES, AND NUTS.
Supply clean plates, fruit-knives, and nut-crackers with this course.
TEA AND CRACKERS.
Pass, without further change of plates.
  Fourth Week.      Tuesday.
  ——
  Baked Soup.
  Mock Pigeons.      Spinach.
  Potato Puff.      Stewed Corn.
  ——
  Arrowroot Pudding, Hot.
  ——
BAKED SOUP.
3 lbs. of beef, cut into small squares; ½ lb. lean ham, chopped; 1 lb.
of veal, cut small; 2 onions; 2 carrots; 2 tablespoonfuls German sago;
can of green peas; pepper and salt; 6 quarts of water.
Put the chopped ham in the bottom of a broad jar that will go into
your oven; cover with sliced vegetables, some of the peas and sago,
and this with beef or veal. Pack vegetables and meat in alternate
layers, seasoning each with pepper and salt. Pour in six quarts of
water, if the jar will hold so much; fit on a close cover; spread a
paste of flour and water around the edge to keep in the steam; set in
a dripping-pan of hot water, and leave in a moderate oven six hours,
replenishing the water in the pan, now and then. Dip out as much
soup—just as it comes—as you want for to-day, at the end of this time;
let it cool sufficiently to enable you to take off the fat; heat in a
saucepan just to the boiling point, and pour into the tureen. Add a
quart of boiling water and a little salt to the contents of the jar;
cover, while hot, and set away in a cold place, as stock—and excellent
stock it will be.
MOCK PIGEONS.
2 large cutlets of veal, cut rather thin, and beaten flat; ½ lb. of
fat salt pork; yolks of two hard-boiled eggs; 1 cup of bread-crumbs;
pepper, salt, and 1 tablespoonful of chopped onion pickle; a little
sugar; powdered or minced parsley; a little oyster-liquor.
Lay the cutlets upon a dish, and spread the upper side with a
force-meat made of the ingredients above enumerated; roll each up
closely; bind in shape with soft string, and lay in a dripping-pan.
Pour over them two cupfuls of boiling water, in which have been mixed
two tablespoonfuls of butter, and the surplus tomato-juice saved
from yesterday’s can of tomatoes. Cover with another pan of the same
size—inverted—and set in a steady oven. Bake a little over an hour—half
an hour more, should the “pigeons” be large. Take them up when tender,
and brown, clip, and withdraw the strings, and keep hot while you
strain, season, and thicken the gravy. Boil one minute, and pour into a
boat.
SPINACH.
See Tuesday, Second Week in December.
POTATO PUFFS.
See Thursday, Second Week in December.
STEWED CORN.
Empty a can of corn into a saucepan; cover with boiling salted water,
and stew half an hour. Drain off the water, and cover the corn with a
cupful of drawn butter, well seasoned. Simmer, stirring often, fifteen
minutes, and pour out.
ARROWROOT PUDDING—HOT.
3 even tablespoonfuls arrowroot; 1 quart fresh milk; 1 tablespoonful
of butter; 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar; 4 eggs, beaten light; nutmeg and
vanilla flavoring.
Scald the milk; wet the arrowroot with cold water, and stir into the
hot milk, until the latter is well thickened. Cream the butter and
sugar; beat up very light with the eggs, and stir into the thickened
milk. Flavor; pour into a buttered mould; set in a pot of boiling
water—not deep enough to float it—and boil steadily for one hour. Set
in cold water one minute, and turn out upon a hot dish. Eat with brandy
or wine sauce. It is very nice.
  Fourth Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  Sweetbread Ball Soup.
  Chicken and Ham Pie.      Rice Croquettes.
  Stewed Salsify.      Creamed Potatoes.
  ——
  Cup Puddings.
  ——
SWEETBREAD BALL SOUP.
Boil, blanch, cool, and chop very fine two sweetbreads; mix with them
one-third their bulk of fine crumbs, previously soaked, and rubbed
smooth with a little cream. Beat up the yolk of a raw egg, and work all
with pepper and salt to a paste. Make into small balls with floured
hands, and set by for half an hour in a cold place. Strain off two
quarts of soup from your stock-jar, when you have skimmed it. Heat and
boil slowly five minutes, skimming it well. Drop in the balls very
carefully—not to break them; simmer ten minutes very gently, to avoid
the same catastrophe, and pour into the tureen.
CHICKEN AND HAM PIE.
1 chicken; 1 lb. of lean veal; ½ lb. corned ham; yolks of 3 hard-boiled
eggs; 1 cup of gravy or stock; ½ can of mushrooms; pepper and salt;
good paste for cover.
Joint the chicken; cut the veal and ham into dice, slice the mushrooms
and yolks; place in alternate layers, seasoned with pepper and salt, in
a large pudding-dish; pour in the gravy, and cover with a thick crust
of good pastry. Ornament the edges, and make a slit in the middle. Bake
in a steady oven, and when almost done, wash over with beaten egg.
RICE CROQUETTES.
2 cups of cold boiled rice; 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter; 3 beaten
eggs; a little flour; 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar; a large pinch of
grated lemon-peel, and salt to taste; raw egg and pounded cracker.
Beat eggs and sugar together, and work the butter into the rice.
Stir all together; season; make into croquettes; roll in egg and
cracker-crumbs, and fry, a few at a time, in sweet lard. Drain, by
rolling them on soft white paper, and eat hot.
STEWED SALSIFY.
Scrape, dropping into cold water as you do it; cook tender in boiling
salted water; drain this off; pour on a cupful of drawn butter, and
stew five minutes. Serve in a hot, deep dish.
CREAMED POTATOES.
Boil, and, while hot, slice the potatoes. Make a sauce by heating a
cup of milk, stirring into it a great spoonful of butter, a scant
teaspoonful of corn-starch, wet in cold water, a little chopped
parsley, and boiling until thickened. Beat in the frothed white of an
egg, and pour upon the potatoes, which should first have been put into
a deep dish and sprinkled with pepper and salt.
CUP PUDDINGS.
3 eggs; the weight of the eggs in flour, prepared; half their weight
in sugar; one-quarter of their weight in butter; 2 tablespoonfuls of
milk; a little nutmeg.
Rub butter and sugar together; add the beaten yolks, the milk; at last,
the whisked whites and flour, alternately. Bake in small buttered tins,
or cups. Eat warm, without or with sauce, according to your preference.
  Fourth Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Noodle Soup.
  Roast Pig.      Apple Sauce.
  Mashed Potatoes.      Stewed Celery.
  ——
  Mince Pie.
  ——
NOODLE SOUP.
Empty your stock-jar into the soup-pot, adding as much boiling water as
you may need, with additional seasoning, and any bones you may chance
to have. Simmer one hour, or more; strain, return to the fire, and
boil and skim for five minutes, before dropping in a generous handful
of noodles—dried, or fresh. Simmer twenty minutes. For receipt for
noodles, please consult Wednesday, First Week in August.
ROAST PIG.
See that your butcher has done his part well in cleaning the month-old
pig. Rinse out with soda and water, then with fair water, wiping the
pig dry, inside and out. Prepare a dressing of a cupful of crumbs, half
a chopped onion, two teaspoonfuls powdered sage, three tablespoonfuls
of melted butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and as much pepper, half a
grated nutmeg, and the yolks of two beaten eggs. Moisten with half
a cup of soup-stock, and stuff the little fellow into his original
size and shape. Sew him up, and place in a kneeling posture in a
dripping-pan, skewering or tying his legs in the proper position.
Dredge with flour. Pour a little hot salted water in the dripping-pan.
Baste with butter and water three times as the pig warms; afterward,
with gravy from the dripping-pan. When he begins to smoke all over, rub
every ten minutes with a rag dipped in melted butter. This will keep
the skin from cracking. Roast in a moderate, steady oven two hours.
Put the innocent—still kneeling—upon a large hot dish; surround with
parsley and blanched celery-tops. Put a wreath of green about his neck,
and a sprig of celery in his mouth.
Skim and strain the gravy; thicken with browned flour; boil up, add a
