eye. But Lord Lambeth would not look at him ; 
his own eyes were better occupied. " I shall be 
very happy," cried Bessie Alden. "I am only 
going to some shops. But I will drive you about 
and show you the place " 
" An American woman who respects herself," 
said Mrs. Westgate, turning to Beaumont with 
her bright expository air, " must buy something 
every day of her life. If she can not do it herself, she must send out some member of her family for the purpose. So Bessie goes forth to fulfill my mission." 
The young girl had walked away, with Lord 
Lambeth by her side, to whom she was talking 
still ; and Percy Beaumont watched them as they 
passed toward the house. " She fulfills her own 
mission," he presently said ; " that of being a 
very attractive young lady." 
" I don 't know that I should say very attractive," Mrs. Westgate rejoined. "She is not so 
much that as she is charming when you really 
know her. She is very shy." 
" Oh, indeed !" said Percy Beaumont. 
"Extremely shy," Mrs. Westgate repeated. 
" But she is a dear good girl ; she is a charming 
species of girl. She is not in the least a flirt; 
that isn't at all her line ; she doesn 't know the 
alphabet of that sort of thing. She is very simple, very serious. She has lived a great deal in 
Boston, with another sister of mine the eldest 
of us who married a Bostonian. She is very 
cultivated, not at all like me ; I am not in the 
least cultivated. She has studied immensely and 
read every thing ; she is what they call in Boston  thoughtful. " 
"A rum sort of girl for Lambeth to get hold 
of !" his lordship 's kinsman privately reflected. 
"I really believe," Mrs. Westgate continued, 
"that the most charming girl in the world is a 
Boston superstructure upon a New York fonds ; 
or perhaps a New York superstructure upon a 
Boston fonds. At any rate, it 's the mixture," 
said Mrs. Westgate, who continued to give Percy 
Beaumont a great deal of information. 
Lord Lambeth got into a little basket-phaeton 
with Bessie Alden, and she drove him down the 
long avenue, whose extent he had measured on 
foot a couple of hours before, into the ancient 
town, as it was called in that part of the world, 
of Newport. The ancient town was a curious af 
fair a collection of fresh-looking little wooden 
houses, painted white, scattered over a hill-side 
and clustered about a long straight street, paved 
with enormous cobble-stones. There were plenty 
of shops a large proportion of which appeared 
to be those of fruit vendors, with piles of huge 
water-melons and pumpkins stacked in front of 
them ; and, drawn up before the shops, or bump 
ing about on the cobble-stones, were innumera 
ble other basket-phaetons freighted with ladies 
of high fashion, who greeted each other from 
vehicle to vehicle, and conversed on the edge of 
the pavement in a manner that struck Lord Lambeth as demonstrative, with a great many "Oh, 
my dears," and little quick exclamations and 
caresses. His companion went into seventeen 
shops he amused himself with counting them 
and accumulated at the bottom of the phaeton 
a pile of bundles that hardly left the young Englishman a place for his feet. As she had no 
groom nor footman, he sat in the phaeton to hold 
the ponies, where, although he was not a par 
ticularly acute observer, he saw much to entertain him especially the ladies just mentioned, 
who wandered up and down with the appearance 
of a kind of aimless intentness, as if they were 
looking for something to buy, and who, tripping 
in and out of their vehicles, displayed remarkably pretty feet. It all seemed to Lord Lambeth 
very odd, and bright, and gay. Of course, before 
they got back to the villa, he had had a great 
deal of desultory conversation with Bessie Alden. 
The young Englishmen spent the whole of that 
day and the whole of many successive days in 
what the French call the intimite of their new 
friends. They agreed that it was extremely jolly, that they had never known any thing more 
agreeable. It is not proposed to narrate minutely the incidents of their sojourn on this charming shore ; though if it were convenient I might 
present a record of impressions none the less 
delectable that they were not exhaustively ana 
lyzed. Many of them still linger in the minds of 
our travellers, attended by a train of harmonious 
images images of brilliant mornings on lawns 
and piazzas that overlooked the sea ; of innumerable pretty girls ; of infinite lounging and 
talking and laughing and flirting and lunching 
and dining ; of universal friendliness and frankness ; of occasions on which they knew every one 
and every thing, and had an extraordinary sense 
of ease ; of drives and rides in the late afternoon 
over gleaming beaches, on long sea-roads, beneath a sky lighted up by marvellous sunsets ; 
of suppers, on the return, informal, irregular, 
agreeable ; of evenings at open windows or on 
the perpetual verandas, in the summer star 
light, above the warm Atlantic. The young 
Englishmen were introduced to every body, entertained by every body, intimate with every 
  
body. At the end of three days they had removed their luggage from the hotel, and had 
gone to stay with Mrs. Westgate a step to 
which Percy Beaumont at first offered some conscientious opposition. I call his opposition conscientious, because it was founded upon some talk 
that he had had, on the second day, with Bessie 
Alden. He had indeed had a good deal of talk 
with her, for she was not literally always in conversation with Lord Lambeth. He had medita 
ted upon Mrs. Westgate 's account of her sister, 
and he discovered for himself that the young 
lady was clever, and appeared to have read a 
great deal. She seemed very nice, though he 
could not make out that, as Mrs. Westgate had 
said, she was shy. If she was shy, she carried it 
off very well. 
" Mr. Beaumont," she had said, " please tell 
me something about Lord Lambeth 's family. 
How would you say it in England his position ?" 
" His position ?" Percy Beaumont repeated. 
"His rank, or whatever you call it. Unfor 
tunately we haven 't got a Peerage, like the 
people in Thackeray." 
" That 's a great pity," said Beaumont. " You 
would find it all set forth there so much better 
than I can do it." 
" He is a peer, then ?" 
" Oh yes, he is a peer." 
" And has he any other title than Lord Lainbeth ?" 
"His title is the Marquis of Lambeth," said 
Beaumont ; and then he was silent. Bessie Alden 
appeared to be looking at him with interest. 
" He is the son of the Duke of Bayswater," he 
added, presently. 
" The eldest son ?" 
" The only son." 
" And are his parents living ?" 
" Oh yes ; if his father were not living he 
would be a duke." 
" So that when his father dies," pursued Bessie 
Alden, with more simplicity than might have 
been expected in a clever girl, " he will become 
Duke of Bayswater ?" 
" Of course," said Percy Beaumont. " But his 
father is in excellent health." 
" And his mother ?" 
Beaumont smiled a little. "The Duchess is 
uncommonly robust." 
" And has he any sisters ?" 
" Yes, there are two." 
" And what are they called ?" 
" One of them is married. She is the Countess 
of Pimlico." 
"And the other?" 
  
"The other is unmarried; she is plain Lady 
Julia." 
Bessie Alden looked at him a moment. " Is 
she very plain ?" 
Beaumont began to laugh again. " You would 
not find her so handsome as her brother," he said ; 
and it was after this that he attempted to dissuade 
the heir of the Duke of Bayswater from accepting 
Mrs. Westgate 's invitation. "Depend upon it," 
he said, " that girl means to try for you." 
" It seems to me you are doing your best to make 
a fool of me," the modest young nobleman answered. 
" She has been asking me," said Beaumont, 
"all about your people and your possessions." 
" I am sure it is very good of her !" Lord Lambeth 
rejoined. 
" Well, then," observed his companion, " if you 
go, you go with your eyes open." 
"Damn my eyes!" exclaimed Lord Lambeth. 
" If one is to be a dozen times a day at the house, 
it is a great deal more convenient to sleep there. 
I am sick of travelling up and down this beastly 
avenue." 
Since he had determined to go, Percy Beaumont 
would, of course, have been very sorry to allow 
him to go alone ; he was a man of conscience, and 
he remembered his promise to the Duchess. It 
was obviously the memory of this promise that 
made him say to his companion a couple of days 
later that he rather wondered he should be so fond 
of that girl. 
" In the first place, how do you know how fond 
I am of her ?" asked Lord Lambeth. " And, in 
the second place, why shouldn 't I be fond of her ?" 
" I shouldn 't think she would be in your line." 
" What do you call my line ? You don 't set 
her down as fast ? " 
" Exactly so. Mrs. Westgate tells me that there 
is no such thing as the  fast girl in America ; that 
it 's an English invention, and that the term has 
no meaning here." 
" All the better. It 's an animal I detest." 
" You prefer a blue-stocking." 
" Is that what you call Miss Alden ?" 
" Her sister tells me," said Percy Beaumont, 
"that she is tremendously literary." 
" I don 't know any thing about that. She is 
certainly very clever." 
" Well," said Beaumont, " I should have sup 
posed you would have found that sort of thing 
awfully slow." 
"In point of fact," Lord Lambeth rejoined, "I 
find it uncommonly lively." 
After this, Percy Beaumont held his tongue ; 
but on the 10th of August he wrote to the Duchess 
of Bayswater. He was, as I have said, a man 
of conscience, and he had a strong, incorruptible 
sense of the proprieties of life. His kinsman, 
meanwhile, was having a great deal of talk with 
Bessie Alden on the red sea-rocks beyond the 
lawn; in the course of long island rides, with a 
slow return in the glowing twilight ; on the deep 
veranda late in the evening. Lord Lambeth, 
who had staid at many houses, had never staid at 
a house in which it was possible for a young man 
to converse so frequently with a young lady. This 
young lady no longer applied to Percy Beaumont 
for information concerning his lordship. She ad 
dressed herself directly to the young nobleman. 
She asked him a great many questions, some of 
which bored him a little ; for he took no pleasure 
in talking about himself. 
" Lord Lambeth," said Bessie Alden, " are you 
a hereditary legislator ?" 
" Oh, I say !" cried Lord Lambeth, " don 't make 
me call myself such names as that." 
" But you are a member of Parliament," said 
the young girl. 
" I don 't like the sound of that, either." 
" Don 't you sit in the House of Lords ?" Bessie 
Alden went on. 
" Very seldom," said Lord Lambeth. 
" Is it an important position ?" she asked. 
" Oh dear no," said Lord Lambeth. 
" I should think it would be very grand," said 
Bessie Alden, " to possess, simply by an accident 
of birth, the right to make laws for a great nation." 
"Ah, but one doesn 't make laws. It 's a great 
humbug." 
" I don 't believe that," the young girl declared- 
" It must be a great privilege, and I should think 
that if one thought of it in the right way from a 
high point of view it would be very inspiring." 
"The less one thinks of it the better," Lord 
Lambeth affirmed. 
" I think it 's tremendous," said Bessie Alden ; 
and on another occasion she asked him if he had 
any tenantry. Hereupon it was that, as I have 
said, he was a little bored. 
" Do you want to buy up their leases ?" he asked. 
"Well, have you got any livings?" she de 
manded. 
" Oh, I say !" he cried. " Have you got a clergyman that is looking out ?" But she made him tell 
her that he had a castle ; he confessed to but one. 
It was the place in which he had been born and 
brought up, and, as he had an old-time liking for 
it, he was beguiled into describing it a little, and 
saying it was really very jolly. Bessie Alden list 
ened with great interest, and declared that she 
would give the world to see such a place. Whereupon
" It would be awfully kind of you to come 
and stay there," said Lord Lambeth. He took a 
vague satisfaction in the circumstance that Percy 
Beaumont had not heard him make the remark I 
have just recorded. 
Mr. Westgate all this time had not, as they 
said at Newport, "come on." His wife more 
than once announced that she expected him on 
the morrow ; but on the morrow she wandered 
about a little, with a telegram in her jewelled 
lingers, declaring it was very tiresome that his 
business detained him in New York ; that he 
could only hope the Englishmen were having a 
good time. " I must say," said Mrs. Westgate, 
"that it is no thanks to him if you are." And 
she went on to explain, while she continued that 
slow-paced promenade which enabled her well- 
adjusted skirts to display themselves so advan 
tageously, that unfortunately in America there 
was no leisure class. It was Lord Lambeth 's 
theory, freely propounded when the young men 
were together, that Percy Beaumont was having 
a very good time with Mrs. Westgate, and that, 
under the pretext of meeting for the purpose of 
animated discussion, they were indulging in practices that imparted a shade of hypocrisy to the 
lady 's regret for her husband 's absence. 
"I assure you we are always discussing and 
differing," said Percy Beaumont. "She is awfully argumentative. American ladies certainly 
don 't mind contradicting you. Upon my word I 
don 't think I was ever treated so by a woman 
before. She 's so devilish positive." 
Mrs. Westgate 's positive quality, however, evidently had its attractions, for Beaumont was 
constantly at his hostess 's side. He detached 
himself one day to the extent of going to  New 
York to talk over the Tennessee Central with Mr. 
Westgate ; but he was absent only forty-eight 
hours, during which, with Mr. Westgate 's assist 
ance, he completely settled this piece of business. 
" They certainly do things quickly in New York," 
he observed to his cousin ; and he added that 
Mr. Westgate had seemed very uneasy lest his 
wife should miss her visitor he had been in 
such an awful hurry to send him back to her. 
"I'm afraid you'll never come up to an American 
husband, if that 's what the wives expect," ho 
said to Lord Lambeth. 
Mrs. Westgate, however, was not to enjoy much 
longer the entertainment with which an indulgent 
husband had desired to keep her provided. On 
the 21st of August Lord Lambeth received a telegram from his mother, requesting him to return 
immediately to England; his father had been 
taken ill, and it was his filial duty to come to him. 
  
The young Englishman was visibly annoyed. 
"What the deuce does it mean?" he asked of 
his kinsman. " What am I to do ?" 
Percy Beaumont was annoyed as well ; he had 
deemed it his duty, as I have narrated, to write 
to the Duchess, but he had not expected that 
this distinguished woman would act so promptly 
upon his hint. "It means," he said, "that your 
father is laid up. I don 't suppose it 's any thing 
serious ; but you have no option. Take the first 
steamer ; but don 't be alarmed." 
Lord Lambeth made his farewells; but the 
few last words that he exchanged with Bessie 
Alden are the only ones that have a place in our 
record. " Of course I needn 't assure you," he 
said, " that if you should come to England next 
year, I expect to be the first person that you in 
form of it." 
Bessie Alden looked at him a little and she 
smiled. "Oh, if we come to London," she an 
swered, "I should think you would hear of it." 
Percy Beaumont returned with his cousin, and 
his sense of duty compelled him, one windless 
afternoon, in mid- Atlantic, to say to Lord Lambeth that he suspected that the Duchess 's tele 
gram was in part the result of something he him 
self had written to her. " I wrote to her as I 
explicitly notified you I had promised to do 
that you were extremely interested in a little 
American girl." 
Lord Lambeth was extremely angry, and he in 
dulged for some moments in the simple language 
of indignation. But I have said that he was a 
reasonable young man, and I can give no better 
proof of it than the fact that he remarked to his 
companion at the end of half an hour, " You 
were quite right, after all. I am very much in 
terested in her. Only, to be fair," he added, 
" you should have told my mother also that she 
is not seriously interested in me." 
Percy Beaumont gave a little laugh. " There 
is nothing so charming as modesty in a young 
man in your position. That speech is a capital 
proof that you are sweet on her." 
"She is not interested she is not!" Lord 
Lambeth repeated. 
" My dear fellow," said his companion, " you 
are very far gone." 
IN point of fact, as Percy Beaumont would 
have said, Mrs. Westgate disembarked on the 
18th of May on the British coast. She was accompanied by her sister, but she was not attended by any other member of her family. To the deprivation of her husband 's society Mrs. West- 
gate was, however, habituated; she had made 
half a dozen journeys to Europe without him, and 
she now accounted for his absence, to interrogative friends on this side of the Atlantic, by allusion to the regrettable but conspicuous fact that 
in America there was no leisure class. The two 
ladies came up to London and alighted at Jones 's 
Hotel, where Mrs. Westgate, who had made on 
former occasions the most agreeable impression 
at this establishment, received an obsequious 
greeting. Bessie Alden had felt much excited 
about coming to England ; she had expected the 
"associations" would be very charming, that it 
would be an infinite pleasure to rest her eyes 
upon the things she had read about in the poets 
and historians. She was very fond of the poets 
and historians, of the picturesque, of the past, 
of retrospect, of mementos and reverberations 
of greatness ; so that on coming into the great 
English world, where strangeness and familiarity 
would go hand in hand, she was prepared for a 
multitude of fresh emotions. They began very 
promptly these tender, fluttering sensations ; 
they began with the sight of the beautiful English landscape, whose dark richness was quick 
ened and brightened by the season; with the 
carpeted fields and flowering hedge-rows, as she 
looked at them from the window of the train; 
with the spires of the rural churches peeping 
above the rook-haunted tree-tops ; with the oak- 
studded parks, the ancient homes, the cloudy 
light, the speech, the manners, the thousand differences. Mrs. Westgate 's impressions had, of 
course, much less novelty and keenness, and she 
gave but a wandering attention to her sister 's 
ejaculations and rhapsodies. 
" You know my enjoyment of England is not 
so intellectual as Bessie s," she said to several of 
her friends in the course of her visit to this 
country. " And yet if it is not intellectual, I 
can't say it is physical. I don 't think I can 
quite say what it is, my enjoyment of England." 
When once it was settled that the two ladies 
should come abroad and should spend a few 
weeks in England on their way to the Continent, 
they of course exchanged a good many allusions 
to their London acquaintance. 
" It will certainly be much nicer having friends 
there," Bessie Alden had said one day, as she 
sat, on the sunny deck of the steamer at her sister 's feet on a large blue rug. 
" Whom do you mean by friends ?" Mrs. West- 
gate asked. 
" All those English gentlemen whom you have 
known and entertained. Captain Littledale, for 
instance. And Lord Lambeth and Mr. Beau 
mont," added Bessie Alden. 
" Do you expect them to give us a very grand 
reception ?" 
Bessie reflected a moment ; she was addicted, 
as we know, to reflection. " Well, yes." 
" My poor sweet child," murmured her sister. 
" W r hat have I said that is so silly ?" asked 
Bessie. 
" You are a little too simple ; just a little. It 
is very becoming, but it pleases people at your 
expense." 
" I am certainly too simple to understand you," 
said Bessie. 
" Shall I tell y6u a story ?" asked her sister. 
"If you would be so good. That is what they 
do to amuse simple people." 
Mrs. Westgate consulted her memory, while 
her companion sat gazing at the shining sea. 
"Did you ever hear of the Duke of Green-Erin ?" 
"I think not," said Bessie. 
" Well, it 's no matter," her sister went on. 
"It 's a proof of my simplicity." 
" My story is meant to illustrate that of some 
other people," said Mrs. Westgate. " The Duke 
of Green-Erin is what they call in England a 
great swell, and some five years ago he came to 
America. He spent most of his time in New 
York, and in New York he spent his days and 
his nights at the Butterworths . You have heard, 
at least, of the Butterworths. JBien. They did 
every thing in the world for him they turned 
themselves inside out. They gave him a dozen 
dinner parties and balls, and were the means of 
his being invited to fifty more. At first he used 
to come into Mrs. Butterworth 's box at the opera 
in a tweed travelling suit ; but some one stopped 
that. At any rate, he had a beautiful time, and 
they parted the best friends in the world. Two 
years elapse, and the Butterworths come abroad 
and go to London. The first thing they see in 
all the papers in England those things are in. 
the most prominent place is that the Duke of 
Green-Erin has arrived in town for the Season. 
They wait a little, and then Mr. Butterworth as 
polite as ever goes and leaves a card. They 
  
wait a little more ; the visit is not returned ; they 
wait three weeks silence de mort the Duke 
gives no sign. The Butter worths see a lot of 
other people, put down the Duke of Green-Erin 
as a rude, ungrateful man, and forget all about 
him. One fine day they go to Ascot Races, and 
there they meet him face to face. He stares a 
moment, and then comes up to Mr. Butterworth, 
taking something from his pocket-book some 
thing which proves to be a bank-note. I'm glad 
to see you, Mr. Butterworth, he says, so that I 
can pay you that ten pounds I lost to you in New 
York. I saw the other day you remembered our 
bet; here are the ten pounds, Mr. Butterworth. 
Good-by, Mr. Butterworth. And off he goes, 
and that 's the last they see of the Duke of Green- 
Erin." 
"Is that your story?" asked Bessie Alden. 
" Don 't you think it 's interesting ?" her sister 
replied. 
" I don 't believe it," said the young girl. 
"Ah," cried Mrs. Westgate, "you are not so 
simple after all ! Believe it or not, as you please ; 
there is no smoke without fire." 
"Is that the way," asked Bessie, after a mo 
ment, "that you expect your friends to treat 
you ?" 
" I defy them to treat me very ill, because I 
shall not give them the opportunity. With the 
best will in the world, in that case they can 't be 
very offensive." 
Bessie Alden was silent a moment. " I don 't 
see what makes you talk that way," she said. 
" The English are a great people." 
"Exactly; and that is just the way they have 
grown great by dropping you when you have 
ceased to be useful. People say they are not 
clever ; but I think they are very clever." 
" You know you have liked them all the Eng 
lishmen you have seen," said Bessie. 
" They have liked me," her sister rejoined ; " it 
would be more correct to say that. And, of course, 
one likes that." 
Bessie Alden resumed for some moments her 
studies in sea-green. " Well," she said, " whether they like me or not, I mean to like them. 
And happily," she added, "Lord Lambeth does 
not owe me ten pounds." 
During the first few days after their arrival at 
Jones 's Hotel our charming Americans were 
much occupied with what they would have called 
looking about them. They found occasion to 
make a large number of purchases, and their opportunities for conversation were such only as 
were offered by the deferential London shop-men. 
Bessie Alden, even in driving from the station, 
  
took an immense fancy to the British metropolis, 
and at the risk of exhibiting her as a young woman of vulgar tastes it must be recorded that for 
a considerable period she desired no higher pleasure than to drive about the crowded streets in a 
hansom cab. To her attentive eyes they were 
full of a strange picturesque life, and it is at 
least beneath the dignity of our historic muse to 
enumerate the trivial objects and incidents which 
this simple young lady from Boston found so entertaining. It may be freely mentioned, however, that whenever, after a round of visits in 
Bond Street and Regent Street, she was about to 
return with her sister to Jones 's Hotel, she made 
an earnest request that they should be driven 
home by way of Westminster Abbey. She had 
begun by asking whether it would not be possi 
ble to take the Tower on the way to their lodg 
ings ; but it happened that at a more primitive 
stage of her culture Mrs. Westgate had paid a 
visit to this venerable monument, which she 
spoke of ever afterward vaguely as a dreadful 
disappointment; so that she expressed the liveliest disapproval of any attempt to combine historical researches with the purchase of hair 
brushes and note-paper. The most she would 
consent to do in this line was to spend half an 
hour at Madame Tussaud s, where she saw several dusty wax effigies of members of the royal 
family. She told Bessie that if she wished to 
go to the Tower she must get some one else to 
take her. Bessie expressed hereupon an earnest 
disposition to go alone ; but upon this proposal 
as well Mrs. Westgate sprinkled cold water. 
" Remember," she said, " that you are not in 
your innocent little Boston. It is not a question 
of walking up and down Beacon Street." Then 
she went on to explain that there were two classes of American girls in Europe those that walk 
ed about alone and those that did not. "You 
happen to belong, my dear," she said to her sister, " to the class that does not." 
" It is only," answered Bessie, laughing, " be 
cause you happen to prevent me." And she devoted much private meditation to this question 
of effecting a visit to the Tower of London. 
Suddenly it seemed as if the problem might be 
solved ; the two ladies at Jones 's Hotel received 
a visit from Willie Woodley. Such was the so 
cial appellation of a young American who had 
sailed from New York a few days after their own 
departure, and who, having the privilege of intimacy with them in that city, had lost no time, on 
his arrival in London, in coming to pay them his 
respects. He had, in fact, gone to see them di 
rectly after going to see his tailor, than which 
there can be no greater exhibition of promptitude 
on the part of a young American who has just 
alighted at the Charing Cross Hotel. He was a 
slim, pale youth, of the most amiable disposition, 
famous for the skill with which he led the " German" in New York. Indeed, by the young ladies 
who habitually figured in this Terpsichorean revel he was believed to be " the best dancer in the 
world;" it was in these terms that he was always spoken of, and that his identity was indicated. He was the gentlest, softest young man it 
was possible to meet ; he was beautifully dress 
ed " in the English style" and he knew an immense deal about London. He had been at New 
port during the previous summer, at the time of 
our young Englishmen 's visit, and he took extreme pleasure in the society of Bessie Alden,, 
whom he always addressed as "Miss Bessie." 
She immediately arranged with him, in the presence of her sister, that he should conduct her to 
the scene of Anne Boleyn 's execution. 
" You may do as you please," said Mrs. Westgate. " Only if you desire the information it 
is not the custom here for young ladies to knock 
about London with young men." 
"Miss Bessie has waltzed with me so often," 
observed Willie Woodley ; " she can surely go 
out with me in a hansom." 
"I consider waltzing," said Mrs. Westgate, 
" the most innocent pleasure of our time." 
" It 's a compliment to our time !" exclaimed the 
young man, with a little laugh, in spite of him 
self, 
" I don 't see why I should regard what is done 
here," said Bessie Alden. " Why should I suffer 
the restrictions of a society of which I enjoy none 
of the privileges ?" 
"That 's very good very good," murmured 
Willie Woodley. 
" Oh, go to the Tower, and feel the axe, if you 
like," said Mrs. Westgate. " I consent to your 
going with Mr. Woodley ; but I should not let you 
go with an Englishman." 
" Miss Bessie wouldn 't care to go with an Eng 
lishman !" Mr. Woodley declared, with a faint as 
perity that was, perhaps, not unnatural in a young 
man, who, dressing in the manner that I have indicated, and knowing a great deal, as I have said, 
about London, saw no reason for drawing these 
sharp distinctions. He agreed upon a day with 
Miss Bessie a day of that same week. 
An ingenious mind might, perhaps, trace a connection between the young girl 's allusion to her 
destitution of social privileges and a question she 
asked on the morrow as she sat with her sister at 
lunch. 
  
" Don 't you mean to write to to any one ?" said 
Bessie. 
" I wrote this morning to Captain Littledale," 
Mrs. Westgate replied, 
"But Mr. Woodley said that Captain Littledale 
had gone to India." 
" He said he thought he had heard so ; he knew 
nothing about it," 
For a moment Bessie Alden said nothing more ; 
then, at last, "And don 't you intend to write to 
to Mr. Beaumont ?" she inquired. 
"You mean to Lord Lambeth," said her sis 
ter. 
" I said Mr. Beaumont, because he was so good 
a friend of yours." 
Mrs. Westgate looked at the young girl with sisterly candor. " I don 't care two straws for Mr. 
Beaumont." 
" You were certainly very nice to him." 
" I am nice to every one," said Mrs. Westgate, 
simply' 
" To every one but me," rejoined Bessie, smiling. 
Her sister continued to look at her ; then. at 
last, " Are you in love with Lord Lambeth ?" she 
asked. 
The young girl stared a moment, and the ques 
tion was apparently too humorous even to make 
her blush. " Not that I know of," she answered, 
" Because if you are," Mrs. Westgate went on, 
" I shall certainly not send for him." 
"That proves what I said," declared Bessie, 
smiling " that you are not nice to me." 
"  It would be a poor service, my dear child," 
said her sister. 
"In what sense? There is nothing against 
Lord Lambeth that I know of." 
Mrs. Westgate was silent a moment. "You 
are in love with him then ?" 
Bessie stared again; but this time she blushed 
a little. "Ah! if you won 't be serious," she an 
swered, " we will not mention him again." 
For some moments Lord Lambeth was not men 
tioned again, and it was Mrs. Westgate who, at 
the end of this period, reverted to him. "Of 
course I will let him know we are here, because 
I think he would be hurt justly enough if we 
should go away without seeing him. It is fair to 
give him a chance to come and thank me for the 
kindness we showed him. But I don 't want to 
seem eager." 
"Neither do I," said Bessie, with a little 
laugh. 
"Though I confess," added her sister, "that I
am curious to see how he will behave." 
" He behaved very well at Newport." 
" Newport is not London. At Newport he could 
  
do as he liked ; but here it is another affair. Ho 
has to have an eye to consequences." 
" If he had more freedom, then, at Newport, ' 
argued Bessie, " it is the more to his credit that 
he behaved well ; and if he has to be so careful 
here, it is possible he will behave even better." 
"Better better," repeated her sister. "My 
dear child, what is your point of view?" 
" How do you mean my point of view ?" 
"Don 't you care for Lord Lambeth a lit 
tle?" 
This time Bessie Alden was displeased ; she 
slowly got up from the table, turning her face 
away from her sister. " You will oblige me by 
not talking so," she said. 
Mrs. Westgate sat watching her for some moments as she moved slowly about the room and 
went and stood at the window. " I will write to 
him this^ afternoon," she said at last. 
"Do as you please!" Bessie answered; and 
presently she turned round. " I am not afraid to 
say that I like Lord Lambeth. I like him very 
much." 
" He is not clever," Mrs. Westgate declared. 
"Well, there have been clever people whom 
I have disliked," said Bessie Alden ; " so that I 
suppose I may like a stupid one. Besides, Lord 
Lambeth is not stupid." 
" X T ot so stupid as he looks!" exclaimed her 
sister, smiling. 
" If I were in love with Lord Lambeth, as you 
said just now, it would be bad policy on your part 
to abuse him." 
"My dear child, don 't give me lessons in pol 
icy !" cried Mrs. Westgate, " The policy I mean 
to follow is very deep." 
The young girl began to walk about the room 
again; then she stopped before her sister. "I 
have never heard in the course of five minutes," 
she said, " so many hints and innuendoes. I wish 
you would tell me in plain English what you mean." 
" I mean that you may be much annoyed." 
" That is still only a hint," said Bessie. 
Her sister looked at her, hesitating an instant. 
" It will be said of you that you have come after 
Lord Lambeth that you followed him." 
Bessie Alden threw back her pretty head like a 
startled hind, and a look flashed into her face that 
made Mrs. Westgate rise from her chair. "Who 
says such things as that ?" she demanded. 
" People here." 
"I don 't believe it," said Bessie. 
" You have a very convenient faculty of doubt. 
But my policy will be, as I say, very deep. I shall 
leave you to find out this kind of thing for your 
self." 
  
Bessie fixed her eyes upon her sister, and Mrs. 
Westgate thought for a moment there were tears 
in them. "Do they talk that way here?" she 
asked. 
" You will see. I shall leave you alone." 
"Don 't leave me alone," said Bessie Alden. 
" Take me away," 
"No; I want to see what you make of it," her 
sister continued. 
"I don 't understand." 
"You will understand after Lord Lambeth 
has come," said Mrs. Westgate, with a little 
laugh. 
The two ladies had arranged that on this after 
noon Willie Woodley should go with them to Hyde 
Park, where Bessie Alden expected to derive much 
entertainment from sitting on a little green chair, 
under the great trees, beside Rotten Row. The 
want of a suitable escort had hitherto rendered 
this pleasure inaccessible ; but no escort now, for 
such an expedition, could have been more suitable 
than their devoted young countryman, whose mission in life, it might almost be said, was to find 
chairs for ladies, and who appeared on the stroke 
of half past five with a white camellia in his but 
ton-hole. 
" I have written to Lord Lambeth, my dear," 
said Mrs, Westgate to her sister, on coming into 
the room where Bessie Alden, drawing on her long 
gray gloves, was entertaining their visitor. 
Bessie said nothing, but Willie Woodley exclaimed that his lordship was in town ; he had 
seen his name in the Morning Post, 
"Do you read the Morning Post?" asked Mrs. 
Wcstgate. 
" Oh yes ; it 's great fun," Willie Woodley af 
firmed. 
" I want so to see it," said Bessie ; " there is so 
much about it in Thackeray." 
"I will send it to you every morning," said 
Willie Woodley. 
He found them what Bessie Alden thought ex 
cellent places, under the great trees, beside the 
famous avenue whose humors had been made fa 
miliar to the young girl 's childhood by the pictures 
in Punch. The day was bright and warm, and the 
crowd of riders and spectators, and the great procession of carriages, were proportionately dense 
and brilliant. The scene bore the stamp of the 
London Season at its height, and Bessie Alden 
found more entertainment in it than she was able 
to express to her companions. She sat silent, 
under her parasol, and her imagination, according 
to its wont, let itself loose into the great changing 
assemblage of striking and suggestive figures. 
They stirred up a host of old impressions and preconceptions, and she found herself fitting a history to this person and a theory to that, and making a place for them all in her little private museum of types. But if she said little, her sister on 
one side and Willie Woodley on the other express 
ed themselves in lively alternation. 
" Look at that green dress with blue flounces," 
said Mrs. Westgate. " Quelle toilette ." 
" That 's the Marquis of Blackborough," said 
the young man " the one in the white coat. I 
heard him speak the other night in the House of 
Lords ; it was something about ramrods ; he called them wamwods. He 's an awful swell." 
" Did you ever see any thing like the way they 
are pinned back?" Mrs. Westgate resumed. "They 
never know where to stop." 
" They do nothing but stop," said Willie Woodley. " It prevents them from walking. Here 
comes a great celebrity Lady Beatrice Bellevue. 
She 's awfully fast ; see what little steps she takes." 
" Well, my dear," Mrs. Westgate pursued, " I 
hope you are getting some ideas for your coutu- 
riere ?" 
" I am getting plenty of ideas," said Bessie, 
" but I don 't know that my couturiers would appreciate them." 
Willie Woodley presently perceived a friend on 
horseback, who drove up beside the barrier of the 
Row and beckoned to him. He went forward, and 
the crowd of pedestrians closed about him, so that 
for some ten minutes he was hidden from sight. 
At last he re-appeared, bringing a gentleman with 
him a gentleman whom Bessie at first supposed 
to be his friend dismounted. But at a second- 
glance she found herself looking at Lord Lam 
beth, who was shaking hands with her sister. 
"I found him over there," said Willie Woodley, 
" and I told him you were here." 
And then Lord Lambeth, touching his hat a little, shook hands with Bessie. " Fancy your being 
here !" he said. He was blushing and smiling ; he 
looked very handsome, and he had a kind of splendor that he had not had in America. Bessie Alden 's imagination, as we know, was just then in exercise ; so that the tall young Englishman, as he 
stood there looking down at her, had the benefit 
of it. " He is handsomer and more splendid than 
any thing I have ever seen," she said to herself. 
And then she remembered that he was a Marquis, 
and she thought he looked like a Marquis. 
" I say, you know," he cried, " you ought to have 
let a man know you were here !" 
" I wrote to you an hour ago," said Mrs. West- 
gate. 
" Doesn't all the world know it ?" asked Bessie, 
smiling. 
  
" I assure you I didn 't know it !" cried Lord 
Lambeth. a Upon my honor I hadn 't heard of it. 
Ask Woodley now; had I, Woodley?" 
" Well, I think you are rather a humbug," said 
Willie Woodley. 
" You don 't believe that do you, Miss Alden V" 
asked his lordship. " You don 't believe I'm a 
humbug, eh ?" 
"No," said Bessie, "I don 't." 
" You are too tall to stand up, Lord Lambeth," 
Mrs. Westgate observed. " You are only tolerable 
when you sit down. Be so good as to get a chair." 
He found a chair and placed it sidewise, close 
to the two ladies. "If I hadn 't met Woodley I 
should never have found you," he went on. 
"Should I, Woodley?" 
" Well, I guess not," said the young American. 
" Not even with my letter ?" asked Mrs. West- 
gate. 
" Ah, well, I haven 't got your letter yet ; I suppose I shall get it this evening. It was awfully 
kind of you to write." 
" So I said to Bessie," observed Mrs. Westgate. 
" Did she say so, Miss Alden ?" Lord Lambeth 
inquired. "I dare say you have been here a 
month." 
" We have been here three," said Mrs. West- 
gate. 
" Have you been here three months ?" the young 
man asked again of Bessie. 
" It seems a long time," Bessie answered. 
" I say, after that you had better not call me a 
humbug!" cried Lord Lambeth. "I have only 
been in town three weeks ; but you must have 
been hiding away ; I haven 't seen you any where." 
" Where should you have seen us where should 
we have gone ?" asked Mrs. Westgate. 
"You should have gone to Hurlingham," said 
Willie Woodley. 
" No ; let Lord Lambeth tell us," Mrs. Westgate 
insisted. 
" There are plenty of places to go to," said Lord 
Lambeth ; " each one stupider than the other. I 
mean people 's houses ; they send you cards." 
" No one has sent us cards," said Bessie. 
" We are very quiet," her sister declared. " We 
are here as travellers." 
" We have been to Madame Tussaud s," Bessio 
pursued. 
" Oh, I say !" cried Lord Lambeth. 
" We thought we should find your image there," 
said Mrs. Westgate " yours and Mr. Beaumont's." 
" In the Chamber of Horrors ?" laughed tho 
young man. 
" It did duty very well for a party," said Mrs. 
Westgate. " All the women were decolletecs, and 
  
many of the figures looked as if they could speak 
if they tried." 
" Upon my word," Lord Lambeth rejoined, " you 
see people at London parties that look as if they 
couldn 't speak if they tried." 
" Do you think Mr. Woodley could find us Mr. 
Beaumont ?" asked Mrs. Westgate. 
Lord Lambeth stared and looked round him. 
" I dare say he could. Beaumont often comes here. 
Don 't you think you could find him, Woodley ? 
Make a dive into the crowd." 
" Thank you ; I have had enough diving," said 
Willie Woodley. " I will wait till Mr. Beaumont 
comes to the surface." 
" I will bring him to see you," said Lord Lam 
beth ; " where are you staying ?" 
" You will find the address in my letter Jones 's 
Hotel." 
"Oh, one of those places just out of Picca 
dilly ? Beastly hole, isn't it ?" Lord Lambeth in 
quired. 
"I believe it 's the best hotel in London," said 
Mrs. Westgate. 
"But they give you awful rubbish to eat, don 't 
they ?" his lordship went on. 
" Yes," said Mrs. Westgate. 
" I always feel so sorry for the people that come 
up to town and go to live in those places," continned the young man. " They eat nothing but 
filth." 
" Oh, I say !" cried Willie Woodley. 
