
Her companion glanced at her, and then looked 
down on the ground. " I think father expected 
you would come to church," she said. " What 
shall I say to him ? " 

" Say I have a bad headache." 

" Would that be true ? " asked the elder lady, 
looking straight at the pond again. 

" No, Charlotte," said the younger one simply. 

Charlotte transferred her quiet eyes to her companion's face. " I am afraid you are feeling rest- 



"I am feeling as I always feel," Gertrude replied, 
in the same tone. 



 

Charlotte turned away ; but she stood there a 
moment. Presently she looked down at the front 
of her dress. " Does n't it seem to you, somehow, 
as if my scarf were too long ? " she asked. 

Gertrude walked half round her, looking at the 
scarf. " I don't think you wear it right," she said. 

" How should I wear it, dear ? " 

" I don't know ; differently from that. You 
should draw it differently over your shoulders, 
round your elbows ; you should look differently 
behind." 

" How should I look ? " Charlotte inquired. 

" I don't think I can tell you," said Gertrude, 
plucking out the scarf a little behind. " I could 
do it myself, but I don't think I can explain it." 

Charlotte, by a movement of her elbows, corrected the laxity that had come from her companion's touch. " Well, some day you must do it for 
me. It does n't matter now. Indeed, I don't think 
it matters," she added, " how one looks behind." 

" I should say it mattered more," said Gertrude. 
" Then you don't know who may be observing you. 
You are not on your guard. You can't try to look 
pretty." 

Charlotte received this declaration with extreme 
gravity. " I don't think one should ever try to 
look pretty," she rejoined, earnestly. 

Her companion was silent. Then she said, 
'" Well, perhaps it 's not of much use." 



   

Charlotte looked at her a little, and then kissed 
her. " I hope you will be better when we come 
back." 

" My dear sister,- I am very well ! " said Gertrude. 

Charlotte went down the large brick walk to 
the garden gate ; her companion strolled slowly 
toward the house. At the gate Charlotte met a 
young man, who was coming in a tall, fair young 
man, wearing a high hat and a pair of thread 
gloves. He was handsome, but rather too stout. 
He had a pleasant smile. " Oh, Mr. Brand ! " 
exclaimed the young lady. 

" I came to see whether your sister was not going to church," said the young man. 

" She says she is not going ; but I am very glad 
you have come. I think if you were to talk to her 
a little " . . . . And Charlotte lowered her voice. 
" It seems as if she were restless." 

Mr. Brand smiled down on the young lady from 
his great height. " I shall be very glad to talk 
to her. For that I should be willing to absent 
myself from almost any occasion of worship, how- 
ever attractive." 

" Well, I suppose you know," said Charlotte, 
softly, as if positive acceptance of this proposition 
might be dangerous. " But I am afraid I shall be 
late." 

" I hope you will have a pleasant sermon," said 
the young man. 

" Oh, Mr. Gilman is always pleasant," Char- 
lotte answered. And she went on her way. 

Mr. Brand went into the garden, where Ger- 
trude, hearing the gate close behind him, turned 
and looked at him. For a moment she watched 
him coming ; then she turned away. But almost 
immediately she corrected this movement, and 
stood still, facing him. He took off his hat and 
wiped his forehead as he approached. Then he 
put on his hat again and held out his hand. His 
hat being removed, you would have perceived that 
his forehead was very large and smooth, and his 
hair abundant but rather colorless. His nose was 
too large, and his mouth and eyes were too small ; 
but for all this he was, as I have said, a young 
man of striking appearance. The expression of his 
little clean-colored blue eyes was irresistibly gentle and serious ; he looked, as the phrase is, as good 
as gold. The young girl, standing in the garden 
path, glanced, as he came up, at his thread gloves. 

" I hoped you were going to church," he said. 
" I wanted to walk with you." 

" I am very much obliged to you," Gertrude 
answered. " I am not going to church." 

She had shaken hands with him ; he held her 
hand a moment. " Have you any special reason 
for not going? " 




" Yes, Mr. Brand," said the young girl. 

" May I ask what it is ? " 

She looked at him smiling ; and in her smile, as 
I have intimated, there was a certain dullness. 
But mingled with this dullness was something 
sweet and suggestive. " Because the sky is so 
blue ! " she said. 

He looked at the sky, which was magnificent, 
and then said, smiling too, " I have heard of young 
ladies staying at home for bad weather, but never 
for good. Your sister, whom I met at the gate, 
tells me you are depressed," he added. 

" Depressed ? I am never depressed." 

" Oh, surely, sometimes," replied Mr. Brand, as 
if he thought this a regrettable account of one's 
self. 

"I am never depressed," Gertrude repeated. 
" But I am sometimes wicked. When I am 
wicked I am in high spirits. I was wicked just 
now to my sister." 

" What did you do to her ? " 

" I said things that puzzled her on purpose." 

" Why did you do that, Miss Gertrude ? " asked 
the young man. 

She began to smile again. " Because the sky is 
so blue ! " 

" You say things that puzzle me" Mr. Brand 
declared. 



" I always know when I do it," proceeded Ger- 
trude. " But people puzzle me more, I think. 
And they don't seem to know ! " 

" This is very interesting," Mr. Brand observed, 
smiling. 

" You told me to tell you about my my strug- 
gles," the young girl went on. 

"Let us talk about them. I have so many 
things to say." 

Gertrude turned away a moment ; and then, 
turning back x " You had better go to church," she 
said. 

" You know," the young man urged, " that I 
have always one thing to say." 

Gertrude looked at him a moment. " Please 
don't say it now ! " 

" We are all alone," he continued, taking off 
his hat ; " all alone in this beautiful Sunday stillness." 

Gertrude looked around her, at the breaking 
buds, the shining distance, the blue sky to which 
she had referred as a pretext for her irregularities. 
" That 's the reason," she said, " why I don't want 
you to speak. Do me a favor ; go to church." 

" May I speak when I come back ? " asked Mr. 
Brand. 

" If you are still disposed," she answered. 
" I don't know whether you are wicked," he 
said, " but you are certainly puzzling." 



She had turned away ; she raised her hands to 
her ears. He looked at her a moment, and then 
he slowly walked to church. 

She wandered for a while about the garden, 
vaguely and without purpose. The church-bell 
had stopped ringing ; the stillness was complete. 
This young lady relished highly, on occasions, the 
sense of being alone the absence of the whole 
family and the emptiness of the house. To-day, 
apparently, the servants had also gone to church ; 
there was never a figure at the open windows ; be- 
hind the house there was no stout negress in a red 
turban, lowering the bucket into the great shingle- 
hooded well. And the front door of the big, un- 
guarded home stood open, with the trustfulness of 
the golden age ; or what is more to the purpose, 
with that of New England's silvery prime. Ger- 
trude slowly passed through it, and went from one 
of the empty rooms to the other large, clear- 
colored rooms, with white wainscots, ornamented 
with thin-legged mahogany furniture, and, on the 
walls, with old-fashioned engravings, chiefly of 
scriptural subjects, hung very high. This agreeable sense of solitude, of having the house to herself, of which I have spoken, always excited Ger- 
trude's imagination ; she could not have told you 
why, and neither can her humble historian. It 
always seemed to her that she must do something 
particular that she must honor the occasion ; and 
while she roamed about, wondering what she could 
do, the occasion usually came to an end. To-day 
she wondered more than ever. At last she took 
down a book ; there was no library in the house, 
but there were books in all the rooms. None of 
them were forbidden books, and Gertrude had not 
stopped at home for the sake of a chance to climb 
to the inaccessible shelves. She possessed herself 
of a very obvious volume one of the series of 
the Arabian Nights and she brought it out into 
the portico and sat down with it in her lap. There, 
for a quarter of an hour, she read the history of 
the loves of the Prince Camaralzaman and the 
Princess Badoura. At last, looking up, she be- 
held, as it seemed to her, the Prince Camaralza- 
man standing before her. A beautiful young man 
was making her a very low bow a magnificent 
bow, such as she had never seen before. He ap- 
peared to have dropped from the clouds ; he was 
wonderfully handsome ; he smiled smiled as if 
he were smiling on purpose. Extreme surprise, 
for a moment, kept Gertrude sitting still ; then she 
rose, without even keeping her finger in her book. 
The young man, with his hat in his hand, still 
looked at her, smiling and smiling. It was very 
strange. 

" Will you kindly tell me," said the mysterious 



   

visitor, at last, " whether I have the honor of 
speaking to Miss Went worth ? " 

" My name is Gertrude Wentworth," murmured 
the young woman. 

" Then then I have the honor the pleas- 
ure of being your cousin." 

The young man had so much the character of an 
apparition that this announcement seemed to complete his unreality. " What cousin ? Who are 
you ? " said Gertrude. 

He stepped back a few paces and looked up at 
the house ; then glanced round him at the garden 
and the distant view. After this he burst out 
laughing. " I see it must seem to you very 
strange," he said. There was, after all, something 
substantial in his laughter. Gertrude looked at 
him from head to foot. Yes, he was remarkably 
handsome ; but his smile was almost a grimace. 
" It is very still," he went on, coming nearer 
again. And as she only looked at him, for reply, 
he added, " Are you all alone ? " 

"Every one has gone to church," said Ger- 
trude. 

" I was afraid of that ! " the young man ex- 
claimed. " But I hope you are not afraid of me." 

" You ought to tell me who you are," Gertrude 
answered. 

"Tarn afraid of you!" said the young man. 



 

" I had a different plan. I expected the servant 
would take in my card, and that you would put 
your heads together, before admitting me, and 
make out my identity." 

Gertrude had been wondering with a quick in- 
tensity which brought its result; and the result 
seemed an answer a wondrous, delightful an- 
swer to her vague wish that something would 
befall her. " I know I know," she said. " You 
come from Europe." 

" We came two days ago. You have heard of 
us, then you believe in us ? " 

" We have known, vaguely," said Gertrude, 
" that we had relations in France." 

" And have you ever wanted to see us? " asked 
the young man. 

Gertrude was silent a moment. " I have wanted 
to see you." 

" I am glad, then, it is you I have found. We 
wanted to see you, so we came." 

" On purpose ? " asked Gertrude. 

The young man looked round him, smiling still. 
" Well, yes ; on purpose. Does that sound as if 
we should bore you ? " he added. " I don't think 
we shall I really don't think we shall. We 
are rather fond of wandering, too ; and we were 
glad of a pretext." 

" And you have just arrived ? " 



   

" In Boston, two days ago. At the inn I asked 
for Mr. Wentworth. He must be your father. 
They found out for me where he lived ; they 
seemed often to have heard of him. I determined 
to come, without ceremony. So, this lovely morning, they set my face in the right direction, and 
told me to walk straight before me, out of town. 
I came on foot because I wanted to see the country. I walked and walked, and here I am ! It 's 
a good many miles." 

" It is seven miles and a half," said Gertrude, 
softly. Now that this handsome young man was 
proving himself a reality she found herself vaguely 
trembling ; she was deeply excited. She had never 
in her life spoken to a foreigner, and she had often 
thought it would be delightful to do so. Here 
was one who had suddenly been engendered by 
the Sabbath stillness for her private use ; and 
such a brilliant, polite, smiling one ! She found 
time and means to compose herself, however : to 
remind herself that she must exercise a sort of 
official hospitality. " We are very very glad 
to see you," she said. " Won't you come into the 
house ? " And she moved toward the open door. 

" You are not afraid of me ; then ? " asked the 
young man again, with his light laugh. 

She wondered a moment, and then, " We are 
not afraid here," she said. 



 

" Ah, comme vous devez avoir raison ! " cried 
the young man, looking all round him, appreciatively. It was the first time that Gertrude had 
heard so many words of French spoken. They 
gave her something of a sensation. Her companion followed her, watching, with a certain excite- 
ment of his own, this tall, interesting-looking girl, 
dressed in her clear, crisp muslin. He paused in 
the hall, where there was a broad white staircase 
with a white balustrade. " What a pleasant 
house ! " he said. " It 's lighter inside than it is 
out." 

"It's pleasanter here," said Gertrude, and she 
led the way into the parlor, a high, clean, rather 
empty-looking room. Here they stood looking at 
each other, the young man smiling more than 
ever ; Gertrude, very serious , trying to smile. 

"I don't believe you know my name," he said. 
" I am called Felix Young. Your father is my 
uncle. My mother was his half sister, and older 
than he." 

" Yes," said Gertrude, " and she turned Roman 
Catholic and married in Europe." 

" I see you know," said the young man. " She 
married and she died. Your father's family did n't 
like her husband. They called him a foreigner ; 
but he was not. My poor father was born in 
Sicily, but his parents were American." 



   

" In Sicily ? " Gertrude murmured. 

" It is true," said Felix Young, " that they had 
spent their lives in Europe. But they were very 
patriotic. And so are we." 

" And you are Sicilian," said Gertrude. 

" Sicilian, no ! Let 's see. I was born at a 
little place a dear little place in France. 
My sister was born at Vienna." 

" So you are French," said Gertrude. 

" Heaven forbid ! " cried the young man. Ger- 
trude's eyes were fixed upon him almost insist- 
ently. He began to laugh again. " I can easily 
be French, if that will please you." 

" You are a foreigner of some sort," said Ger- 
trude. 

" Of some sort yes ; I suppose so. But who 
can say of what sort? I don't think we have 
ever had occasion to settle the question. You 
know there are people like that. About their 
country, their religion, their profession, they can't 
tell." 

Gertrude stood there gazing ; she had not asked 
him to sit down. She had never heard of people 
like that ; she wanted to hear. " Where do you 
live?" she asked. 

" They can't tell that, either ! " said Felix. I 
am afraid you will think they are little better 
than vagabonds. I have lived anywhere every- 



 

where. I really think I have lived in every city 
in Europe." Gertrude gave a little long soft exhalation. It made the young man smile at her 
again ; and his smile made her blush a little. To 
take refuge from blushing she asked him if, after 
his long walk, he was not hungry or thirsty. Her 
hand was in her pocket ; she was fumbling with 
the little key that her sister had given her. " Ah, 
my dear young lady," he said, clasping his hands 
a little, " if you could give me, in charity, a glass 
of wine ! " 

Gertrude gave a smile and a little nod, and 
went quickly out of the room. Presently she 
came back with a very large decanter in one hand 
and a plate in the other, on which was placed a 
big, round cake with a frosted top. Gertrude, 
in taking the cake from the closet, had had a 
moment of acute consciousness that it composed 
the refection of which her sister had thought that 
Mr. Brand would like to partake. Her kinsman 
from across the seas was looking at the pale, high- 
hung engravings. When she came in he turned 
and smiled at her, as if they had been old friends 
meeting after a separation. "You wait upon me 
yourself ? " he asked. " I am served like the 
gods ! " She had waited upon a great many peo- 
ple, but none of them had ever told her that. The 
observation added a certain lightness to the step 



   

with which she went to a little table where there 
were some curious red glasses glasses covered 
with little gold sprigs, which Charlotte used to 
dust every morning with her own hands. Ger- 
trude thought the glasses very handsome, and it 
was a pleasure to her to know that the wine was 
good ; it was her father's famous madeira. Felix 
Young thought it excellent ; he wondered why 
he had been told that there was no wine in Amer- 
ica. She cut him an immense triangle out of the 
cake, and again she thought of Mr. Brand. Felix 
sat there, with his glass in one hand and his huge 
morsel of cake in the other eating, drinking, 
smiling, talking. " I am very hungry," he said. 
" I am not at all tired ; I am never tired. But I 
am very hungry." 

" You must stay to dinner," said Gertrude. 
" At two o'clock. They will all have come back 
from church ; you will see the others." 

" Who are the others ? " asked the young man. 
" Describe them all." 

" You will see for yourself. It is you that must 
tell me ; now, about your sister." 

" My sister is the Baroness Miinster," said 
Felix. 

On hearing that his sister was a Baroness, Ger- 
trude got up and walked about slowly, in front 
of him. She was silent a moment. She was think- 



 

ing of it. " Why did n't she come, too ? " she 
asked. 

" She did come ; slie is in Boston, at the hotel." 

" We will go and see her," said Gertrude, look- 
ing at him. 

" She begs you will not ! " the young man re- 
plied. " She sends you her love ; she sent me to 
announce her. She will come and pay her respects 
to your father." 

Gertrude felt herself trembling again. A Bar- 
oness Minister, who sent a brilliant young man to 
" announce " her ; who was coming, as the Queen 
of Sheba came to Solomon, to pay her " respects " 
to quiet Mr. Wentworth such a personage presented herself to Gertrude's vision with a most 
effective unexpectedness. For a moment she 
hardly knew what to say. "When will she 
come ? " she asked at last. 

"As soon as you will allow her to-morrow. 
She is very impatient," answered Felix, who 
wished to be agreeable. 

" To-morrow, yes," said Gertrude. She wished 
to ask more about her ; but she hardly knew what 
could be predicated of a Baroness Minister. " Is 
she is she married ? " 

Felix had finished his cake and wine ; he got 
up, fixing upon the young girl his bright, express- 
ive eyes. " She is married to a German prince 




Prince Adolf, of Silberstadt-Schreckenstein. 
He is not the reigning prince ; he is a younger 
brother." 

Gertrude gazed at her informant ; her lips were 
slightly parted. " Is she a a Princess ? " she 
asked at last. 

" Oh, no," said the young man ; " her position 
is rather a singular one. It 's a morganatic mar- 
riage." 

" Morganatic ? " These were new names and 
new words to poor Gertrude. 

" That 's what they call a marriage, you know, 
contracted between a scion of a ruling house and 

and a common mortal. They made Eugenia a 
Baroness, poor woman ; but that was all they 
could do. Now they want to dissolve the marriage. Prince Adolf, between ourselves, is a 
ninny; but his brother, who is a clever man, has 
plans for him. Eugenia, naturally enough, makes 
difficulties ; not, however, that I think she cares 
much she 's a very clever woman ; I 'm sure 
you 'll like her but she wants to bother them. 
Just now everything is en Vair." 

The cheerful, off-hand tone in which her visitor 
related this darkly romantic tale seemed to Ger- 
trude very strange; but it seemed also to convey 
a certain flattery to herself, a recognition of her 
wisdom and dignity. She felt a dozen impressions 



 

stirring within her, and presently the one that 
was uppermost found words. " They want to 
dissolve her marriage ? " she asked. 

" So it appears." 

" And against her will ? " 

" Against her right." 

" She must be very unhappy ! " said Gertrude. 

Her visitor looked at her, smiling ; he raised 
his hand to the back of his head and held it there 
a moment. " So she says," he answered. " That 's 
her story. She told me to tell it you." 

" Tell me more," said Gertrude. 

" No, I will leave that to her ; she does it bet- 
ter." 

Gertrude gave her little excited sigh again. 
" Well, if she is unhappy," she said, " I am glad 
she has come to us." 

She had been so interested that she failed to 
notice the sound of a footstep in the portico ; and 
yet it was a footstep that she always recognized. 
She heard it in the hall, and then she looked out 
of the window. They were all coming back from 
church her father, her sister and brother, and 
their cousins, who always came to dinner on Sun- 
day. Mr. Brand had come in first ; he was in 
advance of the others, because, apparently, he was 
still disposed to say what she had not wished him 
to say an hour before. He came into the parlor, 



   

looking for Gertrude. He had two little books in 
his hand. On seeing Gertrude's companion he 
slowly stopped, looking at him. 

" Is this a cousin ? " asked Felix. 

Then Gertrude saw that she must introduce him ; 
but her ears, and, by sympathy, her lips, were 
full of all that he had been telling her. " This is 
the Prince," she said, " the Prince of Silberstadt- 
Schreckenstein ! " 

Felix burst out laughing, and Mr. Brand stood 
staring, while the others, who had passed into the 
house, appeared behind him in the open door-way. 




THAT evening at dinner Felix Young gave his 
sister, the Baroness Miinster, an account of his 
impressions. She saw that he had come back in 
the highest possible spirits ; but this fact, to her 
own mind, was not a reason for rejoicing. She 
had but a limited confidence in her brother's judg- 
ment ; his capacity for taking rose-colored views 
was such as to vulgarize one of the prettiest of 
tints. Still, she supposed he could be trusted to 
give her the mere facts ; and she invited him with 
some eagerness to communicate them. " I sup- 
pose, at least, they did n't turn you out from the 
door ; " she said. " You have been away some ten 
hours." 

" Turn me from the door ! " Felix exclaimed. 
" They took me to their hearts ; they killed the 
fatted calf." 

" I know what you want to say : they are a 
collection of angels." 

" Exactly," said Felix. " They are a collection of angels simply." 

" C'est bien vague," remarked the Baroness. 
" What are they like ? " 



" Like nothing you ever saw." 

" I am sure I am much obliged ; but that is 
hardly more definite. Seriously, they were glad 
to see you ? " 

" Enchanted. It has been the proudest day of 
my life. Never, never have I been so lionized ! 
I assure you, I was cock of the walk. My dear 
sister," said the young man, "nous n'avons qu'a 
nous tenir ; we shall be great swells ! " 

Madame Minister looked at him, and her eye 
exhibited a slight responsive spark. She touched 
her lips to a glass of wine, and then she said, "Describe them. Give me a picture." 

Felix drained his own glass. " Well, it 's in 
the country, among the meadows and woods; a 
wild sort of place, and yet not far from here. 
Only, such a road, rny dear ! Imagine one of the 
Alpine glaciers reproduced in mud. But you will 
not spend much time on it, for they want you to 
come and stay, once for all." 

" Ah," said the Barohess, " they want me to 
come and stay, once for all ? Bon." 

" It 's intensely rural, tremendously natural ; 
and all overhung with this strange white light, this 
far-away blue sky. There 's a big wooden house 
a kind of three-story bungalow ; it looks like 
a magnified Nuremberg toy. There was a gentle- 
man there that made a speech to me about it and 



 

called it a ' venerable mansion ; ' but it looks as if 
it had been built last night." 

"Is it handsome is it elegant?" asked the 
Baroness. 

Felix looked at her a moment, smiling. " It 's 
very clean ! No splendors, no gilding, no troops 
of servants ; rather straight-backed chairs. But 
you might eat off the floors, and you can sit down 
on the stairs." 

" That must be a privilege. And the inhabitants are straight-backed too, of course." 

" My dear sister," said Felix, " the inhabitants 
are charming." 

" In what style ? " 

" In a style of their own. How shall I de- 
scribe it? It's primitive; it's patriarchal; it's 
the ton of the golden age." 

"And have they nothing golden but their ton? 
Are there no symptoms of wealth ? " 

" I should say there was wealth without symp- 
toms. A plain, homely way of life : nothing for 
show, and very little for what shall I call it ? 
for the senses : but a great aisance, and a lot of 
money, out of sight, that comes forward very 
quietly for subscriptions to institutions, for repairing tenements, for paying doctor's bills ; perhaps even for portioning daughters." 

" And the daughters ? " Madame Miinster de- 
manded. " How many are there ? " 



   

" There are two, Charlotte and Gertrude." 

" Are they pretty ? " 

" One of them," said Felix. 

"Which is that?" 

The young man was silent, looking at his sister. 
" Charlotte," he said at last. 

She looked at him in return. " I see. You are 
in love with Gertrude. They must be Puritans to 
their finger-tips ; anything but gay! " 

" No, they are not gay," Felix admitted. " They 
are sober; they are even severe. They are of a 
pensive cast ; they take things hard. I think there 
is something the matter with them ; they have 
some melancholy memory or some depressing expectation. It 's not the epicurean temperament. 
My uncle, Mr. Wentworth, is a tremendously high-toned old fellow ; he looks as if he were undergoing martyrdom, not by fire, but by freezing. But 
we shall cheer them up ; we shall do them good. 
They will take a good deal of stirring up ; but 
they are wonderfully kind and gentle. And they 
are appreciative. They think one clever ; they 
think one remarkable ! " 

" That is very fine, so far as it goes," said the 
Baroness. " But are we to be shut up to these 
three people, Mr. Wentworth and the two young 
women what did you say their names were 
Deborah and Hephzibah ? " 



 

" Oh, no ; there is another little girl, a cousin 
of theirs, a very pretty creature ; a thorough lit- 
tle American. And then there is the son of the 
house." 

"Good! " said the Baroness. "We are coming 
to the gentlemen. What of the son of the house? " 

" I am afraid he gets tipsy." 

" He, then, has the epicurean temperament ! 
How old is he?" 

" He is a boy of twenty ; a pretty young fellow, 
but I am afraid he has vulgar tastes. And then 
there is Mr. Brand a very tall young man, a sort 
of lay-priest. They seem to think a good deal of 
him, but I don't exactly make him out." 

" And is there nothing," asked the Baroness, 
" between these extremes this mysterious eccle- 
siastic and that intemperate youth ? " 

" Oh, yes, there is Mr. Acton. I think," said 
the young man, with a nod at his sister, " that you 
will like Mr. Acton." 

" Remember that I am very fastidious," said the 
Baroness. " Has he very good manners ? " 

" He will have them with you. He is a man of 
the world ; he has been to China." 

Madame Minister gave a little laugh. " A man 
of the Chinese world ! He must be very interest- 
ing." 

 



   

" I have an idea that he brought home a fortune," said Felix. 

" That is always interesting. Is he young, good- 
looking, clever ? " 

" He is less than forty ; he has a baldish head ; 
he says witty things. I rather think/' added the 
young man, "that he will admire the Baroness 
Munster." 

" It is very possible,'* said this lady. Her 
brother never knew how she would take things ; 
but shortly afterwards she declared that he had 
made a very pretty description and that on the 
morrow she would go and see for herself. 

They mounted, accordingly, into a great ba- 
rouche a vehicle as to which the Baroness found 
nothing to criticise but the price that was asked 
for it and the fact that the coachman wore a straw 
hat. (At Silberstadt Madame Munster had had 
liveries of yellow and crimson.) They drove into 
the country, and the Baroness, leaning far back 
and swaying her lace-fringed parasol, looked to 
right and to left and surveyed the way-side ob- 
jects. After a while she pronounced them " af- 
freux." Her brother remarked that it was ap- 
parently a country in which the foreground was 
inferior to the plans recul^s : and the Baroness 
rejoined that the landscape seemed to be all fore- 
ground. Felix had fixed with his new friends the 


