felt that he had no right to be more explicit till 
you were in the care of your friends. That would 
be the European way which you consider so bad," 
said Mrs. Erwin. " Under the circumstances, it 
was impossible for him to keep any distance, and 
all he could do was to postpone his declaration till 
there could be something like good form about it. 
 
Yes, it might have been that." She was silent, but 
the troubled look did not leave her face. " I am 
sorry for you, Lydia," she resumed, " but I don't 
know that I wish he was in earnest." Lydia looked 
up at her in dismay. u It might be far less em- 
barrassing the other way, however painful. He 
may not be at all a suitable person." The tears 
stood in Lydia's eyes, and all her face expressed a 
puzzled suspense. " Where was he from ? " asked 
Mrs. Erwin, finally; till then she had been more 
interested in the lover than the man. 
" Boston," mechanically answered Lydia. 
" What was his name ? " 
" Mr. Staniford," owned Lydia, with a blush. 
Her aunt seemed dispirited at the sound. " Yes, 
I know who they are," she sighed. 
" And aren 't they nice ? Isn 't he — suitable ? " 
asked Lydia, tremulously. 
" Oh, poor child ! He 's only too suitable. I 
can't explain to you, Lydia; but at home he 
wouldn't have looked at a girl like you. What 
sort of looking person is he ? " 
" He 's rather — red ; and he has — light hair." 
" It must be the family I 'm thinking of," said 
Mrs. Erwin. She had lived nearly twenty years in 
Europe, and had seldom revisited her native city ; 
but at the sound of a Boston name she was all 
Bostonian again. She rapidly sketched the history 
of the family to which she imagined Staniford to 
belong. " I remember his sister ; I used to see her 
 
at school. She must have been five or six years 
younger than I ; and this boy " — 
" Why, he 's twenty-eight years old ! " inter- 
rupted Lydia. 
"How came he to tell you? " 
" I don't know. He said that he looked thirty- 
four." 
" Yes ; she was always a forward thing too, — 
with her freckles," said Mrs. Erwin, musingly, as 
if lost in reminiscences, not wholly pleasing, of Miss 
Staniford. 
" He has freckles," admitted Lydia. 
"Yes, it's the one," said Mrs. Erwin. " He 
couldn 't have known what your family was from 
anything you said ? " 
" We never talked about our families." 
" Oh, I dare say ! You talked about your- 
selves ? " 
" Yes." 
" All the time ? " 
" Pretty nearly." 
" And he didn 't try to find out who or what you 
were?" 
" He asked a great deal about South Bradfield." 
" Of course, that was where he thought you bad 
always belonged." Mrs. Erwin lay quiescent for a 
while, in apparent uncertainty as to how she should 
next attack the subject. " How did you first 
meet ? " 
Lydia began with the scene on Lucas Wharf, 
 
and little by little told the whole story up to the 
moment of their parting at Trieste. There were 
lapses and pauses in the story, which her aunt was 
never at a loss to fill aright. At the end she said, 
"If it were not for his promising to come here and 
see you, I should say Mr. Staniford had been flirt- 
ing, and as it is he may not regard it as anything 
more than flirtation. Of course, there was his be- 
ing jealous of Mr. Dunham and Mr. Hicks, as he 
certainly was ; and his wanting to explain about 
that lady at Messina — yes, that looked peculiar; 
but he may not have meant anything by it. His 
parting so at Trieste with you, that might be either 
because he was embarrassed at its having got to be 
such a serious thing, or because he really felt badly. 
Lydia," she asked at last, " what made you think 
he cared for you ? " 
" I don't know," said the girl; her voice had sunk 
to a husky whisper. "I didn't believe it till he 
said he wanted me to be his — conscience, and tried 
to make me say he was good, and " — 
" That \s a certain kind of man's way of flirting. 
It may mean nothing at all. I could tell in an 
instant, if I saw him." 
"He said he would be here this afternoon," mur- 
mured Lydia, tremulously. 
" This afternoon ! " cried Mrs. Erwin. " I must 
get up ! " 
At her toilette she had the exaltation and fury 
of a champion arming for battle. 
 
XXV. 
Mb. Enwra entered about the completion of her 
preparations, and without turning round from her 
glass she said, " I want you to think of the worst 
thing you can, Henshaw. I don't see how I 'm ever 
to lift up my head again." As if this word had 
reminded her of her head, she* turned it from side 
to side, and got the effect in the glass, first of one 
ear-ring, and then of the other. Her husband 
patiently waited, and she now confronted him. 
" You may as well know first as last, Henshaw, 
and I want you to prepare yourself for it. Noth- 
ing can be done, and you will just have to live 
through it. Lydia — has come over — on that 
ship — alone, — with three young men, — and not 
the shadow — not the ghost — of another woman — 
on board ! " Mrs. Erwin gesticulated with her 
hand-glass in delivering the words, in a manner at 
once intensely vivid and intensely solemn, yet some- 
how falling short of the due tragic effect. Her 
husband stood pulling his mustache straight down, 
while his wife turned again to the mirror, and put 
the final touches to her personal appearance with 
hands which she had the effect of having desper- 
ately washed of all responsibility. He stood so 
long in this meditative mood that she was obliged 
 
to be peremptory with his image in the glass. 
"Well?" she cried. 
" Why, my dear," said Mr. Erwin, at last, " they 
were all Americans together, you know." 
" And what difference does that make ? " de- 
manded Mrs. Erwin, whirling from bis image to 
the man again. 
" Why, of course, you know, it isn 't as if they 
were — English." Mrs. Erwin flung down three 
hair-pins upon her dressing-case, and visibly de- 
spaired. " Of course you don't expect your coun- 
trymen " — His wife's appearance was here so 
terrible that he desisted, and resumed by saying, 
" Don't be vexed, my dear. I — I rather like it, you 
know. It strikes me as a genuine bit of American 
civilization." 
" American civilization ! Oh, Henshaw ! " wailed 
Mrs. Erwin, " is it possible that after all I 've said, 
and done, and lived, you still think that any one but 
a girl from the greenest little country place could 
do such a thing as that? Well, it is no use trying 
to enlighten English people. You like it, do you ? 
Well, I 'm not sure that the Englishman who mis- 
understands American things and likes them isn 't 
a little worse than the Englishman who misunder- 
stands them and dislikes them. You all misunder- 
stand them. And would you like it, if one of the 
young men had been making love to Lydia ? " 
The amateur of our civilization hesitated and was 
serious, but he said at last, " Why, you know, I 'm 
 
not surprised. She 's so uncommonly pretty. I — I 
suppose they 're engaged ? " he suggested. 
His wife held her peace for scorn. Then she said, 
" The gentleman is of a very good Boston family, 
and would no more think of engaging himself to a 
young girl without the knowledge of her friends 
than you would. Besides, he 's been in Europe a 
great deal." 
" I wish I could meet some Americans who had 
n't been in Europe," said Mr. Erwin. " I should 
like to see what you call the simon-pure American. 
As for the young man's not engaging himself, it 
seems to me that he didn 't avail himself of his na- 
tional privileges. I should certainly have done it in 
his place, if I 'd been an American." 
" Well, if you 'd been an American, you would 
n't," answered his wife. 
" Why ? " 
" Because an American would have had too much 
delicacy." 
" I don't understand that." 
" I know you don't, Henshaw. And there 's 
where you show yourself an Englishman." 
" Really," said her husband, " you 're beginning 
to crow, my dear. Come, I like that a great deal 
better than your cringing .to the effete despotisms 
of the Old World, as your Fourth of July orators 
have it. It 's almost impossible to get a bit of good 
honest bounce out of an American, nowadays, — to 
get him to spread himself, as you say." 
 
" All that is neither here nor there, Henshaw," 
said his wife. " The question is how to receive Mr. 
Stamford — that 's his name — when he comes. How 
are we to regard him ? He 's coming here to see 
Lydia, and she thinks he 's coming to propose." 
" Excuse me, but how does she regard him ? " 
" Oh, there *s no question about that, poor child. 
"She's dead in love with him, and can't understand 
why he didn 't propose on shipboard." 
" And she isn 't an Englishman, either ! " exulted 
Mr. Erwin. u It appears that there are Americans 
and Americans, and that the men of your nation 
have more delicacy than the women like." 
" Don't be silly," said his wife. " Of course, 
women always think what they would do in such 
cases, if they were men ; but if men did what women 
think they would do if they were men, the women 
would be disgusted." 
" Oh ! " 
" Yes. Her feeling in the matter is no guide." 
" Do you know his family? " asked Mr. Erwin. 
" I think I do. Yes, I 'm sure I do." 
" Are they nice people ? " 
" Have 'nt I told you they were a good Boston 
family ? " 
" Then upon my word, I don't see that we 've to 
take any attitude at all. I don't see that we 've to 
regard him in one way or the other. It quite re- 
mains for him to make the first move." 
As if they had been talking of nothing but dress 
 
before, Mrs. Erwin asked : " Do you think I look 
better in this black mexicaine, or would you wear 
your ecru : 
" I think you look very well in this. But why — 
He isn 't going to propose to you, I hope ? " 
" I must have on something decent to receive him 
in. What time does the train from Trieste get 
in?" 
" At three o'clock." 
" It 's one, now. There 's plenty of time, but 
there isn't any too much. I 'll go and get Lydia 
ready. Or perhaps you 'll tap on her door, Henshaw, 
and send her here. Of course, this is the end of her 
voice, — if it is the end." 
" It 's the end of having an extraordinarily pretty 
girl in the house. I don't at all like it, you know, 
— having her whisked away in this manner." 
Mrs. Erwin refused to let her mind wander from 
the main point. " He 'll be round as soon as he can, 
after he arrives. I shall expect him by four, at the 
latest." 
u I fancy he 'll stop for his dinner before he comes," 
said Mr. Erwin. 
" Not at all," retorted his wife, haughtily. And 
with his going out of the room, she set her face in 
a resolute cheerfulness, for the task of heartening 
Lydia when she should appear ; but it only expressed 
misgiving when the girl came in with her yachting- 
dress on. " Why, Lydia, shall you wear that ? " 
Lydia swept her dress with a downward glance. 
 
"I thought I would wear it. I thought he — I 
should seem — more natural in it. I wore it all the 
time on the ship, except Sundays. He said — he 
liked it the best." 
Mrs. Erwin shook her head. " It wouldn 't do. 
Everything must be on a new basis now. He might 
like it ; but it would be too romantic, wouldn 't it, 
don't you think ? " She shook her head still, but 
less decisively. " Better wear your silk. Don't 
you think you 'd better wear your silk ? This 
is very pretty, and the dark blue does become 
you, awfully. Still, I don't know — J don't know, 
either ! A great many English wear those careless 
things in the house. Well, wear it, Lydia ! You 
do look perfectly killing in it. I 'll tell you : your 
uncle was going to ask you to go out in his boat ; 
he 's got one he rows himself, and this is a boating 
costume ; and you know you could time yourselves 
so as to get back just right, and you could come in 
with this on " — 
Lydia turned pale. " Oughtn 't I — oughtn 't I 
— to be here ? " she faltered. 
Her aunt laughed gayly. " Why, he 'll ask for 
me, Lydia." 
« For you ? " asked Lydia, doubtfully. 
" Yes. And I can easily keep him till you get 
back. If you 're here by four " — 
"The train," said Lydia, " arrives at three." 
" How did you know ? " asked her aunt, keenly. 
Lydia's eyelids fell even lower than their wont. 
" I looked it out in that railroad guide in the par- 
lor." 
Her aunt kissed her. " And you 've thought the 
whole thing out, dear, haven 't you ? I 'm glad to 
see you so happy about it." 
" Yes," said the girl, with a fluttering breath, "I 
have thought it out, and I believe him. I " — She 
tried to say something more, but could not. 
Mrs. Erwin rang the bell, and sent for her hus- 
band. " He knows about it, Lydia," she said. 
"He's just as much interested as we are, dear, but 
you needn 't be worried. He 's a perfect post for 
not showing a thing if you don't want him to. 
He 's really quite superhuman, in that, — equal to 
a woman. You can talk Americanisms with him. 
If we sat here staring at each other till four o'clock, 
— he must go to his hotel before he comes here ; 
and I say four at the earliest ; and it 's much more 
likely to be five or six, or perhaps evening, — I 
should die ! " 
Mr. Erwin' s rowing was the wonder of all Ven- 
ice. There was every reason why he should fall 
overboard at each stroke, as he stood to propel the 
boat in the gondolier fashion, except that he never 
yet had done so. It was sometimes his fortune to 
be caught on the shallows by the falling tide ; but 
on that day he safely explored the lagoons, and re- 
turned promptly at four o'clock to the palace. 
His wife was standing on the balcony, looking 
out for them, and she smiled radiantly down into 
 
Lydia's anxiously lifted face. But when she met 
the girl at the head of the staircase in the great 
hall, she embraced her, and said, with the same gay 
smile, " He hasn 't come yet, dear, and of course he 
won't come till after dinner. . If I hadn 't been as 
silly as you are, Lydia, I never should have let you 
expect him sooner. He 'll want to go to his hotel ; 
and no matter how impatient he is, he 'll want to 
dress, and be a little ceremonious about his call. 
You know we 're strangers to him, whatever you 
are." 
" Yes," said Lydia, mechanically. She was going 
to sit down, as she was ; of her own motion she 
would not have stirred from the place till he came, 
or it was certain he would not come ; but her aunt 
would not permit the despair into which she saw 
her sinking. 
She laughed resolutely, and said, " I think we 
must give up the little sentimentality of meeting 
him in that dress, now. Go and change it, Lydia. 
Put on your silk, — or wait : let me go with you. 
I want to try some little effects with your complex- 
ion. We 've experimented with the simple and fa- 
miliar, and now we 'll see what can be done in the 
way of the magnificent and unexpected. I 'm going 
to astonish the young man with a Venetian beauty ; 
you know you look Italian, Lydia." 
" Yes, he said so," answered Lydia. 
" Did he ? That shows he has an eye, and he 'll 
appreciate what we are going to do." 
 
She took Lydia to her own room, for the greater 
convenience of her experiments, and from that mo- 
ment she did not allow her to be alone ; she scarcely 
allowed her to be silent ; she made her talk, she 
kept her in movement. At dinner she permitted no 
lapse. " Henshaw," she said, " Lydia has been tell- 
ing me about a storm they had just before they 
reached Gibraltar. I wish you would tell her of 
the typhoon you were in when you first went out 
to India." Her husband obeyed ; and then recur- 
ring to the days of his civil employment in India, 
he told stories of tiger-hunts, and of the Sepoy 
mutiny. Mrs. Erwin would not let them sit very 
long at table. After dinner she asked Lydia to 
sing, and she suffered her to sing all the American 
songs her uncle asked for. At eight o'clock she 
said with a knowing little look at Lydia, which in- 
cluded a sub-wink for her husband, " You may go 
to your cafe alone, this evening, Henshaw. Lydia 
and I are going to stay at home and talk South 
Bradfield gossip. I ve hardly had a moment with 
her yet." But when he was gone, she took Lydia 
to her own room again, and showed her all her jew- 
elry, and passed the time in making changes in the 
girl's toilette. 
It was like the heroic endeavor of the arctic voy- 
ager who feels the deadly chill in his own veins, and 
keeps himself alive by rousing his comrade from the 
torpor stealing over him. They saw in each other's 
eyes that if they yielded a moment to the doubt in 
their hearts they were lost. 
 
At ten o'clock Mrs. Erwin said abruptly, " Go to 
bed, Lydia ! " Then the girl broke down, and aban- 
doned herself in a storm of tears. " Don't cry, dear, 
don't cry," pleaded her aunt. u He will be here in 
the morning, I know he will. He has been de- 
layed." 
" No, he 's not coming," said Lydia, through her 
sobs. 
" Something has happened," urged Mrs. Erwin. 
" No," said Lydia, as before. Her tears ceased 
as suddenly as they had come. She lifted her head, 
and drying her eyes looked into her aunt's face. 
" Are you ashamed of me ? ' ' she asked hoarsely. 
" Ashamed of you ? Oh, poor child " — 
" I can't pretend anything. If I had never told 
you about it at all, I could have kept it back till I 
died. But now — But you will never hear me 
speak of it again. It 's over." She took up her 
candle, and stiffly suffering the compassionate em- 
brace with which her aunt clung to her, she walked 
across the great hall in the vain splendor in which 
she had been adorned, and shut the door behind 
her. 
XXVI. 
Dunham lay in a stupor for twenty-four hours, 
and after that he was delirious, with dim intervals 
of reason in which they kept him from talking, till 
one morning he woke and looked up at Staniford 
with a perfectly clear eye, and said, as if resuming 
the conservation, " I struck my head on a pile of 
chains." 
" Yes," replied Staniford, with a wan smile, 
u and you 've been out of it pretty near ever since. 
You mustn 't talk." 
" Oh, I 'm all right," said Dunham. u I know 
about my being hurt. I shall be cautious. Have 
you written to Miss Hibbard ? I hope you haven 't ! " 
" Yes, I have," replied Staniford. " But I 
haven 't sent the letter," he added, in answer to 
Dunham's look of distress. " I thought you were 
going to pull through, in spite of the doctor, — he 's 
wanted to bleed you, and I could hardly keep his 
lancet out of you, — and so I wrote, mentioning 
the accident and announcing your complete restora- 
tion. The letter merely needs dating and sealing. 
I 'll look it up and have it posted." He began a 
search in the pockets of his coat, and then went to 
his portfolio. 
" What day is this ? " asked Dunham. 
 
"Friday," said Staniford, rummaging his port- 
folio. 
" Have you been in Venice? " 
" Look here, Dunham ! If you begin in that 
way, I can't talk to you. It shows that you 're still 
out of your head. How could I have been in Ven- 
ice?" 
"But Miss Blood ; the Aroostook " — 
" Miss Blood went to Venice with her uncle last 
Saturday. The Aroostook is here in Trieste. The 
captain has just gone away. He 's stood watch and 
watch with me, while you were off on business." 
" But didn 't you go to Venice on Monday? " 
"Well, hardly," answered Staniford. 
"No, you stayed with me, — I see," said Dun- 
ham. 
" Of course, I wrote to her at once," said Stani- 
ford, huskily, " and explained the matter as well as 
I could without making an ado about it. But now 
you stop, Dunham. If you excite yourself, there 'll 
be the deuce to pay again." 
"I'm not excited," said Dunham, "but I can't 
help thinking how disappointed — But of course 
you 've heard from her ? " 
" Well, there 's hardly time, yet," said Staniford, 
evasively. 
" Why, yes, there is. Perhaps your letter mis- 
carried." 
" Don't ! " cried Staniford, in a hollow under- 
voice, which he broke through to add, " Go to sleep, 
now, Dunham, or keep quiet, somehow." 
Dunham was silent for a while, and Staniford 
continued his search, which he ended by taking the 
portfolio by one corner, and shaking its contents 
out on the table. "I don't seem to find it; but 
I 've put it away somewhere. I 'll get it." He 
went to another coat, that hung on the back of a 
chair, and fumbled in its pockets. " Hollo ! Here 
are those letters they brought me from the post- 
office Saturday night, — Murray's, and Stanton's, 
and that bore Farrington's. I forgot all about 
them." He ran the unopened letters over in his 
hand. "Ah, here's my familiar scrawl" — He 
stopped suddenly, and walked away to the window, 
where he stood with his back to Dunham. 
" Staniford ! What is it ? " 
"It's — it's my letter to Aer," said Staniford, 
without looking round. 
"Your letter to Miss Blood — not gone ? " Stan- 
iford, with his face still from him, silently nodded. 
" Oh ! " moaned Dunham, in self-forgetful compas- 
sion. " How could it have happened? " 
" I see perfectly well," said the other, quietly, 
but he looked round at Dunham with a face that 
was haggard. " I sent it out to be posted by the 
portier, and he got it mixed up with these letters 
for me, and brought it back." 
The young men were both silent, but the tears 
stood in Dunham's eyes. " If it hadn 't been for 
me, it wouldn 't have happened," he said. 
" No," gently retorted Staniford, " if it hadn 't 
 
been for me^ it wouldn 't have happened. I made 
you come from Messina with me, when you wanted 
to go on to Naples with those people ; if I 'd had 
any sense, I should have spoken fully to her before 
we parted ; and it was I who sent you to see if she 
were on the steamer, when you fell and hurt your- 
self. I know who 's to blame, Dunham. What day 
did I tell you this was ? " 
" Friday." 
" A week ! And I told her to expect me Mon- 
day afternoon. A week without a word or a sign 
of any kind ! Well, I might as well take passage 
in the Aroostook, and go back to Boston again." 
" Why, no!" cried Dunham, "you must take 
the first train to Venice. Don't lose an instant. 
You can explain everything as soon as you see 
her." 
Stamford shook his head. " If all her life had 
been different, if she were a woman of the world, it 
would be different ; she would know how to ac- 
count for some little misgivings on my part ; but as 
it is she wouldn 't know how to account for even the 
appearance of them. What she must have suffered 
all this week — I can't think of it ! " He sat down 
and turned his face away. Presently he sprang up 
•again. "But I'm going, Dunham. I guess you 
won't die now ; but you may die if you like. I 
would go over your dead body ! " 
"Now you are talking sense," said Dunham. 
Staniford did not listen ; he had got out his rail- 
 
road guide and was studying it. " No ; there are 
only those two trains a day. The seven o'clock has 
gone ; and the next starts at ten to-night. Great 
heavens ! I could walk it sooner ! Dunham," he 
asked, u do you think I 'd better telegraph ? " 
" What would you say ? " 
" Say that there 's been a mistake ; that a letter 
miscarried ; that I 'll be there in the morning ; 
that" — 
"Wouldn't that be taking her anxiety a little 
too much for granted ? " 
" Yes, that 's true. Well, you 've got your wits 
about you now, Dunham," cried Stamford, with 
illogical bitterness. "Very probably," he added, 
gloomily, " she doesn 't care anything for me, after 
all." 
" That 's a good frame of mind to go in," said 
Dunham. 
" Why is it ? " demanded Stamford. "Did I ever 
presume upon any supposed interest in her ? " 
" You did at first," replied Dunham. 
Staniford flushed angrily. But you cannot quar- 
rel with a man lying helpless on his back ; besides, 
what Dunham said was true. 
The arrangements for Stamford's journey were 
quickly made, — so quickly that when he had seen 
the doctor, and had been down to the Aroostook 
and engaged Captain Jenness to come and take his 
place with Dunham for the next two nights, he had 
twelve hours on his hands before the train for 
 
Venice would leave, and lie started at last with but 
one clear perception, — that at the soonest it must 
be twelve hours more before he could see her. 
He had seemed intolerably slow in arriving on 
the train, but once arrived in Venice he wished 
that he had come by the steamboat, which would 
not be in for three hours yet. In despair he went 
to bed, considering that after he had tossed there 
till he could endure it no longer, he would still 
have the resource of getting up, which he would 
not have unless he went to bed. When he lay 
down, he found himself drowsy ; and while he won- 
dered at this, he fell asleep, and dreamed a strange 
dream, so terrible that he woke himself by groan- 
ing in spirit, a thing which, as he reflected, he had 
never done before. The sun was piercing the crev- 
ice between his shutters, and a glance at his watch 
showed him that it was eleven o'clock. 
The shadow of his dream projected itself into 
his waking mood, and steeped it in a gloom which 
he could not escape. He rose and dressed, and 
meagrely breakfasted. Without knowing how he 
came there, he stood announced in Mrs. Erwin's 
parlor, and waited for her to receive him. 
His card was brought in to her where she lay 
in bed. After supporting Lydia through the first 
sharp shock of disappointment, she had yielded to 
the prolonged strain, and the girl was now tak- 
ing care of her. She gave a hysterical laugh as 
she read the name on the card Veronica brought, 
 
 
and crushing it in her hand, " He 's come ! " she 
cried. 
u I will not see him ! " said Lydia instantly. 
" No," assented her aunt. u It wouldn 't be at 
all the thing. Besides, he 's asked for me. Your 
uncle might see him, but he 's out of the way ; of 
course he would be out of the way. Now, let me 
see ! " The excitement inspired her ; she rose in 
bed, and called for the pretty sack in which she 
ordinarily breakfasted, and took a look at herself in 
a hand-glass that lay on the bed. Lydia did not 
move ; she scarcely seemed to breathe ; but a swift 
pulse in her neck beat visibly. "If it would be 
decent to keep him waiting so long, I could dress, 
and see him myself. I 'm well enough." Mrs. 
Erwin again reflected. " Well," she said at last, 
"you must see him, Lydia." 
"I" — began the girl. 
"Yes, you. Some one must. It will be all 
right. On second thought, I believe I should send 
you, even if I were quite ready to go myself. This 
affair has been carried on so far on the American 
plan, and I think I shall let you finish it without 
my interference. Yes, as your uncle said when I 
told him, you 're all Americans together ; and you 
arc. Mr. Staniford has come to see you, though he 
asks for me. That 's perfectly proper ; but I can't 
see him, and I want you to excuse me to him." 
"What would you — what must I" — Lydia 
began again. 
" No, Lydia," interrupted her aunt. " I won't 
tell you a thing. I might have advised you when 
you first came ; but now, I — Well, I think I 've 
lived too long in Europe to be of use in such a case, 
and I won't have anything to do with it. I won't 
tell you how to meet him, or what to say ; but 
oh, child," — here the woman's love of loving 
triumphed in her breast, — "I wish I was in your 
place! Go!" 
Lydia slowly rose, breathless. 
" Lydia ! " cried her aunt. " Look at me ! " 
Lydia turned her head. " Are you going to be 
hard with him? " 
" I don't know what he 's coming for," said Lydia 
dishonestly. 
" But if he 's coming for what you hope ? " 
" I don't hope for anything." 
"But you did. Don't be severe. You 're terri- 
ble when you 're severe." 
"I will be just." 
" Oh, no, you must n't, my dear. It won't do at 
all to be just with men, poor fellows. Kiss me, 
Lydia ! " She pulled her down, and kissed her. 
When the girl had got as far as the door, " Lydia, 
Lydia ! " she called after her. Lydia turned. 
" Do you realize what dress you 've got on ? " 
Lydia look down at her robe ; it was the blue 
flannel yachting-suit of the Aroostook, which she 
had put on for convenience in taking care of her 
aunt. " Isn 't it too ridiculous ? " Mrs. Erwin 
 
meant to praise the coincidence, not to blame the 
dress. Lydia smiled faintly for answer, and the 
next moment she stood at the parlor door. 
Staniford, at her entrance, turned from looking 
out of the window and saw her as in his dream, with 
her hand behind her, pushing the door to ; but the 
face with which she looked at him was not like the 
dead, sad face of his dream. It was thrillingly 
alive, and all passions were blent in it, — love, 
doubt, reproach, indignation ; the tears stood in 
her eyes, but a fire burnt through the tears. With 
his first headlong impulse to console, explain, de- 
plore, came a thought that struck him silent at 
sight of her. He remembered, as he had not till 
then remembered, in all his wild longing and fear- 
ing, that there had not yet been anything explicit 
between them ; that there was no engagement ; and 
that he had upon the face of things, at least, no 
right to offer her more than some formal expres- 
sion of regret for not having been able to keep his 
promise to come sooner. While this stupefying 
thought gradually filled his whole sense to the ex- 
clusion of all else, he- stood looking at her with 
a dumb and helpless appeal, utterly stunned and 
wretched. He felt the life die out of his face and 
leave it blank, and when at last she spoke, he knew 
that it was in pity of him, or contempt of him. 
u Mrs. Erwin is not well," she said, "and she 
wished me " — 
But he broke in upon her : " Oh, don't talk to 
 
me of Mrs. Envin ! It was you I wanted to see. 
Are you well ? Are you alive ? Do you " — He 
stopped as precipitately as he began ; and after an- 
other hopeless pause, he went on piteously : "I 
don't know where to begin. I ought to have been 
here five days ago. I don't know what you think 
of me, or whether you have thought of me at all ; 
and before I can ask I must tell you why I wanted 
to come then, and why I come now, and why I 
think I must have come back from the dead to see 
you. You are all the world to me, and have been 
ever since I saw you. It seems a ridiculously un- 
necessary thing to say, I have been looking and 
acting and living it so long ; but I say it, because I 
choose to have you know it, whether you ever 
cared for me or not. I thought I was coming here 
to explain why I had not come sooner, but I need 
n't do that unless — unless " — He looked at her 
where she still stood aloof, and he added : " Oh, 
answer me something, for pity's sake ! Don't send 
me away without a word. There have been times 
when you wouldn 't have done that ! " 
" Oh, I did care for you ! " she broke out. " You 
know I did " — 
He was instantly across the room, beside her. 
" Yes, yes, I know it ! " But she shrank away. 
" You tried to make me believe you cared for 
me, by everything you could do. And I did be- 
lieve you then ; and yes, I believed you afterwards, 
when I didn 't know what to believe. You were 
 
the one true thing in the world to me. But it 
seems that you didn 't believe it yourself." 
" That I didn 't believe it myself ? That I — I 
don't know what you mean." 
" You took a week to think it over ! I have 
had a week, too, and I have thought it over, too. 
You have come too late." 
"Too late? You don't, you can't, mean — 
Listen to me, Lydia ; I want to tell you " — 
"No, there is nothing you can tell me that would 
change me. I know it, I understand it all." 
" But you don't understand what kept me." 
" I don't wish to know what made you break 
your word. I don't care to know. I couldn 't go 
back and feel as I did to you. Oh, that 's gone I 
It isn 't that you did not come — that you made 
me wait and surfer ; but you knew how it would 
be with me after I got here, and all the things I 
should find out, and how I should feel ! And you 
stayed away ! I don't know whether I can forgive 
you, even ; oh, I 'm afraid I don't ; but I can never 
care for you again. Nothing but a case of life and 
death " — 
"It was a case of life and death ! " 
Lydia stopped in her reproaches, and looked at 
him with wistful doubt, changing to a tender fear. 
" Oh, have you been hurt ? Have you been 
sick ? " she pleaded, in a breaking voice, and made 
some unconscious movement toward him. He put 
out his hand, and would have caught one of hers, 
but she clasped them in each other. 
" No, not I, — Dunham " — 
" Oh ! " said Lydia, as if this were not at all 
enough. 
" He fell and struck his head, the night you left. 
I thought he would die." Staniford reported his 
own diagnosis, not the doctor's ; but he was per- 
haps in the right to do this. " I had made him go 
down to the wharf with me ; I wanted to see you 
again, before you started, and I thought we might 
find you on the boat." He could see her face re- 
lenting ; her hands released each other. " He was 
delirious till yesterday. I couldn 't leave him." 
" Oh, why didn 't you write to me ? " She ig- 
nored Dunham as completely as if he had never 
lived. "You knew that I" — Her voice died 
away, and her breast rose. 
"I did write" — 
" But how, — I never got it." 
" No, — it was not posted, through a cruel blun- 
der. And then I thought — I got to thinking that 
you didn 't care " — 
" Oh," said the girl. " Could you doubt me?" 
" You doubted me," said Staniford, seizing his 
advantage. " I brought the letter with me to 
prove my truth." She did not look at him, but she 
took the letter, and ran it greedily into her pocket. 
" It 's well I did so, since you don't believe my 
word." 
" Oh, yes, — yes, I know it," she said ; " I never 
doubted it ! " Staniford stood bemazed, though he 
 
knew enough to take the hands she yielded him ; 
but she suddenly caught them away again, and set 
them against his breast. " I was very wrong to 
suspect you ever ; I 'm sorry I did ; but there 's 
something else. I don't know how to say what I 
want to say. But it must be said." 
" Is it something disagreeable ? " asked Staniford, 
lightly. 
"It 's right," answered Lydia, unsmilingly. 
" Oh, well, don't say it ! " he pleaded ; " or don't 
say it now, — not till you 've forgiven me for the 
anxiety I 've caused you ; not till you 've praised 
me for trying to do what I thought the right thing. 
You can't imagine how hard it was for one who 
hasn 't the habit ! " 
" I do praise you for it. There 's nothing to for- 
give you ; but I can't let you care for me unless I 
know — unless " — She stopped, and then, " Mr. 
Staniford," she began firmly, "since I came here, 
I've been learning things that I didn't know be- 
fore. They have changed the whole world to me, 
and it can never be the same again." 
" I 'm sorry for that ; but if they haven 't 
changed you, the world may go." 
" No, not if we 're to live in it," answered the 
girl, with the soberer wisdom women keep at such 
times. " It will have to be known how we met. 
What will people say ? They will laugh." 
" I don't think they will in my presence," said 
Staniford, with swelling nostrils. " They may use 
their pleasure elsewhere." 
 
" And I shouldn 't care for their laughing, either,'' 
said Lydia. " But oh, why did you come ? " 
" Why did I come ? " 
" Was it because you felt bound by anything 
that 's happened, and you wouldn 't let me bear the 
laugh alone ? I 'm not afraid for myself. I shall 
never blame you. You can go perfectly free." 
" But I don't want to go free ! " 
Lydia looked at him with piercing earnestness. 
"Do you think I 'm proud ? " she asked. 
" Yes, I think you are," said Staniford, vaguely. 
" It isn 't for myself that I should be proud with 
other people. But I would rather die than bring 
ridicule upon one I — upon you." 
"I can believe that," said Staniford, devoutly, 
and patiently reverencing the delay of her scru- 
ples. 
" And if — and" — Her lips trembled, but she 
steadied her trembling voice. " If they laughed at 
you, and thought of me in a slighting way because " 
— Staniford gave a sort of roar of grief and pain 
to know how her heart must have been wrung be- 
fore she could come to this. " You were all so good 
that you didn 't let me think there was anything 
strange about it " — 
" Oh, good heavens ! We only did what it was 
our precious and sacred privilege to do ! We were 
all of one mind about it from the first. But don't 
torture yourself about it, my darling. It's over 
now ; it 's past — no, it 's present, and it will al- 
 
ways be, forever, the dearest and best thing in life. 
Lydia, do you believe that I love you ? " 
" Oh, I must ! " 
" And don't you believe that I 'm telling you the 
truth when I say that I would n't, for all the world 
can give or take, change anything that 's been ? " 
" Yes, I do believe you. Oh, I haven 't said at 
all what I wanted to say ! There was a great deal 
that I ought to say. I can't seem to recollect it." 
He smiled to see her grieving at this recreance of 
her memory to her conscience. " Well, you shall 
have a whole lifetime to recall it in." 
" No, I must try to speak now. And you must 
tell me the truth now, — no matter what it costs 
either of us." She laid her hands upon his ex- 
tended arms, and grasped them intensely. " There 's 
something else. I want to ask you what you 
thought when you found me alone on that ship with 
all of you." If she had stopped at this point, Stan- 
iford's cause might have been lost, but she went on : 
" I want to know whether you were ever ashamed 
of me, or despised me for it ; whether you ever felt 
that because I was helpless and friendless there, 
you had the right to think less of me than if you 
had first met me here in this house." 
It was still a terrible question, but it offered a 
loop-hole of escape, which Staniford was swift to 
seize. Let those who will justify the answer with 
which he smiled into her solemn eyes : " I will leave 
you to say." A generous uncandor like this goes as 
 
far with a magnanimous and serious-hearted woman 
as perhaps anything else. 
" Oh, I knew it, I knew it ! " cried Lydia. And 
then, as he caught her to him at last, " Oh — oh — 
are you sure it 's right? " 
"I have no doubt of it," answered Staniford. 
Nor had he any question of the strategy through 
which he had triumphed in this crucial test. He 
may have thought that there were always explana- 
tions that had to be made afterwards, or he may 
have believed that he had expiated in what he had 
done and suffered for her any slight which he had 
felt ; possibly, he considered that she had asked 
more than she had a right to do. It is certain that 
he said with every appearance of sincerity, " It be- 
gan the moment I saw you on the wharf, there, and 
when I came to know my mind I kept it from you 
only till I could tell you here. But now I wish I 
hadn 't ! Life is too short for such a week as this." 
"No," said Lydia, " you acted for the best, and 
you are — good." 
"I'll keep that praise till I 've earned it," an- 
swered Staniford. 
XXVII. 
Lsr the Campo Santi Apostoli at Venice there 
stands, a little apart from the church of that name, 
a chapel which has been for many years the place 
of worship for the Lutheran congregation. It was 
in this church that Stamford and Lydia were mar- 
ried six weeks later, before the altar under Titian's 
beautiful picture of Christ breaking bread. 
The wedding was private, but it was not quite a 
family affair. Miss Hibbard had come down with 
her mother from Dresden, to complete Dunham's 
cure, and she was there with him perfectly recov- 
ered ; he was not quite content, of course, that the 
marriage should not take place in the English chap- 
el, but he was largely consoled by the candles burn- 
ing on the altar. The Aroostook had been delayed 
