a pair in his life.
"I will give you a pair of mine. Probably there is little difference in
the size of our hands."
This proved to be true.
Somehow Frank in his new life seemed always running across Victor
Dupont. That young gentleman and his sister sat in the row behind Mrs.
Vivian and her youthful escort, but did not immediately become aware of
it.
"Why, Victor," said his sister, who had been looking about her, "there
is Mrs. Vivian in the next row. Who is that nice-looking boy with her?
It can't be Fred, for he is larger."
Victor turned his glance in the direction of Mrs. Vivian. His surprise
and disgust were about equal when he saw the country-boy he had looked
down upon, faultlessly attired, with neat-fitting gloves, and a rose in
his button-hole and looking like a gentleman.
"I never saw such cheek!" he exclaimed, in disgust.
"What do you mean, Victor?" asked his sister, looking puzzled.
"Do you want to know who that boy is with Mrs. Vivian?"
"Yes; he is very nice-looking."
"Then you can marry him if you like. That boy is a telegraph messenger.
I used to know him in the country. A few weeks ago he was selling papers
in front of the Astor House."
"You don't say so!" ejaculated Flora Dupont, "Aren't you mistaken?"
"I guess not. I know him as well as I know you."
"He is a good-looking boy, at any rate," said Flora, who was less
snobbish than her brother.
"I can't see it," said Victor, annoyed. "He looks to me very common and
vulgar. I don't see how Mrs. Vivian can be willing to appear with him at
a fashionable theatre like this."
"It's a pity he is a telegraph boy, he is so nice-looking."
Just then Frank, turning, recognized Victor and bowed. Victor could not
afford not to recognize Mrs. Vivian's escort, and bowed in return.
But Victor was not the only one of Frank's acquaintances who recognized
him that evening. In the upper gallery sat Dick Rafferty and Micky Shea,
late fellow-boarders at the lodging-house. It was not often that these
young gentlemen patronized Wallack's, for even a gallery ticket there
was high-priced; but both wanted to see the popular play of "Ours," and
had managed to scrape together fifty cents each.
"Dick," said Micky, suddenly, "there's Frank Kavanagh down near the
stage, in an orchestra seat."
"So he is," said Dick. "Aint he dressed splendid though, wid kid gloves
on and a flower in his button-hole, and an elegant lady beside him? See,
she's whisperin' to him now. Who'd think he used to kape company wid the
likes of us?"
"Frank's up in the world. He's a reg'lar swell now."
"And it's I that am glad of it. He's a good fellow, Frank is, and he
won't turn his back on us."
This was proved later in the evening, for, as Frank left the theatre
with Mrs. Vivian, he espied his two old friends standing outside, and
bowed with a pleasant smile, much to the gratification of the two street
boys, who were disposed to look upon their old friend as one of the
aristocracy.
CHAPTER XVI.
FRANK AS A DETECTIVE.
Of course Frank's daily duties were far the most part of a commonplace
character. They were more varied, to be sure, than those of an
errand-boy, or shop-boy, but even a telegraph messenger does not have an
adventure every day. Twice in the next three weeks our hero was summoned
by Mrs. Leroy to give her pet dog an airing. It was not hard work, but
Frank did not fancy it, though he never failed to receive a handsome fee
from the mistress of Fido.
One day Frank was summoned to a fashionable boarding-house in a side
street above the Fifth-avenue hotel. On presenting himself, the servant
said, "It's one of the boarders wants you. Stay here, and I'll let him
know you've come."
"All right!" said Frank.
"Come right up," said the girl, directly after, speaking from the upper
landing.
Frank ascended the stairs, and entered a room on the second floor. A
gentleman, partially bald, with a rim of red hair around the bare
central spot, sat in a chair by the window, reading a morning paper.
"So you're the telegraph boy, are you?" he said.
"Yes, sir."
"You are honest, eh?"
"I hope so, sir."
"Because I am going to trust you with a considerable sum of money."
"It will be safe, sir."
"I want you to do some shopping for me. Are you ever employed in that
way?"
"I was once, sir."
"Let me see,--I want some linen handkerchiefs and some collars. Are you
a judge of those articles?"
"Not particularly."
"However, I suppose you know a collar from a pair of cuffs, and a
handkerchief from a towel," said the stranger, petulantly.
"I rather think I can tell them apart," said Frank.
"Now let me see how many I want," said the stranger, reflectively. "I
think half-a-dozen handkerchiefs will do."
"How high shall I go?" asked Frank.
"You ought to get them for fifty cents apiece, I should think."
"Yes, sir, I can get them for that."
"And the collars--well, half-a-dozen will do. Get them of good quality,
size 15, and pay whatever is asked."
"Yes, sir; do you want anything more?"
"I think not, this morning. I have a headache, or I would go out
myself," explained the stranger. "I live up the Hudson, and I must go
home this afternoon by the boat."
"Do you want me to buy the articles at any particular store?" inquired
Frank.
"No; I leave that to your judgment. A large store is likely to have a
better assortment, I suppose."
"Very well, sir."
"Come back as soon as you can, that's all."
"You haven't given me the money yet, sir," said Frank.
"Oh, I beg pardon! That is an important omission."
The stranger drew out a pocket-book, which appeared to be well filled,
and extracted two bills of twenty dollars each, which he passed to
Frank.
"This is too much, sir," said the telegraph boy. "One of these bills
will be much more than sufficient."
"Never mind. I should like to have them both changed. You can buy the
articles at different places, as this will give you a chance to get
change for both."
"I can get them changed at a bank, sir."
"No," said the stranger, hastily, "I would rather you would pay them for
goods. Shopkeepers are bound to change bills for a customer."
"I don't see what difference it makes to you as long as they are
changed," thought Frank. However it was not his business to question his
employer's decision.
Sixth avenue was not far distant, and as Frank was left to his own
choice he betook himself hither on his shopping tour. Entering a large
retail store, he inquired for gentleman's linen handkerchiefs.
"Large or small?" asked the girl in attendance.
"Large, I should think."
He was shown some of good quality, at fifty cents.
"I think they will do," said Frank, after examination. "I will take
half-a-dozen."
So saying he drew out one of the twenty-dollar bills.
"Cash!" called the saleswoman, tapping on the counter with her pencil.
Several small boys were flitting about the store in the service of
customers. One of them made his appearance.
"Have you nothing smaller?" asked the girl, noticing the denomination of
the bill.
"No," answered Frank.
She put the bill between the leaves of a small blank book, and handed
both that and the goods to the boy.
Frank sat down on a stool by the counter to wait.
Presently the cash-boy came back, and the proprietor of the store with
him. He was a portly man, with a loud voice and an air of authority. To
him the cash-boy pointed out Frank.
"Are you the purchaser of these handkerchiefs?" he asked.
"Yes, sir," answered Frank, rather surprised at the question.
"And did you offer this twenty-dollar bill in payment?"
"Yes, sir."
"Where did you get it? Think well," said the trader, sternly.
"What is the matter? Isn't the bill a good one?" asked Frank.
"You have not answered my question. However, I will answer yours. The
bill is a counterfeit."
Frank looked surprised, and he understood at a flash why he had been
trusted with two of these bills when one would answer.
"I have nothing to do with that," said the telegraph boy. "I was sent
out to buy some articles, and this money was given me to pay for them."
"Have you got any other money of this description?" asked the trader,
suspiciously.
"Yes," answered Frank, readily. "I have another twenty."
"Let me see it."
"Certainly. I should like to know whether that is bad too."
The other twenty proved to be a fac-simile of the first.
"I must know where you got this money," said the merchant. "You may be
in the service of counterfeiters."
"You might know, from my uniform, that I am not," said Frank,
indignantly. "I once lost a place because I would not pass counterfeit
money."
"I have a detective here. You must lead him to the man who supplied you
with the money."
"I am quite willing to do it," said our hero. "He wanted to make a tool
of me. If I can put him into the hands of the law, I will."
"That boy is all right," said a gentleman standing by. "The rogue was
quite ingenious in trying to work off his bad money through a telegraph
messenger."
"What is the appearance of this man?" asked the detective as they walked
along.
"Rather a reddish face, and partly bald."
"What is the color of the hair he has?"
"Red."
"Very good. It ought to be easy to know him by that description."
"I should know him at once," said Frank, promptly.
"If he has not changed his appearance. It is easy to do that, and these
fellows understand it well."
Reaching the house, Frank rang the bell, the detective sauntering along
on the opposite side of the street.
"Is Mr. Stanley at home?" asked Frank.
"I will see."
The girl came down directly, with the information that Mr. Stanley had
gone out.
"That is queer," said Frank. "He told me to come right back. He said he
had a headache, too, and did not want to go out."
As he spoke, his glance rested on a man who was lounging at the corner.
This man had black hair, and a full black beard. By chance, Frank's eye
fell upon his right hand, and with a start he recognized a large ring
with a sparkling diamond, real or imitation. This ring he had last seen
on Mr. Stanley's hand. He crossed the street in a quiet, indifferent
manner, and imparted his suspicions to the detective.
"Good!" said the latter; "you are a smart boy."
He approached the man alluded to, who, confident in his disguise, did
not budge, and, placing his hand on his shoulder, said, "Mr. Stanley, I
believe."
"You are mistaken," said the man, shrugging his shoulders in a
nonchalant way, with a foreign accent, "I am M. Lavalette. I do not know
your M. Stanley."
"I am afraid you are forgetful, monsieur. I beg pardon, but do you wear
a wig?" and with a quick movement he removed the stranger's hat, and,
dislodging his black wig, displayed the rim of red hair.
"This is an outrage!" said the rogue, angrily; "I will have you
arrested, monsieur."
"I will give you a chance, for here is an officer," said the detective.
"I give this man in charge for passing counterfeit money," said the
detective. "The next time, Mr. Stanley, don't select so smart a
telegraph boy. He recognized you, in spite of your disguise, by the ring
upon your finger."
The rogue angrily drew the ring from his finger, and threw it on the
sidewalk.
"Curse the ring!" he said. "It has betrayed me."
It only remains to add that Stanley was convicted through Frank's
testimony. He proved to be an old offender, and the chief of a gang of
counterfeiters.
CHAPTER XVII.
FRANK MEETS AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.
Frank was more fortunate than the generality of the telegraph boys in
obtaining fees from those who employed him. He was not allowed to
solicit gifts, but was at liberty to accept them when offered. In one
way or another he found his weekly receipts came to about seven dollars.
Out of this sum he would have been able to save money, even if he had
been obliged to pay all his expenses, that is by the exercise of strict
economy. But, as we know, he was at no expense for room or board, with
the exception of a light lunch in the middle of the day. Making a little
calculation, he found that he could save about four dollars a week. As
it had only been proposed to him to stay at Mrs. Vivian's while Fred was
in the country, it seemed prudent to Frank to "make hay while the sun
shone," and save up a little fund from which he could hereafter draw, in
case it were necessary.
So when he had saved ten dollars he presented himself at the counter of
the Dime Savings-Bank, then located in Canal street, and deposited it,
receiving a bank-book, which he regarded with great pride.
"I begin to feel like a capitalist," he said to himself. "I am rather
better off now than I was when I led round old Mills, the blind man. I
wonder how he is getting along."
As Frank entered Broadway from Canal street, by a strange coincidence he
caught sight of the man of whom he had been thinking. Mills, with the
same querulous, irritable expression he knew well, was making his way up
Broadway, led by a boy younger than Frank.
"Pity a poor blind man!" he muttered from time to time in a whining
voice.
"Look out, you young rascal, or you will have me off the sidewalk,"
Frank heard the blind man say; "I'll have a reckoning with you when I
get home."
The boy, who was pale and slight, looked frightened.
"I couldn't help it, Mr. Mills," he said. "It was the crowd."
"You are getting careless, that's what's the matter," said Mills,
harshly. "You are looking in at the shop windows, and neglect me."
"No, I am not," said the boy, in meek remonstrance.
"Don't you contradict me!" exclaimed the blind man, grasping his stick
significantly. "Pity a poor blind man!"
"What an old brute he is!" thought Frank; "I will speak to him."
"How do you do, Mr. Mills?" he said, halting before the blind man.
"Who are you?" demanded Mills, quickly.
"You ought to know me; I am Frank Kavanagh, who used to go round with
you."
"I have had so many boys--most of them good for nothing--that I don't
remember you."
"I am the boy who wouldn't pass counterfeit money for you."
"Hush!" said the blind man apprehensively, lest some one should hear
Frank. "There was some mistake about that. I remember you now. Do you
want to come back? This boy doesn't attend to his business."
Frank laughed. Situated as he was now, the proposal seemed to him an
excellent joke, and he was disposed to treat it as such.
"Why, the fact is, Mr. Mills, you fed me on such rich food that I
shouldn't dare to go back for fear of dyspepsia."
"Or starvation," he added to himself.
"I live better now," said Mills. "I haven't had any boy since, that
suited me as well as you."
"Thank you; but I am afraid it would be a long time before I got rich on
the wages you would give me."
"I'll give you fifty cents a week," said Mills, "and more if I do well.
You can come to-day, if you like."
"You are very kind, but I am doing better than that," said Frank.
"What are you doing,--selling papers?"
"No; I have given that up. I am a telegraph boy."
"How much do you make?"
"Seven dollars last week."
"Why, you will be rich," said the blind man, enviously. "I don't think I
get as much as that myself, and I have to pay a boy out of it."
His poor guide did not have the appearance of being very liberally paid.
"Then you won't come back?" said Mills, querulously.
"No, I guess not."
"Come along, boy!" said Mills, roughly, to his little guide. "Are you
going to keep me here all day?"
"I thought you wanted to speak to this boy."
"Well, I have got through. He has deserted me. It is the way of the
world. There's nobody to pity the poor, blind man."
"Here's five cents for old acquaintance' sake. Mr. Mills," said Frank,
dropping a nickel into the hand of the boy who was guiding him.
"Thank you! May you never know what it is to be blind!" said Mills, in
his professional tone.
"If I am, I hope I can see as well as you," thought Frank. "What a
precious old humbug he is, and how I pity that poor boy! If I had a
chance I would give him something to save him from starvation."
Frank walked on, quite elated at the change in his circumstances which
allowed him to give money in charity to the person who had once been his
employer. He would have given it more cheerfully if in his estimation
the man had been more worthy.
Frank's errand took him up Broadway. He had two or three stops to make,
which made it inconvenient for him to ride. A little way in front of him
he saw a boy of fourteen, whom he recognized as an errand-boy, and a
former fellow-lodger at the Newsboy's Lodging-House. He was about to
hurry forward and join John Riley,--for this was the boy's name,--when
his attention was attracted, and his suspicions aroused, by a man who
accosted John. He was a man of about thirty, rather showily dressed,
with a gold chain dangling from his vest.
"Johnny," he said, addressing the errand-boy "do you want to earn ten
cents?"
"I should like to," answered the boy, "but I am going on an errand, and
can't spare the time."
"It won't take five minutes," said the young man. "It is only to take
this note up to Mr. Conant's room, on the fourth floor of this
building."
They were standing in front of a high building occupied as offices.
The boy hesitated.
"Is there an answer?" he asked.
"No; you can come right down as soon as the letter is delivered."
"I suppose I could spare the time for that," said John Riley.
"Of course you can. It won't take you two minutes. Here is the ten
cents. I'll hold your bundle for you while you run up."
"All right!" said the errand-boy, and, suspecting nothing, he
surrendered his parcel, and taking the note and the dime, ran upstairs.
No sooner was he out of sight than the young man began to walk off
rapidly with the bundle. It was an old trick, that has been many times
played upon unsuspecting boys, and will continue to be played as long as
there are knavish adventurers who prefer dishonest methods of getting a
living to honest industry.
In this case, however, the rogue was destined to disappointment. It may
be stated that he had been present in the dry-goods store from which the
parcel came, and, knowing that the contents were valuable, had followed
the boy.
No sooner did Frank understand the fellow's purpose than he pursued him,
and seized him by the arm.
"What do you want of me?" demanded the rogue, roughly. "I am in a hurry
and can't be detained."
"I want you to give me that bundle which you are trying to steal from my
friend, John Riley."
The rogue's countenance changed.
"What do you mean?" he demanded, to gain time.
"I mean that I heard your conversation with him, and I know your game.
Come back, or I will call a policeman."
The young man was sharp enough to see that he must give up his purpose.
"There, take the bundle," he said, tossing it into Frank's arms. "I was
only going for a cigar; I should have brought it back."
When John Riley came downstairs, with the letter in his hand,--for he
had been unable to find any man named Conant in the building,--he found
Frank waiting with the parcel.
"Holloa, Frank! Where's that man that sent me upstairs? I can't find Mr.
Conant."
"Of course you can't. There's no such man in the building. That man was
a thief; but for me he would have carried off your bundle."
"What a fool I was!" said the errand-boy. "I won't let myself be fooled
again."
"Don't give up a bundle to a stranger again," said Frank. "I'm only a
country boy, but I don't allow myself to be swindled as easily as you."
"I wish that chap would come here again," said Johnny, indignantly. "But
I've come out best, after all," he added, brightening up. "I've made ten
cents out of him."
CHAPTER XVIII.
A RICH WOMAN'S SORROW.
One day Frank was summoned to a handsome residence on Madison avenue.
"Sit down in the parlor," said the servant "and I will call Mrs.
Graham."
As Frank looked around him, and noted the evidences of wealth in the
elegant furniture and rich ornaments profusely scattered about, he
thought, "How rich Mrs. Graham must be! I suppose she is very happy. I
should be if I could buy everything I wanted."
It was a boy's thought, and betrayed our hero's inexperience. Even
unlimited means are not sure to produce happiness, nor do handsome
surroundings prove wealth.
Five minutes later an elderly lady entered the room. She was richly
dressed, but her face wore a look of care and sorrow.
As she entered, Frank rose with instinctive politeness, and bowed.
"You are the telegraph boy," said the lady, inquiringly.
"Yes, ma'am."
Mrs. Graham looked at him earnestly, as if to read his character.
"I have sent for you," she said, at length, "to help me in a matter of
some delicacy, and shall expect you not to speak of it, even to your
employers."
"They never question me," said Frank, promptly. "You may rely upon my
secrecy."
Frank's statement was correct. The business entrusted to telegraph
messengers is understood to be of a confidential nature, and they are
instructed to guard the secrets of those who make use of their services.
"I find it necessary to raise some money," continued the lady,
apparently satisfied, "and am not at liberty, for special reasons, to
call upon my husband for it. I have a diamond ring of considerable
value, which I should like to have you carry, either to a jeweller or a
pawnbroker, and secure what advance you can upon it."
"And I believed she had plenty of money," thought Frank, wondering.
"I will do the best I can for you, madam," said our hero.
Mrs. Graham drew from her pocket a small box, containing a diamond ring,
which sparkled brilliantly in the sunshine.
"It is beautiful," said Frank, admiringly.
"Yes, it cost originally eight hundred dollars," said the lady.
"Eight hundred dollars!" echoed Frank, in wonder. He had heard of
diamond rings, and knew they were valuable, but had no idea they were so
valuable as that.
"How much do you expect to get on it?" he asked.
"Nothing near its value, of course, nor is that necessary. Two hundred
dollars will be as much as I care to use, and at that rate I shall be
able the sooner to redeem it. I believe I will tell you why I want the
money."
"Not unless you think it best," said Frank.
"It is best, for I shall again require your services in disposing of the
money."
The lady sat down on the sofa beside Frank, and told him the story which
follows:--
"I have two children," she said, "a daughter and a son. The son has
recently graduated from college, and is now travelling in Europe. My
daughter is now twenty-six years of age. She was beautiful, and our
social position was such that my husband, who is a proud man,
confidently anticipated that she would make a brilliant match. But at
the age of nineteen Ellen fell in love with a clerk in my husband's
employ. He was a young man of good appearance and character, and nothing
could be said against him except that he was poor. This, however, was
more than enough in Mr. Graham's eyes. When Lawrence Brent asked for the
hand of our daughter, my husband drove him from the house with insult,
and immediately discharged him from his employ. Ellen was high-spirited,
and resented this treatment of the man she loved. He soon obtained a
place quite as good as the one he had lost, and one day Ellen left the
house and married him. She wrote to us, excusing her action, and I would
gladly have forgiven her; but her father was obdurate. He forbade my
mentioning her name to him, and from that day to this he has never
referred to her.
"I am now coming to the business in which you are to help me. For years
my son-in-law was able to support his wife comfortably, and also the two
children which in time came to them. But, a year since, he became sick,
and his sickness lasted till he had spent all his savings. Now he and
his poor family are living in wretched lodgings, and are in need of the
common necessaries of life. It is for them I intend the money which I
can secure upon this ring."
Frank could not listen without having his sympathies aroused.
"I shall be still more glad to help you," he said, "now that I know how
the money is to be used."
"Thank you," said the lady. "You are a good boy, and I see that I can
trust you implicitly."
She handed Frank the box, enjoining upon him to be careful not to lose
it.
"It is so small that it might easily slip from your pocket," she said.
"I shall take the best care of it," said Frank. "Where would you advise
me to go first?"
"I hardly know. If I wished to sell it I would carry it to Tiffany; but
it was purchased there, and it might in that case come to my husband's
ears. There is a pawnbroker, named Simpson, who, I hear, is one of the
best of his class. You may go there first."
"How much shall I say you want on it?" asked Frank.
"Don't mention my name at all," said the lady, hastily.
"I suppose I shall have to give some name," said Frank, "in order that
the ticket may be made out."
"What is your own name?"
"Frank Kavanagh."
"Have you a mother living?"
"No," said Frank, gravely.
"Then let the ticket be made out in your name."
"If you wish it."
"Shall I bring the money to you, Mrs. Graham?"
"No; my husband might be at home, and it would arouse his suspicions. At
twelve o'clock I will meet you at Madison Park, at the corner opposite
the Union League Club House. You can then report to me your success."
"Very well," said Frank.
He went at once to the pawnbroker mentioned by Mrs. Graham. But for his
uniform he would have been questioned closely as to how he came by the
ring; but telegraph boys are so often employed on similar errands that
the pawnbroker showed no surprise. After a careful examination he agreed
to advance two hundred dollars, and gave Frank the money and the ticket.
When Frank gave his own name, he said, "That is your name, is it not?"
"Yes, sir."
"But the ring does not belong to you?"
"No; it belongs to a lady who does not wish her name known."
"It is all the same to us."
"That was easily done," thought Frank. "Now I must go and meet Mrs.
Graham."
"Have you got the money?" asked Mrs. Graham, anxiously, as Frank made
his appearance.
"Yes," replied Frank.
"How much?"
"The amount you asked for."
"That is well. Now I shall be able to relieve my poor daughter. I cannot
bear to think of her and her poor children suffering for the lack of
bread, while I am living in luxury. I wish Mr. Graham was not so
unforgiving."
"Will you take the money now?" asked Frank.
"I wish you to take fifty dollars to my daughter."
"I will do so with pleasure. What is her address?"
Mrs. Graham drew out a card, on which she had pencilled her daughter's
address. It proved to be a tenement-house on the east side of the city,
not far from Fourteenth street.
"I wish I could go myself," said Mrs. Graham, sadly; "but I do not dare
to do so at present. Give Ellen this money, with my best love; and say
to her that a month hence I will again send her the same sum. Tell her
to keep up good courage. Brighter days may be in store."
"I will be sure to remember," said Frank, in a tone of sympathy.
The errand was to his taste; for he was about to carry help and comfort
to those who needed both.
CHAPTER XIX.
A MESSENGER OF GOOD TIDINGS.
There stands a large tenement-house on East Fourteenth street, five
stories in height, and with several entrances. Scores of barefooted and
scantily attired children play in the halls or on the sidewalk in front,
and the great building is a human hive, holding scores of families. Some
of them, unaccustomed to live better, are tolerably content with their
squalid and contracted accommodations; but a few, reduced by gradual
steps from respectability and comfort, find their positions very hard to
bear.
On the third floor three small rooms were occupied by Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Morgan, and their two children. She was the daughter of Mrs.
Graham, and had been reared in affluence. How she had incurred her
father's displeasure has already been told. He had been taken sick some
months before, his little stock of money had melted away, and now he was
unable even to pay the small expenses of life in a tenement-house.
Just before Frank made his appearance there was sadness in the little
household.
"How much money is there left, Ellen?" asked Robert Morgan.
"Seventy-five cents," she answered, in a tone which she tried to make
cheerful.
"And our week's rent will become due to-morrow."
"I may hear from mother," suggested Mrs. Morgan.
"If you don't, I don't know what will become of us all. We shall be
thrust into the street. Even this squalid home will be taken from us."
"Don't get discouraged, Robert."
"Isn't there enough to make me despondent, Ellen? I can see now that I
did very wrong to marry you."
"Do you regret our marriage, then, Robert?" asked his wife.
"Only because it has brought you poverty and discomfort."
"I have not yet regretted it."
"How different a position you would have occupied if I had not dragged
you down! You would still be living in luxury."
"I should not have you and these dear children."
"And will they compensate you for what has come upon you?"
"Yes," she answered, emphatically.
"You have more philosophy than I have, Ellen."
"More trust, perhaps. Do you know, Robert, I think we are on the eve of
good fortune?"
"I hope so, but I see no prospects of it."
Just then there was a knock at the door.
Thinking that it might be some humble neighbor, on a borrowing
expedition, Mrs. Morgan opened the door. Before her stood our hero in
his uniform.
"Is this Mrs. Robert Morgan?" asked Frank.
"Yes," she answered.
"I come from your mother."
"From my mother? Robert, do you hear that?" said the poor woman, in a
voice of gladness. "Here is a messenger from my mother. Didn't I tell
you there was good luck in store for us?"
Mr. Morgan did not answer. He waited anxiously to hear what Frank had to
communicate.
"Your mother sends you her love, and fifty dollars," continued Frank.
"She hopes to call soon herself."
"Fifty dollars!" exclaimed Ellen Morgan, in delight. "It is a fortune."
"Thank Heaven!" ejaculated her husband, in great relief.
"A month hence you may expect a similar sum," said Frank. "I suppose I
shall bring it. Shall I find you here?"
Ellen Morgan looked at her husband.
"No," said he. "Let us get out of this neighborhood as soon as possible.
Can't you find a respectable place to-day?"
"Yes," said his wife. "I shall be glad to move. I saw some neat rooms on
West Twentieth street on Monday. They will cost us but little more, and
will suit us better."
"I will send my mother my new address," she said to Frank.
"Then you may send it under cover to me, and I will see that she gets it
privately," said Frank, who had received instructions to that effect
from Mrs. Graham.
When Frank had left the room the little household seemed quite
transformed. Hope had entered, and all looked more cheerful.
"We are provided for, for two months, Robert," said his wife. "Is not
that a piece of good luck?"
"Yes, indeed it is," he answered heartily. "Before that time I can get
to work again, and with health and employment I shall not need to ask
favors of any one."
"I wish father were as forgiving as mother," said Ellen Morgan.
"Your father is a hard man. He will never forgive you for marrying a
poor man. He would punish you by starvation."
"He is very proud," said Mrs. Morgan. "I was an only daughter, you know,
and he had set his heart upon my making a brilliant marriage."
"As you might have done."
"As I did not care to do. I preferred to make a happy marriage with the
man of my choice."
"You are a good wife, Ellen."
"I hope you will always find me so, Robert."
"I should have sunk utterly if you had been like some women."
In the afternoon Mrs. Morgan went out, taking one of her children with
her. She went to the rooms on West Twentieth street, and, finding them
still vacant, secured them, paying a month's rent in advance, as her
mother's timely gift enabled her to do. Before the next evening they
were installed in their new home, and Mrs. Morgan sent a note to her
mother, under cover to Frank, apprising her of the removal.
Two days later Frank received a summons to the house on Madison avenue.
He obeyed, thinking he should probably be sent with some message to Mrs.
Morgan.
He found Mrs. Graham in a state of nervous excitement.
"My husband has been stricken with paralysis," she said. "It is terribly
sudden. He went out yesterday, apparently in vigorous health. He was
brought home pale and helpless."
"Can I do anything for him or you?" asked Frank.
"Yes; you can go at once to my daughter, and summon her to her father's
bedside."
Frank was surprised, remembering how obdurate Mrs. Graham had described
her husband to be.
"You look surprised," she said; "but sickness often produces a great
change in us. My husband's pride has given way. His affection has
returned; and it is at his request that I send for Ellen."
Frank had come to feel a personal interest in the family, and he gladly
set out for the modest home in West Twentieth street. He felt that it
was pleasant to be a messenger of reconciliation.
Mrs. Morgan recognized him at once, and received him cordially.
"Do you come from my mother?" she asked.
"Yes. She wishes you to come home at once."
"But--my father."
"Your father is very sick; and he joins in the request."
"It has come at last,--the time I have looked forward to for so long,"
said Ellen Morgan, clasping her hands. "Robert, do you feel equal to
looking after the children while I am gone?"
"Yes, Ellen. Go at once. God grant that your father's heart may be
softened, for your sake. For myself I am content to live in poverty; but
I don't like to see you suffer."
"What is the matter with father? Did my mother tell you?"
Frank explained, and thus gave her fresh cause for anxiety.
On reaching her father's chamber she was shocked by his changed
appearance; but her heart was gladdened by the wan smile that lighted
up his face, assuring her that she was welcome. From the doctor she
received the assurance that her father was in no immediate danger.
Indeed, he expressed a confident hope that Mr. Graham would rally from
his present attack, and be able to go about his business again, though
caution would be required against undue excitement or fatigue.
The doctor's prediction was verified. Mr. Graham recovered; but his old
pride and obduracy did not come back. He became reconciled to his
son-in-law, and provided him a well-paid position in his own mercantile
establishment, and provided rooms in the Madison-avenue mansion for the
little family whom Frank had first visited in the squalid tenement-house
in Fourteenth street, and the glad voices of children made the house no
longer lonely.
"You must call and see us often," said Ellen Morgan to our hero. "I
shall always remember you as the messenger who brought us good tidings
at the darkest hour in our fortunes. We shall always welcome you as a
friend."
CHAPTER XX.
A NEW JOB, AND A LETTER FROM HOME.
One morning an elderly gentleman entered the office in which Frank was
employed, and sought an interview with the superintendent.
"I want a smart boy for detective work," he said. "Have you one you can
recommend?"
The superintendent cast his eyes over the line of boys, and called
Frank. Our hero's recognition of the disguised counterfeiter by his ring
had given him a reputation for shrewdness.
"I think this boy will suit you," he said. "Do you wish him to go with
you now?"
"Yes; I may want him a week."
"Very well."
Frank accompanied the gentleman into the street.
"Have you no other clothes except this uniform?" asked Mr. Hartley.
"Yes, sir."
"Then go and put them on. Then report to me at No. -- Broadway."
"All right, sir."
"It is fortunate I have a good suit," thought Frank.
He was not long in exchanging his uniform for the neat suit given him by
Mr. Bowen. Thus attired, he presented himself in Mr. Hartley's
counting-room. The merchant surveyed him with approval.
"You will enter my service as errand-boy," he said. "You will be sent to
the post-office, the bank, and on similar errands, in order not to
excite suspicion of the real object of your presence. Keep your eyes
open, and I will take an opportunity of explaining to you later what I
wish you to do."
Frank bowed.
"Mr. Haynes," said the merchant, calling a thin, sallow young man, "I
have engaged this boy as an errand-boy. Has any one been to the
post-office this morning?"
"No, sir."
"Then he will go."
Haynes regarded Frank with disfavor.
"I have a nephew who would have liked the position," he said.
"Too late now," said the merchant, curtly.
"What is your name, boy?" asked Haynes, coldly..
"Frank Kavanagh."
"How did Mr. Hartley happen to engage you?" asked the subordinate.
"A gentleman recommended me," Frank answered.
"I had already mentioned my nephew to him. I am surprised he said
nothing to me about engaging a boy."
Frank said nothing, feeling no particular interest in the matter. As he
was only filling temporarily the position of errand boy, it made little
difference to him whether he was acceptable to Mr. Haynes or not.
In the course of the day Mr. Hartley handed Frank a card, containing the
street and number of his residence, with a pencilled invitation to call
that evening.
Of course Frank did so.
Seated alone with the merchant in his back parlor, the latter said, "I
have invited you here because I could not speak with you freely at the
store. How do you like Mr. Haynes?"
Frank was surprised at the abruptness of the question.
"I don't like him," he answered, candidly.
"Why not?"
"There is no good reason that I know of," said Frank; "but I think his
manner is disagreeable."
"Our instincts are often to be trusted," said the merchant,
thoughtfully. "I confess that I myself don't like Haynes, nor do I feel
implicit confidence in him, though he has been eight years in the
service of our house. He is outwardly very circumspect, and apparently
very faithful, but there is something in his eye which I don't like."
Frank had noticed this, but Mr. Hartley's remark called fresh attention
to its furtive, crafty expression.
Frank's curiosity was aroused, naturally enough. He wondered what Mr.
Haynes had to do with his mission. He did not have long to wait for
information.
"I will come to the point," said Mr. Hartley, after a pause. "I am an
importing merchant, and deal, among other articles, in silks. During the
last year I have discovered that some one is systematically robbing me,
and that parts of my stock have been spirited away. The loss I have
sustained is already considerable, and unless the leakage is put a stop
to, I may as well give up business. You can now guess why I have engaged
you. No one will suspect an errand boy of being a detective, while a man
would very probably excite distrust, and put the rogue on his guard."
Frank listened attentively to his employer.
"Do you suspect any one in particular, Mr. Hartley?" he asked.
"It must be some one in my employ," he said. "The man who, more than any
other, has facilities for robbing me is the man of whom I have spoken to
you."
"Mr. Haynes?"
"Yes, Mr. Haynes. He holds an important position, and enjoys special
privileges. On the other hand, so far as I can learn, he lives in a
sober, inexpensive way, quite within his salary, which is liberal. He is
prominently connected with an up-town church, and it seems very
improbable that he would be guilty of robbery, or breach of trust; yet
there have been such cases before. At any rate, I cannot wholly divest
myself of suspicion."
"What do you wish me to do?" asked Frank.
"To watch Mr. Haynes carefully, both in and out of the store, to
ascertain whether he has any unexplained expenses, or any questionable
companions. I want to know how he spends his time out of the office. It
may be that the result of my investigation will be to his credit. It may
be that he is all that he seems,--a reputable member of the church and
of society, with nothing against him but an unpleasant manner. Should
this be the case, I shall be glad to correct my suspicions, and give him
back my confidence. In that case, we must look elsewhere for the rogue
who is robbing me."
"Have you any particular instructions to give me?" asked Frank.
"No, only to follow Haynes, and find out all you can about him. Use
great care in doing it, not to arouse his or any one else's suspicion. I
will find an opportunity for you to make your reports."
"Very well, sir."
       *       *       *       *       *
When Frank got home, he found a letter awaiting him from his country
home. It was in answer to one which he had written to his uncle, Deacon
Pelatiah Kavanagh, in reference to a trunk which had belonged to his
father.
This is the letter:--
     MY DEAR NEPHEW,--I am glad to learn that you are making a living in
     the city. It is much better that you should earn your own living
     than to be a burden upon me, though of course I would not see you
     suffer. But a man's duty is to his own household, and my income
     from the farm is very small, and Hannah and I agreed that we had
     little to spare for others.
     There is an old trunk, belonging to your deceased father, in the
     attic. It contains some old clothes, which may be made over for
     you, and so save you expense. I would use them myself, and allow
     you for them, but your father was a much smaller man than I, and
     his clothes would not fit me. I will send the trunk by express to
     the address which you gave me. Of course I shall expect you to pay
     the express, as I have no interest in it, or its contents.
     Your cousin Jonathan has left school, and is working on the farm. I
     feel so glad that he has no extravagant tastes, but inherits the
     careful and economical habits of his mother and myself. I am sure
     he will never waste or squander the little property which I hope to
     leave him.
"I don't believe he will," thought Frank, "for he is about as mean as
his mother, and that is saying a good deal."
     Your aunt and I hope that you will steer clear of the temptations
     of the city. Do not seek after vain amusements, but live a sober
     life, never spending a cent unnecessarily, and you will in time
     become a prosperous man. I would invite you to come and stop with
     us over Sunday, but for the railroad fare, which is high. It will
     be better to save your money, and put off the visit till you can
     afford it.
     Your uncle,
     PELATIAH KAVANAGH.
Reading this letter, it would hardly be supposed that the writer owned
ten thousand dollars in stocks, bonds, and mortgages, over and above an
excellent farm. Such, however, was the worldly position of the man who
sent Frank to the city in quest of a living, because he could not afford
to provide for him. With some men prudence is a virtue; with Deacon
Pelatiah Kavanagh it was carried so far as to be a positive defect.
CHAPTER XXI.
FRANK'S FIRST DISCOVERY.
So far as Frank could observe, Mr. Haynes was an active, energetic
salesman. He appeared to understand his duties thoroughly, and to go
about them in a straightforward manner. So far as his personal habits
were concerned, they seemed irreproachable. He was neatly but plainly
dressed, wore no jewelry, and carried a plain silver watch, which, when
new, probably did not cost over twenty dollars.
Frank had no difficulty in ascertaining where he lived. It was in a
brick house, on Waverley place, very unpretentious and certainly not
fashionable. In order to find out how much he paid for his
accommodations Frank visited the house on pretence of being in search of
board.
"We have a hall bed-room on the third floor, at five dollars a week,
including board," said the landlady. "How would that suit you?"
"I may have a friend board with me," said Frank. "In that case we should
need a large room. Have you any vacant?"
"There is the front room on the third floor. We would let it to two
gentlemen at eleven dollars for the two."
"Isn't the back room cheaper?" inquired our hero.
"Yes; but it is occupied by a business gentleman."
"Can you tell me his name? I may be acquainted with him."
"His name is Haynes."
"How much does he pay?"
"He pays eight dollars a week, and has the room alone."
"I suppose his room is not likely to become vacant soon?"
"Oh, dear, no. He has been with us for several years. We should be sorry
to lose him. Last Christmas he gave my daughter a present of a nice
silk-dress pattern."
Frank was struck by this information.
"I don't believe he paid anything for the silk," thought he. "I wish I
could find out."
He had learned all he cared for, and left, saying he might call again.
"His expenses seem very moderate for a man in his position," thought
Frank. "I wonder if he makes any investments."
Fortune favored our hero in the prosecution of his inquiry. Keeping
Haynes in sight, as was his custom, he observed that the latter, in
pulling out a handkerchief from the breast-pocket of his coat, had
brought with it a letter also. Frank, quickly and unobserved, picked it
up, and when he was alone looked at the address. It was directed to
James Haynes, at his residence in Waverley place. On the envelope was
the printed address of a real-estate broker in Brooklyn.
Frank knew that there was at that time considerable speculation in
Brooklyn real estate, and he examined the letter. It ran thus:--
     We have found a corner lot, with several lots adjoining, near
     Prospect Park, which may be obtained for five thousand dollars,
     half cash. We have no hesitation in recommending the purchase,
     being convinced, from the tendencies of the market, that the buyer
     will double his money in a comparatively short time. If you are
     engaged at other times, come over on Sunday afternoon, and we will
     show you the property. The house you purchased of us last year is
     worth fully a thousand dollars more than the price you gave.
"I wonder how much he gave," said Frank to himself.
The letter was signed "Henderson & Co., No. -- Fulton street."
Our hero was elated by the discovery he had made, and he sought an
interview with Mr. Hartley.
"Have you discovered anything?" asked the merchant, noticing the eager
look of his young detective.
Without attaching especial importance to the fact, Frank answered, "I
have found out that Mr. Haynes owns a house in Brooklyn."
"Indeed!" said Hartley, quickly. "But," he continued more slowly, "he
might buy one with the money saved from his salary."
"He is also thinking of buying some lots near Prospect Park."
"How did you learn this?" asked the merchant, surprised.
"I would rather not tell you," said Frank, who was not quite sure
whether Mr. Hartley would sanction his examination of a private letter.
"You may be sure that it is true."
"Very well; I will rest contented with that assurance. I will leave you
to work in your own way. Your information is important, for it seems to
show that Mr. Haynes has made investments beyond his ability, if he were
dependent upon his savings alone."
"That is what I thought," said Frank. "I must try to find out where he
gets this extra money."
"If you do that, and prove my suspicions correct, I will make you a
handsome present, besides paying the company regular rates for your
services."
"Thank you, sir. I will try to earn your gifts."
CHAPTER XXII.
FOLLOWING UP A CLUE.
This is not a detective story, and I shall not, therefore, detail the
steps by which our young hero succeeded in tracing out the agency of
Haynes in defrauding the firm by which he was employed. It required not
one week, but three, to follow out his clues, and qualify himself to
make a clear and intelligible report to Mr. Hartley. He had expressly
requested the merchant not to require any partial report, as it might
interfere with his working unobserved. Towards the end of the third week
he asked an interview with Mr. Hartley.
"Well, Frank," said the merchant, familiarly, "who is the rogue?"
"Mr. Haynes," answered our hero.
"You speak confidently," said his employer; "but surmise will not do. I
want proof, or I cannot act."
"I will tell you what I have discovered," said Frank; "and I leave you
to judge for yourself."
"Have you a customer in Hartford named Davis?" he asked.
"Yes; and a very good customer. He is frequent in his orders, and makes
prompt payments. I wish I had more like him."
"If you had more like him you would soon be bankrupt," said Frank,
quietly.
"What do you mean?" asked Mr. Hartley, in genuine surprise. "How can a
customer who buys largely, and pays promptly, be undesirable?"
"Did you know that Mr. Davis is a brother-in-law of Mr. Haynes?"
"No; but even if he is I have to thank Mr. Haynes for securing me so
excellent a customer."
Hartley spoke confidently, evidently believing that Frank was on the
wrong tack.
"I have noticed," said Frank, "that when goods are packed to go to Mr.
Davis, Mr. Haynes personally superintends the packing, and employs one
particular man to pack."
"What then?"
"I think he has something to conceal."
"I don't understand what he can have to conceal. If Davis is his
brother-in-law, it is natural that he should feel a special interest in
filling his orders."
"I shouldn't wonder if Mr. Haynes were a partner as well as a
brother-in-law of Mr. Davis."
Mr. Hartley looked surprised.
"That may be true; though I don't know why you should conjecture it.
