private interview with the farmer. They went into the kitchen, closing
the door behind them, and awaited anxiously the result of the
interview.
"I do hope Squire Hudson will be considerate," said Mrs. Nelson,
anxiously.
"I am afraid he won't be, mother," said Sarah. "He is a hard man."
"Sinclair puts on no end of airs," said Walter. "By the way he struts
round you would think he owned the whole town. You had better set your
cap for him, Sarah, for he will be rich some day."
"I would rather be an old maid than marry him," said Sarah, decidedly.
"Very likely your wish will be gratified," said her brother.
Mrs. Nelson did not smile at this sally, for her mind was too full of
anxiety.
CHAPTER XIX.
A MODERN SHYLOCK.
"I believe your interest falls due to-day, Mr. Nelson," said the squire,
when he found himself alone with his debtor.
"Yes," answered the farmer, slowly. It was not very likely to slip his
mind.
"I suppose you have the money ready," continued the squire, who supposed
no such thing.
"I have a part of it ready," said Mark Nelson, with an effort.
"A part," repeated his creditor, with a frown.
"Yes; I can give you thirty-six dollars to-day."
"Only thirty-six dollars! The amount due is sixty-six."
"I know it, Squire Hudson; but this has been a bad year for the farmers,
as you probably know. Owing to the drought, my crops fell off at least
one quarter."
"I can't help that," said the squire, coldly.
"If you will be a little patient," said Mr. Nelson, uneasily.
"Neighbor Nelson," said his creditor, interrupting him, "I wish to ask
you one question. When I lent you money on mortgage was there a
stipulation that if there was a drought I was to wait for my just
interest?"
"No, Squire Hudson."
"To be sure not; I would not of course lend you money on any such terms.
It was understood that my interest was to be paid semi-annually,--was it
not so?"
"Yes, but--"
"Wait a moment. You must certainly agree that I am entitled to prompt
payment. A bargain is a bargain."
"I don't dispute it, Squire Hudson, and I have tried to be ready for
you; but in spite of all my efforts I am thirty dollars short."
"Do you expect me to be content with this explanation?"
"I think you are rather hard on me, squire. It isn't as if I had the
money and objected to pay. I am a poor man, but no one ever lost a
dollar by me; and I don't mean that any one shall, while I have my life
and strength."
"That's all very well, but it won't make up the thirty dollars in which
you are delinquent."
"What would you have me do? I cannot make money."
"I wouldn't give much for an investment when the interest is delayed. It
is no longer worth its face. If any of my railroad bonds defer their
usual interest they at once drop in value."
"I know very little of railroad bonds, never having any money to invest
in them; but I think my farm will be full security for all the money I
owe you."
"Suppose I should foreclose--you would consider it an unkind thing and a
great hardship, wouldn't you?"
"It would take away my means of supporting my family. I don't think you
would go to extremes, for the sake of thirty dollars."
"It isn't the amount of money, neighbor Nelson, that is to be
considered. It is the principle that is involved."
This is a very common pretext with men who have made up their minds to
do a mean thing. Generally speaking it is false, and the money is the
first consideration.
"Will you give me two months to pay the balance of interest?" asked Mark
Nelson.
"What better prospect have you of being able to pay me then?"
"As soon as Tom has any money to send, he will remit to me. I think it
probable that I shall hear from him in the course of two months."
"If that is your reliance," said the squire, shrugging his shoulders, "I
am afraid you are leaning upon a broken reed. I know boys pretty well,
and I fancy Tom will find a use for all the money he earns."
"You don't know him, Squire Hudson. He is a very conscientious boy, and
understands very well the sacrifice I made in raising money to send him
to California. He is not very likely to forget that."
"It seems to me that the sacrifice was mine," said the squire, with a
half sneer. "If I remember rightly, I advanced the money which he took
away with him."
Mark Nelson flushed, and he answered warmly, "You did advance the money,
Squire Hudson, but I gave you security for it."
"And the very first interest that has come due you are not prepared to
meet. You can't blame me for feeling a little doubt as to the wisdom of
my advance."
"Are you very much in need of the thirty dollars?" asked Mr. Nelson,
nettled at the squire's tone.
"What do you mean, sir?"
"Is it subjecting you to any great inconvenience to wait a couple of
months for it? That is what I mean."
"My circumstances are not such," returned the squire, haughtily, "as to
make me feel even the loss of thirty dollars."
"I wish I could say the same, but I cannot. Since, then, it will
occasion you no inconvenience, I ask you as a favor that you will let
the balance rest for two months."
Squire Hudson saw that he was cornered; but none the less was he
disposed to yield the point. He even felt provoked with the farmer for
having forced from him an acknowledgment that he did not need the money
he so persistently demanded.
"I told you before," he said, "that it was not the amount of money, but
the principle, that I care for. You cannot have forgotten this."
"I don't see how any principle is involved, Squire Hudson."
"You look at the matter solely from a debtor's point of view. If you
held the mortgage, instead of myself, you would change your view very
quickly."
"I don't think I should," said the farmer, slowly. "I would be
considerate to a poor neighbor, even if it did inconvenience me a
little."
"The poor neighbor should not have borrowed money on which he was unable
to pay interest," said Squire Hudson, severely.
"How could I anticipate the drought that has diminished my crops?" said
Mark Nelson, with spirit.
"That is neither here nor there. You knew that the interest must be
paid, drought or no drought, crop or no crop."
"I cannot argue with you further, since you refuse to consider
circumstances over which I have had no control. You refuse to grant me
any delay?"
"I do."
"Since I have not the money to pay you, will you tell me what you
require?"
"How many cows do you keep?"
"Three."
"You can give me one of these, and I will consider it an equivalent for
the thirty dollars."
"Do you require this?" asked the farmer, uneasily.
"Yes; unless you have some other satisfactory arrangement to propose."
"I am afraid I have nothing else which you would regard as satisfactory.
The loss of a cow will diminish my income. Instead of three, I ought to
have four or five. I shouldn't like to be reduced to two."
"Very likely not; but an honest man is willing to make a sacrifice in
order to meet his just liabilities. Besides, you expect to have the
money, you say, in a couple of months. When it has come, you may have
your cow back, on paying two months' interest on the deferred payment.
That is only fair."
"Say no more, Squire Hudson," said the farmer. "I must, of course,
consent to this arrangement since you insist upon it. How soon do you
wish for the cow?"
"You had better let your son Walter drive it over this afternoon."
"He is losing no time," thought Mark Nelson, bitterly. "He does not even
appear to be willing that I should have the benefit of this night's
milking."
"You may send me Whiteface," continued Squire Hudson, who knew that this
was the most valuable of the three cows.
"That is my best cow," protested the farmer "That makes little
difference, as you expect to redeem it in two months."
Mark Nelson was silent. He felt indignant with Squire Hudson for his
cruel exaction; but he felt that he was in his power, and that he must
submit to his exactions.
"You will attend to this matter?" asked the squire, as he rose and
prepared to go.
"Yes," answered the farmer, coldly.
When his creditor was gone he went into the kitchen and acquainted the
family with what had passed. Great were the grief and indignation of the
children, and Walter expressed a desire that Squire Hudson might lose
all his property as a fitting reward for his meanness.
"Heaven help me if I can't meet the next interest!" said Mark Nelson,
later in the day, to his wife.
"Don't be too much troubled about the future, Mark," said his wife, who
was of a more hopeful temperament than her husband; "I am sure that you
will get some help from Tom before six months are over."
"I hope so," answered her husband; but for the rest of the day he was
very grave.
Walter drove over Whiteface, at his father's request; but he came near
crying, stout boy as he was, at the loss of the faithful animal which
his father had reared from a calf.
CHAPTER XX.
AT SACRAMENTO.
After his escape from the grizzly Tom had no further adventures of an
exciting character. One afternoon he and his companions arrived at
Sacramento. It was but a small settlement, but was more town-like than
any place they had yet seen in California. They drove to a two-story
frame building, which was the chief hotel in the town. Taking the
precaution to inquire the price of board and lodging, they were dismayed
by the extravagance of the charges. Tom saw that his reserve fund of
twenty dollars would scarcely last him forty-eight hours.
"I can't stay here, Mr. Ferguson," he said. "I will take my chances and
camp out, if necessary."
"I agree with you, lad; I'm not inclined to waste my substance on
luxurious living."
"There won't be much luxurious living, I guess," said Ebenezer Onthank,
who, with Yankee curiosity, had already visited the kitchen and obtained
some idea of the fare to be expected. "I kin get better board at Green
Mountain Mills for three dollars a week, and folks are darned glad to
accommodate you for that price. These chaps seem to think and act as if
we were made of money."
"I wish some of your Green Mountain Mills boarding-houses were here,"
said Tom. "I could save plenty of money then."
"Well, gentlemen, do you want to stay here?" inquired the landlord.
"We'd like to, squire, but not bein' millionaires I guess we'll have to
put it off till times are better."
"Just as you say," said the landlord, indifferently. "There's others
waiting for the only room I have empty." Then, noticing for the first
time the express wagon which Tom had left outside, he asked, in a tone
of interest, "Who owns that team?"
"It belongs to this boy and myself," answered Ferguson.
"Where did it come from?"
"The States."
"You don't want to sell, do you?"
Tom was about to reply in the affirmative, but the Scot, more shrewd,
answered indifferently, "We may sell it when we get to San Francisco."
"I need just such a team as that," said the landlord, eagerly. "I'll
give you a good price for it. You can go down the river to Frisco."
"I suppose we might," said Ferguson, slowly, "if it was worth our
while."
"What'll you take, cash down?" inquired the landlord, earnestly.
"Nay, my friend, I prefer to hear your views as to the price."
"I will give you eight hundred dollars for the wagon."
This was certainly an excellent profit, for but three hundred had been
paid for horse and wagon. Tom's heart beat fast with excitement, for he
remembered that one-third of the money would come to him. If it had
depended upon him he would have clinched the bargain at once, but he
wisely left the matter in the hands of his companion and partner.
"That seems a fair offer," said Ferguson; "but I think we may as well
wait till we reach San Francisco. Besides, we want to sell the horse,
too."
"I will give you a thousand dollars for the two," said the landlord.
A man with his pantaloons tucked in his boots, a coarse woolen shirt,
and a wide-brimmed sombrero, which overshadowed a face bearing a beard
of a week's growth, was leaning against the door-post.
"Landlord," said he, "I see your price, and I'll go two hundred better."
Tom stared at the speaker in surprise. He looked like a man who would
have found it hard to raise twelve dollars, yet he had made an offer of
twelve hundred. Our hero did not learn till afterwards that the man had
"struck it rich" at the mines, sold out his claim for ten thousand
dollars, and for the time being was the lucky possessor of a large bank
account.
"Now, Tom Scott," expostulated the landlord, "this ain't fair. I want
the wagon more'n you do, and you're a-raisin' the price on me."
"How do you know that?" drawled Scott. "I've got a pile, and I mean to
take it easy while it lasts. I'm going back to the mines like a
gentleman, with my own team, you bet, if I've got money enough to buy
one."
The landlord was satisfied that, if he wanted the team, he must outbid
his competitor, and advanced his offer to thirteen hundred dollars. But
Tom Scott was not terrified. His money had come easily, and he would not
let two or three hundred dollars stand in the way of his wishes.
"I'll go fifteen," he drawled.
The landlord shrugged his shoulders, and said, in a disappointed tone,
"You'll have to take it, Scott. You've gone ahead of my pile."
"Well, stranger, is it a bargain?" asked Scott.
The Scotchman, though inwardly elated as well as astonished at the
extraordinary offer he had received, answered quietly, "If my partner
agrees."
"I guess we'd better sell," said Tom, trying not to betray his inward
satisfaction.
"All right," said Scott, appearing to be well pleased. "You can have
your money when you want it. If you are going to Frisco, I'll give you
an order on my banker there."
"Tom Scott's a square man, and his order will fetch the money," said the
landlord, observing Ferguson's prudent hesitation.
"That is satisfactory," replied Ferguson.
In five minutes more the business was concluded, and Ferguson and Tom,
longing to congratulate each other on their good fortune, walked off
together.
"We're in luck, Mr. Ferguson," said Tom. "I don't know whether I stand
on my head or my heels. I never expected such a price."
"Twelve hundred dollars is a great profit," said Ferguson. "I almost
doubt whether we are justified in asking such an extortionate price of
the poor man."
"He is pleased with his bargain, and I don't think we need to trouble
ourselves about that," answered Tom. "Besides, you know we can't compare
prices with those at home."
"No doubt there is reason in what you say, my lad; but it's not easy at
first to make allowance for the difference."
"That's so, Mr. Ferguson. When shall we go to San Francisco?"
"We will go to-morrow, if we can. I suppose you will wish to send some
money to your father."
"Yes, I am in a hurry to send to him, for I am sure he needs it already.
I can hardly realize that I am worth five hundred dollars."
"Five hundred?"
"Yes, I had a third share in the team."
"That isn't my way of looking at it, Tom."
"Is it possible Mr. Ferguson would cheat me out of my fair share?"
thought Tom, but he only harbored the suspicion for an instant. He had
seen too much of his friend to believe such a thing, and he quietly
waited for an explanation.
"I'll tell you how I propose that we divide it, Tom. First we'll take
out the money each of us put in, one hundred for you and two hundred for
me, and then we'll divide the profit equally."
"But," protested Tom, "you are entitled to two-thirds."
"Then I won't take it," said Ferguson, decidedly. "I only want half of
the profit. That will give me eight hundred dollars, and that ought to
satisfy me."
"And I shall have seven hundred," said Tom, his eyes sparkling.
"Precisely."
"How kind you are, Mr. Ferguson!" exclaimed Tom, eagerly seizing the
Scotchman's hand.
"No, my lad; I am only just. I am glad to help a boy who is working for
his father and family."
"I shouldn't deserve to succeed if I didn't," said Tom, earnestly.
"Always bear that in mind, my lad, and God will smile on your efforts,
and raise you up friends."
In spite of the high price, Tom and his partner felt justified now in
stopping over night at the hotel where they had met with such a piece of
good luck, and the next day started down the river for San Francisco.
CHAPTER XXI.
TOM BUYS A BUSINESS.
It was an interesting moment for our two friends when they landed in San
Francisco. The future Western metropolis was only a town of scattered
wooden and adobe houses, with irregular streets and a general lack of
uniformity in its buildings; but everybody seemed on the alert. The
number of drones was wonderfully small; even the constitutionally lazy
could not resist the golden incentives to labor. Money was looked upon
with very different eyes there and at the East. No one took the trouble
to dispute prices; and a man who landed with an article rare or
desirable could often obtain twenty times its value. Within ten minutes
of his arrival Tom witnessed a case of this kind.
Just as he was entering Montgomery street he noticed a man--evidently a
new-comer--with a fine bunch of pineapples in his hand. He had just
arrived in the steamer Columbus, then anchored out in the stream.
"I shouldn't mind having one of those pineapples," said Tom to Ferguson.
"Doubtless they are high-priced, being a rarity," said the Scotchman.
Just then a passer-by, attracted like Tom, and feeling a similar
longing, stepped up to the new-comer.
"Are those pineapples for sale?" he asked.
"Yes, if you'll pay enough," was the half-jocular reply.
"Name your price."
"Ten dollars."
"Here is your money;" and he put a gold piece into the hand of the
astounded passenger, which represented ten times the sum he had paid for
the fruit at San Blas.
"That's a pretty steep price," said Tom, "for six pineapples."
"It is very wasteful to spend such a sight of money to pamper the
appetite," said the canny Scot. "Truly, a fool and his money are soon
parted."
He was destined to be still more surprised. The purchaser within five
minutes transferred half his purchase to another for fifteen dollars.
"Gold seems to be plenty here," said Tom.
"I hope all provisions are not as high," said Ferguson, "or we shall
soon have a chance to spend all we have."
"Where shall we go first?" asked Tom.
"We had better go to a public house, and secure a lodging," said
Ferguson.
"I wish I knew some one here to direct me."
Scarcely had Tom uttered these words than he cried out in surprise,
"Why, there's John Miles!"
They were passing a little, unpainted, wooden building, of one and a
half stories, used as a grocery. A German name was on the sign; but
behind the rough counter stood the familiar form of John Miles.
Tom dashed into the store, followed by his more dignified companion.
"How are you, John?" he exclaimed.
"Why, if it isn't Tom," returned Miles, his face showing the joy he
felt. "And here's Mr. Ferguson, too."
Then there ensued a hearty shaking of hands, followed by the question,
"When did you get here?"
"About twenty minutes ago."
"And you came straight to me. That's good."
"So it is; but it's an accident. We had no idea where you were. So you
are a grocer, John. Is the place yours?"
"If it is, then I've changed my name," said Miles, pointing to the sign
bearing the name:--
     JOHN SCHINKELWITZ.
"The first name's right, at any rate," said Tom, laughing. "I suppose
you are the clerk, then."
"Yes."
"How long have you been here?"
"Four weeks."
"Is it a good business?"
"Very good. My Dutch friend pays me five dollars a day, and I sleep
here."
"Among the groceries?"
"Yes; it saves me the expense of a bed outside, and that is a good deal.
I haven't saved quite enough to pay you yet, Tom, but I can soon."
"No hurry, John. I have been lucky since I saw you."
"I am glad to hear it, Tom. Did the claim prove more productive?"
"No; but I have been speculating. Guess how much money I have with me."
"A hundred and fifty dollars."
"More."
"Two hundred."
"More yet."
"Not three hundred, Tom?"
"I won't make you guess any more. I have seven hundred dollars. No
wonder you look surprised. I'll tell you how I made it;" and Tom
repeated the story of his purchase and its profitable sale.
"I am not so much surprised now," said Miles, "for in this country a man
will have what he takes a fancy to, no matter what it costs. I am glad
the good luck came to you and Mr. Ferguson. I shouldn't mind having that
amount of money myself."
"What would you do with it?"
"I would buy out my employer, and then I could make money fast."
"Does he want to sell?"
"Yes, he wants to go to the mines."
"Would he sell for such a small sum?"
"Yes; there isn't much of a stock, but we are constantly replenishing. I
tell you what, Tom, you buy him out, and I'll manage the business."
"Are you in earnest, John?"
"Certainly I am."
"But I want to send some money home," objected Tom.
"How much?"
"A hundred dollars at least."
"I'll lend you the hundred, my lad," said Ferguson, "and fifty more, and
you can take your own money and buy the business. I don't favor acting
hastily, in general, but I have faith in our friend here, and I am led
to believe that the enterprise will be a profitable one."
"You'll be my partner, Tom, and I'll give you a third of the profits
without your doing a thing. If you work with me, you shall have as much
more as will be satisfactory."
"I would rather go back to the mines, John, and leave you to manage this
business by yourself. A quarter of the profits will satisfy me."
"No, it shall be a third. As you furnish the capital, that is only
fair."
"We may be counting our chickens too soon. Perhaps your Dutch friend,
whose name I can't pronounce, won't sell."
"Here he is to speak for himself."
A short German, with a ponderous frame, and a broad, good-humored face,
here entered the grocery, panting with the exertion of walking, and
looked inquiringly at Tom and the Scotchman.
"Herr Schinkelwitz, this is my friend, Tom Nelson," said Miles.
"Glad to see you, mine vriend," said the German, addressing Ferguson.
"No, that is Mr. Ferguson," said Miles, smiling. "I should have
introduced him first."
"Wie gehts, Herr Ferguson?" said the grocer. "You have one strange
name."
"Your name seems strange to me," said the Scotchman.
"Oh, no; Schinkelwitz is a very common name. Most peoples admire my
name."
Tom was considerably amused, but Herr Schinkelwitz did not observe the
smile which he could not repress.
"I have told my friends you would like to sell out the business," said
Miles.
"Oh, ja, it is a good business, but my health is not good. I think it
will be much better at the mines. You will do well to buy it yourself."
"I would if I had money enough."
"Ja, I must have the money, for I shall need it."
"My friend here has money, and may buy of you," said Miles, indicating
Tom.
"What, the boy?"
"Yes."
"Where did he get so much money?"
"At the mines."
"Oh, ja, that is a good place to get gold. Well, my young vriend, I will
sell cheap."
It will not be necessary to enter into a detailed account of the
negotiation. It is enough to say that for the sum of seven hundred
dollars Herr Schinkelwitz made over the business to Herr Tom, as he
called him, and our hero found himself penniless, but the owner of a
grocery. In half an hour it was all completed.
"Now, Tom, you are my boss," said Miles. "Shall I put your name
outside?"
"No, John, put your own. I am only a silent partner, you know."
"I congratulate you, Tom," said Ferguson. "Here are two hundred dollars,
for which you can give me your note."
"Two hundred?"
"Yes; you will need some yourself, besides what you send to your
father."
"Suppose I can't pay you back?"
"Then I will levy on the grocery, my lad," said Ferguson.
CHAPTER XXII.
A GAMBLING-HOUSE.
Having completed this important business arrangement, the two friends
went out to explore the town. The limits were narrow compared with those
of the flourishing city of the present day. Where the Palace and Grand
hotels now stand was a sand-hill, and the bay encroached upon the
business part of the city far more than now.
Scarcely a stone's throw from the grocery, on Montgomery street, between
California and Sacramento, was the office of Adams' Express, which
advertised to forward gold-dust and packages by every steamer.
"I will go in here, Mr. Ferguson," said Tom. "I shall not feel
comfortable till I have started this money homeward. I am sure it will
be wanted."
"Right, my lad. We will attend to it, by all means."
They entered the building,--a very humble one it would now be
considered,--but they found other customers before them, and had to wait
for their turn.
"What can I do for you?" asked the clerk, in a quick, business-like
tone.
"I want to send home a hundred dollars," said Tom.
"Give me the address."
This was done, the money paid over, and a receipt returned in two
minutes.
"How long before my father will receive the money?" asked Tom.
"The steamer starts in three days. About a month will be needed."
Then Tom moved aside, and the next man took his place.
"I am glad that is attended to," said Tom, relieved. "Now, Mr. Ferguson,
I will go wherever you wish."
"We had better secure a lodging," said the Scotchman. "When we are sure
of a bed we can walk about at our leisure."
Lodgings were to be had, but they were generally very dear. The first
room looked at was five dollars per day, without board,--a price our
friends were unwilling to pay. Finally they found a decent, though small
room, with rather a narrow bed, which could be had for three fifths of
that sum, and they engaged it.
"We will have to go back to the mines soon," said Tom. "San Francisco is
too expensive for us to live in."
"You can afford it better than I, Tom," said his friend.
"Why?"
"Because you have a business that brings you in an income."
"Oh, I forgot that," said our hero, smiling. "Things happen so fast here
that I haven't got used to my new position. Do you think I invested my
money wisely, Mr. Ferguson?"
"Yes, my lad, since your agent is a trustworthy, honest man."
"I am sure I can trust John Miles."
"If I were not confident of it, also, I would not have encouraged you to
take so important a step."
"I think I won't write to father about it," said Tom, after a pause. "He
might think I had acted foolishly, and become anxious. If I succeed,
then I shall be glad to surprise him. I think I shall make money; but I
don't want to count on it too much. I shall be ready to go back with you
to the mines whenever you say the word."
As they sauntered about, gazing curiously at the motley sights around
them, they heard strains of music. It appeared to proceed from a large
wooden building, with a jutting roof, under which, on benches, lounged a
number of persons, some of them Mexicans, in their native costumes,
smoking cigarettes. A large American flag was displayed over the door,
and a crowd was constantly passing in and out.
"Let us go in," said Tom.
His companion making no objection, they entered. The first sight of the
interior made clear the character of the place. There were numerous
tables, spread with games,--faro, monte, and roulette,--each surrounded
by an absorbed and interested group. "Easy come, easy go," was the rule
with the early California pioneers, and the gaming-table enlisted in its
service many men who would not have dreamed at home that they could ever
be brought to tolerate such an instrument of evil.
Tom was a country boy, and unsophisticated, but he could not help
understanding the nature of the business which brought so many to the
place.
"I suppose they are gambling," he said.
"Yes, poor, deluded creatures!" said the Scotchman, who had been brought
up to an abhorrence of games of chance. "They are wasting their time and
their substance, and foolishly laying up for themselves future misery."
Had this remark been heard it would have excited indignation, and
perhaps subjected the speaker to insult; but the players were too
intent upon their varying chances to pay any attention to the remarks of
by-standers.
"I hope, Tom, you will never yield to the seductive lures of the
gaming-table," continued Ferguson.
"I don't think there is much danger," said Tom. "I have always been
taught that gambling is wicked."
"May you long feel so, my lad!"
Tom did, however, watch the players with interest. He saw money lost and
won, without understanding exactly how it was decided. From the game his
attention was drawn to the gamesters. He was led to notice,
particularly, a young man of prepossessing countenance, who was
evidently profoundly excited. From time to time he drew out a roll of
gold pieces, which he placed on a card, and invariably lost. He must
have had a considerable sum; but, small or large, he was in ill-luck,
and constantly lost. As he neared the end of his resources the feverish
blush upon his handsome features was succeeded by a deep pallor, and
there was no mistaking the expression of deep anguish and despair which
announced that he had reached the end.
Tom became painfully interested in the young man, and silently drew the
attention of his companion to him. When the end came, and the victim,
thoroughly "cleaned out," turned to go out, Tom said, in a low voice,
"Let us follow him."
Ferguson acquiesced. He, too, had become interested, and the young man's
expression as he passed our two friends was so despairing that Ferguson
felt some alarm as to the effect of his disappointment upon his mind.
Once in the street, Ferguson and Tom followed the unfortunate young man
into an obscure street, keeping up with difficulty, for his pace was
rapid and excited. It proved to be a fortunate thing, for when he
supposed himself free from observation the young man drew a pistol, and,
with an incoherent exclamation, placed it in contact with his temple.
Tom sprang forward, and so did the Scotchman; but the boy was the
quicker and more agile, and dashed the pistol aside just in time to
prevent a suicide.
"Why did you do that?" asked the baffled would-be-suicide, gloomily,
turning his gaze upon Tom.
"I was afraid you were going to kill yourself."
"So I was."
"What could induce you to take such a rash step?" asked Ferguson.
"I have been a reckless fool. I have lost all my money at the accursed
gambling-table, and my life is not worth retaining."
"It appears to me," said the Scotchman, quietly, "that you set too high
a value upon money. You have certainly been very foolish to risk it at
the gaming-table, and the loss will no doubt inconvenience you; but was
your money all you had to live for?"
The young man regarded Ferguson with some surprise; but his excitement
was evidently abated. The quiet tone of the speaker had a favorable
effect upon him.
"I didn't think of it in that light," he admitted.
"Have you no relatives to whom your life is of value?"
"Yes," answered the young man. "I have a mother and sister."
"Would not your death affect them more than the loss of money?"
"Yes."
"It seems to me that to take your life would be to treat them cruelly."
The young man was evidently agitated by contending thoughts.
"I suppose you are right," he said, slowly; "but let me tell you all,
and you can judge me better: I arrived in California six months since.
My home is in Ohio, not far from Cincinnati. I was fortunate enough to
commence mining at a point on the western slope of the Sierra Nevada
Mountains where I was almost alone. I 'struck it rich,' and two days
since arrived in San Francisco with over two thousand dollars in
gold-dust."
"You were certainly in luck," said Ferguson, surprised.
"I turned it into money, and, in strolling about the city, was lured
into that accursed den. I looked on and was fascinated. I thought I
would try my luck. I began with a small stake, and kept on till I had
lost every dollar. In one hour the fruits of six months' labor are gone.
Do you wonder that I am reduced to despair?"
CHAPTER XXIII.
A NEW SCHEME.
"I see no cause for despair," replied Ferguson, in the same calm tone.
"I have not a penny left out of the two thousand dollars I had only an
hour since."
"I understand all that."
"I am a ruined man," said the young man, despondently.
"I don't admit that. How old are you?"
"Twenty-one."
"You are well and strong, are you not?"
"Oh, yes, I have nothing to complain of on that score."
"Then it appears to me that your loss is not serious. Your capital still
remains."
"My capital?" repeated the young man.
"Yes; your strong arms, your education, your capacity to labor."
"But I shall have to begin over again."
"Beginning over again at your age, when, possibly, fifty years of life
lie before you, is not such a serious matter. Were I in your
situation,--and I am twice as old as you,--I should not thing of
despairing. Don't you think it would be rather foolish for two thousand
dollars, which you have been only six months in accumulating, to throw
away fifty years, and all that you can make in that time, thereby
bringing a life-long grief to your mother and sister?"
The calm, logical tone of the Scotchman had its effect.
"I see that I was about to add to one piece of folly another far
greater," said the young man. "I don't know who you are, sir, but I
heartily thank you and your son for saving my life."
"This is not my son, but my young friend, Thomas Nelson," said Ferguson.
"I am not so fortunate as to have a son."
"Well, God bless you both, and good-night!"
"Excuse my persistency, but may I ask where you are going?"
"I am not going to repeat my folly of just now, if that is what you
mean."
"I did not suspect you of that; but are you sure of a bed anywhere?"
"No; I have no money to pay for one. I shall walk the streets, or
possibly lie down in some quiet place. I was accustomed to roughing it
at the mines, and can do it again if necessary."
"Tom and I have a room in which you are welcome to find a shelter. I am
sorry that our bed is too narrow to hold another."
"Thank you. That will be better than to sleep in the streets. But are
you not afraid to make me this offer?"
"Why should I be?"
"I might rob you during the night."
"You might, but you don't look like one who would so reward confidence."
"You are right. If you had fifty thousand dollars I would not touch a
dollar of it. I will accept your offer. How can I repay you for your
kindness?"
"There may be a way. We will talk of that this evening."
Nine o'clock found the three collected in the small room which had been
hired by Ferguson for himself and Tom.
"My friend," said Ferguson, "you told us that you found a favorable
place for mining up in the Sierras."
"Yes, I 'struck it rich.'"
"I take it for granted that you did not exhaust the wealth of the
place?"
"Far from it. I only dipped into it. There is abundance left."
"Is this place known to many?"
"To only one, so far as I know. He and I worked independently, but were
company for each other."
"But what induced you to leave so rich a claim?"
"I was tired of working, and wanted to come to the city for a change.
You know what a change I have experienced here."
"Why don't you go back and start anew in the place where you met with
your former good fortune?" asked Ferguson.
"Because I am penniless. I must find something to do here for a while.
When I have got together a little fund, sufficient for the purpose, I
will go back."
"Would you go back now, if you had the chance?"
"Would I? Certainly I would, for I could make money faster there than
here."
"Would you have any objection to let Tom and myself accompany you?"
"Not the least. I should be glad of your company. There is gold enough
for us all."
"Then we will start to-morrow, that is, if you and Tom are willing."
"I am ready," said Tom, promptly.
"But I have nothing. I don't like to be an expense to you," objected the
young man.
"We will pay your expenses. We shall be more than recompensed by the
richness of the mines. We might find something to do here, but both Tom
and myself prefer the freedom of the mining camp, and, if the spot is
as rich as you have led us to suspect, we shall make more money there."
"Agreed!" said the young man, promptly. "Name the hour of starting, and
rely upon me to be ready."
Ferguson was evidently well pleased with this response. He felt that his
new acquaintance would be so far away from the city, and would sooner
retrieve his fortunes at the mines. He hoped, too, to find opportunity
to strengthen his principles, and guard him against the temptations of
the city when he should again visit it. Again, he had reason to think
that the arrangement would benefit Tom and himself in a pecuniary way,
and the Scotchman was by no means indifferent to that consideration;
though, as we have seen, he did not unduly exalt the power or value of
money.
Tom, too, was pleased with the prospect. He was grateful and attached to
Ferguson, whom he felt to be a true friend, but he was glad to have
another companion nearer his own age. The young man was of a
prepossessing exterior, and when he had shaken off his present
disquietude looked as if he might be a cheerful and agreeable companion.
"Since we are to live together, for a time at least, and become
fellow-workers," said Ferguson, "we ought to know each other better. I
will introduce myself first."
Hereupon Ferguson gave a brief account of himself, which need not be
repeated, and then called upon Tom, who followed his example.
"Now it is my turn," said their new acquaintance. "You don't even know
my name yet, though you have done me such an important service. I have
already told you that I am from Ohio. My name is Richard Russell, though
my friends generally call me Dick. My father, whom I had the misfortune
to lose several years since, was at one time a member of Congress. He
left a small property, the income of which is barely sufficient to
provide my mother and sister with the comforts of life. I had a fair
education, including enough Latin and Greek to fit me for entering
college. My mother desired me to enter; but I knew that she could not
keep me there without practicing pinching economy, and I secured a place
with a small salary in a business house in Cincinnati. A year since,
when the papers were full of the gold discoveries on this coast, I was
seized, like so many others, with the golden fever, and arranged to
start overland. It would have proved a wise step had I not been so rash
a fool as to squander my earnings; for two thousand dollars in six
months compare very favorably with twelve dollars a week, which I was
earning at home. I might have gone home by the next steamer, and had
money enough to carry me through a course of legal study, had I desired.
I am out of patience with myself when I think of how I have thrown away
my good fortune."
"Don't think too much of the past, which cannot be recalled. Resolve not
to repeat your folly, and all may yet be well."
"I have fully resolved upon that," said Russell, earnestly.
"Do you think you shall study law, if you are again fortunate, Mr.
Russell?" asked Tom.
"If you please don't call me Mr. Russell, unless you want me to call you
Mr. Nelson. Call me Dick."
"I will," said Tom, smiling, "for I am not ready to be called Mr. Nelson
yet."
"Now, to answer your question: if I can get two thousand dollars
together again, I shall probably study law. Of course I don't mean to be
a miner all my life any more than you. Now, Tom, what are your plans?"
"I think I should like to be a lawyer, too, but I must earn more than
two thousand dollars first."
"Two thousand ought to be sufficient to educate you if you are
economical."
"It would be, but I want to pay off a mortgage on my father's farm
before I begin to lay up money for myself."
"You are a good fellow, Tom, and I wish you success."
"Thank you, Dick. I will succeed if hard work can bring success."
"Good-night to you both," said Ferguson. "I want to sleep well to
prepare myself for starting to-morrow."
In half an hour all three were sleeping soundly.
CHAPTER XXIV.
PREPARING FOR A NEW START.
When Tom opened his eyes he did not at first remember where he was, but
a glance at Dick Russell, his new acquaintance, stretched out on the
floor and still sleeping, quickly recalled the important events of the
day previous. Mr. Ferguson was already dressed.
"Well, Tom, are you rested?" he asked.
"Yes, Mr. Ferguson; I slept like a top. What time is it?"
"It is seven o'clock. Our new friend is still asleep."
"I suppose he was on his feet all day yesterday."
"I don't know whether I ought to hurry you away from San Francisco so
soon, Tom," said his Scotch friend. "We only arrived yesterday, and you
have not had time to see the place, and enjoy yourself after your hard
work at the mines."
"I don't care for that, Mr. Ferguson. I am anxious to be at work again.
I didn't come out here to enjoy myself, but to make money for my
father."
"You have succeeded pretty well thus far, Tom."
"Yes; but I have made more by the sale of the team than by work at the
mines."
"True; but that is a legitimate transaction. If our friend here has
reported correctly, we shall find mining more profitable in the place he
mentions than at River Bend."
"I have no objection to that, though I was satisfied with River Bend.
Wouldn't it be splendid, Mr. Ferguson, if we could do as well in the
next six months as he did?"
"Making two thousand dollars each?"
"Yes."
"We may accomplish it; but it is best not to calculate upon it."
"If I could only free the farm from that troublesome mortgage I should
be proud and happy. It has worn upon father, as I could see, and he has
been compelled to toil early and late to pay the interest, besides
supporting us all."
"How much is the mortgage, Tom?"
"Twenty-two hundred dollars."
"You have made a good beginning towards it already, Tom. You have seven
hundred dollars invested in business."
"But out of that I owe you a hundred and fifty, Mr. Ferguson."
"Don't trouble yourself about that, Tom. Unless I should stand in great
need of it, I will wait till you have paid off the mortgage before
asking to have it repaid."
"You are very kind, Mr. Ferguson," said Tom, gratefully. "A part of my
seven hundred dollars rightfully belongs to you, for you owned
two-thirds of the horse and wagon."
"I couldn't have bought them without your help, Tom. So you see that you
enabled me to make money. I am quite satisfied with an equal
partnership."
"And I am very well satisfied with my partner," said Tom, smiling.
"Shall we wake up Russell?"
"Yes, for we have much to do to-day."
"John Miles will be surprised at my leaving the city so quick."
"By the way, Tom, as he is to remain here, while you are out of the
reach of post-offices, it may be well to ask your father to direct
future letters to his care, and he can forward them as he has
opportunity."
"That is a good idea. I will write to-day so as to catch the next
steamer, and I will also speak to John."
Tom had to shake Dick Russell energetically before that young man opened
his eyes.
"What's the matter?" he ejaculated, drowsily.
"Don't you want some breakfast?" asked Tom.
"Oh, it's you, Tom! Yes, you have touched the right chord. I have a
first-class appetite--and no money," he added, his face clouding.
"Mr. Ferguson is treasurer," said Tom, lightly, wishing to divert
Russell from the thoughts of his heavy loss, and the folly to which he
owed it; "but we know very little of the city. Can you guide us to a
good restaurant?"
"To a good one, but not a cheap one. Everything is high here."
"Then it is fortunate we are going to leave so soon."
In a small restaurant, on Montgomery street, our three friends partook
of a hearty breakfast. It might not have attracted an epicure, but
neither of the three was fastidious; and, though the charge was five
dollars, Ferguson, economical as he was, paid the bill cheerfully. It
was the first "civilized" breakfast he had eaten for months, and it
might be months before he would be able to partake of another as good.
"I wish we could breakfast like this at the mines," said Tom.
"So say I," chimed in Dick Russell; "but you know that the gold-hunter
must sacrifice home comforts."
"I shan't complain of that, if I can do as well as you did," said Tom.
"I see no reason why you can't. There is plenty of gold there, and all
that is needed is work and perseverance."
"I am willing to contribute them," said Tom. "I mean to do my best to
succeed."
"None of us can do more, my lad," said Ferguson. "Let us hope that God
will prosper our undertakings."
"I say, I am glad I have met with you two," said Dick Russell. "You'll
keep me on the right track; and, in spite of my past folly, I hope in
time to win success."
"I am glad to hear you speak so sensibly, my young friend," said the
Scotchman, kindly. "It's a great deal better to put your back to the
wheel once more, than to take the life God gave you."
"Don't speak of that again, Mr. Ferguson," said Russell, shuddering. "I
don't like to think of it."
"He'll do," thought Ferguson, with satisfaction. "His mind is now in a
healthy condition, and I have great hopes of him."
The rest of the day was devoted to the purchase of supplies. Ferguson
also bought a mule, in behalf of the party, which was of service in
carrying a part of their burdens. It was not until afternoon that Tom
found an opportunity to call on John Miles, and acquaint him with his
almost immediate departure.
"I am sorry you are going away so soon, Tom," said Miles. "I thought you
would stay at least a week."
"So I would if I were not so anxious to be at work once more. You know
how my father is situated, John, for I have told you more than once."
"Yes, Tom; but I see no reason why you should feel uneasy. With the help
you are to send him, there will be no trouble about his paying his
interest regularly."
"I know that, John; but I shall feel uneasy until the mortgage is paid
off, and he is out of Squire Hudson's power."
"For how long a time has the farm your father owns been encumbered with
this mortgage?"
"For ten years, at least."
"Is the mortgage for any specified term of years?"
"I don't think so."
"It merely runs from year to year then?"
"I suppose so."
"In that case this Squire Hudson could foreclose at any time, could he
not?"
"Yes," answered Tom, soberly.
"Don't make yourself uneasy about it, however," said Miles, observing
that Tom seemed apprehensive. "As your father's farm is not particularly
valuable, there can be no danger of foreclosure. By the way, wouldn't
you like to have me remit your father something next month out of the
profits of the business?--I can charge it to your account."
"I am glad you mentioned it, John. You may send him fifty or
seventy-five dollars, if my share should amount to so much."
"I will."
"And I am going to have my home letters directed to your care. You can
forward them to me whenever you have an opportunity."
"I won't fail, Tom. If there is anything you need sent out to you, you
have only to write me, and I will attend to your commissions."
"It is very convenient to have an agent in the city," said John,
smiling. "I shall feel much more comfortable out at the mines."
"I wish you good luck, Tom; but remember, even if you don't succeed in
your search for gold, I shall be making money for you here."
"You make me feel quite like a capitalist, John."
"I hope you may be one some day. Good-by!"
They shook hands and parted. Before night-fall Tom had started on his
new journey in quest of gold.
CHAPTER XXV.
WHITEFACE.
Mark Nelson missed sorely the cow which he had been compelled to yield
to the squire on account of default of interest. Whiteface was his best
cow, and a great favorite with all the children. She gave nearly as much
milk as the other two, and had been one of the main dependences of the
family. It was worth considerably more than the thirty dollars for which
the squire took it; but he insisted upon that and no other, and
Whiteface had to go.
Six months had passed, and there seemed to be very little chance of
redeeming the lost cow. Squire Hudson had agreed to give her back on
payment of the balance due, with accrued interest; but neither he nor
Mark Nelson expected that such an offer would be made.
"I was passing Squire Hudson's to-day, and saw poor Whiteface," said
Walter, one evening. "I think she knew me, for when I called her she
lowed back."
"I wish we had her back," said Sarah. "It was heartless in the squire to
take her. He had a dozen cows of his own."
"He hasn't any heart," said Walter, "or, if he has, it must be pretty
small."
"We must not forget that he was entitled to some security for the
balance of interest I owe him," said the farmer.
"The cow was worth a good deal more than thirty dollars," said Sarah.
"Yes, she was; but I am not sure whether I could have got any more money
for her at a forced sale. Then you know the squire is pledged to give
her back whenever I can pay him the thirty dollars, with interest."
"I wish you could pay it now, father," said Walter.
