"Three cheers!" cried some one as Gilman jumped down.
There were cheers and groans.
Ben Hay followed him, and stood a moment in the gateway.
"Boys," said he in his rich, ringing voice, "Hope Mills was opened to
receive a crowd of starving men. I'll take my oath to Jack Darcy's
honesty. He's stuck by us, and we'll stick to him. That's the beauty of
co-operation. You can't get away, and tramp off with the first fool that
asks you! It isn't merely keeping company: it's a good, honest,
up-and-down marriage. I'd as soon think of leaving my wife because some
day she didn't give me two dinners instead of one!"
There was a shout of laughter. The ice was broken in good earnest.
"Three cheers for Ben Hay! Three cheers and a tiger for Jack Darcy!" and
amid all this hubbub the men and women, the boys and girls, rushed in
pell-mell. A gladder crew one never saw. To decide when others doubt, to
go forward boldly when others hesitate, to stand up for the principle of
right when others have traduced and blackened it, to take the first
step, is to be as heroic as the "six hundred" of deathless fame.
They went to work with a will, though some were a little sore and
doubtful, but they were carried on by the enthusiasm of the others. The
street below was still blocked up, and there were yells and groans.
Presently there came a shower of superannuated eggs. Two landed in
Darcy's office-window. After that, a stampede of the riotous crew.
Darcy sent Andrew, the bell-boy, to the police-station, and two men were
detailed. The workmen were allowed to go home peaceably, except a little
jeering at Keppler's. They heard then the trains had been stopped on the
two roads leading out of Yerbury. The whole world seemed to be going
crazy.
Darcy and Cameron remained in the mill that night until almost ten: then
the latter went home, and Darcy thought he would go for Ben Hay. The
streets of Yerbury had presented a very peculiar aspect that evening,
something like a beleaguered town. Groups of men and boys collected on
the corners, or wended their way through the streets with low, ominous
mutterings. People barred their doors and locked their windows, though
it was a hot summer night. Some women were abroad: but they were of the
rougher sort, and now and then their shrill voices rose on the air in
derision or vituperation. Still there were no overt acts of violence,
and at ten everybody began to breathe more freely.
The coffee-house had been shut up that evening: it was deemed advisable.
Darcy went round to the side-door, and was admitted. Hay and three other
workmen were within. They had been figuring up possible and probable
profits by the end of the five years, and looked very well satisfied.
"There's a sort of hope and expectation about it," said one of the men,
"that kind of stirs and warms a body. And when you come to count lost
time, and fluctuation in wages, it makes a pretty even thing, after all!
In '73 I worked in a shoddy-mill that had been making money hand over
fist,--eleven hours a day,--not a man of us made more than five dollars
a week. Some poor fellows with families earned only three. You've never
been as hard up as that! God only knows how they lived: it's beyond my
guessing!"
"And if that was co-operation, how the system would be blamed!"
exclaimed Ben Hay. "I declare, it makes me madder than a hen in a
fence--I've caught that of Cameron," laughingly,--"to hear the things
people have said about us. They're forever blathering about fair play--I
wish they'd give a little, as well as take all. Wait till we've come to
the end, say I, before they tell what we can do, or what we can't or
sha'n't or won't!"
There was a tramp in the street. The startled eyes studied one another.
Then a shuffling and muttering, and a knock at the door.
No one stirred but Mrs. Connelly, who threw up her hands, and cried,
"The saints protect us!"
"Earthly saints, Mother Connelly,--this kind," said Ben Hay with gay
re-assurance, doubling his fist, and baring his brawny arm.
The pounding increased. Rose ran down stairs wild with affright,
followed by her sister. The boys fortunately were asleep in the back
chambers.
"Let us in, Mother Connelly: we want some bread and butter!" shouted a
voice.
"Cakes and yale!"
"Pretzel and zwei lager!"
"A sup of the craythur!"
"A dhrop of whiskey to warrum us this could night! Av yees the heart av
a sthone, Kit Connelly?"
A roar of laughter succeeded this.
"Go away, it will be better for you," declared Ben Hay.
"Come out here, Hay, and fight like a man! Don't skulk behind a woman's
petticoats!"
There was a terrific onslaught at the door. It creaked and groaned, and
was succeeded by a volley of oaths and imprecations. Rose began to cry,
and the youngest girl came screaming down the stairs.
Darcy had sent a man out of the back way for policemen. Hay and the two
other men mounted guard. Again the door shivered and creaked: then it
flew open, bolts, locks, and hinges having given way in a mass of
splinters.
Like a flash the men were on their assailants. The mob had not expected
this. Right and left valorous blows were dealt, and two or three burly
fellows were laid low. Some nearer sober, and more cowardly, took to
their heels. Two men fought like tigers; and once Ben Hay came near
getting the worst; but, by the time the dilatory guards of peace
arrived, there was only a pile of bruised and battered bodies lying on
the door-step.
"A pretty tough scrimmage!" was the comment. "Weren't you a little hard
on these fellows?"
"A man has a right to defend his own life and his own nose," said Ben
Hay decisively. "His life may be useful, his nose is ornamental when
it is a handsome one like mine."
What with drunkenness and the drubbing, two of the ruffians were unable
to walk. Two others were marched off under the escort of the officers,
the disabled sent for, and a guard detached to protect Mrs. Connelly's
house. When everybody had been quieted, Jack took a tour down to the
mills. Some poor object was huddled up in the corner of the main stoop.
"What are you doing here?" demanded Darcy.
"Oh, Mr. Darcy, don't strike me! I'm Bart Kane. I've had enough of this
night, and I crawled here"--
The boy began to sob and talk brokenly. He lifted his face in the
moonlight. It was ghastly; one eye swollen shut, and purple-black, and
streaks of blood and dirt over it; the clothing torn, the throat bare.
"Were you down there at Connelly's?"
"I warn't nowhere. It was along o' father: he comed home drunk."
Barton Kane was a mill-boy, about nineteen now. Darcy's first feeling
had been one of outrage and anger, but he cooled suddenly.
"Tell me, my lad," in a kindly tone, taking the shivering fingers in
his.
"You see, Mr. Darcy, father'd been out along of the hatters all day,
gettin' more and more rum in him. He said on Sunday, as how't I should
strike; but they went to work here, and I worked with 'em. When I went
home, mother, she gev me my supper, and ses she, 'Keep out o' sight,
lad, happen thy dad's powerful mad wi' thee!' So I went to bed. But
about nine he comed home, and tore up the house wi' his tantrums, and
then lathered me. He called me a rat, and a sneak, and a turn-coat, and
kicked me out o' the house, and threw my traps to me. Then afore I was
fairly dressed he at me again, and said if ever I darkened the door,
he'd murder me! I strayed round, afeared of everybody, and crawled up
here. 'Pears like every bone in my body is broke, and my eye, he do hurt
so!"
With that Barton Kane broke out sobbing again, and clung to Jack Darcy's
knees.
"My poor lad!" the tone was infinitely tender. "Can you walk a little
way, to Kit Connelly's? You can be nursed up there, and go to bed
peaceably. Come, Barton, my boy, you are the hero of Hope Mills. When
this is over, we shall have to give you a medal."
He put his strong arm around the shivering body, and led him back to a
kindly shelter.
"Hay, Mrs. Connelly, and all of you: here's a lad that has been
half-killed for standing by his colors to-day. Look here, Armstrong,
would you mind going for Dr. Maverick? this poor chap needs some
patching-up. And, Kit, give me some water and a napkin: we'll get his
face a little cool and clean."
"Let me do it, Mr. Darcy. Sure, I've boys of my own, and am used to it.
Oh, the poor, poor lad!"
Barton told his story over again. He was weak and hysterical now, and
they made him a shake-down on the floor until the doctor came.
"Now I'll start on my inspection-tour again," said Darcy, turning away.
"We are all likely to make a night of it."
He thought he would go around before he went in to see the watchmen:
they had placed a force on guard quietly. He had just turned the second
corner, when he saw a man jump from the high fence, and lie for an
instant as if stunned. He hastened on, but the man sprang up and ran
down the dark side of the street. His first impulse was to follow; then
it struck him as strange that the dog gave no alarm. He had a gate-key
in his pocket, and unlocked it at once.
"Bruno!" he called, "Bruno, good fellow, come here."
There was not a sound. The ominous silence thrilled Jack.
"Bruno!"
Hark! a curious crackling or sweep of wind, and smoky smell. He ran
round to the rear. Close up against the back door, quite out of the
moonlight, something was piled. Forked tongues of flame were shooting
out of it everywhere. He seized the chain attached to the factory-bell,
and rang it rapidly. There was a window thrown up, and a voice called.
"Fire! fire!" he shouted. "Turn on the hose,--the lower back door."
The flames streamed up fiercely now. It was plain that the mound had
been saturated with kerosene.
Daly hurried down, and opened a door. "Hurd and Byrnes are at the
buckets and hose," he cried. "Where is it? O Mr. Darcy!"
"Quick, quick!" shouted Jack, rushing by him.
The men had the hose ready. They put it out of the window, turned on the
stream, and in a few moments a column of dense smoke rose amid the
arrowy flashes of lurid splendor. The watchman ran down from Connelly's.
It was subdued in a few moments. They tore away the charred boxes and
débris, smoking and smouldering. Underneath all they found the body of
princely Bruno.
"This is fiendish!" cried Jack, dragging the poor fellow away, his
scorched coat smelling horribly. "Brave Bruno, you are the second hero
of the night!"
"Whatever dastardly devil did this, knows as much about Hope Mills as
you or I," shouted Hurd savagely. "Bruno was poisoned first; and he
wouldn't have taken any thing from a strange hand. But the fellow was a
fool to build the fire here."
"I don't know about that," said Darcy. "If it had burned the door down,
it would have gone in the hall, and up the hatchway--if it was open."
"By thunder! so it would; and right to the stock-room. That place must
never be left open again while Hope Mills stands, or co-operation waves
her starry banner in the breeze."
"Loud applause!" said some one.
The fire was thoroughly extinguished; and the guardian of the night
decided to remain here, being within call if another disturbance should
occur at Mrs. Connelly's. The bells rang out for midnight. A few, who
had gathered at the alarm, dispersed: and every thing became quiet
again,--deadly, solemnly quiet.
Jack wanted to see Maverick, so he paced back to Mrs. Connelly's. He was
trying to remember some distinctive mark of the man he had seen jump. He
was too stout for Davy, and he could not believe such villany of the
man. Then Price was a little lame from an old rheumatic affection, and
would not have dared such a deed.
Barton Kane had been washed, patched, bandaged, put to bed, and given an
opiate; so now he was in a sound but rather disturbed sleep. The men
gathered in the lunch-room, and discussed the cowardly attempt upon the
mill, the day's affairs generally.
"See how great a matter a little fire kindles," said Maverick. "But for
McPherson's lecture here, I don't believe any of these things would have
happened. It is a free country, of course, and a man has a right to air
his ideas; but capital is not set firmly enough on its legs to stand a
severe fire, and labor is in too great a superabundance. To seek to
drain the ocean with a silver mug may be grand, but quite hopeless."
One! The witching hour, and a few sleepy men began to yawn.
"How odd it seems, not to hear trains in the night!" Maverick said
presently. "A queer lock-out this."
One, again. One, two, three: this time the fire-alarm.
They rushed out toward the mill. Then they as suddenly wheeled around.
In an instant the air seemed full of shouts and cries, and a broad sheet
of flame flared up in the face of the tranquil heavens. A roar, like a
mighty tramping of hosts, a crackling, snapping, sweeping sound.
"It's Keppler's. Boyd's block will surely go!"
The houses were frame, old and dry: Keppler's on the corner, the rest
joined, like a row of sheds, and filled with the very poorest; a few
apartments standing empty. The engines were out, but it was of little
avail. The corner was just one brilliant sheet of lurid light. Shrieking
women and children fled for their lives. The street swarmed again, and
people trampled over one another in their wild terror. There was a
crash, and the building fell in. The flames licked up the other fiery
flood, and had a brave battle in the cellar. The engines played until
the air was filled with smothering smoke, and there was nothing left but
a long, blackened ruin.
"It may be ungenerous to rejoice in any man's misfortune," said
Maverick, "but in a sanitary point of view I am thankful those old
rookeries have come to an end. Boyd wouldn't do any thing to them, and
they were unfit for pigs to live in. And, as for Keppler's, there will
be but one verdict this end of the town."
Some one laid a hand on Jack Darcy's shoulder. He turned and saw Fred
Lawrence.
"They are all worried to death about you, old chap," began Fred. "Your
mother, Miss Morgan, Sylvie,--and Irene is walking the floor. I have not
seen her so excited since--since she had the fever. What a horrible
thing! Was any one lost, do you know?"
"They will not be able to tell that until morning, every thing is in
such confusion. Pray God that the morning may dawn soon! I seem to have
lived through years."
The dawn came up by and by; first in faint opaline splendors, then
scarlet and gold. The moon paled, and the stars dropped out, and there
was a chirp of birds to welcome the new-born day.
The shock of the fire cooled the temper of the raiders, for half the men
were idle hangers-on, rather than absolute strikers. One frantic woman
flew to the scene of devastation: her boy, four years old, was missing.
They tried to comfort her with the thought that some neighbor had kindly
taken him in, but she kept wildly imploring them to search.
There was no further molestation of the men at Hope Mills. They walked
in the yard quietly at seven o'clock, their faces touched with surprise
and terror when they heard the story of the night. Barton Kane lay
disabled at Mrs. Connelly's, and poor Bruno was buried with honors,
regretted by the whole force.
Jack called the men together, and addressed them briefly. He was very
pale, and his usually bright, clear eyes were heavy.
"I want to thank you," he said, in a tone that was a little unsteady
with exhaustion and emotion, "I want to thank you for standing so
bravely by me, and by your principles. We are all partners together, and
what is one man's interest is every man's. I feel sure that we shall
never have another difficulty. We have gone through the worst, and in a
little while every man will have his free choice again. Let us all keep
the warmest of friends until then."
There was no cheering: they were not gay enough for that. Some of the
men wrung his hand silently; then the women pressed forward, and invoked
a blessing upon him.
"We know better nor any of 'em what it was to have no fire, and childers
cryin' for bread," said one woman, wiping her eyes with the end of her
faded shawl. "And, thank the Lord, I've had bite, and sup, and fire,
ever since the day Hope Mills was opened."
The men outside were working at the ruins,--among them some of the
strikers of yesterday. They found poor Mrs. Rooney's little Johnny,
burned to a crisp; and in the house next to Keppler's they exhumed the
body of Biddy Brady, a good-natured, efficient washerwoman, whose
greatest fault was her intemperance. She and her son had gone to bed
very drunk, after having a good time through the evening. The boy had
been roused in season, but she had perished. It was as vivid and fervent
a temperance-lecture as ever was given in Yerbury.
About ten in the morning Jack Darcy returned home dead tired, as much
with the excitement as the fatigue, took a bath, and went to bed.
The Yerbury authorities looked sharply about them that day. The strikers
were orderly and quiet, but they had lost ground. "The Evening
Transcript" deprecated all this sort of business, and for once had no
fling about the "Utopian theory of co-operation." But "The Leader" of
the morning came out strongly in praise of the good order, forbearance,
and esprit de corps of Hope Mills, and called Mr. Darcy "our young and
enterprising citizen, whom, we doubt not, we shall hear of in higher
positions in life, which he has proved himself eminently worthy to
fill."
There was no great lament made about Boyd's Row or Keppler's saloon,
except for the sad casualty it had caused; but the dastardly attack on
Mrs. Connelly, and the fiendish attempt to burn Hope Mills, met with the
severest condemnation.
Maverick came around to the Darcys that evening. "I fancy I have found
your man, Jack," he began. "Mrs. Stixon called me in towards night,
saying Jem had been on a spree, and was dreadfully beaten. I found one
side of his face scratched and bruised, and bits of gravel still
adhering to the flesh. The right arm, on the same side, has one bone
broken, and his shoulder is dislocated. He said he fell off of a stoop,
and is dreadfully sullen. I asked him what stoop, but he would not tell.
Do you remember which way the man fell?"
Jack thought a moment. "On the right side, Maverick, away from me, or I
should have seen his face. Just such a size man as Jem Stixon, too,"
with a satisfied nod.
"What will you do about it?"
Jack took two or three turns across the floor. "See here, Maverick, we
will not do any thing. You cure the poor fellow, and I think he will
never try to damage Hope Mills again. I can hardly forgive him Bruno,
though."
"If I were Sylvie Barry,"--he never called her Mrs. Lawrence when
speaking of her,--"I should say, 'Jack, you are an angel.'"
Jack flushed. "Masculine angels!" he laughed.
"Well, wasn't there Gabriel and a host of them? Why, Jack, they were
all masculine!"
There was no need for earthly justice to meddle with Jem Stixon. His arm
inflamed: he had led a hard life late years, and his system was in bad
order. He would not listen to amputation until it was too late, and in
less than a month he was dead. It was better for his poor hard-working
wife and family.
One other death grew out of the summer riots, though this was at a
distance. Dennis Connelly had been working with a railroad-gang, and the
strikers there had a desperate struggle with the civil authority. They
were worsted in the end, and Connelly was one of the victims, or perhaps
more truly speaking, a victim to bad whiskey, for when sober he was very
peaceable. Kit sent for his body, and had him decently buried.
CHAPTER XXVII.
THE strikers at the hat-factory did not carry the day. The employers
were very indignant, and tabooed the union men altogether. At
Garafield's the men were called in council, the points discussed, and a
small advance in wages allowed. The co-operatives went their way
quietly. Perhaps the most convincing argument was a very jubilant letter
from Winston, part of which Darcy put up in the hall. He had just
succeeded in making an important contract for two years, on very fair
terms. That would see them through safely unless the whole world came to
grief again!
Jack wrote Miss McLeod a graphic account of the "labor troubles," and
she replied with equally characteristic verve. "She could hardly
decide," she declared, "whether to be glad, or sorry, that her young
friend had grown so independent of her; but in any emergency she wished
to be remembered."
There was now a certain respect paid to Hope Mills, among the community
at Yerbury. Perhaps there are no people so exacting and difficult to
satisfy as those friends and neighbors whose advice you have not taken,
and prospered without it. They indulge in a righteous self-complacency
if you are unfortunate, and pity you grandly; but to own themselves
mistaken is the one bitter flavor in the cup. There seemed to be but one
point now upon which they were doubtful,--the honesty of the managers at
the last moment. Every workman knew or might know exactly how affairs
stood, but they did not have the capital. Just at the end of the five
years somebody might abscond with the money-bag under his arm. It
seemed so every way certain that human nature could not withstand the
temptation.
Yet there was growing up among the hands a curious neighborly sympathy,
as if they were in some degree relatives; and they were made so, in
fact, by some marriages of sons and daughters. They were more
intelligent; they kept their houses cleaner, their little gardens
prettier, not allowing them to go to weeds before the summer was half
over. Those who could go to the industrial school learned a deal about
sewing, and became seamstresses instead of mill-girls. Some made their
own family dresses, some were very tasty milliners. It gave them a
reliance upon what they could do themselves. The two daughters of one
workman kept a little poultry-yard "scientifically," and dressed
themselves from its proceeds. Industry became more general. Instead of
dawdling away whole evenings in gossip, they had some light employment,
and worked as they talked.
The September showing was very encouraging. There were still a great
many bankruptcies and losses, but some of them could not be guarded
against. Darcy and Winston regularly eschewed speculation, though the
latter confessed his fingers sometimes burned to be in the pie.
"But, after all," he said frankly, "if the energy, ingenuity, ambition,
and strength that are expended to make certain people buy and sell, over
and over, a thing that can be no more valuable than the money it makes
year by year, which often is not much,--if this were turned into
industrial and commercial channels,--gad! what a country we would be!
Our flag would float on every sea, our goods be in every port. And yet
they go on, rich to-day because they have beggared their neighbor, poor
to-morrow because their neighbor has beggared them. What idiotic
business!"
But I must go back a little with my hero. There were many things to
occupy his mind, the summer of the "strikes;" yet through it all, like
one strain of heavenly harmony in a clash of discord, he came to know
the diviner needs of his being. Another man might have been dismayed at
the revelation. Like a flash when the horizon is opened, he saw the
light; and he knew, from the depths of the darkness the next moment,
what manner of storm it would be.
He had never weakened or frittered away his sweetest emotions on the
various flirtations that fill the early years of so many men. He had
liked and admired Sylvie Barry above all young women he had ever met;
but this emotion, though pure and lasting, never stirred the ardor of
his soul. Had it really lain untouched so long, or had some vague dream
slipped into it the night he and Sylvie had planned the costume for
Irene Lawrence, the time he first encountered her beauty in all its
vivid splendor? To him she was a glorious young goddess.
The long-ago summer day he had met the two in the phaeton, he was more
keenly pained for her sake than his own. To be sure, his first emotion
was that of angry indignation, sending the outraged blood through every
pulse; then, as it cooled, the act appeared so utterly unwomanly. If she
had passed him by carelessly--but to designedly attract his glance, and
stab it thus, was as if a giant had taken a club to kill a butterfly
because it breathed the fragrance of the rose. He shut out that vision.
You can tell what impression she had made upon him, when he always
thought of her as he saw her in the glow of Sylvie's pretty parlor, that
summer night. His healthy, active temperament never brooded over
disagreeable things a moment longer than necessity kept him there.
She faded from his mind by degrees. Even when he took Fred back into the
old regard, he thought of her as the possible wife of some millionnaire.
When she returned to Yerbury, and shut herself up in stately despair,
refusing even Sylvie's proffered sympathy, she puzzled him. How could
she, so fond of admiration and gayety, live this nun's life, without the
nun's spiritual exaltation? He passed her once or twice in the hall, as
he was calling on Fred, but neither made any sign.
Then came that terrible night, when he had found her astray, her brain
consumed by the smouldering fire of isolation, when you have only the
black, choking smoke that never blazes up in purifying flames. There are
thousands of women who have done this, weakly, sentimentally, through
the period of adversity that has tried the metal of all souls; but she,
being stronger, more self-reliant, could not drop into puerile whining.
At Depford Beach they had come in contact again. There was both
attraction and repulsion in these two people, as there often is in
strongly-marked, positive natures. She tolerated him because he was
Sylvie's lover; despised him, believing that he meant to make a
stepping-stone of this girl's wealth and position; and, in spite of
herself, felt the current of his strength and buoyant energy. By slow
degrees the unwilling truth was forced upon her, that God never created
any human soul for its own self-destruction; that there was no absolute
virtue in warping and twisting circumstances into chains and bonds, that
were ordained for higher, nobler purposes. Her mental disease had run
its course. Sylvie's sorrow was the final electric shock that broke the
heavy soil of apathy.
Her utter surprise when she found that through all these years Jack
Darcy had refrained from influencing Sylvie in his behalf, was something
quite indescribable. She thought she had fathomed men's souls with her
keen insight, but this man was a Saul amid his peers. Had there been
some subtile, far-reaching foundation for Fred's regard in the boyhood
days,--something that their eyes, being holden with golden bonds, could
not see?
After the marriage there was a certain degree of association, not
intimacy. And yet she set herself to watch him. Somewhere she would
discern the print of the feet of clay this idol of Fred and Sylvie's
possessed.
It was a most fascinating yet dangerous employment. She used to sit
there in her impassive grace, as they talked, weighing every word,
testing every sentiment, watching the expressions that flitted over Jack
Darcy's countenance, until it went everywhere with her, the blue-gray
eyes piercing the very depths of her soul. They came to the one night
when a glance stirred and troubled both, when the depths of both natures
experienced that curious shock of repulsion and wonder. It was not love,
it was too near, too awesome, yet too spiritually pure, to be hate,
still it sent them apart none the less surely.
By degrees, even amid the hard struggle of the strikes, he came to a
self-knowledge. His perceptions were not easily confused; and by that
intuitive process born pure in every soul, but too often marred and
dulled by the many counterfeits put upon it, he knew this was love, a
life-long passion for one woman, not because she had as yet answered any
need of his nature, or promised any expansion into higher life. He loved
her just as she was; for her beauty, her swift, proud grace, her virtues
if she had any, her very faults, and of those he was not in doubt. And
he set himself to win her with the same high courage that had taken Hope
Mills in hand.
Occasionally we see a man wrecked by this steady, persistent,
overwhelming love for an inferior object, caught perhaps by some occult
fascination that flashes all laws out of sight. We wonder how he can be
so led astray; and yet it is an integral part of the man, a quality of
the soul which he would not overcome and put in bonds if he could.
He did not cringe or flatter, or adopt any of the fears or weaknesses of
passion. It was not weak, and he did not fear. He meant to be master of
her soul, and win her through that very power, struggle as she might. He
would wait, if it were years, until she laid down her few weak weapons,
and capitulated. From that time onward, there would be neither "mine"
nor "thine."
And now the fine, tested quality of his patience stood him in good
stead. He might long to draw near, to clasp the snowy hand, to study the
fathomless dusk of the eyes, and note the frightened droop of the
fringed lids; but he held aloof. Still he went to Larch Avenue night
after night; he dropped in of a morning when least expected,
occasionally finding her alone for a few moments; he walked from church
with them, by her side, the only times he came near her, and she felt in
every pulse of her being the indefinable something that she was impelled
to struggle against.
A curious change came over her. The cold indifference melted to a rose
hue of interest, a pliant softness stole over her figure, a certain
buoyant tenderness diffused itself in her tone, her dusky eyes came to
have a startled softness like a shy, frightened fawn. The old brilliant
color returned to cheek and lip, yet toned with the tremulous throbbing
of a new inward life, so exquisitely attuned that she could but listen
to the harmonious melody.
She came to understand presently; the intangible power in his demeanor
roused her, I think; and her whole soul, every fibre of her body, rose
up in mutinous revolt. Whither was this swift current carrying her? What
great wave was this that struck at the very props of her own strength
and reliance? How did this man dare to invade the walled sanctities of
her being? She would have none of him: she would go on her solitary way,
sufficient for herself. She, who had never loved amid all the
beguilements the world had to offer, to be conquered by the very man she
had trained herself to despise!
Irene Lawrence found it hard fighting with this unseen foe. He seemed
always lying in ambush, always armored with a word or sentiment to which
she must assent, always before her in the place she had meant to be; and
she would not throw up the white flag of defeat. She would not own to
herself she experienced any alarm or annoyance.
One evening Fred and Sylvie had gone to a neighbor's, and were
momentarily expected. A peculiar temptation entered her soul. If this
man must needs flutter in the flame, why should she be tender and
careful of him? Others had dared her, to the burning of their very
souls: if the experience was worth the pain, he should have it, and
decide.
She sat down at the piano, and shook a shower of melody out of her
slender finger-ends. All the affluent grace of womanhood with the polish
of society spoke in every curve of her pliant figure, in the dainty,
delicate, high-bred gestures. The eyes hung out their false lights of
treacherous intent amid the half-slumberous fire; the very lips seemed
shaped and blossoming with a rare thrill of passion that could turn to a
caress at a look. All along the brow ran fine sinuosities of light that
dazzled like the tracery of pale flame. Had she blossomed into some
royal midsummer flower that is seen but once in an age?
She had motioned him close beside her with an impelling wave of the
hand. He could feel her warmth, her fragrant breath; her soft billowy
dress fell against his foot in a crested wave; her white hand and
slender wrist, just toned, but not hidden, with rare lace like that of
Arachne's spinning, wandered temptingly over toward him. A sudden
delirium took possession of him, an exhilaration that steeped the brain,
that stirred every pulse, that awoke in him an almost maddening desire
to clasp her in his arms, to drain such sweetness from her lips that the
whole world might be beggared ever after, and he not care.
She knew the signs. She had seen more than one man dally on the brink,
and then topple over to the blankness of despair. Even if she had pitied
herself, which she did not, she could have had no mercy on him. Now she
was set to her work, and she meant to do it if she brought into play
every fascination art and nature had furnished her with.
His soul rose and glowed within him. The music, the most ravishing of
its kind, stirred him to that intensity of pain, it seemed as if he must
cry out with torture. No suffering had ever been like this: if the
doctrine of sacrificial fires were true, he might have purchased
paradise.
Did he mean never to stir or speak? Could that hand, lying so passively
on the corner of the piano, remain unmoved, with hers just below it? Its
defiant strength stung her.
"They do not come,"--looking warily around, and passing him with her
veiled eyes, rather than looking at him. "Are you growing weary? Shall I
sing for you?"
The tone had the melody of some lotus-freighted stream. She had thrown
all her sweetness into it.
"If you will."
His was tremulous and husky with repressed passion.
Her voice was not pure: it had the rich depth and pathos of contralto,
and the vibrant clearness of soprano. Now it threaded a tremulous
pathway among the pathetic minor notes, while the fingers seemed to drop
a faint sigh of accompaniment,--
          "Oh! when ye hear me gie a loud, loud cry,--
             The broom blooms bonnie, and says it is fair,--
           Shoot an arrow frae thy bow, and there let me lie,
             And we'll never gang down to the broom ony mair.
          "And when ye see that I'm lying cauld and dead,--
             The broom blooms bonnie, and says it is fair,--
           Then ye'll put me in a grave wi' a turf at my head,
            And we'll never gang down to the broom ony mair."
The last sad note died into summer-night sweetness. A current of bland,
dangerous magnetism passed between them. She turned her splendid,
passion-lighted eyes to him, and the subtle, measuring, conquering
forces in the man and the woman met. With a mighty effort he thrust back
desire, and compressed his lips to a line under the bronzed-gold
moustache, while his eyes, like points of steel, never wavered.
Irene Lawrence turned blindly, and held out her hands as if to grasp
some sure stay. Just as surely as she had not won, she had lost.
"I have tired you," he said,--a murmur just under his breath. "But you
can hardly know the exquisite pleasure you have given me. It is perfect.
We will have no more music to-night;" and he rose, shutting the piano
down.
She went to the open window like one in a trance, so stunned she could
not even feel angry at his defiance of her. A long, long moment of
silence: then they heard Sylvie's bright voice on the porch, and she
came in with a waft of dewy, outdoor fragrance.
Miss Lawrence went to her room presently, to fight out the battle with
herself. She admitted then that she had come to love Jack Darcy; but she
was strong and resolute, and would not be mastered by the passion. What
could she do? for go away she must! Her imperious will and knowledge of
men had availed her little to ward off this one's influence. Every
instinct had been baffled, every movement had been met with a
counterpoise. To stay here, and struggle, would be to yield eventually.
There were dark circles under her eyes the next morning, tokens of her
vigil and strife. She intrenched herself again behind that dumb apathy:
she stood aloof from Sylvie. For days she escaped the watchful sight of
Darcy; but she heard his voice, and every rebellious pulse was
a-tremble. She cast about for some expedients whereby to escape her
prison honorably, and after several fruitless efforts found one.
In their early days there had been a girl-friend between Agatha and
Gertrude, who had always held an attraction for the child Irene.
Wealthy, beautiful, and accomplished, she had married a man who had
already made for himself a name in statesmanship, a cultured and
polished gentleman, and her bridal had been the theme of the day. But
the fiend of intemperance had wrought destruction of her brilliant
prospects, and made her life an open scandal. When it could no longer be
borne, she gathered up the wreck of her fortune and her two little
girls, and opened a boarding-school in a quiet, aristocratic old town.
Irene had met her in New York after her own loss of fortune; and, though
she had disdained sympathy, she was touched by Mrs. Trenholme's
kindliness.
She wrote to her now; and, of half a dozen applications, this was the
only one that elicited a favorable reply. Mrs. Trenholme needed a
teacher of French and music, and she knew Miss Lawrence's accent was
perfect. The salary was not large, being four hundred dollars a year;
but the duties were not very arduous, being all confined to
school-hours.
Much as Irene desired to go, there was some struggle with her pride
before she could bring herself to accept. Only the prospect of that
greater pride being laid in ruins before her eyes, could finally have
induced her. Mrs. Trenholme expressed her delight warmly.
There were strenuous objections on Fred's part when it came to be talked
over. "She had no need. He was as much her protector as her father had
been: indeed, was he not paying back the kindly care to himself,
honoring his father's memory by doing as he would have done?"
Sylvie came to the rescue presently.
"I would let her go, Fred," she counselled. "Beverly is a delightful
place, with many cultured people, and Mrs. Trenholme is just the woman
to have an influence over Irene. You see, she gets so tired of having no
pursuit, no strong interest. I could not endure it myself."
"But she might have--I have dared to dream"--
"Put away dreams, my darling." Sylvie's voice was unconsciously sad.
Then, with a smile, and tears, "If God kept watch over us, and brought
us to our haven, can we not trust him for her,--for them?"
And so they acquiesced.
When Jack Darcy left Miss Lawrence on that fateful evening, his whole
soul was full of unrest. He paced the quiet streets in that tense mood
which makes thought and breath alike torture. Now that it was over, he
said, with the inconsequence of love, that he had been a weak, cowardly
fool to fear his fate too much; and yet the next instant he knew he
would surely have lost it all, and that in time she must come to need
him. If he could wait! Well, he would wait. He had not trained
himself heretofore in these long reaches of patience for no purpose.
That richly satisfying, inward sight, she could not take from him, that
exultant faith which was warmed and fed from a thousand secret rills.
He understood why she shunned him, why she had resolved to leave
Yerbury; and he was thankful now that he had not ruined his cause by
impatience. To think of not seeing her, of not hearing her voice, was
like madness! His face grew thin, there were tense lines about his mouth
and a set resolve in his eyes; yet to his fine temper came no moodiness
or irritability. The task he had set for himself must be accomplished.
He was as absolute in his self-denial as he would be in his happiness
when that came.
So she went away with the merest friendly farewell, and asked herself
angrily, an hour after, what power this man had over her, and why she
feared him? Surely there was not much of the lover in that calm face!
He threw himself into the business with renewed energy. As I said, the
September account was inspiriting. Prospects began to look brighter,
only it was admitted on all hands that the days of large profits and
quick fortunes were over for a long while, if not for all time. Industry
was coming to be respected, and you heard less talk about luck.
The outside world kept watch of them narrowly, jealously. If they turned
out thieves and swindlers, it would not be for the lack of advice.
However, they tramped on and on. Their store gained a little, and was
productive of much good. Keppler went to a different part of the town.
Boyd sold the ground, and a row of decent cottages were to be put up.
Kit Connelly had been reimbursed by the town for her damages, and with
Ben Hay's advice and counsel built an addition to her house, which he
and Rose took for housekeeping purposes. The lunch and coffee room was a
regular and profitable institution, and would be a business for one of
the boys as he grew up to manhood.
Sylvie and Fred went to the city for a winter holiday. Fred's book was
elegantly brought out, and won him much praise and a little money.
Sylvie achieved her ambition, and sold two pictures at what she
considered marvellous prices, but she wisely confessed it only to her
husband. They were invited to clubs and soirées; and Mrs. Minor was
extremely affable, though she did blame Fred for allowing Irene to take
such an idiotic step.
Darcy and Maverick indulged in two or three flying trips. Miss McLeod
liked nothing better than to get these young people together, and listen
to the animated conversations, herself as spicy and sharp as any one.
Miss Lothrop was married; and in the slim, fair, blushing girl the old
lady had for companion now, he saw no danger.
So the winter wore away, and the spring came again; and the man who was
counting the days wondered wearily at times what his summer harvest
might be.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
THE regal woman who stepped from the car to the station-platform at
Yerbury, one balmy day in early June, to be greeted by Fred and Sylvie
Lawrence with the warmest of welcomes, was indescribably different from
the pale, cold, haughty statue that had gone away. There was an
elasticity in her step, a self-reliance in her air, and the peculiar
confidence discipline wisely used inevitably imparts.
Yet there had been no romantic or highly-wrought change in her. She had
not taken up teaching from any heroic motive or the possible benefit to
any one, but simply to protect herself from what she considered the
weakness of her own soul, to get away from a danger she could not fight.
Oh, how she had hated French verbs and exercises! If hers had been a
susceptible musical temperament, she would have gone quite crazy with
the blunders and sentimentalisms of young girls.
After a month of it, she would have welcomed any relief, even the
face-to-face conflict with Darcy. But she could not well run away from
here, and her physical health was perfect: so there was nothing but to
go straight on, and find that circumstances had to govern, that she
could not shut herself up in sullen majesty, or fling off the daily
duties for some wiser and more patient hands to pick up, and restore to
beauty and harmony.
She had a friend, the best and truest that a young woman could have,
perhaps; a woman so admirably adapted to the training of girls, that it
was no marvel she succeeded. Out of the ruins of her life she had built
up another, wise, sweet, and strong. As Irene began to comprehend what
Mrs. Trenholme had suffered and achieved, for the first time she paid an
honest reverence to the nobility of character. And now she despised her
own petty, shallow thoughts and beliefs. Her lofty despising of the
world and the vain and selfish people therein had been only a kind of
scornful regret for the treasures wrested from her, the glitter of
fashion, the gauds of society. Fred had made a braver stand than she. He
had not sought to poise himself on the easy, graceful rounds of past
promises, and to dream futile weakening dreams, nor shut himself up in
morbid isolation.
After all, how little the great world really cared! It was the few
friends, the small circle, the near influences, that were of importance.
And when she found that here in cultured, delightful Beverly, she was
sought out as an entertaining guest, that she had not lost caste because
the great bubble of fortune had shivered into fragments, that dressing
and shopping and flirting were not the highest of human enjoyments, she
came to a very rational frame of mind, and to a certain extent enjoyed
her life. But nature had not made her a teacher of children, and never
does such women, until, informed by that highest of all love, they teach
their own.
She came back beautiful, strong, and brave, resolute to dare any thing.
She dazzled them at the little tea-table by her swift, easy animation,
her brilliancy, the color that went and came, the smiles that were like
rippling billows over a sea. And Sylvie's heart went down like lead,
though it was such a fair picture. "For now," she thought, "Jack will
never dare to love her!"
Perhaps not, if he had to begin now. But the love was in him and of him,
and would be hers all his life long, whether she took it or no.
He did not come for a day or two. She wondered a little: she even
laughed lightly at her own past fear, the shadow she had conjured up,
the warm blood ran so healthily through her veins now.
He sauntered in one morning to find her cutting roses with Sylvie, the
two the fairest flowers in all the garden. He was in no wise abashed at
this vision of loveliness: if she had a dower of beauty, he had his
unstained manhood.
They chatted and laughed. Sylvie pinned a pale bud and geranium-leaf in
his coat. He held out his hand to Irene with a curious little gesture.
She had two or three great royal purple pansies clasped lightly in her
fingers.
She meant to refuse courteously, but their eyes met. Was it the old
spell working?
Surely, surely all these fine-spun barriers, all these cunning Alps that
she had thrown up day after day, were over-leaped at a supple bound.
Master herself she might; but he stood in his man's power and pride and
love, a suppliant, yet king, asking with wordless lips a little favor,
taking with calm yet passionate eyes a royal largess. Her heart sank;
her breath came in one long, tremulous sweep. Whether she gave, or he
took, she could not have told; but he went away with the pansies in his
fingers, despite Sylvie's pleading for a longer stay.
When he was quite out of sight, he kissed them, sweet, tender, longing
kisses. Then he dropped them between the white leaves of a little book,
to be sacred forever. Sylvie's boutonnière might keep him company
outwardly, but those no eye must feast upon.
He took the fine right of a lover, not declared, yet certain of his
ground, not using any power that she could disdain or wound, it was so
delicate, intangible, the perfume without the flower, the little
thoughtfulness for her, reaching for her fan, folding her shawl about
her if the evening blew up cool, seeming to know her wants the very
instant they occurred to herself. And though she rebelled in secret,
though she resolved heroically to put an end to it all, the golden
moment never came.
It seemed as if the four were always together. Not but what Yerbury
opened spacious doors to them, and proffered flattering welcomes; but
they could not tone themselves to the insipidities of society. There
were more complete and intense enjoyments. Sylvie and Irene took long
drives through country lanes, or of a moonlight summer evening they all
went. They sat on the porch, and Jack came strolling by: they went
within, and there were books, music, desultory talking, and that
wondrous, unseen guest in their midst.
Sylvie rarely left her alone. They were not the women to tease one
another by flippant jests or allusions; and Mrs. Fred, of all others,
had a dread of thrusting any vulgar face on this colorless, yet
delicious, atmosphere. Love knew his own, and was sacredly known of
them.
Irene Lawrence could no more help blossoming under the intense yet
steady warmth of his temperament, the vivid creative life in every
feature, than she could have helped being at all; and to have refused or
destroyed the love would have been as sure spiritual suicide as a poison
to the body. He understood that she came to see this presently; and then
his suit was half won,--more than half: he had only to go on to the
royal fruition of hope and patience. She no longer shunned him: she
dropped that pointed, distant "Mr. Darcy," and in the soul's own
language, gave him no outward name.
And, when he took her at her royal flood-tide, the words of asking and
answering mattered little. A look, a tone, a clasp of hands, a last
struggle of her pride, and she was his.
The wide, warm summer night closed about them: the dusk was rich with
floating dewy perfumes, and golden stars dazzled in the clear, moonless
sky. Out in the trees a little bird, startled from her nap, sang a
brief, sweet song to her little ones. He drew the proud yet yielding
figure closer: their hearts beat, their flushed cheeks touched, their
lips met in one long, heavenly caress, their hands clasped until pulse
throbbed with pulse in impassioned unison.
Only a death and a great love can so change the aspect of life. As in
the grave lies buried the dearest promises of love, hope, existence
itself, and we learn in time to cling to every faint dream, so, like a
resurrection, love sweeps away the sins and follies and weaknesses of
the past, and rises from the dust and ashes transformed, renewed, nay,
born again to the most sacred purposes.
A strange, swift impression rushed over her as she met the eager,
intense eyes. Was it in another world these arms had closed about her
with their strong, restful clasp? She started abruptly: she seemed to
listen, to puzzle herself with the bewildering impression.
"What is it, my darling?" in a deep, ardent voice.
"I don't know"--with a nervous laugh and shiver. "Have we met in some
other country? Did you carry me over mountains, or through valleys, or
hide me from a storm? Was this why I could never get away, try as I
might?"
Oh the wordless, entreating beauty of those eyes!
"My queen, my own, you will never try again."
"Never!" with a long, delicious, sobbing breath. "Why are you so
irresistibly, so powerfully strong, Jack? Do you know,--you must know
how wicked I have been! If you cast me out, it would only be a proper
punishment. I don't mean that my lips or my hands are blurred with other
men's kisses. I never could endure that," shuddering. "But they laid
down their hearts, and I walked over them: they were weak, and I was
strong! And one night I tried"--her voice sank to a beseeching,
half-shamed murmur.
"Yes," he gave a pure, genial laugh, rich in his own sustaining
strength. "You would have broken my heart, your own too; for I think,
even then, you loved me."
"I surely have never been indifferent. It was either love or hate. Do
you remember the first evening I saw you in the parlor yonder?"
She learned ere long, that he had never forgotten any thing; but the
depth and perfectness of his love she could not learn in a day.
If Jack Darcy had been patient hitherto, that grand quality seemed
suddenly exhausted. He absolutely hurried her into a marriage,--hurried
Sylvie too, who wanted the courtship to proceed with measured, golden
steps.
"As if it were not to be a courtship all one's life!" said radiant Jack.
"Now the moments break in the middle, there are tangled ends, and
endless beginnings, and one can hardly remember where one left off. Were
you sorry to go to Fred?"
"Why, no!" with wide-open, surprised eyes.
He carried the day at last, and September was appointed. They would be
married in the old church. Mrs. Minor responded to the tidings by a
visit. She had treasured up a great many things to say to Irene; but for
once she was quite overwhelmed, and her sneers and patronage fell to the
ground. Though she did remark to her mother,--
"Of course I am disappointed that Irene, with her face and style, has
not done any better; but you cannot expect much after one passes twenty.
Mr. Darcy has improved certainly, and Irene is not as exclusive as we
older girls were. It is a great pity she did not go out to Gertrude."
For George Eastman, with a cat-like propensity, always came down on his
feet. He was now at the flood-tide of prosperity--on other people's
money. Mrs. Eastman was regal in velvets, sables, and diamonds, queening
it at St. Petersburg. Some day there might be a crash again, but they
would be well out of the way.
Miss Lawrence would have no diamonds, and no show; but she was dazzling
in her radiant loveliness; and, if Jack was not handsome, his superb
manliness redeemed him. Hope Mills took a holiday. All Yerbury went, it
seemed; and those who could not get in remained outside for a glimpse.
Sylvie and Fred leaned over the registry in the vestry-room. In a bold
hand the bridegroom had written, "John Beaumanoir Darcy."
"A compliment to Irene's pride," laughed Sylvie. "The most aristocratic
name of them all!"
The old house was brightened up a bit before the young couple returned.
Gentle Mrs. Darcy wondered how it would be between the old and the new
love; but she remembered with charity, that she had taken the fresh
young love of another Darcy, and was content with her day.
The young people brought a new atmosphere with them, but it did not
clash with the old. Jane Morgan was planning a home for herself. One of
the cut-up farms had been put together again; and she had taken a
five-years' lease at a low rate, to try a prudent and sensible scheme of
philanthropy. Maverick had been intensely puzzled by Jack's love-affair,
and could not yet account for it satisfactorily, but watched them both
with a kind of amused interest, and dreamed of the deft, dainty little
fairy down at his aunt's.
I suppose I ought to say that Mrs. Jack Darcy vied with her husband in
all good works,--in schools and clubs, and plans for everybody's
improvement; but it was not her forte. He was too well satisfied
with her love for him, her music, her enchanting ways, to wish her any
different; and I think he would have been jealous, with that exclusive,
tender, adoring jealousy, that cannot endure its choice treasures
lavished upon others. She was kindly and generous in a stately, queenly
fashion; but what between Jack, who was a more importunate lover than
ever, and the baby born at Larch Avenue, she had her hands quite full.
The five years of mutual copartnership drew to a close. Their young
engineer had not blown up the mills; Bob Winston did not go off at the
last moment with the balance at the bank; Jack Darcy had not falsified
accounts: but it came out just as everybody had predicted that it
would! "If your men were honest and honorable, co-operation could not
fail of success. It was the simplest of all schemes," said "The Evening
Transcript."
The two offices were thrown into one by the sliding-doors, and the
workmen and women assembled in their holiday gear. Jack Darcy was really
struck with the change in their faces and the general demeanor. They had
a brisk, cheery, self-reliant air: there was a certain neatness and
respectability about which they used not to care in the old times. The
boys of five years ago were grown men, and there wasn't a sturdier one
among them than Barton Kane.
And now Jack Darcy proceeded to read the statement of the whole period,
to which every one listened with the most profound attention.
At the close of the first year, after rent, wages, and all other
expenses were taken out, the accumulation of profits had been
$21,642.27. One-half of this, $10,821.13.5, had been turned directly
over to capital: the other half, the profit of labor, was divided again
in equal shares, one going to capital for every person, the other,
amounting to $5,410.56.7, paid over to them as compensation for
three-quarter wages. Of course the men had been delighted. They
remembered their first joy even now.
Then had followed the disastrous second year, which had no such golden
story to tell. The first six months, interest and discount had made
horrible inroads into capital, and there had not only been no surplus,
but an actual deficiency. The latter half showed a poor frightened
balance of $137. But this year they improved greatly in economic
management and several new processes that gave larger profit with less
labor and outlay, so the hard strain had not been entirely without its
uses. Capital had gone down in the valley of humiliation, and had a
