I suppose, but can there not be society without all 
this preparation ? My dress is one ; there will be 
fifty more like it, and even far more expensive, 
here to-night; put all that together. Then the 
supper. I knew, for I had heard my sister and 
her husband talking about various items. And 
this is one little party, only one ; and if the cost of 
it were differently applied, it would bring health 
and comfort and rest into half a dozen, what am 
I talking of? into twenty famthe's, where now 
there is and will be pinching want, driving toil, 
anxiety and infirmity. Society ought to be very 
precious, at such a price ! I determined I would 
watch well this evening to see what it really 
amounted to. But would I dance? that must be 
decided first. 

I thought I could make my observations better 
if I kept quite cool ; and perhaps, if I danced, I 
might get caught in the whirl of pleasure, and not 
know what I was doing. Pleasure I believe in, 
certainly; nobody likes it better; but I could not 
be quite sure that I should be doing right in taking this pleasure. Well, at last I fixed upon one 
thing; till I was sure, I would not do it. I would 
wait, and look on and see. 



 

I was ready when Caroline called me, and to 
gether we went down stairs. Sandie surveyed us 
both and gave us a well-pleased smile. 

" Eeady for conquest ? " said he. 

"Why should you say such a thing, Brother 
Sandie?" 

"The thought is so inevitably suggested." 

" But the thing is not true. What has society 
to do with making conquests ? " 

Mr. Birkenstall laughed. " It is the one end and 
purpose of society. To make them, or to hinder 
them, or to secure them. You ladies are all intentionally conquerors; we are the victims." 

"That is what we are supposed to dress for, 
then?" said I. "You know I am an ignoramus, 
and I want to learn. And what do you mean by 
making conquests ? " 

" Surely you know ? " said my brother-in-law with 
a serio-comic face. 

" I do not, indeed." 

" Let her find out, Sandie." 

" No, please answer me," said I. " I am quite in 
earnest." 

"With those blushing cheeks!" said Caroline. 
" Don't believe her." 

"Yes, I am in earnest," I repeated. "I want 
to know what you mean. I am blushing at the 
thought of what you may mean. 

" Quite right," said Sandie nodding. " I mean 
that." 

" You cannot," said I. " You cannot mean that 



 

any girl would try to bring any man to her 
feet?" 

" Any man," said Sandie laconically. "And every 
man. Some girls try for eveiy man." 

He gave me a laughing look, and turned to the 
guests, who began to come in. Whether he was in 
earnest or jest I do not know. But I think it is al 
most worse for a woman to be unwomanly than for 
a man to be unmanly. 

The rooms soon filled with people and with a 
great hum and chatter. I liked it far less than the 
garden party. It was not that I had not enough 
this time to do; for my sister brought plenty of 
people and introduced them to me ; and with every 
one I had a new beginning of conversation to 
make. And it is difficult, just at the beginning of 
a conversation, to get upon any thing interesting. 
People talked the same things over very frequently ; 
they asked me how long I had been in Philadelphia, 
and what I had seen, and remarked that I was seeing Philadelphia under favourable auspices ; which 
I knew, but could hardly discuss. They talked 
about the weather, and compared New York and 
Philadelphia, at least one man did. The scene 
would have been pretty, I think, if I could have 
looked at it with other people's eyes; to mine, I 
confess, it wanted meaning and purpose. Nobody 
said anything I wanted to hear; nobody seemed 
to care about that sort of thing ; it was just a glitter and a hum and a fidget of dressed-up figures ; 
and I thought to myself that without the dressing 



 

it would not have been much. No doubt I am a 
great ignoramus and do not understand things. 
When the dancing began, of course I was asked to 
join in it; but I said I would rather look on for a 
while, and so I got a chance to make my observations. At first I had so many petitions to dance 
that I could do nothing but ward them off; then 
by and by I sapped somewhat aside, in the shadow 
of a window curtain, and then could look and think 
a little. The dancing was a curious spectacle to 
my unaccustomed eyes. All were joining in it, 
not the younger people alone; I saw tolerably 
stout ladies standing gravely up opposite to young 
things like myself, and going through some extraordinary movements with more or less care ; not 
dancing at all, but walking or tripping to measure, 
though indeed they did not always take care of the 
measure ; and in intervals chatting with their partners. Faces wore smiles, universally, yet I could 
not fancy that most of the people were having any 
great jenjoyment. Between the smiles,. I thought 
I could read so much. I questioned myself, what 
had I, Desire Burgoyne, to do with such an entertainment? I, whose home and life in a little 
country village are so different. What sense is 
there in my being attired in gauze and lace, when 
at home I must go back to homespun ? And the 
gauze and lace are prettier, but I would just as 
lieve wear the homespun, for I can do my work in 
it better. And if this is society, I do not think I 
shall lose much. My talk the other night, on the 



 

seat by the water, with Mr. Iredell, that was an 
other matter! I would like a little more of such 
society. But perhaps it would spoil me for the 
place where my life must be ; for there is nothing 
like that in Chesterfield. And I am here in Philadelphia for only a little while, perhaps only for 
this once. It would be very foolish in me to lose 
my heart to this sort of elegant, m^erry, careless 
life, even if I could ; and I like another sort of life 
better. Not that at Chesterfield exactly ; I cannot 
help seeing that that is narrow, and I will make 
mine as wide as I can. 

I was thinking what means I could apply to this 
end, for truly I did not immediately know, when 
the current of my thoughts was changed. A face 
I knew and was glad to see again, came very near 
me ; even Mr. Iredell's own. He came very near, 
without at all seeing me or knowing I was there ; 
for the white lace curtain shrouded my white gauze, 
I standing just in the recess of the window; and 
he came and placed himself leaning against the 
wall just at the other xside of the window, with 
folded arms looking on at the crowd as, without 
folded arms, I had been doing. I was in the shade 
and unseen, and I looked at him now. I had 
had no such good chance before. I knew him 
enough to recognize him, to be sure, and yet his 
face as seen now in perfect repose and gravity 
seemed almost like another face. He stood motionless, very grave, in a careless attitude leaning 
against the corner of the window recess; and I 



 

tried to read him. But it is difficult to read people. Looks and characteristics may be so easily 
misinterpreted. This was like no other face I ever 
saw, and I may say this was like no other fig 
ure. The quiet strength and ease of the outlines 
I thought I could not read wrong; strength both 
physical and moral. He is rather a large man, of 
powerful frame, and well supplied with muscle ; 
and there was all the ease of both sorts of strength 
in his position and air, and the grace of both in the 
somewhat thrown-back head. His face, I thought, 
was the handsomest I had ever seen. The more I 
looked, the more I thought so. It had the same 
characteristics, strength and calm ; while it was at 
the same time the gravest face I ever saw. I do 
not mean sorrowful or gloomy, in the very least; 
only grave. Like the face of one who habitually 
looked through things and saw what they meant ; 
and I would have given something to know his 
thoughts at the moment upon what had occupied 
mine. The features of this face were beautifully 
chiselled, but somewhat massive; the brow strong- 
the hair thick and wavy and pushed back carelessly; the eyes and mouth, as I said, grave, but 
very calm, and indicating a world of power and 
character. I looked and looked, and Mr. Iredell 
never moved. It came over me to wonder that 
this man should have taken the trouble to talk to 
me as he did the other night. , Yes, he was not a 
young man, not very young, that is ; he had seen 
something of life and taken his part in it, that was 



 

plain. I wished he would find me out, but I hardly 
dared breathe for fear I should help him to the discovery. And I do not know what ever made him 
at last look my way, for I am certain I had not 
stirred to make the least noise; yet suddenly he 
turned and met my eyes full. I felt ashamed, and 
he started from his position. 

" In hiding ! " he exclaimed. 

" Something like it," I answered. 

" May one ask, what you are hiding from ? " he 
said laughing. 

"It is a fair question, Mr. Iredell. I suppose I 
ought to answer, if I can. You know, I am a 
country girl. All this is a new scene to me. I 
was willing, if I could, to get a one side a little 
and look at it quietly, and make up my mind about 
it. And besides, I wanted to get out of the way of 
invitations to dance." 

" You do not dance ? How happens that ? " 

" I have not made up my mind about it." 

" Whether you will or not ? " 

"Whether I ought." 

"That is a doubt very few people share." 

"My friends here say the doubt is narrow, and 
arises from prejudice only; because I have been 
brought up so." 

"And you wanted to make up your own judg 
ment ? How is it you are not taking the general 
method, which is, to do a thing first, and consider 
it afterwards; that is, supposing the time for consideration ever comes." 



 

" Is that the general method ? " 

" How comes it not to be yours ? " 

" I do not know. I suppose, because, I can 
not take pleasure in a thing if I am in doubt 
about it." 

" Is the ground of your doubt in the present 
case simply education ? as you say, being brought 
up so ? 

I hesitated, for he was not dancing himself; I 
presumed that he shared my doubt, and why 
should he care to know the ground of it. I hesitated, but everyone knows there are a few people 
in the world to whom the impulse to talk out is 
very irresistible. Since Mr. Iredell paid me the 
compliment of asking the question, why should 
not I pay him the compliment of answering it ? 

" I think my doubt lies here," said I. " You will 
not laugh at me, and perhaps you can help me. 
I cannot get over these words Whatsoever ye 
do, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus. I can 
not see how I can do this in his name. " 

" By in his name/ you mean ?" 

" I hardly know how to put it. * In his name 
must meanjfor him somehow; as his servant, I suppose ; doing his work." 

Mr. Iredell looked at me, a look I did not comprehend; somewhat considering and fixed, but not 
at all unpleasant. 

" And whatsoever you do, you wish to do it as 
his servant, doing his work?" said he. 
"Yes, certainly." 



 

"So do I." 

" Then do you think I am mistaken ? or can you 
make me wiser in the matter? You do not dance 
yourself? " 

He did not answer immediately. At the moment there came a whirl of waltzers by, and we 
both looked on. Pair after pair, white, blue, and 
golden coloured draperies flew and flashed before 
us, each embraced by a black coat sleeve ; air and 
attitude and manner varied in different cases, but 
while some were graceful and some ungraceful, I 
confess all were bewildering to me. 

" I can not see what is the pleasure of that," I 
ventured. 

" You are mistaken," said Mr. Iredell ; " it has its 
pleasure, far more than the languid quadrille. )
speak from experience. The matching of move 
ment and measure, the excitement of music and 
motion together, are exceedingly intoxicating." 

" It looks senseless," said I. " People turned 
into animated tops!" 

" That is an unsophisticated view of it," said 
my companion smiling. " Don't tell anybody else. 
Come down to the refreshment room and let me 
get you something, and I will tell you what I have 
seen." 

That was a promise which would have drawn me 
much further. He gave me his arm, and we went 
through the crowd, winding our way out among 
the moving and swaying, floating and surging 
people, and got down stairs to the dining-room. 



 

Here the table was set, and people came and went 
as they pleased; just now the room was almost 
empty. My companion gave me a seat and put a 
plate of salad in my hand, which I took just that 
I might have something to do while I listened. 
But he seemed to have forgotten his promise, until 
I reminded him. * 

" A man can easily make himself a bore by tell 
ing all the things he has seen," he remarked. 

" Not to me," said I, " for I have seen nothing. 
It is all new." 

" I think you told me this is your first visit to 
Philadelphia." 

"Yes; or to any city. I have sometimes gone 
into Boston, when I was at school near there ; but 
only for a few hours." 

" I am interested to know how it strikes you." 

" It strikes me with the sense of what a little 
corner of the world I have lived in, and always 
shall live in, most likely. After what you were 
telling me the other night at the garden party, I 
began to feel what a large place the world is." 

" It is a large place," said he. 

"It must be very pleasant to know it, as you 
do." 

"And it seems to me very pleasant, not to know 
it, as you do." 

"Because I may have the pleasure of learii. 
ing?" 

" It is better not to know some things," he said, 
looking at me kindly. 



 

" I hope what you were going to tell me is not 
one of them ? " 

"No," said he smiling; "and yet it is a story 
about dancing. You remarked up stairs that the 
waltz looked to you senseless. I believe most things 
have significance, one way or another, and even a 
waltz is no exception. "I was going to tell you how 
much meaning dancing may have and express. I 
saw this a long while ago, in Europe " 

"How'd ye do, Mr. Iredell," said a soft voice near 
at hand. I looked up, in disagreeable surprise that 
anybody should venture to interrupt a conversation 
so wantonly ; but I found it seemed to be quite in 
order. The fair speaker had no conscience of rudeness, or if she had she did not shew it. Mr. Ire- 
dell bowed. He had remained standing, when I 
eat down. Now I expected that he would introduce me; but he did not. The disturber of my 
pleasure was a fair creature, a young girl, looking perhaps younger than she was. Her hair, of 
shining black, was dressed in thick curls falling 
down upon neck and shoulders. Neck and shoul 
ders were very white. Her dress, heavy and rich, 
was black, only relieved by lace ; and her eyes were 
as bright and as black as two berries, or as two 
black diamonds. She stood and looked at Mr. Iredell, I thought, as if she liked him. I could not 
help the impression. 

" I thought you never went to parties ? " she be 
gan, challenging him. 

" Yet you see, here I am." 



 

" But you do not dance ? " 

" I do not dance." 

"Then what are you here for? that is what I
want to know." 

" It seems to you there is nothing to be done 
but dancing." 

"You are not eating, or drinking; and I do not 
suppose you care for it. Get me a cup of coffee, 
please." 

While Mr. Iredell was doing this, the stranger 
surveyed me; not staringly, not rudely, but with 
one sweeping comprehensive glance of her bright 
eyes which took in, I thought, all there was of me. 
Accepting the coffee, she continued. 

" I thought you never went in for nonsense, even 
sweet nonsense ? " 

" I don't know the article." 

"0 that's a white lie! What else do you get 
here ? " 

" Not that, I assure you." 

"You don't expect sense; nobody talks sense at a 
dance ; they can't you know ; how can they, hopping 
round ? And you don't like anything but sense ; so 
I don't see what you came for. What did you ? " 

" Is your coffee right ? " 

"Better than your politeness. Why don't you 
answer me ? " 

" I suppose, because you are not a judge." 

" A judge of what ? " 

"Of me." 

" I am, though. I can't help judging people, and 



 

you can't. I came here for something, and you 
came here for something ; and if it wasn't pleasure, 
I am curious to know what it was." 

" I never said it was not pleasure." 

" No, but there is only one sort of pleasure to be 
had here, and that is a sort you don't like. What 
were you talking about? This is Mrs. Birkenst all's 
sister, I know. Introduce me, please." 

" Miss Burgoyne, this lady is Miss Forella." 

" I am very glad to meet you," said the young 
lady easily. " Mrs. Birkenstall promised to introduce me, but I had no opportunity to claim her 
promise. Is this horrid man keeping you from 
dancing ? " 

"No," said I, extremely astonished. 

"You must not mind anything he says. He 
don't dance himself, so, you see, he cries sour 
grapes. Dear me, if I minded Mr. Iredell ! there 
would be nothing left in life. Not a thing. All 
the  sweet nonsense which he doesn't believe in, 
you see, I live upon. I am a kind of a butterfly, 
and butterflies live on honey, don't they? if they 
don t, I don't know what they do live on. But 
what's life good for? Now I op! don't begin to 
tell me what it is good for, because we don't 
agree. I believe people are meant to be happy, 
and enjoy themselves. 

" Honestly, do you manage to accomplish that ? " 
Mr. Iredell. " Now I do." 

" I enjoy myself ever so much," said the girl with 

look at him. " Don't you think I do ? " 



 

No." 

"Why not?" 

" When people are happy, they usually look so." 

" And I don't look happy ? What do you think 
of Miss Burgoyne ? does she ? 

" Judge for yourself." 

Miss Forella surveyed me again, with a little 
more consideration; and something in the look 
was not comfortable, was not pleasant to me. I 
did not know then and I do not know now, what 
it was. " 

" Has he been telling you dancing is nonsense?" 
she asked. 

"On the contrary," said Mr. Iredell. "I was 
just about to tell Miss Burgoyne how much mean 
ing there may be in dancing." 

" Meaning in dancing ? There is never any 
meaning in my dancing; only fun." 

" I did not intend to describe your dancing." , 

"Whose, then?" 

Mr. Iredell named a name which I did not under 
stand. Miss Forella did not know it either. He 
explained that it had belonged to a very famous 
public dancer in Er vpe, some years ago. 

" And you saw her ! " cried Miss Forella, while 
the black eyes twinkled. 

" I saiv her. I would not venture to describe 
such a scene upon hearsay." 

" And are you going to describe to us her danc- 
ing?" 

"If you will listen to me." 



 

" I'll be delighted. But the idea ! The grave Mr. 
Iredell, who does not believe in sweet nonsense, 
describing to the gay Miss Forella, who swallows 
all she can get, a specially sweet bit of special 
nonsense! It's delightful. I'm ready. Go on." 

" You do not know what I am going to give 
you." 

" It's about a ballet dancer and her dancing." 

"I told you, it was dancing with a meaning 
to it." 

"I never heard of such a thing before. But 
go on." 

" First, please," said I "What is a ballet dancer ? 

" Why, did you never see a ballet ? " 

" No," said Mr. Iredell. " She does not know 
what you mean. She never went to the theatre." 

" Poor creature ! Well you cannot tell her." 

"I will try. Miss Burgoyne, a ballet is a dra 
matic dance in which the play of feeling is sup 
posed to find its expression and delineation in the 
play of feet ; rather, in the swaying movements of 
the whole person." 

" But I should think that is impossible," said I. 
" How can dancing express feeling ? " 

" It can, and does, however. Many nations, both 
in ancient and modern times, have had special national dances ; which were simply expressions of a 
certain set of feelings, more or less gracefully, 
more or less skilfully given." 

"You mean an Indian war dance," said Miss 
Forella. " I don't call that a dance." 



 

" It is one sort, indulged in by many tribes of 
the like range of civilization ; and it is very significant of meaning. The Indian bayaderes and Egyp 
tian dancing girls belong to another sort, and suit 
a different condition of national life. Among the 
Hebrews of old, dancing was an expression of religious joy, when the men and the women danced 
separately; when they danced together, it was an 
outburst of riotous revelry, connected with no religion but that of the heathen. The Russians have 
a dance, a pas de deux, which mimics the whole 
course of a courtship ; the girl's shy coquetry and 
the man's bold wooing ; the Cossacks have another 
which displays the men's skill at arms and the 
woman's address with her particular weapons. The 
old English minuet was something of the same 
sort in another style. And in the ballet dancing 
of a trained artiste, if she be a genius, the art 
reaches its height." 

"I never saw anything like that," said Miss Forella looking at him curiously. 

"I have." 

"Well, go on and tell us about it. But I fore 
warn you beforehand, I don't believe it." 

" What do you not believe ? " . 

" All this. I don't believe dancing can mean any 
thing." 

"Then my story would be thrown away on 
you." 

" Stories never are thrown away on me. Ah, go 
on! I am dying to hear it." 

Mr. Iredell smiled and went on, but he looked 
rather at me, as seeing that I did believe it. 

" I was no matter where, and no matter when, 
it was at a grand theatre in one of the principalcities on the Continent. The piece was a peculiar 
one I have forgotten the name of it and it does 
not matter. The famous artiste charmed me at 
first by her grace and beauty and skill, yet the 
impression was light. I had seen grace and skill 
before, though perhaps never in equal exercise. 
However, in the early part of the piece the sen 
timent to be expressed- was gay and joyous, suit 
able to the medium of expression. Afterwards all 
that changed. The heroine of the piece was supposed to be dead " 

"Supposed, do you mean ? it was a mistake ? " 

"It was not a mistake. She was dead, in the 
play." 

"Then she could not dance any more." 

" You would think so, wouldn't you ? " 

"Well, how could she?" 

" I do not know. The scene was a graveyard " 

"By night?" 

"Yes, moonlight; clear moonlight, with deep 
shadows cast by the stones and trees." 

"What a dreadful idea!" 

"And there, one by one, we saw the ghosts of tho 
young girls of the village who were buried in the 
churchyard, rise from their graves and begin to 
dance." 

"How were they dressed, pray?" 



 

" In ghostly white garments." 

"It is the most dreadful thing I ever heard of. 
You saw them rise ? " 

" Out of their graves, one after another. Then 
the heroine of the piece came, the last one who 
had been laid there. I can never forget Jwv she 
came ; the skill of it was consummate. Slowly, with 
features at first fixed and rigid, as if she were not 
fully awake yet from the sleep of the grave ; and 
then that expression passed and gave place to a 
look of life, and her dancing began ; and anything 
more expressive of the soft, sad longing supposed 
to be felt by the departed spirit on returning to 
visit its earthly haunts, it is impossible to con 
ceive. The slow grace, the tender lingering, tho 
lost love, were all there, and one's eyes and one's 
heart were alike riveted. For she had a lover left 
on the earth." 

" He ought to have been there." 

" He was there." 

"And what did he do?" 

"Danced." 

"Heartless!" 

"On the contrary. Words could hardly have 
spoken plainer, or have been more mournful or 
more passionate or more powerful than were the 
movements of both of them. The ghost made all 
efforts to induce her lover to go with her." 

"Where?" 

"Back into the grave, whither she must return 
when the clock struck." 



 

" But I hat was very selfish ! " 

"We are talking of dancing," said Mr. Iredell 
smiling. "And nothing more expressive of longing, of affection, of entreaty, anxiety, and despair, 
can be imagined than her movements were; nothing more passionate- than her appeals; nothing 
more sad than her outstretched arms in pleading, 
as she slowly at last sank out of sight. Tears were 
certainly on very many faces; I am sure they were 
on mine." 

" I never heard anything like it in my life ! " was 
Miss Forella's comment. 

"Nothing more perfect in its kind can be im 
agined." 

" But I think it is very strange," said I at last, 
"that she should endeavour to take her lover out 
of life because she was going herself." 

" You do not think that a natural selfishness ? " 
said Mr. Iredell smiling. 

"No. If people are true and their affection is 
true, they desire not their own pleasure but another person's." 

" You think she ought to have wished her lover 
to live and be happy with somebody else?" said 
Mr. Iredell. 

" I don't know about * with somebody else, " I 
answered doubtfully. Whereat Miss Forella burst 
into a fit of laughter, " at my grave face," she said ; 
and seemed excessively amused. Then she asked 
Mr. Iredell what he told me that stoiy for? 

" To reward her for not dancing." 



 

" And me ? " 

" I did not tell it to you." 

" Why not ? " said she pouting. " And are you 
going to keep Miss Burgoyne down here all the 
evening to prevent her from dancing ? " 

"Don't let me keep you," said he with courtly 
politeness. 

"I declare! That is as much as to say, I am not 
worth the trouble." 

"Nothing is worth the trouble, that will not 
repay it." 

"Would it be any gratification to you if you 
could keep me down here too ? without dancing ? " 

" I am sure you would be only gathering strength 
to dance the harder on the next opportunity ? " 

"If I go away, I am afraid you will tell Miss 
Burgoyne something else entertaining. But I must 
go, all the same. I have a great deal to do up stairs, 
before the evening is over. 9 By the way, do you 
know, I think your curious ballet dancer has some 
successors among the living.. Haven't I seen a girl 
try to dance her lover back, when he had forsaken 
her ? and haven't I seen a girl dance away another 
girl's lover ? Haven't I done it ! " 

"Don't be harder on yourself than the truth," 
said Mr. Iredell. " Miss Burgoyne does not know 
your manner of speech." 

" Nor my manner of action, does she ? Miss 
Burgoyne, it is true. I have danced away another 
girl's beloved, and I meant to do it. Now do you 
believe me?" 




I looked at her, and said yes. She laughed 
again, seemingly delighted. 

" Life's a game," said she. " And society's a 
game. We are all players, only some of us ivin" 

" What are you playing for ? " said Mr. Iredell 

" Fun " she answered instantly. 

" It is a pity to play a desperate game for what 
you cannot keep," Mr. Iredell answered gravely. 
Do you know, that little drama I tried to describe 
to you, is reproduced behind the scenes very often ? " 

" Now don't preach ! " said the girl. " I never 
like you when you preach. I hate preaching, and 
what's the use ? I ain't going to stop dancing.* 

" You cannot dance always," he returned with a 
smile, which was still grave. 

" Then I'll die ! Don't preach to Miss Burgoyne 
either, and make her as poky as yourself. Miss 
Burgoyne, don't you be persuaded to be goody, 
goody ! I'm going." And away she flitted. I 
was in so great astonishment at her whole man 
lier that I was dumb; anything like this I had 
never so much as imagined; and doubted now I 
had seen it. My companion looked after her so- 
borly, but then he smiled at me. 

" I must take you back to the world above stairs," 
he said. 

" Yes," I answered. " I am sorry. It is not so 
easy to talk there." 

" Have you seen all that there is to be seen in 
and around Philadelphia ? " 

"0 no. Neither the one nor the other. Carolina 



 

and I have been very busy, but we have not gone 
out of the city, except once or twice." 

"Will you let me shew you some of our pretty 
drives? Can you go to-morrow afternoon? Let 
us take advantage of the fine weather." 

The good part of the evening was clone for me 
when we got back into the midst of the dancing 
and Mr. Iredell left me ; indeed he left the house, 
I knew. And yet, I should not say the good part 
was gone, for the arrangement he had made about 
driving gave me continual pleasure through what 
ever else I was doing; and I might say I enjoyed it 
all after that. However, I must say, that if this is 
society, I do not think much of it. There was a kind 
