    Yolk of an egg beaten light for the yellow.
    1 great tablespoonful of currant jelly for the pink.

Beat the chocolate into one portion, mixing it well; the jelly into
another, the egg into a third, returning this and that flavored with
chocolate, to the fire, and stirring until very hot, but not boiling.
Leave the fourth uncolored. When quite cold and a little stiff, pour
carefully into a wet mould—the white first; then the pink; next the
yellow; and the chocolate last. Of course, when the blanc-mange is
turned out, this order of colors will be reversed. Set in a cold
place. Loosen, when firm, by dipping the mould for a moment in warm
water, and working the top free from the edge with a few light touches
of your fingers. This is a handsome dish and easily managed. Currant
juice or cranberry color a finer pink than jelly, but are apt to thin
the blanc-mange, unless used cautiously. A little vanilla improves the
chocolate.


JAUNE-MANGE. 

    1 oz. Coxe’s gelatine, soaked in half a cup cold water one hour.
    1 cup of boiling water.
    Yolks of four eggs beaten very light.
    1 orange, juice and half the grated peel.
    1 lemon, juice and one-third the grated peel.
    1 cup white wine or clear pale Sherry.
    1 cup powdered sugar and a good pinch cinnamon.

Stir the soaked gelatine in the boiling water until dissolved; take
from the fire and beat, a little at a time, into the yolks; return to
the inner saucepan with the sugar, orange, lemon and cinnamon. Stir
over a clear fire until it is boiling hot; put in the wine and strain
through a hair-sieve or a piece of tarlatan. Set away in a mould wet
with cold water.

The success of this dish depends much upon the stirring and the
watchfulness of the cook. The mixture should not be allowed to boil at
any moment.


VELVET BLANC-MANGE. 

    2 cups of sweet cream.
    ½ oz. Cooper’s gelatine, soaked in a very little cold water one hour.
    ½ cup white sugar (powdered.)
    1 teaspoonful extract of bitter almonds.
    1 glass white wine.

Heat the cream to boiling, stir in the gelatine and sugar, and, so soon
as they are dissolved, take from the fire. Beat ten minutes, or, what
is better, churn in a syllabub-churn until very light; flavor, and add
by degrees the wine, mixing it in well. Put into moulds wet with cold
water.


CHOCOLATE BLANC-MANGE.

    1 quart of milk.
    1 oz. Cooper’s gelatine, soaked in a cup of the milk one hour.
    4 heaping tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, rubbed up with
        a little milk.
    3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately.
    ¾ cup sugar and 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla.

Heat the milk to boiling; pour in the gelatine and milk, and stir
until it is dissolved; add the sugar to the beaten yolks and stir
until smooth; beat the chocolate into this, and pour in, spoonful by
spoonful, the scalding milk upon the mixture, stirring all the while
until all is in. Return to the inner saucepan and heat gently, stirring
faithfully until it almost boils. Remove from fire, turn into a bowl,
and whip in lightly and briskly the beaten whites with the vanilla. Set
to form in moulds wet with cold water.


CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

    1 lb. of lady’s-fingers.
    1 quart of rich sweet cream.
    ¾ cup powdered sugar.
    2 teaspoonfuls vanilla or other extract.

Split and trim the cakes, and fit neatly in the bottom and sides of two
quart moulds. Whip the cream to a stiff froth in a syllabub-churn when
you have sweetened and flavored it; fill the moulds, lay cakes closely
together on the top, and set upon the ice until needed.


Or,

You may use for this purpose a loaf of sponge-cake, cutting strips from
it for the sides and leaving the crust for the bottom and top, each in
one piece.


A TIPSY CHARLOTTE. 

    1 large stale sponge-cake.
    1 pint rich sweet cream.
    1 cup Sherry wine.
    ½ oz. Cooper’s gelatine, soaked in a cup of cold water two hours.
    1 teaspoonful vanilla or bitter almond extract.
    3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten together, but very light.
    1 pint milk.
    1 cup sugar.

Heat the cream almost to boiling; put in the soaked gelatine and half a
cup of sugar, and stir until dissolved. Remove from the fire, flavor,
and when cool, beat or churn to a standing froth. Cut off the top of
the cake in one piece, and scoop out the middle, leaving the sides and
bottom three-quarters of an inch thick. Over the inside of these pour
the wine in spoonfuls, that all may be evenly moistened. Fill with the
whipped cream, replace the top, which should also be moistened with
wine and set in a cold place until needed.

Serve with it, or pour around it, a custard made of the eggs, milk, and
the other half cup of sugar.


CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

    ½ oz. Cooper’s gelatine, soaked in a very little cold water.
    3 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate rubbed smooth in a little milk.
    ½ cup powdered sugar.
    4 eggs.
    ½ lb. sponge-cake.
    1 teaspoonful vanilla.
    1 pint cream.

Heat the cream to boiling, slowly, stirring frequently; add the sugar,
chocolate, and gelatine, and, when these are dissolved, add, a spoonful
at a time, to the beaten yolks. Set back in the saucepan of boiling
water, and stir five minutes, until very hot, but do not let it boil.
Take it off, flavor, and whip or churn to a standing froth, adding the
beaten whites toward the last. Line a mould with cake, fill with the
mixture, and set upon the ice.


FLUMMERY.

    2 oz. almonds—a few bitter among them.
    1 tablespoonful orange-flower or rose-water.
    1 pint cream.
    1 oz. Cooper’s gelatine, soaked one hour in one cup cold water.
    1 cup milk.
    ½ cup sugar.

Blanch the almonds, and, when cold, pound them to a paste in a
Wedgewood mortar, adding orange-flower or rose-water to prevent
oiling. Heat the milk to boiling, put in the gelatine, the sugar
and almonds, and stir five minutes, or until they are thoroughly
dissolved. Strain through thin muslin, pressing the cloth well. When
cool, beat in the cream, a little at a time, with an egg-whip, or churn
in a syllabub-churn until thick and stiff. Wet your mould, put in the
mixture, and let it stand seven or eight hours in a cold place.


GELATINE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. (Very nice.) 

    1 pint of cream, whipped light.
    ½ oz. gelatine, dissolved in 1 gill of hot milk.
    Whites of 2 eggs, beaten to a stiff froth.
    1 small teacup of powdered sugar.
    Flavor with bitter almond and vanilla.

Mix the cream, eggs, and sugar; flavor, and beat in the gelatine and
milk last. It should be quite cold before it is added.

Line a mould with slices of sponge-cake, or with lady’s fingers, and
fill with the mixture.

Set upon the ice to cool.


WHIPPED SYLLABUBS.

    1 pint of cream, rich and sweet.
    ½ cup sugar, powdered.
    1 glass of wine.
    Vanilla or other extract, 1 large teaspoonful.

Sweeten the cream, and, when the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, churn
to a strong froth. Lastly, stir in wine and seasoning, carefully. Serve
at once.

Heap in glasses, and eat with cake.


GOOSEBERRY FOOL.

    1 quart of gooseberries, ripe.
    1 tablespoonful butter.
    1 cup of sugar.
    Yolks of four eggs.
    Méringue of whites, and 3 tablespoonfuls sugar.

Stew the gooseberries in just water enough to cover them. When soft and
broken, rub them through a sieve to remove the skins. While still hot
beat in the butter, sugar, and the whipped yolks of the eggs. Pile in
a glass dish, or in small glasses, and heap upon the top a méringue of
the whipped whites and sugar.


CREAM MÉRINGUES.

    4 eggs (the whites only), whipped stiff, with 1 lb. powdered sugar.
    Lemon or vanilla flavoring.
    1 teaspoonful arrowroot.

When very stiff, heap in the shape of half an egg upon stiff
letter-paper lining the bottom of your baking-pan. Have them half
an inch apart. Do not shut the oven-door closely, but leave a space
through which you can watch them. When they are a light yellow-brown,
take them out and cool quickly. Slip a thin-bladed knife under each;
scoop out the soft inside, and fill with cream whipped as for Charlotte
Russe.

They are very fine. The oven should be very hot.


CALF’S-FOOT JELLY.

    4 calf’s feet, cleaned carefully.
    4 quarts of water.
    1 pint of wine.
    3 cups of sugar—or sweeten to taste.
    Whites of 3 eggs, well beaten.
    2 teaspoonfuls of nutmeg.
    Juice of 1 lemon, and half the grated peel.

Boil the calf’s feet in the water until it is reduced one half; strain
the liquor, and let it stand ten or twelve hours. Skim off every
particle of the fat, and remove the dregs; melt slowly in a porcelain
or bell-metal kettle, add the seasoning, sugar, and the whipped whites
of the eggs, and boil fast about twelve minutes, skimming well. Strain
through a double flannel bag suspended between the four legs of an
upturned high stool or backless chair, the bowl set beneath. Do not
squeeze or shake it, until the jelly ceases to run freely; then slip
out the bowl, and put under another, into which you may gently press
what remains. The first will be the clearer jelly, although the second
dripping will taste quite as well. Wet your moulds, put in the jelly,
and set in a cool place.

There are still some housekeepers who insist that the jellies made
from the modern gelatine are not comparable in beauty and flavor to
those prepared from the genuine feet. Seeing means taste as well
as belief with them, and when they handle and behold the beloved
feet, they know what they are about. Gelatine, they will darkly and
disgustfully assert, is made of horn-shavings and hoofs and the like,
and no more fit to be used for cooking purposes than so much glue.

Nevertheless, while gelatine is so clean, bright, and convenient,
housewives who find the days now but half as long as did their mothers,
despite labor-saving machines, will turn a deaf ear to these alarmists,
and escape the tedious process above-described by using the valuable
substitute.


WINE JELLY. 

    3 cups of sugar.
    1 pint of wine—pale Sherry or White.
    1 cup of cold water.
    1 package Coxe’s gelatine.
    Juice of two lemons and grated peel of one.
    1 quart of boiling water.
    1 good pinch of cinnamon.

Soak the gelatine in the cold water one hour. Add to this the sugar,
lemons, and cinnamon; pour over all a quart of boiling water, and stir
until the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved. Put in the wine, strain
through a double flannel bag, without squeezing, wet your moulds with
cold water, and set the jelly away in them to cool.


CIDER JELLY. 

May be made by the receipt just given, substituting a pint of clear,
sweet cider for the wine.

Fever patients may use cider jelly when wine is forbidden, and they
will find this both refreshing and nutritious.


BIRD’S NEST IN JELLY. 

    1 quart of jelly, made according to either of the receipts just
        given, but with a cup less of boiling water, that it may be
        very firm.
    3 cups of white blanc-mange.
    9 empty eggshells.
    Fresh rinds of two oranges.
    1 cup of sugar.

Cut the rind from the oranges in long narrow strips, and stew these
gently in enough water to cover them until they are tender. Add to them
a cup of sugar, and simmer fifteen minutes longer in the syrup. Lay
them out upon a dish to cool, taking care not to break them. If you
have preserved orange-peel in the house, it will save you the trouble
of preparing this.

The blanc-mange should be made the day before you want it, and the
eggshells filled. The original contents, yolk and white, should be
poured out through a hole, not larger than a half-dime, in the small
end, and the interior washed with pure water, shaken around well in
them. Then fill with blanc-mange and set in a pan of flour or sugar—the
open end up—that they may not be jostled or overturned.

Next morning fill a glass dish two-thirds full of the jelly, which
should be very clear, reserving a large cupful. Break the shells from
about the blanc-mange, and lay the artificial eggs upon the jelly so
soon as the latter is firm enough to bear them. Pile them neatly, but
not too high in the middle, bearing in mind that what is the top now
will be the bottom when the jelly is turned out. Lay the orange peel
which represents straw, over these and around them. Warm the reserved
jelly, so that it will flow readily, but do not get it hot; pour over
the straw and eggs, and set away in a cold place to form. When firm,
turn out upon a glass dish or salver.

This pretty and fanciful dish is yet easily made. The materials are so
simple and inexpensive, and the effect of the work, if deftly done, so
pleasing, that I have no hesitation in calling the attention even of
novices to it.


WINE JELLY (boiled.)

    1 box Coxe’s gelatine, soaked in 1 pint of cold water one hour.
    1 quart of boiling water poured over this, and stirred until
        the gelatine is dissolved.
    1½ lb. white sugar.
    2 lemons—juice and peel.
    1 pint of wine.

Put all over the fire, boil up once well, and strain through a double
flannel bag into moulds.


ORANGE JELLY. 

    2 oranges—juice of both and grated rind of one.
    1 lemon—juice and peel.
    1 package Coxe’s gelatine, soaked in a very little water, one hour.
    1 quart boiling water.
    1½ cup sugar, and 1 small cup of wine.
    1 good pinch of cinnamon.

Squeeze the juice of the fruit into a bowl, and put with them the
grated peel and the cinnamon. Pour over them the boiling water, cover
closely, and let them stand half an hour. Strain, add the sugar,
let it come to a boil, stir in the gelatine, and, when this is well
dissolved, take the saucepan from the fire. Strain through a double
flannel bag into moulds.


VARIEGATED JELLY. 

    1 quart of clear jelly.
    ½ teaspoonful prepared cochineal or red currant juice.
    1 cup white blanc-mange.

Divide the jelly into two equal portions, and color one with a very
little prepared cochineal, leaving the other as it is, of a pale amber.
Wet a mould with cold water and pour in a little of the latter. Set the
mould in the ice, that the jelly may harden quickly, and so soon as it
is firm pour in carefully some of the red. Set back upon the ice to
get ready for the amber, adding the two colors in this order until you
are ready for the base, which should be wider than the other stripes,
and consist of the white blanc-mange. Keep both jelly and blanc-mange
near the fire until you have filled the mould—I mean, of course, that
intended for the latest layers. Let all get very firm before you turn
it out.

You may vary two moulds of this jelly by having the blanc-mange base of
one colored with chocolate, a narrow white stripe above relieving the
grave effect of the brown.



ICE-CREAM AND OTHER ICES.

If you wish to prepare ice-cream at an hour’s notice, you cannot do
better than to purchase the best patent freezer you can procure. I had
one once which would freeze cream admirably in half an hour. I have
forgotten the patentee’s name, and perhaps this is well for him, since
truth would oblige me to record an unlucky habit his machine had of
getting out of order just when I wanted it to do its best. My earliest
recollections of ice-cream are of the discordant grinding of the
well-worn freezer among the blocks of ice packed about it—a monotone
of misery, that, had it been unrelieved by agreeable associations of
the good to which it was “leading up,” would not have been tolerated
out of Bedlam. For one, two, three, sometimes four hours, it went on
without other variety than the harsher sounds of the fresh ice and the
rattling “swash” as the freezer plunged amid the icy brine when these
were nearly melted; without cessation save when the unhappy operator
nodded over his work, or was relieved by another predestined victim of
luxury and ennui—a battalion of the laziest juveniles upon the place
being detailed for this purpose. I verily believed in those days that
the freezing could not be facilitated by energetic action, and used to
think how fortunate it was that small darkies had a predilection for
this drowsy employment. I shall never forget my amazement at seeing
a brisk Yankee housewife lay hold of the handle of the ponderous tin
cylinder, and whirl it with such will and celerity, back and forth,
back and forth, that the desired end came to pass in three-quarters of
an hour.

That day has gone by. Time has grown too precious now even to juvenile
contrabands for them to sit half the day shaking a freezer under the
locust-tree on the old plantation lawn. Machines that will do the
work in one-tenth of the time, with one-fiftieth of the labor, are
sold at every corner. But, so far as I know, it was reserved for a
nice old lady up in the “Jersey” mountains—the tidiest, thriftiest,
most cheerful bee I ever knew—to show her neighbors and acquaintances
that ice-cream could be made to freeze itself. For twelve years I
have practised her method, with such thankfulness to her, and such
satisfaction to my guests and family, that I eagerly embrace the
opportunity of circulating the good news.


SELF-FREEZING ICE-CREAM. 

    1 quart rich milk.
    8 eggs—whites and yolks beaten separately and very light.
    4 cups sugar.
    3 pints rich sweet cream.
    5 teaspoonfuls vanilla or other seasoning, or 1 vanilla bean,
        broken in two, boiled in the custard, and left in until
        it is cold.

Heat the milk almost to boiling, beat the eggs light, add the sugar,
and stir up well. Pour the hot milk to this, little by little, beating
all the while, and return to the fire—boiling in a pail or saucepan
set within one of hot water. Stir the mixture steadily about fifteen
minutes, or until it is thick as boiled custard. Pour into a bowl
and set aside to cool. When quite cold, beat in the cream, and the
flavoring, unless you have used the bean.

Have ready a quantity of ice, cracked in pieces not larger than a
pigeon egg—the smaller the better. You can manage this easily by
laying a great lump of ice between two folds of coarse sacking or an
old carpet, tucking it in snugly, and battering it, through the cloth,
with a sledge-hammer or mallet until fine enough. There is no waste
of ice, nor need you take it in your hands at all—only gather up the
corners of the carpet or cloth, and slide as much as you want into the
outer vessel. Use an ordinary old-fashioned upright freezer, set in a
deep pail; pack around it closely, first, a layer of pounded ice, then
one of rock salt—common salt will not do so well. In this order fill
the pail; but before covering the freezer-lid, remove it carefully
that none of the salt may get in, and, with a long wooden ladle or
flat stick (I had one made on purpose), beat the custard as you would
batter, for five minutes, without stay or stint. Replace the lid,
pack the ice and salt upon it, patting it down hard on top; cover all
with several folds of blanket or carpet, and leave it for one hour.
Then remove the cover of the freezer when you have wiped it carefully
outside. You will find within a thick coating of frozen custard upon
the bottom and sides. Dislodge this with your ladle, which should be
thin at the lower end, or with a long carving-knife, working every
particle of it clear. Beat again hard and long until the custard is a
smooth, half-congealed paste. The smoothness of the ice-cream depends
upon your action at this juncture. Put on the cover, pack in more ice
and salt, and turn off the brine. Spread the double carpet over all
once more, having buried the freezer out of sight in ice, and leave it
for three or four hours. Then, if the water has accumulated in such
quantity as to buoy up the freezer, pour it off, fill up with ice and
salt, but do not open the freezer. In two hours more you may take
it from the ice, open it, wrap a towel, wrung out in boiling water,
about the lower part, and turn out a solid column of cream, firm,
close-grained, and smooth as velvet to the tongue.

Should the ice melt very fast, you may have to turn off the water more
than twice; but this will seldom happen except in very hot weather.
You need not devote fifteen minutes in all to the business after the
custard is made. You may go into the cellar before breakfast, having
made the custard overnight, stir in the cold cream and flavoring,
get it into the freezer and comfortably packed down before John has
finished shaving, and by choosing the times for your stolen visits
to the lower regions, surprise him and the children at a one-o’clock
dinner by the most delicious dessert in the world. I have often
laughed in my sleeve at seeing my John walk through the cellar in
search of some mislaid basket or box, whistling carelessly, without a
suspicion that his favorite delicacy was coolly working out its own
solidification under the inverted barrel on which I chanced to be
leaning at his entrance.

Any of the following receipts for custard ice-cream may be frozen in
like manner. Do not spare salt, and be sure your ice is finely cracked,
and after the second beating do not let the air again into the freezer.
If you cannot get dry rock salt, that which settles at the bottom of
fish-barrels will do just as well. Keep the freezer hidden, from first
to last, by the ice heaped over it, except when you have to lift the
lid on the occasions I have specified.


CHOCOLATE ICE-CREAM. 

    1 quart of cream.
    1 pint new milk.
    2 cups sugar.
    2 eggs beaten very light.
    5 tablespoonfuls chocolate rubbed smooth in a little milk.

Heat the milk almost to boiling, and pour, by degrees, in with the
beaten egg and sugar. Stir in the chocolate, beat well three minutes,
and return to the inner kettle. Heat until it thickens well, stirring
constantly; take from the fire and set aside to cool. Many think a
little vanilla an improvement. When the custard is cold, beat in the
cream. Freeze.


ALMOND ICE-CREAM.

    3 oz. sweet almonds and 1 oz. of bitter, blanched, and, when cold,
        pounded to a paste, a few at a time, in a Wedgewood mortar,
        adding
    2 tablespoonfuls of rose-water to prevent oiling.
    3 pints cream—fresh and sweet.
    Nearly 2 cups of sugar.
    1 tablespoonful of arrowroot, wet up with cold water.

Heat one pint cream almost to boiling, add the sugar, and when this is
melted, the almonds. Simmer ten minutes, stirring often, remove from
the fire, and let it stand together ten minutes longer in a covered
vessel. Strain the cream, pressing the bag hard to get the full flavor
of the almonds, return to the inner saucepan and stir in the arrowroot
until the cream thickens—say five minutes. When cold, beat very light
with an egg-whip, adding gradually the rest of the cream. It should be
light in half an hour. Then freeze.

If you wish to mould your cream in fancy shapes, open your freezer
two hours after the second stirring and transfer the cream to a tight
mould, having given it a third vigorous beating. Pack this down in ice
and salt, and let it stand two hours longer than you would have done
had it remained in the freezer.


COFFEE ICE-CREAM.

    3 pints of cream.
    1 cup of black coffee—very strong and clear.
    2 cups sugar.
    2 tablespoonfuls arrowroot, wet up with cold water.

Heat half the cream nearly to boiling, stir in the sugar, and, when
this is melted, the coffee; then the arrowroot. Boil all together five
minutes, stirring constantly. When cold, beat up very light, whipping
in the rest of the cream by degrees. Then freeze.

I cannot say certainly that this can be frozen without turning,
although I see no reason why it should not, since the arrowroot gives
it the consistency of custard.


ITALIAN CREAM. 

    2 pints of cream.
    2 cups of sugar.
    2 lemons—juice and grated peel.
    2 tablespoonfuls of brandy.

Sweeten the cream and beat in the lemons gradually, not to curdle it;
add the brandy and freeze in a patent freezer, or by turning quickly.
In turning the freezer, open twice during the operation, to stir and
beat the contents smooth.


LEMON ICE-CREAM. 

    1 quart cream.
    2 lemons—the juice of one and the grated peel of one and a half.
    2 cups of sugar.

Sweeten the cream, beat the lemon gradually into it, and put at once
into the freezer. Freeze rapidly in a patent freezer, or the acid is
apt to turn the milk.

You may make orange ice-cream in the same way.


PINE-APPLE ICE-CREAM. 

    1 quart of cream.
    1 large ripe pine-apple.
    1 lb. powdered sugar.

Slice the pine-apple thin, and scatter the sugar between the slices.
Cover it, and let the fruit steep three hours. Then cut, or chop it
up in the syrup, and strain it through a hair sieve or bag of double
coarse lace. Beat gradually into the cream, and freeze as rapidly as
possible.

You may, if you like, reserve a few pieces of pine-apple, unsugared,
cut into square bits, and stir them through the cream when half frozen.


PEACH ICE-CREAM 

Is very nice made after the preceding receipt, with two or three
handfuls of freshly cut bits of the fruit stirred in when the cream is
half frozen.


RASPBERRY OR STRAWBERRY ICE-CREAM. 

    1 quart ripe sweet berries.
    1 lb. sugar.
    1 quart fresh cream.

Scatter half the sugar over the berries and let them stand three hours.
Press and mash them, and strain them through a thin muslin bag. Add
the rest of the sugar, and when dissolved beat in the cream little by
little. Freeze rapidly, opening the freezer (if it is not a patent one)
several times to beat and stir.


Or,

You may have a pint of whole berries, unsugared, ready to stir in when
the cream is frozen to the consistency of stiff mush. In this case add
a cup more sugar to the quart of crushed berries.


FROZEN CUSTARD WITH THE FRUIT FROZEN IN. 

    1 quart milk.
    1 quart cream.
    6 eggs, and three cups of sugar beaten up with the yolks.
    1 pint fresh peaches, cut up small, or fresh ripe berries.

Heat the quart of milk almost to boiling, and add gradually to the
beaten yolks and sugar. Whip in the frothed whites, return to the
custard-kettle, and stir until it is a thick, soft custard. Let it get
perfectly cold, beat in the cream and freeze. If you let it freeze
itself, stir in the fruit after the second beating; if you turn the
freezer, when the custard is like congealed mush.


TUTTI FRUTTI ICE-CREAM. 

    1 pint of milk.
    1 quart of cream.
    Yolks of 5 eggs—beaten light with the sugar.
    3 cups of sugar.
    1 lemon—juice and grated peel.
    1 glass of pale Sherry, and ½ lb. crystallized fruits, chopped.

Heat the milk almost to boiling; pour by degrees over the eggs and
sugar, beating all together well. Return to the fire, and boil ten
minutes, or until set into a good custard. When cold, beat in the
cream, and half freeze before you stir in half a pound of crystallized
fruit—peaches, apricots, cherries, limes, etc., chopped very fine. Beat
in with these the lemon and wine; cover again, and freeze hard.

In all fruit ice-creams the beating of the custard should be very hard
and thorough, if you would have them smooth.


LEMON ICE. 

    6 lemons—juice of all, and grated peel of three.
    1 large sweet orange—juice and rind.
    1 pint of water.
    1 pint of sugar.

Squeeze out every drop of juice, and steep in it the rind of orange
and lemons one hour. Strain, squeezing the bag dry; mix in the sugar,
and then the water. Stir until dissolved, and freeze by turning in a
freezer—opening three times to beat all up together.


ORANGE ICE. 

    6 oranges—juice of all, and grated peel of three.
    2 lemons—the juice only.
    1 pint of sugar dissolved in 1 pint of water.

Prepare and freeze as you would lemon ice.


PINEAPPLE ICE.

    1 juicy ripe pineapple—peeled and cut small.
    Juice and grated peel of 1 lemon.
    1 pint of sugar.
    1 pint water, or a little less.

Strew the sugar over the pineapple and let it stand an hour. Mash all
up together, and strain out the syrup through a hair-sieve. Add the
water and freeze.


CHERRY ICE.

    1 quart cherries, with half the stones pounded in a Wedgewood mortar.
    2 lemons—the juice only.
    1 pint of water, in which dissolve 1 pint of sugar.
    1 glass of fine brandy.

Squeeze out the bruised cherries and stones, in a bag over the sugar;
add the water, then the brandy, and freeze.

It will require a longer time to freeze than other ices, on account of
the brandy.


CURRANT AND RASPBERRY ICE (Fine.)

    1 quart red currants.
    1 pint raspberries—red or white.
    1 pint of water.
    1½ pint of sugar.

Squeeze out the juice; mix in the sugar and water, and freeze.


STRAWBERRY OR RASPBERRY ICE.

    1 quart berries. Extract the juice and strain.
    1 pint sugar—dissolved in the juice.
    1 lemon—juice only.
    ½ pint of water.




RIPE FRUIT FOR DESSERT.


ORANGES

May be put on whole in fruit-baskets, or the skin be cut in eighths
half way down, separated from the fruit and curled inward, showing half
the orange white, the other yellow. Or, pass a sharp knife lightly
around the fruit, midway between the stem and blossom end, cutting
through the rind only. Slip the smooth curved handle of a teaspoon
carefully between the peel and body of the orange, and gently work it
all around until both upper and lower halves are free, except at stem
and blossom. Turn the rind, without tearing it, inside out, making a
white cup at each end—the round white fruit between them.


SALADE D’ORANGE.

Pare and slice large sweet oranges; sprinkle powdered sugar thickly
over each slice, and pour a couple of glasses of wine on the top.
Sprinkle powdered sugar over all, and serve at once, or the fruit will
lose its freshness.

You may omit the wine if you like.

Do not let any fruit intended to be eaten fresh for dessert lie in the
sugar longer than is absolutely necessary. It extracts the flavor and
withers the pulp.


AMBROSIA.

    8 fine sweet oranges, peeled and sliced.
    ½ grated cocoanut.
    ½ cup powdered sugar.

Arrange the orange in a glass dish, scatter the grated cocoanut thickly
over it, sprinkle this lightly with sugar, and cover with another layer
of orange. Fill up the dish in this order, having cocoanut and sugar
for the top layer. Serve at once.


APPLES.

Wash and polish with a clean towel, and pile in a china fruit-basket,
with an eye to agreeable variety of color.


PEACHES AND PEARS.

Pick out the finest, handling as little as may be, and pile upon a
salver or flat dish, with bits of ice between them, and ornament with
peach leaves or fennel sprigs.

One of the prettiest dishes of fruit I ever saw upon a dessert-table
was an open silver basket, wide at the top, heaped with rich red
peaches and yellow Bartlett pears, interspersed with feathery bunches
of green, which few of those who admired it knew for carrot-tops.
Wild white clematis wreathed the handle and showed here and there among
the fruit, while scarlet and white verbenas nestled amid the green.

Send around powdered sugar with the fruit, as many like to dip peaches
and pears in it after paring and quartering them.


STRAWBERRIES, RASPBERRIES, AND BLACKBERRIES.

Never wash strawberries or raspberries that are intended to be eaten as
fresh fruit. If they are so gritty as to require this process, keep
them off the table. You will certainly ruin the flavor beyond repair
if you wash them, and as certainly induce instant fermentation and
endanger the coats of the eaters’ stomachs, if, after profaning the
exquisite delicacy of the fruit to this extent, you complete the evil
work by covering them with sugar, and leaving them to leak their lives
sourly away for one or two hours.

Put them on the table in glass dishes, piling them high and lightly,
send around powdered sugar with them and cream, that the guests may
help themselves. It is not economical perhaps, but it is a healthful
and pleasant style of serving them—I had almost said the only decent
one.

“But I don’t know who picked them!” cries Mrs. Fussy.

No, my dear madam! nor do you know who makes the baker’s bread, or
confectioner’s cakes, creams, jellies, salads, etc. Nor, for that
matter, how the flour is manufactured out of which you conjure your
dainty biscuit and pies. I was so foolish as to go into a flour-mill
once, and having seen a burly negro, naked to the waist, with his
trousers rolled up to his knees, stand in a bank of “fine family
flour,” a foot deep in the lowest part, on a July day, shovelling it
into barrels for the market, I rushed into the outer air a sicker and a
wiser woman.

I know GOD made strawberries. “Doubtless,” says Bishop Butler, “HE
could have made a better berry, but HE never did!” The picker’s light
touch cannot mar flavor or beauty, nor, were her fingers filthy as a
chimney-sweep’s, could the delicate fruit suffer from them as from your
barbarous baptism. You would like to know who picked them. I should
inquire instead, “Who washed them, and in what?” I recollect seeing a
housekeeper, who was afflicted with your inquiring turn of mind, wash
strawberries in a wash-hand basin!


CURRANTS AND RASPBERRIES.

Pick the currants from the stems, and mix with an equal quantity of
raspberries. Put into a glass bowl, and eat with powdered sugar.


FROSTED CURRANTS.

Pick fine even bunches, and dip them, one at a time, into a mixture
of frothed white of egg, and a very little cold water. Drain them
until nearly dry, and roll in pulverized sugar. Repeat the dip in the
sugar once or twice, and lay them upon white paper to dry. They make a
beautiful garnish for jellies or charlottes, and look well heaped in a
dish by themselves or with other fruit.

Plums and grapes are very nice frosted in the same way.



PRESERVES AND FRUIT JELLIES.

Use none but porcelain, or good bell-metal kettles for preserves and
jellies. If the latter, clean thoroughly just before you put in the
syrup or fruit. Scour with sand, then set it over the fire, with a
cupful of vinegar and a large handful of salt in it. Let this come to a
boil, and scour the whole of the inside of the kettle with it. Do not
let your preserves or anything else stand one moment in it after it is
withdrawn from the fire; fill the emptied kettle instantly with water
and wash it perfectly clean, although you may mean to return the syrup
to it again in five minutes. By observing these precautions, preserves
and pickles made in bell-metal may be rendered as good and wholesome as
if the frailer porcelain be used.

Use only fine sugar for nice preserves. Moist or dark sugar cannot be
made to produce the same effect as dry white.

Do not hurry any needful step in the process of preserving. Prepare
your fruit with care, weigh accurately, and allow time enough to do
your work well. Put up the preserves in small jars in preference to
large, and, when once made, keep them in a cool, dark closet that
is perfectly dry. Keep jellies in small stone china jars, or glass
tumblers closely covered. You can procure at most china and glass
stores, or house-furnishing establishments, metal covers with elastic
rims for these, which can be used from year to year.

Cover jellies and jams with tissue paper, double and wet with brandy,
pressed closely to the conserve before you put on the lid, or paste on
the thick paper. Examine your shelves frequently and narrowly for a few
weeks to see if your preserves are keeping well. If there is the least
sign of fermentation, boil them over, adding more sugar.

If jellies are not so firm after six or eight hours as you would have
them, set them in the sun, with bits of window glass over them to
keep out the dust and insects. Remove these at night and wipe off the
moisture collected on the under sides. Repeat this every day until the
jelly shrinks into firmness, filling up one cup from another as need
requires. This method is far preferable to boiling down, which both
injures the flavor and darkens the jelly.


PRESERVED PEACHES. 

Weigh the fruit after it is pared and the stones extracted, and allow
a pound of sugar to every one of peaches. Crack one-quarter of the
stones, extract the kernels, break them to pieces and boil in just
enough water to cover them, until soft, when set aside to steep in
a covered vessel. Put a layer of sugar at the bottom of the kettle,
then one of fruit, and so on until you have used up all of both; set
it where it will warm slowly until the sugar is melted and the fruit
hot through. Then strain the kernel-water and add it. Boil steadily
until the peaches are tender and clear. Take them out with a perforated
skimmer and lay upon large flat dishes, crowding as little as possible.
Boil the syrup almost to a jelly—that is, until clear and thick,
