The river made an irregular bend a short distance below, 
and I strolled that way, walking now on the thick masses of 
lespedeza that carpeted the old road-track, and now on the 
singularly porous soil of the level, a soil which even my inex 
perienced eyes recognized as worthless, all its good particles 
having been drained out of it and borne away on the trium 
phant tide of the freshets. The crows still evaded me, cross 
ing the river in a straight line and flying on toward the west, 
and, in that arbitrary way in which solitary pedestrians make 
compacts with themselves, I said, " I will go to that tree at 
the exact turn of the bend, and not one step farther." I 
went to that tree at the exact turn of the bend, and then I 
went farther ; for I found there one solemn, lonely old house. 
Now, if there had been two, I should not have gone on ; I 
should not have broken my compact. Two houses are so 
ciable and commonplace ; but one all alone on a desolate 
waste like that inspired me with let us call it interest, and I 
went forward. 
It was a lodge rather than a house ; in its best day it could 
never have been more than a very plain abode, and now, in its 
worst, it seemed to have fallen into the hands of Giant De 
spair. " Forlorn " was written over its lintels, and " without 
hope " along its low roof-edge. Raised high above the 
ground, in the Southern fashion, on wooden supports, it 
seemed even more unstable than usual to Northern eyes, be 
cause the lattice-work, the valance, as it were, which generally 
conceals the bare, stilt-like underpinning, was gone, and a 
thin calf and some melancholy chickens were walking about 
underneath, as though the place was an arbor. There was a 
little patch of garden, but no grass, no flowers ; everything 
was gray, the unpainted house, the sand of the garden-beds, 
and the barren waste stretching away on all sides. At first I 
thought the place was uninhabited, but as I drew nearer a 
thin smoke from one of the chimneys told of life within, and 
I said to myself that the life would be black-skinned life, of 
course. For I was quite accustomed now to finding the fami 
lies of the freedmen crowded into just such old houses as 
this, hidden away in unexpected places ; for the freedmen 
hardly ever live up on the even ground in the broad sunshine 
as though they had a right there, but down in the hollows or 
out into the fringes of wood, where their low-roofed cabins, 
numerous though they may be, are scarcely visible to the 
passer-by. There was no fence around this house ; it stood 
at large on the waste as though it belonged there. Take 
away the fence from a house, and you take away its respecta- 
bility ; it becomes at once an outlaw. I ascended the crazy, 
sunken steps that led to the front door, and lifted the knocker 
that hung there as if in mockery; who ever knocked there 
now save perhaps a river-god with his wet fingers as he hur 
ried by, mounted on the foaming freshet, to ravage and lay 
waste again the poor, desolate fields ? But no spirit came to 
the door, neither came the swarm of funny little black faces I 
had expected ; instead, I s?w before me a white woman, tall, 
thin, and gray-haired. Silently she stood there, her great, 
dark eyes, still and sad, looking at me as much as to say, 
" By what right are you here ? " 
" Excuse me, madam," was my involuntary beginning ; 
then I somewhat stupidly asked for a glass of water. 
" I would not advise you to drink the water we have here ; 
it is not good," replied the woman. I knew it was not ; the 
water is never good down on the levels. But I was very stu 
pid that day. 
" I should like to rest a while," was my next attempt. It 
brought out a wooden chair, but no cordiality. I tried every 
thing I could think of in the way of subjects for conversation, 
but elicited no replies beyond monosyllables. I could not 
very well say, " Who are you, and how came you here ? " and 
yet that was exactly what I wanted to know. The woman's 
face baffled me, and I do not like to be baffled. It was a face 
that was old and at the same time young ; it had deep lines, 
it was colorless, and the heavy hair was gray ; and still I felt 
that it was not old in years, but that it was like the peaches 
we find sometimes on the ground, old, wrinkled, and withered, 
yet showing here and there traces of that evanescent bloom 
which comes before the ripeness. The eyes haunted me; 
they haunt me now, the dry, still eyes of immovable, hopeless 
grief. I thought, " Oh, if I could only help her!" but all I 
said was, " I fear I am keeping you standing " ; for that is the 
senseless way we human creatures talk to each other. 
Her answer was not encouraging. 
" Yes," she replied, in her brief way, and said no more. 
I felt myself obliged to go. 
But the next afternoon I wandered that way again, and 
the next, and the next. I used to wait impatiently for the 
hour when I could enter into the presence of her great silence. 
How still she was ! If she had wept, if she had raved, if she 
had worked with nervous energy, or been resolutely, doggedly 
idle, if she had seemed reckless, or callous, or even pious ; 
but no, she was none of these. Her old-young face was ever 
the same, and she went about her few household tasks in a 
steady, nerveless manner, as though she could go on doing 
them for countless ages, and yet never with the least increase 
of energy. She swept the room, for instance, every day, never 
thoroughly, but in a gentle, incompetent sort of way peculiarly 
her own ; yet she always swept it and never neglected it, and 
she took as much time to do it a though the task was to be 
performed with microscopic exactness. 
She lived in her old house alone save for the presence of 
one child, a boy of six or seven years a quiet, grave-eyed 
little fellow, who played all by himself hour after hour with 
two little wooden soldiers and an empty spool. He seldom 
went out of the house ; he did not seem to care for the sun 
shine or the open air as other children care, but gravely 
amused himself in-doors in his own quiet way. He did not 
make his wooden soldiers talk or demolish each other trium 
phantly, according to the manner of boys ; but he marshaled 
them to and fro with slow consideration, and the only sound 
was the click of their little muskets as he moved them about. 
He seemed never to speak of his own accord ; he was strange 
ly silent always. I used to wonder if the two ever talked to 
gether playfully as mother and child . should talk ; and one 
day, emboldened by a welcome, not warmer, for it was never 
warm, but not quite so cold perhaps, I said : 
" Your little son is very quiet, madam." 
" He is not my son." 
" Ah ! " I replied, somewhat disconcerted. " He is a pretty 
child ; what is his name ? " 
 
" His name is John." 
The child heard us in his barren corner, but did not look 
up or speak; he made his two soldiers advance solemnly upon 
the spool in silence, with a flank movement. I have called 
the corner barren, because it seemed doubly so when the boy 
sat there. The poorest place generally puts on something of 
a homelike air when a little child is in it ; but the two bare 
walls and angle of bare floor remained hopelessly empty and 
desolate. The room was large, but there was nothing in it 
save the two wooden chairs and a table ; there was no wo 
manly attempt at a rag-carpet, curtains for the windows, or 
newspaper pictures for the walls none of those little con 
trivances for comfort with which women generally adorn even 
the most miserable abiding-places, showing a kind of courage 
which is often pathetic in its hopefulness. Here, however, 
there was nothing. A back-room held a few dishes, some 
boxes and barrels, and showed on its cavernous hearth the 
ashes of a recent fire. " I suppose they sleep in a third bare 
room somewhere, with their two beds, no doubt, standing all 
alone in the center of the chamber ; for it would be too hu 
man, of course, to put them up snugly against the wall, as 
anybody else would do," I said to myself. 
In time I succeeded in building up a sort of friendship 
with this solitary woman of the waste, and in time she told 
me her story. Let me tell it to you. I have written stories 
of imagination, but this is a story of fact, and I want you to 
believe it. It is true, every word of it, save the names given, 
and, when you read it, you whose eyes are now upon these 
lines, stop and reflect that it is only one of many life-sto 
ries like unto it. " War is cruelty," said our great general. 
It is. It must be so. But shall we not, we women, like Sis 
ters of Charity, go over the field when the battle is done, 
bearing balm and wine and oil for those who suffer ? 
" Down here in the cotton country we were rich once, 
madam ; we were richer than Northerners ever are, for we 
toiled not for our money, neither took thought for it ; it came 
 
and we spent it ; that was all. My father was Clayton Cotes- 
worth, and our home was twenty miles from here, at the 
Sand Hills. Our cotton-lands were down on these river- 
levels ; this was one of our fields, and this house was built 
for the overseer ; the negro-quarters that stood around it have 
been carried off piecemeal by the freedmen." (Impossible to 
put on paper her accentuation of this title.) " My father was 
an old man ; he could not go to battle himself, but he gave 
first his eldest son, my brother James. James went away 
from earth at Fredericksburg. It was in the winter, and very 
cold. How often have I thought of that passage, And pray 
ye that your flight be not in the winter, when picturing his 
sufferings before his spirit took flight ! Yes, it was very cold 
for our Southern boys ; the river was full of floating ice, and 
the raw wind swept over them as they tried to throw up in- 
trenchments on the heights. They had no spades, only pointed 
sticks, and the ground was frozen hard. Their old uniforms, 
worn thin by hard usage, hung in tatters, and many of them 
had no shoes ; the skin of their poor feet shone blue, or glis 
tening white, like a dead man's skin, through the coverings of 
rags they made for themselves as best they could. They say 
it was a pitiful sight to see the poor fellows sitting down in 
the mornings, trying to adjust these rag-wrappings so that 
they would stay in place, and fastening them elaborately with 
their carefully saved bits of string. He was an honored man 
who invented a new way. My brother was one of the shoe 
less ; at the last, too, it seems that he had no blanket, only a 
thin counterpane. When night came, hungry and tired as he 
was, he could only wrap himself in that and lie down on the 
cold ground to wait for morning. When we heard all this 
afterward, we said, Blessed be the bullet that put him out of 
his misery ! for poor James was a delicate boy, and had been 
accustomed to loving, watchful care all his life. Yet, oh, if I 
could only know that he was warm once, just once, before he 
died ! They told us he said nothing after he was shot save 
How cold ! How cold ! They put his poor, stiff body has- 
 
tily clown under the sod, and then the brigade moved on ; no 
man knoweth his sepulchre unto this day. 
" Next John went, my second brother. He said good-by. 
and marched away northward northward, northward, always 
northward to cold, corpse-strewed Virginia, who cried aloud 
to us continually, More ! more ! Her roads are marked 
with death from her Peaks of Otter to the sea, and her great 
valley ran red. We went to her from all over the South, from 
Alabama, Florida, and Georgia, and from our own Carolina. 
We died there by thousands, and by tens of thousands. O 
Virginia, our dead lie thick in thy tidewater plains, in thy 
tangled Wilderness, and along thy river-shores, with faces up 
turned, and hearts still for ever. 
"John came back to us once, and wedded the fair gill to 
whom he was betrothed. It was a sad bridal, although we 
made it as gay as we could ; for we had come to the times of 
determined gayety then. The tone of society was like the 
determinedly gay quicksteps which the regimental bands play 
when returning from a funeral, as much as to say, Le roi est 
mort, vive le roi ! So we turned our old silk dresses, and made 
a brave appearance; if our^lhoes were shabby, we hid them 
under our skirts as well as we could, and held our heads the 
higher. Maum Sally made a big wedding-cake, as of old, 
and we went without meat to pay for the spices in it ; such 
luxuries we obtained from the blockade-runners now and then, 
but they were worth almost their weight in gold. Then John, 
too, left us. In four months he also was taken killed by 
guerrillas, it is supposed, as he rode through a lonely moun 
tain-defile. He was not found for weeks ; the snow fell and 
covered him, mercifully giving the burial the frozen earth de 
nied. After a while the tidings came to us, and poor Mabel 
slowly wept herself into the grave. She was a loving-hearted 
little creature, and her life was crushed. She looked at her 
baby once, called his name John, and then died. The child, 
that boy yonder, seems to have inherited her grief. He sheds 
no tears, however; his girl-mother shed them all, both for 
 
him and for herself, before ever he saw the light. My turn 
came next. 
" You have been married, madam ? Did you love, too ? I 
do not mean regard, or even calm affection ; I do not mean 
sense of duty, self-sacrifice, or religious goodness. I mean 
love love that absorbs the entire being. Some women love 
so ; I do not say they are the happiest women. I do not say 
they are the best. I am one of them. But God made us all ; 
he gave us our hearts we did not choose them. Let no wo 
man take credit to herself for her even life, simply because it 
has been even. Doubtless, if he had put her out in the 
breakers, she would have swayed too. Perhaps she would 
have drifted from her moorings also, as I have drifted. I go 
to no church ; I can not pray. But do not think I am defiant ; 
no, I am only dead. I seek not the old friends, few and ruined, 
who remain still above-ground ; I have no hope, I might al 
most say no wish. Torpidly I draw my breath through day 
and night, nor care if the rain falls or the sun shines. You 
Northern women would work ; I can not. Neither have I 
the courage to take the child and die. I live on as the palsied 
animal lives, and if some day the spring fails, and the few 
herbs within his reach, he dies. Nor do I think he grieves 
much about it ; he only eats from habit. So I. 
" It was in the third year of the war that I met Ralph 
Kinsolving. I was just eighteen. Our courtship was short ; 
indeed, I hardly knew that I loved him until he spoke and 
asked me to give him myself. Marry me, Judith/ he pleaded 
ardently ; marry me before I go ; let it be my wife I leave 
behind me, and not my sweetheart. For sweethearts, dear, 
can not come to us in camp when we send, as we shall surely 
send soon, that you may all see our last grand review. So 
spoke Rafe, and with all his heart he believed it. We all be 
lieved it. Never for a moment did we doubt the final triumph 
of our arms. We were so sure we were right ! 
" Our last grand review, said Rafe ; but he did not dream 
of that last review at Appomattox, when eight thousand hun- 
gry, exhausted men stacked their muskets in the presence of 
the enemy, whose glittering ranks, eighty thousand strong, 
were drawn up in line before them, while in the rear their 
well-filled wagons stood wagons whose generous plenty 
brought tears to the eyes of many a poor fellow that day, 
thinking, even while he eagerly ate, of his desolated land, and 
his own empty fields at home. 
" I did marry my soldier, and, although it was in haste, I 
had my wedding-dress, my snowy veil ; lace and gauze were 
not needed at the hospitals ! But we went without the 
wedding-cake this time, and my satin slippers were made at 
home, looking very like a pair of white moccasins when fin 
ished. 
" In the middle of the ceremony there was an alarm ; the 
slaves had risen at Latto's down the river, and were coming 
to the village armed with clubs, and, worse still, infuriated 
with liquor they had found. Even our good old rector paused. 
There were but few white men at home. It seemed indeed a 
time for pausing. But Rafe said, quietly, Go on ! and, un 
sheathing his sword, he laid it ready on the chancel-rail. To 
have and to hold, from this day forward, for better for worse, 
for richer for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to 
cherish, till death us do part, repeated Rafe, holding my hand 
in his firm clasp, and looking down into my frightened face so 
tenderly that I forgot my alarm everything, indeed, save his 
love. But when the last word was spoken, and the blessing 
pronounced over our bowed heads, the shining sword seeming 
a silent witness, Rafe left me like a flash. The little church 
was empty when I rose from my knees ; the women had hur 
ried home with blanched faces to bar their doors and barri 
cade their windows, and the men had gone for their horses 
and guns ; only my old father waited to give me his blessing, 
and then we, too, hastened homeward. Our little band of 
defenders assembled in the main street, and rode gallantly 
out to meet the negroes, who were as fifty to their one. Rafe 
was the leader, by virtue of his uniform, and he waved his 
hand to me as he rode by. Cheer up, Judith, he cried ; * I 
will soon return. 
" I never saw him again. 
" They dispersed the negroes without much difficulty ; 
Latto's slaves had been badly treated for months, they had 
not the strength to fight long. But Rafe rode to the next 
town with the prisoners under his charge, and there he met 
an imploring summons to the coast ; the Federal ships had 
appeared unexpectedly off the harbor, and the little coast-city 
lay exposed and helpless at the mouth of the river. All good 
men and true within reach were summoned to the defense. 
So my soldier went, sending back word to me a second time, 
I will soon return. But the siege was long, long one of 
those bitterly contested little sieges of minor importance, with 
but small forces engaged on each side, which were so numer 
ous during the middle times of the war those middle times 
after the first high hopes had been disappointed, and before 
the policy of concentration had been adopted by the North 
that slow, dogged North of yours that kept going back and 
beginning over again, until at last it found out how to do it. 
This little siege was long and weary, and when at last the 
Federal vessels went suddenly out beyond the bar again, and 
the town, unconquered, but crippled and suffering, lay ex 
hausted on the shore, there was not much cause for rejoic 
ing. Still I rejoiced ; for I thought that Rafe would come. 
I did not know that his precious furlough had expired while 
he was shut up in the beleaguered city, and that his colo 
nel had sent an imperative summons, twice repeated. Honor, 
loyalty, commanded him to go, and go immediately. He 
went. 
" The next tidings that came to me brought word that he 
loved me and was well ; the next, that he loved me and was 
well ; the next, that he loved me and was dead. Madam, 
my husband, Ralph Kinsolving, was shot as a spy ! 
"You start you question you doubt. But spies were 
shot in those days, were they not ? That is a matter of his- 
 
tory. Very well ; you are face to face now with the wife of 
one of them. 
" You did not expect such an ending, did you ? You have 
always thought of spies as outcasts, degraded wretches, and, 
if you remembered their wives at all, it was with the idea that 
they had not much feeling, probably, being so low down in 
the scale of humanity. But, madam, in those bitter, hurrying 
days men were shot as spies who were no spies. Nay, let 
me finish ; I know quite well that the shooting was not con 
fined to one side ; I acknowledge that ; but it was done, and 
mistakes were made. Now and then chance brings a case to 
light, so unmistakable in its proof that those who hear it 
shudder as now and then also chance brings a coffin to light 
whose occupant was buried alive, and came to himself when 
it was too late. But what of the cases that chance does not 
bring to light ? 
" My husband was no spy ; but it had been a trying time 
for the Northern commanders : suspicion lurked everywhere ; 
the whole North clamored to them to advance, and yet their 
plans, as fast as they jnade them, were betrayed in some way 
to the enemy. An example was needed my husband fell in 
the way. 
" He explained the suspicious circumstances of his case, 
but a cloud of witnesses rose up against him, and he proudly 
closed his lips. They gave him short shrift ; that same day 
he was led out and met his death in the presence of thou 
sands. They told me that he was quite calm, and held him 
self proudly ; at the last he turned his face to the south, as if 
he were gazing down, down, into the very heart of that land 
for whose sake he was about to die. I think he saw the cot 
ton-fields then, and our home ; I think he saw me, also, for 
the last time. 
" By the end of that year, madam, my black hair was gray, 
as you see it now ; I was an old woman at nineteen. 
" My father and I and that grave-eyed baby lived on in 
the old house. Our servants had left us, all save one, old 
Gassy, who had been my nurse or maumee/as we called 
her. We suffered, of course. We lived as very poor people 
live. The poorest slaves in the old time had more than we 
had then. But we did not murmur ; the greater griefs had 
swallowed up the less. I said, Is there any sorrow like unto 
my sorrow ? But the end was not yet. 
" You have heard the story of the great march, the march 
to the sea ? But there was another march after that, a march 
of which your own writers have said that its route was marked 
by a pillar of smoke by day and of flame by night the march 
through South Carolina. The Northern soldiers shouted 
when they came to the yellow tide of the Savannah, and 
looked across and knew that the other shore was South Caro 
lina soil. They crossed, and Carolina was bow r ed to the dust. 
Those were the days we cried in the morning, O God, that 
it were night ! and in the night, O God, that it were morn 
ing ! Retribution, do you say ? It may be so. But love 
for our State seemed loyalty to us ; and slavery was the sin 
of our fathers, not ours. Surely we have expiated it now. 
" Chile, chile, dey is come ! cried old Cassy, bursting into 
my room one afternoon, her withered black face grayly pale 
with fear. I went out. Cavalrymen were sweeping the vil 
lage or all it contained, the meager little that was left to us in 
our penury. My father was asleep ; how I prayed that he 
might not waken ! Although an old man, he was fiery as 
a boy, and proudly, passionately rebellious against the fate 
which had come upon us. Our house was some distance 
back from the road, and broad grounds separated us from 
the neighboring residences. Cassy and I softly piled our pil 
lows and cushions against the doors and windows that opened 
from his room to the piazza, hoping to deaden the sounds 
outside, for some of our people were resisting, and now and 
then I heard shouts and oaths. But it was of no use. My 
dear old father woke, heard the sounds, and rushed out into 
the street sword in hand ; for he had been a soldier too, serv 
ing with honor through the Mexican War. Made desperate 
 
by my fears for him, I followed. There was a meMe in the 
road before our house ; a high wind blew the thick dust in 
my eyes and half blinded me, so that I only saw struggling 
forms on foot and on horseback, and could not distinguish 
friend or foe. Into this group my father rushed. I never knew 
the cause of the contest ; probably it was an ill-advised attack 
by some of our people, fiery and reasonless always. But, 
whatever it was, at length there came one, two, three shots, 
and then the group broke apart. I rushed forward and received my old father in my arms, dying dead. His head lay 
on my shoulder as I knelt in the white road, and his silver 
hair was dabbled with blood ; he had been shot through the 
head and breast, and lived but a moment. 
" We carried him back to the house, old Cassy and I, 
slowly, and with little regard for the bullets which now 
whistled through the air ; for the first shots had brought to 
gether the scattered cavalrymen, who now rode through the 
streets firing right and left, more at random, I think, than 
with direct aim, yet still determined to frighten the rebels, 
and avenge the soldier, one of their number, who had been 
killed at the beginning of the fray. We laid my father down 
in the center of the hall, and prepared him for his long sleep. 
No one came to help us ; no one came to sorrow with us ; 
each household gathered its own together and waited with 
bated breath for what was still to come. I watched alone 
beside my dead that night, the house-doors stood wide open, 
and lights burned at the head and foot of the couch. I said 
to myself, Let them come now and take their fill. But no 
one disturbed me, and I kept my vigil from midnight until 
dawn ; then there came a sound of many feet, and when the 
sun rose our streets were full of blue-coated soldiers, thou 
sands upon thousands ; one wing of the great army was march 
ing through. There was still hot anger against us for our 
resistance, and when the commanding officers arrived they 
ordered guards to be stationed at every house, with orders to 
shoot any man or boy who showed himself outside of his 
doorway. All day and night the Federal soldiers would be 
passing through, and the guards gave notice that if another 
man was injured twenty rebel lives should answer for it. 
" We must bury my father, you and I together, Cassy, 
I said ; there is no one to help us. Come ! 
" The old woman followed me without a word. Had I 
bidden her go alone, even as far as the door-step, she would 
have cowered at my feet in abject terror ; but, following me, 
she would have gone unquestioning to the world's end. The 
family burial-place was on our own grounds, according to 
the common custom of the South ; thither we turned our 
steps, and in silence hollowed out a grave as best we could. 
The guard near by watched us with curiosity for some time ; 
at last he approached : 
" What are you two women doing there ? 
" Digging a grave. 
" For whom ? 
" For my father, who lies dead in the house. 
" He withdrew a short distance, but still watched us closely, 
and when all was ready, and we returned to the house for our 
burden, I saw him signal the next guard. They will not 
interrupt us, I said; we are only two women and a dead 
man. 
" I wrapped my dear father in his cloak, and covered his 
face ; then we bore the lounge on which he lay out into the 
sunshine down toward the open grave. The weight of this 
poor fra.ne of ours when dead is marvelous, and we moved 
slowly ; but at length we reached the spot. I had lined the 
grave with coverlids and a fine linen sheet, and now, with the 
aid of blankets, we lowered the clay to its last resting-place. 
Then, opening my prayer-book, I read aloud the service for 
the burial of the dead, slowly, and without tears, for I was 
thinking of the meeting above of the old father and his two 
boys : Lord, thou hast been our refuge from one generation 
to another. Before the mountains were brought forth, or 
ever the earth and the world were made, thou art God from 
everlasting-. I took a clod and cast it upon the shrouded 
breast below. * Earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust, 
I said, and old Cassy, kneeling opposite, broke forth into low 
wailing, and rocked her body to and fro. Then we filled the 
grave. I remember that I worked with feverish strength ; if 
it was not done quickly, I knew I could never do it at all. 
Can you realize what it would be to stand and shovel the 
earth with your own hands upon your dead ? to hear the 
gravel fall and strike ? to see the last shrouded outline dis 
appear under the stifling, heavy clods ? All this it was mine 
to do. When it was over I turned to go, and for the first 
time lifted my eyes. There at the fence-corner stood a row 
of Federal soldiers, silent, attentive, and with bared heads ; 
my father was buried with military honors after all. 
" During all that day and night the blue-coated ranks 
marched by ; there seemed to be no end to the line of glitter 
ing muskets. I watched them passively, holding the orphan- 
boy on my knee ; I felt as though I should never move or 
speak again. But after the army came the army-followers 
and stragglers, carrion-birds who flew behind the conquerors 
and devoured what they had left. They swept the town clean 
of food and raiment ; many houses they wantonly burned ; 
what they could not carry with them they destroyed. My 
own home did not escape : rude men ransacked every closet 
and drawer, and cut in ribbons the old portraits on the wall. 
A German, coming in from the smoke-house, dripping with 
bacon-juice, wiped his hands upon my wedding-veil, which 
had been discovered and taken from its box by a former in 
truder. It was a little thing ; but, oh, how it hurt me ! At 
length the last straggler left us, and we remained in the ashes. 
We could not sit down and weep for ourselves and for our 
dead ; the care of finding wherewithal to eat thrust its coarse 
necessity upon us, and forced us to our feet. I had thought 
that all the rest of my life would be but a bowed figure at the 
door of a sepulchre ; but the camp-followers came by, took 
the bowed figure by the arm, and forced it back to e very-day 
life. We could no longer taste the luxury of tears. For clays 
our people lived on the refuse left by the army, the bits of 
meat and bread they had thrown aside from their plenty ; we 
picked up the corn with which they had fed their horses, ker 
nel by kernel, and boiled it for our dinner ; we groped in the 
ashes of their camp-fires ; little children learned the sagacity 
of dogs seeking for bones, and quarreled over their findings. 
The fortune of war, do you say ? Yes, the fortune of war ! 
But it is one thing to say, and another thing to feel ! 
" We came away, madam, for our home was in ashes old 
Cassy, the child, and I ; we came on foot to this place, and 
here we have staid. No, the fields are never cultivated now. 
The dike has been broken down in too many places, and 
freshets have drained all the good out of the soil ; the land is 
worthless. It was once my father's richest field. Yes, Cassy 
is dead. She was buried by her own people, who forgave her 
at the last for having been so spiritless as to stay with young 
missis, when she might have tasted the glories of freedom 
over in the crowded hollow where the blacks were enjoying 
themselves and dying by the score. In six months half of 
them were gone. They had their freedom oh, yes, plenty of 
it ; they were quite free to die ! For, you see, madam, their 
masters, those villainous old masters of theirs, were no longer 
there to feed and clothe them. Oh ! it was a great deliver 
ance for the enfranchised people ! Bitter, am I ? Put your 
self in my place. 
" What am I going to do ? Nothing. The boy ? He 
must take his chances. Let him grow up under the new 
rtgime ; I have told him nothing of the old. It may be that 
he will prosper ; people do prosper, they tell me. It seems 
we were wrong, all wrong ; then we must be very right now, 
for the blacks are our judges, councilors, postmasters, repre 
sentatives, and law-makers. That is as it should be, isn't it ? 
What ! not so ? But how can it be otherwise ? Ah, you 
think that a new king will arise who knows not Joseph that 
is, that a new generation will come to whom these questions 
 
will be things of the past. It may be so ; I do not know. I 
do not know anything certainly any more, for my world has 
been torn asunder, and I am uprooted and lost. No, you can 
not help me, no one can help me. I can not adjust myself to 
the new order of things ; I can not fit myself in new soil ; the 
fibers are broken. Leave me alone, and give your help to the 
young ; they can profit by it. The child ? Well, if if you 
really wish it, I will not oppose you. Take him, and bring 
him up in your rich, prosperous North ; the South has no 
place for him. Go, and God speed you ! But, as for me, I 
will abide in mine own country. It will not be until such as 
I have gone from earth that the new blood can come to her. 
Let us alone ; we will watch the old life out with her, and 
when her new dawning comes we shall have joined our dead, 
and all of us, our errors, our sins, and our sufferings will be 
forgotten." 
Glooms of the live-oaks, beautiful-braided and woven 
With intricate shades of the vines that, myriad cloven, 
Clamber the forks of the multiform boughs. 
.... Green colonnades 
Of the dim sweet woods, of the dear dark woods, 
Of the heavenly woods and glades, 
That run to the radiant marginal sand-beach within 
The wide sea-marshes of Glynn. 
.... Free 
By a world of marsh that borders a world of sea. 
Sinuous southward and sinuous northward the shimmering band 
Of the sand-beach fastens the fringe of the marsh to the folds of the land. 
Inward and outward to northward and southward the beach-lines linger and 
curl 
As a silver-wrought garment that clings to and follows the firm, sweet limbs of 
a girl. 
A league and a league of marsh-grass, waist-high, broad in the blade, 
Green, and all of a height, and unflecked with a light or a shade. 
SIDNEY LAMER. 
CHRISTINE and I found her there. She was a small, dark- 
skinned, yellow-eyed child, the offspring of the ocean and the 
heats, tawny, lithe and wild, shy yet fearless not unlike one 
of the little brown deer that bounded through the open reaches 
of the pine-barren behind the house. She did not come to 
us we came to her ; we loomed into her life like genii from 
another world, and she was partly afraid and partly proud of 
us. For were we not her guests ? proud thought ! and, bet 
ter still, were we not women ? "I have only seen three wo 
men in all my life," said Felipa, inspecting us gravely, " and I 
like women. I am a woman too, although these clothes of 
the son of Pedro make me appear as a boy ; I wear them on 
 
account of the boat and the hauling in of the fish. The son 
of Pedro being dead at a convenient age, and his clothes fit 
ting me, what would you have ? It was a chance not to be 
despised. But when I am grown I shall wear robes long and 
beautiful like the senora s." The little creature was dressed 
in a boy's suit of dark-blue linen, much the worse for wear, 
and torn. 
" If you are a girl, why do you not mend your clothes? " 
I said. 
" Do you mend, senora ? " 
" Certainly : all women sew and mend." 
" The other lady ? " 
Christine laughed as she lay at ease upon the brown car 
pet of pine-needles, warm and aromatic after the tropic day's 
sunshine. " The child has divined me already, Catherine," 
she said. 
Christine was a tall, lissome maid, with an unusually long 
stretch of arm, long sloping shoulders, and a long fair throat ; 
her straight hair fell to her knees when unbound, and its clear 
flaxen hue had not one shade of gold, as her clear gray eyes 
had not one shade of blue. Her small, straight, rose-leaf lips 
parted over small, dazzlingly white teeth, and the outline of 
her face in profile reminded you of an etching in its distinct 
ness, although it was by no means perfect according to the 
rules of art. Still, what a comfort it was, after the blurred out 
lines and smudged profiles many of us possess seen to best 
advantage, I think, in church on Sundays, crowned with flower- 
decked bonnets, listening calmly serene to favorite ministers, 
unconscious of noses ! When Christine had finished her 
laugh and she never hurried anything she stretched out 
her arm carelessly and patted Felipa's curly head. The child 
caught the descending hand and kissed the long white fingers. 
It was a wild place where we were, yet not new or crude 
the coast of Florida, that old-new land, with its deserted plan 
tations, its skies of Paradise, and its broad wastes open to the 
changeless sunshine. The old house stood on the edge of the 
dry land, where the pine-barren ended and the salt-marsh 
began ; in front curved the tide-water river that seemed ever 
trying to come up close to the barren and make its acquaint 
ance, but could not quite succeed, since it must always turn 
and flee at a fixed hour, like Cinderella at the ball, leaving not 
a silver slipper behind, but purple driftwood and bright sea 
weeds, brought in from the Gulf Stream outside. A planked 
platform ran out into the marsh from the edge of the barren, 
and at its end the boats were moored ; for, although at high 
tide the river was at our feet, at low tide it was far away out 
in the green waste somewhere, and if we wanted it we must 
go and seek it. We did not want it, however ; we let it glide 
up to us twice a day with its fresh salt odors and flotsam of 
the ocean, and the rest of the time we wandered over the bar 
rens or lay under the trees looking up into the wonderful blue 
above, listening to the winds as they rushed across from sea 
to sea. I was an artist, poor and painstaking. Christine was 
my kind friend. She had brought me South because my cough 
was troublesome, and here because Edward Bowne recom 
mended the place. He and three fellow sportsmen were down 
at the Madre Lagoon, farther south ; I thought it probable we 
should see him, without his three fellow sportsmen, before 
very long. 
" Who were the three women you have seen, Felipa ? " 
said Christine. 
" The grandmother, an Indian woman of the Seminoles 
who comes sometimes with baskets, and the wife of Miguel 
of the island. But they are all old, and their skins are curled : 
I like better the silver skin of the sefiora." 
Poor little Felipa lived on the edge of the great salt-marsh 
alone with her grandparents, for her mother was dead. The 
yellow old couple were slow-witted Minorcans, part pagan, 
part Catholic, and wholly ignorant; their minds rarely rose 
above the level of their orange-trees and their fish-nets. 
Felipa's father was a Spanish sailor, and, as he had died only 
the year before, the child's Spanish was fairly correct, and we 
 
could converse with her readily, although we were slow to 
comprehend the patois of the old people, which seemed to 
borrow as much from the Italian tongue and the Greek as 
from its mother Spanish. " I know a great deal," Felipa remarked confidently, " for my father taught me. He had sailed 
on the ocean out of sight of land, and he knew many things. 
These he taught to me. Do the gracious ladies think there is 
anything else to know ? " 
One of the gracious ladies thought not, decidedly. In 
answer to my remonstrance, expressed in English, she said, 
" Teach a child like that, and you ruin her." 
" Ruin her?" 
" Ruin her happiness the same thing." 
Felipa had a dog, a second self a great gaunt yellow 
creature of unknown breed, with crooked legs, big feet, and 
the name Drollo. What Drollo meant, or whether it was an 
abbreviation, we never knew ; but there was a certain satis 
faction in it, for the dog was droll : the fact that the Minorcan 
title, whatever it was, meant nothing of that sort, made it all 
the better. We never saw Felipa without Drollo. " They 
look a good deal alike," observed Christine " the same col 
oring." 
" For shame ! " I said. 
But it was true. The child's bronzed yellow skin and soft 
eyes were not unlike the dog s, but her head was crowned 
with a mass of short black curls, while Drollo had only his 
two great flapping ears and his low smooth head. Give him 
an inch or two more of skull, and what a creature a dog 
would be ! For love and faithfulness even now what man can 
match him ? But, although ugly, Felipa was a picturesque 
little object always, whether attired in boy's clothes or in her 
own forlorn bodice and skirt. Olive-hued and meager-faced, 
lithe and thin, she flew over the pine-barrens like a creature 
of air, laughing to feel her short curls toss and her thin child 
ish arms buoyed up on the breeze as she ran, with Drollo 
barking behind. For she loved the winds, and always knew 
when they were coming whether down from the north, in 
from the ocean, or across from the Gulf of Mexico : she 
watched for them, sitting in the doorway, where she could 
feel their first breath, and she taught us the signs of the 
clouds. She was a queer little thing : we used to find her 
sometimes dancing alone out on the barren in a circle she had 
marked out with pine-cones, and once she confided to us that 
she talked to the trees. " They hear," she said in a whisper ; 
" you should see how knowing they look, and how their leaves 
listen." 
Once we came upon her most secret lair in a dense thicket 
of thorn-myrtle and wild smilax a little bower she had 
made, where was hidden a horrible-looking image formed of 
the rough pieces of saw-palmetto grubbed up by old Bartolo 
from his garden. She must have dragged these fragments 
thither one by one, and with infinite pains bound them to 
gether with her rude withes of strong marsh-grass, until at 
last she had formed a rough trunk with crooked arms and a 
sort of a head, the red hairy surface of the palmetto looking 
not unlike the skin of some beast, and making the creature 
all the more grotesque. This fetich was kept crowned with 
flowers, and after this we often saw the child stealing away 
with Drollo to carry to it portions of her meals or a new-found 
treasure a sea-shell, a broken saucer, or a fragment of rib 
bon. The food always mysteriously disappeared, and my 
suspicion is that Drollo used to go back secretly in the night 
and devour it, asking no questions and telling no lies : it fitted 
in nicely, however, Drollo merely performing the ancient 
part of the priests of Jupiter, men who have been much ad 
mired. " What a little pagan she is ! " I said. 
" Oh, no, it is only her doll," replied Christine. 
I tried several times to paint Felipa during these first 
weeks, but those eyes of hers always evaded me. They were, 
as I have said before, yellow that is, they were brown with 
yellow lights and they stared at you with the most inflexible 
openness. The child had the full-curved, half-open mouth of 
 
the tropics, and a low Greek forehead. "Why isn't she 
pretty ? " I said. 
" She is hideous," replied Christine ; " look at her elbows." 
Now Felipa's arms were unpleasant : they were brown 
and lean, scratched and stained, and they terminated in a 
pair of determined little paws that could hold on like grim 
Death. I shall never forget coming upon a tableau one day 
out on the barren a little Florida cow and Felipa, she hold 
ing on by the horns, and the beast with its small fore feet 
stubbornly set in the sand ; girl pulling one way, cow the 
other ; both silent and determined. It was a hard contest, 
but the girl won. 
" And if you pass over her elbows, there are her feet," 
continued Christine languidly. For she was a sybaritic lover 
of the fine linens of life, that friend of mine a pre-Raphaelite 
lady with clinging draperies and a mediaeval clasp on her belt. 
Her whole being rebelled against ugliness, and the mere sight 
of a sharp-nosed, light-eyed woman on a cold day made her 
uncomfortable. 
" Have we not feet too ? " I replied sharply. 
But I knew what she meant. Bare feet are not pleasant 
to the eye nowadays, whatever they may have been in the 
days of the ancient Greeks ; and Felipa's little brown insteps 
were half the time torn or bruised by the thorns of the cha 
parral. Besides, there was always the disagreeable idea that 
she might step upon something cold and squirming when she 
prowled through the thickets knee-deep in the matted grasses. 
Snakes abounded, although we never saw them ; but Felipa 
went up to their very doors, as it were, and rang the bell de 
fiantly. 
One day old Grandfather Bartolo took the child with him 
down to the coast : she was always wild to go to the beach, 
where she could gather shells and sea-beans, and chase the 
little ocean-birds that ran along close to the waves with that 
swift gliding motion of theirs, and where she could listen to 
the roar of the breakers. We were several miles up the salt- 
 
marsh, and to go down to the ocean was quite a voyage to 
Felipa. She bade us good-by joyously; then ran back to 
hug Christine a second time, then to the boat again ; then 
back. 
" I thought you wanted to go, child ? " I said, a little im 
patiently ; for I was reading aloud, and these small irruptions 
were disturbing. 
" Yes," said Felipa, " I want to go ; and still Perhaps 
if the gracious sefiora would kiss me again 
Christine only patted her cheek and told her to run away : 
she obeyed, but there was a wistful look in her eyes, and, even 
after the boat had started, her face, watching us from the 
stern, haunted me. 
" Now that the little monkey has gone, I may be able at 
last to catch and fix a likeness of her," I said ; " in this case 
a recollection is better than the changing quicksilver reality." 
" You take it as a study of ugliness ? " 
" Do not be hard upon the child, Christine." 
" Hard ? Why, she adores me," said my friend, going off 
to her hammock under the tree. 
Several days passed, and the boat returned not. I accom 
plished a fine amount of work, and Christine a fine amount 
of swinging in the hammock and dreaming. At length one 
afternoon I gave my final touch, and carried my sketch over 
to the pre-Raphaelite lady for criticism. " What do you see ? " 
I said. 
" I see a wild-looking child with yellow eyes, a mat of curly 
black hair, a lank little bodice, her two thin brown arms 
embracing a gaunt old dog with crooked legs, big feet, and 
turned-in toes." 
" Is that all ? " 
" All." 
" You do not see latent beauty, courage, and a possible 
great gulf of love in that poor wild little face ? " 
" Nothing of the kind," replied Christine decidedly. " I 
see an ugly little girl ; that is all." 
The next day the boat returned, and brought back five 
persons, the old grandfather, Felipa, Drollo, Miguel of the 
island, and Edward Bowne. 
" Already ? " I said. 
" Tired of the Madre, Kitty ; thought I would come up 
here and see you for a while. I knew you must be pining for 
me." 
" Certainly," I replied ; " do you not see how I have wast 
ed away ? " 
He drew my arm through his and raced me down the 
plank-walk toward the shore, where I arrived laughing and 
out of breath. 
" Where is Christine ? " he asked. 
I came back into the traces at once. " Over there in the 
hammock. You wish to go to the house first, I suppose ? " 
" Of course not." 
" But she did not come to meet you, Edward, although 
she knew you had landed." 
"Of course not, also." 
" I do not understand you two." 
" And of course not, a third time," said Edward, looking 
down at me with a smile. " What do peaceful little artists 
know about war ? " 
" Is it war ? " 
"Something very like it, Kitty. What is that you are 
carrying ? " 
" Oh ! my new sketch. W r hat do you think of it ? " 
" Good, very good. Some little girl about here, I suppose ? 
" Why, it is Felipa ! " 
"And who is Felipa? Seems to me I have seen that old 
dog, though." 
" Of course you have ; he was in the boat with you, and 
so was Felipa ; but she was dressed in boy's clothes, and that 
gives her a different look." 
" Oh ! that boy ? I remember him. His name is Philip. 
He is a funny little fellow," said Edward calmly. 
 
" Her name is Felipa, and she is not a boy or a funny lit 
tle fellow at all," I replied. 
" Isn't she ? I thought she was both," replied Ned care 
lessly ; and then he went off toward the hammock. I turned 
away, after noting Christine's cool greeting, and went back to 
the boat. 
Felipa came bounding to meet me. " What is his name ? " 
she demanded. 
" Bowne." 
" Buon Buona ; I can not say it." 
" Bowne, child Edward Bowne." 
"Oh! Eduardo ; I know that. Eduardo Eduardo a 
name of honey." 
She flew off singing the name, followed by Drollo carrying 
his mistress's palmetto basket in his big patient mouth ; but 
when I passed the house a few moments afterward she was 
singing, or rather talking volubly of, another name " Miguel," 
and " the wife of Miguel," who were apparently important 
personages on the canvas of her life. As it happened, I never 
really saw that wife of Miguel, who seemingly had no name 
of her own ; but I imagined her. She lived on a sand-bar in 
the ocean not far from the mouth of our salt-marsh ; she drove 
pelicans like ducks with a long switch, and she had a tame 
eagle ; she had an old horse also, who dragged the driftwood 
across the sand on a sledge, and this old horse seemed like a 
giant horse always, outlined as he was against the flat bar and 
the sky. She went out at dawn, and she went out at sunset, 
but during the middle of the burning day she sat at home and 
polished sea-beans, for which she obtained untold sums ; she 
was very tall, she was very yellow, and she had but one eye. 
These items, one by one, had been dropped by Felipa at vari 
ous times, and it was with curiosity that I gazed upon the 
original Miguel, the possessor of this remarkable spouse. He 
was a grave-eyed, yellow man, who said little and thought 
less, applying cut bono ? to mental much as the city man ap 
plies it to bodily exertion, and therefore achieving, I think, a 
 
finer degree of inanition. The tame eagle, the pelicans, were 
nothing to him ; and, when I saw his lethargic, gentle counte 
nance, my own curiosity about them seemed to die away in 
haze, as though I had breathed in an invisible opiate. He 
came, he went, and that was all ; exit Miguel. 
