involved. And I do not wish to praise myself; 
but you know they think that those interests would 
be secured by a marriage with me. And I believe 
I could make you happy, Dolly." 
Dolly shook her head. " How could you ? " she 
said. "We belong to two opposite parties, and 
 
are following two different lines of life. You 
would not like my way, and I should not like 
yours. How could either of us be happy ? '' 
" Even granting all that," said Lawrence, " why 
should you not bear with my peculiarities and I 
with yours, and neither be the worse? That is 
very frequently done." 
" Is it ? I do not think it ought to be done." 
" Let us prove that it can be. I will never interfere with you, Dolly." 
" Yes, you would," said Dolly, dimpling all over 
again. " Do you think you would make up your 
mind to have no wine in your cellar or on your 
table? Take that for one thing. I should have 
no wine on mine.' 
"That's a crotchet of yours," said he smiling at 
her: he thought if this were all, the thing might 
be managed. 
" That is only one thing, Mr. St. Leger," Dolly 
went on very gravely now. " I should be unfashionable in a hundred ways, and you would not like 
that. I should spend money on objects and for 
causes that you would not care about nor agree to. 
I am telling you all this to reconcile you to doing 
without me." 
"Your refusal is absolute, then?" 
" Yes." 
"You would not bring up these extraneous 
things, Dolly, if you had any love for me." 
" I do not know why that should make any 
difference. It might make it hard." 
 
" Then you have no love for me ? " 
"I am afraid not," said Dolly gently. "Not 
what you mean. And without that, you would 
not wish for a different answer from me." 
" Yes, I would ! " said he. "All that would come ; 
but you know your own business best." 
Dolly thought she did, and the proposition remained un controverted. Therewith the discourse 
died; and the miles that remained were made in 
unsocial silence. Dolly feared she had given some 
pain, but doubted it could not be very great ; and 
she w r as glad to have the explanation over. Perhaps the pain was more than she knew; although 
Lawrence certainly was not a desperate wooer; 
nevertheless he was disappointed, and he was mortified; and mortification is hard to a man. For 
the matter of that, it is hard to anybody. It was 
not till the villa occupied by the Thayers was close 
before them that he spoke again. 
" Do you expect to stay much longer in Italy ? " 
" I am afraid, not," Dolly answered. 
" I have reason to think Mr. Copley will not. 
Indeed I know as much. I thought you might 
like to be informed." 
Dolly said nothing. Her eyes roved over the 
beautiful bay, almost with an echo of Eve's "Must 
I then leave thee, Paradise ? " in her heart. The 
smoke curling up from Vesuvius caught the light; 
little sails skimming over the sea reflected it; the 
sweetness of thousands of roses and orange blos- 
soms and countless other flowers filled all the air; 
 
it was a time and a scene of nature's most abun- 
dant and beautiful bounty. Dolly checked her don- 
key, and for a few minutes stood looking; then 
with a brave determination that she would enjoy 
it all as much as she could while she had it, she 
went into the house. 
CHAPTER XXIX. 
WHITHER NOW? 
THE days that followed were full of pleasure; 
and Dolly kept to her resolution, not to spoil 
the present by care about the future. Indeed the 
balmy air and the genial light and all the wealth 
that nature has bestowed upon southern Italy, were 
a help to such a resolution. The infinite lavish 
fulness of the present quite laughed at the idea 
of barrenness or want anywhere in time to 
come. Dolly knew that was nature's subtle flattery, not to be trusted, and yet she willingly admitted the flattery. Nothing should spoil these 
days. 
One evening she and Christina were sitting 
again on the bank, wondering at the marvellous 
sunset panorama. 
" How difficult it is, looking at this," said Dolly, 
" to believe that there is want and misery in the 
world." 
" Why should you believe it ? " said Christina. 
" I don't think there is, except where people have 
brought it upon themselves." 
" People bring it upon other people. But to 
 
look at this, one would say it was impossible. 
And this is how the world was meant to be, I 
suppose." 
" What do you mean ? how ? " said Christina. 
" It is rich to hear you talk." 
" look at it, Christina ! Look at the colours, 
and the lights and the sparkle everywhere, the 
perfect wealth of loveliness in form as well as colour; and if you think a minute you will know that 
he who made it all meant people to be happy, and 
meant them to be as full of happiness as the earth 
is full of beauty." 
" I don't see ' lights ' and ' colours ' so much 
as you do, Dolly; I am not an artist; but if 
God meant them to be happy, why aren't they 
happy?" 
" Sin " said Dolly. 
"What's the use of thinking about it? You 
and I cannot help it." 
" Christina, that is not true. We can help some 
of it." 
"By giving money, you mean? Well, we do, 
whenever we see occasion; but there is no end 
of the cheatery." 
" Giving money will not take away the world's 
misery, Christina." 
" What will, then ? It will do a good deal." 
" It will do a good deal, but it does not touch 
the root of the trouble." 
"What does, Dolly? you dreamer." 
"The knowledge of Christ." 
" Well, it is the business of clergymen and missionaries to give them that." 
" Prove it." 
" Why that's what they are for." 
"Do you think there are enough of them to 
preach the good news to every creature ? " 
" Well, then there ought to be more." 
"And in the mean time? Tell me, Christina, 
to whom was that command given, to preach the 
gospel to every creature ? " 
" To the apostles, of course ! " 
" Twelve men ? Or eleven men rather. They 
could not. No, it was given to all the disciples; 
and so, Christina, it was given to you, and to me." 
" To preach the gospel ! " said Christina. 
"That is, just to tell the good news." 
"And to whom do you propose we should tell it?" 
"The command says, everybody." 
" How can you and I do that, Dolly ? " 
"That is just what I am studying, Christina. I 
do not quite know. But when I look out on all this 
wonderful beauty, and see what it means, and think 
how miserable the world is, just the very opposite, I feel that I must do it, somehow or other." 
Christina lifted her arms above her head and 
clapped her hands together. " Mad, mad ! " she 
exclaimed; "You are just gone mad, Dolly. 
I wish you'd get married, and forget all your 
whimsies. The right sort of man would make 
you forget them. Haven't you found the right 
sort of man yet ? " 
 
"The right sort of man would help ms carry 
them out." 
"It must be my Sandie, then; there isn't an 
other match for you in extravagant ideas in all 
this world. What does Mr. St. Leger think of 
them ? " 
" I never asked him. I suppose he would take 
very much your view." 
"And you don't care what view he takes?" said 
Christina, looking sharply at her. 
"Not in the least. Except for his own sake." 
The one drawback upon the perfect felicity of 
this visit was, that the said Sandie did not appear. They could not wait for him; they went 
on the most charming of excursions, by sea and 
land, wishing for him; in which wish Dolly heartily shared. It had been one of the pleasures she 
had promised herself in coming to the Thayers', 
that she should see Mr. Shubrick again. He had 
interested her singularly, and even taken not a 
little hold of her fancy. So she was honestly disappointed when at last a note came from him, saying that he found it impossible to join the party. 
"That means just that he has something on hand 
that he calls ' duty ' which anybody else would 
put off or hand over," said Christina pouting. 
"Duty is a very good reason," said Dolly. 
" Don't you see, you are sure of Mr. Shubrick, 
that in any case he will not do what he thinks 
wrong? I think you ought to be a very happy 
woman, Christina." 
But the excursions were made without Mr. Shubrick's social or material help. They went to 
Capri; they visited the grottoes; nay, they made 
a party to go up Vesuvius. All that was to be 
seen, they saw; and as Christina declared, they 
left nothing undone that they could do. Then 
came the breaking up. 
"Are you expecting to go back to that stuffy 
little place at Sorrento ? " Mr. Copley asked. It 
was the evening before their departure, and all 
the party were sitting, scattered about upon the 
verandah. 
" Father ! " cried Dolly. " It is the airiest, floweriest, sunniest, brightest, most delightful altogether house, that ever took lodgers in ! " 
" It certainly wasn't stuffy, Mr. Copley," said his 
wife. 
" Dolly likes it because you couldn't get a glass 
of good wine in the house. Whatever the rest of 
humanity like, she makes war upon. I conclude 
you are reckoning upon going back there, my wife 
and daughter ? " 
" Are not you, Mr. Copley ? " his wife asked. 
" I must be excused." 
" Then where are you going ? " 
" Home." 
" Home ! " exclaimed Mrs. Copley. " Do you 
mean home? Boston?" 
" A Boston woman thinks Boston is the centre 
of the universe, you may notice," said Mr. Copley, 
turning to Mr. Thayer. " It's a curious peculiarity. 
 
No matter what other cities on the face of the earth 
you shew her, her soul turns back to Boston." 
"Don't say anything against *Boston," said Mrs. 
Thayer; "it's a good little place. I know, when 
Mr. Thayer first carried me there, it took me a 
while to get accustomed to it; things on a different scale, you know, and looked at from a different 
point of view; but I soon found admirers, and then 
friends. I assure you, Boston and I were very 
fond of each other in those days; and though I 
lost my claims to admiration a long time ago, I 
have kept my friends." 
" I have no doubt the admirers are still there 
too," said Mr. Copley. " Does Mrs. Thayer mean 
to say she has no admirers? I profess myself 
one ! " 
" Christina takes the admiration uow-a-days. I 
am contented with that." 
" And so you conquer by proxy." 
" Mr. Copley," here put in his wife, " if you do 
not mean America by ' home,' what do you mean ? 
and where are you going ? " 
" Where my home has been for a number of 
years. England London." 
" But you have given up your office ? " 
" I am half sorry, that is a fact." 
" Then what should you do in London ? " 
" My dear, of the many hundred thousands who 
call London their home, very few have an office." 
" But they have business of some kind ? " 
"That is a Boston notion. Did you ever ob- 
 
serve, Thayer, that a Massachusetts man has no 
idea of life without business? It is the reason 
why he is in the world, to him; it never occurs 
to him that play might be occasionally useful. I 
declare ! I believe they don't know the meaning 
of the word in America; it has dropped out, like 
a forgotten art." 
"But father," Dolly spoke up now, "if you are 
going to London, mother and I cannot possibly go 
to Sorrento." 
" I don't quite see the logic of that." 
" Why we cannot be here in Italy quite alone." 
" I'll leave you St. Leger to take care of you and 
bring you back; as he took you away." 
"I should be very happy to fall in with that 
plan," said Lawrence slowly; "but I fear I cannot 
make it out. I have been making arrangements 
to go into Greece, seeing that I am so near it. 
And I may q te possibly spend another winter 
in Rome." 
There was a pause, and when Mr. Copley spoke 
again there was another sound in his voice. It 
was not his will to betray it, but Dolly heard the 
chagrin and disappointment. 
" Well," said he, " such independent travellers 
as you two ladies can do pretty comfortably alone 
in that paragon of lodging houses." 
" But not make the journey home alone, father." 
" When are you coming ? " 
" When you do, of course," said his wife. 
Dolly knew it must be so and not otherwise. 
 
She sat still and downhearted, looking abroad over 
the bay of Naples, over all the shores of which the 
moonlight was quivering or lying in still floods of 
calm beauty. From this, aye, and from everything 
that was like this, in either its fairness or its tranquillity, she must go. There had been a little lull 
in her cares since they came to Sorrento; the lull 
was over. Back to London! And that meant, 
back to everything from which she had hoped to 
escape. How fondly she had hoped, once her fa- 
ther was away from the scene of his habits and 
temptations, he could be saved to himself and 
his family ; and perhaps even lured back to America where he would be comparatively safe. Now 
where was that hope, or any other? Suddenly 
Dolly changed her place and sat down close beside 
Mr. Copley. 
" Father, I wish you would take us back to our 
real old home back to Roxbury ! " 
" Can't do it, my pet." 
" But father, why not ? What should keep you 
in England?" 
" Business." 
" Now that you are out of the office ? " 
"Yes. Do you think all business is confined 
to the consuls' offices? A few other people have 
something to do." , 
Dolly heard no tone of hope-giving in her fa- 
ther's words. She ceased and sat silent, leaning 
upon his knee as she was, and looking off into the 
moonlight. Mrs. Thayer and Mr. St. Leger were 
 
carrying on a lively discourse about people and 
things unknown to her; Mr. Thayer was smoking; 
Mrs. Copley was silent and sorry and cast-down, 
like herself, she knew. Dolly's eye went roving 
through the moonlight as if it were never going to 
see moonlight again; and her heart was taking up 
the old question, and feeling it too heavy to carry, 
how should she save her father from his tempta- 
tion ? Under the pressure Dolly's heart felt very 
low ; until again those words came and lifted her 
up, "Who shall separate us from the love of 
Christ?" After that the sweet moonbeams seemed 
to be full of those words. I am not alone, thought 
Dolly, I am not forgotten ; and He does not mean 
that I should be crushed, or hurt, by this arrangement of things, which I strove so to hinder. I 
will not be one of the " little faith " people. I will 
just trust the Lord my Lord. What I cannot do, 
he can ; and his ways are wonderful and past find- 
ing out. 
So she was quieted. And yet as she sat there it 
came over Dolly's mind, as things will, quite unbidden; it came over her to think how life would 
go on here, in Italy, with Christina, after she was 
gone. When the lovely Italian chapter of her own 
life was closed up and ended, when she would be 
far away out of sight of Vesuvius, in the fogs of 
London, the sun of Naples would still be shining 
on the Thayers' villa. They would go sailing on 
blue water, or floating over the gold and purple reflections which sometimes seemed to fill both water 
 
 
and air; they would see the white shafts of Psestum, 
yes, it would be soon cool enough for that; or if 
they must wait for Psestum, there were enough 
old monasteries and ruined castles and beauties of 
the like sort to keep them busy for many a day. 
Beauties which Dolly and Mr. Thayer loved. Nobody else in the house loved them. Christina had 
hardly an eye for them ; and St. Leger, if he looked, 
did not care for what he saw. Nevertheless, they 
three would go picnicing through the wonderful 
old land, where every step was on monumental 
splendour or historical ashes, and the sights would 
be before them ; whether they had eyes to see or 
no. For Dolly it was all done. She was glad she 
had had so much and enjoyed so much ; and that 
enjoyment had given memory such a treasure of 
things to keep, that were hers for all time, and 
could be looked at in memory's chambers whenever she pleased. Yet she could not see the moon- 
light on the bay of Naples this evening for the last 
time, and remember towards what she was turning 
her face, without some tears coming that nobody 
saw; tears that were salt and hot. 
The journey home was a contrast to the way by 
which they had come. It pleased Mr. Copley to go 
by sea from Naples to Marseilles, and from thence 
through France as fast as the ground could be passed 
over, till they reached Dover. And although those 
were not the days of lightning travel, yet trav- 
elling continually, the effect was of one swift 
confused rush between Naples and London. Instead of the leisurely winding course pursued to 
Dresden, and from Dresden to Venice, deviating 
at will from the shortest or the most obvious route, 
stopping at will at any point where the fancy took 
them, dawdling, speculating, enjoying, getting good 
out of every step of the way, this journey was a 
sortjof flash from the one end of it to the other, 
with nothing seen or remembered between but the 
one item of fatigue. So it came about, that when 
they found themselves in a London lodging house, 
and Mrs. Copley and Dolly sat down and looked at 
each other, they had the feeling of having left Sorrento last evening, and of being dazed with the 
sudden transition from Sorrento and sunshine to 
London and smoke. 
" Well ! " said Mr. Copley rubbing his hands, 
" here we are ! " 
" I don't feel as if I was anywhere," said his 
wife. "My head's in a whirl. Is this the way 
you like to travel, Frank?" 
"The purpose of travelling, my dear," said Mr. 
Copley, still rubbing his hands ; it must have been 
with satisfaction, for it could not have been with 
cold ; " the purpose of travel is to get over the 
ground." 
" It wasn't my purpose when I went away." 
"No but when you came back." 
" It wasn't my purpose anyway," said Mrs. Copley. " I should never stir from my place if I had 
to move the way you have kept me moving. My 
head is in a whirl." 
 
"I'll take hold and turn it round the other way." 
" I think it is quite likely you will ! I should 
like to know what you mean to do with us, now 
you have got us here." 
" Keep you here." 
" What are you going to do with yourself, Mr. 
Copley?" 
"There are always so many uses that I can make 
of myself, more than I have time for, that I cannot 
tell which I shall take hold of first." 
With which utterance he quitted the room, almost before it was fairly out of his mouth. The 
two left behind sat and looked at the room, and 
then at each other. 
" What are we going to do now, Dolly ? " Mrs. 
Copley asked, in evidently dismayed uncertainty. 
" I don't know, mother." 
" How long do you suppose your father will be 
contented to stay in this house ? " 
" I have no means of guessing, mother. I don't 
know why we are here at all." 
" We had to go somewhere, I suppose, when we 
came to London -just for the first; but I can't stay 
here, Dolly ! " 
"Of course not, mother." 
"Then where are we going to? It is all very 
well to say ' of course not ' ; but where can we go, 
Dolly?" 
" I have been thinking about it, mother dear, but 
I have not found out yet. If we knew how long 
father wanted to stay in London " 
 
" It is no use asking that. I can tell you beforehand. He don't know himself. But 'it is my belief he'll find something or other to make him want 
to stay here the rest of his life." 
"0 mother, I hope not!" 
" It is no use speaking to him about it, Dolly. 
Even if he knew, he would not own it, but that's 
my belief; and I can't bear London, Dolly. A very 
few days of this noise and darkness would just put 
me back where I was before we went away. I 
know it would." 
" This is a darker day than common ; they are 
not all so." 
" They are all like gloom itself, compared to 
where we have been. I tell you, Dolly, I cannot 
stand it. After Sorrento, I cannot bear this." 
" It's my belief, mother, you want home and Roxbury air. Why don't you represent that to father, 
forcibly ? " 
" Dolly, I never put myself in the way of your 
father's pleasure. He must take his pleasure ; and 
he likes London. How he can, I don't see ; but he 
does, and so do a great many other people ; it may 
be a want of taste in me; I dare say it is; but I 
shall not put myself in the way of his pleasure. 
I'll stand it as long as I can, and when I cannot 
stand it any longer, I'll die. It will come to an 
end some time." 
" Mother, don't talk so ! We'll coax father to finish up his business and go home to Roxbury. I 
am quite setting my heart on it. Only you have 
 
patience a little, and don't lose courage. I'll talk 
to father as soon as I get a chance." 
"What a dirty place this is ! " was Mrs. Copley's 
next remark. 
" Yes. It is not like the rocks and the sea. A 
great city must be more or less so, I suppose." 
" I believe great cities are a mistake. I believe they were not meant to be built. They don't 
agree with me, anyway. Well, I'll lie down on 
that old sofa there it's hard enough to have 
been one of Job's troubles and see if I can get to 
sleep." 
Dolly drew a soft shawl over her, and sat down 
to keep watch alone. The familiar London sounds 
were not cheering to the ears which had been so 
lately listening to the lap of the waves and the 
rustling of the myrtle branches. And the dingy 
though comfortable London lodging house was a 
poor exchange for the bay of Sorrento and the 
bright rooms full of the scents of orange flowers 
and roses and carnations. Dolly gave way a little 
and felt very down-hearted. Not merely for this 
change of her outside world, indeed; Dolly was 
not so weak; only in this case the outward sym- 
bolized the inward, and gave fitting form and im- 
agery for it. The grime and confusion of London 
streets, to Dolly's fancy, were like the evil ways 
which she saw close upon her; and as roses and 
myrtles, so looked a fair family life of love and 
right doing. Why not? -when he who is Love 
itself and Kighteousness immaculate, declares of 
 
himself, " I am the rose of Sharon, and the lily 
of the valleys." I do not think those words occurred 
to Dolly that night, but other Bible words did, after 
a while. Promises of the life that shall be over all 
the earth one day, when the wilderness and the 
desert places shall be no longer desolate or barren, 
but shall " rejoice and blossom as the rose " ; when 
to the Lord's people, " the sun shall no longer be 
their light by day, neither for brightness shall the 
moon give light " to them ; when " sorrow and sighing shall flee away," and " the days of their mourning shall be ended." The words were like a lovely 
chime of bells, or like the breath from a whole 
garden of roses and orange flowers, or like the 
sunset light on the bay of Naples; or anything 
else most majestic, sweet, and fair. What if there 
were shadowed places to go through first? And 
a region of shadow Dolly surely knew she had en- 
tered now. She longed for her father to come 
home ; she wanted to consult with him about their 
arrangements, and so arrive at some certainty respecting what she had to do and expect. But Dolly knew that an early coming home was scarce to 
be hoped for ; and she providently roused her 
mother at ten o'clock and persuaded her to go to 
bed. Then Dolly waited alone in truth, with not 
even her sleeping mother's company; very sad 
at heart, and clutching, as a lame man does his 
stick, at some of the words of comfort she knew. 
"Though I walk through the valley of the shadow 
of death, I will fear no evil; for thou art with me." 
 
The case was not quite so bad, nor so good, with 
her as that; but the words were a strong staff to 
lean upon, nevertheless. And those others : " Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will 
I deliver him; I will set him on high, because he 
hath known my name. He shall call upon me, and 
I will answer him ; I will be with him in trouble ; 
. . ." And, "There shall no evil happen to the 
just." Dolly stayed her heart on such words, while 
she waited for her father's coming. As it grew 
later and yet later she doubted whether she ought 
to wait. She was waiting however when he came, 
between twelve and one, but nearer the latter. She 
listened to his step on the stair, and knew all was 
not right; and when he opened the door, she saw. 
Her father had surely been taking wine or something; his face was flushed, his eyes were excited, 
and his manner was wandering. 
" Dolly ! what are you here for ? " 
" I waited for you, father. I wanted to have a 
talk with you. But it's too late now," Dolly said 
trembling. 
"Too late yes, of course. Go to bed. That's 
the thing for you. London is a great place, Dolly! " 
Alas ! His expression of satisfaction was echoed 
in her heart by an anathema. It was no time then 
to say anything. Dolly went to bed and cried herself to sleep, longing for that sunshiny time of which 
it is promised to the Lord's people "Thy sun shall 
no more go down by day " ; and thankful beyond 
all power of words to express, even then in her sorrow, that another sun had even already risen upon 
her, in the warm light of which no utter darkness 
was possible. 
It was a day or two before, with her best watching, she could catch an opportunity to speak to her 
father. The second morning Mrs. Copley had head- 
ache and staid in bed, and Dolly and Mr. Copley 
were at breakfast alone. 
" How long, father, do you think you may find 
affairs to keep you in England?" Dolly began with 
her father's first cup of coffee. 
" As long as I like, my dear. There is no limit. 
In England there are always things going on to 
keep a man alive, and to keep him busy." 
" Isn't that true in America equally ? " 
" I don't think so. I never found it so. there 
is enough to do there ; but you don't find the same 
facilities, nor the same men to work with; and you 
don't know what to do with your money there when 
you have got it. England is the place ! for a man 
who wants to live and to enjoy life." 
" It isn't for a woman," said Dolly. " At least, 
not for one woman. Father, don't you know mother is longing to go home, to Roxbury ? " 
"Dolly, she is longing for something or other 
impossible, every day of her life." 
" But it would do her a great deal of good to be 
back there." 
" It would do me a great deal of harm." 
There was a pause here, during which Dolly 
meditated, and Mr. Copley buttered pieces of toast 
 
and swallowed them with ominous despatch. Dolly saw he would be soon through his breakfast at 
that rate. 
"But lather," she began again, "are we to spend 
all the rest of our lives in England ? " 
" My dear, I don't know anything about the future. I never look ahead. The day is as much as 
I can see through. I advise you to follow my 
example." 
" What are mother and I to do, then ? We cannot stay permanently here, in this house." 
"What's the matter with it?" 
" Nothing, as a lodging house ; but mother would 
not thrive or be happy in a London lodging house." 
" People's happiness is in their own power. It 
does not depend upon place. All the clergymen 
will tell you so. You must talk to your mother, 
Dolly." 
" Father, I talked to you at Sorrento ; but I remember you thought you could not live there." 
"That was Sorrento; but London! London is 
the greatest city in the world. Every taste may 
be suited in London." 
" You know the air does not agree with mother. 
She will not be well if we keep her here," said 
Dolly anxiously; for she saw the last piece of toast 
on its way. 
" Nonsense ! That is fancy." 
" If it is fancy, it is just as good as reality. She 
was pining when we wer& here before, until we 
went down to Brierley; and she will lose all she 
 
has gained in her travelling if we keep her here 
now." 
" Well I'll see what I can do," said Mr. Copley, 
rising from the table. "When is St. Leger com- 
ing back ? " 
" How should I know? I know nothing at all 
of his purposes, but what he told us." 
" Have you thrown him over? " 
" I never took him up." 
" Then you are more of a goose than I thought 
you. He'll be caught by that fair friend of yours, 
before he gets out of Italy. Good morning ! " 
Mr. Copley hurried away ; and Dolly was left to 
her doubts. What could so interest and hold him 
in a place where he had no official business, where 
his home was not, and he had no natural associations ? Was it the attraction of mere pleasure, or 
was it pleasure under that mischievous false face 
of gain, which men delight in and call speculation. 
And from speculation proper, carried on among the 
business haunts of men, there is not such a very 
wide step in the nature of things to the green level 
of the gaming table. True, many men indulge in 
the one variety' who have a horror of the other; 
but Dolly's father, she knew, had a horror of 
neither. Stocks, or dice, what did it matter ? and 
in both varieties the men who played with him, 
she knew too, would help their play with wine. 
Against these combined powers, what was she? 
And what was to become of them all ? 
Part of the question was answered at dinner that 
 
evening. Mr. Copley announced that Brierley Cottage was unoccupied and that he had retaken it for 
them. 
" Brierley ! " cried Mrs. Copley. " Brierley ! Are 
we going back there again ! Frank, do you mean 
that we are to spend all our lives apart in future ? " 
" Not at all, my dear ! If you will be so good 
as to stay with me, I shall be very happy." 
" In London ! But you know very well I cannot live in London." 
" Then you can go down to Brierley." 
" And how often shall you come there ? " 
" When the chinks of business are wide enough 
to let nie slip through." 
" Business ! All you live for is business. Mr. 
Copley, what do you expect is to become of Dolly, 
shut up in a cottage down in the country ? " 
"How is she to get married, you mean? She 
expects a fairy prince to come along one of these 
days; and of course he could find her at Brierley 
as easily as anywhere. It makes no difference in 
a fairy tale. In fact, the unlikely places are just 
the ones where the princes turn up." 
"You will not be serious! " sighed Mrs. Copley. 
" Serious ? I am nothing but serious. The regular suitor, proposed by the parents, has offered 
himself and been rejected; and now there is nothing to do but to wait for the fairy prince." 
Poor Mrs. Copley gave it up. Her husband's 
words were always too quick for her. 
Brierley was afterwards discussed between her 
 
and Dolly. The proposal was welcome to neither 
of them. Yet London would not do for Mrs. Copley ; she grew impatient of it more and more. And 
so, within a week after their arrival, they left it 
and went down again to their old home in the 
country. It felt like going to prison, Mrs. Copley 
said. Though the country was still full of summer's wealth and beauty; and it was impossible 
not to feel the momentary delight of the change 
from London. The little garden was crowded 
with flowers, the fields all around rich in grass 
and grain ; the great trees of the Park standing in 
their unchanged regal beauty ; the air sweet as air 
could be, without orange blossoms. And, yet it 
seemed to the two ladies, when Mr. Copley left 
them again after taking them down to the cottage, 
that they were shut off and shut up in a respectable 
and very eligible prison, from whence escape was 
doubtful. 
CHAPTER XXX. 
DOWN HILL. 
TO do Mr. Copley justice, he left the prison very 
well provided and furnished. The store closet 
and pantry were stocked ; the house put in tolerable 
order, and two maids were taken down. The old 
gardener had disappeared, but Dolly declared she 
would keep the flowers in order herself. So for a 
number of weeks things really went not ill with 
them at Brierley. Dolly did keep the flowers in 
order, and she did a great many other things ; the 
chief of which however was attending to her 
mother. How exquisitely she did this it would 
take a great deal of detail to tell. It was shewn, 
or felt rather, for a great part, in very small particulars. Not only in taking care of her mother's 
wardrobe and toilette, like the most skilled of 
waiting maids; not only in ordering and provid- 
ing her meals like the most dainty of housekeepers ; 
not only in tireless reading aloud of papers and 
books, whatever could be got to interest Mrs. Cop- 
ley; these were part, but besides these there were 
a thousand little touches a day given to Mrs. Copley's comfort, that even herself hardly took any 
 
note of. Dolly's countenance never was seen to fall 
in her mother's presence, nor her spirits perceived 
to flag. She was like the flowers with which she 
filled the house and dressed the table ; sweet and 
fresh and cheery and lovely. And so ministering, 
and so ministered to, I cannot say that the life of 
the mother and daughter was other than a happy 
one. If Mrs. Copley was sensible of a grievous 
want here and there, which made her nervous and 
irritable whenever she thought of it, the tenderness 
of Dolly's soothing and the contagion of Dolly's 
peace were irresistible ; and if Dolly had a gnawing 
subject of care, which hurt and pricked and stung 
her perpetually, a cloud of fear darkening over 
her, from the shadow of which she could not get 
free; yet the loving care to ward off both the pain 
and the fear from her mother, helped at least to 
keep her own heart fresh and strong to bear whatever was coming. 
So in their little room, at their table, or about 
the flowers in the garden, or sitting in the honey- 
suckle porch reading, the mother and daughter 
were always together, and the days of late summer and then of autumn went by sweetly enough. 
And when the last roses were gone and the honey- 
suckle vines had ceased to send forth their breath 
of fragrance, and leaves turned sear, and the winds 
blew harsh from the sea, Dolly and Mrs. Copley 
made themselves all the snugger in the cottage; 
and knitting and reading was carried on in the 
glow of a good fire that filled all their little room 
 
with brightness. They were ready for winter; and 
winter when it came did not chill them ; the house- 
hold life was warm and busy. All this while they 
had the stir of frequent visits from Mr. Copley, and 
between whiles the expectation of them. They 
were never long; he came and went, Mrs. Copley 
said, like a gust of wind, with a rush and a whistle 
and a roar, and then was gone, leaving you to feel 
how still it was. However, these gusts of wind 
brought a great deal of refreshment. Mr. Copley 
always came with his hands full of papers; always had the last London or Edinburgh Quarterly, 
and generally some other book or books for his 
wife and daughter to delight themselves withal. 
And though Dolly was not always satisfied with 
her father's appearance, yet on the whole he gave 
her no new or increased occasion for anxiety. 
So the autumn and winter went not ill away. The 
cottage had no visitors. It was at some distance 
from the village, and in the village there was 
hardly anybody that would have held himself entitled to visit there. The doctor was an old bachelor. 
The rector took no account of the two stranger 
ladies whom now and then his eye roved over in 
service time. Truly they were not often to be 
seen in his church, for the distance was too far 
for Mrs. Copley to walk, unless in exceptionally 
good days; when the weather and the footing and 
her own state of body and mind were in rare harmony over the undertaking. There was nobody 
else to take notice of them, and nobody did take 
 
notice of them; and in process of time it came to 
pass, not unnaturally, that Mrs. Copley began to 
get tired of living alone. For though it is extremely pleasant to be quiet, yet it remains true that man, 
was made a social animal; and if he is in a healthy 
condition he craves contact with his fellows. As 
the winter wore away, some impression of this sort 
seemed to force itself upon Mrs. Copley. 
"I wonder what your father is dreaming of!" 
she said one day, when she had sat for some time 
looking at Dolly who was drawing. " He seems 
to think it quite natural that you should live down 
here at this cottage, year in and year out, like a 
toad in a hole ; with no more life or society. We 
might as well be shut up in a nunnery, only then 
there would be more of us. I never heard of a 
nunnery with only two nuns." 
" Are you getting tired of it, mother ? " 
"Tired! that isn't the word. I think I am 
growing stupid, and gradually losing my wits." 
"We have not been a bit stupid this winter, 
mother dear." 
"We haven't seen anybody." 
" The family are soon coming to Brierley House, 
Mrs. Jersey says. I dare say you will see some- 
body then." 
" I don't believe we shall. The English don't 
like strangers, I tell you, Dolly, unless they come 
recommended by something or other; and there 
is nothing to recommend us." 
Mrs. Copley uttered this last sentence with such 
 
a dismal sort of realization, that Dolly laughed 
oat. 
" You are too modest, mother. I do not believe 
things are as bad as that." 
" You will see," said her mother. " And I hope 
you will stop going to see the housekeeper then." 
" I do not know why I should," said Dolly quietly. 
However, this question began to occupy her; 
not the question of her visiting Mrs. Jersey or of 
any one else visiting them ; but this prolonged liv- 
ing alone to which her mother and she seemed to be 
condemned. It was not good, and it was not right ; 
and Dolly saw that it was beginning to work unfavourably upon Mrs. Copley's health and spirits. 
But London ? and a lodging house ? That would be 
worse yet ; and for a house to themselves in London 
Dolly did not believe the means were at hand. 
Lately things had been less promising. Mr. 
Copley seemed to be not so ready with his money ; 
and he did not look well. Yes, he was well, he 
said when she asked him; nevertheless, her anxious eye read the old signs. She had not noticed 
them during the winter, or but slightly and rarely. 
Whether Mr. Copley had been making a vigorous 
effort to be as good as his word and spare Dolly 
pain; whether his sense of character had asserted 
itself, whether he had been so successful in speculation or play that he did not need opiates and 
could do without irritants ; I do not know. There 
had been an interval. Now Dolly began to be 
conscious again of the loss of freshness, the undue 
 
flush, the weak eyes, the unsteady mouth, the uneven gait. A stranger as yet might have passed 
it all by without notice; Dolly knew the change 
from her father's former quick, confident movements, iron nerves and muscular activity. And 
what was almost worse than all to her, among indications of his being entered on a downward 
course, she noticed that now he avoided her eye; 
looked at her, but preferred not meeting her look. 
I cannot tell how dreadful this was to Dolly. She 
had been always accustomed, until lately, to respect her father and to see him respected; to look 
at him as holding his place among men with much 
more than the average of influence and power; he 
was apt to do what he wished to do, and also to 
make other men do it. He was recognized as a 
leader in all parties and plans in which he took 
any share ; Mr. Copley's word was quoted and Mr. 
Copley's lead was followed; and as is the case with 
all such men, his confidence in himself had been 
one of his sources of power and means of success. 
Dolly had been all her life accustomed to this as 
the natural and normal condition of things. Now 
she saw that her father had ceased to respect himself. The agony this revelation brought to Mr. 
Copley's loyal little daughter, it is impossible to 
tell. She felt it almost unbearable, shrank from 
it, would have closed her eyes to it; but Dolly was 
one of those whose vision is not clouded but rather 
made more keen by affection; and she failed to see 
nothing that was before her. 
 
The ministry Dolly applied to this new old trouble 
was of the most exquisite kind. Without making 
it obtrusive, she bestowed upon her father a sort 
of service the like of which not all the interest of 
courts can obtain for their kings. She was tender 
of him, with a tenderness that came like the 
touch of a soft summer wind; coming and going, 
and coming again. It calls for no answer or return; only it is there with its blessing, comforting 
tired nerves and soothing ruffled spirits. Mr. Copley hardly knew what Dolly was doing; hardly 
knew that it was Dolly; when now it was a gen- 
tle touch on his arm, leading him to the tea-table, 
and now a specially prepared cup, and Dolly bringing it, and standing before him smiling and tasting 
it, looking at him over it. And Mr. Copley certainly thought at such times that a prettier vision 
was not to be seen in the whole united kingdom. 
Another time she would perch herself upon his 
knee and stroke back his hair from his temples, 
with fingers so delicate it was like the touch of a 
fairy; and then sometimes she would lay her head 
caressingly down on his shoulder; and though at 
such times Dolly could willingly have broken her 
heart in weeping, she let Mr. Copley see nothing 
but smiles, and suffered scarce so much as a stray 
sigh to come to his ear. 
" Have you seen anything of the great people ? " 
he asked one evening, when Dolly had moved his 
sudden admiration. 
" Do you mean the people at the House ? " his 
 
wife said. " No, of course. Don't you know, Mr. 
Copley, you must be great yourself to have the 
great look at you." 
" Humph ! There are different ways of being 
great. I shouldn't wonder, now, if you could 
shew Lady Brierley as much as Lady Brierley 
could shew you in some ways." 
"What extravagant notions you do have, Frank," 
said his wife. " You are so much of an American, 
you forget everybody around you is English." 
"Lady Brierley has been only a little while come 
home," said Dolly. " We need not discuss her 
yet." 
And so speaking, Dolly brought out the Bible. 
The reading with her mother had become a regu- 
lar thing now, greatly helpful to Mrs. Copley's 
good rest, Dolly believed, both by day and night ; 
and latterly when he had been at the cottage her 
father had not run away when she brought her 
book. Alone with her mother, Dolly had long 
since added prayer to the reading; not yet in her 
father's presence. Her heart beat a little, it cost 
an effort ; all the same Dolly knew it must now be 
done. With a grave little face she brought out 
her Bible, laid it on the table, and opened it at the 
fifth chapter of Matthew. 
" Here comes our domestic chaplain ! " said her 
father. Dolly looked up at him and smiled. 
"Then of course you would not interfere with 
anything the chaplain does?" she said. 
" Only not preach," said her father in the same 
 
