him out of it. Mrs. Penniman, to tell the truth, had, 
in the seclusion of her own apartment and, I may 
add, amid the suggestiveness of Catherine's, which 
wore in those days the appearance of that of a young 
lady laying out her trousseau Mrs. Penniman had 
measured her responsibilities, and taken fright at 
their magnitude. The task of preparing Catherine 
and easing off Morris presented difficulties which 
increased in the execution, and even led the impul- 
sive Lavinia to ask herself whether the modification 
of the young man's original project had been con- 
ceived in a happy spirit. A brilliant future, a wider 
career, a conscience exempt from the reproach of 
interference between a young lady and her natural 
rights these excellent things might be too trou- 
blesomely purchased. From Catherine herself Mrs. 
Penniman received no assistance whatever ; the poor 
girl was apparently without suspicion of her danger. 
She looked at her lover with eyes of undiminished 
trust, and though she had less confidence in her aunt 
than in a young man with whom she had exchanged 
so many tender vows, she gave her no handle for 
explaining or confessing. Mrs. Penniman, faltering 
and wavering, declared Catherine was very stupid, 
put off the great scene, as she would have called it, 
from day to day, and wandered about, very uncom- 
fortably, with her unexploded bomb in her hands. 
Morris's own scenes were very small ones just now ; 
but even these were beyond his strength. He made 
his visits as brief as possible, and, while he sat with 
his mistress, found terribly little to talk about. She 
was waiting for him, in vulgar parlance, to name 
the day; and so long as he was unprepared to be 
explicit on this point, it seemed a mockery to pre- 
tend to talk about matters more abstract. She had 
no airs and no arts ; she never attempted to disguise 
her expectancy. She was waiting on his good 
pleasure, and would wait modestly and patiently; 
his hanging back at this supreme time might appear 
strange, but of course he must have a good reason 
for it. Catherine would have made a wife of the 
gentle, old-fashioned pattern regarding reasons as 
favors and windfalls, but no more expecting one 
every day than she would have expected a bouquet 
of camellias. During the period of her engage- 
ment, however, a young lady even of the most slen- 
der pretensions counts upon more bouquets than at 
other times ; and there was a want of perfume in 
the air at this moment which at last excited the 
girl's alarm. 
"Are you sick?" she asked of Morris. " You 
seem so restless, and you look pale." 
" I am not at all well," said Morris ; and it occur- 
red to him that, if he could only make her pity him 
enough, he might get off. 
" I am afraid you are overworked ; you oughtn't 
to work so much." 
" I must do that." And then he added, with a 
sort of calculated brutality, " I don't want to owe 
you everything." 
" Ah, how can you say that ?" 
" I am too proud," said Morris. 
" Yes you are too proud." 
" Well, you must take me as I am," he went on ; 
" you can never change me." 
"I don't want to change you," she said, gently ; 
" I will take you as you are." And she stood look- 
ing at him. 
" You know people talk tremendously about a 
man's marrying a rich girl," Morris remarked. " It's 
excessively disagreeable." 
" But I am not rich," said Catherine. 
u You are rich enough to make me talked about." 
" Of course you are talked about. It's an honor." 
" It's an honor I could easily dispense with." 
She was on the point of asking him whether it 
was not a compensation for this annoyance that the 
poor girl who had the misfortune to bring it upon 
him loved him so dearly and believed in him so 
truly ; but she hesitated, thinking that this would 
perhaps seem an exacting speech, and while she 
hesitated, he suddenly left her. 
The next time he came, however, she brought it 
out, and she told him again that he was too proud. 
He repeated that he couldn't change, and this time 
she felt the impulse to say that with a little effort 
he might change. 
Sometimes he thought that if he could only make 
a quarrel with her it might help him ; but the ques- 
tion was how to quarrel with a young woman who 
had such treasures of concession. " I suppose you 
think the effort is all on your side," he broke out. 
" Don't you believe that I have my own effort to 
make?" 
" It's all yours now," she said ; " my effort is fin- 
ished and done with." 
" Well, mine is not." 
" We must bear things together," said Catherine. 
" That's what we ought to do." 
Morris attempted a natural smile. "There are 
some things which we can't very well bear together 
for instance, separation." 
" Why do you speak of separation ?" 
"Ah ! you don't like it ; I knew you wouldn't." 
" Where are you going, Morris ?" she suddenly 
asked. 
He fixed his eye on her a moment, and for a part 
of that moment she was afraid of it. " Will you 
promise not to make a scene ?" 
" A scene ! do I make scenes ?" 
"All women do!" said Morris, with the tone of 
large experience. 
" I don't. Where are you going ?" 
"If I should say I was going away on business, 
should you think it very strange ?" 
She wondered a moment, gazing at him. " Yes 
no. Not if you will take me with you." 
" Take you with me on business ?" 
" What is your business ? Your business is to be 
with me." 
" I don't earn my living with you," said Morris. 
" Or, rather," he cried, with a sudden inspiration, 
"that's just what I do or what the world says I 
do!" 
This ought perhaps to have been a great stroke, 
but it miscarried. " Where are you going ?" Cath- 
erine simply repeated. 
" To New Orleans about buying some cot- 
ton." 
" I am perfectly willing to go to New Orleans," 
Catherine said. 
" Do you suppose I would take you to a nest of 
yellow -fever?" cried Morris. "Do you suppose I 
would expose you at such a time as this ?" 
" If there is yellow - fever, why should you go ? 
Morris, you must not go." 
" It is to make six thousand dollars," said Morris. 
" Do you grudge me that satisfaction ?" 
" We have no need of six thousand dollars. You 
think too much about money." 
" You can afford to say that. This is a great 
chance; we heard of it last night." And he ex- 
plained to her in what the chance consisted ; and 
told her a long story, going over more than once 
several of the details, about the remarkable stroke 
of business which he and his partner had planned 
between them. 
But Catherine's imagination, for reasons best 
known to herself, absolutely refused to be fired. 
" If you can go to New Orleans, I can go," she said. 
"Why shouldn't you catch yellow -fever quite as 
easily as I ? I am every bit as strong as you, and 
not in the least afraid of any fever. When we were 
in Europe we were in very unhealthy places ; my 
father used to make me take some pills. I never 
caught anything, and I never was nervous. What 
will be the use of six thousand dollars if you die of 
a fever? When persons are going to be married 
they oughtn't to think so much about business. 
You shouldn't think about cotton ; you should think 
about me. You can go to New Orleans some other 
time there will always be plenty of cotton. It isn't 
the moment to choose: we have waited too long 
already." She spoke more forcibly and volubly 
than he had ever heard her, and she held his arm in 
her two hands. 
" You said you wouldn't make a scene," cried 
Morris. " I call this a scene." 
" It's you that are making it. I have never asked 
you anything before. We have waited too long 
already." And it was a comfort to her to think 
that she had hitherto asked so little; it seemed to 
make her right to insist the greater now. 
Morris bethought himself a little. " Very well, 
then ; we won't talk about it any more. I will 
transact my business by letter." And he began to 
smooth his hat, as if to take leave. 
"You won't go?" and she stood looking up at 
him. 
He could not give up his idea of provoking a 
quarrel ; it was so much the simplest way. He bent 
his eyes on her upturned face with the darkest frown 
he could achieve. " You are not discreet ; you 
mustn't bully me." 
But, as usual, she conceded everything. " No, I 
am not discreet ; I know I am too pressing. But 
isn't it natural ? It is only for a moment." 
" In a moment you may do a great deal of harm. 
Try and be calmer the next time I come." 
" When will you come ?" 
" Do you want to make conditions ?" Morris ask- 
ed. "I will come next Saturday." 
" Come to-morrow," Catherine begged ; " I want 
you to come to-morrow. I will be very quiet," she 
added ; and her agitation had by this time become 
so great that the assurance was not unbecoming. A 
sudden fear had come over her ; it was like the solid 
conjunction of a dozen disembodied doubts, and her 
imagination, at a single bound, had traversed an 
enormous distance. All her being, for the mo- 
ment, was centred in the wish to keep him in the 
room. 
Morris bent his head and kissed her forehead. 
" When you are quiet, you are perfection," he said ; 
" but when you are violent, you are not in charac- 
ter." 
It was Catherine's wish that there should be no 
violence about her save the beating of her heart. 
which she could not help ; and she went on, as 
gently as possible, "Will you promise to come to- 
morrow ?" 
"I said Saturday!" Morris answered, smiling. 
He tried a frown at one moment, a smile at an- 
other ; he was at his wit's end. 
"Yes, Saturday too," she answered, trying to 
smile. "But to-morrow first." He was going to 
the door, and she went with him quickly. She 
leaned her shoulder against it; it seemed to her 
that she would do anything to keep him. 
" If I am prevented from coming to-morrow, you 
will say I have deceived you," he said. 
" How can you be prevented ? You can come if 
you will." 
" I am a busy man I am not a dangler !" cried 
Morris, sternly. 
His voice was so hard and unnatural that, with a 
helpless look at him, she turned away ; and then he 
quickly laid his hand on the door-knob. He felt as 
if he were absolutely running away from her. But 
in an instant she was close to him again, and mur- 
muring in a tone none the less penetrating for being 
low, " Morris, you are going to leave me." 
"Yes, for a 'little while." 
"For how long?" 
" Till you are reasonable again." 
" I shall never be reasonable, in that way." And 
she tried to keep him longer ; it was almost a strug- 
gle. " Think of what I have done !" she broke out. 
u Morris, I have given up everything." 
" You shall have everything back." 
" You wouldn't say that if you didn't mean some- 
thing. What is it? what has happened ? what 
have I done ? what has changed you ?" 
" I will write to you that is better," Morris stam- 
mered. 
" Ah, you won't come back !" she cried, bursting 
into tears. 
" Dear Catherine," he said, " don't believe that. 
I promise you that you shall see me again." And 
he managed to get away, and to close the door be- 
hind him. 
 
XXX 
IT was almost the last outbreak of passion of her 
life ; at least, she never indulged in another that the 
world knew anything about. But this one was long 
and terrible ; she flung herself on the sofa and gave 
herself up to her grief. She hardly knew what had 
happened ; ostensibly she had only had a difference 
with her lover, as other girls had had before, and 
the thing was not only not a rupture, but she was 
under no obligation to regard it even as a menace. 
Nevertheless, she felt a wound, even if he had not 
dealt it ; it seemed to her that a mask had suddenly 
fallen from his face. He had wished to get away 
from her; he had been angry and cruel, and said 
strange things, with strange looks. She was smothered and 
stunned ; she buried her head in the cushions, 
sobbing and talking to herself. But at last 
she raised herself, with the fear that either her fa- 
ther or Mrs. Penniman would come in ; and then she 
sat there, staring before her, while the room grew 
darker. She said to herself that perhaps he would 
come back to tell her he had not meant what he 
said ; and she listened for his ring at the door, try- 
ing to believe that this was probable. A long time 
passed, but Morris remained absent ; the shadows 
gathered ; the evening settled down on the meagre 
elegance of the light, clear -colored room; the fire 
went out. When it had grown dark, Catherine 
went to the window and looked out ; she stood there 
for half an hour, on the mere chance that he would 
come up the steps. At last she turned away, for 
she saw her father come in. He had seen her at 
the window looking out, and he stopped a moment 
at the bottom of the white steps, and gravely, with 
an air of exaggerated courtesy, lifted his hat to her. 
The gesture was so incongruous to the condition 
she was in, this stately tribute of respect to a poor 
girl despised and forsaken was so out of place, that 
the thing gave her a kind of horror, and she hurried 
away to her room. It seemed to her that she had 
given Morris up. 
She had to show herself half an hour later, and 
she was sustained at table by the immensity of her 
desire that her fathei should not perceive that any- 
thing had happened. This was a great help to her 
afterward, and it served her (though never as much 
as she supposed) from the first. On this occasion 
Doctor Sloper was rather talkative. He told a great 
many stories about a wonderful poodle that he had 
seen at the house of an old lady whom he visited 
professionally. Catherine not only tried to appear 
to listen to the anecdotes of the poodle, but she en- 
deavored to interest herself in them, so as not to 
think of her scene with Morris. That perhaps was 
an hallucination; he was mistaken, she was jealous; 
people didn't change like that from one day to an- 
other. Then she knew that she had had doubts be- 
fore strange suspicions, that were at once vague 
and acute and that he had been different ever since 
her return from Europe : whereupon she tried again 
to listen to her father, who told a story so remarka- 
bly well. Afterward she went straight to her own 
room ; it was beyond her strength to undertake to 
spend the evening with her aunt. All the evening, 
alone, she questioned herself. Her trouble was ter- 
rible ; but was it a thing of her imagination, engen- 
dered by an extravagant sensibility, or did it repre- 
sent a clear-cut reality, arid had the worst that was 
possible actually come to pass ? Mrs. Penniman, 
with a degree of tact that was as unusual as it was 
commendable, took the line of leaving her alone. 
The truth is, that her suspicions having been aroused, 
she indulged a desire, natural to a timid person, that 
the explosion should be localized. So long as the 
air still vibrated she kept out of the way. ' 
She passed and repassed Catherine's door several 
times in the course of the evening, as if she expected 
to hear a plaintive moan behind it. But the room 
remained perfectly still; and accordingly, the last 
thing before retiring to her own couch, she applied 
for admittance. Catherine was sitting up, and had 
a book that she pretended to be reading. She had 
no wish to go to bed, for she had no expectation of 
sleeping. After Mrs. Penniman had left her she 
sat up half the night, and she offered her visitor no 
inducement to remain. Her aunt came stealing in 
very gently, and approached her with great solem- 
nity. 
" I am afraid you are in trouble, my dear. Can I 
do anything to help you ?" 
" I am not in any trouble whatever, and do not 
need any help," said Catherine, fibbing roundly, and 
proving thereby that not only our faults, but our 
most involuntary misfortunes, tend to corrupt our 
morals. 
" Has nothing happened to you ?" 
" Nothing whatever." 
" Are you very sure, dear ?" 
"Perfectly sure." 
"And can I really do nothing for you?" 
" Nothing, aunt, but kindly leave me alone," said 
Catherine. 
Mrs. Penniman, though she had been afraid of too 
warm a welcome before, was now disappointed at so 
cold a one ; and in relating afterward, as she did to 
many persons, and with considerable variations of 
detail, the history of the termination of her niece's 
engagement, she was usually careful to mention that 
the young lady, on a certain occasion, had "hustled" 
her out of the room. It was characteristic of Mrs. 
Penniman that she related this fact, not in the least 
out of malignity to Catherine, whom she very suffi- 
ciently pitied, but simply from a natural disposition 
to embellish any subject that she touched. 
Catherine, as I have said, sat up half the night, as 
if she still expected to hear Morris Townsend ring 
at the door. On the morrow this expectation was 
less unreasonable ; but it was not gratified by the 
reappearance of the young man. Neither had he 
written ; there was not a word of explanation or re- 
assurance. Fortunately for Catherine, she could take 
refuge from her excitement, which had now become 
intense, in her determination that her father should 
see nothing of it. How well she deceived her fa- 
ther we shall have occasion to learn ; but her inno- 
cent arts were of little avail before a person of the 
rare perspicacity of Mrs. Penniman. This lady easi- 
ly saw that she was agitated, and if there was any 
agitation going forward, Mrs. Penniman was not a 
person to forfeit her natural share in it. She re- 
turned to the charge the next evening, and requested 
her niece to confide in her to unburden her heart. 
Perhaps she should be able to explain certain things 
that now seemed dark, and that she knew more 
about than Catherine supposed. If Catherine had 
been frigid the night before, to-day she was haughty. 
"You are completely mistaken, and I have not 
the least idea what you mean. I don't know what 
you are trying to fasten on me, and I have never 
had less need of any one's explanations in my 
life." 
In this way the girl delivered herself, and from 
hour to hour kept her aunt at bay. From hour to 
hour Mrs. Penniman's curiosity grew. She would 
have given her little finger to know what Morris 
had said and done, what tone he had taken, what 
pretext he had found. She wrote to him, naturally, 
to request an interview ; but she received, as natu- 
rally, no answer to her petition. Morris was not in 
a writing mood; for Catherine had addressed him 
two short notes which met with no acknowledg- 
ment. These notes were so brief that I may give 
them entire. "Won't you give me some sign that 
you didn't mean to be so cruel as you seemed on 
Tuesday ?" that was the first ; the other was a lit- 
tle longer. "If I was unreasonable or suspicious 
on Tuesday if I annoyed you or troubled you in 
any way I beg your forgiveness, and I promise 
never again to be so foolish. I am punished enough, 
and I don't understand. Dear Morris, you are kill- 
ing me !" These notes were despatched on the Fri- 
day and Saturday ; but Saturday and Sunday passed 
without bringing the poor girl the satisfaction she 
desired. Her punishment accumulated ; she contin- 
ued to bear it, however, with a good deal of super- 
ficial fortitude. On Saturday morning, the Doctor, 
who had been watching in silence, spoke to his sis- 
ter Lavinia. 
"The thing has happened the scoundrel has 
backed out !" 
" Never !" cried Mrs. Penniman, who had bethought 
herself what she should say to Catherine, but was 
not provided with a line of defence against her 
brother, so that indignant negation was the only 
weapon in her hands. 
" He has begged for a reprieve, then, if you like 
that better!" 
"It seems to make you very happy that your 
daughter's affections have been trifled with." 
"It does," said the Doctor ; " for I had foretold 
it ! It's a great pleasure to be in the right." 
"Your pleasures make one shudder!" his sister 
exclaimed. 
Catherine went rigidly through her usual occu- 
pations ; that is, up to* the point of going with her 
aunt to church on Sunday morning. She generally 
went to afternoon service as well ; but on this oc- 
casion her courage faltered, and she begged of Mrs. 
Penniman to go without her. 
" I am sure you have a secret," said Mrs. Penni- 
man, with great significance, looking at her rather 
grimly. 
" If I have, I shall keep it ?" Catherine answered, 
turning away. 
Mrs. Penniman started for church ; but before 
she had arrived, she stopped and turned back, and 
before twenty minutes had elapsed she re-entered 
the house, looked into the empty parlors, and then 
went up -stairs and knocked at Catherine's door. 
She got no answer; Catherine was not in her room, 
and Mrs. Penniman presently ascertained that she 
was not in the house. " She has gone to him ! she 
has fled !" Lavinia cried, clasping her hands with ad- 
miration and envy. But she soon perceived that 
Catherine had taken nothing with her all her per- 
sonal property in her room was intact and then 
she jumped at the hypothesis that the girl had gone 
forth, not in tenderness, but in resentment. " She 
has followed him to his own door! she has burst 
upon him in his own apartment !" It was in these 
terms that Mrs. Penniman depicted to herself her 
niece's errand, which, viewed in this light, gratified 
her sense of the picturesque only a shade less strong- 
ly than the idea of a clandestine marriage. To visit 
one's lover, with tears and reproaches, at his own 
residence, was an image so agreeable to Mrs. Penni- 
man's mind that she felt a sort of aesthetic disap- 
pointment at its lacking, in this case, the harmoni- 
ous accompaniments of darkness and storm. A 
quiet Sunday afternoon appeared an inadequate set- 
ting for it ; and, indeed, Mrs. Penniman was quite 
out of humor with the conditions of the time, which 
passed very slowly as she sat in the front parlor, in 
her bonnet and her cashmere shawl, awaiting Cath- 
erine's return. 
This event at last took place. She saw her at 
the window mount the steps, and she went to 
await her in the hall, where she pounced upon her 
as soon as she had entered the house, and drew her 
into the parlor, closing the door with solemnity. 
Catherine was flushed, and her eye was bright. 
Mrs. Penniman hardly knew what to think. 
" May I venture to ask where you have been ?" 
she demanded. 
" I have been to take a walk," said Catherine. 
" I thought you had gone to church." 
" I did go to church ; but the service was shorter 
than usual. And pray where did you walk ?" 
" I don't know !" said Catherine. 
" Your ignorance is most extraordinary ! Dear 
Catherine, you can trust me." 
" What am I to trust you with ?" 
" With your secret your sorrow." 
" I have no sorrow !" said Catherine, fiercely. 
"My poor child," Mrs. Penniman insisted, "you 
can't deceive me. I know everything. I have been 
requested to a to converse with you." 
"I don't want to converse !" 
"It will relieve you. Don't you know Shak- 
speare's lines? 'The grief that does not speak!' 
My dear girl, it is better as it is !" 
" What is bettter P Catherine asked. 
She was really too perverse. A certain amount 
of perversity was to be allowed for in a young lady 
whose lover had thrown her over ; but not such an 
amount as would prove inconvenient to his apolo- 
gists. "That you should be reasonable," said Mrs. 
Penniman, with some sternness ; " that you should 
take counsel of worldly prudence, and submit to 
practical considerations; that you should agree to 
a separate." 
Catherine had been ice up to this moment, but at 
this word she flamed up. "Separate? What do 
you know about our separating P 
Mrs. Penniman shook her head with a sadness in 
which there was almost a sense of injury. " Your 
pride is my pride, and your susceptibilities are mine. 
I see your side perfectly, but I also ' and she 
smiled with melancholy suggestiveness " I also see 
the situation as a whole !" 
This suggestiveness was lost upon Catherine, 
who repeated her violent inquiry. "Why do you 
talk about separation ; what do you know about 
it?" 
" We must study resignation," said Mrs. Penni- 
man, hesitating, but sententious at a venture. 
" Resignation to what ?" 
" To a change of of our plans." 
" My plans have not changed !" said Catherine, 
with a little laugh. 
"Ah, but Mr. Townsend's have," her aunt answer- 
ed, very gently. 
" What do you mean ?" 
There was an imperious brevity in the tone of 
this inquiry, against which Mrs. Penniman felt bound 
to protest ; the information with which she had un- 
dertaken to supply her niece was after all a favor. 
She had tried sharpness, and she had tried sternness ; 
but neither would do ; she was shocked at the girl's 
obstinacy. " Ah well," she said, " if he hasn't told 
you ! . . ." and she turned away. 
Catherine watched her a moment in silence ; then 
she hurried after her, stopping her before she reach- 
ed the door. " Told me what ? What do you mean ? 
What are you hinting at and threatening me with ?" 
" Isn't it broken off ?" asked Mrs. Penniman. 
" My engagement? Not in the least !" 
" I beg your pardon in that case. I have spoken 
too soon !" 
" Too soon? Soon or late," Catherine broke out, 
" you speak foolishly and cruelly !" 
" What has happened between you then ?" asked 
her aunt, struck by the sincerity of this cry ; " for 
something certainly has happened." 
" Nothing has happened but that I love him more 
and more !" 
Mrs. Penniman was silent an instant. " I suppose 
that's the reason you went to see him this after- 
noon." 
Catherine flushed as if she had been struck. " Yes, 
I did go to see him ! But that's my own business." 
" Very well, then ; we won't talk about it." And 
Mrs. Penniman moved toward the door again ; but 
she was stopped by a sudden imploring cry from 
the girl. 
" Aunt Lavinia, where has he gone 2" 
" Ah, you admit then that he has gone away ! 
Didn't they know at his house ?" 
" They said he had left town. I asked no more 
questions ; I was ashamed," said Catherine, simply 
enough. 
" You needn't have taken so compromising a step 
if you had had a little more confidence in me," Mrs. 
Penniman observed, with a good deal of grandeur. 
" Is it to New Orleans ?" Catherine went on, ir- 
relevantly. 
It was the first time Mrs. Penniman had heard of 
New Orleans in this connection ; but she was averse 
to letting Catherine know that she was in the dark. 
She attempted to strike an illumination from the in- 
structions she had received from Morris. " My dear 
Catherine," she said, " when a separation has been 
agreed upon, the farther he goes away the better." 
" Agreed upon ? Has he agreed upon it with you ?" 
A consummate sense of her aunt's meddlesome folly 
had come over her during the last five minutes, and 
she was sickened at the thought that Mrs. Penniman 
had been let loose, as it were, upon her happiness. 
"He certainly has sometimes advised with me," 
said Mrs. Penniman. 
" Is it you, then, that has changed him and made 
him so unnatural ?" Catherine cried. " Is it you that 
have worked on him and taken him from me ? He 
doesn't belong to you, and I don't see how you have 
anything to do with what is between us ! Is it you 
that have made this plot, and told him to leave me ? 
How could you be so wicked, so cruel ? What have 
I ever done to you? Why can't you leave me alone ? 
I was afraid you would spoil everything ; for you do 
spoil everything you touch ! I was afraid of you 
all the time we were abroad ; I had no rest when I 
thought that you were always talking to him." Cath- 
erine went on with growing vehemence, pouring out, 
in her bitterness and in the clairvoyance of her pas- 
sion (which suddenly, jumping all processes, made 
her judge her aunt finally and without appeal), the 
uneasiness which had lain for so many months upon 
her heart. 
Mrs. Pennirnan was scared and bewildered ; she 
saw no prospect of introducing her little account of 
the purity of Morris's motives. " You are a most 
ungrateful girl !" she cried. " Do you scold me for 
talking with him? I'm sure we never talked of 
anything but you !" 
" Yes ; and that was the way you worried him ; 
you made him tired of my very name ! I wish you 
had never spoken of me to him ; I never asked your 
help !" 
"I am sure if it hadn't been for me he would 
never have come to the house, and you would nev- 
er have known that he thought of you," Mrs. Pen- 
niman rejoined, with a good deal of justice. 
" I wish he never had come to the house, and that 
I never had known it ! That's better than this," said 
poor Catherine. 
" You are a very ungrateful girl," Aunt Lavinia 
repeated. 
Catherine's outbreak of anger and the sense of 
wrong gave her, while they lasted, the satisfaction 
that comes from all assertion of force ; they hurried 
her along, and there is always a sort of pleasure in 
cleaving the air. But at bottom she hated to be 
violent, and she was conscious of no aptitude for 
organized resentment. She calmed herself with a 
great effort, but with great rapidity, and walked 
about the room a few moments, trying to say 'to 
herself that her aunt had meant everything for the 
best. She did not succeed in saying it with much 
conviction, but after a little she was able to speak 
quietly enough. 
" I am not ungrateful, but I am very unhappy. 
It's hard to be grateful for that," she said. " Will 
you please tell me where he is ?" 
" I haven't the least idea; I arn not in secret corre- 
spondence with him !" And Mrs. Penniman wished, 
indeed, that she were, so that she might let him know 
how Catherine abused her, after all she had done. 
" Was it a plan of his, then, to break off ?" By 
this time Catherine had become completely quiet. 
Mrs. Penniman began again to have a glimpse of 
her chance for explaining. " He shrunk he shrunk," 
she said ; " he lacked courage, but it was the cour- 
age to injure you ! He couldn't bear to bring down 
on you your father's curse." 
Catherine listened to this with her eyes fixed upon 
her aunt, and continued to gaze at her for some time 
afterward. " Did he tell you to say that ?" 
" He told me to say many things all so delicate, 
so discriminating ; and he told rne to tell you he 
hoped you wouldn't despise him." 
" I don't," said Catherine ; and then she added, 
" And will he stay away forever ?" 
" Oh, forever is a long time. Your father, per- 
haps, won't live forever." 
" Perhaps not." 
"I am sure you appreciate you understand 
even though your heart bleeds," said Mrs. Penni- 
man. "You doubtless think him too scrupulous. 
So do I, but I respect his scruples. What he asks 
of you is that you should do the same." 
Catherine was still gazing at her aunt, but she 
spoke at last as if she had not heard or not under- 
stood her. " It has been a regular plan, then. He 
has broken it off deliberately ; he has given me up." 
" For the present, dear Catherine ; he has put it 
off, only." 
" He has left me alone," Catherine went on. 
" Haven't you me ?" asked Mrs. Penniman, with 
some solemnity. 
Catherine shook her head slowly. " I don't be- 
lieve it !" and she left the room. 
XXXI. 
THOUGH she had forced herself to be calm, she 
preferred practising this virtue in private, and she 
forbore to show herself at tea a repast which, on 
Sundays, at six o'clock, took the place of dinner. 
Doctor Sloper and his sister sat face to face, but Mrs. 
Penniman never met her brother's eye. Late in the 
evening she went with him, but without Catherine, 
to their sister Almond's, where, between the two 
ladies, Catherine's unhappy situation was discussed 
with a frankness that was conditioned by a good 
deal of mysterious reticence on Mrs. Penniman's 
part. 
"I am delighted he is not to marry her," said 
Mrs. Almond, " but he ought to be horsewhipped all 
the same." 
Mrs. Penniman, who was shocked at her sister's 
coarseness, replied that he had been actuated by the 
noblest of motives the desire not to impoverish 
Catherine. 
" I am very happy that Catherine is not to be im- 
poverished but I hope he may never have a pen- 
ny too much ! And what does the poor girl say to 
you ?" Mrs. Almond asked. 
" She says I have a genius for consolation," said 
Mrs. Penniman. 
This was the account of the matter that she gave 
to her sister, and it was perhaps with the conscious- 
ness of genius that, on her return that evening to 
Washington Square, she again presented herself for 
admittance at Catherine's door. Catherine came 
and opened it ; she was apparently very quiet. 
" I only want to give you a little word of advice," 
she said. " If your father asks you, say that every- 
thing is going on." 
Catherine stood there, with her hand on the knob, 
looking at her aunt, but not asking her to come in. 
" Do you think he will ask me ?" 
" I am sure he will. He asked me just now, on 
our way home from your aunt Elizabeth's. I ex- 
plained the whole thing to your aunt Elizabeth. I 
said to your father I knew nothing about it." 
" Do you think he will ask me, when he sees 
when he sees ?" But here Catherine stopped. 
" The more he sees, the more disagreeable he will 
be," said her aunt. 
" He shall see as little as possible !" Catherine de- 
clared. 
" Tell him you are to be married." 
v " So I am," said Catherine, softly ; and she closed 
the door upon her aunt. 
She could not have said this two days later for 
instance, on Tuesday, when she at last received a 
letter from Morris Townsend. It was an epistle of 
considerable length, measuring five large square 
pages, and written at Philadelphia. It was an ex- 
planatory document, and it explained a great many 
things, chief among which were the considerations 
that had led the writer to take advantage of an ur- 
gent " professional " absence to try and banish from 
his mind the image of one whose path he had cross- 
ed only to scatter it with ruins. He ventured to ex- 
pect but partial success in this attempt, but he could 
promise her that, whatever his failure, he would nev- 
er again interpose between her generous heart and 
her brilliant prospects and filial duties. He closed 
with an intimation that his professional pursuits 
might compel him to travel for some months, and 
with the hope that when they should each have ac- 
commodated themselves to what was sternly involved 
in their respective positions even should this re- 
sult not be reached for years they should meet as 
friends, as fellow - sufferers, as innocent but philo- 
sophic victims of a great social law. That her life 
should be peaceful and happy was the dearest wish 
of him who ventured still to subscribe himself her 
most obedient servant. The letter was beautifully 
written, and Catherine, who kept it for many years 
after this, was able, when her sense of the bitterness 
of its meaning and the hollowness of its tone had 
grown less acute, to admire its grace of expression. 
At present, for a long time after she received it, all 
she had to help her was the determination, daily 
more rigid, to make no appeal to the compassion of 
her father. 
He suffered a week to elapse, and then one day, in 
the morning, at an hour at which she rarely saw him, 
he strolled into the back parlor. He had watched 
his time, and he found her alone. She was sitting 
with some work, and he came and stood in front of 
her. He was going out ; he had on his hat, and was 
drawing on his gloves. 
" It doesn't seem to me that you are treating me 
just now with all the consideration I deserve," he 
said in a moment. 
" I don't know what I have done," Catherine an- 
swered, with her eyes on her work. 
"You have apparently quite banished from your 
mind the request I made you at Liverpool before we 
sailed the request that you would notify me in ad- 
vance before leaving my house." 
" I have not left your house," said Catherine. 
" But you intend to leave it, and, by what you gave 
me to understand, your departure must be impend- 
ing. In fact, though you are still here in body, you 
are already absent in spirit. Your mind has taken 
up its residence with your prospective husband, and 
you might quite as well be lodged under the conju- 
gal roof for all the benefit we get from your so- 
ciety." 
" I will try and be more cheerful," said Catherine. 
" You certainly ought to be cheerful ; you ask a 
great deal if you are not. To the pleasure of mar- 
rying a charming young man you add that of hav- 
ing your own way; you strike me as a very lucky 
young lady !" 
Catherine got up ; she was suffocating. But she 
folded her work deliberately and correctly, bending 
her burning face upon it. Her father stood where 
he had planted himself ; she hoped he would go, but 
he smoothed and buttoned his gloves, and then he 
rested his hands upon his hips. 
" It would be a convenience to me to know when 
I may expect to have an empty house," he went on. 
" When you go, your aunt marches." 
She looked at him at last, with a long, silent gaze, 
which, in spite of her pride and her resolution, ut- 
tered part of the appeal she had tried not to make. 
Her father's cold gray eye sounded her own, and he 
insisted on his point. 
" Is it to-morrow ? Is it next week, or the week 
after?" 
" I shall not go away !" said Catherine. 
The Doctor raised his eyebrows. " Has he backed 
out?" 
" I have broken off my engagement." 
"Broken it off?" 
" I have asked him to leave New York, and he 
has gone away for a long time." 
The Doctor was both puzzled and disappointed, 
but he solved his perplexity by saying to himself 
that his daughter simply misrepresented justifia- 
bly, if one would, but nevertheless, misrepresented 
the facts ; and he eased off his disappointment, which 
was that of a man losing a chance for a little tri- 
umph that he had rather counted on, by a few words 
that he uttered aloud. 
" How does he take his dismissal ?" 
" I don't know !" said Catherine, less ingeniously 
than she had hitherto spoken. 
" You mean you don't care ? You are rather 
cruel, after encouraging him and playing with him 
for so long !" 
The Doctor had his revenge, after all. 
XXXII. 
OUR story has hitherto moved with very short 
steps, but as it approaches its termination it must 
take a long stride. As time went on, it might have 
appeared to the Doctor that his daughter's account 
of her rupture with Morris Townsend, mere bravado 
as he had deemed it, was in some degree justified by 
the sequel. Morris remained as rigidly and unre- 
mittingly absent as if he had died of a broken heart, 
and Catherine had apparently buried the memory 
of this fruitless episode as deep as if it had ter- 
minated by her own choice. We know that she 
had been deeply and incurably wounded, but the 
Doctor had no means of knowing it. He was cer- 
tainly curious about it, and would have given a good 
deal to discover the exact truth ; but it was his pun- 
ishment that he never knew his punishment, I 
mean, for the abuse of sarcasm in his relations with 
his daughter. There was a good deal of effective 
sarcasm in her keeping him in the dark, and the rest 
of the world conspired with her, in this sense, to be 
sarcastic. Mrs. Penniman told him nothing, partly 
because he never questioned her he made too light 
of Mrs. Penniman for that and partly because she 
flattered herself that a tormenting reserve, and a 
serene profession of ignorance, would avenge her 
for his theory that she had meddled in the matter. 
He went two or three times to see Mrs. Montgom- 
ery, but Mrs. Montgomery had nothing to impart. 
She simply knew that her brother's engagement was 
broken off; and now that Miss Sloper was out of 
danger, she preferred not to bear witness in any 
way against Morris. She had done so before how- 
ever unwillingly because she was sorry for Miss 
Sloper ; but she was not sorry for Miss Sloper now 
not at all sorry. Morris had told her nothing 
about his relations with Miss Sloper at the time, 
and he had told her nothing since. He was always 
away, and he very seldom wrote to her ; she believed 
he had gone to California. Mrs. Almond had, in 
her sister's phrase, " taken up " Catherine violently 
since the recent catastrophe ; but, though the girl 
was very grateful to her for her kindness, she revealed no secrets, and the good lady could give the 
Doctor no satisfaction. Even, however, had she 
been able to narrate to him the private history of 
his daughter's unhappy love affair, it would have 
given her a certain comfort to leave him in ignorance ; for Mrs. Almond was at this time not alto- 
gether in sympathy with her brother. She had 
guessed for herself that Catherine had been cruelly 
jilted she knew nothing from Mrs. Penniman, for 
Mrs. Penniman had not ventured to lay the famous 
explanation of Morris's motives before Mrs. Almond, 
though she had thought it good enough for Catherine and she pronounced her brother too consistently indifferent to what the poor creature must have 
suffered and must still be suffering. Doctor Sloper 
had his theory, and he rarely altered his theories. 
The marriage would have been an abominable one, 
and the girl had had a blessed escape. She was not 
to be pitied for that, and to pretend to condole with 
her would have been to make concessions to the 
idea that she had ever had a right to think of 
Morris. 
" I put my foot on this idea from the first, and I 
keep it there now," said the Doctor. "I don't see 
