books, and arms divided among the mutineers of his boat. The chiefest
of these he “laid by the heels,” as usual, and the others confessed and
told the singular tale we have outlined. It needs no comment, except
that Smith had a facility for unlucky adventures unequaled among the
uneasy spirits of his age. Yet he was as buoyant as a cork, and emerged
from every disaster with more enthusiasm for himself and for new
ventures. Among the many glowing tributes to himself in verse that Smith
prints with this description is one signed by a soldier, Edw. Robinson,
which begins:
   “Oft thou hast led, when I brought up the Rere,
    In bloody wars where thousands have been slaine.”
This common soldier, who cannot help breaking out in poetry when he
thinks of Smith, is made to say that Smith was his captain “in the
fierce wars of Transylvania,” and he apostrophizes him:
   “Thou that to passe the worlds foure parts dost deeme
    No more, than ewere to goe to bed or drinke,
    And all thou yet hast done thou dost esteeme
    As nothing.
   “For mee: I not commend but much admire
    Thy England yet unknown to passers by-her,
    For it will praise itselfe in spight of me:
    Thou, it, it, thou, to all posteritie.”
XVI. NEW ENGLAND’S TRIALS
Smith was not cast down by his reverses. No sooner had he laid his
latest betrayers by the heels than he set himself resolutely to obtain
money and means for establishing a colony in New England, and to this
project and the cultivation in England of interest in New England he
devoted the rest of his life.
His Map and Description of New England was published in 1616, and he
became a colporteur of this, beseeching everywhere a hearing for his
noble scheme. It might have been in 1617, while Pocahontas was about
to sail for Virginia, or perhaps after her death, that he was again
in Plymouth, provided with three good ships, but windbound for three
months, so that the season being past, his design was frustrated, and
his vessels, without him, made a fishing expedition to Newfoundland.
It must have been in the summer of this year that he was at Plymouth
with divers of his personal friends, and only a hundred pounds among
them all. He had acquainted the nobility with his projects, and was
afraid to see the Prince Royal before he had accomplished anything, “but
their great promises were nothing but air to prepare the voyage against
the next year.” He spent that summer in the west of England, visiting
“Bristol, Exeter, Bastable? Bodman, Perin, Foy, Milborow, Saltash,
Dartmouth, Absom, Pattnesse, and the most of the gentry in Cornwall and
Devonshire, giving them books and maps,” and inciting them to help his
enterprise.
So well did he succeed, he says, that they promised him twenty sail of
ships to go with him the next year, and to pay him for his pains and
former losses. The western commissioners, in behalf of the company,
contracted with him, under indented articles, “to be admiral of that
country during my life, and in the renewing of the letters-patent so to
be nominated”; half the profits of the enterprise to be theirs, and half
to go to Smith and his companions.
Nothing seems to have come out of this promising induction except the
title of “Admiral of New England,” which Smith straightway assumed and
wore all his life, styling himself on the title-page of everything he
printed, “Sometime Governor of Virginia and Admiral of New England.”
 As the generous Captain had before this time assumed this title, the
failure of the contract could not much annoy him. He had about as good
right to take the sounding name of Admiral as merchants of the west of
England had to propose to give it to him.
The years wore away, and Smith was beseeching aid, republishing his
works, which grew into new forms with each issue, and no doubt making
himself a bore wherever he was known. The first edition of “New
England’s Trials”--by which he meant the various trials and attempts
to settle New England was published in 1620. It was to some extent a
repetition of his “Description” of 1616. In it he made no reference to
Pocahontas. But in the edition of 1622, which is dedicated to Charles,
Prince of Wales, and considerably enlarged, he drops into this
remark about his experience at Jamestown: “It Is true in our greatest
extremitie they shot me, slue three of my men, and by the folly of them
that fled tooke me prisoner; yet God made Pocahontas the king’s
daughter the meanes to deliver me: and thereby taught me to know their
treacheries to preserve the rest. [This is evidently an allusion to the
warning Pocahontas gave him at Werowocomoco.] It was also my chance in
single combat to take the king of Paspahegh prisoner, and by keeping
him, forced his subjects to work in chains till I made all the country
pay contribution having little else whereon to live.”
This was written after he had heard of the horrible massacre of 1622
at Jamestown, and he cannot resist the temptation to draw a contrast
between the present and his own management. He explains that the Indians
did not kill the English because they were Christians, but to get their
weapons and commodities. How different it was when he was in Virginia.
“I kept that country with but 38, and had not to eat but what we had
from the savages. When I had ten men able to go abroad, our commonwealth
was very strong: with such a number I ranged that unknown country 14
weeks: I had but 18 to subdue them all.” This is better than Sir John
Falstaff. But he goes on: “When I first went to those desperate designes
it cost me many a forgotten pound to hire men to go, and procrastination
caused more run away than went.” “Twise in that time I was President.”
 [It will be remembered that about the close of his first year he gave up
the command, for form’s sake, to Capt. Martin, for three hours, and then
took it again.] “To range this country of New England in like manner,
I had but eight, as is said, and amongst their bruite conditions I met
many of their silly encounters, and without any hurt, God be thanked.”
 The valiant Captain had come by this time to regard himself as the
inventor and discoverer of Virginia and New England, which were explored
and settled at the cost of his private pocket, and which he is not
ashamed to say cannot fare well in his absence. Smith, with all his good
opinion of himself, could not have imagined how delicious his character
would be to readers in after-times. As he goes on he warms up: “Thus you
may see plainly the yearly success from New England by Virginia, which
hath been so costly to this kingdom and so dear to me.
“By that acquaintance I have with them I may call them my children [he
spent between two and three months on the New England coast] for they
have been my wife, my hawks, my hounds, my cards, my dice, and total my
best content, as indifferent to my heart as my left hand to my right....
Were there not one Englishman remaining I would yet begin again as I
did at the first; not that I have any secret encouragement for any I
protest, more than lamentable experiences; for all their discoveries I
can yet hear of are but pigs of my sowe: nor more strange to me than to
hear one tell me he hath gone from Billingate and discovered Greenwich!”
As to the charge that he was unfortunate, which we should think might
have become current from the Captain’s own narratives, he tells his
maligners that if they had spent their time as he had done, they would
rather believe in God than in their own calculations, and peradventure
might have had to give as bad an account of their actions. It is strange
they should tax him before they have tried what he tried in Asia,
Europe, and America, where he never needed to importune for a reward,
nor ever could learn to beg: “These sixteen years I have spared neither
pains nor money, according to my ability, first to procure his majesty’s
letters patent, and a Company here to be the means to raise a company to
go with me to Virginia [this is the expedition of 1606 in which he was
without command] as is said: which beginning here and there cost me near
five years work, and more than 500 pounds of my own estate, besides all
the dangers, miseries and encumbrances I endured gratis, where I stayed
till I left 500 better provided than ever I was: from which blessed
Virgin (ere I returned) sprung the fortunate habitation of Somer Isles.”
 “Ere I returned” is in Smith’s best vein. The casual reader would
certainly conclude that the Somers Isles were somehow due to the
providence of John Smith, when in fact he never even heard that Gates
and Smith were shipwrecked there till he had returned to England, sent
home from Virginia. Neill says that Smith ventured L 9 in the Virginia
company! But he does not say where he got the money.
New England, he affirms, hath been nearly as chargeable to him and his
friends: he never got a shilling but it cost him a pound. And now, when
New England is prosperous and a certainty, “what think you I undertook
when nothing was known, but that there was a vast land.” These are
some of the considerations by which he urges the company to fit out an
expedition for him: “thus betwixt the spur of desire and the bridle of
reason I am near ridden to death in a ring of despair; the reins are in
your hands, therefore I entreat you to ease me.”
The Admiral of New England, who since he enjoyed the title had had
neither ship, nor sailor, nor rod of land, nor cubic yard of salt water
under his command, was not successful in his several “Trials.” And in
the hodge-podge compilation from himself and others, which he had
put together shortly after,--the “General Historie,” he pathetically
exclaims: “Now all these proofs and this relation, I now called New
England’s Trials. I caused two or three thousand of them to be printed,
one thousand with a great many maps both of Virginia and New England,
I presented to thirty of the chief companies in London at their Halls,
desiring either generally or particularly (them that would) to imbrace
it and by the use of a stock of five thousand pounds to ease them of the
superfluity of most of their companies that had but strength and health
to labor; near a year I spent to understand their resolutions, which was
to me a greater toil and torment, than to have been in New England about
my business but with bread and water, and what I could get by my labor;
but in conclusion, seeing nothing would be effected I was contented as
well with this loss of time and change as all the rest.”
In his “Advertisements” he says that at his own labor, cost, and loss
he had “divulged more than seven thousand books and maps,” in order to
influence the companies, merchants and gentlemen to make a plantation,
but “all availed no more than to hew Rocks with Oister-shels.”
His suggestions about colonizing were always sensible. But we can
imagine the group of merchants in Cheapside gradually dissolving as
Smith hove in sight with his maps and demonstrations.
In 1618, Smith addressed a letter directly to Lord Bacon, to which there
seems to have been no answer. The body of it was a condensation of
what he had repeatedly written about New England, and the advantage to
England of occupying the fisheries. “This nineteen years,” he writes, “I
have encountered no few dangers to learn what here I write in these few
leaves:... their fruits I am certain may bring both wealth and honor for
a crown and a kingdom to his majesty’s posterity.” With 5,000, pounds
he will undertake to establish a colony, and he asks of his Majesty a
pinnace to lodge his men and defend the coast for a few months, until
the colony gets settled. Notwithstanding his disappointments and losses,
he is still patriotic, and offers his experience to his country: “Should
I present it to the Biskayners, French and Hollanders, they have made
me large offers. But nature doth bind me thus to beg at home, whom
strangers have pleased to create a commander abroad.... Though I can
promise no mines of gold, the Hollanders are an example of my project,
whose endeavors by fishing cannot be suppressed by all the King of
Spain’s golden powers. Worth is more than wealth, and industrious
subjects are more to a kingdom than gold. And this is so certain a
course to get both as I think was never propounded to any state for
so small a charge, seeing I can prove it, both by example, reason and
experience.”
Smith’s maxims were excellent, his notions of settling New England were
sound and sensible, and if writing could have put him in command of New
England, there would have been no room for the Puritans. He addressed
letter after letter to the companies of Virginia and Plymouth, giving
them distinctly to understand that they were losing time by not availing
themselves of his services and his project. After the Virginia massacre,
he offered to undertake to drive the savages out of their country with
a hundred soldiers and thirty sailors. He heard that most of the company
liked exceedingly well the notion, but no reply came to his overture.
He laments the imbecility in the conduct of the new plantations. At
first, he says, it was feared the Spaniards would invade the plantations
or the English Papists dissolve them: but neither the councils of
Spain nor the Papists could have desired a better course to ruin the
plantations than have been pursued; “It seems God is angry to see
Virginia in hands so strange where nothing but murder and indiscretion
contends for the victory.”
In his letters to the company and to the King’s commissions for the
reformation of Virginia, Smith invariably reproduces his own exploits,
until we can imagine every person in London, who could read, was sick
of the story. He reminds them of his unrequited services: “in neither
of those two countries have I one foot of land, nor the very house I
builded, nor the ground I digged with my own hands, nor ever any content
or satisfaction at all, and though I see ordinarily those two countries
shared before me by them that neither have them nor knows them, but by
my descriptions.... For the books and maps I have made, I will thank him
that will show me so much for so little recompense, and bear with their
errors till I have done better. For the materials in them I cannot deny,
but am ready to affirm them both there and here, upon such ground as
I have propounded, which is to have but fifteen hundred men to subdue
again the Salvages, fortify the country, discover that yet unknown, and
both defend and feed their colony.”
There is no record that these various petitions and letters of advice
were received by the companies, but Smith prints them in his History,
and gives also seven questions propounded to him by the commissioners,
with his replies; in which he clearly states the cause of the disasters
in the colonies, and proposes wise and statesman-like remedies. He
insists upon industry and good conduct: “to rectify a commonwealth with
debauched people is impossible, and no wise man would throw himself into
such society, that intends honestly, and knows what he understands, for
there is no country to pillage, as the Romans found; all you expect from
thence must be by labour.”
Smith was no friend to tobacco, and although he favored the production
to a certain limit as a means of profit, it is interesting to note his
true prophecy that it would ultimately be a demoralizing product. He
often proposes the restriction of its cultivation, and speaks with
contempt of “our men rooting in the ground about tobacco like swine.”
 The colony would have been much better off “had they not so much doated
on their tobacco, on whose furnish foundation there is small stability.”
So long as he lived, Smith kept himself informed of the progress of
adventure and settlement in the New World, reading all relations and
eagerly questioning all voyagers, and transferring their accounts to his
own History, which became a confused patchwork of other men’s exploits
and his own reminiscences and reflections. He always regards the new
plantations as somehow his own, and made in the light of his advice;
and their mischances are usually due to the neglect of his counsel. He
relates in this volume the story of the Pilgrims in 1620 and the years
following, and of the settlement of the Somers Isles, making himself
appear as a kind of Providence over the New World.
Out of his various and repetitious writings might be compiled quite
a hand-book of maxims and wise saws. Yet all had in steady view one
purpose--to excite interest in his favorite projects, to shame the
laggards of England out of their idleness, and to give himself honorable
employment and authority in the building up of a new empire. “Who can
desire,” he exclaims, “more content that hath small means, or but only
his merit to advance his fortunes, than to tread and plant that ground
he hath purchased by the hazard of his life; if he have but the taste
of virtue and magnanimity, what to such a mind can be more pleasant than
planting and building a foundation for his posterity, got from the rude
earth by God’s blessing and his own industry without prejudice to any;
if he have any grace of faith or zeal in Religion, what can be more
healthful to any or more agreeable to God than to convert those poor
salvages to know Christ and humanity, whose labours and discretion will
triply requite any charge and pain.”
“Then who would live at home idly,” he exhorts his countrymen, “or think
in himself any worth to live, only to eat, drink and sleep, and so die;
or by consuming that carelessly his friends got worthily, or by using
that miserably that maintained virtue honestly, or for being descended
nobly, or pine with the vain vaunt of great kindred in penury, or to
maintain a silly show of bravery, toil out thy heart, soul and time
basely; by shifts, tricks, cards and dice, or by relating news of other
men’s actions, sharke here and there for a dinner or supper, deceive
thy friends by fair promises and dissimulations, in borrowing when thou
never meanest to pay, offend the laws, surfeit with excess, burden thy
country, abuse thyself, despair in want, and then cozen thy kindred,
yea, even thy own brother, and wish thy parent’s death (I will not say
damnation), to have their estates, though thou seest what honors and
rewards the world yet hath for them that will seek them and worthily
deserve them.”
“I would be sorry to offend, or that any should mistake my honest
meaning: for I wish good to all, hurt to none; but rich men for the most
part are grown to that dotage through their pride in their wealth, as
though there were no accident could end it or their life.”
“And what hellish care do such take to make it their own misery and
their countrie’s spoil, especially when there is such need of their
employment, drawing by all manner of inventions from the Prince and his
honest subjects, even the vital spirits of their powers and estates; as
if their bags or brags were so powerful a defense, the malicious could
not assault them, when they are the only bait to cause us not only to
be assaulted, but betrayed and smothered in our own security ere we will
prevent it.”
And he adds this good advice to those who maintain their children
in wantonness till they grow to be the masters: “Let this lamentable
example [the ruin of Constantinople] remember you that are rich (seeing
there are such great thieves in the world to rob you) not grudge to lend
some proportion to breed them that have little, yet willing to learn how
to defend you, for it is too late when the deed is done.”
No motive of action did Smith omit in his importunity, for “Religion
above all things should move us, especially the clergy, if we are
religious.” “Honor might move the gentry, the valiant and industrious,
and the hope and assurance of wealth all, if we were that we would seem
and be accounted; or be we so far inferior to other nations, or our
spirits so far dejected from our ancient predecessors, or our minds
so upon spoil, piracy and such villainy, as to serve the Portugall,
Spaniard, Dutch, French or Turke (as to the cost of Europe too many do),
rather than our own God, our king, our country, and ourselves; excusing
our idleness and our base complaints by want of employment, when here
is such choice of all sorts, and for all degrees, in the planting and
discovering these North parts of America.”
It was all in vain so far as Smith’s fortunes were concerned. The
planting and subjection of New England went on, and Smith had no part in
it except to describe it. The Brownists, the Anabaptists, the Papists,
the Puritans, the Separatists, and “such factious Humorists,” were
taking possession of the land that Smith claimed to have “discovered,”
 and in which he had no foothold. Failing to get employment anywhere,
he petitioned the Virginia Company for a reward out of the treasury in
London or the profits in Virginia.
At one of the hot discussions in 1623 preceding the dissolution of the
Virginia Company by the revocation of their charter, Smith was present,
and said that he hoped for his time spent in Virginia he should receive
that year a good quantity of tobacco. The charter was revoked in 1624
after many violent scenes, and King James was glad to be rid of what he
called “a seminary for a seditious parliament.” The company had made
use of lotteries to raise funds, and upon their disuse, in 1621, Smith
proposed to the company to compile for its benefit a general history.
This he did, but it does not appear that the company took any action on
his proposal. At one time he had been named, with three others, as a
fit person for secretary, on the removal of Mr. Pory, but as only three
could be balloted for, his name was left out. He was, however, commended
as entirely competent.
After the dissolution of the companies, and the granting of new
letters-patent to a company of some twenty noblemen, there seems to have
been a project for dividing up the country by lot. Smith says: “All this
they divided in twenty parts, for which they cast lots, but no lot
for me but Smith’s Isles, which are a many of barren rocks, the most
overgrown with shrubs, and sharp whins, you can hardly pass them;
without either grass or wood, but three or four short shrubby old
cedars.”
The plan was not carried out, and Smith never became lord of even these
barren rocks, the Isles of Shoals. That he visited them when he sailed
along the coast is probable, though he never speaks of doing so. In the
Virginia waters he had left a cluster of islands bearing his name also.
In the Captain’s “True Travels,” published in 1630, is a summary of the
condition of colonization in New England from Smith’s voyage thence till
the settlement of Plymouth in 1620, which makes an appropriate close to
our review of this period:
“When I first went to the North part of Virginia, where the Westerly
Colony had been planted, it had dissolved itself within a year, and
there was not one Christian in all the land. I was set forth at the sole
charge of four merchants of London; the Country being then reputed by
your westerlings a most rocky, barren, desolate desart; but the good
return I brought from thence, with the maps and relations of the
Country, which I made so manifest, some of them did believe me, and they
were well embraced, both by the Londoners, and Westerlings, for whom I
had promised to undertake it, thinking to have joyned them all together,
but that might well have been a work for Hercules. Betwixt them long
there was much contention: the Londoners indeed went bravely forward:
but in three or four years I and my friends consumed many hundred pounds
amongst the Plimothians, who only fed me but with delays, promises, and
excuses, but no performance of anything to any purpose. In the interim,
many particular ships went thither, and finding my relations true, and
that I had not taken that I brought home from the French men, as had
been reported: yet further for my pains to discredit me, and my calling
it New England, they obscured it, and shadowed it, with the title of
Canada, till at my humble suit, it pleased our most Royal King Charles,
whom God long keep, bless and preserve, then Prince of Wales, to confirm
it with my map and book, by the title of New England; the gain thence
returning did make the fame thereof so increase that thirty, forty or
fifty sail went yearly only to trade and fish; but nothing would be done
for a plantation, till about some hundred of your Brownists of England,
Amsterdam and Leyden went to New Plimouth, whose humorous ignorances,
caused them for more than a year, to endure a wonderful deal of misery,
with an infinite patience; saying my books and maps were much better
cheap to teach them than myself: many others have used the like
good husbandry that have payed soundly in trying their self-willed
conclusions; but those in time doing well, diverse others have in small
handfulls undertaken to go there, to be several Lords and Kings of
themselves, but most vanished to nothing.”
XVII. WRITINGS-LATER YEARS
If Smith had not been an author, his exploits would have occupied
a small space in the literature of his times. But by his unwearied
narrations he impressed his image in gigantic features on our plastic
continent. If he had been silent, he would have had something less
than justice; as it is, he has been permitted to greatly exaggerate his
relations to the New World. It is only by noting the comparative silence
of his contemporaries and by winnowing his own statements that we can
appreciate his true position.
For twenty years he was a voluminous writer, working off his superfluous
energy in setting forth his adventures in new forms. Most of his
writings are repetitions and recastings of the old material, with such
reflections as occur to him from time to time. He seldom writes a book,
or a tract, without beginning it or working into it a resume of his
life. The only exception to this is his “Sea Grammar.” In 1626 he
published “An Accidence or the Pathway to Experience, necessary to all
Young Seamen,” and in 1627 “A Sea Grammar, with the plain Exposition of
Smith’s Accidence for Young Seamen, enlarged.” This is a technical work,
and strictly confined to the building, rigging, and managing of a ship.
He was also engaged at the time of his death upon a “History of the
Sea,” which never saw the light. He was evidently fond of the sea, and
we may say the title of Admiral came naturally to him, since he used
it in the title-page to his “Description of New England,” published in
1616, although it was not till 1617 that the commissioners at Plymouth
agreed to bestow upon him the title of “Admiral of that country.”
In 1630 he published “The True Travels, Adventures and Observations of
Captain John Smith, in Europe, Asia, Affrica and America, from 1593 to
1629. Together with a Continuation of his General History of Virginia,
Summer Isles, New England, and their proceedings since 1624 to this
present 1629: as also of the new Plantations of the great River of the
Amazons, the Isles of St. Christopher, Mevis and Barbadoes in the West
Indies.” In the dedication to William, Earl of Pembroke, and Robert,
Earl of Lindsay, he says it was written at the request of Sir Robert
Cotton, the learned antiquarian, and he the more willingly satisfies
this noble desire because, as he says, “they have acted my fatal
tragedies on the stage, and racked my relations at their pleasure. To
prevent, therefore, all future misprisions, I have compiled this true
discourse. Envy hath taxed me to have writ too much, and done too
little; but that such should know how little, I esteem them, I have
writ this more for the satisfaction of my friends, and all generous
and well-disposed readers: To speak only of myself were intolerable
ingratitude: because, having had many co-partners with me, I cannot
make a Monument for myself, and leave them unburied in the fields, whose
lives begot me the title of Soldier, for as they were companions with me
in my dangers, so shall they be partakers with me in this Tombe.” In the
same dedication he spoke of his “Sea Grammar” caused to be printed by
his worthy friend Sir Samuel Saltonstall.
This volume, like all others Smith published, is accompanied by a great
number of swollen panegyrics in verse, showing that the writers had been
favored with the perusal of the volume before it was published. Valor,
piety, virtue, learning, wit, are by them ascribed to the “great Smith,”
 who is easily the wonder and paragon of his age. All of them are
stuffed with the affected conceits fashionable at the time. One of the
most pedantic of these was addressed to him by Samuel Purchas when the
“General Historie” was written.
The portrait of Smith which occupies a corner in the Map of Virginia
has in the oval the date, “AEta 37, A. 1616,” and round the rim the
inscription: “Portraictuer of Captaine John Smith, Admirall of New
England,” and under it these lines engraved:
   “These are the Lines that show thy face: but those
    That show thy Grace and Glory brighter bee:
    Thy Faire Discoveries and Fowle-Overthrowes
    Of Salvages, much Civilized by thee
    Best shew thy Spirit; and to it Glory Wyn;
    So, thou art Brasse without, but Golde within,
    If so, in Brasse (too soft smiths Acts to beare)
    I fix thy Fame to make Brasse steele outweare.
“Thine as thou art Virtues
“JOHN DAVIES, Heref.”
In this engraving Smith is clad in armor, with a high starched collar,
and full beard and mustache formally cut. His right hand rests on his
hip, and his left grasps the handle of his sword. The face is open and
pleasing and full of decision.
This “true discourse” contains the wild romance with which this volume
opens, and is pieced out with recapitulations of his former writings and
exploits, compilations from others’ relations, and general comments.
We have given from it the story of his early life, because there is
absolutely no other account of that part of his career. We may assume
that up to his going to Virginia he did lead a life of reckless
adventure and hardship, often in want of a decent suit of clothes and
of “regular meals.” That he took some part in the wars in Hungary is
probable, notwithstanding his romancing narrative, and he may have been
captured by the Turks. But his account of the wars there, and of the
political complications, we suspect are cribbed from the old chronicles,
probably from the Italian, while his vague descriptions of the lands and
people in Turkey and “Tartaria” are evidently taken from the narratives
of other travelers. It seems to me that the whole of his story of his
oriental captivity lacks the note of personal experience. If it were
not for the “patent” of Sigismund (which is only produced and certified
twenty years after it is dated), the whole Transylvania legend would
appear entirely apocryphal.
The “True Travels” close with a discourse upon the bad life, qualities,
and conditions of pirates. The most ancient of these was one Collis,
“who most refreshed himself upon the coast of Wales, and Clinton and
Pursser, his companions, who grew famous till Queen Elizabeth of blessed
memory hanged them at Wapping. The misery of a Pirate (although many are
as sufficient seamen as any) yet in regard of his superfluity, you shall
find it such, that any wise man would rather live amongst wild beasts,
than them; therefore let all unadvised persons take heed how they
entertain that quality; and I could wish merchants, gentlemen, and all
setters-forth of ships not to be sparing of a competent pay, nor true
payment; for neither soldiers nor seamen can live without means; but
necessity will force them to steal, and when they are once entered into
that trade they are hardly reclaimed.”
Smith complains that the play-writers had appropriated his adventures,
but does not say that his own character had been put upon the stage. In
Ben Jonson’s “Staple of News,” played in 1625, there is a reference to
Pocahontas in the dialogue that occurs between Pick-lock and Pennyboy
Canter:
Pick.--A tavern’s unfit too for a princess.
P. Cant.--No, I have known a Princess and a great one, Come forth of a
tavern.
Pick.--Not go in Sir, though.
A Cant.--She must go in, if she came forth. The blessed Pocahontas, as
the historian calls her, And great King’s daughter of Virginia, Hath
been in womb of tavern.
The last work of our author was published in 1631, the year of his
death. Its full title very well describes the contents: “Advertisements
for the Unexperienced Planters of New England, or anywhere. Or, the
Pathway to Experience to erect a Plantation. With the yearly proceedings
of this country in fishing and planting since the year 1614 to the
year 1630, and their present estate. Also, how to prevent the greatest
inconvenience by their proceedings in Virginia, and other plantations by
approved examples. With the countries armes, a description of the coast,
harbours, habitations, landmarks, latitude and longitude: with the map
allowed by our Royall King Charles.”
Smith had become a trifle cynical in regard to the newsmongers of the
day, and quaintly remarks in his address to the reader: “Apelles by the
proportion of a foot could make the whole proportion of a man: were
he now living, he might go to school, for now thousands can by opinion
proportion kingdoms, cities and lordships that never durst adventure to
see them. Malignancy I expect from these, have lived 10 or 12 years
in those actions, and return as wise as they went, claiming time and
experience for their tutor that can neither shift Sun nor moon, nor say
their compass, yet will tell you of more than all the world betwixt the
Exchange, Paul’s and Westminster.... and tell as well what all England
is by seeing but Mitford Haven as what Apelles was by the picture of his
great toe.”
This is one of Smith’s most characteristic productions. Its material is
ill-arranged, and much of it is obscurely written; it runs backward
and forward along his life, refers constantly to his former works and
repeats them, complains of the want of appreciation of his services, and
makes himself the centre of all the colonizing exploits of the age. Yet
it is interspersed with strokes of humor and observations full of good
sense.
It opens with the airy remark: “The wars in Europe, Asia and Africa,
taught me how to subdue the wild savages in Virginia and New England.”
 He never did subdue the wild savages in New England, and he never was in
any war in Africa, nor in Asia, unless we call his piratical cruising in
the Mediterranean “wars in Asia.”
As a Church of England man, Smith is not well pleased with the
occupation of New England by the Puritans, Brownists, and such “factious
humorists” as settled at New Plymouth, although he acknowledges the
wonderful patience with which, in their ignorance and willfulness, they
have endured losses and extremities; but he hopes better things of
the gentlemen who went in 1629 to supply Endicott at Salem, and were
followed the next year by Winthrop. All these adventurers have, he says,
made use of his “aged endeavors.” It seems presumptuous in them to try
to get on with his maps and descriptions and without him. They probably
had never heard, except in the title-pages of his works, that he was
“Admiral of New England.”
Even as late as this time many supposed New England to be an island, but
Smith again asserts, what he had always maintained--that it was a part
of the continent. The expedition of Winthrop was scattered by a storm,
and reached Salem with the loss of threescore dead and many sick,
to find as many of the colony dead, and all disconsolate. Of the
discouraged among them who returned to England Smith says: “Some could
not endure the name of a bishop, others not the sight of a cross or
surplice, others by no means the book of common prayer. This absolute
crew, only of the Elect, holding all (but such as themselves) reprobates
and castaways, now made more haste to return to Babel, as they termed
England, than stay to enjoy the land they called Canaan.” Somewhat they
must say to excuse themselves. Therefore, “some say they could see no
timbers of ten foot diameter, some the country is all wood; others they
drained all the springs and ponds dry, yet like to famish for want of
fresh water; some of the danger of the ratell-snake.” To compel all
the Indians to furnish them corn without using them cruelly they say
is impossible. Yet this “impossible,” Smith says, he accomplished in
Virginia, and offers to undertake in New England, with one hundred and
fifty men, to get corn, fortify the country, and “discover them more
land than they all yet know.”
This homily ends--and it is the last published sentence of the “great
Smith”--with this good advice to the New England colonists:
“Lastly, remember as faction, pride, and security produces nothing but
confusion, misery and dissolution; so the contraries well practised will
in short time make you happy, and the most admired people of all our
plantations for your time in the world.
“John Smith writ this with his owne hand.”
The extent to which Smith retouched his narrations, as they grew in his
imagination, in his many reproductions of them, has been referred to,
and illustrated by previous quotations. An amusing instance of his care
and ingenuity is furnished by the interpolation of Pocahontas into his
stories after 1623. In his “General Historie” of 1624 he adopts, for the
account of his career in Virginia, the narratives in the Oxford tract
of 1612, which he had supervised. We have seen how he interpolated the
wonderful story of his rescue by the Indian child. Some of his other
insertions of her name, to bring all the narrative up to that level,
are curious. The following passages from the “Oxford Tract” contain in
italics the words inserted when they were transferred to the “General
Historie”:
“So revived their dead spirits (especially the love of Pocahuntas) as
all anxious fears were abandoned.”
“Part always they brought him as presents from their king, or
Pocahuntas.”
In the account of the “masques” of girls to entertain Smith at
Werowocomoco we read:
“But presently Pocahuntas came, wishing him to kill her if any hurt were
intended, and the beholders, which were women and children, satisfied
the Captain there was no such matter.”
In the account of Wyffin’s bringing the news of Scrivener’s drowning,
when Wyffin was lodged a night with Powhatan, we read:
“He did assure himself some mischief was intended. Pocahontas hid him
for a time, and sent them who pursued him the clean contrary way to seek
him; but by her means and extraordinary bribes and much trouble in three
days’ travel, at length he found us in the middest of these turmoyles.”
The affecting story of the visit and warning from Pocahontas in the
night, when she appeared with “tears running down her cheeks,” is not
in the first narration in the Oxford Tract, but is inserted in the
narrative in the “General Historie.” Indeed, the first account would by
its terms exclude the later one. It is all contained in these few lines:
“But our barge being left by the ebb, caused us to staie till the
midnight tide carried us safe aboord, having spent that half night with
such mirth as though we never had suspected or intended anything, we
left the Dutchmen to build, Brinton to kill foule for Powhatan (as by
his messengers he importunately desired), and left directions with our
men to give Powhatan all the content they could, that we might enjoy his
company on our return from Pamaunke.”
It should be added, however, that there is an allusion to some warning
by Pocahontas in the last chapter of the “Oxford Tract.” But the full
story of the night visit and the streaming tears as we have given it
seems without doubt to have been elaborated from very slight materials.
And the subsequent insertion of the name of Pocahontas--of which we have
given examples above--into old accounts that had no allusion to her,
adds new and strong presumptions to the belief that Smith invented what
is known as the Pocahontas legend.
As a mere literary criticism on Smith’s writings, it would appear that
he had a habit of transferring to his own career notable incidents and
adventures of which he had read, and this is somewhat damaging to an
estimate of his originality. His wonderful system of telegraphy by means
of torches, which he says he put in practice at the siege of Olympack,
and which he describes as if it were his own invention, he had doubtless
read in Polybius, and it seemed a good thing to introduce into his
narrative.
He was (it must also be noted) the second white man whose life was saved
by an Indian princess in America, who subsequently warned her favorite
of a plot to kill him. In 1528 Pamphilo de Narvaes landed at Tampa Bay,
Florida, and made a disastrous expedition into the interior. Among the
Spaniards who were missing as a result of this excursion was a soldier
named Juan Ortiz. When De Soto marched into the same country in 1539 he
encountered this soldier, who had been held in captivity by the Indians
and had learned their language. The story that Ortiz told was this:
He was taken prisoner by the chief Ucita, bound hand and foot, and
stretched upon a scaffold to be roasted, when, just as the flames were
seizing him, a daughter of the chief interposed in his behalf, and
upon her prayers Ucita spared the life of the prisoner. Three years
afterward, when there was danger that Ortiz would be sacrificed to
appease the devil, the princess came to him, warned him of his danger,
and led him secretly and alone in the night to the camp of a chieftain
who protected him.
This narrative was in print before Smith wrote, and as he was fond
of such adventures he may have read it. The incidents are curiously
parallel. And all the comment needed upon it is that Smith seems to have
been peculiarly subject to such coincidences.
Our author’s selection of a coat of arms, the distinguishing feature of
which was “three Turks’ heads,” showed little more originality. It was
a common device before his day: on many coats of arms of the Middle
Ages and later appear “three Saracens’ heads,” or “three Moors’
heads”--probably most of them had their origin in the Crusades. Smith’s
patent to use this charge, which he produced from Sigismund, was dated
1603, but the certificate appended to it by the Garter King at Arms,
certifying that it was recorded in the register and office of the
heralds, is dated 1625. Whether Smith used it before this latter date we
are not told. We do not know why he had not as good right to assume it
as anybody.
[Burke’s “Encyclopedia of Heraldry” gives it as granted to Capt. John
Smith, of the Smiths of Cruffley, Co. Lancaster, in 1629, and describes
it: “Vert, a chev. gu. betw. three Turks’ heads couped ppr. turbaned or.
Crest-an Ostrich or, holding in the mouth a horseshoe or.”]
XVIII. DEATH AND CHARACTER
Hardship and disappointment made our hero prematurely old, but could
not conquer his indomitable spirit. The disastrous voyage of June, 1615,
when he fell into the hands of the French, is spoken of by the Council
for New England in 1622 as “the ruin of that poor gentleman, Captain
Smith, who was detained prisoner by them, and forced to suffer many
extremities before he got free of his troubles;” but he did not know
that he was ruined, and did not for a moment relax his efforts
to promote colonization and obtain a command, nor relinquish his
superintendence of the Western Continent.
His last days were evidently passed in a struggle for existence, which
was not so bitter to him as it might have been to another man, for he
was sustained by ever-elating “great expectations.” That he was pinched
for means of living, there is no doubt. In 1623 he issued a prospectus
of his “General Historie,” in which he said: “These observations are all
I have for the expenses of a thousand pounds and the loss of eighteen
years’ time, besides all the travels, dangers, miseries and incumbrances
for my countries good, I have endured gratis:... this is composed in
less than eighty sheets, besides the three maps, which will stand me
near in a hundred pounds, which sum I cannot disburse: nor shall the
stationers have the copy for nothing. I therefore, humbly entreat your
Honour, either to adventure, or give me what you please towards the
impression, and I will be both accountable and thankful.”
He had come before he was fifty to regard himself as an old man, and
to speak of his “aged endeavors.” Where and how he lived in his later
years, and with what surroundings and under what circumstances he
died, there is no record. That he had no settled home, and was in mean
lodgings at the last, may be reasonably inferred. There is a manuscript
note on the fly-leaf of one of the original editions of “The Map of
Virginia....” (Oxford, 1612), in ancient chirography, but which from its
reference to Fuller could not have been written until more than thirty
years after Smith’s death. It says: “When he was old he lived in London
poor but kept up his spirits with the commemoration of his former
actions and bravery. He was buried in St. Sepulcher’s Church, as Fuller
tells us, who has given us a line of his Ranting Epitaph.”
That seems to have been the tradition of the man, buoyantly supporting
himself in the commemoration of his own achievements. To the end his
industrious and hopeful spirit sustained him, and in the last year of
his life he was toiling on another compilation, and promised his readers
a variety of actions and memorable observations which they shall “find
with admiration in my History of the Sea, if God be pleased I live to
finish it.”
He died on the 21 St of June, 1631, and the same day made his last will,
to which he appended his mark, as he seems to have been too feeble to
write his name. In this he describes himself as “Captain John Smith
of the parish of St. Sepulcher’s London Esquior.” He commends his soul
“into the hands of Almighty God, my maker, hoping through the merits of
Christ Jesus my Redeemer to receive full remission of all my sins and to
inherit a place in the everlasting kingdom”; his body he commits to the
earth whence it came; and “of such worldly goods whereof it hath pleased
God in his mercy to make me an unworthy receiver,” he bequeathes: first,
to Thomas Packer, Esq., one of his Majesty’s clerks of the Privy Seal,
“all my houses, lands, tenantements and hereditaments whatsoever,
situate lying and being in the parishes of Louthe and Great Carleton, in
the county of Lincoln together with my coat of armes”; and charges him
to pay certain legacies not exceeding the sum of eighty pounds, out
of which he reserves to himself twenty pounds to be disposed of as he
chooses in his lifetime. The sum of twenty pounds is to be disbursed
about the funeral. To his most worthy friend, Sir Samuel Saltonstall
Knight, he gives five pounds; to Morris Treadway, five pounds; to his
sister Smith, the widow of his brother, ten pounds; to his cousin Steven
Smith, and his sister, six pounds thirteen shillings and fourpence
between them; to Thomas Packer, Joane, his wife, and Eleanor, his
daughter, ten pounds among them; to “Mr. Reynolds, the lay Mr of the
Goldsmiths Hall, the sum of forty shillings”; to Thomas, the son of
said Thomas Packer, “my trunk standing in my chamber at Sir Samuel
Saltonstall’s house in St. Sepulcher’s parish, together with my best
suit of apparel of a tawny color viz. hose, doublet jirkin and cloak,”
 “also, my trunk bound with iron bars standing in the house of Richard
Hinde in Lambeth, together--with half the books therein”; the other half
of the books to Mr. John Tredeskin and Richard Hinde. His much honored
friend, Sir Samuel Saltonstall, and Thomas Packer, were joint executors,
and the will was acknowledged in the presence “of Willmu Keble Snr
civitas, London, William Packer, Elizabeth Sewster, Marmaduke Walker,
his mark, witness.”
We have no idea that Thomas Packer got rich out of the houses, lands and
tenements in the county of Lincoln. The will is that of a poor man, and
reference to his trunks standing about in the houses of his friends, and
to his chamber in the house of Sir Samuel Saltonstall, may be taken as
proof that he had no independent and permanent abiding-place.
It is supposed that he was buried in St. Sepulcher’s Church. The
negative evidence of this is his residence in the parish at the time of
his death, and the more positive, a record in Stow’s “Survey of London,”
 1633, which we copy in full:
This Table is on the south side of the Quire in Saint Sepulchers, with
this Inscription:
To the living Memory of his deceased Friend, Captaine John Smith, who
departed this mortall life on the 21 day of June, 1631, with his Armes,
and this Motto,
Accordamus, vincere est vivere.
Here lies one conquer’d that hath conquer’d Kings, Subdu’d large
Territories, and done things Which to the World impossible would seeme,
But that the truth is held in more esteeme, Shall I report His former
service done In honour of his God and Christendome: How that he did
divide from Pagans three, Their heads and Lives, types of his chivalry:
For which great service in that Climate done, Brave Sigismundus (King
of Hungarion) Did give him as a Coat of Armes to weare, Those conquer’d
heads got by his Sword and Speare? Or shall I tell of his adventures
since, Done in Firginia, that large Continence: I-low that he subdu’d
Kings unto his yoke, And made those heathen flie, as wind doth smoke:
And made their Land, being of so large a Station, A habitation for our
Christian Nation: Where God is glorifi’d, their wants suppli’d, Which
else for necessaries might have di’d? But what avails his Conquest now
he lyes Inter’d in earth a prey for Wormes & Flies?
O may his soule in sweet Mizium sleepe, Untill the Keeper that all
soules doth keepe, Returne to judgement and that after thence, With
Angels he may have his recompence. Captaine John Smith, sometime
Governour of Firginia, and Admirall of New England.
This remarkable epitaph is such an autobiographical record as Smith
might have written himself. That it was engraved upon a tablet and set
up in this church rests entirely upon the authority of Stow. The present
pilgrim to the old church will find no memorial that Smith was buried
there, and will encounter besides incredulity of the tradition that he
ever rested there.
The old church of St. Sepulcher’s, formerly at the confluence of Snow
Hill and the Old Bailey, now lifts its head far above the pompous
viaduct which spans the valley along which the Fleet Ditch once flowed.
All the registers of burial in the church were destroyed by the great
fire of 1666, which burnt down the edifice from floor to roof, leaving
only the walls and tower standing. Mr. Charles Deane, whose lively
interest in Smith led him recently to pay a visit to St. Sepulcher’s,
speaks of it as the church “under the pavement of which the remains of
our hero were buried; but he was not able to see the stone placed over
those remains, as the floor of the church at that time was covered
with a carpet.... The epitaph to his memory, however, it is understood,
cannot now be deciphered upon the tablet,”--which he supposes to be the
one in Stow.
The existing tablet is a slab of bluish-black marble, which formerly
was in the chancel. That it in no way relates to Captain Smith a near
examination of it shows. This slab has an escutcheon which indicates
three heads, which a lively imagination may conceive to be those of
Moors, on a line in the upper left corner on the husband’s side of a
shield, which is divided by a perpendicular line. As Smith had no wife,
this could not have been his cognizance. Nor are these his arms, which
were three Turks’ heads borne over and beneath a chevron. The cognizance
of “Moors’ heads,” as we have said, was not singular in the Middle Ages,
and there existed recently in this very church another tomb which bore
a Moor’s head as a family badge. The inscription itself is in a style of
lettering unlike that used in the time of James I., and the letters are
believed not to belong to an earlier period than that of the Georges.
This bluish-black stone has been recently gazed at by many pilgrims from
this side of the ocean, with something of the feeling with which the
Moslems regard the Kaaba at Mecca. This veneration is misplaced, for
upon the stone are distinctly visible these words:
     “Departed this life September....
    ....sixty-six....years....
      ....months....”
As John Smith died in June, 1631, in his fifty-second year, this stone
is clearly not in his honor: and if his dust rests in this church, the
fire of 1666 made it probably a labor of wasted love to look hereabouts
for any monument of him.
A few years ago some American antiquarians desired to place some
monument to the “Admiral of New England” in this church, and a memorial
window, commemorating the “Baptism of Pocahontas,” was suggested. We
have been told, however, that a custom of St. Sepulcher’s requires a
handsome bonus to the rector for any memorial set up in the church which
the kindly incumbent had no power to set aside (in his own case) for
a foreign gift and act of international courtesy of this sort; and the
project was abandoned.
Nearly every trace of this insatiable explorer of the earth has
disappeared from it except in his own writings. The only monument to his
memory existing is a shabby little marble shaft erected on the southerly
summit of Star Island, one of the Isles of Shoals. By a kind of irony
of fortune, which Smith would have grimly appreciated, the only stone to
perpetuate his fame stands upon a little heap of rocks in the sea; upon
which it is only an inference that he ever set foot, and we can almost
hear him say again, looking round upon this roomy earth, so much of
which he possessed in his mind, “No lot for me but Smith’s Isles, which
are an array of barren rocks, the most overgrowne with shrubs and sharpe
whins you can hardly passe them: without either grasse or wood but three
or foure short shrubby old cedars.”
Nearly all of Smith’s biographers and the historians of Virginia have,
with great respect, woven his romances about his career into their
narratives, imparting to their paraphrases of his story such
an elevation as his own opinion of himself seemed to demand. Of
contemporary estimate of him there is little to quote except the
panegyrics in verse he has preserved for us, and the inference from his
own writings that he was the object of calumny and detraction. Enemies
he had in plenty, but there are no records left of their opinion of his
character. The nearest biographical notice of him in point of time is
found in the “History of the Worthies of England,” by Thomas Fuller,
D.D., London, 1662.
Old Fuller’s schoolmaster was Master Arthur Smith, a kinsman of John,
who told him that John was born in Lincolnshire, and it is probable that
Fuller received from his teacher some impression about the adventurer.
Of his “strange performances” in Hungary, Fuller says: “The scene
whereof is laid at such a distance that they are cheaper credited than
confuted.”
“From the Turks in Europe he passed to the pagans in America, where
towards the latter end of the reign of Queen Elizabeth [it was in the
reign of James] such his perils, preservations, dangers, deliverances,
they seem to most men above belief, to some beyond truth. Yet have we
two witnesses to attest them, the prose and the pictures, both in his
own book; and it soundeth much to the diminution of his deeds that he
alone is the herald to publish and proclaim them.”
“Surely such reports from strangers carry the greater reputation.
However, moderate men must allow Captain Smith to have been very
instrumental in settling the plantation in Virginia, whereof he was
governor, as also Admiral of New England.”
“He led his old age in London, where his having a prince’s mind
imprisoned in a poor man’s purse, rendered him to the contempt of such
as were not ingenuous. Yet he efforted his spirits with the remembrance
and relation of what formerly he had been, and what he had done.”
Of the “ranting epitaph,” quoted above, Fuller says: “The orthography,
poetry, history and divinity in this epitaph are much alike.”
Without taking Captain John Smith at his own estimate of himself, he
was a peculiar character even for the times in which he lived. He shared
with his contemporaries the restless spirit of roving and adventure
which resulted from the invention of the mariner’s compass and the
discovery of the New World; but he was neither so sordid nor so
rapacious as many of them, for his boyhood reading of romances had
evidently fired him with the conceits of the past chivalric period. This
imported into his conduct something inflated and something elevated.
And, besides, with all his enormous conceit, he had a stratum of
practical good sense, a shrewd wit, and the salt of humor.
If Shakespeare had known him, as he might have done, he would have had
a character ready to his hand that would have added one of the most
amusing and interesting portraits to his gallery. He faintly suggests
a moral Falstaff, if we can imagine a Falstaff without vices. As a
narrator he has the swagger of a Captain Dalghetty, but his actions
are marked by honesty and sincerity. He appears to have had none of the
small vices of the gallants of his time. His chivalric attitude toward
certain ladies who appear in his adventures, must have been sufficiently
amusing to his associates. There is about his virtue a certain antique
flavor which must have seemed strange to the adventurers and court
hangers-on in London. Not improbably his assumptions were offensive
to the ungodly, and his ingenuous boastings made him the object of
amusement to the skeptics. Their ridicule would naturally appear to him
to arise from envy. We read between the lines of his own eulogies of
himself, that there was a widespread skepticism about his greatness and
his achievements, which he attributed to jealousy. Perhaps his obtrusive
virtues made him enemies, and his rectitude was a standing offense to
his associates.
It is certain he got on well with scarcely anybody with whom he was
thrown in his enterprises. He was of common origin, and always carried
with him the need of assertion in an insecure position. He appears to us
always self-conscious and ill at ease with gentlemen born. The captains
of his own station resented his assumptions of superiority, and while
he did not try to win them by an affectation of comradeship, he probably
repelled those of better breeding by a swaggering manner. No doubt his
want of advancement was partly due to want of influence, which better
birth would have given him; but the plain truth is that he had a talent
for making himself disagreeable to his associates. Unfortunately he
never engaged in any enterprise with any one on earth who was so capable
of conducting it as himself, and this fact he always made plain to his
comrades. Skill he had in managing savages, but with his equals among
whites he lacked tact, and knew not the secret of having his own way
without seeming to have it. He was insubordinate, impatient of any
authority over him, and unwilling to submit to discipline he did not
