ill-health at first, and a disinclination later on, with a 
touch of uncertainty in their position, have kept her in the 
background. The loss of fortune had been a bitter blow 
to her as well ; but she feels now they have taken some 
strides toward their old standing. She looks high-bred 
and lovely in her black velvet and costly laces, and Leigh- 
ton St. George pays her a marked deference. 
The supper and the serving are successes ; the ices are 
fine and plentiful. There is more dancing, and every- 
body goes away as nearly replete with satisfaction as is 
possible. Dolly has flirted audaciously, bewitchingly, and 
been the belle of the evening. The guests depart with 
expressions of enjoyment and kindly wishes for their 
young hostess, whose variations of fortune have been a 
source of interest to them for many years, and who remem* 
 
 
A woman's inheritance. Ill 
ber her father as a rather distant, unsocial person before 
the accident that was terrible enough to change almost 
any man's nature. 
" It was delightful ! " Dolly declares. " Christmas, you 
are really to be envied ! It is ever so much more gratify- 
ing to be the great lady in a smaller place, than merely one 
of many in a large city, where you may drop out unnoticed, 
and where everybody is eager to push you out to their 
own advantage. If mamma were not going abroad, you 
would really have a chance to get tired of me. I should 
invite myself for a whole summer." 
"I invite you now," says Christmas, ''for any summer 
you may like. If you need a friend or a refuge, any 
time, come to me." 
A strange expression goes over Dolly's face, leaving 
it frightened and gray. Then, recovering herself, she 
answers, with a little forced laugh, — 
"How tragic you are, and how generous, too ! If one 
wanted a true and tender friend, one could trust you to 
the uttermost. But I shall come without being in need, 
for the very delight of it." 
There is a curious, pathetic falter in Dolly's voice that 
Christmas remembers long afterward. 
Indeed, it seems as if Dolly hated to leave Glen Ormis- 
ton. She puts off her departure, day after day, until a 
rather peremptory message comes from her mother ; and 
then she appears more moved than Christmas ever remem- 
bers her. But the good-byes have to be said at length. 
St. George takes her back to the city, and sees them off 
on their winter journey, half wishing that he was going 
himself, as they have been trying to persuade him. 
"I may come over, in the spring, with Mrs. Stannard," 
he says, and resolves so to do, for a curious unrest has 
taken possession of him. 
The city is at its gayest. There are distinguished 
Tiiitors at the clubs ; there are savants and travellers for 
 
 
 
pleasure ; inyitations pile up on his table ; but he tossefl 
them aside with an ennnied feeliAg. Is he really losing 
his interest in the world of homiinity? Fainting grows 
tiresome as well. What does he care for fame, and of 
money he sorely has enough ! Were the zest and interest 
the charm of youth, — youth that has really passed? Yet 
manhood's promises seemed to be those of greater rich* 
ness and satisfaction. He finds it in his heart to look at
Philip Donaldson's busy life with feelings akin to envy. 
Is it, indeed, wife and children that broaden out a man's 
existence with the beneficent vitality his has come to lack? 
There is one place in which he spends many hours that 
would otherwise hang heavy on his hands ; this is Mrs. 
Stannard's drawing-room. Madam Stannard has paid her 
last debt and been decorously laid in the Brower vault 
with the past generations. Miss Stannard has bestowed 
her hand upon a mild-mannered ritualistic clergyman, and 
they go on in the old house ; but the divided fortune has 
added a little to the prosperity of the son and daughter. 
Mrs. Stannard is still a queen in her realm, a dignified, 
beautiful woman, cold, serene, and stately for the world ; 
but she softens to a few intimate friends, of whom St. 
George is one; though in the round of pleasures she 
holds herself above it with that indescribable exclusive- 
ness of her inner self. She likes the power, the defer- 
ence, people pay her ; she has reared such a fine, intangi- 
ble defence about herself that no one ventures to obtrude, 
and invitations are received with a peculiar gratitude. 
Marriage has not narrowed her intellectual attainments, 
but rather given a new impetus to them, since her ambi- 
tion is to be the peer of the intellectual men and women 
she meets. There is always some charming visitor in her 
drawing-room, St George thinks, glad to have an hour's 
fresh and entertaining chat. The rich warmth and enthu- 
siasm, that rendered her mother so charming to his later 
boyhood, are lacking ; but there is a wider culture 
and Intellectuality. " A noble and perfect woman,' he says ; and 
heVonders a little if it is a satisfactory life. When she 
comes to haye sons and daughters, — somehow he cannot 
fancy that. What strong characteristics would Brower 
Stannard hare to give sons and daughters? But, after 
all, is not the age of chivalry and romance passing away? 
The Stannards settle to sail in April. St. George re- 
turns to Carnley for a sort of farewell visit to his friend, 
though he is quite sure to return in the autumn. One of 
his notes is to be taken up, the money is lying in the bank. 
" Don't pinch yourself, Philip," he says in a tone of 
remonstrance. ''If I can read the signs of the times, 
there is not so perfect a confidence in business matters as 
there has been. The tide ebbs and flows, you know, and 
there are dangerous quicksands. It seems to me we have 
been overdoing, overbuilding, reaching out faster than 
the true resources would warrant. So be careful. Per- 
haps you had better keep this in case of an emergency." 
Donaldson smiles. '' You have a better business woman 
than you have ever given her credit for, St. George, and 
among other virtues, she has a horror of debt. But we 
have not pinched the business. Most of this came from 
the sale of some unprofitable property, that is, to her. 
The Bradnors wanted it to enlarge their factory and 
offered a fair but not extravagant price. Another six 
months will see the estate out of debt, to her great delight ; 
for she has a curious feeling that it is not wholly hers until 
the last claim is paid." 
'' I want her to be quite at ease." He is a little an- 
noyed at the hurry, as it seems to him, to be rid of any 
obligation where he is concerned. 
" And I like her earnest integrity, her thorough honesty. 
Though from all I can hear, that was Ormiston's strong 
point, and I fancy she inherits it, with other matters. 
What do you suppose she will do with her life, St 
Qeorge? Marry?" 
 
There is a peculiar intonation in his voice qnite distinct 
from curiosity. 
" Why not?" asks the other, carelessly. 
It can make little difference to him, his friend is aware. 
How has he come to fancy there might be some sympathy 
between them, some interest out of which regard might 
grow in time? Yet there is nothing for such a fancy, ex- 
cept the qualities his keen eyes haye detected in both that 
go to the making of counterparts. For an instant he is 
impatient that these two cannot see with his eyes. 
" Has she quite converted you?" St. George continues. 
"Your ideal, if I remember rightly, was not of that 
kind." 
" One's ideal may change since one's own self changes. 
What can it matter if a woman's development is of the 
pure, grand, sympathetic type ; a clear soul within, striv- 
ing for some of the higher prizes of life, the pure enfran- 
chised presence without, that can keep itself from contact 
with all that is mean and narrow and selfish? At twenty- 
five, you will find Miss Ormiston a peerless woman. 
It will be her blossom time, when others are worn and 
faded." 
" You are enthusiastic." 
For an instant, the two men look steadily into each 
other's eyes, and read or misread a subtile knowledge that 
on the one side is almost suspicion, on the other a sense 
of lingering prejudice. If St. George disliked Miss 
Ormiston, there would still be a chance for hope ; but this 
cold indifference makes it utterly out of the question. 
And St. George, who has seen a wider world of women, 
wonders if these two, brought into daily contact with 
kindred aims and employments and interests that must 
be identical, will pass unscathed? To warn his friend 
would be an insult. And there is, there will always be 
the danger, he decides. 
There is a little stir and the door opens. Christmas 
 
 
Ormiston comes in upon them with a bright, pleased look, 
that makes them feel like a couple of conspirators. She 
has missed Mr. St. George very much out of her quiet, nar- 
row sphere, and she is glad to see him, and she knows now 
that she is never unwelcome to Philip Donaldson. They 
have reached a stage of perfect ease, paying each other's 
rights the most delicate respect. She claims nothing but 
courtesy for her womanhood, the kind of courtesy that 
Philip Donaldson would pay to the finest gentleman, that 
he always pays to St. George, but without the familiarity 
of man to man. 
Since St. George is here, their little matter of business 
can be settled. He makes a faint protest, and her alac- 
rity is annoying to him, though only Donaldson under- 
stands that. Some new orders have come in that her 
manager consults her about, a trifling note or two to 
meet, for which he is prepared. She has gained so much 
in that fine quality akin to courage, fresher than society 
aplomb, that when she asks him to accompany her out to 
Glen Ormiston, he admits secretly that Mrs. Stannard 
could have done it with no more ease or elegance. She 
wears that bright, interested air, as if one was wholly 
occupied with endeavors and aims, and filled with definite 
purposes. There will never be any room for love in such 
a life, he thinks, ungenerously. 
The winter was late coming in, but the steady cold has 
given way to hints and suggestions of spring. To-day 
there is a mildness in the atmosphere, a shimmering haze 
of bluish green creeping through the brown grass, a 
flutter in the pools, where the willow wands are bending 
over with drooping softness and swelling buds of soft 
gray, soon to be vivid brightness. The low-lying thickets 
blush with returning sap in suggestive duns and purples, 
and the long brown hills rise one after another in what 
seems a grayish mist. Granite rocks sparkle with bits of 
mica, others are red and yellow with lichens. The firs 
 
 
 
and cedars are almost black, while here and there standi 
out a trunk of white birch with slender limbs. The filmy 
blue sky seems to rest on the mountain-tops ; but coming 
nearer, the old house stands out distinct, its ivy-coyered 
side glossy with metallic green. Stretched out northward 
is the depression between the two hills, the ravine or glen. 
How weird and solemn it looks, as if it defied the tender- 
ness of the coming season I Here and there you can still 
see a glint of ice. 
He remembers how he traversed it the first spring he 
was here, and what treasures of trailing arbutus, snow- 
drop, and violet he brought home to Mrs. Donaldson. He 
has a portfolio of unfinished sketches, bits of lovely 
water-colors, in the hunt for which he unearthed many 
of nature's secrets. Yes, one could go on forever, finding 
new loveliness at every turn. If this girl at his side were 
artist or poet, if surroundings could be an index to one's 
soul ! He wonders, as he often has before, what brought 
Mark Ormiston here. Was there some vagrant side to 
his nature, some secret love that money-getting could not 
quite stamp out? 
He is not silent, if he is keeping an undercurrent of his 
own thoughts. They talk of the coming spring, of his 
journey abroad, of the Allaires. Her voice has grown 
full and fiexible, and it has a lingering cadence that he 
never noted before. Certainly she might be unconsciously 
dangerous when brought into daily iriendllness with a 
man like Philip Donaldson. Is there any such thing as 
an absurd kind of duty owing to our fellow-mortals, that 
we should offer ourselves in their stead? 
Mrs. Byrne gives him a pleasant welcome, and he re- 
mains to dinner. There is a new project he learns of, — 
building a summer hotel a mile or two below on a ledge of 
rock that overlooks the river, and several cottages are in 
process of construction. 
" Fashion has found us out," Miss Ormiston says, with 
 
 
hjr iDummating smile. " So you see we shall have so 
opportunity of turning hermits." 
Perhaps a diversion to fashionable life might not be 
flmiss to her. People of means and culture have no 
excuse for standing aloof, certainly. 
They wish each other a kindly farewell early in the 
afternoon. He will spend the night with the Donaldsons, 
and return to the city the next morning. He desires her 
to feel that he is at all times ready to be consulted on 
any troublesome point, or trivial one for that matter, and 
he wishes her success, happiness. 
She goes out on the wide porch in the late March sun- 
shine, and watches him down the avenue, not out of 
sight, though she smiles at the superstition. But he has 
gone out of her life with the Allaires. There are new 
duties, there will be new friends. 
 
 
CHAPTER X. 
FAOIB TO FAOB WITH FOBTinni. 
Certainlt Christmas Ormiston does not find time hang- 
ing heavily on her hands. There are new duties coming 
to light every day. Since she is neither sentimental nor 
misanthropic, she finds in them many satisfactions. Her 
home IS to her an unfailing source of delight. If she 
patterns it somewhat after Meadowcrof t, and resolves that 
it shall be the resort of cultivated men and women, rather 
than the heats and dissipations of fashion, surely it is a 
praiseworthy ambition. She adds a grace here, a touch 
there, refined and characteristic adornments, with a certain 
sense of unconventional freedom that in her severe sim- 
plicity can never degenerate into the bizarre. With dis- 
crimination that would be unusual in one so young, were 
it not for her remembrance of Mrs. Allaire's judicious 
training, she selects from among her neighbors those she 
considers congenial, though she is courteous to all. She 
has still so much to learn, and to her, knowledge is fasci- 
nating. She collects the books of her father's library 
that have been packed in closets and corners and puts 
them reverently in their places, while the novels of Mrs. 
Treverton's time are mostly relegated to the garret. Not 
that she despises fiction, and Mrs. Byrne still delights in 
a pure and tender love story. 
They have an odd and rather startling episode of their 
own. If Miss Clement has had hopes and dreams in 
early youth, she made no moan over their failure. She 
has been a steady worker more from compulsion than 
absolute choice. Her sister married and went out of her 
life, and after thirteen years came back to her, having 
 
 
known happipess in the beginning and much sorrow and 
anxiety before the end, and the two took up a wanner 
than mere sisterly habit, — the need of each other's interest 
and sympathj', — settling to the hope of a little home in old 
e, and secimty from pressing want. Miss Ormiston's 
proffer was too good to be lightly passed by, and it has 
proved an enjoyable home. But if not exactly a romance, 
an incident so "uilooked for has occurred that at first the 
little woman is startled out of her placid routine. This is 
an offer of marriage from the father of two of her pupils, 
who have grown at home in her quiet kindliness that they 
are delighted with the prospect of having her always. 
There is a pleasant heme and sufficient income to be above 
the little pinches and straits of poverty. She is so dazed 
at first that she can hardly decide ; but the regard, though 
undemcmstrative, is sincere. Mrs. Byrne can see no objec- 
tion if Alice can be happy in the new life. 
After some consideration she decides that she can, and 
having once admitted it as feasible, she ends by consider- 
ing it desirable. Her simple preparations are soon made. 
The bride of forty does not need p.n elaborate trousseau, 
and her house is already in order. So, late in the svamer 
there is a quiet wedding, and Miss Clement is Mrs. Pur- 
cell, a meek, happy wife and a conscientious, perhaps 
over-indulgent mother. 
Mrs. Byrne decides, wisely, to keep her position at 
Glen Ormiston. She is in most respects a truer compan- 
ion for Christmas ; she has more breadth, more human 
experience. She has learned many things in the hard 
school of duty, and she has put beside her knowledge, 
charity, faith, and tenderness, and the rare wisdom which 
helps onward halting souls to higher purposes. Her 
influence has been hardly discernible, yet of incalculable 
benefit to the young girl, whose ideals of womanhood are 
softened and broadened, and the dangers of that great 
plain of independent thought and action counteracted hj 
 
 
 
the fine touches of duty to one's neighbor in things both 
done and left undone. If her position, her means, and 
her intellect bring her duties to herself, do they not bring 
a higher duty to the stranger? If these elevate her, does 
she not need them to reach out a helping hand to human- 
ity, not simply in gifts of money, but example, influence. 
Not that Mrs. Byrne would have her tramp dusty high- 
ways or perilous by-ways, for surely her sphere will bring 
work enough, and it is not only to the poor that apostles 
are needed. 
The world about Glen Ormiston has widened out as 
well. New people have come in with generous living, 
society ways and interests, and Miss Ormiston is not to 
be overlooked. If there are some who view her busi- 
ness connection with startled eyes, they make due allow- 
ance for it as an inheritance rather than a matter of 
election. 
She has come to such a keen interest in it that it seems 
half of her life. She wonders now how one could be con- 
tent with the petty round of dressing and visiting, with the 
useless gossiping, the tiresome speculations on lovers and 
marriage, the unwomanly efforts, it seems to her, for an 
establishment. Hers has been made for her, it is true ; 
but she is thankful, every day, that it is so. Still she has 
leisure. She takes long, bracing rides in the fresh morn- 
ing air ; she sits on the great shady porch in the cool 
afternoons, in flowing white, with her book, or sometimes 
a bit of work, when she is in a talking mood or there are 
guests, and as often in pure enjoyable idleness. life is 
BO utterly enchanting. Its dreariness and vexations are 
overpast. Days and weeks fly by, and she is so content 
she does not even question the future. 
They have placed the last indebtedness to St. Greorge's 
account at his bankers. He has gone on to Spain with 
the Allaires and Lucia's relatives as a family party. 
Dolly has written two brief, fragmentary notes. None 
 
 
of them speak of returning, but she does not miss them 
oat of her rich life. She is so glad to be entirely free, to 
have no claim upon the estate. 
" But if we go on making money, what am I to do with 
it all?" she questions of Mr. Donaldson. 
" I never yet heard of any one afraid of making too 
much," he says, gayly. 
" Women may have some limit to their desires, if men 
have not," Miss Ormiston replies. 
"Well, from an oyerplos you can endow an orphan 
asylnm or build a home for the indigent." 
" Tou are quite sure you are not stinting anybody ? " 
"Tou know I told you long ago that we paid the high- 
est wages." 
There had been this agreement between them that he 
was to be the Judge of all matters pertaining to the em- 
ployees. Her own good sense has told her he was the 
better master here. 
Winter comes on apace, and there are startling rumors 
in the air. The years of plenty have led to extravagance 
and extension in everything, and now one or two of the 
largest houses topple over, bringing others in their wake. 
A feeling of distrust seizes upon every one, and a panic is 
the result. For weeks the air is thick with rumors, heavy 
with losses. Firms that have floated on the topmost wave 
of confidence give cause for suspicion, and trust is shaken 
everywhere. 
Ormiston Mills pass through better than many an- 
other house. Thanks to Donaldson, there are no out- 
standing debts. It seems as if they had cleared their 
decks Just in time. To be sure, several large orders are 
countermanded and a few payments fail ; but they make 
no change. Some of the largest factories at Camley shut 
down, and hundreds are thrown out of employment. 
There are organized systems of relief and much ill- 
advised benevolence. 
 
 
 
For the first time in her life Christmas faces the reality 
of the old problem that has so long vexed the world, — 
what shall people do when there is no work? The pangs 
of hunger are as real to the improvident as to the prudent 
man, and neither can warm himself with yesterday's fire. 
Idle men patrol the streets and drop into beer saloons for 
the warmth. Throngs of half -grown boys loiter on cor- 
ners, and are inducted into sins and crimes that render 
their after-lives all but worthless. 
" We shall run at a loss, in all probability,' Donaldson 
says, after January comes in bleak and hopeless. " but 
I hate to give it up. We might try three-quarter time." 
Christmas acquiesces in that. The days are short, and 
the hour's sleep in the morning will not come amiss. If 
the men get home a little earlier, they will still have a 
warm fireside. 
There is a little less pleasure, perhaps. Amusements 
are not so well attended, and simpler ones take their 
places. But there does not seem so great a change as 
Christmas expects. There are still dinners and parties. 
She is troubled with some misgivings as to how much she 
ought to give up. There are really no superfluous ser- 
vants at Glen Ormiston, but she could hire a dozen extra 
ones every week. She will have no fine dresses, and 
instead of a party give some enjoyable teas. Her charity 
is open-handed, yet has certain discriminating qualities. 
Presently people crawl out of the shadow and survey 
the devastation. There is much confusion and ready 
blame for fast living and extravagant pleasures. Business 
men count closer, wages drop, new methods are invented 
that save the labor of a man here and there, and new pro- 
cesses that cheapen production. Ormiston Mills cannot 
afford to be left behind, and yet trade is falling away. 
"If we are going to make money, something must be 
done," Donaldson says, in his resolute way. " We cannot 
afford to be sentimental; the cost of living has been 
 
 
reduced, and we must follow suit and reduce wages. Let 
us begin at the head. My salary is a generous one, and 
t can do on less ; if the men know this, they will submit 
the more readily." 
"You?'' Miss Ormiston is silent a moment from 
surprise. "But you have done so much," she rejoins 
vehemently. " It is you who have saved everything in a 
worse strait than this ; it is you who have the responsibil- 
ity. No, you shall not begin with yourself ! " 
She looks very proud and noble in her commanding air ; 
she has, too, an unspoken, generous admiration in every 
feature. 
" Ton must allow me to be the judge in this matter," 
he insists gently. 
"Why should not the retrenchment begin with me as 
well?" she questions. 
" You have been especially economical, I think. Many 
women in your station would not have displayed so wise a 
forethought. But for the morale of the matter, you will 
find my plan the best." 
" Do you know," she begins with a bright smile, " that 
I seem merely playing at business. I go over books as if 
you were not to be trusted. I discuss plans with you, feel- 
ing that your years of experience give you the best right 
to decide. Why should I not do something really useful? 
I could keep books." And her air is one of resolution. 
Donaldson muses. He has been taking rather severe 
duty of late, as the bookkeeper left some months before, 
and he has thought it best not to supply his place ; but it 
makes extra hours for him, and there has been some 
objection at home. His family surely have a right to the 
time, and it is not Miss Ormiston's, since she does not 
demand it and does not pay him for it. This is clearly 
one of the cases where he has not the supreme right to be 
generous to another woman. 
" Well," he answers slowly, " I have been trying to 
 
train Groodrich since Brooke went away ; but if you pre« 
f erred taking say two or three hoars' duty a day, it would 
give me a little more time for other matters." 
" How thoughtless I have been I but it was not my wisL 
to have you without a book-keeper,' she says, rather 
reproachfully. 
"It is not as if we had been running at full speed" ; 
and he smiles a little. " There has been less to do in 
every department." 
" Until better times, consider me assistant book-keeper, 
at least." 
" And let us have this question of wages settled while 
you are here. I should like to state the case with you 
present, if you have no grave objection." 
" I certainly ought to have the courage to face my own 
adverse circumstances," she replies with dignity. 
He orders the great bell to be rung, though it lacks ten 
minutes to twelve. That something important has oc- 
curred the men know in a minute, and they fear a 
stoppage of the works. They come slowly along with 
disquiet in their faces. 
Mr. Donaldson stands at the door, and Miss Ormiston 
is beside him. She looks handsome and dignified in her 
deep blue cloth dress buttoned to the throat, with a nar- 
row edge of linen above the collar; her wide-brinmied 
fur hat turned up in Gainsborough style, with its long 
plume. There are no diamonds, no Jewelry of any kind 
visible. 
"My men," Donaldson begins in his kindly, resolute 
voice, " with Miss Ormiston's advice and consent, I have 
a few words to say to you." And as the eyes turn to her, 
he goes on in a brief, forcible fashion, mentioning what 
they all know about the general depression and the strict 
economy that must needs be used, — the reduction that is 
apparent in all things. From greatest to least, beginning 
with himself, there will be, commencing on Monday
 
 
morning next, a lower scale of wages, brooght about by 
the exigency of the situation. He bids them remember 
that they have waited until the very last, and now no one 
need accept it if he can do Any better ; but that is the 
best Ormiston Mills can afford, in justice to itself. 
The men bow with unwonted chivalry to the woman 
who is, after all, the arbiter of their present fate. She 
has a good record. There have been no grand doings at 
Glen Ormiston, and she does not go clad in silks and 
yelvets ; she is kindly disposed to the poor and unfortu- 
nate, and though they consider Donaldson the master, 
they have an innate respect for her. 
There is no trouble at Ormiston Mills. During the two 
days the men resolved to keep straight on and signify 
their acceptance of the new rate. Donaldson had builded 
wisely. Christmas takes charge of the books and corre- 
spondence, and much of her work is done at home. Her 
compeer admires the delicacy which prompts this. Less 
than a month afterward, the foreman, Mr. Bedding, waits 
upon him to announce that he has been offered a position 
in a distant town at a much higher salary. Since a man's 
first duty is to his family, he feels it only the commonest 
prudence to accept. He likewise suggests that he is afraid 
Ormiston Mills have passed the meridian of their pros- 
perity. The new business men coming up are going to 
make a close struggle for their share of work. 
Donaldson is a good deal startled. It will be an un- 
wise proceeding to buy back this man and put themselves 
in his power, and it is unfortunate to let him go with some 
of their most profitable manufacturing secrets in his pos- 
session. 
"' Tou may not be doing as well as you think. Bedding," 
he replies, with a kind of persuasiveness in his tone. " I 
don't know as the new houses are any surer than the old 
ones. It is a question of the reserve capital back of a 
 
 
 
"Of course, we are all at liberty to better ourselves." 
And if the man had not tempered Ms tone to saeh gravity 
it would be insolent. 
" Certainly/* bowing as if the talk were finished. 
Then Donaldson looks about for a man to put in Red- 
ding's place, one in whom he can repose a certain confi- 
dence, and who has brains as well as eyes, and can endure 
training. 
But it is just as he suspects. Redding goes into a re- 
cently established house that is making bids on the right 
hand and the left for patronage. They put on the mar- 
ket a paper closely resembling the Ormiston standard at 
a greatly reduced price ; they send out agents everywhere. 
Competition is keen, almost to the point of cutting each 
other's throats. Two of their largest customers fail to 
send in orders ; smaller ones are dropping off, caught by 
more generous proffers. 
Philip Donaldson faces the matter with a certain trepi- 
dation. St. George has gone to India, and will come 
home by the way of Japan. There is no one to take 
counsel of, save Miss Ormiston. He has seen this very 
thing happen to stanch old houses, that were crowded to 
the wall until there was not sufScient room to make an- 
other turn. Cheapness, cheapness is the cry : the honest 
methods are no longer respected. There seems an era of 
appearances, of sham and trickery, — anything that will 
make money. 
They keep slipping back. The reserve capital has all 
gone. There must be another cut in wages, which he 
hates to propose. He tries the remedy of discharging 
hands, since there is not profitable work for all. Some- 
thing must be done. Indeed, he is not sure but it would 
be wisest to close the mill until better times ; but what, 
then, is Miss Ormiston to do for an income? Glen 
Ormiston has its gardens and green-houses that might 
be resolved into profit, instead of being used for pleasure 
 
 
and generosity. Women have tamed their attention to 
Buch matters and made tliem successes. 
It is mortifying in tlie extreme, after having gone 
through such close straits, and winning success in the face 
of tremendous odds, to be stranded on the lee shore. There 
is only one way, he sees, besides giving up, — to fight the 
world with its own weapons ; to borrow capital, pay starva- 
tion prices, and sell for the very smallest margin, some- 
times, indeed, at the cost of production, as other houses 
must be doing. 
He will be compelled to take Miss Ormiston into this 
gloomy confidence. She has been so brave, so noble, so 
generous, where other women, and most men, he is forced 
to admit, would have thought only of self. She is prompt 
and expeditious in her methods ; her fancies have been so 
trained, if she ever had any, that her reason and judg- 
ment are quite in the ascendant. She has no wild, im- 
probable ideas, and though her beliefs are strong, they 
can be modified by experience or a sensible array of facts. 
The opportunity comes while he is revolving in his 
mind how best to make one. She pauses one morning to 
say, in a rather troubled tone, '
" You have been discharging some more workmen, Mr. 
Ponaldson. Was it absolutely necessary?'' 
"Yes," he returns, with a weary sigh. 
She lingers. What the households are to do puzzles 
her. Every branch is overcrowded. Are there too many 
people .in the world? "Too many at one thing, but not 
enough at another," cries some political economist ; but 
it seems as if there were too many at everything in Cam- 
ley, and other manufacturing towns are saying the same 
tLdng, waving theu: flag of distress to keep people away, 
lest their own go hungry. 
"Miss Ormiston," he begins, reluctantly, "we shall 
have to take matters into serious consideration. I could 
find it in my heart to wish St. George was here ; for I am 
 
 
 
at the end of my own wisdom. We are losing a little all th€ 
time. We have nsed onr reserve capital, and it does seem 
as if there was nothing to do but close the mills for a time. 
The question is, how could Glen Ormiston be kept up ? " 
"I, too, have been considering," she makes answer. 
" For a while I could do, doubtless. There are the rents 
of the cottages on the estate, and I could economize. I 
could even rent out Glen Ormiston, you know" ; and she 
gives a wan, desperate smile, sad to see on a face like 
hers. " Is there no other course V* 
" I should make one, if we had capital. I do think 
there are ways to retrieve the f OTtunes of a good old 
house like this. Of what avail is a man's honesty, integ- 
rity, and industry, if he is to be beaten out of the race by 
some swindling trickster? That is about what it amounts 
to. The old, upright methods have been pushed aside, 
and people can't see, or do not want to see, that they are 
pandering to the worst forms of commercial dishonesty. 
Business houses and factories start up like mushrooms, 
and make a great show of cheapness. They do manu- 
facture and sell under the absolute cost of labor and ma- 
terial ; and after three or four years there is a crash, and 
they throw themselves upon the mercy of their creditors, 
and compromise at the lowest rate. "Better a little than 
nothing at aU,' say the duped ; so they give them a new 
chance for the sake of the little. Meanwhile they and 
their families have lived in luxury on what they have 
wrung from their creditors. It hurts business generally ; 
it injures honest people irreparably." 
There is a bitterness in Philip Donaldson's usually generous 
tone. He has suffered once for honor and hon- 
esty's sake ; must he suffer again, and be witness to the 
irretrievable misfortunes of another? 
" If Ormiston Mills were yours, what should you do?" 
she asks directly. 
" Well, I should fight desperately, as I did before, and 
perhaps to as little purpose," he says, anxiously. 
" Let ns fight then," she says ; and the light in her face 
gives it that tense look of some high-blooded racer. 
The thin nostrils dilate, the eyes are black and full of 
purpose, the lips are a resolute, almost straight line. " I 
want to do as my father's son would have done," she con- 
tinues, " if his inheritance had been imperilled. There 
must be some way of raising money. Could I not mort- 
gage Glen Ormiston — " But she asks it doubtfully. 
" No," he answers ; " that is out of the question. The 
same care that preserved it from Treverton's clutches will 
keep it intact now. It is yours and your children's. 
We might raise money on the factory, but we must have 
St. George's consent. There is a sum at his bankers that 
can be appropriated to our use." 
She makes a curious, decisive gesture of dissent. 
" And then — when we had the money?" she asks. 
"Well, we must cheapen processes, cheapen labor, try 
the clap-trap style instead of the old fine methods that 
belonged to gentlemen. Has the race advanced at the 
cost of the individual, I wonder? Is success the sign- 
manual instead of honor, honesty? Miss Ormiston, this 
is why women are kept* from business. In this close, bit- 
ter struggle, they would surely lose their high faith, their 
delicacy ; nay, even that fine purity that is as the bloom of 
the unplucked grape. I — we should have saved you 
from this. St. George would, I know." 
"It is my inheritance we are discussing, not anything 
belonging to Mr. St. George," she says in fine disdain ; 
and she draws herself up to her fullest height, while some- 
thing sweeps across her face leaving it marble, pure and 
cold. " He saved it once when its loss would have been 
his fault, but now it is my care, my duty. I cannot tell 
— I must think — " And her voice breaks a little. 
" Let us put off the evil day until to-monow," he suggests
in profound pity. 
 
Chbisticas Ormiston drives slowly homeward in her 
pony phaeton, sitting very erect and holding the reins in 
a grasp unconsciously tight. All the way she can see the 
range of wooded hills in their baffling, changeful beauty, 
and presently one comer of the old gray house is visible. 
Her inheritance always, hers even in exile, and for the 
first time she shivers a little, thinking it will be hers solita- 
rily. To her and her children forever. She has thought 
so little about marriage. She is three-and-twenty, and no 
man save Ward Allaire has ever asked her. Her friends 
so far have been among married people verging on to, or 
past, middle life. She has never positively longed for 
love; she has felt no especial need for tenderness. Is 
this unwomanly, she wonders ? Yet if there was some one 
of her very own, a brother, perhaps, like Philip Donald- 
son! 
Could she go away from Glen Ormiston? No one can 
thrust her out now ; she must go of her own accord, and 
that she will never do. She will live in a few rooms if 
her income shrivels up, she and Mrs. Byrne, and grow old 
«id wrinkled. It seems so utterly absurd to bright, well- 
conditioned youth! 
Ormiston Mills is her inheritance as well, the true gift 
of her father, all that has been wrested from his labors 
and efforts. To let that go would be cruel disrespect to 
him; and then what would her life be worth? What 
would there be in it? Should she have had the other, a 
wife's interest — and she gives a smile of Booni. What 
interest would there have been in Ward Allaire ? Can she 
 
 
go oat and meet some one quite to her liking? She is 
sufficient for herself in this respect, but the years will go 
on and what then? 
It is not lore or marriage that must occupy her 
thoughts. What would her father hare done in an extrem- 
ity like this? What gift had he that could resolve the 
simple elements of chance into success? What do men 
begin with when they make this fight for commercial 
life? 
Christmas wanders about the old house in a curious 
frame of mind, not utterly despairing, but strangely 
purposeless ; at loss, as when the strong supports hare 
been swept from under one. The afternoon clouds up 
gloomily and is depressing. The frosts hare nipped the 
tenderest leaves and flowers, and they hang disconsolately, 
or blow sullenly in the fitful wind. Like a refrain, the 
question goes through her mind until it seems part of a 
chant that she fits to sombre music : What must be done 
to save Ormiston Mills? 
In the evening she has a fire lighted in the place that, 
oddly enough, goes by the name of " Mr. St. George's 
room." She lights the lamps on either side, for she does 
not want uncanny shadows as she sits trying to remember 
her earliest training, and the counsel her father gave her, 
much beyond her years then. It is so fragmentary and 
elusive. 
Here is the old desk at which she used to stand and 
write until every inch of her tall, thin body ached. The 
papers were all taken out long ago, of course. Some of 
them are in her possession, others have been destroyed, 
doubtless. Would they help to save the old house from 
ruin, she wonders? 
It comes to her suddenly, and she has not thought of 
it for years ; indeed, forgotten it completely in the many 
new claims and interests. Then it is not a pleasant 
thing to cherish in one's mind, the memory of those later, 
 
 
awesome days, when disease has wasted her father to a 
skeleton, and paralysis destroyed the last comeliness ot 
featore. She is here in the room, and he lies over there 
on his movable bed, beckoning her to his side. Even 
now her flesh creeps, and she shudders as she casts a 
f urtiye glance about, as if, indeed, his spirit hannted the 
room. The young girl, Christmas, listens as partly by 
words and partly by signs he makes her understand that 
in the old desk is a secret compartment with papers that 
may be of value in after years. She rises suddenly, and 
though her impulse is to fly wildly through the hsJl and 
upstairs to Mrs. Byrne, she steadies her nerves by an 
immense force of will, and lifts the slanting lid. Below 
there are some drawers ; above, various queerly contrived 
pigeon-holes. She has nothing to do with these, however. 
The papers she settles together and lifts out carefully,, 
looking over her shoulder as if she were some midnight 
robber. How does it open? Somewhere one presses an 
end of the fine slat-like pieces with which the back part is 
finished. She tries one after another, and all seem alike 
immovable. How did she do it that day? Again she 
essays, and by mere accident gives one an upward push, 
and it tilts out a trifle. It comes to her now. She 
springs it out far enough to feel a tiny bolt ; but what 
with rust and disuse, it is some time before she can push 
it aside. Half the back gives a sudden slide and a space 
is revealed. She puts her hand in this, and at the farther 
end feels a package which she draws out. They are 
dusty and yellow, and the ink is pale. Some of them 
are in her own girlish hand. It seems almost like 
unroUing a mummy, they have such a queer, old smell. 
She settles herself again in her chair and pokes the fire. 
Everything about her seems so curiously ghostly ; indeed, 
if the wheeling chair were here, she would look for her 
father to be in it. She unfolds the papers and glances 
them over. They are faded memoranda of styles of piqper 
 
 
and their cost, of material possible to be used, of experi- 
ments tried, with a minute description of processes. 
Christmas Ormiston feels disappointed. Probably they 
contain no great secret. There hare been new discoyeries 
since her father's day. The interest is gone, and her very 
Bonl is chilled with a disheartened sensation. She cannot 
tell quite what she did expect ; but it is really nothing. 
The fire, too, is almost out. She must thread her way 
through the hall and up the stairs, and it is eerie enough. 
Some one has put out the light ; so she takes her lamp in 
one hand and the papers in the other and walks, with a 
slow, stately step, fearing that if she hastens a vague 
terror would overpower her and lead her to scream. She 
does, almost, as the old clock in the hall tolls off mid- 
night ; but she reaches her room, and is soon in bed. 
Touth and health are not wont to be disturbed by sleep- 
lessness, and her trouble has not gone deep enough for 
lasting anxiety. When she opens her eyes again the sun 
is shining in her window, and she has the impression of a 
queer dream. 
She drives down to the factory at her usual hour, and 
opening the office door, wishes Mr. Donaldson a cheerful 
good-morning. He turns ; but his eyes are heavy, and 
show traces of a vigil, and some other trouble she is never 
to know. But she takes it all upon herself. 
" You look really ill," she exclaims, with concern, con- 
science-smitten at the thought of her sound slumbers and 
her spring-like freshness. 
" No, I am not ill." But his voice is a little husky. 
" You have worried over these dismal affairs. Is there 
any conclusion to reach? I will not be impatient enough 
to ask if you have reached it." 
He shakes his head gloomily. Truth to tell, he feels 
more than ordinarily depressed. 
"I found some old papers last night," she begins. 
" Perhaps you do not know that my father was always 
 
 
 
trying experiments and inventing processes. The wisdom 
of ihe world increases so fast, that doubtless his ideas 
would be sadly obsolete ; but you can look them oyer. I 
only wish they might do us some good." 
What with lack of business and the increasing aptness 
of young Goodrich, Miss Ormiston finds her duties ex- 
tremely light. She lays ihe papers on Donaldson's table 
and seats herself at her desk, while her pen flies rapidly 
over the paper. The boy comes in with some mail, the 
most important of which is a note falling due. 
Philip Donaldson turns over the old papers, and reads 
them with a mind on other things. 
" Do you know whether these experiments were erer 
tried, Miss Ormiston?" he asks, presently. 
"No," she answers. "The memories of those old 
times are rather confusing and hard to be disentangled." 
" There are some curious things, to say the least. And 
it does not seem as if they could be costly. I wonder if 
there is anything new under the sun?" with a little forced 
laugh. "If we could put something quite new and beau- 
tiful and cheap on the market?" 
Then she goes on writing and he reads, falling, at 
length, into a revery so deep that even when she rises he 
is not disturbed. He seems so disinclined for conversa- 
tion, and there is so little encouraging to talk about, that 
she decides to return home. 
" I wonder," he begins, rousing himself, " if we might 
not try some of these things?" 
" Do you think — " And a sudden hope lights up her 
face. "My father considered them important at the 
time, for they were put in a secret compartment of his 
desk, and given into my charge only a few days before he 
died. I do not know how I could have forgotten them so 
completely." 
''Well, it will not cost much to try the experiments, 
and we have plenty of time ; indeed, that is our greatest 
 
 
commodity at present. I am sure Treyerton could not 
have known about these things." 
" How mnch money will you want ? " 
