that she was a good woman? To have proceeded from Gilbert 
Osmond, this was rather a rough statement ; but Madame Merle 
bestowed upon it a certain improving polish. She told Isabel 
more about the poor Countess than Mr. Osmond had done, and 
related the history of her marriage and its consequences. The 
Count was a member of an ancient Tuscan family, but so poor 
that he had been glad to accept Amy Osmond, in spite of her 
being no beauty, with the modest dowry her mother was able to 
offer a sum about equivalent to that which had already formed 
her brother's share of their patrimony. Count Gemini, since then, 
however, had inherited money, and now they were well enough 
off, as Italians went, though Amy was horribly extravagant. 
The Count was a low-lived brute ; he had given his wife every 
excuse. She had no children ; she had lost three within a year 
of their birth. Her mother, who had pretensions to " culture," 
wrote descriptive poems, and corresponded on Italian subjects 
with the English weekly journals her mother had died three 
years after the Countess's marriage, the father having died long 
before. One could see this in Gilbert Osmond, Madame Merle 
thought see that he had been brought up by a woman ; though, 
to do him justice, one would suppose it had been by a more 
sensible woman than the American Corinne, as Mrs. Osmond 
liked to be called. She had brought her children to Italy after 
her husband's death, and Mrs. Touchett remembered her during 
the years that followed her arrival. She thought her a horrible 
snob ; but this was an irregularity of judgment on Mrs. Touchett's 
part, for she, like Mrs. Osmond, approved of political marriages. 
The Countess was very good company, and not such a fool as 
she seemed ; one got on with her perfectly if one observed a 
single simple condition that of not believing a word she said. 
Madame Merle had always made the best of her for her brother's 
sake; he always appreciated any kindness shown to Amy, 
because (if it had to be confessed for him) he was rather ashamed 
of her. Naturally, he couldn't like her style, her loudness, her 
want of repose. She displeased him ; she acted on his nerves ; 
she was not his sort of woman. What was his sort of woman? 
Oh, the opposite of the Countess, a woman who should always 
speak the truth. Isabel was unable to estimate the number of 
fibs her visitor had told her ; the Countess indeed had given her 
an impression of rather silly sincerity. She had talked almost 
exclusively about herself; how muchfehe should like to know 
Miss Archer ; how thankful she should be for a real friend ; how 
nasty the people in Florence were ; how tired she was of the 
place; how much she should like to live somewhere else in 
Paris, or London, or St. Petersburg ; how impossible it was to 
get anything nice to wear in Italy, except a little old lace ; how 
dear the world was growing everywhere ; what a life of suffering 
and privation she had led. Madame Merle listened with interest 
to Isabel's account of her conversation with this plaintive butter- 
fly; but she had not needed it to feel exempt from anxiety. 
On the whole, she was not afraid of the Countess, and she 
could afford to do what was altogether best not to appear so. 
Isabel had another visitor, whom it was not, even behind her 
back, so easy a matter to patronise. Henrietta Stackpole, who 
had left Paris after Mrs. Touchett's departure for San Remo 
and had worked her way down, as she said, through the cities 
of North Italy, arrived in Florence about the middle of May. 
Madame Merle surveyed her with a single glance, comprehended 
her, and, after a moment's concentrated reflection, determined 
to like her. She determined, indeed, to delight in her. To 
like her was impossible ; but the intenser sentiment might be 
managed. Madame Merle managed it beautifully, and Isabel 
felt that in foreseeing this event she had done justice to her 
friend's breadth of mind. Henrietta's arrival had been announced 
 
by Mr. Bantling, who, coming down from Nice while she was 
at Venice, and expecting to find her in Florence, which she had 
not yet reached, came to the Palazzo Crescentini to express his 
disappointment. Henrietta's own advent occurred two days 
later, and produced in Mr. Bantling an emotion amply accounted 
for by the fact that he had not seen her since the termination 
of the episode at Versailles. The humorous view of his situation 
was generally taken, but it was openly expressed only by Ralph 
Touchett, who, in the privacy of his own apartment, when 
Bantling smoked a cigar there, indulged in Heaven knows what 
genial pleasantries on the subject of the incisive Miss Stackpoln 
and her British ally. This gentleman took the joke in perfectly 
good part, and artlessly confessed that he regarded the affair as 
an intellectual flirtation. He liked Miss Stackpole extremely ; 
he thought she had a wonderful head on her shoulders, and 
found great comfort in the society of a woman who was not 
perpetually thinking about what would be said and how it 
would look. Miss Stackpole never cared how it looked, and if 
she didn't care, pray why should he? But his curiosity had 
been roused ; he wanted awfully to see whether she ever would 
care. He was prepared to go as far as she he did not see why 
he should stop first. 
Henrietta showed no signs of stopping at all. Her prospects, 
as we know, had brightened upon her leaving England, and she 
was now in the full enjoyment of her copious resources. She 
had indeed been obliged to sacrifice her hopes with regard to the 
inner life ; the social question, on the continent, bristled with 
difficulties even more numerous than those she had encountered 
in England. But on the continent there was the outer life, 
which was palpable and visible at every turn, and more easily 
convertible to literary uses than the customs of those opaque 
v islauders. Out of doors, in foreign lands, as Miss Stackpole 
ingeniously remarked, one seemed to see the right side of the 
tapestry ; out of doors, in England, one seemed to see the wrong 
side, which gave one no notion of the figure. It is mortifying 
to be obliged to confess it, but Henrietta, despairing of more 
occult things, was now paying much attention to the outer life. 
She had been studying it for two months at Venice, from which 
city she sent to the Interviewer a conscientious account of the 
gondolas, the Piazza, the Bridge of Sighs, the pigeons and the 
young boatman who chanted Tasso. The Interviewer was 
perhaps disappointed, but Henrietta was at least seeing Europe. 
Her present purpose was to get down to Rome before the malaria 
should come on she apparently supposed that it b.egan on a 
 
fixed day ; and with this design she was to spend at present hut 
few days in Florence. Mr. Bantling was to go with her to 
Rome, and she pointed out to Isabel that as he had been there 
before, as he was a military man, and as he had had a classical 
education he was brought up at Eton, where they study nothing 
but Latin, said Miss Stackpole he would be a most useful 
companion in the city of the Caesars. At this juncture Ealph 
hd the happy idea of proposing to Isabel that she also, under 
his own escort, should make a pilgrimage to Rome. She 
expected to pass a portion of the next winter there that was 
very well ; but meantime there was no harm in surveying the 
field. There were ten days left of the beautiful month of May 
the most precious month of all to the true Rome-lover. Isabel 
would become a Rome-lover ; that was a foregone conclusion. 
She was provided with a well-tested companion of her own sex, 
whose society, thanks to the fact that she had other calls upon 
her sympathy, would probably not be oppressive. Madame 
"Merle would remain with Mrs. Touchett ; she had left Rome 
for the summer and would not care to return. This lady pro- 
fessed herself delighted to be left at peace in Florence ; she had 
locked up her apartment and sent her cook home to Palestrina. 
She urged Isabel, however, to assent to Ralph's proposal, and 
assured her that a good introduction to Rome was not a thing 
to be despised. Isabel, in truth, needed no urging, and the 
party of four arranged its little journey. Mrs. Touchett, on 
this occasion, had resigned herself to the absence of a duenna ; 
we have seen that she now inclined to the belief that her niece 
should stand alone. 
Isabel saw Gilbert Osmond before she started, and mentioned 
her intention to him. 
" I should like to be in Rome with you," he said ; " I should 
like to see you there." 
She hesitated a moment. 
" You might come, then." 
" But you'll have a lot of people with you." 
" Ah," Isabel admitted, " of course I shall not be alone." 
For a moment he said nothing more. 
" You'll like it," he went on, at last. " They have spoiled 
it, but you'll like it." 
" Ought I to dislike it, because it's spoiled? " she asked. 
" No, I think not. It has been spoiled so often. If I were 
to go, what should I do with my little girl? " 
" Can't you leave her at the villa '  " 
" I don't know that I like that though there is a very 
good old woman who looks after her. I can't afford a 
governess." 
" Bring her with you, then," said Isabel, smiling. 
Mr. Osmond looked grave. 
" She has been in Eome all winter, at her convent ; and she 
is too young to make journeys of pleasure." 
" You don't like bringing her forward ? " Isabel suggested. 
"No, I think young girls should be kept out of the world." 
" I was brought up on a different system." 
"You? Oh, with you it succeeded, because you you were 
exceptional." 
" I don't see why," said Isabel, who, however, was not sure 
there was not some truth in the speech. 
Mr. Osmond did not explain ; he simply went on. " If I 
thought it would make her resemble you to join a social group 
in Eorae, I would take her there to-morrow." 
" Don't make her resemble me," said Isabel ; " keep her like 
herself." 
" I might send her to my sister," Mr. Osmond suggested. He 
had almost the air of asking advice ; he seemed to like to talk 
over his domestic matters with Isabel. 
" Yes," said the girl ; " I think that would not do much 
towards making her resemble me ! " 
After she had left Florence, Gilbert Osmond met Madame 
Merle at the Countess Gemini's. There were other people 
present ; the Countess's drawing-room was usually well filled, 
and the talk had been general ; but after a while Osmond left 
his place and came and sat on an ottoman half-behind, half- 
beside, Madame Merle's chair. 
" She wants me to go to Rome with her," he announced, in 
a low voice. 
"To go with her ?" 
"To be there while she is there. She proposed it." 
" I suppose you mean that you proposed it, and that she 
assented." 
" Of course I gave her a chance. But she is encouraging 
she is very encouraging." 
" I am glad to hear it but don't cry victory too soon. Of 
course you will go to Eome." 
" Ah," said Osmond, " it makes one work, this idea of yours !" 
" Don't pretend you don't enjoy it you are very ungrateful. 
You have not been so well occupied these many years." 
" The way you take it is beautiful," said Osmond. " I ought 
to be grateful for that." 
 
" Not too much so, however," Madame Merle answered. She 
talked with her usual smile, leaning back in her chair, and 
looking round the room. " You have made a very good im- 
pression, and I have seen for myself that you have received one. 
You have not come to Mrs. Touchett's seven times to oblige 
me." 
" The girl is not disagreeable," Osmond quietly remarked. 
Madame Merle dropped her eye on him a moment, during 
which her lips closed with a certain firmness. 
" Is that all you can find to say about that fine creature? " 
"All? Isn't it enough? Of how many people have you 
heard me say more ? " 
She made no answer to this, but still presented her convers- 
ational smile to the room. 
" You're unfathomable," she murmured at last. " I am 
frightened at the abyss into which I shall have dropped her ! " 
Osmond gave a laugh. 
" You can't draw back you have gone too far." 
" Very good ; but you must do the rest yourself." 
" I shall do it," said Osmond. 
Madame Merle remained silent, and he changed his place 
again; but when she rose to go he also took leave. Mrs. 
Touchett's victoria was awaiting her in the court, and after he 
had helped Madame Merle into it he stood there detaining 
her. 
" You are very indiscreet," she said, rather wearily ; " you 
should not have moved when I did." 
He had taken off his hat; he passed his hand over his 
forehead. 
" I always forget ; I am out of the habit." 
" You are quite unfathomable," she .repeated, glancing up at 
the windows of the house ; a modern structure in the new part 
of the town. 
He paid no heed to this remark, but said to Madame Merle, 
with a considerable appearance of -earnestness 
" She is really verv charming ; I have scarcely known any 
one more graceful." 
" I like to hear you say that. The better you like her, the 
better for me." 
" I like her very much. She is all you said, and into the 
bargain she is capable of great devotion. She has only one 
fault." 
" What is that? " 
" She has too many ideas." 
 
" I warned yon she was clever." 
" Fortunately they are very bad ones," said Osmond. 
" Why is that fortunate T 
" Dame, if they must be sacrificed ! " 
Madame Merle leaned back, looking straight before her ; then 
she spoke to the coachman. But Osmond again detained her. 
" If I go to Eome, what shall I do with Pansy V 
" I will go and see her," said Madame Merle. 
XXVII. 
I SHALL not undertake to give an account of Isabel's impres- 
sions of Rome, to analyse her feelings as she trod the ancient 
pavement of the Forum, or to number her pulsations as she 
crossed the threshold of St. Peter's. It is enough to say that 
her perception of the endless interest of the place was such as 
might have been expected in a young woman of her intelligence 
and culture. She had always been fond of history, and here 
was history in the stones of the street and the atoms of the 
sunshine. She had an imagination that kindled at the mention 
of great deeds, and wherever she turned some great deed had 
been acted. These things excited her, but she was quietly 
excited. It seemed to her companions that she spoke less than 
usual, and Ralph Touchett, when he appeared to be looking 
listlessly and awkwardly over her head, was really dropping an 
eye of observation upon her. To her own knowledge she was 
very happy ; she would even have been willing to believe that 
these were to be on the whole the happiest hours of her life. 
The sense of the mighty human past was heavy upon her, but 
it was interfused in the strangest, suddenest, most capricious 
way, with the fresh, cool breath of the future. Her feelings 
were so mingled that she scarcely knew whither any of them 
would lead her, and she went about in a kind of repressed 
ecstasy of contemplation, seeing often in the things she looked 
at a greal deal more than was there, and yet not seeing many of 
the items enumerated in " Murray." Rome, as Ralph said, was in 
capital condition. The herd of re-echoing tourists had departed, 
and most of the solemn places had relapsed into solemnity. 
The sky was a blaze 'of blue, and the plash of the fountains, 
in their mossy niches, had lost its chill and doubled its music. 
On the corners of the warm, bright streets one stumbled upon 
bundles of flowers. 
 
Our friends Lad gone one afternoon it was the third of their 
stay to look at the latest excavations in the Forum ; these 
labours having been for some time previous largely extended. 
They had gone down from the modern street to the level of the 
Sacred Way, along which they wandered with a reverence of 
step which was not the same on the part of each. Henrietta 
Stackpole was struck with the fact that ancient Rome had been 
paved a good deal like JSTew York, and even found an analogy 
between the deep chariot-ruts which are traceable in the antique 
street, and the iron grooves which mark the course of the 
American horse-car. The sun had begun to sink, the air was 
filled with a golden haze, and the long shadows of broken 
column and formless pedestal were thrown across the field of 
ruin. Henrietta wandered away with Mr. Bantling, in whose 
Latin reminiscences she was apparently much engrossed, and 
Ralph addressed such elucidations as he was prepared to offer, 
to the attentive ear of our heroine. One of the humble 
archaeologists who hover about the place had put himself at the 
disposal of the two, and repeated his lesson with a fluency which 
the decline of the season had done nothing to impair. A process 
of digging was going on in a remote corner of the Forum, and he 
presently remarked that if it should please the dgnori to go and 
watch it a little, they might see something interesting. The 
proposal commended itself more to Ralph than to Isabel, who 
was weary with much wandering; so that she charged her 
companion to satisfy his curiosity while she patiently awaited 
his return. The hour and the place were much to her taste, 
and she should enjoy being alone. Ralph accordingly went off 
with the cicerone, while Isabel sat down on a prostrate column, 
near the foundations of the Capitol. She desired a quarter of 
an hour's solitude, but she was not long to enjoy it. Keen as 
was her interest in the rugged relics of the Roman past that lay 
scattered around her, and in which the corrosion of centuries 
had still left so much of individual life, her thoughts, after 
resting a while on these things, had wandered, by a concaten- 
ation of stages it might require some subtlety to trace, to regions 
and objects more contemporaneous. From the Roman past to 
Isabel Archer's future was a long stride, but her imagination 
had taken it in a single flight, and now hovered in slow circles 
over the nearer and richer field. She was so absorbed in her 
thoughts, as she bent her eyes upon a row of cracked but not 
dislocated slabs covering the ground at her feet, that she had 
not heard the sound of approaching footsteps before a shadow 
was thrown across the line of her vision. She looked up and 
252 . 
saw a gentleman a gentleman who was not Kalph come back 
to say that the excavations were a bore. This personage was 
startled as she was startled ; he stood there, smiling a little, 
blushing a good deal, and raising his hat. 
" Lord Warburton ! " Isabel exclaimed, getting up. 
" I had no idea it was you," he said. " I turned that corner 
and came upon you." 
Isabel looked about her. 
" I am alone, but my companions have just left me. My 
cousin is gone to look at the digging over there." 
" Ah yes ; I see." And Lord Warburton's eyes wandered 
vaguely in the direction Isabel had indicated. He stood firmly 
before her ; he had stopped smiling ; he folded his arms with a 
kind of deliberation. " Don't let me disturb you," he went on, 
looking at her dejected pillar. " I am afraid you are tired." 
" Yes, I am rather tired." She hesitated a moment, and 
then she sat down. " But don't let me interrupt you," she 
added. 
" Oh dear, I am quite alone, I have nothing on earth to do. 
I had no idea you were in Rome. I have just come from the 
East. I am only passing through." 
"" You have been making a long journey," said Isabel, who 
had learned from Ralph that Lord Warburton was absent from 
England. 
" Yes, I came abroad for six months soon after I saw you 
last. I have been in Turkey and Asia Minor ; I came the other 
day from Athens." He spoke with visible embarrassment ; this 
unexpected meeting caused him an emotion he was unable to 
conceal. He looked at Isabel a moment, and then he said, 
abruptly " Do you wish me to leave you, or will you let me 
stay a little ?". 
She looked up at him, gently. " I don't wish you to leave 
me, Lord Warburton ; I am very glad to see you." 
" Thank you for saying that. May I sit down ? " 
The fluted shaft on which Isabel had taken her seat would 
have afforded a resting-place to several persons, and there was 
plenty of room even for a highly-developed Englishman. This 
fine specimen of that great class seated himself near our young 
lady, and in the course of five minutes he had asked her several 
questions, taken rather at random, and of which, as he asked 
some of them twice over, he apparently did not always heed the 
answer; had given her, too, some information about himself 
which was not wasted upon her calmer feminine sense. Lord 
Warburton, though he tried hard to seem easy, was agitated ; 
 
he repeated more than once that he had not expected to meet 
her, and it was evident that the encounter touched him in a 
way that would have made preparation advisable. He had 
abrupt alternations of gaiety and gravity ; he appeared at one 
moment to seek his neighbour's eye and at 'the next to avoid 
it. He was splendidly sunburnt ; even his multitudinous beard 
seemed to have been burnished by the fire of Asia. He was 
dressed in the loose-fitting, heterogeneous garments in which the 
English traveller in foreign lands is wont to consult his comfort 
and affirm his nationality; and with his clear grey eye, his 
bronzed complexion, fresh beneath its brownness, his manly 
figure, his modest manner, and his general air of being a gentle- 
man and an explorer, he was such a representative of the 
British race as need not in any clime have been disavowed by 
those who have a kindness for it. Isabel noted these things, 
and was glad she had always liked Lord Warburton. He was 
evidently as likeable as before, and the tone of his voice, which 
she had formerly thought delightful, was as good as an assurance 
that he would never change for the worse. They talked about 
the matters that were naturally in order; her uncle's death, 
Ralph's state of health, the way she had passed her winter, her 
visit to Rome, her return to Florence, her plans for the summer, 
the hotel she was staying at ; and then Lord Warburton's own 
adventures, movements, intentions, impressions and present 
domicile. At last there was a silence, and she knew what he 
was thinking of. His eyes were fixed on the ground; but at 
last he raised them and said gravely "I have written to you 
several times." 
" Written to me? I have never got your letters." 
" I never sent them. I burned them up." 
" Ah," said Isabel with a laugh, " it was better that you 
should do that than I ! " 
" I thought you wouldn't care about them," he went on, with 
a simplicity that might have touched her. " It seemed to me 
that after all I had no right to trouble you with letters." 
" I should have been very glad to have news of you. You 
know that I hoped that that " Isabel stopped ; it seemed to 
her there would be a certain flatness in the utterance of her 
thought. 
" I know what you are going to say. You hoped we should 
always remain good friends." This formula, as Lord Warburton 
uttered it, was certainly flat enough ; but then he was interested 
in making it appear so. 
Isabel found herself reduced simply to saying " Please don't 
talk of all that;" a speech, which hardly seemed to her an 
improvement on the other. 
"It's a small consolation to allow me!" Lord Warburton 
exclaimed, with force. 
" I can't pretend to console you," said the girl, who, as she 
sat there, found it good to think that she had given him the 
answer that had satisfied him so little six months before. He 
vas pleasant, he was powerful, he was gallant, there was no 
better man than he. But her answer remained. 
" It's very well you don't try to console me ; it would not be 
in your power," she heard him say, through the medium of her 
quickened reflections. 
" I hoped we should meet again, because I had no fear you 
would attempt to make me feel I had wronged you. But when 
you do that the pain is greater than the pleasure." And 
Isabel got up, looking for her companions. 
" I don't want to make you feel that ; of course I can't say 
that. I only just want you to know one or two things, in 
fairness to myself as it were. I won't return to the subject 
again. I felt very strongly what I expressed to you last year : 
I couldn't think of anything else. I tried to forget energetic- 
ally, systematically. I tried to take an interest in some one else. 
I tell you this because I want you to know I did my duty, I 
didn't succeed. It was for the same purpose I went abroad as 
far away as possible. They say travelling distracts the mind ; 
but it didn't distract mine. I have thought of you perpetually, 
ever since I last saw you. I am exactly the same. I love you 
just as much, and everything I said to you then is just as true. 
However, I don't mean to trouble you now ; it's only for a 
moment. I may add that when I came upon you a moment 
since, without the smallest idea of seeing you, I was in the very 
act of wishing I knew where you were." 
He had recovered his self-control, as I say, and while he spoke 
it became complete. He spoke plainly and simply, in a low 
tone of voice, in a matter-of-fact way. There might have been 
something impressive, even to a woman of less imagination than 
the one he addressed, in hearing this brilliant, brave-looking 
gentleman express himself so modestly and reasonably. 
" I have often thought of you, Lord Warburton," Isabel 
answered. "You may be sure I shall always do that." And 
then she added, with a smile " There is no harm in that, on 
either side." 
They walked along together, and she asked kindly about his 
sisters and requested him to let them know she had done so. He 
 
said nothing more about his own feelings, but returned to those 
more objective topics they had already touched upon. Presently 
he asked her when she was to leave Rome, and on her mention- 
ing the limit of her stay, declared he was glad it was still so 
distant. 
" Why do you say that, if you yourself -are only passing 
through ? " she inquired, with some anxiety. 
" Ah, when I said I was passing through, I didn't mean that 
one would treat Rome as if it were Clapliam Junction. To pass 
through Rome is to stop a week or two." 
" Say frankly that you mean to stay as long as I do ! " 
Lord Warburton looked at her a moment, with an uncomfort- 
able smile. " You won't like that. You are afraid you will see 
too much of me." 
" It doesn't matter what I like. I certainly can't expect you 
to leave this delightful place on my account. But I confess I 
am afraid of you." 
" Afraid I will begin again? I promise to be very careful." 
They had gradually stopped, and they stood a moment face to 
face. " Poor Lord Warburton ! " said Isabel, with a melancholy 
smile. 
" Poor Lord Warburton, indeed ! But I will be careful." 
" You may be unhappy, but you shall not make me so. That 
I can't allow." 
" If I believed I could make you unhappy, I think I should 
try it." At this she walked in advance, and he also proceeded. 
" I will never say a word to displease you," he promised, very 
gently. 
" Very good. If you do, our friendship's at an end." 
" Perhaps some day after a while you will give me leave," 
he suggested. 
" Give you leave to make me unhappy? " 
He hesitated. " To tell you again ;> But he checked him- 
self. " I will be silent," he said ; " silent always." 
Ralph Touchett had been joined, in his visit to the excavation, 
by Miss Stackpole and her attendant, and these three now 
emerged from among the mounds of earth and stone collected 
round the aperture, and came into sight of Isabel and her com- 
panion. Ralph Touchett gave signs of greeting to Lord War- 
burton, and Henrietta exclaimed in a high voice, " Gracious, 
there's that lord ! " Ralph and his friend met each other with 
undemonstrative cordiality, and Miss Stackpole rested her large 
intellectual gaze upon the sunburnt traveller. 
" I don't suppose you remember me, sir," she soon remarked. 
256 , 
" Indeed I do remember you," said Lord Warburton. " T 
asked you to come and see me, and you never came." 
" I don't go everywhere I am asked," Miss Stackpole 
answered, coldly. 
 " Ah well, I won't ask you again," said the master of Lock- 
leigh, good-humoredly. . 
" If you do I will go ; so be sure ! " 
Lord Warburton, for all his good-humour, seemed sure 
enough. Mr. Bantling had stood by, without claiming a recog- 
nition, but he now took occasion to nod to his lordship, who 
answered htm with a friendly " Oh, you here, Bantling? " and a 
hand -shake. 
" Well," said Henrietta, " I didn't know you knew him ! " 
" I guess you don't know every one I know," Mr. Bantling 
rejoined, facetiously. 
" I thought that when an Englishman knew a lord he always 
told you." 
" Ah, I am afraid Bantling was ashamed of me," said Lord 
Warburton, laughing. Isabel was glad to hear him laugh ; she 
gave a little sigh of relief as they took their way homeward. 
The next day was Sunday ; she spent her morning writing 
two long letters one to her sister Lily, the other to Madame 
Merle ; but in neither of these epistles did she mention the fact 
thaj; a rejected suitor had threatened her with another appeal. 
Of a Sunday afternoon all good Eomans (and the best Romans 
are often the northern barbarians) follow the custom of going to 
hear vespers at St. Peter's ; and it had been agreed among our 
friends that they would drive together to the great church. 
After lunch, an hour before the carriage came, Lord Warburton 
presented himself at the Hotel de Paris and paid a visit to the 
two ladies, Ralph Touchett and Mr. Bantling 'having gone out 
together. The visitor seemed to have wished to give Isabel an 
example of his intention to keep the promise he had made her 
the evening before ; he was both discreet and frank ; he made 
nc.!} even a tacit appeal, but left it for her to judge what a mere 
good friend he could be. He talked about his travels, about 
Persia, about Turkey, and when Miss Stackpole asked him 
whether it would " pay " for her to visit those countries, assured 
her that they offered a great field to female enterprise. Isabel 
did him justice, but she wondered what his purpose was, and 
what he expected to gain even by behaving heroically. If he 
expected to melt her by showing what a good fellow he was, he 
might spare himself the trouble. She knew already he was a good 
fellow, and nothing he could do would add to this conviction, 
 
Moreover, his being in Eome at all made her vaguely uneasy. 
Nevertheless, when on bringing his call to a close, he said that 
he too should be at St. Peter's and should look out for Isabel 
and her friends, she was obliged to reply that it would be a 
pleasure to see him again. 
In the church, as she strolled over its tesselated acres, he was 
the. first person she encountered. She had not been one of the 
superior tourists who are " disappointed " in St. Peter's and find 
it smaller than its fame ; the first time she passed beneath the 
huge leathern curtain that strains and bangs at the entrance 
the first time she found herself beneath the far-arching dome 
and saw the light drizzle down through the air thickened with 
incense and with the reflections of marble and gilt, of mosaic 
and bronze, her conception of greatness received an extension. 
After this it never lacked space to soar. She gazed and won- 
dered, like a child or a peasant, and paid her silent tribute to 
.visible grandeur. Lord Warburton walked beside her and talked 
of Saint Sophia of Constantinople ; she was afraid that he would 
end by calling attention to his exemplary conduct. The service 
had not yet begun, but at St. Peter's there is much to observe, 
and as there is something almost profane in the vastness of the 
place, which seems meant as much for physical as for spiritual 
exercise, the different figures and groups, the mingled worship- 
pers and spectators, may follow their various intentions without 
mutual scandal. In that splendid immensity individual indis- 
cretion carries but a short distance. Isabel and her companions, 
however, were guilty of none ; for though Henrietta was obliged 
to declare that Michael Angelo's dome suffered by comparison 
with that of the Capitol at Washington, she addressed her pro- 
test chiefly to Mr. Bantling's ear, and reserved it, in its more 
accentuated form, for the columns of the Interviewer. Isabel 
made the circuit of the church with Lord Warburton, and as 
they drew near the choir on the left of the entrance the voices 
of the Pope's singers were borne towards them over the heads 
of the large number of persons clustered outside the doors. 
They paused a while on the skirts of this crowd, composed in 
equal measure of Roman cockneys and inquisitive strangers, and 
while they stood there the sacred concert went forward. Ralph, . 
with Henrietta and Mr. Bantling, was apparently within, where 
Isabel, above the heads of the dense group in front of her, saw 
the afternoon light, silvered by clouds of incense that seemed to 
mingle with the splendid chant, sloping through the embossed 
recesses of high windows. After a while the singing stopped, 
and then Lord Warburton seemed disposed to turn away again. 
Isabel for a moment did the same ; whereupon she found herself 
confronted with Gilbert Osmond, who appeared to have been 
standing at a short distance behind her. He now approached, 
with a formal salutation. 
" So you decided to come . " she said, putting out her hand. 
" Yes, I came last night, and called this afternoon at your 
hotel. They told me you had come here, and I looked about 
for you." 
" The others are inside," said Isabel. 
" I didn't come for the others," Gilbert Osmond murmured, 
smiling. 
She turned away; Lord Warfrurton was looking at them; 
perhaps he had heard this. Suddenly she remembered that it 
was just what he had said to her the morning he came to Gar- 
dencourt to ask her to marry him. Mr. Osmond's words had 
brought the colour to her cheek, and this reminiscence had not 
the effect of dispelling it. Isabel sought refuge from her slight 
agitation in mentioning to each gentleman the name of the other, 
and fortunately at this moment Mr. Bantling made his way out 
of the choir, cleaving the crowd with British valour, and followed 
by Miss Stack pole and Ralph Touchett. I say fortunately, but 
this is perhaps a superficial view of the matter ; for on perceiv- 
ing the gentleman from Florence, Ralph Touchett exhibited 
symptoms of surprise which might not perhaps have seemed 
nattering to Mr. Osmond. It must be added, however, that 
these manifestations were momentary, and Ralph was presently 
able to say to his cousin, with due jocularity, that she would 
soon have all her friends about her. His greeting -to Mr. Osmond 
was apparently frank ; that is, the two men shook hands and 
looked at each other. Miss Stackpole had met the new-comer 
in Florence, but she had already found occasion to say to Isabel 
that she liked him no better than her other admirers than Mr 
Touchett, Lord Warburton, and little Mr. Rosier in Paris. " I 
don't know what it is in you," she had been pleased to remark, 
" but for a nice girl you do attract the most unpleasant people. 
Mr. Goodwood is the only one I have any respect for, and he's 
just the one you don't appreciate." 
" What's your opinion of St. Peter's ? " Mr. Osmond asked of 
Isabel. 
"It's very large and very bright," said the girl. 
" It's too large ; it makes one feel like an atom." 
" Is not that the right way to feel in a church?" Isabel 
asked, with a faint but interested smile. 
" I suppose it's the right way to feel everywhere, when one 
 
is nobody. But I like it in a church as little as anywhere 
else." 
" You ought indeed to be a Pope ! " Isabel exclaimed, remem- 
bering something he had said to her in Florence. 
" Ah, I should have enjoyed that ! " said Gilbert Osmond. 
Lord Warburton meanwhile had joined Ralph Touchett, and 
the two strolled away together. 
" Who is the gentleman speaking to Miss Archer? " his lord- 
ship inquired. 
" His name is Gilbert Osmond he lives in Florence," Ralph 
said. 
" What is he besides? " 
" Nothing at all. Oh yes, he is an American; but one forgets 
that ; he is so little of one." 
" Has he known Miss Archer long? " 
" No, about a fortnight." 
" Does she like him? " 
" Yes, I think she does." 
" Is he a good fellow? " 
Ralph hesitated a moment. " N"o, he's not," he said, at last. 
" Why then does she like him ? " pursued Lord Warburton, 
with noble naivete. 
" Because she's a woman." 
Lord Warburton was silent a moment. " There are other 
men who are good fellows," he presently said, " and them and 
them " 
" And them she likes also ! " Ralph interrupted, smiling. 
" Oh, if you mean she likes him in that way ! " And Lord 
Warburton turned round again. As far as he was concerned, 
however, the party was broken up. Isabel remained in con- 
versation with the gentleman from Florence till they left the 
church, and her English lover consoled himself by lending such 
attention as he might to the strains which continued to proceed 
from the choir. 
XXVIII. 
ON the morrow, in the evening, Lord Warburton went again 
to see his friends at their hotel, and at this establishment he 
learned that they had gone to the opera. He drove to the 
opera, with the idea of paying them a visit in their box, in 
accordance with the time-honoured Italian custom ; and after 
he had obtained his admittance it was one of the secondary 
theatres looked about the large, bare, ill-lighted house. An 
act had just terminated, and he was at liberty to pursue his 
quest. After scanning two or three tiers of boxes, he perceived 
in one of the largest of these receptacles a lady whom he easily 
recognised. Miss Archer was seated facing the stage, and partly- 
screened by the curtain of the box; and beside her, leaning 
back in his chair, was Mr. Gilbert Osmond. They appeared to 
have the place to themselves, and Warburton supposed that 
their companions had taken advantage of the entracte to enjoy 
the relative coolness of the lobby. He stood a while watching 
the interesting pair in the box, and asking himself whether he 
should go up and interrupt their harmonious colloquy. At last 
it became apparent that Isabel had seen him, and this accident 
determined him. He took his way to the upper regions, and 
on the staircase he met Ealph Touchett, slowly descending, 
with his hat in the attitude of ennui and his hands where they 
usually were. 
" I saw you below a moment since, and was going down to 
you. I feel lonely and want company," Ralph remarked. 
" You have some that is very good that you have deserted." 
"Do you mean my cousin? Oh, she has got a visitor and 
doesn't want me. Then Miss Stackpole and Bantling have 
gone out to a cafe to eat an ice Miss Stackpole delights in an 
ice. I didn't think they wanted me either. The opera is very 
bad ; the women look like laundresses and sing like peacocks. 
I feel very low." 
" You had better go home," Lord Warburton said, without 
affectation. 
"And leave my young lady in this sad place ? Ah no, I 
must watch over her." 
" She seems to have plenty of friends." 
" Yes, that's why I must watch," said Ralph, with the same 
low-voiced mock-melancholy. 
" If she doesn't want you, it's probable she doesn't want me." 
" No, you are different. Go to the box and stay there while 
I walk about." 
Lord Warburton went to the box, where he received a very 
gracious welcome from the more attractive of its occupants. He 
exchanged greetings with Mr. Osmond, to whom he had been 
introduced the day before, and who, after he came in, sat very 
quietly, scarcely mingling in the somewhat disjointed talk in 
which Lord Warburton engaged with Isabel. It seemed to the 
latter gentleman that Miss Archer looked very pretty ; he even 
thought she looked excited ; as she was, however, at all timed 
a keenly-glancing, quickly-moving, completely animated young 
woman, he may have been mistaken on this point. Her talk 
with him betrayed little agitation ; it expressed a kindness so 
ingenious and deliberate as to indicate that she was in undis- 
turbed possession of her faculties. Poor Lord Warburton had 
moments of bewilderment. She had discouraged him, formally, 
as much as a woman could ; what business had she then to have 
such soft, reassuring tones in her voice? The others came back ; 
the bare, familiar, trivial opera began again. The box was large, 
aud there was room for Lord Warburton to remain if he would 
sit a little behind, in the dark. He did so for half-an-hour, 
while Mr. Osmond sat in front, leaning forward, with his elbows 
on his knees, just behind Isabel,, Lord Warburton heard nothing, 
and from his gloomy corner saw nothing but the clear profile 
of this young lady, denned against the dim illumination of the 
house. When there was another interval no one moved. Mr. 
Osmond talked to Isabel, and Lord Warburton remained in his 
corner. He did so but for a short time, however ; after which 
he got up and bade good-night to the ladies. Isabel said nothing 
to detain him, and then he was puzzled again. Why had she 
so sweet a voice such a friendly accent? He was angry with 
himself for being puzzled, and then angry for being angry. 
Verdi's music did little to comfort him, and he left the theatre 
and walked homeward, without knowing his way, through tiib 
tortuous, tragical streets of Rome, where heavier sorrows than 
his had been carried under the stars. 
" What is the character of that gentleman?" Osmond asked 
of Isabel, after the visitor had gone. 
" Irreproachable don't you see it ? " 
" He owns about half England; that's his character," Henrietta 
remarked. " That's what they call a free country ! " 
" Ah, he is a great proprietor ? Happy man ! " said Gilbert 
Osmond. 
" Do you call that happiness the ownership of human 
beings? " cried Miss Stackpole. " He owns his tenants, and he 
has thousands of them. It is pleasant to own something, but 
inanimate objects are enough for me. I don't insist on flesh 
and blood, and minds and consciences." 
" It seems to me you own a human being or two," Mr. 
Bantling suggested jocosely. " I wonder if Warburton orders 
his tenants about as you do me." 
" Lord Warburton is a great radical," Isabel said. " He has 
very advanced opinions." 
" He has very advanced stone walls. His park is inclosed 
 
by a gigantic iron fence, some thirty miles round," Henrietta 
announced, for the information of Mr. Osmond. " I should like 
him to converse with a few of our Boston radicals." 
" Don't they approve of iron fences ? " asked Mr. Bantling. 
" Only to shut up wicked conservatives. I always feel as if 
I were talking to you over a fence ! " 
"Do you know him well, this unreformed reformer ? ' 
Osmond went on, questioning Isabel. 
" Well enough." 
" Do you like him? " 
" Very much." 
" Is he a man of ability ? " 
" Of excellent ability, and as good as he looks." 
"As good as he is good-looking do you mean? He is very 
good-looking. How detestably fortunate ! to be a great English 
magnate, to be clever and handsome into the bargain, and, b 
way of finishing off, to enjoy your favour ! That's a man 
could envy." 
Isabel gave a serious smile. 
" You seem to me to be always envying some one. Yesterday 
it was the Pope ; to-day it's poor Lord Warburton." 
" My envy is not dangerous ; it is very platonic. "Why do 
you call him poor ? " 
" Women usually pity men after they have hurt them ; that 
is their great way of showing kindness," said Ralph, joining in 
the conversation for the first time, with a cynicism so trans- 
parently ingenious as to be virtually innocent. 
"Pray, have I hurt Lord Warburton 1" Isabel asked, raising 
her eyebrows, as if the idea were perfectly novel. 
" It serves him right if you have," said Henrietta, while the 
curtain rose for the ballet. 
Isabel saw no more of her attributive victim for the next 
twenty-four hours, but on the second day after the visit to the 
opera she encountered him in the gallery of the Capitol, where 
he was standing before the lion of the collection, the statue of 
the Dying Gladiator. She had come in with her companions, 
among whom, on this occasion again, Gilbert Osmond was 
numbered, and the party, having ascended the staircase, entered 
the first and finest of the rooms. Lord Warburton spoke to her 
with all his usual geniality, but said in a moment that he was 
leaving the gallery. 
"And I am leaving Koine," he added. "I should bid you 
good-bye." 
I shall not undertake to explain why, but Isabel was sorry to 
 
hear it. It was, perhaps, because she had ceased to be afraid 
of his renewing his suit ; she was thinking of something else. 
She was on the point of saying she was sorry, but she checked 
herself and simply wished him a happy journey. 
He looked at her with a somewhat heavy eye. 
" I am afraid you think me rather inconsistent," he said. " I 
told you the other day that I wanted so much to stay a while." 
"Oh no ; you could easily change your mind." 
" That's what I have done." 
" Bon voyage, then." 
" You're in a great hurry to get rid of me," said his lordship, 
rather dismally. 
" Not in the least. But I hate partings." 
" You don't care what I do," he went on pitifully. 
Isabel looked at him for a moment. 
" Ah," she said, " you are not keeping your promise ! " 
He coloured like a boy of fifteen. 
" If I am not, then it's because I can't ; and that's why I am 
going." 
"Good-bye, then." 
"Good-bye." He lingered still, however. "When shall I 
see you again? " 
Isabel hesitated, and then, as if she had had a happy inspira- 
tion " Some day after you are married." 
" That will never be. It will be after you are." 
" That will do as well," said Isabel, smiliDg. 
" Yes, quite as well. Good-bye." 
They shook hands, and he left her alone in the beautiful 
room, among the shining antique marbles. She sat down in the 
middle of the circle of statues, looking at them vaguely, resting 
her eyes on their beautiful blank faces ; listening, as it were, to 
their eternal silence. It is impossible, in Eome at least, to look 
long at a great company of Greek sculptures without feeling the 
effect of their noble quietude. It soothes and moderates the 
spirit, it purifies the imagination. I say in Eome especially, 
because the Koman air is an exquisite medium for such im- 
pressions. The golden sunshine mingles with them, the great 
stillness of the past, so vivid yet, though it is nothing but a 
void full of names, seems to throw a solemn spell upon them. 
The blinds were partly closed in the windows of the Capitol, 
and a clear, warm shadow rested on the figures and made them 
more perfectly human. Isabel sat there a long time, under the 
charm of their motionless grace, seeing life between their gazing 
eyelids and purpose in their marble lips. The dark red walls 
 
of the room threw thorn into relief ; the polished marble floor 
reflected their beauty. She had seen them all before, but her 
enjoyment repeated itself, and it was all the greater because she 
was glad, for the time, to be alone. At the last her thoughts 
wandered away from them, solicited by images of a vitality 
more complete. An occasional tourist came into the room, 
stopped and stared a moment at the Dying Gladiator, and then 
passed out of the other door, creaking over the smooth pave- 
ment. At the end of half-an-hour Gilbert Osmond reappeared, 
apparently in advance of his companions. He strolled towards 
her slowly, with his hands behind him, and with his usual 
bright, inquiring, yet not appealing smile. 
" I am surprised to find you alone," he said. " I thought 
you had company." 
" So I have the best." And Isabel glanced at the circle of 
sculpture. 
" Do you call this better company than an English peer ? " 
" Ah, my English peer left me some time ago," said Isabel, 
getting up. She spoke, with intention, a little dryly. 
Mr. Osmond noted her dryness, but it did not prevent him 
from giving a laugh. 
" I am afraid that what I heard the other evening is true ; 
you are rather cruel to that nobleman." 
Isabel looked a moment at the vanquished Gladiator. 
" It is not true. I am scrupulously kind." 
" That's exactly what I mean ! " Gilbert Osmond exclaimed, 
so humorously that his joke needs to be explained. 
We knew that he was fond of originals, of rarities, of the 
superior, the exquisite ; and now that he had seen Lord War- 
burton, whom he thought a very fine example of his race and 
order, he perceived a new attraction in the idea of taking to 
himself a young lady who had qualified herself to figure in his 
collection of choice objects by rejecting the splendid offer of a 
British aristocrat. Gilbert Osmond had a high appreciation of 
the British aristocracy he had never forgiven Providence for 
not making him an English duke and could measure the unex- 
pectedness of this conduct. It would be proper that the woman 
