The four saloons took up the entire floor. 
"There is no bedroom here," said Rotha. 
"The folks that lived here didn't make no 'count o' sleepin', I guess. 
They put all the house into their parlours. I suppose the days was longer 
than the nights, when they was alive." 
"But there must be bedrooms somewhere?" 
"You can go up and see. Us wouldn't sleep up there for nothin'. Us 
could ha' took what we liked when us come; but I said to Mr. Purcell,--I 
said,--I wasn't goin' to break my back runnin' up and down stairs; and if 
he wanted to live up there, he had got to live without I. So us fixed up 
a little room down near the kitchen. These rooms is awful hot in summer, 
too. I can dry fruit in 'em as good as in an oven." 
They had reached the top story of the house by this time, after climbing 
a long flight of stairs. Here there were a greater number of rooms, and 
indeed furnished as bedrooms; but they were low, and immediately under 
the roof. The air was less dank than in the first story, but excessively 
close. 
"Is this all the choice I have?" Rotha asked. 
"Unless us was to give you our room." 
"But nobody else sleeps in all this part of the house!" 
"No," said Mrs. Purcell, with an action that answered to a Frenchman's 
shrug of the shoulders; "you can have 'em all, and sleep in 'em all, one 
after the other, if you like. There's nobody to object." 
"But suppose I wanted something in the night?" said Rotha, who did not in 
the least relish this liberty. 
"You'd have to holler pretty loud, if you wanted I to do anything for 
you. I guess you'll have to learn to wait on yourself." 
"O it isn't that," said Rotha; "I can wait on myself; but if I wanted--
something I couldn't do for myself--if I was frightened--" 
"What's to frighten you?" 
"I do not know--" 
"If you got frightened, all you'd have to do would be to take your little 
feet in your hand and run down to we; that's all you could do." 
Rotha looked somewhat dismayed. 
"I could ha' told you, it wasn't a very pleasant place you was a comin' 
to," Mrs. Purcell went on. "Sick o' your bargain, aint ye?" 
"What bargain?" 
"I don' know! Which o' these here rooms will you take? You've seen the 
whole now." 
Rotha was very unwilling to make choice at all up there. Yet a thought of 
one of those great echoing drawing rooms was dismissed as soon as it 
came. At last she fixed upon a room near the head of the stairs; a corner 
room, with outlook in two directions; flung open the windows to let the 
air and the light come, in; and locked up her bag in a closet. 
"There aint nobody to meddle with your things," observed Mrs. Purcell, 
noticing this action,--"without it's me; and I've got enough to do down 
stairs. There's nothin' worse than rats in the house." 
"Have you some sheets and towels for me?" said Rotha. "And can you give 
me some water by and by?" 
"I've got no sheets and towels but them as us uses," replied Mrs. 
Purcell. "Mrs Busby haint said nothin' about no sheets and towels. Those 
us has belongs to we. They aint like what rich folks has." 
"I have brought none with me, of course. Mrs. Busby will pay you for the 
use of them, I have no doubt." 
"Mrs. Busby don't pay for nothin'," said the woman. 
"Will you bring me some water?" 
"I'll give you a pail, and you can fetch some for your own self. I can't 
go up and down them stairs. It gives me a pain in my back. I'll let you 
have some o' us's sheets, if you like." 
"If you please," said Rotha. 
"But I can't come up with 'em. I'd break in two if I went up and down 
there a few times. I'll let you have 'em whenever you like to come after 
'em." 
And therewith Mrs. Purcell vanished, and her feet could be heard 
descending the long stair. I think in all her life Rotha had never felt 
much more desolate than she felt just then. She let herself drop on a 
chair and buried her face in her hands. Things were worse, a hundred 
fold, than ever she could have imagined them. She was of rather a nervous 
temperament; and the idea of being lodged up there at the top of that 
great, empty, echoing house, with nobody within call, and neither help 
nor sympathy to be had if she wanted either, absolutely appalled her. 
True, no danger was to be apprehended; not real danger; but that 
consideration did not quiet fancy nor banish fear; and if fear possessed 
her, what sort of consolation was it that there was no cause? The fear 
was there, all the same; and Rotha thought of the yet distant shades of 
night with absolute terror. After giving way to this feeling for a little 
while, she began to fight against it. She raised her head from her hands, 
and went and sat down by the open window. Soft, sweet, balmy air was 
coming in gently, changing the inner condition of the room by degrees; 
Rotha put her head half out, to get it unmixed. It was May, May in the 
country; and the air was bringing May tokens with it, of unseen 
sweetness. There were lilies of the valley blooming somewhere, and 
daffodils; and there was the smell of box, and spice from the fir trees, 
and fragrance from the young leaf of oaks and maples and birches and 
beeches. There was a wild scent from not distant woods, given out from 
mosses and wild flowers and turf, and the freshness of the upturned soil 
from ploughed fields. It was May, and May whispering that June was near. 
The whisper was so unspeakably sweet that it stole into Rotha's heart and 
breathed upon its disturbance, almost breathing it away. For June means 
life and love and happiness. 
   "Everything is happy now; 
   Everything is upward striving; 
   'Tis as easy now for the heart to be true, 
   As for grass to be green or skies to be blue; 
   'Tis the natural way of living!" 
June was coming, and May was here; more placid and more pensive, but 
hardly less fair; that is, in her good moods; and Rotha insensibly grew 
comforted. This delight would remain, whatever she had or had not 
within the house; there was all out of doors, and the Spring! and Rotha's 
heart made a great bound to meet it. She could live out of doors a great 
deal; and in the house--well, she would make the best of things. 
She drew in her head to take a survey. Yes, it was a snug room enough, 
once in nice order; and the first thing to do, she decided, was to put it 
in nice order. She must do it herself. O for one of those calicos, lying 
at present cut and basted in her trunk. She must make them up as fast as 
possible. With the feeling of a good deal of business on hand, Rotha's 
spirits rose. She went down to the kitchen again, and begged the loan of 
a big apron. Mrs. Purcell silently gave it. Then Rotha desired brushes 
and a broom and dusters, and soap and water and towels. One after another 
Mrs. Purcell placed these articles, such as she had, at her disposal. 
"My trunk is in the road by the front steps," she remarked. "Can you get 
it taken up for me?" 
"A trunk?" said Mrs. Purcell, knitting her brows again into the scowl 
which had greeted Rotha at the first. A very black scowl the latter 
thought it. 
"Yes, my trunk. It's a little one. Not much for anybody to carry." 
"Whatever did you want of a trunk?" 
"Why, to hold my things," said Rotha quietly. 
"Are you goin' to stay all summer?" 
"I hope not; but I do not know how long. My aunt is going on a journey; I 
must stay till she comes back." 
"Why didn't she let you go along?" 
"I suppose it was not convenient." 
A grunt from Mrs. Purcell. "Rich folks only thinks what's convenient for 
their own selves!" 
"But she will pay you for your trouble." 
"She'll pay Mr. Purcell, if she pays anybody. It don't come into my 
pocket, and the trouble don't go into his'n." 
"I shall not be much trouble." 
"Where is you goin' to eat? You won't want to eat along o' we?" 
No, certainly, that was what Rotha did not want. She made no reply. 
"Mis' Busby had ought to send folks to take care o' her company, when she 
sends company. I haint got no time. And us hasn't got no place. There's 
no place but us's kitchen--will you like to eat here? I can't go and tote 
things up to one o' them big parlours." 
"Do the best you can for me," said Rotha. "I will try and be content." 
And staying no further parley, which she felt just then unable to bear, 
she gathered together her brushes and dusters and climbed up the long 
stairs again. But it was sweet when she got to her room under the roof. 
The May air had filled the room by this time; the May sunshine was 
streaming in; the scents and sounds of the spring were all around; and 
they brought with them inevitably a little bit of hope and cheer into 
Rotha's heart. Without stopping to let herself think, she set about 
putting the place in order; brushed and dusted everything; washed up the 
furniture of the washstand; made up the bed, and hung towels on the rack. 
Then she drew an old easy chair to a convenient place by one of the 
windows; put a small table before it; got out and arranged in order her 
writing materials, her Bible and Scripture Treasury; put her bonnet and 
wrappings away in a closet; and at last sat down to consider the 
situation. 
She had got a corner of comfort up there, private to herself. The room 
was large and bright; one window looked out into the top of a great tulip 
tree, the other commanded a bit of meadow near the house, and through the 
branches and over the summits of firs and larches near at hand and apple 
trees further off, looked along a distant stretch of level country. No 
extended view, and nothing remarkable; but sweet, peaceful nature, green 
turf, and leafy tree growths; with the smell of fresh vegetation and the 
spiciness of the resiny evergreens, and the delicious song and chipper 
and warble of insects and birds. It all breathed a breath of content into 
Rotha's heart. But then, she was up here alone at the top of the house; 
there was all that wilderness of empty rooms between her and the rest of 
the social world; and at the end of it, what? Mrs. Purcell and her 
kitchen; and doubtless, Mr. Purcell. And what was Rotha to do, in the 
midst of such surroundings? The girl grew almost desperate by the time 
she had followed this train of thought a little way. It seemed to her 
that her pleasant room was a prison and Mr. and Mrs. Purcell her jailers; 
and her term of confinement one of unknown duration. If she had only a 
little money, then she would not be so utterly helpless and dependent; 
even money to buy Mrs. Purcell's civility and good-will; or if she had a 
little more than that, she might get away. Without any money, she was 
simply a prisoner, and at the mercy of her jailers. O what had become of 
her friends! Where was Mr. Southwode, and how could he have forgotten 
her? and how was it that Mrs. Mowbray had been taken from her just now, 
just at this point when she was needed so dreadfully? Rotha could have 
made all right with a few minutes' talk to Mrs. Mowbray; to write and 
state her grievances, she justly felt, was a different thing, not so easy 
nor so manifestly proper. She did not like to do what would be in effect 
asking Mrs. Mowbray to send for her and keep her during her aunt's 
absence. No, it was impossible to do that. Rotha could not Better bear 
anything. But then,--here she was with no help! 
It all ended in some bitter weeping. Rotha was too young yet not to find 
tears a relief. She cried herself tired; and then found she was very much 
in need of sleep. She gave herself up to it, and to forgetfulness. 
CHAPTER XXIV. 
THE PURCELLS. 
Rotha's sleep had not lasted two hours when it was interrupted. There 
came a pounding at her door. She jumped up and unlocked it. 
"Joseph said, he guessed you'd want some dinner. I told him, I didn't 
know as you'd care for the victuals us has; but it's ready, if you like 
to come and try." 
The extreme rudeness of the woman acted by way of a counter irritant on 
Rotha, and gave her self-command and composure. She answered civilly; 
waited to put her hair and dress in order, wisely resolving to lose no 
means of influence and self-assertion that were within her reach; and 
went down. 
A small table was set in the kitchen, coarsely but neatly, as Rotha saw 
at a glance. It was set for three; and the third at the table was the 
hitherto unseen Mr. Purcell. He was a white man; not so good-looking as 
his wife, but with a certain aspect of sense and shrewdness that was at 
least not unkindly. He nodded, did not trouble himself to rise as Rotha 
came in; indeed he was busily occupied in supplying himself with such 
strength and refreshment as viands can give; and to judge by his manner 
he needed a great deal of such strength and was in a hurry to get it. He 
nodded, and indicated with a second nod the place at table which Rotha 
was expected to take. 
"It's an unexpected pleasure," he said. "Prissy and me doesn't often have 
company. Hope you left Mis' Busby well?" 
Rotha had an instant's hesitation, whether she should accept the place in 
the household thus offered her, or claim a different one. It was an 
instant only; her sense and her sense of self-respect equally counselled 
her not to try for what she could not accomplish; and she quietly took 
the indicated seat, and answered that Mrs. Busby was well. 
"Now, what'll you eat?" Mr. Purcell went on. "We're plain folks--plainer 
'n you're accustomed to, I guess; and we eat what we've got; sometimes 
it's one thing and sometimes it's another. Prissy, she gen'lly fixes it 
up somehow so's it'll do, for me, anyhow; but I don' know how it'll be 
with you. Now to-day, you see, we've got pork and greens; it's sweet 
pork, for I fed it myself and I know all about it; and the greens is 
first-rate. I don' know what they be; Prissy picked 'em; but now, will 
you try 'em? If you're hungry, they'll go pretty good."
"They's dandelions--" said Mrs. Purcell. 
Pork and dandelions! Rotha was at first dumb with a sort of perplexed 
dismay; then she reflected, that to carry out her propitiating policy it 
would be best not to shew either scorn or disgust. She accepted some of 
the greens and the pork; found the potatoes good, and the bread of 
capital quality, and the butter sweet; and next made the discovery that 
Mr. Purcell had not overrated his wife's abilities in the cooking line; 
the dinner was really, of its kind, excellent. She eat bread and butter, 
then conscious that two pair of eyes were covertly watching her, nibbled 
at her greens and pork; found them very passable, and ended by making a 
good meal. 
"You was never in these parts before?" Mr. Purcell asked meanwhile. 
"No," said Rotha. "Never." 
"Mis' Busby comin' along, some o' these days?" 
"No, I think not. I have not heard anything about her coming here." 
"'Spect she likes grand doings. Does she live very fine, down to New 
York?" 
"How do you mean?" 
"All the folks does, in the City o' Pride," remarked Mrs. Purcell. 
"Do Mis' Busby?" persisted her husband. "Be they all highflyers, to her 
house?" 
"I do not know what you mean by 'highflyers.'" 
"Folks that wears heels to their shoes," put in Mrs. Purcell. "They can't 
set foot to the ground, like common folks. And they puts their hair up in 
a bunch on the top." 
"Anybody can do that," said Mr. Purcell, sticking his knife in the butter 
to detach a portion of it. 
"Anybody can't, Joe! that's where you're out. It takes one o' them 
highflyers. And then they thinks, when their heels and their heads is all 
right, they've got up above the rest of we." 
"You can put your hair any way you've a mind to," returned her husband. 
"There can't none of  'em get ahead o' you there." 
Both parties glanced at Rotha. Her long hair was twisted up in a loose 
knot on the top of her head; very becoming and very graceful; for without 
being in the least disorderly it was careless, and without being in the 
least complicated or artificial it was inimitable, by one not initiated. 
Husband and wife looked at her, looked at each other, and laughed. 
"Mis' Busby writ me about you," said Joe, slightly changing the subject. 
"She said, you was one o' her family." 
"She is my aunt." 
"She is! I didn't know Mis' Busby never had no brother, nor sister', nor 
nothin'." 
"She had a sister once." 
"She aint livin' then. And you live with Mis' Busby?" 
"Yes." 
"Well, 'taint none o' my business, but Mis' Busby didn't say, and I 
didn't know what to think. She said you was comin', but she didn't say 
how long you was goin' to stay; and we'd like to know that, Prissy and 
me; 'cause o' course it makes a difference." 
"In what?" said Rotha, growing desperate. 
"Well, in our feelin's," said Mr. Purcell, inclining his head in a suave 
manner, indicating his good disposition. "You see, we don' know how to 
take care of you, 'thout we knowed if it was to be for a week, or a 
month, or that. Mis' Busby only said you was comin'; and she didn't say 
why nor whether." 
"I do not know," said Rotha. "You must manage as well as you can without 
knowing; for I cannot tell you." 
"Very good!" said Mr. Purcell, inclining his head blandly again; "then 
that's one point. You don' know yourself." 
"No." 
"That means she aint a goin' in a hurry," said Mrs. Purcell. "There's her 
trunk, Joe, that you've got to tote up stairs." 
"I'll do that," said Joe rising; "if it aint bigger 'n I be. Where is it 
at?" 
"Settin' out in the road." 
"And where's it goin'?" 
"Up to her room. She'll shew you." 
Rotha mounted the stairs again, preceding Joe and her trunk, and feeling 
more utterly desolate than it is easy to describe. Shut up here, at the 
top of this great empty house, and with these associates! Her heart 
almost failed her. 
"Well, you've got it slicked up here, nice!" was Mr. Purcell's 
declaration when he had come in and deposited the little trunk on the 
floor, and could look around him. "You find it pretty comfortable up 
here, don't you." 
"It's very far from the kitchen--" said Rotha with an inward shudder. 
"Well--'tis; but I don' know as that's any objection. Young feet don't 
mind runnin' up and down; and when you are here, you've got it to 
yourself. Well, you can take care o' yourself up here; and down stairs 
Prissy will see that you don't starve. I expect that's how it'll be." And 
with again an affable nod of his capable head, Mr. Purcell departed. 
Rotha locked the door, and went to her window; nature being the only 
quarter from which she could hope for a look or a tone of sympathy. The 
day was well on its way now, and the May sun shining warm and bringing 
out the spicy odours of the larches and firs. A little stir of the soft 
air lightly moved the small branches and twigs and caressed Rotha's 
cheek. A sudden impulse seized her, to rush out and get rid of the house 
and its inmates for a while, and be alone with the loveliness of the 
outer world. She threw a shawl round her, put on her straw bonnet, locked 
her door, and ran down. 
The front door of the main hall was fast, and no key in the lock; Rotha 
must go out as she had come in, through the kitchen. Mrs. Purcell was 
there, but made no remark, and Rotha went out and made her way first of 
all round to the front of the house. There she sat down upon the steps 
and looked about her. 
An unkept gravel road swept round from the gate by which she had entered, 
up to her feet, and following a similar curve on the other side swept 
round to another gate, opening on the same high-road. The whole sweep 
took in a semicircle of ground, which lay in grass, planted with a few 
trees. To explore this gravel sweep was the first obvious move. So Rotha 
walked down to the gate by which she had come in that morning, and then 
back and down to the corresponding gate on the other side. All along the 
way from gate to gate, there ran wide flower beds on both sides; the back 
of the flower beds being planted thick with trees and shrubbery. Old 
fashioned flowering shrubs stood in close and wildering confusion. Lilac 
bushes held forth brown bunches where the flowers had been. Syringas 
pushed sweet white blossoms between the branches of other shrubs that 
crowded them in. May roses were there, with their bright little red 
faces, modest but sweet; and Scotch roses, aromatic and wild-looking. 
There was a profusion of honeysuckle, getting ready to bloom; and 
laburnums hung out tresses of what would be soon "dropping gold." And 
Rotha stood still once before the snowy balls of a Guelder rose, so white 
and fresh and fair that they dazzled her. She went on, down to the gate 
furthest from Tanfield, and spent a little while there, looking up and 
down the road. A straight, well-kept country road it was, straight and 
empty. Not a house was in sight, and only farm fields on the other side 
of the bordering fences. Rotha would have gone out, and walked at least a 
rod or two, but that gate was locked. There was no traffic or intercourse 
in any direction but with Tanfield. The empty highway seemed very lonely 
and desolate to the gazer at the gate. How shut off from the world she 
was! shut off in one little corner where nobody would ever look for her. 
If Rotha had put any faith in her aunt's promises, of course she would 
not have minded a month's abode in this place; but she put no faith in 
her aunt, and had a sort of instinct that she had been sent here for no 
good reason, and would be allowed, or forced, to remain here for an 
indeterminate and possibly quite protracted length of time. The mere 
feeling of being imprisoned makes one long to break bounds; and so Rotha 
longed, impatiently, passionately; but she saw no way. A little money 
would enable her to do it. Alas, she had no money. Her aunt had taken 
care of that. After paying for her breakfast and drive, she had only a 
very few shillings left; not even enough to make any impression upon the 
good will of her guardians, or jailers. Somehow they seemed a good deal 
more like that than like servants. 
Rotha turned despairingly away from the gate and retraced her steps, 
examining the old flower beds more minutely. They were terribly 
neglected; choked with weeds, encroached upon by the bordering box, the 
soil hard and unstirred for many a day. Yet there were tokens of better 
times. Here there was a nest of lilies of the valley; there a mat of moss 
pink, so bright and fresh that Rotha again stood still to admire. 
Daffodils peeped out their yellow faces from tufts of encumbering weeds; 
and stooping down, Rotha found an abundance of polyanthus scattered about 
among the other things, and periwinkle running wild. Nothing was seen to 
advantage, but a great deal was there. If I stay here, thought Rotha, I 
will get hold of a hoe and rake, and put things to rights. The flowers 
would be good friends, any way. 
Coming up towards the house again, Rotha saw a road which branched off at 
right angles from the sweep and went straight on, parallel to the side of 
the house but at a good distance from it. She turned into this road. 
Between it and the house was one mass of thick shrubbery, thick enough 
and high enough to hide each from the other. Following 011, Rotha 
presently saw at a little distance on her right hand, the house being to 
the left, a black board fence with a little gate in it. The garden 
perhaps, she thought; but for the present she passed it. Further along, 
the shrubbery ceased; a few large trees giving pleasant shade and variety 
to the ground about the barns, which stood here in numbers. Stables, 
carriage house, barn, granary; there was a little settlement of 
outhouses. Rotha had a liking for this neighbourhood, dating from old 
Medwayville associations; her feet lingered; her eyes were gladly alive 
to notice every detail; her ears heard willingly even a distant grunting 
which told of the presence of the least amiable of farm-yard inhabitants, 
somewhere. Rotha opened a door here and there, but saw neither man nor 
beast. Wandering about, she found her way finally to a huge farmyard back 
of the barn. It was tramped with the feet of cattle, so cattle must be 
there at times. On one side of the farmyard she found the pig pen. It was 
so long since she had seen such a sight, that she stood still to watch 
the pigs; and while she stood there a voice almost at her elbow made her 
start. 
"Them pigs is 'most good enough to belong to Mis' Busby, aint they?" 
Mr. Purcell was coming at long strides over the barnyard, which Rotha had 
not ventured to cross; she had picked her way carefully along a very 
narrow strip of somewhat firm ground by the side of the fence. The man 
seemed disposed to be at least not unkindly, and Rotha could not afford 
to do without any of the little civility within her reach. So she 
answered rather according to her policy than her feeling, which latter 
would have bade her leave the spot immediately. 
"I am no judge." 
"Never see a litter o' piggies afore?" 
"I suppose I have, sometime." 
"Them's first-rate. Like to eat 'em?" 
"Eat them!" cried Rotha. "Such young pigs?" 
"Just prime now," said the man, looking at them lovingly over the fence, 
while grunting noses sniffing in his direction testified that the inmates 
of the pen knew him as well as he knew them. "Just prime; they's four, 
goin' on five, weeks old. Prissy's at me to give her one on 'em; and 
maybe I will, now you've come. I telled her it was expensive, to eat up a 
half a winter's stock for one dinner. I aint as extravagant as Prissy." 
"How 'half a winter's stock'?" said Rotha, by way of saying something. 
"Bless you, don't you see? Every one o' them fellers'd weigh two hundred 
by next Christmas; and that'd keep Prissy and me more'n half the winter. 
I s'pose you won't be here to help us eat it then?" 
"Next Christmas! No," said Rotha. "I shall not be here so long as that." 
"Summer's got to come first, hain't it? Well, you might be in a wuss 
place." 
Slowly Mr. Purcell and Rotha left the pig pen and the barnyard and came 
out into the space between the various farm buildings. 
"Where does that road lead to?" Rotha asked, pointing to one which ran on 
from the barns with a seemingly straight track between fields. 
"That? that don't lead no wheres." 
"Where should I find myself, if I followed it out to the end?" 
"You'd find yourself jammed up agin the hill. Don't you see them trees? 
that's a hill runnin' along there." 
"Running right and left? It is not high. Just a hilly ridge. What is on 
it?" 
"Nothin's on it, but a mean little pack o' savins Aint good for nothin'; 
not even worth cuttin' for firewood. What ever do you s'pose hills was 
made for? I mean, sich hills; that haint got nothin' onto 'em but rocks. 
What's the use of 'em?" 
"If it wasn't for hills, Mr. Purcell, your low lands would have no water; 
or only in a pond or a ditch here and there." 
"What's the reason they wouldn't? There aint no water on the hills now." 
"Springs?" 
"There's springs every place. I could count you a half a dozen in less'n 
half a mile." 
"Ay, but the springs come from the hills; and if it were not for the 
hills they would not be anywhere." 
"O' course it's so, since you say it," said Mr. Purcell, scratching his 
head with a comic expression of eye;--"but I never see the world when 
there warn't no hills on it; and I reckon you didn't." 
Rotha let the question drop. 
"I s'pose you'd say, accordin' to that, the rocks made the soft soil?" 
"They have made a good deal of it," said Rotha smiling. 
"Whose hammer broke 'em up?" 
"No hammer. But water, and weather; frost and wet and sunshine." 
"Sunshine!" cried Mr. Purcell.
"They are always wearing away the rocks. They do it slowly, and yet 
faster than you think." 
"But I'll tell you. You forget. The soil aint up there--it's down here." 
"Yes, I know. I do not forget. Water brought it down." 
Here Mr. Purcell went off into an enormous guffaw of laughter, amused to 
the last degree, and probably in doubt whether to think of his informant 
as befooled or befooling. He went off laughing; and Rotha returned slowly 
homeward. Half way towards the drive, she struck a walk which led 
obliquely through the tangled shrubbery to the kitchen door. 
Her room, when she reached it, looked cheerful and pleasant enough. The 
open windows let in the air and the sunshine, and the top of the tulip 
tree was glittering in the warm light. At the same time the slantness of 
the rays shewed that the afternoon was on its way. Night was coming. And 
a spasm of dread seized Rotha at the thought of being up there, quite 
alone, away from anybody, and without guardianship or help in any 
occasion of need or alarm. Rotha was of a nervous and excitable 
temperament, a coward physically, unaccustomed to being alone or to 
taking care of herself. She looked forward now to the darkness with 
positive dread and dismay. O for her little corner room at Mrs. 
Mowbray's, where she was secure, and in the midst of friends! O for even 
her cheerless little room at her aunt's, where at least there were people 
below her to guard the house! Here, quite alone through the long, still 
nights, and nobody within even calling distance, how should she ever 
stand it! For a little while Rotha's wits were half paralyzed with 
terror. Reason then began slowly to assert herself, and the girl's 
natural force of character arose to struggle with the incubus of fear. 
She reminded herself that nothing was more unlikely than a night alarm; 
that the house was known to be empty of all that might tempt thieves, and 
that furthermore also it was in the highest degree unlikely that the 
neighbourhood of Tanfield harboured such characters. Probably she was 
safer from disturbance up here, than either at Mrs. Mowbray's or at Mrs. 
Busby's. But of what use was the absence of disturbance, when there was 
the presence of fear? Rotha reasoned in vain. She had a lively 
imagination; and this excellent property now played her some of the arch 
tricks of which it is capable. Possible disturbances occurred to her; 
scenes of distress arose upon her vision, so sharp and clear that she 
shrank from them. Probable? No, they were not; but who should say they 
were not possible? Had not everything improbable happened in this world, 
as well as the things which were reasonably to be expected? And if only 
possible, if they were possible, where were comfort and security to be 
found? Without some degree of  both, Rotha felt as if she must quit the 
place, set out and walk to the hotel at Tanfield; only she had no 
money to pay her charges with if she were there. 
Distress, and be it that it was unreasonable, it was very real distress, 
drove her at last to the refuge we all are ready to seek when we can get 
no other. She took her Bible and sat down with it, to try to find 
something that would quiet her there. Opening it aimlessly at first; then 
with a recollection of certain words in it, she turned to the third 
psalm. 
"I cried unto the Lord with my voice, and he heard me out of his holy 
hill. Selah. I laid me down and slept; I awaked, for the Lord sustained 
me. I will not be afraid of thousands of people, that have set themselves 
against me round about." 
David had more than fancied enemies to fear; he was stating an actual, 
not a problematical case; and yet he could say "I will not be afraid"! 
How was that ever possible? David was one of the Lord's people; true; but 
do not the Lord's people have disagreeable things happen to them? How can 
they, or how should they, "not be afraid"? Just to reach that blessed 
condition of fearlessness was Rotha's desire; the way she saw not. There 
was a certain comfort in the fact that other people had seen it and found 
it; but how should she? Rotha had none to ask beside her Bible, so she 
went to that Query, do the books and helps which keep us from applying to 
the Bible, act as benefits or hindrances? 
Rotha would have been greatly at a loss, however, about carrying on her 
inquiry, if it had not been for her "Treasury of Scripture Knowledge." 
Turning to it now as to a most precious friend, she took the words in the 
psalm she had been reading for her starting place. And the very first 
next words she was directed to were these:--
"I will both lay me down in peace, and sleep; for thou, Lord, only makest 
me to dwell in safety." Ps. iv. 8. 
Rotha stopped and laid down her face in her hands. O if she could quietly 
say that! O what a life must it be, when any one can simply and 
constantly say that! "Lay me down and sleep"; give up the care of myself; 
feel secure. But in the midst of danger, how can one? Rotha thought she 
must be a poor, miserable fraction of a Christian, to be so far from the 
feeling of the psalm; and probably she was right. "If ye had faith as a 
grain of mustard seed," the Lord used to say to his disciples; so 
apparently in his view they had scarce any faith at all. And who of us is 
better? How many of us can remove mountains? Yet faith as big as a grain 
of mustard seed can do that. What must our faith be? Not quite a 
miserable sham, but a miserable fraction. Rotha felt self-reproved, 
convicted, longing; however she did not see how she was at once to become 
better. She lifted her eyes, wet with sorrowful drops, and went on. If 
there were help, the Bible must shew it. Her next passage was the 
following:-- 
"It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of 
sorrows; for so he giveth his beloved sleep."--Ps. cxxvii. 2. 
Studying this a good while, in the light of her fears and wants, Rotha 
came to a sense of the exquisite beauty of it; which wiser heads than 
hers, looking at the words merely in cool speculation, do fail to find. 
She saw that the toiling and moiling of men passes away from the Lord's 
beloved; that what those try for with so much pains and worry, these have 
without either; and in the absolute rest of faith can sleep while the 
Lord takes care. His people are quiet, while the world wear themselves 
out with anxiety and endeavour. 
"His beloved."--I cannot have got to that, thought Rotha. I am not one of 
them. But I must be. That is what I want to be. 
The next thing was a promise to the Israelites, as far back as Moses' 
time; that if they kept the ways of the Lord, among other blessings of 
peace should be this: that they should lie down and none should make them 
afraid; but Rotha thought that hardly applied, and went further. Then she 
came to the word in the third of Proverbs, also spoken to the man who 
should "keep wisdom":--
"When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid; yea, thou shalt lie 
down, and thy sleep shall be sweet."--Prov. iii. 24. 
It set Rotha pondering, this and the former passage. Is it because I am 
so far from God, then? because I follow and obey him so imperfectly? that 
I am so troubled with fear. Quite reasonable, if it is so. Naturally, the 
sheep that are nearest the shepherd, feel most of his care. What next? It 
gave her a stir, what came next: It was in the time of the early church; 
James, the first martyr among the apostles, had been beheaded by Herod's 
order; and seeing that this was agreeable to the fanatical Jews, he had 
apprehended Peter also and put him in ward; waiting only till the feast 
of the Passover should be out of the way, before he brought him forth to 
execution. And it was the night preceding the day which should be the day 
of execution; "and the same night Peter was sleeping between two 
soldiers, bound with two chains." Chained to a Roman soldier on one side 
of him, and to another on the other side of him, on no soft bed, and 
expecting a speedy summons to death, Peter was sleeping. All sorts of 
characters do sleep, it is said, the night before the day when they know 
they are to be put to death; in weariness, in despair, in stolid 
indifference, in stoical calmness, in proud defiance. But Rotha knew it 
was upon no such slumbers that the "light shined in the prison," and to 
no such sleeper that the angel of the Lord came, or ever does come. That 
was the sleep of meekness and trust. 
The list of passages given by the "Treasury" on that clause of the third 
psalm here came to an end. Rotha had not enough, however; she took up the 
words in the 6th verse--"I will not be afraid," etc. And then she came to 
the burst of confident triumph in the 27th psalm. And then, 
"God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. 
Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and though the 
mountains be carried into the midst of the sea."--Ps. xlvi. 1, 2. 
Here was a new feature. Trouble might come, yea, disaster; and yet the 
children of God would not fear. How that? Such absolute love, such 
perfect trust, such utter devotion to the pleasure of their Father, that 
what was his will became their will, and they knew no evil could really 
touch them? It must be so. O but this is a step further in the divine 
life. Or does this devotion lie also at the bottom of all those 
declarations of content and peace she had been reading? Rotha believed it 
must, after she had studied the question a little. O but what union with 
God is here; what nearness to him; what consequent lofty and sweet 
elevation beyond the reach of earthly trouble. Rotha got no further. She 
saw, in part at least, what she wanted; and falling on her knees there by 
the open window, she prayed that the peace and the life and the sweetness 
of the May might come into her heart, by the perfecting of love and faith 
and obedience there. She prayed for protection in her loneliness, and for 
the trust which saves from fear of evil. A great asking! but great need 
makes bold. She prayed, until it seemed as if she could pray no longer; 
and then she went back to her Bible again. But gradually there began to 
grow up a feeling in Rotha, that round the walls of her room there was an 
invisible rampart of defence which nothing evil could pass. And when one 
of her Bible references took her to the story of Elisha, shut up in a 
city enclosed by an army of enemies, but whose servant's eyes in answer 
to his prayer were opened to see "the mountain full of horses and 
chariots of fire round about Elisha"--her faith made a sort of spring. 
She too seemed to have a sight of the invisible forces, mostly undreamed 
of because unseen, which keep guard around the Lord's people; and she 
bowed her head in a sort of exulting gladness. Why this was even better 
than to need no defence, to know that such defence was at hand. Without 
danger there could be no need of guard; and is not such unseen ministry a 
glorious companionship? and is it not sweeter to know oneself safe in the 
Lord's hand, than to be safe, if that could be, anywhere else? 
I have learned one thing, said Rotha to herself, as she rose to make some 
final arrangements for the evening. I wonder if I came here partly to 
learn this? But what can I have been brought here for, indeed? There is 
some reason. There is the promise that everything shall work for good to 
them that love God; so according to that, my coming here must work good 
for me. But how possibly? What am I to do, or to learn, here? It must be 
one thing or the other. My learning in general seems to be stopped, 
except Bible learning. Well, I will carry that on. I shall have time 
enough. What else in all the world can I do? 
Her unfinished calico dresses occurred to her. There was work for some 
days at least. Perhaps by that time she would know more. For the present, 
with a glad step and a lightened heart she went about her room, arranging 
certain things in what she thought the prettiest and most convenient way; 
got out some clothes, and even work; and then wished she had a book. 
Where was she to get books to read? and how could she live without them? 
This question was immediately so urgent that she could not wait to have 
it settled; she must go down without delay to Mrs. Purcell, and see if 
any information respecting it was to be had in that quarter. 
CHAPTER XXV. 
ROTHA'S REFUGE. 
The kitchen was all "redd up," as neat as wax; everything in its place; 
and at the table stood Mrs. Purcell with her sleeves rolled up to her 
elbows and her arms in a great pan, hard at work kneading bread. She 
looked clean too, although her dress was certainly dilapidated; perhaps 
that was economy, though a better economy would have mended it. So Rotha 
thought. She did not at once start the business she had come upon; she 
stood by the table watching the bread-making operation. Mrs. Purcell eyed 
her askance. This woman had most remarkable eyes. Black they were, as 
sloes, and almond shaped; and they could look darker than black, and 
fiery at the same time; and they could look keen and sly and shrewd, and 
that is the way they looked out of their corners at Rotha now, with an 
element of suspicion. A little while without speech. She was kneading her 
dough vigorously; the large smooth mass rolling and turning under her 
strong wrists and fingers with quick and thorough handling. 
"Isn't that rather hard work?" Rotha said. 
"I think all work's hard," was the morose-sounding answer. 
"Do you? But it would be harder not to do any." 
"That's how folks looks at it. I'd rather eat bread than make it. There 
aint no fun in work. I'd like to sit down and have somebody work for me. 
That's what you've been doin' all your life, aint it?" 
"Not quite," said Rotha gravely. 
"Can you make bread?" 
"No." 
"Then I s'pose you think I'll make your bread for you while you are 
here?" 
"I do not think about it," said Rotha with spirit. "I have nothing to do 
with it. My aunt sent me here. If you cannot keep me, or do not wish to 
keep me, that is your affair. I will go back again." 
"What did you come for?" 
"I told you; my aunt was leaving home." 
"Joe says, there's fish in the brook that'll jump at a fly made o' 
muslin--but I aint that sort o' fish. I didn't engage to make no bread 
for Mis' Busby when I come here." 
"Shall I write to my aunt, then, that it is not convenient for me to stay 
here." 
"You can if you like, for it aint convenient; but it's no use; for Mr. 
Purcell don't care, and Mis' Busby don't care. I'll make all the bread 
you'll eat; I guess." 
"What do Mrs. Busby and Mr. Purcell not care about?" 
"They don't care whether I make bread all day, or not." 
"I hope it will not be for long," said Rotha, "that I shall give you this 
trouble." 
"I don't know how long it will be," said Mrs. Purcell, making out her 
loaves with quick dexterity and putting them in the pans which stood 
ready; "but I aint a fool. I can tell you one thing. Mis' Busby aint a 
fool neither; and when she pays anybody to go from New York here in the 
cars, it aint to pick her a bunch o' flowers and go back again." 
Rotha was not a fool either, and was of the same opinion. This brought 
her back to her business. 
"If I stay a while, I shall want to get at some books to read," she said. 
"Are there any in the house?" 
"Books?" said Mrs. Purcell. "I've never seen no books since I've been 
here." 
"Where can I get some, then? Where are there any?" 
"I don't know nothin' about books. I don't have no use for no books, my 
own self. I don't read none--'cept my 'little blue John.'" 
"Your 'little blue John'? What is that?" 
"I s'pose you have a big one." 
"I do not know what you mean." 
"I don't mean nothin'," said the woman impatiently. "There's my 'little 
blue John'--up on the mantel shelf; you can look at it if you want to." 
Looking to the high shelf above the kitchen fireplace, Rotha saw a little 
book lying there. Taking it down, she was greatly astonished to find it a 
copy of the gospel of John, a little square copy, in limp covers, very 
much read. More surprised Rotha could hardly have been. 
"Why, do you like this?" she involuntarily exclaimed. 
"Sometimes I think I do,"--was Mrs. Purcell's ambiguous, or ironical, 
answer; as she carefully spread neat cloths over her pans of bread. Rotha 
wondered at the woman. She was handsome, she had a good figure and 
presence; but there was a curious mixture of defiance and recklessness in 
her expression and manner. 
"I see you have read it a good deal." 
"It's easy readin',"--was the short answer. 
"Do you like the gospel of John so much better than all the rest of the 
Bible?" 
"I don' know. The rest has too many words I can't make out." 
"Well, I am very fond of the gospel of John too," said Rotha. "I think 
everybody is,--that loves Christ." 
"Do you love him?" Mrs. Purcell asked quickly and with a keen look. 
"Yes, indeed. Do you?" 
Mrs. Purcell laughed a little laugh, which Rotha could not understand. "I 
aint one o' the good folks"--she said. 
"But you might love him, still," said Rotha, drawn on to continue the 
conversation, she hardly knew why, for she certainly believed the woman's 
last assertion. 
"The folks that love him are good folks, aint they?" 
"They ought to be," said Rotha slowly. 
"Well, that's what I think. There's folks that say they love him, and I 
can't see as they're no better for it. I can't." 
"Perhaps they are trying to be better." 
"Do you think Mis' Busby is?" 
The question came with such sharp quickness that Rotha was at a loss how 
to answer. 
"She says she do. I aint one o' the good folks; and sometimes I tells Joe 
I'm glad I aint." 
"But Mrs. Purcell, that is not the way to look at it. I have seen other 
people that said they loved Christ, and they lived as if they did. They 
were beautiful people!" 
Rotha spoke with emphasis, and Mrs. Purcell gave her one of her sideway 
glances. "I never see no such folks," she returned cynically. 
"I am very glad I have," said Rotha; "and I know religion is a blessed, 
beautiful truth. I have seen people that loved Jesus, and were a little 
bit like him in loving other people; they did not live for themselves; 
they were always taking care of somebody, or teaching or helping 
somebody; making people happy that had been miserable; and giving, 
everywhere they could, pleasure and comfort and goodness. I have seen 
such people." 
"Where did they live?" 
"In New York." 
"Was they in Mis' Busby's house?" 
"Not those I was speaking of." 
"When I see folks like that, I'll be good too," was Mrs. Purcell's 
conclusion. 
"But you love this little book?" said Rotha, recurring to the thumb-worn 
little volume in her hand. 
"I didn't tell you I did." 
"No, but I see you do. I should think, anybody that liked the gospel of 
John, would want to be like what it says." 
"I didn't tell you I didn't." 
"No," said Rotha, half laughing. "I am only guessing, and wishing, you 
see. Mrs. Purcell, will you take some water up to my room?" 
The woman's brows darkened. "What for?" she asked. 
"To wash with. The water I took up this afternoon was for putting my room 
in order,--basin and pitcher and washstand, and wiping off dust. I want 
water, you know, every day for myself." 
"The water's down here--just out o' that door." 
"But I cannot wash down here." 
"I don't know nothin' about that, whether you can or whether you can't. 
That's where us washes. If you want to do it up stairs, there's nothin' 
to hinder you." 
"Except that somebody must carry up the water." 
"That's not my business," said the woman. "You can take that pail if  
you want to; but you must bring it down again. That's my pail for goin'  
to the pump." 
Rotha hesitated. Must she come to this? And to doing everything for 
herself and for her own room? For if carrying up the water, then surely 
all other services beside. Providing water was one of the least. Was it 
come to this? She must know. 
"Then you will not take care of my room for me, Mrs. Purcell?" she asked 
quietly. 
"Mis' Busby didn't write nothin' about my takin' care o' rooms," said 
Mrs. Purcell; "without they was empty ones. I've got you to take care of; 
I can't take o' your room too. You're strong and well, aint you, like 
other folks?" 
Rotha made no reply. She stood still, silent and indignant, both at the 
impertinence of the woman's speech and at the hardness of her aunt's 
unkindness. The shadow of the prospect before her fell upon her very 
gloomily and chill. Mrs. Purcell it was safest not to answer. Rotha 
turned, took up the pail and went to the pump. 
And there she stood still She set down her pail, but instead of pumping 
the water, she laid hold of the pump handle and leaned upon it What ever 
was to become of her? Must she be degraded not only to menial 
companionship but to manual labour also? Once no doubt Rotha had been 
familiar with such service; but that was when she was a child; and the 
years that had passed since then and the atmosphere of Mrs. Mowbray's 
house had ripened in her a love of refinement that was almost fastidious. 
Not only of innate refinement, which she knew would not be affected, but 
of refinement in all outward things; her hands, her carriage, her walk, 
her dress. Must she live now to do things which would harden her hands, 
soil her dress, bend her straight figure, and make her light step heavy? 
For how long? If she had known it would be only for a month, Rotha would 
have laughed at it, and played with it; instead of any such comforting 
assurance, she had a foreboding that she was to be left in Tan field for 
an indefinite length of time. She tried to reason herself out of this, 
saying to herself that she had really no ground for it; in vain. The sure 
instinct, keener than reason in taking evidence, forbade her. She stood 
in a sort of apathy of dismay, looking into the surrounding shrubbery and 
noting things without heeding them; feeling the sweet, still spring air, 
the burst of fresh life and the opening of fresh promise in earth and 
sky; hearing the birds twitter, the cocks crowing, and noticing that 
there was little else to even characterize, much less break, the silent 
peace of nature. In the midst of all this what she felt was revulsion 
from her present surroundings and companionship; and it was at last more 
to get out of Mrs. Purcell's near neighbourhood than for any other reason 
that she filled her pail and carried it up stairs to her room. She was 
half glad now that it was so far away from the kitchen. If she could but 
take her meals up there! She filled her pitchers; but did not immediately 
go back with Mrs. Purcell's pail. She sat down at the window instead, and 
crossing her arms on the sill, sat looking out, questioning the May why 
she was there? 
Oddly enough, it seemed as if the May answered her after a while. The 
beauty, the perfectness, the loveliness, the peace, held perhaps somewhat 
the same sort of argument with her as was addressed by the Lord himself, 
once upon a time, to his servant Job. Here there was no audible voice; 
yet I think it is still the same blessed Speaker that speaks through his 
works, and partly the same, or similar, things that he says. Could there 
be such order, such beauty, such plain adaptation, regularity and system, 
in one part of the works and government of God, and not in another. And 
after all it was He who had sent Rotha to this place and involved her in 
such conditions. Then surely for some reason. As the gentleness of the 
spring air is unto the breaking of winter's bands, and the rising of the 
sap is unto the swelling of the buds and by and by the bursting leaf, 
must it not be so surely a definite purpose with which she had been 
brought here? What purpose? Were there bands to be broken in her soul's 
life? were buds and leafage and flower to be developed in her character, 
for which this severe weather was but a safe and necessary precursor? It 
might be; it must be; for it is written that "all things work together 
for good to them that love God." Rotha grew quieter, the voice of the 
spring was so sweet and came so clear--"Child, trust, trust! Nothing can 
go wrong in God's management." She heard it and she felt it; but Rotha 
was after all a young disciple and her experience was small, and things 
looked unpromising. Some tears came; however she was comforted and did 
trust, and resolved that she would try to lose none of the profiting she 
might anyway gain. 
And, as she had now so few books to be busy with, might she not be meant 
to find one such great source of profiting in her Bible? 
She drew it to her and opened her little "Treasury." What ever could she 
do now without that? It gave her a key, with which she could go unlocking 
door after door of riches, which else she would be at a loss to get at. 
She opened it at the eighth chapter of Romans and looked at the 28th 
verse. 
"We know, that all things work together for good to them that love God--" 
But things that come through people's wickedness? 
She went on to the first reference. It was in the same chapter. "Who 
shall separate us from the love of Christ?" 
Well, nothing, and nobody. And if so, that love standing fast, surely it 
was guaranty enough that no harm should come. Tears began to run, another 
sort of tears, hot and full, from Rotha's eyes. Shall a child of God have 
that love, and know he has it, and worry because he has not somewhat 
else? But this was not exactly to the point. She would look further. 
What now? "We glory in tribulation," said the apostle; and he went on to 
say why; because the outcome of it, the right outcome, was to have the 
heart filled with the love of God, and so, satisfied. How that should be, 
Rotha studied. It appeared that trouble drove men to God; and that the 
consequence of looking to him was the finding out how true and how 
gracious he is; so fixing desire upon him, which desire, when earnest 
enough and simple enough, should have all it wanted. And cannot people 
have all this without trouble? thought Rotha. But she remembered how 
little she had sought God when her head had been full of lessons and 
studies and books and all the joys of life at Mrs. Mowbray's. She had not 
forgotten him certainly, but her life did not need him to fill any void; 
she was busied with other things. A little sorrowfully she turned to the 
next reference. Ge. 1. 20. Joseph's comforting words to the brothers who 
had once tried to ruin him. 
"As for you, ye thought evil against me; but God meant it unto good,--" 
Rotha's heart made a leap. Yes, she knew Joseph's story, and what 
untoward circumstances they had been which had borne such very sweet 
fruit. Could it be, that in her own case things might work even so? Her 
aunt's evil intention do her no harm, but be a means of advantage? "All 
things shall work for good"--then, one way or the other way, but perhaps 
both ways. Yet she was quite unable to imagine how good could possibly 
accrue to her from all this stoppage of her studies, separation from her 
friends, seclusion from all the world at the top of an empty house, and 
banishment to the society of Joe Purcell and his wife. To be sure, things 
were as dark with Joseph when he was sold for a slave. Rotha's heart was 
a little lightened. The next passage brought the water to her eyes again. 
O how sweet it ran! 
"Thou shalt remember all the way which the Lord thy God led thee these 
forty years in the wilderness, to humble thee, and to prove thee, to know 
what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldest keep his commandments or 
no. And he humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger, and fed thee with 
manna, which thou knewest not, neither did thy fathers know, that he 
might make thee know that man doth not live by bread only, but by every 
word that proceedeth out of the mouth of the Lord doth man live."--De. 
viii. 3, 4. 
"Suffered thee to hunger." Poor Rotha! the tears ran warm from her 
eyes, mingled but honest tears, in which the sense of her wilderness 
and her hunger was touched with genuine sorrow for her want of trust 
and her unwillingness to take up with the hidden manna. Yet she believed 
in it and prayed for it, and was very sure that when she once should come 
to live upon it, it would prove both sweet and satisfying. Ah, this was 
what she had guessed; there were changes to be wrought in herself, 
experiences to be attained, for the sake of which she had come to this 
place. Well! let the Lord dispose things as seemed to him best; she would 
not rebel. She would hope for the good coming. The next verse was one 
well known.
"God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble."--Ps. 
xlvi. 1. 
Yes, Rotha knew that. She went on, to Jeremiah's prophecy concerning a 
part of the captive Jews carried away to Babylon. And truly she seemed to 
herself in almost as bad a case. 
"Thus saith the Lord, the God of Israel, Like these good figs, so will I 
acknowledge them that are carried away captive of Judah, whom I have sent 
out of this place into the land of the Chaldeans for their good. For I 
