an importance that the best endeavor as a country 
editor would never have won him with the villagers. 
He would naturally, as the local printer, have ranked 
a little above the foreman of the saw-mill in the 
social scale, and decidedly below the master of the 
Academy; but his personal qualities elevated him 
over the head even of the latter. But above all, the 
fact that he was studying law was a guaranty of his 
superiority that nothing else could have given ; that 
science is the fountain of the highest distinction in a 
country town. Bartley 's whole course implied that 
he was above editing the Free Press, but that he 
did it because it served his turn. That was admi 
rable. 
He sat a long time with these girls letters before 
him, and lost himself in a pensive reverie over their 
photographs, and over the good times he used to have 
with them. He mused in that formless way in which 
a young man thinks about young girls ; his soul is 
suffused with a sense of their sweetness and bright 
ness, and unless he is distinctly in love there is no in 
tention in his thoughts of them ; even then there is 
often no intention. Bartley might very well have a 
good conscience about them ; he had broken no hearts 
among them, and had only met them half-way in flir 
tation. What he really regretted, as he held their let 
ters in his hand, was that he had never got up a corre 
spondence with two or three of the girls whom he had 
met in Boston. Though he had been cowed by their 
magnificence in the beginning, he had never had any 
 
reverence for them ; he believed that they would 
have liked very well to continue his acquaintance ; 
but he had not known how to open a correspondence, 
and the point was one on which he was ashamed to 
consult Halleck. These college belles, compared with 
them, were amusingly inferior ; by a natural turn of 
thought, he realized that they were inferior to Marcia 
Gay lord, too, in looks and style, no less than in an 
impassioned preference for himself. A distaste for 
their somewhat veteran ways in flirtation grew upon 
him as he thought of her ; he philosophized against 
them to her advantage ; he could not blame her if 
she did not know how to hide her feelings for him. 
Yet he knew that Marcia would rather have died than 
let him suppose that she cared for him, if she had 
known that she was doing it. The fun of it was, 
that she should not know; this charmed him, it 
touched him, even ; he did not think of it exultingly, 
as the night before, but sweetly, fondly, and with a 
final curiosity to see her again, and enjoy the fact in 
her presence. The acrid little jets of smoke which 
escaped from the joints of his stove from time to time 
annoyed him ; he shut his portfolio at last, and went 
out to walk. 
 
IV. 
THE forenoon sunshine, beating strong upon the 
thin snow along the edges of the porch floor, tattered 
them with a little thaw here and there ; but it had no 
effect upon the hard-packed levels of the street, up the 
middle of which Bartley walked in a silence intensi 
fied by the muffled voices of exhortation that came 
to him out of the churches. It was in the very heart 
of sermon-time, and he had the whole street to him 
self on his way up to Squire Gaylord 's house. As he 
drew near, he saw smoke ascending from the chimney 
of the lawyer 's office, a little white building that 
stood apart from the dwelling on the left of the gate, 
and he knew that the old man was within, reading 
there, with his hat on and his long legs flung out 
toward the stove, unshaven and unkempt, in a grim 
protest against the prevalent Christian superstition. 
He might be reading Hume or Gibbon, or lie might 
be reading the Bible, a book in which he was 
deeply versed, and from which he was furnished 
with texts for the demolition of its friends, his adver 
saries. He professed himself a great admirer of its lit 
erature, and, in the heat of controversy, he often found 
himself a defender of its doctrines when he had occa 
sion to expose the fallacy of latitudinarian interpre 
tations. For liberal Christianity he had nothing but 
contempt, and refuted it with a scorn which spared 
none of the worldly tendencies of the church in Equity. 
The idea that souls were to be saved by church so 
ciables filled him with inappeasable rancor ; and he 
 
maintained the superiority of the old Puritanic dis 
cipline against them with a fervor which nothing but 
its re-establishment could have abated. It was said 
that Squire Gaylord 's influence had largely helped to 
keep in place the last of the rigidly orthodox minis 
ters, under whom his liberalizing congregation chafed 
for years of discontent ; but this was probably an ex 
aggeration of the native humor. Mrs. Gaylord had 
belonged to this church, and had never formally with 
drawn from it, and the lawyer always contributed to 
pay the minister 's salary. He also managed a little 
property for him so well as to make him independent 
when he was at last asked to resign by his deacons. 
In another mood, Bartley might have stepped aside 
to look in on the Squire, before asking at the house 
door for Marcia, They relished each other 's company, 
as people of contrary opinions and of no opinions are 
apt to do. Bartley loved to hear the Squire get go 
ing, as he said, and the old man. felt a fascination in 
the youngster. Bartley was smart ; he took a point as 
quick as lightning ; and the Squire did not mind his 
making friends with the Mammon of Righteousness, 
as he called the visible church in Equity. It amused 
him to see Bartley lending the church the zealous sup 
port of the press, with an impartial patronage of the 
different creeds. There had been times in his own 
career when the silence of his opinions would have 
greatly advanced him, but he had not chosen to pay 
this price for success ; he liked his freedom, or he 
liked the bitter tang of his own tongue too well, and 
he had remained a leading lawyer in Equity, when he 
might have ended a judge, or even a Congressman. 
Opiate years, however, since people whom he could 
have joined in their agnosticism so heartily, up to a 
certain point, had begun to make such fools of them 
selves about Darwinism and the brotherhood of all 
men in the monkey, he had grown much more tol- 
 
erant. He still clung to his old-fashioned deistical 
opinions ; but he thought no worse of a man for not 
holding them ; he did not deny that a man might be 
a Christian, and still be a very good man. 
The audacious humor of his position sufficed with 
a people who liked a joke rather better than anything 
else ; in his old age, his infidelity was something that 
would hardly have been changed, if possible, by a pop 
ular vote. Even his wife, to whom it had once been 
a heavy cross, borne with secret prayer and tears, had 
long ceased to gainsay it in any wise. Her family 
had opposed her yoking with an unbeliever when she 
married him, but she had some such hopes of convert 
ing him as women cherish who give themselves to 
men confirmed in drunkenness. She learned, as other 
women do, that she could hardly change her husband 
in the least of his habits, and that, in this great mat 
ter of his unbelief, her love was powerless. It became 
easier at last for her to add self-sacrifice to self-sacrifice 
than to vex him with her anxieties about his soul, and 
to act upon the feeling that, if he must be lost, then she 
did not care to be saved. He had never interfered 
with her church-going ; he had rather promoted it, for 
he liked to have women go ; but the time came when 
she no longer cared to go without him ; she lapsed 
from her membership, and it was now many years 
since she had worshipped with the people of her faith, 
if, indeed, she were still of any faith. Her life was 
silenced in every way, and, as often happens with 
aging wives in country towns, she seldom went out 
of her own door, and never appeared at the social or 
public solemnities of the village. Her husband and 
her daughter composed and bounded her world, 
she always talked of them, or of other things as 're 
lated to them. She had grown an elderly woman, 
without losing the color of her yellow hair ; and the 
bloom of girlhood had been stayed in her cheeks as if 
 
by the young habit of blushing, which she had kept. 
She was still what her neighbors called very pretty- 
appearing, and she must have been a beautiful girl. 
The silence of her inward life subdued her manner, 
till now she seemed always to have come from some 
place on which a deep hush had newly fallen. 
She answered the door when Bartley turned the 
crank that snapped the gong-bell in its centre ; and 
the young man, who was looking at the street while 
waiting for some one to come, confronted her with a 
start. " Oh ! " he said, " I thought it was Marcia. 
Good morning, Mrs. Gaylord. Isn 't Marcia at 
home ? " 
"She went to church, this morning," replied her 
mother. " Won 't you walk in ? " 
" Why, yes, I guess I will, thank you," faltered 
Bartley, in the irresolution of his disappointment. 
" I hope I shan 't  disturb you." 
" Come right into the sitting-room. She won 't be 
gone a great while, now," said Mrs. Gaylord, leading 
the way to the large square room into which a door 
at the end of the narrow hall opened. A slumber 
ous heat from a sheet-iron wood-stove pervaded the 
place, and a clock ticked monotonously on a shelf in 
the corner. Mrs. Gaylord said, " Won 't you take 
a chair ? " and herself sank into the rocker, with a 
deep feather cushion in the seat, and a thinner 
feather cushion tied half-way up the back. After 
the more active duties of her housekeeping were 
done, she sat every day in this chair with her knit 
ting or sewing, and let the clock tick the long hours 
of her life away, with no more apparent impatience 
of them, or sense of their dulness, than the cat on 
the braided rug at her feet, or the geraniums in the 
pots at the sunny window. " Are you pretty well to 
day ? " she asked. 
" Well, no, Mrs. Gaylord, I 'm not," answered Bart- 
 
ley. " I rn all out of sorts. I haven 't felt so dys 
peptic for I don 't know how long." 
Mrs. Gaylord smoothed the silk dress across her 
lap, the thin old black silk which she still instinct 
ively put on for Sabbath observance, though it was 
so long since she had worn it to church. " Mr. Gay- 
lord used to have it when we were first married, 
though lie aint been troubled with it of late years. 
He seemed to think then it was worse Sundays." 
" I don 't believe Sunday has much to do with it, in 
my case. I ate some mince-pie and some toasted 
cheese last night, and I guess they didn 't agree with 
me very well," said Bartley, who did not spare him 
self the confession of his sins when seeking sympa 
thy : it was this candor that went so far to convince 
people of his good-heartedness. 
" I don 't know as I ever heard that meat-pie was 
bad," said Mrs. Gaylord, thoughtfully. "Mr. Gay- 
lord used to eat it right along all through his dys 
pepsia, and he never complained of it. And the 
cheese ought to have made it digest." 
" Well, I don 't know what it was," replied Bartley, 
plaintively submitting to be exonerated, " but I feel 
perfectly used up. Oh, I suppose I shall get over it, 
or forget all about it, by to-morrow," he added, with 
strenuous cheerfulness. "It isn 't anything worth 
minding." 
Mrs. Gaylord seemed to differ with him on this 
point. " Head ache any ? " she asked. 
" It did this morning, when I first woke up," Bart 
ley assented. 
" I don 't believe but what a cup of tea would be 
the best thing for you," she said, critically. 
Bartley had instinctively practised a social art 
which ingratiated him with people at Equity as 
much as his demands for sympathy endeared him : 
he gave trouble in little unusual ways. He now 
 
said, " Oh, I wish you would give me a cup, Mrs. 
Gaylord." 
Why, yes, indeed ! That 's just what I was going 
to," she replied. She went to the kitchen, which lay 
beyond another room, and reappeared with the tea 
directly, proud of her promptness, but having it on 
her conscience to explain it. " I most always keep 
the pot on the stove hearth, Sunday morning, so 's to 
have it ready if Mr. Gaylord ever wants a cup. He 's a 
master hand for tea, and always was. There : I  guess 
you better take it without milk. I put some sugar in 
the saucer, if you want any." She dropped noise 
lessly upon her feather cushion again, and Bartley, 
who had risen to receive the tea from her, remained 
standing while he drank it. 
" That does seem to go to the spot," he said, as he 
sipped it, thoughtfully observant of its effect upon his 
disagreeable feelings. " I wish I had you to take care 
of me, Mrs. Gaylord, and keep me from making a 
fool of myself," he added, when he had drained the 
cup. " No, no ! " he cried, at her offering to take it 
from him. " I 'll  set it down. I know it will fret 
you to have it in here, and I 'll  carry it out into the 
kitchen." He did so before she could prevent him, 
and came back, touching his mustache with his hand 
kerchief. " I declare, Mrs. Gaylord, I should love to 
live in a kitchen like that." 
" I guess you wouldn 't if you had to," said Mrs. 
Gaylord, flattered into a smile. " Marcia, she likes to 
sit out there, she says, better than anywheres in the 
house. But I always tell her it 's because she was 
there so much when she was little. I don 't see as 
she seems over-anxious to do anything there but sit, 
I tell her. Not but what she knows how well enough. 
Mr. Gaylord, too, he 's great for being round in the 
kitchen. If he gets up in the night, when he has his 
waking spells, he had rather take his lamp out there, 
 
if there 's a fire left, and read, any time, than what he 
would in the parlor. Well, we used to sit there to 
gether a good deal when we were young, and he got 
the habit of it. There 's everything in habit," she 
added, thoughtfully. "Marcia, she 's got quite in the 
way, lately, of going to the Methodist church." 
"Yes, I 've seen her there. You know I board 
round at the different churches, as the schoolmaster 
used to at the houses in the old times." 
Mrs. Gaylord looked up at the clock, and gave a 
little nervous laugh. " I don 't know what Marcia will 
say to my letting her company stay in the sitting- 
room. She 's pretty late to-day. But I guess you 
won 't have much longer to wait, now." 
She spoke with that awe of her daughter and her 
judgments which is one of the pathetic idiosyncrasies 
of a certain class of American mothers. They feel 
themselves to be not so well educated as their daugh 
ters, whose fancied knowledge of the world they let 
outweigh their ow r n experience of life ; they are used 
to deferring to them, and they shrink willingly into 
household drudges before them, and leave them to 
order the social affairs of the family. Mrs. Gaylord 
was not much afraid of Bartley for himself, but as 
Marcia 's company he made her more and more uneasy 
toward the end of the quarter of an hour in which 
she tried to entertain him with her simple talk, vary 
ing from Mr. Gaylord to Marcia, and from Marcia to 
Mr. Gaylord again. When she recognized the girl 's 
quick touch in the closing of the front door, and her 
elastic step approached through the hall, the mother 
made a little deprecating noise in her throat, and 
iidgeted in her chair. As soon as Marcia opened the 
sitting-room door, Mrs. Gaylord modestly rose and 
went out into the kitchen : the mother who remained 
in the room when her daughter had company was an 
oddity almost unknown in Equity. 
 
Marcia 's face flashed all into a light of joy at sight 
of Bartley, who scarcely waited for her mother to be 
gone before he drew her toward him by the hand she 
had given. She mechanically yielded ; and then, 
as if the recollection of some new resolution forced 
itself through her pleasure at sight of him, she freed 
her hand, and, retreating a step or two, confronted 
him. 
"Why, Marcia," he said, "what 's the matter?" 
" Nothing," she answered. 
It might have amused Bartley, if he had felt quite 
well, to see the girl so defiant of him, when she was 
really so much in love with him, but it certainly did 
not amuse him now : it disappointed him in his ex 
pectation of finding her femininely soft and comfort 
ing, and he did not know just what to do. He stood 
staring at her in discomfiture, while she gained in 
outward composure, though her cheeks were of the 
Jacqueminot red of the ribbon at her throat. " What 
have I done, Marcia ? " he faltered. 
" Oh, you haven 't done anything." 
" Some one has been talking to you against me." 
" No one has said a word to me about you." 
"Then why are you so cold so strange so 
so different ? " 
" Different ? " 
" Yes, from what you were last night," he answered, 
with an aggrieved air. 
" Oh, we see some things differently by daylight," 
she lightly explained. " Won 't you sit down ? " 
" No, thank you," Bartley replied, sadly but unre- 
sentf ully. " I think I had better be going. I see 
there is something wrong " 
" I don 't see why you say there is anything wrong," 
she retorted. " What have I  done ? " 
" Oh, you have not done anything ; I take it back. 
It is all right. But when I caine here this morning 
 
encouraged hoping that you had the same 
feeling as myself, and you seem to forget everything 
but a ceremonious acquaintanceship why, it is ail 
right, of course. I have no reason to complain ; but 
I must say that I can 't help being surprised." He 
saw her lips quiver and her bosom heave. " Marcia, 
do you blame me for feeling hurt at your coldness 
when I came here to tell you to tell you I love 
you?" With his nerves all unstrung, and his hunger 
for sympathy, he really believed that he had come 
to tell her this. " Yes," he added, bitterly, " I will 
tell you, though it seems to be the last word I shall 
speak to you. I 'll  go, now." 
" Bartley ! You shall never go ! " she cried, throwing 
herself in his way. " Do you think I don 't care for 
you, too? You may kiss me, you may kill me, 
now ! " 
The passionate tears sprang to her eyes, with 
out the sound of sobs or the contortion of weeping, 
and she did not wait for his embrace. She flung her 
arms around his neck and held him fast, crying, " I 
wouldn 't let you, for your own sake, darling ; and if 
I had died for it I thought I should die last night 
I was never going to let you kiss me again tifl you 
said till till now ! Don 't you see?" She 
caught him tighter, and hid her face in his neck, and 
cried and laughed for joy and shame, while he suf 
fered her caresses with a certain bewilderment. " I 
want to tell you now I want to explain," she said, 
lifting her face and letting him from her as far as her 
arms, caught around his neck, would reach, and fer 
vidly searching his eyes, lest some ray of what he 
would think should escape her. " Don 't speak a word 
first ! Father saw us at the door last night, he hap 
pened to be coming downstairs, because he couldn 't 
sleep, just when you Oh, Bartley, don 't ! " she 
implored, at the little smile that made his mustache 
 
quiver. " And he asked me whether we were engaged ; 
and when I couldn 't tell him we were, I know what 
lie thought. I knew how he despised me, and I de 
termined that, if you didn 't tell me that you cared 
for me And that 's the reason, Bartley, and not 
not because I didn 't care more for you than I do for 
the whole world. And and you don 't mind it, 
now, do you ? It was for your sake, dearest." 
Whether Bartley perfectly divined or not all the 
feeling at which her words hinted, it was delicious to 
be clung about by such a pretty girl as Marcia Gay- 
lord, to have her now darting her face into his neck- 
scarf with intolerable consciousness, and now boldly 
confronting him with all-defying fondness while she 
lightly pushed him and pulled him here and there in 
the vehemence of her appeal. Perhaps such a man, 
in those fastnesses of his nature which psychology 
has not yet explored, never loses, even in the teuderest 
transports, the sense of prey as to the girl whose love 
he has won ; but if this -is certain, it is also certain 
that he has transports which are tender, and Bartley 
now felt his soul melted with affection that was very 
novel and sweet. 
" Why, Marcia ! " he said, " what a strange girl you 
are ! " He sunk into his chair again, and, putting his 
arms around her waist, drew her upon his knee, like 
a child. 
She held herself apart from him at her arm 's 
length, and said, " Wait ! Let me say it before it 
seems as if we had always been engaged, and every 
thing was as right then as it is now. Did you despise 
me for letting you kiss me before we were engaged ? " 
" No," he laughed again. " I liked you for it." 
" But if you thought I would let any one else, you 
wouldn 't have liked it ? " 
This diverted him still more. " I shouldn 't have 
liked that more than half as well." 
 
"No," she said thoughtfully. She dropped her 
face awhile on his shoulder, and seemed to be strug 
gling with herself. Then she lifted it, and " Did you 
ever did you " she gasped. 
" If you want me to say that all the other girls in 
the world are not worth a hair of your head, I 'll  say 
that, Marcia. Now, let 's talk business ! " 
This made her laugh, and " I shall want a little 
lock of yours," she said, as if they had hitherto been 
talking of nothing but each other 's hair. 
" And I shall want all of yours," he answered. 
" No. Don 't be silly." She critically explored his 
face. " How funny to have a mole in your eyebrow!" 
She put her finger on it. " I never saw it before." 
" You never looked so closely. There 's a scar at 
the corner of your upper lip that I hadn 't noticed." 
" Can you see that ? " she demanded, radiantly. 
" Well, you have got good eyes ! The cat did it when 
I was a little girl." 
The door opened, and Mrs. Gaylord surprised them 
in the celebration of these discoveries, or, rather, 
she surprised herself, for she stood holding the door 
and helpless to move, though in her heart she had an 
apologetic impulse to retire, and she even believed that 
she made some murmurs of excuse for her intrusion. 
Bartley was equally abashed, but Marcia rose witli 
the coolness of her sex in the intimate emergencies 
which confound a man. "Oh, mother, it 's you! I 
forgot about you. Come in ! Or I 'll  set the table, 
if that 's what you want." As Mrs. Gaylord continued 
to look from her to Bartley in her daze, Marcia added, 
simply, " We 're engaged, mother. You may as well 
know it first as last, and I guess you better know it 
first." 
Her mother appeared not to think it safe to relax 
her hold upon the door, and Bartley went filially to 
her rescue if it was rescue to salute her blush- 
 
ing defencelessness as he did. A confused sense of 
the extraordinary nature and possible impropriety of 
the proceeding may have suggested her husband to 
her mind ; or it may have been a feeling that some 
remark was expected of her, even in the mental desti 
tution to which she was reduced. 
" Have you told Mr. Gay lord about it ? " she asked, 
of either, or neither, or both, as they chose to take it. 
Hartley left the word to Marcia, who answered, 
" Well, no, mother. We haven 't yet. We 've only 
just found it out ourselves. I guess father can wait 
till he comes in to dinner. I intend to keep Bartley 
here to prove it." 
" He said," remarked Mrs. Gaylord, whom Bartley 
had led to her chair and placed on her cushion, " t he 
had a headache when he first came in," and she 
appealed to him for corroboration, while she vainly 
endeavored to gather force to grapple again with the 
larger fact that lie and Marcia were just engaged to 
be married. 
Marcia stooped down, and pulled her mother tip 
out of her chair with a hug. " Oh, come now, mother ! 
You mustn 't let it take your breath away," she said, 
with patronizing fondness. "I 'm not afraid of what 
father will say. You know what he thinks of Bartley, 
- or Mr. Hubbard, as I presume you 'll  want me to 
call him ! Now, mother, you just run up stairs, and 
put on your best cap* and leave me to set the table 
and get up the dinner. I guess I can get Bartley to 
help me. Mother, mother, mother!" she cried, in 
happiness that was otherwise unutterable, and clasp 
ing her mother closer in her strong young arms, she 
kissed her with a fervor that made her blush again 
before the young man. 
" Marcia, Marcia ! You hadn 't ought to ! It 's 
ridiculous ! " she protested. But she suffered herself 
to be thrust out of the room, grateful for exile, in 
 
which she could collect her scattered wits and set 
herself to realize the fact that had dispersed them. It 
was decorous, also, for her to leave Marcia alone with 
Mr. Hubbard, far more so now than when he was 
merely company ; she felt that, and she fumbled over 
the dressing she was sent about, and once she looked 
out of -her chamber window at the office where Mr. 
Gaylord sat, and wondered what Mr. Gaylord (she 
thought of him, and even dreamt of him, as Mr. Gay- 
lord, and had never, in the most familiar moments, 
addressed him otherwise) would say ! But she lei t 
the solution of the problem to him and Marcia ; she 
was used to leaving them to the settlement of their 
own difficulties. 
"Now, Bartley," said Marcia, in the business-like 
way that women assume in such matters, as soon as 
the great fact is no longer in doubt, " you must help 
me to set the table. Put up that leaf and I 'll  put up 
this. I 'm going to do more for mother than I used 
to," she said, repentant in her bliss. " It 's a shame 
how much I 've left to her." The domestic instinct 
was already astir in her heart. 
Bartley. pulled the table-cloth straight from her, 
and vied with her in the rapidity and exactness with 
which he arranged the knives and forks at right 
angles beside the plates. When it came to some 
heavier dishes, they agreed to carry them turn about ; 
but- when it was her turn, he put out his hand to 
support her elbow : " As I did last night, and saved 
you from dropping a lamp." 
This made her laugh, and she dropped the first dish 
with a crash. " Poor mother ! " she exclaimed. " I 
know she heard that, and she 'll  be in agony to know 
which one it is." 
Mrs. Gaylord did indeed hear it, far off in her 
chamber, and quaked with an anxiety which became 
intolerable at last. 
 
" Marcia ! Marcia ! " she quavered, down the stairs, 
" what have you broken ? " 
Marcia opened the door long enough to call back, 
" Oh, only the old blue-edged platter, mother ! " and 
then she flew at Bartley, crying, " For shame ! For 
shame ! " and pressing her hand over his mouth to 
stifle his laughter. "She ll hear you, Bartley, and 
think you 're laughing at her." But she laughed her 
self at his struggles, and ended by taking him by the 
hand and pulling him out into the kitchen, where 
neither of them could be heard. She abandoned her 
self to the ecstasy of her soul, and he thought she 
had never been so charming as in this wild gayety. 
" Why, Marsh ! I never saw you carry on so be 
fore ! " 
" You never saw me engaged before ! That 's the 
way all girls act if they get the chance. Don 't you 
like me to be so? " she asked, with quick anxiety. 
" Rather ! " lie replied. 
" Oh, Bartley ! " she exclaimed, " I feel like a child. 
I surprise myself as much as I do you ; for I thought 
I had got very old, and I didn 't suppose I should ever 
let myself go in this way. But there is something 
about this that lets me be as silly as I like. It 's 
somehow as if I were a great deal more alone when 
I 'm with you than when I 'm by myself ! How does 
it make you feel ? " 
" Good ! " he answered, and that satisfied her better 
than if he had entered into those subtleties which she 
had tried to express : it was more like a man. He 
had his arm about her again, and she put down her 
hand on his to press it closer against her heart. 
" Of course," she explained, recurring to his sur 
prise at her frolic mood, " I don 't expect you to be 
silly because I am." 
" No," he assented ; " but how can I help it ? " 
" Oh, I don 't mean for the time being ; I mean geii- 
 
erally speaking. I mean that I care for you because 
I know you know a great deal more than I do, and 
because I respect you. I know that everybody ex 
pects you to be something great, and I do, too." 
Bartley did not deny the justness of her opinions 
concerning himself, or the reasonableness of the gen 
eral expectation, though he probably could not see the 
relation of these cold abstractions to the pleasure of 
sitting there with a pretty girl in that way. But he 
said nothing. 
"Do you know," she went on, turning her face 
prettily around toward him, but holding it a little 
way off, to secure attention as impersonal as might be 
under the circumstances, " what pleased me more 
than anything else you ever said to me ? " 
" No," answered Bartley. " Something you got out 
of me when you were trying to make rue tell you the 
difference between you and the other Equity girls ? " 
She laughed, in glad defiance of her own conscious 
ness. " Well, I was trying to make you compliment 
me ; I in not going to deny it. But I must say I got 
my come-uppance : you didn 't say a thing I cared for. 
But you did afterward. Doii t you remember ? " 
" No. When ? " 
She hesitated a moment. "When you told me 
that my influence had had made you better, you 
know " 
"Oh!" said Bartley. "That! Well," he added, 
carelessly, " it 's every word true. Didn 't you be 
lieve it ? " 
" I was just as glad as if I did ; and it made me 're 
solve never to do or say a thing that could lower your 
opinion of me ; and then, you know, there at the door 
it all seemed part of our trying to make each other 
better. But when father looked at me in that way, 
and asked me if we were engaged, I went down into 
the dust with shame. And it seemed to me that 
 
you had just been laughing at me, and amusing your 
self with me, and I was so furious I didn 't know 
what to do. Do you know what I wanted to do ? 
I wanted to run downstairs to father, and tell him 
what you had said, and ask him if he believed you 
had ever liked any other girl." She paused a little, 
but he did not answer, and she continued. " But now 
I in glad I didn 't. And I shall never ask you that, 
and I shall not care for anything that you that 's 
happened before to-day. It 's all right. And you do 
think I shall always try to make you good and happy, 
don 't you ? " 
" I don 't think you can make me much happier 
than I am at present, and I don 't believe anybody 
could make me feel better," answered Bartley. 
She gave a little laugh at his refusal to be serious, 
and let her head, for fondness, fall upon his shoulder, 
while he turned round and round a ring he found on 
her finger. 
" Ah, ha ! " he said, after a while. " Who gave you 
this ring, Miss Gaylord ? " 
"Father, Christmas before last," she promptly an 
swered, without moving. " I 'm glad you asked," she 
murmured, in a lower voice, full of pride in the 
maiden love she could give him. "There 's never 
been any one but you, or the thought of any one." 
She suddenly started away. 
"Now, let 's play we 're getting dinner." It was 
quite time ; in the next moment the coffee boiled up, 
and if she had not caught the lid off and stirred it 
down with her spoon, it would have been spoiled. 
The steam ascended to the ceiling, and filled the 
kitchen with the fragrant smell of the berry. 
" I 'm glad we 're going to have coffee," she said. 
" You 'll  have to put up with a cold dinner, except 
potatoes. But the coffee will make up, and I shall 
need a cup to keep me awake. I don 't believe I 
 
slept last night till nearly morning. Do you like 
coffee ? " 
" I d have given all I ever expect to be worth for 
a cup of it, last night, he said. " I was awfully 
hungry when I got back to the hotel, and I couldn 't 
find anything but a piece of mince-pie and some old 
cheese, and I had to be content with cold milk. I 
felt as if I had lost all my friends this morning 
when I woke up." 
A sense of remembered grievance trembled in his 
voice, and made her drop her head on his arm, in pity 
and derision of him. " Poor Bartley ! " she cried. 
" And you came up here for a little petting from me, 
didn 't you ? I 've noticed that in you ! Well, you 
didn 't get it, did you ? " 
" Well, not at first," he said. 
"Yes, you. can 't complain of any want of petting 
at last," she returned, delighted at his indirect recog 
nition of the difference. Then the daring, the arch 
ness, and caprice that make coquetry in some women, 
and lurk a divine possibility in all, came out in her ; 
the sweetness, kept back by the whole strength of 
her pride, overflowed that broken barrier now, and 
she seemed to lavish this revelation of herself upon 
him with a sort of tender joy in his bewilderment. 
She was not hurt when he crudely expressed the elu 
sive sense which has been in other men 's minds at 
such times : they cannot believe that this fascination 
is inspired, and not practised. 
" Well," he said, " I 'm glad you told me that I was 
the first. I should have thought you d had a good 
deal of experience in flirtation." 
" You wouldn 't have thought so if you hadn 't 
been a great flirt yourself," she answered, auda 
ciously. "Perhaps I have been engaged before !" 
Their talk was for the most part frivolous, and their 
thoughts ephemeral ; but again they were, with her 
 
at least, suddenly and deeply serious. Till then all 
things seemed to have been held in arrest, and im 
pressions, ideas, feelings, fears, desires, released them 
selves simultaneously, and sought expression with a 
rush that defied coherence. " Oh, why do we try to 
talk?" she asked, at last. "The more we say the 
more we leave unsaid. Let us keep still awhile ! " 
But she could not. " Hartley ! When did you first 
think you cared about me ? " 
" I don 't know," said Bartley, " I guess it must have 
been the first time I saw you." 
" Yes, that is when I first knew that I cared for 
you. But it seems to me that I must have always 
cared for you, and that I only found it out when I saw 
you going by the house that day." She mused a little 
time before she asked again, " Bartley ! " 
Well ? " 
" Did you ever use to be afraid Or, no ! Wait ! 
I 'll  tell you first, and then I 'll  ask you. I 'm not 
ashamed of it now, though once I thought I couldn 't 
bear to have any one find it out. I used to be aw 
fully afraid you didn 't care for me ! I would try to 
make out, from things you did and said, whether you 
did or not; but I never could be certain. I believe I 
used to find the most comfort in discouraging myself. 
I used to say to myself, Why, of course he doesn 't ! 
How can he ? He 's been everywhere, and he 's seen 
so many girls. He corresponds with lots of them. 
Altogether likely he 's engaged to some of the young 
ladies he 's met in Boston ; and he just goes with me 
here for a blind. And then when you would praise 
me, sometimes, I would just say, Oh, he 's compli 
mented plenty of girls. I know he 's thinking this 
instant of the young lady he 's engaged to in Boston
And it would almost kill me ; and when you did 
some little thing to show that you liked me, I would 
think, He doesn 't like me ! He hates, he despises 
 
me. He does, he does, he does ! And I would go 
on that way, with my teeth shut, and my breath held, 
I don 't know Iww long." Bartley broke out into a 
broad laugh at this image of desperation, but she 
added, tenderly, " I hope I never made you suffer in 
that way ? " " 
" What way ? " he asked. 
"That 's what I wanted you to tell me. Did you 
ever did y OU US e to be afraid sometimes that I
that you did you put off telling me that you cared 
for me so long because you thought, you dreaded 
Oh, I don 't see what I can ever do to make it up to 
you if you did ! Were you afraid I didn 't care for 
you ? " 
" No ! " shouted Bartley. She had risen and stood 
before him in the fervor of her entreaty, and he seized 
her arms, pinioning them to her side, and holding her 
helpless, while he laughed, and laughed again. " I 
knew you were dead in love with me from the first 
moment." 
" Bartley ! Bartley Hubbard ! " she exclaimed ; 
" let me go, let me go, this instant ! I never heard 
of such a shameless thing ! " 
But she really made no effort to escape. 
 
V. 
THE house seemed too little for Marcia 's happiness, 
and after dinner she did not let Bartley forget his last 
night 's engagement. She sent him off to get his horse 
at the hotel, and ran up to her room to put on her 
wraps for the drive. Her mother cleared away the 
dinner things ; she pushed the table to the side of the 
room, and then sat down in her feather-cushioned 
chair and waited her husband 's pleasure to speak. 
He ordinarily rose from the Sunday dinner and went 
back to his office ; to-day he had taken a chair before 
the stove. But he had mechanically put his hat on, 
and he wore it pushed off his forehead as he tilted 
his chair back on its hind legs, and braced himself 
against the hearth of the stove with his feet. 
A man is master in his own house generally 
through the exercise of a certain degree of brutality, 
but Squire Gaylord maintained his predominance by 
an enlightened absenteeism. No man living always 
at home was ever so little under his own roof. While 
he was in more active business life, he had kept an 
office in the heart of the village, where he spent all 
his days, and a great part of every night ; but after 
he had become rich enough to risk whatever loss of 
business the change might involve, he bought this 
large old square house on the border of the village, 
and thenceforth made  his home in the little detached 
office. 
If Mrs. Gaylord had dimly imagined that she 
should see something more of him, having him so near 
 
at hand, she really saw less : there was no weather, 
by day or night, in which he could not go to his office, 
now. He went no more than his wife into the village 
society ; she might have been glad now and then of a 
little glimpse of the world, but she never said so, and 
her social life had ceased, like her religious life. Their 
house was richly furnished according to the local 
taste of the time ; the parlor had a Brussels carpet, 
and heavy chairs of mahogany and hair- cloth; Marcia 
had a piano there, and since she had come home from 
school they had made company, as Mrs. Gaylord 
called it, two or three times for her ; but they had 
held aloof from the festivity, the Squire in his office, 
and Mrs. Gaylord in the family room where they now 
sat in unwonted companionship. 
" Well, Mr. Gaylord," said his wife, " I don 't know 
as you can say but what Marcia 's suited well 
enough." 
This was the first allusion they had made to the 
subject, but she let it take the argumentative form of 
her cogitations. 
" M-yes," sighed the Squire, in long, nasal assent, 
" most too well, if anything." He rasped first one 
unshaven cheek and then the other, with his thin, 
quivering hand. 
" He 's smart enough," said Mrs. Gaylord, as be 
fore. 
" M-yes, most too smart," replied her husband, a 
little more quickly than before. " He 's smart enough, 
even if she was n t, to see from the start that she was 
crazy to have him, and that isn 't the best way to 
begin life for a married couple, if I 'm a judge." 
" It would killed her if she hadn 't got him. I could 
see t was wearin on her every day, more and more. 
She used to fairly jump, every knock she d hear at 
the door ; and I know sometimes, when she was afraid 
he wan 't coming, she used to go out, in hopes t she 
 
sli d meet him : I don 't suppose she allowed to herself 
that she did it for that Marcia 's proud." 
" M-yes," said the Squire, " she 's proud. And 
when a proud girl makes a fool of herself ahout a 
fellow, it 's a matter of life and death with her. She 
can 't help herself. She lets go everything." 
" I declare," Mrs. Gaylord went on, " it worked me 
up considerable to have her come in some those times, 
and see by her face t she d seen him with some the 
other girls. She used to look so ! And then I d hear 
her up in her room, cryin and cryin . I shouldn 't 
cared so much, if Marcia d been like any other girl, 
kind of flirty, like, about it. But she wa n t. She 
was just bowed down before her idol." 
A final assent came from the Squire, as if wrung 
out of his heart, and he rose from his chair, and then 
sat down again. Marcia was his child, and he loved 
her with his whole soul. " M-well ! " he deeply 
sighed, " all that part 's over, anyway," but he tingled 
in an anguish of sympathy witli what she had suffered. 
" You see, Miranda, how she looked at me when she 
first came in with him, so proud and independ 
ent, poor girl ! and yet as if she was afraid I might nt 
like it ? " 
" Yes, I see it." 
He pulled his hat far down over his cavernous eyes, 
and worked his thin, rusty old jaws. 
" I hope t she 'll  be able to school herself, so 's t not 
show out her feelings so much," said Mrs. Gaylord. 
" I wish she could school herself so as to not have 
em so much ; but I guess she 'll  have em, and I 
guess she 'll  show em out." They were both silent ; 
after a while he added, throwing at the stove a minute 
fragment of the cane he had pulled off the seat of his 
chair : " Miranda, I 've expected something of this 
sort a good while, and I 've thought over what Bart- 
ley had better do." 
 
Mrs. Gaylord stooped forward and picked up the 
bit of wood which her husband had thrown down ; 
her vigilance was rewarded by finding a thread on the 
oil-cloth near where it lay ; she whipped this round 
her finger, and her husband continued : " He d better 
give up his paper and go into the law. He 's done 
well in the paper, and he 's a smart writer ; but edit 
ing a newspaper aint any work for a man. It 's all 
well enough as long as he 's single, but when he 's got 
a wife to look after, he d better get down to work. 
My business is in just such a shape now that I could 
hand it over to him in a lump ; but come to wait a 
year or two longer, and this young man and that one 'll  
eat into it, and it won 't be the same thing at all. 
I shall want Bartley to push right along, and get ad 
mitted at once. He can do it, fast enough. He 's 
bright enough," added the old man, with a certain 
grimness. "M-well!" he broke out, with a quick 
sigh, after a moment of musing ; " it hasn 't happened 
at any very bad time. I was just thinking, this 
morning, that I should like to have my whole time, 
pretty soon, to look after my property. I shan 't  want 
Bartley to do that for me. I 'll  give him a good start in 
money and in business ; but I 'll  look after my prop 
erty myself. I 'll  speak to him, the first chance I get." 
A light step sounded on the stairs, and Marcia 
burst into the room, ready for her drive. "I wanted 
to get a good warm before I started," she explained, 
stooping before the stove, and supporting herself with 
one hand on her father 's knee. There had been no 
formal congratulations upon her engagement from 
either of her parents ; but this was not requisite, and 
would have been a little affected ; they were perhaps 
now ashamed to mention it outright before her alone. 
The Squire, however, went so far" as to put his hand 
