 
fore, regarded homoeopathy as a private hobby of 
his mother 's. He was interested in this young 
woman 's clear-headed exposition of a theory to 
which he was compelled to acknowledge himself a 
grateful, if not a convincing testimony. With the 
irresponsibility of the laity, he amused himself 
with her fervor, while revering her skill. When 
she alluded to the Divine Truth in connection with 
her sugar-plums, he laughed. But when they 
drove over that bridge whence the Bangor pony 
had plunged to his last account, the young man 
grew respectfully grave. He experienced at moments 
a species of awe of this studious and in 
structed lady ; not so much because of her learn 
ing, which was unquestionable, nor of her beautiful 
inborn fitness for the art of healing, which was 
as clear as the flash of her eye, as for the fact that, 
in spite of these circumstances, she could be a 
charming creature. 
The swift morning grew into the high, hot noon. 
The dew dried on the white clover by the. road 
side. The dust flew a little. Yorke was tired,
despite himself, and glad when the doctor took a 
cross-cut through a wood-path to make her last call. 
It was a poor girl, she said, who had few friends. 
They passed a saw-mill, as they drove to this place. 
The wheel was silent. The water dripped from it 
 
with a cool sound. The men were separating to 
their dinner ; one remained at work above the 
dam. Yorke observed with admiration his 
practiced step upon the slippery logs which floated, 
chained, over the deep, black pool. 
Doctor Zay drove to the foot of the hill, and 
stopped. She would leave him in the shade, she 
said, and walk up to her patient 's ; it was but a 
step. Yorke made no protest. He had long since 
learned that it was hopeless to argue with his
physician. He sat and rested in the green coolness, 
till she returned. 
She was gone about twenty minutes, and came 
out abstracted and stern. She did not speak at 
first, or take the reins, but sat still, with a twitch 
ing of all the delicate facial muscles which in 
other women would have meant a shower of tears 
or a tornado of anger. 
" Well ? " asked Yorke, conscious how imbecile 
the monosyllable sounded, but not daring to add 
another. 
" She has just told me who it is that is to 
blame ! " said the physician in a low, surcharged 
voice. 
Yorke uttered a sympathetic ejaculation, as her 
meaning flashed upon him. He felt touched both 
at the simplicity and the solemnity of her words. 
 
Nothing of the sort had occurred to him, when 
she spoke about her " poor girl." Nothing could 
have revealed to him, as did this little shock, the 
gravity and sacredness of her work. Alas ! what 
could have so betrayed to him the gulf between 
her dedicated life and his own ? 
"I have tried for some time to learn," said the 
doctor, with unwonted agitation. " The poor thing 
opened her heart to me just now. You cannot 
think how such things affect me. He was per 
fectly free to marry her. There is nothing too bad 
for him ! I have no mercy for such men, none ! 
I wish Excuse me, Mr. Yorke," she interrupted 
herself. " There is a professional thoughtlessness ; 
I hope I do not often fall into it. I was overborne 
by the poor thing 's trouble. She is such a pretty 
creature. It would break your heart to see her. 
And the women all depend on me so ; they think 
there is nothing beyond my power. Why, she 
clings to me as if she thouaht I could undo it all, 
could make her what she used to be again ! I 
believe she does. It is more than I can I ear." 
His own eyes filled, 43 he saw the slow, strong 
tears, beaten back and -dreaded, gather on her lids. 
All the littleness and pretense and shallow barrier 
of the world slipped away from them, as they sat 
there together in the forest. They did not seem 
 
any more to be young and unfamiliar, or even man 
and woman, but only two human beings, who 
could arise and go hand in hand to meet the sol 
emn need of all the world. To Yorke it was a 
moment that he wished might never end. 
She was the first to speak, and she said gently, - 
" I have tired, or perhaps shocked you. We 
will go home now. It is not my habit to speak of 
my cares to my patients. You must " 
" Help, Help ! Oh, for God 's sake, HELP ! " 
A terrible cry interrupted the doctor. It came 
from the mill-pond, whose dam frowned over their 
heads. The thin cascade of the falls drooped like 
lace against the wall of stone. The trees gathered 
close about the water, and Yorke looked up to the 
sky, as out of a well. He could see nothing else. 
The cry died in a gurgling sound. Yorke sprang, 
putting the woman by ; he forgot her. 
" Mr. Yorke, stay just where you are ! " 
An imperious voice, a firm hand, barred his 
way. 
" Let me go ! " demanded the man. 
" Not an inch ! To lame yourself for life, and 
help nobody ! You never "can get up there. Sit 
back ! Take the reins ! Drive on for help ! There 
must be men at dinner behind that barn. Do as 
I bid you ! Do as I ask you&gt; please." 
 
He obeyed her ; lie cursed his helplessness, but 
he obeyed. She was already out of his sight, be 
hind the saw-mill. The next instant, as he drove, 
lashing the pony, he saw her run swiftly out upon 
the chained logs above the dam. lie closed his 
eyes. She poised herself like a chamois. He saw 
her sink upon her knees, had she slipped ? His 
breath came fast and feeble. The road darkened 
before him, and the forest whirled. 
. Am I going to do such a lady-like thing as to 
faint ? " thought the sick man. He fixed his eyes 
fiercely upon the blue reins, they seemed to 
remain knotted in his fingers ; he had a vision of 
the flying road, of the sudden sun, of dashing down 
upon a group of men, of seeing figures dart, of 
cry answering to cry ; and his next precise impres 
sion was that he had been sitting in the bottom of 
that phaeton, with his head on the cushions, longer 
than he supposed. He was alone, by the barn she 
spoke of. All the men were gone. He gathered 
his soul together, and drove back as he had come. 
A cluster of men hung on the bank above the 
dam. A motionless figure lay on the ground in 
the centre of the group. For an instant Yorke 
could see nothing distinctly. 
" Turn him over ! " rang out a clear, sweet,
imperious voice. " No, not so. So. This way. 
There ! Now, here, Jenley ! You help me. 
 
" All right, Doctor ! " said an unseen man.
Silence followed. Yorke bowed his face upon his 
crutch, with a confused idea of saying his prayers. 
All he could think of was the Apostles Creed and 
Fairy Lilian. The trickle of the fall fell cheer 
fully over the dam. 
" Tompkins, you here ! " came the word of com 
mand, in that calm, refined voice. " Work at his 
feet, as I bade you. Keep the arms, Jenley. Tear 
the shirt, don't wait. Harder, Smith ! Get 
more blankets from the house, bed-quilts, any 
thing. And flannel cloths, all you can muster. 
Be quiet. Work more steadily. Don't get 
excited. I want even motions, so." 
Fifteen minutes passed. One of the men spoke 
in a lone tone : 
" He don't budge, Doctor." 
She made no answer. They worked on silently. 
Yorke looked at his watch. Twenty-two min 
utes. 
" Ma.ke that chest movement just as I told you, 
Jenley ! patiently. Have courage. Give me 
the flannel, Smith. No. Rub upwards, not down ; 
I told you twice. Harder. Here, I 'll show you." 
Twenty-six minutes. Half an hour. The lum 
bermen began to mutter. Yorke could hear their 
faint gutteral protest. 
 
" You can't resusentite a dead man, Doctor." 
" He 's dead, that 's gospel sure, deader  
Judas." 
" A critter 's legs don't hang that way if he 's 
livin ." 
" You hain't seen so many drownded lumbermen 
as we have, young lady." 
" My arms ache," said one big fellow earnestly. 
" I 've rubbed a long spell. Give him up, Doc 
tor?" 
" Give him up ? No!" came down the ringing 
cry. 
Yorke quivered with the pride he felt in her. 
He leaned over his watch, as if it held the arrested 
heart-beats of the human life for which the brave 
girl fought. 
Thirty-five minutes. Forty. Forty-one two 
three. Forty-four minutes. 
A low, awed whisper began to rustle through 
the group. Some of the men dropped on their 
knees. One ran towards the house. She seemed 
to call him back, to utter some rapid order ; he 
started off again. As he ran past the phaeton he 
called to Yorke, 
" G-or a mighty she 's fetched him ! " 
This man did not return. 
. Yorke was sitting in a picturesque heap, with 
 
his crutches, wondering where was the precise 
point at which a newly-acquired tendency to faint 
ceased to be physiology and became psychology, 
and how long he should maintain himself at that 
cre- li able juncture in philosophical experience, 
when he felt her hand upon his own. 
" Drink this," she said laconically. He looked 
up, and saw that she had coffee in her hand ; he 
swallowed it obediently. 
" We have got him into the house," she said, 
speaking rapidly. " Everything goes well. I know 
this has hurt you. But I don't want to take you 
home yet. I have a reason. Can you eat, if I 
desire it very much ? " 
" I can try," said Yorke, smiling at her tone ; 
she really pleaded. 
" Then I will sit here with you, and we will 
have luncheon together. You need your dinner. 
You will be good for nothing with an empty 
stomach. There ! It will gratify me if you will eat 
half this bread." 
She got into the phaeton and sat beside him, 
leaning back, and watching him with a gentle
eagerness which he would have dared to call tender 
if he had not remembered that it was profes 
sional. " I will eat it all," said Yorke. 
She made a pretense of sharing the slice with 
 
him, but he could see that she was keenly excited. 
"Now," she said, when the bread and coffee were 
gone, " are you better ? Are you strong enough 
to hear what I want of you ? " 
" Try me, and see." 
" They are together there," she pointed to 
the poor girl 's house, " those two, who ought to 
be together for all their lives. He is the man." 
" The drowned man ? " cried Yorke. She 
nodded fiercely. 
" I want you to come up there with me. I want 
you for a witness. I may fail in the thing, but 
it 's got to be tried. I can't have any of those 
fellows there, and there 's nobody at home but a 
young step-mother, who won't come near us. Are 
you able to do this ? " 
Yorke replied by silently taking the reins. He, 
too, felt excited and strong. They drove up the 
steep, short hill, and close to the poor place. At 
the gate stood a wagon, containing an elderly and 
gentlemanly but very impatient person. A few 
men were hanging about the door-steps. The doctor 
helped her patient out, and he followed her 
into the house, asking no questions. 
They went into a low, clean room on the ground 
floor. A man was there upon a lounge, swathed 
in blankets ; he was ghastly white. A girl hung 
 
over him : she uttered low, inarticulate cries ; she 
rained her tears upon his face, his hands, nay, 
her kisses on his great, coarse feet, as if he were 
her saviour. The doctor shut the door softly, and 
Yorke stood uncovered beside her. The girl no 
ticed them no more than if they had been spirits. 
" Why, Molly ! " said the fellow weakly. 
" Why, Molly ! I hain't done so well by you that 
you should kiss me now. I don't deserve it," 
he added, after a moment 's thought. 
" Molly," said the doctor, coming forward with 
her nervous step, " leave Jim to me a minute. I 
want to talk to him." 
Molly gathered herself together, a miserable 
little effort, shame and love and tears, and 
obeyed. She was a pretty girl, with blonde hair. 
" Deserve it ? " said Doctor Zay, in a changed 
manner, as soon as the girl was gone. " Deserve 
it ? You have behaved to her like a coward and 
.a sneak. She is behaving like a woman. She 
loves him, I suppose," added the doctor, in an un 
dertone. " That is the way with these women. 
Now, then, Jim Paisley ! I have just this to say 
to you. You are able to sit up. Let me see you 
do it." 
The resuscitated man struggled to an obtuse an 
gle against the pillows. 
 
" Very good. I wish you could stand up, but 
that will do. I want you to marry Molly. I will 
call her back." 
" But, Doctor " began Jim. 
"No shilly-shallying," returned the doctor 
sharply. " Not a word. Let me see it done be 
fore I leave the house. I sent Henry for the min 
ister the first breath you drew, out there on the 
shore, before I sent for the brandy, before you 
gasped twice. He is sitting at the gate this min 
ute, with a borrowed horse, too, that he 's in a 
hurry to get back to a man who is mowing. Don't 
waste any more of our time. It 's too precious for 
you. Come ! " 
" But Doctor, how can I be married, done up in 
blankets like a mummy. It 's so ridiculous ! " 
pleaded Jim. " I 'd have liked my best close on." 
" Paisley ! " said the doctor, towering and superb, 
" did I work over you fourteen minutes after 
every man in Sherman would have given you up 
for dead ? Fourteen minutes longer than is laid 
down by Hering, too, if I remember," she added, 
turning to Yorke. 
" Well, Doctor, I 's pose you did." 
" Did I bring back the soul to your senseless, 
sinful body, after it had gone God knows where, 
but where you 'll never go again till you go to 
stay?" 
 
" That 's a fact, Doctor. Yes, marm." 
" I 've got some rights in your life, have I, 
Jim ? " 
" Yes, marm. I don't deny you brought me 
to." 
" Do you suppose you were worth touching, ex 
cept that you had it in your miserable power to 
right a poor wronged girl? Come ! Do you? " 
" No, marm." 
" If you don't marry Molly before I leave this 
house, every lumberman in Sherman may throw 
you into the mill-pond, and some of them will. 
I 'll stand by and see them do it. I won't lift a 
finger for you." 
" You're hard on a fellow," complained Jim. 
" I hain't said I wouldn't . I only said I 'd rather 
wait and get my best close. I vum, when I come 
to, and Good Lord ! did you see her, Doctor ? 
I hain't done right by her, that 's a fact. I told 
her so." 
" Well, well ! " said Doctor Zay, softening. 
She went at once to call the girl, who lay crouched 
like a spaniel outside the door, upon the bare en 
try floor. " Come here, Molly," she said, with 
ineffable gentleness. " Jim wants to be married." 
Molly stood still. The color slowly crept over 
her delicate neck. 
 
" He hain't asked me himself," she said. Jim 
held out his hand to her. 
" The doctor thought I wasn't  fit to ask you, 
Molly. She ain't far out, either." 
The girl advanced slowly, looking at him searchingly. 
Then, with a certain dignity, she gave the 
man one hand, and said, 
" Very well, Doctor." 
The minister came, talking about his borrowed 
horse. He was worried and hurried. 
" Where is your certificate of intention to mar 
ry?" he asked shortly; "we require five days 
notice of intention in our State." 
" The marriage will be legal," replied Dr. Zay, 
promptly. " I 've had occasion to look into that. 
Whatever formalities are necessary, I will attend 
to myself. I will pay your fine, if you are called 
to account for this." 
" It is a large fine," said the minister, slowly. 
" I will be responsible for it," persisted the Doc 
tor. " I must see the thing done now. Something 
might go wrong with the case yet. The man is 
very weak." 
The old minister yielded his point after a little 
feeble protest ; he wanted to get back to his mow 
ing. 
Yorke and the physician witnessed the marriage. 
 
And the young stepmother, out in the front yard, 
gossiped with the lumbermen through it all. 
Doctor Zay took her patient home immediately 
when the painful scene was over. He was greatly 
exhausted. She sent him at once to bed, left mi 
nute orders for his care, and went off on her after 
noon rounds. 
In the evening she came to him again. She sat 
some time. She was anxious, gentle, half depre 
cating. She gave her professional tenderness a 
beautiful freedom. He felt her sympathy like a 
sparkling tonic. She atoned for what she had 
cost him by a divine hour. 
She did not mention the poor girl. But Yorke 
thought of the caryatid lifting marble arms to hold 
the Temple " high above our heads." 
VIII. 
THE patient continued for several days clearly 
worse for the episode of Molly and Jim. The 
physician was penitently assiduous in her attentions. 
As soon as he was better they cooled off 
quietly, but so obviously that Mrs. Butterwell 
turned her soft eyes, not without sympathy, upon 
her invalid lodger. 
" She 's like a candle, knows her mould, and 
gets into it, and no fuss. Some folks are like ice 
cream ; can't freeze without churning. Doctor 's 
always just so with patients. I wouldn't notice 
her, she has to be ; they 'd lean her life out." 
It fact, Yorke found himself reduced to his of 
fice-calls again, and to a limited allowance of those. 
He now took occasional meals with the family, and 
thus sometimes met her at the table. She was 
very irregular. The office-bell pealed, or Handy 
summoned her authoritatively ; or she was hours 
behind time. She nodded to him kindly when 
she came, or they chatted a few moments. She 
glanced at him with her direct, brilliant, healthy 
look. He watched her with his sad, refined, invalid 
eyes. She poured her abundant personality 
into half a hundred empty lives a day. He received into his vacant hours the influences of the 
moment. She went ; he stayed. He suffered ; 
she acted. He remembered ; she forgot. 
One day he called her, as he sat on the piazza. 
She was coming from the dining-room, after a late 
and hurried dinner. She had her hat and gloves 
in her hand. " Doctor," he said, " do you know 
that this is August?" 
"It is the 3d, yes." 
" I thought you wouldn't  know. How did you 
happen to ? " 
" I always date my prescriptions." 
" I might have known there was a scientific 
reason. For, as nearly as an ignorant layman can 
observe, the seasons slip away from your attention 
like cured patients. One is like another, to you. 
Doctor Zay, do you know that you have never 
asked me yet to call on you ? " 
"To call on Oh, you mean" She stopped. 
" As a person, I mean, not a patient. Is there 
any reason why I should n t? " 
" Why, no ! " she said cordially, " none in the 
world." 
" Only you never thought of it." 
" That is all," quietly. 
 
All ! " cried Yorke. 
She swept upon him a fine look ; half rebuke, 
like a monarch's, half perplexity, like a little girl 's. 
He hastened to placate this expression. 
" Would you like to have me come ? I had 
rather be denied than endured." 
" That is manly. , So should I. Certainly, I 
should like to see you. Only I never am at home. 
I suppose it was rude not to ask you before. I am 
so out of the way of all these little things." 
She spoke the last three words with an accent 
before which his heart shrank. But he only 
said, 
" May I come to-night ? " 
"Oh, yes," she answered lightly; "any time 
you like, after office-hours and before your bed 
time." 
" I'm coming," he said, in a low, significant 
tone. 
" What did you say ? " 
He rose and confronted her. He leaned upon 
his crutch, but she felt that the man was waxing 
strong. 
" I'm coming" he repeated firmly. 
She had turned to go, but regarded him for an 
instant over her shoulder. A beautiful mocking 
light darted from her lip to her eye. She did not 
 
say a word. But he heard every nerve in the 
woman defy him. It was like the challenge before 
a battle. The convalescing man welcomed the 
signal of contest. 
He went that evening, " after office-hours and 
before bed - time," dutifully, as she had bidden. 
It was a superb evening, and he lingered a moment 
outside the door to watch the western colors be 
hind the forest. He had already acquired that 
half-plaintive sympathy with the setting sun which 
is so noticeable a feature in the lives of invalids. 
Is it because the hour marks another finished period 
of suffering, or that it promises renewal of 
life, which is always resurrection of hope ? 
It was a quiet sunset of pale chromes and violets, 
sinking gently into gray below, melting to the 
deep blue of advancing night above. The long 
forest, with its procession of pine outlines, cut the 
horizon. The heavy mists of the Maine evening 
rose from the little river and the mill-ponds. This 
fog caught fire, and the village seemed to stagger 
in it. Mr. and Mrs. Isaiah Butterwell were pick 
ing currants together in the garden, stooping to 
their task in the level light ; they did not watch 
the sunset. Handy was watering Old Oak at the 
spring in the pasture behind the barn. The stage 
was late, and the two worn horses struggled, with 
 
hanging heads, up the lonely street. Two or three 
lumbermen followed the stage, singing. They 
sang a chorus which ran, 
" Thus with the man, thus with the tree, 
Sharp at the root the axe shall be." 
Mr. Butterwell called out to the driver to toss him 
over a paper. The stage crawled on, and turned 
the corner to the post-office. The fire fell from 
the mists, the deserted road grew gray, and Yorke 
felt damp as soon as the color dropped. 
The solitude of the scene oppressed him at that 
moment, as if he had known that he should never 
have power to separate himself from it. The limit 
of life in this poor place, its denial, its desolateness, 
came to his consciousness with the vividness and 
remorselessness of personal fate. He thought of 
that wealthy nature, that glorious vigor, that delicate 
youth, impoverished here. He thought of go 
ing hack to Boston, and leaving her. He rang the 
office-bell sharply, and entered without waiting 
for it to be answered. 
No one was in the reception-room, and he passed 
through. The office was empty. All the doors 
were open. As he stood hesitating, she came from 
the parlor beyond. She stood in the door-way, 
and held out her hand. 
" Ah, it is you ? " she said graciously. He was 
 
confused by a consciousness of change in her, but 
could not have told what it was. As he followed 
her into the room, he perceived that this impression 
came from her dress. She wore a muslin gown of 
a violet color ; it was finished at the throat and 
wrists by fluttering satin ribbons and lace ; it was 
a cool, sheer thing, as befitted the warm night, 
a parlor dress, sweeping the floor. He had always 
seen her in her business clothes. 
He was not sure at first that he liked to see her 
in any other way. He felt a vague jealousy of her 
individuality, on which this dainty feminine gear 
seemed to encroach. But in a moment, when he 
had accustomed his eye to the transformation, he 
acknowledged that he would not have missed it 
for the world. 
" What is the matter ? " she asked, in her out 
right fashion ; her profession had cultivated in 
her, to perhaps an extreme limit, what was probably 
great native directness of manner. 
" Excuse me. Was I staring ? I have never 
seen you in a don't you call them trails?" 
She blushed a little, looking over her shoulder 
down at the wave of purple color, out of which 
she seemed to rise, as if she floated on it. 
" I do not wear such things. I do not respect 
them," she said, with a latent vexation in her 
 
voice. " I feel as if I ought to apologize to ideal 
womanhood every time I encumber my feet and 
other people 's in this way. But it was so warm, 
and this is the coolest thing I, have. I had been 
dusty and uncomfortable all day. And it is pretty, 
in itself, I think; don't you? " 
"I shall not that is to say I cannot tell 
you what I think," he answered. The undisguised 
admiration in his eyes roamed over her with dar 
ing leisure. 
It was characteristic of these two people and 
to which the more creditable, one can hardly say 
that it no more occurred to the young man that 
there was a remote touch of pardonable feminine 
coquetry in the coincidence of his call and the vio 
let muslin, than it did to the lady that he might 
think so. Doctor Zay knew how often she wore 
that gown on warm evenings, shut in alone in her 
dark little parlor, after the last patient was gone, 
after the care and fever of the long day were 
spent, when the doctor melted into the woman. 
And Yorke was beginning to know Doctor Zay. 
He took the easy-chair which she offered him, 
quietly observing the scene upon which he had 
fallen, and in which the violet muslin was only 
what artists would call the " high light." After 
his hair-cloth sofa and framed certificate, this 
 
young lady 's parlor affected him like a restored 
and precious painting. He felt the powerful in 
fluence of the cultivated interior, to which he 
yielded with that composite emotion, half home 
sickness, half instinct, which we all know, and 
which, like a magnet, draws back the exile from 
what we are pleased to call " the world." 
Yorke, as he sat and talked of little things, as 
similated his surroundings gently : the books, the 
engravings, few but fine, the bronze Psyche, the 
little landscape of Gifford's, magazines, newspa 
pers, reviews, and colors that he had not seen since 
he left home. 
While she busied herself in drawing the long 
curtains and lighting the lamps, he noticed the 
Chickering upright across the corner, and a curious 
afghan, knit of dull harmonious tints, like a Persian 
rug. There were flowers, too. The lamps 
had green and yellow globes. There Avere many 
pillows in the room, of odd shapes, and all sorts of 
hospitable things to sit on ; an open fire-place, 
filled now with ferns : yet nothing seemed to be a 
reproduction of a fashionable craze. There was no 
incoherent attempt at affecting cracked bricabrac, 
deteriorated Japanese art, or doubtful colonial
fashions. One did not even think of Queen Anne or 
Louis Quinze, but only of Doctor Zay, who had a 
pleasant room and lived there. 
 
It affected Yorke strongly to meet his doctor 
here, a lady, like other ladies, in a shelter, 
among little lovely things, quiet and set apart, 
protected from encroachments, forgetful of care. 
He was glad that the patients were never allowed 
to come into that room. He felt dizzy with his 
own privilege. 
He leaned his head back against his boldly mod 
ern but proportionally easy-chair, and watched 
her, while they chatted pleasantly. They talked of 
Boston, of books, of people, of well things. Left 
to herself, he noticed that she avoided all patholog 
ical subjects with a rigor which in itself was all 
that reminded him of their existence. She made 
no inquiries about the state of his prevailing 
sensations, nor alluded in any way to his relation as a 
patient to herself. She had a fine tact in this, 
which made him feel as if he were a well man 
again. He rested in her dainty vicinity, the quiet 
things she said, the sound of her voice, the delicacy 
of her dress, in herself. He forgot for one de 
licious hour the real and rugged world in which 
she lived. Or rather, perhaps, if he analyzed his 
feeling, he had a vague sense of mastery, as 
stimulating as it was unprecedented, as if he himself 
were the agent, not the subject, of a new experience, 
in which he drew her from a consecration to 
a dream. 
 
He asked her to play to him. 
" No," she said, " you are a Bostonian." 
" But not a critic." 
" Impossible ! You approve the Handel and 
Haydn, and patronize the Symphony. You do 
your duty by the prevailing artists ; hold them at 
arm 's length as I do my last new babies, with 
about the same complacency in their existence, as 
if the Creator had an obligation to you for the 
fact. You are like the man who declined to be a 
vegetarian on the ground that pdte defoie gras 
was good enough for him. I had a patient once 
who abandoned smoking because his taste had de 
veloped so fastidious a quality that he could find 
no tobacco fine enough for him." 
"I am still a crude smoker. Play to me; 
please ! " 
"I know two tunes: one is China, and the 
other isn't . Which will you have ? " 
" The other one. Play to me ! " 
" It is a Scotch song. Do you like Scotch 
" Do you sing ? " 
" Not in the least. I can play you the accom 
paniment." 
He made a little movement of impatience. He 
was by nature of a restless, not to say an imperious 
temper which his illness (or perhaps it would 
be more precise to say, his physician) had subdued 
rather than excited. 
Her ready merriment came to her eyes. 
 "You cannot make me believe," he insisted, 
" that you are not musical. Physicians are." 
" That is true enough," she answered, quickly 
warming to the subject. " Science is harmony. 
Music ancl science are twins. Music is the femi 
nine, though, I think." 
" It is a fine marriage. Oh, you call them 
twins, though." 
" You are not so far out of the way. There is 
nn element of twinship in all absolute marriage." 
This was said with her scientific expression, as if 
she were dissecting a radial artery. 
" How many absolute marriages have you 
known ? " asked Yorke, as nearly as possible in 
the same tone. 
" Just three," said Dr. Doctor Zay. 
" In all your experience ? Only three that 
would that you would have been satisfied 
with ? " 
" It is not a question of what would satisfy one 's 
self," she said, freezing swiftly and slightly, like 
thin November ice. "It is a matter of psychological 
investigation." 
 
" What a horrible advantage over mankind 
your -profession gives ! " said Yorke, between his 
teeth. She nodded gravely. 
" It is unmatched, I believe. Even the clergy : 
have a poor one beside us. We stand at an eter 
nal confessional, in which the chance of moral 
escape or evasion is reduced to a minimum. It is 
holding human hearts to count their beats. When 
you add the control of life and death, you have a 
position unique in human relations. When I be 
gan, it seemed to me like God 's. My mother 
used to " She stopped. 
" What did your mother do ? " asked Yorke, 
gently. 
" She encouraged that feeling," said Doctor 
Zay. " She said no one was fit to enter the 
profession who did not have it." 
"I wish I had known your mother," he ventured. 
" You would have loved her," said the doctor, 
simply. 
"And I wish you knew mine! " continued the 
young man, fatuously. 
" She would not be interested in me," returned 
Doctor Zay, coldly. It was good, honest Decem 
ber ice now. He could have skated on the barrier 
she had thrust between them, he neither knew 
how nor why. 
"Oh, you don't know her" he began. At 
this moment the office-bell rang. Handy answered 
it, and knocked at the parlor door to announce 
(with evident pleasure) the presence of a patient 
who " was in an Ananias V Sapphiry hurry. 
Guessed it was somebody dyin or smushed." 
The doctor rose leisurely, too used to these in 
terruptions to expend nerve force on little haste 
or premature excitement, and went into the reception-room. She did not excuse herself to her 
visitor. She left the doors ajar, and he could hear 
her hearty voice : 
" Ah, Mr. Beckwith ! What now ? " 
" Wall," replied the man 's voice that Yorke 
had heard on his first office-call, " Puella, you see, 
she 's bad. She 's took screechin bad ag in, and 
don't give none of us no peace. She wants you 
right away. She made me tackle up so 's to bring 
you myself. I told her, says I, t was a kind of 
shame ! you 'd be all beat out, this time o night. 
But, Doctor," plaintively, "it ain't no use to tell 
Puella things." 
" Anything new, Mr. Beckwith ? Any serious 
change in the case ? What are the symptoms ? " 
"Wall," said Mr. Beckwith slowly, "I can't 
 
say 's it 's so very noo. It 's that same crookedness 
in her mind. She suffers a sight," solemnly, 
"from crookedness in the mind, Doctor." 
" I 'll send her something," said the doctor 
kindly. " I do not think it necessary for me to 
go to-night. There ! One powder dry on the 
tongue, if you please, every two hours. I will 
look in to-morrow." 
" I told her you wouldn't  come," said Mr. Beck- 
with, triumphantly. " And what 's more, I said, 
says I, Puella, I wouldn't  if I was her, says I. 
But says she, You don't none of you know what 
it is to have crookedness into your mind." 
Silence succeeded. The doctor returned, clos 
ing the doors as she came. She made no com 
ments on the interruption. She drifted into the 
quiet room, past the green and golden lamps, in 
her violet dress, and resumed her chair in silence. 
Yorke looked at her without speaking. 
" What are you thinking ? " she asked abruptly. 
There was a dash of something which he could 
almost have dared to call friendly freedom in the 
tone of the question. 
" I was thinking that you harmonize with your 
environment." 
" That would be the acquisition, as it is the as 
piration, of one 's life-time. The compliment is 
too large for the occasion." 
 
For answer, he glanced about the room and 
back at herself. She smiled, not without a touch 
of scorn, or it might have been of bitterness. 
" But then," he continued dreamily, "you are 
of course an exception, not a representative, among 
women who adopt your vocation." 
" You only exhibit your ignorance by such a 
remark," said the young lady quietly. " Among 
the thousand of us now practicing medicine in 
this country, there are many more successful than 
I, and abroad there is some superb work done. I 
should like to give you the figures some time. 
They are very interesting. But I won't bore you 
now. It would be like putting sermons in a 
novel." 
"What is the proportion of ladies in the profes 
sion ? " asked Yorke, with a slight shrug. 
" What is the proportion of gentlemen in the 
profession ? " 
" Except that I really know nothing about it, I 
should suppose it is larger." 
" It probably is a little. Until recently it needed 
force rather than fineness to bring a woman to the 
surface of a great progressive movement. We are 
coming to a point where both are to be absolutely 
necessary to success in the art of healing. A union 
of these qualities will be demanded of women, because 
they are women, such as has never been ex 
pected of men, or perhaps been possible to them. 
We have a complex task before us." 
" It seems a dreary one to me," said Yorke, 
rather sadly. " And yet you find it " 
" Bright ! " she said quickly ; " bright, bright ! " 
Her earnest face fired. 
" You really seem happy," he urged. 
" I am happy ! " she cried, in her resonant, joy 
ous tone. 
" I wonder if I could say as much, if I had done 
as much ? " queried the sick man. 
Her whole expression changed instantly. Both 
felt what neither said, that they had approached 
difficult and delicate ground. 
" I do not take as dark a view of your case as 
you do," she said. 
" In other words, I am not lost to your respect, 
because I have not become an eminent jurist at the 
age of I am only twenty-eight, after all," he 
added. 
" I am a year older than that," she smiled. " I 
ought to have done more. What is the trouble, 
Mr. Yorke ? Don't you get any clients ? " She 
took unconsciously the professional tone she had 
so long assumed to him, as if she had asked, 
" Doesn't  your dinner agree with you ? " 
 
" I had one divorce case last winter ; I lost it." 
" You resent my asking questions. You ought 
not to." 
" I feel it. I do not resent it." 
" That is kind in you, and discriminating. You 
silence me." 
" No, go on. Say what you think of me. Tell 
me, I can stand it. What a consummate don 
key a man of my sort must seem to a woman of 
yours ! And yet I'm not a donkey ; I am really 
a very good sort of fellow." 
" You are rudimentary," said the doctor, with 
an inscrutable look. 
" Hum um urn." 
" Honestly, Mr. Yorke, my diagnosis of you is 
different from It is my own, at any rate, be it 
worth little or much." 
" You have had some chance to form one, I 'll 
admit," said Yorke. " Let me make a guess at it: 
Inherited inertia. Succumbed to his environment. 
Corrosion of Beacon Street upon what might, in a 
machine-shop, for instance, or a factory, have been 
called his brain. Native indolence, developed by 
acquired habit. Hopeless correlation of predes 
tined forces. Atrophied ambition. Paralyzed as 
piration. No struggle for existence. Destitute of 
scientific basis. Reductio ad absurdum, Labo- 
 
rare est orare, Facilis descensus. No correspond 
ent in the Materia Medica. Hahnemann knew 
not of him. (JHe was mobbed for a great cause.) 
The Organon foresaw him not. There is no divine 
remedy for him. Give him sac. lac. powders, 
and send him back to Beacon Street. By the way, 
Doctor, did you ever give me a sugar powder?" 
" Once." 
" When was that ? I 'll know, or I 'll never for 
give you." 
" The day you disobeyed me about going out 
doors, and caused me an unnecessary call." 
" On your honor, is that the only time ?" 
" By my diploma ! the only time." 
" You did not say whether I had hit the diagno 
sis, Doctor Zay." 
She did not answer him at once, and when she 
spoke he felt, rather than saw, that it was with 
her guarded look. 
"I do not make it a case of paralysis, exactly. 
I should rather call it one of hypercesthesia." 
" Hyperses that was what was the matter 
with me when I couldn't  let Mrs. Butter well shut 
a door, or drop a thimble ; when the horses kept 
me awake, stamping in the barn. You mean that 
you do me the honor to infer that I have ideals, 
despite my failure to give an inquiring world evidence 
of the fact, and that (if I do not strain your 
goodness) the idealizing fibre is not without super 
fluous sensitiveness ? " 
"Superfluous, and therefore injurious, sensitive 
ness. You experience a certain scorn of the best 
into which- you know yourself capable of resulting. 
You cherished this scorn, at one time, as a silent 
proof of superiority of nature, patent only to your 
self, and the more precious, like family lace or 
jewels worn out of sight. You were met at the 
outset of life by the conviction that you were 
without extraordinary gifts, and it struck you as 
original to snub the ordinary ones, as if it were 
their fault. I am not sure that it was even origi 
nal ; it certainly was not admirable. But you 
have outgrown that. I recognize now a genuine 
modesty at root of your inertia. Your self-estimate 
is calculably less than that of almost any 
other Boston man I ever met. I prognosticate 
that the next phase of experience will be a health 
ier and haughtier one. I think you capable of 
service." The young lady uttered these sentences 
slowly, with palliative pauses between them ; she 
had an absorbed and studious look. 
