therefore, to the printed comments which day by day accompanied the
report of the proceedings, gathering from them the progress made, and
their ideas of the probabilities which lay in the future. The progress
seemed rapid; the probabilities were damning. No journal pretended that
they were otherwise. Yet still the able pens of the calmer writers
counselled deliberation. "There have been cases with even closer
evidence than this," they warningly wrote, "in which the accused, by
some unexpected and apparently trivial turn in the testimony, has been
proven clearly innocent. In this case, while the evidence is strong, it
is difficult to imagine a motive. Mrs. Heathcote was much attached to
her husband; she was, besides, a beautiful, accomplished, and
fascinating woman. That a man should deliberately plan to murder such a
wife, merely in order to obtain possession of wealth which was already
practically his, is incredible; and until some more reasonable motive is
discovered, many will refuse to believe even the evidence."
Anne, reading this sentence, felt faint. So far the mysterious testimony
to which vague allusion had been made in the beginning had not been
brought forward; the time had been occupied by the evidence concerning
the events at Timloesville, and the questioning and cross-questioning of
the Timloesville witnesses. A "more reasonable motive." The veiled shape
that accompanied her seemed to assume more definite outline, and to grow
from Dread into Fear. And yet she could not tell of what she was
afraid.
The days passed, and she wondered how it was that she could still eat,
and sleep, and speak as usual, while her whole being was away in that
little Pennsylvania town. She did speak and teach as usual, but she did
not eat or sleep. Something besides food sustained her. Was it hope? Or
fear? Oh, why did not all the world cry out that he was not, could not
be guilty! Were people all mad, and deaf, and blind? She lived on in a
suspense which was like a continual endurance of suffocation, which yet
never quite attains the relief of death.
Miss Teller's lawyers labored with skill and vigilance; all that
talent--nay, more, genius--could do, they did. Their theory was that the
murder was committed by a third person, who entered Mrs. Heathcote's
room by the same outside stairway which her husband had used, after his
departure; and they defied the prosecution to prove that they were
wrong. In answer to this theory the prosecution presented certain facts,
namely: that Heathcote was seen entering by the outside stairway, and
that no one else was seen; that the impressions found there were those
of a left hand, and that Heathcote was at the time left-handed; that a
towel, marked with the name of the hotel and stained with blood, was
found on the river-bank at the end of a direct trail from the garden,
and that the chamber-maid testified that, whereas she had placed four
towels in the room a few hours before, there were in the morning but two
remaining, and that no others were missing from the whole number owned
by the hotel.
At this stage of the proceedings, Anne, sitting in her own room as usual
now in the evening, with one newspaper in her hand and the others
scattered on the floor by her side, heard a knock on the door below,
but, in her absorption, paid no attention to it. In a few moments,
however, Nora came up to say that Mr. Dexter was in the parlor, and
wished to see her.
Here was an unexpected trial. She had sent a short, carefully guarded
answer to his long letter, and he had not written again. It had been
comparatively easy to guard written words. But could she command those
that must be spoken? She bathed her face in cold water, and stood
waiting until she felt that she had called up a calmer expression; she
charged herself to guard every look, every word, even the tones of her
voice. Then she went down.
CHAPTER XXXII.
     "I can account for nothing you women do, although I have lived
     among you seventy-five years."--WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR.
As she entered the little parlor, Dexter came forward to meet her. "You
are looking very well," he said, almost reproachfully.
"I am very well," she answered. "And you?"
"Not well at all. What with the constant and harassing work I am doing,
and this horrible affair concerning poor Helen, I confess that I feel
worn and old. It is not often that I acknowledge either. I have been
busy in the city all day, and must return to my post on the midnight
train; but I had two or three hours to spare, and so I have come out to
see you. Before we say anything else, however, tell me about yourself.
How is it with you at present?"
Glad of a respite, she described to him, with more details than she had
hitherto thought necessary, her position, her pupils, and her daily
life. She talked rapidly, giving him no opportunity to speak; she hardly
knew herself as she went along. At last, however, he did break through
the stream of her words. "I am glad you find interest in these matters,"
he said, coldly. "With me it is different; I can think of nothing but
poor Helen."
It was come: now for self-control. All her words failed suddenly; she
could not speak.
"Are you not haunted by it?" he continued. "Do you not constantly see
her lying there asleep, that pale hair unbraided, those small helpless
hands bare of all their jewels--poor defenseless little hands, decked
only with the mockery of that wedding ring?"
He was gazing at the wall, as though it were all pictured there. Anne
made no reply, and after a pause he went on. "Helen was a fascinating
woman; but she was, or could be if she chose, an intensely exasperating
woman as well. I am no coward; I think I may say the reverse; but I
would rather be alone with a tigress than with such a woman as she would
have been, if roused to jealous fury. She would not have stirred, she
would not have raised her voice, but she would have spoken words that
would have stung like asps and cut like Damascus blades. No devil would
have shown in that kind of torment greater ingenuity. I am a
self-controlled man, yet I can imagine Helen Lorrington driving me, if
she had tried, into such a state of frenzy that I should hardly know
what I was doing. In such a case I should end, I think, by crushing her
in my arms, and fairly strangling the low voice that taunted me. But--I
could never have stabbed her in her sleep!"
Again he paused, and again Anne kept silence. But he did not notice it;
he was absorbed in his own train of thought.
"It is a relief to speak of this to you," he continued, "for you knew
Helen, and Heathcote also. Do you know I can imagine just how she worked
upon him; how that fair face and those narrow eyes of hers wrought their
deadly darts. Her very want of strength was an accessory; for if she
could have risen and struck him, if she had been capable of any such
strong action, the exasperation would have been less. But that a
creature so helpless, one whose slight form he had been used to carry
about the house in his arms, one who could not walk far unaided--that
such a creature should lie there, in all her delicate beauty, and with
barbed words deliberately torment him-- Anne, I can imagine a rush of
madness which might well end in murder and death. But not a plot. If he
had killed her in a passion, and then boldly avowed the deed, giving
himself up, I should have had some sympathy with him, in spite of the
horror of the deed. But to arrange the method of his crime (as he
evidently tried to do) so that he would not be discovered, but be
enabled quietly to inherit her money--bah! I almost wish I were the
hangman myself! Out on the border he would have been lynched long ago."
His listener still remained mute, but a little fold of flesh inside her
lips was bitten through by her clinched teeth in the effort she made to
preserve that muteness.
It seemed to have been a relief to Dexter to let out those strong words.
He paused, turned toward Anne, and for the first time noted her dress.
"Are you in mourning?" he asked, doubtfully, looking at the unbroken
black of her attire.
"It is the same dress I have worn for several months."
He did not know enough of the details of a woman's garb to see that the
change came from the absence of white at the throat and wrists. After
Helen's death poor Anne had sewed black lace in her plain black gown; it
was the only mourning she could allow herself.
The moment was now come when she must say something. Dexter, his
outburst over, was leaning back in his chair, looking at her. "Miss
Teller has gone to Multomah, I believe," she remarked, neutrally.
"Yes; singularly enough, she believes him innocent. I heard, while in
the city to-day, that the Varces and Bannerts and others of that set
believe it also, and are all at Multomah 'for the moral effect.' For the
moral effect!" He threw back his head and laughed scornfully. "I wish I
had time to run up there myself," he added, "to dwell upon the moral
effect of all those fine ladies. However, the plain American people have
formed their own opinion of this case, and are not likely to be moved by
such influences. They understand. This very evening, on the train, I
heard a mechanic say, 'If the jurymen were only fine ladies, now, that
Heathcote would get off yet.'"
"How can you repeat such words?" said the girl, blazing out suddenly and
uncontrollably, as a fire which has been long smothered bursts into
sudden and overpowering flame at the last.
"Of course it is bad taste to jest on such a subject. I only-- Why, Anne,
what is the matter?" For she had risen and was standing before him, her
eyes brilliant with an expression which was almost hate.
"You believe that he did it?" she said.
"I do."
"And I do not! You say that Helen taunted him, that she drove him
into a frenzy; you imagine the scene, and picture its details. Know that
Helen loved him with her whole heart. Whatever she may have been to you,
to him she was utterly devoted, living upon his words and his smile. She
esteemed herself blessed simply to be near him--in his presence; and, on
that very night, she said that no wife was ever so happy, and that on
her knees she had thanked her Creator for that which made her life one
long joy."
Gregory Dexter's face had showed the profoundest wonder while the
excited girl was speaking, but by the time she ceased he had, in his
quick way, grasped something of the truth, unexpected and astonishing
though it was.
"You know this?" he said. "Then she wrote to you."
"Yes."
"On the evening of her death?"
"Yes."
"Bagshot testifies that when she left the room, at nine, Mrs. Heathcote
was writing. Was that this letter to you?"
"I presume it was."
"When and how was it mailed? Or rather, what is the date of the
postmark?"
"The next morning."
Dexter looked at her searchingly. "This may prove to be very important,"
he said.
"I know it--now."
"Why have you not spoken before?"
"To whom could I speak? Besides, it has not seemed important to me until
now; for no one has suggested that she did not love her husband, that
she tormented him and drove him into fury, save yourself alone."
"You will see that others will suggest it also," said Dexter, unmoved by
her scorn. "Are you prepared to produce this letter?"
"I have it."
"Can I see it?"
"I would rather not show it."
"There is determined concealment here somewhere, Anne, and I am much
troubled; I fear you stand very near great danger. Remember that this is
a serious matter, and ordinary rules should be set aside, ordinary
feelings sacrificed. You will do well to show me that letter, and, in
short, to tell me the whole truth plainly. Do you think you have any
friend more steadfast than myself?"
"You are kind. But--you are prejudiced."
"Against Heathcote, do you mean?" said Dexter, a sudden flash coming for
an instant into his gray eyes. "Is it possible that you, you too, are
interested in that man?"
But at this touch upon her heart the girl controlled herself again. She
resumed her seat, with her face turned toward the window. "I do not
believe that he did it, and you do," she answered, quietly. "That makes
a wide separation between us."
But for the moment the man who sat opposite had forgotten the present,
to ask himself, with the same old inward wonder and anger, why it was
that this other man, who had never done anything or been anything in his
life, who had never denied himself, never worked, never accomplished
anything--why it was that such a man as this had led captive Helen,
Rachel, and now perhaps Anne. If it had been a case of great personal
beauty, he could have partially accounted for it, and--scorned it. But
it was not. Many a face was more regularly handsome than Heathcote's; he
knew that he himself would be pronounced by the majority a handsomer,
although of course older, man. But when he realized that he was going
over this same old bitter ground, by a strong effort of will he stopped
himself and returned to reality. Heathcote's power, whatever it was, and
angry as it made him, was nevertheless a fact, and Dexter never
contradicted facts. With his accurate memory, he now went back and took
up Anne's last answer. "You say I believe it. It is true," he said,
turning toward her (he had been sitting with his eyes cast down during
this whirl of feeling); "but my belief is not founded upon prejudice, as
you seem to think. It rests upon the evidence. Let us go over the
evidence together: women are sometimes intuitively right, even against
reason."
"I can not go over it."
But he persisted. "It would be better," he said, determined to draw the
whole truth from her, if not in one way, then in another. For he
realized how important it was that she should have an adviser.
She looked up and met his eyes; they were kind but unyielding. "Very
well," she said, making an effort to do even this. She leaned back in
her chair and folded her hands: people could endure, then, more than
they knew.
Dexter, not giving her a moment's delay, began immediately: his object
was to rouse her and draw her out. "We will take at first simply the
testimony," he said. "I have the main points here in my note-book. We
will even suppose that we do not know the persons concerned, but think
of them as strangers." He went over the evidence clearly and briefly.
Then the theories. "Note," he said, "the difference. On one side we have
a series of facts, testified to by a number of persons. On the other, a
series of possibilities, testified to by no one save the prisoner
himself. The defense is a theory built to fit the case, without one
proof, no matter how small, as a foundation."
Anne had not stirred. Her eyes were turned away, gazing into the
darkness of the garden. Dexter closed his note-book, and returned it to
his pocket.
"They have advanced no further in the real trial," he said; "but you and
I will now drop our rôle of strangers, and go on. We know him; we knew
her. Can we think of any cause which would account for such an act? Was
there any reason why Ward Heathcote would have been relieved by the
death of his wife?"
Anne remained silent.
"The common idea that he wished to have sole control of her wealth will
hardly, I think, be received by those who have personally known him,"
continued Dexter. "He never cared for money. He was, in my opinion,
ostentatiously indifferent to it." Here he paused to control the tone of
his voice, which was growing bitter. "I repeat--can you imagine any
other reason?" he said. Still she did not answer.
"Why do you not answer? I shall begin to suspect that you do."
At this she stirred a little, and he was satisfied. He had moved her
from her rigidity. Not wishing to alarm her, he went on, tentatively:
"My theory of the motive you are not willing to allow; still, I consider
it a possible and even probable one. For they were not happy: he was
not happy. Beautiful as she was, rich as she was, I was told, when I
first came eastward in the spring, soon after their marriage, that had
it not been for that accident and the dangerous illness that followed,
Helen Lorrington would never have been Ward Heathcote's wife."
"Who told you this?" said Anne, turning toward him.
"I did not hear it from her, but it came from her--Rachel Bannert."
"She is a traitorous woman."
"Yes; but traitors betray--the truth."
He was watching her closely; she felt it, and turned toward the window
again, so that he should not see her eyes.
"Suppose that he did not love her, but had married her under the
influence of pity, when her life hung by a thread; suppose that she
loved him--you say she did. Can you not imagine that there might have
been moments when she tormented him beyond endurance concerning his past
life--who knows but his present also? She was jealous; and she had
wonderful ingenuity. But I doubt if you comprehend what I mean: a woman
never knows a woman as a man knows her. And Heathcote was not patient.
He is a self-indulgent man--a man who has been completely spoiled."
Again he paused. Then he could not resist bringing forward something
else, under any circumstances, to show her that she was of no
consequence in the case compared with another person. "It is whispered,
I hear, that the maid will testify that there was a motive, and a strong
one, namely, a rival; that there was another woman whom Heathcote really
loved, and that Helen knew this, and used the knowledge."
The formless dread which accompanied Anne began now to assume
definite outline and draw nearer. She gazed at her inquisitor with eyes
full of dumb distress.
He rose, and took her cold hands in his. "Child," he said, earnestly, "I
beseech you tell me all. It will be so much better for you, so much
safer. You are suffering intensely. I have seen it all the evening. Can
you not trust me?"
She still looked at him in silence, while the tears rose, welled over,
and rolled slowly down.
"Can you not trust me?" he repeated.
She shook her head.
"But as you have told me something, why not tell me all?"
"I am afraid to tell all," she whispered.
"For yourself?"
"No."
"For him, then?"
"Yes."
He clinched his hand involuntarily as he heard this answer. Her pale
face and agitation were all for him, then--for Ward Heathcote!
"You are really shaken by fear," he said. "I know its signs, or rather
those of dread. It is pure dread which has possession of you now. How
unlike you, Anne! How unlike yourself you are at this moment!"
But she cared nothing for herself, nothing for the scorn in his voice
(the jealous are often loftily scornful), and he saw that she did not.
"Whom do you fear? The maid?"
"Yes."
"What can she say?"
"I do not know; and yet--"
"Is it possible--can it be possible, Anne, that you are the person
implicated, the so-called rival?"
"I do not know; and it is because I do not know that I am so much
afraid," she answered, still in the same low whisper.
"But why should you take this possibility upon yourself? Ward Heathcote
is no Sir Galahad, Heaven knows. Probably at this moment twenty women
are trembling as you are trembling, fearing lest they be called by
name, and forced forward before the world."
He spoke with anger. Anne did not contradict him, but she leaned her
head upon her hand weariedly, and closed her eyes.
"How can I leave you?" he said, breaking into his old kindness again. "I
ought to go, but it is like leaving a girl in the hands of torturers. If
there were only some one to be with you here until all this is over!"
"There is no one. I want no one."
"You puzzle me deeply," he said, walking up and down with troubled
anxiety. "I can form no opinion as to whether your dread is purely
imaginary or not, because you tell me nothing. If you were an ordinary
woman, I should not give much thought to what you say--or rather to what
you look, for you say nothing; but you are not ordinary. You are
essentially brave, and you have fewer of the fantastic, irrelevant
fancies of women than any girl I have ever known. There must be
something, then, to fear, since you fear so intensely. I like you,
Anne; I respect you. I admire you too, more than you know. You are so
utterly alone in this trouble that I can not desert you. And I will
not."
"Do not stay on my account."
"But I shall. That is, in the city; it is decided. Here is my address.
Promise that if you should wish help or advice in any way--mark that I
say, in any way--you will send me instantly a dispatch."
"I will."
"There is nothing more that I can do for you?"
"Nothing."
"And nothing that you will tell me? Think well, child."
"Nothing."
Then, as it was late, he made her renew her promise, and went away.
The next morning the package of newspapers was brought to Anne from the
station at an early hour as usual. She was in her own room waiting for
them. She watched the boy coming along the road, and felt a sudden
thrill of anger when he stopped to throw a stone at a bird. To stop
with that in his hand! Old Nora brought up the package. Anne took it,
and closed the door. Then she sat down to read.
Half an hour later, Gregory Dexter received a telegraphic dispatch from
Lancaster. "Come immediately. A. D."
CHAPTER XXXIII.
    "He was first always. Fortune
         Shone bright in his face.
     I fought for years; with no effort
         He conquered the place.
     We ran; my feet were all bleeding,
         But he won the race.
     "My home was still in the shadow;
         His lay in the sun.
     I longed in vain; what he asked for,
         It straightway was done.
     Once I staked all my heart's treasure;
         We played--and he won!"
     --ADELAIDE PROCTER.
When the dispatch came, Dexter had not yet seen the morning papers. He
ate his breakfast hastily, and on the way to the station and on the
train he read them with surprise and a tumultuous mixture of other
feelings, which he did not stop then to analyze. Mrs. Bagshot had been
brought forward a second time by the prosecution, and had testified to
an extraordinary conversation which had taken place between Mrs.
Heathcote and an unknown young girl on the morning after the news of
Captain Heathcote's death in the Shenandoah Valley had been received,
parts of which (the conversation) she, in an adjoining room, had
overheard. He had barely time to grasp the tenor of the evidence (which
was voluminous and interrupted by many questions) when the train reached
Lancaster, and he found Li in waiting with the red wagon. All Li could
tell was that Miss Douglas was "going on a journey." She was "all ready,
with her bonnet on."
In the little parlor he found her, walking up and down, as he had
walked during the preceding evening. White as her face was, there was a
new expression in her eyes--an expression of energy. In some way she had
reached a possibility of action, and consequently a relief. When he had
entered, with a rapid motion she closed the doors. "Have you read it?"
she said.
"You mean the new testimony? Yes; I read it as I came out."
"And you understood, of course, that it was I?"
"I feared it might be."
"And you see that I must go immediately to Multomah?"
"By heavens! no. I see nothing of the kind. Rather should you hasten as
far away as possible--to England, Germany--some distant spot where you
can safely rest until all danger, danger of discovery, is over."
"So you believe it also!" cried the girl, with scathing emphasis. "You
believe and condemn! Believe that garbled, distorted story; condemn,
when you only know half! Like all the rest of the world, you are in
haste to believe, glad to believe, the worst--in haste to join the hue
and cry against a hunted man."
She stood in the centre of the room, her form drawn up to its full
height, her eyes flashing. She looked inspired--inspired with anger and
scorn.
"Then it is garbled?" said Dexter, finding time even at that moment to
admire her beauty, which had never before been so striking.
"It is. And I must go to Multomah and give the true version. Tell me
what train to take."
"First tell me, Anne; tell me the whole story. Let me hear it before
you give it to the world. Surely there can be no objection to my knowing
it now."
"There is no objection; but I can not lose the time. I must start."
A travelling-bag stood on the table beside her shawl and gloves; the red
wagon was waiting outside. He comprehended that nothing would stop her,
and took his measures accordingly.
"I can arrange everything for you, and I will, and without the least
delay. But first you must tell me the whole," he said, sitting down and
folding his arms. "I will not work in the dark. As to time, the loss of
an hour is nothing compared with the importance of gaining my
co-operation, for the moment I am convinced, I will telegraph to the
court-room itself, and stop proceedings until you arrive. With my help,
my name, my influence, behind you, you can accomplish anything. But what
could you do alone? You would be misunderstood, misrepresented,
subjected to doubt, suspicion, perhaps insult. Have you thought of
this?"
"I mind nothing if I can but save him."
"But if you can save him more effectually with my assistance?"
"How can that be, when you dislike, suspect him?"
"Do you wish to drive me into a rage? Can I not be just to Ward
Heathcote whether I like him or not, suspect him or not? Yes, even
though I believe him to be guilty? Try me. If I promise to go with you
to Multomah to-day, even if I think your presence there will be of no
avail, will that induce you?"
"Yes."
"Then I promise."
Without pausing, she sat down by the table, taking a newspaper from her
pocket. "You have one," she said; "please follow me in the one you have.
When I saw the notice of his death, I went immediately to Helen. This
woman Bagshot testifies that she was in the next room. I am positive
that at first both the doors of Helen's room were closed; Bagshot,
therefore, must have slightly opened one of them afterward unobserved by
us. There was a curtain hanging partly over this door, but only partly;
she could have opened it, therefore, but slightly, or we should have
noticed the change. This accounts for the little that she caught--only
those sentences that were spoken in an elevated voice, for Helen's room
is large. It will shorten the story, I think, if we read the summary on
the editorial page." And in a clear voice she read as follows: "'Our
readers will remember that at the beginning of the Heathcote trial we
expressed the opinion that until some more probable motive for the deed
than the desire to obtain control of wealth already practically his own
was discovered in connection with the accused, the dispassionate
observer would refuse to believe his guilt, despite the threatening
nature of the evidence. This motive appears now to have been supplied.'
In another column parts of a remarkable conversation are given,
overheard by the witness Bagshot--a conversation between Mrs. Heathcote
and an unknown and beautiful young girl, who came to the house on the
morning after the announcement of Captain Heathcote's death in the
Shenandoah Valley, and before the contradiction of the same had been
received. This young girl was a stranger to the man Simpson, who opened
the front door, and Simpson has been in Mrs. Heathcote's service for
some time. He testifies that she was denied entrance, Mrs. Heathcote not
being able to see any one. She then tore a leaf from her note-book,
wrote a line upon it, and requested him to carry it to his mistress,
adding that she thought Mrs. Heathcote would see her. As intimate
friends had already been refused, Simpson was incredulous, but performed
his duty. To his surprise, Mrs. Heathcote sent Bagshot to say that the
stranger was to come to her immediately, and accordingly she was ushered
up stairs, and the door closed. Upon being questioned as to what the
line of writing was, Simpson replied that he did not read it. Bagshot,
however, testifies that, in accordance with her duty, she cast her eye
over it, and that it contained the following words: "Do let me come to
you. Crystal." The word "Crystal" was a signature, and Mrs. Heathcote
seemed to recognize it. Bagshot testifies that the visitor was young and
beautiful, although plainly, almost poorly, dressed, and that she
remained with Mrs. Heathcote nearly two hours. Very soon after her
departure the telegraphic dispatch was received announcing Captain
Heathcote's safety, and then the wife started on that fatal journey
which was to end in death.
"'This woman, Bagshot, so far the most important witness in the case,
testifies that she heard only parts of the conversation--a few detached
sentences which were spoken in an elevated tone. But, disconnected as
the phrases are, they are brimming with significance. The important
parts of her story are as follows: First, she heard Mrs. Heathcote say,
"I shall never rest until you tell me all!" Second, that she cried out
excitedly: "You have robbed me of his love. I will never forgive you."
Third, that she said, rapidly and in a high, strained voice: "Since he
saw you he has never loved me; I see it now. He married me from pity, no
doubt thinking that I was near death. How many times he must have wished
me dead indeed! I wonder that he has not murdered me." Fourth, that
later she said: "Yes, he has borne it so far, and now he is dead. But if
he were alive, I should have taunted him with it. Do you hear? I say I
should have taunted him." Fifth (and most remarkable of all), that this
stranger made a strong and open avowal of her own love for the dead man,
the extraordinary words of which are given in another column. There are
several other sentences, but they are unfinished and comparatively
unimportant.
"'The intelligent observer will not fail to note the significance of
this testimony, which bears upon the case not only by supplying a motive
for the deed, but also, possibly, its immediate cause, in the words of
the deeply roused and jealous wife: "I should have taunted him with it.
I say I should have taunted him."
"'The witness has been subjected to the closest cross-questioning; it
seems impossible to confuse her, or to shake her evidence in the
slightest degree. Divest her testimony of all comment and theory, and it
still remains as nearly conclusive as any evidence, save ocular, can be.
She it is who saw the prisoner enter his wife's room by stealth shortly
before the murder; she it is who overheard the avowal of the rival, the
rage and bitter jealousy of the wife, and her declaration that if her
husband had lived she would have made known to him her discovery, and
taunted him with it.
"'He did live; the report of his death was a mistake. It is more than
probable that the wife carried out her threat.'"
Here Anne paused and laid the newspaper down; she was composed and
grave.
"I will now tell you," she said, lifting her eyes to Dexter's face,
"what really occurred and what really was said. As I stated before, upon
seeing the announcement of her husband's death, I went to Helen. I wrote
upon a slip of paper the line you have heard, and signed the name by
which she always called me. As I had hoped, she consented to see me, and
this woman, Bagshot, took me up stairs to her room. We were alone. Both
doors were closed at first, I know; we supposed that they remained
closed all the time. I knelt down by the low couch and took her in my
arms. I kissed her, and stroked her hair. I could not cry; neither could
she. I sorrowed over her in silence. For some time we did not speak. But
after a while, with a long sigh, she said, 'Anne, I deceived him about
the name in the marriage notice--Angélique; I let him think that it was
you.' I said, 'It is of no consequence,' but she went on. She said that
after that summer at Caryl's she had noticed a change in him, but that
she did not think of me; she thought only of Rachel Bannert. But when he
brought her the marriage notice, and asked if it were I, in an instant
an entirely new suspicion leaped into her heart, roused by something in
the tone of his voice: she always judged him by his voice. From that
moment, she said, she had never been free from the jealous apprehension
that he had loved me; and then, looking at me as she lay in my arms, she
asked, 'But he never did, did he?'
"If I could have evaded her then, perhaps we should both have been
spared all that followed, for we both suffered deeply. But I did not
know how; I answered: 'He had fancies, Helen; I may have been one of
them. But only for a short time. You were his wife.' And then I asked
her if her married life had not been happy.
"'Yes, yes,' she answered. 'I worshipped him.' And as she said this she
began at last to sob, and the first tears she had shed flowed from her
eyes, which had been so dulled and narrowed that they had looked dead.
But she had not been satisfied, and later she came back to the subject
again. She did it suddenly; seizing my arm, and lifting herself up, she
cried out quickly that first sentence overheard by Bagshot--'I shall
never rest until you tell me all!' Then, in a beseeching tone, she
added: 'Do not keep it from me. I know that he did not love me as I
loved him; still, he loved me, and I--was content. What you have to
tell, therefore, can not hurt me, for--I was content. Then speak, Anne,
speak.'
"I tried to quiet her, but she clung to me entreatingly. 'Tell me--tell
me all,' she begged. 'When they bring him home, and I see his still face
lying in the coffin, I want to stand beside him with my hand upon his
breast, and whisper that I know all, understand all, forgive all, if
there were anything to forgive. Anne, he will be glad to hear that--yes,
even in death; for I loved him--love him--with all my soul, and he must
know it now, there where he has gone. With all my imperfections, my
follies, my deceptions, I loved him--loved him--loved him.' She began to
weep, and I too burst into tears. It seemed to me also that he would
be glad to hear that sentence of hers, that forgiveness. And so, judging
her by myself, I did tell her all."
She paused, and her voice trembled, as though in another moment it would
break into sobs.
"What did you tell her?" said Dexter. He was leaning back in his chair,
his face divested of all expression save a rigid impartiality.
"Must I repeat it?"
"Of course, if I am to know all."
"I told her that at Caryl's we had been much together," she began, with
downcast eyes; "that, after a while, he made himself seem much nearer to
me by--by speaking of--by asking me about--sacred things--I mean a
religious belief." (Here her listener's face showed a quick gleam of
angry contempt, but she did not see it.) "Then, after this, one morning
in the garden, when I was in great trouble, he--spoke to me--in another
way. And when I went away from Caryl's he followed me, and we were
together on a train during one day; mademoiselle was with us. At evening
I left the train with mademoiselle: he did not know where we went. At
this time I was engaged to Erastus Pronando. In August of the next
summer I went to West Virginia to assist in the hospitals for a short
time. Here, unexpectedly, I heard of him lying ill at a farm-house in
the neighborhood; I did not even know that he was in the army. I went
across the mountain to see if he were in good hands, and found him very
ill; he did not know me. When the fever subsided, there were a few
hours--during which there was a--deception, followed by a confession of
the same, and separation. He was to go back to his wife, and he did go
back to her. It was because I believed that he had so fully gone back to
her--or rather that he had never left her, I having been but a passing
fancy--that I told Helen all. She suspected something; it was better
that she should know the whole--should know how short-lived had been his
interest in me, his forgetfulness of her. But instead of making this
impression upon her, it roused in her a passion of excitement. It was
then that she exclaimed: 'You have robbed me of his love; I will never
forgive you'--the second sentence overheard by that listening spy.
"'Helen,' I answered, 'he did not love me. Do you not see that? I am
the one humiliated. When I saw you with him at St. Lucien's Church, I
knew that he loved you--probably had never loved any one save you.'
"I believed what I said. But this is what she answered: 'It is not true.
Since he saw you he has never loved me. I see it now. He married me from
pity, no doubt thinking that I was near death. How many times he must
have wished me dead indeed! I wonder that he has not murdered me.'
"This, also, Bagshot heard, for Helen had risen to her feet, and spoke
in a high, strained voice, unlike her own. I put my arms round her and
drew her down again. She struggled, but I would not let her go.
"'Helen,' I said, 'you are beside yourself. You were his wife, and you
were happy. That one look I had in church showed me that you were.'
"She relapsed into stillness. After a while she looked up, and said,
quietly, 'It is a good thing he is dead.'
"'Hush!' I answered; 'you do not know what you are saying.'
"'Yes, I do. It is a good thing that he is dead,' she repeated; 'for I
should have found it out, and made his life a torment. And I should
never have died; it would have determined me never to die. I should have
lived on forever, an old, old woman, close to him always, so that he
could not have you.'
"She seemed half mad; I think, at the moment, she was half mad, owing to
the shock, and to the dumb grief which was consuming her.
"'It would have been a strange life we should have led,' she went on. 'I
would not have left him even for a moment; he should have put on my
shawl and carried me to and fro just the same, and I should have kissed
him always when he went out and came in, as though we loved each other.
I know his nature. It is--O God! I mean it was--the kind I could have
worked upon. He was generous, very tender to all women; he would have
yielded to me always, so far as bearing silently all my torments to the
last.'"
Here Dexter interrupted the speaker. "You will acknowledge now what I
said concerning her?"
"No," replied Anne; "Helen imagined it all. She could never have carried
it out. She loved him too deeply."
Her eyes met his defiantly. The old feeling that he was an antagonist
rose in her face for a moment, met by a corresponding retort in his.
Then they both dropped their glance, and she resumed her narrative.
"It was here that she cried out, 'Yes, he has borne it so far, and now
he is dead. But if he were alive, I should have taunted him with it. Do
you hear? I say I should have taunted him.' This also Bagshot overheard.
And then--" She paused.
"And then?" repeated Dexter, his eyes full upon her face.
"She grew calmer," said the girl, turning her face from him, and
speaking for the first time hurriedly; "she even kissed me. 'You were
always good and true,' she said. 'But it was easy to be good and true,
if you did not love him.' I suppose she felt my heart throb suddenly
(she was lying in my arms), for she sprang up, and wound her arms round
my neck, bringing her eyes close to mine. Did you love him? she asked.
'Tell me--tell me; it will do no harm now.'
"But I drew myself out of her grasp, although she clung to me. I crossed
the room. She followed me. 'Tell me,' she whispered; 'I shall not mind
it. Indeed, I wish that you did love him, that you do love him, for
then we would mourn for him together. I can be jealous of his love for
you, but not of yours for him, poor child. Tell me, Anne; tell me. I
long to know that you are miserable too.' She was leaning on me: in
truth, she was too weak to stand alone. She clung to me in the old
caressing way. 'Tell me,' she whispered. But I set my lips. Then, still
clinging to me, her eyes fixed on mine, she said that I could not love;
that I did not know what love meant; that I never would know, because my
nature was too calm, too measured. She spoke other deriding words, which
I will not repeat; and then--and then--I do not know how it came about,
but I pushed her from me, with her whispering voice and shining eyes,
and spoke out aloud (we were standing near that door) those words--those
words which Bagshot has repeated."
"You said those words?"
"I did."
"Then you loved him?"
"Yes."
"Do you love him now?"
As Dexter asked this question his eyes were fixed upon her with a
strange intentness. At first she met his gaze with the same absorbed
expression unconscious of self which her face had worn from the
beginning. Then a burning blush rose, spread itself over her forehead,
and dyed even her throat before it faded. "You have no right to ask
that," she said, returning to her narrative with haste, as though it
were a refuge.
"After I had said those words, there was no more bitterness between us.
I think then Helen forgave me. She asked me to come and live with her
in her desolation. I answered that perhaps later I could come, but not
then; and it was at this time that she said, not what Bagshot has
reported, 'You can not conquer hate,' but, 'You can not conquer fate.'
And she added: 'We two must be together, Anne; we are bound by a tie
which can not be severed, even though we may wish it. You must bear with
me, and I must suffer you. It is our fate.'
"Later, she grew more feverish; her strength was exhausted. But when at
last I rose to go, she went with me to the door. 'If he had lived,' she
said, 'one of us must have died.' Then her voice sank to a whisper.
'Changed or died,' she added. 'And as we are not the kind of women who
change, it would have ended in the wearing out of the life of one of
us--the one who loved the most. And people would have called it by some
other name, and that would have been the end. But now it is he who has
been taken, and--oh! I can not bear it--I can not, can not bear it!'"
She paused; her eyes were full of tears.
"Is that all?" said Dexter, coldly.
"That is all."
Then there was a silence.
"Do you not think it important?" she asked at last, with a new timidity
in her voice.
"It will make an impression; it will be your word against Bagshot's. The
point proved will be that instead of your having separated in anger,
with words of bitterness and jealousy, you separated in peace, as
friends. Her letter will be important, if it proves this."
"It does. I have also another--a little note telling me of her husband's
safety, and dropped into a letter-box on her way to the train. And I
have the locket she gave me on the day of our last interview. She took
it from her own neck and clasped it round mine a moment before I left
her."
"Did Bagshot know of the existence of this locket?"
"She must have known it. For Helen said she always wore it; and Bagshot
dressed her daily."
"Will you let me see it? And the two letters also, if they are here?"
"They are up stairs. I will get them."
What he wished to find out was whether she wore the locket. She came
back so soon that he said to himself she could not have had it on--there
had not been time to remove it; besides, as he held it in his hand it
was not warm. He read the two letters carefully. Then he took up the
locket again and examined it. It was a costly trinket, set with
diamonds; within was a miniature, a life-like picture of Helen's
husband.
He looked at his rival silently. The man was in prison, charged with the
highest crime in the catalogue of crimes, and Dexter believed him
guilty. Yet it was, all the same, above all and through all, the face of
his rival still--of his triumphant, successful rival.
He laid down the locket, rose, and went over to Anne.
She was standing by the window, much dejected that he had not been more
impressed by the importance of that which she had revealed. She looked
up as he came near.
"Anne," he said, "I have promised to take you to Multomah, and I will
keep my promise, if you insist. But have you considered that if you
correct and restate Bagshot's testimony in all the other points, you
will also be required to acknowledge the words of that confession?"
"Yes, I know it," she murmured, turning toward the window again.
"It can not but be horribly repugnant to you. Think how you will be
talked about, misunderstood. The newspapers will be black with your
name; it will go through the length and breadth of the land accompanied
with jests, and possibly with worse than jests. Anne, look up; listen to
what I am going to say. Marry me, Anne; marry me to-day; and go on the
witness stand--if go you must--as my wife."
She gazed at him, her eyes widened with surprise.
He took her hands, and began to plead. "It is a strange time in which to
woo you; but it is a strange ordeal which you have to go through. As my
wife, no one will dare to insult you or to misconstrue your evidence;
for your marriage will have given the lie beforehand to the worst
comment that can be made, namely, that you still love Heathcote, and
hope, if he is acquitted, to be his wife. It will be said that you loved
him once, but that this tragedy has changed the feeling, and you will be
called noble in coming forward of your own accord to acknowledge an
avowal which must be now painful to you in the extreme. The 'unknown
young girl' will be unknown no longer, when she comes forward as Gregory
Dexter's wife, with Gregory Dexter by her side to give her, in the eyes
of all men, his proud protection and respect."
Anne's face responded to the warm earnestness of these words: she had
never felt herself so powerfully drawn toward him as at that moment.
"As to love, Anne," he continued, his voice softening, "do not fancy
that I am feigning anything when I say that I do love you. The feeling
has grown up unconsciously. I shall love you very dearly when you are my
wife; you could command me, child, to almost any extent. As for your
feeling toward me--marry me, and I will make you love me." He drew her
toward him. "I am not too old, too old for you, am I?" he said, gently.
"It is not that," she answered, in deep distress. "Oh, why, why have you
said this?"
"Well, because I am fond of you, I suppose," said Dexter, smiling. He
thought she was yielding.
"You do not understand," she said, breaking from him. "You are generous
and kind, the best friend I have ever had, and it is for that reason, if
for no other, that I would never wrong you by marrying you, because--"
"Because?" repeated Dexter.
"Because I still love him."
"Heathcote?"
"Yes."
His face changed sharply, yet he continued his urging. "Even if you do
love him, you would not marry him now."
She did not answer.
"You would not marry him with poor Helen's blood between you?"
"It is not between us. He is innocent."
"But if, after escaping conviction, it should yet be made clear to
you--perhaps to you alone--that he was guilty, then would you marry
him?"
"No. But the very greatness of his crime would make him in a certain way
sacred to me on account of the terrible remorse and anguish he would
have to endure."
"A good way to punish criminals," said Dexter, bitterly. "To give them
your love and your life, and make them happy."
"He would not be happy; he would be a wretched man through every moment
of his life, and die a wretched death. Whatever forgiveness might come
in another world, there would be none in this. Helen herself would wish
me to be his friend."
"For the ultra-refinement of self-deception, give me a woman," said
Dexter, with even deepened bitterness.
"But why do we waste time and words?" continued Anne. Then seeing him
take up his hat and turn toward the door, she ran to him and seized his
arm. "You are not going?" she cried, abandoning the subject with a
quick, burning anxiety which told more than all the rest. "Will you not
take me, as you promised, to Multomah?"
"You still ask me to take you there?"
"Yes, yes."
"What do you think a man is made of?" he said, throwing down his hat,
but leaving her, and walking across to the window.
Anne followed him. "Mr. Dexter," she said, standing behind him,
shrinkingly, so that he could not see her, "would you wish me to marry
you when I love--love him, as I said, in those words which you have
read, and--even more?" Her face was crimson, her voice broken, her hands
were clasped so tightly that the red marks of the pressure were visible.
He turned and looked at her. Her face told even more than her words. All
his anger faded; it seemed to him then that he was the most unfortunate
man in the whole world. He took her in his arms, and kissed her sadly.
"I yield, child," he said. "Think of it no more. But, oh, Anne, Anne, if
it could but have been! Why does he have everything, and I nothing?" He
bowed his head over hers as it lay on his breast, and stood a moment;
then he released her, went to the door, and breathed the outside air in
silence.
Closing it, he turned and came toward her again, and in quite another
tone said, "Are you ready? If you are, we will go to the city, and start
as soon as possible for Multomah."
CHAPTER XXXIV.
    "Then she rode forth, clothed on with chastity:
     The deep air listen'd round her as she rode,
     And all the low wind hardly breathed for fear.
     The little wide-mouth'd heads upon the spout
     Had cunning eyes to see: the barking cur
     Made her cheeks flame: ... the blind walls
     Were full of chinks and holes; and overhead
     Fantastic gables, crowding, stared: but she
     Not less thro' all bore up."--TENNYSON.
Gregory Dexter kept his word. He telegraphed to Miss Teller and to Miss
Teller's lawyers. He thought of everything, even recalling to Anne's
mind that she ought to write to her pupils and to the leader of the
choir, telling them that she expected to be absent from the city for
several days. "It would be best to resign all the places at once," he
said. "After this is over, they can easily come back to you if they wish
to do so."
"It may make a difference, then, in my position?" said Anne.
"It will make the difference that you will no longer be an unknown
personage," he answered, briefly.
His dispatch had produced a profound sensation of wonder in the mind of
Miss Teller, and excitement in the minds of Miss Teller's lawyers.
Helen's aunt, so far, had not been able to form a conjecture as to the
identity of the mysterious young girl who had visited her niece, and
borne part in that remarkable conversation; Bagshot's description
brought no image before her mind. The acquaintance with Anne Douglas,
the school-girl at Madame Moreau's was such a short, unimportant, and
now distant episode in the brilliant, crowded life of her niece that
she had forgotten it, or at least never thought of it in this
connection. She had never heard Helen call Anne "Crystal." Her
imagination was fixed upon a girl of the lower class, beautiful, and
perhaps in her way even respectable--"one of those fancies which," she
acknowledged, "gentlemen sometimes have," the tears gathering in her
pale eyes as she spoke, so repugnant was the idea to her, although she
tried to accept it for Heathcote's sake. But how could Helen have known
a girl of this sort? Was this, too, one of those concealed trials which
wives of "men of the world" were obliged to endure?
Neither did Isabel or Rachel think of Anne. To them she had been but a
school-girl, and they had not seen her or heard of her since that summer
at Caryl's; she had passed out of their remembrance as entirely as out
of their vision. Their idea of Helen's unknown visitor was similar to
that which occupied the mind of Miss Teller. And in their hearts they
had speculated upon the possibility of using money with such a person,
inducing her to come forward, name herself, and deny Bagshot's testimony
point-blank, or at least the dangerous portions of it. It could not
matter much to a girl of that sort what she had to say, provided she
were well paid for it.
Miss Teller and the lawyers were waiting to receive Anne, when, late in
the evening, she arrived, accompanied by Mr. Dexter. The lawyers had to
give way first to Miss Teller.
"Oh, Anne, dear child!" she cried, embracing the young girl warmly; "I
never dreamed it was you. And you have come all this way to help us! I
do not in the least understand how; but never mind--never mind. God
bless you!" She sobbed as she spoke. Then seeing Dexter, who was
standing at some distance, she called him to her, and blessed him also.
He received her greeting in silence. He had brought Anne, but he was in
no mood to appreciate benedictions.
And now the lawyers stepped forward, arranging chairs at the table in a
suggestive way, opening papers, and consulting note-books. Anne looked
toward Dexter for directions; his eyes told her to seat herself in one
of the arm-chairs. He then withdrew to another part of the large room,
and Miss Teller, having vainly endeavored to beckon him to her side, so
that he might be within reach of her tearful whispers and
sympathy-seeking finger, resigned herself to excited listening and
silence.
When Anne Douglas appeared on the witness-stand in the Heathcote murder
trial, a buzz of curiosity and surprise ran round the crowded
court-room.
"A young girl!" was the first whisper. Then, "Pretty, rather," from the
women, and "Beautiful!" from the men.
Isabel grasped Rachel's arm. "Is that Anne Douglas?" she said, in a
wonder-struck voice. "You remember her--the school-girl, Miss Vanhorn's
niece, who was at Caryl's that summer? Helen always liked her; and Ward
Heathcote used to talk to her now and then, although Mr. Dexter paid her
more real attention."
"I remember her," said Rachel, coldly; "but I do not recollect the other
circumstances you mention."
"It is Anne," continued Isabel, too much absorbed to notice Rachel's
manner. "But older, and a thousand times handsomer. Rachel, that girl is
beautiful!"
Anne's eyes were downcast. She feared to see Heathcote, and she did not
even know in what part of the room he was placed. She remained thus
while she was identified by Bagshot and Simpson, while she gave her
name, and went through the preliminary forms; when at last she did raise
her eyes, she looked only at the lawyers who addressed her.
And now the ordeal opened. All, or almost all, of that which she had
told Gregory Dexter she was now required to repeat here, before this
crowded, listening court-room, this sea of faces, these watching
lawyers, the judge, and the dreaded jury. She had never been in a
court-room before. For one moment, when she first looked up, her courage
failed, and those who were watching her saw that it had failed. Then
toward whom did her frightened glance turn as if for aid?
"Rachel, it is Gregory Dexter," said Isabel, again grasping her
companion's arm excitedly.
"Pray, Isabel, be more quiet," answered Mrs. Bannert. But her own heart
throbbed quickly for a moment as she recognized the man who had told her
