not protect themselves against the English."
"Fancy, Tom," said Lenox. "People liked it so well on these rocks, that
it took ships of war to drive them away!"
"The people that live here now are just as fond of them, I am told."
"What earthly or heavenly inducement?--"
"Yes, I might have said so too, the first hour of my being here, or the
first day. The second, I began to understand it."
"Do make me understand it!"
"If you will come here at five o'clock to-morrow, Mr. Leno--xin the
morning, I mean,--and will watch the wonderful sunrise, the waking up
of land and sea; if you will stay here then patiently till ten o'clock,
and see the changes and the colours on everything--let the sea and the
sky speak to you, as they will; then they will tell you--all you can
understand!"
"All I can understand. H'm! May I go home for breakfast?"
"Perhaps you must; but you will wish you need not."
"Will you be here?"
"No," said Lois. "I will be somewhere else."
"But I couldn't stand such a long talk with myself as that," said the
young man.
"It was a talk with Nature I recommended to you."
"All the same. Nature says queer things if you let her alone."
"Best listen to them, then."
"Why?"
"She tells you the truth."
"Do you like the truth?"
"Certainly. Of course. Do not you?"
"Always?"
"Yes, always. Do not you?"
"It's fearfully awkward!" said the young man.
"Yes, isn't it?" Tom echoed.
"Do you like falsehood, Mr. Lenox?"
"I dare not say what I like--in this presence. Miss Lothrop, I am very
much afraid you are a Puritan."
"What is a Puritan?" asked Lois simply.
"He doesn't know!" said Tom. "You needn't ask him."
"I will ask you then, for I do not know. What does he mean by it?"
"He doesn't know that," said Lenox, laughing. "I will tell you, Miss
Lothrop--if I can. A Puritan is a person so much better than the
ordinary run of mortals, that she is not afraid to let Nature and
Solitude speak to her--dares to look roses in the face, in fact;--has
no charity for the crooked ways of the world or for the people
entangled in them; a person who can bear truth and has no need of
falsehood, and who is thereby lifted above the multitudes of this
world's population, and stands as it were alone."
"I'll report that speech to Julia," said Tom, laughing.
"But that is not what a 'Puritan' generally means, is it?" said Lois.
They both laughed now at the quain't simplicity with which this was
spoken.
"That is what it is," Tom answered.
"I do not think the term is complimentary," Lois went on, shaking her
head, "however Mr. Lenox's explanation may be. Isn't it ten o'clock?"
"Near eleven."
"Then I must go in."
The two gentlemen accompanied her, making themselves very pleasant by
the way. Lenox asked her about flowers; and Tom, who was some thing of
a naturalist, told her about mosses and lichens, more than she knew;
and the walk was too short for Lois. But on reaching the hotel she went
straight to her own room and stayed there. So also after dinner, which
of course brought her to the company, she went back to her solitude and
her work. She must write home, she said. Yet writing was not Lois's
sole reason for shutting herself up.
She would keep herself out of the way, she reasoned. Probably this
company of city people with city tastes would not stay long at
Appledore; while they were there she had better be seen as little as
possible. For she felt that the sight of Tom Caruthers' handsome face
had been a pleasure; and she felt--and what woman does not?--that there
is a certain very sweet charm in being liked, independently of the
question how much you like in return. And Lois knew, though she hardly
in her modesty acknowledged it to herself, that Mr. Caruthers liked
her. Eyes and smiles and manner showed it; she could not mistake it;
nay, engaged man though he was, Mr. Lenox liked her too. She did not
quite understand him or his manner; with the keen intuition of a true
woman she felt vaguely what she did not clearly discern, and was not
sure of the colour of his liking, as she was sure of Tom's. Tom's--it
might not be deep, but it was true, and it was pleasant; and Lois
remembered her promise to her grandmother. She even, when her letter
was done, took out her Bible and opened it at that well-known place in
2nd Corinthians; "Be not unequally yoked together with
unbelievers"--and she looked hard at the familiar words. Then, said
Lois to herself, it is best to keep at a distance from temptation. For
these people were unbelievers. They could not understand one word of
Christian hope or joy, if she spoke them. What had she and they in
common?
Yet Lois drew rather a long breath once or twice in the course of her
meditations. These "unbelievers" were so pleasant. Yes, it was an
undoubted fact; they were pleasant people to be with and to talk to.
They might not think with her, or comprehend her even, in the great
questions of life and duty; in the lesser matters of everyday
experience they were well versed. They understood the world and the
things in the world, and the men; and they were skilled and deft and
graceful in the arts of society. Lois knew no young men,--nor old, for
that matter,--who were, as gentlemen, as social companions, to be
compared with these and others their associates in graces of person and
manner, and interest of conversation. She went over again and again in
memory the interview and the talk of that morning; and not without a
secret thrill of gratification, although also not without a vague half
perception of something in Mr. Lenox's manner that she could not quite
read and did not quite trust. What did he mean? He was Miss Caruthers'
property; how came he to busy himself at all with her own insignificant
self? Lois was too innocent to guess; at the same time too finely
gifted as a woman to be entirely hoodwinked. She rose at last with a
third little sigh, as she concluded that her best way was to keep as
well away as she could from this pleasant companionship.
But she could not stay in-doors. For once in her life she was at
Appledore; she must not miss her chance. The afternoon was half gone;
the house all still; probably everybody was in his room, and she could
slip out safely. She went down on soft feet; she found nobody on the
piazza, not a creature in sight; she was glad; and yet, she would not
have been sorry to see Tom Caruthers' genial face, which was always so
very genial towards her. Inconsistent!--but who is not inconsistent?
Lois thought herself free, and had half descended the steps from the
verandah, when she heard a voice and her own name. She paused and
looked round.
"Miss Lothrop!--are you going for a walk? may I come with you?"--and
therewith emerged the form of Miss Julia from the house. "Are you going
for a walk? will you let me go along?"
"Certainly," said Lois.
"I am regularly cast away here," said the young lady, joining her. "I
don't know what to do with myself. Is there anything to do or to see
in this place?"
"I think so. Plenty."
"Then do show me what you have found. Where are you going?"
"I am going down to the shore somewhere. I have only begun to find
things yet; but I never in my life saw a place where there was so much
to find."
"What, pray? I cannot imagine. I see a little wild bit of ground, and
that is all I see; except the sea beating on the rocks. It is the
forlornest place of amusement I ever heard of in my life!"
"Are you fond of flowers, Miss Caruthers?"
"Flowers? No, not very. O, I like them to dress a dinner table, or to
make rooms look pretty, of course; but I am not what you call 'fond' of
them. That means, loving to dig in the dirt, don't it?"
Lois presently stooped and gathered a flower or two.
"Did yon ever see such lovely white violets?" she said; "and is not
that eyebright delicate, with its edging of colour? There are
quantities of flowers here. And have you noticed how deep and rich the
colours are? No, you have not been here long enough perhaps; but they
are finer than any I ever saw of their kinds."
"What do you find down at the shore?" said Miss Caruthers, looking very
disparagingly at the slight beauties in Lois's fingers. "There are no
flowers there, I suppose?"
"I can hardly get away from the shore, every time I go to it," said
Lois. "O, I have only begun to explore yet. Over on that end of
Appledore there are the old remains of a village, where the people used
to live, once upon a time. I want to go and see that, but I haven't got
there yet. Now take care of your footing, Miss Caruthers--"
They descended the rocks to one of the small coves of the island. Out
of sight now of all save rocks and sea and the tiny bottom of the cove
filled with mud and sand. Even the low bushes which grow so thick on
Appledore were out of sight, huckleberry and bayberry and others; the
wildness and solitude of the spot were perfect. Miss Caruthers found a
dry seat on a rock. Lois began to look carefully about in the mud and
sand.
"What are you looking for?" her companion asked, somewhat scornfully.
"Anything I can find!"
"What can you find in that mud?"
"This is gravel, where I am looking now."
"Well, what is in the gravel?"
"I don't know," said Lois, in the dreamy tone of rapt enjoyment. "I
don't know yet. Plenty of broken shells."
"Broken shells!" ejaculated the other. "Are you collecting broken
shells?"
"Look," said Lois, coming to her and displaying her palm full of sea
treasures. "See the colours of those bits of shell--that's a bit of a
mussel; and that is a piece of a snail shell, I think; and aren't those
little stones lovely?"
"That is because they are wet!" said the other in disgust. "They will
be nothing when they are dry."
Lois laughed and went back to her search; and Miss Julia waited awhile
with impatience for some change in the programme.
"Do you enjoy this, Miss Lothrop?"
"Very much! More than I can in any way tell you!" cried Lois, stopping
and turning to look at her questioner. Her face answered for her; it
was all flushed and bright with delight and the spirit of discovery; a
pretty creature indeed she looked as she stood there on the wet gravel
of the cove; but her face lost brightness for a moment, as Lois
discerned Tom's head above the herbs and grasses that bordered the bank
above the cove. Julia saw the change, and then the cause of it.
"Tom!" said she, "what brought you here?"
"What brought you, I suppose," said Mr. Tom, springing down the bank.
"Miss Lothrop, what can you be doing?" Passing his sister he went to
the other girl's side. And now there were two searching and peering
into the mud and gravel which the tide had left wet and bare; and Miss
Caruthers, sitting on a rock a little above them, looked on; much
marvelling at the follies men will be guilty of when a pretty face
draws them on.
"Tom--Tom!--what do you expect to find?" she cried after awhile. But
Tom was too busy to heed her. And then appeared Mr. Lenox upon the
scene.
"You too!" said Miss Caruthers. "Now you have only to go down into the
mud like the others and complete the situation. Look at Tom! Poking
about to see if he can find a whole snail shell in the wet stuff there.
Look at him! George, a brother is the most vexatious thing to take care
of in the world. Look at Tom!"
Mr. Lenox did, with an amused expression of feature.
"Bad job, Julia," he said.
"It is in one way, but it isn't in another, for I am not going to be
baffled. He shall not make a fool of himself with that girl."
"She isn't a fool."
"What then?" said Julia sharply.
"Nothing. I was only thinking of the materials upon which your judgment
is made up."
"Materials!" echoed Julia. "Yours is made up upon a nice complexion.
That bewilders all men's faculties. Do you think she is very pretty,
George?"
Mr. Lenox had no time to answer, for Lois, and of course Tom, at this
moment left the cove bottom and came towards them. Lois was beaming,
like a child, with such bright, pure pleasure; and coming up, showed
upon her open palm a very delicate little white shell, not a snail
shell by any means. "I have found that!" she proclaimed.
"What is that?" said Julia disdainfully, though not with rudeness.
"You see. Isn't it beautiful? And isn't it wonderful that it should not
be broken? If you think of the power of the waves here, that have beat
to pieces almost everything--rolled and ground and crushed everything
that would break--and this delicate little thing has lived through it."
"There is a power of life in some delicate things," said Tom.
"Power of fiddlestick!" said his sister. "Miss Lothrop, I think this
place is a terrible desert!"
"Then we will not stay here any longer," said Lois. "I am very fond of
these little coves."
"No, no, I mean Appledore generally. It is the stupidest place I ever
was in in my life. There is nothing here."
Lois looked at the lady with an expression of wondering compassion.
"Your experience does not agree with that of Miss Caruthers?" said
Lenox.
"No," said Lois. "Let us take her to the place where you found me this
morning; maybe she would like that."
"We must go, I suppose," groaned Julia, as Mr. Lenox helped her up over
the rocks after the lighter-footed couple that preceded them. "George,
I believe you are in the way."
"Thanks!" said the young man, laughing. "But you will excuse me for
continuing to be in the way."
"I don't know--you see, it just sets Tom free to attend to her. Look at
him--picking those purple irises--as if iris did not grow anywhere
else! And now elderberry blossoms! And he will give her lessons in
botany, I shouldn't wonder. O, Tom's a goose!"
"That disease is helpless," said Lenox, laughing again.
"But George, it is madness!"
Mr. Lenox's laugh rang out heartily at this. His sovereign mistress was
not altogether pleased.
"I do certainly consider--and so do you,--I do certainly consider
unequal marriages to be a great misfortune to all concerned."
"Certainly--inequalities that cannot be made up. For instance, too tall
and too short do not match well together. Or for the lady to be rich
and the man to be poor; that is perilous."
"Nonsense, George! don't be ridiculous! Height is nothing, and money is
nothing; but family--and breeding--and habits--"
"What is her family?" asked Mr. Lenox, pursing up his lips as if for a
whistle.
"No family at all. Just country people, living at Shampuashuh."
"Don't you know, the English middle class is the finest in the world?"
"No! no better than ours."
"My dear, we have no middle class."
"But what about the English middle class? why do you bring it up?"
"It owes its great qualities to its having the mixed blood of the
higher and the lower."
"Ridiculous! What is that to us, if we have no middle class? But don't
you see, George, what an unhappy thing it would be for Tom to marry
this girl?"
Mr. Lenox whistled slightly, smiled, and pulled a purple iris blossom
from a tuft growing in a little spot of wet ground. He offered it to
his disturbed companion.
"There is a country flower for you," he observed.
But Miss Caruthers flung the flower impatiently away, and hastened her
steps to catch up with her brother and Lois, who made better speed than
she. Mr. Lenox picked up the iris and followed, smiling again to
himself.
They found Lois seated in her old place, where the gentlemen had seen
her in the morning. She rose at once to give the seat to Miss
Caruthers, and herself took a less convenient one. It was almost a new
scene to Lois, that lay before them now. The lights were from a
different quarter; the colours those of the sinking day; the sea, from
some inexplicable reason, was rolling higher than it had done six hours
ago, and dashed on the rocks and on the reef in beautiful breakers,
sending up now and then a tall jet of foam or a shower of spray. The
hazy mainland shore line was very indistinct under the bright sky and
lowering sun; while every bit of west-looking rock, and every sail, and
every combing billow was touched with warm hues or gilded with a sharp
reflection. The air was like the air nowhere but at the Isles of
Shoals; with the sea's salt strength and freshness, and at times a waft
of perfumes from the land side. Lois drank it with an inexpressible
sense of exhilaration; while her eye went joyously roving from the
lovely light on a sail, to the dancing foam of the breakers, to the
colours of driftwood or seaweed or moss left wet and bare on the rocks,
to the line of the distant ocean, or the soft vapoury racks of clouds
floating over from the west. She well-nigh forgot her companions
altogether; who, however, were less absorbed. Yet for a while they all
sat silent, looking partly at Lois, partly at each other, partly no
doubt at the leaping spray from the broken waves on the reef. There was
only the delicious sound of the splash and gurgle of waters--the scream
of a gull--the breath of the air--the chirrup of a few insects; all was
wild stillness and freshness and pureness, except only that little
group of four human beings. And then, the puzzled vexation and
perplexity in Tom's face, and the impatient disgust in the face of his
sister, were too much for Mr. Lenox's sense of the humorous; and the
silence was broken by a hearty burst of laughter, which naturally
brought all eyes to himself.
"Pardon!" said the young gentleman. "The delight in your face, Julia,
was irresistible."
"Delight!" she echoed. "Miss Lothrop, do you find something here in
which you take pleasure?"
Lois looked round. "Yes," she said simply. "I find something everywhere
to take pleasure in."
"Even at Shampuashuh?"
"At Shampuashuh, of course. That is my home."
"But I never take pleasure in anything at home. It is all such an old
story. Every day is just like any other day, and I know beforehand
exactly how everything will be; and one dress is like another, and one
party is like another. I must go away from home to get any real
pleasure."
Lois wondered if she succeeded.
"That's a nice look-out for you, George," Caruthers remarked.
"I shall know how to make home so agreeable that she will not want to
wander any more," said the other.
"That is what the women do for the men, down our way," said Lois,
smiling. She began to feel a little mischief stirring.
"What sort of pleasures do you find, or make, at home, Miss Lothrop?"
Julia went on. "You are very quiet, are you not?"
"There is always one's work," said Lois lightly. She knew it would be
in vain to tell her questioner the instances that came up in her
memory; the first dish of ripe strawberries brought in to surprise her
grandmother; the new potatoes uncommonly early; the fine yield of her
raspberry bushes; the wonderful beauty of the early mornings in her
garden; the rarer, sweeter beauty of the Bible reading and talk with
old Mrs. Armadale; the triumphant afternoons on the shore, from which
she and her sisters came back with great baskets of long clams; and
countless other visions of home comfort and home peace, things
accomplished and the fruit of them enjoyed. Miss Caruthers could not
understand all this; so Lois answered simply,
"There is always one's work."
"Work! I hate work," cried the other woman. "What do you call work?"
"Everything that is to be done," said Lois. "Everything, except what we
do for mere pleasure. We keep no servant; my sisters and I do all that
there is to do, in doors and out."
"Out--of--doors!" cried Miss Caruthers. "What do you mean? You cannot
do the farming?"
"No," said Lois, smiling merrily; "no; not the farming. That is done by
men. But the gardening I do."
"Not seriously?"
"Very seriously. If you will come and see us, I will give you some new
potatoes of my planting. I am rather proud of them. I was just thinking
of them."
"Planting potatoes!" repeated the other lady, not too politely. "Then
that is the reason why you find it a pleasure to sit here and see
those waves beat."
The logical concatenation of this speech was not so apparent but that
it touched all the risible nerves of the party; and Miss Caruthers
could not understand why all three laughed so heartily.
"What did you expect when you came here?" asked Lois, still sparkling
with fun.
"Just what I found!" returned the other rather grumbly.
CHAPTER XV.
TACTICS.
Miss Caruthers carried on the tactics with which she had begun. Lois
had never in her life found her society so diligently cultivated. If
she walked out, Miss Caruthers begged to be permitted to go along; she
wished to learn about the Islands. Lois could not see that she advanced
much in learning; and sometimes wondered that she did not prefer her
brother or her lover as instructors. True, her brother and her lover
were frequently of the party; yet even then Miss Julia seemed to choose
to take her lessons from Lois; and managed as much as possible to
engross her. Lois could see that at such times Tom was often annoyed,
and Mr. Lenox amused, at something, she could not quite tell what; and
she was too inexperienced, and too modest withal, to guess. She only
knew that she was not as free as she would have liked to be. Sometimes
Tom found a chance for a little walk and talk with her alone; and those
quarters of an hour were exceedingly pleasant; Tom told her about
flowers, in a scientific way, that is; and made himself a really
charming companion. Those minutes flew swiftly. But they never were
many. If not Julia, at least Mr. Lenox was sure to appear upon the
scene; and then, though he was very pleasant too, and more than
courteous to Lois, somehow the charm was gone. It was just as well,
Lois told herself; but that did not make her like it. Except with Tom,
he did not enjoy herself thoroughly in the Caruthers society. She felt,
with a sure, secret, fine instinct, what they were not high-bred enough
to hide;--that they did not accept her as upon their own platform. I do
not think the consciousness was plain enough to be put into words;
nevertheless it was decided enough to make her quite willing to avoid
their company. She tried, but she could not avoid it. In the house as
out of the house. Tom would seek her out and sit down beside her; and
then Julia would come to learn a crochet stitch, or Mrs. Caruthers
would call her to remedy a fault in her knitting, or to hold her wool
to be wound; refusing to let Mr. Lenox hold it, under the plea that
Lois did it better; which was true, no doubt. Or Mr. Lenox himself
would join them, and turn everything Tom said into banter; till Lois
could not help laughing, though yet she was vexed.
So days went on. And then something happened to relieve both parties of
the efforts they were making; a very strange thing to happen at the
Isles of Shoals. Mrs. Wishart was taken seriously ill. She had not been
quite well when she came; and she always afterwards maintained that the
air did not agree with her. Lois thought it could not be the air, and
must be some imprudence; but however it was, the fact was undoubted.
Mrs. Wishart was ill; and the doctor who was fetched over from
Portsmouth to see her, said she could not be moved, and must be
carefully nursed. Was it the air? It couldn't be the air, he answered;
nobody ever got sick at the Isles of Shoals. Was it some imprudence?
Couldn't be, he said; there was no way in which she could be imprudent;
she could not help living a natural life at Appledore. No, it was
something the seeds of which she had brought with her; and the strong
sea air had developed it. Reasoning which Lois did not understand; but
she understood nursing, and gave herself to it, night and day. There
was a sudden relief to Miss Julia's watch and ward; nobody was in
danger of saying too many words to Lois now; nobody could get a chance;
she was only seen by glimpses.
"How long is this sort of thing going on?" inquired Mr. Lenox one
afternoon. He and Julia had been spending a very unrefreshing hour on
the piazza doing nothing.
"Impossible to say."
"I'm rather tired of it. How long has Mrs. Wishart been laid up now?"
"A week; and she has no idea of being moved."
"Well, are we fixtures too?"
"You know what I came for, George. If Tom will go, I will, and
thankful."
"Tom," said the gentleman, as Tom at this minute came out of the house,
"have you got enough of Appledore?"
"I don't care about Appledore. It's the fishing." Tom, I may remark,
had been a good deal out in a fishing-boat during this past week.
"That's glorious."
"But you don't care for fishing, old boy."
"O, don't I!"
"No, not a farthing. Seriously, don't you think we might mend our
quarters?"
"You can," said Tom. "Of course I can't go while Mrs. Wishart is sick.
I can't leave those two women alone here to take care of themselves.
You can take Julia and my mother away, where you like."
"And a good riddance," muttered Lenox, as the other ran down the steps
and went off.
"He won't stir," said Julia. "You see how right I was."
"Are you sure about it?"
"Why, of course I am! Quite sure. What are you thinking about?"
"Just wondering whether you might have made a mistake."
"A mistake! How? I don't make mistakes."
"That's pleasant doctrine! But I am not so certain. I have been
thinking whether Tom is likely ever to get anything better."
"Than this girl? George, don't you think he deserves something
better? My brother? What are you thinking of?"
"Tom has got an enormous fancy for her; I can see that. It's not play
with him. And upon my honour, Julia, I do not think she would do any
thing to wear off the fancy."
"Not if she could help it!" returned Julia scornfully.
"She isn't a bit of a flirt."
"You think that is a recommendation? Men like flirts. This girl don't
know how, that is all."
"I do not believe she knows how to do anything wrong."
"Now do set up a discourse in praise of virtue! What if she don't?
That's nothing to the purpose. I want Tom to go into political life."
"A virtuous wife wouldn't hurt him there."
"And an ignorant, country-bred, untrained woman wouldn't help him,
would she?"
"Tom will never want help in political life, for he will never go into
it. Well, I have said my say, and resign myself to Appledore for two
weeks longer. Only, mind you, I question if Tom will ever get anything
as good again in the shape of a wife, as you are keeping him from now.
It is something of a responsibility to play Providence."
The situation therefore remained unchanged for several days more. Mrs.
Wishart needed constant attention, and had it; and nobody else saw Lois
for more than the merest snatches of time. I think Lois made these
moments as short as she could. Tom was in despair, but stuck to his
post and his determination; and with sighs and groans his mother and
sister held fast to theirs. The hotel at Appledore made a good thing of
it.
Then one day Tom was lounging on the piazza at the time of the
steamer's coming in from Portsmouth; and in a short time thereafter a
new guest was seen advancing towards the hotel. Tom gave her a glance
or two; he needed no more. She was middle-aged, plain, and evidently
not from that quarter of the world where Mr. Tom Caruthers was known.
Neatly dressed, however, and coming with an alert, business step over
the grass, and so she mounted to the piazza. There she made straight
for Tom, who was the only person visible.
"Is this the place where a lady is lying sick and another lady is
tendin' her?"
"That is the case here," said Tom politely. "Miss Lothrop is
attending upon a sick friend in this house."
"That's it--Miss Lothrop. I'm her aunt. How's the sick lady? Dangerous?"
"Not at all, I should say," returned Tom; "but Miss Lothrop is very
much confined with her. She will be very glad to see you, I have no
doubt. Allow me to see about your room." And so saying, he would have
relieved the new comer of a heavy handbag.
"Never mind," she said, holding fast. "You're very obliging--but when
I'm away from home I always hold fast to whatever I've got; and I'll go
to Miss Lothrop's room. Are there more folks in the house?"
"Certainly. Several. This way--I will show you."
"Then I s'pose there's plenty to help nurse, and they have no call for
me?"
"I think Miss Lothrop has done the most of the nursing. Your coming
will set her a little more at liberty. She has been very much confined
with her sick friend."
"What have the other folks been about?"
"Not helping much, I am afraid. And of course a man is at a
disadvantage at such a time."
"Are they all men?" inquired Mrs. Marx suddenly.
"No--I was thinking of my own case. I would have been very glad to be
useful."
"O!" said the lady. "That's the sort o' world we live in; most of it
ain't good for much when it comes to the pinch. Thank you--much
obliged."
Tom had guided her up-stairs and along a gallery, and now indicated the
door of Lois's room. Lois was quite as glad to see her aunt as Tom had
supposed she would be.
"Aunty!--Whatever has brought you here, to the Isles of Shoals?"
"Not to see the Isles, you may bet. I've come to look after you."
"Why, I'm well enough. But it's very good of you."
"No, it ain't, for I wanted an excuse to see what the place is like.
You haven't grown thin yet. What's all the folks about, that they let
you do all the nursing?"
"O, it comes to me naturally, being with Mrs. Wishart. Who should do
it?"
"To be sure," said Mrs. Marx; "who should do it? Most folks are good at
keepin' out o' the way when they are wanted. There's one clever chap in
the house--he showed me the way up here; who's he?"
"Fair hair?"
"Yes, and curly. A handsome fellow. And he knows you."
"O, they all know me by this time."
"This one particularly?"
"Well--I knew him in New York."
"I see! What's the matter with this sick woman?"
"I don't know. She is nervous, and feverish, and does not seem to get
well as she ought to do."
"Well, if I was going to get sick, I'd choose some other place than a
rock out in the middle of the ocean. Seems to me I would. One never
knows what one may be left to do."
"One cannot generally choose where one will be sick," said Lois,
smiling.
"Yes, you can," said the other, as sharp as a needle. "If one's in the
wrong place, one can keep up till one can get to the right one. You
needn't tell me. I know it, and I've done it. I've held up when I
hadn't feet to stand upon, nor a head to hold. If you're a mind to, you
can. Nervous, eh? That's the trouble o' folks that haven't enough to
do. Mercy! I don't wonder they get nervous. But you've had a little too
much, Lois, and you show it. Now, you go and lie down. I'll look after
the nerves."
"How are they all at home?"
"Splendid! Charity goes round like a bee in a bottle, as usual. Ma's
well; and Madge is as handsome as ever. Garden's growin' up to weeds,
and I don't see as there's anybody to help it; but that corner peach
tree's ripe, and as good as if you had fifteen gardeners."
"It's time I was home!" said Lois, sighing.
"No, it ain't,--not if you're havin' a good time here. Are you havin'
a good time?"
"Why, I've been doing nothing but take care of Mrs. Wishart for this
week past."
"Well, now I'm here. You go off. Do you like this queer place, I want
to know?"
"Aunty, it is just perfectly delightful!"
"Is it? I don't see it. Maybe I will by and by. Now go off, Lois."
Mrs. Marx from this time took upon herself the post of head nurse. Lois
was free to go out as much as she pleased. Yet she made less use of
this freedom than might have been expected, and still confined herself
unnecessarily to the sick-room.
"Why don't you go?" her aunt remonstrated. "Seems to me you ain't so
dreadful fond of the Isles of Shoals after all."
"If one could be alone!" sighed Lois; "but there is always a pack at my
heels."
"Alone! Is that what you're after? I thought half the fun was to see
the folks."
"Well, some of them," said Lois. "But as sure as I go out to have a
good time with the rocks and the sea, as I like to have it, there comes
first one and then another and then another, and maybe a fourth; and
the game is up."
"Why? I don't see how they should spoil it."
"O, they do not care for the things I care for; the sea is nothing to
them, and the rocks less than nothing; and instead of being quiet, they
talk nonsense, or what seems nonsense to me; and I'd as lieve be at
home."
"What do they go for then?"
"I don't know. I think they do not know what to do with themselves."
"What do they stay here for, then, for pity's sake? If they are tired,
why don't they go away?"
"I can't tell. That is what I have asked myself a great many times.
They are all as well as fishes, every one of them."
Mrs. Marx held her peace and let things go their train for a few days
more. Mrs. Wishart still gave her and Lois a good deal to do, though
her ailments aroused no anxiety. After those few days, Mrs. Marx spoke
again.
"What keeps you so mum?" she said to Lois. "Why don't you talk, as
other folks do?"
"I hardly see them, you know, except at meals."
"Why don't you talk at meal times? that's what I am askin' about. You
can talk as well as anybody; and you sit as mum as a stick."
"Aunty, they all talk about things I do not understand."
"Then I'd talk of something they don't understand. Two can play at
that game."
"It wouldn't be amusing," said Lois, laughing.
"Do you call their talk amusing? It's the stupidest stuff I ever did
hear. I can't make head or tail of it; nor I don't believe they can.
Sounds to me as if they were tryin' amazin' hard to be witty, and
couldn't make it out."
"It sounds a good deal like that," Lois assented.
"They go on just as if you wasn't there!"
"And why shouldn't they?"
"Because you are there."
"I am nothing to them," said Lois quietly.
"Nothing to them! You are worth the whole lot."
"They do not think so."
"And politeness is politeness."
"I sometimes think," said Lois, "that politeness is rudeness."
"Well, I wouldn't let myself be put in a corner so, if I was you."
"But I am in a corner, to them. All the world is where they live; and
I live in a little corner down by Shampuashuh."
"Nobody's big enough to live in more than a corner--if you come to
that; and one corner's as good as another. That's nonsense, Lois."
"Maybe, aunty. But there is a certain knowledge of the world, and habit
of the world, which makes some people very different from other people;
you can't help that."
"I don't want to help it?" said Mrs. Marx. "I wouldn't have you like
them, for all the black sheep in my flock."
CHAPTER XVI.
MRS. MARX'S OPINION.
A few more days went by; and then Mrs. Wishart began to mend; so much
that she insisted her friends must not shut themselves up with her. "Do
go down-stairs and see the people!" she said; "or take your kind aunt,
Lois, and show her the wonders of Appledore. Is all the world gone yet?"
"Nobody's gone," said Mrs. Marx; "except one thick man and one thin
one; and neither of 'em counts."
"Are the Caruthers here?"
"Every man of 'em."
"There is only one man of them; unless you count Mr. Lenox."
"I don't count him. I count that fair-haired chap. All the rest of 'em
are stay in' for him."
"Staying for him!" repeated Mrs. Wishart.
"That's what they say. They seem to take it sort o' hard, that Tom's so
fond of Appledore."
Mrs. Wishart was silent a minute, and then she smiled.
"He spends his time trollin' for blue fish," Mrs. Marx went on.
"Ah, I dare say. Do go down, Mrs. Marx, and take a walk, and see if he
has caught anything."
Lois would not go along; she told her aunt what to look for, and which
way to take, and said she would sit still with Mrs. Wishart and keep
her amused.
At the very edge of the narrow valley in which the house stood, Mrs.
Marx came face to face with Tom Caruthers. Tom pulled off his hat with
great civility, and asked if he could do anything for her.
"Well, you can set me straight, I guess," said the lady. "Lois told me
which way to go, but I don't seem to be any wiser. Where's the old dead
village? South, she said; but in such a little place south and north
seems all alike. I don' know which is south."
"You are not far out of the way," said Tom. "Let me have the pleasure
of showing you. Why did you not bring Miss Lothrop out?"
"Best reason in the world; I couldn't. She would stay and see to Mrs.
Wishart."
"That's the sort of nurse I should like to have take care of me," said
Tom, "if ever I was in trouble."
"Ah, wouldn't you!" returned Mrs. Marx. "That's a kind o' nurses that
ain't in the market. Look here, young man--where are we going?"
"All right," said Tom. "Just round over these rocks. The village was at
the south end of the island, as Miss Lois said. I believe she has
studied up Appledore twice as much as any of the rest of us."
It was a fresh, sunny day in September; everything at Appledore was in
a kind of glory, difficult to describe in words, and which no painter
ever yet put on canvas. There was wind enough to toss the waves in
lively style; and when the two companions came out upon the scene of
the one-time settlement of Appledore, all brilliance of light and air
and colour seemed to be sparkling together. Under this glory lay the
ruins and remains of what had been once homes and dwelling-places of
men. Grass-grown cellar excavations, moss-grown stones and bits of
walls; little else; but a number of those lying soft and sunny in the
September light. Soft, and sunny, and lonely; no trace of human
habitation any longer, where once human activity had been in full play.
Silence, where the babble of voices had been; emptiness, where young
feet and old feet had gone in and out; barrenness, where the fruits of
human industry had been busily gathered and dispensed. Something in the
quiet, sunny scene stilled for a moment the not very sensitive spirits
of the two who had come to visit it; while the sea waves rose and broke
in their old fashion, as they had done on those same rocks in old time,
and would do for generation after generation yet to come. That was
always the same. It made the contrast greater with what had passed and
was passing away.
"There was a good many of 'em."--Mrs. Marx' voice broke the pause which
had come upon the talk.
"Quite a village," her companion assented.
"Why ain't they here now?"
"Dead and gone?" suggested Tom, half laughing.
"Of course! I mean, why ain't the village here, and the people? The
people are somewhere--the children and grandchildren of those that
lived here; what's become of 'em?"
"That's true," said Tom; "they are somewhere. I believe they are to be
found scattered along the coast of the mainland."
"Got tired o' livin' between sea and sky with no ground to speak of.
Well, I should think they would!"
"Miss Lothrop says, on the contrary, that they never get tired of it,
the people who live here; and that nothing but necessity forced the
former inhabitants to abandon Appledore."
"What sort of necessity?"
"Too exposed, in the time of the war."
"Ah! likely. Well, we'll go, Mr. Caruthers; this sort o' thing makes me
melancholy, and that' against my principles to be." Yet she stood
still, looking.
"Miss Lothrop likes this place," Tom remarked.
"Then it don't make her melancholy."
"Does anything?"
"I hope so. She's human."
"But she seems to me always to have the sweetest air of happiness about
her, that ever I saw in a human being."
"Have you got where you can see air?" inquired Mrs. Marx sharply. Tom
laughed.
"I mean, that she finds something everywhere to like and to take
pleasure in. Now I confess, this bit of ground, full of graves and old
excavations, has no particular charms for me; and my sister will not
stay here a minute."
"And what does Lois find here to delight her?
"Everything!" said Tom with enthusiasm. "I was with her the first time
she came to this corner of the island,--and it was a lesson, to see her
delight. The old cellars and the old stones, and the graves; and then
the short green turf that grows among them, and the flowers and
weeds--what I call weeds, who know no better--but Miss Lois tried to
make me see the beauty of the sumach and all the rest of it."
"And she couldn't!" said Mrs. Marx. "Well, I can't. The noise of the
sea, and the sight of it, eternally breaking there upon the rocks,
would drive me out of my mind, I believe, after a while." And yet Mrs.
Marx sat down upon a turfy bank and looked contentedly about her.
"Mrs. Marx," said Tom suddenly, "you are a good friend of Miss Lothrop,
aren't you?"
"Try to be a friend to everybody. I've counted sixty-six o' these old
cellars!"
"I believe there are more than that. I think Miss Lothrop said seventy."
"She seems to have told you a good deal."
"I was so fortunate as to be here alone with her. Miss Lothrop is often
very silent in company."
"So I observe," said Mrs. Marx dryly.
"I wish you'd be my friend too!" said Tom, now taking a seat by her
side. "You said you are a friend of everybody."
"That is, of everybody who needs me," said Mrs. Marx, casting a side
look at Tom's handsome, winning countenance. "I judge, young man, that
ain't your case."
"But it is, indeed!"
"Maybe," said Mrs. Marx incredulously. "Go on, and let's hear."
"You will let me speak to you frankly?"
"Don't like any other sort."
"And you will answer me also frankly?"
"I don't know," said the lady, "but one thing I can say, if I've got
the answer, I'll give it to you."
"I don't know who should," said Tom flatteringly, "if not you. I
thought I could trust you, when I had seen you a few times."
"Maybe you won't think so after to-day. But go on. What's the business?"
"It is very important business," said Tom slowly; "and it
concerns--Miss Lothrop."
"You have got hold of me now," said Lois's aunt. "I'll go into the
business, you may depend upon it. What is the business?"
"Mrs. Marx, I have a great admiration for Miss Lothrop."
"I dare say. So have some other folks."
"I have had it for a long while. I came here because I heard she was
coming. I have lost my heart to her, Mrs. Marx."
"Ah!--What are you going to do about it? or what can I do about it?
Lost hearts can't be picked up under every bush."
"I want you to tell me what I shall do."
"What hinders your making up your own mind?"
"It is made up!--long ago."
"Then act upon it. What hinders you? I don't see what I have got to do
with that."
"Mrs. Marx, do you think she would have me if I asked her? As a friend,
won't you tell me?"
"I don't see why I should,--if I knew,--which I don't. I don't see how
it would be a friend's part. Why should I tell you, supposin' I could?
She's the only person that knows anything about it."
Tom pulled his moustache right and left in a worried manner.
"Have you asked her?"
"Haven't had a ghost of a chance, since I have been here!" cried the
young man; "and she isn't like other girls; she don't give a fellow a
bit of help."
Mrs. Marx laughed out.
"I mean," said Tom, "she is so quiet and steady, and she don't talk,
and she don't let one see what she thinks. I think she must know I like
her--but I have not the least idea whether she likes me."
"The shortest way would be to ask her."
"Yes, but you see I can't get a chance. Miss Lothrop is always
up-stairs in that sick-room; and if she comes down, my sister or my
mother or somebody is sure to be running after her."
"Besides you," said Mrs. Marx.
"Yes, besides me."
"Perhaps they don't want to let you have her all to yourself."
"That's the disagreeable truth!" said Tom in a burst of vexed candour.
"Perhaps they are afraid you will do something imprudent if they do not
take care."
"That's what they call it, with their ridiculous ways of looking at
things. Mrs. Marx, I wish people had sense."
"Perhaps they are right. Perhaps they have sense, and it would be
imprudent."
"Why? Mrs. Marx, I am sure you have sense. I have plenty to live
upon, and live as I like. There is no difficulty in my case about ways
and means."
"What is the difficulty, then?"
"You see, I don't want to go against my mother and sister, unless I had
some encouragement to think that Miss Lothrop would listen to me; and I
thought--I hoped--you would be able to help me."
"How can I help you?"
"Tell me what I shall do."
"Well, when it comes to marryin'," said Mrs. Marx, "I always say to
folks, If you can live and get along without gettin' married--don't!"
"Don't get married?"
"Just so," said Mrs. Marx. "Don't get married; not if you can live
without."
"You to speak so!" said Tom. "I never should have thought, Mrs. Marx,
you were one of that sort."
"What sort?"
"The sort that talk against marriage."
"I don't!--only against marryin' the wrong one; and unless it's
somebody that you can't live without, you may be sure it ain't the
right one."
"How many people in the world do you suppose are married on that
principle?"
"Everybody that has any business to be married at all," responded the
lady with great decision.
"Well, honestly, I don't feel as if I could live without Miss Lothrop.
I've been thinking about it for months."
"I wouldn't stay much longer in that state," said Mrs. Marx, "if I was
you. When people don' know whether they're goin' to live or die, their
existence ain't much good to 'em."
"Then you think I may ask her?"
"Tell me first, what would happen if you did--that is, supposin' she
said yes to you, about which I don't know anything, no more'n the
people that lived in these old cellars. What would happen if you did?
and if she did?"
"I would make her happy, Mrs. Marx!"
"Yes," said the lady slowly--"I guess you would; for Lois won't say yes
to anybody she can live without; and I've a good opinion of your
disposition; but what would happen to other people?"
"My mother and sister, you mean?"
"Them, or anybody else that's concerned."
"There is nobody else concerned," said Tom, idly defacing the rocks in
his neighbourhood by tearing the lichen from them. And Mrs. Marx
watched him, and patiently waited.
"There is no sense in it!" he broke out at last. "It is all folly. Mrs.
Marx, what is life good for, but to be happy?"
"Just so," assented Mrs. Marx.
"And haven't I a right to be happy in my own way?"
"If you can."
"So I think! I will ask Miss Lothrop if she will have me, this very
day. I'm determined."
"But I said, if you can. Happiness is somethin' besides sugar and
water. What else'll go in?"
"What do you mean?" asked Tom, looking at her.
"Suppose you're satisfied, and suppose she's satisfied. Will
everybody else be?"
Tom went at the rocks again.
"It's my affair--and hers," he said then.
"And what will your mother and sister say?"
"Julia has chosen for herself."
"I should say, she has chosen very well. Does she like your choice."
"Mrs. Marx," said the poor young man, leaving the lichens, "they bother
me to death!"
"Ah? How is that?"
"Always watching, and hanging around, and giving a fellow no chance for
his life, and putting in their word. They call themselves very wise,
but I think it is the other thing."
"They don't approve, then?"
"I don't want to marry money!" cried Tom; "and I don't care for
fashionable girls. I'm tired of 'em. Lois is worth the whole lot. Such
absurd stuff! And she is handsomer than any girl that was in town last
winter."
"They want a fashionable girl," said Mrs. Marx calmly.
"Well, you see," said Tom, "they live for that. If an angel was to come
down from heaven, they would say her dress wasn't cut right, and they
wouldn't ask her to dinner!"
"I don't suppose they'd know how to talk to her either, if they did,"
said Mrs. Marx. "It would be uncomfortable--for them; I don't suppose
an angel can be uncomfortable. But Lois ain't an angel. I guess you'd
better give it up, Mr. Caruthers."
Tom turned towards her a dismayed kind of look, but did not speak.
"You see," Mrs. Marx went on, "things haven't gone very far. Lois is
all right; and you'll come back to life again. A fish that swims in
fresh water couldn't go along very well with one that lives in the
salt. That's how I look at it. Lois is one sort, and you're another. I
don't know but both sorts are good; but they are different, and you
can't make 'em alike."
"I would never want her to be different!" burst out Tom.
"Well, you see, she ain't your sort exactly," Mrs. Marx added, but not
as if she were depressed by the consideration. "And then, Lois is
religious."
"You don't think that is a difficulty? Mrs. Marx, I am not a religious
man myself; at least I have never made any profession; but I assure you
I have a great respect for religion."
"That is what folks say of something a great way off, and that they
don't want to come nearer."
"My mother and sister are members of the church; and I should like my
wife to be, too."
"Why?"
"I told you, I have a great respect for religion; and I believe in it
especially for women."
"I don't see why what's good for them shouldn't be good for you."
"That need be no hindrance," Tom urged.
"Well, I don' know. I guess Lois would think it was. And maybe you
would think it was, too,--come to find out. I guess you'd better let
things be, Mr. Caruthers."
Tom looked very gloomy. "You think she would not have me?" he repeated.
"I think you will get over it," said Mrs. Marx, rising. "And I think
you had better find somebody that will suit your mother and sister."
And after that time, it may be said, Mrs. Marx was as careful of Lois
on the one side as Mrs. and Miss Caruthers were of Tom on the other.
Two or three more days passed away.
"How is Mrs. Wishart?" Miss Julia asked one afternoon.
"First-rate," answered Mrs. Marx. "She's sittin' up. She'll be off and
away before you know it."
"Will you stay, Mrs. Marx, to help in the care of her, till she is able
to move?"
"Came for nothin' else."
"Then I do not see, mother, what good we can do by remaining longer.
Could we, Mrs. Marx?"
"Nothin', but lose your chance o' somethin' better, I should say."
"Tom, do you want to do any more fishing? Aren't you ready to go?"
