Mr. Button was doubtless a good engineer, but he was not a very shrewd
man. If he had been, he would have asked in what capacity the applicant
for the use of the Missisquoi served on board of the Au Sable. Possibly
Pearl would have evaded the question, or lied about the matter, for he
had simply been a waiter in the cabin for a few weeks. But Pearl thought
he knew all about a steamer, and all about the navigation of the lake.
"If you are a steamboat man I have no objection to taking the boat out,"
added the engineer. "It is a very rough day on the lake, and one has to
know something about handling a boat in such big waves."
"But I am the captain of this boat, and I reckon I don't want any boss
over me," interposed Captain Vesey at this point.
"We shall have no trouble," added Pearl, as he walked aft with the
captain. "I shall not meddle with your management of the boat. I only
said what I did to quiet the engineer."
But the boat had to take in a supply of fuel, for which Pearl promised
to pay out of the landlord's pocket. She could not leave for a couple of
hours. Pearl wanted to go back to the hotel, and attend to some matters
in connection with his mission which he had forgotten.
"I am to pay you five dollars, and the engineer five dollars, when you
put me on board of the Goldwing," said Pearl, as he was about to leave
the boat. "Is that the trade?"
"That's it," replied the engineer; and so answered the captain.
Pearl walked up the pier, and then went down the railroad till he could
see outside of the breakwater. He found the Goldwing lay at anchor in
the place she had chosen at first. Ten dollars would be a good sum to
pay if the Missisquoi was obliged to take him only out to the
breakwater. But, the sooner he brought Dory on shore, the sooner the
Goldwing would be put up at auction again.
He walked to the Witherill House, and informed the landlord of what he
had done, and declared that the boy who had stolen the money should be
handed over to him in a couple of hours. The hotel-keeper did not object
to the expense; but he wished his representative to be careful how he
managed the business, for it was by no means certain that the boy had
taken the money.
"I am as certain of it as I am of my own existence," replied Pearl
warmly. "I have found out something about the boy since I was here. He
has the reputation of being wild, and no one sent him over here to buy a
boat. And a fellow like him don't have forty or fifty dollars to invest
in boats."
"All that may be; but you can be careful just as well as not," added the
landlord.
"He is nothing but a young cub, and has no friends, so that nothing will
come of it if he shouldn't happen to be the thief."
"If he has no one to defend him, so much the more reason why he should
be fairly dealt with," replied the hotel-keeper,--a sentiment with
which Pearl Hawlinshed had no sympathy. "I have seen Moody since you
went out, and he says a man was looking into the keyhole of the room
next to his about ten o'clock last evening. That was your father's room.
Have you any idea who that man was, Hawlinshed?"
"I haven't the least idea in the world," answered Pearl; and possibly
the landlord did not notice his confusion when he replied, "Very likely
it was this same boy."
"It wasn't a boy, but a man: I asked Moody particularly about this
matter."
"I don't know any thing about the matter at all," protested Pearl. "If
the man that lost the money saw any thing of this kind, why didn't he
tell of it before?"
"I asked him this question, and he says he did not think of it before.
The fact of it is, that Moody had been drinking, though he sticks to it
that he wasn't drunk. He went into his room at about ten o'clock, and
put the money into his trunk, for he was afraid he might lose it. He saw
the man looking in at the keyhole of your father's room when he went
into his own to put the money in a safe place. He heard voices in the
next room when he opened his trunk. The boy was with your father at that
time very likely."
"If the man had been drinking, it is not probable that he knows much
about the boy or the man," added Pearl.
"He had not got very tipsy, or he would not have thought to look out for
his money. But bring the boy up, if you can get him without violence or
outrage. If he explains where he got the money to buy the boat, that is
the end of the matter so far as he is concerned. In my opinion the man
who was looking in at the keyhole of your father's room is more likely
to be the thief than the boy."
"Where did the boy get forty-two dollars to pay for the boat, then?"
demanded Pearl.
"I give it up," laughed the landlord. "But we are likely to know
something more about the case before dinner-time. I called in Peppers,
who used to be a detective in New York City; and he is at work on the
case now."
"What did you do that for?" demanded Pearl, who did not seem to relish
the information. "You set me at work on the case; and now you have
called in another person to attend to it, after I have engaged a
steamer."
"All I asked you to do was to bring the boy in to be questioned. Peppers
won't interfere with any thing that you may do," replied the landlord,
not a little surprised at the objection of Pearl.
"What is Peppers doing?" asked Pearl uneasily.
"I don't know what he is doing: at least, I don't know much about it,
and he told me not to tell what I did know."
"But you can tell me, for I am at work on the case," said Pearl in a
coaxing tone.
"No: I won't tell you any thing. You won't interfere with each other,
and it is best for each of you to work on his own hook," replied the
hotel-keeper, as he turned to attend to a guest who wished to speak to
him.
Pearl saw that it was useless to press the matter any farther; and he
was evidently very much disturbed about the turn the investigation had
taken during his absence. He was particularly anxious to know what the
detective was about, but he was unable to obtain any information from
any person. He returned to the steamboat wharf. When he came in sight of
the breakwater, he was not a little startled to see the Goldwing dart
out from behind the structure, with only a small jib and a reefed
mainsail.
He was startled; because not more than an hour had elapsed since he left
the Missisquoi, and he expected it would be another hour before she
would be ready to go in pursuit of the Goldwing. The latter could sail
like the wind if she would only keep right side up, and she would get a
long start of the steamer. Besides, Pearl did not like the looks of the
big waves on the lake any better than Mr. Button had; and he was not
altogether sure that he could manage her any better than Captain Vesey
had done.
The Goldwing was running from the end of the breakwater over towards the
main shore, and it was possible that Dory intended to make a landing at
Plattsburgh. But it was not more than a quarter of a mile from the
breakwater to the shore, and he could soon tell what she intended to do.
He hastened down the railroad to settle this point. In the furious
breeze that was blowing, the Goldwing seemed to leap over the water. If
she intended to go up to the wharf from which she had started, she would
have to tack in a moment.
Pearl ran with all his might; for it occurred to him that if he could
induce Dory to come on shore and go up to the hotel with him, he might
save the ten dollars he had agreed to give the captain and engineer, and
contrive some way to have it stick in his own pocket. The Goldwing ran
within a hundred feet of the shore, and Pearl got behind a car on a side
track to ascertain what she intended to do.
Gradually her main sheet was let off, and the Goldwing was headed to the
southward. This settled the matter. The boat was not going back to the
wharf. Her skipper had evidently run her over in that direction in order
to get her under the lee of the shore, where she would not get the full
force of the wind.
"Hallo! on board of the Goldwing!" shouted Pearl, as he ran to the
water's edge, yelling as loud as he could.
"On shore!" replied Dory, "what do you want?"
"You are wanted at the hotel," replied Pearl.
Dory discovered by this time who it was that hailed him; and he took no
further notice of Pearl, who hastened to the wharf.
CHAPTER VIII.
THE COLCHESTER CLUB CHANGES ITS NAME.
"What in the world are you doing over here, fellows?" asked Dory
Dornwood, as the four passengers of the Missisquoi tumbled in over the
stern of the Goldwing.
"And what under the breezes of Lake Champlain are you doing in this
boat?" shouted Thad Glovering, who was the first to get a footing in the
standing-room of the Goldwing.
"What boat is it?" asked Nat Long in a blustering manner.
"What are you going to do with her, Dory?" demanded Dick Short.
"Can't you take us over to Burlington in her?" queried Corny Minkfield.
"How many questions do you think I can answer at once, fellows?" replied
Dory. "I am going over to Burlington as soon as the weather is fit; and
you can go with me if you like."
"All right, Dory! Hurrah for Dory Dornwood! You are all right, and so
are we: only we are half starved, for we haven't had any breakfast this
morning," said Thad Glovering.
It must be confessed that the party that arrived in the Missisquoi were
not very promising-looking boys. They had a wild, harum-scarum
appearance and manner, which fully justified the description Captain
Vesey had given of them. In a word, they were evidently wild boys; and
in this respect they did not differ much from Dory himself.
They are the boat-builders whose exploits and achievements are to be
recorded, and they may as well be introduced at this as at any other
time. Thad Glovering was an orphan, who lived with his uncle. As this
relative had several children of his own, the added one was a burden to
him, for he had but small wages. Thad declared that he was willing to
work; but up to this time nothing had been found for him to do. The
worst that could be said of him was that he was wild.
[Illustration: "THE FOUR PASSENGERS TUMBLED IN OVER THE STERN OF THE
GOLDWING." PAGE 87.]
Nat Long's father was a deck-hand on a steamer; and, as he was away most
of the time, Nat was permitted to have his own way. His mother was dead;
and his older sister, who had the care of the family, found herself
unable to control him. He was not a confirmed bad boy, and had worked
for a year in one place, and done very well. A change in the business
had thrown him out of work, and he had been unable to find another
situation. Idleness led him into mischief; and, without some kind of
control, it was only a question of time when he got into the hands of
the law for some crime.
Dick Short and Corny Minkfield were the sons of widows, both of whom had
some property. Their mothers were able to support them without work; but
work was the one thing they needed, whether it was with the head or the
hands.
These five boys lived near together, and they had been cronies from
their earliest school-days. Two of them were usually well dressed; and
the others were somewhat ragged, and considerably patched, showing the
efforts of their protectors to keep them decent. They had all been to
school up to the present time, and now it was vacation; and the next
thing to be decided by their friends was what should be done with them.
Dick and Corny were to go to the high school; but the others must go to
work, and earn their own living,--do something for the support of their
parents.
Dory had gone to work before the school closed for the summer, and all
the boys talked as though they intended to do something. But they did
not feel like going to work in vacation time. They had always had great
larks on the lake when school did not keep, and they were not disposed
to dispense with the good time the present year.
It could not be said that one of these boys was really bad. But they
kept all kinds of company; and, in the absence of any strong controlling
force, they were in great danger of becoming "hard boys." Sometimes they
assisted about the steamers and other vessels; and, by making themselves
useful, they obtained the privilege of sailing on the lake. Their
associations were not always of the best character. They were all "smart
boys;" and wise and steady people who knew them wished they might be put
to some useful labor, or be subjected to some salutary control. Mrs.
Short and Mrs. Minkfield had both been warned of the peril of their
sons; and both had considered the means of redeeming them from the bad
company into which their habits threw them. But they had not done any
thing beyond reasoning with the boys, who always promised to mend their
ways.
Assisted by his four cronies, Dory Dornwood had built a sort of bateau,
a flat-bottomed craft, in which they used to row about the lake near the
shore. It was a rude boat; for the young boat-builders had few tools,
and very inferior lumber for the construction of the bateau. But it
would carry them all, and Dory was the captain of the craft. She was
called the Colchester; and the boys formed a club for aquatic sports, to
which they gave the name of the boat.
Doubtless the Colchester Club gave a great deal of satisfaction to its
members. Unfortunately the Colchester broke adrift in a September
squall, and went to pieces on Colchester Reef, as reported by the
light-keeper. No other boat could be obtained; but the members all said
that as soon as they got to work they should give a portion of their
earnings for the purchase of a suitable craft for the association. Up
to this time they had not gone to work, and the successor of the
Colchester did not appear.
Dory proceeded to answer the questions of his fellow-members of the
Colchester Club. The boat in which they found him belonged to him; and
this was the most astounding statement he made in the course of the
interview. They opened their eyes, and stared at Captain Dory, as they
called him, in silent wonder. Then they looked the boat over with
renewed interest, and seemed to be unable to believe the statement of
their companion.
"The Colchester Club shall have the use of her when I am on board,"
added Dory magnanimously.
"That's handsome; and we shall have the biggest kind of times," added
Thad Glovering. "I'll tell you what we'll do, fellows. We will change
the name of the club, and call it after this boat. What is her name,
Dory?"
"You will find it on the stern, and also on the bowsprit," replied the
skipper of the Goldwing. "It isn't a bad name either."
Two of the members of the club looked over the stern, and two others
rushed to the bow. The name was of the utmost consequence, and Dory
thought it was better for them to read it for themselves than for him to
tell it. Besides, there was a good deal of style in the way the name was
put on in the three places.
"Goldwing!" shouted Corny Minkfield, who was the first to read the name
on the stern. "And there is a gold wing under it."
"Goldwing!" repeated Dick Short, as he read the name on the heel of the
bowsprit. "And there is a gold wing here too."
"Isn't that a splendid name for a boat! Goldwing!" exclaimed Nat Long.
"I don't think you could find any thing better than that if you should
study for a month."
"Or any thing better for a club," added Thad Glovering. "The Goldwing
Club! How do you think that sounds, fellows?"
"I don't believe any thing could sound any better," added Dick Short.
"But we haven't looked the boat over yet."
All hands proceeded to attend to this duty at once. The Colchester had
been a rough, flat-bottomed craft, with neither shape nor comeliness
about her. Whatever first-class sailboats the members of the club had
seen had been only at a distance; and consequently their ideal of
beauty, symmetry, comfort, and convenience in a boat was not very high.
The Goldwing was perfection itself to them, though it might not have
been to more experienced observers. They were ecstatic in their praises
of the Goldwing, and did not believe there was a finer sailboat on the
lake than she was.
"You don't mean to say that you own this craft, Dory Dornwood!" said
Thad when the party had exhausted their vocabulary of fine words
applicable to a beautiful sailboat.
"I have said it once, and I will say it again if it will do any good,"
replied Dory. "The Goldwing is mine, and she don't belong to anybody
else. You can go the last cent you've got on that."
"Get out, Dory!" exclaimed Dick Short, punching the skipper in the ribs.
"You are selling us too cheap, Dory."
"I'm not selling you at all!" protested Dory. "I wouldn't take
twenty-five cents apiece for you, though that would make a dollar."
"You can't expect us to believe that you own such a magnificent boat as
this, Dory, unless you tell us where you got her," said Corny Minkfield
very seriously.
"I can expect it, and I do expect it," added Dory, taking the
auctioneer's receipt from his pocket. "I shall prove to you that she is
mine, and without saying another word."
Dory handed the receipt to Corny, and said nothing more. The sceptic
read the paper out loud, and of course that settled the question. There
was no room for a doubt after the reading of the receipt.
"Forty-two dollars!" exclaimed Corny, as he handed the receipt back to
the skipper. "Judging by the cost of the Letitia, she ought to be worth
four or five hundred dollars."
"Forty-two dollars is nothing for a boat like this," added Dick Short,
whose mother was worth money, and therefore he had less respect for
forty-two dollars than most of the other members.
"But where did you get the forty-two dollars?" asked Thad, who had
hardly ever possessed even half a dime at one time.
"Haven't I proved that the Goldwing is mine?" demanded Dory rather
warmly; for he did not want his fellow-members of the Goldwing Club
skirmishing about in the region of the great secret of his lifetime.
"All I have to say about it is, that I came honestly by the money, and I
don't want any more questions asked."
Dory Dornwood, though he was rather wild, scorned to invent a lie to
explain where the money came from, as perhaps some of his companions
might have done under similar circumstances.
The other members of the Goldwing Club looked at one another; and Nat
Long winked at Corny Minkfield, as much as to say "There is a cat in the
meal somewhere." After the imperative warning from the skipper that
nothing more was to be said about the forty-two dollars, no more
questions were asked; but it was evident that the members all kept up a
tremendous thinking on the subject. But even this matter became stale in
a few minutes in the excitement of the hour.
"Forty-two dollars is dirt cheap for a boat like the Goldwing," said
Dory, breaking the silence. "I have no doubt she cost four or five
hundred dollars; but I ought to tell you that she has a bad name."
"A bad name! The Goldwing?" exclaimed Thad; and all of the party seemed
to think it quite impossible that such a splendid boat as the Goldwing
could have any thing but a first-class reputation.
"She drowned the man that owned her. She upset, and then went to the
bottom. Now, if any of you want to go on shore, you can."
The members of the Goldwing Club looked aghast at one another.
CHAPTER IX.
A WEATHER HELM AND A LEE HELM.
"Is the Goldwing in the habit of upsetting? Does she make a regular
thing of it?" asked Thad Glovering.
"I have heard of her doing it twice before; though I believe she never
drowned any one but her owner," replied Dory candidly and seriously.
"But I don't want any fellow to sail in her that don't want to."
"We can stand it as well as you can, Dory," added Corny Minkfield. "I
suppose she would drown you as easily as she would any of the rest of
us."
"There is nothing to make any of us stand it if we don't want to,"
continued Dory. "I have told you the worst of it, and there isn't any
law to make any of you sail in the Goldwing."
"But we want to sail in her; and this is the Goldwing Club now. But we
don't want to be drowned," said Thad. "I think my uncle would like to
get rid of me, but I don't believe he would want to have me drowned."
"I don't want to be drowned any more than you do, and I know my mother
wouldn't want any such thing to happen to me. Of course I wouldn't go
out in the Goldwing if I thought she was going to spill me into the
lake," added Dory. "I have told you the worst of it, and now you can go
ashore at Plattsburgh if you want to."
"I am willing to take my chances if you are, Dory," replied Thad with
some hesitation. "It is blowing a young hurricane to-day, and you said
you should not go till the weather was fit."
"I am not going to drown myself or you either, if I can help it,
fellows," Dory proceeded. "I heard about the Goldwing the last time I
was up here. I asked all about the drowning of the man that owned her,
and a boatman who saw the whole of it told me all about it."
"How long ago was it that the man was drowned?" asked Nat Long.
"It was about three weeks ago. The boat lay on the bottom a week before
they raised her," replied Dory.
"Was it blowing hard when he was drowned?" inquired Corny.
"No: it was just a good sailing-breeze. I think I know what the matter
was with the boat. I believe I can make her all right, if I have not
already done it; for I have been at work on her this morning."
"What was the trouble with her?" asked Thad, who considered the skipper
competent to put any thing to rights about a boat.
"She was ballasted so that she carried a lee helm," answered Dory, as
solemnly as though he settled the fate of a nation by his words.
"Carried a lee helm!" exclaimed Dick Short. "Is that what the matter
was?"
"Carried a lee helm!" repeated Thad. "That was bad!"
"Carried a lee helm! If it was bad for her, she ought to have left her
lee helm on shore."
"What did she carry it for?" asked Nat Long.
"She carried it because she couldn't leave it behind," replied Dory. "It
is a bad habit, such as some men carry with them through life, for the
reason that they can't get rid of it."
"I say, Dory, what is a lee helm?" asked Thad. "You know that we don't
know any thing more about sailing a boat than we do about making a
watch."
"You used to sail Mr. Jones's boat: but we never went with you then,
Dory; and we never had any chance to learn how to sail a boat," added
Corny. "I have no more idea what a lee helm is than I have what the man
in the moon had for dinner to-day."
"That's what's the matter with all of us," added Thad, laughing.
"I didn't mean to bother you, fellows; but that is just what ailed the
Goldwing, and she had it bad. But any boat would have behaved in the
same way if she was not properly trimmed. I don't think Mr.
Lapham--that's the man that owned the Goldwing, and was drowned; I
couldn't think of his name before--understood a boat very well. Look
here, fellows!"
Dory Dornwood pointed to a mast-hole in the deck, which had been
stopped. The foremast had been moved nearly two feet aft of the place
where it had been stepped by the builder.
"The boatman told me that Mr. Lapham had changed the place of the
foremast, so that he could make room for a locker in the head. If she
had a bigger jib, it would be all right. The ballast was badly stowed,
and that is what made her carry a lee helm."
"Now we know all about what did it, but we don't know what a lee helm
is," added Thad, laughing. "I wish you would tell us what the thing is
before you say any thing else."
"A boat ought to carry a weather helm, though not too much of it,"
replied Dory, knitting his brow as though he was struggling with a big
idea, though he was only thinking how he should make his companions
understand him.
The other members of the Goldwing Club could pull an oar or handle a
paddle; and that was really all they knew about boating, though they
were very ambitious to learn.
"I believe that. A boat ought to carry a weather helm. I think the
legislature ought to make a law that a boat should carry a weather helm,
and make it a state-prison offence to carry a lee helm, which is very
bad," said Corny Minkfield.
"If you are going to do all the talking, I haven't any thing more to
say," replied Dory with dignity.
"Don't get mad, Dory. We don't know what a weather helm is any better
than we do what a lee helm is," added Corny, as an apology for the
interruption.
"I was going to tell you what a weather helm is; for, when you know what
one is, you will understand the other: but you keep putting your oars
in, fellows, so that I don't get a chance."
"We won't say another word until we know what a weather helm is, and
what a lee helm is," said Thad. "Dry up, fellows! not another word."
"A boat ought to carry a weather helm," Dory began again; and then he
paused to give his companions a chance to interrupt him.
Corny was just going to remind him that he had said this before, when
Thad put his finger on his lips, and the remark was suppressed. Dory
looked at them all, and found that they intended to "give him the
floor;" and then he proceeded with his explanation.
"The wind don't always blow just the same," Dory proceeded; and Corny
could hardly help making a comment on this sage remark. "I don't mean on
different days, but within the same hour. In other words, the wind don't
come steady. To-day it comes down in heavy flaws. You can see the
effect of the puffs on the top of the water. A vessel keeps tipping a
little in almost any breeze."
The members of the Goldwing Club nodded all around to indicate that they
understood the matter so far.
"When a flaw or puff comes," Dory continued, "it changes the course of
the boat. The helm has to be shifted to meet this change. Almost always
the tiller has to be carried to the weather side of the boat. Do you
know which the weather side of the boat is, fellows?" asked the
expounder of nautical matters.
"It is the side the weather is on, of course," replied Corny.
"It is the side from which the wind comes," added Thad, who thought it
was not quite fair to make fun of the remarks of the skipper when he was
doing his best to have them understand the difficulty with the Goldwing.
"And what do you call the other side?" asked Dory.
"The lee side, I think," answered Thad.
"Right, Thad; and Corny was not so far out of the way as he meant to
be, for to a sailor the wind is about all there is of the weather. When
a flaw comes, and you have to carry the tiller to the weather side of
the boat to keep her on her course, that is a weather helm," Dory
proceeded.
"I see it!" exclaimed Nat Long, as though he had made a great discovery.
"I don't believe you do, Nat," interposed the skipper. "Suppose you
don't carry the tiller to the weather side, what will happen then?"
"I don't know that any thing will happen," answered Nat, rather abashed
at his own ignorance.
"That's the point of all that has been said," added Dory.
"Well, what will happen? Will she tip over?" asked Nat.
"That is the very thing she won't do; and that's the reason why a boat
ought to carry a weather helm, so that she won't tip over if the
helmsman don't happen to have his eyes wide open tight. If you don't put
the helm to the weather side, the head of the boat will come up to the
wind. As she comes up into the wind, it spills the sail."
"Spills the sail!" exclaimed Corny, who could hold in no longer. "I have
heard of spilling the milk, but not of spilling a sail."
"It means to spill the wind out of the sail," added Dory. "In other
words, it takes the wind out of the sail, and it don't press against the
sail any longer. And, if the wind don't press against the sail, of
course it won't tip the boat over."
"That's plain enough. I understand that first-rate," said Thad. "If a
puff brings the boat up into the wind, then the wind don't bear hard on
the sail, and it won't upset the boat."
"Now let us see how it works when a boat carries a lee helm. Instead of
coming up into the wind when a flaw strikes the sail, some boats go the
other way. The flaw crowds them off from the wind. The more she falls
off, the harder the wind presses against the sail. If the puff throws
the head of the boat far enough from the wind, it will blow square
against it; and, if there is enough of it, it will upset any boat. Then,
if you have to put the helm away from the wind in order to keep the
course, that's a lee helm; and it's a dangerous thing in any boat,
though it can generally be easily corrected if the skipper understands
the matter."
"I see it," said Thad. "I suppose the owner of this boat did not
understand it."
"They say he was obstinate about it, and would not take the advice of
those who did understand the matter," added Dory. "I have shifted the
ballast; and I think the Goldwing will work all right now, though I wish
the foremast was in the old hole."
The members of the club declared that they understood the matter
perfectly. They were willing to return to Burlington in the Goldwing if
it could be shown that she carried a weather helm. When the skipper had
finished his explanation, he went forward, and took another look at the
hole which had been stopped. He found a shingling hatchet in the cuddy,
and with this he attempted to drive out the filling of the mast-hole.
After a deal of pounding, he succeeded in the attempt.
He lost no time in demolishing the locker in the head which Mr. Lapham
had fitted there. For an hour he worked very diligently, assisted by all
the other members of the club; and the foremast was transferred to the
hole the builder had intended it should occupy. The stays were adjusted
again with the greatest care on the part of the skipper, and made
strong enough for the heavy weather that prevailed on the lake.
"Isn't there any thing to eat on board, Dory?" asked Thad. "We are
almost starved."
There was not a morsel of food on board, but Dory said he would go over
to the town if he could.
CHAPTER X.
THE MISSISQUOI IN PURSUIT.
Of course Dory Dornwood had no suspicion of what had transpired on shore
since he departed in the Goldwing. The hunger of the other members of
the club reminded him that he might make a long passage to Burlington,
or that he might be compelled to lie at anchor for a whole day before it
was safe to cross the lake in the present state of the weather. He might
be hungry himself as well as his companions, and he had not thought to
lay in a stock of provisions for the voyage.
For this reason he was all the more willing to land at Plattsburgh. He
hoisted the reefed mainsail again, and directed a couple of the party to
get up the anchor. The Goldwing darted off at a furious rate, as she had
before, when the fresh breeze filled her sails. She took the wind on her
quarter at first; but Dory soon braced her up as she rounded the
southerly beacon at the end of the breakwater, and headed the boat for
the main shore.
"How does she work now, Dory?" asked Thad when the boat was on her
course. "Does she carry a lee helm?"
"Not at all. It takes all my strength to keep her from luffing up,"
replied the skipper.
"There's another new word," added Corny Minkfield. "What in the world
does 'luffing up' mean?"
"'To luff' is to come into the wind. I mean by that, to turn the head of
the boat in the direction from which the wind comes," replied Dory. "But
what she does under her present sail don't settle the question. I took
the bonnet off the jib before I left the wharf this morning."
"The bonnet!" shouted Corny. "Does the boat wear a bonnet?"
"Of course she does. You never made the mistake of putting a boat in the
masculine gender. You always say 'she' in speaking of a boat; and of
course she wears a bonnet when she goes out."
"But when the weather is bad you take the bonnet off; and that is not
the way the ladies do," suggested Thad.
"In rough weather the bonnet makes it all the rougher," added Dory. "The
bonnet is a continuation of the jib, laced to the lower part of the
sail. Taking off the bonnet amounts to the same thing as reefing the
sail."
"Reefing the sail is taking in a part of the sheet by tying it up in a
fold," said Nat Long, looking very wise.
"Not much!" answered the skipper.
"That's what my father told me; and he is a deck-hand on board of the
Champlain," persisted Nat.
"I don't believe he said any thing of the kind, Nat. Taking up a part of
the sheet by tying it into a fold would be a queer operation. Do you run
away with the idea that the jib is a sheet?"
"I don't run away with the idea; but of course a sail is a sheet."
"Not at all. This is a sheet," answered Dory, raising the main sheet,
the end of which he held in his left hand, while he steered with his
right.
"How can that be a sheet when it is a rope?" demanded Nat incredulously.
"You are thinking of the sheets between which you sleep. In a boat all
sheets are ropes. This is the main sheet, because it is fastened to the
main boom,--the stick at the lower part of the sail. This is the jib
sheet," continued Dory, indicating the rope attached to the lower part
of the jib, which led aft into the standing-room, where the helmsman
could haul it in or let it off as occasion required.
"There is a man hailing us from the shore," said Thad, as Pearl
Hawlinshed called to Dory from the railroad.
"I don't want to see that man," said Dory, recognizing the voice of the
disagreeable man from whom he had fled when he left the wharf.
"Do you know him?" asked Thad.
"I never saw him until this morning. He bid against me for this boat,
and he is mad because he didn't get it," replied the skipper. "I think
he means to do me mischief if he can, and he can't if I keep out of his
way."
He could not answer any questions without endangering his great secret.
He was on the point of tacking when he heard the call. To go up to the
wharf would be to fall into the company of Pearl, and he decided not to
do it. Instead of coming about, he let off the sheets, and headed the
Goldwing to the southward.
"You are going the wrong way, Dory," said Thad.
"I don't care about going on shore at Plattsburgh again, fellows; but we
will get something to eat at Port Jackson," replied Dory, without
explaining his reason for not wishing to land at the town.
"But we shall starve to death before you get there," protested Corny.
"We have not had a mouthful of any thing to eat to-day. Captain Vesey
said we might go with him if we would be on board at five o'clock in the
morning, and we had no chance to get any breakfast."
"I am sorry I can't do any thing for you just now; but it is only six
miles to Port Jackson, and I think we shall be there in about an hour,"
replied Dory. "I think the fellow that hailed me is wicked enough to get
this boat away from me if he can; and I don't care about meeting him
again."
The members of the Goldwing Club settled down in the most comfortable
places they could find. A couple of them took possession of the berths
in the cuddy, and two others stretched themselves on the seats in the
standing-room. They were not so wild as Captain Vesey had reported them
to be on the passage from Burlington. They were faint and hungry; for it
was now nearly noon, and the voyagers in the Missisquoi had fasted the
greater part of twenty-four hours.
The Goldwing was under the lee of the land, where there was no sea; but
the wind came in very sharp puffs, as the openings in the shore exposed
the boat to the unsteady blast. But she carried so little sail that she
went along very easily, and showed no more tendency to upset than any
well-built boat would in such puffy weather. The party on board saw
nothing in her behavior to warrant the bad reputation she had
established.
Three miles brought the boat to Bluff Point; and the shore was so
elevated here, that the skipper stood farther out into the lake so that
he might not lose the wind. The Goldwing behaved so well, that Dory was
beginning to have a great deal of confidence in her, so that he did not
hesitate to venture farther from the shore.
The schooner appeared to be making about six miles an hour. Passing
between Valcour's Island and the main land, the Goldwing arrived at
Port Jackson inside of an hour; but, before the boat entered the little
bay on which the port is situated, the boys had another sensation. Dory
had hardly thought of looking astern in the run of the Goldwing down
from Plattsburgh.
"There's a steamer coming down the same way we did," said Dick Short, as
he rose from his place on the seat, just as the schooner was going into
the port. "It looks just like the Missisquoi."
"It is the Missisquoi," added Thad, after he had surveyed the boat.
"It certainly looks like her," said Dory, who was trying to make out
what this appearance meant.
His companions had told him the destination of the Missisquoi; and he
was satisfied that she could have no business in this part of the lake,
as she was to be used in towing lumber in the north. He had seen the
little steamer go up to the wharf where the Goldwing lay. He could not
get rid of the idea that her present trip to the southward was in some
way connected with him, and that Pearl Hawlinshed was on board of her.
But he could not disappoint the hungry clubbists again, and he ran the
schooner into the bay. He immediately informed his passengers that he
could remain at the port but a few minutes. He was going up to the store
to obtain provisions for the boat, and would give them something to eat
as soon as she was under way again. Then it appeared that only one of
them had any money,--Corny Minkfield, whose mother had given him
permission to make the trip over to Plattsburgh,--and he had only half a
dollar.
Corny went with Dory to the store. They bought a large supply of bread
and crackers, a salt fish, and finally the storekeeper offered to part
with a ham he had cooked for the use of his own family. Half a small
cheese was added to the stock of provisions, which Dory paid for, and
they hastened back to the wharf.
"Have you seen any thing of that steamer?" asked Dory, as he came within
hailing distance of his companions.
"She has not shown herself yet," replied Thad.
"We have been gone longer than I intended, for the boiled ham took more
time than all the rest of the things," replied Dory, as he and Corny
deposited their joint burden on the forward deck of the Goldwing. "The
Missisquoi was this side of Crab Island when I saw her, and she can't be
far off."
"What do we care for the Missisquoi now?" asked Corny.
"Cast off that bow line, Dick Short," added Dory, without answering the
question.
The skipper shoved the schooner off from the wharf, and told Dick to
hoist the jib. Heading the Goldwing to the eastward, Dory stood out of
the harbor. The boat was hardly under way before the Missisquoi put in
an appearance at the northern entrance of the bay. Dory kept on his
course after he had calculated the point at which the steamer was likely
to come nearest to him.
"There she is!" exclaimed several of the club in the same breath. "She
is striking in ahead of us."
The Missisquoi was less than a quarter of a mile from the Goldwing. It
could plainly be seen that there were two men in her pilot-house; and
Dory was confident that Pearl Hawlinshed was one of them. His intentions
were certainly very serious if he had gone to the expense of hiring a
steamer to chase him. Probably he had found some way to break up the
sale of the Goldwing. But, whatever his mission, the skipper did not
want to see him. He was too closely connected with the secret of the
night before to come any nearer to him. He decided, that, if the son of
his liberal friend succeeded in "interviewing" him, he would have to run
for it.
"I don't understand what that fellow wants of you, Dory," said Corny
Minkfield.
"And I don't understand it any better than you do," replied Dory. "All I
have to say about it is, that I don't like the looks of the fellow, and
I mean to keep out of his way. Pass round the grub, Corny."
Dory thought the food would stop their mouths, and it did. His
fellow-voyagers asked no more questions, for they were too busy with the
provisions to give attention to any thing else.
As the Goldwing went out from the land, she began to feel the force of
the wind, and she darted ahead under the influence of the sharp puffs. A
few minutes later the Goldwing passed the bow of the Missisquoi not more
than forty rods from her.
CHAPTER XI.
THE BEGINNING OF THE CHASE.
"Goldwing, ahoy!" shouted Pearl Hawlinshed from the bow of the
Missisquoi. "I want you, Dory Dornwood!"
The skipper of the Goldwing decided to take no notice of the dangerous
man. The other members of the club were so deeply interested in filling
their empty stomachs that they gave no attention to the call of Pearl.
The provisions had been taken into the cuddy, and Corny was helping his
companions. Those who were not in the cabin were sitting on the floor of
the standing room, and they could not see the Missisquoi.
"Don't you hear me? I say, I want to see you, Dory Dornwood!" shouted
Pearl again with all his might.
Dory could see that those in charge of the Missisquoi were not managing
the chase very well. Instead of steering the steamer to a point ahead
of the Goldwing, Captain Vesey had run her directly for her. If the
schooner had come to when directed to do so, as the captain of her
evidently expected, it would have been all right. As it was, the
Goldwing had made the eighth of a mile by the blunder.
Dory had practically intimated to his pursuer, that, if he wanted him,
he must come after him. He knew that the steamer could not make more
than eight miles an hour at her best, and she was not likely to do as
well as this in the heavy sea of the lake out from the shore. The
skipper of the Goldwing did not expect to outsail the Missisquoi under
his present short sail.
When Pearl saw that Dory had no intention of coming to and waiting for
him to go on board of the schooner, he called to Captain Vesey to follow
the Goldwing. Instead of doing so, he rang his bell to stop the engine.
Dory could not hear what passed between the captain and his passenger;
but he was aware that an animated discussion was in progress on board of
the steamer.
The Goldwing was certainly behaving very well for a boat with such a bad
reputation. Dory had been gaining confidence in her ability every
moment of the time since she left the breakwater. It was evident to him
that sailing on the wind was her weak point, or rather her dangerous
one. But she had the wind on her port quarter at present; and Dory did
not care to run her directly before the wind, as he would have been
obliged to do if he had taken a direct course for Burlington.
The skipper no longer doubted the ability of the Goldwing to cross the
lake, violent as the sea was at a distance from the shore. He headed her
for Garden Island, nearly half a mile south of Valcour's Island, which
sheltered the boat from the full force of the strong wind. From Garden
Island to Providence Island, off the south-western extremity of South
Hero, it was only two miles and a half. Not more than half of this
distance would be through the roughest water; for Valcour's sheltered a
considerable portion of the course.
Dory wondered what the discussion between the captain and the passenger
of the Missisquoi was all about. He judged that the master of the
steamer was not willing to follow the Goldwing any farther. He hoped
they would continue the dispute for a while longer. If they did, he
should be out of their reach in a short time; for he was confident the
schooner was making at least six miles an hour.
But the skipper was not to be fully gratified; for the next time he
looked about at the steamer, she was under way again, and with her bow
pointed to the Goldwing. She was half a mile astern of the schooner, and
this was a considerable distance for her to gain. But Dory began to feel
the excitement of the race, for it was evident that there was to be a
race.
The high land at the southern end of Valcour's Island was making it
altogether too mild for the Goldwing, for the Missisquoi was evidently
gaining very rapidly upon her. Dory started the sheets, and ran to the
southward, where he could get more wind. The steamer promptly changed
her course, and followed the schooner. It was plain that Captain Vesey
or Pearl Hawlinshed, whichever was managing the steamer, had no idea of
using any thing like tact or stratagem in the chase. Probably the pilot
did not consider that any thing of the kind was necessary, and that the
steamer ought to overhaul the sailboat simply by outsailing her.
By this time the other members of the Goldwing Club had eaten all they
could, and their occupation became uninteresting. Corny put the
provisions into a locker in the cabin, and there was enough left for two
or three meals more. First one stood up, and then another, until all had
taken a view of the Missisquoi.
"The steamer is chasing you, Dory," said Thad, as though he had made a
discovery. "She is following us with all her might."
"I know it," replied Dory, looking behind him at the steamer.
"What is she chasing us for?" asked Corny.
"She wants to catch us," added Dory.
"Is it to find out whether she can beat the Goldwing?" asked Nat. "She's
a steamer, and she ought to beat her every time."
"Perhaps she ought to, but I don't intend that she shall."
"You don't expect to run away from a steamer, do you, Dory?" said Dick
Short.
"I don't expect to let her catch us; but it will depend upon how fast
that steamer can go," added Dory.
"But what does she want to catch us for, Dory?" persisted Corny,
repeating the question he had put before.
"I thought I told you about it. The man in the bow wanted to buy the
Goldwing. I bid over him, and got the boat. That made him mad. This is
all I know about the reason for his chasing us. He is a wicked fellow,
and I think he means to do me harm. All I want to do is to keep out of
his way," replied Dory. "I don't know what he wants of me, and you are
just as wise as I am. We won't say any thing more about that matter."
"Of course he will catch you," added Thad. "Who ever heard of such a
thing as a sailboat running away from a steamer?"
"No matter whether we ever heard of such a thing or not, we are going to
try it now," replied Dory. "But I can't have you fellows flying about
all over the boat any longer. Two of you sit on each side of me, and I
think there will be fun in this thing before we get through with it."
"All right, Dory: you are the captain of this ship, and we will do just
what you say," replied Corny.
The boys disposed of themselves as the skipper directed, and sat as
still as they could, which was not saying much. But Dory was satisfied
that they would keep still enough as soon as the boat got a little more
to the eastward, where she would feel the full force of the strong
breeze.
"She is gaining on us, Dory," said Thad; and he and his companions were
watching the Missisquoi all the time. They were beginning to get excited
over the race, though they seemed to be sure that it would soon come to
an end by the steamer overtaking the Goldwing.
"I expect her to gain on us while we are here in still water; but I
think she will roll a great deal more than the Goldwing when we get out
into the lake," replied Dory.
"Creation! didn't she roll coming over from Burlington?" exclaimed
Corny. "I thought she was going to roll clear over. Mr. Button the
engineer said Captain Vesey did not know how to handle her."
"Don't you expect that the Goldwing will roll in the big waves?" asked
Thad.
"Of course she will; but she sits lighter on the water than that
steamer, and she won't dive into the waves so deep. But wait, and we
shall soon see what we can do," replied Dory. "You fellows have eaten
all you can, and I have not had any thing since my breakfast early this
morning."
"I will steer for you, Dory, while you eat your dinner," proposed Corny.
"Did you ever steer a sailboat, Corny?" asked Dory with a smile.
"I never did; but I think I can do it," replied the volunteer.
"I would rather have you make a beginning when it don't blow quite so
hard. If the Goldwing is going to upset, I want to know how it is done."
No one in the party had ever sailed a boat, and the skipper was not
willing to resign the helm to any of them. At his request Corny brought
him something to eat, and he disposed of it while he kept his place at
the helm. By the time he had finished his first slice of ham, and a
corresponding portion of bread and cheese, the Goldwing was up with
Garden Island. The skipper, for his own purposes, had run to the west of
it. Although he felt like disposing of another slice of ham, he was too
much interested in his occupation to attend further to the question of
rations just then.
Dory did not tell his companions what he had been thinking about; but he
hoped to leave the Missisquoi at this point, or to get a better start of
her. He preferred to explain his plan after he had carried it out if it
were a success, or to keep silent if it were a failure. He watched the
Missisquoi very closely, for his own movements would depend upon hers.
There was plenty of water to the northward of the island, but there was
a shoal to the southward.
If the captain of the steamer had been wise, if he had had his eyes
open, he would have kept to the eastward; but he followed directly in
the wake of the Goldwing, and was within less than a quarter of a mile
of her.
"Do you know how much water the Missisquoi draws, Thad?" asked Dory, as
the Goldwing came up with the island.
"I heard Captain Vesey say that she drew six feet when she had her coal
in," replied Thad.
"I heard him say so when we were off Apple-Tree Shoal," added Corny. "I
asked him why he didn't go close up to the buoy; and he said there was
not more than six feet of water on the shoal, and the boat might touch
bottom."
"I thought she didn't draw over five feet. If she draws six, so much the
better," added Dory.
"Why is it so much the better, Dory?" asked Thad.
"Hold on all, and don't ask any more questions!" said Dory, laughing. "I
have business on my hands just now, and I will tell you all about it in
about ten minutes."
The skipper had gybed the boat under the lee of Valcour's; but the wind
was too fresh where he was now to repeat the manoeuvre. It was a gale
in this part of the lake, and the Goldwing worked very lively.
"Corny, I want you to handle that jib-sheet," said he when he was ready
for his next move.
"But I don't know how," pleaded Corny.
"Do what I tell you, and do it in a hurry when I give the word. This is
the jib-sheet, fast to this cleat. When I shift the helm, the jib will
shake. Haul in upon it as fast as you can, and get all you can, and keep
it when you get it. I shall do the same with the main-sheet."
The skipper put the helm down.
CHAPTER XII.
A ROUGH TIME OF IT.
The instant the helm was put down, the head of the boat promptly swung
up in the direction of the wind. Both of the sails began to flap and
bang in the fierce gale.
"Now haul in, Corny!" said Dory, as he did the same by the main-sheet.
"No, Thad! He don't want any help. Let him alone! Take a turn on the
cleat," added the skipper, when one of the party wanted to help.
It was necessary only to take in the slack line of the sheet, and no
hard pulling was required. The boat was now headed to the westward,
which was the opposite course from that which she had been sailing when
he headed her to the southward.
"Now we are on the wind, which is said to be the dangerous course in the
Goldwing's sailing," added the skipper; and this was the first time he
had her close-hauled.
He watched her with the most intense interest, but he had no fault to
find with the boat. It took all his strength at the long tiller to keep
her from coming up into the wind. There was no lee helm now, with only a
jib and mainsail; though she might exhibit this failing when she had all
sail on. In fact, she carried too much weather helm; for it impeded her
progress.
"She works like a lady!" exclaimed Dory with enthusiasm.
Having satisfied himself in regard to the working of the boat, he turned
his attention to the Missisquoi again. He saw that Pearl Hawlinshed was
at the wheel of the steamer. He had evidently learned wisdom from the
movements of the Goldwing. He had turned the helm of the steamer, so
that she was now headed to the westward.
Probably Pearl had begun to do some reasoning by this time. Instead of
running directly for the schooner, he had taken a course to intercept
her when she attempted to go to the northward, as he doubtless believed
she intended to do.
The Goldwing was now on the starboard tack; and the Missisquoi was
running abreast of her, towards the west shore of the lake. Dory
contrived to cramp her so that she did not make much headway, and the
steamer gained so rapidly on her that she was soon a considerable
distance ahead of her.
"Now, Dick Short, we are going about. When Corny lets go of the weather
jib-sheet, I want you to haul on the lee-sheet," said the skipper when
he was ready for the next move.
"Where are we going next, Dory?" asked Thad, confused by the many
movements of the skipper.
"No questions now, Thad. Keep your eyes wide open, and you will see for
yourself. Let go, and haul! Let go the sheet, Corny! Haul in, Dick! Be
lively about it! You must get the sheet in while the sail is shaking, or
you can't do it at all," said Dory sharply, as he put the helm down.
The Goldwing whirled around like a top, when her helm went down. The
hands in charge of the jib-sheets were zealous to do their duty
promptly, and in an instant the sails were drawing on the port tack.
But this did not give the course the skipper wanted. He handled the
boat very cautiously on account of her bad reputation.
Gradually he let off the main-sheet, while Dick was directed to do the
same with the jib-sheet. At the same time Dory kept the helm up, and the
boat fell off until she was headed for the southern side of Garden
Island. She took the wind over her port quarter. It came in heavy gusts,
the Goldwing careening until her gunwale went under at every flaw.
"I don't know about this," said Thad.
"About what, Thad?" asked Dory quietly.
"We are about half under water. This is shaky sailing, in my opinion,"
added Thad, as a wave broke against the side of the boat, and drenched
most of the members of the club to the skin.
"We may get wholly under water before we get through with this trip,"
replied Dory. "But she will come up every time she goes down. For my
part, I never saw a boat work any better than the Goldwing is doing."
"But you will drown the whole of us, Dory!" protested Thad.
"She is working first-rate, Thad; and this isn't more than half as
lively as it will be before we get across the lake."
