howls, with Hadley's assistance tied him to a small tree with a strong
cord he had in his pocket.
"That disposes of you, my friend," he said, mounting his mustang. "I
think we shall find the cabin better without you."
The two men rode off, leaving poor Ki Sing in what appeared, considering
the loneliness of the spot, to be hopeless captivity.
CHAPTER V.
FURTHER ADVENTURES OF BILL MOSELY.
Bill Mosley and his companion pushed on after leaving the poor Chinaman
tied to the tree.
"The yellow heathen may starve, for all I care," said Mosely,
carelessly. "It's all his own fault. Why didn't he speak up like a man
and tell me what I wanted to know?"
"I should say so," chimed in Tom Hadley.
"The question is now, 'Whereabouts is that cabin we are in search of?'"
Hadley appeared to have no idea, and no suggestion to offer.
"It strikes me it must be somewhere near the top of the mountain," said
Mosely. "What do you say?"
"I should say so."
"Then we'll take the shortest way to the summit. I tell you, Tom, we're
on the track of something rich. We'll take all this fellow's gold-dust,
and he can't help himself. It'll be richer than any claim we've worked
yet, if it pans out as well as I expect--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so, Bill," answered Hadley, with an expression of
interest.
"I tell you, Tom," said Bill Mosely, complacently, "you were in luck
when you fell in with me. We've done pretty well since we j'ined hosses,
pard."
"I should say so--but," added Hadley, after a pause, "it would go hard
with us if we got caught."
"We don't mean to get caught," said Mosely, promptly. "As for this new
job, there's no danger in it. This man is down with a broken leg, and he
can't help our taking his gold. The Chinaman's out of the way, and we've
got a clear field. Take a good look, Tom, for your eyes are better than
mine, and tell me if you see anything that looks like a cabin anywhere
around?"
This inquiry was made some twenty minutes after they had left Ki Sing.
They had pursued a circuitous course, or in half the time they might
have been as near the cabin as they now were.
Tom Hadley didn't answer in his customary phrase, but instead raised
himself erect on his mustang and looked sharply about him.
"Well?" demanded Mosely, impatiently.
"I don't see anything that looks like a cabin," said Hadley,
deliberately, "but I think I see smoke."
"Where?" asked his companion in an eager tone.
"There," said Tom Hadley, pointing with his whip in a particular
direction.
Mosely strained his eyes, but he was a trifle near-sighted and could see
nothing.
"I can't see anything," he said, "but that proves nothing. If there's
smoke, there's a house. There's no question about that, and there's not
likely to be more than one cabin about here. Steer in the direction of
the smoke, Tom, and I'll follow in your tracks. My horse is getting
tired; he'll be glad to rest for the night."
"Will it be safe?" queried Hadley.
"Safe enough. The Chinaman is disposed of, and as for this broken-legged
Dewey, we'll bind him fast and set him outside of the cabin while we
make ourselves comfortable within. I shall be sorry to inconvenience
him, but when a man has company he must expect to be put out--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so, Bill."
The two worthy gentlemen kept on their way till, making a sudden turn,
the house, which had hitherto been concealed from them by a cliff, stood
plainly revealed.
"There it is, Tom!" cried Mosely, joyfully. "We've found it, in spite of
that lying heathen. It seems good to see a house after wandering about
for weeks without a chance to sleep under a roof--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so, Bill."
It will be observed that Mr. William Mosely was fond of designating Ki
Sing as a heathen, evidently appreciating his own superiority as a
Christian. Yet I am inclined to think that a heathen like the Chinaman
possessed more moral worth than a dozen Christians of the type of
Mosely. From youth he had preyed upon the community, and his aim had
been to get a living in any way that did not involve labor. Honesty was
an obsolete word in his vocabulary, and a successful theft yielded him a
satisfaction such as other men derive from the consciousness of
well-doing. In fact, Mosely's moral nature was warped, and there was
very little chance of his reformation.
Now that the cabin was near at hand, the two men did not quicken their
speed, for the ascent was somewhat steep and their animals were tired.
"Take it easy, Tom. The whole thing's in our hands. Wonder whether
Dewey's expectin' visitors?" he added, chuckling. "I say, Hadley, he'll
be glad to see us--don't you think so?"
"I should say so," returned Hadley, before the joke dawned upon him.
"You see, we are going to relieve him of the care of that gold-dust of
his. We're two bankers from 'Frisco, that's what we are, and we'll take
care of all the gold-dust we can take in."
"I shall want my half," said Tom Hadley, unexpectedly deviating from his
customary formula.
Mosely shrugged his shoulders. He did not quite like this new
disposition of Hadley's to look after his own interests, but at present
did not think it politic to say much about it. Though Tom Hadley had
generally been subservient to him, he knew very well that if any
difficulty should arise between them Tom would be a formidable
antagonist. Fortunately for him, Hadley did not know his own power, or
he would not have remained in subjection to a man whom he could have
overcome had he been so disposed. He did not fully believe Bill Mosely's
ridiculous boasts of his own prowess, but he was nevertheless disposed
to overrate the man who made so many pretensions. All he asked was a
fair share of the booty which the two together managed to secure, and
this he had made up his mind to have.
They reached the cabin at last, and halted their horses before the door.
Both sprang off, and Bill Mosely, with a sign to his companion to remain
in charge of them, entered at the open door.
"Is that you, Ki Sing?" asked Dewey, whose face was turned toward the
wall.
Bill Mosely could not tell from the way he lay on the pallet, covered
with a blanket, whether his leg were broken or not, but believed that
this was the case. "That doesn't happen to be my name, stranger," he
answered.
Richard Dewey turned suddenly on his low bed and fixed his eyes on the
intruder. "Who are you? what do you want?" he demanded suspiciously.
"I thought I'd come round and make you a call, being in the
neighborhood," answered Mosely, with a smile.
"Who are you?"
"Well, I'm not the President of the United States, nor I ain't Queen
Victoria, as I know of," said Mosely.
"You look more like a horse-thief," said Richard Dewey, bluntly.
"Do you mean to insult me?" exclaimed Bill Mosely, fiercely. "Do you
know who I am?"
Dewey was not easily frightened, and he answered coolly, "You haven't
told me yet."
"Well, I'm Bill Mosely from the State of Missouri. I'm a regular tearer,
I am. I don't take no back talk. When a man insults me I kill him."
"Very well. Now I know who you are," said Richard Dewey, calmly. "Now,
what do you want?"
"How much gold-dust have you in this cabin? We may as well come to
business."
"None at all."
"I know better. You can't pull wool over my eyes. Your Chinaman tells a
different story."
"Ha! Have you seen Ki Sing?" asked Dewey, interested at last.
"Yes, I had the pleasure of meeting the heathen you refer to."
"Where is he now? Can you tell me?"
"To the best of my knowledge he is tied to a tree a mile or so from
here. I don't think he will get away very easily."
"Scoundrel! you shall answer for this!" exclaimed Richard Dewey,
springing to his feet, and thereby showing that neither of his legs was
broken.
CHAPTER VI.
AN UNEQUAL CONTEST.
Bill Mosely was decidedly startled when the man whom he thought helpless
sprang up so suddenly and approached him in a menacing manner. He rose
precipitately from the rude seat on which he had settled himself
comfortably, his face wearing an expression of alarm.
Richard Dewey paused and confronted him. A frown was on his face, and he
appeared very much in earnest in the question he next asked. "Have you
dared to ill-treat my servant, you scoundrel?" he demanded.
"Look here, stranger," said Mosely, with a faint attempt at bluster,
"you'd better take care what you say to me. I'm a bad man, I am."
"I don't doubt it," said Dewey, contemptuously.
This was not altogether satisfactory to Bill Mosely, though it
expressed confidence in the truth of his statement.
"You haven't answered my question," continued Dewey. "What have you done
with my servant?"
"Perhaps he wasn't your servant," said Bill Mosely, evasively.
"There is but one Chinaman in this neighborhood," said Richard Dewey
impatiently, "and he is my faithful servant. Did you tie him to a tree?"
"He was impudent to me," answered Bill Mosely, uneasily.
"Ki Sing is never impudent to any one," returned Dewey, his eyes
flashing with anger. "Tell me what you did with him, or I will fell you
to the ground."
"I didn't harm him," said Bill Mosely, hastily. "I wanted to teach him a
lesson; that is all."
"And so you tied him to a tree, did you?"
"Yes."
"Then go back and release him instantly, or it will be the worse for
you. I would go with you, to make sure that you did so, but my ankle is
weak. Where did you leave him?"
"A little way down the hill."
"Then go at once and release him. If you fail to do it, some day I shall
meet you again and I will make you bitterly repent it."
"All right, stranger; make your mind easy."
Bill Mosely turned to leave the cabin, and Richard Dewey threw himself
down on the pallet once more.
But Mosely had no intention of letting the matter rest there. Had he
been alone he would not have ventured on any further conflict with
Dewey, who, invalid as he was, had shown so much spirit; but he felt
considerable confidence in his companion, who was strong and powerful.
He approached Tom Hadley and whispered in his ear. Tom nodded his head,
and the two stealthily approached the entrance again and re-entered the
cabin.
Richard Dewey had laid himself down on the pallet, thinking that Bill
Mosely had gone about his business, when Tom Hadley, who had been
assigned to this duty by his more timid companion, threw himself upon
the invalid and overpowered him.
"Perhaps you'll insult a gentleman again," exclaimed Mosely tauntingly
as he stood by and witnessed the ineffectual struggles of Tom's victim,
who had been taken at disadvantage.--"Here's the cord, Tom, tie his
hands and feet."
"You're contemptible cowards," exclaimed Dewey. "It takes two of you to
overpower a sick man."
"You don't look very sick," said Mosely, tauntingly.
"I have sprained my ankle or I would defy both of you."
"Talk's cheap!" retorted Bill Mosely.
"What is your object in this outrageous assault upon a stranger?"
demanded Dewey.
"We'll tell you presently," answered Mosely.--"Now tie his feet, Tom."
"Be careful of my ankle--it is sore and sensitive," said Dewey,
addressing himself to Tom Hadley. "You need not tie me further. In my
present condition I am no match for you both. Tell me why it is you
have chosen to attack a man who has never harmed you?"
Tom Hadley looked to Mosely to answer.
"I'll tell you what we want, Dewey, if that is your name," said the
superior rascal. "We want that gold-dust you've got hidden about here
somewhere."
"Who told you I had any gold-dust?" inquired the invalid.
"Your servant. He let it out without thinking, but when we wanted him to
guide us here, he wouldn't. That's why we left him tied to a tree--isn't
it, Tom?"
"I should say so."
"Poor fellow! I am glad to hear he was faithful even when he found
himself in the power of two such ruffians as you."
"Look here, Dewey: don't give us any of your back talk. It ain't
safe--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so, Bill."
"I intend to express my opinion of you and your villainous conduct,"
said Dewey, undaunted, "whatever you choose to call it. So Ki Sing
wouldn't guide you here?"
"No, he led us round in a circle. When we found it out we settled his
hash pretty quick--"
"Like cowards, as you were."
"Are we going to stand this, Tom?" asked Bill, fiercely.
Tom Hadley shrugged his shoulder. He did not enjoy what Bill Mosely
called "back talk" as well as his partner, and it struck him as so much
waste of time. He wanted to come to business, and said briefly, "Where's
the gold?"
"Yes, Dewey, let us know what you have done with your gold."
"So you are thieves, you two?"
"I should say so," interjected Tom Hadley.
"You're a fool," ejaculated Bill Mosely, frowning. "What makes you give
yourself away?"
"Because," said Hadley, bluntly, "we are thieves, or we wouldn't be
after this man's gold."
"That ain't the way to put it," said Bill Mosely, who shrank from
accepting the title to which his actions entitled him. "We're bankers
from 'Frisco, and we are going to take care of Dewey's gold, as he ain't
in a situation to take care of it himself."
"You are very kind," said Dewey, who, embarrassing as his position was,
rather enjoyed the humor of the situation. "So you are a banker, and
your friend a thief? I believe I have more respect for the thief, who
openly avows his objects.--Tom, if that is your name, I am sorry that
you are not in a better business. That man is wholly bad, but I believe
you could lead an honest life."
Tom Hadley said nothing, but he looked thoughtful. His life had been a
lawless one, but he was not the thorough-going scoundrel that Bill
Mosely was, and would have been glad if circumstances had favored a more
creditable mode of life.
"We're wastin' time, Dewey," said Bill Mosely. "Where's the gold-dust?"
"Sure you know I have it? I leave you to find it for yourself," answered
the sick man, who was never lacking for courage, and did not tremble,
though wholly in the power of these men.
"What shall we do, Tom?" asked Mosely.
"Hunt for the gold," suggested Tom Hadley.
If Mosely had judged it of any use to threaten Dewey, he would have done
so, hoping to force him to reveal the hiding-place of the gold; but the
undaunted spirit thus far displayed by his victim convinced him that the
attempt would be unsuccessful. He therefore proceeded, with the help of
his companion, to search the hut. The floor was of earth, and he
occupied himself in digging down into it, considering that the most
likely place of concealment for the treasure.
Richard Dewey watched the work going on in silence.
"If only Ben and Bradley would come back," he said to himself, "I should
soon be free of these rascals. They won't find the gold where they are
looking, but I needn't tell them that."
CHAPTER VII.
TIED TO A TREE.
When Ben and his friend Bradley left the cabin in search of Ki Sing,
they were puzzled to fix upon the direction in which it was best to go.
There was no particular reason to decide in favor of any one against the
others.
"Shall we separate, Jake, or shall we go together?" asked Ben.
"I think we had better stick together, Ben. Otherwise, if one succeeds
he won't have any way of letting the other know."
"That's true."
"Besides, we may need each other's help," added Bradley.
"You mean in case Ki Sing has met with an accident?"
"Well, no; I don't exactly mean that, Ben."
"Perhaps," said Ben, laughing, "you think two pairs of eyes better than
one."
"That's true, Ben; but you haven't caught my idea."
"Then, suppose you catch it for me and give me the benefit of it."
"I think," said Bradley, not smiling at this sally of Ben's, "that our
Chinese friend has fallen in with some rough fellows who have done him
harm."
"I hope not," said Ben, sobered by this suggestion.
"So do I. Ki Sing is a good fellow, if he is a heathen, and I'd like to
scalp the man that ill-treats him."
"There are not many travellers among these mountains."
"No, but there are some. Some men are always pulling up stakes and
looking for better claims. Besides, we are here, and why shouldn't
others come here as well?"
"That is so."
"I think, Ben, we'll keep along in this direction," said Bradley,
indicating a path on the eastern slope of the hill. "I haven't any
particular reason for it, but I've got a sort of idea that this is the
right way."
"All right, Jake; I will be guided by you. I hope you're mistaken about
Ki Sing's fate. Why couldn't he have fallen and sprained his ankle, like
Mr. Dewey?"
"Of course he could, but it isn't likely he has."
"Why not?"
"Because Chinamen, I have always noticed, are cautious and supple. They
are some like cats; they fall on their feet. They are not rash like
white men, but know better how to take care of their lives and limbs.
That's why I don't think Ki Sing has tumbled down or hurt himself in any
way."
"Of course he wouldn't leave us without notice," said Ben, musingly.
"Certainly not: that isn't Ki Sing's way. He's faithful to Dick Dewey,
and won't leave him as long as Dick is laid up. I never had much idea of
Chinamen before, and I don't know as I have now, but Ki Sing is a good
fellow, whatever you may say of his countrymen. They're not all honest.
I was once robbed by a Chinaman, but I'll bet something on Ki Sing. He
might have robbed Dick when he was helpless and dependent, before we
came along, but he didn't do it. There are plenty of white men you
couldn't say that of."
"For instance, the gentlemen who stole our horses."
"It makes me mad whenever I think of that little transaction," said
Bradley. "As for that braggart, Mosely, he'll come to grief some of
these days. He'll probably die with his boots on and his feet some way
from the ground. Before that happens I'd like a little whack at him
myself."
"I owe him a debt too," said Ben. "His running off with my mustang cost
me a good many weary hours. But hark! what's that?" said Ben, suddenly.
"What's what?"
"I thought I heard a cry."
"Where away?"
"To the left."
Jake Bradley halted and inclined his ear to listen.
"Ben," said he, looking up, "I believe we're on the scent. That cry came
either from a Chinaman or a cat."
Ben couldn't help laughing, in spite of the apprehensions which the
words of his companion suggested. "Let us push on, then," he said.
Three minutes later the two came in sight of poor Ki Sing, chafing in
his forced captivity and making ineffectual attempts to release himself
from his confinement.
"That's he, sure enough," exclaimed Jake Bradley, excited. "The poor
fellow's regularly treed."
The Chinaman had not yet seen the approach of his friends, for he
happened to be looking in another direction.
"Ki Sing!" called Ben.
An expression of relief and joy overspread the countenance of the
unfortunate captive when he saw our hero and Bradley.
"How came you here, Ki Sing?" asked Bradley. "Did you tie yourself to
the tree?"
"No, no," replied the Chinaman, earnestly. "Velly bad men tie Ki Sing."
"How many of them bad men were there?" queried Bradley.
"Two."
"That's one apiece for us, Ben," said Bradley. "There a job ahead for
us."
At the same time he busied himself in cutting the cord that confined the
poor Chinaman to the tree, and Ki Sing, with an expression of great
relief and contentment, stretched his limbs and chafed his wrists and
ankles, which were sore from the cutting of the cord.
"Now, Ki Sing, tell us a little more about them men. What did they look
like?"
The Chinaman, in the best English he had at command, described the two
men who had perpetrated the outrage.
"Did you hear either of them call the other by name?" inquired Bradley.
"One Billee; the other Tommee," answered Ki Sing, who remembered the way
in which they addressed each other.
"Why, those are the names of the men who stole our horses!" said Ben, in
surprise.
"That's so!" exclaimed Bradley, in excitement. "It would be just like
them scamps to tie up a poor fellow like Ki Sing.--I say, Ki, did them
fellows have horses?"
"Yes," answered the Chinaman.
"I believe they're the very fellows," cried Bradley. "I hope they are,
for there's a chance of overhauling them.--Why did they tie you, Ki
Sing?"
Ki Sing explained that they had tried to induce him to guide them to
Richard Dewey's cabin, but that he was sure they wanted to steal his
gold, and he had led them astray.
"That's the sort of fellow Ki Sing is," said Bradley, nodding to Ben;
"you see, he wouldn't betray his master."
"So they tie me to tlee," continued the poor fellow. "I thought I stay
here all night."
"You didn't take us into the account, Ki Sing. When these scoundrels
left you where did they go?"
Ki Sing pointed.
"And you think they went in search of the cabin?"
"Yes--they say so."
"Did they know we were there--Ben and I?"
"No; me only say Dickee Dewey."
"Did you say that Dewey was sick?"
"Yes."
"It is clear," said Bradley, turning to Ben, "that them rascals were
bent on mischief. From what Ki Sing told them they concluded that Dewey
would be unable to resist them, and that they would have a soft thing
stealing his gold-dust."
"They may have found the cabin and be at work there now," suggested Ben.
"So they may," answered Bradley, hastily. "What a fool I am to be
chattering here when Dick may be in danger!--Stir your stumps, Ki Sing.
We're goin' back to the cabin as fast as our legs can carry us. I only
hope we'll be in time to catch the scoundrels."
Not without anxiety the three friends retraced their steps toward the
little mountain-hut which was at present their only home.
CHAPTER VIII.
TURNING THE TABLES.
When the three friends came in view of the cabin, the first sight which
attracted their attention was the two mustangs, who stood, in patient
enjoyment of the rest they so much needed, just outside. Their unlawful
owners, as we know, were engaged inside in searching for gold-dust,
without the slightest apprehension or expectation of interference.
"That's my mustang," exclaimed Bradley in a tone of suppressed
excitement. "I never looked to lay eyes on him again, but, thank the
Lord! the thief has walked into a trap which I didn't set for him. We'll
have a reckoning, and that pretty soon."
"How do you know it's your mustang?" asked Ben.
"There's a white spot on the left flank. The other one's yours: I know
it by his make, though I can't lay hold of any sign. Even if I didn't
know him, his bein' in company with mine makes it stand to reason that
it belongs to you."
"I shall be glad to have it again," said Ben, "but we may have a tussle
for them."
"I'm ready," said Jake Bradley, grimly.
By this time they had come to a halt to consider the situation.
"I don't hear anything," said Bradley, listening intently. "I expect the
skunks must be inside. Pray Heaven they haven't harmed poor Dewey!"
Just then Dewey's voice was heard, and they were so near that they could
distinguish his words.
"Well, gentlemen," he said, "how are you getting on? Have you found
anything yet?"
"No, curse it!" responded Mosely. "Suppose you give us a hint."
"Thank you, but I don't see how that's going to benefit me. If you find
the money you mean to take it, don't you?"
"I should say so," answered Tom Hadley, frankly.
Richard Dewey smiled. "I commend your frankness," he said. "Well, you
can't expect a man to assist in robbing himself, can you?"
"You're mighty cool," growled Bill Mosely.
"On the contrary, my indignation is very warm, I assure you."
"Look here, Dewey," said Mosely, pausing: "I'm goin' to make you a
proposition."
"Go on."
"Of course we shall find this gold-dust of yours, but it's rather hard
and troublesome work; so I'll tell you what we'll do. If you'll tell us
where to find it, we'll leave a third of it for you. That'll be square,
won't it? One part for me, one for my pard, and one for you? What do you
say?"
"That you are very kind to allow me a third of what belongs wholly to
me. But even if I should think this a profitable arrangement to enter
into, how am I to feel secure against your carrying off all of the
treasure?"
"You can trust to the honor of a gentleman," laid Mr. William Mosely,
pompously.
"Meaning you?" asked Dewey, with a laugh.
"Meaning me, of course, and when perhaps for myself, perhaps for my pard
also--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so, Bill."
"I've heard there's honor among thieves," said Dewey, smiling, "and this
appears to be an illustration of it. Well, gentlemen, I'm sorry to say I
don't feel that confidence in your honor or your word which would
justify me in accepting your kind proposal."
"Do you doubt my word?" blustered Mosely.
"I feel no doubt on the subject," answered Dewey.
"I accept your apology," said Mosely; "it's lucky you made it. Me and my
friend don't stand no insults. We don't take no back talk. We're bad men
when we get into a scrimmage--eh, Tom?"
"I don't doubt your word in the least," said Dewey. "It gives me
pleasure to assent cordially to the description you give of yourselves."
Tom Hadley, who was rather obtuse, took this as a compliment, but Mosely
was not altogether clear whether Dewey was not chaffing them. "That
sounds all right," said he, suspiciously, "if you mean it."
"Oh, set your mind quite at rest on that subject, Bill, if that is your
name. You may be sure that I mean everything I say."
"Then you won't give us a hint where to dig?"
"I am sorry to disoblige you, but I really couldn't."
"Do you hear that, Ben?" said Jake Bradley, his mouth distended with a
grin. "Dick's chaffin' them scoundrels, and they can't see it. It looks
as if they was huntin' for the gold-dust. They haven't found anything
yet, and they haven't hurt Dick, or he wouldn't talk as cool as he
does."
There was a brief conference, and then the first movement was made by
the besieging-party.
Ki Sing, by Bradley's direction, walked to the entrance of the hut and
looked placidly in.
As Mosely looked up he saw the Chinaman's face looking like a full moon,
and for an instant he was stupefied. He could not conceive how his
victim could have escaped from his captivity.
"Tom," he ejaculated, pointing to the doorway, "look there!"
"I should say so!" ejaculated Tom Hadley, no less surprised than his
friend.
"How did you get here?" demanded Bill Mosely, addressing the Chinaman.
"Me walk up hill," answered Ki Sing, with a bland smile.
"How did you get away from the tree? That's what I mean, you stupid."
"Fliend come along--cut stling," answered the Chinaman, pronouncing his
words in Mongolian fashion.
Bill Mosely was startled. So Ki Sing had a friend. Was the friend with
him? "Where is your friend?" he asked abruptly.
"That my fliend," said the crafty Ki Sing, pointing to his master on the
pallet in the corner.
"Yes, Ki Sing," said Dewey, "we are friends and will remain so, my good
fellow."
Though he did not quite understand why Ben and Jake Bradley did not
present themselves, he felt sure that they were close at hand, and that
his unwelcome visitors would very soon find it getting hot for them.
"Look here, you yellow baboon!" said Bill Mosely, angrily, "you know
what I mean. This man here didn't free you from the tree. Anyway, you
were a fool to come back. Do you know what I am going to do with you?"
Ki Sing shook his head placidly.
"I am going to tie you hand and foot and roll you down hill. You'd
better have stayed where you were."
"No want loll down hillee," said the Chinaman, without, however,
betraying any fear.
"I sha'n't ask whether you like it or not. But stop! Perhaps you can
help us. Do you know where the gold-dust is?"
"Yes," answered Ki Sing.
Bill Mosely's face lighted up with pleasure. He thought he saw the way
out of his difficulty.
"That's the very thing!" he cried, turning to his partner--"eh, Tom?"
"I should say so, Bill."
"Just show us where it is, and we won't do you any harm."
"If my fliend, Dickee Dewee, tell me to, I will," said Ki Sing.
Dewey, thus appealed to, said, "No, Ki Sing; they only want to rob me,
and I am not willing to have you show them."
"You'd better shut up, Dewey," said Mosely, insolently; "you're a dead
duck, and you're only gettin' this foolish heathen into trouble. We've
got tired of waitin' 'round here, and--"
"I am ready to excuse you any time," said Dewey. "Don't stay on my
account, I beg. In fact, the sooner you leave the better it will please
me."
Bill Mosely, who didn't fancy Dewey's sarcasm, frowned fiercely and
turned again to Ki Sing. "Will you show us or not?" he demanded.
"Velly solly," said Ki Sing, with a childish smile, "but Dickee Dewee
won't let me."
With an oath Mosely sprang to the doorway and tried to clutch the
Chinaman, when the latter slid to one side and Jake Bradley confronted
him.
"You'd better begin with me, Bill Mosely," he said.
CHAPTER IX.
BRADLEY'S SIGNAL VICTORY.
Bill Mosely started back as if he had seen a rattlesnake, and stared at
Jake Bradley in mingled surprise and dismay.
"You didn't expect to see me, I reckon?" said Bradley, dryly.
Mosely still stared at him, uncertain what to say or what to do.
"I take it very kind of you to bring back the hosses you borrowed a few
weeks since. You took 'em rather sudden, without askin' leave; it was a
kind of oversight on your part."
"I don't know what you mean," answered Mosely, determined to brazen it
out and keep the horses if possible, for he was lazy and a pedestrian
tramp would not have suited him very well.
"You know what I mean well enough, Bill Mosely. If you don't, them
mustangs outside may refresh your recollection. They look kinder fagged
out. You've worked 'em too hard, Mosely."
"Those mustangs are ours. We bought 'em," said Mosely, boldly.--"Didn't
we, Tom?"
"I should say so," remarked Hadley, with striking originality.
"That's a lie, Tom," remarked Bradley, calmly, "and you know it as well
as I do."
"Are we goin' to stand that, Tom?" blustered Mosely, whose courage was
beginning to revive, as he had thus far only seen Bradley, and
considered that the odds were two to one in his favor. Of course the
Chinaman counted for nothing.
Tom Hadley looked a little doubtful, for he could see that the enemy,
though apparently single-handed, was a man of powerful frame and
apparently fearless even to recklessness. He had a strong suspicion that
Bill Mosely was a coward and would afford him very little assistance in
the event of a scrimmage.
"If you can't stand it," said Bradley, "sit down, if you want to."
Thus far, Richard Dewey had remained silent, but he wished to
participate in the defence of their property if there should be need,
and of course must be released first.
"Jake," said he, "these fellows have tied me hand and foot. They
couldn't have done it if I had not been partially disabled. Send in Ki
Sing to cut the cords."
"They dared to tie you?" said Bradley, sternly.--"Mosely, what was that
for?"
"To remove one obstacle in the way of plunder," Dewey answered for them.
"They're not only hoss-thieves, but thieves through and through. Since
they tied you, they must untie you.--Mosely, go and cut the cords."
"I am not a slave to be ordered round," returned Mosely, haughtily.
"What are you, then?"
"A gentleman."
"Then you'll be a dead gentleman in less than a minute if you don't do
as I tell you."
As he spoke he drew out his revolver and levelled it at Mosely.
The latter turned pale. "Don't handle that we'pon so careless,
stranger," he said. "It might go off."
"So it might--as like as not," answered Bradley, calmly.
"Put it up," said Mosely, nervously.--"Tom, just cut them cords."
"Tom, you needn't do it.--Mosely, you're the man for that duty. Do you
hear?"
Bill Mosely hesitated. He didn't like to yield and be humiliated before
the man over whom he had retained so long an ascendency.
"You'd better be quick about it," said Bradley, warningly. "This here
we'pon goes off terrible easily. I don't want to shoot you, but there
might be an accident. I've killed twenty-one men with it already. You'll
be the twenty-second."
That was hint enough. Pride gave way, and Bill Mosely knelt down and cut
the cords which confined Dewey, and the invalid, with a sense of relief,
sat up on his pallet and watched the conference.
"There! are you satisfied?" asked Mosely, sullenly.
"It'll do as far as it goes, Mosely," said Bradley. "I wouldn't advise
you to try any more of them tricks."
He lowered his weapon, and was about to replace it, when Mosely, who had
made a secret sign to his companion, sprang forward simultaneously with
Tom Hadley and seized the intrepid Bradley.
The attack was sudden, and also unexpected, for Bradley had such a
contempt for the prowess of William Mosely that he had not supposed him
capable of planning or carrying out so bold an attack. It must be
admitted that he was taken at disadvantage, and might have been
temporarily overpowered, for Tom Hadley was strong, and Mosely, though a
coward, was nerved by desperation.
Richard Dewey saw his friend's danger, but, unhappily, he had no weapon
at hand.
But help was not long in coming.
Concealed by the walls of the cabin, Ben had heard all that had been
said, and observed the attack upon his comrade.
He did not hesitate a moment, but sprang forward and showed himself at
Bradley's side.
"Let him go, or I'll shoot," he exclaimed in a tone of command, pointing
at Mosely the twin brother of the revolver which Bradley owned.
"Confusion!" ejaculated Mosely, in fresh dismay.
"Let go," repeated Ben, firmly.
Bill Mosely released Bradley, and the latter threw off the grasp of Tom
Hadley.
"Now," said he, as standing side by side with Ben he confronted the two
thieves, "shall we shoot?"
"No, no," said Mosely, nervously.
"Serve you right if we did. So you thought you'd got me, did you? You
didn't know about Ben, there. He ain't half your size, but he's got
twice the courage.--Ben, what shall we do with them?"
Bill Mosely turned toward Ben, anxious to hear what our hero would say.
He was entirely in the power of the two friends, as he realized.
"Serve them as they served Ki Sing," suggested Ben.
"That's a good idea, that is!--Here, you two rascals, trot out here."
Following directions, the two men emerged from the cabin and stood on
one side of the doorway, feeling that they would gladly be in some other
part of California at that precise moment.
"Mosely, do you see that tree?"
"Yes."
"Go to it."
Bill Mosely slowly and unwillingly proceeded to do as he was told.
"Ki Sing," said Jake Bradley to the Chinaman, who was standing near at
hand, his face wearing a bland and contented smile, "have you any cord
in your pocket?"
"Yes," answered the Celestial.
"Tie that man to the tree."
Ki Sing approached to follow instructions, when Bill Mosely shouted,
"I'll brain you, you yaller heathen, if you dare to touch me!"
"Just as you say, squire," said Bradley, nonchalantly raising his
revolver; "if you'd prefer to be shot I'm a very accommodatin' man, and
I'll oblige you. I guess it'll be better, as we'll save all trouble."
"Stop! stop!" cried Mosely, in dismay. "He can tie me."
"You've changed your mind. I thought you would," said Bradley.--"Ki
Sing, go ahead."
With native dexterity, and not without a feeling of satisfaction easily
understood under the circumstances, Ki Sing proceeded to tie his former
captor, but present captive, to a stout sapling.
"Is it strong?" asked Bradley.
"Velly stlong," answered the Chinaman, with a satisfied look.
"That's good.--Now, Tom, it's your turn. There's your tree! Annex
yourself to it."
Tom Hadley saw the futility of resistance, and quietly allowed himself
to be confined in the same manner as his companion.
When both were thus disposed of Jake Bradley turned to the Chinaman:
"Now, Ki Sing, let us have some supper as soon as possible. We've been
doin' considerable business, Ben and I, and we're as hungry as
bears.--Good-night, Mosely. Hope you'll have a good night's rest!"
"You are not going to leave us here all night, are you?" said Bill
Mosely, uneasily.
"That's just what I'm goin' to do. I'll let you go in the mornin' if you
behave yourself. Still, if you'd rather be shot I can accommodate you."
"What a bloodthirsty brute!" ejaculated the unhappy Mosely as Bradley
disappeared within the doorway.
"I should say so!" echoed Tom Hadley from the other tree.
CHAPTER X.
"THE BEST OF FRIENDS MUST PART."
Mosely and his companion continued in captivity through the night. Some
of my readers may consider the punishment a severe one, and it must be
admitted that it was attended with no small share of discomfort. But for
that time it was an exceedingly mild penalty for the offence which the
two men had committed. In the early days of California, theft was
generally punished in the most summary manner by hanging the culprit
from a limb of the nearest tree, and that, in the majority of cases,
would have been the fate of Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley.
But neither Bradley nor Ben was willing to go to such extremes. Jake
Bradley had had rough experiences, and he was no soft-hearted
sentimentalist, but he had a natural repugnance to taking the life of
his fellow-creatures.
"Money," he said on one occasion to Ben, "ain't to be measured ag'in a
man's life. I don't say I wouldn't kill a man for some things, though I
should hate to mightily, but it wouldn't be on account of robbery. I
wouldn't have a man's blood on my conscience for such a thing as that."
It is needless to say that our young hero, whose heart was warm and
humane, agreed fully with his older companion.
When the two friends got up in the morning and went out of the cabin,
they found their two captives in the same position in which they had
left them. They looked weary and were stiff in the limbs, as well they
might be.
"Well, my friends," said Bradley, "I hope you've passed a pleasant
night."
"I'm almost dead," growled Bill Mosely. "I feel as if I'd been here a
week."
"Do you feel the same way?" inquired Bradley, addressing Tom Hadley.
"I should say so," answered Hadley, in a voice of intense disgust.
"It was your own choice, Mosely," said Jake Bradley. "It was either all
night braced up against a tree, or to be shot at once and put out of
your misery."
"Who wants to be shot?" returned Mosely. "That would be worse than
stayin' here all night. You might have let us go last night."
"So I might, but I wanted to teach you a lesson. You know very well,
Bill Mosely, you'd have fared a good deal worse with some men. You'd
have been swingin' from the nearest bough, and so would your friend.
You'll come to that some time, but I'd rather some one else would hang
you. It ain't a job I hanker after."
"Are you goin' to set us free?" asked Mosely, impatiently, not enjoying
Bradley's prediction as to his future fate.
"Yes, I think I will--on one condition."
"Go ahead! I'll agree to anything."
"That you'll leave this part of California and not come back. I don't
want you to cross my path ag'in."
"You can bet I don't mean to," said Mosely; and there is no doubt he was
entirely in earnest.
"Do you make the same promise, Tom?" asked Bradley, turning to Hadley.
"I should say so," returned Hadley; and there is no reason to doubt his
sincerity also.
"You see, my friends, you don't appear to know the difference between
your property and mine, particularly when it comes to hosses. It is an
unfortunate little peculiarity of yours that will bring your life to an
untimely end some of these days. If you should ever reform and set up as
respectable men, I might be willin' to know you, but there's about as
much chance of that, accordin' to my reckonin', as of water runnin' up
hill."
While he was expressing himself thus he was cutting the cords of his
prisoners, and they took the first chance to stretch their cramped
limbs.
"Feel better, don't you?" asked Bradley, smiling.
"I should say so," answered Hadley.
"Couldn't you give us something to eat?" asked Mosely; "I haven't eaten
a mouthful since yesterday noon, and I feel faint."
"Ki Sing," said Bradley, "bring out some victuals. These men are not
particular friends of mine, but we won't send them away hungry. I've
known what it is to fast for thirty-six hours at a stretch, and I
understand how it feels."
Ki Sing brought out some cold meat and other plain food, which the two
adventurers ate as if they were famished. Their long fast and exposure
during the night had sharpened their appetites and lent a keener zest to
their enjoyment of the meal.
When they had finished Jake Bradley pointed down the mountain. "You've
had your breakfast," he said, "and now there is only one thing more. I
want to see you travel."
Bill Mosely looked askance at the two mustangs, which were tied only a
few rods off.
Jake Bradley caught the direction of his glance. "It's no go, my
friend," he said. "You don't borrow our mustangs this time. We shall
have occasion to use them ourselves. It won't do you any harm to try
your own legs for a while."
Bill Mosely wasn't easily abashed. He was lazy, and the prospect of
tramping all day was by no means agreeable to him. Thanks to his last
robbery, he and his companion were tolerably well supplied with
gold-dust, which was a common circulating medium in California at that
time. An idea struck him, which he lost no time in carrying out. "What
value do you set on them horses?" he asked.
"What makes you ask?" inquired Jake Bradley, with some curiosity.
"We'll buy 'em if you'll take a fair price."
"Buy our mustangs! Have you got the money?"
"We've got gold-dust."
"Where did you get it? I'll warrant you didn't work for it."
"That's our business," answered Mosely, stiffly. "The question is, Do
you want to sell?"
"No, I don't; and if I did I should want to know whose money I was
takin'."
Bill Mosely was disappointed. In that lonely neighborhood it was hardly
likely there would be any other opportunity of obtaining horses, and
there was nothing for it but to walk.
"You haven't got any other business, have you, Mosely?" asked Bradley.
"No.--Tom, come on."
"Good-bye, then. Our acquaintance has been brief, Mosely, but I know
you as well as if we'd lived in the same town for years. You're a fine
man, you are, and an ornament to your native State; but if you ain't a
little more careful you'll be likely to die young, and the world will
lose a man who in his line can't be beat."
Bill Mosely did not attempt any reply to this farewell, but strode down
the sloping path, closely followed by Tom Hadley.
When he had got out of hearing of his late captors he turned to Hadley
and said, "I hate that man! He has put a stain on my honor; he has
insulted and outraged me."
"I should say so," observed Tom Hadley.
"He has treated you just as badly, Hadley; that stain must be washed out
in blood."
"When?" inquired his companion, in a matter-of-fact manner.
"I don't know. Some time. He has had the advantage over us this time,
but we shall meet again. Do you hear that, Tom Hadley?" continued
Mosely, in a theatrical tone, raising his voice at the same time--"we
shall meet again."
"I don't want to meet him again," said Hadley.
"You don't comprehend me. When we meet it will be our turn to deal with
him."
"Just as you say," returned Tom Hadley, varying his usual formula.
"It's very unlucky we went up to that cabin," said Bill, after a pause.
"I should say so," chimed in Tom, very emphatically.
"It was cursed ill-luck, but how could we know that that dare-devil was
a friend of Dewey's? If we'd let well enough alone, we shouldn't have
lost our horses and been compelled to tramp on foot over these
mountains."
"Where are we going?" asked Tom Hadley.
"Down hill," answered Mosely briefly.
This answer did not appear to Tom Hadley to contain much information,
but his mind was not active enough to frame another question, and the
two plodded along in silence.
CHAPTER XI.
PLANS FOR DEPARTURE.
The recovery of the horses was in one respect especially fortunate.
Richard Dewey was anxious to leave the mountain-cabin as soon as
possible and make his way to San Francisco, where, as we know, his
promised wife was anxiously awaiting him. But there was considerable
danger that his ankle, which had been severely sprained, would not be in
a condition for travelling for a considerable time yet. The rough
mountain-paths would have tried it, and perhaps a second sprain would
have resulted.
Now, however, he would be able to ride on one of the horses, and need
not walk at all if he pleased.
This idea occurred to Jake Bradley, who suggested it to Richard Dewey.
Dewey's face brightened up, for he was secretly chafing over the delay
made necessary by his accident. "But, my friend," he said, "it would be
selfish in me to take your horse and leave you to go on foot."
"Look here, Dick Dewey," said Bradley: "what do you take me for? Do you
think I'm so delicate I can't walk? I wasn't brought up in no such way.
I can do my regular share of trampin', whether on the prairie or on the
mountain. I ain't no tender-foot."
"I don't doubt your strength and endurance, friend Bradley," said Dewey,
"but a man doesn't always like to do what he is fully able to do."
"Then we needn't say no more about it. There's a gal--I beg your pardon,
a young lady--in 'Frisco that's pinin' to see you, Dick Dewey, and that
hoss'll get you there sooner'n if you waited till you could walk."
"I am too selfish to resist your arguments, my good friend," said Dewey.
"I think I can venture to start within a week, as I am to ride."
"No doubt of it."
"You'd better let me buy your horse, and then if we don't meet again,
or anything happens to it, you won't be the loser."
"'If we don't meet again'?" repeated Bradley, puzzled. "You don't mean
to say you are goin' to set out alone?"
"I don't want to take you and Ben away from your claim. It isn't half
exhausted yet."
"Then let somebody else exhaust it," returned Bradley. "You don't
suppose, Dick, we are goin' to let you go off alone?"
"I shall not be alone. My faithful attendant, Ki Sing, will be with me."
"And what good would Ki Sing be in case you fell in with a grizzly? I
want to know that," asked Bradley. "I don't say anything against the
heathen; he's squarer than many a white man I've met with, and he's
worth a dozen such men as Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley; but, all the same,
he wouldn't be much in a scrimmage. Them Chinamen are half women,
accordin' to my reckonin'. They look like it and speak like it. No, Ben
and I go when you do, and the first man that comes along is welcome to
the claim."
"I shall certainly be delighted to have you both with me," said Richard
Dewey. "You're a good fellow, Jake Bradley, and I trust you more than
any man I have met since I came to California. Ben acted as escort to
Florence, and I owe him a debt for that which I hope some day to repay."
"Then it's all fixed," said Bradley, in a tone of satisfaction. "We four
are to keep together till we see you within reach of 'Frisco. When you
and your young lady meet you won't need us any more."
Richard Dewey smiled. "Florence will wish to thank you for your kind
care of me, Bradley," he said.
"I've no objection to that. You can invite me to the weddin', Dick."
"I give you that invitation now, and hope you may not have long to wait
for the occasion. All difficulties are not yet removed, but I hope they
may vanish speedily. I get impatient sometimes, but I try to curb my
impatient feeling."
"I reckon I would feel so myself if I was in your fix," observed
Bradley.
"I hope you may be, Jake."
Bradley shook his head.
"I'm a cross-grained old bachelor," he said, "and I reckon no gal would
look at me twice."
CHAPTER XII.
THE PROFITS OF MINING.
A few evenings later Ben and Bradley were sitting just outside the cabin
as the twilight deepened.
"It doesn't seem as if this was our last night in the old shanty," said
Jake Bradley, taking the pipe from his mouth. "It ain't a palace, but I
shall kinder hate to leave it."
"I've got to feel very much at home here myself, Jake; still, I should
like to get somewhere where it isn't quite so far out of the world."
"There's something in that, Ben."
"I haven't heard anything from home for a good many weeks; I wish I knew
whether my uncle's family are all well."
"How many is there in the family, Ben?"
"There's Uncle Job and Aunt Hannah and Cousin Jennie."
"That's just what I thought," said Jake.
"I don't understand you," said Ben, puzzled. "What did you think?"
"I thought there was a Cousin Jennie."
Our hero laughed, and, it may be, blushed a little. "What made you think
that?"
"There generally is, I notice," said Mr. Bradley, eagerly. "Is Cousin
Jennie pretty?"
"To be sure she is."
"I thought that too, Ben."
"What are you driving at, Jake?"
"I was sure there was some one besides the old folks that you was
anxious about."
"Well, you happen to be right," said Ben, laughing. "But I must tell you
that Jennie is only fourteen, and I am only sixteen."
"You'll both of you be older some day, Ben. But there's a matter that we
must settle before we go."
"What's that?"
"About the gold we have found since we've been here. We must have some
arrangement about dividin' it."
"We sha'n't quarrel about that, Jake."
"No, there's no danger of that. That'll be easy enough. We'll divide it
