goes back to their first waltz; what is it that has fallen between and
made a little coldness? Why does he study her now with such questioning
eyes, and why is she, with all her brilliance, less tender than a month
or two ago? That quaint little touch of entire dependence has merged
into a peculiar strength, and she seems quite capable of standing
alone. He is strangely roused, piqued as it were.
Violet has been studying a rather ponderous subject for a ball-room,
and she is somewhat elated at having arrived at a conclusion unaided,
except by the trifling suggestion Mr. Latimer has thrown out. It was
Mr. Murray whom Mr. Grandon had some business with awhile ago; she
remembers seeing his name in a letter. His friend went to Europe, and
this is the Mr. Haviland they talk about. She can almost guess the
rest. How odd if Eugene should marry into the new business house, as
his brother married the daughter of a member of the old one. Violet
resolves that he shall love her. She is sweet and engaging and quite
captivated by him, as is evident by her girlish frankness and
admiration.
The two go up-stairs together, while the gentlemen indulge in a last
cigar.
"It was delightful!" Miss Murray says. "Why, I never saw anything
really lovelier at Newport, though there is more magnificence. And Mr.
Grandon's dancing is perfection. I never enjoyed a partner better. How
very handsome he is! I was envied," she cries, with eager delight; "I
saw it in the eyes of the other girls. Tell me if you think he is given
to flirting; but you know girls do run after such a handsome young
fellow! I never should," she declares, naively. "Oh, Miss Brade has
asked us to lawn tennis to-morrow, with tea and a little dancing in the
evening! And if you want to give me a pleasure," she adds, with a
seductive smile, "let it be a German. I do adore Germans."
She kisses Violet good night in a sweet, girlish way, and her last
thought is of Eugene Grandon's handsome face.
CHAPTER XXVI.
"And what's the thing beneath the skies
We two would most forget?"
Lucia Brade comes over the next morning and renews her invitation to
the rather impromptu lawn tennis, including Violet.
"Of course you will go," decides Miss Murray, persuasively, for she
must have some one to keep her in countenance with this attractive
young man.
It proves rather dull for Violet, though Eugene insists upon giving her
a few lessons, and she feels really interested, but she does not want
to detach him from Miss Murray. The supper is out of doors and is
undeniably gay. Violet obligingly plays most of the evening,
accompanied by a violin. She has discussed the German with Lucia, and
that evening lays it before her husband.
"Of course," he answers, indulgently. "Let it be Tuesday evening. I
wish Eugene would attend to it."
Eugene is elated at being master of ceremonies. They write
invitations,--just a young people's party in honor of Miss Murray. Of
course madame must be included.
"I don't see why," says Eugene.
"I think Mr. Grandon would rather," Violet replies, with a faint touch
of entreaty.
Miss Murray studies on this problem, and afterwards says privately to
Eugene, "If I was Mrs. Grandon I should be jealous of that superb
woman. Why, she looks as if she could beguile any one."
"Floyd isn't the kind to be beguiled, you see," and he gives a short
laugh, but presently admits the old fancy between them.
"Well," says Miss Murray, plaintively, "it was something to be a
countess. Still, I couldn't give up the man I loved. I wonder--if he at
all resembled you when he was that young?"
"No, indeed," and Eugene assumes an air of serene audacity. "The family
beauty was kept inviolate for my sister Laura and your humble servant."
The baby blue eyes have a look of admiration that is extremely
gratifying to the young man's vanity.
The three are deeply engrossed day and evening with pleasures of all
sorts. Pauline Murray takes them with a zest that quite repays her
pretty hostess.
"Your sister-in-law is the sweetest little body in the world!" she
declares, enthusiastically. "It is quite ridiculous to think of her
being step-mother to that lovely Cecil. I wouldn't be called mamma!
Fancy Mrs. Grandon taking her into society a few years hence. Why, they
will look like sisters."
"Of course," answers Eugene, tartly. "Only an idiot would imagine it a
real relationship."
"Was she very much in love with him?" Miss Murray asks, innocently.
"I don't know," returns Eugene, rather impatiently. "I was away when it
happened. I think the marriage was hurried a little on account of Mr.
St. Vincent's illness."
Pauline Murray speculates. Eugene is very fond of his pretty
sister-in-law.
"Do you always go out together?"
"Go out together?" he repeats, with a show of anger. "Why, we never do.
At least I never took her to but one party,--my sister's,--and then
Floyd was in Baltimore."
"He and papa went to see Mr. Haviland, who was going to Europe." Miss
Murray studies him with her innocent baby eyes. Already she is wise in
the lore of women's ways, especially young married women who make a bid
for the attention of gentlemen. But she has to admit that Mrs. Grandon
is very generous of her brother-in-law, and the most delightful
chaperone.
Marcia and Mr. Wilmarth have been to Canada for a week, and return in
time to be invited to the garden party, which Floyd honestly regrets.
True, no business plans have been agreed upon; when Mr. Haviland comes
back, if a formal offer can be made, it will be time to explain.
Eugene and Miss Murray have made the garden party as perfect as zest
and large opportunity could avail. The dancing is to be a German,
principally, but here they have not madame's experience in selecting
and arranging partners. Miss Murray does not mind, since she has
secured Eugene. With all her watching she cannot detect any especial
fondness on the part of pretty Mrs. Floyd.
Violet is oddly consequential as a chaperone. She has never taken such
warm interest in pleasures, and it becomes her youth and vivacity. She
is bright and charming, with a touch of authority here and there that
renders her quite bewitching.
Yet she has been thinking all this time of her own lot. Had she been
alone she would no doubt have brooded over it despondently; but Miss
Murray's almost volatile nature kindles the philosophy of hers. She
knows now that Floyd Grandon did not marry her for love, that he did
not even profess to, and that in most marriages there is at least a
profession of love at the beginning, and it is very sweet. Even such
half-jesting love as these two young people make unblushingly before
her face, in the naughty audacity of youth, is delightful. Mr. Grandon
could never do or say such things; he is too grave and sensible.
The house and lawn are lighted up again. There are elegant young men
and diaphanous fairies; there is music and dancing; there is nectar and
ambrosia and general satisfaction. Violet is too busy to dance,
although if she had but known her husband was foolish enough to long to
try the seductive atmosphere with her, she would not have been so
resolute. Everybody looks happy and content.
"Polly," Mr. Murray says, the next morning, at the late breakfast, "we
must be considering our departure. I shall have to go to New York. What
part of the earth will it be your pleasure to visit next?"
"Oh," ejaculates Miss Murray, with a regretful emphasis, "the mail has
not come in yet?"
"It has not come down. Briggs will be here presently with all personal
matters."
Even as he speaks, the supple young fellow, with his well-trained
deference, comes in with a budget of letters.
"Hillo!" exclaims Murray, glancing up. "Why, Haviland will be back in
about a fortnight! See here, Grandon, can you run out to Chicago with
me? The word is favorable, I must go to the city to-day, Polly."
"Why not let Miss Murray remain here, if she is not homesick?" says
Grandon.
Pauline Murray's eyes light up with an expression quite the reverse of
homesickness.
"I am afraid we shall trespass on a most generous hospitality."
Violet seconds her husband's request. They were to take in Long Branch
as they went down, but it will be out of season now, and Pauline must
go to her aunt at Baltimore or remain with some friend until the
business is settled. So the Grandons' invitation is cordially accepted.
Mr. Murray spends the next two days in the city, while Mr. Grandon is
busy with his own affairs, as on the evening of the third they are to
start for Chicago. He finds his daughter serenely happy and not yet at
the end of pleasures.
"But I think you had better be careful about the young man, Polly,"
says her father, as they are promenading the lawn at the river's edge,
in confidential chat.
"Be careful!" Miss Murray's fair face is a vivid scarlet, and she fans
herself violently with her chip hat, as if overcome with the heat.
"Yes, he is a handsome young man, but----"
"And he is pleasant, he has a lovely temper, and--and--I don't know why
you should find fault with him, papa," she answers, warmly.
"Why, I have not found fault with him"; and there is a funny twinkle in
her father's eye.
"When people say 'but' it always seems like finding fault," says Miss
Murray, resentfully.
"Well, don't you break the young man's heart. I have a regard for him
myself."
Pauline Murray laughs lightly.
"And keep your own in a good condition," advises her father.
But as they stand together on the porch bidding him good by, they
appear quite to belong to each other. Mr. Murray understands him pretty
well. He has no great inclination for business, but he seems to have no
special vices, and can be easily governed by a liberal indulgence in
money matters. There might be worse sons-in-law. The Grandons are a
good old family, and carry weight, and Mr. Murray, whose taste is
altogether for manufacturing, fancies he sees in this business both
interest and profit. So if Polly and the young man decide to like each
other--
Eugene Grandon would no doubt fly out indignantly if he fancied his
matrimonial matters were being settled by older and as they think wiser
heads. For once he is fortunately blind. He likes Pauline Murray
because, if she is not the rose, she brings the scent of it continually
within his reach. Every day Violet grows more charming and the distance
between them lessens. He thinks nothing now of looking her up, of
following her about, of planning drives and walks, and while the heads
are away, he is cavalier to both ladies. They discuss various tender
points and come to love. Eugene no longer sneers and treats it lightly.
Violet is touched by the gentle lowering of tone, the faint hesitation,
the softness that comes and goes over his face, the dreamy smile, the
far light in his eyes, as if his brain was richly satisfied with some
vision. This is love, she thinks, exultantly. Mr. and Mrs. Latimer must
have had just this blessed experience, but no other marriage, not even
Gertrude's, comes up to her ideal. And to think that hundreds must go
through the world without this greatest, finest of all joys. She pities
them, she pities herself profoundly. There are moments when it seems as
if she must throw herself at her husband's feet and tell him that she
is famishing for this divine food. And yet in their brief seasons
together she grows cold, distant, afraid. She cannot even feel as she
did when her ankle was hurt and he so tenderly indulgent. She esteemed
that as love, but she knows better now, sad, sad wisdom!
Yet there is something fascinating in this double life she leads. It
must be what people take when their great hopes are gone. The
diversions of society, the threads of others' lives, the curious,
dangerous study of the feelings and emotions of those about her. Only a
year ago she was such an ignorant little body, now she is so wise, and
she sighs over it.
The days are crowded full of enjoyment. Mrs. Latimer gives the
loveliest tea and the most enchanting musicale with amateurs. Violet
is asked to play, and proposes that Eugene and Miss Murray distinguish
themselves in a duet from "Don Pasquale," which they sing admirably.
Pauline Murray has a soprano voice, with brilliant execution.
"I do believe," exclaims Mrs. Latimer, studying Violet, "that you will
equal madame as a society woman. I am not sure that I shall admire the
cultivated pansy as much as the shy, sweet wood violet, but perhaps it
is better. We women with distinguished husbands must keep pace in
attractiveness, or the world will take them from us in its sweeping
admiration."
"I never did have such a lovely time!" Pauline Murray says, after the
musicale. "And you know I never should have thought of Robin Adair
for an encore if it had not been for Eugene." She has come to the
young man's Christian name. "Wasn't it a perfect success? I never sang
it so well in my life. If papa could have heard it!" And she hums over
a stanza,--
    "After the ball was o'er
    What made my heart so sore--"
Some tears fill Violet's eyes and she turns away. Then, lest her
emotion shall make her appear ungracious, she praises liberally.
Days and nights seem to have wings. The travellers return, and Mr.
Haviland, back from Europe, comes up to Grandon Park. The gentlemen
retire to the tower and discuss business over cigars, and the result is
an offer for all right and title to the interest of Grandon & Co. left
by James Grandon to his family, and for Mr. St. Vincent's patent. The
last is so liberal that Floyd accepts at once; the rest must be
considered by the parties concerned, but it has the consent and advice
of Floyd Grandon and Mr. Connery.
It is late when the conclave breaks up, but Grandon goes up-stairs with
a lighter heart than he has carried in many a long day. He has hardly
dared to believe in this conclusion, and there will no doubt be some
hard fighting before the matter is ended, but he indulges in a long,
exultant breath of freedom. His life will be his own henceforward.
Passing through Cecil's room, he finds both heads on one pillow. Violet
has waked Cecil with her good-night kiss, and the exigeant child has
prisoned her with two soft arms and drawn her close to her own pink
cheek and rosy, fragrant lips. They seem like a picture, gold and
chestnut hair intermingled, complexion of pearl, and the other of
creamy tints, soft as a sun-ripe peach. She has fallen asleep there, as
she so often does, for youth and health defy carking cares. How lovely
they are! Floyd Grandon suddenly counts himself a happy man, and yet he
does not waken her with the kisses he longs to shower on brow and cheek
and lip. If he did, how brave she would be for the temptation of
to-morrow.
After breakfast Floyd summons his mother and Eugene into the library.
Lucia Brade calls in her pony phaeton and entices Pauline, who is
always ready for a pleasure. Violet flutters about her room, sends
Cecil and Jane out for a constitutional, and then picks up a book.
Summer is on the wane, and the air has a fragrance of ripening grapes,
sun-warmed fruit, and the luxurious sweetness of madeira-blooms. The
voices from the library touch her faintly. Mrs. Grandon's has a high,
aggressive swell now and then, and Eugene's drops to that sort of
sullen key she knows so well in the past. What is taking place? Will
there be some new trouble for Floyd?
She walks down to the summer-house from some half-defined, delicate
motive. After a while the three gentlemen go away, Floyd giving a
questioning glance around. She drops her book on her knee and lapses
into a wondering mood, when a step breaks her revery.
Eugene is flushed and angry, yet it does not make him the less
handsome, though it is very different from his usual indolent ease.
"What is the matter?" she asks, for form's sake, for she almost knows.
"Matter!" and he kicks viciously at a pebble that has dared to rear its
head in the smooth walk, sending it over on the grassy lawn. "The
matter is that Floyd is selling us all out with a high hand. That is
what Murray's visit and all this going to and fro mean. He has had an
offer, and he doesn't care for anything so long as you come out on
the topmost round."
"I?" Violet flushes and her eyes grow moist.
"Well, it isn't your fault, after all, and one need not grudge you
anything," he says, strangely moved. "Yes, these men want to buy out
the whole thing, and you'll have a private fortune of your own that
will be stunning! Floyd isn't green at bargain-making. Now they have
gone over to tackle Wilmarth, and a sweet time they will have of it. I
should like to see the fun. But what am I to do afterward?" and he
studies the greensward gloomily.
"You?" she repeats, and the matter settles itself beautifully to her
vision. "Why, you will marry Miss Pauline Murray."
"Marry!" Eugene strides up and down with a grim sense of the irony of
fate. Once he was asked to marry Miss St. Vincent to save his fortune,
now it is Miss Murray. He is a part of the business, to be bandied
about and knocked down to the highest bidder.
"You do love her?"
Violet says this with the rarest, tenderest entreaty.
"Love her? No, I do not." He comes nearer to Violet with his eyes
aflame, his face pale, and his lips savagely compressed. "Have you
been so blind? Did that show deceive you? Why, you must guess, you must
know it is you and not she whom I love."
Violet sits astounded. She is too much amazed even to resent this.
Surely he cannot have been so deceitful, so false-hearted.
"You like me," she begins, tremulously, "and I am your sister, your
brother's wife----"
"And you might have been mine! It maddens me when I think of it."
"And it humiliates me."
"Oh, my darling, you must forgive it!" and Eugene throws himself at her
feet. "If I could have seen you, could have known you----"
"You did not like me when you first saw me," she interrupts, with quiet
dignity.
"No, because I held to an obstinate, hateful prejudice! But when I came
to know you----"
"And through all this time, Eugene, you have been offering a false
admiration to Miss Murray," she continues, with a grave, sad demeanor,
"and you have been thinking of me in a manner that will make me despise
myself forever. How do you suppose I shall meet Mr. Grandon's eyes?"
"As if he cared! Oh, you know he doesn't, Violet. That is the wretched
part of it all."
She turns so pale and sways to and fro in her willow chair, like a
lily, when something has struck the stem but not broken it off, her
lips and pretty dimpled chin quivering, as if in an ague, her eyes
strained, imploring. To be told of that. To have no power to deny it.
"I am his wife," she says, and she tries to rise but falls back.
"Oh, my poor girl, my miserable little darling, don't I know that! But,
see here, Violet, I'm not a villain if I am an unfortunate wretch. I
never thought of any wrong or harm; you are too dear to me, you are
like some sweet little baby that a man wants to take in his arms and
kiss and comfort and hold forever. That is how you ought to be loved.
But I know a good deal better than you that going off and setting one's
self up against the law and society and respect, kills a woman. There
isn't any love worth such a sacrifice; only--I wish I had come to know
you well before you belonged to any one. And you ought to give me some
credit that I never made a fool of myself or did a single act that
Floyd mightn't see. You've been to me like a little angel. See here,
you are worth ten of Madame Lepelletier, with all her beauty. Why
didn't Floyd marry her? She has about as much real soul as he."
"Oh, don't!" she cries, in the depths of her anguish. "You wrong him.
You can never know how gentle and kind he was when papa died, and how
good he has always been to me. I am not so beautiful and fascinating,
or learned like Mrs. Latimer, but Cecil loves me."
She is crying now, not in any great sobs, but her eyes are wind-blown
lakes of crystal tears whose tide overflows. She has fallen back on the
one great comfort, the one pearl saved from the wrecked argosy.
"A man who could be cruel to you ought to be hanged!" he says,
passionately, and her tears move him beyond description. "Floyd isn't
cruel; he is simply cold, indifferent. Oh, my poor little girl, how can
I comfort you?"
"You cannot comfort me," she says, drearily. "I read a long while ago,
in the convent,--I think it was,--that it is not given to every one to
be happy, that one can be upright and honest and pure, and do one's
duty, but that happiness is a blessing of God that is given or withheld,
and we must not waver on that account. Now let me go, and you must never
again say any of these things to me."
She rises feebly, but he is still on the floor of the summer-house at
her feet. Something about her awes him; he is vain and weak and fond of
trying on emotions, he has little sense of present responsibility, but,
as he has said, he does love her, and it is perhaps the best experience
of his whole life. A weak or silly woman would have dragged him down in
spite of his worldly common-sense, but she seems to stir the manliness
within him. At this instant he could really lay down his life for her;
it is the one supreme moment of his indolent, vacillating manhood.
"I have made you still more miserable," he cries, remorsefully. "Oh,
what shall I do! Why is it that you may know a thing in secret all your
life, and yet the moment you speak of it, it is all wrong? I oughtn't
have said a word, and yet it doesn't really make anything different.
See, I haven't so much as touched your hand; you are different from
other women, you are like a pure little angel shut in a niche. And I
mean to do whatever will make you happiest. If you would like me to
marry Miss Murray----"
"Oh," she sighs with a great gasp, "don't marry any woman unless you
love her!"
He rises then, though he still stands in the doorway. "Forgive me for
being such a brute," he implores. "I shall never hurt or offend you
again. I would give my right hand to see you happy. You must, you do
believe this!"
"I believe it," she says, and they look into each other's eyes. A great
crisis has come and gone, they both think, a lightning flash that has
revealed so much, and then shut again in blackness. Could she have
loved him? she wonders.
She walks slowly towards the house, and going to her room throws
herself on the lounge, pressing her throbbing temple upon the pillow.
All the wretchedness of her life seems to have culminated, the little
doubts she has thrust out or tried to overlive. Somehow she appears to
have worked a great and unwitting change in the Grandon family. Once,
when Denise was in a discursive mood, she told Violet of Mr. Wilmarth's
proposal of marriage. What if she had married him? Violet thinks now.
Marcia talks about her "Vulcan" with a curious pride, and he certainly
is indulgent. In that case Violet would have marred no lives.
A soft rustle comes up the stairs, and she knows who stands in the
doorway.
"Oh, are you ill?" Miss Murray kneels by the couch and tosses her hat
aside. "How pale and wretched you look! Does your head ache?"
"Yes," Violet admits.
"And you were so well this morning! Where is everybody? What has become
of Eugene?"
"They have all been talking business," says Violet, "and have gone----"
"I suppose Mr. Grandon told you long ago, like a good husband, but you
have been very discreet. Papa and Mr. Haviland are to take the
business, and I suppose I shall come to live at Grandon Park. I just
adore it! I never had so nice a time anywhere. Did Eugene go with
them?" abruptly flying round to the subject of most importance to her.
"I think not," Violet says, slowly.
"Let me bathe your forehead"; and the soft fingers touch her gently.
"Now, if I shut out the sun you may fall asleep. Don't get really ill!"
"I shall soon be better," Violet returns, faintly.
Miss Murray glides down-stairs, searches the porch, the summer-house,
and the shady clump of trees. There is no Eugene visible. None of the
gentlemen are home to lunch, but there are some calls to break the
afternoon silence. Mrs. Grandon drives out. Violet has dressed herself
and comes down, wan and white, making a pretext with some embroidery.
Cecil is to take tea with Elsie Latimer, a regular weekly invitation.
Pauline Murray fidgets. Her father has imparted some other knowledge,
confidentially, that he shall not object to the young man for a
son-in-law if his daughter so wills. She has stoutly declared that she
does not mean to marry anybody, and her father has laughed, but a whole
day without Eugene seems interminable. She has asked about him at least
a dozen times. An awful fear fills Violet's soul. Is it right that
Eugene should marry her with no real love in his heart for her? and if
he does not--how will she take it? He has been tender and lover-like,
but how much of it was meant? Oh, why is the world all in a tangle? Her
heart beats and her pulses throb, her lips are dry and feverish, and
she has a presentiment of some ill or trouble to come. How will she
meet Mr. Grandon? When she thinks of him she feels like a traitor.
The three return together, but Floyd goes to the stable to see about
one of the carriage-horses slightly lamed, and when he comes Mr.
Haviland sits talking to Violet. Mr. Haviland is older than Mr. Murray,
a tall, rather spare man, with gray hair and close-cropped gray beard,
that give him a military air. A little color comes into her face, and
Grandon remarks nothing amiss; indeed, she looks very pretty and
interesting, as she sits talking of her father.
"Where is Eugene?" he asks presently, as he sees Mr. Murray and his
daughter walking in the grounds.
It seems to Violet as if she must scream. Is she his brother's
keeper? Oh, what if--and it seems as if she must faint dead away at the
horrible suspicion that he may never come back. No wonder her voice is
tremulous. But even as she gasps for breath Eugene appears around the
winding walk, and she is reprieved.
"What is the matter?" Floyd Grandon asks, startled by all these
changes.
"My head aches."
"I thought Mrs. Grandon looked pale," says Mr. Haviland.
Miss Murray has caught sight of Eugene and waves a square of lace sewn
around a centre of puzzling monogram. He has been desperate, moody,
savage, and repentant by turns. He has meant to kneel at Violet's feet
and confess his sins, and never love any other woman while the breath
of life is in his handsome body. But the first is utterly
impracticable, and after having been Miss Murray's devoted cavalier he
cannot snub her in the face of all these eyes. He waves his hand and
turns toward them, feeling that Violet is watching him and positively
impelling him to this step; so he goes on and on to meet his fate. The
cordial greeting of Mr. Murray, who thinks none the worse of him for
his outburst of the morning, in a few words restores the easy footing
of yesterday. Pauline smiles with winning tenderness; it does almost
seem as if he was being crowded out of his rights, and there is enough
to make amends. He sees it all; what does it matter? One never comes up
to any high ideals, and ideals are for the most part tiresome,
unattainable.
When the first bell rings they saunter up the path, Miss Murray on
Eugene's arm. Her eyes have a kind of exultant softness; she has
misread the pain and pallor of his face and her power of bringing back
its warm, joyous tints, but ignorance is bliss. Violet looks up and
meets the dark, questioning eyes, with their half-resolve, and Floyd
Grandon intercepts it all. Why does she turn so deadly pale?
He says something about making ready for dinner, and they all go
up-stairs, leaving her with Cecil. She has that curious, transfixed
feeling, as though when she moved she was in a dream. Floyd Grandon has
seen her sad, shy, quiet, gay, joyous, and in almost every mood but
this. What is it? he wonders. Eugene's eyes wander stealthily now and
then, and when she catches them a shiver goes over her.
To-night Cecil is unusually wakeful and very amusing to Mr. Murray.
They all sit on the porch and discuss business. Mr. Wilmarth is likely
to make a good deal of trouble. To-morrow, it seems, they are to meet
at the lawyer's and the matter is to be put in process of settlement.
The new partners are in haste to get to work.
At last Violet is glad to rise and bid them good evening. Mr. Murray
finally obtains a kiss from Cecil, and is triumphant over so rare a
victory.
At the top of the stairs a hand is laid on Violet's arm.
"It was fate," pleads Eugene, weakly, "and your wish. I saw it in your
eyes."
"Love her," she answers, with a convulsive shiver,--"love her with your
whole soul."
Floyd Grandon knows who entered the hall a moment ago and who now
emerges in the soft light.
CHAPTER XXVII.
You have heard with what toil Secunder penetrated to the land of
darkness, and that, after all, he did not taste the water of
immortality.--SAADI.
The three men talk late. The two young people on the porch have no
duenna, for Mrs. Grandon retired early,--indeed, she has left Miss
Murray quite to Violet, and she thinks if Eugene lets slip this chance
he will be foolish above what is written. He plays at love,--it is no
new thing for him,--but he convinces "Polly" without any actual
questions and answers that he cares for her, and the next morning there
is a delicate little triumph in her demeanor, a tender overflow of
pity, as if, after all, she might not take him, and then he would be
heart-broken.
Violet is much better. She thrusts her secret out of sight, and Floyd
is brief and business-like, something more, but he would be much too
proud to own it.
"Violet," he says, "you must go to Mr. Sherburne's with me this
morning. Your father deputed that gentleman and myself to act in your
behalf if at any time we should have an offer to dispose of his
inventions. His dream has been more than realized, and I am glad to
have it go into the hands of men who will do justice to it. I shall
also dispose of the share in the factory, and that part will be
settled."
"Eugene----" she says, with a certain tremulousness, and she cannot
keep the color out of her face. "Will he be--will----"
"I have advised Eugene to dispose of his part. He has no head, no
desire, and no ambition for business. But whatever he does, it is now
in my power to settle my father's estate, and I shall be glad to do
it."
There is a discernible hardness in his voice. She seems to shrink a
little from him, and he feels strangely resentful.
Mrs. Grandon has a talk with her son before he goes. The new firm have
made her an offer to pay down a certain amount, or, if she insists, the
stated income shall be kept for the present.
"I certainly should take their offer," says Floyd. "Your income will
not be as large, but on the one hand it would die with you, and on the
other you are more independent. I will add to it ten thousand dollars."
"You are very kind," she says, with a touch of gratitude. "But Eugene
will be thrown out of business, and your father did hope it would
remain in the family. He was so proud of his standing."
"I have counselled and besought Eugene, and it is pouring water in a
sieve."
"He should have married Violet," she says, in a tone that avenges
madame. "If you had waited----"
Floyd is deathly pale for an instant. If he had waited. If this
useless money could belong to Eugene.
"You will be ready this afternoon," and he leaves the room.
Has he defrauded his brother? He could have held out a hope to the
dying man and temporized. As his ward, Eugene might have come to admire
her, or been tempted by the fortune. He hates himself that he can put
her in any scale with mere money, and yet, does she not care for
Eugene? What has the varying moods of the last six weeks meant, if not
that? What the little interchange of glances last night? Curiously
enough, Mr. Murray is quite taken with Eugene. Perhaps the elder
brother does not do full justice to the fascinations of the younger.
Has he been too tried and vexed and suspected, until his whole nature
is warped and soured? Perhaps he is unfit for civilization, for
domestic life in the realms of culture and fashion, and he wishes with
much bitterness of spirit that he was back in his congenial wilds and
deserts.
Violet is waiting for him, attired faultlessly. She looks pale and
troubled, he can see that, and the sweet, frank expression with which
she has always challenged his glance is no longer there. It is not
altogether suspicion, but she really does evade his glance. She has
the miserable secret of a third person, that, if known, might work
incalculable harm, and she must keep it sacred. Beside, she is training
herself to believe that Eugene will recover from his ill-fated passion
and truly love Pauline Murray.
"Are you ready?" Grandon briefly asks, and hands her to the carriage.
The drive is quite silent. They find all the parties engaged at Mr.
Sherburne's, and proceed at once to business. On behalf of Messrs.
Haviland and Murray the offer is made for all right and title possessed
by Violet St. Vincent Grandon, and by Floyd Grandon, her husband, in
all interests, inventions, etc., with much legal verbiage that alike
confuses and interests Violet. But the sum offered seems enormous to
her! She gazes blankly from one to another, as she hears again that all
income thereof is to be hers, that no one can touch the principal until
she is twenty-five, that it is settled solely upon her and her children
forever.
"Oh!" she exclaims, with a vague glance at her husband, but his face is
absolutely impassible.
Mr. Sherburne takes her into his private office and questions her after
the usual formula as to whether force or persuasion or bribes have been
used, and whether she does all this of her free consent, and smiles a
little at her utter innocence. It is well she and her fortune are in
the hands of a man of such perfect integrity as Floyd Grandon. Then
they both sign all necessary papers, and the morning's work is
completed. Violet goes home, a rich woman beyond any doubt or question,
but a very miserable one. She would like to give at least half the
money to Eugene, but she does not dare make the least proposal. She
feels afraid of Floyd Grandon's steady, searching eyes.
In the afternoon she and Pauline are left together, but the lawyers
have a rather stormier session than in the morning. Mrs. Grandon has a
vague suspicion that Eugene will come out of this much worsted. He will
spend his money and there will be nothing left. The young man is in a
curious mood. He is well aware that he never can or will confine
himself to business routine, that he is the product of the
nineteenth-century civilization, termed a gentleman, rather useless, it
may be, but decidedly ornamental.
The showing of the last nine months has been profitable beyond
expectation. It is true there has been no income used for family
expenses, and the legacies can be paid. Mrs. Grandon finally decides to
dispose of her claim, and everything is adjusted for the law's
inspection, approval, and ultimate signature. Floyd Grandon has
redeemed his trust, has obeyed his dead father's wishes, and
circumstances have proved that the dying man did not over-estimate the
worth of what he was leaving. But it has been a severe and distasteful
duty, and only the closest attention, the best judgment, and most wary
perseverance, have saved the family from ruin. He gives his advisers
full credit for their help and sympathy; but it has been a great
strain, and he is immensely relieved. The dissolution of the old firm
and the arrangement of the new one are matters for time, but happily he
will be out of that. Wilmarth and Eugene take the first, and the others
are quite capable of managing the last. He has a secret pity for
Wilmarth, and yet he knows he has been Eugene's worst enemy, that he
would not have scrupled at any ruin to attain his end. That he is
Marcia's husband he must always regret, and they have not yet reached
the end of dissensions.
Eugene drives slowly homeward, ruminating many matters. He has his
college education and various accomplishments, and in the course of a
month or so will have some money. He has no more taste for a profession
than for business; and though various phases of speculation look
tempting, he is well aware that he has not the brains to compete with
the trained athletes in this department. He can marry Pauline Murray,
and he will, no doubt, end by marrying some rich woman. He looks
covetously at Violet's fortune and calls himself hard names, but that
is plainly out of his reach. He could love Violet so dearly, with such
passion and fervor, but it is too late, and he sighs. She would like
him to marry Miss Murray; he will please her and Polly, who is
undeniably charming, and do extremely well for himself. Why not, then?
He cannot hang here on Floyd forever.
Polly is wandering through the grounds in the late summer afternoon,
her blue-lined parasol making an azure sky over her golden head, her
white dress draping her slender figure in a strikingly statuesque way.
She is the kind of girl to madden men and win admiration on the right
hand and on the left, and he does like the women on whom the world
sets a signet of approval. No sweet domestic drudge for him, and if
Violet has a fault, it is this tendency. When a man begins to
discover flaws in his ideal the enchantment is weakening.
He saunters up to her, and she blushes, while a touch of delight gleams
in her eye.
"Do you know," he begins, in a melancholy tone, "that I have sold my
birthright, but not for a mess of cabbages, as the camp-meeting brother
called it."
They both laugh,--Polly with a mirthful ring, Eugene lazily.
"And now I must take my bag of gold on one end of a stick and my best
clothes done up in a bundle on the other, and go out to the new
Territories. A young man grows up governor or senator, or some great
personage there. I think it must be in the atmosphere,--ozone or odyle,
what is it?"
She laughs again, a pleasant sound to hear. He is so very handsome in
this mock-plaintive mood, with his beseeching eyes.
"You know I ought to do the world some good."
"Yes. And the Presidents come from the West. I would rather be a
President."
"Oh, you couldn't, you know"; and he laughs again. "Is there nothing
else that would satisfy your ambition?"
"Nothing!" She seems to shake a shower of gold out of the waving hair
on her brow.
"Nothing," he repeats, disconsolately. "Then I may as well go. You see
before you a struggling but worthy young man, born to a better
heritage, but cruel fate----"
"Well, cruel fate," she says, as if prompting him.
He turns, and she blushes vividly. He bends lower until the warm cheek,
soft as a girl's, touches hers, and the lips meet. Then he draws her
arm through his, and takes her parasol.
"I wonder," he says, presently, "if I could get enough together to buy
you of your father? Might I try?"
"You mercenary wretch!" she cries, but the tone is delicious.
"See here," he says, "some fellows have the cheek to ask such a gift
for just nothing at all. I rate you more highly."
That is very sweet flattery. Her eyes droop and the color comes and
goes.
"You might ask him," she says, in a tone of irresistible fascination,
"but I do not believe you will have quite enough."
"Then I shall start for Dakota."
They ramble up and down, and Eugene allows himself to sup of delight.
Does it make so much difference, after all, whom he marries? Polly is
very charming and her lips are like rose-leaves. She loves him also,
and she isn't the kind to bore a man.
Late that evening Violet steals out on the porch for a breath of the
dewy air. Cecil has been wakeful and the stories almost endless. Floyd
has not come home to dinner, and she feels strangely nervous.
Eugene has some idle moments on his hands.
"Come down the walk!" he exclaims, "I have something to tell you"; and
he draws her gently toward him, taking the limp hand in his. As they go
down in the light Floyd Grandon turns into the broad avenue, unseen by
either.
"Well, I have done it," Eugene begins. "If I am miserable for life it
will be your fault."
The treacherous wind carries back the last, and Floyd hears it
distinctly in one of those electric moods that could translate a quiver
in the air.
They are too far away for her answer.
"You will not be miserable," she says, firmly. "No man could be
miserable with Pauline Murray, if he did his duty and tried, tried
with his very soul to the uttermost. And you will, you will."
Eugene Grandon has an insincere nature, while hers is like crystal. He
is extremely fond of sympathy from women, and her urgent tone makes him
seem a sort of hero to himself. If he must endeavor earnestly, there is
something to be overcome, and that is his love for her. The pendulum
vibrates back to it.
"I shall try, of course," he says. Violet St. Vincent, with her
fortune, is no light loss, but he does not distinguish between her and
the fortune. "It was the best thing to do," he continues, "though I had
half a mind to throw up everything and go away."
She feels she should have admired and approved this course, but Pauline
would have been wretched. She does not dream that in this early stage
another lover would have comforted Pauline. She is so simple, so
absolutely truthful, that her youthful discernment is quite at fault.
"You must let yourself be happy," she says, and then she remembers how
she has let herself be happy and the bitter awakening. But in this case
there is nothing to break a confidence once established.
"And what are you going to do?" he asks, suddenly.
It is like a great wave and almost takes her off her feet.
"You must not think of me, nor watch me, nor anything"; and an
observant man would note the strain of agony in her voice. "It was very
good in your brother to take care of me as he did. Mr. Sherburne said
to-day that not one man in a hundred would have brought the matter to
such a successful issue. And you know if everything had been lost, why,
I should have been a burthen on him. Think of us having nothing at
all! What could you do?"
He shrugs his shoulders in the dark, and he knows he should not want
her or any other woman in poverty.
"I shall have a pleasant life," she continues. "I can do a great deal
for Cecil; and I can copy and translate, and Mr. Grandon is so fond of
music. I know we shall be happy when this business no longer perplexes
him and he has a little leisure. He is always so good and thoughtful.
You couldn't expect him to love a little girl like me, fresh from a
convent, with no especial beauty," she says, with heroic bravery.
"And you will forget about me," the young man returns, with jealous
selfishness.
"I shall forget nothing that is right to be remembered," she says,
steadily; "and I like Miss Murray; we shall be friends always. She
seems such a young girl and I am only eighteen. We shall love each
other and take an interest in each other's houses. Now that Gertrude is
away, no one cares very much for me."
"It is a shame!" he interrupts, indignantly. "You and Polly must always
love each other. We shall live somewhere around Grandon Park, I
suppose."
"And we will all end like a fairy story," she declares, trying to
laugh, but it is such a poor, mirthless sound.
She sees with secret joy that he is somewhat comforted, and she trusts
to Polly's fascinations to achieve the rest. Love is not quite what
poets sing about, unless in such lives as Mr. and Mrs. Latimer.
The air is so fragrant, the night so beautiful, that the moments fly
faster than she thinks. The clock strikes ten, and in a little
trepidation she insists that it shall be good night, and glides up the
path and through the hall, and in Cecil's room comes face to face with
Mr. Grandon, who has been home long enough to divest himself of coat,
necktie, and collar. She stands quite still in amaze, the quick flush
he has always admired going up to the very edge of her hair.
"You are out late walking," he says, in a tone that seems to stab her.
"I trust you were not alone."
"I was not alone." He is quite welcome to know all. "I was with Eugene.
He----" How shall she best tell it? Alas! the very hesitation is fatal.
"He is engaged to Miss Murray."
"He abounds in the wisdom of the children of this world," comments
Floyd Grandon, with bitter satire. "It is the best step he could take,
but I hope Miss Murray will never regret it. She is young to take up
life's most difficult problem, a vain, selfish, handsome man."
Violet's lips are dry and her throat constricted. Mr. Grandon is
displeased; he has not been well pleased with Eugene of late. She can
make no present peace between them; something in the sad depths of her
heart tells her that it is useless to try. That this man before her,
her wedded husband, who has never been her lover, should be jealous, is
the last thought that would occur to her. She is a little afraid he
suspects Eugene, but there never will be any cause again. She will not
rest until she sees him devoted to Miss Murray. She can make no
confidence, so she kisses Cecil, and begins to take some roses from her
hair with untender fingers and the nervousness that confesses her ill
at ease.
Floyd Grandon walks over to the window. For perhaps the first time in
his life he is swayed by a purely barbaric element. Men beat or shoot
or stab their wives under the dominion of such a passion! He is almost
tempted to fly down-stairs and confront Eugene and have it out with
him. To go at this fragile little wraith, who is now pale as a
snow-drop, would be too unmanly. He holds himself firmly in hand, and
the tornado of jealousy sweeps over him. Why has he never experienced
it before? Can it be that he has come to love her so supremely? His
brain seems to swim around, he drops into the chair and gives a gasp
for breath at this strange revelation. Yes, he loves her, and she would
be happier with Eugene! He has marred the life he meant to shield with
so much tenderness.
When his passion is spent an utter humiliation succeeds. He is ashamed
at his time of life of giving way to any emotion so strongly; he has
clipped and controlled himself, governed and suppressed rigorously, and
in a moment all the barriers have been swept away. Is this the high and
fine honor on which he has so prided himself?
Some other steps are coming up the stairs. There is a little lingering
good night, a parting of the ways, and Eugene goes to his room. What is
there in this false, handsome face that can so move the hearts of both
these women? Does Violet fancy herself beloved, the victim of a cruel
fate? Does Pauline Murray believe she is going to happy wifehood when
her husband-elect secretly desires another?
Floyd Grandon sits there until past midnight. Violet has breathed her
patient, tender, penitent prayer, wept a few dreary tears, and fallen
asleep. She looks hardly more than a child, and he could pity her if he
did not love her so much, but in its very newness his love is cruel. It
is not him for whom she secretly sighs, but another. And a dim wonder
comes to his inmost soul--did ever any woman longing, and being denied,
suffer this exquisite torture?
The world looks different in the flood of morning sunshine. Mr.
Murray's cheery, inspiriting tones are heard in the hall below, Cecil's
bird-like treble, Mr. Haviland's slow but not unmelodious tone, and
Pauline's witching mockery. Her father has been teazing her, and when
Violet comes down, she stands in the hall, golden crowned and rose-red,
slim and tall, and is the embodiment of delight.
It all comes out, of course. Eugene bears his honors gallantly, and
looks handsomer than ever. Mr. Murray is really proud of Polly's
choice, for, after all, the principal duty of the young people will be
to charm society. Eugene is a high-bred, showy animal, with regular
points and paces, and is not to be easily distanced on the great course
of fashion. Violet watches him in dim amaze. Is he assuming all this
joy and delight?
"It's just too lovely!" Polly says afterward, when she gets Mrs.
Grandon alone. "And do you know, I was jealous last night when you
and Eugene meandered up and down the shrubbery;" and a secret elation
shines in her eyes. "I made him tell me all you said; did you really
want him to marry me? Do you love me, you dear little angel?"
If she is a little struck at Eugene's way of confessing to his
sweetheart, she does not betray any suspicion of mendacity. She can
truly say she likes Pauline, and that she is glad of the engagement,
that she and Polly are certain to be the best of friends. The warms
arms around her are so fond, the kisses so delicately sweet, the
exaggerations of feeling are so utterly delicious, that Violet yields
to the fascination and adores Polly to her heart's content, and Polly
promises that Eugene shall dance with her and be just the same real
brother that he was before.
It seems as though business had but just begun. The elders talk law: it
is the surrogate's office and the orphans' court and published notices.
Eugene formally dissolves partnership with Jasper Wilmarth, and for a
"consideration," which he insists is Polly, transfers his half to Mr.
Murray. Wilmarth is offered a large price for his quarter-share, but he
resolves to fight to the bitter end. Of course he must give up, but he
means to make all the trouble possible. Marcia flies hither and thither
like a wasp, stinging wherever she can, but in these days Violet is
guarded a good deal by Polly and her lover. Grown bolder, she at length
attacks Floyd, accusing him of treachery and avarice and half the
crimes in the calendar. Violet's fortune is flung up,--"The fortune no
one else would touch, though it was offered to them," says Marcia,
crushingly.
Floyd loses his temper.
"Marcia," he says, "never let me hear you make that accusation! Mr.
Wilmarth went to Canada for that deliberate purpose, and urged his suit
up to the very last day of Mr. St. Vincent's life. He would have been
too glad to have swept the whole concern into his hands, and swallowed
up your portion as well. It has been an unthankful office from first to
last, and but for my father's sake I should have thrown it up at once."
Marcia is white to the lips. Either Jasper Wilmarth has deceived her,
or her brother Floyd standing here does not tell the truth! To foolish
Marcia there has been something quite heroic in Mr. Wilmarth refusing
so tempting an offer and choosing her.
"He did not care for such a mere child," she says, with obstinate
pride.
"But he did care for the money. And in the mean while he was
depreciating the business and doing his utmost to ruin it. If you
love him," he says, "well and good, but do not insist that I shall. I
can never either honor or esteem him. I saw through him too easily."
"I think you are very indiscreet, Marcia," exclaims her mother, when
Floyd has left the room. "Do try to keep peaceable. It is a shame to
have you quarrelling all the time! How could he help disposing of the
business? It was only held in trust until it could be settled."
For Mrs. Grandon has resolved herself into quite a comfortable frame of
mind. Eugene will not come to grief; on the contrary, his prospects are
so bright that her spirits rise accordingly. He is her darling, her
pride. She has no foolish jealousy of the young girl who is to be his
wife,--she could not have chosen better herself. Her motherly cares are
at an end, her income is assured. She would rather have Madame
Lepelletier in Violet's place, but she will not allow the one bitter to
spoil so much sweet.
Madame Lepelletier is somewhat amazed at the turn affairs have taken.
Eugene has not been the trump card she hoped. There is so much going on
at the great house that she is quite distanced.
But one evening Floyd comes down with a message that he has not cared
to trust to others. It is a little cool, and she has a bit of fire in
the grate, though the windows are open to the dewy, sweet air. All is
so quiet and tranquil, and for a month there has been little save
confusion and flying to and fro at home.
She remarks that he is thinner and there is a restlessness in the eyes,
while the face is set and stern.
"You are working too hard," she begins, in her sympathetic voice. "All
this has been a great care. You ought to have something----"
His sensitive pride takes the alarm. Does she, too, think he had his
covetous eye on the St. Vincent fortune?
"Don't!" he interrupts, in a strained, imploring tone. "I should hate
to have you of all others think I was moved in whatever I have done by
any thought of personal gain. I could wish that not one dollar of gain
had come to me,--and it has not," he says, defiantly. "I will confess
to you that I was moved by the profoundest pity for a dying man, and I
was afraid then that we should all go to ruin together."
"Ah," she returns, and a beguiling light plays over her face like some
swift ripple, "I never looked upon it in any other light. I knew you
better than you believed I did."
He has one friend, he thinks, in a daring, obstinate sort of way quite
new to him.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
Desires unsatisfied, abortive hope,
Repinings which provoked vindictive thought,
These restless elements forever wrought.
                         SOUTHEY.
"Good night," John Latimer says, as they stand at the gate of the
eyrie. They have been spending a delightful evening. Prof. Freilgrath
is on his way home, and after a brief visit must make a flying trip to
Germany. Latimer has half decided to go with him, and has been
persuading Floyd. It looks very tempting,--a two or three months'
vacation.
"I ought to go up to the factory," he begins, abruptly. "Our watchman
is down with the rheumatism. The foreman stayed last night, and I
promised to send in some one to-night. Am I growing old and forgetful?"
Latimer laughs as he asks how much money is in the safe. If half a
million, he will go.
"At all events I will walk up and see," Grandon says, and strides
along.
There is no moon, but he has been over the road so many times that it
is no journey at all. Silence and darkness reign supreme. He unfastens
the door with his skeleton key, lights a burner in the hallway and a
safety lamp which he carries with him. How weird and ghostly these long
passages look! The loom-rooms seem tenanted by huge, misshapen denizens
of some preadamic world. He stands and looks, and fantastic ideas float
through his brain.
The engine-room is satisfactory. Everything is right, except that once
or twice he catches a strong whiff of kerosene, which he hates utterly.
The men may have been using it for something. He inspects nooks and
corners, even looks into Wilmarth's little den. How often to traverse a
man's plans, makes an enemy of him for life, he ruminates.
He turns out the light in the hall and enters the office, remembering
two letters he laid in the drawer. How shadowy and tempting the little
rooms look! He enters and throws himself on the lounge. A few weeks
longer and the place will know him no more except for a chance visit.
