ing him perhaps for the last time, a fair, girlish figure 
with gold hair, but oh, so cold! it makes me shiver 
to think how she used to look. Possibly there was 
a dreaminess about her blue eyes which made up for 
her manner; but how Nino could love her, I cannot 
understand. It must have been like making love to 
a pillar of ice. 
"I am much indebted to you for allowing me to 
come at this hour, signorina," he said, as he bowed. 
" Ah, professore, it looks almost as though it were 
you yourself who were to make your de*but," said 
she, laughing and leaning back in her chair. " Your 
name is on every corner in Rome, and I saw you 
coming out of a side door of the theatre this morning." Nino trembled, but reflected that if she had 
suspected anything she would not have made so light 
of it. 
"The fact is, signorina, my cousin is so nervous 
that he begged me earnestly to be present at the 
rehearsal this morning ; and as it is the great event 
of his life, I could not easily refuse him. I presume 
 
you are going to hear him, since I saw your carriage 
at the theatre." 
" Yes. At the last minute, my father wanted to 
change our box for one nearer the stage, and so we 
went ourselves. The baroness you know, the lady 
who went with us to the Pantheon is going with 
us to-night." 
It was the first time Hedwig had mentioned her, 
and it was evident that Nino's intimacy with the 
baroness had been kept a secret. How long would 
it be so ? Mechanically he proceeded with the lesson, thinking mournfully that he should never give 
her another. But Hedwig was more animated than 
he had ever seen her, and often stopped to ask questions about the coming performance. It was evident 
that she was entirely absorbed with the thought of 
at last hearing to its fullest extent the voice that 
had haunted her dreams; most of all, with spec 
ulating as to what this wonderful singer was to be 
like. Dwelling on the echo of his singing for 
months had roused her interest and curiosity to such 
a pitch that she could hardly be quiet a moment, or 
think calmly of what she was to enjoy; and yet she 
looked so very cold and indifferent at most times. 
But Nino had noticed all this, and rejoiced at it; 
young as he was, however, he understood that the 
discovery she was about to make would be a shock 
that must certainly produce some palpable result, 
when she should see him from her box in the theatre. 
He trembled for the consequences. 
The lesson was over all too soon, and Nino lin 
gered a moment to see whether the very last drops of 
 
his cup of happiness might not still be sweet. He 
did not know when he should see her again, to speak 
with her; and though he determined it should not 
be long, the future seemed very uncertain, and he 
would look on her loveliness while he might. 
"I hope you will like my cousin's singing," he 
said, rather timidly. 
" If he sings as he has sung before, he is the great 
est artist living," she said calmly, as though no one 
would dispute it. " But I am curious to see him, as 
well as to hear him." 
"He is not handsome," said Nino, smiling a little. 
" In fact, there is a family resemblance ; he is said 
to look like me." 
"Why did you not tell me that before?" she asked 
quickly, and fixed her blue eyes on Nino's face, as 
though she wished to photograph the features in her 
mind. 
" I did not suppose the signorina would think twice 
about a singer's appearance," said Nino quietly. 
Hedwig blushed and turned away, busying herself 
with her books. At that moment Graf von Lira 
entered from the next room. Nino bowed. 
"Curious is it," said the count, "that you and the 
about-to-make-his-appearance tenor should the same 
name have." 
" He is a near relation, Signor Conte, the same 
whom you heard sing in the Pantheon. I hope you 
will like his voice." 
"That is what we shall see, Signor Professore," 
answered the other severely. He had a curious way 
of bowing, as though he were made only in two 
 
pieces, from his waist to his heels, and from his 
waist to the crown of his head. Nino went his way 
sadly, and wondering how Hedwig would look when 
she should recognise him from her box in the theatre, 
that very evening. 
It is a terrible and a heart-tearing thing to part 
from the woman one loves. That is nothing new, 
you say. Every one knows that. Perhaps so, 
though I think not. Only those can know it who 
have experienced it, and for them no explanations 
are in any way at all necessary. The mere word 
"parting" calls up such an infinity of sorrow that it 
is better to draw a veil over the sad thing and bury 
it out of sight, and put upon it the seal on which is 
graven "No Hope." 
Moreover, when a man only supposes, as Nino did, 
that he is leaving the woman he loves, or is about 
to leave her, until he can devise some new plan for 
seeing her, the case is not so very serious. Never 
theless, Nino, who is of a very tender constitution of 
the affections, suffered certain pangs which are always hard to bear, and as he walked slowly down the 
street he hung his head low, and did not look like 
a man who could possibly be successful in anything 
he might undertake that day. Yet it was the most 
important day of his life, and had it not been that he 
had left Hedwig with little hope of ever giving her 
another lesson, he would have been so happy that the 
whole air would have seemed dancing with sunbeams 
and angels and flowers. I think that when a man 
loves he cares very little for what he does. The 
greatest success is indifferent to him, and he cares 
 
not at all for failure, in the ordinary undertakings 
of life. These are my reflections, and they are worth 
something, because I once loved very much myself, 
and was parted from her I loved many times, before 
the last parting. 
It was on this day that Nino came to me and told 
me all the history of the past months, of which I 
knew nothing; but, as you know all about it, I need 
not tell you what the conversation was like, until he 
had finished. Then I told him he was the prince and 
chief of donkeys, which was no more than the truth, 
as everybody will allow. He only spread out his 
palms and shrugged his shoulders, putting his head 
on one side, as though to say he could not help it. 
" Is it perhaps my fault that you are a little don 
key?" I asked; for you may imagine whether I was 
angry or not. 
"Certainly not, Sor Cornelio," he said. "It is 
entirely my own doing but I do not see that I am a 
donkey." 
" Blood of Bacchus ! " I ejaculated, holding up my 
hands. "He does not believe he is a great stupid! " 
But Nino was not angry at all. He busied himself 
a little with his costume, which was laid out on the 
piano, with the sword and the tinsel collar, and all 
the rest of it. 
"I am in love," he said. "What would you 
have?" 
"I would have you put a little giudizio, just a 
grain of judgment and common sense, into your love 
affairs. Why, you go about it as though it were the 
most innocent thing in the world to disguise yourself, and present yourself as a professor in a noble 
man's house, in order to make love to his daughter! 
You, to make love to a noble damigella, a young 
countess, with a fortune! Go back to Serveti, and 
marry the first contadina girl you meet ; it is much 
more fitting, if you must needs marry at all. I repeat it, you are an ignorant donkey! " 
"Eh!" cried Nino, perfectly unmoved, "if I am 
ignorant, it is not for lack of your teaching; and as 
for being the beast of burden to which you refer, I 
have heard it said that you were once in love yourself. Meanwhile, I have told you this, because there 
will perhaps be trouble, and I did not intend you to 
be surprised." 
"Surprised?" said I. "I should not be surprised 
at anything you might fancy doing, now. No, I 
should not dream of being surprised! " 
"So much the better," answered Nino imperturbably. He looked sad and weary, though, and as I 
am a prudent man I put my anger away to cool for 
a little while, and indulged in a cigar until it should 
be time to go to the theatre; for of course I went 
with him, and Mariuccia too, to help him with his 
dress. Poor old Mariuccia! she had dressed him 
when he was a ragged little boy, and she was deter 
mined to put the finishing touches to his appearance 
now that he was about to be a great man, she said. 
His dressing-room was a narrow little place, sufficiently ill lighted, and there was barely space to turn 
round. Mariuccia, who had brought the cat and had 
her pocket full of roasted chestnuts, sat outside on a 
chair until he was ready for her; and I am sure that 
 
if she had spent her life in the profession of adorning players she could not have used her fingers more 
deftly in the arrangement of the collar and sword. 
Nino had a fancy to wear a moustache and a pointed 
beard through the first part of the opera ; saying that 
a courtier always had hair on his face, but that he 
would naturally shave if he turned monk. I represented to him that it was a needless expense, since 
he must deposit the value of the false beard with the 
theatre barber, who lives opposite; and it was 
twenty-three francs. Besides, he would look like a 
different man two separate characters. 
"I do not care a cabbage for that," said Nino. 
"If they cannot recognise me with their ears, they 
need not trouble themselves to recognise me at all." 
"It is a fact that their ears are quite long enough," 
said Mariuccia. 
"Hush, Mariuccia!" I said. "The Roman public 
is the most intelligent public in the world." And 
at this she grumbled 
But I knew well enough why he wanted to wear 
the beard. He had a fancy to put off the evil moment as long as possible, so that Hedwig might not 
recognise him till the last act, a foolish fancy, in 
truth, for a woman's eyes are not like a man's; and 
though Hedwig had never thought twice about Nino's 
personality, she had not sat opposite him three times 
a week for nearly four months without knowing all 
his looks and gestures. It is an absurd idea, too, 
to attempt to fence with time, when a thing must 
come in the course of an hour or two. What is it, 
after all, the small delay you can produce? The 
 
click of a few more seconds in the clock-work, before 
the hammer smites its angry warning on the bell, 
and leaves echoes of pain writhing through the poor 
bronze, that is Time. As for Eternity, it is a 
question of the calculus, and does not enter into a 
singer's first appearance, nor into the recognition of
a lover. If it did, I would give you an eloquent 
dissertation upon it, so that you would yawn and 
take snuff, and wish me carried off by the diavolo 
to some place where I might lecture on the infinite 
without fear of being interrupted, or of keeping sinners like you unnecessarily long awake. There will 
be no hurry then. Poor old diavolo! He must have 
a dull time of it among all those heretics. Perhaps 
he has a little variety, for they say he has written up 
on his door, "Ici Ton parle fran^ais," since Monsieur 
de Voltaire died. But I must go on, or you will 
never be any wiser than you are now, which is not 
saying overmuch. 
I am not going to give you a description of the 
Favorita, which you may hear a dozen times a year 
at the theatre, for more or less money but it is 
only a franc if you stand; quite enough, too. I 
went upon the stage before it began, and peeped 
through the curtain to see what kind of an audience 
there was. It is an old curtain, and there is a hole 
in it on the right-hand side, which De Pretis says 
was made by a foreign tenor, some years ago, be 
tween the acts ; and Jacovacci, the impresario, tried 
to make him pay five francs to have it repaired, but 
did not get the money. It is a better hole than the 
one in the middle, which is so far from both sides of 
 
the house that you cannot see the people well. So 
I looked through, and there, sure enough, in a box 
very near to the stage, sat the Contessina di Lira and 
the baroness, whom I had never seen before, but recognised from Nino's description; and behind them 
sat the count himself, with his great grey moustaches 
and a white cravat. They made me think of the 
time when I used to go to the theatre myself and sit 
in a box, and applaud or hiss, just as I pleased. 
Dio mio! What changes in this world! 
I recognised also a great many of our noble ladies, 
with jewels and other ornaments, and it seemed to 
me that some of them were much more beautiful than 
the German contessina whom Nino had elected to 
worship, though she was well enough, to be sure, in 
white silk and white fur, with her little gold cross 
at her throat. To think that a statue like that, 
brought up with all the proprieties, should have 
such a strange chapter of life! But my eye began 
to smart from peering through the little hole, and 
just then a rough-looking fellow connected with the 
stage reminded me that, whatever relation I might be 
to the primo tenore, I was not dressed to appear in 
the first act; then the audience began to stamp and 
groan because the performance did not begin, and I 
went away again to tell Nino that he had a packed 
house. I found De Pretis giving him blackberry 
syrup, which he had brought in a bottle, and entreating him to have courage. Indeed, it seemed to me 
that Nino had the more courage of the two ; for De 
Pretis laughed and cried and blew his nose, and took 
snuff with his great fat fingers, and acted altogether 
 
like a poor fool ; while Nino sat on a rush-bottomed 
chair and watched Mariuccia, who was stroking the 
old cat and nibbling roasted chestnuts, declaring all 
the while that Nino was the most beautiful object 
she had ever seen. Then the bass and the baritone 
came, together, and spoke cheering words to Nino, 
and invited him to supper afterwards ; but he thanked 
them kindly, and told them that he was expected at 
home, and would go with them after the next performance if there ever were a " next. " He thought 
he might fail at the last minute. 
Nino had judged more rightly than I, when he supposed that his beard and moustaches would disguise 
him from Hedwig during the first two acts. She 
recognised the wondrous voice, and she saw the 
strong resemblance he had spoken of. Once or 
twice, as he looked toward her, it seemed indeed that 
the eyes must be his, with their deep circles and serious gaze. But it was absurd to suppose it anything 
more than a resemblance. As the opera advanced, 
it became evident that Nino was making a success. 
Then in the second act it was clear that the success 
was growing to be an ovation, and the ovation a 
furore, in which the house became entirely demoralised, and vouchsafed to listen only so long as Nino 
was singing screaming with delight before he had 
finished what he had to sing in each scene. People 
sent their servants away in hot haste to buy flowers 
wherever they could, and he came back to his dress 
ing-room, from the second act, carrying bouquets by 
the dozen, small bunches and big, such as people had 
been able to get, or had brought with them. His 
 
eyes shone like the coals in Mariuccia's scaldino, as 
he entered, and he was pale through his paint. He 
could hardly speak for joy; but, as old habits return 
unconsciously at great moments in a man's life, he 
took the cat on his knee and pulled its tail. 
"Sing thou also, little beast," he said gravely; 
and he pulled the tail till the cat squeaked a little, 
and he was satisfied. 
"Bene! " he cried; "and now for the tonsure and 
frock." So Mariuccia was turned out into the passage while he changed his dress. De Pretis came 
back a moment later, and tried to help him ; but he 
was so much overcome that he could only shed tears 
and give a last word of advice for the next act. 
"You must not sing it too loud, Nino mio," he 
said. 
"Diavolo! " said Nino. "I should think not! " 
" But you must not squeak it out in a little wee 
false voice, as small as this." The maestro held up 
his thumb and finger, with a pinch of snuff between 
them. 
" Bah ! Sor Ercole, do you take me for a soprano ? " 
cried the boy, laughing, as he washed off the paint 
and the gum, where the beard had stuck. Presently 
he got into his frock, which, as I told you, was a real 
one, provided by Ercole's brother, the Franciscan 
quite quietly, of course, for it would seem a dread 
ful thing to use a real monk's frock in an opera. 
Then we fastened the rope round his waist, and 
smoothed his curly hair a little to give him a more 
pious aspect. He looked as white as a pillow when 
the paint was gone. 
 
"Tell me a little, my father," said old Mariuccia, 
mocking him, " do you fast on Sundays, that you look 
so pale?" 
Whereat Nino struck an attitude, and began sing 
ing a love song to the ancient woman. Indeed, she 
was joking about the fast, for she had expended my 
substance, of late, in fattening Nino, as she called it, 
for his appearance, and there were to be broiled 
chickens for supper that very night. He was only 
pale because he was in love. As for me, I made up 
my mind to stand in the slides, so that I could see 
the contessina ; for Nino had whispered to me that 
she had not yet recognised him, though she stared 
hard across the footlights. Therefore I took up a 
good position on the left of the stage, facing the Lira 
box, which was on the right. 
The curtain went up, and Nino stood there, look 
ing like a real monk, with a book in his hand and 
his eyes cast down, as he began to walk slowly along. 
I saw Hedwig von Lira's gaze rest on his square, 
pale face at least one whole minute. Then she gave 
a strange little cry, so that many people in the house 
looked toward her; and she leaned far back in the 
shadow of the deep box, while the reflected glare of 
the footlights just shone faintly on her features, 
making them look more like marble than ever. The 
baroness was smiling to herself, amused at her companion's surprise, and the old count stared stolidly 
for a moment or two, and then turned suddenly to 
his daughter. 
" Very curious is it," he was probably saying, " that 
this tenor should so much your Italian professor 
 
resemble." I could almost see his grey eyes sparkle 
angrily across the theatre. But as I looked, a sound 
rose on the heated air, the like of which I have never 
Known. To tell the truth, I had not heard the first 
two acts, for I did not suppose there was any great 
difference between Nino's singing on the stage and 
his singing at home, and I still wished he might 
have chosen some other profession. But when I 
heard this, I yielded, at least for the time, and I am 
not sure that my eyes were as clear as usual. 
" Spirto gentil dei sogni miei " the long sweet 
notes sighed themselves to death on his lips, falling 
and rising magically like a mystic angel song, and 
swaying their melody out into the world of lights 
and listeners ; so pathetic, so heart-breaking, so laden 
with death and with love, that it was as though all 
the sorrowing souls in our poor Rome breathed in 
one soft sigh together. Only a poor monk dying of 
love in a monastery, tenderly and truly loving to 
the bitter end. Dio mio! There are perhaps many 
such. But a monk like this, with a face like a conqueror, set square in its whiteness, and yet so 
wretched to see in his poor patched frock and his 
bare feet; a monk, too, not acting love, but really 
and truly ready to die for a beautiful woman not 
thirty feet from him, in the house ; above all, a monk 
with a voice that speaks like the clarion call of the 
day of judgment in its wrath, and murmurs more 
plaintively and sadly in sorrow than ever the poor 
Peri sighed at the gates of Paradise such a monk, 
what could he not make people feel ? 
The great crowd of men and women sat utterly 
 
stilled and intent till he had sung the very last note. 
Not a sound was heard to offend the sorrow that 
spoke from the boy's lips. Then all those people 
seemed to draw three long breaths of wonder a 
pause, a thrilling tremor in the air, and then there 
ourst to the roof such a roar of cries, such a huge 
chunder of hands and voices, that the whole house 
seemed to rock with it, and even in the street out 
side they say the noise was deafening. 
Alone on the stage stood Nino, his eyes fixed on 
Hedwig von Lira in her box. I think that she alone 
of all that multitude made no sound, but only gripped 
the edge of the balcony hard in her white hands, and 
leaned far forward with straining eyes and beating 
heart to satisfy her wonder. She knew well enough, 
now, that there was no mistake. The humble little 
Professor Cardegna, who had patiently explained 
Dante and Leopardi to her for months, bowing to the 
ground in her presence, and apologising when he 
corrected her mistakes, as though his whole life were 
to be devoted to teaching foreigners his language; 
the decently clad young man, who was always pale, 
and sometimes pathetic when he spoke of himself, 
was no other than Giovanni Cardegna the tenor, 
singing aloud to earth and heaven with his glorious 
great voice a man on the threshold of a European 
fame, such as falls only to the lot of a singer or a 
onqueror. More, he was the singer of her dreams, 
who had for months filled her thoughts with music 
and her heart with a strange longing, being until 
now a voice only. There he stood looking straight 
at her, she was not mistaken, as though to say, 
 
"I have done it for you, and for you only." A 
woman must be more than marble to feel no pride in 
the intimate knowledge that a great public triumph 
has been gained solely for her sake. She must be 
colder than ice if she cannot see her power when a 
conqueror loves her. 
The marble had felt the fire, and the ice was in 
the flame at last. Nino, with his determination to 
be loved, had put his statue into a very fiery furnace, and in the young innocence of his heart had 
prepared such a surprise for his lady as might have 
turned the head of a hardened woman of the world, 
let alone an imaginative German girl, with a taste 
for romance or without ; it matters little. All Germans are full of imagination, and that is the reason 
they know so much. For they not only know all 
that is known by other people, but also all that they 
themselves imagine, which nobody else can possibly 
know. And if you do not believe this, you had 
better read the works of one Fichte, a philosopher. 
I need not tell you any more about Nino's first 
appearance. It was one of those really phenomenal 
successes that seem to cling to certain people through 
life. He was very happy and very silent when it 
was over; and we were the last to leave the theatre, 
for we feared the enthusiasm of the crowd. So we 
waited till every one had gone, and then marched 
home together, for it was a fine night. I walked on 
one side of Nino, and De Pretis on the other, all of 
us carrying as many flowers as we could ; Mariuccia 
came behind, with the cat under her shawl. I did 
not discover until we reached home why she had 
 
brought the beast. Then she explained that, as 
there was so much food in the kitchen, in anticipa 
tion of our supper, she had been afraid to leave the 
cat alone in the house, lest we should find nothing 
left to cat when we returned. This was sufficiently 
prudent, for a scatter-brained old spendthrift like 
Marinecia. 
That was a merry supper, and De Pretis became 
highly dramatic when we got to the second flask. 
On the day following Nino's de*but, Maestro Kroole 
de P: ;nd him.se If in h . and th&lt;- 
ters at St. Peter's noticed that his skull-cap was 
awry, and that ho sang out of tune; and once he 
tried to take a pinch of snuff when there was only a 
three bare rest in the music, so that is jfcead of 
ing C sharp he snee/ed very loud. Then all the 
other singers giggled, and said "Salute!" which 
we always say to a person who sneezes quite 
audibly. 
It v/as not that Krcole had heard anything from the 
Graf von Lira as yet; but he expected to hear, and 
did not relish the prospect. Indeed, how could the 
Prussian gentleman fail to resent what the maestro 
done, in introducing to him a singer disguised 
as a teacher? It chanced, also, that the contessina 
took a singing lesson that very day in the afternoon, 
and it was clear that the reaping of his evil deeds 
was not far off. His conscience did not trouble him 
at all, it is true, for I have told you that he has liberal ideas about the right of marriage; but his vanity 
was sorely afflicted at the idea of abandoning such a 
very noble and creditable pupil as the Contessina di 
Lira. He applauded himself for furthering Nino's 
wild schemes, and he blamed himself for being so 
 
reckless about his own interests. Every moment he 
expected a formal notice from the count to discontinue the lessons. But still it did not come, and at 
the appointed hour Ercole's wife helped him to put 
on his thick winter coat, and wrapped his comforter 
about his neck, and pulled his big hat over his eyes, 
for the weather was threatening, and sent him 
trudging off to the Palazzo Carmandola. 
Though Ercole is stout of heart, and has broad 
shoulders to bear such burdens as fall to his lot, he 
lingered long on the way, for his presentiments were 
gloomy; and at the great door of the palazzo he even 
stopped to inquire of the porter whether the contessina had been seen to go out yet, half hoping that 
she would thus save him the mortification of an 
interview. But it turned out otherwise: the contessina was at home, and De Pretis was expected, as 
usual, to give the lesson. Slowly he climbed the 
great staircase, and was admitted. 
"Good-day, Sor Maestro," said the liveried foot 
man, who knew him well. "The Signor Conte 
desires to speak with you to-day, before you go to 
the signorina." 
The maestro's heart sank, and he gripped hard the 
roll of music in his hand as he followed the servant 
to the count's cabinet. There was to be a scene of 
explanation, after all. 
The count was seated in his great arm-chair, in a 
cloud of tobacco smoke, reading a Prussian military 
journal. His stick leaned against the table by his side, 
in painful contrast with the glittering cavalry sabres 
crossed upon the dark red wall opposite. The tall 
 
windows looked out on the piazza, and it was rain 
ing, or just beginning to rain. The great inkstand 
on the table was made to represent a howitzer, and 
the count looked as though he were ready to fire it 
point-blank at any intruder. There was an air of 
disciplined luxury in the room, that spoke of a rich 
old soldier who fed his fancy with titbits from a stir 
ring past. De Pretis felt very uncomfortable, but 
the nobleman rose to greet him, as he rose to greet 
everything above the rank of a servant, making him 
self steady with his stick. When De Pretis was 
seated, he sat down also. The rain pattered against 
the window. 
" Signor De Pretis, " began the count, in tones as 
hard as chilled steel, "you are an honourable man." 
There was something interrogative in his voice. 
" I hope so, " answered the maestro modestly ; " like 
other Christians, I have a soul " 
" You will your soul take care of in your leisure 
moments," interrupted the count. "At present you 
have no leisure." 
"As you command, Signor Conte." 
" I was yesterday evening at the theatre. The pro 
fessor you recommended for my daughter is with the 
new tenor one person." De Pretis spread out his 
hands and bowed, as if to deprecate any share in the 
transaction. The count continued. "You are of 
the profession, Signor De Pretis. Evidently, you of 
this were aware." 
"It is true," assented Ercole, not knowing what 
to say. 
" Of course it is true. I am therefore to hear your 
explanation disposed." 
 
His grey eyes fastened sternly on the maestro. 
But the latter was prepared, for he had long foreseen 
that the count would one day be disposed to hear an 
explanation, as he expressed it. 
"It is quite true," repeated De Pretis. "The 
young man was very poor, and desired to support 
himself while he was studying music. He was well 
fitted to teach our literature, and I recommended 
him. I hope that, in consideration of his poverty, 
and because he turned out a very good teacher, you 
will forgive me, Signer Conte." 
"This talented singer I greatly applaud," an 
swered the count stiffly. "As a with-the-capacity- 
and-learning-requisite-for-teaching-endowed young 
man deserves he also some commendation. Also 
will I remember his laudable-and-not-lacking-independence character. Nevertheless, unfitting would 
it be, should I pay the first tenor of the opera five 
francs an hour to teach my daughter Italian litera 
ture." De Pretis breathed more freely. 
" Then you will forgive me, Signor Conte, for en 
deavouring to promote the efforts of this worthy 
young man in supporting himself?" 
"Signor De Pretis," said the count, with a certain 
quaint geniality, " I have my precautions observed. 
I examined Signor Cardegna in Italian literature in 
my own person, and him proficient found. Had I 
found him to be ignorant, and had I his talents as 
an operatic singer later discovered, I would you out 
of that window have projected." De Pretis was 
alarmed, for the old count looked as though he might 
have carried out the threat. "As it is," he con- 
 
eluded, " you are an honourable man, and I wish you 
good-morning. Lady Hedwig awaits you, as usual." 
He rose courteously, leaning on his stick, and De 
Pretis bowed himself out. 
He expected that the contessina would immediately 
begin talking of Nino, but he was mistaken; she 
never once referred to the opera or the singer, and 
except that she looked pale and transparent, and sang 
with a trifle less interest in her music than usual, 
there was nothing noticeable in her manner. Indeed, she had every reason to be silent. 
Early that morning Nino received by a messenger 
a pretty little note, written in execrable Italian, begging him to come and breakfast with the baroness at 
twelve, as she much desired to speak with him after 
his stupendous triumph of the previous night. 
Nino is a very good boy, but he is mortal, and 
after the excitement of the evening he thought nothing could be pleasanter than to spend a few hours in 
that scented boudoir, among the palms and the beau, 
tiful objects and the perfumes, talking with a woman 
who professed herself ready to help him in his love 
affair. We have no perfumes, nor cushions, nor 
pretty things at number twenty-seven, Santa Catarina 
dei Funari, though everything is very bright and 
neat and most proper, and the cat is kept in the 
kitchen, for the most part. So it is no wonder that 
he should have preferred to spend the morning with 
the baroness. 
She was half lying, half sitting, in a deep arm 
chair, when Nino entered; and she was reading a 
book. When she saw him she dropped the volume 
 
on her knee, and looked up at him from under her 
lids, without speaking. She must have been a be 
witching figure. Nino advanced toward her, bowing 
low, so that his dark curling hair shaded his face. 
"Good-day, signora," said he softly, as though 
fearing to hurt the quiet air. "I trust I do not 
interrupt you?" 
"You never interrupt me, Nino," she said, "except except when you go away." 
"You are very good, signora." 
"For heaven's sake, no pretty speeches," said she, 
with a little laugh. 
"It seems to me," said Nino, seating himself, 
" that it was you who made the pretty speech, and I 
who thanked you for it." There was a pause. 
"How do you feel?" asked the baroness at last, 
turning her head to him. 
"Grazie I am well," he answered, smiling. 
" Oh, I do not mean that, you are always well. 
But how do you enjoy your first triumph?" 
"I think," said Nino, "that a real artist ought to 
have the capacity to enjoy a success at the moment, 
and the good sense to blame his vanity for enjoying 
it after it is passed." 
" How old are you, Nino ? " 
"Did I never tell you?" he asked, innocently. 
"I shall be twenty-one soon." 
"You talk as though you were forty, at least." 
" Heaven save us ! " quoth Nino. 
" But really, are you not immensely flattered at the 
reception you had ? " 
"Yes." 
" You did not look at all interested in the public 
at the time," said she, "and that Roman nose of 
yours very nearly turned up in disdain of the applause, I thought. I wonder what you were think 
ing of all the while." 
"Can you wonder, baronessa?" She knew what 
he meant, and there was a little look of annoyance 
in her face when she answered. 
"Ah, well, of course not, since she was there." 
Her ladyship rose, and taking a stick of Eastern pastil from a majolica dish in a corner made Nino light 
it from a wax taper. 
"I want the smell of the sandal-wood this morn 
ing," said she; "I have a headache." She was en 
chanting to look at, as she bent her softly-shaded face 
over the flame to watch the burning perfume. She 
looked like a beautiful lithe sorceress making a love 
spell, perhaps for her own use. Nino turned from 
her. He did not like to allow the one image he 
loved to be even for a moment disturbed by the one 
he loved not, however beautiful. She moved away, 
leaving the pastil on the dish. Suddenly she paused, 
and turned back to look at him. 
"Why did you come to-day?" she asked. 
"Because you desired it, "answered Nino, in some 
astonishment. 
"You need not have come," she said, bending 
down to lean on the back of a silken chair. She 
folded her hands, and looked at him as he stood not 
three paces away. "Do you not know what has 
happened?" she asked, with a smile that was a little 
 
"I do not understand, * said Nino, simply. He 
was facing the entrance to the room, and saw the cur 
tains parted by the servant. The baroness had her 
back to the door, and did not hear. 
"Do you not know," she continued, "that you are 
free now ? Your appearance in public has put an end 
to it all. You are not tied to me any longer, un 
less you wish it." 
As she spoke these words Nino turned white, for 
under the heavy curtain, lifted to admit her, stood 
Hedwig von Lira, like a statue, transfixed and immovable from what she had heard. The baroness 
noticed Nino's look, and, springing back to her 
height from the chair on which she had been leaning, 
faced the door. 
" My dearest Hedwig ! " she cried, with a magnificent readiness. " I am so very glad you have come. 
I did not expect you in the least. Do take off your 
hat, and stay to breakfast. Ah, forgive me : this is 
Professor Cardegna. But you know him? Yes; 
now that I think, we all went to the Pantheon 
together." Nino bowed low, and Hedwig bent her 
head. 
"Yes," said the young girl, coldly. "Professor 
Cardegna gives me lessons." 
"Why, of course; how stupid I am! I was just 
telling him that, since he has been successful, and 
is enrolled among the great artists, it is a pity he is 
no longer tied to giving Italian lessons, tied to 
coming here three times a week, to teach me literature." Hedwig smiled a strange, icy smile, and sat 
down by the window. Nino was still utterly astonished, but he would not allow the baroness's quibble 
to go entirely uncontradicted. 
"In truth," he said, "the Signora Baronessa's lessons consisted chiefly " 
"In teaching me pronunciation," interrupted the 
baroness, trying to remove Hedwig's veil and hat, 
somewhat against the girl's inclination. " Yes, you 
see how it is. I know a little of singing, but I can 
not pronounce, not in the least. Ah, these Italian 
vowels will be the death of me ! But if there is any 
one who can teach a poor dilettante to pronounce 
them," she added, laying the hat away on a chair, and 
pushing a footstool to Hedwig's feet, " that some one 
is Sign or Cardegna." 
By this time Nino had recognised the propriety of 
temporising; that is to say, of letting the baroness's 
fib pass for what it was worth, lest the discussion of 
the subject should further offend Hedwig, whose 
eyes wandered irresolutely toward him, as though 
she would say something if he addressed her. 
"I hope, signorina," he said, "that it is not quite 
as the baroness says. I trust our lessons are not at 
an end?" He knew very well that they were. 
"I think, Signor Cardegna," said Hedwig, with 
more courage than was to have been expected from 
such a mere child, she is twenty, but Northern 
people are not grown up till they are thirty, at least, 
"I think it would have been more obliging if, 
when I asked you so much about your cousin, you had 
acknowledged that you had no cousin, and that the 
singer was none other than yourself." She blushed, 
perhaps, but the curtain of the window hid it. 
 
"Alas, signorina," answered Nino, still standing 
before her, "such a confession would have deprived 
me of the pleasure of the honour of giving you 
lessons." 
"And pray, Signora Cardegna," put in the baron 
ess, "what are a few paltry lessons, compared with 
the pleasure you ought to have experienced in satisfying the Contessina di Lira's curiosity? Really, 
you have little courtesy." 
Nino shrank into himself, as though he were hurt, 
and he gave the baroness a look which said worlds. 
She smiled at him, in joy of her small triumph, for 
Hedwig was looking at the floor again, and could not 
see. But the young girl had strength in her, for 
all her cold looks and white cheek. 
"You can atone, Signer Cardegna," she said. 
Nino's face brightened. 
"How, signorina?" he asked. 
"By singing to us now," said Hedwig. The bar 
oness looked grave, for she well knew what a power 
Nino wielded with his music. 
"Do not ask him," she protested. "He must be 
tired, tired to death, with all he went through last 
night." 
"Tired?" ejaculated Nino, with some surprise. 
"I tired? I was never tired in my life, of singing. 
I will sing as long as you will listen." 
He went to the piano. As he turned, the baron 
ess laid her hand on Hedwig's, affectionately, as 
though sympathising with something she supposed 
to be passing in the girl's mind. But Hedwig was 
passive, unless a little shudder at the first touch of 
 
the baroness's fingers might pass for a manifestation 
of feeling. Hedwig had hitherto liked the baroness, 
finding in her a woman of a certain artistic sense, 
combined with a certain originality. The girl was 
mi absolute contrast to the woman, and admired in 
her the qualities she thought lacking in herself, 
though she possessed too much self-respect to attempt 
to acquire them by imitation. Hedwig sat like a 
Scandinavian fairy princess on the summit of a glass 
hill ; her friend roamed through life like a beautiful 
soft-footed wild animal, rejoicing in the sense of 
being, and sometimes indulging in a little playful 
destruction by the way. The girl had heard a voice 
in the dark, singing, and ever since then she had 
dreamed of the singer; but it had never entered her 
mind to confide to the baroness her strange fancies. 
An undisciplined imagination, securely shielded 
from all outward disturbing causes, will do much 
with a voice in the dark, a great deal more than 
such a woman as the baroness might imagine. 
I do not know enough about these blue-eyed Ger 
man girls to say whether or not Hedwig had ever 
before thought of her unknown singer as an unknown 
lover. But the emotions of the previous night had 
shaken her nerves a little, and had she been older 
than she was she would have known that she loved 
her singer, in a distant and maidenly fashion, as 
soon as she heard the baroness speak of him as having been her property. And now she was angry with 
herself, and ashamed of feeling any interest in a man 
who was evidently tied to another woman by some 
intrigue she could not comprehend. Her coming to 
 
visit the baroness had been as unpremeditated as it 
was unexpected, that morning, and she bitterly repented it; but being of good blood and heart, she 
acted as boldly as she could, and showed no little 
tact in making Nino sing, and thus cutting short a 
painful conversation. Only when the baroness tried 
to caress her and stroke her hand she shrank away, 
and the blood mantled up to her cheeks. Add to all 
this the womanly indignation she felt at having been 
so long deceived by Nino, and you will see that she 
was in a very vacillating frame of mind. 
The baroness was a subtle woman, reckless and 
diplomatic by turns, and she was not blind to the 
sudden repulse she met with from Hedwig, unspoken 
though it was. But she merely withdrew her hand, 
and sat thinking over the situation. What she 
thought, no one knows; or, at least, we can only 
guess it from what she did afterwards. As for me, 
I have never blamed her at all, for she is the kind of 
woman I should have loved. In the mean time Nino 
caroled out one love song after another. He saw, 
however, that the situation was untenable, and after 
a while he rose to go. Strange to say, although the 
baroness had asked Nino to breakfast, and the hour 
was now at hand, she made no effort to retain him. 
But she gave him her hand, and said many flattering 
and pleasing things, which, however, neither flat 
tered nor pleased him. As for Hedwig, she bent her 
head a little, but said nothing, as he bowed before 
her. Nino therefore went home with a heavy heart, 
longing to explain to Hedwig why he had been tied 
to the baroness, that it was the price of her silence 
 
and of the privilege he had enjoyed of giving lessons 
to thecontessina; but knowing, also, that all explanation was out of the question for the present. When 
he was gone, Hedwig and the baroness were left 
together. 
"It must have been a great surprise to you, my 
dear," said the elder lady kindly. 
"What?" 
" That your little professor should turn out a great 
artist in disguise. It was a surprise to me, too, 
ah, another illusion destroyed. Dear child! You 
have still so many illusions, beautiful, pure illusions. Dieu ! how I envy you ! " They generally 
talked French together, though the baroness knows 
German. Hedwig laughed bravely. 
"I was certainly astonished," she said. "Poor 
man! I suppose he did it to support himself. He 
never told me he gave you lessons, too." The baroness smiled, but it was from genuine satisfaction 
this time. 
" I wonder at that, since he knew we were intimate, 
or, at least, that we were acquainted. Of course I 
would not speak of it last night, because I saw your 
father was angry." 
"Yes, he was angry. I suppose it was natural," 
said Hedwig. 
" Perfectly natural. And you, my dear, were you 
not angry too, just a little ? " 
"I? No. Why should I be angry? He was a 
very good teacher, for he knows whole volumes by 
heart; and he understands them, too." 
Soon they talked of other things, and the baroness 
 
was very affectionate. But though Hedwig saw that 
her friend was kind and most friendly, she could not 
forget the words that were in the air when she 
chanced to enter, nor could she quite accept the 
plausible explanation of them which the baroness had 
so readily invented. For jealousy is the forerunner 
of love, and sometimes its awakener. She felt a 
rival and an enemy, and all the hereditary combativeness of her Northern blood was roused. 
Nino, who was in no small perplexity, reflected. 
He was not old enough nor observant enough to have 
seen the breach that was about to be created between 
the baroness and Hedwig. His only thought was to 
clear himself in Hedwig's eyes from the imputation of 
having been tied to the dark woman in any way save 
for his love's sake. He at once began to hate the 
baroness with all the ferocity of which his heart was 
capable, and with all the calm his bold, square face 
outwardly expressed. But he was forced to take 
some action at once, and he could think of nothing 
better to do than to consult De Pretis. 
To the maestro he poured out his woes and his 
plans. He exhibited to him his position toward the 
baroness and toward Hedwig in the clearest light. 
He conjured him to go to Hedwig, and explain that 
the baroness had threatened to unmask him, and thus 
deprive him of his means of support, he dared not 
put it otherwise, unless he consented to sing for her 
and come to her as often as she pleased. To explain, 
to propitiate, to smooth, in a word, to reinstate 
Nino in her good opinion. 
"Death of a dog!" exclaimed De Pretis; "you 
do not ask much! After you have allowed your 
lady-love, your inamorata, to catch you saying you 
are bound body and soul to another woman, and 
