Troubles never come singly; moreover, they come on horseback, and go
away on foot. If Claudius had passed an unpleasant afternoon, the
Countess's day had been darkened with the shadow of a very serious
difficulty. Early in the morning her maid had brought her coffee, and
with it a note in a foreign hand. The maid, who was French, and
possessed the usual characteristics of French maids, had exhausted her
brain in trying to discover who the sender might be. But the missive was
sealed with wax, and a plain "N" was all the impression. So she adopted
the usual expedient of busying herself in the room, while her mistress
opened the note, hoping that some chance exclamation, or even perhaps an
answer, might give her curiosity the food it longed for. But Margaret
read and reread the note, and tore it up into very small pieces,
thoughtfully; and, as an afterthought, she burned them one by one over a
wax taper till nothing was left. Then she sent her maid away and fell to
thinking. But that did not help her much; and the warm sun stole through
the windows, and the noise in the street prevented her from sleeping,
for she was unused to the sound of wheels after the long weeks at sea.
And so she rang for her maid again. The maid came, bringing another
note, which, she said, had been given her by "Monsieur Clodiuse;" and
would there be an answer?
It was simply a few lines to say he was going to be away all day, and
that he hoped to have the pleasure of seeing the Countess in Newport
to-morrow. But for some reason or other Margaret was not pleased with
the note, and merely said there would be no answer.
"Madame would she dress herself to go out, or to keep the lodging?"
Madame would not go out. Was it warm? Oh yes, it was very warm. In fact
it was hébétant. Would Madame see Monsieur le Duc if he called at
eleven? Monseigneur's Monsieur Veelees had charged her to inquire of
Madame. No, Madame would not see Monsieur le Duc this morning. But if
any one called, Madame desired to be informed. Madame would be served.
And so the toilet proceeded.
It was not very long before some one called. There was a knock at the
door of the bedroom. Clémentine left the Countess's hair, which she was
busy combing and tressing, and went to the door. It was old Vladimir,
Margaret's faithful Russian servant.
"At this hour!" exclaimed the Countess, who was not in the best of
tempers. "What does he want?"
Vladimir ventured to make a remark in Russian, from the door, which
produced an immediate effect. Margaret rose swiftly, overturning her
chair and sweeping various small articles from the table in her rapid
movement. She went very quickly to the door, her magnificent black hair
all hanging down. She knew enough Russian to talk to the servant.
"What did you say, Vladimir?"
"Margareta Ivanowna"--Margaret's father's name had been John--"Nicolaï
Alexandrewitch is here," said Vladimir, who seemed greatly surprised.
His geographical studies having been purely experimental, the sudden
appearance of a Russian gentleman led him to suppose his mistress had
landed in some outlying part of Russia, or at least of Europe. So she
bade the old servant conduct the gentleman to her sitting-room and ask
him to wait. She was not long in finishing her toilet. Before she left
the room a servant of the hotel brought another box of flowers from Mr.
Barker. Clémentine cut the string and opened the pasteboard shell.
Margaret glanced indifferently at the profusion of roses and pink
pond-lilies--a rare variety only found in two places in America, on Long
Island and near Boston--and having looked, she turned to go.
Clémentine held up two or three flowers, as if to try the effect of them
on Margaret's dress.
"Madame would she not put some flowers in her dress?"
No. Madame would not. Madame detested flowers. Whereat the intelligent
Clémentine carefully examined the name of the sender, inscribed on a
card which lay in the top of the box. Mr. Barker knew better than to
send flowers anonymously. He wanted all the credit he could get. The
Countess swept out of the room.
At the door of the sitting-room she was met by a young man, who bent low
to kiss her extended hand, and greeted her with a manner which was
respectful indeed, but which showed that he felt himself perfectly at
ease in her society.
Nicolaï Alexandrewitch, whom we will call simply Count Nicholas, was the
only brother of Margaret's dead husband. Like Alexis, he had been a
soldier in a guard regiment; Alexis had been killed at Plevna, and
Nicholas had succeeded to the title and the estates, from which,
however, a considerable allowance was paid to the Countess as a
jointure.
Nicholas was a handsome man of five or six and twenty, of middle height,
swarthy complexion, and compact figure. His beard was very black, and he
wore it in a pointed shape. His eyes were small and deep-set, but full
of intelligence. He had all the manner and appearance of a man of gentle
birth, but there was something more; an indescribable, undefinable air
that hung about him. Many Russians have it, and the French have embodied
the idea it conveys in their proverb that if you scratch a Russian you
will find the Tartar. It is rather a trait of Orientalism in the blood,
and it is to be noticed as much in Servians, Bulgarians, Roumanians, and
even Hungarians, as in Russians. It is the peculiarity of most of these
races that under certain circumstances, if thoroughly roused, they will
go to any length, with a scorn of consequence which seems to the Western
mind both barbarous and incomprehensible. Margaret had always liked him.
He was wild; but he was a courteous gentleman, and could always be
depended upon.
"Mon cher," said Margaret, "I need not tell you I am enchanted to see
you, but what is the meaning of the things you wrote me this morning?
Are you really in trouble?"
"Hélas, yes. I am in the worst kind of trouble that exists for a
Russian. I am in political trouble--and that entails everything else."
"Tell me all about it," said she. "Perhaps I may help you."
"Ah no! you cannot help. It is not for that I am come. I have a
confession to make that concerns you."
"Well?" said she, with a smile. She did not suppose it could be anything
very bad.
"You will be angry, of course," he said, "but that is nothing. I have
done you an injury that I cannot repair."
"Enfin, my dear Nicholas, tell me. I do not believe anything bad of
you."
"You are kindness itself, and I thank you in advance. Wait till you have
heard. I am 'suspect,'--they think I am a Nihilist I am exiled to the
mines, and everything is confiscated. Voilà! Could it be worse?"
Margaret was taken off her guard. She had herself been in more than easy
circumstances at the time of her marriage, but the financial crisis in
America, which occurred soon after that event, had greatly crippled her
resources. She had of late looked chiefly to her jointure for all the
luxuries which were so necessary to her life. To find this suddenly
gone, in a moment, without the slightest preparation, was extremely
embarrassing. She covered her eyes with one hand for a moment to collect
her thoughts and to try and realise the extent of the disaster. Nicholas
mistook the gesture.
"You will never forgive me, I know. I do not deserve that you should.
But I will do all in my power to repair the evil. I will go to Siberia
if they will consider your rights to the estate."
Margaret withdrew her hand, and looked earnestly at the young man.
"Forgive you?" said she. "My dear Nicholas, you do not suppose I
seriously think there is anything to forgive?"
"But it is true," he said piteously; "in ruining me they have ruined
you. Mon Dieu, mon Dieu! If I only had a friend--"
"Taisez vous donc, mon ami. It is everything most bête what you say. You
have many friends, and as for me, I do not care a straw for the money.
Only if I had known I would not have left Europe. Voilà tout."
"Ah, that is it," said Nicholas. "I escaped the police and hurried to
Baden. But you were gone. So I took the first steamer and came here. But
I have waited ten days, and it was only last night I saw in the papers
that you had arrived yesterday morning. And here I am."
Margaret rose, from a feeling that she must move about--the restless
fiend that seizes energetic people in their trouble. Nicholas thought it
was a sign for him to go. He took his hat.
"Believe me--" he began, about to take his leave.
"You are not going?" said Margaret. "Oh no. Wait, and we will think of
some expedient. Besides you have not told me half what I want to know.
The money is of no consequence; but what had you done to lead to such a
sentence? Are you really a Nihilist?"
"Dieu m'en garde!" said the Count devoutly. "I am a Republican, that is
all. Seulement, our Holy Russia does not distinguish."
"Is not the distinction very subtle?"
"The difference between salvation by education and salvation by
dynamite; the difference between building up and tearing down, between
Robespierre and Monsieur Washington."
"You must have been indiscreet. How could they have found it out?"
"I was bête enough to write an article in the Russki Mir--the mildest
of articles. And then some of the Nihilist agents thought I was in their
interests and wanted to see me, and the police observed them, and I was
at once classed as a Nihilist myself, and there was a perquisition in my
house. They found some notes and a few manuscripts of mine, quite enough
to suit their purpose, and so the game was up."
"But they did not arrest you?"
"No. As luck would have it, I was in Berlin at the time, on leave from
my regiment, for I was never suspected before in the least. And the
Nihilists, who, to tell the truth, are well organised and take good care
of their brethren, succeeded in passing word to me not to come back. A
few days afterwards the Russian Embassy were hunting for me in Berlin.
But I had got away. Sentence was passed in contempt, and I read the news
in the papers on my way to Paris. There is the whole history."
"Have you any money?" inquired Margaret after a pause.
"Mon Dieu! I have still a hundred napoleons. After that the deluge."
"By that time we shall be ready for the deluge," said Margaret
cheerfully. "I have many friends, and something may yet be done.
Meanwhile do not distress yourself about me; you know I have something
of my own."
"How can I thank you for your kindness? You ought to hate me, and
instead you console!"
"My dear friend, if I did not like you for your own sake, I would help
you because you are poor Alexis's brother." There was no emotion in her
voice at the mention of her dead husband, only a certain reverence. She
had honoured him more than she had loved him.
"Princesse, quand même," said Nicholas in a low voice, as he raised her
fingers to his lips.
"Leave me your address before you go. I will write as soon as I have
decided what to do." Nicholas scratched the name of a hotel on his card.
When he was gone Margaret sank into a chair. She would have sent for
Claudius--Claudius was a friend--but she recollected his note, and
thought with some impatience that just when she needed him most he was
away. Then she thought of Lady Victoria, and she rang the bell. But Lady
Victoria had gone out with her brother, and they had taken Miss Skeat.
Margaret was left alone in the great hotel. Far off she could hear a
door shut or the clatter of the silver covers of some belated breakfast
service finding its way up or down stairs. And in the street the eternal
clatter and hum and crunch, and crunch and hum and clatter of men and
wheels; the ceaseless ring of the tram-cars stopping every few steps to
pick up a passenger, and the jingle of the horses' bells as they moved
on. It was hot--it was very hot. Clémentine was right, it was
hébétant, as it can be in New York in September. She bethought herself
that she might go out and buy things, that last resource of a rich woman
who is tired and bored.
Buy things! She had forgotten that she was ruined. Well, not quite that,
but it seemed like it. It would be long before she would feel justified
in buying anything more for the mere amusement of the thing. She tried
to realise what it would be like to be poor. But she failed entirely, as
women of her sort always do. She was brave enough if need be; if it must
come, she had the courage to be poor. But she had not the skill to paint
to herself what it would be like. She could not help thinking of
Claudius. It would be so pleasant just now to have him sitting there by
her side, reading some one of those wise books he was so fond of.
It was so hot. She wished something would happen. Poor Nicholas! He need
not have been so terribly cut up about the money. Who is there? It was
Vladimir. Vladimir brought a card. Yes, she would see the gentleman.
Vladimir disappeared, and a moment after ushered in Mr. Horace
Bellingham, commonly known as "Uncle Horace."
"I am so glad to see you, Mr. Bellingham," said Margaret, who had
conceived a great liking for the old gentleman on the previous evening,
and who would have welcomed anybody this morning.
Mr. Bellingham made a bow of the courtliest, most ancien-régime kind.
He had ventured to bring her a few flowers. Would she accept them? They
were only three white roses, but there was more beauty in them than in
all Mr. Barker's profusion. Margaret took them, and smelled them, and
fastened them at her waist, and smiled a divine smile on the bearer.
"Thank you, so much," said she.
"No thanks," said he; "I am more than repaid by your appreciation;" and
he rubbed his hands together and bowed again, his head a little on one
side, as if deprecating any further acknowledgment. Then he at once
began to talk a little, to give her time to select her subject if she
would; for he belonged to a class of men who believe it their duty to
talk to women, and who do not expect to sit with folded hands and be
amused. To such men America is a revelation of social rest. In America
the women amuse the men, and the men excuse themselves by saying that
they work hard all day, and cannot be expected to work hard all the
evening. It is evidently a state of advanced civilisation,
incomprehensible to the grosser European mind--a state where talking to
a woman is considered to be hard work. Or--in fear and trembling it is
suggested--is it because they are not able to amuse their womankind? Is
their refusal a testimonium paupertatis ingenii? No--perish the
thought! It may have been so a long time ago, in the Golden Age. This is
not the Golden Age; it is the Age of Gold. Messieurs! faites votre jeu!
By degrees it became evident that Margaret wanted to talk about Russia,
and Mr. Bellingham humoured her, and gave her a good view of the
situation, and told anecdotes of the Princess Dolgorouki, and drew the
same distinction between Nihilists and Republicans that Count Nicholas
had made an hour earlier in the same room. Seeing she was so much
interested, Mr. Bellingham took courage to ask a question that had
puzzled him for some time. He stroked his snowy beard, and hesitated
slightly.
"Pardon me, if I am indiscreet, Madam," he said at last, "but I read in
the papers the other day that a nobleman of your name--a Count Nicholas,
I think--had landed in New York, having escaped the clutches of the
Petersburg police, who wanted to arrest him as a Nihilist. Was he--was
he any relation of yours?"
"He is my brother-in-law," said Margaret, rather startled at seeing the
point to which she had led the conversation. But she felt a strong
sympathy for Mr. Bellingham, and she was glad to be able to speak on the
subject to any one. She stood so much in need of advice; and, after all,
if the story was in the papers it was public property by this time. Mr.
Bellingham was a perfect diplomatist, and, being deeply interested, he
had soon learned all the details of the case by heart.
"It is very distressing," he said gravely. But that was all. Margaret
had had some faint idea that he might offer to help her--it was absurd,
of course--or at least that he might give her some good advice. But that
was not Mr. Bellingham's way of doing things. If he intended to do
anything, the last thing he would think of would be to tell her of his
intention. He led the conversation away, and having rounded it neatly
with a couple of anecdotes of her grandmother, he rose to go, pleading
an engagement. He really had so many appointments in a day that he
seldom kept more than half of them, and his excuse was no polite
invention. He bowed himself out, and when he was gone Margaret felt as
though she had lost a friend.
She wearied of the day--so long, so hot, and so unfortunate. She tried a
book, and then she tried to write a letter, and then she tried to think
again. It seemed to her that there was so little to think about, for she
had a hopeless helpless consciousness that there was nothing to be done
that she could do. She might have written to her friends in
Petersburg--of course she would do that, and make every possible
representation. But all that seemed infinitely far off, and could be
done as well to-morrow as to-day. At last Lady Victoria came back, and
at sight of her Margaret resolved to confide in her likewise. She had so
much common sense, and always seemed able to get at the truth.
Therefore, in the afternoon Margaret monopolised Lady Victoria and
carried her off, and they sat together with their work by the open
window, and the Countess was "not at home."
In truth, a woman of the world in trouble of any kind could not do
better than confide in Lady Victoria. She is so frank and honest that
when you talk to her your trouble seems to grow small and your heart
big. She has not a great deal of intellect; but, then, she has a great
deal of common sense. Common sense is, generally speaking, merely a
dislike of complications, and a consequent refusal on the part of the
individual to discover them. People of vivid imagination delight in
magnifying the difficulties of life by supposing themselves the centre
of much scheming, plotting, and cheap fiction. They cheerfully give
their time and their powers to the study of social diplomacy. It is
reserved for people intellectually very high or very low in the scale to
lead a really simple life. The average mind of the world is terribly
muddled on most points, and altogether beside itself as regards its
individual existence; for a union of much imagination, unbounded vanity,
and unfathomable ignorance can never take the place of an intellect,
while such a combination cannot fail to destroy the blessed vis
inertiæ of the primitive fool, who only sees what is visible, instead
of evolving the phantoms of an airy unreality from the bottomless abyss
of his own so-called consciousness. Fortunately for humanity, the
low-class unimaginative mind predominates in the world, as far as
numbers are concerned; and there are enough true intellects among men to
leaven the whole. The middle class of mind is a small class, congregated
together chiefly within the boundaries of a very amusing institution
calling itself "society." These people have scraped and varnished the
aforesaid composition of imagination, ignorance, and vanity, into a
certain conventional thing which they mendaciously term their
"intelligence," from a Latin verb intelligo, said to mean "I
understand." It is a poor thing, after all the varnishing. It is neither
hammer nor anvil; it cannot strike, and, if you strike it, dissolution
instantly takes place, after which the poor driveller is erroneously
said to have "lost his mind," and is removed to an asylum. It is curious
that the great majority of lunatics should be found in "society."
Society says that all men of genius are more or less mad; but it is a
notable fact that very few men of genius have ever been put in
madhouses, whereas the society that calls those men crazy is always
finding its way there. It takes but little to make a lunatic of poor
Lady Smith-Tompkins. Poor thing! you know she is so very "high-strung,"
such delicate sensibilities! She has an idée fixe--so very sad. Ah
yes! that is it. She never had an idea before, and now that she has one
she cannot get rid of it, and it will kill her in time.
Now people whose intellect is of a low class are not disturbed with
visions of all that there is to be known, nor with a foolish desire to
appear to know it. On the other hand, they are perfectly capable of
understanding what is honourable or dishonourable, mean or generous, and
they are very tenacious of these principles, believing that in the
letter of the law is salvation. They are not vain of qualities and
powers not theirs; and, consequently, when they promise, they promise
what they are able to perform. Occasionally such characters appear in
"society,"--rare creatures, in whom a pernicious education has not
spoiled the simplicity and honesty which is their only virtue. They fall
naturally into the position of confessors to the community, for the
community requires confessors of some sort. In them confides the
hardened sinner bursting with evil deeds and the accumulation of petty
naughtiness. To them comes the beardless ass, simpering from his first
adventure, and generally "afraid he has compromised" the mature woman of
the world, whom he has elected to serve, desiring to know what he ought
to do about it. To them, too, comes sometimes the real sufferer with his
or her little tale of woe, hesitatingly told, half hinted, hoping to be
wholly understood. They are good people, these social confessors, though
they seldom give much advice. Nevertheless, it is such a help to tell
one's story and hear how it sounds!
Lady Victoria was not a woman of surpassing intellect; perhaps she had
no intellect at all. She belonged to the confessors above referred to.
She was the soul of honour, of faith, and of secrecy. People were always
making confidences to her, and they always felt the better for
it--though she herself could not imagine why. And so even Margaret came
and told her troubles. Only, as Margaret was really intelligent, she did
not hesitate or make any fuss about telling, when once she had made up
her mind. The story was, indeed, public property by this time, and Lady
Victoria was sure to know it all before long from other people. When
Margaret had finished, she laid down her work and looked out of the
window, waiting.
"I need not tell you I am sorry," said Lady Victoria. "You know that, my
dear. But what will you do? It will be so very awkward for you, you
know."
"I hardly can tell yet--what would you do in my place?"
"Let me see," said the English girl. "What would I do? You must have a
Russian minister here somewhere. I think I would send for him, if I were
you."
"But it takes so long--so dreadfully long, to get anything done in that
way," said Margaret. And they discussed the point in a desultory
fashion. Of course Lady Victoria's suggestion was the simplest and most
direct one. She was quite certain that Margaret would get her rights
very soon.
"Of course," said she, "they must do it. It would be so unjust not to."
She looked at Margaret with a bright smile, as if there was no such
thing as injustice in the world. But the Countess looked grave; and as
she leaned back in her deep arm-chair by the window, with half-closed
eyes, it was easy to see she was in trouble. She needed help and
sympathy and comfort. She had never needed help before, and it was not a
pleasant sensation to her; perhaps she was dissatisfied when she
realised whose help of all others she would most gladly accept. At least
it would be most pleasant that he should offer it. "He"--has it come to
that? Poor Margaret! If "he" represented a sorrow instead of a
happiness, would you confide that too to Lady Victoria? Or would you
feel the least shadow of annoyance because you miss him to-day? Perhaps
it is only habit. You have schooled yourself to believe you ought to do
without him, and you fancy you ought to be angry with yourself for
transgressing your rule. But what avails your schooling against the
little god? He will teach you a lesson you will not forget. The day is
sinking. The warm earth is drinking out its cup of sunlight to the
purple dregs thereof. There is great colour in the air, and the clouds
are as a trodden wine-press in the west. The old sun, the golden bowl of
life, is touching earth's lips, and soon there will be none of the wine
of light left in him. She will drink it all. Yet your lover tarries,
Margaret, and comes not.
Margaret and Lady Victoria agreed they would dine together. Indeed,
Margaret had a little headache, for she was weary. They would dine
together, and then read something in the evening--quite alone; and so
they did. It was nearly nine o'clock when the servant announced Claudius
and the Duke. The latter, of course, knew nothing about Margaret's
troubles, and was in high spirits. As for Claudius, his momentary
excitement, caused by Mr. Screw's insinuations, had long since passed
away, and he was as calm as ever, meditating a graphic description of
his day's excursion to Greenwood Cemetery for Margaret's benefit. It was
a lugubrious subject, but he well knew how to make his talk interesting.
It is the individual, not the topic, that makes the conversation; if a
man can talk well, graveyards are as good a subject as the last novel,
and he will make tombstones more attractive than scandal.
No one could have told from Claudius's appearance or conversation that
night that there was anything in the world to cloud his happiness. He
talked to the woman he loved with a serene contempt for everything else
in the world--a contempt, too, which was not assumed. He was perfectly
happy for the nonce, and doubly so in that such a happy termination to a
very long day was wholly unexpected. He had thought that he should find
the party gone from New York on his return from Greenwood, and this bit
of good luck seemed to have fallen to him out of a clear sky. Margaret
was glad to see him too; she was just now in that intermediate frame of
mind during which a woman only reasons about a man in his absence. The
moment he appears, the electric circuit is closed and the quiescent
state ceases. She was at the point when his coming made a difference
that she could feel; when she heard his step her blood beat faster, and
she could feel herself turning a shade paler. Then the heavy lids would
droop a little to hide what was in her dark eyes, and there were many
voices in her ear, as though the very air cried gloria, while her
heart answered in excelsis. But when he was come the gentle tale
seemed carried on, as from the hour of his last going; and while he
stayed life seemed one long day.
She had struggled hard, but in her deepest thoughts she had foreseen the
termination. It is the instinct of good women to fight against love--he
comes in such a questionable shape. A good woman sees a difference
between being in love and loving--well knowing that there is passion
without love, but no love without passion. She feels bound in faith to
set up a tribunal in her heart, whereby to judge between the two; but
very often judge and jury and prisoner at the bar join hands, and swear
eternal friendship on the spot. Margaret had feared lest this Northern
wooer, with his mighty strength and his bold eyes, should lead her
feelings whither her heart would not. Sooner than suffer that, she would
die. And yet there is a whole unspoken prophecy of love in every human
soul, and his witness is true.
All this evening they sat side by side, welding their bonds. Each had a
secret care, but each forgot it utterly. Claudius would not have deigned
to think of his own troubles when he was with her; and she never once
remembered how, during that morning, she had longed to tell him all
about her brother-in-law. They talked of all sorts of things, and they
made up their minds to go to Newport the next day.
Miss Skeat asked whether Newport was as romantic as Scarborough.
CHAPTER XIV.
There were odours of Russian cigarettes in Mr. Horace Bellingham's room,
and two smokers were industriously adding to the fragrant cloud. One was
the owner of the dwelling himself, and the other was Claudius. He sat
upon the sofa that stood between the two windows of the room, which was
on the ground floor, and looked out on the street. The walls were
covered with pictures wherever they were not covered with books, and
there was not an available nook or corner unfilled with scraps of
bric-à-brac, photographs, odds and ends of reminiscence, and all manner
of things characteristic to the denizen of the apartment. The furniture
was evidently calculated more for comfort than display, and if there was
an air of luxury pervading the bachelor's quiet rez-de-chaussée, it
was due to the rare volumes on the shelves and the good pictures on the
walls, rather than to the silk or satin of the high-art upholsterer, or
the gilding and tile work of the modern decorator, who ravages upon
beauty as a fungus upon a fruit tree. Whatever there was in Mr.
Bellingham's rooms was good; much of it was unique, and the whole was
harmonious. Rare editions were bound by famous binders, and if the
twopenny-halfpenny productions of some little would-be modern poet,
resplendent with vellum and æsthetic greenliness of paper, occasionally
found their way to the table, they never travelled as far as the
shelves. Mr. Bellingham had fools enough about him to absorb his spare
trash.
On this particular occasion the old gentleman was seated in an arm-chair
at his table, and Claudius, as aforesaid, had established himself upon
the sofa. He looked very grave and smoked thoughtfully.
"I wish I knew what to do," he said. "Mr. Bellingham, do you think I
could be of any use?"
"If I had not thought so, I would not have told you--I could have let
you find it out for yourself from the papers. You can be of a great deal
of use."
"Do you advise me to go to St. Petersburg and see about it then?"
"Of course I do. Start at once. You can get the necessary steps taken in
no time, if you go now."
"I am ready. But how in the world can I get the thing done?"
"Letters. Your English friend over there will give you letters to the
English Ambassador; he is Lord Fitzdoggin--cousin of the Duke's. And I
will give you some papers that will be of use. I know lots of people in
Petersburg. Why, it's as plain as a pikestaff. Besides, you know the
proverb, mitte sapientem et nihil dicas. That means then when you send
a wise man you must not dictate to him."
"You flatter me. But I would rather have your advice, if that is what
you call 'dictating.' I am not exactly a fool, but then, I am not very
wise either."
"No one is very wise, and we are all fools compared to some people,"
said Mr. Bellingham. "If anybody wanted a figurehead for a new Ship of
Fools, I sometimes think a portrait of myself would be singularly
appropriate. There are times when I should fix upon a friend for the
purpose. Mermaid--half fish--figurehead, half man, half fool. That's a
very good idea."
"Very good--for the friend. Meanwhile, you know, it is I who am going on
the errand. If you do not make it clear to me it will be a fool's
errand."
"It is perfectly clear, my dear sir," insisted Mr. Bellingham. "You go
to St. Petersburg; you get an audience--you can do that by means of the
letters; you lay the matter before the Czar, and request justice. Either
you get it or you do not. That is the beauty of an autocratic country."
"How about a free country?" asked Claudius.
"You don't get it," replied his host grimly. Claudius laughed a cloud of
smoke into the air.
"Why is that?" he asked idly, hoping to launch Mr. Bellingham into
further aphorisms and paradoxes.
"Men are everywhere born free, but they--"
"Oh," said Claudius, "I want to know your own opinion about it."
"I have no opinion; I only have experience," answered the other. "At any
rate in an autocratic country there is a visible, tangible repository of
power to whom you can apply. If the repository is in the humour you will
get whatever you want done, in the way of justice or injustice. Now in a
free country justice is absorbed into the great cosmic forces, and it is
apt to be an expensive incantation that wakes the lost elementary
spirit. In Russia justice shines by contrast with the surrounding
corruption, but there is no mistake about it when you get it. In America
it is taken for granted everywhere, and the consequence is that, like
most things that are taken for granted, it is a myth. Rousseau thought
that in a republic like ours there would be no more of the 'chains' he
was so fond of talking about. He did not anticipate a stagnation of the
national moral sense. An Englishman who has made a study of these things
said lately that the Americans had retained the forms of freedom, but
that the substance had suffered considerably."
"Who said that?" asked Claudius.
"Mr. Herbert Spencer. He said it to a newspaper reporter in New York,
and so it was put into the papers. It is the truest thing he ever said,
but no one took any more notice of it than if he had told the reporter
it was a very fine day. They don't care. Tell the first man you meet
down town that he is a liar; he will tell you he knows it. He will
probably tell you you are another. We are all alike here. I'm a liar
myself in a small way--there's a club of us, two Americans and one
Englishman."
"You are the frankest person I ever met, Mr. Bellingham," said Claudius,
laughing.
"Some day I will write a book," said Mr. Bellingham, rising and
beginning to tramp round the room. "I will call it--by the way, we were
talking about Petersburg. You had better be off."
"I am going, but tell me the name of the book before I go."
"No, I won't; you would go and write it yourself, and steal my thunder."
Uncle Horace's eyes twinkled, and a corruscation of laugh-wrinkles shot
like sheet-lightning over his face. He disappeared into a neighbouring
room, leaving a trail of white smoke in his wake, like a locomotive.
Presently he returned with a Bullinger Guide in his hand.
"You can sail on Wednesday at two o'clock by the Cunarder," he said.
"You can go to Newport to-day, and come back by the boat on Tuesday
night, and be ready to start in the morning." Mr. Bellingham prided
himself greatly on his faculty for making combinations of times and
places.
"How about those letters, Mr. Bellingham?" inquired Claudius, who had no
idea of going upon his expedition without proper preparations.
"I will write them," said Uncle Horace, "I will write them at once," and
he dived into an address-book and set to work. His pen was that of the
traditional ready-writer, for he wrote endless letters, and his
correspondence was typical of himself--the scholar, the wanderer, and
the Priest of Buddha by turns, and sometimes all at once. For Mr.
Bellingham was a professed Buddhist and a profound student of Eastern
moralities, and he was a thorough scholar in certain branches of the
classics. The combination of these qualities, with the tact and
versatile fluency of a man of the world, was a rare one, and was a
source of unceasing surprise to his intimates. At the present moment he
was a diplomatist, since he could not be a diplomat, and to his
energetic suggestion and furtherance of the plan he had devised the
results which this tale will set forth are mainly due.
Claudius sat upon the sofa watching the old gentleman, and wondering how
it was that a stranger should so soon have assumed the position of an
adviser, and with an energy and good sense, too, which not only disarmed
resistance, but assubjugated the consent of the advised. Life is full of
such things. Man lives quietly like a fattening carp in some old pond
for years, until some idle disturber comes and pokes up the mud with a
stick, and the poor fish is in the dark. Presently comes another
destroyer of peace, less idle and more enterprising, and drains away
the water, carp and all, and makes a potato-garden of his old haunts. So
the carp makes a new study of life under altered circumstances in other
waters; and to pass the time he wonders about it all. It happens even to
men of masterful character, accustomed to directing events. An illness
takes such a man out of his sphere for a few months. He comes back and
finds his pond turned into a vegetable-garden and his ploughed field
into a swamp; and then for a time he is fain to ask advice and take it,
like any other mortal. So Claudius, who felt himself in an atmosphere
new to him, and had tumbled into a very burning bush of complications,
had fallen in with Mr. Horace Bellingham, a kind of professional
bone-setter, whose province was the reduction of society fractures,
speaking medically. And Mr. Bellingham, scenting a patient, and moreover
being strongly attracted to him on his own merits, had immediately
broached the subject of the Nihilist Nicholas, drawing the conclusion
that the man of the emergency was Claudius, and Claudius only. And the
bold Doctor weighed the old gentleman's words, and by the light of what
he felt he knew that Uncle Horace was right. That if he loved Margaret
his first duty was to her, and that first duty was her welfare. No
messenger could or would be so active in her interests as himself; and
in his anxiety to serve her he had not thought it strange that Mr.
Bellingham should take it for granted he was ready to embark on the
expedition. He thought of that later, and wondered at the boldness of
the stranger's assumption, no less than at the keenness of his wit. Poor
Claudius! anybody might see he was in love.
"There; I think that will draw sparks," said Mr. Bellingham, as he
folded the last of his letters and put them all in a great square
envelope. "Put those in your pocket and keep your powder dry."
"I am really very grateful to you," said Claudius. Uncle Horace began to
tramp round the room again, emitting smoky ejaculations of satisfaction.
Presently he stopped in front of his guest and turned his eyes up to
Claudius's face without raising his head. It gave him a peculiar
expression.
"It is a very strange thing," he said, "but I knew at once that you had
a destiny, the first time I saw you. I am very superstitious; I believe
in destiny."
"So would I if I thought one could know anything about it. I mean in a
general way," answered Claudius, smiling.
"Is generalisation everything?" asked Mr. Bellingham sharply, still
looking at the young man. "Is experience to be dismissed as empiricism,
with a sneer, because the wider rule is lacking?"
"No. But so long as only a few occupy themselves in reducing empiric
knowledge to a scientific shape they will not succeed, at least in this
department. To begin with, they have not enough experience among them to
make rules from."
"But they contribute. One man will come who will find the rule. Was
Tycho Brahé a nonentity because he was not Kepler? Was Van Helmont
nothing because he was not Lavoisier? Yet Tycho Brahé was an empiric--he
was the last of the observers of the concrete, if you will allow me the
phrase. He was scientifically the father of Kepler."
"That is very well put," said Claudius. "But we were talking of destiny.
You are an observer."
"I have very fine senses," replied Mr. Bellingham. "I always know when
anybody I meet is going to do something out of the common run. You are."
"I hope so," said Claudius, laughing. "Indeed I think I am beginning
already."
"Well, good luck to you," said Mr. Bellingham, remembering that he had
missed one engagement, and was on the point of missing another. He
suddenly felt that he must send Claudius away, and he held out his hand.
There was nothing rough in his abruptness. He would have liked to talk
with Claudius for an hour longer had his time permitted. Claudius
understood perfectly. He put the letters in his pocket, and with a
parting shake of the hand he bade Mr. Horace Bellingham good-morning,
and good-bye; he would not trouble him again, he said, before sailing.
But Mr. Bellingham went to the door with him.
"Come and see me before you go--Wednesday morning; I am up at six, you
know. I shall be very glad to see you. I am like the Mexican donkey that
died of congojas ajenas--died of other people's troubles. People
always come to me when they are in difficulties." The old gentleman
stood looking after Claudius as he strode away. Then he screwed up his
eyes at the sun, sneezed with evident satisfaction, and disappeared
within, closing the street door behind him.
"Some day I will write my memoirs," he said to himself, as he sat down.
Claudius was in a frame of mind which he would have found it hard to
describe. The long conversation with Mr. Bellingham had been the first
intimation he had received of Margaret's disaster, and the same
interview had decided him to act at once in her behalf--in other words,
to return to Europe immediately, after a week's stay in New York,
leaving behind all that was most dear to him. This resolution had
formed itself instantaneously in his mind, and it never occurred to him,
either then or later, that he could have done anything else in the
world. It certainly did not occur to him that he was doing anything
especially praiseworthy in sacrificing his love to its object, in
leaving Margaret for a couple of months, and enduring all that such a
separation meant, in order to serve her interests more effectually. He
knew well enough what he was undertaking--the sleepless nights, the
endless days, the soul-compelling heaviness of solitude, and the deadly
sinking at the heart, all which he should endure daily for sixty
days--he could not be back before that. He knew it all, for he had
suffered it all, during those four and twenty hours on the yacht that
followed his first wild speech of love. But Claudius's was a knightly
soul, and when he served he served wholly, without reservation. Had the
dark-browed Countess guessed half the nobleness of purpose her tall
lover carried in his breast, who knows but she might have been sooner
moved herself. But how could she know? She suspected, indeed, that he
was above his fellows, and she never attributed bad motives to his
actions, as she would unhesitatingly have done with most men; for she
had learned lessons of caution in her life. Who steals hearts steals
souls, wherefore it behoves woman to look that the lock be strong and
the key hung high. Claudius thought so too, and he showed it in every
action, though unconsciously enough, for it was a knowledge natural and
not acquired, an instinctive determination to honour where honour was
due. Call it Quixotism if need be. There is nothing ridiculous in the
word, for there breathes no truer knight or gentler soul than
Cervantes's hero in all the pages of history or romance. Why cannot all
men see it? Why must an infamous world be ever sneering at the sight,
and smacking its filthy lips over some fresh gorge of martyrs? Society
has non-suited hell to-day, lest peradventure it should not sleep o'
nights.
Thomas Carlyle, late of Chelsea, knew that. How he hit and hammered and
churned in his wrath, with his great cast-iron words. How the world
shrieked when he wound his tenacious fingers in the glory of her golden
hair and twisted and wrenched and twisted till she yelled for mercy,
promising to be good, like a whipped child. There is a story told of him
which might be true.
It was at a dinner-party, and Carlyle sat silent, listening to the talk
of lesser men, the snow on his hair and the fire in his amber eyes. A
young Liberal was talking theory to a beefy old Conservative, who
despised youth and reason in an equal degree.
"The British people, sir," said he of the beef, "can afford to laugh at
theories."
"Sir," said Carlyle, speaking for the first time during dinner, "the
French nobility of a hundred years ago said they could afford to laugh
at theories. Then came a man and wrote a book called the Social
Contract. The man was called Jean-Jacques Rousseau, and his book was a
theory, and nothing but a theory. The nobles could laugh at his theory;
but their skins went to bind the second edition of his book[1]."
[Footnote 1: There was a tannery of human skins at Meudon during the
Revolution.]
Look to your skin, world, lest it be dressed to morocco and cunningly
tooled with gold. There is much binding yet to be done.
Claudius thought neither of the world nor of Mr. Carlyle as he walked
back to the hotel; for he was thinking of the Countess Margaret, to the
exclusion of every other earthly or unearthly consideration. But his
thoughts were sad, for he knew that he was to leave her, and he knew
also that he must tell her so. It was no easy matter, and his walk
slackened, till, at the corner of the great thoroughfare, he stood
still, looking at a poor woman who ground a tuneless hand-organ. The
instrument of tympanum torture was on wheels, and to the back of it was
attached a cradle. In the cradle was a dirty little baby, licking its
fist and listening with conscientious attention to the perpetual
trangle-tringle-jangle of the maternal music. In truth the little thing
could not well listen to anything else, considering the position in
which it was placed. Claudius stood staring at the little caravan,
halted at the corner of the most aristocratic street in New York, and
his attention was gradually roused to comprehend what he saw. He
reflected that next to being bound on the back of a wild horse, like
Mazeppa, the most horrible fate conceivable must be that of this dirty
baby, put to bed in perpetuity on the back of a crazy grind-organ. He
smiled at the idea, and the woman held out a battered tin dish with one
hand, while the other in its revolution ground out the final palpitating
squeaks of "Ah, che la morte ognora." Claudius put his hand into his
pocket and gave the poor creature a coin.
"You are encouraging a public nuisance," said a thin gentlemanly voice
at his elbow. Claudius looked down and saw Mr. Barker.
"Yes," said the Doctor, "I remember a remark you once made to me about
the deserving poor in New York--it was the day before yesterday, I
think. You said they went to the West."
"Talking of the West, I suppose you will be going there yourself one of
these days to take a look at our 'park'--eh?"
"No, I am going East."
"To Boston, I suppose?" inquired the inquisitive Barker. "You will be
very much amused with Boston. It is the largest village in the United
States."
"I am not going to Boston," said Claudius calmly.
"Oh! I thought when you said you were going East you meant--"
"I am going to sail for Europe on Wednesday," said the Doctor, who had
had time to reflect that he might as well inform Barker of his
intention. Mr. Barker smiled grimly under his moustache.
"You don't mean that?" he said, trying to feign astonishment and
disguise his satisfaction. It seemed too good to be true. "Going so
soon? Why, I thought you meant to spend some time."
"Yes, I am going immediately," and Claudius looked Barker straight in
the face. "I find it is necessary that I should procure certain papers
connected with my inheritance."
"Well," said Barker turning his eyes another way, for he did not like
the Doctor's look, "I am very sorry, any way. I suppose you mean to come
back soon?"
"Very soon," answered Claudius. "Good-morning, Barker."
"Good morning. I will call and see you before you sail. You have quite
taken my breath away with this news." Mr. Barker walked quickly away in
the direction of Elevated Road. He was evidently going down town.
"Strange," thought Claudius, "that Barker should take the news so
quietly. I think it ought to have astonished him more." Leaving the
organ-grinder, the dirty baby, and the horse-cars to their fate,
Claudius entered the hotel. He found the Duke over a late breakfast,
eating cantelopes voraciously. Cantelopes are American melons, small and
of sickly appearance, but of good vitality and unearthly freshness
within, a joy to the hot-stomached foreigner. Behold also, his Grace
eateth the cantelope and hath a cheerful countenance. Claudius sat down
at the table, looking rather gloomy.
"I want you to give me an introduction to the English Ambassador in
Petersburg. Lord Fitzdoggin, I believe he is."
"Good gracious!" exclaimed the peer; "what for?"
"I am going there," answered Claudius with his habitual calm, "and I
want to know somebody in power."
"Oh! are you going?" asked the Duke, suddenly grasping the situation.
He afterwards took some credit to himself for having been so quick to
catch Claudius's meaning.
"Yes. I sail on Wednesday."
"Tell me all about it," said the Duke, who recovered his equanimity, and
plunged a knife into a fresh cantelope at the same moment.
"Very well. I saw your friend, Mr. Horace Bellingham, this morning, and
he told me all about the Countess's troubles. In fact, they are in the
newspapers by this time, but I had not read about them. He suggested
that some personal friend of the Countess had better proceed to
headquarters at once, and see about it; so I said I would go; and he
gave me some introductions. They are probably good ones; but he advised
me to come to you and get one for your ambassador."
"Anything Uncle Horace advises is right, you know," said his Grace,
speaking with his mouth full. "He knows no end of people everywhere," he
added pensively, when he had swallowed.
"Very well, I will go; but I am glad you approve."
"But what the deuce are you going to do about that fortune of yours?"
asked the other suddenly. "Don't you think we had better go down and
swear to you at once? I may not be here when you get back, you know."
"No; that would not suit my arrangements," answered Claudius. "I would
rather not let it be known for what purpose I had gone. Do you
understand? I am going ostensibly to Heidelberg to get my papers from
the University, and so, with all thanks, I need not trouble you." The
Duke looked at him for a moment.
"What a queer fellow you are, Claudius," he said at last. "I should
think you would like her to know."
"Why? Suppose that I failed, what a figure I should cut, to be sure."
Claudius preferred to attribute to his vanity an action which was the
natural outcome of his love.
"Well, that is true," said the Duke; "but I think you are pretty safe
for all that. Have some breakfast--I forgot all about it."
"No, thanks. Are you going to Newport to-day? I would like to see
something outside of New York before I go back."
"By all means. Better go at once--all of us in a body. I know the
Countess is ready, and I am sure I am."
"Very good. I will get my things together. One word--please do not tell
them I am going; I will do it myself.
"All right," answered the Duke; and Claudius vanished. "He says 'them,'"
soliloquised the Englishman, "but he means 'her.'"
Claudius found on his table a note from Mr. Screw. This missive was
couched in formal terms, and emitted a kind of phosphorescent wrath. Mr.
Screw's dignity was seriously offended by the summary ejectment he had
suffered at the Doctor's hands on the previous day. He gave the Doctor
formal notice that his drafts would not be honoured until the executors
were satisfied concerning his identity; and he solemnly and legally
"regretted the position Dr. Claudius had assumed towards those whose
sacred duty it was to protect the interests of Dr. Claudius." The
cunning repetition of name conveyed the idea of two personages, the
claimant and the real heir, in a manner that did not escape the Doctor.
Since yesterday he had half regretted having lost his temper; and had he
known that Screw had been completely duped by Mr. Barker, Claudius would
probably have apologised to the lawyer. Indeed, he had a vague
suspicion, as the shadow of a distant event, that Barker was not
altogether clear of the business; and the fact that the latter had shown
so little surprise on hearing of his friend's sudden return to Europe
had aroused the Doctor's imagination, so that he found himself piecing
together everything he could remember to show that Barker had an
interest of some kind in removing him from the scene. Nevertheless, the
burden of responsibility for the annoyance he was now suffering seemed
to rest with Screw, and Screw should be taught a great lesson; and to
that end Claudius would write a letter. It was clear he was still angry.
The Doctor sat down to write; and his strong, white fingers held the pen
with unrelenting determination to be disagreeable. His face was set like
a mask, and ever and anon his blue eyes gleamed scornfully. And this is
what he said--
     "SIR--Having enjoyed the advantage of your society, somewhat longer
     than I could have wished, during yesterday afternoon, I had
     certainly not hoped for so early a mark of your favour and interest
     as a letter from you of to-day's date. As for your formal notice to
     me that my drafts will not be honoured in future, I regard it as a
     deliberate repetition of the insulting insinuation conveyed to me
     by your remarks during your visit. You are well aware that I have
     not drawn upon the estate in spite of your written authorisation to
     do so. I consider your conduct in this matter unworthy of a person
     professing the law, and your impertinence is in my opinion only
     second to the phenomenal clumsiness you have displayed throughout.
     As I fear that your ignorance of your profession may lead you into
     some act of folly disastrous to yourself, I will go so far as to
     inform you that on my return from Europe, two months hence, your
     proceedings as executor for the estate of the late Gustavus
     Lindstrand will be subjected to the severest scrutiny. In the
     meantime, I desire no further communications from you.
     CLAUDIUS."
This remarkable epistle was immediately despatched by messenger to Pine
Street; and if Mr. Screw had felt himself injured before, he was on the
verge of desperation when he read Claudius's polemic. He repeated to
himself the several sentences, which seemed to breathe war and carnage
in their trenchant brevity; and he thought that even if he had been
guilty of any breach of trust, he could hardly have felt worse. He ran
his fingers through his thick yellow-gray hair, and hooked his legs in
and out of each other as he sat, and bullied his clerks within an inch
of their lives. Then, to get consolation, he said to himself that
Claudius was certainly an impostor, or he would not be so angry, or go
to Europe, or refuse any more communications. In the midst of his rage,
Mr. Barker the younger opportunely appeared in the office of Messrs.
Screw and Scratch, prepared to throw any amount of oil upon the flames.
"Well?" said Mr. Barker interrogatively, as he settled the flower in his
gray coat, and let the paper ribband of the "ticker" run through his
other hand, with its tale of the tide of stocks. Yellow Mr. Screw shot a
lurid glance from his brassy little eyes.
"You're right, sir--the man's a humbug."
"Who?" asked Barker, in well-feigned innocence.
"Claudius. It's my belief he's a liar and a thief and a damned impostor,
sir. That's my belief, sir." He waxed warm as he vented his anger.
"Well, I only suggested taking precautions. I never said any of these
things," answered Barker, who had no idea of playing a prominent part in
his own plot. "Don't give me any credit, Mr. Screw."
"Now, see here, Mr. Barker; I'm talking to you. You're as clever a young
man as there is in New York. Now, listen to me; I'm talking to you,"
said Mr. Screw excitedly. "That man turned me out of his house--turned
me out of doors, sir, yesterday afternoon; and now he writes me this
letter; look here, look at it; read it for yourself, can't you? And so
he makes tracks for Europe, and leaves no address behind. An honest man
isn't going to act like that, sir--is he, now?"
"Not much," said Barker, as he took the letter. He read it through
twice, and gave it back. "Not much," he repeated. "Is it true that he
has drawn no money?"
"Well, yes, I suppose it is," answered Screw reluctantly, for this was
the weak point in his argument. "However, it would be just like such a
leg to make everything sure in playing a big game. You see he has left
himself the rear platform, so he can jump off when his car is boarded."
"However," said Barker sententiously, "I must say it is in his favour.
What we want are facts, you know, Mr. Screw. Besides, if he had taken
anything, I should have been responsible, because I accepted him abroad
as the right man."
"Well, as you say, there is nothing gone--not a red. So if he likes to
get away, he can; I'm well rid of him."
"Now that's the way to look at it. Don't be so down in the mouth, sir;
it will all come straight enough." Barker smiled benignly, knowing it
was all crooked enough at present.
"Well, I'm damned anyhow," said Mr. Screw, which was not fair to
himself, for he was an honest man, acting very properly according to his
lights. It was not his fault if Barker deceived him, and if that
hot-livered Swede was angry.
"Never mind," answered Barker, rather irrelevantly; "I will see him
before he sails, and tell you what I think about it. He is dead sure to
give himself away, somehow, before he gets off."
"Well, sail in, young man," said Screw, biting off the end of a cigar.
"I don't want to see him again, you can take your oath."
"All right; that settles it. I came about something else, though. I know
you can tell me all about this suit against the Western Union, can't
you?"
So the two men sat in their arm-chairs and talked steadily, as only
Americans can talk, without showing any more signs of fatigue than if
they were snoring; and it cost them nothing. If the Greeks of the time
of Pericles could be brought to life in America, they would be very like
modern Americans in respect of their love of talking and of their
politics. Terrible chatterers in the market-place, and great wranglers
