applauded when the captain entered the room.
“Boys, there is nothing more to be done to-night. To-morrow will be
Saturday; and we shall organize the ship’s company for the Sylph, and
take a little trip in her down the lake, perhaps as far as
Plattsburgh. Your rooms are all ready for you, and you can retire as
soon as possible. We have breakfast at seven in the morning.”
The captain stood upon the platform, and made this little speech,
which was applauded by the students. Mr. Brookbine was left to look
after the pupils, and the captain and Dory went into the house. Though
it was after nine o’clock in the evening, they found Mr. Bolingbroke
Millweed and his mother in the sitting-room. Her son had related to
her his adventures on the lake and in Burlington. She was very
grateful to Dory for what he had done, and expressed herself to that
effect in very high-flown speech.
“My son Bolingbroke informs me that you have manifested some interest
in his future welfare, for which I am extremely grateful to you,
Captain Gildrock. I hope you will be able to do something for him; for
a word from you would secure for him a good place in a store,” said
Mrs. Millweed, after she had succeeded in introducing the subject.
“I offered your son a place in my school for a year. If he is going to
accept the offer I made him, I want him here at seven to-morrow
morning,” replied the captain bruskly. “I don’t know any thing about
him, and I can’t recommend him for a place in a store.”
“I don’t wish to make a mechanic of him,” protested Mrs. Millweed. “I
am looking for something higher than that for him.”
“Do you think that being a counter-jumper is something higher?”
demanded the captain, laughing heartily at the idea.
“I wish him to be a merchant; and I am sure that is higher and more
respectable than a greasy mechanic,” added the lady with a sneer.
“Very well, madam: I cannot do any thing for your son,” added the
captain decidedly. “There are ten times as many clerks as can find
places now.”
“I have never allowed my boys to work on the farm; and they haven’t
acquired any low ideas,” continued Mrs. Millweed as she moved to the
door, closely attended by Bolingbroke.
The visitors departed, and it was not probable that they would again
darken the captain’s door.
CHAPTER XV.
SOMETHING ABOUT THE AFFAIRS OF THE MILLWEED FAMILY.
Long before breakfast-time the new boys were roaming about the estate,
with Dory as their guide. He showed them the place, and treated them
as handsomely as he knew how. They were not in a boat, with a fresh
wind blowing; and he had no occasion to use a single sharp word, and
he had not on board of the Goldwing, except to Oscar Chester. By this
time he had become quite popular with the students.
“Dory,” called Captain Gildrock, as the skipper and his party came to
the shop: “what was the name of the man that stole the money at the
store?”
“Tim Lingerwell: he was the head man of Mr. Longbrook,” replied Dory.
“He came from this place.”
“I know all about him,” said a stranger who had been talking with the
captain. “He never was any too good to do such a thing; and my son
was lucky to get out of the scrape as well as he did.”
This man was the father of Bolingbroke Millweed. For the first time he
had heard about the Beech-Hill Industrial School that morning. His
wife had told him about the captain’s offer to take Bolingbroke into
the school. He had been telling the shipmaster his troubles, and he
wanted his son to accept the offer.
“I am a peaceable man, Captain Gildrock, and my wife has always had
her own way,” continued Farmer Millweed. “I don’t like to have any
trouble in the family, but I have gone just about as far as I can go.”
The early visitor looked very sad, and choked a little, as though a
few tears would relieve him. He stood looking upon the ground, trying
to check his emotions.
“Things have gone hard with you, have they?” said Captain Gildrock in
a sympathizing tone.
“Very hard, captain; and I don’t know what is going to become of me
and my family. I expect we shall fetch up in the poorhouse; as we
certainly shall if things keep on as they have been,” replied the
farmer with a suppressed groan.
“I am sorry for you,” added the captain. “I will take your son, and he
shall be of no expense to you for a year; and at the end of that time,
I will guarantee that he will be able to do something for you, and
take care of himself besides.”
“Just as soon as I heard of your offer, I came right over here; for I
want to have Bolly learn a trade,” said the farmer. “He will be
provided for, whatever becomes of the rest of us. When my oldest girl
was a dozen years old, I owned my farm free and clear; and I didn’t
owe any man on earth a single cent. Now there is a mortgage of two
thousand dollars on my place, and I owe over a thousand dollars
besides.”
“You have been making bad speculations then,” suggested Captain
Gildrock.
“I never went into a speculation of any kind, captain; and I never
lost any money in any way. Ten years ago I used to get a good living
off my farm. We had plenty to eat, drink, and to wear. Now we don’t
have any thing.” And, in spite of his struggles to restrain them, a
flood of tears poured down his wan cheek.
“If you have had no misfortunes, I don’t understand why things have
gone so badly with you. But it is best to look into the matter, and
find out what the trouble is, so that you can correct the errors of
the past. You are not a very old man, and you may get out of the
trouble yet.”
“I know what the difficulty is well enough; and I have known it for
two or three years, if not for ten. I have to take care of my family,
consisting of my wife, two sons, and two daughters. The oldest is
twenty-two, and the youngest is sixteen. My wife has high notions for
a farmer’s wife, and I have given in to her. She would not let the
boys work on the farm; and, when I wanted any help, I had to hire. I
suppose the girls helped their mother, but all of them had to dress
like ladies. And that is where all the money I could get went to,”
said Millweed bitterly.
“The first thing is to stop the leak,” suggested the captain in
nautical terms. “If you don’t stop it, the ship will go to the
bottom.”
“I know that very well, but I don’t see how I’m going to stop the
leak. All the children had to go to the high-school, and dress as
smartly as the sons and daughters of rich men; though it was more than
I could do to get the money to pay for it.”
“But couldn’t your wife see how things were going?” asked the captain.
“I talked with her, and told her seven years ago that I was running
behindhand. I have talked with her twenty times since, and told her we
should all fetch up in the poorhouse if we kept on. She said the boys
would soon find places in stores, and help me. The girls could have
had plenty of work at good wages, but their notions were as high as
their mother’s.”
“I see how it is,” said Captain Gildrock, nodding his head, as much as
to declare that it was the old story.
“The girls are too proud to marry a farmer or a mechanic, and rich
men’s sons don’t seem to want them. They are good girls enough, but
they have got high notions. The boys never did do any thing, and I
don’t know whether they can or not. I want Bolly to try. Pemberton is
eighteen, and I suppose he is too old for your new school.”
“Not at all: I will take them both, but they will have to work.”
“That’s what they need. If I could get the boys into your school, I
should like it first-rate, and I should have some hopes that I might
get along; though I have got to lose my farm, and it won’t fetch any
thing over the mortgage,” added the farmer very gloomily.
“I will take the two boys into my school; and, if the girls will go to
work, I will find places for them in a store or factory.”
“You are very kind, Captain Gildrock; but I am afraid my wife won’t
allow the boys to go to your school, or the girls to do any thing to
help support themselves,” added Farmer Millweed.
“I shall not meddle with the affairs of your family; but, if it was my
case, I should set the boys and girls to work,” added Captain
Gildrock. “You must take the helm in your own hands.”
“It will make trouble,” said Farmer Millweed, shaking his head.
“You are very sure to have trouble if you don’t do it.”
“That’s so!” exclaimed the unhappy man. “I have always had to work
hard, and I never drank a drop of liquor in my life. I’m not as smart
as some, but I’ve done my best to get along. Next month the mortgage
and interest are due, and I have not a dollar to pay either. I am
behindhand on my interest now. Of course Stubbs will take possession,
and my family will be turned out of the house. I have no place to go,
and the best I can do will be to go to work on wages; for all I have
got will not pay my debts. I shall have to take the helm, as you call
it, captain.”
“If I can do any thing for you, I shall be glad to do it,” added the
captain.
“I haven’t any claims on you, Captain Gildrock, and it is very kind of
you to offer to take my boys. I will go home, and see what can be
done,” replied Farmer Millweed, as he left the captain.
There was an expression of resolution on his face as he passed out of
the yard, and it was evident to the captain that he meant to do
something in the emergency. The captain wondered if his pluck would
hold out long enough to enable him to do it.
“If the boys are going to join the school, I want them here by nine
this forenoon; for we are about to organize a ship’s company for the
steam-yacht,” he called to the discouraged farmer, as he was passing
through the gate.
“I intend to have them both here,” answered Mr. Millweed.
“If they come, I shall do them more good than the high-school ever
did,” said the captain to himself, as he went into the house.
The captain insisted, at the breakfast-table, that the high-school had
spoiled the Millweed boys and girls. Mr. Brookbine dissented, and was
sure it was the mother who had made the mischief.
“It was she who sent them to the high-school; and the matter is about
as broad as it is long,” added the captain.
“But the mother could have spoiled them just as fully if they had not
gone to the high-school,” persisted the master-carpenter, who had
opinions of his own. “I believe the high-school is a good thing; and,
if these boys and girls had gone to work when they got through, it
would have been all right with the family. It was the high notions,
and not the high-school, that did the mischief; and the children got
them from the mother. The father is a man of no great force.”
“But he had force enough to take care of his family, and lay up
something, until he was broken down by the demands of his family upon
him. There was a screw loose somewhere, and the children ought never
to have gone to the high-school.”
“Perhaps not: I think myself that the high-school business is
sometimes overdone,” replied the mechanic. “I never went to a
high-school or an academy, but I don’t think I should have been any
the worse off for a great deal more learning than I ever got.”
“I am willing to admit that the high-school is a necessity in an
American community, but I think it ought to be combined with something
of an industrial character. The occupation of the mechanic should be
redeemed from the odium which has attached to it.”
“I agree with you there,” added Mr. Brookbine heartily. “The Millweed
boys must have been good scholars to get through when they were only
sixteen. Most of the scholars that graduate are eighteen and
nineteen.”
“And those who are not going into the learned professions have wasted
three years which ought to have been spent in the shop, or in learning
the business of life. The graduates come out, a year or two before
they are of age, with too high notions to do any thing but measure
tape; and that they call being merchants.”
Captain Gildrock was very radical in his notions, and he continued the
conversation until the meal was over. The boys were directed to take
their overcoats, and go on board of the Sylph.
“The prisoner in the brig wants to see you, Captain Gildrock,” said
Mr. Brookbine, just as the captain was going on board of the steamer.
“He must be attended to at once, for he needs more care than all the
others,” replied the captain, as he went back to the dormitory with
the carpenter.
The mechanic unlocked the doors, and the captain presented himself
before the rebel. Oscar looked very pale, and his chest heaved with
emotion. It was evident, from the appearance of his eyes, that he had
not slept well in his new quarters. A small portion of the bread on
the table had been eaten, but not enough to indicate that he had been
very hungry.
“I am told that you wish to see me,” said the captain.
“I don’t care to stay any longer in this place; and I should like to
have you send me back to my uncle,” replied Oscar.
“If that is all you want, nothing more need be said. You will not be
sent back to your uncle under any circumstances.”
“Then I will do the best I can if you will let me out,” added the
rebel.
Oscar was promptly released without a question.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE ORGANIZATION OF THE SHIP’s COMPANY.
Oscar Chester was taken to the house, and provided with a good
breakfast. His appetite was not spoiled, though dry bread had no
attractions for him. He ate heartily, and then walked down to the
landing on the lake where the steamer lay.
Captain Gildrock had gone down before. He had called the boys together
on the forward deck, where, as usual, they had greeted him with a
cheer, which assured him so far that every thing was satisfactory to
the pupils.
“Hereafter, my lads, I think we had better dispense with the cheers,
except on extraordinary occasions. By and by something will occur that
will not meet your approbation; and then you will want to make a
demonstration of another kind,” said the captain.
“Can’t we make it?” asked Ben Ludlow.
“If what I do, and what the instructors do, is not right, I should
like to have you express your opinions in a proper manner,” replied
the principal of the school. “But, if any thing don’t suit you, I
don’t wish you to manifest your disapprobation by hissing. Don’t
pretend to like what you don’t like. Don’t be hypocrites. But, if you
are dissatisfied with any thing about the school, come to me, and
express your minds in a proper manner; and we will calmly discuss the
matter. If I am wrong, I shall make haste to set myself right; and I
hope you will do the same.”
This remark was greeted with a rousing cheer, for the boys were
delighted with the discipline so far.
“I thought we were to dispense with the cheering,” said the captain
with a pleasant smile.
“That was an extraordinary occasion, Captain Gildrock,” added Bob
Swanton. “We never heard of a schoolmaster before who believed it
possible for anybody to be right but himself.”
The boys laughed and clapped their hands at this reply, and were ready
to give Bob Swanton a medal for hitting the nail on the head at the
right moment.
“The instructors here will try to be in the right. If they don’t, they
won’t be here long. But you and I may not always be able to agree, and
I may have to insist on my own way. Then you must submit. But here
comes Chester. I wish you all to refrain from saying any thing about
what happened yesterday to him. We will all treat him handsomely, and
it will be his own fault if he don’t get along without any trouble.”
Oscar came on board with the carpenter. He seemed to be much agitated,
and probably he expected some sort of a greeting from his
fellow-pupils. As they were not to say any thing to him about the
past, they avoided even glancing at him, lest he might put a wrong
construction upon their looks. Captain Gildrock appeared not to see
him, and he took his place in the rear of the other boys. Possibly he
was astonished to find that he had become a person of so little
consequence.
“Now, my lads, we are to organize the ship’s company,” said the
captain.
“Is this a ship?” asked Dave Windsor.
“This is simply a steamer; properly, a steam-yacht, being used mainly
as a pleasure-craft. She is not a ship; but it is customary to speak
of the ship’s company, whatever the size or rig of the vessel. You read
in the New Testament, speaking of Jesus, that he ‘entered into a
ship.’ Have you an idea that the craft was a vessel with three masts,
square rigged?”
“I did not know any thing about it,” replied Will Orwell.
“That ship was nothing but a boat, not as big as the Goldwing
probably. I repeat, that we are to organize the ship’s company; and I
assure you that the expression is quite correct.”
“Of course it is,” added Dave Windsor. “I only wanted to know about
it.”
“That’s right: ask all the sensible things you can think of, and I
shall be glad to answer you. You can’t all be captains or even
officers.”
“We don’t expect to be,” added Ben Ludlow, when the captain paused to
note the effect of his statement.
“It is necessary to have some privates on board; but one position is
just as honorable as another if it is well filled,” continued the
captain. “There is to be no favoritism on board or in the school. Now,
we must have firemen, deck-hands, cooks, and waiters; and it is just
as important for you to learn the duties of these positions as those
of officers.”
“Are we to learn to cook?” asked Jim Alburgh, laughing.
“You are; and I consider this one of the most important parts to
learn. I served as cook on board of a brig during one voyage to the
West Indies; and I took as much pride in performing my duties
correctly, as ever I did when commanding an East Indiaman,” replied
the principal with energy.
“I know something about cooking, and I like the business,” added Jim
Alburgh.
“Ah, here comes two recruits!” exclaimed Captain Gildrock, as
Pemberton and Bolingbroke Millweed came on board. “I am particularly
glad to see you, boys.”
“Thank you, sir,” replied Pemberton politely; and the principal was
delighted to see that there was no appearance of compulsion in their
coming.
“We have twenty-two of the pupils I want: four of them will join us at
Burlington, and two more at Plattsburgh. I hope the other two will
arrive before we begin the school.”
“Are we going to Plattsburgh to-day, sir?” asked Bob Swanton.
“We are; and it is time we were moving, though we have considerable
to do before we can leave. I have concluded to be captain myself for
the present, until I find a pupil who is competent to fill the place.”
“Dory!” exclaimed several of the boys.
“Dory will not be captain, though I think he is competent. I want him
in another place. He is my nephew, but he shall not be favored on that
account. I have places for the twenty-four pupils of the school, and I
will name them to you. Next to the captain will be the first and
second officers, sometimes called mates, and, in men-of-war,
lieutenants.”
“But none of our crowd know any thing about steamers or boats, and are
not fit for officers.”
“The officers will learn their duties; and after a while, when you
have all had a chance to know what is required of you, these positions
will be given to those who are the most competent to fill them. The
next in rank will be the first and second pilot. As Dory is the only
one of you who is fitted to pilot a steamer, I shall appoint him first
pilot. This is the only one I shall select for any place. All the
others will be drawn by lot as soon as we leave Burlington.”
A few of the pupils were disposed to applaud the appointment; but
others hushed them up, and there was no demonstration.
“The third in rank are the engineers. As I am captain, Mr. Jepson will
be the chief-engineer. We shall have a first and second
assistant-engineer. Next come the first and second cook. Following
this department is the steward’s. The first, or chief, steward, the
second, third, and fourth stewards, are the names of the places. Then
come the firemen, of whom there will be four, and lastly the crew, or
deck-hands as they are sometimes called. When we have twenty-four
scholars, there will be eight of them.”
The boys then asked a score of questions, which the captain answered
with great good-nature, though some of them were trivial.
“Now, my lads, you wear the clothes in which you came from your homes.
I have provided uniforms for you, which you will put on before we get
under way.”
Mr. Sheers, a tailor from the town, was in attendance to assist the
boys in fitting themselves to the uniforms. This dress consisted of
woollen shirts, blue sailor-pants, and short jackets. A white cap was
given to each, and in half an hour all hands were on deck in their new
rig. They looked very salt for a fresh-water lake, but the uniform was
very neat and appropriate.
While the captain was talking to the pupils, Bates had brought on
board a quantity of provisions and stores, which he had put in their
proper places. The ice-house had received a supply, and every thing
was ready for a start. Dory was directed to get under way, and he went
to the pilot-house. Bates was on duty, and cast off the fasts when the
signal was given. The bells rang, and the Sylph was soon moving out of
the lake. In an hour and forty minutes she touched the wharf at
Burlington. The Goldwing Club were on the pier, as they had been
notified to be by Dory. Additional provisions were taken on board, and
again the steamer was under way.
Captain Gildrock called all the students to the hurricane deck, where
Dory could see what was going on. The boys were greatly excited, for
they were curious to know what positions they would obtain. Captain
Gildrock produced a number of white cards, and then stood up before
the scholars. Taking a box which Bates brought to him, he dropped the
cards into it, and then shook them up.
“Now, my lads, you will soon know who is cook and who is first
officer,” said the captain, as he placed the box on the shelf in the
pilot-house, where the boys could reach it through one of the windows.
“On each of the cards is written one of the positions of which I spoke
to you. You will walk up to this window, reach into the box, and draw
out one of the cards. You will not look into the box.”
The captain drew the curtain over the window, so that it was
impossible for any boy to see the interior of the box, as he had to
thrust his arm through the folds of the curtain.
“If there is any thing unfair about this method of assigning the
places, I want you to say so now,” added the captain, when the
preparations were completed.
“It is all as fair as any thing can be,” added Dave Windsor; and all
the others expressed their satisfaction.
“As fast as you draw your cards you will go down to the main deck. As
you take the card from the box, you will give me your name; and I shall
write it down in a book I have prepared for the purpose, against the
name of the position. Now, one at a time.”
Bob Swanton was the first to come forward. He drew a card, and held it
up so that the captain could read what was on it.
“First steward,” said the captain, reading it, and writing the
position against the name in his book.
The next one was Tom Ridley, one of the Genverres boys. He drew
“fourth fireman.”
Dick Short was “starboard watch, No. 1.”
“All the starboard watch have odd numbers, and the port even numbers,”
explained the captain.
Thad Glovering, of the Goldwing Club, drew “first officer.” Corny
Minkfield was first assistant-engineer. Pemberton Millweed was first
cook. When Oscar Chester walked up to the pilot-house, there was a
sensation among the boys that could not be wholly concealed. When he
drew “second pilot” the sensation was more decided, though no one
spoke; but all knew that he was to be associated intimately with Dory
Dornwood.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE OFFICERS AND CREW OF THE SYLPH.
“Who is first pilot, sir?” asked Oscar Chester while the captain was
writing his name against his position.
“Dory Dornwood,” replied Captain Gildrock.
Oscar made no reply; but, taking his card, he went to the main deck
without a word of comment. It was not at all likely that the rebel
would agree with the first pilot.
Captain Gildrock’s book, when all had drawn their cards, and Dory had
drawn one each for the two Plattsburgh pupils, gave the places as
follows:--
  First officer                THAD GLOVERING.
  Second officer               WILL ORWELL.
  First pilot                  DORY DORNWOOD.
  Second pilot                 OSCAR CHESTER.
  Engineer                     GEORGE JEPSON.
  First assistant-engineer     CORNY MINKFIELD.
  Second assistant-engineer    JOHN BRATTLE.
  First fireman                NAT LONG.
  Second fireman               DAVE WINDSOR.
  Third fireman                BOLLY MILLWEED.
  Fourth fireman               TOM RIDLEY.
  First cook                   PEMBERTON MILLWEED.
  Second cook                  JIM ALBURGH.
  First steward                BOB SWANTON.
  Second steward               STEVE BAXTER.
  Third steward                GEORGE DUANE.
  Fourth steward               LICK MILTON.
  Starboard watch              DICK SHORT.
  Starboard watch              PHIL GAWNER.
  Starboard watch              BEN LUDLOW.
  Port watch                   HARRY FRANKLIN.
  Port watch                   NED BELLOWS.
  Port watch                   LEW SHOREHAM.
“First and second officers, pilots, and engineers will return to the
hurricane deck; the others will remain on the forecastle,” said
Captain Gildrock, when the cards had all been drawn.
The wheel had been given to Bates, and Dory had gone to the main deck
with the others. The boys seemed to be in good humor, and those who
had drawn inferior positions were apparently the jolliest of the
crowd. Very likely they were disappointed: if they were, they did not
complain.
The principal brought from the pilot-house a pile of coats and half a
dozen badges, which he laid on a bench. As soon as the half-dozen he
had called up had assembled near him, he spoke again.
“I told you there would be some changes in the uniform after we left
Burlington,” said he. “Those whom I have called up are to be regarded
as officers. Instead of wearing the short jackets you have on, you
will put on sack-coats. On his cap each of you will wear one of these
badges, which indicates the position the wearer holds.”
The officers put on the badges, and exchanged the short jackets for
the more dignified garments handed to them by the captain. Certainly
they looked more like officers than before. There was some
good-natured chaffing among them, for they could not well help making
fun of each other. As there was no appearance of ill-feeling among
them, the principal did not object.
“What are we to do now, Captain Gildrock?” John Brattle asked.
“The first thing to do is to learn your duties,” replied the captain.
“You and Minkfield will go to the engine-room, and Mr. Jepson will
instruct you.”
The two engineers hastened below, full of enthusiasm, and very anxious
to learn the duties of their new positions. The captain proceeded to
instruct the first and second officers in regard to their offices, but
all the time he was thinking about the second pilot. He was not
prepared to send Oscar Chester into the pilot-house with Dory. But
Bates knew how to steer, and knew the way to Plattsburgh; though he
was not a pilot for the lake. Finally he concluded to send the second
pilot to learn how to handle the wheel, while he kept Dory with him to
assist in organizing the crew.
Captain Gildrock then went down to the main deck. The four firemen
were immediately sent to the engineer. It happened that the two cooks
had had some experience in their new department; and they were ordered
to the galley, with instructions to learn all they could about the
cooking arrangements, so that they could find any thing they wanted.
Pemberton Millweed had learned to cook a little, while with parties on
the lake; and Jim Alburgh had spent one winter in a logging-camp in
the woods, where he had learned the rudiments of the art. Both of
them had a taste for this sort of thing; and, as soon as they had
installed themselves in the galley, they were as happy as though they
had drawn the cards bearing the titles of first and second officer.
The galley, or kitchen, was in the house on deck, with a glazed door
on each side. The galley, or stove, from which the apartment takes its
name, was forward of the doors. The after-end of the room was fitted
up with a table, and a great number of lockers to contain every
article needed in the art of cooking, except the meats and vegetables,
which were in the ice-house, next to the galley. The two cooks, though
strangers to each other until they met on board, were soon on
excellent terms, and proceeded to make an examination of their new
quarters.
Captain Gildrock next called out the three stewards, and conducted
them to the forward cabin. The general duties of the stewards were to
take care of the cabins, set the table, wait upon it at meals. One had
not yet come on board.
“Then, we are to be sort of servants, are we?” said Lick Milton.
“We are all equal on board of the Sylph,” replied the captain with a
smile. “You are no more servants than all the others on the steamer.
The first duty of officers and seamen is to obey orders; and the first
officer is as much bound to do this as the stewards and deck-hands. It
is as necessary to have our food good and well served as it is to
navigate the vessel. You have as fair an opportunity to distinguish
yourselves in this department as in any other. The officers may be
waiters or stewards next month. In the course of time all the pupils
will be required to discharge the duties of every department.”
“How long do we have to serve as stewards?” asked Bob Swanton.
“I am not fully decided as to that: it will depend somewhat upon what
progress you make. Probably we shall make some changes in a month. But
this yacht is not the principal thing in the Beech-Hill Industrial
School. We shall not go out in her every day in the week, perhaps not
more than once a week after you have learned your duties.”
“We are not to sail in her every day!” exclaimed Steve Baxter.
“Certainly not: after you have obtained a few lessons in discipline on
board of her, she will be a sort of plaything. But we shall make a
trip every Saturday in her. On Monday morning we shall begin to put
the shop in order, and go to work there as soon as we are ready.”
“Then, we are not to have much fun,” added Lick Milton.
“I hope you will all be pleased with your work in the shop and in the
schoolroom,” replied the captain. “On board of large vessels the chief
steward is a person of no little consequence. He purchases the
provisions and stores, and, in consultation with the first cook, makes
out the bill of fare for each meal. All the other stewards obey his
orders, and he is responsible for the condition of the cabin and the
table. But I intended to put a sack-coat on you, Swanton, and give you
a badge.”
The chief steward went to the pilot-house with the captain, where he
was provided with the sack and badge. He was directed to return to the
cabin, and see that his department was in order, and all the stewards
familiar with their work. Swanton was required to arrange with the
cooks for a dinner for all on board, and to set the table for twelve
persons. The principal gave them no minute instructions, preferring
first to see what the chief steward would do without them.
Repairing to the forward deck with Dory, the captain found the six
seamen, or deck-hands, waiting to be informed in regard to their
duties. The first and second officers were called, for the work of the
crew was to be supervised by them. They were to wash down the decks,
and keep every thing outside of the cabins and engine and fire rooms
in order. They were to learn to row the boats, heave the lead, to
attend to the fasts in making a landing, to hoist and lower the boats,
and to take their trick at the wheel.
They were divided into two watches, each being distinguished by a star
on the right or left arm. Captain Gildrock was a practical man; and,
as soon as he had explained the general duties of the crew, he
required the decks to be washed down for the sake of the practice. By
the aid of the steam-pump the planks were soon covered with water.
They were scrubbed with brooms, and dried with swabs, the first and
second officers superintending the work.
The boys worked as though they enjoyed it. The sun soon dried the deck,
and it looked as white as though it had been holystoned. The next
lesson was in heaving the lead; and one by one the boys were mounted
on the rail, and exercised till they could do it to the satisfaction
of the principal.
It was now eleven o’clock, and the Sylph was half-way to Plattsburgh.
It was necessary to see what had been done about dinner, and the
captain went into the forward cabin. He found the three stewards on
board very busy setting the table. They had found every thing they
needed, and the table looked well. The principal encouraged the boys
with some words of praise, and then went to the galley. There was a
good fire in the range, and Pemberton Millweed was frying “chips.”
The principal tasted the potatoes, and pronounced them excellent. The
second cook was busy at the table preparing the vegetables. As both of
them appeared to know what they were about, the captain asked no
questions, and allowed the cooks and stewards to proceed with the
dinner in their own way.
A visit to the engine-room revealed the fact that Corny Minkfield, the
first assistant-engineer, was in charge there, the chief-engineer
being engaged in instructing the firemen in their duties. But Corny
had been on steamers a great deal, and had some ideas in regard to
machinery. He sat upon the sofa abaft the engine, and looked as
dignified as though he had served in this department a dozen years.
In the fire-room Mr. Jepson was doing his duty faithfully. The firemen
asked a great many questions, all of which were carefully answered.
The second engineer was one of the party, for it was necessary that
the engineers should fully understand the duties of the firemen. There
was nothing for the principal to do, and he returned to the deck.
Dory was directed to take the wheel. When he went to the pilot-house,
he found that Oscar Chester was steering the steamer. He was doing
very well for a beginner, and the first pilot did not interfere.
CHAPTER XVIII.
ANOTHER BATTLE AT PLATTSBURGH.
Dory, without saying a word to Oscar, relieved Bates, and took his
place at the starboard window in front. Captain Gildrock was pacing
the hurricane deck, and the first pilot did not fear an attack from
the rebel. But Oscar looked ugly, and bestowed savage glances upon his
associate in the pilot-house.
“We shall get to Plattsburgh just at dinner-time,” said Captain
Gildrock, stopping at the door of the pilot-house.
“I suppose we can take dinner at the wharf as well as anywhere else,”
replied Dory.
“We shall not go up to the wharf; but we will keep the boat going till
after dinner,” added the captain. “What is your course, second pilot?”
“I am steering for that lighthouse ahead,” replied Oscar.
“All right; but you may go to the eastward of it.”
“What shall I steer for, sir?” inquired the second pilot.
“I don’t know of any object near enough to guide you; but you can
steer by compass, and make the course north by east,” added the
principal in a matter-of-fact way.
“I never steered by compass, sir, and I don’t know how,” said Oscar.
“That is one of the things a pilot ought to learn very early in his
course. There is a compass in front of you on the shelf.”
“I have seen it, but Bates told me to steer for that lighthouse.”
“You did quite right. That is Cumberland Head light. You are steering
just north by the compass, but there is a variation of the needle of
about eleven and a half degrees. Now, port the helm until the point
‘N. by E.’ comes to the mark on the front of the case. Steer small,”
continued Captain Gildrock, placing himself by the side of the second
pilot.
Oscar had learned enough of Bates to enable him to do this. He even
knew that “steering small” was to move the wheel but a little at a
time.
“That’s right: now you have the steamer on her course. Remember, that,
so far as any turning is concerned, the compass is stationary. It is
the steamer, and not the compass, that turns, the needle always
pointing to the north.”
“I think I understand it, sir,” replied Oscar.
But he did not, for the very first time he moved the wheel he turned
it the wrong way.
“The other way, Chester,” interposed the principal very gently. “You
are doing first-rate, and you will soon get the hang of the new
schoolhouse.”
Oscar reversed the movement of the wheel, and soon got the course
again. He was wholly absorbed in his duty, and at that moment he had
forgotten that Dory stood within a few feet of him. In a few minutes
the second pilot got the nack of keeping the point for which he was
steering on the mark.
“You are all right now, Chester,” said the captain. “You will make a
good pilot in due time.”
“Thank you, sir,” replied Oscar, who certainly appeared to have been
greatly humanized by his experience on board.
The Sylph went along on her new course very well. The second pilot
had learned the art of steering small, and the steamer hardly wabbled
at all. He kept his eyes fixed steadily on the compass, and the danger
was that he would see nothing else. A small steamer was directly
ahead, bound up the lake. Oscar did not appear to see her. Presently
she blew one whistle. Dory waited for the second pilot to respond to
the signal, but he did not appear to understand it. He had been shut
up in the ice-house the night before when these signals were
explained. Bates had had no occasion to instruct him in the manner of
passing other steamers.
Dory pulled the line, and gave the required signal. Oscar looked at
him with a scowl on his face, but neither of the pilots spoke. The
little steamer sheered off, but hardly enough to pass the Sylph in
safety. Dory did not like to interfere, lest he should give offence to
the waspish associate in the pilot-house.
“Excuse me, Oscar Chester, but you must port the helm a little in
order to pass that steamer,” said Dory, when he found that his
companion was likely to shave a hair off the approaching vessel.
“You are the first pilot, and I will obey whatever order you give me,”
replied Oscar in snappish tones, as he put the wheel to port.
“When a steamer blows one whistle, it is a signal that she intends to
go to the starboard of us; and we have to reply with the one whistle,”
added Dory, glad to find that the second pilot could speak to him even
in waspish tones.
“All right,” growled Oscar.
At this moment one of the hands struck eight strokes, in couples, on
the bell on the bitts. Bates had been explaining the bells to the
crew.
“All the starboard watch will go to dinner now!” shouted Captain
Gildrock.
The first officer and the second pilot were in the starboard watch.
The engineer had arranged the watches to suit himself.
“I will relieve you while you are at dinner, Oscar Chester,” said
Dory, taking hold of the wheel.
“Thank you,” replied Oscar gruffly, as he left the pilot-house.
Dinner was on the table in the forward cabin. The three stewards stood
behind the chairs. The table looked as neat as that of a first-class
hotel. The linen was clean and white, the articles were arranged with
good taste, and the dishes were neatly disposed in their proper
places.
Captain Gildrock took his place at the head of the table, with the
chief steward behind his chair. The first officer was directed to take
the seat at the opposite end of the table. Mr. Jepson and Mr.
Brookbine sat on the right and left of the captain, and the rest took
such places as they chose.
The dinner was not an elaborate one, and both of the cooks were equal
to such a meal every day in the week. In front of the captain was a
dish of beefsteak, and before the first officer a platter of
veal-cutlets. There were several kinds of vegetables, besides boiled
potatoes and chips.
Every thing was well cooked; and the occupants of the galley declared
that it ought to be, for both of them had done this thing times enough
to learn how. The captain declared that Pemberton Millweed was good
for something; and, if he would devote himself to the art of cooking,
he could make more money in one year than he could in six as a
counter-jumper. The captain said as much as this to him after dinner.
“But it is not quite so genteel,” replied Pemberton with a smile.
“Genteel!” exclaimed the captain in a most contemptuous tone. “I will
venture to say, that the cook of a first-class hotel in New York, not
to mention many private families, is more genteel than any
counter-jumper in Burlington. The most genteel man I ever saw was a
journeyman barber. The bartenders cut the biggest swell in some
cities. I can’t see why a cook should not be as genteel as a
counter-jumper, if he is so disposed. Male cooks get anywhere from six
hundred to three thousand dollars a year, and they can better afford
to be genteel than clerks on five to ten dollars a week.”
The captain was rather curious to know what had happened at the house
of Farmer Millweed after the poor man went home that morning, but he
was not willing to ask either of the boys about it. The sons had both
joined the school, and both were discharging their duties manfully.
Doubtless there had been a stormy scene at the house of the farmer,
and Mr. Millweed had risen somewhat in the estimation of the
shipmaster.
The tables were set a second time at half-past twelve; and the port
watch fared as well as the starboard, for, as far as practicable, a
fresh meal had been cooked for its members. Mr. Jepson reported
Bolingbroke as both willing and intelligent. He knew all about a
steam-engine, and not a little about chemistry and the mathematics;
for which the captain was willing to give the credit to the Genverres
high-school.
Obeying the instructions of the captain, Dory had come about, and the
steamer was headed up the lake. At Cumberland Head she changed her
course again, and ran for Plattsburgh. At the north beacon on the
breakwater, he rang to stop her. The second officer, prompted by the
captain, had the anchor all ready to let go. The pilot gave the order
when he was ready.
“Let go the anchor!” shouted Will Orwell.
Splash it went into the water: the Sylph swung around, and all hands
were called. Captain Gildrock made a little speech to the boys,
praised them for what they had done during the forenoon, and then gave
them two hours’ liberty to go on shore. He expected them to behave
like gentlemen, and not disgrace the uniform they wore. They were to
be on the wharf at three o’clock, in readiness to return to the
steamer.
The dummy exercise of lowering the boats was made real; and, with the
exception of Jepson and Bates, all hands went on shore. No restraint
was put upon them as to where they should go. Dory thought he would
call upon some of his old friends in the place; and he started for the
town, which is about three-quarters of a mile from the lake-shore.
After he had passed the railroad-station, Oscar Chester suddenly
presented himself before him. He had evidently been lying in wait for
him.
“Dory Dornwood, we meet now on an equal footing; and I think I can
keep my feet on the solid land as well as you can,” said the second
pilot savagely. “I promised to get even with you, and my time has
come.”
“If your time has come, Oscar Chester, my time has not gone,” replied
Dory calmly; and therein he had the advantage of the rebel. “I don’t
want to quarrel with you, and I won’t if I can help it. I should like
to talk the matter over with you, for I think you will be fair when
you look on both sides of the question.”
“I don’t want to talk it over. You insulted me last night, and then
you caused me to be tumbled into the lake. I am going to have
satisfaction; for I never forgive an insult,” added Oscar, waxing
fierce as his anger boiled within him.
“I did not intend to insult you; and I only did what any skipper would
have done under the same circumstances,” continued Dory.
“No more talk. I intend to thrash you here and now, till you say you
have had enough of it, and are willing to beg my pardon,” stormed
Oscar, as he threw off his uniform sack, and tossed his badged cap
upon the grass at the side of the road.
By this time a party of the ship’s company came up. The second officer
was in it; and, as soon as he understood what was going on, he
hastened to the scene. He spoke to Oscar, and tried to induce him not
to meddle with Dory. The others were not disposed to interfere with
such a fellow as the second pilot. Will Orwell was his crony; and he
persisted, taking his friend by the arm, and trying to lead him away.
“Don’t talk to me, Will Orwell! You are half a traitor to me,” said
Oscar, shaking off his crony.
Without waiting for another word, the rebel leaped upon Dory. An
instant later Oscar went over backwards, with the blood spurting from
his nose. He sprang to his feet, and renewed the attack. In two
minutes more he lay upon the ground, unable to rise.
CHAPTER XIX.
SOMETHING THAT HAPPENED ON SHORE.
Oscar Chester was not killed, or even very seriously injured. The last
blow of Dory had been planted in a sensitive place, and he had been
stunned by it. His companions gathered around him, lifted him up, and
procured some water from the Fouquet Hotel, with which they washed his
head. In a few minutes his senses came back to him, and he was able to
comprehend the situation.
Dory had been hit several times; but he was a tough youngster, and
seemed to be none the worse for the battle. As he viewed the matter,
he had simply defended himself, according to the first law of nature.
He had done his best beforehand to avoid the fight, and had proposed
to talk the matter over in order to ascertain who was to blame.
“That was an awful crack you gave him at the end,” said Fireman
Bolingbroke Millweed, joining Dory, who stood alone on the grass. “I
didn’t know that you were such a hard hitter.”
“I did not know it myself,” replied Dory, wiping the perspiration from
his brow. “I am not a fighting character, and I never struck a blow in
my life except in self-defence.”
“I think Chester has got enough of it,” added the fireman.
“I don’t know about that. He acts to me as though he was crazy. It
would be just like him to pitch into me again as soon as he feels able
to do so. I am sure I don’t want to quarrel with him, especially as he
is to be in the pilot-house with me. If I have done any thing out of
the way, I am willing to beg his pardon; but he wouldn’t even talk
with me about his grudge against me.”
“I saw the whole of it, and heard all that was said. I am sure you are
not to blame,” added Bolingbroke. “But I was glad to see you knock him
out after he was so unreasonable.”
“You were in the boat last night when the trouble began, and I hope
you will be able to remember what passed between Oscar and me; for,
after this, my uncle will be very likely to investigate the case.”
“I remember all about it. Oscar wanted to steer the boat, and you
objected. When he got up from his seat,--to take the helm, I
suppose,--you told him to sit down; and you spoke rather sharply. Then
the boat gave a lurch, and he went overboard. If it hadn’t been for
you, Dory, he would have been drowned as sure as fate,” replied
Bolingbroke, rehearsing the facts precisely as they were.
“I am ready to face the music, and if I have done any thing wrong I
shall be glad to apologize for it. In this fight, I only defended
myself, as I think every fellow ought to do.”
“How are you, Dory?”
The pilot looked around, and saw Mr. Peppers, a constable of
Plattsburgh, who sometimes did detective work. He had sailed down the
lake with Dory in the Goldwing a few weeks before, and Peppers had a
strong regard for the skipper.
“I am glad to see you, Mr. Peppers,” replied Dory, shaking hands with
the detective.
“You have settled that fellow so that he won’t want any more of your
love-pats,” replied Peppers, laughing. “I saw the whole of it, and it
was handsomely done.”
“I merely defended myself. He pitched into me, and I could not help
myself,” answered the pilot in the language and tone of apology; for
he did not want any one to think that he ever engaged in a voluntary
fight.
“I know it: I saw the whole of it. You were trying to talk with him
when he rushed upon you,” added Peppers.
By this time Oscar Chester appeared to have recovered from the heavy
blows of his brother pilot. He and Will Orwell walked up the street
towards the town. The excitement was all over, and the other pupils
scattered. Peppers followed Chester. Dory was doubtful what to do. At
first he thought of going on board of the Sylph, and reporting the
battle to his uncle.
After a little consideration, and some talk with Bolingbroke about it,
he decided not to do so. He was ready to answer to any charge that
might be brought against him, and it would be time enough to defend
himself when he was accused. He called at the Witherill House, had a
chat with the landlord and the clerk, and then returned to the wharf.
By this time most of the boys had seen all they wanted to of the town,
and were ready to go on board. Captain Gildrock had come on shore, and
had just gone on board with the two Plattsburgh boys who were to join
the school.
Bates was in charge of the boats; and, as soon as the crew of one of
them appeared, he sent one load on board. The principal was
instructing the two new hands, who had already put on the uniform. One
was a steward, and the other belonged to the port watch.
At a little after three o’clock the other boat came off, and the
students rushed up the accommodation steps as though they enjoyed the
steamer and the lake more than the town. George Duane, the new
steward, was handed over to Bob Swanton, after a proper introduction;
and they retired to the forward cabin.
“Have all hands come on board?” asked Captain Gildrock.
The boys looked about them, as though they were unable to answer the
question.
“You don’t know: well, we can soon ascertain by calling the roll,”
added the principal, as he took the list of students from his pocket.
“Mr. Glovering.”
“Here sir,” replied the first officer in the midst of the laughter of
the boys when they heard the handle applied to his name.
“Mr. Orwell.”
“Here, sir.”
“Mr. Dornwood.”
“Here, sir.”
“Mr. Chester.”
There was no response to this name, and it was repeated. There was no
answer.
“Is the second pilot on board?” asked Captain Gildrock; and Dory
wondered if he knew any thing about the second battle of Plattsburgh.
The first and second officers looked about the deck and into the
cabins for the missing pilot, but he could not be found. A more
thorough search was made by all hands, and it was soon evident that
“Mr. Chester” was not on board. The captain finished the call of the
roll, and made no remark in regard to the disappearance of the second
pilot. He directed the first officer to get up the anchor.
It looked as though Oscar Chester had absconded, notwithstanding his
good conduct during the forenoon. Possibly some of the boys,
especially Will Orwell, knew something about the matter; but they did
not volunteer to give any information, and the principal did not ask
for any. He said nothing at all, in fact, about the missing student.
The captain did not appear to be in the least degree disturbed by the
absence of the refractory pupil.
Captain Gildrock looked on while the crew walked around the capstan.
The officers had learned their lesson well; and, for a first trial,
the operation of getting up the anchor was handsomely done.
The first pilot was at his post; and, as soon as “anchor aweigh” was
reported to him, he rang the gong. Mr. Jepson stood on deck, near the
door of the engine-room, having stationed his first assistant at the
machine. He opened the valve slowly, and the thumping of the screw was
immediately heard.
Captain Gildrock had gone to the hurricane deck, where he could see
all that was done in the pilot-house and on the forecastle. He cast
occasional glances at the wharf, and he directed Dory to run in that
direction. Then he called the first officer, and told him to get ready
to make a landing.
Dory ran the Sylph up to the wharf, where she was secured by the
enthusiastic crew. The portion of the bulwark at the starboard gangway
was removed, and the plank run out. While Mr. Glovering was wondering
who was going on shore, Oscar Chester stepped out of the building on
the wharf, and walked on board as coolly as though nothing had
happened to disturb his equanimity.
“Haul in the plank!” called the captain. “Cast off, Dory.”
The pilot on duty blew a sharp whistle, which was the signal to cast
off the fasts; and the officers below attended to this duty. The Sylph
backed out from the wharf, and then went ahead, the engine being
wholly managed by Corny Minkfield. Oscar Chester went directly to the
hurricane deck, and was about to enter the pilot-house, when he was
confronted by Captain Gildrock.
“You are late, Mr. Chester,” said the principal.
“I came on board against my will, sir. In fact, I was brought down to
the wharf,” replied Oscar.
