if they could have these children of their love back again 
to childhood ! 

As he stepped out on the platform in the gathering dusk 
of the summer night a hand was laid on his arm, before 
he could see the face. 

" Rob," in a sympathetic tone. 

" Dear uncle ! I knew you would come. I was down 
to meet the other train, lest I might chance to miss you." 

As they emerged from the crowd the elder drew the arm 
of the younger through his. There was something of com- 
fort and confidence in the pressure. 





'' Let us go at once to the hotel ; I have a room there," 
said the nephew. 

Uncle Robert caught sight of the face then. It was 
tyery pale, and his eyes were heavy from lack of sleep. To 
the old resolute look there was added something stern, 
bitter. 

" You are so good to come. There was no one else. I 
am always laying burdens on you." And the voice was 
tremulous with emotion. 

"Since it is no disgrace like " Dishonesty he was 
about to add, but Rob interrupted vehemently. 

" I am not so sure of that! I have thought it over 
until I have gone almost wild." 

" Rob, let us have done with the mystery. Something 
has been on your mind a long while. I think now you 
have married, unwisely, unhappily, but better that than any 
flagrant sin." 

" O Uncle Robert! it brings back the errors of my boy- 
hood to have you guess so unerringly. Did you mistrust, 
last summer or before ? " 

' ' I fancied at first you had contracted some debt that 
you resolved to work out of honorably. But last summer 
there were little things, and you kept so away from me." 

" Yes, I was afraid. Wrong or sin always does make 
a coward of one." 

"And your wife ? " 

" We are here. I will order a little supper for us both, 
sent up to the room. It is a long story." 

Uncle Robert asked no further question until they were 
seated at their meal, and he had a little time to study the 
face. There was something beside the bitterness, a cer- 
tain vindictive force, long repressed. 

" Rob, you have done her no ill? " he cried in sudden 
alarm. 

" She has worked us both enough. Any one else woulcl 
have paid the penalty with her life." 



"Hush. Such a feeling is terrible. Rob, remember ; 
did you not choose her ? " 

He leaned his arms on the table and hid his face in them 
for several minutes. 

" I was such a blind, idiotic fool ! " he began presently. 
" I was warned, and it traversed all my plans, only I 
hardly knew it until it was done." 

' ' While you were in college ? " 

" Let me tell you from the beginning. I wonder now 
how I could have kept it so entirely away from you all ; 
but I was ashamed, and it seemed such a poor return for 
what you had done. I didn't seem to realize until it was 
all over what I might have been to you at home. Are our 
eyes always opened by these horrible contrasts, I wonder? 
I feel as if I had cut myself off from everybody. No," as 
his uncle offered him the plate of toast, " I don't want to 
eat. I 'll talk while you are having supper. It is so good 
to confess after this dreary time of secrecy. 

' ' The last winter at New Haven I used to go to a house 
where there were two bright, pretty girls, jolly and ready 
for any kind of fun. Quite a number of the boys went 
there ; it was a regular free and easy, the mother seeming 
about as young as the girls. They played and sang, and 
were beautiful dancers. Some of the fellows used to send 
wine and various things, and have gay little suppers. I 
made up my mind not to be bantered into drinking, though 
I did now and then take a glass of wine. Addie, the 
younger girl, was very sweet to me, that sort of half-hid- 
den, secret fondness that makes a mystery of a thing and 
deepens its interest. I suppose she had gone through with 
such fancies dozens of times ; but I thought it was an en- 
tirely new regard that, somehow, she couldn't help having 
for me, and that it wasn't possible for her to entertain for 
any one else. Then she possessed one of the sweet, plead- 
ing, baby faces, and I suppose after a little, with all her 
kissing and caressing, I did lose my head. I despise my- 





self so for it now, that I could not be sure no really pure, 
high-minded, honorable girl would so throw herself at a 
man's head, or a boy's, for I was nothing but that. Two 
or three of the young fellows uttered warnings, but I set 
them down to jealousy 

"Then Mrs. Weeks and Frances went to New York 
and-were gone about a month Addie was at home with 
the girl, and she used to beg me so to come, and as I 
always found her alone it was very bewildering, fascinat- 
ing. One evening she insisted on my drinking some wine 
with her, and when I refused the second glass she seemed 
so hurt, and cried a little, and said I didn't care for her 
while she cared so much for me, and would do anything to 
please me. So I drank a little more. We had fallen into 
the habit of saying silly things, making love without 
really meaning affection. I was a little startled at first by 
her way of uttering them, but she seemed so sweet and inno- 
cent about it ; and you know I had never been spoony on 
girls," with a sad little smile. " I had never really cared 
for them, and I had no more thought of marrying Addie 
Weeks than of any one I knew at Brookside. Other boys 
were carrying on flirtations, and having no end of fun out 
of them. Yet I don't know as I ever settled it in my mind 
as a regular flirtation. She bewitched me when I was 
with her, and I never thought of any ending at all. 

" Well, whether it was the wine or my own mad folly, 
or a something like love, or, as I have thought since, hei 
deliberate aim to make me do it, we began to talk oi 
marriage. I must have asked her to marry me, for she 
proposed that we should go to the house of a minister 
she knew and get married. How could I have been so 
crazy, you wonder ! I can't understand it myself now, 
only then I was wild with a curious fascination, and I did 
it. It was two years ago last April. 

" I felt strangely frightened after it was over, but I 
was not disenchanted. On the contrary, then I would 





have owned her as my wife anywhere in the face of the 
whole world. I thought her the prettiest, sweetest, dear- 
est being upon earth. I was ready to do anything for her. 
For a week or two I was in Fool's Paradise. Then her 
mother came home. We were going to keep our marriage 
a profound secret until after I had graduated." 

There followed quite a long silence. Rob was waiting 
for some word of condemnation or surprise, but presently 
his uncle uttered a soft, persuasive, inquiring, "Well?" 

" The rest is so shameful, Uncle Robert ! " And his pale 
face blazed crimson. " There was a little rumor that 
Frances Weeks had gone abroad with a rich New-Yorker 
in a questionable position. It made me furious when I 
first heard it. Addie denied it and cried over it, then ad- 
mitted she had sailed, but that she was going to try the 
stage or do something for herself. But other ugly stories 
came to light about her, and there were hints concerning 
the mother. They lived prettily, dressed well, and always 
seemed to have plenty of money and quantities of pres- 
ents. 

"After a while my marriage grew to be an appalling 
certainty to me. I had to study hard to make up for a 
little lost time, and Addie went to Albany with her mother 
for a visit. I resolutely staved off the conclusion. She 
was pretty, and with a little toning down or refining might 
be made presentable. I was so glad to have them away 
over Commencement. I did have a nice time with you 
and mother, and I was glad to see you so pleased and 
proud. 

" Of course I could not bring a wife home to you with- 
out any means of supporting her. I felt she was not the 
kind of girl you would approve ; that it would half break 
mother's heart. That made me resolve to go quite away, 
to get in some business so far distant that much visiting 
would be out of the question. When Addie had been 
transformed into something a little more ladylike I would 





own what I had done. It was a horrible secret, and when 
I first came home I threw nryself into all the pleasures and 
excitements with unwonted zest. I couldn't comprehend 
all at once that I had really banned myself out. Of 
course Addie wrote to me. From Albany they had gone 
to Lake George, from thence to Saratoga, and she was 
having such a splendid time. I wonder that I did not feel 
hurt or jealous. If I only could get away before the time 
for explanations. 

" Then you know I went to New Haven. They had re- 
turned, and Addie had admitted the marriage to her 
mother. Mrs. Weeks pretended to a good deal of indig- 
nation, and insisted that I should at once take Addie to 
my people and put her in her proper position before the 
world. She seemed to feel quite shocked that she had 
been taking her about as a marriageable girl. It was an 
extremely silly step, and she did not see how I could have 
thought of marriage, and blamed me pretty generally for 
it all. And then I found they believed, or affected to, 
that Cedarwood was in some sort mine, as I was your heir. 

" I suppose I had come to my senses a little. Mrs. 
"Weeks's talking appeared to me very much done for effect, 
and I could see what they thought of the money and po- 
sition. When I said I would have nothing but what I 
could earn, and that it was my determination to go into 
business immediately, and that I would care for Addie to 
the best of my ability, she was desperately angry, and de- 
clared she would not have married me if she supposed that 
was to be her fate, and a great many other things that 
opened my eyes to her selfish indifference. They tried to 
compel me to bring her home to you, but I stood resolute, 
and when Mrs. Weeks said she and Addie would go with- 
out me, I declared then that I would go quite away, that 
I would never see her, never own her as my wife, and that 
from my own people she would get nothing. I was des- 
perate enough for any step. But I did promise to take 





her oat to Chicago, and to keep her as my wife if she 
would consent to that. 

" I do think they were quite crestfallen when they found 
I would not go to you for any money , or take Addie to 
Cedarwood as a sort of quasi mistress. We had two very 
stormy days, and my enchantment came to a dismal ending. 
It is a desecration to call such a sentiment love ! " And an 
expression of wearisome disgust crept over his face. " In 
less than five months the romance or madness was ended, 
and I was tied to a woman for whom I did not care, and 
who would cling to me only for a support, or because the 
law had given us to each other. I meant then to get a 
divorce just as soon as possible, and bury the shameful 
secret in my own soul. I came back to Cedarwood ; 
you know we were all so happy about Kathie's return, 
and there was to be the party and all." 

" Oh, my boy ! " Uncle Robert began, " I don't know 
how you did endure it so bravely." 

" I can't decide whether it was courage," and a wan smile 
crossed the face that was growing rigid with conflicting 
emotions ; " but don't you remember I always had a good 
deal of what the boys call pluck, endurance, obstinacy, 
and the sort of feeling there is no help and you must go 
through with the matter in hand. And I had to do it 
without awakening any suspicion on your part, so I went 
into all the pleasures heartily. I didn't even want to think 
it might be the last glad time. There were hours when 
I felt wild, crazy, realizing bitterly how much of it I had 
thrown away. Home never looked as lovely to me. 
Mother and Aunt Ruth were such sweet and gracious 
ladies, and the girls so pure, and refined, and wholesome. 
Kathie was so enthusiastic over Miss Collamore, and I 
liked her very, very much. All the delights took a 
higher tone ; there was a repose and sweetness, a meaning 
to it all that came to me with a sudden, blinding light. 
And I was going out to eternal exile, it seemed to me. 



There were moments when I wanted to put my arm around 
your neck in the old boy fashion and tell you how grate- 
ful I was for eveiy thing you had ever done for me, for the 
great effort you had made to keep me in the right way,, 
but I did not dare indulge in any sentiment. I should 
have broken down, aod the truth would have come out. 

" So I went to Chicago. Addie and her mother gave 
up their house in New Haven, came to New York for 
a while, and I lived in a state of horrible suspense lest they 
should appeal to you. They went to Baltimore afterward, 
and did not reach Chicago until January. I had secured 
a quiet boarding place in the suburbs. It seemed at first 
as if Addie was quite glad to see me. She appeared tired 
and worn out with dissipation, and looked so much older; 
and I learned then she was some five years older than 
she had claimed to be ; that instead of being eighteen at 
the time of our marriage she was twenty-three. All these 
months I had been studying how I could get free event- 
ually ; but her coming rudely dispelled my plans. In March 
her baby was bora." 

"Your child, Robert? Oh, my poor boy, what a dreary time 
! It would have been better to have confessed 
it all in the beginning. Where is the. child ; alive ? " 

"Yes," he answered moodily, "it is. It cried a 
great deal, and she insisted she was not able to take care 
of it, so we put it out to nurse. She did not get well 
rapidly, and I found she had made no improvement in 
mind or character. The habit of using liquors had grown 
upon her, and there were times it is shameful to say it 
when she was not herself, but silly and disgusting. She 
had quite made up her mind to stay with me now. Her 
mother went off somewhere. I was glad of that. My 
plans, therefore, must be changed. I could not shake her 
off so easily. I had a strange feeling, too, about the child, 
and whether I would be quite right to get free from the 
mother, if I could. 








I redoubled my efforts to make money, doing copy- 
ing at night, and keeping an extra set of books, and look- 
ing after expenses every way. She really seemed to have 
no idea about money. After the hot weather came in she 
grew stronger, and the last of July she wanted to go away 
for a month with some friends she had made, and I con- 
sented. I came home in August, you know. 

" All this time I had been fighting with myself. Bruce 
and I corresponded frequently, and, without knowing the 
story at all, he seemed to understand that something was 
wrong, and his letters were so brave and comforting. I 
could see the right through his eyes, and all my own weak- 
ness and foily . I do believe if he had been at Cedarwood 
I must have told him. You know it would not have been 
as keen a sorrow to him as to you ; it would not have 
touched him so nearly. 

" Uncle Robert, I wonder if I was weak in so giving up 
my whole heart to the pleasure of home ? I really had not 
made up my mind to anything until that first night ; then I 
resolved to shut out my own misery, to be as happy, to 
make you all as happy as I could. And in a few days a 
curious knowledge or revelation came to me." And Rob 
turned his face a little, while he tried to steady his voice. 
" I may have misunderstood, but it seemed as if mother, 
Kathie, and every one had a secret feeling that that 
Fay Collamore might be brought in our midst, and would 
be warmly, fondly welcomed. Suddenly, as if in a blazing 
light, I saw what it might have been to me." 

Rob sprang up and began to pace the floor. Oh, what 
words could comfort ! Mr. Conover rose, too, came and 
put his arm over the other's shoulder, but was silent. 

" I knew then that I had admired Fay Collamore from 
the very first, that I had been pleased when Kathie wrote 
about her, that if all things were fair and right, I could 
bring such a complete happiness in the family ; I could 
be happy myself. Here was a girl worth loving and hon- 





oring, and I had promised my soul and body to the other. 
While she lived I had no right to put her away except for 
some great and awful crime. And if I did put her away 
on any weak, flimsy pretext, a girl like Fay Collamore, 
with so high and fine a sense of justice, would not marry 
me, ought not. And so the training of my whole life, that 
oftentimes seemed thrown away, I dare say ; the compan- 
ionship of such men as you, and Mr. Meredith, and Mr. 
Langdon, of such boyS as Charlie, and Bruce, and Dick, 
and women like mother and Aunt Ruth, joined to save me. 
I had gone into this thing by my own mad folly, and I 
must bear it myself, not thrust it on other people's shoul- 
ders, not cry out for the joys I had missed by my own 
heedlessness. And I vowed, with God's help, that hence- 
forward I would be to you all it was possible for son, or 
brother, or friend, and keep my own soul clear of any new 
stains. I could not help being thrown with Fay, but I did 
try utterly to give no look or word, to hold no thought de- 
rogatory to her. Mother's delicate little plans were hard 
to traverse, and I fancy Fay wondered at times. Yet dif- 
ficult and painful as the path was, I hated so to leave you, to 
come back to my own wretched life. I would not mar 
your delightful hours with such gray shadows." 

" But you might have told me," the elder cried, with a 
touch of upbraiding in his tone. 

" No, I could n't. My strength was in keeping still. 
Sympathy, tenderness would have finished me. We should 
have betrayed our secret." 

" But now?" Mr. Conover asked in a tone of something 
like relief. " Have you come to the end ? " 

Rob made a passionate gesture, as if he could crush 
something out of sight. " If it could be the end," he 
cried. " If you can decide " 

" Go on, then." 

" I came back to Chicago, and she joined me a month 
later. We had a new boarding place of her choosing, 




among the kind of people she liked. They were polite 
enough to me, but I fancy they considered me a young 
fool, and they were right enough," bitterly. ' ; I did try to 
awaken some desire of better things in her, and remon- 
strated, as I l;ad times before, about her drinking, but it 
always ended in painful disputes. There was absolutely 
nothing I could do. She still kept her voice, but she used 
it to charm her favorites, with her other blandishments. 
J was not jealous ; it is strange, but I never had been 
jealous of her from the first. I had to be away evenings 
with extra work, for the money was a necessity, but when 
I remained at home she was as likely to go out. And so 
we went on our way, the bond growing harder and harder 
to bear. I think she was really sorry she had married me ; 
she did say now and then she was a fool for having done 
it. Oh, why did she ? There was nothing in a home to 
satisfy her, and she might have taken some one older, 
richer, more like herself. 

" I went home two weeks ago and found a note on the 
bureau directed to myself. Come to the light and read it, 
and you will hardly say that I have been bitter or unjust 
in this terrible story." 

Mr. Conover took the crumpled missive and spread it 
out. It was poorly written and misspelled, and betrayed a 
sort of scornful animosity in every line. She had been al- 
together disappointed in the marriage, and she could en- 
dure it no longer ; she had been a fool for ever trying to 
live with him. She had gone with some one who cared for 
her beyond a boy's silly regard ; she would have all she 
wanted, and he need make no search for her or trouble 
himself in any way about her. She had never cared for 
the child or wanted it ; so he might take the child, and get 
a divorce as soon as he pleased ; it could not be too soon 
for her. 

" There is no question, then, about freedom " 

The young face was turned to him with a strained, des- 





perate longing, and yet a peculiar awe. His voice was 
hoarse with emotion as he cried : 

"That is not all. There was a terrible accident right 
in the beginning of their journey. He escaped unharmed. 
She was terribly injured about the head, and taken to a 
hospital. After a few days the doctors decided she might 
recover, but that she would never have her senses again. 
Then the word was sent to me. The lover, you see, could 
not take her at so great a sacrifice. O Uncle Robert, 
isn't it horribly hard ! What can I do ? " 

He flung himself on the sofa and buried his face on the 
cushioned arm, while hard, dry sobs shook his frame. His 
uncle paced the floor in great distress. All this young life 
that should have been so bright, and glad, and promising, 
marred and blighted by one fatal deed. 

He sprang up suddenly, his eyes fierce with despairing 
passion, his voice clinging to a last ray of hope. 

" Ought I to keep to her, Uncle Robert? She went 
away for her own pleasure. She did not even care for her 
own little child. She has broken. God 's law, man's law, 
and a horrible, swift punishment has overtaken her. Is 
there any justice in making me suffer for it, years, per- 
haps?" 

" O my boy, we cannot decide this in a moment ! You 
are worn out with excitement, and must have a little rest ; 
and I must think it over. Can I see her some time ? " 

" Yes. She has been sent here. She is in the hospital. 
Every care and attention will be paid her." 

" Then we will not settle that point to-night. Sit down 
here and rest." 



CHAPTER XVII. 

IN spite of Robert Alston's splendid physique and buoy- 
ant temperament, his night's vigil and the anxiety of the 
past week had begun to tell upon him. He looked worn 
and haggard ; his lips seemed compressed to a thin, bluish 
line. His uncle had tried to make him sleep some through 
the night, but the greater part of it had been spent in 
restlessly pacing the floor, even if he refrained from 
impatient questioning. He had asked for leave of absence 
from the counting-house, so he could have the day to 
devote to his uncle and the sadder errands. 

There were many little things that had not been related 
in the hurried story of the evening before. The young 
man did not spare himself, and yet it seemed as if the 
foolish girl had made fully as great a sacrifice, unless she 
had counted on the possible wealth of the youth. It was 
quite evident she had taken no special interest in any of 
his pursuits, neither had it been from any ardent regard 
for him. 

They went together to see her. There was one cut at 
the edge of her hair, and the discolor from bruises had not 
quite disappeared. Seen there, in that strange life-in- 
death state, the face had come back to a curious, youtliful 
beauty, the beauty put in marble when a soul is not needed. 
The skin was fine and soft, full of sinuous blue pencillings, 
the rounded chin had a deep dimple, the full, curved lips 
were closed even now with a coquettish half smile, and the 
long bronze lashes shadowed the pale cheeks. Once, she 
opened her eyes. They were of that infantile, purple blue, 





and Mr. Conover, well versed in the ways and wiles of 
womankind, could readily understand how dangerous their 
snares might be for unwary youth. Yet it had seemed as 
if that would be the least of all temptations to Robert 
Alston. 

They saw one of the physicians presently. It was merely 
an iteration of the verdict. There was no reason why she 
should not live ; her physical injuries had not been severe, 
but the brain had suffered beyond any repair. 

" She will be harmless," he said in a gentle tone ; 
''never violent, and probably sink into mild idiocy. Of 
course she will need continual care. I think I should 
advise an asylum, unless she has friends, such as mother 
or sister. Even then it is a tiresome charge to one unused 
to such cases." 

' ' Do you know anything about her mother ? " Uncle 
Robert asked afterward. 

Rob gave a shiver of disgust. "No," he answered; 
''they quarrelled bitterly the last time she was here, and 
they are not people one would care to hunt up, even if we 
could." 

" Of course," the elder said gravely, " there is only one 
thing to do at present. When she is discharged from here 
she must be placed somewhere in safety, and provision 
made for her. An asylum will be the best." 

If she had died ! They could not but think of that sim- 
ple ending to the tragedy, and yet God had not chosen 
so to make it. And how to take the next important step 
rightly and truly for this young soul was a matter of 
grave consideration to Robert Conover. 

As the)' emerged from the hospital he said to his nephew, 
" Rob, will you take me to see the child? " 

The young man flushed vividly, but assented Uncle 
Robert made no comment, but presently his nephew broke 
the silence. 

" I suppose you will think me heartless," in a kind of 




justifying tone, u only you can't see all at once, Uncle 
Robert, and understand how pressed I was on every side. 
She did not want the child at home, and it was very trou- 
blesome at night. Then I needed my strength and ener- 
gies for business. It was much cheaper to put it out, a 
consideration I could not afford to despise, and it seemed 
to me much better. I do suppose it weakened the tie ; I 
never can make it my child. I feel as if I had no busi- 
ness with a child." 

'' And you surety have not, Robert, at your age. It is 
a sad commentary on early marriages. I never imagined 
you could be beguiled into such a step, and so this was one 
of the points never discussed. There is too slight a 
responsibility attached to it nowadays. I am not sure 
but among our other studies we ought to educate young 
men for marriage, train them to the gravity, the sacred- 
ness of the step, the awful solemnity of the vow, ' for 
better, for worse.' " 

'' How could I have done it ? I ask myself the question 
over and over again. I had been drinking a little wine 
that night, but that didn't take away my senses. And I 
didn't care for marriage, either ; I had not been thinking 
of it " 

" Just what I said. If it had been held as a solemn 
sacrament, more important than joining a church even, or 
any secular step in life, you could not have done it. 
Didn't you say last night you were warned." 

" Yes, two or three of the fellows talked about them in 
a rather sneering manner, which always made me feel as 
if I wanted to get up and fight. And yet they were 
received in society, in some society, for Addie's music 
made her a great favorite. And no one quite knew until 
the sister went to Europe ; then a great deal of gossip came 
out about them. But it was too late for me." 

Uncle Robert understood more clearly than his nephew 
how it had happened ; how a few moments of inconsiderate 





imprudence had wrecked, if not a whole life, at least sev- 
eral years of it. A beautiful, designing girl, vain, selfish, 
with no thought beyond her own present pleasure and 
advancement, fancying, no doubt, this would be a road to 
health and indulgence. While he could not absolve the 
tad from a great share of the responsibility, he still felt he 
was not all to blame. 

" It is remarkable how you kept her from making any 
overtures to the family," he said, a little astonished that 
it had been done so successfully. 

" When her mother threatened so, in the summer, I took 
my stand boldly. I said you and mother would not receive 
them. Honestly, I did not think you would, and I declared 
if they did it I would go entirely away and take some 
steps to have the marriage annulled. I am not sure but I 
should have then and there, only the trouble and disgrace 
seemed so horrible ! Then Addie suddenly changed and 
went at her mother in a fury. She loved me and she was 
not going to give me up, and she would wait until I was in 
some position to take care of her. She seemed so sorry 
and begged me to forgive her, and cried, and I didn't 
know what else to do. I thought something might happen 
to open a way out of it for me ; she might get tired and 
obtain a divorce. I was almost crazy." 

" You hid it very successfully." 

"Isn't it strange how we can live such double lives? 
But there was everything to help. Kathie was the great 
interest, you know, and I tried to act natural, not to 
overdo any where. It was for such a little while. I couldn't 
have kept it up very long. I think now Mrs. Weeks found 
during her stay in New York that it would be unwise to 
appeal to you. It wasn't even as if you were my father. 
The law could not compel youto care for my wife. I made 
up my mind if they did I would fight it out to the end. 
They had relatives in Baltimore, some quite wealthy peo- 
ple, and it was not wisdom for them to remain in New 





Haven. It was rather odd, but in a month I had found some 
quite profitable copying to do evenings. Uncle Robert, 
y ou would have laughed at my rigid economy " ; and the 
boy smiled, even now. "I did not waste a penny, and 
had quite a little hoard when she came, although I think I 
had been saving it with the hope that she never would 
come. And then everything was changed." 

"Yes." There was such an infinite tenderness and 
sympathy in the one little word. 

" Bruce and I had been writing letters. I don't know 
why he seemed nearer to me than any of the bo}~s through 
this time, but he was so strong, and manly, and earnest, 
that it did me good. I couldn't have written to you that 
way without telling you the whole story. I think he fan- 
cied I had a leaning or temptation for intemperance, and 
I let it go at that. Uncle Robert," and the young man's 
face hardened into marble-like resolution, "I think you 
know why I shall never touch even a drop of wine again 
in my life. Maybe, too, my rather solitary living and con- 
stant work had given me a sort of force and tone, and if 
Addie had loved and kept the child I should have felt 
quite differently. Afterward I realized that it was cheaper, 
and better for the child. Here we are." 

A cleanly row of frame houses with tiny flower gardens in 
front, and at the open window of one sat a pleasant-faced 
young woman, sewing, who glanced up and smiled, then 
came to open the door. 

Robert introduced his uncle to Mrs. Fleming. 

" The baby is asleep," she said, smiling with a soft, 
motherly fondness. " She was late with her nap this 
morning. Will you look in and see her ? " 

In the next room the little one lay in her crib. There 
was not much in the baby face to remind one of its mother. 
A wholesome, chubby face, merry and cheerful, rather than 
specially handsome. 

" She is the best little thing you can imagine," Mrs. 





Fleming went on, with true motherly pride. '* And I wish 
you could see her eyes. They are something the color of 
her father's, hazel, but just full of laughter and sunshine. 
I think they are the prettiest eyes I ever saw. Shall I 
wake her? She will not be cross ; she never is." 

" Oh, no ! " Uncle .Robert stretched out his hand sud- 
denly, and glanced at the child as if his soul had gone 
past that to something else, a thought of her future, may- 
be. In his young-man days he had been fond of bright, 
pretty, chatty, questioning " little girls. His friends de- 
clared he always spoiled them. After the years of wan- 
dering he had come back unexpectedly to family cares and 
sympathies, and the child Kathie had taken the love that 
might have grown into something for an older woman. 
True, he was not beyond marriageable age, but he was 
settled in his habits, satisfied ; nay, more, interested in his 
work, suited with the home comforts. Yet one side of his 
soul went out so tenderly to little children, especially girls. 
He was the man to father a great house full of them, to 
love, to direct, to enjoy their frolic and happiness. This 
desolate little baby, not really wanted by either parent, 
appealed to him powerfully, but he was thankful it looked 
so little like its mother. Indeed, it was Rob over again in 
his baby days. 

He turned softly, as if a move might waken it. u We 
will come in again, " with a pause, as if there were more 
to say. 

Mrs. Fleming glanced from one to the other, and a sud- 
den anxiety crossed her face. You could see the real 
mother love had been touched. Ah, that did not always 
come with relationship. 

" You are not thinking of taking it away?" 

Her voice trembled, and there came a humid fear and 
softness in her eyes. 

" No," stammered the father, startled by the question. 

" It would be better for me to keep her until fall, you 





see. The summer is trying for such a little one, and she is 
used to my care and ways. It would be a bad time to 
make a change." 

" Yes," was the satisfactory response. 

They emerged to the street again. 

" Robert," his uncle began presently, "how much of 
this disgraceful story is known or suspected. Have you 
been able to keep it within bounds ? " 

" It is very little known," and he gave a somewhat bitter 
laugh. "You can hide almost anything in a great city. 
You understand now that I have not gone into much com- 
pan}\ I did allow myself one little luxury, the member- 
ship of a debating club. I could not afford to get rusty in 
everything. Last year we lived quite in the suburbs, and 
the people with whom we boarded have gone farther west. 
Our other home was most uncongenial. Whether any one 
there was in her confidence I do not know. I said noth- 
ing the night I found the note, and had all arrangements 
made for a change when the accident occurred, two days 
later. Consequently I have not seen them. Even the 
most exciting stories do die out soon-." 

They went back to the hotel for lunch, and then retired 
to their room. Rob threw himself on the sofa. The reac- 
tion from the terrible strain had come. Giving up the 
secret, he had also given up much of the tense strength 
that had borne him successfully so far. 

"Try to get a little nap," proposed his uncle, kindly, 
" though if you will answer me one more question? " 

" You have only to ask it." 

There was a sad little touch of penitence in this ; the 
tone that implied all manner of reservation was forever at 
an end. 

"Robert, have you gone through all this without get- 
ting in debt? Your expenses must have been beyondyour 
salary, it seems to me ; beyond anything you could earn." 

"But I have earned it, or nearly all. A week ago I 




took up a hundred dollars. I have been deadly economi- 
cal with myself," smiling faintly. " I put some of the les- 
sons of my boyhood in practice. I was resolved not to 
come to you, and not to get in debt. Uncle, it was almost 
like fighting with wild beasts at Ephesus, if I may be 
allowed to use the simile." 

'' You have shown a great deal of bravery through it 
all." And Mr. Conover felt really amazed. 

" Thank you." There was a wistful pleasure in the 
heavy eyes. 

The quietness of the room, the drowsiness of the warm 
summer air, and the fatigue of weary days and nights had 
their influence presently. 

Robert Alston fell into a light slumber, and his uncle, 
watching him, revolved many points in his mind. He was 
too experienced in the world's sad wisdom to blame un- 
reasonably, and the vague suspicion of the past year had 
in some degree prepared him for the blow. Had there 
been any negligence or wrong in the lad's training ? Could 
there have been a warning, counsel, anything to save him? 
Yet what availed going over the past? The blindness and 
madness of the hour had wrought their terrible woe, and 
the cure was not looking backward and picking out a hun- 
dred different courses that would have saved it all. 

And withal he gave thanks fervently, devoutly, that it 
had not hurried him on to ruin. He knew how swift and 
easy the path could be made in a moment of horrible dis- 
couragement. Yes, the good seed had sprung up and 
borne fruit ; manful endurance that an older soul might 
have wavered in, a clinging to truth, and honor, and right, 
in spite of adverse circumstances. The clean and whole- 
some boyhood, the pure ideals, the graces of higher life, 
the training of all those years, were not without a certain 
recompense. He was glad to have his boy back again, un- 
stained by any gross vice, unpolluted by an association 
that might have dragged him down to shameful depths. 





The thought of home and friends had held the wavering 
balance. In time there might come something higher, the 
greater strength, the perfect peace. All wisdom was not 
in youth, not even in middle life. It was going on, 
stumbling and yet rising, imperfect, and yet being made 
perfect in the end by the divine love and patience. If 
that could so forgive, so stretch out a helping hand, were 
we to judge, and weigh, and condemn? 

And yet he hardly knew what step was best. The shock 
would be very great to Mrs. Alston, with her clinging, 
tender fancies that had grown into other plans. And there 
was a path out of it. Worldly wisdom and prudence 
would approve of it. 

When Rob stirred the afternoon was almost gone. He 
