VIII. 
THE door of the studio was promptly flung open, and a 
lady advanced to the threshold an imposing voluminous 
person who quite filled up the doorway. Rowland im 
mediately felt that he had seen her before, but he recog 
nised her only when she moved forward and disclosed 
an attendant in the person of a little bright-eyed elderly 
gentleman with a bristling white moustache. Then he 
remembered that just a year before he and his companion 
 
had seen in the Ludovisi gardens a wonderfully beautiful 
girl strolling in the train of this conspicuous couple. He 
looked for her now, and in a moment she appeared, fol 
lowing her companions with the same maidenly majesty 
as before, and leading her great snow-white poodle, who 
was decorated as before with motley ribbons. The elder 
lady offered the two young men a sufficiently gracious 
salute ; the little old gentleman bowed and smiled with 
extreme alertness. The young girl, without casting a 
glance either at Roderick or at Rowland, looked about 
for a chair, and, on perceiving one, sank into it listlessly, 
pulled her poodle towards her, and began to re-arrange 
his top-knot. Rowland saw that, even with her eyes 
dropped, her beauty was still dazzling. 
" I trust we are at liberty to enter," said the elder 
lady, with urbanity. " We were told that Mr. Hudson 
had no fixed day, and that we might come at any time. 
Let us not disturb you." 
Roderick, as one of the newer lights of the Roman 
art-world, had not hitherto been subject to incursions 
from inquisitive tourists, and, having no regular recep 
tion day, was not versed in the usual arts of hospitality. 
He said nothing, and Rowland, looking at him, saw that 
he was gazing amazedly at the young girl, and was 
apparently unconscious of everything else. " By Jove !" 
he cried, precipitately, "it 's that goddess of the Villa 
Ludovisi !" Rowland, in some confusion, did the 
honours as he could, but the little old gentleman begged 
him with the most obsequious of smiles to give himself 
no trouble. " I have been in many a studio ! " he said, 
with his finger in the air, and a strong Italian accent. 
We are going about everywhere," said his companion. 
" I am passionately fond of art !" 
Rowland smiled sympathetically, and let them turn 
to Roderick 's statue. He glanced again at the young 
sculptor, to invite him to bestir himself, but Roderick 
was still staring wide-eyed at the beautiful young mistress 
 
of the poodle, who by this time had looked up and was 
gazing straight at him. There was nothing bold in her 
look ; it expressed a kind of languid imperturbable in 
difference. Her beauty was extraordinaiy ; it grew and 
grew as the young man observed her. In such a face 
the maidenly custom of averted eyes and ready blushes 
would have seemed an anomaly ; nature had produced 
it for man 's delight, and meant that it should surrender 
itself freely and coldly to admiration. It was not im 
mediately apparent, however, that the young lady found 
an answering entertainment in the physiognomy of her 
host ; she turned her head after a moment and looked 
idly round the room, and at last let her eyes rest on the 
statue of the w r oman seated. It being left to Rowland 
to stimulate conversation, he began by complimenting 
her on the beauty of her dog. 
"Yes, he is very handsome," she murmured. "He 
is a Florentine. The dogs in Florence are handsomer 
than the people," and on Rowland 's caressing him 
"His name is Stenterello," she added. "Stenterello, 
give your hand to the gentleman." This order was given 
in Italian. " Say bnon giorno a Lei." 
Stenterello thrust out his paw and gave four short 
shrill barks ; upon which the elder lady turned round 
and raised her forefinger. 
"My dear, my dear, remember where you are ! Ex 
cuse my foolish child," she added, turning to Roderick 
with an agreeable smile. " She can think of nothing 
but her poodle." 
" I am teaching him to talk for me," the young girl 
went on, without heeding her mother; "to say little 
things in society. It will save me a great deal of trouble. 
Stenterello, love, give a pretty smile and say tanti com- 
plimenti ! " The poodle wagged his white pate it 
looked like one of those little pads in swan s-down for 
applying powder to the face and repeated the barking 
process. 
 
" He is a wonderful beast," said Rowland. 
" He is not a beast," said the young girl. " A beast 
is something black and dirty something you can't touch." 
" He is a very valuable dog," the elder lady explained. 
" He was presented to my daughter by a Florentine 
nobleman." 
"It is not for that I care about him. It is for him 
self. He is better than the Duke ! " 
" My precious love ! " exclaimed the mother in depre 
cating accents, but with a significant glance at Rowland 
which seemed to bespeak his attention to the glory of 
possessing a daughter who could deal in that light fashion 
with the aristocracy. 
Rowland remembered that when their unknown visitors 
had passed before them, a year previous, in the Villa 
Ludovisi, Roderick and he had exchanged conjectures 
as to their nationality and social quality. Roderick had 
declared that they were old-world people ; but Rowland 
now needed no telling to feel that he might claim the 
elder lady as a fellow-countrywoman. She was a person 
of what is called a great deal of presence, with the faded 
traces, artfully revived here and there, of once brilliant 
beauty. Her daughter had come lawfully by her loveli 
ness, but Rowland mentally made the distinction that 
the mother was silly, and the daughter was not. The 
mother had a fatuous countenance a countenance, 
Rowland suspected, capable of expressing an inordinate 
degree of fatuity. The young girl, in spite of her childish 
satisfaction in her poodle, was not a person of a weak 
understanding. Rowland received an impression that 
for reasons of her own she was playing a part. What 
was the part and what were her reasons? She was 
interesting ; Rowland wondered what were her domestic 
secrets. If her mother were a daughter of the great 
Republic it was to be supposed that the young girl was 
a flower of the American soil ; but her beauty had a 
large firmness that is uncommon in the somewhat relaxed 
robustness of our western maidenhood. She spoke with 
a vague foreign accent, as if she had spent her life in 
strange countries. The little Italian apparently divined 
Rowland 's mute imaginings, for he presently stepped 
forward, with a bow like a master of ceremonies. "I 
have not done my duty," he said, "in not announcing 
these ladies. Mrs. Light, Miss Light ! " 
Rowland was not materially the wiser for this informa 
tion, but Roderick was aroused by it to the exercise of 
some slight civility. He altered the light, pulled forward 
two or three figures, and made an apology for not having 
more to show. "I don't pretend to have anything of an 
exhibition I am only a novice." 
" Indeed? a novice ! For a novice this is very well," 
Mrs. Light declared. "Cavaliere, we have seen nothing 
better than this." 
The Cavaliere smiled rapturously. " It is stupend 
ous !" he murmured. "And we have been to all the 
studios." 
"Not to all Heaven forbid!" cried Mrs. Light. 
"But to a number that I have had pointed out by artistic 
friends. I delight in studios I should have been so 
happy myself to be a little quiet artist ! And if you are 
a novice, Mr. Hudson," she went on, "you have already 
great admirers. Half a dozen people have told us that 
yours were quite among the things to see." This 
gracious speech went unanswered ; Roderick had already 
wandered across to the other side of the studio and was 
revolving about Miss Light. "Ah, he 's gone to look 
at my beautiful daughter ; he is not the first that has 
had his head turned," Mrs. Light resumed, lowering her 
voice to a confidential undertone ; a favour which, con 
sidering the shortness of their acquaintance, Rowland 
was bound to appreciate. " The artists are all crazy 
about her. When she goes into a studio she is fatal to 
the pictures. And when she goes into the ball-room 
what do the other women say ? Eh, Cavaliere ? " 
 
" She is very beautiful," Rowland said, simply. 
Mrs, Light, who through her long gold-cased glasses 
was looking a little at everything and at nothing as if 
she saw it, interrupted her random murmurs and exclama 
tions, and surveyed Rowland from head to foot. She 
looked at him all over ; apparently he had not been 
mentioned to her as a feature of Roderick 's establish 
ment. It was the gaze, Rowland felt, which the vigil 
ant and ambitious mother of a beautiful daughter has 
always at her command for well-appointed young men. 
Her inspection in this case seemed satisfactory. " Are 
you also an artist ? " she inquired with an almost affec 
tionate inflection. It was clear that what she meant was 
something of this kind : Be so good as to assure me 
without delay that you are really the amiable young man 
of fortune that you appear. " 
But Rowland answered simply the formal question 
not the latent one. Dear me, no ; I am only a friend 
of Mr. Hudson. " 
Mrs. Light, with a sigh, returned to the statues, and 
after mistaking the Adam for a gladiator and the Eve for 
a gipsy, declared that she could not judge of such things 
unless she saw them in the marble. Rowland hesitated 
a moment, and then, speaking in the interest of Roderick 's 
renown, said that he was the happy possessor of several 
of his friend 's works, and that she was welcome to come 
and see them at his rooms. She bade the Cavaliere 
make a note of his address. " Ah, you are a patron of 
the arts," she said. "That 's what I should like to be 
if I had a little money. I revel in beauty in every form. 
But all these people ask such monstrous prices. One 
must be a millionaire to think of such things, eh ? 
Twenty years ago my husband had my portrait painted, 
here in Rome, by Papucci, who was the great man in 
those days. I was in a ball-dress, with all my jewels, 
and my shoulders and arms which were not a petite 
affaire. The man got six hundred francs, and thought he 
was very well treated. Those were the days when a family 
could live like princes in Italy for five thousand scudi a 
year. The Cavaliere once upon a time was a great 
dandy don't blush, Cavaliere ; any one can see that, 
just as any one can see what I was ! Get him to tell 
you what he made a figure upon. The railroads have 
brought in the vulgarians. That 's what I call it now 
the invasion of the vulgarians ! What are poor we to 
do ?" 
Rowland had begun to murmur some remedial proposi 
tion when he was interrupted hy the voice of Miss Light 
calling across the room, " Mamma !" 
" My own love?" 
" This gentleman wishes to model my bust. Please 
speak to him." 
The Cavaliere gave a little chuckle. "Already?" he 
cried. 
Rowland looked round, equally surprised at the promp 
titude of the proposal. Roderick stood planted before 
the young girl with his arms folded, looking at her as he 
would have done at the Medicean Venus. He never paid 
compliments, and Rowland, though he had not heard him 
speak, could imagine the startling distinctness with which 
he made his request. 
"He saw me a year ago," the young girl went on, 
" and he has been thinking of me ever since." Her tone 
in speaking was peculiar ; it had a kind of studied inex- 
pressiveness which was yet not the vulgar device of a 
drawl. 
"I must make your daughter 's bust that 's all, madam !" 
cried Roderick, with warmth. 
" I would rather you should make the poodle s," said 
the young girl. "Is it very tiresome? I have spent 
half my life sitting for my photograph, in every conceiv 
able attitude and with eveiy conceivable coiffure. I 
think I have posed enough." 
"My dear child," said Mrs. Light, "it may be one 's 
 
duty to pose ! But as to my daughter 's sitting to you, 
sir to a young artist whom we don't know it is a 
matter that one must look at a little. It is not a favour 
that 's to be had for the mere asking." 
" If I don't make her from life," said Roderick, with 
energy, " I will make her from memory, and if the thing 's 
to be done you had better have it done as well as pos 
sible." 
" Mamma hesitates," said Miss Light, "because she 
doesn't know whether you mean she shall pay you for the 
bust. I can assure you that she will not pay you a sou." 
"My daughter, you forget yourself," said Mrs. Light, 
with an attempt at a high tone. " Of course," she added 
in a moment, with a change of note, " the bust would 
be my own property." 
"Of course !" cried Roderick, impatiently. 
" Dearest mother," interposed the young girl, "how 
can you carry a marble bust about the world with you ? 
Is it not enough to drag the poor original?" 
"My dear, you are nonsensical!" cried Mrs. Light, 
almost angrily. 
"You can always sell it," said the young girl, with the 
same artful artlessness. 
Mrs. Light turned to Rowland, who pitied her, flushed 
and irritated. " She is very wicked to-day !" 
The Cavaliere grinned in silence, and walked away on 
tiptoe, with his hat to his lips, as if to leave the field 
clear for action. Rowland, on the contrary, wished to 
mediate. " You had better not refuse," he said to Miss 
Light, "until you have seen Mr. Hudson 's things in the 
marble. Your mother is to come and look at some that 
I possess." 
"Thank you; I have no doubt you will see us. I 
daresay Mr. Hudson is very clever ; but I don't care for 
modern sculpture. I can't look at it ! " 
"You shall care for my bust, I promise you !" cried 
Roderick, with a laugh. 
 
"To satisfy Miss Light," said the Cavaliere, " one of 
the old Greeks ought to come to life." 
" It would be worth his while," said Roderick, paying, 
to Rowland 's knowledge, his first compliment. 
" I might sit to Phidias, if he would promise to be 
veiy amusing and make me laugh. What do you say, 
Stenterello ? would you sit to Phidias ?" 
"We must talk of this some other time," said Mrs. 
Light. " We are in Rome for the winter. Many thanks. 
Cavaliere, call the carriage." The Cavaliere led the way 
out, backing like a silver-stick, and Miss Light, following 
her mother, nodded without looking at them, to each of 
the young men. 
Immortal powers, what a head!" cried Roderick, 
when they were gone. " There 's my fortune ! " 
" She is certainly very beautiful," said Rowland. 
" But I am sorry you have undertaken her bust." 
" And why, pray ?" 
" I suspect it will bring trouble with it." 
" What kind of trouble ?" 
" I hardly know. They are queer people. The 
mamma, I suspect, is a bit of an adventuress. Heaven 
knows what the daughter is." 
" She 's a goddess !" cried Roderick. 
"Just so. She is all the more dangerous." 
" Dangerous ? What will she do to me ? She doesn't 
bite, I imagine." 
" It remains to be seen. There are two kinds of 
women you ought to know by this time the safe and 
the unsafe. Miss Light, if I am not mistaken, is one of 
the unsafe. A word to the wise !" 
" Much obliged ! " said Roderick, and he began to 
whistle a triumphant air, in honour apparently of the 
advent of his beautiful model. 
In calling this young lady and her mamma queer 
people Rowland but roughly expressed his sentiment. 
They were so marked a variation from the monotonous 
 
troop of his compatriots that he felt much curiosity as to 
the sources of the change, especially since he doubted 
greatly whether on the whole it elevated the type. For 
a week he saw the two ladies driving daily in a well- 
appointed landau, with the Cavaliere and the poodle in 
the front seat. From Mrs. Light he received a gracious 
salute, tempered by her native majesty ; but the young 
girl, looking straight before her, seemed profoundly 
indifferent to observers. Her extraordinary beauty, 
however, had already made observers numerous, and 
given the habitues of the Pincian plenty to talk about. 
The echoes of their commentary reached Rowland 's 
ears ; but he had little taste for unsifted rumour, and he 
desired a veracious informant. He found one in the 
person of Madame Grandoni, for whom Mrs. Light and 
her beautiful daughter were a pair of old friends. 
"I have known the mamma for twenty years," said 
this judicious critic, "and if you ask any of the people 
who have been living here as long as I, you will find 
they remember her well. I have held the beautiful 
Christina on my knee when she was a little wizened 
baby with a very red face and no promise of beauty but 
those magnificent eyes. Ten years ago Mrs. Light dis 
appeared, and has not since been seen in Rome, except 
for a few days last winter, when she passed through on 
her way to Naples. Then it was you met the trio in the 
Ludovisi gardens. When I first knew her she was the 
unmarried but very marriageable daughter of an old 
American painter of very bad landscapes, which people 
used to buy from charity and use for fire-boards. His 
name was Savage ; it used to make every one laugh, he 
was such a mild, melancholy, pitiful old gentleman. 
He had married a horrible wife, an Englishwoman who 
had been on the stage. It was said she used to beat 
poor Savage with his mahl-stick, and, when the domestic 
finances were low, to lock him up in his studio and tell 
him he shouldn't come out until he had painted half a 
 
dozen of his daubs. She had a good deal of showy 
beauty. She would go forth with the key in her pocket, 
and, her beauty helping, she would make certain people 
take the pictures. It helped her at last to make an 
English lord run away with her. At the time I speak 
of she had quite disappeared. Mrs. Light was then a 
very handsome girl, though by no means so handsome 
as her daughter has now become. Mr. Light was an 
American consul, newly appointed at one of the Adriatic 
ports. He was a mild, fair- whiskered young man, with 
some little property, and my impression is that he had 
got into bad company at home, and that his family pro 
cured him his place to keep him out of harm 's way. He 
came up to Rome on a holiday, fell in love with Miss 
Savage, and married her on the spot. He had not been 
married three years when he was drowned in the Adriatic, 
no one ever knew how. The young widow came back 
to Rome, to her father, and here shortly afterwards, in 
the shadow of Saint Peter s, her little girl was born. It 
might have been supposed that Mrs. Light would marry 
again, and I know she had opportunities. But she over 
reached herself. She would take nothing less than a 
title and a fortune, and they were not forthcoming. She 
was admired and very fond of admiration ; very vain, 
very worldly, very silly. She remained a pretty widow 
with a surprising variety of bonnets and a dozen men 
always in her train. Giacosa dates from this period. 
He calls himself a Roman, but I have an impression he 
came up from Ancona with her. He was fami de la 
maison. He used to hold her bouquets, clean her gloves 
and satin shoes, run her errands, get her opera-boxes, 
fight her battles with the shopkeepers. For this he 
needed courage, for she was smothered in debt. She at 
last left Rome to escape her creditors. Many of them 
must remember her still, but she seems now to have 
money to satisfy them. She left her poor old father 
here alone helpless, infirm, and unable to work. A 
 
subscription was shortly afterwards taken up among the 
foreigners, and he was sent back to America, where, as 
I finally heard, he died in some sort of asylum. From 
time to time, for several years, I heard vaguely of Mrs. 
Light as a wandering beauty at French and German 
watering-places. Once came a rumour that she was 
going to make a grand marriage in England : then we 
heard that the gentleman had thought better of it and 
left her to keep afloat as she could. She was a terribly 
scatter-brained creature. She pretends to be a great 
lady, but I consider that old Filomena, my washerwoman, 
is in essentials a greater one. But certainly, after all, she 
has been fortunate. She embarked at last on a lawsuit 
about some property with her husband 's family, and 
went to America to attend to it. She came back 
triumphant, with a long purse. She reappeared in Italy, 
and established herself for a while in Venice. Then she 
came to Florence, where she spent a couple of years, 
and where I saw her. Last year she passed down to 
Naples, which I should have said was just the place for 
her, and this winter she had laid siege to Rome. She 
seems very prosperous. She has taken a floor in the 
Palazzo F , she keeps her carriage, and Christina 
and she, between them, must have a pretty milliner 's 
bill. Giacosa has turned up again, looking as if he had 
been kept in ice at Ancona for her return." 
"What sort of education," Rowland asked, "do you 
imagine the mother 's adventures to have been for the 
daughter?" 
" A strange school ! But Mrs. Light told me 
Florence that she had given her child the education of a 
princess. In other words, I suppose she speaks, three or 
four languages and has read several hundred French 
novels. Christina, I suspect, is very clever. When I saw 
her I was amazed at her beauty, and certainly if there is 
any truth in faces she ought to have the soul of an angel. 
Perhaps she has. I don't judge her ; she 's an extraordinary 
young person. She has been told twenty times 
a day by her mother, since she was five years old, that 
she is a beauty of beauties, that her face is her fortune, 
and that if she plays her cards she may marry a duke. 
If she has not been fatally corrupted she is a very superior 
girl. My own impression is that she is a mixture of 
good and bad, of ambition and indifference. Mrs. Light 
having failed to make her own fortune in matrimony has 
transferred her hopes to her daughter, and nursed them 
till they have become a monomania. She has a hobby, 
which she rides in secret ; but some day she will let you 
see it. I am sure that if you go in some evening unan 
nounced, you will find her scanning the tea-leaves in her 
cup or telling her daughter 's fortune with a greasy pack 
of cards, kept sacredly for the purpose. She promises 
her a prince a reigning prince. But if Mrs. Light is 
a fool she is a practical one, and lest considerations of 
state should deny her prince the luxury of a love-match 
she keeps on hand a few common mortals. At the worst 
she would take a duke, an English lord, or even a young 
American with a proper number of millions. The poor 
woman must be rather uncomfortable. She is always 
building castles and knocking them down again always 
casting her nets and pulling them in. If her daughter 
were less of a beauty her restless ambition would be 
simply grotesque ; but there is something in the girl, as 
one looks at her, that seems to make it very possible 
she is marked out for one of those wonderful romantic 
fortunes that history now and then relates. Who, after 
all, was the Empress of the French? Mrs. Light is for 
ever saying. And beside Christina the Empress is a 
dowdy! " 
"And what does Christina say?" 
" She makes no scruple, as you know, of saying that 
her mother is an idiot ! What she thinks Heaven 
knows. I suspect that practically she does not commit 
herself. She is excessively proud, and thinks herself 
 
good enough to occupy the highest station in the world ; 
but she knows that her mother talks nonsense, and that 
even a beautiful girl may look awkward in making un 
successful advances. So she remains superbly indifferent, 
and lets her mother take the risks. If the Prince is 
secured, so much the better ; if he is not, she need never 
confess to herself that even a prince has slighted her." 
"Your report is as solid," Rowland said to Madame 
Grandoni, thanking her, "as if it had been drawn up 
for the Academy of Sciences;" and he congratulated 
himself on having listened to it when a couple of days 
later Mrs. Light and her daughter, attended by the 
Cavaliere and the poodle, came to his rooms to look at 
Roderick 's statues. It was more comfortable to know 
just with whom he was dealing. 
Mrs. Light was prodigiously gracious, and showered 
down compliments not only on the statues but on all his 
possessions. "Upon my word," she said, "you rich 
young men know how to make yourselves comfortable. 
If one of us poor women had half as many easy-chairs 
and nick-nacks we should be famously abused. It 's 
really selfish to be living all alone in such a place as this. 
Cavaliere, how should you like this suite of rooms and a 
fortune to fill them with pictures and statues ? Christina, 
love, look at that mosaic table. Mr. Mallet, I could 
almost beg it from you ! Yes, that Eve is certainly very 
fine. We needn't be ashamed of such a great-grand 
mother as that. If she was really such a beautiful 
woman, it accounts for the good looks of some of us. 
Where is Mr. What s-his-name, the young sculptor ? 
Why isn't he here to be complimented ?" 
Christina had remained but for a moment in the chair 
which Rowland placed for her, had given but a cursory 
glance at the statues, and then, leaving her seat, had 
begun to wander round the room looking at herself in 
the mirror, touching the ornaments and curiosities, 
glancing at the books and prints. Rowland 's sitting- 
 
room was encumbered with bric-a-brac, and she found 
plenty of occupation. Rowland presently ioined her 
and pointed out some of the objects he most valued. 
"It 's an odd jumble," she said, frankly. "Some 
things are very pretty some are very ugly. But I like 
ugly things when they have a certain look. Prettiness 
is terribly vulgar nowadays, and it is not every one that 
knows just the sort of ugliness that has chic. But chic 
is getting dreadfully common too. There 's a hint of it 
even in Madame Baldi 's bonnets. I like looking at 
people 's things," she added in a moment, turning to 
Rowland and resting her eyes on him. " It helps you 
to find out their characters." 
"Am I to suppose," asked Rowland, smiling, "that 
you have arrived at any conclusions as to mine ?" 
"I am rather intrigue e ; you have too many things ; 
one seems to contradict another. You are very artistic, 
and yet you are very prosaic ; you have what is called a 
catholic taste, and yet you are full of obstinate little 
prejudices and preferences which, if I knew you, I should 
find very tiresome. I don't think I like you." 
" You make a great mistake," laughed Rowland ; "I 
assure you I am very amiable." 
"Yes, I am probably wrong, and if I knew you, I 
should find out I was wrong, and that would irritate me 
and make me dislike you more. So you see we are 
necessarily enemies. " 
"No, I don't dislike you !" 
" Worse and worse ; for you certainly will not like me." 
" You are very discouraging." 
" I am fond of facing the truth, though some day you 
will deny even that. Where is that queer friend of 
yours?" 
"You mean Roderick Hudson? He is represented 
by these beautiful works." 
Miss Light looked for some moments at Roderick 's 
statues. "Yes," she said, " they are not so silly as most 
 
of the things we have seen. They have no chic, and yet 
they are beautiful." 
" You describe them perfectly," said Rowland. " They 
are beautiful, and yet they have no chic. That 's it !" 
" If he will promise to put no chic into my bust, I have 
a mind to let him make it. A request made in those 
terms deserves to be granted." 
"In what terms?" 
" Didn't you hear him? Mademoiselle, you almost 
satisfy my conception of the beautiful. I must model 
your bust. That almost should be rewarded ! He is 
like me, he likes to face the truth. I think we should 
get on together." 
The Cavaliere approached Rowland to express the 
pleasure he had derived from his beautiful " collection." 
His smile was exquisitely bland, his accent appealing, 
flattering, insinuating. But he gave Rowland an odd 
sense of looking at a little waxen image adjusted to per 
form certain gestures and emit certain sounds. It had 
once contained a soul, but the soul had leaked away. 
Nevertheless, Rowland reflected, there are more graceless 
things than mere manner and posture in an old-fashioned 
Italian. And the Cavaliere too had soul enough left to 
desire to speak a few words on his own account, and 
call Rowland 's attention to the fact that he was not, after 
all, a hired cicerone, but an ancient Roman gentleman. 
Rowland felt sorry for him ; he hardly knew why. He 
assured him in a friendly fashion that he must come 
again ; that his house was always at his service. The 
Cavaliere bowed down to the ground. " You do me too 
much honour," he murmured. " If you will allow me 
it is not impossible !" 
Mrs. Light meanwhile had prepared to depart. " If 
you are not afraid to come and see two quiet little 
women, we shall be most happy!" she said. "We 
have no statues nor pictures we have nothing but each 
other. Eh, darling?" 
 
"I beg your pardon," said Christina. 
"Oh, and the Cavaliere," added her mother. 
"The poodle, please !" cried the young girl. 
Rowland glanced at the Cavaliere ; he was smiling 
more blandly than ever. 
A few days later Rowland presented himself, as civility 
demanded, at Mrs. Light 's door. He found her living in 
one of the stately houses of the Via dell Angelo Custode, 
and rather to his surprise was told she was at home. He 
passed through half a dozen rooms and was ushered into 
an immense saloon, at one end of which sat the mistress 
of the establishment with a piece of embroidery. She 
received him very graciously, and then pointing mysteri 
ously to a large screen which was unfolded across the 
embrasure of one of the deep windows, " I am keeping 
guard !" she said. Rowland looked interrogative ; 
whereupon she beckoned him forward and motioned him 
to look behind the screen. He obeyed, and for some 
moments stood gazing. Roderick, with his back turned, 
stood before an extemporised pedestal, ardently shaping 
a formless mass of clay. Before him sat Christina Light, 
in a white dress, with her shoulders bare, her magnificent 
hair twisted into a classic coil, her head admirably poised. 
Meeting Rowland 's gaze, she smiled a little, only in the 
depths of her blue -gray eyes, without moving. She 
looked divinely beautiful. 
IX. 
THE brilliant Roman winter came round again, and 
Rowland enjoyed it in a certain way more deeply than 
before. He grew passionately, unreasoningly fond of all 
Roman sights and sensations, and to breathe the Roman 
atmosphere seemed a needful condition of being. He 
 
could not have defined and explained the nature of his 
great relish, nor have made up the sum of it by adding 
together his calculable pleasures. It was a large, vague, 
idle, half-profitless emotion, of which perhaps the most 
pertinent thing that may be said is that it brought with 
it a sort of relaxed acceptance of the present, the actual, 
the sensuous of life on the terms of the moment. It 
was perhaps for this very reason that, in spite of the charm 
which Rome flings over one 's mood, there ran through 
Rowland 's meditations an undertone of melancholy natural 
enough in a mind which finds its horizon sensibly limited 
even by a magic circle. Whether it be that one tacitly 
concedes to the Roman Church the monopoly of a guar 
antee of immortality, so that if one is indisposed to bar 
gain with her for the precious gift one must do without 
it altogether ; or whether in an atmosphere so heavily 
weighted with echoes and memories one grows to believe 
that there is nothing in one 's consciousness that is not 
foredoomed to moulder and crumble and become dust 
for the feet and possible malaria for the lungs of future 
generations the fact at least remains that one parts half 
willingly with one 's hopes in Rome and misses them only 
under some very exceptional stress of circumstance. For 
this reason it may perhaps be said that there is no other 
place in which one 's daily temper has such a mellow 
serenity, and none at the same time in which acute attacks 
of depression are more intolerable. Rowland found, in 
fact, a perfect response to his prevision that to live in 
Rome was an education to the senses and the imagina 
tion ; but he sometimes wondered whether this were not 
a questionable gain in case of one 's not being prepared 
to subside into soft dilettanteism. His customary toler 
ance of circumstances seemed sometimes to pivot about 
by a mysterious inward impulse, and look his conscience 
in the face. " But afterwards . . . ?" it seemed to ask, 
with a long reverberation ; and he could give no answer 
but a shy affirmation that there was no such thing as to- 
morrow, and that to-day was uncommonly fine. He 
often felt heavy-hearted ; he was sombre without know 
ing why ; there were no visible clouds in his heaven, but 
there were cloud-shadows on his mood. Shadows pro 
jected they often were, without his knowing it, by an 
undue apprehension that things, after all, might not go so 
ideally well with Roderick. When he caught himself 
fidgeting it vexed him, and he rebuked himself for taking 
things unmanfully hard. If Roderick chose to follow 
a crooked path, it was no fault of his ; he had given him, 
he would continue to give him, all that he had offered 
him friendship, sympathy, advice. He had not under 
taken to make him over ! 
If Rowland felt his roots striking and spreading in the 
Roman soil, Roderick also surrendered himself with re 
newed liberality to the local influence. More than once 
he declared to his companion that he meant to live and 
die within the shadow of St. Peter s, and that he cared 
little if he should never again draw breath in American 
air. For a man of my temperament Rome is the only 
possible place," he said; "it 's better to recognise the 
fact early than late. So I shall never go home unless I 
am absolutely forced." 
" What is your idea of force ?" asked Rowland, 
smiling. " It seems to me you have an excellent reason 
for going home some day or other." 
" Ah, you mean my engagement?" Roderick answered, 
with unaverted eyes. "Yes, there is a little understand 
ing of that sort at Northampton ! " And he gave a little 
vaguely appreciative sigh. "To reconcile Northampton 
and Rome is rather a problem. Mary had better come 
out here. Even at the worst I have no intention of 
giving up Rome for six or eight years, and a union de 
ferred for that length of time would be rather absurd." 
" Miss Garland could hardly leave your mother," 
Rowland observed. 
"Oh, of course my mother should come ! I think I 
 
will suggest it in my next letter. It will take her a year 
or two to make up her mind to it, but if she consents it 
will brighten her up. It 's too small and dry a life over 
there, even for a timid old larly. It is hard to imagine," 
he added, "any change in Mary being a change for the 
better ; but I should like her to take a look at the world, 
and have her ideas enlarged a little. One is never so 
good, I suppose, but that one can improve." 
" If you wish your mother and Miss Garland to come," 
Rowland suggested, " you had better go home and bring 
them." 
" Oh, I can't think of leaving Europe for many a day. 
At present it would quite break the charm. I am just 
beginning to profit, to get used to things and take them 
naturally. I am sure the sight of Northampton Main 
Street would permanently upset me." 
It was reassuring to hear that Roderick in his own 
view was but "just beginning" to spread his wings, and 
Rowland, if he had had any forebodings, might have 
suffered them to be modified by this declaration. This 
was the first time since their meeting at Geneva that 
Roderick had mentioned his cousin 's name, but the ice 
being broken he indulged for some time afterwards in 
frequent allusions to his betrothed, which always had an 
accent of scrupulous, of almost studied, consideration. 
An uninitiated observer, hearing him, would have ima 
gined her to be a person of a certain age possibly an 
affectionate maiden aunt who had once done him a 
kindness which he highly appreciated ; perhaps presented 
him with a cheque for a thousand dollars. Rowland 
noted the difference between his present frankness and 
his reticence during the first six months of his engage 
ment, and sometimes wondered whether it were not 
rather an anomaly that he should expatiate more largely 
as the happy event receded. He had wondered over the 
whole matter first and last in a great many different ways 
he had looked at it in all possible lights. There was 
 
something uncommonly hard to explain in the fact of his 
having fallen in love with his cousin. She was not, as 
Rowland conceived her, the sort of girl he would have 
been likely to fancy, and the operation of sentiment, in 
all cases so mysterious, was particularly so in this one. 
Just why it was that Roderick should not in consistency 
have been captivated, his companion would have been at 
a loss to say ; but I think the conviction had its roots in 
an unformulated comparison between himself and the 
accepted suitor. Roderick and he were as different as 
two men could be, and yet Roderick had taken it into 
his head to fall in love with a woman for whom he him 
self had been keeping in reserve for years a deeply char 
acteristic passion. That if Rowland Mallet happened to 
be very much struck with the merits of Roderick 's mis 
tress, the irregularity here was hardly Roderick s, was a 
view of the case to which our virtuous hero did scanty 
justice. There were women, he said to himself, whom 
it was every one 's business to fall in love with a little 
women beautiful, brilliant, artful, easily fascinating. 
Miss Light, for instance, was one of these ; every man 
who spoke to her did so, if not in the language, at least 
with something of the agitation, the divine tremor, of a 
lover. There were other women they might have great 
beauty, they might have small ; perhaps they were gen 
erally to be classified as plain whose triumphs in this 
line were rare, but immutably permanent. Such a one, 
conspicuously, was Mary Gai land. Upon the doctrine 
of probabilities it was unlikely that she should have had 
an equal charm for each of them, and was it not possible, 
therefore, that the charm for Roderick had been simply 
the charm imagined, unquestionably accepted, the general 
charm of youth, sympathy, kindness of the present femi 
nine, in short enhanced indeed by the advantage of an 
expressive countenance? The charm in this case for 
Rowland was the charm ! the mysterious, individual, 
essential woman. There was an element in the charm, 
 
as his companion saw it, which Rowland was obliged to 
recognise, but which he forebore to linger upon ; the 
rather important attraction, namely, of reciprocity. As 
to the girl being in love with Roderick, and commending 
herself by this accident, this was a point with which his 
imagination ventured to take no liberties ; partly because 
it would have been indelicate, and partly because it 
would have been vain. He contented himself with feel 
ing that she was still as vivid an image in his own 
memory as she had been five days after he left her, and 
with drifting nearer and nearer to the conviction that at 
just that crisis any other girl would have answered Rode 
rick 's sentimental needs as well. Any other woman, 
indeed, would do so still ! Roderick had confessed as 
much to him at Geneva in saying that he had been 
taking at Baden the measure of his susceptibility. 
His extraordinary success in modelling the bust of the 
beautiful Miss Light was pertinent evidence of this 
amiable quality. She sat to him repeatedly for a fort 
night, and the work was rapidly finished. On one of 
the last days Roderick asked Rowland to come and give 
his opinion as to what was still wanting ; for the sittings 
had continued to take place in Mrs. Light 's apartment, 
the studio being pronounced too damp for the fair model. 
When Rowland presented himself, Christina, still in her 
white dress, with her shoulders bare, was standing before 
a mirror readjusting her hair, the arrangement of which 
on this occasion had apparently not met the young sculp 
tor 's approval. He stood beside her, directing the opera 
tion with a peremptoriness of tone which seemed to 
Rowland to denote a considerable advance in intimacy. 
As Rowland entered Christina was losing patience, " Do 
it yourself, then !" she cried, and with a rapid movement 
unloosed the great coil of her tresses and let them fall 
over her shoulders. 
They were magnificent, and with her perfect face 
dividing their rippling flow she looked like some immacu- 
 
late saint of legend being led to martyrdom. Rowland 's 
eyes presumably betrayed his admiration, but her own 
manifested no consciousness of it. If Christina was a 
coquette, as the remarkable timeliness of this incident 
might have suggested, she was not a superficial one. 
" Hudson 's a sculptor," said Rowland, with warmth. 
" But if I were only a painter !" 
Thank Heaven you are not ! " said Christina. I 
am having quite enough of this minute inspection of my 
charms." 
"My dear young man, hands off!" cried Mrs. Light, 
coming forward and seizing her daughter 's hair. " Chris 
tina, love, I am surprised." 
"Is it indelicate?" Christina asked. "I beg Mr. 
Mallet 's pardon." Mrs. Light gathered up the dusky 
locks and let them fall through her fingers, glancing at 
her visitor with a significant smile. Rowland had never 
been in the East, but if he had attempted to make a 
sketch of an old slave-merchant calling attention to the 
"points" of a Circassian beauty, he would have depicted 
such a smile as Mrs. Light s. "Mamma is not really 
shocked," added Christina in a moment, as if she had 
guessed her mother 's by-play. " She is only afraid that 
Mr. Hudson might have injured my hair, and that, per 
conseqttenza, I should sell for less." 
"You unnatural child!" cried mamma. "You 
deserve that I should make a fright of you ! " And with 
half a dozen skilful passes she twisted the tresses into a 
single picturesque braid, placed high on the head, as a 
kind of coronal. 
" What does your mother do when she wants to do 
you justice ? " Rowland asked, observing the admirable 
line of the young girl 's neck. 
" I do her justice when I say she says very improper 
things. What is one to do with such a thorn in the 
flesh?" Mrs. Light demanded. 
"Think of it at your leisure, Mr. Mallet," said Chris- 
 
tina, " and when you have discovered something let us 
hear. But I must tell you that I shall not willingly 
believe in any remedy of yours, for you have something 
in the expression of your face that particularly provokes 
me to make the remarks that my mother so sincerely 
deplores. I noticed it the first time I saw you. I 
think it 's because your face is so broad. For some reason 
or other broad faces exasperate me ; they fill me with 
a kind of rabbia. Last summer at Carlsbad there was 
an Austrian count, with enormous estates and some great 
office at court. He was very attentive seriously so ; 
he was really veiy far gone. Cela ne tenait qifh moi! 
But I couldn't ; he was impossible ! He must have 
measured from ear to ear at least a yard and a half. 
And he was blonde too, which made it worse as blonde 
as Stenterello ; pure fleece ! So I said to him frankly, 
Many thanks, Herr Graf ; your uniform is magnificent, 
but your face is too fat. " 
" I am afraid that mine also," said Rowland, with a 
smile, "seems just now to have assumed an unpardon 
able latitude." 
"Oh, I take it you know very well that we are look 
ing for a husband, and that none but tremendous swells 
need apply. Surely before these gentlemen, mamma, I 
may speak freely; they are disinterested. Mr. Mallet 
won't do, because, though he is rich, he is not rich 
enough. Mamma made that discovery the day after we 
went to see you, moved to it by the promising look of 
your furniture. I hope she was right, eh? Unless you 
have millions, you know, you have no chance." 
" I feel like a beggar," said Rowland. 
"Oh, some better girl than I will decide some day, 
after mature reflection, that, on the whole, you have 
enough. Mr. Hudson, of course, is nowhere ; he has 
nothing but his genius and his beatix yeux" 
Roderick had stood looking at Christiana intently 
while she delivered herself, softly and slowly, of this sur- 
 
prising nonsense. When she had finished, she turned 
and looked at him ; their eyes met, and he blushed a 
little. " Let me model you, and he who can may marry 
you ! " he said, abruptly. 
Mrs. Light, while her daughter talked, had been 
adding a few touches to her coiffure. " She is not so 
silly as you might suppose," she said to Rowland, with 
dignity. " If you will give me your arm we will go and 
look at the bust." 
" Does that represent a silly girl?" Christina demanded 
when they stood before it. 
Rowland transferred his glance several times from the 
portrait to the original. "It represents a young lady 
whom I should not pretend to judge off-hand." 
"She may be a fool, but you are not sure. Many 
thanks ! You have seen me half a dozen times. You 
are either very slow or I am very deep." 
"I am certainly slow," said Rowland. "I don't 
expect to make up my mind about you within six 
months." 
" I give you six months if you will promise then a 
perfectly frank opinion. Mind, I shall not forget ; I 
shall insist upon it." 
"Well, though I am slow I am tolerably brave," said 
Rowland. " We shall see. " 
