walk. They had walked before in a dozen different 
directions, but they had not yet crossed a charming little 
wooded pass which shut in their valley on one side and 
descended into the vale of Engelberg. In coming from 
Lucerne they had approached their inn by this path, and 
feeling that they knew it had hitherto neglected it in 
favour of untrodden ways. But at last the list of these 
was exhausted, and Rowland proposed the walk to 
Engelberg as a novelty. The place is half bleak and 
half pastoral ; a huge white monastery rises abruptly 
from the green floor of the valley and complicates its 
picturesqueness with an element rare in Swiss scenery. 
Hard by is a group of chalets and inns, with the usual 
appurtenances of a prosperous Swiss resort lean brown 
guides in baggy homespun, lounging under carved wooden 
galleries, stacks of alpenstocks in every doorway, sun- 
scorched Englishmen without shirt - collars. Our two 
friends sat a while at the door of an inn, discussing a 
pint of wine, and then Roderick, who was indefatigable, 
announced his intention of climbing to a certain rocky 
pinnacle which overhung the valley, and, according to 
the testimony of one of the guides, commanded a view of 
the Lake of Lucerne. To go and come back was only 
a matter of an hour, but Rowland, vdth the prospect of 
his homeward trudge before him, confessed to a preference 
for lounging on his bench or, at most, strolling a trifle 
farther and taking a look at the monastery. Roderick 
went off alone, and his companion after a while bent his 
steps to the monasterial church. It was remarkable, 
like most of the churches of Catholic Switzerland, for a 
hideous style of devotional ornament ; but it had a certain 
cold and musty picturesqueness, and Rowland lingered 
there with some tenderness for Alpine piety. While he 
was near the high altar some people came in at the west 
door, but he did not notice them, and was presently 
engaged in deciphering a curious old German epitaph 
on one of the mural tablets. At last he turned away, 
wondering whether its syntax or its theology were 
the more uncomfortable, and, tc his infinite surprise, 
found himself confronted with Prince and Princess 
Casamassima. 
The surprise on Christina 's part, for an instant, was 
equal, and at first she seemed disposed to turn away 
without letting it give place to a greeting. The Prince, 
however, saluted gravely, and then Christina in silence 
put out her hand. Rowland immediately asked whether 
they were staying at Engelberg, but Christina only looked 
at him without speaking. The Prince answered his 
questions, and related that they had been making a 
month 's tour in Switzerland, that at Lucerne his wife 
had been somewhat obstinately indisposed, and that the 
physician had recommended a week 's trial of the tonic 
air and goat 's milk of Engelberg. The scenery, said the 
Prince, was stupendous, but the life was terribly sad 
and they had three days more ! It was a blessing, he 
urbanely added, to see a good Roman face. 
Christina 's attitude, her solemn silence and her pene 
trating gaze, seemed to Rowland at first to savour of 
affectation ; but he presently perceived that she was 
deeply agitated, and was afraid of betraying herself. 
" Do let us leave this hideous edifice," she said ; " there 
are things here that set one 's teeth on edge." They 
moved slowly to the door, and when they stood outside, 
in the sunny coolness of the valley, she turned to Row 
land and said, " I am extremely glad to see you." Then 
she glanced about her and observed against the wall of 
the church an old stone seat. She looked at Prince 
Casamassima a moment, and he smiled more intensely, 
Rowland thought than the occasion demanded. "I 
 
wish to sit here," she said, " and speak to this old 
acquaintance alone. " 
"At your pleasure, dear friend," said the Prince. 
The tone of each was measured, to Rowland 's ear ; 
but that of Christina was dry and that of her husband 
was splendidly urbane. Rowland remembered that the 
Cavaliere had told him that Mrs. Light 's candidate was 
a prince indeed, and our friend wondered how he relished 
a peremptory accent. Casamassima was an Italian of 
the undemonstrative type, but Rowland nevertheless 
divined that, like other princes before him, he had made 
the acquaintance of the thing called compromise. "Shall 
I come back?" he asked, with the same smile. 
" In half an hour," said Christina. 
In the clear outer light Rowland 's first impression of 
her was that she was more beautiful than ever. And 
yet in three months she could hardly have changed ; the 
change was in Rowland 's own vision of her, which that 
last interview on the eve of her marriage had made un- 
precedentedly tender. 
" How came you here?" she asked. " Are you stay 
ing in this place?" 
" I am staying at Engelthal, some ten miles away ; I 
walked over." 
"Are you alone?" 
" I am with Roderick Hudson." 
" Is he here with you?" 
"He went half an hour ago to climb a rock for a 
view." 
" And his mother and and the promessa where are 
they?" 
"They also are at Engelthal." 
" What do you do there ?" 
"What Ao you do here?" said Rowland, smiling. 
"I count the minutes till my week is over. I hate 
mountains ; they depress me to death. I am sure Miss 
Garland likes them." 
 
" She is very fond of them, I believe." 
" You believe don 't you know ? But I have given 
up trying to imitate Miss Garland," said Christina. 
" You surely need imitate no one." 
" Don 't say that," she said, gravely. " So you have 
walked ten miles this morning ? And you are to walk 
back again ?" 
" Back again to dinner." 
"And Mr. Hudson too?" 
"Mr. Hudson especially. He is a great walker." 
"You men are happy !" Christina cried. " I believe 
I should enjoy the mountains if I could do such things. 
It is sitting still and having them scowl down at you ! 
Prince Casamassima never walks. He only goes on a 
mule. He was carried up the Faulhorn in a palanquin. " 
" In a palanquin?" said Rowland. 
" In one of those machines a chaise h porteurs like 
a woman." 
Rowland received this information in silence ; it was 
equally unbecoming to be either amused or shocked. 
"Is Mr. Hudson to join you again? Will he come 
here?" Christina asked. 
" I shall soon begin to expect him." 
"What shall you do when you leave Switzerland?" 
Christina continued. " Shall you go back to Rome?" 
" I rather doubt it. My plans are very uncertain." 
"They depend upon Mr. Hudson, eh?" 
" In a great measure." 
" I want you to tell me about him. Is he still in that 
perverse state of mind that afflicted you so much ?" 
Rowland looked at her mistrustfully, without answer 
ing. He was indisposed, instinctively, to tell her that 
Roderick was unhappy ; it was possible she might offer 
to try to cure him. She immediately perceived his 
hesitation. 
" I see no reason why we should not be frank," she 
said. "I should think we were excellently placed for 
 
that sort of thing. You remember that formerly I cared 
very little what I said, don 't you ? Well, I care abso 
lutely not at all now. I say what I please, I do what I 
please ! How did Mr. Hudson receive the news of my 
marriage?" 
"Very badly," said Rowland. 
"With rage and reproaches?" And as Rowland 
hesitated again " With silent contempt?" 
" I can tell you but little. He spoke to me on the 
subject, but I stopped him. I told him it was none of 
his business nor of mine." 
" That was an excellent answer ! " said Christina, softly. 
" Yet it was a little your business, after those sublime 
protestations I treated you to. I was really very fine 
that morning, eh?" 
You do yourself injustice, " said Rowland. " I should 
be at liberty now to believe you were insincere. " 
" What does it matter now whether I was insincere 
or not ? I can't conceive of anything mattering less. I 
was very fine isn 't it true?" 
"You know what I think of you," said Rowland. 
And for fear of being forced to betray his suspicion of 
the cause of her change he took refuge in a commonplace. 
" I hope your mother is well." 
" My mother is in the enjoyment of superb health, and 
may be seen every evening at the Casino at the Baths of 
Lucca confiding to every newcomer that she has married 
her daughter to a pearl of a prince." 
Rowland was anxious for news of Mrs. Light 's com 
panion, and the natural course was frankly to inquire about 
him. "And the Cavaliere Giacosa is well?" he asked. 
Christina hesitated, but she betrayed no other embar 
rassment. " The Cavaliere Giacosa has retired to his 
native city of Ancona, upon a pension, for the rest of 
his natural life. He is a very good old man !" 
"I have a great regard for him," said Rowland, 
gravely, at the same time that he privately wondered 
 
whether the Cavaliere 's pension was paid by Prince 
Casamassima for services rendered in connection with 
his marriage. "And what do you do," he continued, 
"on leaving this place?" 
"We go to Italy we go to Naples." She rose and 
stood silent for a moment, looking down the valley. 
The figure of Prince Casamassima appeared in the dis 
tance, balancing his white umbrella. As her eyes rested 
upon it Rowland imagined that he saw something deeper 
in the strange expression which had lurked in her face 
while he talked to her. At first he had been dazzled by 
her blooming beauty, to which the lapse of weeks had 
only added splendour ; then he had seen a heavier ray 
in the light of her eye a sinister intimation of sadness 
and bitterness. It was the outward mark of her sacrificed 
ideal. Her eyes grew cold as she looked at her husband, 
and when after a moment she turned them upon Row 
land they struck him as intensely tragical. He felt a 
singular mixture of sympathy and dread ; he wished to 
give her a proof of friendship, and yet it seemed to him 
that she had now turned her face in a direction where 
friendship was powerless to interpose. She half read 
his feelings apparently, and she gave a beautiful sad 
smile. " I hope we may never meet again !" she said. 
And as Rowland gave her a protesting look " You have 
seen me at my best. I wish to tell you solemnly, I -was 
sincere ! I know appearances are against me," she went 
on quickly. "There is a great deal I can't tell you. 
Perhaps you have guessed it ; I care very little. You 
know at any rate I did my best. It wouldn 't serve ; I 
was beaten and broken; they were stronger than I. 
Now it 's another affair ! " 
It seems to me you have a large chance for happi 
ness yet," said Rowland, vaguely. 
" Happiness ? I mean to cultivate rapture ; I mean 
to go in for bliss ineffable ! You remember I told you 
that I was in part the world 's and the devil 's. Now 
 
they have taken me all. It was their choice ; may they 
never repent !" 
"I shall hear of you," said Rowland. 
" You will hear of me. And whatever you do hear, 
remember this : I was sincere ! " 
Prince Casamassima had approached, and Rowland 
looked at him with a good deal of simple compassion as 
a part of that "world" against which Christina had 
launched her mysterious menace. It was obvious that 
he was a good fellow, and that he could not in the nature 
of things be a positively bad husband ; but his distin 
guished inoffensiveness only deepened the infelicity of 
Christina 's situation by depriving her defiant attitude of 
the sanction of relative justice. So long as she had been 
free to choose she had esteemed him ; but from the 
moment she was forced to marry him she had detested 
him. Rowland read in the young man 's elastic Italian 
mask a profound consciousness of all this ; and as he 
found there also a record of other curious things of 
pride, of temper, of bigotry, of an immense heritage of 
more or less aggressive traditions he reflected that the 
matrimonial conjunction of his two companions might 
be sufficiently prolific in incident. 
"You are going to Naples?" Rowland said to the 
Prince by way of conversation. 
"We are going to Paris," Christina interposed slowly 
and softly. " We are going to London. We are going 
to Vienna. We are going to St. Petersburg." 
Prince Casamassima dropped his eyes, and fretted the 
earth with the point of his umbrella. While he engaged 
Rowland 's attention Christina turned away. When Row 
land glanced at her again he saw a change pass over her 
face ; she was observing something that was concealed 
from his own eyes by the angle of the church wall. In 
a moment Roderick stepped into sight. 
He stopped short, astonished ; his face and figure 
were jaded, his garments dusty. He looked at Christina 
 
from head to foot, and then, slowly, his cheek flushed 
and his eye expanded. Christina returned his gaze, and 
for some moments there was a singular silence. "You 
don 't look well ! " Christina said at last. 
Roderick answered nothing ; he only looked and 
looked, as if she had been a statue. "You are no less 
beautiful ! " he presently cried. 
She turned away with a smile, and stood a while 
gazing down the valley ; Roderick stared at Prince 
Casamassima. Christina then put out her hand to 
Rowland. "Farewell," she said. "If you are near 
me in future don 't try to see me !" And then after a 
pause, in a lower tone " I was sincere ! " She addressed 
herself again to Roderick, and asked him some common 
place about his walk. But he said nothing ; he only 
looked at her. Rowland at first had expected an out 
break of reproach, but it was evident that the danger 
was every moment diminishing. He was forgetting 
everything but her beauty, and as she stood there and 
let him feast upon it Rowland was sure that she knew it. 
" I won't say farewell to you," she said ; " we shall meet 
again ! " And she moved gravely away. Prince Casamas 
sima took leave courteously of Rowland ; upon Roderick 
he bestowed a bow of exaggerated civility. Roderick 
appeared not to see it ; he was watching Christina as she 
passed over the grass. His eyes followed her until she 
reached the door of her inn. Here she stopped and looked 
back at him. 
XXV. 
ON the homeward walk that evening Roderick preserved 
an ominous silence, and early on the morrow, saying 
nothing of his intentions, he started off alone ; Rowland 
saw him striding with light elastic steps along the rugged 
 
path to Engelberg. He was absent all day, and gave no 
account of himself on his return. He said he was deadly 
tired, and he went to bed early. When he had left the 
room Mary Garland drew near to Rowland. 
"I wish to ask you a question," she said. "What 
happened to Roderick yesterday at Engelberg ?" 
"You have discovered that something happened?" 
" I am sure of it. Was it something painful ?" 
" I don 't know how at the present moment he judges 
it. He met the Princess Casamassima." 
"Thank you !" said Mary, simply, and turned away. 
The conversation had been brief, but like many small 
things it furnished Rowland with food for reflection. 
When one is looking for symptoms one easily finds them. 
This was the first time Mary Garland had asked Rowland 
a question which it was in Roderick 's power to answer, 
the first time she had frankly betrayed Roderick 's reti 
cence. Rowland ventured to think it marked an era. 
The next morning was sultry, and the air, usually so 
fresh at those altitudes, was oppressively heavy. Row 
land lounged on the grass a while, near Singleton, who 
was at work under his white umbrella within view of the 
house ; and then in quest of coolness he wandered away 
to the rocky ridge whence you looked across at the 
Jungfrau. To-day, however, the white summits were 
invisible ; their heads were muffled in sullen clouds, and 
the valleys beneath them curtained in dun-coloured mist. 
Rowland had a book in his pocket, and he took it out 
and opened it. But his page remained unturned ; his 
own thoughts were more absorbing. His interview with 
Christina Light had made a great impression upon him, 
and he was haunted with the memory of her almost 
blameless bitterness, and of all that was tragic and fatal 
in her latest transformation. These things were im 
mensely appealing, and Rowland thought with infinite 
impatience of Roderick 's having again become acquainted 
with them. It required little imagination to apprehend 
 
that the young sculptor 's condition had also appealed to 
Christina. His consummate indifference, his supreme 
defiance, would make him a magnificent trophy, and 
Christina had announced with sufficient distinctness that 
she had said good-bye to scruples. It was her fancy at 
present to treat the world as a garden of pleasure, and 
if hitherto she had played with Roderick 's passion on its 
stem, there was little doubt that now she would pluck it 
with an unfaltering hand and drain it of its acrid sweet 
ness. And why the deuce need Roderick have gone 
marching back to destruction ? Rowland 's meditations, 
even when they began in rancour, often brought him 
comfort ; but on this occasion they ushered in a quite 
peculiar quality of unrest. He felt conscious of a sudden 
collapse in his moral energy ; a current that had been 
flowing for two years with liquid strength seemed at last 
to pause and stagnate. Rowland looked away at the 
sallow vapours on the mountains ; their dreariness had 
an analogy with the stale residuum of his own generosity. 
At last he had arrived at the uttermost limit of the de 
ference a sane man might pay to other people 's folly ; 
nay, rather, he had transgressed it ; he had been befooled 
on a gigantic scale. He turned to his book and tried to 
woo back patience, but it gave him cold comfort, and he 
tossed it angrily away. He pulled his hat over his eyes 
and tried to wonder dispassionately whether atmospheric 
conditions had not something to do with his ill-humour. 
He remained some time in this attitude, but was finally 
aroused from it by a singular sense that although he had 
heard nothing some one had approached him. He 
looked up and saw Roderick standing before him on the 
turf. His mood made the spectacle unwelcome, and for 
a moment he felt like speaking roughly. Roderick stood 
looking at him with an expression of countenance which 
had of late become rare. There was an unfamiliar spark 
in his eye, and a certain imperious alertness in his car 
riage. Confirmed habit, with Rowland, came speedily 
 
to the front. "What is it now?" he asked himself, 
and invited Roderick to sit down. Roderick had evi 
dently something particular to say, and if he remained 
silent for a time it was not because he was ashamed of it. 
"I should like you to do me a favour," he said at 
last. " Lend me some money." 
" How much do you wish?" Rowland asked. 
" Say a thousand francs." 
Rowland hesitated a moment. I don 't wish to be 
indiscreet, but may I ask you what you propose to do 
with a thousand francs?" 
"To go to Interlaken." 
"And why are you going to Interlaken? 
Roderick replied, without a shadow of wavering, 
" Because that woman is to be there." 
Rowland burst out laughing, but Roderick remained 
serenely grave. "You have forgiven her, then?" said 
Rowland. 
"Not a bit of it !" 
"I don 't understand." 
"Neither do I. I only know that she is incompar 
ably beautiful, and that she has waked me up amazingly. 
Besides, she asked me to come." 
" She asked you?" 
"Yesterday, in so many words." 
" Ah, the shameless jade !" 
" Exactly. I am willing to take her for that." 
"Why, in the name of common sense, did you go 
back to her ?" 
"Why did I find her standing there like a goddess 
who had just stepped out of her cloud ? Why did I 
look at her ? Before I knew where I was the spell was 
wrought. " 
Rowland, who had been sitting erect, threw himself 
back on the grass and lay for some time staring up at 
the sky. At last, raising himself, "Are you perfectly 
serious?" he asked. 
 
"Deadly serious." 
"Your idea is to remain at Interlaken some time?" 
"Indefinitely !" said Roderick ; and it seemed to his 
companion that the tone in which he said this made it 
immensely well worth hearing. 
"And your mother and cousin meanwhile are to re 
main here ? It will soon be getting very cold, you know. " 
" It doesn 't seem much like it to-day." 
"Very true ; but to-day is a day by itself." 
" There is nothing to prevent their going back to 
Lucerne. I depend upon your taking charge of them. 
At this moment Rowland reclined upon the grass 
again ; and again after reflection he faced his friend. 
" How would you express," he asked, " the character of 
the profit that you expect to derive from your excursion ?" 
"I see no need of expressing it. The proof of the 
pudding is in the eating ! The case is simply this. I 
desire immensely to be near Christina Light, and it is 
such a huge refreshment to find myself again desiring 
something, that I propose to drift with the current. As 
I say, she has waked me up, and it is possible that 
something may come of it. She makes me feel as if I 
were alive again. This sort of thing," and he glanced 
down at the inn, " I call death !" 
"That I am very grateful to hear. You really feel as 
if you might do something?" 
" Don 't ask too much. I only know that she makes 
my heart beat, makes me see visions." 
" You feel encouraged ?" 
" I feel excited." 
"You are really looking better." 
" I am glad to hear it. Now that I have answered 
your questions, please to give me the money." 
Rowland shook his head. For that purpose I can't ! " 
"You can t?" 
"It 's impossible. Your plan is pure folly. I can't 
help you in it." 
 
Roderick flushed a little, and his eye expanded. "I 
will borrow what money I can, then, from Mary!" This 
was not viciously said ; it had simply the ring of passion 
ate resolution. 
Instantly it brought Rowland to terms. He took a 
bunch of keys from his pocket and tossed it upon the 
grass. " The little brass one opens my dressing-case," 
he said. " You will find money in it." 
Roderick let the keys lie ; something seemed to have 
struck him ; he looked askance at his friend. "You are 
awfully considerate of Mary ! " 
"You certainly are not. Your proposal is an out 
rage." 
Very likely. It 's proof the more of my desire. " 
" If you have so much steam on, then, use it for some 
thing else ! You say you are awake again. I am de 
lighted ; only be so in the best sense. Isn 't it very 
plain ? If you have the energy to desire, you have also 
the energy to reason and to judge. If you can care to 
go, you can also care to stay, and staying being the more 
profitable course, the inspiration, on that side, for a man 
who has his self-confidence to win back again, should be 
greater. " 
Roderick plainly did not relish this simple logic, and 
his eye grew angry as he listened to its echo. " Oh, 
the devil !" he cried. 
But Rowland gave him more of it. " Do you believe 
that hanging about Christina Light will do you any good? 
Do you believe it won't ? In either case you should keep 
away from her. If it won t, it 's your duty ; and if it will, 
you can get on without it." 
" Do me good ?" cried Roderick. " What do I want 
of good what should I do with good ? I want 
what she gives me, call it by what name you will. I 
want to ask no questions, but to take what comes and 
let it fill the impossible hours ! But I didn 't come to 
discuss the matter." 
 
"I have not the least desire to discuss it," said Row 
land. " I simply protest." 
Roderick meditated a moment "I have never yet 
thought twice about accepting any favour of you," he 
said at last ; " but this one sticks in my throat." 
"It is not a favour ; I lend you the money only under 
compulsion. " 
"Well, then, I will take it only under compulsion !" 
Roderick exclaimed. And he sprang up abruptly and 
marched away. 
His words were ambiguous ; Rowland lay on the grass 
wondering what they meant. Half an hour had not 
elapsed before Roderick reappeared, heated with rapid 
walking and wiping his forehead. He flung himself 
down, and looked at his friend with an eye which ex 
pressed something purer than bravado and yet baser than 
conviction. 
"I have done my best !" he said. "My mother is 
out of money ; she is expecting next week some circular 
notes from London. She had only ten francs in her 
pocket. Mary Garland gave me every sou she possessed 
in the world. It makes exactly thirty-four francs. That 's 
not enough." 
You asked Mary Garland?" cried Rowland. 
I asked her." 
And told her your purpose ?" 
: I named no names. But she knew ! " 
; What did she say ?" 
Not a syllable. She simply emptied her purse. " 
Rowland turned over and buried his face in his arms. 
He felt a movement of irrepressible elation, and he barely 
stifled a cry of joy. Now, surely, Roderick had shattered 
the last link in the chain that bound Mary to him, and 
after this she would be free ! . . . When he turned 
about again, Roderick was still sitting there, and he had 
not touched the keys which lay on the grass. 
"I don 't know what is the matter with me," said 
 
Roderick, "but I have an insurmountable aversion to 
taking your money." 
" The matter, I suppose, is that you have a grain of 
wisdom left." 
" No, it 's not that. It 's a kind of brute instinct. I 
find it extremely provoking ! " He sat there for some 
time with his head in his hands and his eyes on the 
ground. His lips were compressed, and he was evidently, 
in fact, in a state of high disgust. " You have succeeded 
in making this thing uncommonly unpleasant !" he ex 
claimed. 
"I am sorry," said Rowland, "but I can't see it in 
any other way." 
" That I believe, and I resent the range of your vision 
pretending to be the limit of my action. You can't feel 
for me or judge for me, and there are certain things you 
know nothing about. I have suffered, sir !" Roderick 
went on, with increasing emphasis and with the ring of 
his fine old Virginian pomposity in his tone. I have 
suffered damnable torments. Have I been such a placid, 
contented, comfortable man this last six months that 
when I find a chance to forget my misery I should take 
such pains not to profit by it ? You ask too much, for a 
man who himself has no occasion to play the hero. I 
don 't say that invidiously ; it 's your disposition, and you 
can't help it. But decidedly there are certain things you 
know nothing about." 
Rowland listened to this outbreak with open eyes, 
and Roderick, if he had been less intent upon his own 
eloquence, would probably have perceived that he turned 
pale. " These things what are they ?" Rowland asked. 
"They are women, principally, and what relates to 
women. Women for you, by what I can make out, 
mean nothing. You have no imagination no sensi 
bility, nothing to be touched !" 
"That 's a serious charge," said Rowland, gravely. 
" I don 't make it without proof!" 
 
"And what is your proof?" 
Roderick hesitated a moment. The way you treated 
Christina Light. I call that grossly obtuse." 
"Obtuse?" Rowland repeated, frowning. 
"Thick-skinned, beneath your good fortune." 
"My good fortune?" 
" There it is it 's all news to you ! You had pleased 
her. I don 't say she was dying of love for you, but she 
took a fancy to you." 
" We will let this pass !" said Rowland, after a silence. 
"Oh, I don 't insist. I have only her own word for 
it." 
" Her own word?" 
"You noticed, at least, I suppose, that she was not 
afraid to speak ! I never repeated it, not because I was 
jealous, but because I was curious to see how long your 
ignorance would last if it were left to itself. " 
" I frankly confess it would have lasted for ever. And 
yet I don 't consider that my insensibility is proved." 
"Oh, don 't say that," cried Roderick, " or I shall 
begin to suspect what I must do you the justice to say 
that I never have suspected that you too have a grain 
of conceit ! Upon my word, when I think of all this, 
your protest, as you call it, against my following Chris 
tina Light seems to me thoroughly offensive. There is 
something monstrous in a man 's pretending to lay down 
the law to a sort of emotion with which he is quite un 
acquainted in his asking a fellow to give up a lovely 
woman for conscience sake when he has never had the 
impulse to strike a blow for one for passion 's !" 
"Oh, oh !" cried Rowland. 
" It 's very easy to exclaim," Roderick went on ; "but 
you must remember that there are such things as nerves 
and senses and imagination and a restless demon within, 
that may sleep sometimes for a day, or for six months, 
but that sooner or later wakes up and thumps at your 
ribs till you listen to him ! If you can't understand it, 
 
take it on trust and let a poor visionary devil live his life 
as he can !" 
Roderick 's words seemed at first to Rowland like 
something heard in a dream ; it was impossible they had 
been actually spoken so supreme an expression were 
they of the insolence of egotism. Reality was never so 
consistent as that ! But Roderick sat there balancing 
his beautiful head, and the echoes of his strident accent 
still lingered along the half-muffled mountain-side. Row 
land suddenly felt that the cup of his chagrin was full to 
overflowing, and his long-gathered bitterness surged into 
the simple wholesome passion of anger for wasted kind 
ness. But he spoke without violence, and Roderick 
was probably at first far from measuring the force that 
lay beneath his words. 
"You are incredibly ungrateful," he said. "You are 
talking arrogant nonsense. What do you know about 
my senses and my imagination ? How do you know 
whether I have loved or suffered ? If I have held my 
tongue and not troubled you with my complaints, you 
find it the most natural thing in the world to put an 
ignoble construction on my silence ! I loved quite as 
well as you ; indeed I think I may say rather better. 
I have been constant. I have been willing to give more 
than I received. I have not forsaken one mistress because 
I thought another more beautiful, nor given up the other 
and believed all manner of evil about her because I had 
not my way with her. I have been a good friend to 
Christina Light, and it seems to me my friendship does 
her quite as much honour as your love ! " 
"Your love your suffering your silence your 
friendship!" cried Roderick. "I declare I don 't 
understand ! " 
"I daresay not. You are not used to understanding 
such things you are not used to hearing me talk of my 
feelings. You are altogether too much taken up with your 
own. Be as much so as you please ; I have always re- 
spected your right. Only when I have kept myself in 
durance on purpose to leave you an open field, don 't, by 
way of thanking me, come and call me an idiot." 
" Oh, you claim, then, that you have made sacrifices ?" 
" Several ! You have never suspected it?" 
" If I had, do you suppose I would have allowed it ?" 
cried Roderick. 
" They were the sacrifices of friendship, and they were 
easily made ; only I don 't enjoy having them thrown back 
in my teeth." 
This was under the circumstances a sufficiently generous 
speech ; but Roderick was not in the humour to take it 
generously. " Come, be more definite," he said. " Let 
me know where it is the shoe has pinched." 
Rowland frowned ; if Roderick would not take gener 
osity he should have full justice, "it 's a perpetual 
sacrifice to live with a transcendent egotist ! " 
* I am an egotist?" cried Roderick. 
"Did it never occur to you?" 
" An egotist to whom you have made perpetual sacri 
fices ? " He repeated the words in a singular tone ; a 
tone that denoted neither exactly indignation nor in 
credulity, but (strange as it may seem) a sudden violent 
curiosity for news about himself. 
"You are selfish," said Rowland; "you think only 
of yourself and believe only in yourself. You regard 
other people only as they play into your own hands. 
You have always been veiy frank about it, and the thing 
seemed so mixed up with the temper of your genius and 
the veiy structure of your mind that often one was willing 
to take the evil with the good and to be thankful that, 
considering your great talent, you were no worse. But 
if one believed in you as I have done one paid a tax on 
one 's faith ! " 
Roderick leaned his elbows on his knees, clasped his 
hands together and crossed them shadewise over his eyes. 
In this attitude for a moment he sat looking coldly at 
 
his friend. " So I have made you very uncomfortable?" 
he went on. 
" Extremely so." 
" I have been eager, grasping, obstinate, vain, ungrate 
ful, indifferent, cruel ? " 
"I have accused you mentally of all these things 
with the exception of vanity." 
"You have often hated me?" 
" Never. I should have parted company with you 
before coming to that." 
" But you have wanted to part company, to bid me go 
on my way and be hanged ? " 
" Repeatedly. Then I have had patience and forgiven 
you." 
Forgiven me, eh ? Suffering all the while ? " 
Yes, you may call it suffering. " 
"Why did you never tell me all this before?" 
" Because my affection was always stronger than my 
resentment ; because I preferred to err on the side of 
kindness ; because I had myself in a measure launched 
you in the world and thrown you among temptations ; 
and because nothing short of your unwarrantable aggres 
sion just now could have made me say these painful 
things." 
Roderick picked up a blade of long grass and began 
to bite it ; Rowland was puzzled by his expression and 
manner. They seemed strangely cynical ; there was 
something revolting in his deepening calmness. "I 
must have been hideous," Roderick presently resumed. 
" I am not talking for your entertainment," said Row 
land. 
" Of course not. For my edification ! " As Roderick 
said these words there was not a ray of warmth in his 
brilliant eye. 
" I have spoken for my own relief," Rowland went 
on, " and so that you need never again go so utterly 
astray as you have done this morning." 
"It has been a terrible mistake, then?" What his 
tone expressed was not wilful mockery, but a kind of 
persistent irresponsibility which Rowland found equally 
exasperating. He answered nothing. "And all this 
time," Roderick continued, "you have been in love? 
Tell me the woman." 
Rowland felt an immense desire to give him a visible 
palpable pang. " Her name is Mary Garland," he said. 
Apparently he succeeded. The surprise was great ; 
Roderick coloured as he had never done. " Mary 
Garland ? Heaven forgive us ! " 
Rowland observed the "us ;" Roderick threw himself 
back on the turf. The latter lay for some time staring 
at the sky. At last he sprang to his feet, and Rowland 
rose also, rejoicing keenly, it must be confessed, in his 
companion 's confusion. 
" For how long has this been ? " Roderick demanded. 
" Since I first knew her." 
" Two years ! And you have never told her ? " 
"Never." 
" You have told no one ? " 
"You are the first person." 
Why have you been silent ? " 
"Because of your engagement." 
" But you have done your best to keep that up." 
"That 's another matter !" 
"It 's very strange !" said Roderick presently. "It 's 
like something in a novel." 
"We needn 't expatiate on it," said Rowland. "All 
I wished to do was to rebut your charge that I am an 
abnormal being." 
But still Roderick pondered. "All these months, 
while I was going my way ! I wish you had mentioned 
it." 
" I acted as was necessary, and that 's the end of it." 
"You have a very high opinion of her?" 
"The highest." 
 
" I remember now your occasionally expressing it and 
my being struck with it. But I never dreamed you 
were in love with her. It 's a pity she doesn 't care for 
you !" 
Rowland had made his point, and he had no wish to 
prolong the conversation ; but he had a desire to hear 
more of this, and he remained silent. 
"You hope, I suppose, that some day she may?" 
Roderick asked. 
" I shouldn 't have offered to say so ; but since you 
ask me, I do." 
" I don 't believe it. She idolises me, and if she never 
were to see me again she would idolise my memory." 
This might be vivid insight and it might be profound 
fatuity. Rowland turned away ; he could not trust him 
self to speak. 
My indifference, my neglect of her, must have 
seemed to you horrible. Altogether I must have ap 
peared simply hideous." 
"Do you really care," Rowland asked, "what you 
appeared?" 
" Certainly. I have been damnably stupid. Isn 't an 
artist supposed to be a man of perceptions? I am 
hugely disgusted." 
"Well, you understand now, and we can start afresh." 
" And yet," said Roderick, " though you have suffered, 
in a degree, I don 't believe you have suffered so much 
as some other men would have done." 
"Very likely not. In such matters quantitative 
analysis is difficult." 
Roderick picked up his stick and stood looking at the 
ground. "Nevertheless, I must have seemed hideous," 
he repeated "hideous." He turned away frowning, 
and Rowland offered no contradiction. 
They were both silent for some time, and at last 
Roderick gave a heavy sigh and began to walk away, 
"Where are you going?" Rowland then asked. 
 
"Oh, I don 't care! To walk; you have given me 
something to think of." This seemed a salutary impulse, 
and yet Rowland felt a nameless perplexity. "To have 
been so stupid damns me more than anything ! " Roderick 
went on. " Certainly I can shut up shop now." 
Rowland felt in no smiling humour, and yet in spite 
of himself he could almost have smiled at the very con 
sistency of the fellow. It was egotism still aesthetic 
disgust at the graceless contour of his conduct, but never 
a hint of simple sorrow for the pain he had given. 
Rowland let him go, and for some moments stood watch 
ing him. Suddenly Rowland became conscious of a 
singular and most illogical impulse a desire to stop him, 
to have another word with him not to lose sight of 
him. He called him, and Roderick turned. " I should 
like to go with you," said Rowland. 
" I am fit only to be alone. I am damned !" 
"You had better not think of it at all," Rowland 
cried, "than think in that way." 
"There is only one way. I have been hideous!" 
And he broke off and marched away with his long elastic 
step, swinging his stick. Rowland watched him, and 
at the end of a moment called to him. Roderick stopped 
and looked at him in silence, and then abruptly turned 
and disappeared below the crest of a hill. 
XXVI. 
ROWLAND passed the remainder of the clay as best he 
could. He was half exasperated, half depressed ; he 
had an insufferable feeling of having been placed in the 
wrong in spite of his excellent cause. Roderick did not 
come home to lunch ; but of this, with his passion for 
brooding away the hours on far-off mountain-sides, he 
 
had almost made a habit. Mrs. Hudson appeared at 
the noonday repast with a face which showed that 
Roderick 's demand for money had unsealed the fountains 
of her distress. Little Singleton consumed an enormous 
and well-earned meal. Mary Garland, Rowland ob 
served, had not contributed her scanty assistance to her 
kinsman 's pursuit of the Princess Casamassima without 
an effort. The effort was visible in her pale face and 
her silence ; she looked so ill that when they left the 
table Rowland felt almost bound to remark upon it. 
They had come out upon the grass in front of the inn. 
" I have a headache," she said. And then suddenly, 
looking about at the menacing sky and motionless air, 
" It 's this horrible day !" 
Rowland that afternoon tried to write a letter to his 
cousin Cecilia, but his head and his heart wtre alike 
heavy, and he traced upon the paper but a single line. 
" I believe there is such a thing as being too reasonable. 
But when once the habit is formed, what is one to do?" 
He had occasion to use his keys, and he felt for them in 
his pockets ; they were missing, and he remembered that 
he had left them lying on the hill-top where he had had 
his talk with Roderick. He went forth in search of them, 
and found them where he had thrown them. He flung 
himself down in the same place again ; he felt indis 
posed to walk. He was conscious that his mood had 
greatly changed since the morning ; his extraordinary 
acute sense of his rights had been replaced by the familiar 
chronic sense of his duties. Only, his duties now seemed 
impracticable ; he turned over and buried his face in his 
arms. He lay so a long time, thinking of many things ; 
the sum of them all was that Roderick had beaten him. 
At last he was startled by an extraordinary sound ; it 
took him a moment to perceive that it was a portentous 
growl of thunder. He aroused himself and saw that 
the whole face of the sky had altered. The clouds that 
had hung motionless all day were moving from their 
 
stations, and getting into position for a battle. The 
wind was rising, the turbid vapours were growing dark 
and thick. It was a striking spectacle, but Rowland 
judged best to observe it briefly, as a storm was evidently 
imminent. He took his way down to the inn, and found 
Singleton still at his post, profiting by the last of the 
rapidly-failing light to finish his study, and yet at the same 
time taking rapid notes of the actual condition of the 
clouds. 
" We are going to have a most interesting storm ! " the 
little painter gleefully cried. "I should like awfully to 
do it." 
Rowland adjured him to pack up his tools and decamp, 
and repaired to the house. The air by this time had 
become tremendously dark, and the thunder was incessant 
and deafening ; in the midst of it the lightning flashed 
and vanished, like the treble shrilling upon the bass. 
The innkeeper and his servants had crowded to the door 
way and were looking at the scene with faces which 
seemed a proof that it was unprecedented. As Rowland 
approached, the group divided to let some one pass within, 
and Mrs. Hudson came forth, as white as a corpse and 
trembling in every limb. 
"My boy, my boy, where is my boy?" she cried. 
" Mr. Mallet, why are you here without him ? Bring 
him to me !" 
"Has no one seen Mr. Hudson?" Rowland asked of 
the others. " Has he not returned?" 
Each one shook his head and looked grave, and Row 
land attempted to reassure Mrs. Hudson by saying that 
of course he had taken refuge in a chalet. 
"Go and find him, go and find him !" she cried, in 
sanely. "Don 't stand there and talk, or I shall drop 
dead !" It was now as dark as evening, and Rowland 
could just distinguish the figure of Singleton scampering 
homeward with his box and easel. And where is 
Mary?" Mrs. Hudson went on; "what in mercy 's name 
 
has become of her? Mr. Mallet, why did you ever 
bring us here?" 
There came a prodigious flash of lightning, and the 
limitless tumult about them turned clearer than mid 
summer noonday. The brightness lasted long enough to 
