am failing constantly. Slowly, if you please, but 
constantly. I am not as strong as I look, and I am 
far less well than your father believes. I should 
know best; and I know I am failing. If you remain in England three years, or even two years, 
when you come back I shall not be here." 
" I hope you are mistaken, colonel." 
" I am not mistaken." 
There was silence a few minutes. Pitt did not 
place unqualified trust in this judgment, even although, as he could not deny, the colonel might be 
supposed to know best. He doubted the truth of 
the prognostication ; yet on the other hand he could 
not be sure that it was false. What if it were not 
false ? 
"I hope you are mistaken, colonel," he said 
again ; " but if you are right, if it should be so as 
you fear " 
" I do not fear it," put in the colonel, interrupting him. 
" Not for yourself; but if it should be so, what 
will become of Esther ? " 
" It was of her I wished to speak. She will be 
here." 
" Here in this house ? She would be alone." 
" I should be away. But Mrs. Barker would look 
after her." 
" Barker ! " Pitt echoed. " Yes, Mrs. Barker 
could take care of the house and of the cooking, as 
she does now; but Esther would be entirely alone, 
colonel." 
" I have no one else to leave her with," said the 
colonel gloomily. 
" Let my mother take charge of her, in such a 
case. My mother would take care of her, as if 
 
Esther were her own. Let her come to my mother, 
colonel ! " 
"No," said the colonel quietly, "that would not 
be best. I am sure of Mrs. Dallas's kindness; but 
I shall leave Esther under the care of Barker and 
her brother. Christopher will manage the place, 
and keep everything right outside; and Barker will 
do her part faithfully. Esther will be safe enough 
so, for a while. She is a child yet. But then, 
William, I'll take a promise from you", if you will 
give it." 
"I will give any promise you like, sir. What is 
it?" said Pitt, who had never been in a less pleasant mood towards his friend. In fact he was en 
tirely out of patience with him. " What promise 
do you want, colonel ? " he repeated. 
"When you come back from England, Will, if 
I am no longer here, I want you to ask Esther for 
a sealed package of papers, which I shall leave with 
her. Then open the package; and the promise I 
want from you is that you will do according to the 
wishes you will find there expressed." 
Pitt looked at the colonel in much astonishment. 
" May I not know what those wishes regard, sir ? " 
"They will regard all I leave behind me." 
There was in the tone of the colonel's voice and 
the manner of utterance of his words, something 
which shewed Pitt that further explanations were 
not to be had from him. He hesitated, not liking 
to bind himself to anything in the dark; but finally 
he gave the promise as required. He went home 
however in a doubtful mood, as regarded himself, 
and a very impatient one as concerned the colonel. 
What ridiculous, precise notion was this, that had 
got possession of him ? How little was he able to 
comprehend the nature or the needs of his little 
daughter; and what disagreeable office might he 
have laid upon Pitt in that connection ? Pitt revolved these things in a fever of impatience with 
the colonel, who had demanded such a pledge from 
him, and with himself who had given it. " I have 
been a fool for once in my life ! " thought he. 
Mr. and Mrs. Dallas were in the sitting room, 
where Pitt went in. They had been watching for 
his return, though they took care not to tell him 
so. 
' How's your friend the colonel to-day?" his 
father asked, willing to make sure where his son 
had been. 
"He thinks he is dying," Pitt answered, in no 
very good humour. 
He has been thinking that for the last two 
years." 
" Do you suppose there is anything in it ? " 
" Nothing but megrims. He's hipped, that's all. 
If he had some work to do, that he must do, I mean, 
it's my belief he would be a well man to-day; and 
know it, too." 
" He honestly thinks he's dying. Slowly, of 
course, but surely." 
" Pity he ever left the army," said Mrs. Dallas. 
" He is one of those men who don't bear to be idle." 
 
"That's all humankind ! " said her husband. "No 
body bears to be idle. Can't do it, without running 
down." 
"Still," said Pitt thoughtfully, "you cannot tell. 
A man ought to be the best judge of his own feel 
ings; and perhaps Col. Gainsborough is ill, as he 
says." 
" What are you going to do about it? " said his 
father with a half sneer. 
" Nothing; only, if he should turn out to be right, 
if he should die within a year or two, what would 
become of his little daughter ? " 
Mr. and Mrs. Dallas exchanged a scarcely perceptible glance. 
" Send her home to his family," answered the 
former. 
" Has he a family in England ? " 
" So he says. I judge, not a small one." 
" Not parents living, has he ? " 
"I believe not; but there are Gainsboroughs 
enough without that." 
" What ever made him come over here ? " 
" Some property quarrel, I gather, though the 
colonel never told me in so many words." 
"Then he might not like to send Esther to them. 
Property quarrels are embittering." 
" Do you know any sort of quarrel that isn't ? It 
is impossible to say beforehand what Col. Gains 
borough might like to do. He's a fidgety man. 
If there's a thing I hate, in the human line, it's a 
fidget. You can't reason with em." 
" Then what would become of that child, mother, 
if her father were really to die ? " 
Pitt spoke now with a little anxiety; but Mrs. 
Dallas answered coolly. 
"He would make the necessary arrangements." 
" But they have no friends here, and no relations. 
It would be dreadfully forlorn for her. Mother, if 
Col. Gainsborough should die, wouldn't it be kind 
if you were to take her ?" 
"Too kind," said Mr. Dallas. "There is such a 
thing as being too kind, Pitt. Did you never hear 
of it?" 
" I do not comprehend, sir. What objection 
could there be? The child is not a common child; 
she is one that anybody might like to have in the 
house. I should think you and my mother might 
enjoy it very much, especially with me away." 
" Especially " said the elder man dryly. " Well, 
Pitt, perhaps you are right; but for me there is this 
serious objection, that she is a dissenter." 
" A dissenter ! " echoed Pitt in unfeigned aston 
ishment. " What is a dissenter, here in the new 
country ? " 
" Very much the same thing that he is in the 
old country, I suspect." 
"And what is that, sir? " 
" Humph! well, don't you know? Narrow, underbred, and pig-headed, and with that, disgustingly 
radical. That is what it means to be a dissenter; 
always did mean." 
" Underbred ! You cannot find, old country or 
 
new country, a better bred man than Col. Gains 
borough; and Esther is perfect in her manners." 
"I haven't tried her" said the other; "but isn't 
he pig-headed ? And isn't he radical, think you ? 
They all are; they always were; from the days of 
Cromwell and Ireton." 
" But the child ? Esther knows nothing of 
politics." 
" It's in the blood," said Mr. Dallas stroking unmoveably his long whiskers. "It's in the blood. 
I'll have no dissenters in my house. It is fixed in 
the blood, and will not wash out." 
"I don't believe she knows what a dissenter 
means." 
" Your father is quite right," put in Mrs. Dallas. 
" I should not like a dissenter in my family. I 
should not know how to get on with her. In 
chance social intercourse it does not so much matter though I feel the difference even there; but 
in the family . It is always best for like to keep 
to like." 
" But these are only differences of form, mother." 
"Do you think so?" said Mrs. Dallas, drawing 
up her handsome person. " I believe in form, Pitt, 
for my part; and when you get to England you 
will find that it is only the nobodies who dispense 
with it. But the Church is more than Form, I 
should think. You'll find the Archbishop of Can 
terbury is something besides a form. And is our 
Liturgy a form ? " 
Pitt escaped from the discussion, half angry and 
half amused, but seriously concerned about Esther. 
And meanwhile Esther was having her own thoughts. 
She had come home from her blackberrying late, after Pitt had gone home ; and a little further on in the 
afternoon she had followed him, to get her daily lesson. As the weather was warm all windows were 
standing open; and the talkers within the house be 
ing somewhat eager and preoccupied in their minds, 
did not moderate their voices nor pay any attention 
to what might be going on outside ; and so it happened that Esther's light step was not heard as it 
came past the windows ; and it followed very easily 
that one or two half sentences came to her ear. 
She heard her own name, which drew her attention, 
and then Mr. Dallas's declaration that he would 
have no dissenters in his house. Esther paused, not 
certainly to listen, but with a sudden check arising 
from something in the tone of the words. As she 
stood still in doubt whether to go forward or not, 
a word or two more were spoken, and also heard; 
and with that, Esther turned short about, left all 
thought of her lesson, and made her way home ; 
walking rather faster than she had come. 
She laid off her hat, went into the room where 
her father was, and sat down in the window with 
a book. 
" Home again, Esther ? " said he. " You have 
not been long away." 
"No, papa." 
" Did you have your lesson ? " 
"No, papa." 
 
"Why not?" 
" Pitt was talking to somebody." 
The colonel made no further remark, and the 
room was very still for awhile. Until after an hour 
or more the colonel's book went down; and then 
Esther from her window spoke again. 
" Papa, if you please, what is a dissenter ? " 
" A what ? " demanded the colonel, rousing him 
self. 
"A dissenter, papa." 
** What do you know about dissenters ? " 
" Nothing, papa. What is it ? " 
" What makes you ask ? " 
" I heard the word, papa, and I didn't know 
what it meant." 
"There is no need you should know what it 
means. A dissenter is one who dissents." 
"From what, sir?" 
" From something that other people believe in." 
" But papa, according to that then, everybody is 
a dissenter; and that is not true, is it?" 
" What has put the question into your head ? " 
"I heard somebody speaking of dissenters." 
"Whom?" . 
" Mrs. Dallas." 
" Ah ! " The colonel smiled grimly. " She might 
be speaking of you and me." 
Esther knew that to have been the fact, but she 
did not say so. She only asked, 
" What do we dissent from, papa." 
" We dissent from the notion that form is more 
than substance and the kernel less valuable than 
the shell." 
This told Esther nothing. She was mystified ; at 
the same time her respect for her father did not allow her to press further a question he seemed to 
avoid. 
" Is Pitt a dissenter, papa ? " 
" There is no need you should trouble your head 
with the question of dissent, my child. In England there is an Established church ; all who decline 
to come into it are there called Dissenters." 
"Does it tire you to have me ask questions, papa?" 
"No." 
" Who established the church there ? " 
"The Government." 
" What for ? " 
"Wanted to rule men's consciences as well as 
their bodies." 
" But a government cannot do that, papa ? " 
"They have tried, Esther. Tried by fire and 
sword, and cruelty, and persecution ; by fines and 
imprisonments and disqualifications. Some sub 
mitted, but a goodly number dissented; and our 
family has always belonged to that honourable 
number. See you do it no discredit. The Gainsboroughs were always Independents; we fought 
with Cromwell, and suffered under the Stuarts. 
We have an unbroken record of striving for the 
right. Keep to your traditions, my dear." 
"But why should a Government wish to rule 
people's consciences, papa ? " 
 
" Power, my dear. As long as men's minds are 
free, there is something where power does not 
reach." 
" I should think everybody would like Dissenters, 
papa ? " was Esther's simple conclusion. 
" Mrs. Dallas doesn t," said the colonel grimly. 
CHAPTER XII. 
THE VACATION. 
THE days went too fast, as the last half of Pitt's 
 vacation passed away. Ay, there was no hold 
ing them, much as Esther tried to make each one 
as long as possible. I think Pitt tried too; for he 
certainly gave his little friend and playmate all he 
could of pleasure and all he could of himself. Esther 
shared everything he did, very nearly, that was not 
done, within his own home. Nothing could have 
been more delightful than those days of August 
and September, if only the vision of the end of 
them had not been so near. That vision did not 
hinder the enjoyment; it intensified it; every taste 
of summer and social delight was made keen with 
that spice of coming pain; even towards the very 
last, nothing could prevent Esther's enjoyment of 
every moment she and Pitt spent together. Only 
to be together was such pleasure. Every word he 
spoke was good in her ears; and to her eyes, every 
feature of his appearance and every movement of 
his person was comely and admirable. She gave 
him in fact a kind of grave worship; which perhaps 
 
nobody suspected in its degree, because it was not 
displayed in the manner of childish effusiveness. 
Esther was never effusive; her manner was always 
quiet, delicate, and dignified, such as a child's can 
well be. And so even Pitt himself did not fully 
know how his little friend regarded him ; though 
he had sometimes a queer approach to apprehension. 
It struck him now and then, the grave, absorbed look 
of Esther's beautiful eyes; occasionally he caught a 
flash of light in them, such as in nature only comes 
from heavily charged clouds. Always she liked to 
do what he liked, and gave quick regard to any 
expressed wish of his; always listened to him, and 
watched his doings, and admired his successes, with 
the unconditional devotion of an unquestioning 
faith. Pitt was half aware of all this ; yet he was 
at an age when speculation is apt to be more busy 
with matters of the head than of the heart; and besides he was tolerably well accustomed to the same 
sort of thing at home, and took it probably as very 
natural and quite in order. And he knew well and 
did not forget, that to the little lonely child his go 
ing away would be, even more than it might be to 
his mother, the loss of a great deal of brightness out 
of her daily life. He did even dread it a little. 
And as the time drew near, he saw that his fears 
were going to be justified. 
Esther did not lament or complain ; she never in 
deed spoke of his going at all; but what was much 
more serious, she grew pale. And when the last 
week came, the smile died out of her eyes and from 
ofFher lips. No tears were visible ; Pitt would almost 
rather have seen her cry, like a child, much as with 
all other men he hated tears; it would have been 
better than this preternatural gravity with which 
the large eyes opened at him and the soft mouth 
refused to give way. She seemed to enter into 
everything they were doing with no less interest 
than usual ; she was not abstracted ; rather, Pitt got 
the impression that she carried about with her and 
brought into everything the perfect recollection that 
he was going away. It began to oppress him. 
" I wish I could feel, mother, that you would 
look a little after that motherless child," he said in 
a sort of despairing attempt one evening. 
"She is not fatherless," Mrs. Dallas answered 
composedly. 
" No, but a girl wants a mother." 
" She is accustomed to the want now." 
" Mother, it isn't kind of you ! " 
"How would you have me shew kindness?" Mrs. 
Dallas asked calmly. Now that Pitt was going 
away and safe, she could treat the matter without 
excitement. "What would Col. Gainsborough like 
me to do for his daughter, do you think ? " 
Pitt was silent, and vexed. 
" What do you want me to do for her ? " 
"I'd like you to be a friend to her. She will 
need one." 
" If her father dies, you mean ? " 
" If he lives. She will be very lonely when I am 
gone away." 
 
"That is because you have accustomed her so 
much to your company. I never thought it was 
wise. She will get over it in a little while." 
Would she ? Pitt studied her next day, and 
much doubted his mother's assertion. All the 
months of his last term in college had not been 
enough to weaken in the least Esther's love for 
him. It was real, honest, genuine love, and of 
very pure quality; a diamond, he was ready to 
think, of the first water. Only a child's love; but 
Pitt had too fine a nature himself to despise a child's 
love ; and full as his head was of novelties, hopes 
and plans and purposes, there was space in his heart 
for a very tender concern about Esther beside. 
It came to the last evening, and he was sitting 
with her on the verandah. It was rather cool 
there now; the roses and honeysuckles and the 
summer moonshine were gone; the two friends 
chose to stay there because they could be alone, 
and nobody overhear their words. Words for a 
little while had ceased to flow. Esther was sitting 
very still, and Pitt knew how she was looking; 
something of the dry despair had come back to 
her face which had been in it when he was first 
moved to busy himself about her. 
"Esther, I shall come back," he said suddenly, 
bending down to look in her face. 
" When ? " she said, half under her breath. It 
was not a question ; it was an answer. 
" Well, not immediately; but the years pass away 
fast, don't you know that?" 
" Are you sure you will come back ? " 
" Why certainly ! if I am alive I will. Why if 
I came for nothing else, I would come to see after 
you, Queen Esther." 
Esther was silent. Talking was not easy. 
"And meanwhile I shall be busy, and you will 
be busy. We have both a great deal to do." 
" You have." 
" And I am sure you have. Now let us consult. 
What have you got to do, before we see one an 
other again ? " 
"I suppose," said Esther, " take care of papa." 
She said it in a quiet, matter-of-course tone, and 
Pitt started a little. It was very likely! but it 
had not just occurred to him before, how large a 
part that care might play in the girl's life for some 
time to come. 
" Does he need so much care ? " he asked. 
" It isn't real care," said Esther in the same tone ; 
"but he likes to have me about, to do things for him." 
" Queen Esther, aren't you going to carry on your 
studies for me, all the same ? " 
" For you ! " said she lifting her heavy eyes to 
him. It hurt him, to see how heavy they were; 
weighted with a great load of sorrow, too mighty 
for tears. 
" For me, certainly. I expect everything to go 
on just as if I were here to look after it. I expect 
everything to go on so, that when I come again 
I may find just what I want to find. You must 
not disappoint me?" 
 
Esther did not say. She made no answer at all, 
and after a minute put a question which was a 
diversion. 
"Where are you going first, Pitt?" 
"To Lisbon." 
"Yes, I know that ; but when you get to England?" 
" London first. You know that is the great 
English centre." 
" Do you know any people there ? " 
"Not I. But I have a great uncle there, living 
at Kensington. I believe that is part of London, 
though really I don't know much about it. I shall 
go to see him of course." 
"Your great uncle. That is, Mr. Dallas's own 
uncle ? " 
" No, my mother's. His name is Strahan." 
"And then you are going to Oxford? Why do 
you go there? Are not the colleges in America 
just as good?" 
" I can tell better after I've seen Oxford. But 
no, Queen Esther; that is larger and older and 
richer than any college in America can be; indeed 
it is a cluster of colleges; it is a University." 
" Will you study in them all ? " 
" No," said Pitt laughing, " not exactly ! But it 
is a fine place, by all accounts; a noble place. And 
then, you know, we are English, and my father and 
mother wish me to be as English as possible. That 
is natural." 
" We are English too," said Esther sighing. 
" Therefore you ought to be glad I am going." 
But Esther's cheek only grew a shade paler. 
" Will you keep up your studies, like a good 
girl?" 
" I will try." 
" And send me a drawing now and then, to let 
me see how you are getting on ? " 
She lifted her eyes to him again, for one of those 
grave, appealing looks. " How could I get it to 
you ? " 
"Your father will have my address. I shall 
write to him, and I shall write to you." 
She made no answer. The things filling her 
heart were too many for it and too strong; there 
came no tears, but her breathing was laboured; 
and her brow was dark with what seemed a moun 
tain of oppression. Pitt was half glad that just 
now there came a call for Esther from the room 
behind them. Both went in. The colonel wanted 
Esther to search in a repository of papers for a certain English print of some months back. 
"Well, my boy," said he, "are you off?" 
" Just off, sir," said Pitt, eyeing the little figure 
that was busy in the corner among the papers. It 
gave him more pain than he had thought, to leave 
it. " I wish you would come over, colonel. Why 
shouldn't you ? It would do you good. I mean, 
when there is peace again upon the high seas." 
" I shall never leave this place again, till I leave 
all that is earthly," Col. Gainsborough answered. 
" May I take the liberty sometimes of writing to 
you, sir ? " 
 
"I should like it very much, William." 
"And if I find anything that would amuse Esther, 
sir, may I tell her about it ? " 
" I have no objection. She will be very much 
obliged to you. So you are going? Heaven be 
with you, my boy. You have lightened many an 
hour for me." 
He rose up and shook Pitt's hand, with a warm 
grasp and a dignified manner of leave-taking. But 
when Pitt would have taken Esther's hand, she 
brushed past him and went out into the hall. Pitt 
followed, with another bow to the colonel, and courteously shutting the door behind him ; wishing the 
work well over. Esther however made no fuss, 
hardly any demonstration. She stood there in the 
hall and gave him her hand silently; I might say 
coldly, for the hand was very cold ; and her face 
was white with suppressed feeling. Pitt grasped 
the hand and looked at the face ; hesitated ; then 
opened his arms and took her into them and kissed 
her. Was she not like a little sister ? and was it 
possible to let this heartache go without alleviation? 
No doubt if the colonel had been present he would 
not have ventured such a breach of forms; but as 
it was Pitt defied forms. He clasped the sorrowing 
little girl in his arms and kissed her brow and her 
cheek and her lips. 
" I'm coming back again," said he. " See that 
you have everything all right for me when I come." 
Then he let her out of his arms and went off 
without another word. As he went home, he was 
ready to smile and skake himself at the warmth 
of demonstration into which he had been betrayed. 
He was not Esther's brother, and had no particular 
right to shew himself so affectionate. The colonel 
would have been, he doubted, less than pleased, and 
it would not have happened in his dignified presence. But Esther was a child, Pitt said to himself, 
and a very tender child; and he could not be sorry 
that he had shewn her the feeling was not all on 
her side. Perhaps it might comfort the child. It 
never occurred to him to reproach himself with 
shewing more than he felt, for he had no occasion. 
The feeling he had given expression to was entirely genuine, and possibly deeper than he knew, 
although he shook his head, figuratively, at himself 
as he went home. 
Esther, when the door closed upon Pitt, stood 
still for some minutes ; in the realization that now 
it was all over and he was gone. The hall door 
was like a grim kind of barrier, behind which the 
light of her life had disappeared. It remained so 
stolidly closed ! Pitt's hand did not open it again ; 
the hand was already at a distance, and would maybe 
never push that door open any more. He was gone, 
and the last day of that summer vacation was over. 
The feeling absorbed Esther for a few minutes and 
made her as still as a stone. It did comfort her 
that he had taken such a kindly leave of her, and 
at the same time it sealed the sense of her loss. 
For he was the only one in the world in whose 
heart it was to give her good earnest kisses like 
 
that ; and he was away, away ! Her father's affection for her was undoubted, nevertheless it was 
not his wont to give it that sort of expression. 
Esther was not comparing however, nor reflecting; 
only filled with the sense of her loss, which for the 
moment chilled and stiffened her. She heard her 
father's voice calling her, and she went in. 
"My dear, you stay too long in the cold. Is 
William gone?" 
"O yes, papa." 
"This is not the right paper I want; this is an 
August paper. I want the one for the last week 
in July." 
Esther went and rummaged again among the 
pile of newspapers, mechanically, finding it hard 
to command her attention to such an indifferent 
business. She brought the July paper at last. 
" Papa, do you think he will ever come back ? " 
she asked, trembling with pain and the effort not 
to shew it. 
"Comeback? Who? William Dallas ? Why 
shouldn't he come back? His parents are here. 
If he lives, he will return to them, no doubt." 
Esther sat down and said no more. The earth 
seemed to her dreadfully empty. 
CHAPTER XIII. 
LETTEKS. 
AND so life seemed for many days to the child. 
She could not shake off the feeling, nor regain 
any brightness of spirit. Dull, dull, everything 
in earth and heaven seemed to be. The taste and 
savour had gone out of all her pleasures and occupations. She could not read, without the image 
of Pitt coming between her and the page; she 
could not study, without an unendurable sense that 
he was no longer there nor going to be there to 
hear her lessons. She had no heart for walks, 
where every place recalled some memory of Pitt 
and what they had done or said there together; 
she shunned the box of coins, and hardly cared to 
gather one of the few lingering fall flowers. And 
the last of them were soon gone, for the pleasant 
season was ended. Then came rains and clouds 
and winds, and Esther was shut up to the house. 
I can never tell how desolate she was. Truly 
she was only a girl of thirteen ; she ought not to 
have been desolate, perhaps, for any no greater 
matter. She had her father, and her books, and 
 
her youth. Bat Esther had also a nature delicate 
and deep far beyond what is common; and then 
she was unduly matured by her peculiar life. In 
tercourse with light-hearted children like herself 
had not kept her thoughtless and careless. At 
thirteen Esther was looking into life, and finding 
it already confused and dark. At thirteen also 
she was learning and practising self-command. 
Her father, not much of an observer unless in the 
field of military operations, had no perception that 
she was suffering; it never occurred to him that 
she might be solitary; he never knew that she 
needed his tenderest care and society and guidance. He might have replaced everything to Es 
ther, so that she would have found no want at all. 
He did nothing of the kind. He was a good man ; 
just and upright and honourable to a hair; but he 
was selfish, like most men. He lived to himself in 
his own deprivation and sorrow, and never thought 
but that Esther would in a few days get over the 
loss of her young teacher and companion. He 
hardly thought about it at all. The idea of filling 
Pitt's place, of giving her in his own person what 
left her when Pitt went away, did not enter his 
head. Indeed he had no knowledge of what Pitt 
had done for her. If he had known it, there is 
little doubt it would have excited his jealousy. 
For it is quite in some people's nature to be 
jealous of another's having what they do not 
want themselves. 
And so Esther suffered in a way and to a degree 
that was ngt good for her. Her old dull spiritless 
condition was creeping upon her again. She realized, more than it is the way of thirteen years 
old to realize, that something more than an ocean 
of waters an ocean of circumstances had rolled 
itself between her and the one friend and companion she had ever had. Pitt said he would return ; 
but four or five years, for all present purposes, is a 
sort of eternity at her age; hope could not leap over 
it, and expectation died at the brink. Her want 
of comfort came back in full force; but where was 
the girl to get it ? 
The sight of Mr. and Mrs. Dallas used to put her 
in a fever. Once in a while the two would come 
to make an evening call upon her father; and then 
Esther used to withdraw as far as possible into a 
corner of the room and watch and listen ; watch the 
looks of the pair with a kind of irritated fascination, and listen to their talk with her heart jump 
ing and throbbing in pain and anxiety and pas 
sionate longing. For they were Pitt's father and 
mother, and only the ocean of waters lay between 
him and them, which they could cross at any time; 
he belonged to them, and could not be separated 
from them. All which would have drawn Esther 
very near to them and made them delightful to 
her, but that she knew very well they desired no 
such approach. Whether it were simply because 
she and her father were " dissenters " Esther could 
not tell; whatever the reason, her sensitive nature 
and discerning vision saw the fact. They made 
 
visits of neighbourly politeness to the one English 
family that was within reach ; but more than politeness they desired neither to give nor receive. 
I suppose it was this perception which made the 
sight of the pair so irritating to Esther. They were 
near Pitt, but they did not wish that she should be. 
Esther kept well at a distance. But with all this 
they talked of their son perpetually. "Of his voyage, of his prospects, of his grand uncle at Ken 
sington, of his career in college, or at the University 
rather; and of his possible permanent remaining in 
the old country; at any rate, of his studying there 
for a profession. The colonel was only faintly in 
terested, and would take up his book with a sigh 
of relief when they were gone; but Esther would 
sit in passionate misery, not shedding any tears; 
only staring with her big eyes at the lire in a sort 
of fixed gravity most unfit for her years. 
The months went heavily. Winters were rather 
severe and very long at Seaforth; Esther was much 
shut up to the house. It made things all the harder 
for her. To the colonel it made no difference. He 
lay upon his couch, summer or winter, and went on 
with his half-hearted reading; half a heart was all 
he brought to it. While Esther would stand at the 
window, watching the snow drive past, or the beating down of the rain, or the glitter of the sunbeams 
upon a wide white world; and almost wonder at 
the thought that warm lights and soft airs and 
flowers and walks and botanizing had ever been 
out there, where now the glint of the sunbeams on 
the snow crystals was as sharp as diamonds, and 
all vegetable life seemed to be gone for ever. 
Pitt had sailed in November, various difficulties 
having delayed his departure to a month later than 
the time intended for it. Therefore news from him 
could not be looked for until the new year was on 
its way. Towards the end of January however, as 
early as could possibly be hoped, a letter came to 
Col. Gainsborough which he immediately knew to 
be in Pitt's hand. 
" No postmark," he said, surveying it. " I sup 
pose it came by private opportunity." 
" Papa, you look a long while at the outside ! " 
said Esther, who stood by full of excited impatience 
which she knew better than to shew. 
" The outside has its interest too, my dear," said 
her father. u I was looking for the Lisbon post 
mark, but there is none whatever* It must have 
come by private hand." 
He broke the seal, and found within an enclosure 
directed to Esther, which he gave her. And Es 
ther presently left the room. Her father, she saw, 
was deep in the contents of his letter and would not 
notice her going, while if she stayed in the room 
she knew she would be called upon to read her own 
letter or to shew it before she was ready. She 
wanted to enjoy the full first taste of it, slowly and 
thoroughly. Meanwhile, the colonel never noticed 
her going. Pitt's letter was dated " Lisbon, Christ 
mas Day, 1813," and ran as follows. 
 
" MY DEAR COLONEL, 
"I have landed at last, as you see, in this dirtiest 
of all places I ever was in. I realize now why 
America is called the New world; for everything 
here drives the consciousness upon me that the 
world on this side is very old so old, I should say, 
that it is past cleansing. I do suppose it is not fair 
to compare it with Seaforth, which is as bright in 
comparison as if it were an ocean shell shining with 
pure lights; but I certainly hope things will mend 
when I get to London. 
" But I did not mean to talk to you about Lisbon, 
which I suppose you know better than I do. My 
hope is to give you the pleasure of an early piece 
of news. Probably the papers will already have 
given it to you, but it is just possible that the 
chances of weather and ships may let my letter get 
to you first, and in that case my pleasure will be 
gained. 
"There is great news. Napoleon has been beaten, 
beaten! isn't that great? He has lost a hundred 
thousand men, and is driven back over the Rhine. 
Holland has joined the Allies, and the Prince of 
Orange; and Lord Wellington has fought such a 
battle as history hardly tells of; seven days fight 
ing; and the victory ranks with the greatest that 
ever were gained. 
" That is all I can tell you now, but it is so good 
you can afford to wait for further details. It is 
now more difficult than ever to get into France, and 
I don't know yet how I am going to make my way 
to England; it is specially hard for Americans, and 
I must be reckoned an American, you know. How 
ever, money will overcome all difficulties; money 
and persistence. I have written to Esther some 
thing about my voyage, which will, I hope, interest her. I will do myself the pleasure of writing 
again when I get to London. Meanwhile, dear 
sir, I remain 
" Ever your grateful and most obedient, 
" WILM. PITT DALLAS." 
Esther, while her father was revelling in this 
letter, was taking a very different sort of pleasure 
in hers. There was a fire upstairs in her room ; she 
lit a candle, and in the exquisite sense of having 
her enjoyment all to herself went slowly over the 
lines; as slowly as she could. 
"Lisbon, Christmas Day, 1813. 
" MY DEAR LITTLE ESTHER, 
" If you think a voyage over the sea is in any 
thing like a journey by land, you are mistaken. 
The only one thing in which they are alike, is that 
in both ways you get on. But wheels go smoothly, 
even over a jolty road; and waves do nothing but 
toss you. It was just one succession of rollings and 
pitchings from the time we left New Bedford till 
we got sight of the coast of Portugal. The wind 
blew all the time almost a gale, rising at different 
points of our passage to the full desert of the name. 
One violent storm we had; and all the rest of the 
 
voyage we were pitching about at such a rate that 
we had to fight for our meals; tables were broken, 
and coffee and chocolate poured about with a reck 
less disregard of economy. For about halt the 
way it rained persistently; so altogether you may 
suppose, Queen Esther, that my first experience has 
not made me in love with the sea. But it wasn't 
bad, after all. The wind drove us along, that was 
one comfort; and it would have driven us along 
much faster, if our sails had been good for anything; 
but they were a rotten set, a match for the crew, 
who were a rascally band of Portuguese. However, 
we drove along, as I said, seeing nobody to speak 
to all the way except ourselves; not a sail in sight 
nearer than eight or ten miles off. 
"Well, the 23rd we sighted land, to everybody's 
great joy, you may suppose. The wind fell, and 
that night was one of the most beautiful and delicious you can imagine. A smooth sea, without a 
ripple, a clear sky without a cloud, stars shining 
down quietly, and air as soft as May at Seaforth. 
I stood on deck half the night, enjoying, and 
thinking of five hundred thousand things one after 
another. Now that I was almost setting my foot 
on a new world, my life, past and future, seemed 
to rise up and confront me; and I looked at it and 
took counsel with it as it were. Seaforth on one 
side, and Oxford on the other; the question was, 
what should William Pitt be between them ? The 
question never looked so big to me before. Somehow, I believe, the utter perfection of the night 
suggested to me the idea of perfection generally; 
what a mortal may come to when at his best. 
Such a view of nature as I was having puts one 
out of conceit, I believe, with whatever is out of 
order, unseemly, or untrue, or what for any reason 
misses the end of its existence. Then rose the 
question, what is the end of existence? but I did 
not mean to give you my moralizings, Queen Esther; I have drifted into it. I can tell you, though, 
that my moralizing got a sharp emphasis the next 
day. 
" I turned in at last, leaving the world of air 
and water a very image of peace. I slept rather 
late, I suppose; was awakened by the hoarse voice 
of the captain calling all hands on deck, in a man 
ner that shewed me there must be urgent cause. 
I tumbled up as soon as possible. What do you 
think I saw ? 
"The morning was as fair as the night had been. 
The sea was smooth, the sun shining brilliantly. I 
suppose the colonel would tell you, that seas may 
be too smooth; anyhow I saw the fact now. There 
had been not wind enough during the night to 
make our sails of any use; a current had caught 
us, and we had been drifting, drifting, till now it 
appeared we were drifting straight on to a line of 
rocks which we could see at a little distance; made 
known both to eye and ear; to the former by 
a line of white where the waves broke upon the 
rocks, and to the latter by the thundering noise 
the breakers made. Now you know, where waves 
 
break, a ship would stand very little chttnce of hold 
ing together; but what were we to do? The only- 
thing possible we did; let out our anchors; but the 
question was, would they hold? They did hold, 
but none too soon; for we were left riding only 
about three times our ship's length from the threat 
ening danger. You see, we had a drunken crew ; 
no proper watch was kept; the captain was first 
roused by the thunder of the waves dashing upon 
the rocks; and then nothing was ready or in order, 
and before the anchors could be got out we were 
where I tell you. The anchors held, but we could 
not tell how long they would hold, nor how soon 
the force of the waves would drag us, cables and 
all, to the rocks. There we sat and looked at the 
view and situation. We hoisted a signal and fired 
guns of distress; but we were in front of a rocky 
shore that gave us little hope of either being of 
avail. At last, after three hours of this, the captain and some of the passengers got into the yawl 
and went off to find help. We left behind stared 
at the breakers. After three more hours had gone, 
I saw the yawl coming back followed by another 
small boat, and further off by four royal pilot boats 
with sails. I saw them with the glass, that is, from 
my station in the rigging. When they came up, all 
the passengers except half a dozen, of whom I was 
one, were transferred to the pilot boats. You should 
have heard the jabber of the Portuguese when they 
came on board ! But the captain had determined 
to try to save his brig, as by this time a slight 
breeze had sprung up, and I staid with some of the 
others to help in the endeavour. When the rest 
of the passengers were safe on board the pilot 
boats, we set about our critical undertaking. Sails 
were spread, one anchor hoisted, the cable of the 
other cut, and we stood holding our breath, to see 
whether wind or water would prove strongest. 
But the sails drew ; the brig slowly fell off before 
the wind, and we edged away from our perilous 
position. Then, when we were fairly off, there 
rose a roar of shouts, that rent the air; for the 
boats had all waited, lying a few rods off, to see 
what would become of us. Queen Esther, I can 
tell you, if I had been a woman, I should have sat 
down and cried; what I did I won't say. As I 
looked back to the scene of our danger, there was 
a most lovely rainbow spanning it, shewing in the 
cloud of spray that rose above the breakers. 
" At six o clock on Christmas eve I landed at 
Lisbon, where I got comfortable quarters in an English boarding house. When I can get to London, 
I do not yet know. I am here at a great time, to 
see history as it is taking shape in human life and 
experience; something different from looking at it 
as cast into bronze or silver in former ages and 
packed up in a box of coins ; hey, Queen Esther ? 
But that's good too in its way. Your father will 
tell you the news. 
" Your devoted subject, 
"WiLM. PITT DALLAS." 
CHAPTER XIV. 
STRUGGLES. 
sat, swallowed up of excitement, poring 
 over this letter, Ion ger than she knew ; whether 
it gave her most pain or pleasure she could not have 
told. Pleasure came in a great wave at first; and 
