me why not." 
" Now here is an anomaly for which nature's whims 
must account, " said Oswald 'to himself. ;( A boy with 
no suggestion from circumstances, devotes himself to 
the drama. Let's walk awhile and talk about it," put- 
ting his hand on Philip's shoulder. " You may be a 
genius for all I know, but even that isn't sufficient. 
You need a thousand advantages ; years, knowing and 
studying a hundred classes of people, and, though that 
isn't necessary, going into different scenes and learning 
other countries by heart. Do you ever write verses, 
for instance ? ' 
" Yes," said Philip, with rather a shamefaced air. 
' I've begun a tragedy." 
" So, a tragedy ! That's good ; the orthodox begin- 
ning, too ! What is it about ? >: 
" Helen in Troy. After she's there, you know ; 
while her husband and Paris are fighting about her." 
" Rather a tremendous subject, but never mind that. 
It's quite suited to your years. Are you going to bring 
in a host of fighting Greeks and Trojans ? ' 
" No, there's no need of that. All the play is be- 
tween the beautiful woman and the men that are in 
love with her. You see, she loved Menelaus always, 
and then when Paris came, she fell in love with 
him. She did not really care about him, but he was 
handsome and young and she wasn't used to him." 
" Exactly ; he dazzled her by his fine hair and 
eyes and armor." 
" Yes," cried Philip, delighted beyond measure. " Oh, 
I knew you'd understand ! I haven't ^told Betty, be- 
cause she isn't to know till it's finished. Well, when 
Helen gets to Troy she's sorry, and falls in love with 
her husband over again. Because she can't see him, 
she imagines he's handsomer and braver than he really 
is, and she finds Paris is only a common man." 
' A Trojan dandy ; I see." 
:< So while the armies are fighting, she sends one of 
her women or hires a traitor any way, she sends 
somebody to Meflelaus to tell him she loves him and 
wants to meet him outside the city walls and talk with 
him. He sends back word that there's something bet- 
ter still ; if she can creep out to him, he'll take her 
away in his ships before Paris can help himself. 
So it's all arranged. Menelaus lets the Trojans think 
he's tired of fighting, and the ships set sail one after 
another, all but the king's. They go out slowly, one by 
one, so that if the king's is going to be the last it will 
be dark before he can start. Helen creeps out to the 
place where Menelaus is waiting, but the traitor that 
carried the messages runs to tell Paris, because he 
thinks he shall be rewarded. Paris hurries out with a 
band of Trojans, and just as Helen has reached 
her husband and puts up her face to kiss him, Paris 
brings his battle-ax down with a crash through his 
skull. And Helen turns and sees who it is, and stands 
there looking at him for a whole minute as if she was 
turned to stone think, the most beautiful statue 
in the world ! and they look at each other. Then 
 
she screams and stabs herself with Menelaus' dagger. 
Some of the Greeks have waited for their chief, and 
when he doesn't come they go up to the city walls to 
find him. They meet the Trojans, and after the bat- 
tle not one Greek is left alive." 
" Have you read the Greek ? " 
" No, Mr. Kewe began to teach me, but I don't 
know any thing about it. I read his translation. I 
don't see why I need to follow that. It wouldn't make 
a play." 
" Well, you're a very young boy, and as crude as you 
can be. Still, you're wildly original enough for a 
genius, if nothing more. Stranger things have hap- 
pened than for a fellow with more drawbacks than 
you have, to succeed." 
" You think I shall ? I knew you'd understand ! ' 
cried Philip, wildly. " But the other things, the world, 
people, books where am I going to get them ? ' : Just 
then, a slender figure appeared in the foot-path above 
t h em Elizabeth, straight and well-defined, against the 
sky, unconscious of them at her feet. Oswald's eyes 
followed her mechanically for a moment before he 
said, " Come back to town with me ! I'll give you a 
taste of life, if you want it." 
Elizabeth was in her chamber when Philip rushed 
up there and began an incoherent account of Mr. Craig's 
having promised to take him away. Tell me what 
you mean," she said, turning from the glass and letting 
her heavy hair fall. " Don't talk so fast, Philip. Don't 
be beside yourself." 
" He said I had genius at any rate, it was as good 
as saying so, and all I needed was to see people and 
 
the world. Nothing about college, Betty, as Mr. Kewe 
did ! and this is so much easier ! and he said I should 
go with him if I wanted to. Think of it, Elizabeth ! 
It would be beautiful to go any way, but when it's with 
him, for he knows so much, and sees what you mean 
and cares for what you like Oh, I never was so 
happy ! ' 
' But how will you pay him ? " 
Elizabeth's more literal mind could see in the word 
money an indefinite number of dollars, while to 
Philip's vision it represented only some hazy medium 
through which forbidden pleasures were more clearly 
visible. ' Will he lend you or " 
'' Betty, don't ! you make me cross. When I'm all 
fire, you're so slow and have to understand ! You used 
to talk about my plans, and now, when there's some- 
thing real coming, you stand back and look it all over. 
Why, I don't know about the money ! I suppose he 
means to invite me to stay with him. Of course any 
body like him wouldn't think of money at all." 
' I'm sorry to be stupid," said Elizabeth, her lips 
quivering a little, while she turned to the glass and 
began brushing her hair again. " But you see I can't 
jump at things and understand them all at once." 
' I was cross, Betty ; I'm sorry, too," and Philip be- 
gan dancing about the room, nervously moving an 
article here and there. "But I did want you to be 
glad. And I know he's seen ever so many great peo- 
ple and read wonderful books ; so if he says I'm to 
be famous, I shall." 
Running, as usual, far ahead of words, with his vivid- 
ness of imagination, he would have been able to assert 
with the utmost honesty that Oswald had promised 
him fame. 
His spirits were too high for finding much relief in 
an overflow of words, and he ran down into the gar- 
den, where, to the surprise of his mother, watching 
from the window, he began hoeing with astonishing 
vigor. When Elizabeth went down she found Oswald 
in the little sitting room. 
" I wish you would tell me what Philip means. Has 
he been telling you how much he wants to go away ? ' 
Oswald was holding a book which he made no pre- 
tense of reading. It gave him an added sense of in- 
dolent ease to have at hand some means of amusement 
which he did not need. 
' You are going to scold me for encouraging him ? 
I did, I confess, but it was because I thought I found 
talent in him, or, at least, originality and ambition. 
Are you angry ? ' 
; ' No, oh no ; it is good of you to talk with him, and 
I am as thankful as I can be to any body who helps 
him. But when it is more than words ! he said " 
' He said," put in Oswald, with an easy smile, help- 
ing her out of her difficulty. ' He said I offered him a 
bite from my apple, schoolboy fashion." 
'' But there would be so many things to consider. 
Encouragement means a great deal to Philip ; perhaps 
it means more than you intend it should, and I can't 
bear to have him disappointed." 
Oswald was always charmed with the intentness of 
her manner. Just now, he told himself she was a suf- 
ficiently unusual woman to be a very fascinating one, 
and it was due to this fascination that he said in earnest 
 
what half an hour ago he would have pronounced 
wildly erratic. 
" I don't see why he need underestimate my words. 
Why shouldn't I even educate him if I choose, for his 
sake and yours ? ' 
Elizabeth had been looking at him quietly ; his eyes 
still held hers for a moment. Then surprise hurried 
in and frightened away all other expression, before her 
glance fell and she turned away. Some one came in 
at the moment, and so the conversation was dropped 
without awkwardness. 
CHAPTER XIII. 
THERE were no fancies in Elizabeth's mind relative 
to falling in love with Oswald, but he had gained a 
power of making her uneasily happy. She had felt, from 
the first, the charm of his personal grace and quickness 
of thought, but since his looks and tones had acquired 
a meaning for her alone since, by a thousand signs 
imperceptible to an observer and tantalizingly incapa- 
ble of analysis, he had made her sure that neither sea 
nor sky was the center of his interest in Stratford, 
she was only conscious of a trembling desire to escape. 
There is nothing very unusual in that. Many a woman 
closes the doors of her reserve and retreats to the in- 
nermost recess of her castle, just before showing the 
white flag in a half reluctant grasp, and yielding uncon- 
ditionally. 
Perhaps there is a merciful provision in this trem- 
bling advance of the spring. If love should grasp a 
heart so that it could not flutter, I question whether 
the poor thing would ever beat afterwards. 
There was for Oswald a peculiar pleasure in stirring 
the consciousness of one so fine, so entirely inexperi- 
enced, and in spite of that, so self-contained as Eliza- 
beth. She had not been through half a dozen flirta- 
tions, which leave girls with no deeper knowledge of 
the world nor larger field of vision than she, keen ob- 
 
servers of the emotions, sage in noting effects and 
prophesying results. She never doubted sincerity, 
having no occasion forgoing so, and would have said 
that an unswerving line separated honest men from 
liars, as if a moral leprosy must inevitably be visible 
on the surface. Sometimes she wished, with an exhi- 
bition of pettishness quite new to her, that Oswald 
would go away, and on seeing him half an hour after, 
blushed at herself for having been either childish or a 
prude. And running through all, like a silver thread, 
the spring brightened her reveries in spite of their 
waywardness. 
One morning Oswald brought her a letter in Grand- 
mother's cramped handwriting. Elizabeth had been 
carrying potted geraniums out of doors to accustom 
them to the strong sunshine and fresh winds, before 
they should take up their summer residence in the gar- 
den. She held the letter an instant without speaking, 
put it in the pocket of her gingham apron and then, 
with an access of resolution, took it out and broke the 
seal. A sigh of relief accompanied the reading of the 
first half page. 
" Shall I tell you why you hesitated in opening that ? " 
asked Oswald, laughing saucily. 
The air from the sea had awakened in him an abund- 
ant vitality ; how could he work it off better than by 
amusing himself with the first person at hand ? 
"Yes, if you can," said Elizabeth, trying properly 
to be serious, but yielding to the mischievous sugges- 
tion of his eyes. 
" The postmark is Stowe. I found that out on the 
way home, having nothing else to do till I reached the 
 
point where you get a glimpse of the sea. Madam 
Nye is there. Your fear to read the letter said, 'I'm 
afraid she's coming home.' Your sigh of relief, ' She 
isn't coming, and I'm glad.' Am I a seer, or not ? " 
'How long have you been a detective ? " said Eliz- 
abeth. ' If you are so very wise, you might have saved 
me from opening my letter at all." 
'Right, then ? I knew I was! Mrs. Nye," as she 
appeared in the midst of a flock of hungry chickens, 
some, more clamorous than the rest, flying up to her 
shoulder, and one gaunt creature with long legs perch- 
ing on the dish of dough, " I am glad to inform you 
that the crisis is past." 
Mrs. Nye looked up inquiringly, ceasing for the 
moment to repel her feathered assailants, and thereby 
giving them an advantage. 
'A letter from Stowe states that Madam Nye will 
not return for how long, Miss Elizabeth ? " 
' Not for a month or six weeks," answered Elizabeth, 
smiling at her mother, in whose face an answering 
gladness at once appeared. 
' But I think Mr. Craig ought to be scolded. Fie 
pilfered the news from my face, or my mind it doesn't 
make much difference which." 
Oswald looked from one to the other with a face of 
such innocent vacuity that the two broke into a laugh, 
in which he joined. He had, with almost all people, 
the privileges of a child or other irresponsible being, 
and Elizabeth was often annoyed in remembering that 
he had made her laugh against her will. 
Mrs. Nye and her feathered train passed on. 
'Don't go, Miss Elizabeth," said Oswald. "Oh, 
no, you haven't finished your gardening, yet ! Stay till 
you've picked all the dead leaves off those geraniums. 
That will take long enough for me to air my morning's 
reflections." 
" I am anxious to hear," said Elizabeth, throwing off 
her hat as she went further into the shade of the house 
and began examining the plants. ' This sounds quite 
like something to be put down in your journal, and 
published after your death." 
" Doesn't it ? But there lies the point. I've resolved 
not to die." 
" Have you found the elixir of life ? ' 
" Yes, in this divine air, the blueness of the heavens, 
and the exquisite simplicity of your people. No, you 
needn't laugh. It is quite true that these homely, 
rough men strike me like powerful character sketches 
in great novels." 
"But they are nothing but rough and homely men, 
just as you say. I always thought we must be the 
most common sort of people in the world, and when 
you pretend to admire us I'm afraid you're making 
fun." 
" On my soul, no ! ' 
Oswald was sitting in an open window, his body 
bent forward at an uncomfortable angle, and his feet 
dangling, and the attitude came as near being tolerable 
as it would have been ridiculous for most men. 
" Now, I'm not learned, but I'm tired of books. I 
believe their best purpose is to force a man into find- 
ing out how to do without them. Of what use are 
novels but to give you artificial sketches of life, that 
you might take at first hand ? " 
"But histories and works on science," put in Eliza- 
beth. "They do good." 
" If you call it good. Science only increases our 
craving after appliances for economizing time and labor, 
and we have so much to do to keep pace with the age 
that, after all, we haven't any time or strength either. 
Elizabeth, did you ever imagine the perfectly natural 
man and think how happy he must be? " 
"No," she said, not even noticing his use of her 
name. 
' He will grow up with a sound body. Every sense 
will be so perfect that ordinary uses of life, which we 
only count means to its preservation, will be sweet as 
our first spring days the perfect ones when we sleep 
soundly till dawn, and wake to be glad we are alive. 
Haven't you seen such days ? ' 
' Never till this spring." It was an unguarded slip. 
How should she have realized yet whether her pulses' 
quickening depended on the new budding of the 
world, or on some miraculous spiritual change of her 
own ? 
' Then you know what it is to be happy without 
help from any thing but a fostering earth-mother, a be- 
neficent universe, a pure soul and clear conscience. 
This perfect man will know it even better. He will 
have no ambition ; he will eat the fruits of the earth 
thankfully, sleep on her bosom and live at peace with 
every animal. Then, when his heart beats high with 
youth, he will set out to complete his life, led on by 
that vague longing every man feels, when he seeks the 
object of his possible love. Perhaps, some day in his 
wanderings, he will meet a young creature innocent as 
 
himself. Her glances are soft where his are piercing, 
but the shafts from his ardent eyes melt into hers and 
are not quenched, but wake a gentle glow. Their lips 
meet, in the simplicity of their hearts, and he says, 
Fair, soft creature, will you make your home in some 
corner of this great forest, wherever we chance to be ? 
I have been years looking for you. There has been 
in my heart a little ache, though I have not known why, 
and now I see it was because life did me a wrong, in 
half creating me and leaving me to find the other part 
of my nature." 
When his voice ceased, with a beseeching modulation, 
Elizabeth felt her own heart beat quickly. A rapturous 
bluebird, carrying a straw to finish the bridal home, 
chirped from the gate. Oswald went on. 
" Well, she will say c Yes,' or there will be no need 
of saying any thing, because in such a world, there are 
no doubts or denials. They wander wherever they 
choose in the shade of the protecting forest, stop be- 
side some friendly stream until they know its banks 
well enough, and then leave it for still unfamiliar nooks. 
Each day is new ; and when the man and woman, full 
of days, but never acquainted with ache or sorrow, die 
sweetly and happily, as a red, ripe leaf flutters down 
and decays, only to enrich the earth and autumn air, 
their children cover them over with a fold of their 
earth-mother's dress, and above them live happy lives in 
their turn. Elizabeth, is the picture worth painting? " 
"Yes, but it isn't possible," she said, in a voice al- 
most inaudible. Her hands had long ago left their 
task, and her eyes turned seaward. 
" No, think a minute. Couldn't a man and woman, 
so young, remember, that there would be no ghosts 
to haunt them loving each other, make such a home 
and such an ideal life in this land of work and day of 
steam-power ? Are you sure it isn't barely possible ? ' 
' I can't be sure, because I don't know much about 
other people's lives," she answered, in a voice that had 
not relaxed from its tension of excitement. " But life 
is very hard. There are cares for other people, and 
trouble about them, so that it seems to me nobody 
could be perfectly happy, for he would always be 
seeing misery and hearing of it." 
Then you don't understand me. More than that, 
you haven't understood love." He had taken his stand 
near her, and now one of his hands touched hers, trem- 
bling at her side. His eyes, stirred by the momentary 
feeling, sought and held hers. 
' Love blots out the world beyond its border. It 
does not wrong the people standing outside, because it 
never need shirk a duty to them. It simply does not 
need them. They are forgotten, as soon as the eyes of 
the man and woman who love find oblivion in each 
other's depths. Suppose a woman like you loved." 
Elizabeth shivered. So a violin vibrates when the 
strings are touched suddenly, with intent only to wake 
a sound, proving music or discord as it happens. 
' Suppose she loved so that she could say to the man 
who made her destiny, ' Behold me, fine and pure, a gift 
to you from the immortals.' Do you think they, find- 
ing all delight in each other, would or could be made 
unhappy by the grief felt by some man or woman who 
had not reached such blissful heights ? Psyche could 
not die after she had drunk immortality." The sun- 
light was hot above her ; she was helpless under its in- 
tensity and the torrent of his voice. Neither wishing 
to be there, nor able to break the spell, she stood 
swayed by a personal magnetism far stronger than her 
will. 
" Elizabeth," his voice softening to a caressing ten- 
derness, " we have every right to be happy. Look at 
the sky, its delicious depth of blue, drink one breath of 
this sunlight, and tell me if man ought to see bliss 
without grasping it. Come, you haven't given the day 
half the welcome it deserves. There is so much beauty 
that the sky almost cracks. Come out with me and 
help drink the sweetness up. Only a walk in the fields, 
where it is all fragrant and still." She turned, half 
dreamily, with a childlike obedience. Even at that in- 
stant, he noted, with a thrill of admiration, the grace of 
the gesture, and the contour of her bowed head. 
Then, as if recovering herself with an effort, she said 
brokenly, 
" Not to-day. I must go in. I have wasted my 
morning." And, as much to Oswald's surprise as 
triumph, she sobbed a little hysterically, as she hur- 
ried away. He did not see her again that day, but 
overheard Mrs. Nye tell Philip that Elizabeth had a 
bad headache. 
Was Oswald in earnest, or had he played on Eliza- 
beth's sensibilities for the mere triumph of moving them? 
Neither, wholly ; here, as usual in human affairs, was a 
complication of motives. The beauty of the day 
working on his own perfect physical condition had 
roused in him a kind of mental ecstasy that might 
have come from an intoxicant. 
 
His rhapsody had begun in more than half earnest, 
and as it went on, he gathered sincerity from being 
himself affected by the moment. Elizabeth had always 
seemed very fine and sweet, and now that she showed 
possibilities of being stirred to more intense emotion 
than if she carried her feelings nearer the surface, he 
began to excite himself as much as her by his poetic 
train of thought. Oswald was not insincere ; he only 
failed to compare the sincerity of his present with that 
of his past. Consequently, there were enormous dis- 
crepancies between the thoughts and desires of the man 
of to-day, and the man of yesterday. He was pleased 
with himself, more, delighted, and wandering down 
to the shore after Elizabeth had left him, he blessed 
his bubble-like temperament that had not become in- 
capable of rising at a breath. 
His last play at love had left him surfeited and 
deeply wearied over the monotonous round of emotions 
the boy-god had at hand. The woman who had acted, 
for a time, the part of the ' incomparable she " had 
been of languid and matured beauty. She had warmth 
of coloring, vibrating tones, and her glances were 
charged with steady electric fire more deadly far than 
the flash. With such exquisite physical organization, 
it disgusted Oswald that there should have been no 
corresponding fineness of perception. Mrs. Tyrrell 
drew far more from Oswald's devotion than he meant 
to imply. Baskets of royal red roses, carelessly tied 
bunches of opening buds, more passionate in their dead 
whiteness than any flower that can call the blood from 
its heart long enough to blush, told her more than that 
an idle young man was busying himself in worship of 
 
Venus, embodied, for the present, in the form of Mrs. 
Tyrrell. Mr. Craig wished, of course, to marry her ; 
he must not be impatient, but who knew what she might 
say when, some fine morning, he told his hopes and 
despair ? Oswald would have opened his eyes at the 
thought, in a surprise as real as scornful. He had in- 
tentions, certainly, though they were scarcely formu- 
lated in his own heart, for a design too distinctly recog- 
nized would have spoiled the delicious aroma of the 
experience. His wishes would have been amply satis- 
fied by an intimacy made up of lover-like devotion on 
his side and a properly feminine susceptibility on hers. 
When the play should end, as it would suddenly, nothing 
need be said in the way of farewells nor explanations. 
To attempt a renewal of the amusement, when its 
climax was once passed, would be like visiting the 
scene of a revel where crowned Bacchus himself had 
presided, to find wine-dregs standing flat and stale in 
rare glasses, and the ashes of the weed that had 
steeped the guests in languor scattered over the table. 
Mrs. Tyrrell had put an end to this sickly sort of dream, 
by plainly showing him that he was not to taste the 
flavor of courtship without taking, during the 'rest of 
his life, the non-intoxicant of matrimony for breakfast, 
dinner and tea. So, at odds with awkward circum- 
stances, he fled before the last act, and had since 
abjured love. 
As he went along shore that day he found Si wheel- 
ing up seaweed by the barrowful, slowly, as was his 
ponderous manner of doing things, except when a bird 
came over unexpectedly ; that was an incident capable 
of rousing a temporary animation. 
' Spring seems to be comin' on, don't it ?" he said, 
putting his wheelbarrow down and his foot upon its 
side, in order to assume his favorite conversational 
attitude of resting both elbows on his knees. ' Time 
for it, too. Summer 'll be here 'fore we know it." 
' It's been rather a late spring, hasn't it ? ' said 
Oswald, trying, with the aid of a piece of timber, to as- 
sume the same attitude. 
' Master back'ard. But some folks don't care. 
They come to spend the summer 'fore the warm 
weather does." 
This with a slow wink of the sharp blue eye and 
hint of a smile about the mouth, signs which indicated 
the fact that Si had propounded a witticism and was 
unwilling it should pass without appreciation. 
' What do you mean ? " asked Oswald, quite in the 
dark. 
" Oh, boarders don't come here 'thout they hev some- 
thin' to come for. In the fall it's loon and in the spring 
why, it does seem as if there wa'n't much to bring a 
young chap out so fur into the country in the spring. 
So I was goin' to say to 'Lizabeth yesterday, but she's 
so slow you can't tell how she might take things." 
Light had dawned on Oswald. ' I think I wouldn't 
say any thing of the kind to her," he answered care- 
lessly, but with a good deal of meaning. ' Sometimes 
jokes aren't as pleasant as you mean them to be." 
He walked on, while Si took up his wheelbarrow and 
pursued the little path leading to his house, a broad 
smile illuminating his face at the success of his shaft. 
' Master touchy young fellar," he said to himself. 
"Wouldn't ha' fluttered so if he hadn't been hit." 
 
" She is going to be an unusual sort of woman," 
thought Oswald, " and if one tried to wake her heart, 
he might end by finding himself in love with her. If 
a man wanted to marry, a man who would hang or 
drown rather than take a woman with a set of ideas 
and an experience of the world, he couldn't do better 
than to marry a young creature like this. Her mind is 
like a white page ; he could put whatever characters 
he chose there. She isn't too decided either, nor likely 
to demand a great deal and hamper one's freedom. If 
a man wanted to marry, he couldn't do better." 
CHAPTER XIV. 
IT is always most likely that a day on the heights 
will be followed by a commonplace morrow. When 
Elizabeth and Oswald next met, it was at the tea-table 
to which he came late, after a long walk. 
'Oh, they are delicious ! ' he cried, l those fish- 
ermen. I met the famous Jim Bolton this afternoon. 
Si had given me an analysis of his qualities before I 
ever talked with him, and when I met the man, the 
descriptive all came back. He was standing in his 
garden witii a hoe, and seemed not to have had the 
slightest' previous acquaintance with it." 
'' And wasn't he willing to talk ? ' asked Philip. 
'' Jim is glad of any thing that stops his work." 
' Yes, he began to question me with the utmost cor- 
diality, as soon as I was within hailing distance ; and his 
interest was so warm, his manner so gently sympathetic, 
that I'm sure if I had a story, I should have button- 
holed him adhesively and given him my unreserved 
confidence. The subject of button-holes also reminds 
me that there was but one button on his blue shirt. 
His attire was otherwise disheveled. I fear Mrs. Jim 
is not a careful wife." 
' She has a good deal to do," answered Mrs. Nye, 
anxious to give her neighbor all the credit she benevo- 
lently could. : Though I know she don't do it. There 
are so many children, and all of an age, too ! You 
 
haven't touched your tea, Mr. Craig ! won't you have a 
glass of milk? Elizabeth, get it for him." 
" Thank you," said Oswald, looking up with a glance 
which might have been translated, " Won't you forgive 
me ? And after all what did I say ? Did not your 
rebellious consciousness supply what made you blush ? " 
But Elizabeth did not meet his eyes. 
' Please go on, Mr. Oswald, about Jim, you know," 
said Philip, who never had enough of the young man's 
gay descriptions. 
' Well, I didn't confide in him because there was 
nothing to say. It would take a tale of horror to stir 
that gently phlegmatic nature. So I led him on, by a 
judicious question now and then, to talk of himself. 
It seems he has religious doubts. Has every body 
religious doubts, I wonder ? ' 
:< Oh, Jim is a sad case," said Mrs. Nye, shaking her 
head. ' He gets converted every time there is a 
revival, and then in three weeks he backslides again. 
We all know what Jim is." 
' Well, he didn't refer to his own shortcomings, of 
course. I notice that only a few ill-advised people do- 
But he considered the hackneyed questions of Jonah 
and the whale, the miracles and a few kindred sub- 
jects." 
" Don't you believe in them, Mr. Craig ? " asked 
Philip, boldly. 
" Oh, never mind what I believe," said Oswald, in- 
stantly interpreting the quick flush on Mrs. Nye's face. 
He knew the timid woman would suffer conscientious 
agonies at hearing him decry Scriptural lore, without 
having the courage to reprove him. ' Let's talk about 
 
Jim, first. What amused me most was his good- 
natured manner of weighing all subjects, spiritual and 
temporal. It was as if he tossed them up, caught, 
estimated, and laid them in a pile, not disposed of 
finally, but left until another passer should stop to talk 
them over. He described, with a very keen relish, some 
young fellow who, I should say, tried to suppress the 
revival." 
'Mr. Kewe," said Philip, his face aglow at once. 
' But he only tried to do more good than the revival. 
^ Every body was solemn. The boys at school were 
afraid they should die before they had time to be con- 
verted, and he told us there wasn't any use in such a 
fuss. But the school-committee were old fools yes, 
they were, mother, and I know you think so, too." ' 
' And what did Miss Elizabeth think ? " said Oswald, 
turning to her with his brightest smile. " Were you 
one of the disciples of the new leader ? " 
' I was away all the time," she said, quietly. " At 
Stowe. My aunt was ill." 
' Philip, I don't think it's quite right for you to say- 
so much," said his mother, as they rose from the table. 
' Mr. Kewe meant well, I'm sure, and he was a real 
nice young man, but the Evangelists expected to do 
good, too." 
'Yes, mother, but" Leaving the discussion, 
which was chiefly on Philip's side, with an occasional 
denial or assent from his mother, Oswald went out to 
look in at the sitting-room window and say to Eliza- 
beth, "The sky is a rose. Won't you come down to 
the sea ? I'm sure the waves are like opals." 
'I think not, to-night," said Elizabeth, trying to 
 
make her voice unconstrained, and succeeding poorly. 
' Philip is going to the store, and I'd better sit with 
mother." 
'Why are you offended ? ' said Oswald, in a softly 
pleading tone which made her heart at once beat fast- 
er. ' Now you are beginning to say you are not, but 
that isn't true. You wouldn't look at me at supper ; 
you were not interested ; you didn't even smile when 
I was trying to be funny. Why was it ? I've made as 
poor jokes when you have laughed and inspired me to 
fresh attempts." 
' I am afraid the way you amused yourself with 
Jim is only a specimen of the way you are studying 
us all. We all amuse you. Perhaps I don't care to 
have you make a study of my character. Besides 
you would waste time. It isn't deep enough." 
' Now you are cruel. Have you any right to hurt 
me ? ' His eyes were very dark and pleading. She 
caught the pained expression of his glance in her one 
look, and was instantly ashamed. 
' I'm sorry yes, it was small of me to say that, be- 
cause it wasn't true." His sunshiny smile broke out 
instantly. 
' But you're not going to get away with an apology. 
You shall do penance. Are you willing to make 
amends for having been unjust to me ? For you 
were, you know. Then give me your hand and ask to 
be forgiven." 
Elizabeth hesitated only a second, and then with 
an instinctive desire of making as light of it all as 
possible, put her hand in his and repeated the for- 
mula. 
 
' Now say no, don't take your hand away for an 
instant. I shall keep it as a hostage say, ' I want to 
punish myself by going to walk with you.' 
Elizabeth laughed, as she drew away her hand. " It 
proves I am very penitent, for I do exactly as you 
say. Will you tell mother, please, while I run up- 
stairs for a shawl ? " 
' The sky is two shades fainter than when I called 
you first," he said, as they took the path to the sea. 
' That is the penalty of delay ; you lose the first flush 
of twilight. Now tell me," turning squarely upon 
her, ' why I shouldn't study your character if I 
choose, without your being angry. You would say, 
would you not, that a woman with a beautiful profile 
was niggard enough, if she grudged a stranger his 
glance of admiration ?" 
' Yes, perhaps so, but the two things are different. 
If I had a beautiful face, you might admire it without 
disturbing me, but to study my character you must 
work your way into my thoughts and feelings. And 
all for your amusement ! It is like I can't say ex- 
actly what I mean like giving a stranger your confi- 
dence." 
'Is that true? Am I to be put with strangers?' 
There was no forced meaning in his tone. For the 
time being, he was as earnest as she. This was the 
one woman in the world who was engaging his 
thoughts. ' Elizabeth, you are even more unjust than 
I accused you of being awhile ago." 
'Then I am sorry again," she cried, in the futile 
perplexity we have all felt in trying to explain some 
slight thing which has magnified itself enormously, 
 
until we are quite sure its proportions are over-drawn, 
but are by no means able to estimate them correctly. 
' And let us not talk about it. I'm sure I had a 
meaning when we began, but I can't find it. I must 
have made a fuss out of very little material." 
' No, I am sure you had a reason for what you said, 
though you are too generous to hurt me again by con- 
fessing it. What you say would be right and just, if 
you did not apply it to me. Do you think I have so 
little fineness as to try to penetrate your reserve, if I 
had no object beyond amusing myself ? Tell me." 
Then why should you no, perhaps you have not ; 
I only spoke hastily when I accused you of it. Mr. 
Craig, let us not talk of it. I am more and more con- 
vinced that there is nothing to say." 
'But I must defend myself," said Oswald, im- 
petuously. The process of breaking down her defense 
of timidity and scruples was delightful. It was a piece 
of fine, artistic work ; he was unwilling to cut it short. 
Let me confess. I have studied you, but it was be- 
cause I cared to do it ; because you are the rarest, 
finest creature I ever found." 
There was a silence of a moment that seemed long- 
er. He had expected her to flush at least, if she 
should give no other sign of confusion, but she was 
quite pale, though there was a troubled look in her 
eyes. 
' I am sorry to hear you say so, because it doesn't 
seem to me you can mean it. Either that, or you are 
greatly deceived in me. I am an ordinary girl. I have 
seen nobody. I am not brilliant. Why do you give 
me credit for so much ? " 
 
" No, I know you do not see, and I am glad I am the 
first man for I know I am to teach you your charm. 
Don't you know that with your slender figure, your 
heavy hair and drooping wrists ' - Elizabeth involun- 
tarily looked down at them " you would always be 
distinguished, in that plain, black dress ! You pin a 
cluster of violets at your throat as nobody else ever 
did." 
" But I never try, I" began Elizabeth, helplessly, 
overwhelmed by his impetuous argument. 
" No, I know you never do, because you haven't re- 
alized your possibilities. But that is only your grace of 
face and figure." 
"Please don't, Mr. Craig," she said, stopping short, 
her hands folded tightly and the shawl wrapped closely 
about her shoulders. " I beg of you not to go on, if 
you think there is any more to say." 
" Ah, but there is, and you must know why I say it 
all. Tell me, are your thoughts any thing but child's 
thoughts ? You have had a bare, uninteresting sort of 
life, but there has been no tragedy in it. Love is a 
name to you. Ambition, jealousy, a dozen other pas- 
sions are abstractions. Am I not right ? " 
He had taken off his hat and passed his fingers 
through his hair. Elizabeth noticed, in the glance she 
seemed forced to keep fixed on him, that his eyes were 
like two stars. It was an instinct of preservation in 
her to keep her lids raised ; if they should once fall she 
might tremble. 
" Have you thought what it would be," he said with 
a quick change of tone to one of such persuasive mean- 
ing that she shrank perceptibly, " for a man who has 
 
seen gay and brilliant and beautiful women, and found 
them made after some half dozen patterns but of one 
monotonous type, to teach you to love ? " 
: You have no right to say such things to me," she 
cried, "I will not listen to them." Her eyes still met 
his bravely. He saw that if she yielded it would be 
after a long resistance. It was best to carry the for- 
tress by storm. 
'I claim the right of the man who loves you." Then 
her eyelids fell, after one wide glance. " Elizabeth, 
you must have seen I love you. Little foolish child, 
you have been drinking in love all this wonderful 
spring, without knowing it. Are you going to let me 
love you ? ' 
' No," came quickly. " I was quiet enough before ; 
not happy but not miserable. Why do you try to 
trouble my life, and fill it with questions and excite- 
ment ? " 
' It was not my fault nor yours ; say the fault of the 
gods for making you woman and me man. Being a 
woman you cannot help being found, nor can I resist 
my need of you. What sweet wind blew me here to 
Stratford but one of fate ? The breath of a divine 
whisper sent me to find you. You cannot resist fate." 
'But I can resist this," lifting her head with a mo- 
mentary pride. " I will resist it all. I only want to 
be left to my old dull life." 
'' Ah, no, I am sure you don't. Will you sit here ? " 
She shook her head and they both remained standing, 
she looking out to sea. " Listen a minute longer. You 
want to run away from me now and never see me 
again. No, you can't deny it. Shall I tell you why ? 
 
Because you love me. No, don't start, though I like 
to see you do it. It gives your head an erectness it 
sometimes lacks. No woman ever loved without with- 
drawing a pace, knowing her lover will pursue as I 
shall, Elizabeth." 
" But you are mistaken. I don't care for you. I have 
never thought of you in that way, in my life." 
" I dare say not. You are shy even with yourself. 
That is a part of your fineness. But stop to think. 
Are you not happy this spring ? Did your blood ever 
flow so quickly, and has not all your delight in life 
been connected with a thought of me ? You can't say 
no ; Elizabeth, give me your hand." She did it quick- 
ly, as if to prove the act an easy one, though the hand 
shook visibly. " See, when I hold it close in mine, 
every drop of blood coursing though my palm so near 
yours is warm with love of you. Is there no answer in 
your own heart ? ' 
u Oh please don't talk so to me ! " she cried passion- 
ately. " I can't bear it ! I " and then, with a sudden 
transition to a child's trembling and beseeching tone, 
" Mr. Craig, do you think it is so ? Do you think I 
love you ? " 
She had thrown herself on his mercy, and another 
man one capable of coarser passions, perhaps, but 
not actuated by an artistic delight in their counter- 
feits might have been too honorable to lead her 
further. 
But Oswald could not separate his appreciation of 
the machinery of the play from his own part as 
actor. For the time being, he loved her. 
" I know you love me. A woman of your truth will 
 
let me say so without false coquetry. I told you be- 
fore it was your fate that you were struggling against. 
Stop beating your wings against destiny, dear wild 
bird. Rest here in my arms." His voice was soft and 
pleading. Every thing called her, but she fought back 
the impulse to yield. 
' You must let me think. You have had time to 
reason it out. It is all new to me. I can't reason. I 
am only bewildered." 
'Yes, love crowds words to my tongue, and he 
makes you silent. Do not demand too much of him, 
Elizabeth ; he makes me eloquent to persuade, and 
chokes the words on your lips, to force your yielding. 
Let me tell you what is in your mind and heart." His 
breath was on her cheek, and his voice a whisper at 
her ear. ' You hear only my voice ; it shuts out 
every thing, even the sea. You know the darkness is 
coming, but it is soft as down and says, ' I shut you in 
a world where there is no one but your lover.' And 
the universe throbs like one great heart. Your own 
heart ah, I know how it beats ! . It sends out wave 
after wave of tumultuous blood in blushes. How I 
wish for the dawn instead of the darkness, that I might 
see them ! Every wave drives you gently toward 
your lover's arms. See, Elizabeth, here he stands ; 
shall he wait ? " 
She could see the outline of the slender, supple fig- 
ure through the darkness. He was right ; he had 
taken possession of her mind and senses, and in her 
world there was nothing but himself. One half un- 
decided step, and she was sobbing in excitement, with 
his lips touching hers. 
CHAPTER XV. 
NOT only has the sea its ebb and flow on every shore, 
but waves lying motionless under a tropic sky may 
rise and dash themselves white on New England rocks. 
And the rocks, no matter how firm they stand from ne- 
cessity of nature, might gladly shrink from the en- 
croaching sea. Elizabeth had the Puritanic spirit, a 
gift of inheritance. That always pointed first to a re- 
pression of natural impulses. Yet in spite of it, she felt 
herself roused, through an instant of emotion, into a 
new .and intense life. They had walked home in 
silence and parted without a word. Oswald was con- 
tent, like one who has followed a melody sung by a 
climbing voice, which stopped on a rapturous note, 
not caring to follow its descent. Elizabeth's thoughts, 
too, lingered with the one moment that had stricken 
them dumb. 
She answered her mother's questions quietly, and 
listened to Philip's story of seeing Mrs. Potter and 
hearing from Felix through her. The new life was so 
strong within her that it could wait. It need not yet 
burst the thinnest veil of habit to show its shining face. 
She went to her room without a light, and knelt by 
the window, not searching the heavens, but closing her 
eyes to breathe in the sweetness of the night. The air 
was prodigal of it, as if there were to be no more Junes 
 
and nature knew it. Does a man or woman feel in the 
distinct lines which can be put into thought, after a 
tidal wave or the blossoming of a flower in the heart ? 
I doubt it. 
This girl was conscious only of a living world ; her 
breath came in sobs and her very face drank in the night 
breezes. The paeans of a soul after such baptism might 
read, " Oh, dead and inert mass of earth, and sea which 
was once a waste of water, you are become full of a 
living mystery ! Earth, I am no longer a woman of 
flesh only ; my soul wakes and lies on the bosom of 
yours as my body treads your solid frame ! Are not 
my love and I immortal ? Then you, who have fed 
and blessed us until we were worthy to be offered the 
divine drink, are divine too." The pure feminine only 
lived in Elizabeth that night, the woman as uncon- 
scious of conventional rules and inherited principles, 
