Each of them had been fitted by the tailor, and had taken his uniform to
his own apartment.
The principal had sent word to them that, when they desired to return
to their duties, all they had to do was to put on the uniform and take
their places with their schoolmates. Although they were forbidden to
communicate with one another or with the other members of the school, it
is probable that each one knew what the others were doing.
The rebellion had not worked as they intended and expected. Lew Shoreham
had been appointed the orator of the malcontents, and the battle was to
be fought out with words in the schoolroom. This was not the principal's
way of dealing with such cases. He gave the "jingo" element no chance at
all.
On one of the first days of the school he detected a couple of students
in the act of engaging in a fight. Investigation showed that there was
no grievance between the parties, and the battle was to see which was
"the best man." He locked them both up in the machine shop, and gave
them two hours to ascertain which was the best man. With no one to
witness the encounter they did not care to fight, and came out good
friends.
The rebels could not help feeling that their enterprise had already
"come to grief." Lew Shoreham's argument had been prepared, but it was
unspoken, and was likely to remain so while its author pined in the
solitude of his chamber. The malcontents could not confer together, for
Bates would not allow any two of them to meet in the halls. Bart
Cornwall tried to talk with Lick Milton in the next room, but the
remorseless jailer threatened to put him in the black hole if he said
another word; and he did not.
Each rebel, therefore, was compelled to think and act for himself. He
could not lean on his leader or his companions. Life Windham was one of
the most restless under his confinement. He liked to know what was going
on, and he found himself shut out from the world and all that was in it.
The principal had begun his announcement of the prizes for the best
plans when the conspiracy broke out. Life concluded that he must have
deferred the business till the rebellion was disposed of, and he
wondered what he had said to the rest of the students about the refusal
to wear the uniform.
Life fretted and worried over his situation until after dinner of the
second day. Then he went over the whole subject of the uniform in his
own mind. He thought he was abused and persecuted, but he could stand it
no longer. Impulsively he put on the uniform which hung at the head of
his bed. It was a good fit and he thought he looked well in it. He tried
on the cap with the monogram in front. It was neat and plain, and the
only objection he had to it was that it was part of the uniform.
He was so anxious to learn what was going on at the school, and what the
principal had said about the rebels when they left, that he went out
into the hall. Bates was on his feet the instant the door was opened.
The old man smiled when he saw that Windham wore the uniform, and as the
ex-rebel passed him, he saluted him as politely as though he had never
been his prisoner.
The dormitory was located near the rocks, at a little distance from the
lake, which could not be seen from its windows. Life Windham knew
nothing at all about the stealing of the boats by the Topovers, and the
lively scenes on the lake in the forenoon. It was after one o'clock, and
the students ought to be in the shops. He went there, but they were
deserted.
Life concluded that the principal had given the rest of the students a
vacation as a reward of merit for not joining the rebellion. He walked
to the lake. Seated in one of the four-oar boats, busily engaged in
drawing on a large sheet of brown paper, he found Dory. As
stroke-oarsman the ex-rebel sat next to the coxswain in the Winooski,
and he was more intimate with him than with any other student. When Dory
saw him getting into the boat, he rolled up his drawings, and put a
rubber band around them.
"Hallo, Dory!" said Life, as he walked aft in the boat.
"Glad to see you, Life," replied the coxswain. "You look well in the new
uniform."
"I couldn't stay in my room any longer, but I have not changed my
opinion in regard to making us wear a uniform," added Life, who could
not even now back wholly down. "But what are you doing? Why are the
fellows not in the shops?"
"One question at a time. I am trying to make a plan for a boat-house.
The principal gave the students three days to get up their plans, and
they are to be handed in day after to-morrow morning."
"Did the principal offer the prizes?" asked Life, astonished that it had
been done in the absence of the rebels.
"Of course he did; he had opened the subject before you left the
schoolroom."
"But I thought he would put it off after one third of the whole school
had left."
"He don't do things in that way," added Dory.
"But what are the conditions? Perhaps I am not too late, for I had some
ideas about a plan."
"We are not allowed to speak to anyone about the plans," answered Dory.
"Every fellow is put on his honor to say nothing to anyone about them."
"Then the eight fellows that object to being dressed like monkeys are to
be shut out from the competition!" exclaimed Life indignantly. "That is
about as unfair as anything can be."
"You had the same chance that the rest of us had, and you chose to stay
in your room rather than hear the terms on which the prizes were to be
given."
"We were standing up for a principle."
"Whew!" whistled Dory laughing. "The principle that you won't wear the
colors of the Beech Hill Industrial School."
"The principle that we won't be punished for the sins of others,"
retorted Life smartly.
"You are wrong on the fact, as I have shown you before."
"It's no use to argue the point with you: if the principal had only
been fair enough to hear what Lew Shoreham had to say, we should have
been fully justified."
"He never argues the point with those who refuse to obey."
"No matter. Have you heard anything more from the Chesterfields?"
"We had a smart brush with them this forenoon," answered the coxswain;
and he proceeded to tell the whole story of the encounter with the
Topovers and their allies.
Life Windham listened with breathless interest. It was the liveliest
affair of the whole season, and he had been shut up in his room. He was
vexed and indignant that he had not been permitted to take a hand in the
stirring enterprise. When he had finished the narrative Dory wanted to
work on his plan, and Life left him. He found all the other students at
liberty were engaged in the same way.
Life had to spend the afternoon by himself. Late in the day he saw Bob
Swanton come out of the dormitory with the uniform on. He was just
beginning to ask himself if he had not been a traitor to the "cause,"
and to the rebels engaged in it. He was glad to see one of them. Life
was pleased to have a companion, and they talked over the situation.
"Not the least notice seems to have been taken of us," said Swanton.
"Not the slightest," added Life. "Why, the principal did not even say a
single word about us after we left the schoolroom, and has not mentioned
us in any way."
"He is the oddest principal I ever heard of. I suppose he will let the
fellows stay in their rooms all winter," continued Bob Swanton, who had
pluck enough to fight, but not enough to be ignored.
"I have come to the conclusion that Lew Shoreham ought to have made his
argument when the order to put on the uniform was given," said Life,
rather sheepishly; "for the principal was certainly ready to hear all
the fellows had to say at that time. Lew didn't say a word about
punishing us for the sins of others then."
"I asked him why he did not, and he said he had not thought of it at
that time."
But the supper-bell ended the discussion, and the two ex-rebels went to
the house with the other students. Captain Gildrock saw them, but he
made no remark of any kind about their return to duty, or the fact that
they wore the uniform. The rest of the students seemed to be glad to see
them, but they would not allude to the rebellion.
The next morning. Harry Franklin and Phil Gawner appeared in uniform;
and at night only Lew Shoreham remained a prisoner. The next morning the
plans for the prizes were to be handed in, and when the school had
assembled, quite a number of the students had rolls of drawings in their
hands; but many of them had nothing to show for their three days' study
of architecture and engineering.
At the appointed hour the principal came in and took his place on the
platform. A moment later Lew Shoreham entered in full uniform, with the
cap in his hand.
"May I be permitted to make an explanation?" said the last of the
rebels, rising in his seat.
"In my private office at the close of the school," replied Captain
Gildrock.
That was not what the chief rebel wanted.
CHAPTER XX.
THE VISITING COMMITTEE AT BEECH HILL.
"I wish to protest----"
"Take your seat, Shoreham!" interposed the principal very sternly.
The last of the rebels obeyed, and did not appear to be at all angry or
indignant. Possibly he was about to protest in order to save
appearances. Most of the students smiled as they saw the young orator
deprived of his only chance to plead the cause to which he had been a
martyr for the last three days.
Captain Gildrock repeated the terms on which the prizes were to be
given, so that there should be no mistake in regard to them. The
ex-rebels listened, though the subject had little interest in the
competition, for they had ruled themselves out of it. Not the remotest
allusion was made to their misconduct.
"I have invited three gentlemen to spend a few days with me," continued
the principal. "One of them is an architect, another is a civil
engineer, and the third is a salesman in a hardware store in Boston.
They will form the committee to award the prizes for the best plans.
They will arrive this forenoon, and as soon as they come to a decision,
I shall inform you of the result."
The captain then instructed Mr. Darlingby to receive the plans and make
sure that there was no distinguishing mark on any of them except the
character on the envelope containing the name of the competitor. He was
to retain the envelopes and lock them up in the safe. As a further
precaution he was required to paste a piece of paper over the character
on the plans so that even this could not be seen by the committee.
The principal then left the schoolroom, declining even to see the rolls
of drawings. As soon as he had gone, sixteen plans were presented. This
was a greater number than the principal had expected. Mr. Darlingby
carried out the instructions given him, and sent the drawings to the
mansion house. The studies of the classes proceeded as usual during the
forenoon.
The three gentlemen who were expected appeared at dinner, and the
students regarded them with interest. In the afternoon they visited the
shops and inspected the tools and machinery. The first class were now at
work as carpenters, and the second as machinists.
"As soon as we have decided on the plans, all the students will be
carpenters for a time," said Captain Gildrock, who explained his plans
with considerable enthusiasm to the visitors. "I intend that the
students shall do almost all the work of building the new boat-house,
though I shall have laborers enough to do the lifting and digging."
"You have excellent tools and machinery in every department," suggested
Mr. Plint, the architect.
"Good tools do a great deal towards making good workmen," replied the
principal. "Every student has been instructed how to keep his tools in
good order. Of course there is a difference in them so far as skill is
concerned, but everyone can grind a chisel or plane-iron."
"One of the boys invented a piece of apparatus by which any desired
bevel can be given to a tool at the grindstone," interposed Mr. Jepson,
as he exhibited the machine to the visitors.
It was simply an iron plate, taken from a useless invention, and set at
the edge of the stone. It could be adjusted at any angle for a long or
a short bevel. Some of the work done with it was shown, and the guests
said it was as true as could be done by the manufacturers. On a bench
near the grindstone, which was turned by steam, were oil-stones of two
kinds, one rather coarse and the other fine. Lew Shoreham was putting a
chisel in order at one of them.
"That is the inventor of the grinding apparatus," said Mr. Jepson.
Shoreham was a lion for the time, and the visitors were introduced to
him. He was highly commended for his inventive power. When he had
finished whetting the chisel, Mr. Plint examined it, and declared that
it was sharp enough to shave with.
Thus far about all the work done by the students had been in fitting up
the shops, though each one had made a dressing-case for his room. In the
middle and at each end of the carpenters' shop was a case containing
forty-nine small drawers, which had been made by Corny Minkfield, Steve
Baxter and Ned Bellows, who were reckoned the best workmen in the second
class. They were natural mechanics, though they were rather low in
scholarship.
"But do they like to work?" asked Mr. Bridges, the civil engineer.
"They would work here from the time they get out of bed in the morning
till dark if we would let them," replied Mr. Brookbine. "I don't know
that they are particularly fond of the hard work of sawing and planing,
though we do most of it by machinery. But in every job there is a great
deal of variety; and this makes even the hard work easy. The boys are
all the time studying out how to do it, and this affords them a sort of
excitement which amounts to fascination."
"What are those trap-doors at the end of each bench?" asked Mr. Ritchie,
the salesman.
"Those are a device of one of the boys," replied the master carpenter.
"Captain Gildrock rightly insists that the shops shall be kept as neat
as the parlor in the house. Formerly the shavings had to be taken up and
put into barrels, which were conveyed to the engine-room, under the
machine shop."
Mr. Brookbine pulled a small cord under the bench, which opened one of
the trap-doors. Slipping the cord into a slot, a knot held the cover in
place. Each student was provided with a long and a short handled dust
brush, which were hung up at each end of the bench. He was required
frequently to sweep his chips and shavings down the trap.
"Phil Gawner is the author of this device. He has also projected a
wooden railroad, by which the shavings can be received into cars under
the traps, and conveyed to the furnace-room. The boys are not mechanics
enough yet to build the cars; but probably it will be done one of these
days."
"What sort of a machine is that?" asked Mr. Flint, pointing to a piece
of apparatus that hung upon the wall.
It was a square piece of plank eighteen inches across, in which a
quarter of a circle had been cut out at one corner. In the middle of it
another square piece of plank had been fastened, and on each side of the
quarter circle were two wooden screws.
"That is an invention of Jim Alburgh. I call it an invention, though
others may have used the same thing, for it is original with this
student," replied Mr. Brookbine. "You see the frames containing the
printed regulations of the school. The boys made these frames. They had
a great deal of difficulty in holding the parts securely while they
nailed the corners. Jim devised this apparatus. The two parts, when
mitred, are screwed up in this thing, and held together as firmly as
though they had grown into the position."
Some pieces of plain turning were shown to the visitors, but not much
time had been devoted to the lathes. In this part of the shop were
observed the same tendency to "improve things," and the same skill in
remedying defects, inventing apparatus to secure facility or correctness
in the work. One fellow had devised a plan to prevent a band from
running off the speed-wheels; another had arranged a shelf to hold his
tools while he was at work; and a third had adjusted a marker on his
rest with which he could lay out the distances on his wood.
"The boys seem to be as much interested as though they were engaged in a
game of base ball," said Mr. Bridges.
"They would leave a game of base ball any time to work in the shops,"
replied Captain Gildrock. "Of course Mr. Brookbine and Mr. Jepson have
to adapt the work to the students, and see that there is variety enough
in it to keep their minds active. If they set them to sawing, planing,
filing or boring iron, simply to learn how to do these things, they
would soon get disgusted. They want to 'make something;' and while they
are doing so, they don't mind the strain on the bones and muscles. I
don't know how they will take to framing the new building, for that is
hard labor, and spruce timber is hard to work."
"With good tools in good order they will do very well; and building the
house is a big thing for boys to do," added the master carpenter. "By
the way, we have no framing tools."
"You are not a drummer, Mr. Ritchie, but I dare say you will take an
order when you return," added the principal, laughing.
"Always ready to sell goods," replied the salesman. "I have no samples
of the goods you want," added Mr. Ritchie.
"All our tools and machinery came from Wilkinson's, and I am willing to
buy without seeing a sample," continued Captain Gildrock.
The shipmaster had made the acquaintance of John Ritchie while
purchasing the tools and machinery for the school. He was a model
salesman, and the captain had taken a great fancy to him. He had invited
him to spend his vacation at Beech Hill, and as an excuse for paying his
travelling expenses, he had invited him to serve on the committee to
award the prizes.
"What tools do we need, Mr. Brookbine?" asked the principal. "I thought
you gave me lists of all that would be wanted."
"When I did so I had no idea that the boys would ever have occasion to
frame a building. The first things we want are a steel square and
compasses for each student, for I intend to have the boys lay out the
work as well as do it; that is, after the general plan for framing the
house is arranged. Everyone must learn to use the square and compass."
"Square and compasses," added the captain, laughing. "We use a compass
on board of a vessel."
"You are right, captain; the dividers are properly compasses, and they
ought always to be called so to distinguish them from the marine
instrument, but many carpenters use the word in the singular form. The
square and compasses, with a set of framing chisels and a few more heavy
mallets than we have, will be all the different articles we shall need."
Captain Gildrock gave the order at once, and Mr. Ritchie wrote it down.
After a survey of the schoolroom and the dormitory, the visitors were
taken to the lake. Bates pulled them over to the grove and they
carefully looked over the shores on both sides in preparation for the
examination of the plans. The next morning they engaged in their work
upon the plans submitted. The master carpenter and the master machinist
were added to the committee at the request of the visitors. The
following day was Saturday, and a grand excursion around Lake Champlain
was arranged for the guests.
After breakfast the students put on their steamer uniform, and took
their stations on board of the Sylph. The visitors were greatly amused
as well as delighted when they saw the students in their places on
board. The attentive scholar of the schoolroom, the inventor in the
workshops had become a cook, a waiter, a pilot, or a deck hand. Mr.
Plint insisted that it was all decidedly funny.
They looked with wonder at Oscar Chester at the wheel in the
pilot-house, where he had the helm alone. But he knew what he was about,
though Dory Dornwood, the first pilot, kept a close watch upon the
movements of the steam yacht. The dinner was not only elaborate but
excellent; and the visitors returned to Beech Hill deeply impressed by
what they had seen.
On Monday morning they were ready to report on the plans.
CHAPTER XXI.
THE ORATOR OF THE REBELS OBTAINS A HEARING.
The students gathered in the schoolroom as usual on Monday morning.
There was no little excitement, even among those who had no interest in
the prizes, for it had been announced that the awards would be made at
this time. So closely had every student who had any ideas in regard to
the plan or location kept them to himself, that no one could even make a
guess as to who would get the prizes.
"We have found some merit in all the plans," said Mr. Plint, who was the
chairman of the committee. "We agreed that it was a tremendous
undertaking for young gentlemen under twenty to plan a wharf and a
building, and it was hardly to be expected that a single one of their
efforts would be acceptable. But all have had the benefit of the thought
and study the subject has given them, and the unsuccessful ones may reap
a harvest in the future from it of a thousandfold more value than the
prizes.
"We are unanimous in our conclusion, and we come to the award without
any doubt or hesitation. It is no discredit to the students to say that
the plans to which the prizes were awarded were the only ones which were
practicable. In some the building was twice as large as necessary, with
a large portion of the space within it wasted. In others it would cost a
million dollars to carry out the ideas of the competitor.
"In one it would be impossible for the steamer to come up to the wharf
without backing on a stern-line. One did not put a single window in his
building, even for the hall; and another supplied no stairs by which the
second story could be reached. In one instance, the dressing-rooms could
only be reached by going up stairs, and passing through the hall.
"But some of the plans which contain the greatest defects also include
some of the most meritorious features. The successful plan for the
boat-house and the one for the wharf and location are admirably fitted
to each other. The committee visited the locality, and carefully
examined the natural structure of the land and the depth of water. The
fortunate competitor has taken advantage of the formation of the shore
for the wharf and the docks for the row-boats; but it would be
impossible to erect the buildings according to most of the plans."
"Was the plan for the building that fitted this location best selected
for that reason, sir?" asked Ben Ludlow.
"A pertinent question, young gentleman," replied Mr. Plint, with a
smile. "The committee awarded the prize for the building before they
considered or even looked at the plans for the wharf and location. We
decided upon the merits of the plan for the boat-house so that its
fitness for the locality might not influence us. I need not say anything
more, except to repeat that all the plans, in spite of the defects that
may be found in them, contain much that is creditable to amateur
architects and engineers."
As he finished his remarks, he handed two rolls of drawings to the
principal. The students gazed at them eagerly, but there was nothing
about them which enabled any student to determine to whom they belonged.
A kind of buff wrapping-paper was provided for rough drawings, and, as
all the scholars had used this article, the rolls were just alike.
"I am satisfied that the committee have acted with the utmost fairness,
though I have not been present at any of their sessions," said Captain
Gildrock.
"I wish to say for myself and Mr. Jepson, that we have not the remotest
suspicion to whom the prizes have been awarded," interposed Mr.
Brookbine. "The handwriting of the boys is so nearly the same thing that
it gave us no clew to the winner."
"If any student has any objections to make to the fairness of this
transaction, now is the time, and the only time there will be, to make
them," added the principal.
At this remark Lew Shoreham rose from his seat, and the boys wondered if
he intended to deliver the oration he had prepared as a protest against
a uniform.
"I am sorry to feel obliged to object--not, I beg to say, in the most
emphatic manner,--to the fairness of the committee," the last of the
rebels began, pluming himself for a speech which promised, as usual, to
be of considerable length. "Our honored principal was kind enough to say
the 'fairness of this transaction,' from which I infer that the whole
subject of the plans and prizes is included."
"Certainly," added the principal rather brusquely, as though he
understood what was coming. "But you must confine yourself to the
subject now before the school."
"That is my intention," replied Shoreham, with a polite bow to the head
of the school. "The objection I feel compelled to make is, that nearly
one third of the school--eight out of twenty-six, to speak with
mathematical accuracy--have been shut out from the competition."
Mr. Bridges had to stuff half his pocket handkerchief into his mouth to
ward off an outburst of laughter at the high-flown speech of the
speaker, and the other members of the committee were equally amused,
though their risibles were more controllable.
"Eight of the students of this useful institution, some of whom had
ideas in the sublime science of architecture, and in the equally
important subject of civil engineering, were prevented from embodying
those ideas in the form of plans, and presenting them for consideration
in this competition," Shoreham proceeded, evidently believing that he
had produced a sensation in the committee.
"What prevented them from competing for the prizes, Shoreham?" asked the
matter-of-fact principal, who had not a great stock of patience under
the infliction of a high-flown speech.
"The eight students alluded to unfortunately differed from the authority
of the school, and from a majority of their fellow-students, in a matter
relating to the discipline of the institution. They were sentenced to
confinement in their several apartments. While they were thus
compulsorily absent from the usual assemblage of the students"--
Mr. Bridges could stand it no longer; the handkerchief failed as a
preventive, and he had to indulge in a fit of audible laughter, in which
the other members of the committee politely joined.
"This was a solemn and important matter to the students alluded to,"
continued Shoreham, with the utmost seriousness, for he could not tell,
for the life of him, what the fat civil engineer was laughing at. "It
involved their rights and privileges. While they were thus excluded, by
authority which they were too loyal to disregard"--
"And Bates was too vigilant to permit them to disregard," the principal,
now as much amused as his guests, interjected.
"Without introducing any unnecessary details, I need only say that the
eight students, whose deportment was usually unobjectionable, and who
habitually discharged with fidelity their obligations to the institution
and its respected founder, were excluded, by authority, from the
particular assemblage of the pupils in which the prizes were offered for
the plan and location. The other students were forbidden to speak with
any persons in regard to the plans, and the eight were unable to obtain
the terms of the offer, and were thus circumstantially shut out from the
competition. For myself and the other students who were thus unjustly
excluded, I wish to protest against the award about to be made, and to
suggest that the offer be repeated, so that the eight may have the
opportunity to stand on the same footing as their fellow-students."
"As I am charged with injustice and unfairness, I should like to have
the committee settle this question," said Captain Gildrock, who appeared
to be in an unusual mood for him, for he was laughing as merrily as the
stout civil engineer. "I will agree to abide by your decision,
gentlemen."
"For myself and my associates whom I represent, I assent to this
magnanimous proposition," replied Shoreham.
From motives of delicacy the committee objected to deciding the matter,
but, at the request of the captain, they finally consented, regarding
the whole business as a farce rather than a matter of serious
importance. The students were rather impatient, for they wanted to know
to whom the prizes had been awarded, and most of the rebels were
satisfied that they had been in the wrong.
Shoreham had already stated the question, and the chairman, declaring
that they understood it perfectly, declined to allow Shoreham to make
another speech.
"You were shut up in your room, and could not find out the terms of the
offer; that's the whole thing in a nutshell, isn't it?" said Mr.
Bridges, turning to the orator of the rebels.
"The question you ask, sir, naturally and logically involves the reason
why we were confined to our apartments," replied Shoreham,--and this
seemed to be the place where the oration could be properly introduced.
"Dry up, Lew!" called Windham, in a whisper loud enough to be heard by
all in the room, calling forth a burst of laughter.
"If we were properly and justly incarcerated"--
Mr. Bridges exploded again.
"Never mind that, Mr. Shoreham," interposed the chairman of the
committee.
     "No rogue e'er felt the halter draw
     With good opinion of the law,"
chuckled the civil engineer.
"We were acting on principle, sir," said Shoreham warmly.
"Exactly so!" exclaimed the jolly Mr. Bridges. "Let me tell you of a
terrible outrage inflicted on one of my neighbors in a small town in
another State. His name was on the voting-list, but when the day of
election came, he was not allowed to vote. He was robbed of the dearest
right of an American citizen. He was ruthlessly debarred from
constitutionally expressing his choice for a governor of the State.
Wasn't it awful?"
"I should say that it was an outrage, as you called it in the beginning.
But why was he debarred from his right?" asked the orator.
"He was shut up in the house of correction," laughed the fat
committee-man.
"Oh, for some crime!" exclaimed the representative of the rebels.
"That depends upon how you look at it. He did not regard that for which
he was shut up as a crime; in fact, he was acting on principle,"
chuckled the jolly disputant. "He claimed that it was right to sell
liquor, though the law of the State made it a crime. At any rate, his
business was such that he could not leave, even to vote. His case was
just like yours, only a great deal worse, Mr. Shoreham."
The students indulged in a round of hearty applause, and the orator
found it utterly impossible to meet the argument contained in this
parallel case. He subsided. Captain Gildrock was satisfied with the
decision of the committee, and so were all the students, with the
possible exception of Shoreham. The papers that covered the characters
on the two rolls were removed by Mr. Darlingby, and the same one
appeared on both of them.
"Both prizes have been awarded to the same student, I see," said the
principal, while the instructor went for the envelopes.
The character was the Greek letter Beta, and the two envelopes, thus
indorsed, were handed to the principal. There was intense excitement
when he opened them.
"Bolingbroke Millweed," Captain Gildrock read from the enclosures of
both, and a round of applause followed.
CHAPTER XXII.
BOLLY EXPLAINS HIS PLANS FOR THE BOAT-HOUSE AND WHARF.
Bolingbroke Millweed was a good scholar and a fair mechanic, but both
instructors and students were astonished when both prizes were awarded
to him. He had formerly been a "swell," but he had entirely recovered
from the malady which made him such. Only a few weeks before he was too
proud to work with his hands.
His pride, or rather vanity, had kept down his manhood, and made of him
what the genuine boy called a "donkey." His father had become the "head
of the family," at home, and introduced a new order of things. The two
sons were in the Beech Hill School, and the two girls were not only
earning their own living, but were doing a great deal towards the
support of the family.
The new order of things had placed Bolly, as everyone called him, on his
own proper level. It had developed faculties which had been dormant,
and made him a useful as well as a sensible young man. The result of the
competition proved that he had talent of a high order, and that the
industrial school was bringing it out.
Bolly was fairly popular among his associates, though there was nothing
magnetic about him. He was not likely to become a leader among men, but
Mr. Plint thought he had the right kind of ability to make a good
architect. The practical education he was now receiving was exactly what
he needed. While he was learning to draw, he was also obtaining a
knowledge of practical carpentry and work in metals, as well as an
insight into other trades.
The boys had given the successful competitor a liberal demonstration of
applause, which proved that they had no ill-will or jealousy; of if they
had, they were ashamed to manifest it. The excitement had been intense,
and it did not seem to moderate after the prizes had been awarded. The
students wanted to know all about the plans and the location, and how
the wharf was to be built.
Captain Gildrock took from his pocket a couple of fifty-dollar bills,
and laid them on the desk, and Bolly was called to the platform. Another
round of applause greeted him, and the principal did not object to it.
The victor was formally introduced to each of the visitors, who took him
by the hand and congratulated him upon his success. Mr. Bridges said he
could not help laughing when he thought of the triumphant architect
doing duty as third fireman in the hold of the Sylph.
"If this boy should happen to become an architect in the future, do you
suppose that what he learns in the fireroom of the steamer will be any
disadvantage to him?" said the principal.
"On the contrary, I think what he learns in any capacity will be of
immense value to him," replied the civil engineer earnestly. "In fact,
it would be worth all it cost in any calling."
"I noticed that this young gentleman's brother was first cook," added
Mr. Plint. "I have often had to get up designs and make drawings for
hotels, prisons, insane asylums, and other buildings in which a kitchen
was a very important apartment. Now, I am sure, if I had ever been a
cook I should have been better fitted to manage the details of such a
department."
"An eminent surgeon told me he was sorry he had not learned to be a
carpenter or a machinist after he graduated from college, for a
knowledge of these arts would make him a better surgeon," Mr. Bridges
remarked.
"Now, Millweed," continued the principal, "the students want to know all
about your plans,"--and this observation was greeted with a clapping of
hands. "I propose that you shall tell them yourself, and explain your
plans in full." This remark was applauded. "There is a large, clean
blackboard behind you, and you may do it in your own way."
"I am no orator, as Brutus is," replied Bolly, blushing.
"Brutus Shoreham!" exclaimed one of the boys, and all the assembly
laughed; and from that time the last of the rebels was called Brutus by
the students oftener than anything else.
"I am afraid I can't speak well enough to make myself understood," said
Bolly, as he looked nervously at the blackboard and then at the
students.
"You need not declaim it; only tell what your plans are, just as you
would explain them to one of your companions over in the grove," added
Captain Gildrock, encouragingly.
"I will try, sir. Shall I explain the building, or the location first,"
asked Bolly.
"Suit yourself, Millweed."
"Then I will begin with the location," replied the successful
competitor, as he took a crayon and turned to the blackboard, where he
rapidly sketched the shore-line of the northeast corner of Beech Hill
Lake.
This part of the lake formed a considerable bay, abreast of which was
the school building and shops, while the dormitory was near the rocks at
the foot of Beech Hill. About one third of the way across the lake was a
low peninsula, whose surface was nearly flat, and not more than three
feet above the usual level of the lake. This point projected out into
the lake about ten rods, and formed the western shore of the
bay,--called by the boys Hornet Bay, on account of a quarrel some of
them had had with insects of that name, in which the hornets got the
better of them.
"This is Chowder Point," Bolly began, indicating with the pointer the
projection of rocks, which had formerly been much used for picnic
purposes. "This is the location I have chosen for the boat-house."
"Why didn't you put it on the other side of the lake?" asked one of the
students, who thought it was too far from the old wharf.
"Chowder Point is just the same distance from the shop and schoolroom
as the old wharf, and only half the distance from the dormitory,"
replied Bolly, with patient dignity.
"And about the same distance from the mansion-house," added the
principal. "I must ask the students not to interrupt the speaker, and
not to ask any more questions until he has finished his explanation."
While the captain was making this remark, Bolly dashed off a
parallelogram, rather more than twice as long as it was wide. It covered
the end of Chowder Point, the extremity of which extended a short
distance outside of it.
"This figure represents the location of the boat-house," continued
Bolly, using the pointer. "You observe that about one third of the
building is on the land, or rocks, and the rest of it is over the
water."
"But where does the wharf come in?" asked an excited student.
"No questions!" interposed the principal. "You need not answer it,
Millweed."
"I shall come to the wharf in a few minutes," replied Bolly. "The main
building, represented by this parallelogram, is to be ninety-one feet
long by thirty-one feet wide,--rather narrow for the length, you will
say; but the proportions will be improved a little before I finish."
The speaker took the crayon and marked off the docks for the barges.
They opened at the south end of the structure, into Hornet Bay. He had
made the inner ends of the two docks something in shape of the bows of
the boats, so that the idea could be better obtained by the listeners.
"These docks are fifty-four feet long, and nine feet wide. The space
between them is a platform six feet wide. Next to the walls of the
building on each side is a platform three feet wide. You will see that I
am giving you the plan of the building as well as the location; but this
seems to be the most natural way to do it."
Bolly then drew a section of the structure, looking at the south end of
it. At the lower part on each side four feet were added to the breadth
of the house, increasing it to forty feet, with the allowance for the
thickness of the sides. But this addition was only one fourth of the
whole height of the house. It had a slanting roof, making the addition
what used to be called a "lean-to."
The excitement of the boys increased as Bolly advanced with his plans,
and they wondered what this narrow strip on each side of the building
could mean. They wanted to ask questions, and it was hard work for them
to keep from bursting out into a volley of inquiries. The amateur
architect drew a great many lines across this narrow addition, which
tended to throw some light on the mystery. But the added strips looked
very like a couple of ladders.
"These are the dressing-rooms," Bolly proceeded, when he had finished
this part of the drawing. "There are forty of them, as required in the
terms, and each of them is four feet by three. From each a door opens to
the outside platforms on the docks."
At this point the students took it all in, and a round of applause
greeted this feature, which the boys thought was an admirable one. The
oarsmen could come out of the dressing-rooms in which they had put on
their uniforms, and step directly into the barges.
"These additions to the sides are only six feet high at the eaves and
seven at the walls. The lower story of the boat-house is twelve feet
high. This leaves five feet of space above the roof of the
lean-to,--that's what my father calls the L of his house. In this space
are to be ten windows on each side. There are also four windows over
the doors at the end of the boat-house by which the barges are to be
admitted."
"I think your building will be well lighted, Mr. Millweed," interposed
Mr. Plint, thinking the speaker appeared to have some doubts on this
point.
"Thank you, sir," replied Bolly, much gratified at the architect's
approval. "Six feet from the inner ends of the docks will be a fence,
with a gate opposite each platform," continued the speaker, indicating
it by a dotted line. "The dressing-rooms end at this fence. Then there
is a passage-way ten feet wide across the house. At the shore end of it
is the principal entrance."
Bolly then divided the space on the plan north of this passage-way into
four parts, and said they were the two storerooms, the sailroom, and the
paint shop. Against the sides at this end of the structure he made two
more additions, wider than the others. The one on the shore side was for
the stairs to the hall; the other was for one of the four-oar boats; and
a third was run along the water part of the north end for the other.
Bolly explained these features of the plan at some length.
"The wide passageway through the building from the main entrance to the
water side of the building leads to the wharf," continued the speaker,
pointing to it on his drawing. "You will observe that the great doors on
the water side are in the middle of the tip end of Chowder Point. The
rock extends only four feet outside of it.
"The wharf is to be in the form of the letter T," Bolly proceeded,
drawing this pier in the place where his plan located it. "The cross
part, or top of the T, is to be sixty feet from the boat-house, and is
to be reached by a wooden bridge ten feet wide, with a single span of
fifty-six feet. The landing part of the wharf is a huge caisson, or box,
sixty feet long by twelve feet wide, which is to be built at the shore,
floated to the place where it is to be located, and sunk with rocks; and
the bottom of the lake at this place is almost parallel with the surface
of the water."
The students were filled with wonder by these last details.
CHAPTER XXIII.
VOLLEYS OF QUESTIONS ASKED AND ANSWERED.
Bolingbroke finished his explanation without any flourish, and when he
had done he stopped, which all orators are not able to do. He was about
to take his seat when the volley of questions was discharged at him; and
the principal was obliged to interpose so that the inquiries could be
dealt with one at a time.
"You need not answer any question, Millweed, unless you are willing to
do so," he added.
"I am perfectly willing," said Bolly. "I suppose they have all found
some objections to my plans, and I should rather like to hear them. Very
likely some of the fellows will put questions that I cannot answer, and
I don't believe I shall be able to get over all the objections that will
be made."
"I should like to know what the three corners of the boat-house that are
over the water are to rest upon," said Will Orwell, when a system of
conducting the discussion had been arranged.
"The bottom of the lake is flat rock like the shore. As the water is
only from four to four and a half feet deep where the corners come, it
will be easy enough to set stone posts on the bottom, not only at the
corners, but in as many places as may be necessary," replied the
architect.
"Such posts would weigh at least a ton apiece, and I should like to know
how we are to handle them," added Will Orwell. "One corner is over sixty
feet from the shore, and we have nothing to stand on."
This was just the kind of question the principal liked to have come
before the boys, for it assisted in developing their ingenuity, their
ability to devise expedients for overcoming difficulties.
"I could mention several ways of doing it," replied Bolly, with a
confident smile; "but I will name only the one I thought to be the best
for our case. We are to build a caisson, or box, sixty by twelve for the
wharf, if my plan is adopted. I propose to build this box first, and use
it as a sort of scow or stage in the erection of the boat-house. We need
not make the sides more than four feet high at first. We can put some
timbers across it, on which a derrick can be placed."
"Excellent!" exclaimed the fat civil engineer.
"But how will you get the stone posts from the quarry to the derrick,"
continued Will. "We have no vessel in which they can be carried."
"With the timbers to be used in raising the wharf to the required
height, we can make a raft on which two or three of the posts can be
floated at a time. It can be towed by the Sylph," answered Bolly, who
had evidently been over all these details.
"But you can't set these posts under water. If they don't happen to
stand plumb, I don't see how you can help yourself," suggested Luke
Bennington.
"But we can help ourselves, even if we have to ask the principal to send
to Boston or New York for a submarine diver who knows how to lay stone,"
said Bolly. "I should be willing to take the job of setting the posts
plumb without any outside assistance except the stone-cutters at the
quarry. The bottom is nearly level, and we can obtain the exact pitch by
measuring. We can cut a flat rock to fit the bottom."
"There is still another way," interposed Mr. Bridges.
"I have thought of a coffer-dam," added Bolly, glancing at the visitor.
"Exactly so; that is what I was thinking about," laughed the civil
engineer.
"What's a coffer-dam?" demanded Dave Winslow.
"There are several ways to make one," answered Bolly. "We could make an
island by filling in earth: then dig out a hole in it the same as we
should for a foundation on shore. Another way is to sink a wooden or
iron caisson, or box, to the bottom, where it would have to be puddled
with clay. Then it would be necessary to pump out the water. When this
is done we should have a chance to set the posts just as we should do it
on shore."
"It seems to me you don't hit on the easiest and simplest way of doing
the job," interposed Mr. Brookbine. "How high will the posts of the
boat-house be, Bolly?"
"About thirty feet."
"Very well; rest the posts on the bottom of the pond, where they will
have a good foundation," added the master carpenter. "If you take a
stick of timber and set it up endways in deep water, one half of it will
be below the surface; and in four feet of depth nearly the whole weight
of the stick would rest on the bottom. It seems to me this is the
simplest way to do it!"
The boys looked at Bolly, and their expression seemed to say, "We have
got you now!" But the amateur architect smiled as confidently as ever.
"That plan would do very well in Florida or the West Indies," he
replied; whereat the corpulent civil engineer laughed out loud.
"Why not in Vermont?" demanded the carpenter, wondering what Mr. Bridges
was laughing at.
"We sometimes have the thermometer twenty degrees below zero, and under
the new boat-house the water may freeze to the bottom. When the ice
expands, it will be likely to give three corners of the boat-house a
lift which the fourth will not get on the solid rock shore. If all the
posts were in the water it would be better."
Mr. Brookbine laughed with the civil engineer then, and admitted that he
had not thought of the ice.
"But I think it would cost more to stand the posts, thirty feet high, on
the ends in the water than it would to build the caissons for
coffer-dams," added Mr. Bridges. "I suppose you will raise the building
in sections, but you must have something to hold on to in the water, and
sink the ends of the posts to the bottom."
"Now, Millweed, you have mentioned several ways of managing the posts in
the water, I wish to ask which of these ways you think is the best one,"
said Captain Gildrock.
"The stone posts," replied Bolly promptly. "With only about four feet of
water I think there will be no difficulty in chinking them up at the
bottom."
For an hour longer the boys continued to ask questions, and Bolly was
not caught in anything, though it is probable that the architect or
civil engineer could easily have tripped him up if they had chosen to do
so. But the principal announced the suspension of the school for the
rest of the forenoon, in order to convey the visitors to Whitehall in
the steamer.
Captain Gildrock took up the two fifty-dollar bills he had laid upon the
desk, and turned to the successful competitor, who had been requested to
remain on the platform.
"As I said in the beginning, I cannot allow the money obtained for the
plans to be fooled away, for one of the most important lessons an
American boy ought to learn is how to take care of and use money, as
well as how to earn it. What do you intend to do with the hundred
dollars, Millweed?" asked the principal.
"I shall give it to my father," replied Bolly without any hesitation.
"That is an excellent use to make of it, and I hand it over to you
without asking any more questions," added the principal, suiting the
action to the words.
A round of applause saluted Bolly again. He had gone up a hundred
degrees in the estimation of his companions, who had been unable to
corner him with their questions. The order was given for the boys to put
on their steamer uniform, and take their stations on board of the Sylph.
Bates had already got up steam, and a plentiful supply of provisions had
been put on board. In half an hour the steam yacht departed, and
everything on board of her went along in as good order as though she had
been a regular packet on the lake. The passengers were to dine on board,
and cooks and stewards went to work in their departments at once.
The excursion was a very pleasant one, and the guests spent most of the
time on the way up in talking with the boys in regard to what they had
learned at the school. They were delighted with the institution, and Mr.
Bridges declared that the States could not do better than to establish
such schools in place of some of those in which Greek and Latin were the
principal branches taught.
Mr. Plint pointed out to the principal a few details in which he thought
Bolly's plan could be improved, and after making these alterations he
intended to erect the building at once.
"But you do not expect those boys to do all the work?" suggested Mr.
Ritchie.
"I expect them to do nearly the whole of it. When I return I shall set
the quarrymen to getting out the stone posts. I shall go to Burlington
at once, for Brookbine is arranging the plan for framing the building,
and will give me a list of the lumber needed, and purchase it. The boys
will tow it down in rafts, though I shall employ a number of laborers,
for I don't wish to let the boys injure themselves."
"But it will take a long time to put up and finish the building," added
Mr. Bridges.
"I don't expect to have it completed until next spring. We shall finish
the outside by December, and make a winter's job of the inside work."
At Whitehall the visitors, except Mr. Ritchie, took their leave of the
boys, and went on shore, promising to come again the next season. The
students gave them three cheers as they landed, and then the Sylph began
her homeward trip. As she passed Sandy Beach Cove, the barges of the
Chesterfields were seen pulling out from the shore. It was soon evident
that they wished to speak with those on board of the steamer. Oscar
Chester, the second pilot, at the request of the principal, rang to stop
her, and the Dasher came up to the forward gangway.
"I should like to speak to the coxswains of the barges," said Mad
Twinker, who appeared to be the commodore of the fleet.
"I am the coxswain of the Gildrock," replied Matt Randolph, at a nod
from the principal.
"We have two boats like yours, and we have been learning to row," said
Mad Twinker. "We think we can pull pretty well now, though there is room
for improvement, we grant. We desire to extend to you a friendly
invitation to row with us for a suitable prize."
"Young man," interposed Captain Gildrock, "I cannot allow the Beech
Hill students to row with you at present."
"Why not, sir?" asked Mad Twinker, apparently astonished at this
interference.
"Although they are likely to become mechanics, most of them, I wish them
to be gentlemen at the same time, and I am rather careful with whom I
allow them to associate."
"But we claim to be gentlemen, sir," exclaimed Mad, indignantly.
"The claim is not admitted. When our boys first saw you the other day
you called them 'members of the Tinkers' Institute,' 'chip-makers,'
'greasers,' and many other offensive epithets. You stole their clothes
while they were in the water, and since that you attempted with your
associates, the Topovers, to steal our boats. When you have learned to
be true gentlemen, I will withdraw all objection. Go ahead, pilot!"
The commodore of the barge fleet wanted to discuss the matter, but the
Sylph steamed away before he had a chance to get in a word. Ben Ludlow
thought they were even with the Chesterfields then, and in half an hour
the boys were looking over the site of the boat-house and wharf.
CHAPTER XXIV.
THE NEW CAPTAIN OF THE SYLPH.
Mr. Brookbine had been hard at work over the plan of the building in
getting the amount of timber required for the frame. Captain Gildrock
had assured him that no material change would be made in the drawing of
Bolly. They might alter the arrangement of the store-rooms, and use a
portion of the immense vestibule on the second floor for a library, or
committee-room.
Bolly had suggested a gallery or balcony on the water side of the second
story, which might be added, but none of these changes would affect the
frame. When the captain had returned from Whitehall the master carpenter
gave him the list of timber required for the frame.
The granite quarry in the rear of Beech Hill was owned by the
shipmaster, and about all the building-stone used in Genverres was taken
from it. The owner did not care to be bothered with it, and a quarryman
managed it, paying so much a cubic foot for all the stone taken out of
it.
Thirteen stone posts would be required for the water-foundations of the
boat-house, and Captain Gildrock rode to the quarryman's house at once
to order them. Early the next morning the principal went to Burlington,
and ordered the lumber. Before breakfast, Bolly, assisted by the other
students, staked out the building. The approximate positions of the
foundation posts were indicated by mooring sticks with stones in the
bay. But the lessons went on as usual, and the boating and swimming
exercises were not interrupted.
The boys were full of enthusiasm, and were impatient for the actual work
of the house to begin. The more they considered the plan which had been
adopted the better they liked it. All the plans which had been offered
for the prizes were returned to the makers of them; but quite a number
of the competitors destroyed them as soon as they got hold of them, and
no one but themselves and the committee ever knew what blunders they had
made. Yet a few of them were not ashamed to exhibit their work.
Not a single one of them had selected the location chosen by Bolly
Millweed. Some of them had bridged the lake, and put the boat-house over
in the grove, but most of them had placed it near the old wharf. One
admitted that he had made the structure two hundred feet long, with
