strong roots helped the clinging hands and feet as the boy painfully
climbed, slipped, and swung along, fearing every minute to come to some
impassable barrier in the dangerous path.

But he got on wonderfully well, and was feeling much encouraged, when
his foot slipped, the root he held gave way, and down he went, rolling
and bumping to his death on the rocks below, he thought, as a crash
came, and he knew no more.

"Wonder if I'm dead?" was the first idea that occurred to him as he
opened his eyes and saw a brilliant sky above him, all purple, gold, and
red.

He seemed floating in the air, for he swayed to and fro on a soft bed, a
pleasant murmur reached his ear, and when he looked down he saw what
looked like clouds, misty and white, below him. He lay a few minutes
drowsily musing, for the fall had stunned him; then, as he moved his
hand something pricked it, and he felt pine-needles in the fingers that
closed over them.

"Caught in a tree, by Jupiter!" and all visions of heaven vanished in a
breath, as he sat up and stared about him, wide awake now, and conscious
of many aching bones.

Yes, there he lay among the branches of one of the sturdy pines, into
which he had fallen on his way down the precipice. Blessed little tree!
set there to save a life, and teach a lesson to a wilful young heart
that never forgot that hour.

Holding fast, lest a rash motion should set him bounding further down,
like a living ball, Corny took an observation as rapidly as possible,
for the red light was fading, and the mist rising from the valley. All
he could see was a narrow ledge where the tree stood, and anxious to
reach a safer bed for the night, he climbed cautiously down to drop on
the rock, so full of gratitude for safety that he could only lie quite
still for a little while, thinking of mother, and trying not to cry.

He was much shaken by the fall, his flesh bruised, his clothes torn, and
his spirit cowed; for hunger, weariness, pain, and danger, showed him
what a very feeble creature he was, after all. He could do no more till
morning, and resigned himself to a night on the mountain side, glad to
be there alive, though doubtful what daylight would show him. Too tired
to move, he lay watching the western sky, where the sun set gloriously
behind the purple hills. All below was wrapped in mist, and not a sound
reached him but the sigh of the pine, and the murmur of the waterfall.

"This is a first-class scrape. What a fool I was not to go back when I
could, instead of blundering down here where no one can get at me, and
as like as not I can't get out alone! Gun smashed in that confounded
fall, so I can't even fire a shot to call help. Nothing to eat or drink,
and very likely a day or so to spend here till I'm found, if I ever am.
Chris said, 'Yell, if you want us.' Much good that would do now! I'll
try, though." And getting up on his weary legs, Corny shouted till he
was hoarse; but echo alone answered him, and after a few efforts he gave
it up, trying to accept the situation like a man. As if kind Nature took
pity on the poor boy, the little ledge was soft with lichens and thin
grass, and here and there grew a sprig of checkerberry, sown by the
wind, sheltered by the tree, and nourished by the moisture that trickled
down the rock from some hidden spring. Eagerly Corny ate the sweet
leaves to stay the pangs of hunger that gnawed him, and finished his
meal with grass and pine-needles, calling himself a calf, and wishing
his pasture were wider.

"The fellows we read about always come to grief in a place where they
can shoot a bird, catch a fish, or knock over some handy beast for
supper," he said, talking to himself for company. "Even the old chap
lost in the bush in Australia had a savage with him who dug a hole in a
tree, and pulled out a nice fat worm to eat. I'm not lucky enough even
to find a sassafras bush to chew, or a bird's egg to suck. My poor gun
is broken, or I might bang away at a hawk, and cook him for supper, if
the bog didn't spoil my matches as it did my lunch. Oh, well! I'll pull
through, I guess, and when it's all over, it will be a jolly good story
to tell."

Then, hoping to forget his woes in sleep, he nestled under the
low-growing branches of the pine, and lay blinking drowsily at the
twilight world outside. A dream came, and he saw the old farm-house in
sad confusion, caused by his absence,--the women crying, the men sober,
all anxious, and all making ready to come and look for him. So vivid was
it that he woke himself by crying out, "Here I am!" and nearly went over
the ledge, stretching out his arms to Abner.

The start and the scare made it hard to go to sleep again, and he sat
looking at the solemn sky, full of stars that seemed watching over him
alone there, like a poor, lost child on the great mountain's stony
breast. He had never seen the world at that hour before, and it made a
deep impression on him; for it was a vast, wild scene, full of gloomy
shadows below, unknown dangers around, and a new sense of utter
littleness and helplessness, which taught the boy human dependence upon
Heavenly love as no words, even from his mother's tender lips, could
have done. Thoughts of the suffering his wilfulness had given her wrung
a few penitent tears from him, which he was not ashamed to shed, since
only the kind stars saw them, and better still, he resolved to own the
fault, to atone for it, and to learn wisdom from this lesson, which
might yet prove to be a very bitter one.

He felt better after this little breakdown, and presently his thoughts
were turned from conscience to catamounts again; for sounds in the woods
below led him to believe that the much-desired animal was on the prowl.
His excited fancy painted dozens of them not far away, waiting to be
shot, and there he was, cooped up on that narrow ledge, with a broken
gun, unable even to get a look at them. He felt that it was a just
punishment, and after the first regret tried to comfort himself with the
fact that he was much safer where he was than alone in the forest at
that hour, for various nocturnal voices suggested restless and dangerous
neighbors.

Presently his wakeful eyes saw lights twinkling far off on the opposite
side of the ravine, and he imagined he heard shouts and shots. But the
splash of the waterfall, and the rush of the night wind deadened the
sounds to his ear, and drowned his own reply.

"They are looking for me, and will never think of this strange place. I
can't make them hear, and must wait till morning. Poor Chris will get an
awful scolding for letting me go. Don't believe he told a word till he
had to. I'll make it up to him. Chris is a capital fellow, and I just
wish I had him here to make things jolly," thought the lonely lad.

But soon the lights vanished, the sounds died away, and the silence of
midnight brooded over the hills, seldom broken except by the soft cry of
an owl, the rustle of the pine, or a louder gust of wind as it grew
strong and cold. Corny kept awake as long as he could, fearing to dream
and fall; but by-and-by he dropped off, and slept soundly till the chill
of dawn waked him.

At any other time he would have heartily enjoyed the splendor of the
eastern sky, as the red glow spread and brightened, till the sun came
dazzling through the gorge, making the wild solitude beautiful and
grand.

Now, however, he would have given it all for a hot beefsteak and a cup
of coffee, as he wet his lips with a few drops of ice-cold water, and
browsed over his small pasture till not a green spire remained. He was
stiff, and full of pain, but daylight and the hope of escape cheered him
up, and gave him coolness and courage to see how best he could
accomplish his end.

The wind soon blew away the mist and let him see that the dry bed of a
stream lay just below. To reach it he must leap, at risk of his bones,
or find some means to swing down ten or twelve feet. Once there, it was
pretty certain that by following the rough road he would come into the
valley, from whence he could easily find his way home. Much elated at
this unexpected good fortune, he took the strap that had slung his gun,
the leathern belt about his waist, and the strong cords of his pouch,
and knotting them together, made a rope long enough to let him drop
within two or three feet of the stones below. This he fastened firmly
round the trunk of the pine, and finished his preparations by tying his
handkerchief to one of the branches, that it might serve as a guide for
him, a signal for others, and a trophy of his grand fall.

Then putting a little sprig of the evergreen tree in his jacket, with a
grateful thought of all it had done for him, he swung himself off and
landed safely below, not minding a few extra bumps after his late
exploits at tumbling.

Feeling like a prisoner set free, he hurried as fast as bare feet and
stiff legs would carry him along the bed of the stream, coming at last
into the welcome shelter of the woods, which seemed more beautiful than
ever, after the bleak region of granite in which he had been all night.

Anxious to report himself alive, and relieve his mother's anxiety, he
pressed on till he struck the path, and soon saw, not far away, the old
cabin Abner had spoken of. Just before this happy moment he had heard a
shot fired somewhere in the forest, and as he hurried toward the sound
he saw an animal dart into the hut, as if for shelter.

Whether it was a rabbit, woodchuck or dog, he had not seen, as a turn in
the path prevented a clear view; and hoping it was old Buff looking for
him, he ran in, to find himself face to face with a catamount at last.

There she was, the big, fierce cat, crouched in a corner, with fiery
eyes, growling and spitting at sight of an enemy, but too badly wounded
to fight, as the blood that dripped from her neck, and the tremble of
her limbs plainly showed.

"Now's my chance! Don't care who shot her, I'll kill her, and have her
too, if I pay my last dollar," thought Corny; and catching up a stout
bit of timber fallen from the old roof, he struck one quick blow, which
finished poor puss, who gave up the ghost with a savage snarl, and a
vain effort to pounce on him.

This splendid piece of good luck atoned for all the boy had gone
through, and only waiting to be sure the beast was quite dead and past
clawing, he flung his prize over his shoulder, and with renewed strength
and spirit trudged along the woodland road toward home, proudly
imagining his triumphal entry upon the scene of suspense and alarm.

"Wish I didn't look so like a scare-crow; but perhaps my rags will add
to the effect. Won't the girls laugh at my swelled face, and scream at
the cat. Poor mammy will mourn over me and coddle me up as if I'd been
to the wars. Hope some house isn't very far off, for I don't believe I
can lug this brute much farther, I'm so starved and shaky."

Just as he paused to take breath and shift his burden from one shoulder
to the other, a loud shout startled him, and a moment after, several men
came bursting through the wood, cheering like lunatics as they
approached.

It was Abner, Chris, and some of the neighbors, setting out again on
their search, after a night of vain wandering. Corny could have hugged
them all and cried like a girl; but pride kept him steady, though his
face showed his joy as he nodded his hatless head with a cool--

"Hullo!"

Chris burst into his ringing laugh, and danced a wild sort of jig round
his mate, as the only way in which he could fitly express his relief;
for he had been so bowed down with remorse at his imprudence in letting
Corny go that no one could find the heart to blame him, and all night
the poor lad had rushed up and down seeking, calling, hoping, and
fearing, till he was about used up, and looked nearly as dilapidated as
Corny.

The tale was soon told, and received with the most flattering signs of
interest, wonder, sympathy, and admiration.

"Why in thunder didn't you tell me?--and I'd a got up a hunt wuth
havin',--not go stramashing off alone on a wild goose chase like this.
Never did see such a chap as you be for gittin' inter scrapes,--and out
of 'em too, I'm bound to own," growled Abner.

"That isn't a wild goose, is it?" proudly demanded Corny, pointing to
the cat, which now lay on the ground, while he leaned against a tree to
hide his weariness; for he felt ready to drop, now all the excitement
was over.

"No it ain't, and I congratulate you on a good job. Where did you shoot
her?" asked Abner, stooping to examine the creature.

"Didn't shoot her; broke my gun when I took that header down the
mountain. I hit her a rap with a club, in the cabin where I found her,"
answered Corny, heartily wishing he need not share the prize with any
one. But he was honest, and added at once, "Some one else had put a
bullet into her; I only finished her off."

"Chris did it; he fired a spell back and see the critter run, but we was
too keen after you to stop for any other game. Guess you've had enough
of catamounts for one spell, hey?" and Abner laughed as he looked at
poor Corny, who was a more sorry spectacle than he knew,--ragged and
rough, hatless and shoeless, his face red and swelled with the poisoning
and bites, his eyes heavy with weariness, and in his mouth a bit of
wild-cherry bark which he chewed ravenously.

"No, I haven't! I want this one, and will buy it if Chris will let me. I
said I'd kill one, and I did, and want to keep the skin; for I ought to
have something to show after all this knocking about and turning
somersaults half a mile long," answered Corny stoutly, as he tried to
shoulder his load again.

"Here, give me the varmint, and you hang on to Chris, my boy, or we'll
have to cart you home. You've done first-rate, and now you want a good
meal of vittles to set you up. Right about face, neighbors, and home we
go, to the tune of Hail Columby."

As Abner spoke, the procession set forth. The tall, jolly man, with the
dead animal at his back, went first; then Corny, trying not to lean on
the arm Chris put round him, but very glad of the support; next the good
farmers, all talking at once; while old Buff soberly brought up the
rear, with his eye on the wildcat, well knowing that he would have a
fine feast when the handsome skin was off.

In this order they reached home, and Corny tumbled into his mother's
arms, to be no more seen for some hours. What went on in her room, no
one knows; but when at last the hero emerged, refreshed by sleep and
food, clad in clean clothes, his wounds bound up, and plantain-leaves
dipped in cream spread upon his afflicted countenance, he received the
praises and congratulations showered upon him very meekly. He made no
more boasts of skill and courage that summer, set out on no more wild
hunts, and gave up his own wishes so cheerfully that it was evident
something had worked a helpful change in wilful Corny.

He liked to tell the story of that day and night when his friends were
recounting adventures by sea and land; but he never said much about the
hours on the ledge, always owned that Chris shot the beast, and usually
ended by sagely advising his hearers to let their mothers know, when
they went off on a lark of that kind. Those who knew and loved him best
observed that he was fonder than ever of nibbling checkerberry leaves,
that he didn't mind being laughed at for liking to wear a bit of pine in
his buttonhole, and that the skin of the catamount so hardly won lay
before his study table till the moths ate it up.




[Illustration]

THE COOKING CLASS


A young girl in a little cap and a big apron sat poring over a
cook-book, with a face full of the deepest anxiety. She had the kitchen
to herself, for mamma was out for the day, cook was off duty, and Edith
could mess to her heart's content. She belonged to a cooking-class, the
members of which were to have a lunch at two P. M. with the girl next
door; and now the all absorbing question was, what to make. Turning the
pages of the well-used book, she talked to herself as the various
receipts met her eye.

"Lobster-salad and chicken-croquettes I've had, and neither were very
good. Now I want to distinguish myself by something very nice. I'd try a
meat-porcupine or a mutton-duck if there was time; but they are fussy,
and ought to be rehearsed before given to the class. Bavarian cream
needs berries and whipped cream, and I won't tire my arms beating
eggs. Apricots à la Neige is an easy thing and wholesome, but the
girls won't like it, I know, as well as some rich thing that will make
them ill, as Carrie's plum-pudding did. A little meat dish is best for
lunch. I'd try sweetbreads and bacon, if I didn't hate to burn my face
and scent my clothes, frying. Birds are elegant; let me see if I can do
larded grouse. No, I don't like to touch that cold, fat stuff. How
mortified Ella was, when she had birds on toast and forgot to draw them.
I shouldn't make such a blunder as that, I do hope. Potted pigeons--the
very thing! Had that in our last lesson, but the girls are all crazy
about puff-paste, so they won't try pigeons. Why didn't I think of it at
once?--for we've got them in the house, and don't want them to-day,
mamma being called away. All ready too; so nice! I do detest to pick and
clean birds. 'Simmer from one to three hours.' Plenty of time. I'll do
it! I'll do it! La, la, la!"

And away skipped Edith in high spirits, for she did not love to cook,
yet wished to stand well with the class, some members of which were very
ambitious, and now and then succeeded with an elaborate dish, more by
good luck than skill.

Six plump birds were laid out on a platter, with their legs folded in
the most pathetic manner; these Edith bore away in triumph to the
kitchen, and opening the book before her went to work energetically,
resigning herself to frying the pork and cutting up the onion, which she
had overlooked when hastily reading the receipt. In time they were
stuffed, the legs tied down to the tails, the birds browned in the
stew-pan, and put to simmer with a pinch of herbs.

"Now I can clear up, and rest a bit. If I ever have to work for a living
I won't be a cook," said Edith, with a sigh of weariness as she
washed her dishes, wondering how there could be so many; for no careless
Irish girl would have made a greater clutter over this small job than
the young lady who had not yet learned one of the most important things
that a cook should know.

The bell rang just as she got done, and was planning to lie and rest on
the dining-room sofa till it was time to take up her pigeons.

"Tell whoever it is that I'm engaged," she whispered, as the maid
passed, on her way to the door.

"It's your cousin, miss, from the country, and she has a trunk with her.
Of course she's to come in?" asked Maria, coming back in a moment.

"Oh, dear me! I forgot all about Patty. Mamma said any day this week,
and this is the most inconvenient one of the seven. Of course, she must
come in. Go and tell her I'll be there in a minute," answered Edith, too
well bred not to give even an unwelcome guest a kindly greeting.

Whisking off cap and apron, and taking a last look at the birds, just
beginning to send forth a savory steam, she went to meet her cousin.

Patty was a rosy, country lass of sixteen, plainly dressed and rather
shy, but a sweet, sensible little body, with a fresh, rustic air which
marked her for a field-flower at once.

"How do you do, dear? so sorry mamma is away; called to a sick friend in
a hurry. But I'm here and glad to see you. I've an engagement at two,
and you shall go with me. It's only a lunch close by, just a party of
girls; I'll tell you about it upstairs."

Chatting away, Edith led Patty up to the pretty room ready for her, and
soon both were laughing over a lively account of the exploits of the
cooking-class. Suddenly, in the midst of the cream-pie which had been
her great success, and nearly the death of all who partook thereof,
Edith paused, sniffed the air like a hound, and crying tragically, "They
are burning! They are burning!" rushed down stairs as if the house was
on fire.

Much alarmed, Patty hurried after her, guided to the kitchen by the
sound of lamentation. There she found Edith hanging over a stew-pan,
with anguish in her face and despair in her voice, as she breathlessly
explained the cause of her flight.

"My pigeons! Are they burnt? Do smell and tell me? After all my trouble
I shall be heart-broken if they are spoilt."

Both pretty noses sniffed and sniffed again as the girls bent over the
pan, regardless of the steam which was ruining their crimps and
reddening their noses. Reluctantly, Patty owned that a slight flavor of
scorch did pervade the air, but suggested that a touch more seasoning
would conceal the sad fact.

"I'll try it. Did you ever do any? Do you love to cook? Don't you want
to make something to carry? It would please the girls, and make up for
my burnt mess," said Edith, as she skimmed the broth and added pepper
and salt with a lavish hand:--

"I don't know anything about pigeons, except to feed and pet them. We
don't eat ours. I can cook plain dishes, and make all kinds of bread.
Would biscuit or tea-cake do?"

Patty looked so pleased at the idea of contributing to the feast, that
Edith could not bear to tell her that hot biscuit and tea-cake were not
just the thing for a city lunch. She accepted the offer, and Patty fell
to work so neatly and skilfully that, by the time the pigeons were done,
two pans full of delicious little biscuit were baked, and, folded in a
nice napkin, lay ready to carry off in the porcelain plate with a wreath
of roses painted on it.

In spite of all her flavoring, the burnt odor and taste still lingered
round Edith's dish; but fondly hoping no one would perceive it, she
dressed hastily, gave Patty a touch here and there, and set forth at the
appointed time to Augusta's lunch.

Six girls belonged to this class, and the rule was for each to bring her
contribution and set it on the table prepared to receive them all; then,
when the number was complete, the covers were raised, the dishes
examined, eaten (if possible), and pronounced upon, the prize being
awarded to the best. The girl at whose house the lunch was given
provided the prize, and they were often both pretty and valuable.

On this occasion a splendid bouquet of Jaqueminot roses in a lovely vase
ornamented the middle of the table, and the eyes of all rested
admiringly upon it, as the seven girls gathered round, after depositing
their dishes.

Patty had been kindly welcomed, and soon forgot her shyness in wonder at
the handsome dresses, graceful manners, and lively gossip of the girls.
A pleasant, merry set, all wearing the uniform of the class, dainty
white aprons and coquettish caps with many-colored ribbons, like stage
maid-servants. At the sound of a silver bell, each took her place before
the covered dish which bore her name, and when Augusta said, "Ladies, we
will begin," off went napkins, silver covers, white paper, or whatever
hid the contribution from longing eyes. A moment of deep silence, while
quick glances took in the prospect, and then a unanimous explosion of
laughter followed; for six platters of potted pigeons stood upon the
board, with nothing but the flowers to break the ludicrous monotony of
the scene.

How they laughed! for a time they could do nothing else, because if one
tried to explain she broke down and joined in the gale of merriment
again quite helplessly. One or two got hysterical and cried as well as
laughed, and all made such a noise that Augusta's mamma peeped in to see
what was the matter. Six agitated hands pointed to the comical sight on
the table, which looked as if a flight of potted pigeons had alighted
there, and six breathless voices cried in a chorus: "Isn't it funny?
Don't tell!"

Much amused, the good lady retired to enjoy the joke alone, while the
exhausted girls wiped their eyes and began to talk, all at once. Such a
clatter! but out of it all Patty evolved the fact that each meant to
surprise the rest,--and they certainly had.

"I tried puff-paste," said Augusta, fanning her hot face.

"So did I," cried the others.

"And it was a dead failure."

"So was mine," echoed the voices.

"Then I thought I'd do the other dish we had that day--"

"Just what I did."

"Feeling sure you would all try the pastry, and perhaps get on better
than I."

"Exactly our case," and a fresh laugh ended this general confession.

"Now we must eat our pigeons, as we have nothing else, and it is against
the rule to add from outside stores. I propose that we each pass our
dish round; then we can all criticise it, and so get some good out of
this very funny lunch."

Augusta's plan was carried out; and all being hungry after their unusual
exertions, the girls fell upon the unfortunate birds like so many
famished creatures. The first one went very well, but when the dishes
were passed again, each taster looked at it anxiously; for none were
very good, there was nothing to fall back upon, and variety is the spice
of life, as every one knows.

"Oh, for a slice of bread," sighed one damsel.

"Why didn't we think of it?" asked another.

"I did, but we always have so much cake I thought it was foolish to lay
in rolls," exclaimed Augusta, rather mortified at the neglect.

"I expected to have to taste six pies, and one doesn't want bread with
pastry, you know."

As Edith spoke she suddenly remembered Patty's biscuit, which had been
left on the side-table by their modest maker, as there seemed to be no
room for them.

Rejoicing now over the rather despised dish, Edith ran to get it, saying
as she set it in the middle, with a flourish:--

"My cousin's contribution. She came so late we only had time for that.
So glad I took the liberty of bringing her and them."

A murmur of welcome greeted the much-desired addition to the feast,
which would have been a decided failure without it, and the pretty plate
went briskly round, till nothing was left but the painted roses in it.
With this help the best of the potted pigeons were eaten, while a lively
discussion went on about what they would have next time.

"Let us each tell our dish, and not change. We shall never learn if we
don't keep to one thing till we do it well. I will choose mince-pie, and
bring a good one, if it takes me all the week to do it," said Edith,
heroically taking the hardest thing she could think of, to encourage the
others.

Fired by this noble example, each girl pledged herself to do or die, and
a fine list of rich dishes was made out by these ambitious young cooks.
Then a vote of thanks to Patty was passed, her biscuit unanimously
pronounced the most successful contribution, and the vase presented to
the delighted girl, whose blushes were nearly as deep as the color of
the flowers behind which she tried to hide them.

Soon after this ceremony the party broke up, and Edith went home to tell
the merry story, proudly adding that the country cousin had won the
prize.

"You rash child, to undertake mince-pie. It is one of the hardest things
to make, and about the most unwholesome when eaten. Read the receipt and
see what you have pledged yourself to do, my dear," said her mother,
much amused at the haps and mishaps of the cooking-class.

Edith opened her book and started bravely off at "Puff-paste;" but by
the time she had come to the end of the three pages devoted to
directions for the making of that indigestible delicacy, her face was
very sober, and when she read aloud the following receipt for the
mince-meat, despair slowly settled upon her like a cloud.

     One cup chopped meat; 1-1/2 cups raisins; 1-1/2 cups currants;
     1-1/2 cups brown sugar; 1-1/3 cups molasses; 3 cups chopped apples;
     1 cup meat liquor; 2 teaspoonfuls salt; 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon;
     1/2 teaspoonful mace; 1/2 teaspoonful powdered cloves; 1 lemon,
     grated; 1/4 piece citron, sliced; 1/2 cup brandy; 1/4 cup wine; 3
     teaspoonfuls rosewater.

"Oh me, what a job! I shall have to work at it every day till next
Saturday, for the paste alone will take all the wits I've got. I was
rash, but I spoke without thinking, and wanted to do something really
fine. We can't be shown about things, so I must blunder along as well as
I can," groaned Edith.

"I can help about the measuring and weighing, and chopping. I always
help mother at Thanksgiving time, and she makes splendid pies. We only
have mince then, as she thinks it's bad for us," said Patty, full of
sympathy and good will.

"What are you to take to the lunch?" asked Edith's mother, smiling at
her daughter's mournful face, bent over the fatal book full of dainty
messes, that tempted the unwary learner to her doom.

"Only coffee. I can't make fancy things, but my coffee is always good.
They said they wanted it, so I offered."

"I will have my pills and powders ready, for if you all go on at this
rate you will need a dose of some sort after your lunch. Give your
orders, Edith, and devote your mind to the task. I wish you good luck
and good digestion, my dears."

With that the mamma left the girls to cheer one another, and lay plans
for a daily lesson till the perfect pie was made.

They certainly did their best, for they began on Monday, and each
morning through the week went to the mighty task with daily increasing
courage and skill. They certainly needed the former, for even
good-natured Nancy got tired of having "the young ladies messing round
so much," and looked cross as the girls appeared in the kitchen.

Edith's brothers laughed at the various failures which appeared at
table, and dear mamma was tired of tasting pastry and mince-meat in all
stages of progression. But the undaunted damsels kept on till Saturday
came, and a very superior pie stood ready to be offered for the
inspection of the class.

"I never want to see another," said Edith, as the girls dressed
together, weary, but well satisfied with their labor; for the pie had
been praised by all beholders, and the fragrance of Patty's coffee
filled the house, as it stood ready to be poured, hot and clear, into
the best silver pot, at the last moment.

"Well, I feel as if I'd lived in a spice mill this week, or a
pastry-cook's kitchen; and I am glad we are done. Your brothers won't
get any pie for a long while I guess, if it depends on you," laughed
Patty, putting on the new ribbons her cousin had given her.

"When Florence's brothers were here last night, I heard those rascals
making all sorts of fun of us, and Alf said we ought to let them come to
lunch. I scorned the idea, and made their mouths water telling about the
good things we were going to have," said Edith, exulting over the severe
remarks she had made to these gluttonous young men, who adored pie, yet
jeered at unfortunate cooks.

Florence, the lunch-giver of the week, had made her table pretty with a
posy at each place, put the necessary roll in each artistically folded
napkin, and hung the prize from the gas burner,--a large blue satin bag
full of the most delicious bonbons money could buy. There was some delay
about beginning, as one distracted cook sent word that her potato-puffs
wouldn't brown, and begged them to wait for her. So they adjourned to
the parlor, and talked till the flushed, but triumphant Ella arrived
with the puffs in fine order.

When all was ready, and the covers raised, another surprise awaited
them; not a merry one, like the last, but a very serious affair, which
produced domestic warfare in two houses at least. On each dish lay a
card bearing a new name for these carefully prepared delicacies. The
mince-pie was re-christened "Nightmare," veal cutlets "Dyspepsia,"
escalloped lobster "Fits," lemon sherbet "Colic," coffee "Palpitation,"
and so on, even to the pretty sack of confectionery which was labelled
"Toothache."

Great was the indignation of the insulted cooks, and a general cry of
"Who did it?" arose. The poor maid who waited on them declared with
tears that not a soul had been in, and she herself only absent five
minutes getting the ice-water. Florence felt that her guests had been
outraged, and promised to find out the wretch, and punish him or her in
the most terrible manner. So the irate young ladies ate their lunch
before it cooled, but forgot to criticise the dishes, so full were they
of wonder at this daring deed. They were just beginning to calm down,
when a loud sneeze caused a general rush toward the sofa that stood in a
recess of the dining room. A small boy, nearly suffocated with
suppressed laughter, and dust, was dragged forth and put on trial
without a moment's delay. Florence was judge, the others jury, and the
unhappy youth being penned in a corner, was ordered to tell the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, on penalty of a sound
whipping with the big Japanese war-fan that hung on the wall over his
head.

Vainly trying to suppress his giggles, Phil faced the seven ladies like
a man, and told as little as possible, delighting to torment them, like
a true boy.

"Do you know who put those cards there?"

"Don't you wish you did?"

"Phil Gordon, answer at once."

"Yes, I do."

"Was it Alf? He's at home Saturdays, and it's just like a horrid Harvard
Soph to plague us so."

"It was--not."

"Did you see it done?"

"I did."

"Man, or woman? Mary fibs, and may have been bribed."

"Man," with a chuckle of great glee.

"Do I know him?"

"Oh, don't you!"

"Edith's brother Rex?"

"No, ma'am."

"Do be a good boy, and tell us. We won't scold, though it was a very,
very rude thing to do."

"What will you give me?"

"Do you need to be bribed to do your duty?"

"Well, I guess it's no fun to hide in that stuffy place, and smell nice
grub, and see you tuck away without offering a fellow a taste. Give me a
good go at the lunch, and I'll see what I can do for you."

"Boys are such pigs! Shall we, girls?"

"Yes, we must know."

"Then go and stuff, you bad boy, but we shall stand guard over you till
you tell us who wrote and put those insulting cards here."

Florence let out the prisoner, and stood by him while he ate, in a
surprisingly short time, the best of everything on the table, well
knowing that such a rare chance would not soon be his again.

"Now give me some of that candy, and I'll tell," demanded the young
Shylock, bound to make the best of his power while it lasted.

"Did you ever see such a little torment? I can't give the nice bonbons,
because we haven't decided who is to have them."

"Never mind. Pick out a few and get rid of him," cried the girls,
hovering round their prey, and longing to shake the truth out of him.

A handful of sweeties were reluctantly bestowed, and then all waited for
the name of the evil-doer with breathless interest.

"Well," began Phil, with exasperating slowness, "Alf wrote the cards,
and gave me half a dollar to put 'em round. Made a nice thing of it,
haven't I?" and before one of the girls could catch him he had bolted
from the room, with one hand full of candy, the other of mince-pie, and
his face shining with the triumphant glee of a small boy who has teased
seven big girls, and got the better of them.

What went on just after that is not recorded, though Phil peeped in at
the windows, hooted through the slide, and beat a tattoo on the various
doors. The opportune arrival of his mother sent him whooping down the
street, and the distressed damsels finished their lunch with what
appetite they could.

Edith got the prize, for her pie was pronounced a grand success, and
partaken of so copiously that several young ladies had reason to think
it well named "Nightmare" by the derisive Alfred. Emboldened by her
success, Edith invited them all to her house on the next Saturday, and
suggested that she and her cousin provide the lunch, as they had some
new dishes to offer, not down in the receipt-book they had been studying
all winter.

As the ardor of the young cooks was somewhat damped by various failures,
and the discovery that good cooking is an art not easily learned,
anything in the way of novelty was welcome; and the girls gladly
accepted the invitation, feeling a sense of relief at the thought of not
having any dish to worry about, though not one of them owned that she
was tired of "messing," as the disrespectful boys called it.

It was unanimously decided to wither with silent scorn the audacious
Alfred and his ally, Rex, while Phil was to be snubbed by his sister
till he had begged pardon for his share of the evil deed. Then, having
sweetened their tongues and tempers with the delicious bonbons, the
girls departed, feeling that the next lunch would be an event of unusual
interest.

The idea of it originated in a dinner which Patty got one day, when
Nancy, who wanted a holiday, was unexpectedly called away to the funeral
of a cousin,--the fifth relative who had died in a year, such was the
mortality in the jovial old creature's family. Edith's mother was very
busy with a dressmaker, and gladly accepted the offer the girls made to
get dinner alone.

"No fancy dishes, if you please; the boys come in as hungry as hunters,
and want a good solid meal; so get something wholesome and plain, and
plenty of it," was the much-relieved lady's only suggestion, as she
retired to the sewing-room and left the girls to keep house in their own
way.

"Now, Edie, you be the mistress and give your orders, and I'll be cook.
Only have things that go well together,--not all baked or all boiled,
because there isn't room enough on the range, you know;" said Patty,
putting on a big apron with an air of great satisfaction; for she loved
to cook, and was tired of doing nothing.

"I'll watch all you do, and learn; so that the next time Nancy goes off
in a hurry, I can take her place, and not have to give the boys what
they hate,--a picked-up dinner," answered Edith, pleased with her part,
yet a little mortified to find how few plain things she could make well.

"What do the boys like?" asked Patty, longing to please them, for they
all were very kind to her.

"Roast beef, and custard pudding, with two or three kinds of vegetables.
Can we do all that?"

"Yes, indeed. I'll make the pudding right away, and have it baked before
the meat goes in. I can cook as many vegetables as you please, and soup
too."

So the order was given and all went well, if one might judge by the
sounds of merriment in the kitchen. Patty made her best gingerbread,
and cooked some apples with sugar and spice for tea, and at the stroke
of two had a nice dinner smoking on the table, to the great contentment
of the hungry boys, who did eat like hunters, and advised mamma to send
old Nancy away and keep Patty for cook; which complimentary but rash
proposal pleased their cousin very much.

"Now this is useful cookery, and well done, though it looks so simple.
Any girl can learn how and be independent of servants, if need be. Drop
your class, Edith, and take a few lessons of Patty. That would suit me
better than French affairs, that are neither economical nor wholesome."

"I will, mamma, for I'm tired of creaming butter, larding things, and
beating eggs. These dishes are not so elegant, but we must have them; so
I may as well learn, if Pat will teach me."

"With pleasure, all I know. Mother thinks it a very important part of a
girl's education; for if you can't keep servants you can do your own
work well, and if you are rich you are not so dependent as an ignorant
lady is. All kinds of useful sewing and housework come first with us,
and the accomplishments afterward, as time and money allow."

"That sort of thing turns out the kind of girl I like, and so does every
sensible fellow. Good luck to you, cousin, and my best thanks for a
capital dinner and a wise little lecture for dessert."

Rex made his best bow as he left the table, and Patty colored high with
pleasure at the praise of the tall collegian.

Out of this, and the talk the ladies had afterward, grew the lunch which
Edith proposed, and to the preparation of which went much thought and
care; for the girls meant to have many samples of country fare, so that
various tastes might be pleased. The plan gradually grew as they worked,
and a little surprise was added, which was a great success.

When Saturday came the younger boys were all packed off for a holiday in
the country, that the coast might be clear.

"No hiding under sofas in my house, no meddling with my dinner, if you
please, gentlemen," said Edith, as she saw the small brothers safely
off, and fell to work with Patty and the maid to arrange the dining-room
to suit the feast about to be spread there.

As antique furniture is the fashion now-a-days, it was easy to collect
all the old tables, chairs, china, and ornaments in the house, and make
a pleasant place of the sunny room where a tall clock always stood; and
damask hangings a century old added much to the effect. A massive
mahogany table was set forth with ancient silver, glass, china, and all
sorts of queer old salt-cellars, pepper-pots, pickle-dishes, knives, and
spoons. High-backed chairs stood round it, and the guests were received
by a very pretty old lady in plum-colored satin, with a muslin pelerine,
and a large lace cap most becoming to the rosy face it surrounded. A fat
watch ticked in the wide belt, mitts covered the plump hands, and a
reticule hung at the side. Madam's daughter, in a very short-waisted
pink silk gown, muslin apron, and frill, was even prettier than her
mother, for her dark, curly hair hung on her shoulders, and a little cap
was stuck on the top, with long pink streamers. Her mitts went to the
elbow, and a pink sash was tied in a large bow behind. Black satin shoes
covered her feet, and a necklace of gold beads was round her throat.

Great was the pleasure this little surprise gave the girls, and gay was
the chatter that went on as they were welcomed by the hostesses, who
constantly forgot their parts. Madam frisked now and then, and "Pretty
Peggy" was so anxious about dinner that she was not as devoted to her
company as a well-bred young lady should be. But no one minded, and when
the bell rang, all gathered about the table eager to see what the feast
was to be.

"Ladies, we have endeavored to give you a taste of some of the good old
dishes rather out of fashion now," said Madam, standing at her place,
with a napkin pinned over the purple dress, and a twinkle in the blue
eyes under the wide cap-frills. "We thought it would be well to
introduce some of them to the class and to our family cooks, who either
scorn the plain dishes, or don't know how to cook them well. There is
a variety, and we hope all will find something to enjoy. Peggy, uncover,
and let us begin."

At first the girls looked a little disappointed, for the dishes were not
very new to them; but when they tasted a real "boiled dinner," and found
how good it was; also baked beans, neither hard, greasy, nor burnt;
beefsteak, tender, juicy, and well flavored; potatoes, mealy in spite of
the season; Indian pudding, made as few modern cooks know how to do it;
brown bread, with home-made butter; and pumpkin-pie that cut like wedges
of vegetable gold,--they changed their minds, and began to eat with
appetites that would have destroyed their reputations as delicate young
ladies, if they had been seen. Tea in egg-shell cups, election-cake and
cream-cheese with fruit ended the dinner; and as they sat admiring the
tiny old spoons, the crisp cake, and the little cheeses like snow-balls,
Edith said, in reply to various compliments paid her:--

"Let us give honor where honor is due. Patty suggested this, and did
most of the cooking; so thank her, and borrow her receipt-book. It's
very funny, ever so old, copied and tried by her grandmother, and full
of directions for making quantities of nice things, from pie like this
to a safe, sure wash for the complexion. May-dew, rose-leaves, and
lavender,--doesn't that sound lovely?"

"Let me copy it," cried several girls afflicted with freckles, or sallow
with too much coffee and confectionery.

"Yes, indeed. But I was going to say, as we have no prize to-day, we
have prepared a little souvenir of our old-fashioned dinner for each of
you. Bring them, daughter; I hope the ladies will pardon the homeliness
of the offering, and make use of the hint that accompanies each."

As Edith spoke, with a comical mingling of the merry girl and the
stately old lady she was trying to personate, Patty brought from the
side-board, where it had stood covered up, a silver salver on which lay
five dainty little loaves of bread; on the top of each appeared a
receipt for making the same, nicely written on colored cards, and held
in place by a silver scarf-pin.

"How cunning!" "What lovely pins!" "I'll take the hint and learn to make
good bread at once." "It smells as sweet as a nut, and isn't hard or
heavy a bit." "Such a pretty idea, and so clever of you to carry it out
so well."

These remarks went on as the little loaves went round, each girl finding
her pin well suited to her pet fancy or foible; for all were different,
and all very pretty, whether the design was a palette, a skate, a pen, a
racquet, a fan, a feather, a bar of music, or a daisy.

Seeing that her dinner was a success in spite of its homeliness, Edith
added the last surprise, which had also been one to Patty and herself
when it arrived, just in time to be carried out. She forgot to be Madam
now, and said with a face full of mingled merriment and satisfaction, as
she pushed her cap askew and pulled off her mitts:

"Girls, the best joke of all is, that Rex and Alf sent the pins, and
made Phil bring them with a most humble apology for their impertinence
last week. A meeker boy I never saw, and for that we may thank Floy; but
I think the dinner Pat and I got the other day won Rex's heart, so that
he made Alf eat humble pie in this agreeable manner. We won't say
anything about it, but all wear our pins and show the boys that we can
forgive and forget as "sweet girls" should, though we do cook and have
