son, Fairfax Sherrard, — a handsome fortune indeed ! — on 
condition he does not marry Celia Marshall. If he should 
so far forget the respect due to his family and marry her, 
then the place is to be sold to entire strangers, and the 
proceeds are to found an institution to be known as Sher- 
rard Hospital for women and children. It is all drawn 
with such careful nicety that the strictest law could dis- 
cover no flaw in it. Under this reading he is to have five 
thousand dollars and his father's library. 

"Mother," he says in a voice of bitter contempt, "for 
selfish and unrelenting cruelty you certainly must exceed 
most women. The soft, feminine tenderness and the 
mother's yearning affection of which we prate, finds no 
room in your soul." 

"I know my duty as a mother, I also understand my 
duty to my race. Better no descendants than those one 
would blush to own. I shall sign my will this afternoon. 
You know now what to expect." 

She makes no appeal to affection or consideration. She 
did not marry Anthony Sherrard because she loved him, 
but because it was absolutely necessary to unite the claim- 
ants to Sherrard House. He was nearly eight years 
younger than she, and soon gave up the struggle against 
her imperious will, and sank into a meek, polished gentle 








man. There is no particular reason why the vulgar pas- 
sion of love suoh as shepherds and milkmaids revel in 
should be necessary to one of the higher realm. 

" Perhaps," he remarks with cutting irony, " since you 
have taken it upon yourself to dispossess me of all voice 
in any matrimonial question, you may also have selected a 
wife for me ! " 

" I have," she answers composedly. " It is Margaret 
Fairfax — they live just out of Rochester, you know. 
Margaret is nineteen, very well looking, accomplished, and 
her father would gladly accept the honor of our alliance." 

The Fairfax and Sherrard lines seem to cross every- 
where. Gifford Faii-fax is rich as well. His eldest son is 
abroad — an ignoble descendant of a noble line, if indeed 
this can be called nobility in a democratic country. The 
second has married an heiress, and the daughter is offered 
to him. He saw her some three years ago, and thought 
her underbred, passionate in temper, and generally disa- 
greeable. 

" I have but one answer to make. My faith is already 
given, and I shall keep my word loyally." 

She bows. He cannot tell by her rigid face whether 
she is touched or not by his defection. Then he comes 
a step nearer, he reaches out for her hand, and cries out in 
a voice that might almost move a stone, — 

" Mother ! " 

She draws back her hand as if his very touch would soil 
the fine family dignity. 

" You are no son of mine until you obey. The Hebrews 
of old knew how to treat disobedient children." 

How strange that the grand old book of books can be 
stretched to cover everything ! 

Fairfax Sherrard goes up to his luxurious room. There 
is a ridiculous and grim sense of humor in his soul, as if his 
mother might be emulating that other heroic woman who 
attempted to sweep away the Atlantic. Everything hag 



 

changed so much, while his mother has sat here wrapped 
in her formal ceremonies and threadbare traditions, utter- 
ly destitute of any vital human interest. People with 
wider, finer souls pity her and despise the narrow selfish- 
ness instead of honoring it. Of what real account is such 
a race to the busy, active world continually demanding the 
best in soul and body ? If it were not so silly and egotis- 
tical it would be pitiful. 

Then he remembers that with Aunt Elizabeth's, munifi- 
cent gift and some four or ^ve hundred dollars at his 
banker's, the furniture, pictures and well chosen brioa-brao 
in his room at the city, and a few valuable diamonds, he is 
at once reduced to the estate of a poor man ; and he feels 
forlornly helpless, as if suddenly stranded on some un- 
friendly shore. There is his education — he is neither 
lawyer, doctor, or clergyman. He might take the foreign 
correspondence of some business establishment, only he 
knows nothing about business. There is stockbroking— 
under the influence of such men as Mr. Howarth — well 
there are certain methods of acquiring riches that Mr. 
Howarth has set his face against like adamant. Not one 
penny of his would ever pull a fellow through a wild 
scheme in which shrewdness was but another term for dis- 
honesty. 

And what then became of his plans for the rehabilitation 
of Sherrard House ? He and Celia must begin quite out- 
side among the thorns and thistles. Had their love been 
forbidden fruit? Was an honest, perfect, loyal regard a 
thing to be punished, and the mocking stain of selfish in- 
terest put upon marriage vows the deed to be approved ? 
It looked so. Oh, how old and weary and worn out the 
world was ! and he sighed. 

There was no use of encountering his mother again, in- 
deed he knew she would refuse to see him. He packed a 
few trinkets and keepsakes, put in some articles of cloth- 
ing, and then wondered what he had better do. He could 





not meet Celia just then — he had half a mind to go out 
to Rochester. Then he remembered somewhere in that 
vicinity he had a clerical friend who had tried love in a 
cottage. It was very new, sweet, fragrant love when he 
saw it, almost five years before. Could he not judge a 
little? 

He knew what Celia's verdict would be. but she could 
not understand all he had meant to do for her, the ease, the 
delight, the richness of culture that wealth could give. 
She of all women needed the broader outlook to enable her 
to come up to the gracious heights she was so eminently 
fitted to adorn. But hidden away in some stuffy flat, 
having to count every penny and consider the cost of 
gloves and flowers and carriages when one wanted to go 
to a reception or a matinee ! He had passed the juven- 
escence of youth that despises money with a lofty indiffer- 
ence to the many pleasures it brings. He had been trained 
to its luxuries, and it was not so easy at eight-and-twenty 
to forego them. 

He found his friend in a pretty rural town on the edge 
of outlying farms. The weather had cleared up, the 
golden purple bloom of Indian summer was in the air. 
Here was the quaint modern church aping antiquity, the 
rectory with hooded windows and hooded gables, and 
vines about it, but somehow it had a rather neglected 
look, as if it needed a gardener to set the grounds right 
again. 

The two friends met most cordially. There was some- 
thing positively hungry in the clasp of Purcell's hand, 
an eager light in his eyes, as he drew his visitor into the 
study; and his voice rang with the notes of welcome. 

"You don't know, old fellow, how good it is to get a 
whiff of fresh, living air once in a while, not exactly the air 
of mountain wilds, but of cities and of stirring work and 
live men, earnest purposes, and all that. One does get 
rusty, a good deal alone by one's self, with no higher minds 



 

for friction. What talks we used to have ! I shall keep 
you until I drain you quite dry, Sherrard. You know you 
used to say you felt like a squeezed orange after one of 
our talks." 

"lam sure you are welcome to the best you can find in 
my life of idleness ! " laughed the visitor. 

" And the life of idleness has its fine uses. You can go 
about and pick up so many things — choice bits, only you 
do not come around half often enough with your precious 
pack to us poor fellows, to whom your crumbs are a 
feast." 

The study that had presented such an exquisite appear- 
ance at its first fitting up had grown decidedly shabby. 
The curtains were faded in ugly streaks, the carpet dingy 
and worn. The books had a tumbled-about appearance, 
some put in upside down, while the table was not in an 
orderly litter, and mixed up with children's playthings ; 
even a small chair with one broken rocker stood beside 
the rather abused study chair : but Archibald Purcell did 
not allow his guest's attention to linger long upon these 
matters. He talked it away to other themes. 

"You have some children ? " Sherrard said presently. 

"Yes, two boys. Mrs. Purcell has not been in real 
good health since the birth of the latter, ten months ago. 
She was away awhile this summer, indeed, I have felt 
quite anxious about her." 

He looked nervous, worried, now that he had come 
back to the cares of life. 

" Our baby has been very cross ; why, we cannot tell, 
as he seems healthy and strong, and it has been a great 
tax upon her strength. We did start with a nurse, but 
servants were so expensive." 

The elder child found its way to the study with one 
brief excuse, — "Mamma's head ached." Purcell took 
him on his knee, a bright, irrepressible little fellow, whose 
main desire seemed to be to lead the conversation. Then 





sapper was announced. The "help" was a rather refined- 
looking American girl who was evidently above her sta- 
tion, or below it, and whose refinement was mostly in the 
delicacy of her face. Mrs. Purcell, the bright, pretty 
girl of five years ago, was a rather careworn woman, 
fretted by each untoward little incident, and yet desirous 
of making everything appear at its best estate before her 
husband's guest. 

The ease and elegant grace to which Sherrard was so 
accustomed was entirely deficient. Both babies worried; 
mother and maid tried to persuade them into loveliness, 
and failed. Presently Mrs. Purcell asked Carrie to take 
the youngest up stairs, which she did unwillingly. 

" You see, Mr. Sherrard," the young wife said apolo- 
getically, " girls are difficult to obtain in a place like this, 
and you cannot always have the kind you wish. It seems 
to me Carrie would enjoy her meal much better to take 
care of the child first and then let me relieve her, but the 
only manner in which I can keep her is to allow her to 
be one of the family. She is excellent in some points, 
but I suppose there are trials everywhere. Now let us 
go back to our more enjoyable talk." 

Afterward Purcell had to leave his friend while he 
devoted some time to the nursery. Then they took a 
long stroll in the early moonlight and talked over the 
friends they had both known and enjoyed. Purcell could 
hardly bear to part with him for the night. 

"You can't think what a luxury it is to go over all 
these points and beliefs and speculations once more, and 
see the progress that is made in the world, even if you 
must keep far on the outside." 

Fairfax Sherrard sat and mused when he reached the 
guest-chamber, perhaps the freshest and most orderly 
place in the house. Would he turn from Celia some time 
in the future and feast himself on the coming of a friend, 
while she was busy with household cares? Would their 



 

house ever come to have this look, as if there was not 
time enough to perform the duties of life properly, to say 
nothing of partaking of its enjoyments ? 

Yet he found his friend an enthusiastic and conscien- 
tious clergyman, with the weight of both souls and bodies 
upon him. Mrs. Puroell he saw only at meal time; in- 
deed not always then, for on some occasions she was too 
tired and was lying down. On the third and last night 
of his stay the talk turned upon marriage. 

" See here," said Puroell in his eager, forcible manner, 
" why do not men like you with everything at their com- 
mand marry, — not a mere woman of fashion ; there are 
some true and noble ones left, thank God ! — and make 
one of the ideal homes, easily practicable, too, if one has 
the will and means. The world is starving, almost dying 
out for just suoh lovely places, and they would do more 
toward making a fine race of men and women than all the 
sermons that were ever preached." 

"Suppose I were not a rich man, what would you 
advise then ? " 

Purcell glanced at him intently, then colored delicately. 

"Because you think I have fallen so below my ideal?" 
he asked abruptly. 

"My dear friend, no, I was not thinking of you, but— 
of another case in which I might have to advise," and he 
gave a half smile. " You could not consider me so — " 

" Do not apologize," Puroell interrupted. " I blundered 
into it myself. I have been giving the subject a good 
deal of study, and am amazed at the careless, irresponsible 
teaching one meets with. We give every other matter 
due consideration, here we follow some preference or 
fancy, and idealize the future much beyond what it will 
bear. I almost shrink from marrying a couple nowadays, 
the after-disappointment in many instances is so keen, so 
bitter. There is the temperament and training which is 
often so dissimilar, the imprudence of the step which 





entails so many hardships. I know this does not sound 
brave, but single lives may be made fine and useful and 
generous and noble beyond what any unfortunate mar- 
riage can bring forth. We must be trained to count the 
cost." 

Fairfax Sherrard started. There was a large cost to 
count in his case. 

" Understand, my dear friend, that nothing has happened 
to me beyond the ordinary chances. My wife and I are en- 
deared by countless fine ties that we did not dream of when 
we married, yet it is not unalloyed pleasure. If I told the 
honest truth, I should say that I was by far too poor to 
marry for pleasure, for the intimate and delightful compan- 
ionship. Duty of course remains, and we are both brave 
enough to accept our lot, and try to bear each other's bur- 
dens. But one cannot have the luxuries of life on a small 
income. Laura had to be away two months in the sum- 
mer, which we could illy afford, and now we are trying 
to make it up. We each have our hands full of mostly 
separate duties. Could I read her a magazine article 
with a baby crying in her arms? Could she go out and 
enjoy a walk with me, when she was so tired in brain and 
nerve and body that her only relief would be a quiet half 
hour on the sofa? So these delights we are forced to put 
by, and life is hampered. Whether the denying of self 
makes amends for the loss of improvement, is a wider 
question. So if your friend is poor," with a quaint little 
smile, " and has fine tastes, longs for leisure, intellectual 
enjoyment, even the finer pleasures of life, tell him not to 
add to it the all-potent question as to how we shall be 
clothed and fed, until he really sees a way. There is a 
wise prudence even in this question, and the lack of this 
brings about bitter results in our divorce courts. But 
you of all other men will never have to consider this 
point. Yours will be only how to make a wise choice." 

Should he tell him here and now ? Would he like to 



 

see Celia so encumbered with cares, forced to put by her 
painting, or, sadder fate, forced to work to the utmost for 
the daily needs of life, with the troubled face of Mrs. 
Purcell ? 

"Then — you hardly believe in love in a cottage?" 

" If one has elected it, let him pray with all his soul to 
keep love there, strive with all his might. But he must 
not hope for too many things, and he must not shrink 
from sacrifices." 

A long array of sacrifices would be his, truly. His love 
of ease and luxury shrank from it. 

They talked until nearly midnight. While Purcell 
placed a true and noble love above all meaner considera- 
tion, his eyes had been cleared by experience. Life was 
no rose-colored dream, but a daily fight, the little gained 
to-day sometimes lost on the morrow; and the bravest 
soul often disheartened. 



CHAPTER XXIH. 

 

Cblia Marshall had settled to her work again after 
her most delightful holiday. For the present she was not 
to think about marriage, but her art. Her lover's gener- 
ous tenderness had touched her deeply. 

There was another point in this long engagement that 
was very grateful to her. She wanted to establish her 
reputation beyond any mere girlish oaprice. It was a life 
work, a life love, such as Mrs. Linthorpe's had been. 
There were moments when she would gladly have put by 
the greater part of Fairfax Sherrard's wealth for the sake 
of having him nearer her social standing. There was no 
undue pride in this ; indeed, she accepted his position as 
something to which she must strive to raise herself by all 
the efforts in her power. All the little niceties of society 
usage were carefully studied, her voice, her pronunciation, 
the grace of her manner, was gone over with the closest 
criticism, quite as if it were some third person. She read 
the books he admired, she studied the poems he loved, she 
was busy and happy. Little notes passed between them 
now and then, — she was still too shy to write love-letters. 
The sacredness of her thoughts could not be committed 
to paper, it brushed off the delicate bloom. As yet she 
had not known the urgent need, the exclusive, absorbing 
love, the pervading and transfixing earnest attained by 
one's profounder consciousness passing over to another. 

Mrs. Marshall had taken up her fall business. Truth 
to tell, some spell kept her at Westwater. To go away 



even for a short distance was like wrenching her soul out 
of its proper moorings. Mr. Marshall had returned, and 
Bertie made her a day's visit. He h^d grown mentally, as 
well as in physical proportions. His health and perfect 
coloring gave him a peculiar boyish beauty; his rapid, 
dazzling manner was akin to Daisy's. 

In this brief while he had quite outgrown his mother's 
authority. Papa was quoted for everything. Aunt Kate 
and grandmamma were of paramount importance. 

"Why do you go on keeping the store, mamma?" he 
asked imperiously ! " You do not need to earn any more 
money for us — papa said so. And Daisy has such a 
pretty house — papa took me there yesterday, and Daisy 
cried, but oh, isn't she — I don't know what boys can say, 
mamma, they don't like the girl adjectives. Well, Daisy's 
splendid." 

Bertie was to begin school at the Academy next week. 
" No more public school for me ! " in an exalted tone. " I 
am going to college too. And papa is to buy me a pony 
— he has sights of money. I had a pony in Virginia, 
but it was too much trouble to bring home, and papa is 
going to buy me a finer one. And I can have money to 
spend." 

She glanced into the eager, excited face. The money 
to spend, the pleasures and luxuries were so much to him. 
What discipline would this be for the years to come? 
Daisy had a curious self-consideration that stood her in 
stead of some higher virtues, but Bertie lived in the pres- 
ent moment. What came to-morrow would be provided 
for some way, if he only could have the delight to-day. 

" When I get my pony I 'll ride down and show you," 
with a touch of patronage. " And some time, when I am 
older, papa is going to buy me a dog-cart. Won't that be 
gay? I have just the loveliest room at Aunt Kate's, and 
the waiter stands behind us at table just as they do in 
hotels. I tell you it 's toney living." 





The mother's heart swelled within her. No longing for 
her, — " they never talked about her," Bertie naively 
admitted. She was to be crowded out, and, saddest of all, 
she felt powerless to help it. In these brief, joyous visits 
she could make no lasting impression on the volatile child, 
who so easily adapted himself to the greater enjoyments 
of wealth. 

Daisy came in the next morning. 

" Oh, mamma," she cried, " I was so surprised at the 
visit — I suppose Bertie told you. But for the child I 
should not have known him. He seems so much taller 
than I remember him, quite the grande seignior^ indeed ; 
but desperately pale. He said he was quite well now, and 
had recovered from his troublesome cough. Oh, can noth- 
ing be done to bring you two together? You should be 
living in ease and luxury, and have your rightful position, 
your share of his wealth. I spoke of you — " 

"Daisy! Daisy!" The tone was one of intense pain. 

" Mamma, I shall speak of your love and your devotion 
to us all," said the daughter proudly. " What did you do 
that was wrong — for it could not have been wrong to go 
away from that horrible home. You worked there. Peo- 
ple sometimes talk as if you never did anything until you 
took the store ; but I remember how you used to sit and 
sew your poor, sweet eyes out making button-holes and 
all that, to get us bread. I hate the very thought of it ; " 
and Daisy stamped her foot fiercely. " I had almost for- 
gotten, but it came back so vividly when I talked to papa, 
only, do you know, it seems as if it must be some other 
man ; he is so changed. He is a true gentleman as to 



manners." 



"He was a gentleman years before," said her mother. 

" He proposed to take me out driving, and I consented. 
I think he would like to see Celia, but I should be afraid 
of her clear eyes looking him through and finding some 
sham or dregs at the bottom. He feels very proud of 
her." 



 

Bertie settled to school and to his pony. The boys 
who had known him were Jiardly allowed to know him 
now, being vouchsafed merely a patronizing nod as he 
passed. It cut the mother's heart. He was taking up 
" world's scorn " at an early age. 

Celia spent several days now and then with her mother, 
but she was quite urgent about the new arrangement. In 
October her lover went home for his aunt's funeral, visited 
his friend, and then some connections. Mrs. Sherrard 
learned this. Few steps that her son took but what came 
to her knowledge sooner or later. Little did he imagine 
her perfect system of espionage. Now her heart relented 
a little toward him. Some other mother's might have 
softened, hers was too strong. 

From thence he went westward. If he had been fancy 
free, Miss Fairfax's charms were not of a kind to awaken 
his admiration, so he scarcely gave her a passing thought. 
By day and night the choice to be made was ever pres- 
ent. How could he resign all that was as very life to 
him ! He thought of his friend, and yet Purcell meant 
no such strait as that of Sherrard's. To his meagre salary 
of seven or eight hundred and his house, such an income 
as Celia and Fairfax could have made, would have been 
affluence. 

Mrs. Sherrard brought matters to a crisis. If Celia 
Marshall would give up her son of her own volition, he 
might in a moment of passion espouse Margaret Fairfax. 
She had kept this for her reserve stroke. At her dicta- 
tion the faithful abigail wrote a letter, and when she 
mailed it — for no one else would have been trusted — she 
brought back a paper with a marked account of an elope- 
ment in high life. Silly and headstrong, Margaret Fair- 
fax had eloped with a young man in her father's employ, 
a kind of upper gardener, hurried to the step by the 
knowledge that her father's choice might be laid before 
her. That Fairfax sent it to his mother with infinite 





relish was most true. Could Celia Marshall have done 
such a thing? He remembered, too, the rather good- 
looking but illiterate fellow, and had been disgusted with 
a freedom he had detected between them. So the proud 
old blood could stoop to this ! At least such a marriage as 
he contemplated was honorable in the estimation of the 
sensible world. 

Celia' s letter came to her at Mrs. Howarth's. She had 
been out to a pretty artistic tea, given by a party of young 
ladies, and the Howarth carriage brought her home. 
There were visitors in the drawing-room, but she did not 
care to go down. As she was drawing off her gloves, her 
eye fell upon the letter. The handwriting she did not 
know, but the postmark sent a little thrill through her. 
She had heard from Fairfax that very day, but it seemed 
as if his letter was a little labored, lacked the spontaneous 
grace that rendered them so exquisite. 

She laid aside her bonnet and wrap, and sat down 
to read. The envelope was of a plain business kind, be- 
tokening no particular delicacy. " Madam," it began — • 
"Mrs. Sherrard desires me to write to you on some 
matters concerning her son." 

Celia sat in amazement many seconds without going 
further. Some swift presentiment told her what to ex- 
pect, but she could never have imagined such deliberate, 
cruel selfishness, such an insult to be offered from one 
woman to another. The writer went briefly over the 
ground, seeming to be amazed that a girl who had espoused 
a life of labor, who had been reared in her mother's milli- 
nery store, should dare to aspire to the heir of Sherrard 
House ; should expect to win a husband by her base, mer- 
cenary plots, even if she had imposed upon too cred- 
ulous society with her arts of the counter. Mr. Fair- 
fax Sherrard was expected to marry his cousin, whom he 
had gone to visit. Failing in this — if Miss Marshall dared 
hold him by promises speciously extorted, Sherrard House 



 

and a mother's affection would no longer be his. M Neither 
you nor your husband will ever step inside of it while I 
live, nor after I am dead. With me my race shall end, and 
my last will shall show to the world that a Sherrard knows 
how to punish an ingrate son." 

After Celia's first perusal, she sat looking at it with 
strained, fascinated eyes, as if the power to move them 
had left her brain. A dull, numbing sensation, as if one 
might be perishing from cold, crept over her, shuddered 
through the warm pulses, surged slowly, heavily against 
her heart, and it seemed as if she might be dying. The 
lights faded, but even in the obscurity those bitter words 
show like a tracery of flame, burning as they go. From 
his mother !

Celia did not cry out nor even clasp her hands in those 
moments of extreme anguish. The weary, fluttering 
breath returned with a keen pain, there was a throbbing 
in her temples, a ringing in her ears as if she had been 
miles under the sea. Oh! Ohl If any mother had pleaded 
tenderly for a son she could not yield to another's love, 
Celia must have been generously moved. She was capable 
of the most entire self-abnegation. 

Then she tried to think in a slow, dull way, with pain- 
ful labor. She had not used any specious or base designs, 
she had hardly cared at first — it was so new and strange. 
Any simple friendship would have sufficed her. She had 
been loth to wear his ring, and had yielded reluctantly ; 
she had made him listen to everything in her past, that 
could ever be tortured to her discredit by unkind lips. 
She had told him her hopes and aims. He, knowing all, 
had chosen her frankly, irrevocably it seemed,and after all 
this she had come to love him. Had he been a true and 
loyal lover ? Was there no bond in his past that partly 
held him to another? No, a hundred times no! She 
would answer for him there. This was some figment, 
some scheme of another's brain, not any word he had ev«r 
given. 





But she remembered now how he had always evaded any 
talk about his mother, sometimes indeed making little 
oomments that had jarred against her tender soul. He 
must have known the feeling it would create, the breach 
it would cause, and therein she could not hold him blame- 
less. If he had said — "My mother is steeped in pre- 
judice, and I shall have to fight my way, perhaps marry 
without her consent, she would have been warned. And 
with some sad prescience she felt that she could never 
make up to him what he should lose. He was born for 
wealth, luxury, leisure, he was like some choice plant that 
needed favoring circumstances. Not even her most de- 
voted love could make him forget what he had given up 
for her. The sunshine and perennial summer must be 
his; he would droop in a trying and uncongenial at- 
mosphere, while it would brace her, gird her up to effort. 
Was she the stronger? 

Reverently she gathered up the sweet dream. It had 
never been for her — it was a sad, sad mistake ; a sorrow 
that wrenched every fibre of her being. Like a corpse 
she spread it out tenderly, she crossed the pale, lifeless 
hands, shrouding it with sweet remembrance that it might 
be fair to look upon even in after days. But the service 
and the open grave were all yet to come — oh, how could 
she stand by and hear the dull thud of the brown, ugly 
earth! 

She threw herself upon the bed. She hardly seemed 
conscious, and yet neither did she sleep. All night long 
a wild desire to fly, crossed with a sense of baffled escape, 
a fruitless struggle like that of some wild hunted thing at 
bay with no chance of release, haunted her. She must 
meet inquiring looks, vague questions, and oh, grief of 
griefs ! she must choose for him the qui&k, sharp pang, 
rather than the lingering decline when love itself might 
fail ; for to cost him so high a price and not be able to 
repay would be infinitely worse than death to her. 



 

Some time, but it seemed as if she had gone through 
cycles of existence, she saw the gray dawn steal through 
the open window. Sounds came to her in a dim, vague 
way. There was a stir about the house, servants rustling 
up and down with sof t-shodden feet ; a bell with its sum- 
mons, noises in the ^street. This was her pretty silken 
gown she had worn to the tea, these her faded flowers. 

There was a party of travellers staying at the house, 
delightful people, of whom she had scarcely had a glimpse. 
This day was to be devoted to them. She rose and 
glanced at her haggard face, her strained eyes and ashen 
lips. There was only one place in all the whole wide 
world where she could go, — home to her own mother's 
arms and heart. 

She rose presently and changed her dress. Fairfax 
said she always wore soft grays that made her look like a 
sweet little nun. How many tender sentences of his 
she should remember. She wrote a brief note with trem- 
bling hand, and then rang for a cup of coffee. 

" Give this to Mrs. Howarth as they go in to breakfast," 
she said. 

Then she gathered up a few articles in her satchel of 
fragrant leather, put on her hat, and fastened her veil. It 
was quite easy to step out quietly, but when she reached 
the street the fresh morning air sent a shiver through her, 
and she turned sick and faint. Happy, busy people were 
going everywhere. She said, with the despair of youth, 
that happiness for her was ended. 

Did all vehicles crawl along this morning? The mo- 
ments were endless and weary. At last she was in the 
car and she noted idly the smoky red October sunshine — 
the very last day — shining on well-nigh leafless trees. 
Does it warm them any? It does not warm her. 

Through the old streets she has coine to know so well. 
Oh, how happy they were when they first came to this 
store, that is flung in their faces as a kind of disgrace ! 




She opens the door — Miss Parker and two girls are at 
work. Why can she not make them look real? 

" O Miss Marshall ! Your mother is up stairs," the 
surprised woman exclaimed. 

She went up softly. Her mother stood by the window, 
studying a picture. She stretched out her hands blindly. 

"Celia! Celia!" 

Such a tone of intense, apprehensive inquiry, as she 
folded her child to her heart. 

"Oh, mamma," with a weary, fluttering sigh — "I have 
come back to you. We are both widowed by a crueller 
stroke than death. Let us comfort each other, if there is 
any comfort left." 

" Oh, my darling ! I have so feared it was a mistake." 

Then Celia sobbed, softly, infrequently, the dry sobs 
whose tears are inward. But presently she roused and 
opened her satchel. 

" You must read it," she said, " and then I shall send it 
to him. He might at least have warned me." 

The indignant blood mounted to Mrs. Marshall's brow; 
and in her devotion she could have crossed weapons with 
the other mother with such thrusts that they would have 
hurt to her dying day. 

"But he will not give you up," she said. " Only a cow- 
ard would yield under such a pressure ! " 

" Mamma, I must give him up. He will think he is quite 
true and strong, but I know. All his life has been one 
delight of luxury, freedom from care and anxiety. He 
would not know how to take up the burden, and it would 
drag and chafe and wear. I should see him grow dispirit- 
ed, I should know he was longing for the ease and leisure. 
He is just in harmony now, in any other place his life 
would be a discord, and it would hurt me cruelly. It 
would take my inspiration, my life. No, it must end." 

"I think it is better," the mother replied from the far- 
reaching, unsupplied depth of her own nature. " It will 



 

be very hard, for I think you have begun truly to love 
him." 

" Yes, I have begun to love him. I did not dare at 
first, it was so rare and wonderful, as if it might be for- 
bidden fruit to me. And so it is. Even fair as it prom- 
ised, it might have taken me out of paradise, that country 
where the soul is at rest with itself and not tossed about 
with vain strivings. And mamma, all her cruelty was 
quite needless. I could have done what I shall do with a 
much kinder pressure. Now I must write to him and 
have it over." 

The tense nervous pitch told her mother that this was 
the best course. She opened her dainty writing desk, one 
of Celia's earliest purchases, and seated her at it. 

" Do not go away, mamma," reaching out her hand. " I 
shall feel stronger if you are here." 

Still it was a long letter. She sealed the other carefully 
within it. Then she said entreatingly, — 

" Mamma, will you explain to Mrs. Howarth ? I do not 
feel as if I could go over the thorny ground again." 

Afterward she lay on the sofa, her eyes closed and tear- 
less, but the fine-drawn lines in her face betraying the 
struggle. Her mother comforted as only a high and brave 
soul made perfect through suffering could comfort. 

The letter brought Fairfax Sherrard back in hot haste 
and indignation, and at once established Mrs. Howarth's 
faith in him. Celia was at her mother's, not exactly ill, 
but far from well. She had resolved that in the future he 
must consider her own proper sphere, not the borrowed 
enchantment with which she had been so surrounded. 

The man's pride did wince a little at the sign over the 
store door, at the uncompromising business aspect of all 
things. In his heart he almost cursed Thomas Marshall 
for leaving them in this narrow round when he could so 
easily have lifted them to prosperity. True, he had been 
here before, but he had not even then considered it her 





home. Now he thought of it as a dim possibility of what 
might be theirs. 

The dainty parlor, too, had been shorn of some of its 
glories. Mrs. Marshall had sent Daisy the piano, with the 
almost certainty that it would not be her home a great 
while longer, some other beautiful belongings, and, 
above all, it missed Daisy's graceful touches, her brilliant, 
vital presence. It struck him as dull and cold, verging on 
the common, a kind of respectable middle-class poverty. 
Could he endure anything like that? 

It is one of the curious characteristics of such natures 
that they are prone to fly off at the opposite extreme. 
His friend Purcell's pinching poverty and discomfort in 
spite of affection and courageous endurance, the many 
failures others had made, were ever present. Could he 
rise above this level? Perhaps he understood too truly 
the spiritual indigence of his own nature. 

Still he pleaded with all the enthusiasm and persistence 
of the lover and the loyal gentleman ; for he did love her 
sincerely, and in some vague, formless way he felt that 
she only could strike the key-note to his soul, — that any 
other hand would make discord. The passionate earnest- 
ness was grateful to her aching heart, yet it did not con- 
vince her. Was it not more of gentlemanly chivalry than 
knightly honor ? 

"Have you a correct knowledge of what is in your 
mother's will?" she asked presently. 

He flushed painfully, but did not answer. 

"Do you remember," she said softly, "that there was a 
time when I came to you with the obstacles that I felt 
certain lay in the way of an engagement? I shrank at 
no truth. I ask you to do the same. A man's courage 
should not be less than that of a timid, trembling girl." 

" It will pain you to hear," he answered hoarsely, as if 
the breath strangled him. 

" Still I must hear." 





He looked at her wonderingly. Timid and shrinking 
even now, yet brave to endure to the uttermost. 

He told her, softening all that was in his power. 

"Some diabolic ingenuity devised it," he went on 
