immediately after, but the young clergyman remained 
talking with Miss Graham. 
Colville, with his smoking glass in his hand, found 
himself at the side of a friendly old gentleman who 
had refused the punch. They joined -in talk by 
a common impulse, and the old gentleman said, 
directly, " You are an American, I presume ? " 
His accent had already established the fact of his 
own nationality, but he seemed to think it the part 
of candour to say, when Colville had acknowledged 
his origin, " I 'm an American myself." 
 ' 
"I've met several of our countrymen since I 
arrived," suggested Colville, 
The old gentleman seemed to like this way of 
putting it. " Well, yes, we 're not unfairly repre- 
sented here in numbers, I must confess. But I 'm i 
bound to say that I don't find our countrymen so 
aggressive, so loud, as our international novelists 
would make out. I haven't met any of their peculiar 
heroines as yet, sir." 
Colville could not help laughing. " I wish I had. 
But perhaps they avoid people of our years and dis- 
cretion, or else take such a filial attitude toward us 
that we can't recognise them.'' 
" Perhaps, perhaps," cried the old gentleman, with 
cheerful assent. 
" I was talking with one of our German friends 
here just now, and he complained that the American 
girls — especially the rich ones — seem very calculat- 
ing and worldly and conventional. I told him I 
didn't know how to account for that. I tried to 
give him some notion of the ennobling influences of 
society in Newport, as I 've had glimpses of it." 
The old gentleman caressed his elbows, which he 
was holding in the palms of his hands, in high 
enjoyment of Colville's sarcasm. " Ah ! very good ! 
very good ! " he said. " I quite agree with you, and 
I think the other sort are altogether preferable." 
" I think," continued Colville, dropping his ironi- 
cal tone, " that we 've much less to regret in their 
unsuspecting, unsophisticated freedom than in the 
type of hard materialism which we produce in young 
 
girls, perfectly wide awake, disenchanted, unromantic, 
who prefer the worldly vanities and advantages de- 
liberately and on principle, recognising something 
better merely to despise it. I've sometimes seen 
them " 
Mrs. Bowen came up in her gentle, inquiring way. 
"I'm glad that you and Mr. Colville have made 
acquaintance," she said to the old gentleman. 
"Oh, but we haven't," said Colville. "We're 
entire strangers." 
" Then I 'll introduce you to jlev. M r. Waters. 
And take you away," she added, putting her hand 
through Colville's arm with a delicate touch that 
flattered his whole being, " for your time 's come at 
last, and I 'm going to present you to Miss Graham." 
" I don't know," he said. " Of course, as there is 
a Miss Graham, I can't help being presented to her, 
but I had almost worked myself up to the point of 
wishing there were none. I believe I 'm afraid." 
" Oh, I don't believe that at all. A simple school- 
girl like that ! " Mrs. Bowen's sense of humour had 
not the national acuteness. She liked joking in men, 
but she did not know how to say funny things back. 
" You 'll see, as you come up to her." 
IV. 
Miss Graham did, indeed, somehow diminish in 
the nearer perspective. She ceased to be overwhelm- 
ing. When Colville Hfted his eyes from bowing 
before her he perceived that she was neither so very 
tall nor so very large, but possessed merely a gene- 
rous amplitude of womanhood. But she was even 
more beautiful, with a sweet and youthful radiance 
of look that was very winning. If she had ceased to 
be the goddess she looked across the length of the 
salon, she had gained much by becoming an ex- 
tremely lovely young girl ; and her teeth, when she 
spoke, showed a fascinating Httle irregularity that 
gave her the last charm. 
Mrs. Bowen glided away with the young clergy- 
man, but Effie remained at Miss Graham's side, and 
seemed to have hold of the left hand which the girl 
let hang carelessly behind her in the volume of 
her robe. The child's face expressed an adoration 
of Miss Graham far beyond her allegiance to her 
mother. 
" I began to doubt whether Mrs. Bowen was going 
to bring you at all," she said frankly, with an 
 
innocent, nervous laugh, which made favour for her 
with Colville. " She promised it early in the even- 
ing." 
"She has used me much worse, Miss Graham," 
said Colville. " She has kept me waiting from the 
beginning of time. So that I have grown grey on 
my way up to you,'' he added, by an inspiration. 
" I was a comparatively young man when Mrs. Bowen 
first told me she was going to introduce me." 
" Oh, how good I" said Miss Graham joyously. 
And her companion, after a moment's hesitation, 
permitted herself a polite little titter. She had made 
a discovery : she had discovered that Mr. Colville 
was droll, 
" I 'm very glad you like it," he said, with a gravity 
that did not deceive them. 
" Oh yes," sighed Miss Graham, with generous 
ardour. " Who but an American could say just such 
things 'll There 's the loveliest old lady here- in 
Florence, who's lived here thirty years, and she's 
always going back and never getting back, and she 's 
so, homesick she doesn't know what to do, and she 
always says that Americans may not be better than 
other people, but they are different." 
" That 's very pretty. They 're different in every- 
thing but thinking themselves better. Their native 
modesty prevents that." 
'' I don't exactly know what you mean," said Miss 
Graham, after a little hesitation. 
"Well," returned Colville, "I haven't thought it 
out very clearly myself yet. I may mean that the 
 
Americans differ from other people in not thinking 
well of themselves, or they may differ from them in 
not tliinking well enough. But what I said had a 
very epigrammatic sound, and I prefer not to investi- 
gate it too closely." 
This made Miss Graham and Miss Effie both cry 
out " Oh !" in delighted doubt of his intention. They 
both insensibly drifted a little nearer to him. 
" There was a French lady said to me at the table- 
d'hSte this evening that she knew I was an American, 
because the Americans always strike the key of per- 
sonality." He practised these economies of material 
in conversation quite recklessly, and often made the 
same incident or suggestion do duty round a whole 
company. 
" Ah, I don't believe that," said Miss Graham. 
"Believe what?" 
" That jfche Americans always talk about them- 
selves." 
" I 'm not sure she meant that. You never can 
tell what a person means by what he says — or she." 
" How shocking !" 
" Perhaps the French lady meant that we always 
talk about other people. That 's in the key of per- 
sonality too." 
"But I don't believe we do," said Miss Graham. 
" At any rate, she was talking about us, then." 
" Oh, she accounted for that by saying there was 
a large American colony in Paris, who had corrupted 
the French, and taught them our pernicious habit of 
introspection.'' 
" Do you think we 're very introspective. " 
"Do your' 
" I know I 'm not. I hardly ever think about 
myself at all. At any rate, not till- it 's too late. 
That 's the great trouble. I wish I could. But I 'm 
always studying other people. They're so much 
more interesting.'' 
" Perhaps if you knew yourself better you wouldn't 
think so," suggested Colville. 
" Yes, I know they are. I don't think any young 
person can be interesting.'' 
" Then what becomes of all the novels ? They 're 
full of young persons." 
" They 're ridiculous. If I were going to write a 
novel, I should take an old person for a hero — thirty- 
five or forty. She looked at Colville, and blushing 
a little, hastened to add, " I don't believe that they 
begin to be interesting much before that time. Such 
flat things as young men are always saying ! Don't 
you remember that passage somewhere in Heine's 
Pictures of Travel, where he sees the hand of a lady 
coming out from under her mantle, when she 's con- 
fessing in a church, and he knows that it 's the hand 
of a young person who has enjoyed nothing and suf- 
fered nothing, it 's so smooth and flower-like ? After 
I read that I hated the look of my hands — I was 
only sixteen, and it seemed as if I had had no more 
experience than a child. Oh, I like people to bo 
through something. Don't you i" 
"WeliPyes, 'll suppose I do. Other people." 
"No ; but don't you like it for yourself V 
 
"I can't tell; I haven't been through anything v 
worth speaking of yet." 
Miss Graham looked at him dubiously, but 
pursued with ardour : " Why, just getting back to 
Florence, after not having been here for so long — 
I should think it would be so romantic. Oh dear ! 
I wish I were here for the second time." 
" I 'm afraid you wouldn't like it so well," said ' 
Colville. "I wish I were here for the first time. 
There 's nothing like the first time in everything." 
" Do you really think so 'll" 
" Well, there 's nothing like the first time in 
Florence." 
" Oh, I can't imagine it. I should think that re- 
calling the old emotions would be perfectly fascinat- 
mg. 
"Yes, if they'd come when you do call them. 
But they 're as contrary-minded as spirits from the 
vasty deep. I 've been shouting around here for my 
old emotions all day, and I haven't had a responsive 
squeak." 
" Oh !" cried Miss Graham, staring full-eyed at 
him. "How delightful!" Effie Bowen turned 
away her pretty little head and laughed, as if it 
might not be quite kind to laugh at a person's joke 
to his face. 
Stimulated by their appreciation, Colville went on 
with more nonsense. " No ; the only way to get at 
your old emotions in regard to Jj'lorenc e is to borrow 
them from somebody who 's having the m fresh. 
What do you think about Florence, Miss Graham ?" 
 
" I Ve been here two months." 
"Then it's too late?" 
" No, I don't know that it is. I keep feeling the 
strangeness all the time. But I can't tell you. It 's 
very different from Buffalo, I can assure you." 
" Buffalo ? I can imagine the difference. And 
it 's not altogether to the disadvantage of Buffalo." 
" Oh, have you been there ?" asked Miss Graham, 
with a touching little eagerness. " Do you know 
anybody in Buffalo ?" 
" Some of the newsjjaper men ; and I pass through 
there once a year on my way to New York— or used 
to. It 's a lively place." 
" Yes, it is," sighed Miss Graham fondly. 
" Do the girls of Buffalo still come out at night 
and dance by the light of the moon ?" 
'' What !" 
" Ah, I see," said Colville, peering at her under 
his thoughtfully knitted brows, " you do belong to 
another era. You don't remember the old negro 
minstrel song." 
" No," said Miss Graham. " I can only remember 
the end of the war." 
"How divinely young !" said Colville. "Well," 
he added, "I wish that French lady could have 
overheard us. Miss Graham. I think she would 
have changed her mind about Americans strikin'' 
the note of personality in their talk." 
"Oh!" exclaimed the girl reproachfully, after a 
moment of swift reflection and recognition, " I don't 
see how you could let me do it ! You don't suppose 
 
that I should have talked so with every one ? It 
was because you were another American, and such 
an old friend of Mrs, Bo wen's." 
' That is what I shall certainly tell the French 
lady if she attacks me about it," said Colville. He 
glanced carelessly toward the end of the room, and 
saw the young clergyman taking leave of Mrs. 
Bo wen ; all the' rest of the company were gone. 
"Bless me ! " he said, " I must be going." 
Mrs. Bowen had so swiftly advanced upon him 
that she caught the last words. "Why?" she asked. 
" Because it 's to-morrow, I suspect, and the invi- 
tation was for one day only." 
" It was a season ticket,'' said Mrs. Bowen, with 
gay hospitality, ' and it isn't to-morrow for half an 
hour yet. I can't think of letting you go. Come 
up to the fire, all, and let 's sit down by it. It 's at 
its very best." 
Effie looked a pretty surprise and a pleasure in 
this girlish, burst from her mother, whose habitual 
serenity made it more striking in contrast, and she 
forsook Miss Graham's hand and ran forward and 
disposed the easy-chairs comfortably about the 
hearth. 
Colville and Mrs. Bowen suddenly found them- 
selves upon those terms which often succeed a long 
separation with people who have felt kindly toward 
each other at a former meeting and have parted 
friends : they were much more intimate than they 
had supposed themselves to be, or had really any 
reason for being. 
 
"Which one of your guests do you wish me to 
offer up, Mrs. Bowen V he asked, from the hollow 
of the arm-chair, not too low, which he had sunk 
into. With Mrs. Bowen in a higher chair at his 
right hand, and Miss Graham intent upon him from 
the sofa on his left, a sense of delicious satisfaction 
filled him from head to foot. " There isn't one I 
would spare if you said the word." 
" And there isn't one I want destroyed, I 'm sorry 
to say," answered Mrs. Bowen. " Don't you think 
they were all very agreeable V 
" Yes, yes ; agreeable enough — agreeable enough, 
I suppose. But they stayed too long. When I 
think we might have been sitting here for the last 
half-hour, if they 'd only gone sooner, I find it pretty 
hard to forgive them." 
Mrs. Bowen and Miss Graham exchanged glances 
above his head — a glance which demanded, " Didn't 
I tell you ?" for a glance that answered, " Oh, he 
is !" Effie Bowen's eyes widened ; she kept them 
fastened upon Colville in silent worship. 
He asked who were certain of the company that he 
had noticed, and Mrs. Bowen let him make a little 
fun of them : the fun was very good-natured. He 
repeated what the German had said about the 
worldly ambition of American girls ; but she would 
not allow him so great latitude in this. She said 
they were no worldlier than other girls. Of course, 
they were fond of society, and some of them got a 
little spoiled. But they were in no danger of be- 
coming too conventional. . 
 
Colville did not insist. " I missed the military 
to-night, Mrs. Bowen," he said. " I thought one 
couldn't get through an evening in Florence without 
officers V 
"We have them when there is dancing," returned 
Mrs. Bowen. 
" Yes, hut they don't know anything but dancing," 
Miss Graham broke in. " I like some one who can 
talk something besides compliments." 
" You are very peculiar, you know, Imogene," 
urged Mrs. Bowen gently. " I don't think our young 
men at home do much better in conversation, if you 
.come to that, though." 
" Oh, young men, yes ! They 're the same every- 
where. But here, even when they 're away along in 
the thirties, they think that girls can only enjoy 
flattery. I should like a gentleman to talk to me 
without a single word or look to show that he 
thought I was good-looking." 
" Ah, how could he ? " Colville insinuated, and 
the young girl coloured. 
"I mean, if I were pretty. This everlasting 
adulation is insulting." 
"Mr. Morton doesn't flatter," said Mrs. Bowen 
thoughtfully, turning the feather screen she held 
at her face, now edgewise,- now flatwise, toward 
Colville. 
" Oh no," owned Miss Graham. " He 's a clergy- 
man." 
Mrs Bowen addressed herself to Colville. " You 
must go to hear him some day. He 's very inter- 
 
esting, if you don't mind his being rather Low 
CUmidk." ""' 
Colville was going to pretend to an advanced 
degree of ritualism ; but it occurred to him that it 
might be a serious matter to Mrs. Bowen, and he 
asked instead who was the Rev. Mr. Waters. 
"Oh, isn't he lovely?" cried Miss Graham. 
" There, Mrs. Bowen ! Mr. Waters's manner is 
what I call truly complimentary. He always talks 
to you as if he expected you to be interested in 
serious matters, and as if you were his intellectual 
equal. And he 's so happy here in Florence ! He 
gives you the impression of feeling every breath he 
breathes here a privilege. You ought to hear him 
talk about Savonarola, Mr. Colville." 
" Well," said Colville, " I 've heard a great many 
people talk about Savonarola, and I 'm rather glad 
he talked to me about American girls.'' 
" American girls ! " uttered Miss Graham, in a 
little scream. " Did Mr. Waters talk to you about 
girls ? " 
" Yes. Why not ? He was probably in love with 
one once." 
"Mr. Waters?" cried the girl. "What non- 
sense ! " 
'' Well, then, with some old lady. Would you 
like that better ? " ' 
Miss Graham looked at Mrs. Bowen for permission, 
as it seemed, and then laughed, but did not attempt 
any reply to Colville. 
" You find even that incredible of such pyramidal 
 
antiquity," he resumed. " Well, it is hard to be- 
lieve. I told him what that German said, and we 
agreed beautifully about another type of American 
girl which we said we preferred." 
"Oh! What could it heV demanded Miss 
Graham. 
'• Ah, it wouldn't be so easy to say right ofif-hand," 
answered Oolville indolently. 
Mrs. Bowen put her hand under the elbow of the 
arm holding her' screen. " I don't believe I should 
agree with you so well," she said, apparently with a 
sort of didactic intention. 
They entered into a discussion wliich is always 
fruitful with Americans — the discussion of American 
girlhood, and Colville contended for the old national 
"ideal of girlish liberty as wide as the continent, as 
fast as the Mississippi. Mrs. Bowen withstood him 
with delicate firmness. "Oh," he said, "you're 
Europeanised." 
" I certainly prefer the European plan of bringing 
up girls," she replied steadfastly. " I shouldn't 
think of letting a daughter of mine have the freedom 
I had." 
" Well, perhaps it will come right in the next 
generation, then ; she will let her daughter have the 
freedom she hadn't." 
" Not if I 'm alive to prevent it,'' cried Mrs. Bowen. 
Colville laughed. " Which plan do you prefer, 
Miss Graham ?" 
" I don't think it 's quite the same now as it used 
to be," answered the girl evasively.  
" Well, then, all I can say is that if I had died 
before this chance, I had lived a blessed time. I 
perceive more and more that I 'iQ_Qb solete. I 'm in 
my dotage ; I prattle of the good old times, and the 
new spirit of the age flouts me. Miss Effie, do you 
prefer the Amer " 
" No, thank you," said her mother quickly. 
" Effie is out of the question. It 's time you were in 
bed, Effie." 
The child came with instant submissiveness and 
kissed her mother good-night; she kissed Miss 
Graham, and gave her hand to Colville. He held it a 
moment, letting her pull shyly away from him, while 
he lolled back in his chair, and laughed at her with 
his sad eyes. " It 's past the time I should be in bed, 
my dear, and I'm sitting up. merely because there's 
nobody to send me. It 's not that I 'm really such a 
very bad boy. Good night. Don't put me into a 
disagreeable dream ; put me into a nice one." The 
child bridled at the mild pleasantry, and when 
Colville released her hand she suddenly stooped 
forward and kissed him. 
" You 're so funny !" she cried, and ran and escaped 
beyond the portikre. 
Mrs. Bowcn stared in the same direction, but not 
with severity. " Eeally, Effie has been carried a 
little beyond herself." 
"Well," said Colville, "that's one conquest since 
I came to Florence. And merely by being funny ! 
When I was in Florence before, Mrs. Bowen," he 
continued, after a moment, " there were two ladies 
 
here, and I used to go about quite freely with either 
of them. They were both very pretty, and we were 
all very young. Don't you think it was charming V 
Mrs. Bowen coloured a lovely red, and smiled, but 
made no other response. " Florence has changed 
very much for. the worse since that time. There 
used to Be a pretty flower-girl with a wide-flapping 
straw hat, who flung a heavy bough full of roses 
into my lap when she met me driving across the 
Carraja bridge. I spent an hour looking for that 
girl to-day, and couldn't find her. The only flower- 
girl I could find was a fat one of fifty, who kept me 
fifteen minutes in Via Tornabuoni while she was 
fumbling away at my button-hole, trying to poke 
three second-hand violets and a sickly daisy into it. 
Ah,_youth ! youth ! I suppose a young fellow could 
have found that other flower-girl at a glance ; but 
my old eyes ! No, we belong, each of us, to our own 
generation. Mrs. Bowen," he said, with a touch of 
tragedy — whether real or aff'ected, he did not well 
know himself — in his hardiness, " what has become 
of Mrs. Pilsbury ? " 
"-Mrs. Milbury, you mean? " gasped Mrs. Bowen, 
in aff"right at his boldness. 
" Milbury, Bilbury, Pilsbury — it 's all one, so long 
as it isn't " 
"They're living in Chicago!" she hastened to 
reply, as if she were afraid he was going to .say, " so 
long as it isn't Colville," and she could not have 
bome that. 
Colville clasped his hands at the back of his head 
 
and looked at Mrs. Bowen with eyes that let her 
know that he was perfectly aware she had been 
telling Miss Graham of his youthful romance, and 
that lie had now touched it purposely. " And you 
wouldn't," he said, as if that were quite relevant to 
what they had been talking about — " you wouldn't 
let Miss Graham go out walking alone with a dotard 
like me ? " 
" Certainly not," said Mrs. Bowen. 
Colville got to his feet by a surprising activity. 
" Good-bye, Miss Graham." He offered his hand 
to her with burlesque despair, and then turned to 
Mrs. Bowen. " Thank you for such a pleasant 
evening ! What was your day, did you say ? " 
"Oh, any day!" said Mrs. Bowen cordially, 
giving her hand. 
" Do you know whom you look like ? " he asked, 
holding it. 
" No." 
" Lina Ridgely." 
The ladies stirred softly in their draperies after he 
was gone. They turned and faced the hearth, where 
a log burned in a bed of hot ashes, softly purring 
and ticking to itself, and whilst they stood pressing 
their hands against the warm fronts of their dresses, 
as the fashion of women is before a fire, the clock on 
the mantel began to strike twelve. 
"Was that her name?" asked Miss Graham, 
when the clock had had its say. " Lina Eidgely V 
" No ; that was my name," answered Mrs. 
Bowen. 
 
"Oh yes!" murmured the young girl apologeti- 
cally. 
" She led him on ; she certainly encouraged him. 
It was shocking. He was quite wild about it.'' 
" She must have been a cruel girl. How could he 
speak of it so lightly ? " 
" It was best to speak of it, and have done with 
it," said Mrs. Bowen. " He knew that I must have 
been telling you something about it." 
" Yes. How bold it was ! A young man couldn't 
have done it ! Yes, he 's fascinating. But how old 
and sad he looked, as he lay i)ack there in the 
chair !" 
" Old ? I don't think he looked old. He looked 
sad. Yes, it 's left its mark on him." 
The log burned quite through to its core, and fell 
asunder, a bristling mass of embers. They had been 
looking at it with downcast heads. Now they lifted 
their faces, and saw the pity in each other's eyes, 
and the beautiful girl impulsively kissed the pretty 
woman good-night. 
V. 
CoLViLLE fell asleep witli the flattered sense 
which abounds in the heart of a young man after 
his first successful evening in society, but which can 
visit maturer life only upon some such conditions of 
long exile and return as had been realised in his. The 
looks of these two charming women followed him 
into his dreams ; he knew he must have pleased 
them, the dramatic homage of the child was evidence 
of that ; and though it had been many years since 
he had found it sufficient cause of happiness to have 
pleased a woman, the desire to do so was by no means 
extinct in him. The eyes of the girl liovered above 
bim like stars ; he fel t in their soft gaze that he was 
a romance to her young~TieaTt"anTi-this-made him 
laugh ; iFalso made him sigTiT 
He woke at dawn with a sharp twinge in his 
shoulder, and he rose to give himself the pleasure of 
making his own fire with those fagots of broom and 
pine twigs which he had enjoyed the night before, 
promising himself to get back into bed when the fire 
was well going, and sleep late. While he stood 
before the open stove, the jangling of a small bell 
 
 
outside called him to the window, and he saw a pro- 
cession which had just issued from the church going 
to administer" the extreme unction to some dying 
person across the piazza. The parish priest went 
iirst, bearing the' consecrated wafer in its vessel, and 
at his side an acolyte holding a yellow silk umbrella 
over the Eucharist ; after them came a number of 
facchini in white robes and white hoods that hid 
their faces ; their tapers burned sallow and lifeless in 
the new morning light ; the bell jangled dismally. 
" They even die dramatically in this country," 
thought Colville, in whom the artist was taken with 
the effectiveness of the spectacle before his human 
pity was stirred for the poor soul who was passing. 
He reproached himself for that, and ins.tead of 
getting back to bed, he dressed and waited for the 
mature hour which he had ordered his breakfast for. 
When it came «,fr last, picturesquely borne on the 
open hand of Giovanni, steaming coffee, hot milk, 
sweet butter in delicate disks, and two white eggs 
coyly tucked in the fold of a napkin, and all grouped 
upon the wide salver, it brought him a measure of 
the consolation which good cheer imparts to the 
ridiculous human heart even in the house where 
death is. But the sad incident tempered his mind 
with a sort of pensiveness that lasted throughout 
the morning, and quite till lunch. He spent the 
time in going about the churches ; but the sunshine 
which the day began with was overcast, as it was 
the day before, and the churches were rather tgo 
dark and cold in the afternoon. He went to Vies- 
 
seux's reading-room and looked over tlie English 
papers, which he did not care for much; and he also 
made a diligent search of the catalogue for some book 
about Florence for little Effie Bowen : he thought he 
would like to surprise her mother with his interest 
in the matter. As the day waned toward dark, he 
felt more and more tempted to take her at her word, 
when she had said that any day was her day to him, 
and go to see her. If he had been a younger man 
he would have anxiously considered this indulgence 
and denied himself, but after forty a man denies 
himself no reasonable and harmless indulgence ; he 
has learned by that time that it is a pity and a folly 
to do so. 
Colville found Mrs. Bowen's room half full of 
arriving and departing visitors, and then he remem- 
bered that it was this day she had named to him on 
the Ponte Vecchio, and when Miss Graham thanked 
him for coming his first Thursday, he made a merit 
of not having forgotten it, and said he was going to 
come every Thursday during the winter. Miss 
Graham drew him a cup of tea from the Russian 
samovar which replaces in some Florentine houses 
the tea-pot of Occidental civilisation, and Colville 
smiled upon it and upon her, bending over the 
brazen urn with a flower-like tilt of her beautiful 
head. She wore an aesthetic dress of creamy camel's- 
hair, whose colour pleased the eye as its softness 
would have flattered the touch. 
." What a very Tourgunefiish effect the samovar 
gives ! " he said, taking a biscuit from the basket 
 
Effie Bowen brought him, shrinking with redoubled 
shyness from the eyebrows which he arched at her. 
" I wonder you can keep from calling me Fedor 
Colvillitch. Where is your mother, Effie Bowen- 
ovna 'i " he asked of the child, with a temptation to 
say Imogene Grahamovna. 
They both Idoked mystified, but Miss Graham 
said, " I 'm sorry to say you won't see Mrs. Bowen 
to-day. She has a very bad headache, and has left 
Effie and me to receive. We feel very incompetent, 
but she says it will do us good." 
There were some people there of the night before, 
and Colville had to talk to them. One of the ladies 
asked him if he had met the Inglehart boys as he 
came in. 
" Thlnglehart-boysj! No. What are the Ingle- 
hart boys ? "  
" They were here all last winter, and they 've just 
got back. It 's rather exciting for riorence." She 
gave him a rapid sketch of that interesting exodus 
of a score of young painters from the art school 
at Munich, under the head of the singular and 
fascinating genius by whose name they became 
known. "They had their own school for a while in 
Munich, and then they all came down into Italy in a 
body. They had their studio things with them, and 
they travelled third class, and they made the great- 
est excitement everywhere, and had the greatest fun. 
They were a great sensation in Florence. They 
went everywhere, and were such favourites. I 
hope they are going to stay." 
 
" I hope so too," said Colville. " I should like to 
see them." 
" Dear me ! " said the lady, with a glance at the 
clock. " It 's five ! I must be going." 
The other ladies went, and Colville approached to 
take leave, but Miss Graham detained him. 
" What is Tourguneffish ? " she demanded. 
" The quality of the great Russian novelist, Tour- 
guneff," said Colville, perceiving that she had not 
heard of him. 
" Oh ! " 
"You ought to read him. The samovar sends 
up its agreeable odour all through his books. Read 
Lisa if you want your heart really broken. 
" I 'm glad you approve of heart- breaks in books. 
So many people wo n't read anything but cheerful 
books . It 's the only quarrel I have with Mrs. 
Bowen. She says there are so many sad things 
in life that they ought to be kept out of books." 
"Ah, there I perceive a divided duty," said 
Colville. " I should like to agree with both of you. 
But if Mrs. Bowen were here I should remind her 
that if there are so many sad things in life that is a 
Very good reason for putting them in books too." 
" Of course I shall tell her what you said." 
" Why, I don't object to a certain degree of cheer- 
fulness in books ; only don't carry it too far — that 's 
all." 
This made the young girl laugh, and Colville was 
encouraged to go on. He told her of the sight he 
had seen from his window at daybreak, and he 
 
depicted it all very graphically, and made her feel 
its pathos perhaps more keenly than he had felt it. 
" Now, that little incident kept with me all day, 
tempering my boisterous joy in the Giottos, and 
reducing me to a decent composure in the presence 
of the Cimahues ; and it 's pretty hard to keep from 
laughing at some of them, don't you think ? " 
The young people perceived that he was making 
fun again ; but he continued with an air of greater 
seriousness. " Don't you see what a very good thing 
that was to begin one's day with ? Why, even in 
Santa Croce, with the thermometer ten degrees below 
zero in the shade of Alfieri's monument, I was no 
gayer than I should have been in a church at home. 
I suppose Mrs. Bowen would object to having that 
procession go by under one's windbw in a book ; but 
I can't really see how it would hurt the reader, on 
damp his, spirits permanently. A wholesome vol 
action would ensue, such as you see now in me, 
whom the thing happened to in real life." 
He stirred his tea, and shook with an inward 
laugh as he carried it to his lips. 
" Yes,'' said Miss Graham thoughtfully, and she 
looked at him searchingly in the interval of 
silence that ensued. But she only added, " I wish 
it would get warmer in the churches. I've seen 
hardly anything of them yet." 
"From the way I felt in them to-day," sighed 
Colville, " I should think the churches would begin 
to thaw out about the middle of May. But if one 
goes well wrapped up in furs,' and has a friend 
 
along to rouse him and keep him walking when he 
is about to fall into that lethargy which precedes 
death by freezing, I think they may be visited even 
now with safety. Have you been in Santa Maria 
Novella yet ? " 
" No," said Miss Graham, with a shake of the 
head that expressed her resolution to speak the 
whole truth if she died for it, " not even in Santa 
Maria Novella." 
" What a wonderful old place it is ! That curi- 
ous facade, with the dials and its layers of black 
and white marble soaked golden-red in a hundred 
thousand sunsets ! That exquisite grand portal ! " 
He gesticulated with the hand that the tee-cup left 
free, to suggest form and measurement as artists do. 
" Then the inside ! The great Cimabue, with all 
that famous history on its back — the first divine 
Madonna by the first divine master, carried through 
the streets in a. triumph of art and religion ! Those 
frescoes of Ghirlandajo's with real Florentine faces 
and figures in them, and all lavished upon the eternal 
twilight of that choir — but I suppose that if the full 
day were let in on .them, once, they would vanish 
like ghosts at cock-crow ! You must be sure to see 
the Spanish chapel; and the old cloister itself is such 
a pathetic place. There 's a boys' school, as well as 
a military college, in the suppressed convent now, 
and the colonnades were full of boys running and 
screaming and laughing and making a joyful racket ; 
it was so much more sorrowful than silence would 
have been there. One of the little scamps came up 
 
to me, and the young monk that was showing me 
round, and bobbed us a mocking bow and bobbed his 
hat off ; then they all burst out laughing again and 
raced away, and the monk looked after them and said, 
so sweetly and wearily, ' They 're at their diversions : 
we must have patience.' There are only twelve 
monks left there ; all the rest are scattered and 
gone." He gave his cup to Miss Graham for more tea. 
" Don't you think," she asked, drawing it from 
the samovar, " that it is very sad having the con- 
vents suppressed ? " 
" It was very sad having slavery abolished — for 
some people," suggested Colville ; he felt the unfair- 
ness of the point he had made. 
" Yes,'' sighed Miss Graham. 
Colville stood stirring his second cup of tea, when 
the portihre parted, and showed Mrs. Boweu. wistfully 
pausing on the threshold. Her face was pale, but 
she looked extremely pretty there. 
" Ah, come in, Mrs. Bowen ! " he called gaily to 
her. " I won't give you away to the other people. 
A cup of tea will do you good." 
" Oh, I 'm a great deal better," said Mrs. Bowen, 
coming forward to give him her hand. " I heard 
your voice, and I couldn't resist looking in." 
" That was very kind of you,'' said Colville grate- 
fully : and her eyes met his in a glance that flushed 
her face a deep red. " You find me here — I don't 
know why ! — in my character of old family friend, 
doing my best to make life a burden to the young 
ladies." 
 
" I wish you would stay to a family dinner with 
us," said Mrs. Bowen, and Miss Graham brightened 
in cordial support of the hospitality. " Why can't 
you ? " 
" I don't know, unless it 's because I 'm a humane 
person, and have some consideration for your head- 
ache." 
"Oh, that's all gone," said Mrs. Bowen. "It 
was one of those convenient headaches — if you ever 
had them, you'd know — that go off at sunset." 
" But you'd have another to-morrow.'' 
" No, I 'm safe for a whole fortnight from another." 
" Then you leave me without an excuse, and I 
was just wishing I had none," said Colville. 
After dinner Mrs. Bowen sent Effie to bed early 
to make up for the late hours of the night before, 
but she sat before the fire with Miss Graham rather 
late, talking Colville over, when he was gone. 
" He 's very puzzling to me," said Miss Graham. 
" Sometimes you think he 's nothing but an old 
cynic, from his talk, and then something so sweet 
and fresh comes out that you don't know what to 
do. Don't you think he has really a very poetical 
mind, and that he 's putting all the rest on ? " 
" I think he likes to make little effects," said Mrs. 
Bowen judiciously. " He always did, rather." 
" Why, was he like this when he was young ? " 
" I don't consider him very old now." 
" No, of course not. I meant when you knew 
him before." Miss Graham had some needlework 
in her hand ; Mrs. Bowen, who never even pretended 
to work at that kind of thing, had nothing in hers 
hut the feather .screen.  
"He is old, compared with you, Imogene hut 
you 'll find, as you live along, that your contemporaries are always young. Mr. Colville is very much 
improved. He used to be painfully shy, but he put 
on a bold front, and now the bold front seems to 
have become a second nature with him." 
" I like it," said Miss Graham, to her needle. 
" Yes ; but I suspect he 's still shy, at heart. He 
used to be very sentimental, and was always talking 
Euskin. I think if he hadn't talked Euskin so 
much, Jenny Milbury might have treated him better. 
It was very priggish in him." 
" Oh, I can't imagine Mr. Colville's being priggish ! " 
" He 's very much improved. He used to be 
quite a sloven in his dress; you know how very 
slovenly most American gentlemen are in their 
dress, at any rate. I think that influenced her 
against him too." 
"He isn't lovenly now," suggested Miss Graham. 
" Oh no ; he 's quite swell," said Mrs. Bowen, 
depriving the adjective of slanginess by the refinement of her tone. 
"Well," said Miss Graham, "I don't see how 
you could have endured her after that. It was 
atrocious." 
" It was better for her to break with him, if she 
found out she didn't love him, than to marry him. 
That," said Mrs. Bowen, with a depth of feeling 
 
uncommon for her, " would have been a thousand 
times wprse." 
" Yes, but she ought to have found out before she 
led him on so far." 
" Sometimes girls can't. They don't know them- 
selves ; they think they 're in love when they 're 
not. She was very impulsive, and of course she 
was flattered by it ; he was so intellectual. But at 
last she found that she couldn't bear it, and she had 
to tell him so." 
"Did she ever say why she didn't love him ? " 
" No ; I don't suppose she could. The only thing 
I remember her saying was that he was ' too much 
of a mixture.'" 
"What did she mean by that ? " 
" I don't know exactly." 
"Do you think he 's insincere ? " 
" Oh no. Perhaps she meant that he wasn't single- 
minded." 
" Fickle ? " 
" No. He certainly wasn't that in her case." 
" Undecided ?' 
" He was decided enough with her — at last." 
Imogene dropped the hopeless quest, " How can a 
man ever stand such a thing ? " she sighed. 
" He stood it very nobly. That was the best 
thing about it ; he took it- in the most delicate way. 
She showed me his letter. There wasn't a word or 
a hint of reproach in it ; he seemed to be anxious 
about nothing but her feeling badly for him. Of 
course he couldn't help showing that he was morti- 
 
fied for having pursued her with attentions that 
were disagreeable to her; but 'that was delicate too. 
Yes, it was a very large-minded letter." 
"It was shocking in her to show it." 
" It wasn't very nice But it was a letter that 
any girl might have been proud to show." 
" Oh, she couldn't have done it to gratify her 
vanity ! " 
" Girls are very queer, my dear," said Mrs. Bowen, 
as if the fact were an abstraction. She mused upon 
the flat of her screen, while Miss Graham plied her 
needle in silence. 
The latter spoke first. " Do you think he was 
very much broken by it ? " 
"You never can tell. He went out west then, 
and there he has stayed ever since. I suppose his 
life would have been very different if nothing of the 
kind had happened. He had a great deal of talent. 
I always thought I should hear of him in some 
way." 
" Well, it was a heartless, shameless thing ! I 
don't see how you can speak of it so leniently as 
you do, Mrs. Bowen. It makes all sorts of coquetry 
and flirtation more detestable to me than ever. 
Why, it has ruined his life ! " 
"Oh, he was young enough then to outlive it. 
After all, they were a boy and girl." 
" A boy and girl ! How old were they ? " 
"He must have been twenty-three or four, and 
she was twenty." 
" My age ! Do you call that being a girl ? " 
" She was old enough to know what she was 
