her fair skin like that of meaner women. 
"Thy servant came last night," answered the 
prince. 
"Bringing Nehushta and the other Hebrews?" 
added the queen. 
 
" Even so." 
"Tell me something of this Nehushta," said Atossa. 
She had dropped into a more familiar form of speech. 
But Zoroaster was careful of his words and never 
allowed his language to relapse from the distant form 
of address of a subject to his sovereign. 
" The queen knoweth her. She was here as a young 
child a few years since," he replied. He chose to 
let Atossa ask questions for all the information she 
needed. 
" It is so long ago," she said, with a little sigh. " Is 
she fair ? " 
"Nay, she is dark, after the manner of the 
Hebrews." 
" And the Persians too," she interrupted. 
" She is very beautiful," continued Zoroaster. " She 
is very tall." Atossa looked up quickly with a smile. 
She was not tall herself, with all her beauty. 
" You admire tall women ? " 
"Yes," said Zoroaster calmly — well knowing what 
he said. He did not wish to flatter the queen ; and 
besides he knew her too well to do so if he wished to 
please her. She was one of those women who are not 
accustomed to doubt their own superiority over the 
rest of their sex. 
"Then you admire this Hebrew princess?" said 
she, and paused for an answer. But her companion 
was as cold and calm as she. Seeing himself directly
pressed by a suspicion, he changed his tactics and 
flattered Atossa for the sake of putting a stop to her 
questions. 
" Height is not of itself beauty," he answered with 
 
a courteous smile. " There is a kind of beauty which 
no height can improve, — a perfection which needs 
not to be set high for all men to acknowledge it." 
The queen simply took no notice of the compliment, but it had its desired effect, for she changed 
the tone of her talk a little, speaking more seriously. 
" Where is she ? I will go and see her," she said. 
"She rested last night in the upper chambers in 
the southern part of the palace. Thy servant will 
bid her come if it be thy desire." 
" Presently, presently," answered the queen. " It 
is yet early, and she was doubtless weary of the 
journey." 
There was a pause. Zoroaster looked down at the 
beautiful queen as she sat beside him, and wondered 
whether she had changed ; and as he gazed, he fell to 
comparing her beauty with Nehushta's, and his glance 
grew more intent than he had meant it should be, so 
that Atossa looked up suddenly and met his eyes resting on her face. 
" It is long since we have met, Zoroaster," she said 
quickly. " Tell me of your life in that wild fortress. 
You have prospered in your profession of arms — you 
wear the royal chain." She put up her hand and 
touched the links as though to feel them. " Indeed 
it is very like the chain Darius wore when he went to 
Babylon the other day." She paused a moment as 
though trying to recall something; then continued: 
"Yes — now I think of it, he had no chain when he 
came back. It is his — of course — why has he given 
it to you?" Her tones had a tinge of uncertainty 
in the question, — half imperious, as demanding an 
 
answer, half persuading, as though not sure the 
answer would be given. Zoroaster remembered that 
intonation of her sweet voice, and he smiled in his 
beard. 
" Indeed," he answered, " the Great King who liveth 
for ever, put this chain about my neck with his own 
hands last night, when he halted by the roadside, as a 
reward, I presume, for certain qualities he believeth 
his servant Zoroaster to possess." 
" Qualities — what qualities ? " 
"Nay, the queen cannot expect me to sing faith- 
fully my own praises. Nevertheless, I am ready to 
die for the Great King. He knoweth that I am. 
May he live for ever ! " 
" It may be that one of the qualities was the successful performance of the extremely difficult task 
you have lately accomplished," said Atossa, with a 
touch of scorn. 
" A task ? " repeated Zoroaster. 
" Yes — have you not brought a handful of Hebrew 
women all the way from Ecbatana to Shushan, 
through numberless dangers and difficulties, safe and 
sound, and so carefully prudent of their comfort that 
they are not even weary, nor have they once hungered 
or thirsted by the way, nor lost the smallest box of 
perfume, nor the tiniest of their golden hair-pins? 
Surely you have deserved to have a royal chain hung 
about your neck and to be called the king's friend." 
" The reward was doubtless greater than my desert. 
It was no great feat of arms that I had to perform ; 
and yet, in these days a man may leave Media under 
one king, and reach Shushan under another. The 
 
queen knoweth better than any one what sudden 
changes may take place in the empire," answered 
Zoroaster, looking calmly into her face as he stood ; 
and she who had been the wife of Cambyses and the 
wife of the murdered Gomata-Smerdis, and who was 
now the wife of Darius, looked down and was silent, 
turning over in her beautiful hands the sealed scroll 
she bore. 
The sun had risen higher while they talked, and 
his rays were growing hot in the clear air. The mist 
had lifted from the city below, and all the streets and 
open places were alive with noisy buyers and sellers, 
whose loud talking and disputing came up in a continuous hum to the palace on the hill, like the drone 
of a swarm of bees. The queen rose from her seat. 
" It is too warm here," she said, and she once more 
moved toward the stairway. Zoroaster followed her 
respectfully, still holding his helmet in his hand. 
Atossa did not speak till she reached the threshold. 
Then, as Zoroaster bowed low before her, she paused 
and looked at him with her clear, deep-blue eyes. 
" You have grown very formal in four years," she 
said softly. " You used to be more outspoken and 
less of a courtier. I am not changed — we must be 
friends as we were formerly." 
Zoroaster hesitated a moment before he answered: 
" I am the Great King's man," he said slowly. " I 
am, therefore, also the queen's servant." 
Atossa raised her delicate eyebrows a little and a 
shade of annoyance passed for the first time over her 
perfect face, which gave her a look of sternness. 
" I am the queen," she said coldly. " The king 
 
maj take other wives, but I am the queen. Take 
heed that you be indeed my servant." Then, as she 
gathered her mantle about her and put one foot upon 
the stairs, she touched his shoulder gently with the 
tips of her fingers and added with a sudden smile, 
" And I will be your friend." So she passed down 
the stairs out of sight, leaving Zoroaster alone. 
Slowly he paced the terrace again, reflecting profoundly upon his situation. Indeed he had no small 
cause for anxiety ; it was evident that the queen suspected his love for Nehushta, and he was more than 
half convinced that there were reasons why such an 
affection would inevitably meet with her disapproval. 
In former days, before she was married to Cambyses, 
and afterwards, before Zoroaster had been sent into 
Media, Atossa had shown so marked a liking for him, 
that a man more acquainted with the world, would 
have guessed that she loved him. He had not sus- 
pected such a thing, but with a keen perception of 
character, he had understood that beneath the beautiful features and the frank gentleness of the young 
princess, there lurked a profound intelligence, an 
unbending ambition and a cold selfishness without 
equal ; he had mistrusted her, but he had humoured 
her caprices and been in truth a good friend to her, 
without in the least wishing to accept her friendship 
for himself in return. He was but a young captain 
of five hundred then, although he was the favourite 
of the court ; but his strong arm was dreaded as well 
as the cutting force of his replies when questioned, 
and no word of the court gossip had therefore reached 
his ears concerning Atossa's admiration for him. It 
 
was, moreover, so evident that lie cared nothing for 
her beyond the most unaffected friendliness, that her 
disappointment in not moving his heart was a con- 
stant source of satisfaction to her enemies. There 
had reigned in those days a great and unbridled 
license in the court, and the fact of the daughter of 
Cyrus loving and being loved by the handsomest of 
the king's guards, would not of itself have attracted 
overmuch notice. But the evident innocence of 
Zoroaster in the whole affair, and the masterly 
fashion in which Atossa concealed her anger, if she 
felt any, caused the matter to be completely forgotten as soon as Zoroaster left Shushan, and events 
had, since then, succeeded each other too rapidly to 
give the courtiers leisure for gossiping about old 
scandals. The isolation in which Gomata had lived 
during the seven months while he maintained the 
popular impression that he was not Gomata-Smerdis, 
but Smerdis the brother of Cambyses, had broken up 
the court ; and the strong, manly character of Darius 
had checked the license of the nobles suddenly, as a 
horse-breaker brings up an unbroken colt by flinging 
the noose about his neck. The king permitted that 
the ancient custom of marrying as many as foui 
wives should be maintained, and he himself soon set 
an example by so doing ; but he had determined that 
the whole corrupt fabric of court life should be shattered at one blow ; and with his usual intrepid dis- 
regard of consequences and his iron determination to 
maintain his opinions, he had suffered no contradiction of his will. He had married Atossa, — in the 
first place, because she was the most beautiful woman 
 
in Persia; and secondly, because he comprehended 
her great intelligence and capacity for affairs, and 
believed himself able to make use of her at his 
pleasure. As for Atossa herself, she had not hesitated a moment in concurring in the marriage, — she 
had ruled her former husbands, and she would rule 
Darius in like manner, she thought, to her own complete aggrandisement and in the face of all rivals. As 
yet, the king had taken no second wife, although he 
looked with growing admiration upon the maiden 
Artyston^, who was then but fifteen years of age, 
the youngest daughter of Cyrus and own sister to 
Atossa. 
All this Zoroaster knew, and he recognised also 
from the meeting he had just had with the queen, 
that she was desirous of maintaining her friendship 
with himself. But since the violent scene of the previous night, he had determined to be the king's man 
in truest loyalty, and he feared lest Atossa's plans 
might, before long, cross her husband's. Therefore 
he accepted her offer of friendship coldly, and treated 
her with the most formal courtesy. On the other 
hand, he understood well enough that if she resented 
his manner of acting towards her, and ascertained that 
he really loved Nehushta, it would be in her poAver to 
produce difficulties and complications which he would 
have every cause for fearing. She would certainly 
discover the king's admiration for Nehushta. Darius 
was a man almost incapable of concealment; with 
whom to think was to act instantly and without hesitation. He generally acted rightly, for his instincts 
were noble and kingly, and his heart as honest and 
 
open as the very light of day. He said what he 
thought and instantly fulfilled liis words. He hated 
a lie as poison, and the only untruth he had ever been 
guilty of was told when, in order to gain access to the 
dwelling of the false Smerdis, he had declared to the 
guards that he brought news of importance from his 
father. He had justified this falsehood by the most 
elaborate and logical apology to his companions, the 
six princes, and had explained that he only lied for 
the purpose of saving Persia ; and when the lot fell 
to himself to assume the royal authority, he fulfilled 
most amply every promise he had given of freeing the 
country from tyranny, religious despotism and, generally, from what he termed " lies." As for the kill- 
ing of Gomata-Smerdis, it was an act of public justice, 
approved by all sensible persons as soon as it was 
known by what frauds that impostor had seized the 
kingdom. 
With regard to Atossa, Darius had abstained from 
asking her questions about her seven months of 
marriage with the usurper. She must have known 
well enough who the man was, but Darius understood 
her character well enough to know that she would 
marry whomsoever she saw in the chief ]3lace, and 
that her counsel and courage would be of inestimable 
advantage to a ruler. She herself never mentioned 
the past events to the king, knowing his hatred of lies 
on the one hand, and that on the other, the plain truth 
would redound to her discredit. He had given her to 
understand as much from the first, telling her that he 
took her for what she was, and not for what she had 
been. Her mind was at rest about the past, and as 
 
for the future, she promised herself her full share in 
her husband's success, should he succeed, and unbounded liberty in the choice of his successor, should 
he fail. 
But all these considerations did not tend to clear 
Zoroaster's vision in regard to his own future. He 
saw himself already placed in a position of extreme 
difficulty between Nehushta and the king. On the 
other hand, he dreaded lest he should before long fall 
into disgrace with the king on account of Atossa's 
treatment of himself, or incur Atossa's displeasure 
through the great favour he received from Darius. 
He knew the queen to be an ambitious woman, capable of the wildest conceptions, and possessed of the 
utmost skill for their execution. 
He longed to see Nehushta and talk with her at 
once, — to tell her many tilings and to warn her of 
many possibilities; above all, he desired to discuss 
with her the scene of the previous night and the 
strangely sudden determination the king had expressed 
to make her his wife. 
But he could not leave his post. His orders had 
been to await the king in the morning upon the eastern terrace ; and there he must abide until it pleased 
Darius to come forth ; and he knew Nehushta would 
not venture down into that part of the palace. He 
wondered that the king did not come, and he chafed 
at the delay as he saw the sun rising higher and higher, 
and the shadows deepening in the terrace. Weary 
of waiting he sat down at last upon the chair where 
Atossa had rested, and folded his hands over his sword- 
hilt, — resigning himself to the situation with the 
philosophy of a trained soldier. 
 
Sitting thus alone, he fell to dreaming. As he 
gazed out at the bright sky, he forgot his life and 
his love, and all things of the present ; and his mind 
wandered away among the thoughts most natural and 
most congenial to his profound intellect. His attention became fixed in the contemplation of a larger 
dimension of intelligences, — the veil of darkness 
parted a little, and for a time he saw clearly in the 
light of a Greater Universe. 
 
CHAPTER VII. 
Atossa quitted the terrace where she had been 
talking with Zoroaster, in the full intention of returning speedily, but as she descended the steps, a 
plan formed itself in her mind, which she determined 
to put into immediate execution. Instead, therefore, 
of pursuing her way into the portico of the inner 
court, when she reached the foot of the staircase, she 
turned into a narrow passage that led into a long 
corridor, lighted only by occasional small openings 
in the wall. A little door gave access to this covered way, and when she entered, she closed it behind 
her, and tried to fasten it. But the bolt was rusty, 
and in order to draw it, she laid down the scroll she 
carried, upon a narrow stone seat by the side of the 
door } and then, with a strong effort of both her small 
white hands, she succeeded in moving the lock into 
its place. Then she turned quickly and hastened 
down the dusky corridor. At the opposite end a 
small winding stair led upwards into darkness. There 
were stains upon the lowest steps, just visible in the 
half light. Atossa gathered up her mantle and her 
under tunic, and trod daintily, with a look of repugnance on her beautiful face. The stains were made 
by the blood of the false Smerdis, her last husband, 
slain in that dark stairway by Darius, scarcely three 
months before. 
 
Cautiously the queen felt her way upward till she 
reached a landing, where a narrow aperture admitted 
a little light. Higher up there were windows, and 
she looked carefully to her dress, and brushed away 
a little dust that her mantle had swept from the wall 
in passing ; and once or twice, she looked back at 
the dark staircase with an expression of something 
akin to disgust. At last she reached a door which 
opened upon a terrace, much like the one where she 
had left Zoroaster a few moments before, saving that 
the floor was less polished, and that the spaces between the columns were half filled with hanging 
plants and creepers. Upon the pavement at one end 
were spread rich carpets, and half a dozen enormous 
cushions of soft-coloured silk were thrown negligently 
one upon the other. Three doors, hung with curtains, 
opened upon the balcony, — and near to the middle 
one, two slave-girls, clad in white, crouched upon 
their heels and talked in an undertone. 
Atossa stepped forward upon the marble, and the 
rustle of her dress and the quick short sound of her 
heeled shoes, roused the two slave-girls to spring to 
their feet. They did not know the queen, but they 
thought it best to make a low obeisance, while their 
dark eyes endeavoured quickly to scan the details of 
her dress, without exhibiting too much boldness. 
Atossa beckoned to one of them to come to her, 
and smiled graciously as the dark-skinned girl 
approached. 
" Is not thy mistress Nehushta ? " she inquired ; 
but the girl looked stupidly at her, not comprehending her speech. " Nehushta," repeated the queen. 
 
pronouncing the name very distinctly with a questioning intonation, and pointing to the curtained 
door. The slave understood the name and the question, and quick as thought, she disappeared within, 
leaving Atossa in some hesitation. She had not intended to send for the Hebrew princess, for she 
thought it would be a greater compliment to let 
Nehushta find her waiting ; but since the barbarian 
slave had gone to call her mistress, there was nothing 
to be done but to abide the result. 
Nehushta, however, seemed in no hurry to an- 
swer the summons, for the queen had ample time to 
examine the terrace, and to glance through the hang- 
ing plants at the sunlit meadows and the flowing 
stream to southward, before she heard steps behind 
the curtain, and saw it lifted to allow the princess to 
pass. 
The dark maiden was now fully refreshed and 
rested from the journey, and she came forward to 
greet her guest in her tunic, without her mantle, a 
cloud of soft white Indian gauze loosely pinned upon 
her black hair and half covering her neck. Her 
bodice-like belt was of scarlet and gold, and from one 
side there hung a rich-hilted knife of Indian steel in 
a jewelled sheath. The long sleeves of her tunic 
were drawn upon her arms into hundreds of minute 
folds, and where the delicate stuff hung in an oblong 
lappet over her hands, there was fine needlework 
and embroidery of gold. She moved easily, with a 
languid grace of secure motion ; and she bent her 
head a little as Atossa came quickly to meet her. 
The queen's frank smile was on her face as she 
 
grasped both Nehushta's hands in cordial welcome, 
and for a moment, the two women looked into each 
other's eyes. Nehushta had made up her mind to hate 
Atossa from the first, but she did not belong to that 
class of women who allow their feelings to show 
themselves, and afterwards feel bound by the memory of what they have shown. She, too, smiled most 
sweetly as she surveyed the beautiful fair queen 
from beneath her long drooping lids, and examined 
her appearance with all possible minuteness. She 
remembered her well enough, but so warm was the 
welcome she received, that she almost thought she 
had misjudged Atossa in calling her hard and cold. 
She drew her guest to the cushions upon the carpets, 
and they sat down side by side. 
" I have been talking about you already this morn- 
ing, my princess," began Atossa, speaking at once in 
familiar terms, as though she were conversing with 
an intimate friend. Nehushta was very proud ; she 
knew herself to be of a race as royal as Atossa, 
though now almost extinct ; and in answering, she 
spoke in the same manner as the queen ; so that the 
latter was inwardly amused at the self-confidence of 
the Hebrew princess. 
"Indeed?" said Nehushta, "there must be far 
more interesting things than I in Shushan. I would 
have talked of you had I found any one to talk 
with." 
The queen laughed a little. 
" As I was coming out this morning, I met an old 
friend of mine upon the balcony before the king's
apartment, — Zoroaster, the handsome captain. We 
 
fell into conversation, How handsome he has grown 
since I saw him last ! " The queen watched Nehushta 
closely while affecting the greatest unconcern, and 
she thought the shadows about the princess's eyes 
turned a shade darker at the mention of the brilliant 
warrior. But Nehushta answered calmly enough : 
" He took the most excellent care of us. I should 
like to see him to-day, to thank him for all he did. I 
was tired last night and must have seemed ungrateful." 
"What need is there of ever telling men we are 
grateful for what they do for us?" returned the 
queen. " I should think there were not a noble in the 
Great King's guard who would not give his right 
hand to take care of you for a month, even if you 
never so mucli as noticed his existence." 
Nehushta laughed lightly at the compliment. 
"You honour me too much," she said, "but I sup- 
pose it is because most women think as you do that 
men call us so ungrateful. I think you judge from 
the standpoint of the queen, whereas I " 
" Whereas you look at things from the position of 
the beautiful princess, who is worshipped for herself 
alone, and not for the bounty and favour she may, or 
may not, dispense to her subjects." 
" The queen is dispensing much bounty and favour to one of her subjects at this very moment," 
answered Nehushta quietly, as though deprecating 
further flattery. 
" How glad you must be to have left that dreadful 
fortress at last!" cried the queen sympathetically. 
" My father used to go there every summer. I hated 
 
the miserable place, with those tiresome mountains 
and those endless gardens without the least variety 
in them. You must be very glad to have come 
here ! " 
"It is true," replied Nehushta, "I never ceased to 
dream of Shushan. I love the great city, and the 
people, and the court. I thought sometimes that I 
should have died of the weariness of Ecbatana. The 
winters were unbearable ! " 
" You must learn to love us, too," said Atossa, very 
sweetly. " The Great King mshes well to your race, 
and will certainly do much for your country. There 
is, moreover, a kinsman of yours, who is coming soon, 
expressly to confer with the king concerning the further rebuilding of the temple and the city of Jeru- 
salem." 
" Zorobabel ? " asked Nehushta, quickly. 
uYes — that is his name, I believe. Do you say 
Zerub-Ebel, or Zerub-Abel ? I know nothing of your 
language." 
"His name is Zorob-Abel," answered Nehushta. 
" Oh, I wish he might persuade the Great King to do 
something for my people ! Your father would have 
done so much if he had lived." 
" Doubtless the Great King will do all that is pos- 
sible for establishing the Hebrews and promoting 
their welfare," said the queen ; but a distant look in 
her eyes showed that her thoughts were no longer con- 
centrated on the subject. " Your friend Zoroaster," 
she added presently, " could be of great service to you 
and your cause, if he wished." 
" i would that he were a Hebrew ! " exclaimed 
 
Nehushta, with a little sigh, which did not escape 
Atossa. 
" Is he not ? I always thought that he had secretly- 
embraced your faith. With his love of study and 
with his ideas, it seemed so natural." 
" No," replied Nehushta, " he is not one of us, nor 
will he ever be. After all, though, it is perhaps of 
little moment what one believes when one is so just 
as he." 
" I have never been able to understand the impor- 
tance of religion," said the beautiful queen, spreading 
her white hand upon the purple of her mantle, and 
contemplating its delicate outline tenderly. ''For 
my own part, I am fond of the sacrifices and the music and the chants. I love to see the priests go up to 
the altar, two and two, in their white robes, — and 
then to see how they struggle to hold up the bullock's 
head, so that his eyes may see the sun, — and how 
the red blood gushes out like a beautiful fountain. 
Have you ever seen a great sacrifice?" 
" Oh yes ! I remember when I was quite a little 
girl, when Cambyses — I mean — when the king came 
to the throne — it was magnificent ! " Nehushta was 
not used to hesitate in her speech, but as she recalled 
the day when Cambyses was made king, it suddenly 
came over her that any reminiscences of the past might 
be painful to the extraordinary woman by her side. 
But Atossa showed no signs of being disturbed. On 
the contrary, she smiled more sweetly than ever, 
though there was perhaps a slight affectation of sadness in her voice as she answered : 
" Do not fear to hurt me by referring to those times, 
 
dear princess. I am accustomed to speak of them well 
enough. Yes, indeed I remember that great day, 
with the bright sun shining upon the procession, and 
the cars with four horses that they dedicated to the 
sun, and the milk-white horse that they slaughtered 
upon the steps of the temple. How I cried for him, 
poor beast ! It seemed so cruel to sacrifice a horse ! 
Even a few black slaves would have been a more 
natural offering, or a couple of Scythians." 
" I remember," said Nehushta, somewhat relieved 
at the queen's tone. " Of course I have now and 
then seen processions in Ecbatana, but Daniel would 
not let me go to the temple. They say Ecbatana is 
very much changed since the Great King has not gone 
there in summer. It is very quiet — it is given over 
to horse-merchants and grain-sellers, and they bring 
all the salted fish there from the Hyrcanian sea, so 
that some of the streets smell horribly." 
Atossa laughed at the description, more out of 
courtesy than because it amused her. 
" In my time," she answered, "the horse-market was 
in the meadow by the road toward Zagros, and the 
fish-sellers were not allowed to come within a f arsang 
of the city. The royal nostrils were delicate. But 
everything is changed — here, everywhere. We have 
had several — revolutions — religious ones, I mean of 
course, and so many people have been killed that there 
is a savour of death in the air. It is amazing how 
much trouble people will give themselves about the 
question of sacrificing a horse to the sun, or a calf to 
Auramazda, or an Ethiopian to Nabon or Ashtaroth I 
And these Magians ! They are really no more descendants of the priests in the Aiyan home than I am 
a Greek. Half of them are nearly black — they are 
Hindus and speak Persian with an accent. They believe in a vast number of gods of all sizes and descriptions, and they sing hymns, in which they say that all 
these gods are the same. It is most confusing, and 
as the principal part of their chief sacrifice consists in 
making themselves exceedingly drunk with the detest- 
able milkweed juice of which they are so fond, the 
performance is disgusting. The Great King began 
by saying that if they wished to sacrifice to their deities, they might do so, provided no one could find 
them doing it ; and if they wished to be drunk, they 
might be drunk when and where they pleased ; but 
that if they did the two together, he would crucify 
every Magian in Persia. His argument was very 
amusing. He said that a man who is drunk naturally 
speaks the truth, whereas a man who sacrifices to 
false gods inevitably tells lies ; wherefore a man who 
sacrifices to false gods when he is drunk, runs the 
risk of telling lies and speaking the truth at the same 
time, and is consequently a creature revolting to logic, 
and must be immediately destroyed for the good of 
the whole race of mankind." 
Nehushta had listened with varying attention to 
the queen's account of the religious difiiculties in the 
kingdom, and she laughed at the Megoeric puzzle by 
which Darius justified the death of the Magians. But 
in her heart she longed to see Zoroaster, and was 
weary of entertaining her royal guest. By way of 
diversion she clapped her hands, and ordered the 
slaves who came at her summons to bring sweetmeats 
and sherbet of crushed fruit and snow. 
 
"Are you fond of hunting?" asked Atossa, deli- 
cately taking a little piece of white fig-paste. 
"I have never been allowed to hunt," answered 
Nehushta. " Besides, it must be very tiring." 
" I delight in it — the fig-paste is not so good as it 
used to be — there is a new confectioner. Darius 
considered that the former one had religious convic- 
tions involving the telling of lies — and this is the 
result ! We are fallen low indeed when we cannot 
eat a Magian's pastry ! I am passionately fond of 
hunting, but it is far from here to the desert and the 
lions are scarce. Besides, the men who are fit for 
lion-hunting are generally engaged in hunting their 
fellow-creatures." 
" Does the Great King hunt ? " inquired Nehushta, 
languidly sipping her sherbet from a green jade gob- 
let, as she lay among her cushions, supporting herself 
upon one elbow. 
" Whenever he has leisure. He will talk of nothing 
else to you " 
" Surely," interrupted Nehushta, with an air of per- 
fect innocence, " I shall not be so far honoured as that 
the Great King should talk with me ? " 
Atossa raised her blue eyes and looked curiousl}y at 
the dark princess. She knew nothing of what had 
passed the night before, save that the king had seen 
Nehushta for a few moments, but she knew his char- 
acter well enough to imagine that his frank and, as 
she thought, undignified manner might have struck 
Nehushta even in that brief interview. The idea that 
the princess was already deceiving her flashed across 
her mind. She smiled more tenderly than ever, with 
a little added air of sadness that gave her a wonderful 
charm. 
" Yes, the Great King is very gracious to the ladies 
of the court," she said. " You are so beautiful and so 
different from them all that he will certainly talk long 
with you after the banquet this evening — when he has 
drunk much wine." The last words were added with 
a most special sweetness of tone. 
Nehushta's face flushed a little as she drank more 
sherbet before she answered. Then, letting her soft 
dark eyes rest, as though in admiration, upon the 
queen's face, she spoke in a tone of gentle depre- 
cation : 
" Shall a man prefer the darkness of night to the 
glories of risen day? 
Or shall a man turn from the lilies to pluck the 
lowly flower of the field f " 
"You know our poets, too?" exclaimed Atossa, 
pleased with the graceful tone of the compliment, but 
still looking at Nehushta with curious eyes. There 
was a self-possession about the Hebrew princess that 
she did not like ; it was as though some one had suddenly taken a quality of her own and made it theirs 
and displayed it before her eyes. There was indeed 
this difference, that while Atossa's calm and undisturbed manner was generally real, Nehushta's was as- 
sumed, and she herself felt that, at any moment, it 
might desert her at her utmost need, 
" So you know our poets ? " repeated the queen, and 
this time she laughed lightly. ''Indeed I fear the 
king will talk to you more than ever, for he loves 
 
poetry. I daresay Zoroaster, too, has repeated many 
verses to you in the winter evenings at Ecbatanac 
He used to know endless poetry when he was a boy.'' 
This time Nehushta looked at the queen, and wondered how she, who could not be more than two or 
three and twenty years old, although now married to 
her third husband, could speak of having known 
Zoroaster as a boy, seeing that he was past thirty 
years of age. She turned the question upon the 
queen. 
" You must have seen Zoroaster very often before 
he left Shushan," she said. "You know him so 
well." 
" Yes — every one knew him. He was the favourite 
of the court, with his beauty and his courage and his 
strange affection for that old — for the old Hebrew 
prophet. That is why Cambyses sent them both 
away," added she with a light laugh. " They were 
far too good, both of them, to be endured among the 
doings of those times." 
Atossa spoke readily enough of Cambyses. Nehushta wondered whether she could be induced to 
speak of Smerdis. Her supposed ignorance of the 
true nature of what had occurred in the last few 
months would permit her to speak of the dead usurper 
with impunity. 
" I suppose there have been great changes lately 
in the manners of the court — during this last year," 
suggested Nehushta carelessly. She pulled a raisin 
from the dry stem, and tried to peel it with her deli- 
cate fingers. 
" Indeed there have been changes," answered Atossa, 
 
calmly. " A great many things that used to be 
tolerated will never be heard of now. On the whole, 
the change has been rather in relation to religion 
than otherwise. You will understand that in one 
year we have had three court religions. Cambyses 
sacrificed to Ashtaroth — and I must say he made 
a most appropriate choice of his tutelary goddess. 
Smerdis " — continued the queen in measured tones 
and with the utmost calmness of manner — " Smerdis 
devoted himself wholly to the worship of Indra, who 
appeared to be a convenient association of all the 
most agreeable gods ; and the Great King now rules 
the earth by the grace of Auramazda. I, for my 
part, have always inclined to the Hebrew conception 
of one God — perhaps that is much the same as 
Auramazda, the All- Wise. What do you think ? " 
Nehushta smiled at the deft way in which the 
queen avoided speaking of Smerdis by turning the 
conversation again to religious topics. But fearing 
another lecture on the comparative merits of idolatry, 
human sacrifice, and monotheism, she manifested very 
little interest in the subject. 
" I daresay it is the same. Zoroaster always says 
so, and that was the one point that Daniel could never 
forgive him. The sun is coming through those plants 
upon your head — shall we not have our cushions 
moved into the shade at the other end ? " She clapped 
her hands and rose languidly, offering her hand to 
Atossa. But the queen sprang lightly to her feet. 
" I have stayed too long," she said. " Come with 
me, dearest princess, and we will go out into the 
orange gardens upon the upper terrace. Perhaps," 
 
she added, adjusting the folds of her mantle, "we 
shall find Zoroaster there, or some of the princes, or 
even the Great King himself. Or, perhaps, it would 
amuse you to see where I live? " 
Neiiushta received her mantle from her slaves, and 
one of them brought her a linen tiara in place of the 
gauze veil she had twisted about her hair. But 
Atossa would not permit the change. 
" It is too beautiful ! " she cried enthusiastically. 
" So new ! you must really not change it." 
She put her arm around Nehushta affectionately 
and led her towards the door of the inner staircase. 
Then suddenly she paused, as though recollecting 
herself. 
" No," she said, " I will show you the way I came. 
It is shorter and you should know it. It may be of 
use to you." 
So they left the balcony by the little door that was 
almost masked by one of the great pillars, and de- 
scended the dark stairs. Nehushta detested every 
sort of bodily inconvenience, and inwardly wished 
the queen had not changed her mind, but had led 
her by an easier way. 
" It is not far," said the queen, descending rapidly 
in front of her. 
" It is dreadfully steep," objected Nehushta, " and 
I can hardly see my way at all. How many steps 
are there?" 
" Only a score more," answered the queen's voice, 
farther down. She seemed to be hurrying, but Ne- 
hushta had no intention of going any faster, and care- 
fully groped her way. As she began to see a glim- 
 
mer of light at the last turn of the winding stair, she 
heard loud voices in the corridor below. With the 
cautious instinct of her race, she paused and listened. 
The hard, quick tones of an angry man dominated 
the rest. 
 
CHAPTER VIII. 
Zoroaster had sat for nearly an hour, his eyes 
fixed on the blue sky, his thoughts wandering in con- 
templation of things greater and higher than those of 
earth, when he was roused by the measured tread of 
armed men marching in a distant room. In an in- 
stant he stood up, his helmet on his head, — the whole 
force of military habit bringing him back suddenly to 
the world of reality. In a moment the same heavy 
curtain, from under which Atossa had issued two 
hours before, was drawn aside, and a double file of 
spearmen came out upon the balcony, ranging them- 
selves to right and left with well-drilled precision. 
A moment more, and the king himself appeared, 
walking alone, in his armour and winged helmet, his 
left hand upon the hilt of his sword, his splendid 
mantle hanging to the ground behind his shoulders. 
As he came between the soldiers, he walked more 
slowly, and his dark, deep-set eyes seemed to scan the 
bearing and accoutrements of each separate spear- 
man. It was rarely indeed, in those early days of 
his power, that he laid aside his breast-plate for the 
tunic, or his helmet for the tiara and royal crown. 
In his whole air and gait the character of the soldier 
dominated, and the look of the conqueror was already 
in his face. 
Zoroaster strode forward a few paces, and stood 
 
still as the king caught sight of him, preparing to 
prostrate himself, according to the ancient custom. 
But Darius checked him by a gesture ; turning half 
round, he dismissed the guard, who filed back through 
the door as they had come, and the curtain fell behind 
them. 
" I like not these elaborate customs," said the king. 
' A simple salutation, the hand to the lips and fore- 
head — it is quite enough. A man might win a 
battle if he had all the time that it takes him to fall 
down at my feet and rise up again, twenty times in a 
day." 
As the king's speech seemed to require no answer, 
Zoroaster stood silently waiting for his orders. Darius walked to the balustrade and stood in the full 
glare of the sun for a moment, looking out. Then 
he came back again. 
" The town seems to be quiet this morning," he 
said. " How long did the queen tarry here talking 
with thee, Zoroaster?" 
" The queen talked with her servant for the space 
of half an hour," answered Zoroaster, without hesitation, though he was astonished at the suddenness 
and directness of the question. 
" She is gone to see thy princess," continued the 
king. 
" The queen told her servant it was yet too early 
to see Nehushta," remarked the warrior. 
"She is gone to see her, nevertheless," asserted 
Darius, in a tone of conviction. " Now, it stands in 
reason that when the most beautiful woman in the 
world has been told that another woman is come 
 
who is more beautiful than she, she will not lose a 
moment in seeing her." He eyed Zoroaster curiously for a moment, and his thick black beard did 
not altogether hide the smile on his face. " Come," 
he added, " we shall find the two together." 
The king led the way and Zoroaster gravely followed. They passed down the staircase by which 
the queen had gone, and entering the low passage, 
came to the small door which she had bolted behind 
her with so much difficulty. The king pushed his 
weight against it, but it was still fastened. 
"Thou art stronger than I, Zoroaster," he said, 
with a deep laugh. " Open this door." 
The young warrior pushed heavily against the 
planks, and felt that one of them yielded. Then, 
standing back, he dealt a heavy blow on the spot 
with his clenched fist ; a second, and the plank broke 
in. He put his arm through the aperture, and easily 
slipped the bolt back, and the door flew open. The 
blood streamed from his hand. 
"That is well done," said Darius as he entered. 
His quick eye saw something white upon the stone 
bench in the dusky corner by the door. He stooped 
and picked it up quickly. It was the sealed scroll 
Atossa had left there when she needed both her 
hands to draw the bolt. Darius took it to one of the 
narrow windows, looked at it curiously and broke 
the seal. Zoroaster stood near and wiped the blood 
from his bruised knuckle. 
The contents of the scroll were short. It was ad- 
dressed to one Phraortes, of Ecbatana in Media, and 
contained the information that the Great King had 
 
returned in triumph from Babylon, having subdued 
the rebels and slain many thousands in two battles. 
Furthermore, that the said Phraortes should give in- 
stant information of the queen's affairs, and do noth- 
ing in regard to them until further intimation arrived. 
The king stood a moment in deep thought. Then 
he walked slowly down the corridor, holding the scroll 
loose in his hand. Just at that instant Atossa emerged 
from the dark staircase, and as she found herself face 
to face with Darius, she uttered an exclamation and 
stood still. 
" This is a very convenient place for our interview," 
said Darius quietly. " No one can hear us. There- 
fore speak the truth at once." He held up the scroll 
to her eyes. 
Atossa's ready wit did not desert her, nor did she 
change colour, though she knew her life was in the 
balance with her words. She laughed lightly as she 
spoke : 
" I came down the stairs this morning " 
" To see the most beautiful woman in the world," 
interrupted Darius, raising his voice. "You have 
seen her. I am glad of it. Why did you bolt the 
door of the passage ? " 
" Because I thought it unfitting that the passage to 
the women's apartments should be left open when so 
many in the palace know the way," she answered 
readily enough. 
" Where were you taking this letter when you left 
it at the door ? " asked the king, beginning to doubt 
whether there were anything wrong after all. 
"I was about to send it to Ecbatana," answered 
Atossa with perfect simplicity. 
" Who is this Phraortes ? " 
" He is the governor of the lands my father gave 
me for my own in Media. I wrote him to tell him of 
the Great King's victory, and that he should send me 
information concerning my affairs, and do nothing 
further until he hears from me." 
"Why not?" 
" Because I thought it possible that the Great King 
would spend the summer in Ecbatana, and that I 
should therefore be there myself to give my own 
directions. I forgot the letter because I had to take 
both hands to draw the bolt, and I was coming back 
to get it. Nehushta the princess is with me— she is 
now upon the staircase." 
The king looked thoughtfully at liis wife's beautiful 
face. 
" You have evidently spoken the truth," he said 
slowly. " But it is not always easy to understand 
what your truth signifies. I often think it would be 
much wiser to strangle you. Say you that Nehushta 
is near ? Call her, then. Why does she tarry ? " 
In truth Nehushta had trembled as she crouched 
upon the stairs, not knowing whether to descend or to 
fly up the steps again. As she heard the queen pronounce her name, however, she judged it prudent to 
seem to have been out of earshot, and with quick, 
soft steps, she went up till she came to the lighted 
part, and there she waited. 
" Let the Great King go himself and find her," said 
Atossa proudly, " if he doubts me any further." She 
stood aside to let him pass. But Darius beckoned to 
Zoroaster to go. He had remained standing at some 
distance, an unwilling witness to the royal altercation 
that had taken place before him ; but as he passed 
the queen, she gave him a glance of imploring sad- 
ness, as though beseeching his sympathy in what she 
was made to suffer. He ran quickly up the steps in 
spite of the darkness, and found Nehushta waiting by 
the window higher up. She started as he appeared, 
for he was the person she least expected. But he 
took her quickly in his arms, and kissed her passionately twice. 
" Come quickly, my beloved," he whispered. " The 
king waits below." 
"I heard his voice — and then I fled," she whis- 
