guilty of such wrong-doing as to call down the heavy 
hand of justice. 
It is a curious fact, however, that Bourges contains 
legal associations of a purer kind than the prosecution 
of Jacques Cceur, which, in spite of the rehabilitations 
of history, can hardly be said yet to have terminated, 
inasmuch as the law-courts of the city are installed in 
his quondam residence. At a short distance from it 
  
Stands the Hotel Cujas, one of the curiosities of Bourges 
and the habitation for many years of the great juris 
consult who revived in the sixteenth century the study 
of the Roman law, and professed it during the close 
of his life in the university of the capital of Berry. 
The learned Cujas had, in spite of his sedentary pur 
suits, led a very wandering life ; he died at Bourges in 
the year 1590. Sedentary pursuits is perhaps not 
exactly what I should call them, having read in the 
"Biographic Universelle" (sole source of my knowledge 
of the renowned Cujacius) that his usual manner of 
study was to spread himself on his belly on the floor. 
He did not sit down, he lay down; and the "Biographic 
Universelle" has (for so grave a work) an amusing pic 
ture of the short, fat, untidy scholar dragging himself 
& plat ventre across his room, from one pile of books 
to the other. The house in which these singular gym 
nastics took place, and which is now the headquarters 
of the gendarmerie, is one of the most picturesque at 
Bourges. Dilapidated and discolored, it has a charm 
ing Renaissance front. A high wall separates it from 
the street, and on this wall, which is divided by a 
large open gateway, are perched two overhanging 
turrets. The open gateway admits you to the court, 
beyond which the melancholy mansion erects itself, 
decorated also with turrets, with fine old windows, and 
with a beautiful tone of faded red brick and rusty 
stone. It is a charming encounter for a provincial by 
street; one of those accidents in the hope of which 
the traveller with a propensity for sketching (whether 
on a little paper block or on the tablets of his brain) 
decides to turn a corner at a venture. A brawny gen 
darme, in his shirt-sleeves, was polishing his boots in 
the court; an ancient, knotted vine, forlorn of its 
clusters, hung itself over a doorway, and dropped its 
shadow on the rough grain of the wall. The place 
was very sketchable. I am sorry to say, however, that 
it was almost the only "bit." Various other curious 
old houses are supposed to exist at Bourges, and I 
wandered vaguely about in search of them. But I had 
little success, and I ended by becoming sceptical. 
Bourges is a ville de province in the full force of the 
term, especially as applied invidiously. The streets, 
narrow, tortuous, and dirty, have very wide cobble 
stones; the houses for the most part are shabby, with 
out local color. The look of things is neither modern 
nor antique, a kind of mediocrity of middle age. 
There is an enormous number of blank walls, walls 
of gardens, of courts, of private houses that avert 
themselves from the street, as if in natural chagrin at 
there being so little to see. Round about is a dull, 
flat, featureless country, on which the magnificent 
cathedral looks down. There is a peculiar dulness 
and ugliness in a French town of this type, which, I 
must immediately add, is not the most frequent one. 
In Italy, everything has a charm, a color, a grace; even 
desolation and ennui. In England a cathedral city 
may be sleepy, but it is pretty sure to be mellow. In 
the course of six weeks spent en province , however, I 
  
saw few places that had not more expression than 
Bourges. 
I went back to the cathedral; that, after all, was 
a feature. Then I returned to my hotel, where it was 
time to dine, and sat down, as usual, with the commis- 
vqyageurs, who cut their bread on their thumb and 
partook of every course; and after this repast I re 
paired for a while to the cafe, which occupied a part 
of the basement of the inn and opened into its court. 
This cafe was a friendly, homely, sociable spot, where 
it seemed the habit of the master of the establishment 
to tutoyer his customers, and the practice of the cus 
tomers to tutoyer the waiter. Under these circum 
stances the waiter of course felt justified in sitting 
down at the same table with a gentleman who had 
come in and asked him for writing materials. He 
served this gentleman with a horrible little portfolio, 
covered with shiny black cloth and accompanied with 
two sheets of thin paper, three wafers, and one of 
those instruments of torture which pass in France for 
pens, these being the utensils invariably evoked by 
such a request; and then, finding himself at leisure, 
he placed himself opposite and began to write a letter 
of his own. This trifling incident reminded me afresh 
that France is a democratic country. I think I re 
ceived an admonition to the same effect from the free, 
familiar way in which the game of whist was going 
on just behind me. It was attended with a great deal 
of noisy pleasantry, flavored every now and then with 
a dash of irritation. There was a young man of whom 
I made a note; he was such a beautiful specimen of 
his class. Sometimes he was very facetious, chatter 
ing, joking, punning, showing off; then, as the game 
went on and he lost, and had to pay the cons anima 
tion, he dropped his amiability, slanged his partner, 
declared he wouldn 't play any more, and went away 
in a fury. Nothing could be more perfect or more 
amusing than the contrast. The manner of the 
whole affair was such as, I apprehend, one would not 
have seen among our English-speaking people; both 
the jauntiness of the first phase and the petulance of 
the second. To hold the balance straight, however, 
I may remark that if the men were all fearful "cads," 
they were, with their cigarettes and their inconsistency, 
less heavy, less brutal, than our dear English-speaking 
cad; just as the bright little cafe where a robust mater- 
familias, doling out sugar and darning a stocking, sat 
in her place under the mirror behind the comptoir, 
was a much more civilized spot than a British public- 
house, or a "commercial room," with pipes and whiskey, 
or even than an American saloon. 
XIII. 
IT is very certain that when I left Tours for Le 
Mans it was a journey and not an excursion; for I 
had no intention of coming back. The question, in 
deed, was to get away, no easy matter in France, in 
the early days of October, when the whole jeunesse 
of the country is going back to sehooL ; It conv 
panied, apparently, with parents arid grandparent  
and it fills the trains with little pale-faced lyceens, 
who gaze out of the windows with a longing, lingering 
air, not unnatural on the part of small members of a 
race in which life is intense, who are about to be 
restored to those big educative barracks that do such 
violence to our American appreciation of the oppor 
tunities of boyhood. The train stopped every five 
minutes; but, fortunately, the country was charming, 
hilly and bosky, eminently good-humored, and dotted 
here and there with a smart little chateau. The old 
capital of the province of the Maine, which has given 
its name to a great American State, is a fairly interest 
ing town, but I confess that I found in it less than I 
expected to admire. My expectations had doubtless 
been my own fault; there is no particular reason why 
Le Mans should fascinate. It stands upon a hill, 
indeed, a much better hill than the gentle swell of 
Bourges. This hill, however, is not steep in all direc 
tions; .from the railway, as I arrived, it was not even 
perceptible. Since I am making comparisons, I may 
remark that, on the other hand, the Boule d Or at Le 
Mans is an appreciably better inn than the Boule d Or 
at Bourges. It looks out upon a small market-place 
which has a certain an punt of character and seems 
to be slipping down the slope on which it lies, though 
it has in the middle an ugly halle, or circular market- 
house, to keep it in position. At Le Mans, as at 
Bourges, my first business was with the cathedral, to 
which T j lost no time in directing my steps. It suf 
fered" by juxta-position to the great church I had seen 
a few days before; yet it has some noble features. It 
stands on the edge of the eminence of the town, which 
falls straight away on two sides of it, and makes a 
striking mass, bristling behind, as you see it from 
below, with rather small but singularly numerous flying 
buttresses. On my way to it I happened to walk 
through the one street which contains a few ancient 
and curious houses, a very crooked and untidy lane, 
of really mediaeval aspect, honored with the denomina 
tion of the Grand Rue. Here is the house of Queen 
Berengaria, an absurd name, as the building is of a 
date some three hundred years later than the wife of 
Richard Coeur de Lion, who has a sepulchral monu 
ment in the south aisle of the cathedral. The structure 
in question very sketchable, if the sketcher could get 
far enough away from it is an elaborate little dusky 
fayade, overhanging the street, ornamented with panels 
of stone, which are covered with delicate Renaissance 
sculpture. A fat old woman, standing in the door of 
a small grocer 's shop next to it, a most gracious old 
woman, with a bristling moustache and a charming 
manner, told me what the house was, and also in 
dicated to me a rotten-looking brown wooden mansion, 
in the same street, nearer the  cathedral, as the Maison 
Scarron. The author of the "Roman Comique," and 
of a thousand facetious verses, enjoyed for some years, 
in the early part of his life, a benefice in the cathedral 
of Le Mans, which gave him a right to reside in one 
of the canonical houses. He was rather an odd canon, 
but his history is a combination of oddities. He wooed 
the comic muse from the arm-chair of a cripple, and 
in the same position he was unable even to go down 
on his knees prosecuted that other suit which made 
him the first husband of a lady of whom Louis XIV. 
was to be the second. There was little of comedy in 
the future Madame de Maintenon; though, after all, 
there was doubtless as much as there need have been 
in the wife of a poor man who was moved to compose 
for his tomb such an epitaph as this, which I quote 
from the "Biographic Universelle " : 
"Celui qui cy maintenant dort, 
Fit plus de pitie que d envie, 
Et souffrit mille fois la mort, 
Avant que de perdre la vie. 
Passant, ne fais icy de bruit, 
Et garde bien qu il ne 's eveille, 
Car voicy la premiere nuit, 
Que le pauvre Scarron sommeille." 
There is rather a quiet, satisfactory place in front 
of the cathedral, with some good "bits" in it; notably 
a turret at the angle of one of the towers, and a very 
fine, steep-roofed dwelling, behind low walls, which it 
overlooks, with a tall iron gate. This house has two 
or three little pointed towers, a big, black, precipitous 
roof, and a general air of having had a history. There 
are houses which are scenes, and there are houses 
which are only houses. The trouble with the domestic 
architecture of the United States is that it is not 
scenic, thank Heaven! and the good fortune of an old 
structure like the turreted mansion on the hillside of 
Le Mans is that it is not simply a house. It is a per 
son, as it were, as well. It would be well, indeed, if 
it might have communicated a little of its personality 
to the front of the cathedral, which has none of its 
own. Shabby, rusty, unfinished, this front has a 
romanesque portal, but nothing in the way of a tower. 
One sees from without, at a glance, the peculiarity of 
the church, the disparity between the romanesque 
nave, which is small and of the twelfth century, and 
the immense and splendid transepts and choir, of a 
period a hundred years later. Outside, this end of 
the church rises far above the nave, which looks merely 
like a long porch leading to it, with a small and curious 
romanesque porch in its own south flank. The transepts, 
shallow but very lofty, display to the spectators in the 
place the reach of their two clere-story windows, Avhich 
occupy, above, the whole expanse of the wall. The 
south transept terminates in a sort of tower, which is 
the only one of which the cathedral can boast. Within, 
the effect of the choir is superb; it is a church in it 
self, with the nave simply for a point of view. As I 
stood there, I read in my Murray that it has the stamp 
of the date of the perfection of pointed Gothic, and I 
found nothing to object to the remark. It surfers little 
by confrontation with Bourges, and, taken in itself, 
seems to me quite as fine. A passage of double aisles 
surrounds it, with the arches that divide them sup 
ported on very thick round columns, not clustered. 
There are twelve chapels in this passage, and a charming
little lady-chapel, filled with gorgeous old glass. 
The sustained height of this almost detached choir is 
very noble; its lightness and grace, its soaring sym 
metry, carry the eye up to places in the air from 
which it is slow to descend. Like Tours, like Chartres, 
like Bourges (apparently like all the French cathedrals, 
and unlike several English ones) Le Mans is rich in 
splendid glass. The beautiful upper windows of the 
choir make, far aloft, a sort of gallery of pictures, 
blooming with vivid color. It is the south transept 
that contains the formless image a clumsy stone 
woman lying on her back which purports to represent 
Queen Berengaria aforesaid. 
The view of the cathedral from the rear is, as usual, 
very fine. A small garden behind it masks its base; 
but you descend the hill to a large place de foire, ad 
jacent to a fine old public promenade which is known 
as Les Jacobins, a sort of miniature Tuileries, where I 
strolled for a while in rectangular alleys, destitute of 
herbage, and received a deeper impression of vanished 
things. The cathedral, on the pedestal of its hill, looks 
considerably farther than the fair-ground and the 
Jacobins, between the rather bare poles of whose 
straightly planted trees you may admire it at a con 
venient distance. I admired it till I thought I should 
remember it (better than the event has proved), and 
then I wandered away and looked at another curious 
old church, Notre-Dame-de-la-Couture. This sacred 
edifice made a picture for ten minutes, but the picture 
has faded now, I reconstruct a yellowish-brown facade, 
and a portal fretted with early sculptures; but the 
details have gone the way of all incomplete sensations. 
After you have stood awhile in the choir of the 
cathedral, there is no sensation at Le Mans that goes 
very far. For some reason not now to be traced, I 
had looked for more than this. I think the reason 
was to some extent simply in the name of the place; 
for names, on the whole, whether they be good reasons 
or not, are very active ones. Le Mans, if I am not 
mistaken, has a sturdy, feudal sound; suggests some 
thing dark and square, a vision of old ramparts and 
gates. Perhaps I had been unduly impressed by the 
fact, accidentally revealed to me, that Henry II., first 
of the English Plantagenets, was born there. Of course 
it is easy to assure one 's self in advance, but does it 
not often happen that one had rather not be assured? 
There is a pleasure sometimes in running the risk of 
disappointment. I took mine, such as it was, quietly 
enough, while I sat before dinner at the door of one 
of the cafes in the market-place with a Utter-et-cur-a ao 
(invaluable pretext at such an hour!) to keep me com 
pany. I remember that in this situation there came 
over me an impression which both included and ex 
cluded all possible disappointments. The afternoon 
was warm and still; the air was admirably soft. The 
good Manceaux, in little groups and pairs, were seated 
near me; my ear was soothed by the fine shades of 
French enunciation, by the detached syllables of that 
perfect tongue. There was nothing in particular in 
the prospect to charm; it was an average French view. 
Yet I felt[a charm, a kind of sympathy, a sense of the 
completeness of French life and of the lightness and 
brightness of the social air, together with a desire to 
arrive at friendly judgments, to express a positive 
interest. I know not why this transcendental mood 
should have descended upon me then and there; but 
that idle half-hour in front of the cafe, in the mild 
October afternoon, suffused with human sounds, is 
perhaps the most definite thing I brought away from 
Le Mans. 
XIV. 
I AM shocked at finding, just after this noble de 
claration of principles that in a little note-book which 
at that time I carried about with me, the celebrated 
city of Angers is denominated a "sell." I reproduce 
this vulgar term with the greatest hesitation, and only 
because it brings me more quickly to my point. This 
point is that Angers belongs to the disagreeable class 
of old towns that have been, as the English say, " done 
up." Not the oldness, but the newness, of the place 
is what strikes the sentimental tourist to-day, as he 
wanders with irritation along second-rate boulevards, 
looking vaguely about him for absent gables. "Black 
Angers," in short, is a victim of modern improvements, 
and quite unworthy of its admirable name, a name 
which, like that of Le Mans, had always had, to my 
eyes, a highly picturesque value. It looks particularly 
well on the Shakspearean page (in "King John"), where 
we imagine it uttered (though such would not have 
been the utterance of the period) with a fine old in 
sular accent. Angers figures with importance in early 
English history : it was the capital city of the Plantagenet 
race, home of that Geoffrey of Anjou who married, as 
second husband, the Empress Maud, daughter of 
Henry I. and competitor of Stephen, and became father 
of Henry II., first of the Plantagenet kings, born, as we 
have seen, at Le Mans. The facts create a natural 
presumption that Angers will look historic; I turned 
them over in my mind as I travelled in the train from 
Le Mans, through a country that was really pretty, and 
looked more like the usual English than like the usual 
French scenery, with its fields cut up by hedges and 
a considerable rotundity in its trees. On my way 
from the station to the hotel, however, it became plain 
that I should lack a good pretext for passing that night 
at the Cheval Blanc; I foresaw that I should have con 
tented myself before the end of the day. I remained 
at the White Horse only long enough to discover that 
it was an exceptionally good provincial inn, one of the 
best that I encountered during six weeks spent in 
these establishments. 
"Stupidly and vulgarly modernized," that is an 
other phrase from my note-book, and note-books are 
not obliged to be reasonable. "There are some narrow 
and tortuous streets, with a few curious old houses," I 
continue to quote; "there is a castle, of which the ex 
terior is most extraordinary, and there is a cathedral 
  
of moderate interest." It is fair to say that the 
Chateau d Angers is by itself worth a pilgrimage; the 
only drawback is that you have seen it in a quarter of 
an hour. You cannot do more than look at it, and 
one good look does your business. It has no beauty, 
no grace, no detail, nothing that charms or detains 
you; it is simply very old and very big, so big and 
so old that this simple impression is enough, and it 
takes its place in your recollections as a perfect specimen 
of a superannuated stronghold. It stands at one end 
of the town, surrounded by a huge, deep moat, which 
originally contained the waters of the Maine, now 
divided from it by a quay. The water-front of Angers 
is poor, wanting in color and in movement; and there 
is always an effect of perversity in a town lying near a 
great river and yet not upon it. The Loire is a few 
miles off; but Angers contents itself with a meagre 
affluent of that stream. The effect was naturally much 
better when the huge, dark mass of the castle, with its 
seventeen prodigious towers, rose out of the protecting 
flood. These towers are of tremendous girth and soli 
dity; they are encircled with great bands, or hoops, of 
white stone, and are much enlarged at the base. 
Between them hang vast curtains of infinitely old-look 
ing masonry, apparently a dense conglomeration of 
slate, the material of which the town was originally 
built (thanks to rich quarries in the neighborhood), 
and to which it owed its appellation of the Black. 
There are no windows, no apertures, and to-day no 
battlements nor roofs. These accessories were removed 
by Henry ILL, so that, in spite of its grimness and 
blackness, the place has not even the interest of look 
ing like a prison; it being, as I supposed, the essence 
of a prison not to be open to the sky. The only 
features of the enormous structure are the black, sombre 
stretches and protrusions of wall, the effect of which, 
on so large a scale, is strange and striking. Begun by 
Philip Augustus, and terminated by St. Louis, the 
Chateau d Angers has of course a great deal of history. 
The luckless Fouquet, the extravagant minister of 
finance of Louis XIV., whose fall from the heights of 
grandeur was so sudden and complete, was confined 
here in 1661, just after his arrest, which had taken 
place at Nantes. Here, also, Huguenots and Vendeans 
have suffered effective captivity. 
I walked round the parapet which protects the 
outer edge of the moat (it is all up hill, and the moat 
deepens and deepens), till I came to the entrance 
which faces the town, and which is as bare and 
strong as the rest. The concierge took me into -the 
court; but there was nothing to see. The place is 
used as a magazine of ammunition, and the yard con 
tains a multitude of ugly buildings. The only thing 
to do is to walk round the bastions for the view; but 
at the moment of my visit the weather was thick, and 
the bastions began and ended with themselves. So I 
came out and took another look at the big, black ex 
terior, buttressed with white-ribbed towers, and per 
ceived that a desperate sketcher might extract a 
picture from it, especially if he were to bring in, as 
they say, the little black bronze statue of the good 
King Rene (a weak production of David d ; Angers), 
which, standing within sight, ornaments the melancholy 
faubourg. He would do much better, however, with 
the very striking old timbered house (I suppose of the 
fifteenth century) which is called the Maison d Adam, 
and is easily the first specimen at Angers of the 
domestic architecture of the past. This admirable 
house, in the centre of the town, gabled, elaborately 
timbered, and much restored, is a really imposing 
monument. The basement is occupied by a linen- 
draper, who flourishes under the auspicious sign of 
the Mere de Famille; and above his shop the tall 
front rises in five overhanging stories. As the house 
occupies the angle of a little place, this front is double, 
and the black beams and wooden supports, displayed 
over a large surface and carved and interlaced, have 
a high picturesqueness. The Maison d Adam is quite 
in the grand style, and I am sorry to say I failed to 
learn what history attaches to its name. If I spoke just 
above of the cathedral as "moderate," I suppose I 
should beg its pardon; for this serious charge was 
probably prompted by the fact that it consists only of 
a nave, without side aisles. A little reflection now 
convinces me that such a form is a distinction; and, 
indeed, I find it mentioned, rather inconsistently, in 
my note-book, a little further on, as "extremely simple 
and grand." The nave is spoken of in the same 
volume as "big, serious, and Gothic," though the choir 
and transepts are noted as very shallow. But it is not 
denied that the air of the whole thing is original and 
striking; and it would therefore appear, after all, that 
the cathedral of Angers, built during the twelfth and 
thirteenth centuries, is a sufficiently honorable church; 
the more that its high west front, adorned with a very 
primitive Gothic portal, supports two elegant tapering 
spires, between which, unfortunately, an ugly modern 
pavilion has been inserted. 
I remember nothing else at Angers but the curious 
old Cafe Serin, where, after I had had my dinner at 
the inn, I went and waited for the train which, at nine 
o clock in the evening, was to convey me, in a couple 
of hours, to Nantes, an establishment remarkable for 
its great size and its air of tarnished splendor, its 
brown gilding and smoky frescos, as also for the fact 
that it was hidden away on the second floor of an un 
assuming house in an unilluminated street. It hardly 
seemed a place where you would drop in; but when 
once you had found it, it presented itself, with the 
cathedral, the castle, and the Maison d Adam, as one 
of the historical monuments of Angers. 
XV. 
IF I spent two nights at Nantes, it was for reasons 
of convenience rather than of sentiment; though, in 
deed, I spent them in a big circular room which had 
a stately, lofty, last-century look, a look that con 
soled me a little for the whole place being dirty. The 
high, old-fashioned inn (it had a huge, windy porte- 
cochere, and you climbed a vast black stone staircase 
to get to your room) looked out on a dull square, sur 
rounded with other tall houses, and occupied on one 
side by the theatre, a pompous building, decorated 
with columns and statues of the muses. Nantes be 
longs to the class of towns which are always spoken 
of as "fine," and its position near the mouth of the 
Loire gives it, I believe, much commercial movement. 
It is a spacious, rather regular city, looking, in the 
parts that I traversed, neither very fresh nor very 
venerable. It derives its principal character from the 
handsome quays on the Loire, which are overhung 
with tall eighteenth-century houses (very numerous, 
too, in the other streets), houses with big entresols 
marked by arched windows, classic pediments, balcony- 
rails of fine old iron-work. These features exist in 
still better form at Bordeaux; but, putting Bordeaux 
aside, Nantes is quite architectural. The view up and 
down the quays has the cool, neutral tone of color 
that one finds so often in French water-side places, 
the bright grayness which is the tone of French land 
scape art. The whole city has rather a grand, or at 
least an eminently well-established air. During a day 
passed in it of course I had time to go to the Musee; 
the more so that I have a weakness for provincial 
museums, a sentiment that depends but little on the 
quality of the collection. The pictures may be bad, 
but the place is often curious; and, indeed, from bad 
pictures, in certain moods of the mind, there is a 
degree of entertainment to be derived. If they are 
tolerably old, they are often touching; but they must 
have a relative antiquity, for I confess I can do no 
thing with works of art of which the badness is of 
recent origin. The cool, still, empty chambers in 
which indifferent collections are apt to be preserved, 
the red brick tiles, the diffused light, the musty odor, 
the mementos around you of dead fashions, the snuffy 
custodian in a black skull cap, who pulls aside a 
faded curtain to show you the lustreless gem of the 
museum, these things have a mild historical quality, 
and the sallow canvases after all illustrate something. 
Many of those in the museum of Nantes illustrate the 
taste of a successful warrior; having been bequeathed 
to the city by Napoleon 's marshal, Clarke (created 
Due de Feltre). In addition to these there is the 
usual number of specimens of the contemporary French 
school, culled from the annual Salons and presented 
to the museum by the State. Wherever the traveller 
goes, in France, he is reminded of this very honorable 
practice, the purchase by the Government of a cer 
tain number of "pictures of the year," which are pre 
sently distributed in the provinces. Governments suc 
ceed each other and bid for success by different 
devices; but the "patronage of art" is a plank, as we 
should say here, in every platform. The works of art 
are often ill-selected, there is an official taste which 
you immediately recognize, but the custom is essen 
tially liberal, and a government which should neglect 
it would be felt to be painfully common. The only 
thing in this particular Musee that I remember is a 
fine portrait of a woman, by Ingres, very flat and 
Chinese, but with an interest of line and a great deal 
of style. 
There is a castle at Nantes which resembles in 
some degree that of Angers, *but has, without, much 
less of the impressiveness of great size, and, within, 
much more interest of detail. The court contains the 
remains of a very fine piece of late Gothic, a tall ele 
gant building of the sixteenth century. The chateau 
is naturally not wanting in history. It was the residence 
of the old Dukes of Brittany, and was brought, with 
the rest of the province, by the Duchess Anne, the last 
representative of that race, as her dowry, to Charles 
VIII. I read in the excellent hand-book of M. Joanne 
that it has been visited by almost every one of the 
kings of France, from Louis XL downward; and also 
that it has served as a place of sojourn less voluntary 
on the part of various other distinguished persons, 
from the horrible Marechal de Retz, who in the fifteenth 
century was executed at Nantes for the murder of a 
couple of hundred young children, sacrificed in abomin 
able rites, to the ardent Duchess of Berry, mother of 
the Count of Chambord, who was confined there for a 
few hours in 1832, just after her arrest in a neigh 
boring house. I looked at the house in question you 
may see it from the platform in front of the chateau 
and tried to figure to myself that embarrassing scene. 
The duchess, after having unsuccessfully raised the 
standard of revolt (for the exiled Bourbons), in the 
legitimist Bretagne, and being "wanted," as the phrase 
is, by the police of Louis Philippe, had hidden herself 
in a small but loyal house at Nantes, where, at the end 
of five months of seclusion, she was betrayed, for gold, 
to the austere M. Guizot, by one of her servants, an 
Alsatian Jew named Deutz. For many hours before 
her capture she had been compressed into an inter 
stice behind a fireplace, and by the time she was 
drawn forth into the light she had been ominously 
scorched. The man who showed me the castle in 
dicated also another historic spot, a house with little 
tourelles, on the Quai de la Fosse, in which Henry IV. 
is said to have signed the Edict of Nantes. I am, 
however, not in a position to answer for this pedigree. 
There is another point in the history of the fine 
old houses which command the Loire, of which, I sup 
pose, one may be tolerably sure; that is, their having, 
placid as they stand there to-day, looked down on the 
horrors of the Terror of 1793, the bloody reign of the 
monster Carrier and his infamous noyades. The most 
hideous episode of the Revolution was enacted at 
Nantes, where hundreds of men and women, tied to 
gether in couples, were set afloat upon rafts and sunk 
to the bottom of the Loire. The tall eighteenth-century 
house, full of the air noble, in France always reminds 
me of those dreadful years, of the street-scenes of the 
Revolution. Superficially, the association is incongru 
ous, for nothing could be more formal and decorous 
than the patent expression of these eligible residences. 
But whenever I have a vision of prisoners bound on 
tumbrels that jolt slowly to the scaffold, of heads car 
ried on pikes, of groups of heated citoyennes shaking 
their fists at closed coach-windows, I see in the back 
ground the well-ordered features of the architecture of 
the period, the clear gray stone, the high pilasters, 
the arching lines of the entresol  the classic pediment, 
the slate-covered attic. There is not much architecture 
at Nantes except the domestic. The cathedral, with a 
rough west front and stunted towers, makes no im 
pression as you approach it. It is true that it does its 
best to recover its reputation as soon as you have 
passed the threshold. Begun in 1434 and finished 
about the end of the fifteenth century, as I discover in 
Murray, it has a magnificent nave, not of great length, 
but of extraordinary height and lightness. On the 
other hand, it has no choir whatever. There is much 
entertainment in France in seeing what a cathedral 
will take upon itself to possess or to lack; for it is 
only the smaller number that have the full complement 
of features. Some have a very fine nave and no choir; 
others a very fine choir and no nave. Some have a 
rich outside and nothing within; others a very blank 
face and a very glowing heart. There are a hundred 
possibilities of poverty and wealth, and they make the 
most unexpected combinations. 
The great treasure of Nantes is the two noble se 
pulchral monuments which occupy either transept, and 
one of which has (in its nobleness) the rare distinction 
of being a production of our own time. On the south 
side stands the tomb of Francis II., the last of the 
Dukes of Brittany, and of his second wife, Margaret 
of Foix, erected in 1507 by their daughter Anne, whom 
we have encountered already at the Chateau de Nantes, 
where she was born; at Langeais, where she married 
her first husband; at Amboise, where she lost him; at 
Blois, where she married her second, the "good" 
Louis XII., who divorced an impeccable spouse to 
make room for her, and where she herself died. Trans 
ferred to the cathedral from a demolished convent, 
this monument, the masterpiece of Michel Colomb, 
author of the charming tomb of the children of Charles 
VIII. and the aforesaid Anne, which w r e admired at 
Saint Gatien of Tours, is one of the most brilliant 
works of the French Renaissance. It has a splendid 
effect, and is in perfect preservation. A great table of 
black marble supports the reclining figures of the duke 
and duchess, who lie there peacefully and majestically, 
in their robes and crowns, with their heads each on a 
cushion, the pair of which are supported, from behind, 
by three charming little kneeling angels; at the foot of 
the quiet couple are a lion and a greyhound, with 
heraldic devices. At each of the angles of the table 
is a large figure in white marble of a woman elaborately 
dressed, with a symbolic meaning, and these figures, 
with their contemporary faces and clothes, which give 
them the air of realistic portraits, are truthful and liv 
ing, if not remarkably beautiful. Round the sides of 
the tomb are small images of the apostles. There is a 
kind of masculine completeness in the work, and a 
certain robustness of taste. 
In nothing were the sculptors of the Renaissance 
more fortunate than in being in advance of us with 
their tombs : they have left us nothing to say in regard 
to the great final contrast, the contrast between the 
immobility of death and the trappings and honors that 
survive. They expressed in every way in which it was 
possible to express it the solemnity of their conviction 
that the marble image was a part of the personal 
greatness of the defunct, and the protection, the redemption, 
of his memory. A modern tomb, in comparison, 
is a sceptical affair; it insists too little on the 
honors. I say this in the face of the fact that one has 
only to step across the cathedral of Nantes to stand in 
the presence of one of the purest and most touching 
of modern tombs. Catholic Brittany has erected in 
the opposite transept a monument to one of the most 
devoted of her sons, General de Lamoriciere, the de 
fender of the Pope, the vanquished of Castelfidardo. 
This noble work, from the hand of Paul Dubois, one 
of the most interesting of that new generation of sculp 
tors who have revived in France an art of which our 
overdressed century had begun to despair, has every 
merit but the absence of a certain prime feeling. It 
is the echo of an earlier tune, an echo with a beauti 
ful cadence. Under a Renaissance canopy of white 
marble, elaborately worked with arabesques and che 
rubs, in a relief so low that it gives the work a cer 
tain look of being softened and worn by time, lies the 
body of the Breton soldier, with a crucifix clasped to 
his breast and a shroud thrown over his body. At 
each of the angles sits a figure in bronze, the two best 
of which, representing Charity and Military Courage, 
had given me extraordinary pleasure when they were 
exhibited (in the clay) in the Salon of 1876. They 
are admirably cast, and they have a certain greatness: 
the one, a serene, robust young mother, beautiful in 
line and attitude; the other, a lean and vigilant young 
man, in a helmet that overshadows his serious eyes, 
resting an outstretched arm, an admirable military 
member, upon the hilt of a sword. These figures con 
tain abundant assurance that M. Paul Dubois has been 
attentive to Michael Angelo, whom we have all heard 
called a splendid example but a bad model. The 
visor-shadowed face of his warrior is more or less a 
reminiscence of the figure on the tomb of Lorenzo de 
Medici at Florence; but it is doubtless none the worse 
for that. The interest of the work of Paul Dubois is 
its peculiar seriousness, a kind of moral good faith 
which is not the commonest feature of French art, and 
which, united as it is in this case with exceeding 
knowledge and a remarkable sense of form, produces 
an impression of deep refinement. The whole monu 
ment is a proof of exquisitely careful study; but I am 
not sure that this impression on the part of the spec 
tator is altogether a happy one. It explains much of 
its great beauty, and it also explains, perhaps, a little 
of a certain weakness. That word, however, is scarcely 
in place; I only mean that M. Dubois has made a vi 
sible effort, which has been most fruitful. Simplicity 
is not always strength, and our complicated modern 
genius contains treasures of intention. This fathomless 
modern element is an immense charm on the part of 
M. Paul Dubois. I am lost in admiration of the deep 
aesthetic experience, the enlightenment of taste, re 
vealed by such work. After that, I only hope that 
Giuseppe Garibaldi may have a monument as fair. 
XVI. 
To go from Nantes to La Rochelle you travel 
straight southward, across the historic bocage of La 
Vendee, the home of royalist bush-fighting. The 
country, which is exceedingly pretty, bristles with 
copses, orchards, hedges, and with trees more spread 
ing and sturdy than the traveller is apt to deem the 
feathery foliage of France. It is true that as I pro 
ceeded it flattened out a good deal, so that for an 
hour there was a vast featureless plain, which offered 
me little entertainment beyond the general impression 
that I was approaching the Bay of Biscay (from which, 
in reality, I was yet far distant). As we drew near 
La Rochelle, however, the prospect brightened con 
siderably, and the railway kept its course beside a 
charming little canal, or canalized river, bordered 
with trees, and with small, neat, bright-colored, and 
yet old-fashioned cottages and villas, which stood 
back on the further side, behind small gardens, hedges, 
painted palings, patches of turf. The whole effect 
was Dutch and delightful; and in being delightful, 
though not in being Dutch, it prepared me for the 
charms of La Rochelle, which from the moment I 
entered it I perceived to be a fascinating little town, 
a most original mixture of brightness and dulness. 
Part of its brightness comes from its being extra 
ordinarily clean, in which, after all, it is Dutch; a 
virtue not particularly noticeable at Bourges, Le Mans, 
and Angers. Whenever I go southward, if it be only 
twenty miles, I begin to look out for the south, pre 
pared as I am to find the careless grace of those latittudes 
even in things of which it may be said that 
they may be south of something, but are not southern. 
To go from Boston to New York (in this state of 
mind) is almost as soft a sensation as descending the 
Italian side of the Alps; and to go from New York to 
Philadelphia is to enter a zone of tropical luxuriance 
and warmth. Given this absurd disposition, I could 
not fail to flatter myself, on reaching La Rochelle, 
that I was already in the Midi, and to perceive in 
everything, in the language of the country, the ca- 
r act ere meridional. Really, a great many things had 
a hint of it. For that matter, it seems to me that to 
arrive in the south at a bound to wake up there, as 
it were would be a very imperfect pleasure. The 
full pleasure is to approach by stages and gradations; 
to observe the successive shades of difference by 
which it ceases to be the north. These shades are 
exceedingly fine, but your true south-lover has an eye 
for them all. If he perceive them at New York and 
Philadelphia, we imagine him boldly as liberated 
  
from Boston, how could he fail to perceive them at 
La Rochelle? The streets of this dear little city are 
lined with arcades, good, big, straddling arcades of 
stone, such as befit a land of hot summers, and which 
recalled to me, not to go further, the dusky porticos 
of Bayonne. It contains, moreover, a great wide 
place d armes, which looked for all the world like the 
piazza of some dead Italian town, empty, sunny, 
grass-grown, with a row of yellow houses overhanging 
it, an unfrequented cafe, with a striped awning, a tall, 
cold, florid, uninteresting cathedral of the eighteenth 
century on one side, and on the other a shady walk, 
which forms part of an old rampart. I followed this 
walk for some time, under the stunted trees, beside 
the grass-covered bastions; it is very charming, wind 
ing and wandering, always with trees. Beneath the 
rampart is a tidal river, and on the other side, for a 
long distance , the mossy walls of the immense garden 
of a seminary. Three hundred years ago, La Rochelle 
was the great French stronghold of Protestantism; but 
to-day it appears to be a nursery of Papists. 
The walk upon the rampart led me round to one 
of the gates of the town, where I found some small 
modern fortifications and sundry red-legged soldiers, 
and, beyond the fortifications, another shady walk, 
a mail, as the French say, as well as a champ de 
manoeuvre, on which latter expanse the poor little 
red-legs were doing their exercise. It was all very 
quiet and very picturesque, rather in miniature; and 
at once very tidy and a little out of repair. This, 
however, was but a meagre back-view of La Rochelle, 
or poor side-view at best. There are other gates than 
the small fortified aperture just mentioned; one of 
them, an old gray arch beneath a fine clock-tower, I 
had passed through on my way from the station. 
This picturesque Tour de 1 Horloge separates the town 
proper from the port; for beyond the old gray arch, 
the place presents its bright, expressive little face to 
the sea. I had a charming walk about the harbor, 
and along the stone piers and sea-walls that shut it 
in. This indeed, to take things in their order, was 
after I had had my breakfast (which I took on arriv 
ing) and after I had been to the hotel de ville. The 
inn had a long narrow garden behind it, with some 
very tall trees; and passing through this garden to a 
dim and secluded salle a manger, buried in the heavy 
shade, I had, while I sat at my repast, a feeling of 
seclusion which amounted almost to a sense of in 
carceration. I lost this sense, however, after I had 
paid my bill, and went out to look for traces t)f the 
famous siege, which is the principal title of La Rochelle 
to renown. I had come thither partly because I 
thought it would be interesting to stand for a few 
moments in so gallant a spot, and partly because, I 
confess, I had a curiosity to see what had been the 
starting-point of the Huguenot emigrants who founded 
the town of New Rochelle in the State of New York, 
a place in which I had passed certain memorable 
hours. It was strange to think, as I strolled through 
the peaceful little port, that these quiet waters, during 
  
the wars of religion, had swelled with a formidable 
naval power. The Rochelais had fleets and admirals, 
and their stout little Protestant bottoms carried de 
fiance up and down. 
To say that I found any traces of the siege would 
be to misrepresent the taste for vivid whitewash by 
which La Rochelle is distinguished to-day. The only 
trace is the dent in the marble top of the table on 
which, in the hotel de ville, Jean Guiton, the mayor of 
the city, brought down his dagger with an oath, when 
in 1628 the vessels and regiments of Richelieu closed 
about it on sea and land. This terrible functionary 
was the soul of the resistance; he held out from 
February to October, in the midst of pestilence and 
famine. The whole episode has a brilliant place 
among the sieges of history; it has been related a 
hundred times, and I may only glance at it and pass. 
I limit my ambition, in these light pages, to speaking 
of those things of which I have personally received an 
impression; and I have no such impression of the 
defence of La Rochelle. The hotel de ville is a 
pretty little building, in the style of the Renaissance 
of Francis I.; but it has left much of its interest in 
the hands of the restorers. It has been "done up" 
without mercy; its natural place would be at Rochelle 
the New. A sort of battlemented curtain, flanked 
with turrets, divides it from the street and contains 
a low door (a low door in a high wall is always 
felicitous), which admits you to an inner court, where 
you discover the face of the building. It has statues 
set into it, and is raised upon a very low and very 
deep arcade. The principal function of the deferential 
old portress who conducts you over the place is to call 
your attention to the indented table of Jean Guiton; 
but she shows you other objects of interest besides. 
The interior is absolutely new and extremely sump 
tuous, abounding in tapestries, upholstery, morocco, 
velvet, satin. This is especially the case with a really 
beautiful grande salle, where, surrounded with the 
most expensive upholstery, the mayor holds his official 
receptions. (So at least, said my worthy portress.) 
The mayors of La Rochelle appear to have changed a 
good deal since the days of the grim Guiton; but 
these evidences of municipal splendor are interesting 
for the light they throw on French manners. Imagine 
the mayor of an English or an American town of 
twenty thousand inhabitants holding magisterial soirees 
in the town-hall! The said grande salle, w r hich is un 
changed in form and its larger features, is, I believe, 
the room in which the Rochelais debated as to whether 
they should shut themselves up, and decided in the 
affirmative. The table and chair of Jean Guiton have 
been restored, like everything else, and are very 
elegant and coquettish pieces of furniture, incongruous 
relics of a season of starvation and blood. I believe 
that Protestantism is somewhat shrunken to-day at La 
Rochelle, and has taken refuge mainly in the haute 
societe and in a single place of worship. There was 
nothing particular to remind me of its supposed austerity 
