being watched for him, he was lurking in the purlieus of Whitechapel, and
then tramping his way east in comparative safety, half starved, it is
true, but unmolested.
That he was disappointed at the reception his wife had given him did not
prevent him from sleeping peacefully that night. One thing alone
disturbed him, and that was her mention of Mr. Juxon, in whose house, as
she had told him, she lived. It seems incredible that a man in Walter
Goddard's position, lost to every sense of honour, a criminal of the
worst type, who had deceived his wife before he was indicted for forgery,
who had certainly cared very little for her at any time, should now, in a
moment of supreme danger, feel a pang of jealousy on hearing that his
wife lived in the vicinity of the squire and occupied a house belonging
to him. But he was too bad himself not to suspect others, especially
those whom he had wronged, and the feeling was mingled with a strong
curiosity to know whether this woman, who now treated him so haughtily
and drew back from him as from some monstrous horror, was as good as she
pretended to be. He said to himself that on the next day at dawn he would
slip out of the barn and try whether he could not find some hiding-place
within easy reach of the cottage, so as to be able to watch her dwelling
at his ease throughout the day. The plan seemed a good one. Since he was
obliged to wait twenty-four hours in order to get the money he wanted, he
might as well employ the time profitably in observing his wife's habits.
It would be long, he said to himself with a bitter sneer, before he
troubled her again--he would just like to see.
Having come to this decision he drew some of the hay over his body and in
spite of cold and wet was soon peacefully asleep. But at early dawn he
awoke with the alacrity of a man who constantly expects pursuit, and
slipped down from the hayloft into the barn. There was no one stirring
and he got over the fence at the back of the yard and skirted the fields
in the direction of the church, finally climbing another stile and
entering what he supposed to be the park. On this side the back of the
church ran out into a broad meadow, where the larger portion of the
ancient abbey had once stood. Goddard walked along close by the church
walls. He knew from his observation on the previous afternoon that he
could thus come out into the road in the vicinity of the cottage, unless
his way through the park were interrupted by impassable wire fences. The
ground was very heavy and he was sure not to meet anybody in the meadows
in such weather.
Suddenly he stopped and looked at a buttress that jutted out from the
church and for the existence of which there seemed to be no ostensible
reason. He examined it and found that it was not a buttress but
apparently a half ruined chamber, which at some former period had been
built upon the side of the abbey. Low down by the ground there was a
hole, where a few stones seemed to have been removed and not replaced.
Goddard knelt down in the long wet grass and put in his head; then he
crept in on his hands and knees and presently disappeared.
He found himself in a room about ten feet square, dimly lighted by a
small window at the top, and surrounded by long horizontal niches. The
floor, which was badly broken in some places, was of stone. Goddard
examined the place carefully. It was evidently an old vault of the kind
formerly built above ground for the lords of the manor; but the coffins,
if there had ever been any, had been removed elsewhere. Goddard laughed
to himself.
"I might stay here for a year, if I could get anything to eat," he said
to himself.
CHAPTER XIV.
The squire had grown used to the position in which he found himself after
Mary Goddard had told him her story. He continued his visits as formerly,
and it could hardly be said that there was any change in his manner
towards her; there was no need of any change, for even at the time when
he contemplated making her his wife there had been nothing lover-like
in his behaviour. He had been a friend and had treated her with all the
respect due to a lonely lady who was his tenant, and even with a certain
formality which had sometimes seemed unnecessary. But though there was no
apparent alteration in his mode of talking, in his habit of bringing her
flowers and books and of looking after the condition of the cottage, both
she and he were perfectly conscious of the fact that they understood each
other much better than before. They were united by the common bond of a
common secret which very closely concerned one of them. Things were not
as they had formerly been. Mrs. Goddard no longer felt that she had
anything to hide; the squire knew that he no longer had anything to hope.
If he had been a selfish man, if she had been a less sensible woman,
their friendship might have ended then and there. But Mr. Juxon was not
selfish, and Mary Goddard did not lack good sense. Having ascertained
that in the ordinary course of events there was no possibility of ever
marrying her, the squire did not at once give her over and go elsewhere;
on the contrary he showed himself more desirous than ever of assisting
her and amusing her. He was a patient man; his day might come yet, if
Goddard died. It did not follow that if he could not marry Mrs. Goddard
he must needs marry some one else; for it was not a wife that he sought,
but the companionship of this particular woman as his wife. If he could
not marry he could still enjoy at least a portion of that companionship,
by visiting her daily and talking with her, and making himself a part of
her life. He judged things very coldly and lost himself in no lofty
flights of imagination. It was better that he should enjoy what fell in
his way in at least seeing Mrs. Goddard and possessing her friendship,
than that he should go out of his course in order to marry merely for the
sake of marrying. He had seen so much of the active side of life that he
was well prepared to revel in the peace which had fallen to his lot. He
cared little whether he left an heir to the park; there were others of
the name, and since the park had furnished matter for litigation during
forty years before he came into possession of it, it might supply the
lawyers with fees for forty years more after his death, for all he cared.
It would have been very desirable to marry Mrs. Goddard if it had been
possible, but since the thing could not be done at present it was best to
submit with a good grace. Since the day when his suit had suddenly come
to grief in the discovery of her real position, Mr. Juxon had
philosophically said to himself that he had perhaps been premature in
making his proposal, and that it was as well that it could not have been
accepted; perhaps she would not have made him a good wife; perhaps he had
deceived himself in thinking that because he liked her and desired her
friendship he really wished to marry her; perhaps all was for the best in
the best of all possible worlds, after all and in spite of all.
But these reflections, which tended to soothe the squire's annoyance at
the failure of a scheme which he had contemplated with so much delight,
did not prevent him from feeling the most sincere sympathy for Mrs.
Goddard, nor from constantly wishing that he could devise some plan for
helping her. She seemed never to have thought of divorcing herself from
her husband. The squire was not sure whether such a thing were possible;
he doubted it, and promised himself that he would get a lawyer's opinion
upon the matter. He believed that English law did not grant divorces on
account of the husband's being sentenced to any limited period of penal
servitude. But in any case it would be a very delicate subject to
approach, and Mr. Juxon amused himself by constructing conversations in
his mind which should lead up to this point without wounding poor Mrs.
Goddard's sensibilities. He was the kindest of men; he would not for
worlds have said a word which should recall to her that memorable day
when she had told him her story. And yet it would be quite impossible to
broach such a scheme without going at once into all the details of the
chief cause of her sorrows. The consequence was that in the windings of
his imagination the squire found himself perpetually turning in a vicious
circle; but since the exercise concerned Mrs. Goddard and her welfare it
was not uncongenial. He founded all his vague hopes upon one expression
she had used. When in making his proposal he had spoken of her as being a
widow, she had said, "Would to God that I were!" She had said it with
such vehemence that he had felt sure that if she had indeed been a widow
her answer to himself would have been favourable. Men easily retain such
impressions received in moments of great excitement, and found hopes upon
them.
So the days had gone by and the squire had thought much but had come to
no conclusion. On the morning when Walter Goddard crept into the disused
vault at the back of the church, the squire awoke from his sleep at his
usual early hour. He was not in a very good humour, if so equable a man
could be said to be subject to such weaknesses as humours. The weather
was very depressing--day after day brought only more rain, more wind,
more mud, more of everything disagreeable. The previous evening had been
unusually dull. He was never weary of being with Mary Goddard, but
occasionally, when the Ambroses were present, the conversation became
oppressive. Mr. Juxon almost wished that John Short would come back and
cause a diversion. His views concerning John had undergone some change
since he had discovered that nobody could marry Mrs. Goddard because she
was married already. He believed he could watch John's efforts to attract
her attention with indifference now, or if without indifference with a
charitable forbearance. John at least would help to make conversation,
and the conversation on the previous evening had been intolerably
wearisome. Almost unconsciously, since the chief interest and hope of his
daily life had been removed the squire began to long for a change; he
had been a wanderer by profession during thirty years of his life and he
was perhaps not yet old enough to settle into that absolute indifference
to novelty which seems to characterise retired sailors.
But as he brushed his smooth hair and combed his beard that morning,
neither change nor excitement were very far from him. He looked over his
dressing-glass at the leafless oaks of the park, at the grey sky and the
driving rain and he wished something would happen. He wished somebody
might die and leave a great library to be sold, that he might indulge
his favourite passion; he wished he had somebody stopping in the Hall--he
almost decided to send and ask the vicar to come to lunch and have a day
among the books. As he entered the breakfast-room at precisely half-past
eight o'clock, according to his wont, the butler informed him that Mr.
Gall, the village constable, was below and wanted to see him after
breakfast. He received the news in silence and sat down to eat his
breakfast and read the morning paper. Gall had probably come about some
petty summons, or to ask what he should do about the small boys who threw
stones at the rooks and broke the church windows. After finishing his
meal and his paper in the leisurely manner peculiar to country gentlemen
who have nothing to do, the squire rang the bell, sent for the policeman
and went into his study, a small room adjoining the library.
Thomas Gall, constable, was a tall fair man with a mild eye and a
cheerful face. Goodwill towards men and plentiful good living had done
their work in eradicating from the good man all that stern element which
might have been most useful to him in his career, not to say useful to
the State. Each rolling year was pricked in his leathern belt with a new
hole as his heart grew more peaceful and his body throve. He had a goodly
girth and weighed full fifteen stone in his uniform; his mild blue eye
had inspired confidence in a maiden of Billingsfield parish and Mrs. Gall
was now rearing a numerous family of little Galls, all perhaps destined
to become mild-eyed and portly village constables in their turn.
The squire, who was not destitute of a sense of humour, never thought of
Mr. Gall without a smile, so much out of keeping did the man's occupation
seem with his jovial humour. Mr. Gall, he said, was the kind of policeman
who would bribe a refractory tramp to move on by the present of a pint of
beer. But Gall had a good point. He was very proud of his profession, and
in the exercise of it he showed a discretion which, if it was the better
part of his valour, argued unlimited natural courage. It was a secret
profession, he was wont to say, and a man who could not keep a secret
would never do for a constable. He shrouded his ways in an amiable
mystery and walked a solitary beat on fine nights; when the nights were
not fine there was nobody to see whether he walked his beat or not.
Probably, he faithfully fulfilled his obligations; but his constitution
seemed to bear exposure to the weather wonderfully well. Whether he ever
saw anything worth mentioning upon those lonely walks of his, is
uncertain; at all events he never mentioned anything he saw, unless it
was in the secrecy of the reports he was supposed to transmit from time
to time to his superiors.
On the present occasion as he entered the study, the squire observed with
surprise that he looked grave. He had never witnessed such a phenomenon
before and argued that it was just possible that something of real
importance might have occurred.
"Good morning, sir," said Mr. Gall, approaching the squire respectfully,
after carefully closing the door behind him.
"Good morning, Gall. Nothing wrong, I hope?"
"Not yet, sir. I hope not, sir. Only a little matter of business, Mr.
Juxon. In point of fact, sir, I wished to consult you."
"Yes," said the squire who was used to the constable's method of
circumlocution. "Yes--what is it?"
"Well, sir--it's this," said the policeman, running his thumb round the
inside of his belt as though to test the pressure, and clearing his
throat. "There has been a general order sent down to be on the lookout,
sir. So I thought it would be best to take your opinion."
"My opinion," said the squire with great gravity, "is that if you are
directed to be on the look-out, you should be on the look-out; by all
means. What are you to be on the look-out for?"
"In point of fact, sir," said the constable, lowering his voice, "we are
informed that a criminal has escaped from Portland. I never heard of a
convict getting out of that strong'old o' the law, sir, and I would like
to have your opinion upon it."
"But if you are informed that some one has escaped," remarked the squire,
"you had better take it for granted that it is true."
"Juss so, sir. But the circumstances wasn't communicated to us, sir; so
we don't know."
Mr. Gall paused, and the squire smoothed his hair a little.
"Well, Gall," said Mr. Juxon, "have you any reason for believing that
this escaped convict is likely to come this way?"
"Well sir, there is some evidence," answered the policeman, mysteriously.
"Leastways what seems like evidence to me, sir."
"Of what kind?" the squire fixed his quiet eyes on Mr. Gall's face.
"His name, sir. The name of the convict. There is a party of that name
residin' here."
The squire suddenly guessed what was coming, or at least a possibility of
it crossed his mind. If Mr. Gall had been a more observant man he would
have seen that Mr. Juxon grew a shade paler and changed one leg over the
other as he sat. But in that moment he had time to nerve himself for the
worst.
"And what is the name, if you please?" he asked calmly.
"The name in the general orders is Goddard, sir--Walter Goddard. He was
convicted of forgery three years ago, sir, a regular bad lot. But
discretion is recommended in the orders, sir, as the business is not
wanted to get into the papers."
The squire was ready. If Gall did not know that Mary Goddard was the wife
of the convict Walter, he should certainly not find it out. In any other
country of Europe that would have been the first fact communicated to the
local police. Very likely, thought Mr. Juxon, nobody knew it.
"I do not see," he said very slowly, "that the fact of there being a Mrs.
Goddard residing here in the least proves that she is any relation to
this criminal. The name is not so uncommon as that, you know."
"Nor I either, sir. In point of fact, sir, I was only thinking. It's what
you may call a striking coincidence, that's all."
"It would have been a still more striking coincidence if his name had
been Juxon like mine, or Ambrose like the vicar's," said the squire
calmly. "There are other people of the name in England, and the local
policemen will be warned to be on the lookout. If this fellow was called
Juxon instead of Goddard, Gall, would you be inclined to think he was a
relation of mine?"
"Oh no, sir. Ha! ha! Very good sir! Very good indeed! No indeed, sir, and
she such a real lady too!"
"Well then, I do not see that you can do anything more than keep a sharp
look-out. I suppose they sent you some kind of description?"
"Well, yes. There was a kind of a description as you say, sir, but I'm
not anyways sure of recognising the party by it. In point of fact, sir,
the description says the convict is a fair man."
"Is that all?"
"Neither particular tall, nor yet particular short, sir. Not a very big
'un nor a very little 'un, sir. In point of fact, sir, a fair man. Clean
shaved and close cropped he is, sir, being a criminal."
"I hope you may recognise him by that account," said the squire,
suppressing a smile. "I don't believe I should."
"Well, sir, it does say as he's a fair man," remarked the constable.
"Supposing he blacked his face and passed for a chimney-sweep?" suggested
the squire. The idea seemed to unsettle Gall's views.
"In that case, sir, I don't know as I should know him, for certain," he
answered.
"Probably not--probably not, Gall. And judging from the account they have
sent you I don't think you would be to blame."
"Leastways it can't be said as I've failed to carry out superior
instructions," replied Mr. Gall, proudly. "Then it's your opinion, sir,
that I'd better keep a sharp look-out? Did I understand you to say so,
sir?"
"Quite so," returned the squire with great calmness. "By all means keep a
sharp look-out, and be careful to be discreet, as the orders instruct
you."
"You may trust me for that, sir," said the policeman, who dearly loved
the idea of mysterious importance. "Then I wish you good morning, sir."
He prepared to go.
"Good morning, Gall--good morning. The butler will give you some ale."
Again Mr. Gall passed his thumb round the inside of his belt, testing the
local pressure in anticipation of a pint. He made a sort of half-military
salute at the door and went out. When the squire was alone he rose from
his chair and paced the room, giving way to the agitation he had
concealed in the presence of the constable. He was very much disturbed at
the news of Goddard's escape, as well he might be. Not that he was aware
that the convict knew of his wife's whereabouts; he did not even suppose
that Goddard could ascertain for some time where she was living, still
less that he would boldly present himself in Billingsfield. But it was
bad enough to know that the man was again at large. So long as he was
safely lodged in prison, Mrs. Goddard was herself safe; but if once he
regained his liberty and baffled the police he would certainly end by
finding out Mary's address and there was no telling to what annoyance,
to what danger, to what sufferings she might be exposed. Here was a new
interest, indeed, and one which promised to afford the squire occupation
until the fellow was caught.
Mr. Juxon knew that he was right in putting the policeman off the track
in regard to Mrs. Goddard. He himself was a better detective than Gall,
for he went daily to the cottage and if anything was wrong there, was
quite sure to discover it. If Goddard ever made his way to Billingsfield
it could only be for the purpose of seeing his wife, and if he succeeded
in this, Mrs. Goddard could not conceal it from the squire. She was a
nervous woman who could not hide her emotions; she would find herself in
a terrible difficulty and she would perhaps turn to her friend for
assistance. If Mr. Juxon could lay his hands on Goddard, he flattered
himself he was much more able to arrest a desperate man than mild-eyed
Policeman Gall. He had not been at sea for thirty years in vain, and in
his time he had handled many a rough customer. He debated however upon
the course he should pursue. As in his opinion it was unlikely that
Goddard would find out his wife for some time, and improbable that he
would waste such precious time in looking for her, it seemed far from
advisable to warn her that the felon had escaped. On the other hand he
mistrusted his own judgment; if she were not prepared it was just
possible that the man should come upon her unawares, and the shock of
seeing him might be very much worse than the shock of being told that he
was at large. He might consult the vicar.
At first, the old feeling that it would be disloyal to Mrs. Goddard even
to hint to Mr. Ambrose that he was acquainted with her story withheld him
from pursuing such a course. But as he turned the matter over in his mind
it seemed to him that since it was directly for her good, he would now be
justified in speaking. He liked the vicar and he trusted him. He knew
that the vicar had been a good friend to Mrs. Goddard and that he would
stand by her in any difficulty so far as he might be able. The real
question was how to make sure that the vicar should not tell his wife. If
Mrs. Ambrose had the least suspicion that anything unusual was occurring,
she would naturally try and extract information from her husband, and she
would probably be successful; women, the squire thought, very generally
succeed in operations of that kind. But if once Mr. Ambrose could be
consulted without arousing his wife's suspicions, he was a man to be
trusted. Thereupon Mr. Juxon wrote a note to the vicar, saying that he
had something of great interest to show him, and begging that, if not
otherwise engaged, he would come up to the Hall to lunch. When he had
despatched his messenger, being a man of his word, he went into the
library to hunt for some rare volume or manuscript which the vicar had
not yet seen, and which might account in a spirit of rigid veracity for
the excuse he had given. Meanwhile, as he turned over his rare and
curious folios he debated further upon his conduct; but having once made
up his mind to consult Mr. Ambrose, he determined to tell him boldly what
had occurred, after receiving from him a promise of secrecy. The
messenger brought back word that the vicar would be delighted to come,
and at the hour named the sound of wheels upon the gravel announced the
arrival of Strawberry, the old mare, drawing behind her the vicar and his
aged henchman, Reynolds, in the traditional vicarage dogcart. A moment
later the vicar entered the library.
"I am very glad to see you, Mr. Ambrose," said the squire inhospitable
tones. "I have something to show you and I have something to say to you."
The two shook hands heartily. Independently of kindred scholarly tastes,
they were sympathetic to each other and were always glad to meet.
"It is just the weather for bookworms," answered the vicar in cheerful
tones. "Dear me, I never come here without envying you and wishing that
life were one long rainy afternoon."
"You know I am inclined to think I am rather an enviable person," said
Mr. Juxon, slowly passing his hand over his glossy hair and leading his
guest towards a large table near the fire. Several volumes lay together
upon the polished mahogany. The squire laid his hand on one of them.
"I have not deceived you," he said. "That is a very interesting volume.
It is the black letter Paracelsus I once spoke of. I have succeeded in
getting it at last."
"Dear me! What a piece of fortune!" said Mr. Ambrose bending down until
his formidable nose almost touched the ancient page.
"Yes," said the squire, "uncommonly lucky as usual. Now, excuse my
abruptness in changing the subject--I want to consult you upon an
important matter."
The vicar looked up quickly with that vague, faraway expression which
comes into the eyes of a student when he is suddenly called away from
contemplating some object of absorbing interest.
"Certainly," he said, "certainly--a--by all means."
"It is about Mrs. Goddard," said the squire, looking hard at his visitor.
"Of course it is between ourselves," he added.
The vicar's long upper lip descended upon its fellow and he bent his
rough grey eyebrows, returning Mr. Juxon's sharp look with interest. He
could not imagine what the squire could have to say about Mrs. Goddard,
unless, like poor John, he had fallen in love with her and wanted to
marry her; which appeared improbable.
"What is it?" he said sharply.
"I daresay you do not know that I am acquainted with her story," began
Mr. Juxon. "Do not be surprised. She saw fit to tell it me herself."
"Indeed?" exclaimed the vicar in considerable astonishment. In that case,
he argued quickly, Mr. Juxon was not thinking of marrying her.
"Yes--it is not necessary to go into that," said Mr. Juxon quickly. "The
thing I want to tell you is this--Goddard the forger has escaped--"
"Escaped?" echoed the vicar in real alarm. "You don't mean to say so!"
"Gall the constable came here this morning," continued Mr. Juxon. "He
told me that there were general orders out for his arrest."
"How in the world did he get out?" cried the vicar. "I thought nobody was
ever known to escape from Portland!"
"So did I. But this fellow has--somehow. Gall did not know. Now, the
question is, what is to be done?"
"I am sure I don't know," returned the vicar, thrusting his hands into
his pockets and marching to the window, the wide skirts of his coat
seeming to wave with agitation as he walked.
Mr. Juxon also put his hands into his pockets, but he stood still upon
the hearth-rug and looked at the ceiling, softly whistling a little tune,
a habit he had in moments of great anxiety. For three or four minutes
neither of the two spoke.
"Would you tell Mrs. Goddard--or not?" asked Mr. Juxon at last.
"I don't know," said the vicar. "I am amazed beyond measure." He turned
and slowly came back to the table.
"I don't know either," replied the squire. "That is precisely the point
upon which I think we ought to decide. I have known about the story for
some time, but I did not anticipate that it would take this turn."
"I think," said Mr. Ambrose after another pause, "I think that if there
is any likelihood of the fellow finding her out, we ought to tell her. If
not I think we had better wait until he is caught. He is sure to be
caught, of course."
"I entirely agree with you," returned Mr. Juxon. "Only--how on earth are
we to find out whether he is likely to come here or not? If any one knows
where he is, he is as good as caught already. If nobody knows, we can
certainly have no means of telling."
The argument was unanswerable. Again there was a long silence. The vicar
walked about the room in great perplexity.
"Dear me! Dear me! What a terrible business!" he repeated, over and over
again.
"Do you think we are called upon to do anything?" he asked at last,
stopping in his walk immediately in front of Mr. Juxon.
"If we can do anything to save Mrs. Goddard from annoyance or further
trouble, we are undoubtedly called upon to do it," replied the squire.
"If that wretch finds her out, he will try to break into the cottage at
night and force her to give him money."
"Do you really think so? Dear me! I hope he will do no such thing!"
"So do I, I am sure," said Mr. Juxon, with a grim smile. "But if he finds
her out, he will. I almost think it would be better to tell her in any
case."
"But think of the anxiety she will be in until he is caught!" cried the
vicar. "She will be expecting him every day--every night. Well--I suppose
we might tell Gall to watch the house."
"That will not do," said Mr. Juxon firmly. "It would be a great injustice
to allow Gall or any of the people in the village to know anything about
her. She might be subjected to all kinds of insult. You know what these
people are. A 'real lady,' who is at the same time the wife of a convict,
is a thing they can hardly understand. I am sure both you and I secretly
flatter ourselves that we have shown an unusual amount of good sense and
generosity in understanding her position as we do."
"I daresay we do," said the vicar with a smile. He was too honest to deny
it. "Indeed it took me some time to get used to the idea myself."
"Precisely. The village people would never get used to it. Of all things
to do, we should certainly not tell Gall, who is an old woman and a great
chatterbox. I wish you could have heard his statement this morning--it
filled me with admiration for the local police, I assure you. But--I
think it would be better to tell her. I did not think so before you came,
I believe. But talking always brings the truth out."
The vicar hesitated, rising and falling upon his toes and heels in
profound thought, after his manner.
"I daresay you are right," he said at last. "Will you do it? Or shall I?"
"I would rather not," said the squire, thoughtfully. "You know her
better, you have known her much longer than I."
"But she will ask me where I heard of it," objected the vicar. "I shall
be obliged to say that you told me. That will be as bad as though you
told her yourself."
"You need not say you heard it from me. You can say that Gall has
received instructions to look out for Goddard. She will not question you
any further, I am sure."
"I would much rather that you told her, Mr. Juxon," said the vicar.
"I would much rather that you told her, Mr. Ambrose," said the squire,
almost in the same breath. Both laughed a little.
"Not that I would not do it at once, if necessary," added Mr. Juxon.
"Or I, in a moment," said Mr. Ambrose.
"Of course," returned Mr. Juxon. "Only it is such a very delicate matter,
you see."
"Dear me, yes," murmured the vicar, "a most delicate matter. Poor lady!"
"Poor lady!" echoed the squire. "But I suppose it must be done."
"Oh yes--we cannot do otherwise," answered Mr. Ambrose, still hoping that
his companion would volunteer to perform the disagreeable office.
"Well then, will you--will you do it?" asked Mr. Juxon, anxious to have
the matter decided.
"Why not go together?" suggested the vicar.
"No," said Mr. Juxon firmly. "It would be an intolerable ordeal for the
poor woman. I think I see your objection. Perhaps you think that Mrs.
Ambrose--"
"Exactly, Mrs. Ambrose," echoed the vicar with a grim smile.
"Oh precisely--then I will do it," said the squire. And he forthwith did,
and was very much surprised at the result.
CHAPTER XV.
It was late in the afternoon when Mr. Juxon walked down towards the
cottage, accompanied by the vicar. In spite of their mutual anxiety to be
of service to Mrs. Goddard, when they had once decided how to act they
had easily fallen into conversation about other matters, the black letter
Paracelsus had received its full share of attention and many another rare
volume had been brought out and examined. Neither the vicar nor his host
believed that there was any hurry; if Goddard ever succeeded in getting
to Billingsfield it would not be to-day, nor to-morrow either.
The weather had suddenly changed; the east was already clear and over the
west, where the sun was setting in a fiery mist, the huge clouds were
banked up against the bright sky, fringed with red and purple, but no
longer threatening rain or snow. The air was sharp and the plentiful mud
in the roads was already crusted with a brittle casing of ice.
The squire took leave of Mr. Ambrose at the turning where the road led
into the village and then walked back to the cottage. Even his solid
nerves were a little unsettled at the prospect of the interview
before him; but he kept a stout heart and asked for Mrs. Goddard in his
usual quiet voice. Martha told him that Mrs. Goddard had a bad headache,
but on inquiry found that she would see the squire. He entered the
drawing-room softly and went forward to greet her; she was sitting in a
deep chair propped by cushions.
Mary Goddard had spent a miserable day. The grey morning light seemed to
reveal her troubles and fears in a new and more terrible aspect. During
the long hours of darkness it seemed as though those things were
mercifully hidden which the strong glare of day must inevitably reveal,
and when the night was fairly past she thought all the world must surely
know that Walter Goddard had escaped and that his wife had seen him.
Hourly she expected a ringing at the bell, announcing the visit of a
party of detectives on his track; every sound startled her and her nerves
were strung to such a pitch that she heard with supernatural acuteness.
She had indeed two separate causes for fear. The one was due to her
anxiety for Goddard's safety; the other to her apprehensions for Nellie.
She had long determined that at all hazards the child must be kept from
the knowledge of her father's disgrace, by being made to believe in his
death. It was a falsehood indeed, but such a falsehood as may surely be
forgiven to a woman as unhappy as Mary Goddard. It seemed monstrous that
the innocent child, who seemed not even to have inherited her father's
looks or temper, should be brought up with the perpetual sense of her
disgrace before her, should be forced to listen to explanations of her
father's crimes and tutored to the comprehension of an inherited shame.
From the first Mary Goddard had concealed the whole matter from the
little girl, and when Walter was at last convicted, she had told her that
her father was dead. Dead he might be, she thought, before twelve years
were out, and Nellie would be none the wiser. In twelve years from the
time of his conviction Nellie would be in her twenty-first year; if it
were ever necessary to tell her, it would be time enough then, for the
girl would have at least enjoyed her youth, free of care and of the
horrible consciousness of a great crime hanging over her head. No child
could grow up in such a state as that implied. No mind could develop
healthily under the perpetual pressure of so hideous a secret; from her
earliest childhood her impressions would be warped, her imagination
darkened and her mental growth stunted. It would be a great cruelty to
tell her the truth; it was a great mercy to tell her the falsehood. It
was no selfish timidity which had prompted Mary Goddard, but a carefully
weighed consideration for the welfare of her child.
If now, within these twenty-four hours, Nellie should discover who the
poor tramp was, who had frightened her so much on the previous evening,
all this would be at an end. The child's life would be made desolate for
ever. She would never recover from the shock, and to injure lovely Nellie
so bitterly would be worse to Mary Goddard than to be obliged to bear the
sharpest suffering herself. For, from the day when she had waked to a
comprehension of her husband's baseness, the love for her child had taken
in her breast the place of the love for Walter.
She did not think connectedly; she did not realise her fears; she was
almost wholly unstrung. But she had procured the fifty pounds her husband
required and she waited for the night with a dull hope that all might yet
be well--as well as anything so horrible could be. If only her husband
were not caught in Billingsfield it would not be so bad, perhaps. And yet
it may be that her wisest course would have been to betray him that very
night. Many just men would have said so; but there are few women who
would do it. There are few indeed, so stonyhearted as to betray a man
once loved in such a case; and Mary Goddard in her wildest fear never
dreamed of giving up the fugitive. She sat all day in her chair, wishing
that the day were over, praying that she might be spared any further
suffering or that at least it might be spared to her child whom she so
loved. She had sent Nellie down to the vicarage with Martha. Mrs. Ambrose
loved Nellie better than she loved Nellie's mother, and there was a
standing invitation for her to spend the afternoons at the vicarage.
Nellie said her mother had a terrible headache and wanted to be alone.
But when the squire came Mrs. Goddard thought it wiser to see him. She
had, of course, no intention of confiding to him an account of the events
of the previous night, but she felt that if she could talk to him for
half an hour she would be stronger. He was himself so strong and honest
that he inspired her with courage. She knew, also, that if she were
driven to the extremity of confiding in any one she would choose Mr.
Juxon rather than Mr. Ambrose. The vicar had been her first friend and
she owed him much; but the squire had won her confidence by his noble
generosity after she had told him her story. She said to herself that he
was more of a man than the vicar. And now he had come to her at the time
of her greatest distress, and she was glad to see him.
Mr. Juxon entered the room softly, feeling that he was in the presence of
a sick person. Mrs. Goddard turned her pathetic face towards him and held
out her hand.
"I am so glad to see you," she said, trying to seem cheerful.
"I fear you are ill, Mrs. Goddard," answered the squire, looking at her
anxiously and then seating himself by her side. "Martha told me you had a
headache--I hope it is not serious."
"Oh no--not serious. Only a headache," she said with a smile so unlike
her own that Mr. Juxon began to feel nervous. His resolution to tell her
his errand began to waver; it seemed cruel, he thought, to disturb a
person who was evidently so ill with a matter so serious. He remembered
that she had almost fainted on a previous occasion when she had spoken to
him of her husband. She had not been ill then; there was no knowing what
the effect of a shock to her nerves might be at present. He sat still in
silence for some moments, twisting his hat upon his knee.
"Do not be disturbed about me," said Mrs. Goddard presently. "It will
pass very quickly. I shall be quite well to-morrow--I hope," she added
with a shudder.
"I am very much disturbed about you," returned Mr. Juxon in an unusually
grave tone. Mrs. Goddard looked at him quickly, and was surprised when
she saw the expression on his face. He looked sad, and at the same time
perplexed.
"Oh, pray don't be!" she exclaimed as though deprecating further remark
upon her ill health.
"I wish I knew," said the squire with some hesitation, "whether--whether
you are really very ill. I mean, of course, I know you have a bad
headache, a very bad headache, as I can see. But--indeed, Mrs. Goddard, I
have something of importance to say."
"Something of importance?" she repeated, staring hard at him.
"Yes--but it will keep till to-morrow, if you would rather not hear it
now," he replied, looking at her doubtfully.
"I would rather hear it now," she answered after some seconds of silence.
Her heart beat fast.
"You were good enough some time ago to tell me about--Mr. Goddard," began
Mr. Juxon in woeful trepidation.
"Yes," answered his companion under her breath. Her hands were clasped
tightly together upon her knees and her eyes sought the squire's
anxiously and then looked away again in fear.
"Well, it is about him," continued Mr. Juxon in a gentle voice. "Would
you rather put it off? It is--well, rather startling."
Mrs. Goddard closed her eyes, like a person expecting to suffer some
terrible pain. She thought Mr. Juxon was going to tell her that Walter
had been captured in the village.
"Mr. Goddard has escaped," said the squire, making a bold plunge with the
whole truth. The sick lady trembled violently, and unclasping her hands
laid them upon the arms of her chair as though to steady herself to bear
the worse shock to come. But Mr. Juxon was silent. He had told her all he
knew.
"Yes," she said faintly. "Is there anything--anything more?" Her voice
was barely audible in the still and dusky room.
"No--except that, of course, there are orders out for his arrest, all
over the country."
"He has not been arrested yet?" asked Mrs. Goddard. She had expected to
hear that he was caught; she thought the squire was trying to break the
shock of the news. Her courage rose a little now.
"No, he is not arrested--but I have no doubt he soon will be," added Mr.
Juxon in a tone intended to convey encouragement.
"How did you hear this?"
"Gall the policeman, told me this morning. I--I am afraid I have
something else to confess to you, Mrs. Goddard, I trust you will not--"
"What?" she asked so suddenly as to startle him. Walter might have been
heard of in the neighbourhood, perhaps.
"I think I was right," continued Mr. Juxon. "I hope you will forgive me.
It does not seem quite loyal, but I did not know what to do. I consulted
the vicar as to whether we should tell you."
"The vicar? What did he say?" Again Mrs. Goddard felt relieved.
"He quite agreed with me," answered the squire. "You see we feared that
Mr. Goddard might find his way here and come upon you suddenly. We
thought you would be terribly pained and startled."
Mrs. Goddard could almost have laughed at that moment. The excellent man
had taken all this trouble in order to save her from the very thing which
had already occurred on the previous night. There was a bitter humour in
the situation, in the squire's kind-hearted way of breaking to her that
news which she already knew so well, in his willingness to put off
telling her until the morrow. What would Mr. Juxon say, could he guess
that she had herself already spoken with her husband and had promised to
see him again that very night! Forgetting that his last words required an
answer, she leaned back in her chair and again folded her hands before
her. Her eyes were half closed and from beneath the drooping lids she
gazed through the gathering gloom at the squire's anxious face.
"I hope you think I did right," said the latter in considerable doubt.
"Quite right. I think you were both very kind to think of me as you did,"
said she.
"I am sure, I always think of you," answered Mr. Juxon simply. "I hope
that this thing will have no further consequences. Of course, until we
know of Mr. Goddard's whereabouts we shall feel very anxious. It seems
probable that if he can get here unobserved he will do so. He will
probably ask you for some money."
"Do you really think he could get here at all?" asked Mrs. Goddard. She
wanted to hear what he would say, for she thought she might judge from
his words whether her husband ran any great risk.
"Oh no," replied the squire. "I think it is very improbable. I fear this
news has sadly disturbed you, Mrs. Goddard, but let us hope all may turn
out for the best." Indeed he thought she showed very little surprise,
though she had evidently been much moved. Perhaps she had been accustomed
to expect that her husband might one day escape. She was ill, too, and
her nerves were unstrung, he supposed.
She had really passed through a very violent emotion, but it had not been
caused by her surprise, but by her momentary fear for the fugitive,
instantly allayed by Mr. Juxon's explanation. She felt that for to-day at
least Walter was safe, and by to-morrow he would be safe out of the
neighbourhood. But she reflected that it was necessary to say something;
that if she appeared to receive the news too indifferently the squire's
suspicions might be aroused with fatal results.
"It is a terrible thing," she said presently. "You see I am not at all
myself."
It was not easy for her to act a part. The words were commonplace.
"No," said Mr. Juxon, "I see you are not." He on his part, instead of
looking for a stronger expression of fear or astonishment, was now only
too glad that she should be so calm.
"Would you advise me to do anything?" she asked presently.
"There is nothing to be done," he answered quickly, glad of a chance to
relieve the embarrassment of the situation. "Of course we might put you
under the protection of the police but--what is the matter, Mrs.
Goddard?" She had started as though in pain.
"Only this dreadful headache," she said. "Go on please."
"Well, we might set Gall the policeman to watch your house; but that
would be very unpleasant for you. It would be like telling him and all
the village people of your situation--"
"Oh don't! Please don't!"
"No, certainly not. I think it very unwise. Besides--" he stopped short.
He was about to say that he felt much better able to watch over Mrs.
Goddard himself than Gall the constable could possibly be; but he checked
himself in time.
"Besides--what?" she asked.
"Nothing--Gall is not much of a policeman, that is all. I do not believe
you would be any the safer for his protection. But you must promise me,
my dear Mrs. Goddard, that if anything occurs you will let me know. I may
be of some assistance."
"Thank you, so much," said she. "You are always so kind!"
"Not at all. I am very glad if you think I was right to tell you about
it."
"Oh, quite right," she answered. "And now, Mr. Juxon, I am really not at
all well. All this has quite unnerved me--"
"You want me to go?" said the squire smiling kindly as he rose. "Yes, I
understand. Well, good-bye, my dear friend--I hope everything will
clear up."
"Good-bye. Thank you again. You always do understand me," she answered
giving him her small cold hand. "Don't think me ungrateful," she added,
looking up into his eyes.
"No indeed--not that there is anything to be grateful for."
In a moment more he was gone, feeling that he had done his duty like a
man, and that it had not been so hard after all. He was glad it was done,
however, and he felt that he could face the vicar with a bold front at
their next meeting. He went quickly down the path and crossed the road to
his own gate with a light step. As he entered the park he was not aware
of a wretched-looking tramp who slouched along the quickset hedge and
watched his retreating figure far up the avenue, till he was out of sight
among the leafless trees. If Stamboul had been with the squire the tramp
would certainly not have passed unnoticed; but for some days the roads
had been so muddy that Stamboul had been left behind when Mr. Juxon made
his visits to the cottage, lest the great hound should track the mud into
the spotless precincts of the passage. The tramp stood still and looked
after the squire so long as he could see him, and then slunk off across
the wet meadows, where the standing water was now skimmed with ice.
Walter Goddard had spent the day in watching for the squire and he had
seen him at last. He had seen him go down the road with the vicar till
they were both out of sight, and he had seen him come back and enter the
cottage. This proceeding, he argued, betrayed that the squire did not
wish to be seen going into Mary's house by the vicar. The tortuous
intelligences of bad men easily impute to others courses which they
themselves would naturally pursue. Three words on the previous evening
had sufficed to rouse the convict's jealousy. What he saw to-day
confirmed his suspicions. The gentleman in knickerbockers could be no
other than the squire himself, of course. He was evidently in the habit
of visiting Mary Goddard and he did not wish his visits to be observed by
the clergyman, who was of course the vicar or rector of the parish. That
proved conclusively in the fugitive's mind that there was something
wrong. He ground his teeth together and said to himself that it would be
worth while to run some risk in order to stop that little game, as he
expressed it. He had, as he himself had confessed to his wife, murdered
one man in escaping; a man, he reflected, could only hang once, and if he
had not been taken in the streets of London he was not likely to be
caught in the high street of Billingsfield, Essex. It would be a great
satisfaction to knock the squire on the head before he went any farther.
Moreover he had found a wonderfully safe retreat in the disused vault at
the back of the church. He discovered loose stones inside the place which
he could pile up against the low hole which served for an entrance.
Probably no one knew that there was any entrance at all--the very
existence of the vault was most likely forgotten. It was not a cheerful
place, but Goddard's nerves were excited to a pitch far beyond the reach
of supernatural fears. Whatever he might be condemned to feel in the
future, his conscience troubled him very little in the present. The vault
was comparatively dry and was in every way preferable, as a resting-place
for one night, to the interior of a mouldy haystack in the open fields.
He did not dare show himself again at the "Feathers" inn, lest he should
be held to do the day's work he had promised in payment for his night in
the barn. All that morning and afternoon he had lain hidden in the
quickset hedge near the park gate, within sight of the cottage, and he
had been rewarded. The food he had taken with him the night before had
sufficed him and he had quenched his thirst with rain-water from the
ditch. Having seen that the squire went back towards the Hall, Goddard
slunk away to his hiding-place to wait for the night. He lay down as best
he might, and listened for the hours and half-hours as the church clock
tolled them out from the lofty tower above.
Mary Goddard had told him to come later than before, and it was after
half-past ten when he tapped upon the shutter of the little drawing-room.
All was dark within, and he held his breath as he stood among the wet
creepers, listening intently for the sound of his wife's coming.
Presently the glass window inside was opened.
"Is that you?" asked Mary's voice in a tremulous whisper.
"Yes," he answered. "Let me in." Then the shutter was cautiously
unfastened and opened a little and in the dim starlight Goddard
recognised his wife's pale face. Her hand went out to him, with something
in it.
"There is the money," she whispered. "Go as quickly as you can. They are
looking for you--there are orders out to arrest you."
Goddard seized her fingers and took the money. She would have withdrawn
her hand but he held it firmly.
"Who told you that they were after me?" he asked in a fierce whisper.
"Mr. Juxon--let me go."
"Mr. Juxon!" The convict uttered a rough oath. "Your friend Mr. Juxon,
eh? He is after me, is he? Tell him--"
"Hush, hush!" she whispered. "He has no idea you are here--"
"I should think not," muttered Walter. "He would not be sneaking in here
on the sly to see you if he knew I were about!"
"What do you mean?" asked Mary. "Oh, Walter, let me go--you hurt me so!"
He held her fingers as in a vice.
"Hurt you! I wish I could strangle you and him too! Ha, you thought I was
not looking this afternoon when he came! He went to the corner of the
road with the parson, and when the parson was out of sight he came back!
I saw you!"
"You saw nothing!" answered his wife desperately. "How can you say so! If
you knew how kind he has been, what a loyal gentleman he is, you would
not dare to say such things."
"You used to say I was a loyal gentleman, Mary," retorted the convict. "I
daresay he is of the same stamp as I. Look here, Mary, if I catch this
loyal gentleman coming here any more I will cut his throat--so look out!"
"You do not mean to say you are going to remain here any longer, in
danger of your life?" said Mary in great alarm.
"Well--a man can only hang once. Give me some more of that bread and
cheese, Mary. It was exceedingly good."
"Then let me go," said his wife, trembling with horror at the threat she
had just heard.
"Oh yes. I will let you go. But I will just hold the window open in case
you don't come back soon enough. Look sharp!"
There was no need to hurry the unfortunate woman. In less than three
minutes she returned, bringing a "quartern" loaf and a large piece of
cheese. She thrust them out upon the window-sill and withdrew her hand
before he could catch it. But he held the window open.
"Now go!" she said. "I cannot do more for you--for God's sake go!"
"You seem very anxious to see the last of me," he whispered. "I daresay
if I am hanged you will get a ticket to see me turned off. Yes--we
mention those things rather freely up in town. Don't be alarmed. I will
come back to-morrow night--you had better listen. If you had shown a
little more heart, I would have been satisfied, but you are so stony that
I think I would like another fifty pounds to-morrow night. Those notes
are so deliciously crisp--"
"Listen, Walter!" said Mary. "Unless you promise to go I will raise an
alarm at once. I can face shame again well enough. I will have you--hush!
For God's sake--hush! There is somebody coming!"
The convict's quick ear had caught the sound. Instantly he knelt and then
lay down at full length upon the ground below the window. It was a fine
night and the conscientious Mr. Gall was walking his beat. The steady
tramp of his heavy shoes had something ominous in it which struck terror
into the heart of the wretched fugitive. With measured tread he came from
the direction of the village. Reaching the cottage he paused and dimly in
the starlight Mrs. Goddard could distinguish his glazed hat--the
provincial constabulary still wore hats in those days. Mr. Gall stood not
fifteen yards from the cottage, failed to observe that a window was
open on the lower floor, nodded to himself as though satisfied with his
inspection and walked on. Little by little the sound of his steps grew
fainter in the distance. Walter slowly raised himself again from the
ground, and put his head in at the window.
"You see it would not be hard to have you caught," whispered his wife,
still breathless with the passing excitement. "That was the policeman. If
I had called him, it would have been all over with you. I tell you if you
try to come again I will give you up."
"Oh, that's the way you treat me, is it?" said the convict with another
oath. "Then you had better look out for your dear Mr. Juxon, that's all."
Without another word, Goddard glided away from the window, let himself
out by the wicket gate and disappeared across the road.
Mary Goddard was in that moment less horrified by her husband's threat
than by his base ingratitude to herself and by the accusation he seemed
to make against her. Worn out with the emotions of fear and anxiety, she
had barely the strength to close and fasten the window. Then she sank
into the first chair she could find in the dark and stared into the
blackness around her. It seemed indeed more than she could bear. She was
placed in the terrible position of being obliged to betray her fugitive
husband, or of living in constant fear lest he should murder the best
friend she had in the world.
CHAPTER XVI.
On the morning after the events last described Mr. Ambrose sat at
breakfast opposite his wife. The early post had just arrived, bringing
the usual newspaper and two letters.
"Any news, my dear?" inquired Mrs. Ambrose with great suavity, as she
rinsed her teacup in the bowl preparatory to repeating the dose. "Is not
it time that we should hear from John?"
"There is a letter from him, strange to say. Wait a minute--my dear, the
Tripos is over and he wants to know if he may stop here--"
"The Tripos over already! How has he done? Do tell me, Augustin!"
"He does not know," returned the vicar, quickly looking over the
contents of the letter. "The lists are not out--he thinks he has done
very well--he has had a hint that he is high up--wants to know whether he
may stop on his way to London--he is going to see his father--"
"Of course he shall come," said Mrs. Ambrose with enthusiasm. "He must
stop here till the lists are published and then we shall know--anything
else?"
"The other is a note from a tutor of his side--my old friend Brown--he is
very enthusiastic; says it is an open secret that John will be at the
head of the list--begins to congratulate. Well, my dear, this is very
satisfactory, very flattering."
"One might say very delightful, Augustin."
"Delightful, yes quite delightful," replied the vicar, burying his long
nose in his teacup.
"I only hope it may be true. I was afraid that perhaps John had done
himself harm by coming here at Christmas. Young men are so very
light-headed, are they not, Augustin?" added Mrs. Ambrose with a prim
smile. On rare occasions she had alluded to John's unfortunate passion
for Mrs. Goddard, and when she spoke of the subject she had a tendency to
assume something of the stiffness she affected towards strangers. As has
been seen she had ceased to blame Mrs. Goddard. Generally speaking the
absent are in the wrong in such matters; she could not refer to John's
conduct without a touch of severity. But the Reverend Augustin bent his
shaggy brows; John was now successful, probably senior classic--it was
evidently no time to censure his behaviour.
"You must be charitable, my dear," he said, looking sharply at his wife.
"We have all been young once you know."
"Augustin, I am surprised at you!" said Mrs. Ambrose sternly.
"For saying that I once was young?" inquired her husband. "Strange and
paradoxical as such a statement must appear, I was once a baby."
"I think your merriment very unseemly," objected Mrs. Ambrose in a tone
of censure. "Because you were once a baby it does not follow that you
ever acted in such a very foolish way about a--"
"My dear," interrupted the vicar, handing his cup across the table, "I
wish you would leave John alone, and give me another cup of tea. John
will be here to-morrow. Let us receive him as we should. He has done us
credit."
"He will never be received otherwise in this house, Augustin," replied
Mrs. Ambrose, "whether you allow me to speak my mind or not. I am aware
that Short has done us credit, as you express it. I only hope he always
may do us credit in the future. I am sure, I was like a mother to him. He
ought never to forget it. Why, my dear, cannot you remember how I always
