sometimes looking at him with the kindest eyes. It 
would make a difference, therefore, whether he were of 
the people or not, inasmuch as in the day of the great 
 
revenge it would only be the people who should be saved. 
It was for the people the world was made : whoever was 
not of them was against them ; and all others were 
cumberers, usurpers, exploiters, accapareurs, as M. Poupin 
used to say. Hyacinth had once put the question directly 
to Mr. Vetch, who looked at him a while through the 
fumes of his eternal pipe and then said, 'Do you think 
I'm an aristocrat?' 
' I didn't know but you were a bourgeois] the young 
man answered. 
' No, I'm neither. I'm a Bohemian.' 
'With your evening dress, every night?' 
'My dear boy,' said the fiddler, 'those are the most 
confirmed.' 
Hyacinth was only half satisfied with this, for it was by 
no means definite to him that Bohemians were also to be 
saved ; if he could be sure, perhaps he would become one 
himself. Yet he never suspected Mr. Vetch of being a 
' spy,' though Eustache Poupin had told him that there 
were a great many who looked a good deal like that : not, 
of course, with any purpose of incriminating the fiddler, 
whom he had trusted from the first and continued to trust. 
The middle -class spy became a very familiar type to 
Hyacinth, and though he had never caught one of the 
infamous brotherhood in the act, there were plenty of 
persons to whom, on the very face of the matter, he had 
no hesitation in attributing the character. There was 
nothing of the Bohemian, at any rate, about the Poupins, 
whom Hyacinth had now known long enough not to be 
surprised at the way they combined the socialistic passion, 
a red-hot impatience for the general rectification, with an 
extraordinary decency of life and a worship of proper work. 
The Frenchman' spoke, habitually, as if the great swindle 
practised upon the people were too impudent to be endured 
a moment longer, and yet he found patience for the most 
exquisite 'tooling,' and took a book in hand with the 
deliberation of one who should believe that everything was 
immutably constituted. Hyacinth knew what he thought 
of priests and theologies, but he had the religion of con- 
scientious craftsmanship, and he reduced the boy, on his 
side, to a kind of prostration before his delicate, wonder- 
working fingers. 'What will you have? fat la main 
parisiennej M. Poupin would reply modestly, when 
Hyacinth's admiration broke out; and he was good 
enough, after he had seen a few specimens of what our 
hero could do, to inform him that he had the same happy 
conformation. ' There is no reason why you shouldn't be 
a good workman, il riy a que fa  and his own life was 
practically governed by this conviction. He delighted in 
the use of his hands and his tools and the exercise of his 
taste, which was faultless, and Hyacinth could easily im- 
agine how it jnust torment him to spend a day on his 
back. He ended by perceiving, however, that consolation 
was, on this occasion, in some degree conveyed by the 
presence of the young man who sat at the foot of the bed, 
and with whom M. Poupin exhibited such signs of acquaint- 
ance as to make our hero wonder why he had not seen 
him before, nor even heard of him. 
'What do you mean by an irresistible force?' the young 
man inquired, leaning back in his chair, with raised arms 
and his interlocked hands behind him, supporting his head. 
M. Poupin had spoken French, which he always preferred 
 
to do, the insular tongue being an immense tribulation to 
him ; but his visitor spoke English, and Hyacinth immedi- 
ately perceived that there was nothing French about him 
M. Poupin could never tell him he had la main parisienne. 
' I mean a force that will make the bourgeois go down 
into their cellars and hide, pale with fear, behind their 
barrels of wine and their heaps of gold !' cried M. Poupin, 
rolling terrible eyes. 
' And in this country, I hope in their coal-bins. La-la, 
we shall find them even there,' his wife remarked. 
"It was an irresistible force,' said M. Poupin. 'I 
believe you would have thought so if you had been there.' 
'And so was the entrance of the Versaillais, which sent 
you over here, ten years ago,' the young man rejoined. He 
saw that Hyacinth was watching him, and he met his eyes, 
smiling a little, in a way that added to our hero's interest. 
' Pardon, pardon, I resist ! ' cried Eustache Poupin, 
glaring, in his improvised nightcap, out of his sheets ; and 
Madame repeated that they resisted she believed well 
that they resisted! The young man burst out laughing; 
whereupon his host declared, with a dignity which even his 
recumbent position did not abate, that it was really frivolous 
of him to ask such questions as that, knowing as he did 
what he did know. 
'Yes, I know I know,' said the young man, good- 
naturedly, lowering his arms and thrusting his hands into 
his pockets, while he stretched his long legs a little. ' But 
everything is yet to be tried.' 
' Oh, the trial will be on a great scale soyez tranquille ! 
It will be one of those experiments that constitute a proof.' 
Hyacinth wondered what they were talking about, and 
perceived that it must be something important, for the 
stranger was not a man who would take an interest in any- 
thing else. Hyacinth was immensely struck with him he 
could see that he was remarkable and felt slightly aggrieved 
that he should be a stranger : that is, that he should be, 
apparently, a familiar of Lisson Grove and yet that M. 
Poupin should not have thought his young friend from 
Lomax Place worthy, up to this time, to be made acquainted 
with him. I know not to what degree the visitor in the 
other chair discovered these reflections in Hyacinth's face, 
but after a moment, looking across at him, he said in a 
friendly yet just slightly diffident way, a way our hero liked, 
' And do you know, too ? ' 
' Do I know what ? ' asked Hyacinth, wondering. 
' Oh, if you did, you would ! ' the young man exclaimed, 
laughing again. Such a rejoinder, from any one else, 
would have irritated our sensitive hero, but it only made 
Hyacinth more curious about his interlocutor, whose laugh 
was loud and extraordinarily gay. 
' ' M on ami, you ought to present ces messieurs  Madame 
Poupin remarked. 
' Ah (a, is that the way you trifle with state secrets ? ' 
her husband cried out, without heeding her. Then he 
went on, in a different tone : ' M. Hyacinthe is a gifted 
child, un enfant tres-doue, in whom I take a tender interest 
a child who has an account to settle. Oh, a thumping 
big one ! Isn't it so, mon petit ? ' 
This was very well meant, but it made Hyacinth blush, 
and, without knowing exactly what to say, he murmured 
shyly, ' Oh, I only want them to let me alone ! ' 
' He is very young,' said Eustache Poupin. 
 
' He is the person we have seen in this country whom 
we like the best,' his wife added. 
' Perhaps you are French,' suggested the strange young 
man. 
The trio seemed to Hyacinth to be waiting for his answer 
to this ; it was as if a listening stillness had fallen upon 
them. He found it a difficult moment, partly because 
there was something exciting and embarrassing in the 
attention of the other visitor, and partly because he had 
never yet had to decide that important question. He 
didn't really know whether he were French or English, 
or which of the two he should prefer to be. His mother's 
blood, her suffering in an alien land, the unspeakable, 
irremediable misery that consumed her, in a place, among a 
people, she must have execrated all this made him French; 
yet he was conscious at the same time of qualities that did 
not mix with it. He had evolved, long ago, a legend about 
his mother, built it up slowly, adding piece to piece, in 
passionate musings and broodings, when his cheeks burned 
and his eyes filled ; but there were times when it wavered 
and faded, when it ceased to console him and he ceased 
to trust it. He had had a father too, and his father had 
suffered as well, and had fallen under a blow, and had paid 
with his life; and him also he felt in his mind and his 
body, when the effort to think it out did not simply end in 
darkness and confusion, challenging still even while they 
baffled, and inevitable freezing horror. At any rate, he 
seemed rooted in the place where his wretched parents had 
expiated, and he knew nothing about any other. More- 
over, when old Poupin said, 'M. Hyacinthe,' as he had 
often done before, he didn't altogether enjoy it ; he thought 
it made his name, which he liked well enough in English, 
sound like the name of a hair-dresser. Our young friend 
was under a cloud and a stigma, but he was not yet pre- 
pared to admit that he was ridiculous. ' Oh, I daresay I 
ain't anything,' he replied in a moment 
' En vUa des betises ! ' cried Madame Poupin. ' Do you 
mean to say you are not as good as any one in the world ? 
I should like to see ! ' 
'We all have an account to settle, don't you know?' 
said the strange young man. 
He evidently meant this to be encouraging to Hyacinth, 
whose quick desire to avert M. Poupin's allusions had not 
been lost upon him ; but our hero could see that he him- 
self would be sure to be one of the first to be paid. He 
would make society bankrupt, but he would be paid. He 
was tall and fair and good-natured looking, but you couldn't 
tell or at least Hyacinth couldn't whether he were 
handsome or ugly, with his large head and square fore- 
head, his thick, straight hair, his heavy mouth and 
rather vulgar nose, his admirably clear, bright eye, 
light-coloured and set very deep ; for though there 
was a want of fineness in some of its parts, his face 
had a marked expression of intelligence and resolution, 
and denoted a kind of joyous moral health. He was 
dressed like a workman in his Sunday toggery, having 
evidently put on his best to call in Lisson Grove, where he 
was to meet a lady, and wearing in particular a necktie 
which was both cheap and pretentious, and of which 
Hyacinth, who noticed everything of that kind, observed 
the crude, false blue. He had very big shoes the shoes, 
almost, of a country labourer and spoke with a pro- 
 
vincial accent, which Hyacinth believed to be that of 
Lancashire. This didn't suggest cleverness, but it didn't 
prevent Hyacinth from perceiving that he was the reverse 
of stupid, that he probably, indeed, had a tremendous 
head. Our little hero had a great desire to know superior 
people, and he interested himself on the spot in this strong, 
humorous fellow, who had the complexion of a ploughboy 
and the glance of a commander-in-chief and who might 
have been (Hyacinth thought) a distinguished young savant 
in the disguise of an artisan. The disguise would have 
been very complete, for he had several brown stains on his 
fingers. Hyacinth's curiosity, on this occasion, was both 
excited and gratified ; for after two or three allusions, which 
he didn't understand, had been made to a certain place 
where Poupin and the stranger had met and expected to 
meet again, Madame Poupin exclaimed that it was a shame 
not to take in M. Hyacinthe, who, she would answer for it, 
had in him the making of one of the pure. 
' All in good time, in good time, ma bonne] the invalid 
replied. ' M. Hyacinthe knows that I count upon him, 
whether or no I make him an interne to-day or wait a 
while longer.' 
' What do you mean by an interne ? ' Hyacinth asked. 
' Mon Dieu, what shall I say ! ' and Eustache Poupin 
stared at him solemnly, from his pillow. 'You are very 
sympathetic, but I am afraid you are too young.' 
' One is never too young to contribute one's obolej said 
Madame Poupin. 
'Can you keep a secret?' asked the other visitor, smilingly. 
' Is it a plot a conspiracy ? ' Hyacinth broke out 
' He asks that as if he were asking if it's a plum-pudding,' 
io8   vn 
said M. Poupin. ' It isn't good to eat, and we don't do it 
for our amusement. It's terribly serious, my child.' 
' It's a kind of society, to which he and I and a good 
many others belong. There is no harm in telling him that,' 
the young man went on. 
' I advise you not to tell it to Mademoiselle ; she is quite 
in the old ideas,' Madame Poupin suggested to Hyacinth, 
tasting her tisane. 
Hyacinth sat baffled and wondering, looking from his 
fellow-labourer in Soho to his new acquaintance opposite. 
4 If you have some plan, something to which one can give 
one's self, I think you might have told me,' he remarked, in 
a moment, to Poupin. 
The latter merely gazed at him a while ; then he said to 
the strange young man, ' He is a little jealous of you. But 
there is no harm in that ; it's of his age. You must know 
him, you must like him. We will tell you his history some 
other day ; it will make you feel that he belongs to us in 
fact. It is an accident that he hasn't met you here before.' 
' How could ces messieurs have met, when M. Paul never 
comes ? He doesn't spoil us ! ' Madame Poupin cried. 
' Well, you see I have my little sister at home to take 
care of, when I ain't at the shop,' M. Paul explained. 
' This afternoon it was just a chance ; there was a lady we 
know came in to sit with her.' 
' A lady a real lady ? ' 
4 Oh yes, every inch,' said M. Paul, laughing. 
' Do you like them to thrust themselves into your apart- 
ment like that, because you have the desagrement of being 
poor ? It seems to be the custom in this country, but it 
wouldn't suit me at all,' Madame Poupin continued. ' I 
 
should like to see one of ces dames the real ones coming 
in to sit with me ! ' 
' Oh, you are not a cripple ; you have got the use of your 
legs!' 
' Yes, and of my arms ! ' cried the Frenchwoman. 
' This lady looks after several others in our court, and she 
reads to my sister.' 
' Oh, well, you are patient, you English.' 
' We shall never do anything without that,' said M. Paul, 
with undisturbed good-humour. 
' You are perfectly right ; you can't say that too often. 
It will be a tremendous job, and only the strong will pre- 
vail,' his host murmured, a little wearily, turning his eyes to 
Madame Poupin, who approached slowly, holding the tisane 
in a rather full bowl, and tasting it again and yet again as 
she came. 
Hyacinth had been watching his fellow-visitor with 
deepening interest ; a fact of which M. Paul apparently 
became aware, for he said, presently, giving a little nod in 
the direction of the bed, ' He says we ought to know each 
other. I'm sure I have nothing against it. I like to know 
folk, when they're worth it ! ' 
Hyacinth was too pleased with this even to take it up ; 
it seemed to him, for a moment, that he couldn't touch it 
gracefully enough. But he said, with sufficient eagerness, 
' Will you tell me all about your plot ? ' 
' Oh, it's no plot. I don't think I care much for plots.' 
And with his mild, steady, light-blue English eye, M. Paul 
certainly had not much the appearance of a conspirator. 
' Isn't it a new era ? ' asked Hyacinth, rather dis- 
appointed. 
' Well, I don't know ; it's just a little movement.' 
' Ah bien, voila du propre ; between us we have thrown 
him into a fever ! ' cried Madame Poupin, who had put 
down her bowl on a table near her husband's bed and was 
bending over him, with her hand on his forehead. Eustache 
was flushed, he had closed his eyes, and it was evident there 
had been more than enough conversation. Madame Poupin 
announced as much, with the addition that if the young 
men wished to make acquaintance they must do it outside ; 
the invalid must be perfectly quiet. They accordingly 
withdrew, with apologies and promises to return for further 
news on the morrow, and two minutes afterward Hyacinth 
found himself standing face to face with his new friend on 
the pavement in front of M. Poupin's residence, under a 
street-lamp which struggled ineffectually with the brown 
winter dusk. 
' Is that your name M. Paul ? ' he asked, looking up at 
him. 
' Oh, bless you, no ; that's only her Frenchified way of 
putting it. My name is Paul, though Paul Muniment.' 
' And what's your trade ? ' Hyacinth demanded, with a 
jump into familiarity ; for his companion seemed to have 
told him a great deal more than was usually conveyed in 
that item of information. 
Paul Muniment looked down at him from above broad 
shoulders. ' I work at a wholesale chemist's, at Lambeth.' 
' And where do you live ? ' 
' I live over the water, too ; in the far south of London. ' 
' And are you going home now ? ' 
'Oh yes, I am going to toddle.' 
' And may I toddle with you ? ' 
vii   in 
Mr. Muniment considered him further ; then he gave a 
laugh. ' I'll carry you, if you like.' 
' Thank you ; I expect I can walk as far as you said 
Hyacinth. 
' Well, I admire your spirit, and I daresay I shall like 
your company.' 
There was something in his face, taken in connection 
with the idea that he was concerned in a little movement, 
which made Hyacinth feel the desire to go with him till he 
dropped ; and in a moment they started away together and 
took the direction Muniment had mentioned. They dis- 
coursed as they went, and exchanged a great many opinions 
and anecdotes ; but they reached the south-westerly court in 
which the young chemist lived with his infirm sister before 
he had told Hyacinth anything definite about his little 
movement, or Hyacinth, on his side, had related to him the 
circumstances connected with his being, according to 
M. Poupin, one of the disinherited. Hyacinth didn't wish 
to press him ; he would not for the world have appeared to 
him indiscreet ; and, moreover, though he had taken so 
great a fancy to Muniment, he was not quite prepared, as 
yet, to be pressed. Therefore it did not become very clear 
to him how his companion had made Poupin's acquaintance 
and how long he had enjoyed it. Paul Muniment never- 
theless was to a certain extent communicative about him- 
self, and forewarned Hyacinth that he lived in a very poor 
little corner. He had his sister to keep she could do 
nothing for herself; and he paid a low rent because she 
had to have doctors, and doses, and all sorts of little 
comforts. He spent a shilling a week for her on flowers. 
It was better, too, when you got upstairs, and from the back 
windows you could see the dome of St. Paul's. Audley 
Court, with its pretty name, which reminded Hyacinth of 
Tennyson, proved to be a still dingier nook than Lomax 
Place ; and it had the further drawback that you had to pass 
through a narrow alley, a passage between high, black walls, 
to enter it. At the door of one of the houses the young 
men paused, lingering a little, and then Muniment said, ' I 
say, why shouldn't you come up ? I like you well enough 
for that, and you can see my sister; her name is Rosy.' 
He spoke as if this would be a great privilege, and added, 
humorously, that Rosy enjoyed a call from a gentleman, 
of all things. Hyacinth needed no urging, and he groped 
his way, at his companion's heels, up a dark staircase, which 
appeared to him for they stopped only when they could 
go no further the longest and steepest he had ever 
ascended. At the top Paul Muniment pushed open a door, 
but exclaimed, ' Hullo, have you gone to roost ? ' on per- 
ceiving that the room on the threshold of which they stood 
was unlighted. 
' Oh, dear, no ; we are sitting in the dark,' a small, 
bright voice instantly replied. ' Lady Aurora is so kind ; 
she's here still.' 
The voice came out of a corner so pervaded by 
gloom that the speaker was indistinguishable. 'Dear 
me, that's beautiful ! ' Paul Muniment rejoined. ' You'll 
have a party, then, for I have brought some one else. 
We are poor, you know, but I daresay we can manage 
a candle.' 
At this, in the dim firelight, Hyacinth saw a tall figure 
erect itself a figure angular and slim, crowned with a large, 
vague hat, surmounted, apparently, with a flowing veil. This 
 
unknown person gave a singular laugh, and said, 'Oh, I 
brought some candles ; we could have had a light if we had 
wished it.' Both the tone and the purport of the words 
announced to Hyacinth that they proceeded from the lips 
of Lady Aurora. 
VOL. I. 
VIII 
PAUL MUNIMENT took a match out of his pocket and 
lighted it on the sole of his shoe ; after which he applied 
it to a tallow candle which stood in a tin receptacle on the 
low mantel- shelf. This enabled Hyacinth to perceive a 
narrow bed in a corner, and a small figure stretched upon 
it a figure revealed to him mainly by the bright fixedness 
of a pair of large eyes, of which the whites were sharply 
contrasted with the dark pupil, and which gazed at him 
across a counterpane of gaudy patchwork. The brown 
room seemed crowded with heterogeneous objects, and had, 
moreover, for Hyacinth, thanks to a multitude of small 
prints, both plain and coloured, fastened all over the walls, 
a highly-decorated appearance. The little person in the 
corner had the air of having gone to bed in a picture- 
gallery, and as soon as Hyacinth became aware of this his 
impression deepened that Paul Muniment and his sister 
were very remarkable people. Lady Aurora hovered before 
him with a kind of drooping erectness, laughing a good 
deal, vaguely and shyly, as if there were something rather 
awkward in her being found still on the premises. ' Rosy, 
girl, I've brought you a visitor,' Paul Muniment said. 
' This young man has walked all tKe way from Lisson Grove 
to make your acquaintance.' Rosy continued to look at 
 
Hyacinth from over her counterpane, and he felt slightly 
embarrassed, for he had never yet been presented to a 
young lady in her position. ' You mustn't mind her being 
in bed she's always in bed,' her brother went on. ' She's 
in bed just the same as a little trout is in the water.' 
' Dear me, if I didn't receive company because I was in 
bed, there wouldn't be much use, would there, Lady 
Aurora ? ' 
Rosy made this inquiry in a light, gay tone, darting 
her brilliant eyes at her companion, who replied instantly, 
with still greater hilarity, and in a voice which struck 
Hyacinth as strange and affected, ' Oh, dear, no, it seems 
quite the natural place ! ' Then she added, ' And it's such 
a pretty bed, such a comfortable bed ! ' 
' Indeed it is, when your ladyship makes it up,' said 
Rosy ; while Hyacinth wondered at this strange pheno- 
menon of a peer's daughter (for he knew she must be that) 
performing the functions of a housemaid. 
' I say, now, you haven't been doing that again to-day ? ' 
Muniment asked, punching the mattress of the invalid with 
a vigorous hand. 
' Pray, who would, if I didn't ? ' Lady Aurora inquired. 
' It only takes a minute, if one knows how.' Her manner 
was .jocosely apologetic, and she seemed to plead guilty to 
having been absurd ; in the dim light Hyacinth thought 
he saw her blush, as if she were much embarrassed. In 
spite of her blushing, her appearance and manner suggested 
to him a personage in a comedy. She sounded the letter 
r peculiarly. 
' I can do it, beautifully. I often do it, when Mrs. 
Major doesn't come up,' Paul Muniment said, continuing 
to thump his sister's couch in an appreciative but some- 
what subversive manner. 
' Oh, I have no doubt whatever ! ' Lady Aurora ex- 
claimed, quickly. ' Mrs. Major must have so very much 
to do.' 
' Not in the making-up of beds, I'm afraid ; there are 
only two or three, down there, for so many,' Paul Muni- 
ment remarked loudly, and with a kind of incongruous 
cheerfulness. 
'Yes, I have thought a great deal about that. But 
there wouldn't be room for more, you know,' said Lady 
Aurora, this time in a very serious tone. 
' There's not much room for a family of that sort any- 
where thirteen people of all ages and sizes,' the young 
man rejoined. ' The world's pretty big, but there doesn't 
seem room.' 
' We are also thirteen at home said Lady Aurora, 
laughing again. ' We are also rather crowded.' 
' Surely you don't mean at Inglefield ? ' Rosy inquired 
eagerly, in her dusky nook. 
' I don't know about Inglefield. I am so much in 
town.' Hyacinth could see that Inglefield was a subject 
she wished to turn off, and to do so she added, ' We too 
are of all ages and sizes.' 
'Well, it's fortunate you are not all your size!' Paul 
Muniment exclaimed, with a freedom at which Hyacinth 
was rather shocked, and which led him to suspect that, 
though his new friend was a very fine fellow, a delicate tact 
was not his main characteristic. Later he explained this 
by the fact that he was rural and provincial, and had not 
had, like himself, the benefit of metropolitan culture ; and 
 
later still he asked himself what, after all, such a character 
as that had to do with tact or with compliments, and why 
its work in the world was not most properly performed by 
the simple exercise of a rude, manly strength. 
At this familiar allusion to her stature Lady Aurora 
turned hither and thither, a little confusedly ; Hyacinth 
saw her high, lean figure sway to and fro in the dim little 
room. Her commotion carried her to the door, and with 
ejaculations of which it was difficult to guess the meaning 
she was about to depart, when Rosy detained her, having 
evidently much more social art than Paul. ' Don't you 
see it's only because her ladyship is standing up that she's 
so, you gawk ? We are not thirteen, at any rate, and we 
have got all the furniture we want, so that there's a chair 
for every one. Do be seated again, Lady Aurora, and help 
me to entertain this gentleman. I don't know your name, 
sir ; perhaps my brother will mention it when he has col- 
lected his wits. I am very glad to see you, though I don't 
see you very well. Why shouldn't we light one of her 
ladyship's candles? It's very different to that common 
thing.' 
Hyacinth thought Miss Muniment very charming : he 
had begun to make her out better by this time, and he 
watched her little wan, pointed face, framed, on the pillow, 
by thick black hair. She was a diminutive dark person, 
pale and wasted with a lifelong infirmity ; Hyacinth thought 
her manner denoted high cleverness he judged it impos- 
sible to tell her age. Lady Aurora said she ought to have 
gone, long since; but she seated herself, nevertheless, on 
the chair that Paul pushed towards her. 
' Here's a go ! ' this young man exclaimed. ' You told 
n8   vm 
me your name, but I've clean forgotten it.' Then, when 
Paul had announced it again, he said to his sister, ' That 
won't tell you much ; there are bushels of Robinsons in the 
north. But you'll like him ; he's a very smart little fellow ; 
I met him at the Poupins. 3 ' Puppin ' would represent 
the sound by which he designated the French bookbinder, 
and that was the name by which Hyacinth always heard him 
called at Mr. Crookenden's. Hyacinth knew how much 
nearer to the right thing he himself came. 
'Your name, like mine, represents a flower,' said the 
little woman in the bed. ' Mine is Rose Muniment, and 
her ladyship's is Aurora Langrish. That means the morn- 
ing, or the dawn ; it's the most beautiful of all, don't you 
think so?' Rose Muniment addressed this inquiry to 
Hyacinth, while Lady Aurora gazed at her shyly and 
mutely, as if she admired her manner, her self-possession 
and flow of conversation. Her brother lighted one of the 
visitor's candles, and the girl went on, without waiting for 
Hyacinth's response : ' Isn't it right that she should be 
called the dawn, when she brings light where she goes ? 
The Puppins ars the charming foreigners I have told you 
about,' she explained to her friend. 
' Oh, it's so pleasant knowing a few foreigners ! ' Lady 
Aurora exclaimed, with a spasm of expression. ' They are 
often so very fresh.' 
' Mr. Robinson's a sort of foreigner, and he's very fresh,' 
said Paul Muniment. ' He meets Mr. Puppin quite on 
his own ground. If I had his command of the lingo it 
would give me a lift.' 
' I'm sure I should be very happy to help you with your 
French. I feel the advantage of knowing it,' Hyacinth re- 
 
marked, finely, and became conscious that his declaration 
drew the attention of Lady Aurora towards him ; so that he 
wondered what he could go on to say, to keep at that level. 
This was the first time he had encountered, socially, a 
member of that aristocracy to which he had now for a good 
while known it was Miss Pynsent's theory that he belonged; 
and the occasion was interesting, in spite of the lady's ap- 
pearing to have so few of the qualities of her caste. She 
was about thirty years of age ; her nose was large and, in 
spite of the sudden retreat of her chin, her face was long 
and lean. She had the manner of extreme near-sighted- 
ness ; her front teeth projected from her upper gums, which 
she revealed when she smiled, and her fair hair, in tangled, 
silky skeins (Rose Muniment thought it too lovely), drooped 
over her pink cheeks. Her clothes looked as if she had 
worn them a good deal in the rain, and the note of a 
certain disrepair in her apparel was given by a hole in one 
of her black gloves, through which a white finger gleamed. 
She was plain and diffident, and she might have been poor ; 
but in the fine grain and sloping, shrinking slimness of her 
whole person, the delicacy of her curious features, and a 
kind of cultivated quality in her sweet, vague, civil expres- 
sion, there was a suggestion of race, of long transmission, 
of an organism highly evolved. She was not a common 
woman ; she was one of the caprices of an aristocracy. 
Hyacinth did not define her in this manner to himself, but 
he received from her the impression that, though she was a 
simple creature (which he learned later she was not), aristo- 
cracies were complicated things. Lady Aurora remarked 
that there were many delightful books in French, and Hya- 
cinth rejoined that it was a torment to know that (as he 
did, very well), when you didn't see your way to getting 
hold of them. This led Lady Aurora to say, after a 
moment's hesitation, that she had a good lot of her own and 
that if he liked she should be most happy to lend them to 
him. Hyacinth thanked her thanked her even too much, 
and felt both the kindness and the brilliant promise of the 
offer (he knew the exasperation of having volumes in his 
hands, for external treatment, which he couldn't take home 
at night, having tried that system, surreptitiously, during 
his first weeks at Mr. Crookenden's and come very near 
losing his place in consequence), while he wondered how it 
could be put into practice whether she would expect him 
to call at her house and wait in the hall till the books were 
sent out to him. Rose Muniment exclaimed that that was 
her ladyship all over always wanting to make up to people 
for being less fortunate than herself: she would take the 
shoes off her feet for any one that might take a fancy to 
them. At this the visitor declared that she would stop 
coming to see her, if the girl caught her up, that way, for 
everything; and Rosy, without heeding this remonstrance, 
explained to Hyacinth that she thought it the least she 
could do to give what she had. She was so ashamed of 
being rich that she wondered the lower classes didn't 
break into Inglefield and take possession of all the 
treasures in the Italian room. She was a tremendous 
socialist ; she was worse than any one she was worse, 
even, than Paul. 
' I wonder if she is worse than me,' Hyacinth said, 
at a venture, not understanding the allusions to Ingle- 
field and the Italian room, which Miss Muniment made 
as if she knew all about these places. After Hyacinth 
 
knew more of the world he remembered this tone of 
Muniment's sister (he was to have plenty of observation 
of it on other occasions) as that of a person who was 
in the habit of visiting the nobility at their country-seats ; 
she talked about Inglefield as if she had stayed there. 
' Hullo, I didn't know you were so advanced ! ' ex- 
claimed Paul Muniment, who had been sitting silent, 
sidewise, in a chair that was too narrow for him, with his 
big arm hugging the back. ' Have we been entertaining 
an angel unawares ? ' 
Hyacinth seemed to see that he was laughing at him, 
but he knew the way to face that sort of thing was to 
exaggerate his meaning. 'You didn't know I was ad- 
vanced? Why, I thought that was the principal thing 
about me. I think I go about as far as it is possible 
to go.' 
' I thought the principal thing about you was that you 
knew French,' Paul Muniment said, with an air of derision 
which showed Hyacinth that he wouldn't put that ridicule 
upon him unless he like.d him, at the same time that it 
revealed to him that he himself had just been posturing 
a little. 
'Well, I don't know it for nothing. I'll say some- 
thing very neat and sharp to you, if you don't look out 
just the sort of thing they say so much in French.' 
' Oh, do say something of that kind ; we should enjoy 
it so much ! ' cried Rosy, in perfect good faith, clasping 
her hands in expectation. 
The appeal was embarrassing, but Hyacinth was 
saved from the consequences of it by a remark from 
Lady Aurora, who quavered out the words after two or 
three false starts, appearing to address him, now that 
she spoke to him directly, with a sort of overdone con- 
sideration. ' I should like so very much to know it 
would be so interesting if you don't mind how far 
exactly you do go.' She threw back her head very far, 
and thrust her shoulders forward, and if her chin had 
been more adapted to such a purpose would have appeared 
to point it at him. 
This challenge was hardly less alarming than the other. 
for Hyacinth was far from having ascertained the extent 
of his advance. He replied, however, with an earnestness 
with which he tried to make up as far as possible for his 
vagueness : ' Well, I'm very strong indeed. I think I see 
my way to conclusions, from which even Monsieur and 
Madame Poupin would shrink. Poupin, at any rate ; I'm 
not so sure about his wife.' 
'I should like so much to know Madame,' Lady 
Aurora murmured, as if politeness demanded that she 
should content herself with this answer. 
' Oh, Puppin isn't strong,' said Muniment ; ' you can 
easily look over his head ! He has a sweet assortment of 
phrases they are really pretty things to hear, some of 
them; but he hasn't had a new idea these thirty years. 
It's the old stock that has been withering in the window. 
All the same, he warms one up ; he has got a spark of the 
sacred fire. The principal conclusion that Mr. Robinson sees 
his way to,' he added to Lady Aurora, ' is that your father 
ought to have his head chopped off and carried on a pike.' 
' Ah, yes, the French Revolution.' 
' Lord, I don't know anything about your father, my 
lady !' Hyacinth interposed. 
 
'Didn't you ever hear of the Earl of Inglefield?' cried 
Rose Muniment. 
' He is one of the best said Lady Aurora, as if she 
were pleading for him. 
' Very likely, but he is a landlord, and he has an heredi- 
tary seat and a park of five thousand acres all to himself, 
while we are bundled together into this sort of kennel.' 
Hyacinth admired the young man's consistency until he 
saw that he was chaffing ; after which he still admired the 
way he mixed up merriment with the tremendous opinions 
our hero was sure he entertained. In his own imagination 
Hyacinth associated bitterness with the revolutionary pas- 
sion ; but the young chemist, at the same time that he was 
planning far ahead, seemed capable of turning" revolutionists 
themselves into ridicule, even for the entertainment of the 
revolutionised. 
' Well, I have told you often enough that I don't go 
with you at all,' said Rose Muniment, whose recumbency 
appeared not in the least to interfere with her sense of 
responsibility. ' You'll make a tremendous mistake if you 
try to turn everything round. There ought to be differ- 
ences, and high and low, and there always will be, true as 
ever I lie here. I think it's against everything, pulling 
down them that's above.' 
' Everything points to great changes in this country, but 
if once our Rosy's against them, how can you be sure? 
That's the only thing that makes me doubt,' her brother 
went on, looking at her with a placidity which showed the 
habit of indulgence. 
' Well, I may be ill, but I ain't buried, and if I'm con- 
tent with my position such a position as it is surely 
other folk might be with theirs. Her ladyship may think 
I'm as good as her, if she takes that notion ; but she'll 
have a deal to do to make me believe it.' 
' I think you are much better than I, and I know very 
few people so good as you,' Lady Aurora remarked, blush- 
ing, not for her opinions, but for her timidity. It was easy 
to see that, though she was original, she would have liked 
to be even more original than she was. She was conscious, 
however, that such a declaration might appear rather gross 
to persons who didn't see exactly how she meant it ; so she 
added, as quickly as her hesitating manner permitted, to 
cover it up, 'You know there's one thing you ought to 
remember, apropos of revolutions and changes and all that 
sort of thing ; I just mention it because we were talking of 
some of the dreadful things that were done in France. If 
there were to be a great disturbance in this country and 
of course one hopes there won't it would be my impres- 
sion that the people would behave in a different way 
altogether.' 
'What people do you mean?' Hyacinth allowed himself 
to inquire. f 
' Oh, the upper class, the people that have got all the 
things.' 
'We don't call them the people,' observed Hyacinth, 
reflecting the next instant that his remark was a little 
primitive. 
'I suppose you call them the wretches, the villains!' 
Rose Muniment suggested, laughing merrily. 
' All the things, but not all the brains, ' her brother said. 
'No, indeed, aren't they stupid?' exclaimed her lady- 
ship. ' All the same, I don't think they would go abroad.' 
 
'Go abroad?' 
' I mean like the French nobles, who emigrated so 
much. They would stay at home and resist ; they would 
make more of a fight. I think they would fight very hard.' 
'I'm delighted to hear it, and I'm sure they would 
win ! ' cried Rosy. 
' They wouldn't collapse, don't you know,' Lady Aurora 
continued. 'They would struggle till they were beaten.' 
' And you think they would be beaten in the end ? ' 
Hyacinth asked. 
' Oh dear, yes,' she replied, with a familiar brevity at 
which he was greatly surprised. ' But of course one hopes 
it won't happen.' 
' I infer from what you say that they talk it over a good 
deal among themselves, to settle the line they will take,' 
said Paul Muniment. 
But Rosy intruded before Lady Aurora could answer. 
' I think it's wicked to talk it over, and I'm sure we haven't 
any business to talk it over here ! When her ladyship says 
that the aristocracy will make a fine stand, I like to hear 
her say it, and I think she speaks in a manner that becomes 
her own position. But there is something else in her tone 
which, if I may be allowed to say so, I think a great mis- 
take. If her ladyship expects, in case of the lower classes 
coming up in. that odious manner, to be let off easily, for 
the sake of the concessions she may have made in advance, 
I would just advise her to save herself the disappointment 
and the trouble. They won't be a bit the wiser, and they 
won't either know or care. If they are going to trample 
over their betters, it isn't on account of her having seemed 
to give up everything to us here that they will let her off. 
They will trample on her just the same as on the others, 
and they'll say that she has got to pay for her title and her 
grand relations and her fine appearance. Therefore I 
advise her not to waste her good nature in trying to let 
herself down. When you're up so high as that you've got 
to stay there ; and if Providence has made you a lady, the 
best thing you can do is to hold up your head. I can 
promise your ladyship I would ! ' 
The close logic of this speech and the quaint self- 
possession with which the little bedridden speaker delivered 
it struck Hyacinth as amazing, and confirmed his idea that 
the brother and sister were a most extraordinary pair. It 
had a terrible effect upon poor Lady Aurora, by whom so 
stern a lesson from so humble a quarter had evidently not 
been expected, and who sought refuge from her confusion 
in a series of bewildered laughs, while Paul Muniment, 
with his humorous density, which was deliberate, and 
clever too, not seeing, or at any rate not heeding, that 
she had been sufficiently snubbed by his sister, inflicted 
a fresh humiliation by saying, ' Rosy 's right, my lady. It's 
no use trying to buy yourself off. You can't do enough ; 
your sacrifices don't count. You spoil your fun now, and 
you don't get it made up to you later. To all you people 
nothing will ever be made up. Enjoy your privileges 
while they last; it may not be for long.' 
Lady Aurora listened to him with her eyes on his face ; 
and as they rested there Hyacinth scarcely knew what to 
make of her expression. Afterwards he thought he could 
attach a meaning to it. She got up quickly when Muni- 
ment had ceased speaking ; the movement suggested that 
she had taken offence, and he would have liked to show 
 
her that he thought she had been rather roughly used. 
But she gave him no chance, not glancing at him for a 
moment. Then he saw that he was mistaken and that, 
if she had flushed considerably, it was only with the 
excitement of pleasure, the enjoyment of such original 
talk and of seeing her friends at last as free and familiar 
as she wished them to be. ' You are the most delightful 
people I wish every one could know you !' she broke 
out. ' But I must really be going.' She went to the bed, 
and bent over Rosy and kissed her. 
' Paul will see you as far as you like on your way home,' 
this young woman remarked. 
Lady Aurora protested against this, but Paul, without 
protesting in return, only took up his hat and looked at 
her, smiling, as if he knew his duty ; upon which her lady- 
ship said, ' Well, you may see me downstairs ; I forgot it 
was so dark.' 
' You must take her ladyship's own candle, and you 
must call a cab,' Rosy directed. 
' Oh, I don't go in cabs. I walk.' 
' Well, you may go on the top of a 'bus, if you like ; 
you can't help being superb,' Miss Muniment declared, 
watching her sympathetically. 
' Superb ? Oh, mercy ! ' cried the poor devoted, gro- 
tesque lady, leaving the room with Paul, who asked Hya- 
cinth to wait for him a little. She neglected to bid good- 
night to our young man, and he asked himself what was 
to be hoped from that sort of people, when even the best 
of them those that wished to be agreeable to the demos 
reverted inevitably to the supercilious. She had said no 
more about lending him her books. 
IX 
' SHE lives in Belgrave Square ; she has ever so many 
brothers and sisters ; one of her sisters is married to Lord 
Warmington,' Rose Muniment instantly began, not appar- 
ently in the least discomposed at being left alone with a 
strange young man in a room which was now half dark 
again, thanks to her brother's having carried off the second 
and more brilliant candle. She was so interested, for the 
time, in telling Hyacinth the history of Lady Aurora, that 
she appeared not to remember how little she knew about 
himself. Her ladyship had dedicated her life and her 
pocket-money to the poor and sick ; she cared nothing for 
parties, and races, and dances, and picnics, and life in 
great houses, the usual amusements of the aristocracy ; she 
was like one of 'the saints of old come to life again out of 
a legend. She had made their acquaintance, Paul's and 
hers, about a year before, through a friend of theirs, such 
a fine, brave, young woman, who was in St. Thomas's 
Hospital for a surgical operation. She had been laid up 
there for weeks, during which Lady Aurora, always looking 
out for those who couldn't help themselves, used to come 
and talk to her and read to her, till the end of her time in 
the ward, when the poor girl, parting with her kind friend, 
told her how she knew of another unfortunate creature (for 
whom there was no place there, because she was incurable), 
who would be mighty thankful for any little attention of 
that sort. She had given Lady Aurora the address in 
Audley Court, and the very next day her ladyship had 
knocked at their door. It wasn't because she was poor 
though in all conscience they were pinched enough but 
because she had so little satisfaction in her limbs. Lady 
Aurora came very often, for several months, without meeting 
Paul, because he was always at his work ; but one day he 
came home early, on purpose to find her, to thank her for 
her goodness, and also to see (Miss Muniment rather shyly 
intimated) whether she were really so good as his extra- 
vagant little sister made her out. Rosy had a triumph 
after that : Paul had to admit that her ladyship was beyond 
anything that any one in his waking senses would believe. 
She seemed to want to give up everything to those who 
were below her, and never to expect any thanks at all. 
And she wasn't always preaching and showing you your 
duty ; she wanted to talk to you sociable-like, as if you 
were just her own sister. And her own sisters were the 
highest in the land, and you might see her name in the 
newspapers the day they were presented to the Queen. 
Lady Aurora had been presented too, with feathers in her 
head and a long tail to her gown ; but she had turned her 
back upon it all with a kind of terror a sort of shivering, 
sinking feeling, which she had often described to Miss 
Muniment. The day she had first seen Paul was the day 
they became so intimate (the three of them together), if she 
might apply such a word as that to such a peculiar con- 
nection. The little woman, the little girl, as she lay there 
(Hyacinth scarcely knew how to characterise her), told our 
young man a very great secret, in which he found himself 
too much interested to think of criticising so headlong a 
burst of confidence. The secret was that, of all the people 
she had ever seen in the world, her ladyship thought Rosy's 
Paul the very cleverest. And she had seen the greatest, 
the most famous, the brightest of every kind, for they all 
came to stay at Inglefield, thirty and forty of them at once. 
She had talked with them all and heard them say their 
best (and you could fancy how they would try to give it 
out at such a place as that, where there was nearly a mile 
of conservatories and a hundred wax candles were lighted 
at a time), and at the end of it all she had made the 
remark to herself and she had made it to Rosy too that 
there was none of them had such a head on his shoulders 
as the young man in Audley Court. Rosy wouldn't spread 
such a rumour as that in the court itself, but she wanted 
every friend of her brother's (and she could see Hyacinth 
was that, by the way he listened) to know what was thought 
of him by them that had an experience of talent. She 
didn't wish to give it out that her ladyship had lowered 
herself in any manner to a person that earned his bread in 
