the habit of meeting martyrs from her childhood up, but 
she had seen none with so many reminiscences as Miss 
Birdseye, or who had been so nearly scorched by penal 
fires. She had had escapes, in the early days of abolition- 
ism, which it was a marvel she could tell with so little 
implication that she had shown courage. She had roamed 
through certain parts of the South, carrying the Bible to 
the slave ; and more than one of her companions, in the 
course of these expeditions, had been tarred and feathered. 
She herself, at one season, had spent a month in a Georgian 
jail. She had preached temperance in Irish circles where 
the doctrine was received with missiles ; she had interfered 
between wives and husbands mad with drink; she had 
taken filthy children, picked up in the street, to her own 
poor rooms, and had removed their pestilent rags and 
washed their sore bodies with slippery little hands. In her 
own person she appeared to Olive and Verena a represent- 
ative of suffering humanity ; the pity they felt for her was 
part of their pity for all who were weakest and most hardly 
used ; and it struck Miss Chancellor (more especially) that 
this frumpy little missionary was the last link in a tradition, 
and that when she should be called away the heroic age of 
New England life the age of plain living and high thinking, 
of pure ideals and earnest effort, of moral passion and noble 
experiment would effectually be closed. It was the 
perennial freshness of Miss Birdseye's faith that had had 
such a contagion for these modern maidens, the unquenched 
flame of her transcendentalism, the simplicity of her vision, 
the way in which, in spite of mistakes, deceptions, the 
changing fashions of reform, which make the remedies of a 
previous generation look as ridiculous as their bonnets, the 
only thing that was still actual for her was the elevation of 
the species by the reading of Emerson and the frequentation 
of Tremont Temple. Olive had been active enough, for 
years, in the city-missions; she too had scoured dirty 
children, and, in squalid lodging-houses, had gone into 
rooms where the domestic situation was strained and the 
noises made the neighbours turn pale. But she reflected 
that after such exertions she had the refreshment of a pretty 
house, a drawing-room full of flowers, a crackling hearth, 
where she threw in pine-cones and made them snap, an 
imported tea-service, a Chickering piano, and the Deutsche 
Rundschau ; whereas Miss Birdseye had only a bare, vulgar 
room, with a hideous flowered carpet (it looked like a 
dentist's), a cold furnace, the evening-paper, and Doctor 
Prance. Olive and Verena were present at another of her 
gatherings before the winter ended ; it resembled the 
occasion that we described at the beginning of this history, 
with the difference that Mrs. Farrinder was not there to 
oppress the company with her greatness, and that Verena 
made a speech without the co-operation of her father. This 
young lady had delivered herself with even finer effect than 
before, and Olive could see how much she had gained, in 
confidence and range of allusion, since the educative process 
in Charles Street began. Her motif was now a kind of 
unprepared tribute to Miss Birdseye, the fruit of the 
occasion and of the unanimous tenderness of the younger 
members of the circle, which made her a willing mouth- 
piece. She pictured her laborious career, her early asso- 
ciates (Eliza P. Moseley was not neglected as Verena 
passed), her difficulties and dangers and triumphs, her 
humanising effect upon so many, her serene and honoured 
old age expressed, in short, as one of the ladies said, just 
the very way they all felt about her. Verena's face 
brightened and grew triumphant as she spoke, but she 
brought tears into the eyes of most of the others. It was 
Olive's opinion that nothing could be more graceful and 
touching, and she saw that the impression made was now 
deeper than on the former evening. Miss Birdseye went 
about with her eighty years of innocence, her undiscriminat- 
ing spectacles, asking her friends if it wasn't perfectly 
splendid ; she took none of it to herself, she regarded it 
only as a brilliant expression of Verena's gift. Olive 
 
thought, afterwards, that if a collection could only be taken 
up on the spot, the good lady would be made easy for the 
rest of her days ; then she remembered that most of her 
guests were as impecunious as herself. 
I have intimated that our young friends had a source of 
fortifying emotion which was distinct from the hours they 
spent with Beethoven and Bach, or in hearing Miss Birds- 
eye describe Concord as it used to be. This consisted in 
the wonderful insight they had obtained into the history of 
feminine anguish. They perused that chapter perpetually 
and zealously, and they derived from it the purest part of 
their mission. Olive had pored over it so long, so 
earnestly, that she was now in complete possession of the 
subject ; it was the one thing in life which she felt she had 
really mastered. She was able to exhibit it to Verena with 
the greatest authority and accuracy, to lead her up and 
down, in and out, through all the darkest and most tortuous 
passages. We know that she was without belief in her own 
eloquence, but she was very eloquent when she reminded 
Verena how the exquisite weakness of women had never 
been their defence, but had only exposed them to sufferings 
more acute than masculine grossness can conceive. Their 
odious partner had trampled upon them from the beginning 
of time, and their tenderness, their abnegation, had been 
his opportunity. All the bullied wives, the stricken 
mothers, the dishonoured, deserted maidens who have 
lived on the earth and longed to leave it, passed and 
repassed before her eyes, and the interminable dim proces- 
sion seemed to stretch out a myriad hands to her. She 
sat with them at their trembling vigils, listened for the 
tread, the voice, at which they grew pale and sick, walked 
with them by the dark waters that offered to wash away 
misery and shame, took with them, even, when the vision 
grew intense, the last shuddering leap. She had analysed 
to an extraordinary fineness their susceptibility, their soft- 
ness ; she knew (or she thought she knew) all the possible 
tortures of anxiety, of suspense and dread ; and she had 
made up her mind that it was women, in the end, who had 
paid for everything. In the last resort the whole burden 
of the human lot came upon them ; it pressed upon them 
 
far more than on the others, the intolerable load of fate. 
It was they who sat cramped and chained to receive it ; it 
was they who had done all the waiting and taken all the 
wounds. The sacrifices, the blood, the tears, the terrors 
were theirs. Their organism was in itself a challenge to 
suffering, and men had practised upon it with an impudence 
that knew no bounds. As they were the weakest most had 
been wrung from them, and as they were the most generous 
they had been most deceived Olive Chancellor would have 
rested her case, had it been necessary, on those general 
facts ; and her simple and comprehensive contention was 
that the peculiar wretchedness which had been the very 
essence of the feminine lot was a monstrous artificial im- 
position, crying aloud for redress. She was willing to 
admit that women, too, could be bad; that there were 
many about the world who were false, immoral, vile. But 
their errors were as nothing to their sufferings ; they had 
expiated, in advance, an eternity, if need be, of misconduct. 
Olive poured forth these views to her listening and respon- 
sive friend ; she presented them again and again, and there 
was no light in which they did not seem to palpitate with 
truth. Verena was immensely wrought upon ; a subtle fire 
passed into her; she was not so hungry for revenge as 
Olive, but at the last, before they went to Europe (I shall 
take no place to describe the manner in which she threw 
herself into that project), she quite agreed with her com- 
panion that after so many ages of wrong (it would also be 
after the European journey) men must take their turn, men 
must pay ! 
XXI. 
BASIL RANSOM lived in New York, rather far to the east- 
ward, and in the upper reaches of the town ; he occupied 
two small shabby rooms in a somewhat decayed mansion 
which stood next to the corner of the Second Avenue. 
The corner itself was formed by a considerable grocer's 
shop, the near neighbourhood of which was fatal to any 
pretensions Ransom and his fellow-lodgers might have had 
in regard to gentility of situation. The house had a red, 
rusty face, and faded green shutters, of which the slats were 
limp and at variance with each other. In one of the lower 
windows was suspended a fly-blown card, with the words 
{ Table Board ' affixed in letters cut (not very neatly) out 
of coloured paper, of graduated tints, and surrounded with 
a small band of stamped gilt. The two sides of the shop 
were protected by an immense pent-house shed, which pro- 
jected over a greasy pavement and was supported by wooden 
posts fixed in the curbstone. Beneath it, on the dislocated 
flags, barrels and baskets were freely and picturesquely 
grouped ; an open cellarway yawned beneath the feet of 
those who might pause to gaze too fondly on the savoury 
wares displayed in the window ; a strong odour of smoked 
fish, combined with a fragrance of molasses, hung about the 
spot; the pavement, toward the gutters, was fringed with 
dirty panniers, heaped with potatoes, carrots, and onions ; 
and a smart, bright waggon, with the horse detached from 
the shafts, drawn up on the edge of the abominable road 
(it contained holes and ruts a foot deep, and immemorial 
accumulations of stagnant mud), imparted an idle, rural, 
pastoral air to a scene otherwise perhaps expressive of a 
rank civilisation. The establishment was of the kind known 
to New Yorkers as a Dutch grocery; and red-faced, 
 
yellow -haired, bare -armed vendors might have been ob- 
served to lounge in the doorway. I mention it not on 
account of any particular influence it may have had on the 
life or the thoughts of Basil Ransom, but for old acquaintance 
sake and that of local colour; besides which, a figure is 
nothing without a setting, and our young man came and 
went every day, with rather an indifferent, unperceiving step, 
it is true, among the objects I have briefly designated. 
One of his rooms was directly above the street-door of the 
house ; such a dormitory, when it is so exiguous, is called 
in the nomenclature of New York a ' hall bedroom. ' The 
sitting-room, beside it, was slightly larger, and they both 
commanded a row of tenements no less degenerate than 
Ransom's own habitation houses built forty years before, 
and already sere and superannuated. These were also 
painted red, and the bricks were accentuated by a white 
line ; they were garnished, on the first floor, with balconies 
covered with small tin roofs, striped in different colours, 
and with an elaborate iron lattice-work, which gave them a 
repressive, cage-like appearance, and caused them slightly 
to resemble the little boxes for peeping unseen into the 
street, which are a feature of oriental towns. Such posts of 
observation commanded a view of the grocery on the corner, 
of the relaxed and disjointed roadway, enlivened at the 
curbstone with an occasional ash-barrel or with gas-lamps 
drooping from the perpendicular, and westward, at the end 
of the truncated vista, of the fantastic skeleton of the Elevated 
Railway, overhanging the transverse longitudinal street, 
which it darkened and smothered with the immeasurable 
spinal column and myriad clutching paws of an antediluvian 
monster. If the opportunity were not denied me here, I 
should like to give some account of Basil Ransom's interior, 
of certain curious persons of both sexes, for the most part 
not favourites of fortune, who had found an obscure asylum 
there ; some picture of the crumpled little table d'hote^ at 
two dollars and a half a week, where everything felt sticky, 
which went forward in the low-ceiled basement, under the 
conduct of a couple of shuffling negresses, who mingled in 
the conversation and indulged in low, mysterious chuckles 
when it took a facetious turn. But we need, in strictness, 
 
concern ourselves with it no further than to gather the im- 
plication that the young Mississippian, even a year and a 
half after that momentous visit of his to Boston, had not 
made his profession very lucrative. 
He had been diligent, he had been ambitious, but he 
had not yet been successful. During the few weeks pre- 
ceding the moment at which we meet him again, he had 
even begun to lose faith altogether in his earthly destiny. 
It became much of a question with him whether success in 
any form was written there ; whether for a hungry young 
Mississippian, without means, without friends, wanting, too, 
in the highest energy, the wisdom of the serpent, personal 
arts and national prestige, the game of life was to be won 
in New York. He had been on the point of giving it up 
and returning to the home of his ancestors, where, as he 
heard from his mother, there was still just a sufficient supply 
of hot corn-cake to support existence. He had never believed 
much in his luck, but during the last year it had been 
guilty of aberrations surprising even to a constant, an imper- 
turbable, victim of fate. Not only had he not extended his 
connection, but he had lost most of the little business 
which was an object of complacency to him a twelvemonth 
before. He had had none but small jobs, and he had 
made a mess of more than one of them. Such accidents 
had not had a happy effect upon his reputation ; he had 
been able to perceive that this fair flower may be nipped 
when it is so tender a bud as scarcely to be palpable. He 
had formed a partnership with a person who seemed likely 
to repair some of his deficiencies a young man from Rhode 
Island, acquainted, according to his own expression, with 
the inside track. But this gentleman himself, as it turned 
out, would have been better for a good deal of remodelling, 
and Ransom's principal deficiency, which was, after all, that 
of cash, was not less apparent to him after his colleague, 
prior to a sudden and unexplained departure for Europe, 
had drawn the slender accumulations of the firm out of the 
bank. Ransom sat for hours in his office, waiting for clients 
who either did not come, or, if they did come, did not seem 
to find him encouraging, as they usually left him with the re- 
mark that they would think what they would do. They thought 
 
to little purpose, and seldom reappeared, so that at last he 
began to wonder whether there were not a prejudice against 
his Southern complexion. Perhaps they didn't like the way 
he spoke. If they could show him a better way, he was 
willing to adopt it; but the manner of New York could not be 
acquired by precept, and example, somehow, was not in this 
case contagious. He wondered whether he were stupid and 
unskilled, and he was finally obliged to confess to himself 
that he was unpractical. 
This confession was in itself a proof of the fact, for 
nothing could be less fruitful than such a speculation, 
terminating in such a way. He was perfectly aware that 
he cared a great deal for the theory, and so his visitors 
must have thought when they found him, with one of his 
long legs twisted round the other, reading a volume of De 
Tocqueville. That was the kind of reading he liked ; he 
had thought a great deal about social and economical ques- 
tions, forms of government and the happiness of peoples. 
The convictions he had arrived at were not such as mix 
gracefully with the time-honoured verities a young lawyer 
looking out for business is in the habit of taking for granted ; 
but he had to reflect that these doctrines would probably 
not contribute any more to his prosperity in Mississippi 
than in New York. Indeed, he scarcely could think of the 
country where they would be a particular advantage to him. 
It came home to him that his opinions were stiff, whereas 
in comparison his effort was lax; and he accordingly 
began to wonder whether he might not make a living by 
his opinions. He had always had a desire for public life ; 
to cause one's ideas to be embodied in national conduct 
appeared to him the highest form of human enjoyment. 
But there was little enough that was public in his solitary 
studies, and he asked himself what was the use of his having 
an office at all, and why he might not as well carry on his 
profession at the Astor Library, where, in his spare hours 
and on chance holidays, he did an immense deal of sugges- 
tive reading. He took copious notes and memoranda, and 
these things sometimes shaped themselves in a way that 
might possibly commend them to the editors of periodicals. 
Readers perhaps would come, if clients didn't; so he 
 
produced, with a great deal of labour, half a dozen articles, 
from which, when they were finished, it seemed to him that 
he had omitted all the points he wished most to make, and 
addressed them to the powers that preside over weekly and 
monthly publications. They were all declined with thanks, 
and he would have been forced to believe that the accent 
of his languid clime brought him luck as little under the 
pen as on the lips, had not another explanation been 
suggested by one of the more explicit of his oracles, in 
relation to a paper on the rights of minorities. This 
gentleman pointed out that his doctrines were about three 
hundred years behind the age; doubtless some magazine 
of the sixteenth century would have been very happy to 
print them. This threw light on his own suspicion that he 
was attached to causes that could only, in the nature of 
things, be unpopular. The disagreeable editor was right 
about his being out of date, only he had got the time wrong. 
He had come centuries too soon ; he was not too old, but 
too new. Such an impression, however, would not have 
prevented him from going into politics, if there had been 
any other way to represent constituencies than by being 
elected. People might be found eccentric enough to vote 
for him in Mississippi, but meanwhile where should he find 
the twenty-dollar greenbacks which it was his ambition to 
transmit from time to time to his female relations, confined 
so constantly to a farinaceous diet ? It came over him with 
some force that his opinions would not yield interest, and 
the evaporation of this pleasing hypothesis made him feel 
like a man in an open boat, at sea, who should just have 
parted with his last rag of canvas. 
I shall not attempt a complete description of Ransom's 
ill-starred views, being convinced that the reader will guess 
them as he goes, for they had a frolicsome, ingenious way 
of peeping out of the young man's conversation. I shall 
do them sufficient justice in saying that he was by natural 
disposition a good deal of a stoic, and that, as the result of a 
considerable intellectual experience, he was, in social and 
political matters, a reactionary. I suppose he was very 
conceited, for he was much addicted to judging his age. 
He thought it talkative, querulous, hysterical, maudlin, full 
igo   xxi. 
of false ideas, of unhealthy germs, of extravagant, dissipated 
habits, for which a great reckoning was in store. He was 
an immense admirer of the late Thomas Carlyle, and was 
very suspicious of the encroachments of modern democracy. 
I know not exactly how these queer heresies had planted 
themselves, but he had a longish pedigree (it had flowered 
at one time with English royalists and cavaliers), and he 
seemed at moments to be inhabited by some transmitted 
spirit of a robust but narrow ancestor, some broad-faced 
wig-wearer or sword-bearer, with a more primitive conception 
of manhood than our modern temperament appears to 
require, and a programme of human felicity much less 
varied. He liked his pedigree, he revered his forefathers, 
and he rather pitied those who might come after him. In 
saying so, however, I betray him a little, for he never men- 
tioned such feelings as these. Though he thought the age 
too talkative, as I have hinted, he liked to talk as well as 
any one ; but he could hold his tongue, if that were more 
expressive, and he usually did so when his perplexities were 
greatest. He had been sitting for several evenings in a 
beer-cellar, smoking his pipe with a profundity of reticence. 
This attitude was so unbroken that it marked a crisis the 
complete, the acute consciousness of his personal situation. 
It was the cheapest way he knew of spending an evening. 
At this particular establishment the Schoppen were very tall 
and the beer was very good ; and as the host and most of 
the guests were German, and their colloquial tongue was 
unknown to him, he was not drawn into any undue expendi- 
ture of speech. He watched his smoke and he thought, 
thought so hard that at last he appeared to himself to have 
exhausted the thinkable. When this moment of combined 
relief and dismay arrived (on the last of the evenings that 
we are concerned with), he took his way down Third Ave- 
nue and reached his humble dwelling. Till within a short 
time there had been a resource for him at such an hour 
and in such a mood ; a little variety-actress, who lived in 
the house, and with whom he had established the most 
cordial relations, was often having her supper (she took it 
somewhere, every night, after the theatre), in the dim, close 
dining-room, and he used to drop in and talk to her. But 
 
she had lately married, to his great amusement, and her 
husband had taken her on a wedding-tour, which was to be 
at the same time professional. On this occasion he 
mounted, with rather a heavy tread, to his rooms, where 
(on the rickety writing-table in the parlour) he found a note 
from Mrs. Luna. I need not reproduce it in extenso ; a 
pale reflection of it will serve. She reproached him with 
neglecting her, wanted to know what had become of him, 
whether he had grown too fashionable for a person who 
cared only for serious society. She accused him of having 
changed, and inquired as to the reason of his coldness. 
Was it too much to ask whether he could tell her at least 
in what manner she had offended him ? She used to think 
they were so much in sympathy he expressed her own 
ideas about everything so vividly. She liked intellectual 
companionship, and she had none now. She hoped very 
much he would come and see her as he used to do six 
months before the following evening ; and however much 
she might have sinned or he might have altered, she was at 
least always his affectionate cousin Adeline. 
'What the deuce does she want of me now?' It was 
with this somewhat ungracious exclamation that he tossed 
away his cousin Adeline's missive. The gesture might have 
indicated that he meant to take no notice of her; never- 
theless, after a day had elapsed, he presented himself before 
her. He knew what she -wanted of old that is, a year 
ago ; she had wanted him to look after her property and to 
be tutor to her son. He had lent himself, good-naturedly, 
to this desire he was touched by so much confidence but 
the experiment had speedily collapsed. Mrs. Luna's affairs 
were in the hands of trustees, who had complete care of 
them, and Ransom instantly perceived that his function 
would be simply to meddle in things that didn't concern 
him. The levity with which she had exposed him to the 
derision of the lawful guardians of her fortune opened his 
eyes to some of the dangers of cousinship ; nevertheless he 
said to himself that he might turn an honest penny by 
giving an hour or two every day to the education of her 
little boy. But this, too, proved a brief illusion. Ransom 
had to find his time in the afternoon ; he left his business 
 
at five o'clock and remained with his young kinsman till 
the hour of dinner. At the end of a few weeks he thought 
himself lucky in retiring without broken shins. That 
Newton's little nature was remarkable had often been insisted 
on by his mother; but it was remarkable, Ransom saw, for 
the absence of any of the qualities which attach a teacher 
to a pupil. He was in truth an insufferable child, enter- 
taining for the Latin language a personal, physical hostility, 
which expressed itself in convulsions of rage. During these 
paroxysms he kicked furiously at every one and everything 
at poor ' Rannie,' at his mother, at Messrs. Andrews and 
Stoddard, at the illustrious men of Rome, at the universe 
in general, to which, as he lay on his back on the carpet, 
he presented a pair of singularly active little heels. Mrs. 
Luna had a way of being present at his lessons, and when 
they passed, as sooner or later they were sure to, into the 
stage I have described, she interceded for her overwrought 
darling, reminded Ransom that these were the signs of an 
exquisite sensibility, begged that the child might be allowed 
to rest a little, and spent the remainder of the time in con- 
versation with the preceptor. It came to seem to him, 
very soon, that he was not earning his fee ; besides which, 
it was disagreeable to him to have pecuniary relations with 
a lady who had not the art of concealing from him that she 
liked to place him under obligations. He resigned his 
tutorship, and drew a long breath, having a vague feeling 
that he had escaped a danger. He could not have told 
you exactly what it was, and he had a certain sentimental, 
provincial respect for women which even prevented him from 
attempting to give a name to it in his own thoughts. He 
was addicted with the ladies to the old forms of address 
and of gallantry ; he held that they were delicate, agreeable 
creatures, whom Providence had placed under the protec- 
tion of the bearded sex ; and it was not merely a humorous 
idea with him that whatever might be the defects of South- 
ern gentlemen, they were at any rate remarkable for their 
chivalry. He was a man who still, in a slangy age, could 
pronounce that word with a perfectly serious face. 
This boldness did not prevent him from thinking that 
women were essentially inferior to men, and infinitely tire- 
 
some when they declined to accept the lot which men had 
made for them. He had the most definite notions about 
their place in nature, in society, and was perfectly easy in 
his mind as to whether it excluded them from any proper 
homage. The chivalrous man paid that tax with alacrity. 
He admitted their rights; these consisted in a standing 
claim to the generosity and tenderness of the stronger race. 
The exercise of such feelings was full of advantage for both 
sexes, and they flowed most freely, of course, when women 
were gracious and grateful. It may be said that he had a 
higher conception of politeness than most of the persons 
who desired the advent of female law-makers. When I 
have added that he hated to see women eager and argu- 
mentative, and thought that their softness and docility were 
the inspiration, the opportunity (the highest) of man, I shall 
have sketched a state of mind which will doubtless strike 
many readers as painfully crude. It had prevented Basil 
Ransom, at any rate, from putting the dots on his ' 's, as 
the French say, in this gradual discovery that Mrs. Luna 
was making love to him. The process went on a long time 
before he became aware of it. He had perceived very soon 
that she was a tremendously familiar little woman that she 
took, more rapidly than he had ever known, a high degree 
of intimacy for granted. But as she had seemed to him 
neither very fresh nor very beautiful, so he could not easily 
have represented to himself why she should take it into her 
head to marry (it would never have occurred to him to 
doubt that she wanted marriage), an obscure and penniless 
Mississippian, with womenkind of his own to provide for. 
He could not guess that he answered to a certain secret 
ideal of Mrs. Luna's, who loved the landed gentry even 
when landless, who adored a Southerner under any circum- 
stances, who thought her kinsman a fine, manly, melan- 
choly, disinterested type, and who was sure that her views 
of public matters, the questions of the age, the vulgar 
character of modern life, would meet with a perfect response 
in his mind. She could see by the way he talked that he 
was a conservative, and this was the motto inscribed upon 
her own silken banner. She took this unpopular line both 
by temperament and by reaction from her sister's ' extreme ' 
views, the sight of the dreadful people that they brought 
about her. In reality, Olive was distinguished and discrimi- 
nating, and Adeline was the dupe of confusions in which 
the worse was apt to be mistaken for the better. She talked 
to Ransom about the inferiority of republics, the distressing 
persons she had met abroad in the legations of the United 
States, the bad manners of servants and shopkeepers in 
that country, the hope she entertained that 'the good 
old families ' would make a stand ; but he never suspected 
that she cultivated these topics (her treatment of them 
struck him as highly comical), for the purpose of leading 
him to the altar, of beguiling the way. Least of all could 
he suppose that she would be indifferent to his want of 
income a point in which he failed to do her justice ; for, 
thinking the fact that he had remained poor a proof of 
delicacy in that shopkeeping age, it gave her much pleasure 
to reflect that, as Newton's little property was settled on 
him (with safeguards which showed how long-headed poor 
Mr. Luna had been, and large-hearted, too, since to what 
he left her no disagreeable conditions, such as eternal 
mourning, for instance, were attached) that as Newton, I 
say, enjoyed the pecuniary independence which befitted his 
character, her own income was ample even for two, and she 
might give herself the luxury of taking a husband who 
should owe her something. Basil Ransom did not divine 
all this, but he divined that it was not for nothing that Mrs. 
Luna wrote him little notes every other day, that she pro- 
posed to drive him in the Park at unnatural hours, and 
that when he said he had his business to attend to, she 
replied : ' Oh, a plague on your business ! I am sick of 
that word one hears of nothing else in America. There 
are ways of getting on without business, if you would only 
take them !' He seldom answered her notes, and he dis- 
liked extremely the way in which, in spite of her love of 
form and order, she attempted to clamber in at the window 
of one's house when one had locked the door ; so that he 
began to interspace his visits considerably, and at last made 
them very rare. When I reflect on his habits of almost 
superstitious politeness to women, it comes over me that 
some very strong motive must have operated to make him 
 
give his friendly his only too friendly cousin the cold 
shoulder. Nevertheless, when he received her reproachful 
letter (after it had had time to work a little), he said to himself 
that he had perhaps been unjust and even brutal, and as 
he was easily touched by remorse of this kind, he took up 
the broken thread. 
XXII. 
As he sat with Mrs. Luna, in her little back drawing-room, 
under the lamp, he felt rather more tolerant than before of 
the pressure she could not help putting upon him. Several 
months had elapsed, and he was no nearer to the sort of 
success he had hoped for. It stole over him gently that 
there was another sort, pretty visibly open to him, not so 
elevated nor so manly, it is true, but on which he should 
after all, perhaps, be able to reconcile it with his honour to 
fall back. Mrs. Luna had had an inspiration ; for once in 
her life she had held her tongue. She had not made him 
a scene, there had been no question of an explanation ; she 
had received him as if he had been there the day before, 
with the addition of a spice of mysterious melancholy. She 
might have made up her mind that she had lost him as 
what she had hoped, but that it was better than desolation 
to try and keep him as a friend. It was as if she wished 
him to see now how she tried. She was subdued and con- 
solatory, she waited upon him, moved away a screen that 
intercepted the fire, remarked that he looked very tired, 
and rang for some tea. She made no inquiry about his 
affairs, never asked if he had been busy and prosperous ; 
and this reticence struck him as unexpectedly delicate and 
discreet ; it was as if she had guessed, by a subtle feminine 
faculty, that his professional career was nothing to boast of. 
There was a simplicity in him which permitted him to 
wonder whether she had not improved. The lamp-light 
was soft, the fire crackled pleasantly, everything that 
surrounded him betrayed a woman's taste and touch; 
the place was decorated and cushioned in perfection, 
delightfully private and personal, the picture of a well- 
appointed home. Mrs. Luna had complained of the 
 
difficulties of installing one's self in America, but Ransom 
remembered that he had received an impression similar to 
this in her sister's house in Boston, and reflected that these 
ladies had, as a family-trait, the art of making themselves 
comfortable. It was better for a winter's evening than the 
German beer-cellar (Mrs. Luna's tea was excellent), and his 
hostess herself appeared to-night almost as amiable as the 
variety-actress.. At the end of an hour he felt, I will not 
say almost marriageable, but almost married. Images of 
leisure played before him, leisure in which he saw himself 
covering foolscap paper with his views on several subjects, 
and with favourable illustrations of Southern eloquence. It 
became tolerably vivid to him that if editors wouldn't print 
one's lucubrations, it would be a comfort to feel that one 
was able to publish them at one's own expense. 
He had a moment of almost complete illusion. Mrs. 
Luna had taken up her bit of crochet; she was sitting 
opposite to him, on the other side of the fire. Her white 
hands moved with little jerks as she took her stitches, and 
her rings flashed and twinkled in the light of the hearth. 
Her head fell a little to one side, exhibiting the plumpness 
of her chin and neck, and her dropped eyes (it gave her a 
little modest air), rested quietly on her work. A silence of 
a few moments had fallen upon their talk, and Adeline 
who decidedly had improved appeared also to feel the 
charm of it, not to wish to break it. Basil Ransom was 
conscious of all this, and at the same time he was vaguely 
engaged in a speculation. If it gave one time, if it gave 
one leisure, was not that in itself a high motive ? Thorough 
study of the question he cared for most was not the 
chance for that an infinitely desirable good ? He seemed 
to see himself, to feel himself, in that very chair, in the 
evenings of the future, reading some indispensable book 
in the still lamp-light Mrs. Luna knew where to get such 
pretty mellowing shades. Should he not be able to act in 
that way upon the public opinion of his time, to check 
certain tendencies, to point out certain dangers, to indulge 
in much salutary criticism ? Was it not one's duty to put 
one's self in the best conditions for such action ? And as 
the silence continued he almost fell to musing on his duty, 
 
almost persuaded himself that the moral law commanded 
him to marry Mrs. Luna. She looked up presently from 
her work, their eyes met, and she smiled. He might have 
believed she had guessed what he was thinking of. This idea 
startled him, alarmed him a little, so that when Mrs. Luna 
said, with her sociable manner, ' There is nothing I like so 
much, of a winter's night, as a cosy tite-cl-tete by the fire. 
It's quite like Darby and Joan ; what a pity the kettle has 
ceased singing !' when she uttered these insinuating words 
he gave himself a little imperceptible shake, which was, 
however, enough to break the spell, and made no response 
more direct than to ask her, in a moment, in a tone of 
cold, mild curiosity, whether she had lately heard from her 
sister, and how long Miss Chancellor intended to remain in 
Europe. 
'Well, you have been living in your hole!' Mrs. Luna 
exclaimed. ' Olive came home six weeks ago. How long 
did you expect her to endure it?' 
' I am sure I don't know ; I have never been there,' 
Ransom replied. 
' Yes, that's what I like you for/ Mrs. Luna remarked 
sweetly. ' If a man is nice without it, it's such a pleasant 
change.' 
The young man started, then gave a natural laugh. 
'Lord, how few reasons there must be !' 
' Oh, I mention that one because I can tell it. I 
shouldn't care to tell the others.' 
' I am glad you have some to fall back upon, the day I 
should go,' Ransom went on. ' I thought you thought so 
much of Europe.' 
'So I do ; but it isn't everything,' said Mrs. Luna, 
philosophically. ' You had better go there with me/ she 
added, with a certain inconsequence. 
' One would go to the end of the world with so irresistible 
a lady ! ' Ransom exclaimed, falling into the tone which 
Mrs. Luna always found so unsatisfactory. It was a part 
of his Southern gallantry his accent always came out 
strongly when he said anything of that sort and it 
committed him to nothing in particular. She had had 
occasion to wish, more than once, that he wouldn't be so 
beastly polite, as she used to hear people say in England. 
She answered that she didn't care about ends, she cared 
about beginnings ; but he didn't take up the declaration ; he 
returned to the subject of Olive, wanted to know what she 
had done over there, whether she had worked them up much. 
'Oh, of course, she fascinated every one,' said Mrs. 
Luna. ' With her grace and beauty, her general style, how 
could she help that?' 
' But did she bring them round, did she swell the host 
that is prepared to march under her banner?' 
'  I suppose she saw plenty of the strong-minded, plenty 
of vicious old maids, and fanatics, and frumps. But I 
haven't the least idea what she accomplished what they 
call " wonders," I suppose.' 
'Didn't you see her when she returned?' Basil Ransom 
asked. 
How could I see her? I can see pretty far, but I 
can't see all the way to Boston.' And then, in explaining 
that it was at this port that her sister had disembarked, 
Mrs. Luna further inquired whether he could imagine Olive 
doing anything in a first-rate way, as long as there were 
inferior ones. 'Of course she likes bad ships Boston 
steamers just as she likes common people, and red-haired 
hoydens, and preposterous doctrines.' 
Ransom was silent a moment. ' Do you mean the a 
rather striking young lady whom I met in Boston a year 
ago last October ? What was her name ? Miss Tarrant ? 
Does Miss Chancellor like her as much as ever?' 
' Mercy ! don't you know she took her to Europe ? It 
was to form her mind she went. Didn't I tell you that 
last summer? You used to come to see me then.' 
'Oh yes, I remember,' Ransom said, rather musingly. 
'And did she bring her back?' 
' Gracious, you don't suppose she would leave her ! 
Olive thinks she's born to regenerate the world.' 
' I remember you telling me that, too. It comes back 
to me. Well, is her mind formed?' 
' As I haven't seen it, I cannot tell you.' 
' Aren't you going on there to see ' 
' To see whether Miss Tarrant's mind is formed ?' Mrs. 
 
Luna broke in. ' I will go if you would like me to. I 
remember your being immensely excited about her that 
time you met her. Don't you recollect that?' 
Ransom hesitated an instant. ' I can't say I do. It is 
too long ago.' 
'Yes, I have no doubt that's the way you change, about 
women ! Poor Miss Tarrant, if she thinks she made an 
impression on you !' 
'  She won't think about such things as that, if her mind 
has been formed by your sister,' Ransom said. ' It does 
come back to me now, what you told me about the growth 
of their intimacy. And do they mean to go on living to- 
gether for ever?' 
' I suppose so unless some one should take it into his 
head to marry Verena.' 
'Verena is that her name?' Ransom asked. 
Mrs. Luna looked at him with a suspended needle. 
' Well ! have you forgotten that too ? You told me 
yourself you thought it so pretty, that time in Boston, 
when you walked me up the hill.' Ransom declared that 
he remembered that walk, but didn't remember everything 
he had said to her ; and she suggested, very satirically, that 
perhaps he would like to marry Verena himself he seemed 
so interested in her. Ransom shook his head sadly, and 
said he was afraid he was not in a position to marry; 
whereupon Mrs. Luna asked him what he meant did he 
mean (after a moment's hesitation) that he was too poor ? 
'Never in the world I am very rich; I make an 
enormous income!' the young man exclaimed; so that, 
remarking his tone, and the slight flush of annoyance that 
rose to his face, Mrs. Luna was quick enough to judge that 
she had overstepped the mark. She remembered (she 
ought to have remembered before), that he had never taken 
her in the least into his confidence about his affairs. That 
was not the Southern way, and he was at least as proud as 
he was poor. In this surmise she was just ; Basil Ransom 
would have despised himself if he had been capable of 
confessing to a woman that he couldn't make a living. 
Such questions were none of their business (their business 
was simply to be provided for, practise the domestic virtues, 
 
and be charmingly grateful), and there was, to his sense, 
something almost indecent in talking about them. Mrs. 
Luna felt doubly sorry for him as she perceived that he 
denied himself the luxury of sympathy (that is, of hers), 
and the vague but comprehensive sigh that passed her lips 
as she took up her crochet again was unusually expressive 
of helplessness. She said that of course she knew how 
great his talents were he could do anything he wanted ; 
and Basil Ransom wondered for a moment whether, if she 
were to ask him point-blank to marry her, it would be con- 
sistent with the high courtesy of a Southern gentleman to 
refuse. After she should be his wife he might of course 
confess to her that he was too poor to marry, for in that 
relation even a Southern gentleman of the highest tone 
must sometimes unbend. But he didn't in the least long 
for this arrangement, and was conscious that the most 
pertinent sequel to her conjecture would be for him to take 
up his hat and walk away. 
Within five minutes, however, he had come to desire to 
do this almost as little as to marry Mrs. Luna. He wanted 
to hear more about the girl who lived with Olive Chancel- 
lor. Something had revived in him an old curiosity, an 
image half effaced when he learned that she had come 
back to America. He had taken a wrong impression from 
what Mrs. Luna said, nearly a year before, about her 
sister's visit to Europe ; he had supposed it was to be a 
long absence, that Miss Chancellor wanted perhaps to get 
the little prophetess away from her parents, possibly even 
away from some amorous entanglement. Then, no doubt, 
they wanted to study up the woman-question with the facili- 
ties that Europe would offer ; he didn't know much about 
Europe, but he had an idea that it was a great place for 
facilities. His knowledge of Miss Chancellor's departure, 
accompanied by her young companion, had checked at the 
time, on Ransom's part, a certain habit of idle but none the 
less entertaining retrospect. His life, on the whole, had 
not been rich in episode, and that little chapter of his visit 
to his queer, clever, capricious cousin, with his evening at 
Miss Birdseye's, and his glimpse, repeated on the morrow, 
of the strange, beautiful, ridiculous, red-haired young 
 
improvisatrice, unrolled itself in his memory like a page of 
interesting fiction. The page seemed to fade, however, 
when he heard that the two girls had gone, for an indefinite 
time, to unknown lands ; this carried them out of his range, 
spoiled the perspective, diminished their actuality ; so that 
for several months past, with his increase of anxiety about 
his own affairs, and the low pitch of his spirits, he had not 
thought at all about Verena Tarrant. The fact that she 
was once more in Boston, with a certain contiguity that it 
seemed to imply between Boston and New York, presented 
itself now as important and agreeable. He was conscious 
that this was rather an anomaly, and his consciousness 
made him, had already made him, dissimulate slightly. He 
did not pick up his hat to go ; he sat in his chair taking 
his chance of the tax which Mrs. Luna might lay upon his 
urbanity. He remembered that he had not made, as yet, 
any very eager inquiry about Newton, who at this late hour 
had succumbed to the only influence that tames the un- 
tamable and was sleeping the sleep of childhood, if not of 
innocence. Ransom repaired his neglect in a manner which 
elicited the most copious response from his hostess. The 
boy had had a good many tutors since Ransom gave him 
up, and it could not be said that his education languished. 
Mrs. Luna spoke with pride of the manner in which he 
went through them ; if he did not master his lessons, he 
mastered his teachers, and she had the happy conviction 
that she gave him every advantage. Ransom's delay was 
diplomatic, but at the end of ten minutes he returned to 
the young ladies in Boston; he asked why, with their 
aggressive programme, one hadn't begun to feel their onset, 
why the echoes of Miss Tarrant's eloquence hadn't reached 
his ears. Hadn't she come out yet in public ? was she not 
coming to stir them up in New York? He hoped she 
hadn't broken down. 
'She didn't seem to break down last summer, at the 
Female Convention,' Mrs. Luna replied. ' Have you for- 
gotten that too? Didn't I tell you of the sensation she 
produced there, and of what I heard from Boston about 
it? Do you mean to say I didn't give you that 'Transcript,' 
with the report of her great speech ? It was just before 
 
they sailed for Europe ; she went off with flying colours, in 
a blaze of fireworks.' Ransom protested that he had not 
heard this affair mentioned till that moment, and then, 
when they compared dates, they found it had taken place 
just after his last visit to Mrs. Luna. This, of course, gave 
her a chance to say that he had treated her even worse 
than she supposed ; it had been her impression, at any rate, 
that they had talked together about Verena's sudden bound 
into fame. Apparently she confounded him with some one 
else, that was very possible ; he was not to suppose that he 
occupied such a distinct place in her mind, especially when 
she might die twenty deaths before he came near her. 
Ransom demurred to the implication that Miss Tarrant was 
famous ; if she were famous, wouldn't she be in the New 
York papers ? He hadn't seen her there, and he had no 
recollection of having encountered any mention at the time 
(last June, was it ?) of her exploits at the Female Conven- 
tion. A local reputation doubtless she had, but that had 
been the case a year and a half before, and what was 
expected of her then was to become a first-class national 
glory. He was willing to believe that she had created some 
excitement in Boston, but he shouldn't attach much im- 
portance to that till one began to see her photograph in the 
stores. Of course, one must give her time, but he had 
supposed Miss Chancellor was going to put her through 
faster. 
If he had taken a contradictious tone on purpose to 
draw Mrs. Luna out, he could not have elicited more of the 
information he desired. It was perfectly true that he had 
seen no reference to Verena's performances in the preceding 
June ; there were periods when the newspapers seemed to 
him so idiotic that for weeks he never looked at one. He 
learned from Mrs. Luna that it was not Olive who had sent 
her the ' Transcript ' and in letters had added some private 
account of the doings at the convention to the testimony of 
that amiable sheet ; she had been indebted for this service 
to a 'gentleman -friend,' who wrote her everything that 
happened in Boston, and what every one had every day for 
dinner. Not that it was necessary for her happiness to 
know ; but the gentleman she spoke of didn't know what 
 
to invent to please her. A Bostonian couldn't imagine 
that one didn't want to know, and that was their idea of 
ingratiating themselves, or, at any rate, it was his, poor 
man. Olive would never have gone into particulars about 
Verena ; she regarded her sister as quite too much one of 
the profane, and knew Adeline couldn't understand why, 
when she took to herself a bosom-friend, she should have 
been at such pains to select her in just the most dreadful 
class in the community. Verena was a perfect little 
adventuress, and quite third-rate into the bargain ; but, of 
course, she was a pretty girl enough, if one cared for hair 
of the colour of cochineal. As for her people, they were 
too absolutely awful ; it was exactly as if she, Mrs. Luna, 
had struck up an intimacy with the daughter of her chiro- 
podist. It took Olive to invent such monstrosities, and to 
think she was doing something great for humanity when she 
did so ; though, in spite of her wanting to turn everything 
over, and put the lowest highest, she could be just as con- 
temptuous and invidious, when it came to really mixing, as 
if she were some grand old duchess. She must do her the 
justice to say that she hated the Tarrants, the father and 
mother ; but, all the same, she let Verena run to and fro 
between Charles Street and the horrible hole they lived in, 
and Adeline knew from that gentleman who wrote so 
copiously that the girl now and then spent a week at a 
time at Cambridge. Her mother, who had been ill for 
some weeks, wanted her to sleep there. Mrs. Luna knew 
further, by her correspondent, that Verena had or had had 
the winter before a great deal of attention from gentlemen. 
She didn't know how she worked that into the idea that 
