P. Of each living material form, the sphere, or at least some
sphere, was the cause. Matter, considered simply by itself, is dead, and
can only live by the influx of a surrounding sphere or spirit. It may
be said at the last synthesis, that the general sphere even of each
microscopic monad that is in process of becoming vitalized, as well as
of the great nebulous mass that is to form a universe, is the Spirit
of the Infinite Deity, which is present with atoms in the degree of
atoms, as well as with worlds in the degree of worlds. This Spirit,
as it embodies itself in matter, becomes segregated, finited, and
individualized, and forms a specific soul, spirit, or sphere by itself,
now no longer deific, but always of a nature necessarily corresponding
to the peculiar form and condition of the matter in which it becomes
embodied. Life, therefore, is not the result of organization, but
organization is the result of life, which latter is eternal, never
having had a beginning, and never to have an end. Some of your
scientific men have recently discovered what they have been pleased to
term "the physical basis of life," in a microscopic and faintly vital
substance called protoplasm, which forms the material foundation of
all organic structures, both in the vegetable and animal kingdoms. They
have not yet, however, discovered the source from which the life found
in this substance comes--which would be plain to them if they understood
the doctrine of spheres and influx as I have here given it.
I. I thank you for this profoundly suggestive thought, even should it
prove to be no more than a thought. But please now show us what bearing
all this has upon the question more particularly before us--the question
as to the medium and process through which this little board is moved,
the tables are tipped, people are entranced and made to speak and write,
and all these modern wonders are produced--also how and why it is that
the alleged spirit-communications are commonly tinctured, more or less,
with the peculiar characteristics of the human agents through whom they
are given?
P. You now have some idea of the doctrine of spheres; you will,
however, understand that the spheres of created beings, owing to a unity
of origin, are universally co-related, and, under proper conditions, can
act and react upon each other. You have before had some true notion of
the laws of rapport, which means relation or correspondence. You will
understand, further, that there can be no action between any two things
or beings in any department of creation except as they are in rapport
or correspondence with each other, and that the action can go no farther
than the rapport or correspondence extends. Now, two spirits can
always, when it is in divine order, readily communicate with each other,
because they can always bring themselves into direct rapport at some
one or more points. Though matter is widely discreted from spirit, in
that the one is dead and the other is alive, yet there is a certain
correspondence between the two, and between the degrees of one and the
degrees of the other; and according to this correspondence, relation,
or rapport, spirit may act upon matter. Thus your spirit, in all its
degrees and faculties, is in the closest rapport with all the degrees
of matter composing your body, and for this reason alone it is able to
move it as it does, which it will no longer be able to do when that
rapport is destroyed by what you call death. Through your body it is
en rapport with, and is able to act upon, surrounding matter. If,
then, you are in a susceptible condition, a spirit can not only get into
rapport with your spirit, and through it with your body, and control
its motions, or even suspend your own proper action and external
consciousness by entrancement, but if you are at the same time en
rapport with this little board, it can, through contact of your hands,
get into rapport with that, and move it without any conscious or
volitional agency on your part. Furthermore, under certain favorable
conditions, a spirit may, through your sphere and body combined, come
into rapport even with the spheres of the ultimate particles of
material bodies near you, and thence with the particles and the whole
bodies themselves, and may thus, even without contact of your hands,
move them or make sounds upon them, as has often been witnessed. Its
action, however, as before said, ceases where the rapport ceases; and
if communications from really intelligent spirits have sometimes been
defective as to the quality of the intelligence manifested, it is
because there has been found nothing in the medium which could be
brought into rapport or correspondence with the more elevated ideas of
the spirit. The spirit, too, in frequent instances, is unable to prevent
its energizing influences from being diverted by the reactive power of
the medium, into the channels of the imperfect types of thought and
expression that are established in his mind, and it is for this simple
reason that the communication is, as you say, often tinctured with the
peculiarities of the medium, and even sometimes is nothing more than
a reproduction of the mental states of the latter, perhaps greatly
intensified.
I. If this theory, so far seemingly very plausible, is really the
correct one, it ought to go one step farther, and explain the many
disorderly unintelligible rappings, thumpings, throwing of stones,
hurling of furniture, etc., which often have occurred in the presence
of particular persons, or at particular places.[3]
      [3] See an article entitled "A Remarkable Case of Physical
      Phenomena," in the Atlantic Monthly for August, 1868.
P. Those are manifestations which, when not the designed work of evil
spirits, have their proximate source in the dream-region which lies
between the natural and spiritual worlds.
I. Pray tell us what you mean by the dream-region that lies between
the two worlds?
P. There are sometimes conditions in which the body is profoundly
asleep, with no perturbations of the nervous system caused by previous
mental and physical exercise. In this state the mind may still be
perfectly awake, and independently, consciously, and even intensely
active. When thus conditioned, it may be, and often is, among spirits
in the spiritual world, though from the nature of the case it is seldom
able to bring back into the bodily state any reminiscences of the scenes
of that world. The dream state, properly speaking, is not this, but
a state intermediate between this and the normal, wakeful state of
the bodily senses, and is a state of broken, confused, irrational,
inconsistent, and irresponsible thoughts, emotions, and apparent
actions--the whole arising from confusedly intermixed bodily and
spiritual states and influences. The potential spheres of spirits who
desire to make manifestations to the natural world sometimes become
commingled, designedly or otherwise, with the spheres of persons in the
body who, in consequence of certain nervous or psychic disorders, are
more or less in this dream-region even when the body is so far awake as
to be en rapport with external things; and in such cases, whatever
manifestations may arise from the spiritual potencies with which such
persons are surcharged, will of necessity be beyond the control, or
possibly even beyond the cognizance, of any governing spirit, and will
be irrational, inconsistent, and sometimes very annoying, or even
destructive, according to the types of the dreamy mentality of the
medium. If you will think for a moment, you will remember that the kind
of manifestations referred to are never known to occur except in the
presence of persons in a semi-somnambulic or highly hysterical state,
or laboring under some analogous nervous disorders; and the persons are
often of a low organization, and very ignorant.
THE MORAL AND RELIGIOUS DIFFICULTY.
I. I am constrained to say, my mysterious friend, that the novelty and
ingenuity of your ideas surprise me greatly, and I do, in all candor,
acknowledge that you have skillfully disposed of my objections to the
spiritual theory of these phenomena on rational grounds, and explained
the philosophy of this thing, in a manner which I am at present unable
to gainsay. I must still hesitate, however, to enroll myself among the
converts to the spiritual theory unless you can remove another serious
objection, which rests on moral and religious grounds. From so
important and startling a development as general open communications
from spirits, it seems to me that we would have a right to expect some
conspicuous good to mankind; yet, although this thing has been before
the world now over twenty years, I am unable to see the evidence that
it has wrought any improvement in the moral and social condition of
the converts to its claims. Pray, how do you account for that fact?
P. My friend, that question should be addressed to the Spiritualists,
not to me. I will say, however, that this whole subject, long as it has
been before the world, is still in a chaotic state, its laws have been
very little understood, and even its essential objects and uses have
been very much misconceived. I may add that, from its very nature, its
real practical fruits as well as its true philosophy must necessarily be
the growth of a considerable period of time.
I. I will not, then, press the objection in that form. When we look,
however, at the Religious tendencies of the thing, I do not think we
find much promise of the "practical fruits" which you here intimate may
yet come of it. I lay it down as a proposition which all history proves,
that Infidelity, in all its forms, is an enemy to the human race, and
that it never has done or can do anybody any good, but always has done
and must do harm. But it is notorious that the spirits, if they be
such, with their mediums and disciples, have generally (though not
universally, I grant) assumed an attitude at least of apparent
hostility to almost every thing peculiar to the Christian religion,
and most essential to it, and are constantly reiterating the almost
identical ribaldry and sophistry of the infidels of the last century.
How shall a good and Christian person who knows and has felt the truth
of the vital principles of Christianity become a Spiritualist while
Spiritualism thus denies and scoffs at doctrines which he feels and
knows to be true?
P. The point you thus make is apparently a very strong one. But let
me ask, Can you not conceive that there may be a difference between the
mere word-teaching of Spiritualists and even spirits themselves, and the
real teaching of Spiritualism as such? that is to say, between mere
verbal utterances and phenomenal demonstrations? For illustration,
suppose a man asserts at noonday that there is no sun, does he teach you
there is no sun? or does he teach you that he is blind?
I. That he is blind, of course.
P. So, then, when a spirit comes to you and asserts that there is no
God--it is seldom that they assert that, but we will take an extreme
case--does he teach you that there is no God, or does he teach you that
he himself is a fool?
I. Well, I should say he would teach the latter; but what use would
the knowledge that he is such a fool be to us?
P. It is one of the important providential designs of these
manifestations to teach mankind that spirits in general maintain
the characters that they formed to themselves during their earthly
life--that, indeed, they are the identical persons they were while
dwelling in the flesh--hence, that while there are just, truthful,
wise, and Christian spirits, there are also spirits addicted to lying,
profanity, obscenity, mischief, and violence, and spirits who deny God
and religion, just as they did while in your world. It has become very
necessary for mankind to know all this; it certainly could in no other
way be so effectually made known as by an actual manifestation of it;
and it is just as necessary that you should see the dark side as the
bright side of the picture.
I. Yet a person already adopting, or predisposed to adopt, any false
doctrine asserted by a spirit, would, it seems to me, be in danger of
receiving the spirit-assertion as verbally true.
P. That is to say, a person already in, or inclined to adopt, the
same error that a spirit is in, would be in danger of being confirmed,
for the time being, in that error, by listening to the spirit's
asseveration. This, I admit, is just the effect produced for a time
by the infidel word-teaching of some spirits upon those already
embracing, or inclined to embrace, infidel sentiments. But if you
will look beyond this superficial aspect of the subject at its great
phenomenal and rational teachings, I think you will see that its deeper,
stronger, and more permanent tendency is, not to promote infidelity, but
ultimately to destroy it for ever. I have said before, that the real
object of this development has been very much misconceived; I tell you
now that the great object is to purge the Church itself of its latent
infidelity; to renovate the Christian faith; and to bring theology and
religion up to that high standard which will be equal to the wants of
this age, as it certainly now is not.
I. Planchette, you are now touching upon a delicate subject. You
should know that we are inclined to be somewhat tenacious of our
theological and religious sentiments, and not to look with favor on any
innovations. Nevertheless, I am curious to know how you justify yourself
in this disparaging remark on the theology and religion of the day?
P. I do not mean to be understood that there is not much that is true
and good in it. There is; and I would not by a single harsh word wound
the loving hearts of those who have a spark of real religious life in
them. I would bind up the bruised reed, rather than break it; I would
fan the smoking flax into a flame, rather than quench it. This is the
sentiment of all good spirits, of whom I trust I am one. But let me
say most emphatically, that you want a public religion that will tower
high above all other influences whatsoever; that will predominate over
all, and ask favors of none; that will unite mankind in charity and
brotherly love, and not divide them into hostile sects, and that will
infuse its spirit into, and thus give direction to, all social and
political movements. Such a religion the world must have, or from this
hour degenerate.
I. Why might not the religion of the existing churches accomplish
these results, provided its professors would manifest the requisite zeal
and energy?
P. It is doing much good, and might, on the conditions you specify,
do much more. Yet the public religion has become negative to other
influences, instead of positive, as it should be, from which false
position it can not be reclaimed without such great and vital
improvements as would almost seem to amount to a renewal ab ovo.
I. On what ground do you assert that the religion of the day stands in
a position "negative" to other influences?
P. I will answer by asking: Is it not patent to you and all other
intelligent persons, that for the last hundred years the Christian
Church and theology have been standing mainly on the defensive against
the assaults of materialism and the encroachments of science? Has it
not, without adequate examination, poured contempt on Mesmerism,
denounced Phrenology, endeavored to explain away the facts of Geology
and some of the higher branches of Astronomy? Has it not looked with a
jealous eye upon the progress of science generally? and has it not
been at infinite labor in merely defending the history of the life,
miracles, death, and resurrection of Christ, against the negations of
materialists, which labor might, in a great measure, have been saved if
an adequate proof could have been given of the power and omnipotent
working of a present Christ? And what is the course it has taken with
reference to the present spiritual manifestations, the claims of which
it can no more overthrow than it can drag the sun from the firmament?
Now a true church--a church to which is given the power to cast out
devils, and take up serpents, or drink any deadly thing, without being
harmed--will always be able to stand on the aggressive against its
real spiritual foes more than on the mere defensive, and in no case
will it ever turn its back to a fact in science. Its power will be
the power of the Holy Spirit, and not the power of worldly wealth and
fashion. When it reasons of righteousness, temperance, and judgment,
Felix will tremble, but it will never tremble before Felix, lest he
withdraw his patronage from it.
I. I admit that the facts you state about the Church's warfare in
these latter days have not the most favorable aspect; but how the needed
elements of theology and religion are to be supplied by demonstrations
afforded by these latter-day phenomena, I do not yet quite see.
P. If religious teachers will but study these facts, simply as
facts, in all the different aspects which they have presented, from
their first appearance up to this time--study them in the same spirit
in which the chemist studies affinities, equivalents, and isomeric
compounds--in the same spirit in which the astronomer observes planets,
suns, and nebulæ--in the same spirit in which the microscopist studies
monads, blood-discs, and protoplasm--always hospitable to a new fact,
always willing to give up an old error for the sake of a new truth;
never receiving the mere dicta either of spirits or men as absolute
authority, but always trusting the guidance of right reason wherever she
may lead--if, I say, they will but study these great latter-day signs,
providential warnings and monitions, in this spirit, I promise them that
they shall soon find a rational and scientific ground on which to
rest every real Christian doctrine, from the Incarnation to the crown of
glory--miracles, the regeneration, the resurrection, and all, with the
great advantage of having the doctrine of immortality taken out of the
sphere of faith and made a fixed fact. Furthermore, I promise them,
on those conditions, that they shall hereafter be able to lead science
rather than be dragged along unwillingly in its trail; and then science
will be forever enrolled in the service of God's religion, and no longer
in that of the world's materialism and infidelity.
I. Planchette, your communication has, upon the whole, been of a most
startling character; tell me, I pray you, what do you call all this
thing, and what is to come of it?
WHAT THIS MODERN DEVELOPMENT IS, AND WHAT IS TO COME OF IT.
P. Can you, then, bear an announcement still more startling than any I
have yet made?
I. I really know not; I will try; let us have it.
P. Well, then, I call it a Fourth Great Divine Epiphany or
Manifestation; or what you will perhaps better understand as one of the
developments characterizing the beginning of a Fourth Great Divine
Dispensation. What is to come of it, you will be able to judge as well
as I when you understand its nature.
I. What! so great an event heralded by so questionable an
instrumentality as the rapping and table tipping spirits?
P. Be calm, and at the same time be humble. Remember that it is not
unusual for God to employ the foolish things of this world to confound
the wise, and that when He comes to visit His people, He almost always
comes in disguises, and sometimes even "as a thief in the night."
Besides the spirits of which you speak are only the rough but very
useful pioneers to open a highway through which the King is coming with
innumerable hosts of angels, who, indeed, are already near you, though
you see them not. It is, indeed, an hour of temptation that has come
upon all the world; but be watchful and true, prayerful and faithful,
and fear not.
I. Please tell us then, if you can, something of the nature and
objects of this new Divine Epiphany which you announce; and as you say
it is a Fourth, please tell us, in brief, what were the preceding
Three, the times of their occurrence, and how they are all
distinguished from each other.
P. The First appealed only to the affections and the inner sense of
the soul, and was the Dispensation of the most ancient Church, when God
walked with man in the midst of the garden of his own interior delights,
and when "Enoch walked with God and was not, for God took him." But as
this sense of the indwelling presence of God was little more than a mere
emotion, for which, in that period of humanity's childhood, there was
no adequate, rational, and directive intelligence, men, in process of
time, began to mistake every delight as being divine and holy;
thus they justified themselves in their evil delights, or in the
gratification of their lusts and passions, considering even these as all
divine. [The "sons of God" marrying the "daughters of men."--Gen.
vi. 2-4.] And as they possessed no adequate reasoning faculty to which
appeals might be made for the correction of these tendencies, and thus
no ground of reformation, the race gradually grew to such a towering
height of wickedness that it had to be almost entirely destroyed. The
Second age or Dispensation, commencing with Noah, was distinctively
characterized by the more special manifestation of God in outward types
and shadows, in the adyta of temples and other consecrated places and
things, from which, as representative seats of the Divine Presence, and
through inspired men, were issued laws to which terrible penalties
were annexed, as is exemplified by the law issued from Mount Sinai.
The evil passions of men were thus put under restraint, and a rational
faculty of discriminating between right and wrong--that is to say, a
Conscience--was at the same time developed. But the sophistical use
of these types and shadows (of which all ancient mythology is an
outgrowth), and the accompanying perversion of the general conscience
of mankind, gradually generated Idolatry and Magic with all their
complicated evils, against which the Jewish Church, though belonging to
the same general Dispensation, was specially instituted to react.
Furthermore, as the mere restraints of penal law necessarily imply the
existence in man of latent evils upon which the restraint is imposed, it
is manifest that such a dispensation alone could not bring human nature
to a state of perfection; and so a Third was instituted, in which God
was manifested in the flesh. That is to say, He became incarnate in
one man who was so constituted as to embody in himself the qualitative
totality of Human Nature, that through this one Man as the Head of the
Body of which other men were the subordinate organs, He might become
united with all others--so that by the spontaneous movings of the living
Christ within, and thus in perfect freedom, they might live the divine
life in their very fleshly nature, previously the source of all sinful
lusts, but now, together with the inner man, wholly regenerated and
made anew. Here, then, is a Trinity of Divine manifestations, to
the corresponding triune degrees of the nature of man--the inner or
affectional degree, the intermediate, rational, or conscience degree,
and the external, or sensuous degree.
But while this was all that was necessary as a ground for the perfect
union of man with God, in the graduated triune degrees here mentioned,
and thus all that was necessary for his personal salvation in a sphere
of being beyond and above the earthy, it was not all that was
necessary to perfect his relations to the great and mysterious realm of
forms, materials, and forces which constitute the theater of his earthly
struggles; nor was it quite all that was necessary to project and carry
into execution the plan of that true and divine structure, order and
government of human society which might be appropriately termed "the
kingdom of heaven upon earth; wherefore you have now, according to a
divine promise frequently repeated in the New Testament, a Fourth
Great Divine Manifestation, which proves to be a manifestation of God in
universal science.
I. But that "Fourth Manifestation" (or "second coming," as we are
in the habit of calling it), which was promised in the New Testament,
was to be attended with imposing phenomena, of which we have as yet seen
nothing. It was to be a coming of Christ "in the clouds of heaven, with
power and great glory," and the resurrection of the dead, the final
judgment, etc., were to occur at the same time?
P. Certainly; but you would not, of course, insist upon putting a
strictly literal interpretation upon this language, and thus turning
it into utter and senseless absurdity. The real "heaven" is not that
boundary of your vision in upper space which you call the sky, but the
interior and living reality of things. The "clouds" that are meant
are not those sheets of condensed aqueous vapor which float above
your head, but the material coatings which have hitherto obscured
interior realities, and through which the Divine Logos, the "Sun of
Righteousness," is now breaking with a "power" which moves dead matter
without visible hands, and with a "great glory," or light, which reveals
a spiritual world within the natural. The "Resurrection" is not the
opening of the literal graves, and re-assembling of the identical flesh,
blood, and bones of dead men and nations which, during hundreds and
even thousands of years, have been combining and re-combining with the
universal elements; but it is the re-establishment of the long-suspended
relations of spirits with the earthly sphere of being, by which they
are enabled to freely manifest themselves again to their friends in the
earthly life, and often to receive great benefits in return; and if
you do not yet see, as accompanying and growing out of all this, the
beginning of an ordeal that is to try souls, institutions, creeds,
churches, and nations, as by fire, you had better wait awhile for a more
full exposition of the "last judgment." People should learn that the
kingdom of God comes not to outward but to inward observation, and
that as for the prophetic words which have been spoken on this subject,
"they are spirit, and they are life."
I. And what of the changed aspects of science that is to grow out of
this alleged peculiar Divine manifestation?
P. To answer that question fully would require volumes. Be content,
then, for the present, with the following brief words: Hitherto science
has been almost wholly materialistic in its tendencies, having nothing
to do with spiritual things, but ignoring and casting doubts upon them;
while spiritual matters, on the other hand, have been regarded by the
Church wholly as matters of faith with which science has nothing to
do. But through these modern manifestations, God is providentially
furnishing to the world all the elements of a spiritual science which,
when established and recognized, will be the stand-point from which
all physical science will be viewed. It will then be more distinctly
known that all external and visible forms and motions originate from
invisible, spiritual, and ultimately divine causes; that between cause
and effect there is always a necessary and intimate correspondence;
and hence that the whole outer universe is but the symbol and sure
index of an invisible and vastly more real universe within. From
this unitary basis of thought the different sciences as now correctly
understood may be co-related in harmonic order as One Grand Science, the
known of which, by the rule of correspondence, will lead by easy clews
to the unknown. The true structure and government of human society
will be clearly hinted by the structure and laws of the universe,
and especially by that microcosm, or little universe, the human
organization. All the great stirring questions of the day, including the
questions of suffrage, woman's rights, the relations between labor and
capital, and the questions of general political reform, will be put into
the way of an easy and speedy solution; and mankind will be ushered into
the light of a brighter day, socially, politically, and religiously,
than has ever yet dawned upon the world.
I. My invisible friend, the wonderful nature of your communication
excites my curiosity to know your name ere we part. Will you have the
kindness to gratify me in this particular?
P. That I may not do. My name is of no consequence in any respect.
Besides, if I should give it, you might, unconsciously to yourself, be
influenced to attach to it the weight of a personal authority, which
is specially to be avoided in communications of this kind. There is
nothing to prevent deceiving spirits from assuming great names, and you
have no way of holding them responsible for their statements. With
thinkers--minds that are developed to a vigorous maturity--the truth
itself should be its only and sufficient authority. If what I have told
you appears intrinsically rational, logical, scientific, in harmony with
known facts, and appeals to your convictions with the force of truth,
accept it; if not, reject it; but I advise you not to reject it before
giving it a candid and careful examination. I may tell you more at some
future time, but for the present, farewell.
CONCLUSION.
Here the interview ended. It was a part of my original plan, after
reviewing various theories on this mysterious subject, to propound one
of my own; but this interview with Planchette has changed my mind.
I confess I am amazed and confounded, and have nothing to say. The
commendable motive which the invisible intelligence, whatever it may
be, assigned in the last paragraph for refusing to give its name,
also prompts me to withhold my own name from this publication for the
present, and likewise to abstain from the explanation I intended to
give of certain particulars as to the manner and circumstances of this
communication. On its own intrinsic merits alone it should be permitted
to rest; and as I certainly feel that my own conceptions have been
greatly enlarged, not to say that I have been greatly instructed, I give
it forth in the hope that it may have the same effect upon my readers.
HOW TO WORK PLANCHETTE.
We have received letters from different persons who have tried
Planchette, but failed to make her work. Our correspondents wish to know
the reason of the failure, and what conditions must be complied with on
their part to remedy the difficulty. We reply by the insertion of the
following rules, which should be read in connection with the descriptive
paragraph near the commencement of this pamphlet:
  =RULES TO BE OBSERVED IN USING PLANCHETTE.=
  For some persons (strong magnetizers), "Planchette" moves at once,
  and for one such person it moves rapidly and writes distinctly. With
  such a person it is not necessary for another to put their hands on;
  it will operate alone for them, and better than with two persons.
  It has been noticed that one pair of male and one pair of female
  hands form a more perfect Battery to work "Planchette" than two
  males or two females would do.
  It has also been noticed that one light and one dark complexioned
  person are better than two light or two dark persons would be
  together; also, that two females, with their hands on together, are
  better than the hands of two males would be.
  If, after observing these rules, "Planchette" should refuse to
  write, or move, different persons must try until the necessary
  Battery is formed to make it operate. (It is here remarked that the
  average number of persons able to work "Planchette" is about five
  to eight; but it is still possible, but improbable, to have an
  assemblage of eight persons and not any be able to make "Planchette"
  go.) After it is ascertained who are the proper persons to move
  "Planchette," no end of fun, amusement, and possibly instruction,
  will be afforded.
According to the experience of the present writer, the proportional
number of those for whom Planchette will work promptly, and from the
first, is not quite so great as here given. But by perseverance through
repeated trials, under the right mental and physical conditions,
most persons may at length obtain responsive movements, more or less
satisfactory. Planchette, however (or the intelligence which moves her),
likes to be treated with a decent respect, and has a repugnance to
confusion. Ask her, therefore, none but respectful questions, and only
one of these at a time; and when there are several persons in the
company anxious to obtain responses, while one is consulting let all
the others keep perfectly quiet, and each patiently await his turn.
A non-compliance with these conditions generally spoils the experiment.
SPIRITUALISM.
BY MRS. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.
  [The following was written for, and published in the Christian
  Union. It was reprinted in THE PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL in 1870. We
  present it here, as in some measure explanatory of all the matter
  which precedes it. There are many who do not accept all that is
  claimed to be true, in Modern Spiritualism, who will entertain the
  moderate views expressed by The Author of Uncle Tom's Cabin.
  EDITOR.]
It is claimed that there are in the United States four million
Spiritualists. The perusal of the advertisements in any one of the
weekly newspapers devoted to this subject will show that there is a
system organized all over the Union to spread these sentiments. From
fifty to a hundred, and sometimes more, of lecturers advertise in a
single paper, to speak up and down the land; and lyceums--progressive
lyceums for children, spiritual pic-nics, and other movements of the
same kind, are advertised. This kind of thing has been going on from
year to year, and the indications now are that it is increasing rather
than diminishing.
It is claimed by the advocates of these sentiments that the number of
those who boldly and openly profess them is exceeded by the greater
number of those who are secretly convinced, but who are unwilling to
encounter the degree of obloquy or ridicule which they would probably
meet on an open avowal.
All these things afford matter for grave thought to those to whom none
of the great and deep movements of society are indifferent. When we
think how very tender and sacred are the feelings with which this has
to do--what power and permanency they always must have, we can not but
consider such a movement of society entitled at least to the most
serious and thoughtful consideration.
Our own country has just been plowed and seamed by a cruel war. The
bullet that has pierced thousands of faithful breasts has cut the
nerve of life and hope in thousands of homes. What yearning toward the
invisible state, what agonized longings must have gone up as the sound
of mournful surges, during these years succeeding the war! Can we wonder
that any form of religion, or of superstition, which professes in the
least to mitigate the anguish of that cruel separation, and to break
that dreadful silence by any voice or token, has hundreds of thousands
of disciples? If on review of the spiritualistic papers and pamphlets we
find them full of vague wanderings and wild and purposeless flights of
fancy, can we help pitying that craving of the human soul which all this
represents and so imperfectly supplies?
The question arises, Has not the Protestant religion neglected to
provide some portion of the true spiritual food of the human soul, and
thus produced this epidemic craving? It is often held to be a medical
fact that morbid appetites are the blind cry of nature for something
needed in the bodily system which is lacking. The wise nurse or mother
does not hold up to ridicule the poor little culprit who secretly picks
a hole in the plastering that he may eat the lime; she considers within
herself what is wanting in this little one's system, and how this lack
shall be more judiciously and safely supplied. If it be phosphate of
lime for the bones which nature is thus blindly crying for, let us give
it to him more palatably and under more attractive forms.
So with the epidemic cravings of human society. The wise spiritual
pastor or master would inquire what is wanting to these poor souls that
they are thus with hungry avidity rushing in a certain direction,
and devouring with unhealthy eagerness all manner of crudities and
absurdities.
May it not be spiritual food, of which their mother, the Church, has
abundance, which she has neglected to set before them?
Now, if we compare the religious teachings of the present century with
those of any past one, we shall find that the practical spiritualistic
belief taught by the Bible has to a great extent dropped out of it.
Let us begin with the time of Jesus Christ. Nothing is more evident
in reading his life than that he was acting all the time in view of
unseen and spiritual influences, which were more pronounced and
operative to him than any of the visible and materialistic phenomena
of the present life. In this respect the conduct of Christ, if
imitated in the present day, would subject a man to the imputation of
superstition or credulity. He imputed things to the direct agency of
invisible spirits acting in the affairs of life, that we, in the same
circumstances, attribute only to the constitutional liabilities of the
individual acted upon by force of circumstances.
As an example of this, let us take his language toward the Apostle
Peter. With the habits of modern Christianity, the caution of Christ to
Peter would have been expressed much on this fashion: "Simon, Simon,
thou art impulsive, and liable to be carried away with sudden
impressions. The Jews are about to make an attack on me which will
endanger thee."
This was the exterior view of the situation, but our Lord did not take
it. He said, "Simon, Simon, Satan hath desired to have thee that he may
sift thee as wheat; but I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail
not." This Satan was a person ever present in the mind of Christ. He
was ever in his view as the invisible force by which all the visible
antagonistic forces were ruled. When his disciples came home in triumph
to relate the successes of their first preaching tour, Christ said, "I
beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven." When the Apostle Peter
rebuked him for prophesying the tragical end of his earthly career,
Christ answered not him, but the invisible spirit whose influence over
him he recognized: "Get thee behind me, Satan! Thou art an offense unto
me."
When the Saviour's last trial approached, he announced the coming crisis
in the words, "The prince of this world cometh, and hath nothing in me."
When he gave himself into the hands of the Sanhedrim, he said, "This is
your hour and that of the powers of darkness." When disputing with the
unbelieving Jews, he told them that they were of their father, the
devil; that he was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the
truth; that when he spoke a lie he spoke of his own, for he was a liar,
and the father of lies.
In short, the life of Christ, as viewed by himself, was not a conflict
with enemies in the flesh, but with an invisible enemy, artful,
powerful, old as the foundations of the world, and ruling by his
influences over evil spirits and men in the flesh.
The same was the doctrine taught by the Apostles. In reading the
Epistles we see in the strongest language how the whole visible world
was up in arms against them. St. Paul gives this catalogue of his
physical and worldly sufferings, proving his right to apostleship mainly
by perseverance in persecution. "In labors more abundant, in stripes
above measure, in prisons more frequent, in deaths oft; of the Jews five
times received I forty stripes save one; thrice was I beaten with rods,
once was I stoned; thrice have I suffered shipwreck--a night and a day
have I been in the deep. In journeyings often, in perils of water, in
perils of robbers, in perils by mine own countrymen, in perils by the
heathen, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils
among false brethren."
One would say with all this, there was a sufficient array of physical
and natural causes against St. Paul to stand for something. In modern
language--yea, in the language of good modern Christians--it would be
said "What is the use of taking into account any devil or any invisible
spirits to account for Paul's trials and difficulties?--it is enough
that the whole world has set itself against what he teaches--Jew and
Gentile are equally antagonistic to it."
But St. Paul says in the face of all this, "We are not wrestling with
flesh and blood, but with principalities and powers and the leaders of
the darkness of this world, and against wicked spirits in high places;"
and St. Peter, recognizing the sufferings and persecutions of the early
Christians, says, "Be sober, be vigilant." Why? "Because your adversary,
the devil, as a roaring lion, goeth about seeking whom he may devour."
In like manner we find in the discourses of our Lord and the Apostles
the recognition of a counteracting force of good spirits. When
Nathaniel, one of his early disciples, was astonished at his spiritual
insight, he said to him, "Thou shalt see greater things than these!
Hereafter ye shall see heaven open, and angels of God ascending and
descending on the Son of man." When he spoke of the importance of little
children, he announced that each one of them had a guardian angel who
beheld the face of God. When he was transfigured on the Mount, Moses and
Elijah appeared in glory, and talked with him of his death that he was
to accomplish at Jerusalem. In the hour of his agony in the garden, an
angel appeared and ministered to him. When Peter drew a sword to defend
him, he said, "Put up thy sword. Thinkest thou that I can not now pray
to my Father, and he will give me more than twelve legions of angels?"
Thus, between two contending forces of the invisible world was
Christianity inaugurated. During the primitive ages the same language
was used by the Fathers of the church, and has ever since been
traditional.
But we need not say that the fashion of modern Protestant theology and
the custom of modern Protestant Christianity have been less and less of
this sort.
We hear from good Christians, and from Christian ministers, talk of this
sort: A great deal is laid to the poor devil that he never thought of.
If men would take care of their own affairs the devil will let them
alone. We hear it said that there is no evidence of the operation
of invisible spirits in the course of human affairs. It is all a mere
matter of physical, mental, and moral laws working out their mission
with unvarying certainty.
But is it a fact, then, that the great enemy whom Christ so constantly
spoke of is dead? Are the principalities and powers and rulers of the
darkness of this world, whom Paul declared to be the real opponents that
the Christian has to arm against, all dead? If that great enemy whom
Christ declared the source of all opposition to himself is yet living,
with his nature unchanged, there is as much reason to look for his
action behind the actions of men and the vail of material causes as
there was in Christ's time; and if the principalities and powers and
rulers of the darkness of this world, that Paul speaks of, have not
died, then they are now, as they were in his day, the principal thing
the Christian should keep in mind and against which he should arm.
And, on the other hand, if it is true, as Christ declared, that every
little child in him has a guardian angel, who always beholds the
Father's face; if, as St. Paul says, it is true that the angels all are
"ministering spirits sent forth to minister to those who shall be heirs
of salvation," then it follows that every one of us is being constantly
watched over, cared for, warned, guided, and ministered to by invisible
spirits.
Now let us notice in what regions and in what classes of mind the modern
spiritualistic religion has most converts.
To a remarkable degree it takes minds which have been denuded of all
faith in spirits; minds which are empty, swept of all spiritual belief,
are the ones into which any amount of spirits can enter and take
possession.
That is to say, the human soul, in a state of starvation for one of its
normal and most necessary articles of food, devours right and left every
marvel of modern spiritualism, however crude.
The old angelology of the Book of Daniel and the Revelation is poetical
and grand. Daniel sees lofty visions of beings embodying all the grand
forces of nature. He is told of invisible princes who rule the destiny
of nations! Michael, the guardian prince of the Jews, is hindered
twenty-one days from coming, at the prayer of Daniel, by the conflicting
princes of Media and Persia. In the New Testament, how splendid is the
description of the angel of the resurrection! "And behold, there was a
great earthquake, and the angel of the Lord descended from heaven and
came and rolled back the stone from the door and sat upon it! His
countenance was as the lightning, and his raiment white as snow, and
for fear of him the keepers did shake and become as dead men." We have
here spiritualistic phenomena worthy of a God--worthy our highest
conceptions--elevated, poetic, mysterious, grand!
And communities, and systems of philosophy and theology, which have
explained all the supernatural art of the Bible, or which are always
apologizing for it, blushing for it, ignoring and making the least they
can of it--such communities will go into spiritualism by hundreds and
by thousands. Instead of angels, whose countenance is as the lightning,
they will have ghosts and tippings and tappings and rappings. Instead
of the great beneficent miracles recorded in Scripture, they will have
senseless clatterings of furniture and breaking of crockery. Instead of
Christ's own promise, "He that keepeth my commandments, I will love him
and manifest myself," they will have manifestations from all sorts of
anonymous spirits, good, bad, and indifferent.
Well, then, what is the way to deal with spiritualism? Precisely what
the hunter uses when he stands in the high, combustible grass and sees
the fire sweeping around him on the prairies. He sets fire to the grass
all around him, and it burns from instead of to him, and thus he
fights fire with fire. Spiritualism, in its crudities and errors, can be
met only in that way. The true spiritualism of the Bible is what will be
the only remedy for the cravings of that which is false and delusive.
Some years ago the writer of this, in deep sorrow for the sudden death
of a son, received the following letter from a Roman Catholic priest,
in a neighboring town. He was a man eminent for holiness of life and
benevolence, and has since entered the rest of the blessed.
  DEAR MADAM: In the deep affliction that has recently visited you I
  implore you to remember well that there is a communion of spirits of
  the departed just, which death can not prevent, and which, with
  prayer, can impart much consolation. This, with the condolence of
  every parent and child in my flock, I beg leave to offer you,
  wishing, in the mean time, to assure you of my heartfelt regret and
  sympathy.
  Yours, very truly,       JAMES O'DONNELL,
                     Catholic Pastor, Lawrence.
What is this communion which death can not prevent, and which with
prayer can impart consolation? It is known in the Apostles' Creed as
  "THE COMMUNION OF SAINTS."
When it is considered what social penalties attach to the profession of
this faith, one must admit that only some very strong cause can induce
persons of standing and established reputation openly to express beliefs
of this kind. The penalty is loss of confidence and being reputed of
unsound mind. It is not an easy thing to profess belief in anything
which destroys one's reputation for sanity, yet undoubtedly this is the
result.
It must also be admitted that most of the literature which has come into
existence in this way is of a doubtful and disreputable kind, and of a
tendency to degrade rather than elevate our conceptions of a spiritual
state.
Yet such is the hunger, the longing, the wild craving of the human soul
for the region of future immortality, its home-sickness for its future
home, its perishing anguish of desire for the beloved ones who have
been torn away from it, and to whom in every nerve it still throbs and
bleeds, that professed words and messages from that state, however
unworthy, are met with a trembling agony of eagerness, a willingness to
be deceived, most sorrowful to witness.
But any one who judges of the force of this temptation merely by what is
published in the Banner of Light, and other papers of that class, has
little estimate of what there is to be considered in the way of existing
phenomena under this head.
The cold scientists who, without pity and without sympathy, have
supposed that they have had under their dissecting knives the very
phenomena which have deluded their fellows, mistake. They have not seen
them, and in the cold, unsympathizing mood of science, they never can
see them. The experiences that have most weight with multitudes who
believe more than they dare to utter, are secrets deep as the grave,
sacred as the innermost fibers of their souls--they can not bring their
voices to utter them except in some hour of uttermost confidence and to
some friend of tried sympathy. They know what they have seen and what
they have heard. They know the examinations they have made they know the
inexplicable results, and, like Mary of old, they keep all these sayings
and ponder them in their hearts. They have no sympathy with the vulgar,
noisy, outward phenomena of tippings and rappings and signs and
wonders. They have no sympathy with the vulgar and profane attacks on
the Bible, which form part of the utterances of modern seers; but they
can not forget, and they can not explain things which in sacred solitude
or under circumstances of careful observation have come under their
own notice. They have no wish to make converts--they shrink from
conversation, they wait for light; but when they hear all these things
scoffed at, they think within themselves--Who knows?
We have said that the strong, unregulated, and often false
spiritualistic current of to-day is a result of the gradual departure
of Christendom from the true supernaturalism of primitive ages. We have
shown how Christ and his Apostles always regarded the invisible actors
on the stage of human existence as more powerful than the visible ones;
that they referred to their influence over the human spirit and over the
forces of nature, things which modern rationalism refers only to natural
laws. We can not illustrate the departure of modern society from
primitive faith better than in a single instance--a striking one.
The Apostles' Creed is the best formula of Christian faith--it is common
to the Greek, the Roman, the Reformed Churches, and published by our
Pilgrim Fathers in the New England Primer in connection with the
Assembly's Catechism. It contains the following profession:
  "I believe in the Holy Ghost; the Holy Catholic Church; the
  Communion of Saints; the Forgiveness of Sins," etc.
In this sentence, according to Bishop Pearson on the Creed, are
announced four important doctrines: 1. The Holy Ghost; 2. The Holy
Catholic Church; 3. The Communion of Saints; 4. The Forgiveness of Sins.
To each one of these the good Bishop devotes some twenty or thirty pages
of explanation.
But it is customary with many clergymen in reading to slur the second
and third articles together, thus: "I believe in the Holy Catholic
Church, the communion of saints"--that is to say, I believe in the Holy
Catholic Church, which is the communion of saints.
Now, in the standard edition of the English Prayer Book, and in all the
editions published from it, the separate articles of faith are divided
by semicolons--thus: "The Holy Ghost; The Holy Catholic Church; The
Communion of Saints." But in our American editions the punctuation is
altered to suit a modern rationalistic idea--thus: "The Holy Catholic
Church, the Communion of Saints."
The doctrine of the Communion of Saints, as held by primitive
Christians, and held still by the Roman and Greek Churches, is thus
dropped out of view in the modern Protestant Episcopal reading.
But what is this doctrine? Bishop Pearson devotes a long essay to it,
ending thus:
  Every one may learn by this what he is to understand by this part of
  the article in which he professeth to believe in the Communion of
  Saints.
Thereby he is conceived to express thus much:
  "I am fully persuaded of this, as a necessary and infallible truth,
  that such persons as are truly sanctified in the Church of Christ,
  while they live in the crooked generations of men and struggle with
  all the miseries of this world, have fellowship with God the Father,
  God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost ... that they partake of the
  kindness and care of the blessed angels who take delight in
  ministrations for their benefit, that ... they have an intimate
  union and conjunction with all the saints on earth as being members
  of Christ; NOR IS THIS UNION SEPARATED BY THE DEATH OF ANY, but they
  have communion with all the saints who, from the death of Abel, have
  departed this life in the fear of God, and now enjoy the presence of
  the Father, and follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth.
  "And thus I believe in the Communion of Saints."
Now, we appeal to the consciences of modern Christians whether this
statement of the doctrine of the Communion of Saints represents the
doctrine that they have heard preached from the pulpit, and whether it
has been made practically so much the food and nourishment of their
souls as to give them all the support under affliction and bereavement
which it certainly is calculated to do?
Do they really believe themselves to partake in their life-struggle
of the kindness and care of the blessed angels who take delight in
ministrations for their benefit? Do they believe they are united by
intimate bonds with all Christ's followers? Do they believe that the
union is not separated by the death of any of them, but that they have
communion with all the saints who have departed this life in the faith
and now enjoy the presence of the Father?
Would not a sermon conceived in the terms of this standard treatise
excite an instant sensation as tending toward the errors of
Spiritualism? And let us recollect that the Apostles' Creed from which
this is taken was as much a standard with our Pilgrim Fathers as the
Cambridge Platform.
If we look back to Cotton Mather's Magnalia, we shall find that the
belief in the ministration of angels and the conflict of invisible
spirits, good and evil, in the affairs of men, was practical and
influential in the times of our fathers.
If we look at the first New England Systematic Theology, that of Dr.
Dwight, we shall find the subject of Angels and Devils and their
ministry among men fully considered.
In the present theological course at Andover that subject is wholly
omitted. What may be the custom in other theological seminaries of the
present day we will not say.
We will now show what the teaching and the feeling of the primitive
church was on the subject of the departed dead and the ministrations of
angels. In Coleman's Christian Antiquities, under the head of Death
and Burial of the Early Christians, we find evidence of the great and
wide difference which existed between the Christian community and all
the other world, whether Jews or heathen, in regard to the vividness of
their conceptions of immortality. The Christian who died was not counted
as lost from their number--the fellowship with him was still unbroken.
The theory and the practice of the Christians was to look on the
departed as no otherwise severed from them than the man who has gone
to New York is divided from his family in Boston. He is not within the
scope of the senses, he can not be addressed, but he is the same person,
with the same heart, still living and loving, and partners with them of
all joys and sorrows.
But while they considered personal identity and consciousness unchanged
and the friend as belonging to them, as much after death as before,
they regarded his death as an advancement, an honor, a glory. It was
customary, we are told, to celebrate the day of his death as his
birth-day--the day when he was born to new immortal life. Tertullian,
who died in the year 220 in his treatise called the Soldier's
Chaplet, says: "We make anniversary oblations for the dead--for their
birth-days," meaning the day of their death. In another place he says,
"It was the practice of a widow to pray for the soul of her deceased
husband, desiring on his behalf present refreshment or rest, and a part
in the first resurrection," and offering annually for him oblation on
the day of his falling asleep. By this gentle term the rest of the
body in the grave was always spoken of among Christians. It is stated
that on these anniversary days of commemorating the dead they were used
to make a feast, inviting both clergy and people, but especially the
poor and needy, the widows and orphans, that it might not only be a
memorial of rest to the dead, but a memorial of a sweet savor in the
sight of God.
A Christian funeral was in every respect a standing contrast to the
lugubrious and depressing gloom of modern times. Palms and olive
branches were carried in the funeral procession, and the cypress
was rejected as symbolizing gloom. Psalms and hymns of a joyful and
triumphant tone were sung around the corpse while it was kept in the
house and on the way to the grave. St. Chrysostom, speaking of funeral
services, quotes passages from the psalms and hymns that were in common
use, thus:
  "What mean our psalms and hymns? Do we not glorify God and give him
  thanks that he hath crowned him that has departed, that he hath
  delivered him from trouble, that he hath set him free from all fear?
  Consider what thou singest at the time. 'Turn again to thy rest, O
  my soul, for the Lord hath rewarded thee;' and again: 'I will fear
  no evil because thou art with me;' and again: 'Thou art my refuge
  from the affliction that compasseth me about.' Consider what these
  psalms mean. If thou believest the things which thou sayest to be
  true, why dost thou weep and lament and make a pageantry and a mock
  of thy singing? If thou believest them not to be true, why dost
  thou play the hypocrite so much as to sing?"
Coleman says, also:
  "The sacrament of the Lord's Supper was administered at funerals and
  often at the grave itself. By this rite it was professed that the
  communion of saints was still perpetuated between the living and the
  dead. It was a favorite idea that both still continued members of
