first? . 
No, he will not be cowardly. Like his old Greek hero, 
after doing what he pleases, he will not shirk paying 
back in turn what pains him. The delay has been his 
own fault, but never has he had a month of such tender, 
absorbing delight. That must be his excuse. 
So he nerves himself and writes. He can evade silly 
rapture very easily, but he honestly and frankly admits 
 
 
 
his happiness, and tries to soften the surprise and wound 
for them. The two letters go in one enclosure, the notice 
in another. 
Then he gives a long stretch and a relieved sigh. 
Doris is beside him in a moment, though for some time 
back she has not been reading. She has not watched 
him, — that would make him nervous, — but in some occult 
way she has felt that he was disquieted. This quick sym- 
pathy or intuition she quietly accepts as an integral part 
of married life, and in no sense secret wisdom. 
"You have tired yourself." Her hand passes lightly 
over his forehead, and toys with his hair. 
" I have been very dilatory. I should have written 
these letters long ago. Ring for Martin, and let us go 
somewhere to drive." He wants to get the matter out of 
his mind as well as off of it. 
They are a long while " doing " cities. Wentworth 
tires easily, in spite of his apparent improvement, and 
Doris studies him so closely that she can tell almost to a 
moment when fatigue begins to steal over him. At first 
she used to say, " You are tired," and he would disclaim. 
Now she says, "I believe I would like to go home. I 
have my brain full of pictures, and must think them 
over." And he quietly rejoins, "I think that will be 
sensible." So with many other things. She takes the 
care and watchfulness, since she cannot take the pain. 
Dresden is lovely ; Berlin wonderfully interesting, with 
its sturdy Kaiser in his magnificent old age. There are 
delightful halting-places where they see the simple side 
of life, and at length the leafless trees, gray sullen skies, 
anfd biting blasts admonish them to seek a more genial 
clime. An Austrian physician they have met recom- 
mended Naples. They both love the sea, and the air of 
the Mediterranean agreed with him so well in the spring. 
So they go down through the Italian cities, stopping a 
brief while at imperial Rome, but for some reason Went- 
worth seems anxious to hurry onward. 
 
 
 
Doris has written to Aunt Gilbert more from a sense of 
daty than real pleasure, and the warm, sympathetic letters 
she has received in return give her tender conscience a 
twinge of something like ingratitude. Sometimes she 
wishes she could pay in actual money that tiiree months' 
care, and feel that she owed nothing. It is unkind in her 
to consider the tie ii-ksome, but she wishes the benefit had 
been compensated, and she is so glad to be Lloyd Went- 
worth's wife. 
They have planned to have a house of their very own, 
and servants to take the burden of the li\dng. So while 
they spend a fortnight at an elegant hotel that seems more 
French than Italian, and where they meet a number o^ 
Americans, Martin traverses desirable locations, and aftei 
several sharp encounters with landlords and agents, offers 
a decided bargain to his master in the shape of a prettily 
arranged and comfortably furnished villa that is in charge 
of a capable housekeeper, whose services he also engages, 
and she in turn is to provide the lesser satellites. 
It is all beauty and gayety, laughter and music, and 
bnUiancy of coloring that is like a dream. The wonderful 
blue of the bay seems to outrival the blue of the sky ; 
the fishing boats, and the curiously rigged lateen sloops 
dimple and dot the water, and flash in the sunshine. Out 
to sea is the beautiful isle of Capri, and to the left the 
green shores of Sorrento, the gifirden of the gods with ever- 
ripening fruit. Neither has their house escaped the splen- 
dor of coloring. There is no gloom like that in Rome ; 
the frescoed walls and ceiling look like a perpetual gala 
day ; the hangings and furniture seem to vie with nature 
and art without. But the garden is still lovely, and the 
rooms know no scarcity of bloom and fragrance. 
At first they are dazzled by the sensuous fascinations. 
They take leisurely drives, and it seems as if half the 
inhabitants must live in the streets, so gay are they with 
throngs, fantastic costumes, and picturesque beggars. 
 
 
 
They laugh over the babies that are bound up mummy 
fashion, they toss coppers to the barelegged children, they 
peer ciu-iously at the booths of all kinds, from fruit, flowers, 
and provisions, to the public scribe who sits waiting com- 
posedly for' the letter of love or friendship, to the account 
that has puzzled the indolent brain of the itinerant vender. 
They find the temples to Virgil and Tasso, the baths of 
Nero, the places where LucuUus and Cicero built their 
villas, wrote orations, and gave feasts. Here is Lake 
Avernus and the river Styx, here the buried Pompeii; 
and Lloyd reads again, with keenest delight, Bulwer's 
matchless romance, and Doris sorrows in the pangs of 
the blind Nydia. How terrible it must be to love like 
that ! They find grottos of magicians, curious old women 
these are. Here dwelt the Cumean Sibyl whose oracles 
were the world's wonder. And through all Vesuvius sends 
her glowing fires when the sun has dropped down, though 
by day the king of the heavens blinds her until nothing 
is left but the wavering wraith of smoke. 
They are so engrossed at first with the wonderful charm 
without and the interest of housekeeping within, that they 
almost forget the claims the world has upon them. Basil's 
answer to the marriage announcement finds Lloyd here, 
though it has wandered about seeking him. Still its date 
betrays some delay. 
Lloyd Wentworth is cut to the heart by its contents, 
partly by what is said, partly by what is omitted. That 
they should all feel surprised, and perhaps hurt, he has 
expected ; but that he should be called the dupe of design- 
ing persons, and that Doris should be spoken of slight- 
ingly, anger even his placid soul. Would he say such a 
thing to Basil, when he knew nothing of the case, and had 
Basil's word that his wife was pure and sweet and un- 
worldly ? Mrs. Gilbert might fancy him comfortably well 
off, but surely she had no means of learning the extent of 
his wealth, and in any event she could not count on being 
 
 
 
the gainer by his death, for it is in his power to direct the 
future life of Doris. He feels as if Basil had struck him 
in the face, — a kind of mortal hurt that leaves him cold 
and shivering. 
As if this is not enough, a little later comes an epistle 
from his aunt that is still more pronounced in its strictures. 
It almost seems as if some one had maligned Doris to 
them, but the thing is quite impossible. Doris has time 
and again accounted for every week since leaving school, 
in her simple, unconscious way. She has not had a friend 
or acquaintance beside himself, and can have laid herself 
open to no criticisms, so it must proceed simply from dis- 
pleasure. It seems cniel, when he meant to make his joy 
cost them next to nothing in sacrifices. 
He is lying in a darkened room, his i^ulses and temples 
throbbing, until he can almost hear the sound of the un- 
ceasing beat. Doris finds him there as she comes in from 
her garden walk he is in earnest to have her take every 
day, though she does it with book in hand. She is so 
ambitious to study now, to acquire a knowledge of the 
things that please him, so she need not always question 
him when he talks. 
"Oh!" she cries, "I have left you too long alone. 
You are feverish and ill. How could I be so careless ? " 
''It is not your fault at all," he rejoins, warmly. 
"Even all powerful as you are, you cannot always ward 
off headaches." 
She is so used to ministering to him in the beginning 
of this pain that she is quite appalled to find it has gained 
ground rapidly. She bathes his forehead and his throb- 
bing, fevered hands, and send Gianetta out with a few 
coppers to order away the strolling musicians with the 
mandolin. Their gay songs are unendurable when one 
lies in a darkened room suffering. He can but watch her 
as she flits about, her golden hair lighting her up like the 
picture of a saint. And as she sits there beside him, his 
 
 
 
whole heart goes out to her. Has he been just to this 
young wife, in considering the claims of others before her? 
It was his grandfather who willed this beautiful estate to 
him, " his heirs and assigns forever." He had counted on 
his marrying, doubtless ; in his eyes it was no crime. 
Why had he not the right to sip the cup of joy like other 
men? 
There are some wrongs to right, and it must be done 
speedily. The will signed and sealed before he left 
America cannot be allowed to stand ; it would work too 
much injury to Doris. Just as soon as he is better, he 
must make a new one, that cannot be questioned or lead 
to any litigation. He sighs deeply. 
'' What is it? " Doris asks, on the alert. 
"Nothing, my darling; at least, nothing that you can 
help." 
" Is the pain so severe ? " 
It was not simply physical pain. The mental dis- 
quietude she cannot share. And he wants to think. 
" Doris," he says, with a kind of desperate quiet, '' will 
you go in the other room and play softly ? You have exor- 
cised the demon that way sometimes, you know. Play 
the ' Appassionata.' " 
She bends over and touches her soft fragant lips to his, 
and goes without a word. She has this quaint, childlike 
habit of obedience, that is so restful in a weak state. 
He listens soothed, and still thinks ; prays that death may 
not come until he has done full justice to this sweet wife. 
There follow several days of great prostratioti ; then 
he rallies, and they drive out again in the shining, laughter- 
freighted air. There is quite a colony of English and 
American residents, and though he does not know any of 
them, he can surely find a notary and explain the business 
he wants done in the most perfect legal manner. All the 
particulars and date of the marriage are arranged in a 
memorandum for use. 
 
 
 
for Lloyd Wentworth realizes that he has grown weaker 
than he was three months ago. The long drives of that 
time would tire him fearfully. They go a little. They 
bring home such violets and orange-blossoms as are hardly 
dreamed of, and they visit the curious and beautiful 
libraries and museum. But it is Doris now who talks. 
If she notices that he has grown silent, she makes no 
remark upon it, but seems to think of all the little things 
that may please and distract. 
One day she comes to him timidly with a letter in her 
hand. 
"It is from Aunt Gilbert," she explains, with rising 
color. "Uncle is going to Paris, and perhaps over to 
London, on business, and aunt will be left alone. Do you 
not think — ought I not — " 
"Invite her here," he adds, quickly, — "yes." Has 
not even she been maligned? lie can never forget how 
kind she was to him, a perfect stranger. 
" We have hardly done our duty toward your aunt," he 
says, regretfully. 
" Oh ! I do not think she has cared exactly, and it has 
been so delightful to be alone with you. And a dear 
friend of hers, Countess Dessayes, has been entertaining 
her all winter with balls and dinners. We have been so 
quiet, you know." 
" My poor little girl, you have no balls or parties or 
theatres, and only a few operas to solace yourself with." 
He glances at her sorrowfully. All the time when she 
should be gay and glad with youth and amusement will be 
devoted to care and sorrow. Can money make amends? 
" But I have had you and so many other things," with 
a quick, bright blush ; " so many pleasures. And I don't 
believe aunt has missed me at all. But now — shall I 
write to-day?" 
" As soon as you can " 
Lloyd Wentworth is extremely glad a few days later 
 
 
 
that the invitation has gone. A celebrated English sur- 
geon comes to. Naples for a fortnight of recuperation, and 
Wentworth, through the intervention of a friend, has an 
interview with him. It is as he has known all along, but 
quite forgotten in these happy months, — he is coming 
nearer the end, which may be sudden, for his disease has 
worn him out. 
Now and then he arranges his papers, writes a little, and 
plans as he desires everything to be done. Mrs. Gilbert 
comes, and is really glad to reach a haven of rest. Her 
countess has been very exacting, demanding devotion and 
interest day and night, and tiring of her at last, although 
Mrs. Gilbert has managed to extract much pleasure for 
herself, and made some friends. She is looking rather 
worn, not as calm and exultant as when they parted at 
Venice. 
She soon slips into the routine ; indeed, she relieves 
Doris in many ways ; and both find the new element a 
pleasant break in the strain they were enduring uncon- 
sciously. It is indeed a curious life for Doris. In the 
early months of their marriage, he had not hesitated to 
refer to the brief span of life that he knew must be his ; 
now he never even suggests the possibility. True, it is 
rarely out of his mind; he counts his days like golden 
grains. 
There are many fluctuations. Sometimes for days he 
lies quiet on the luxurious couch rolled over to the win- 
dows. He seems less sensitive to the noises ; he even 
delights at times in the wandering minstrelsy. Once in 
a while they drive out, and he takes an occasional walk in 
the garden. He could not well be thinner, but his brown 
eyes keep their lovely limpidness. She reads to him a 
great deal out of her little worn ^prayer-book, and she is 
never out of his sight any more. It is a tender, unreason- 
ing love. She married him gladly because he needed her, 
and she is wholly satisfied. 
 
 
CHAPTER VI. 
ACROSS THE OOBAN. 
'' Come, Doris." 
Doris Wentworth has been standing by the window 
drinking in for the last time the fragrance and beauty of 
the morning. The fields glow in their brilliant green, the 
olives and vineyards cluster thick upon each other, and the 
profusion of flowers is prodigal. The bay is blue, with 
golden tints and flecks, and the white sails seem like 
flocks of strange birds. 
" Come, Doris," with a little impatience. Mrs. Gilbert 
takes her arm gently, and leads her through the vestibule, 
tiled with wonderful mosaics. The nurse and Martin have 
gone on before, and Doris follows now without a word. 
As she walks down the path, she gathers a handful of 
blood-red roses. He loved them so. Alas ! that all of 
life with him should be in the past tense. Yet it is not 
saying good by to him, but rather going to him. 
Mrs. Gilbert is most important. She has the care of 
getting the party safely to Marseilles, where Mr. Gilbert 
will meet them and escort them to America. Doris and 
her baby are to go at once to Westwater ; Mrs. Gilbert is 
quite tired of foreign life, and the prospect of a home in 
her own land looks very inviting. But there is a great 
deal on her shoulders, and she enjoys it. 
They are settled in the carriage. "Are you comfort- 
able ? " Mrs. Gilbert asks ; " is the baby asleep, Brunetta ? " 
Then she arranges her veil, opens and shuts her reticule, 
and fidgets very gently with the responsibility. 
They go by water ; Doris is on deck, and strains her 
eyes to catch a last glimpse of the bay, and the glowing, 
 
 
 
wonderful city by the sea. And at last it all fades ; lier 
old life is a dream of foreign cities, a beautiful bewilder- 
ing remembrance. 
Death has come very gently. It has been simply falling 
asleep. In Lloyd Wentworth's desk were explicit instruc- 
tions. His body was to be taken at once to America, but 
Doris was to remain for the birth of her child. There is 
a long letter also for her, written at intervals, and contain- 
ing much that it would have been bitter to talk over, but 
it is sweet now to read. It seems almost as if it had been 
written from that far country. 
Her baby is a fine healthy boy, and has been christened 
Lloyd Basil. There is also a letter to Basil, which is con- 
signed to the care of Doris. In those last weeks he had a 
tender yearning for his kindred, and saw more clearly as 
the heavens were opened before him. 
Mr. Gilbert has attended to the last wishes of his 
niece's husband, and left him in the beautiful family 
burying-ground in an old aristocratic town. He has been 
decorously met by the relatives and treated with distant 
courtesy ; and after the sad rites were ended, he hastens 
back, filled with a new sense of admiration and importance 
for Doris and her child ; for surely fate could not be sf> 
cruel as to let any disappointment befall it. 
Nothing does interfere with its well-being or the com- 
fort of Doris. For a day or two she is a little seasick, 
but she proves herself a good sailor. They reach New 
York in safety, and it looks more foreign to her than the 
cities of the Old World. In all the talks of Westwater 
between herself and her husband, though he has said 
frequently, " I should like to show you such a view " ; or, 
" I should like you to see such a picture or such a room," 
he never has proposed to take her. She was too happy to 
remark it then ; she knows now why it was done. In one 
sense, there is not the disappointment; indeed, though 
every day Doris realized her loss more keenly, yet hope 
 
 
 
and anticipation, the joy of youth, have never existed ; con- 
sequently there is no overwhelming despair. In his last 
letter he has stated the case very fairly ; he had taken one 
delightful year of her life, he had added a burden per- 
haps in their child, but it had been planned from the 
beginning. Nothing could have lengthened his life. 
So she is going to his home as a duty. It belongs to 
his son, who is to be reared there to take his father's 
place ; and she seems to stand in the same light to the 
father as she does to the child. She has been given to 
them to care for and watch over them, to devote her life 
to them while they are with her. That either were given 
for her pleasure she does not yet comprehend, for she 
never thinks purely of herself. 
It is midsummer, and they do not care to remain in 
the city, strange as it seems, unless, indeed, Mrs. Gilbert 
does, whose feelings are like the return of any exile. 
It is nine years since she has seen it; and though 
changed in some places, there are familiar haunts and 
stores and hotels. Still, for the baby's sake, it is not 
well to linger. At Paris they changed nurses, and now 
have a pretty dark-eyed young girl, who has a passionate 
fondness for babies. 
Westwater is a beautiful inland town that alike escapes 
the rigors of winter and the intense fires of summer. 
For nearly two hundred years it has been a settlement, 
and the Wentworths were among its early founders. 
There have been proud and honorable names in every 
generation, — perhaps fewer black sheep than in many 
families. They are scattered about in different cities, 
where they have attained eminence in the higher callings. 
There have been statesmen, jurists, savants, and foreign 
ministers, whose scholarly attainments and polished man- 
ners have added honor to the country they served. One 
branch has always remained at Westwater. It is a lovely, 
leisurely place, with long, shaded avenues, where trees 
 
 
 
have stood from fifty to a hundred years, — ebns, maples, 
oaks, and walnuts of different kinds. The houses are 
the large, commodious sort, with wide piazzas, many of 
the roofs upheld to the second story by massive fluted 
columns, and spacious grounds on either side. There 
is a river that makes a sort of detour, winding half 
around, then finding a way back in innumerable curves, 
shaded by trees. Indeed, at one place this is almost an 
island. The fact that it is not navigable for craft of any 
size has perhaps preserved Westwater from ignoble con- 
tact with trade. Bedford, the town below, is a busy, 
thriving place, with furnaces and mills and factories. 
It stretches out a little, but Westwater will be safe from 
its grasp for many years to come. The lower end is 
building up with modern villas and pretentious cottages, 
where the proprietors of these mills and shops retire with 
their families in aristocratic pride, but are barely toler- 
ated, and often passed by in serene silence by these old 
families. 
There is also in the lower part of the town, to the east 
this is, a collegiate institute, quite famous for law and 
divinity, a bishop's residence, and a kind of cathedral 
church, St. Luke's; also a beautiful orphanage, which 
is the pet charity of Westwater. There is wealth, birth, 
breeding, and culture. What more can one ask? Car- 
riages with fine horses wind leisurely through its well- 
kept, shaded streets. There are arched gates, pretty 
lodges, majestic trees, sweeps of velvet lawns, great 
clumps of wisteria, trumpet-creeper, and honeysuckle, 
trained on some dead branching tree or over a dainty 
summer-house, and in June it is a veritable rose garden. 
The newer flower beds cut in the grass here and there 
are voted fussy and common, and the style of Westwater 
disdains them. Still, occasionally you see a massive bed 
of scarlet geraniums, a square of tiger-lilies or crown 
imperial, that seem to set the air ablaze, or a garden of 
heliotrope that scents all the air around. 
 
 
 
Elm Place is at the West End. Along the avenue for 
hundreds of yards they have grown to their stateliest 
perfection, and lent their name to the estate that half a 
century ago and further back was known simply as The 
Wentworth's. It is not only a large estate, but com- 
prises outlying farms, rented on long leases. There is 
also money invested on mortgages at Bedford sufficient 
to keep up any state. 
The Gilberts choose the day train for Doris's sake, al- 
though Mr. Gilbert holds day travelling in utter contempt. 
The journey has been warm and tiresome, and late in tlie 
afternoon Doris is handed out, cramped by so much sitting 
still. She never fidgets. Endurance is a strange, or, 
rather, unusual virtue in one so young, but it seems to 
have been largely Doris's portion, thus far. 
The carriage is waiting There is an air about it and 
the coachman that attracts the attention of the young 
mistress of the Elms. Why she has connected America 
rather with the Gilberts than with her husband she can- 
not tell, but she feels that she has. Suddenly she goes 
back to his atmosphere. 
Her veil is down, but she can see a little through it. 
What lovely homes, in a sort of rural simplicity ! There 
is not the color and glare of Naples, not the sombreness 
or the majesty of many old cities, but she recognizes the 
sort of intangible repose, as if Westwater was set apart 
from common connection with the e very-day world. She 
catches glimpses of verandas, where elegant women and 
girls sit in white, flowing robes ; here and there a bright 
group is gathered on a croquet ground, for lawn tennis 
has barely come in. Fountains send out sprays of mist 
that fall in miniature rainbows ; a carriage bowls along, 
and they meet an elegant party on horseback. Then they 
reach this long line of magnificent elms, and their equipage 
turns up the broad avenue. 
"Home, Doris," her uncle says, in triumph, — "the 
boy's home and yours." 
Doris dislikes extremely to hear any reference made to 
the child as the author of her good fortune. It is not 
hers, but his; and to call the sweet, unconscious infant 
" the boy " is almost like a stab. 
The front of the mansion is of gray hewn stone. It is 
irregular, and has had wings added on from time to time. 
She is conscious of a winding flight of stone steps : one 
goes down on either side of the great porch, and describes 
a half -circle, in which is set tree ferns, oleanders in richest 
bloom, and stiff-leaved century plants. There is a wide, 
arched doorway, nospitably open, another at the rear, and 
through some greenery there the sun is sifted in rifts of 
quivering gold. 
Some one comes toward her with stately step and mien. 
Doris feels strange and small, and a sense as of being an 
interloper creeps over her. 
"How do you do?" her uncle says, rather loudly, to 
this elegant woman in her trailing silk and crape. " This 
is my niece, Mrs. Lloyd Wentworth, and this is my wife, 
Mrs. Gilbert; Mrs. Wentworth, ladies, the aunt of our 
dear — " he stumbles a little, and retrieves himself with 
the Christian name, — " Lloyd." 
" I hope you have had a comfortable journey, and are 
well." The tone is very distant, and has in it an inde- 
scribable something that drops on Doris's heart like lead. 
"Martha, will you take them up-stairs? for, of course, 
you are tired," to the ladies. " You will find the rooms 
in readiness " ; she is careful not to give the rooms any 
homelike air by adding the cordial possessive "your." 
" Whatever you need for the child will be sent up ; and 
your luggage?" 
" That will be here presently," says the spokesman. 
They ascend the broad staircase of polished oak, that 
leads to a hall above wide enough for a gallery. The 
doors stand open. 
"This, I believe, is for Mrs. Wentworth," Martha 
remarks, quietly. 
It is spacious, with southwesterly exposure, but is in 
some way shaded from the sun. Doris can feel tliat it is 
beautiful, although in simple summer garniture. She lays 
her satchel and handkerchief on the console ; she takes 
off her bonnet and her long veil that enfolds her. She is 
thinner, and looks worn and tired, but her face is that of 
a child. It looks really more youthful than six months 
ago. 
The baby wakes and cries. He has been very good all 
day ; indeed, is seldom cross. Marie shakes out the white 
bundle and smooths the long robe, loving and talking in a 
mixture of French ai^d English. Doris turns and stands 
before a mirror and is frightened. The glass not only 
reflects her slim figure and pale face, but the large apart< 
ment, its snowy bed in heavy black-walnut garnishings, 
the pictures, the chairs, the bright, soft rugs on the green- 
ish white matting, the great chimney-piece and open fire- 
place set around with red brick, and the tall andirons 
crossed at an angle. 
Has he been here ? For a moment she almost looks for 
his ghost to enter the open door. She remembers a verse 
he was very fond of, beginning, — 
'' All houses wherein men have lived and died, 
Are haunted houses " ; 
and with a great pang she recalls the fact that he did not 
die here. No soundless, intangible ghost can meet her on 
any threshold, and there is an agony of intense passion 
and despair, as if she just realized that he had gone out 
of her life forever. 
Doris takes the child and drops into a low willow rocker. 
It is crying in sore earnest now, and she bows over it, 
her tears mingling with its unsorrowful ones, although 
they seem full of anguish. A new life stares her in the 
face. She is not only the child's mother, but Lloyd Went- 
worth's widow ; and she is only eighteen. Life stretches 
out interminably. 
 
 
 
Marie has been unpacking her satchel. There are sev- 
eral matters to be attended to. She stands in the door- 
way considering whether she will ring the bell when Mai-tha 
passes, and the result of brief conversation is that Marie 
follows her through another hall with several turns, and 
by another stairs finds herself in the kitchen apartment. 
Mrs. Gilbert bustles in. " What is the matter with the 
baby, Doris ? " she cries. " Why don't you let Marie take 
him ? Isn't everything splendid ! Oh, Doris, you are the 
luckiest girl in the land ! " 
" Don't ! " Doris Wentworth cries hoarsely, putting up 
her hand to shade her face. " I — .- " She shuts her lips 
firmly lest she shall cry out with her new sorrows. 
" To be sure, it is hard for you in a certain sense, and 
if Lloyd could have lived it would have been so delightful ! 
I was not prepared for so much giandeur. I always make 
allowance for your uncle's stories ; he is one of the san- 
guine, flowery people ; so I said to myself, if we find it 
half as wonderful as his description of it, it will do. But 
you will be lost in this great house. I wonder if the other 
Wentworths mean to stay on ? They really haven't any 
right." 
Doris is hushing the baby. Is his blind cry the same 
protest of the soul as hers ? She dreads the great house 
and its magnificence. Can she not go back to Naples, 
where thei/ were so happy? 
" I do suppose they feel awfully cut up over the busi- 
ness," — now and then Mrs. Gilbert sinks into vulgarisms. 
" They never supposed Lloyd meant to marry, and they 
had naturally counted on the whole thing ; but he had as 
good a right as any other man." 
" Aunt, I cannot bear it," Doris moans. 
" You poor child ! It is hard," Mrs. Gilbert goes on, 
obtusely. ''I've seen sorrows enough to sympathize with 
you, if I have not had just this of my own. But we must 
be resigned to the will of Providence, Doris ; and it is 
 
 
 
your duty to summon all your fortitude for your child's 
sake." 
Doris rises with her baby in her arms. She has a wild 
desire to escape somewhere, and she takes a turn across 
the floor. 
" Let me wait with him. What do you suppose is the 
matter?" 
Marie returns at this opportune moment, and soon 
soothes the small atom. Doris feels wretched and help- 
less. 
" I think I will lie down for a while," she says, in sheer 
desperation. " I am so tired." 
"I dare say. Have you any dressing-sack in your 
satchel? No? Well, I'll get mine. You will find it so 
much more comfortable. I never travel without one." 
The instant she is gone, Doris drops on the lounge and 
hides her face in the pillow. It is ungrateful, no doubt ; 
but she is so tired of Aunt Gilbert that she longs to fly to 
some other world. It comes to her that she may be rich 
enough to pension her off somewhere, and she is glad there 
is money to do it with. She may like to return to Europe. 
Her strained nerves bristle up to repel the next attack ; 
she hears voices outside, steps that recede, presently. 
" Marie," she says, " will you please lock the door and 
do not let me be disturbed ? If I could have a little sleep." 
The door is closed, the baby soothed, and Doris lies 
quiet, her strength all spent. She does not even weep, 
but neither does a moment of the slightest f orgetf ulness 
touch her. Still she rests, and that is something, and girds 
herself anew, — first by a determined calm, and silent 
prayer. 
Half an hour later some one knocks rather peremp- 
torily. It is Aunt Gilbert, of course ; but Doris feels re- 
freshed. She will have a little tea sent up, and not face 
strangers or a dinner-table. 
''My dear Doris, I forgot all about the sack." She 
 
 
 
has it in her hand now, and holds it out as a kind of peace- 
offering ; but Doris shakes her head. 
"Your uncle had forgotten one check, and found it in 
his pocket ; and the man has just come with the trunks, 
but they can be put in the storeroom, except your small 
one, and you can look them over at your leisure. There will 
be time enough," with a sigh of relief. "And what do 
you think ? The Wentworths have gone off, bag and bag- 
gage. They have been moving the last two weeks, and 
the parlor is absolutely barren. Do you suppose they 
would take what wasn't theirs ? Of course, I didn't hint 
such a thing to Martha, who seems a very nice, discreet 
sort of girl. Mrs. Wentworth just stayed to receive you, and 
now she has gone out. They displayed very good sense 
in that, I must admit, for it would have been rather awk- 
ward with them here. Mrs. Wentworth has a pretty place 
on Larch Avenue, but of course not to be compared to 
this, and her daughter has married elegantly. There 's a 
housekeeper here, Mrs. "Welch, and a Bridget in the 
kitchen, and Martha and two men, a coachman and a gar- 
dener. I do wonder if you can keep them all, and Marie 
beside ? Dinner will sooh be served, Doris ; the dining- 
room is just elegant, carved wainscoting and painted 
panels of the loveliest fruit and flowers, and great high- 
backed chairs in Russia leather. Really, you are a lUtle 
Queen Doris, amid. all this elegance. I don't see why — " 
she intends to say — "I don't see why Lloyd did not tell 
you about all these things " ; but a look in the young 
mother's face awes her. 
''I shall not come down to dinner," Doris announces 
with an air of quiet authority. "Will you have my trunk 
sent in? Marie, can you unpack it, and find me a few 
articles ? I think I shall go to bed at once ; I am very 
tired." 
" You poor sweet child! That is the best thing. Let 
me take the baby, Marie." 
 
 
 
" He is asleep." And the nurse lays him on the bed ; 
then does her mistress' bidding. 
Mrs. Gilbert wanders to and fro under tlie impression 
that she is of some service. She is very gentle to Doris, 
and kisses her tenderly when she goes. 
" My poor child ! " she says, " I must be mother and 
friend to you, and watch over your interests. You are so 
alone." 
She goes down-stairs, where her husband is pacing the 
hall. It is hung with some fine pictures, and there are 
several exquisite marbles. A large old-fashioned brass 
studded sofa stands on one side, overlaid with soft 
cushions. There is a curious tall cabinet, an inlaid claw- 
foot table with a bronze vase, and chairs standing about, 
but it is so wide that it is not at all crowded. On the 
north side are two large drawing-rooms, partially disman- 
tled, but still containing many treasures. Opposite is a 
square library with a large bay-window. The cases are 
arranged about half-way up the walls, and above are 
family portraits, an Allison and a Stuart, and two or 
three sent over from England as copies. There are all 
styles of attire down to the dress of to-day ; and many 
handsome faces, one must admit. 
Next to this, leading from the hall, is the long dining- 
room. It juts past the library from the outside, making 
another porch in the corner, and the far end is carried up 
as a tower. Back of this is a pleasant sitting-room going 
down the south side, with another porch enclosed with 
sashes, which in the winter is used for flowers, though 
there is a conservatory beside. At the back are kitchens 
so covered with greenery that one would hardly suspect 
their uses. 
Dinner is handsomely served, and the Grilberts enjoy 
the state. Mr. Gilbert indeed grows more pompous with 
every breath. He has a good appetite, and everything 
is excellent ; but he cannot refrain from some asides in 
 
 
 
rather imperfect French. He has picked up his knowledge 
merely in conversation. At length the dessert and fruit 
are brought in together by Mrs. Gilbert's desire, and 
Martha goes out for the last time. 
"Upon my word, this is handsomer than I thought it 
before," he begins. " They had it so dark and gloomy, 
you know, and they were so awfully precise, that one could 
hardly stir or look about. How lucky they took them- 
selves off ! I was afraid they might make some trouble. 
I suppose now the will can be read. Doris has her boy, 
and that 's such a fortunate thing. I must say, old lady, 
you did a big sti'oke of business when you made that 
marriage." 
"It would have been little advantage if Doris were 
not my niece," somewhat nettled at his coarse way of 
putting it. " The wisest step was going to Brussels for 
her, and that you did not approve of. If I had not used 
my own judgment and listened to the voice of affection, 
I should have missed the great chance of my life." 
Gilbert gives a little chuckle. " Well, that time you 
were wiser than I. It did seem to me we were in such 
straitened circumstances, that it was idiocy to add to our 
family Gad ! what a time I had that summer to pull 
through ! and you living like a nabob, but never saying 
a word." 
"I had to manage very circumspectly. Wentworth 
was rather queer, and he had settled on not being married. 
Don't you suppose these people had extorted a promise 
from him?" 
"Oh, no doubt! They were — well, ugly; that's just 
the word. I expected they would dispute the marriage." 
"Wentworth was very particular about that, and so 
was I. There were two certificates, and I made him give 
me one for safe-keeping; then I took every precaution.
But he did love Doris, and she loved him. It was a per- 
fect marriage. Of course, I should not have allowed it 
 
 
 
if there bad been nothing at all, but I did not suppose 
it was anything like this." 
' ' You can repose on your laurels in all time to come, 
Mrs. Gilbert " ; and he Ik>ws across the table, with a great 
show of gallantry. "I'm anxious, though, to see how 
the business stands. Of course, Doris has her thirds, and 
the child the rest. If he should die, Doris is his natural 
heir, unless it is willed away somehow. That's what I 
want to see. And I shall petition to be appointed the 
child's guardian. I am his mother's nearest relative. 
Then that settles our status." 
" Doris couldn't well dispense with us," she says, with 
a nod of satisfaction. '' She is too young to live alone, 
and in a great house like this. Then she must go into 
society presently. Westwater is a stylish place." 
"Awfully aristocratic, and of course stupid, high moral, 
and all that. I shouldn't want to stay here all the time, 
— I couldn't stand it. Now and then I shall cut off to 
New York or Washington for a few weeks ; but it is very 
good to have a haven for approaching old age." 
They rise from the table at length, and saunter out of 
doors. Everything is beautifully kept, from the lovely 
lawns and kitchen garden, graperies, and conservatory 
to the smiling fields that stretch far to the westward. 
There are two carriage horses in the stable, — that is 
plenty for the women. Mr. Gilbert may do a good deal 
of betting on horseflesh, but he is not ambitious to own 
it. He travels so much that he prefers always to be in 
light marching order. 
The worthy couple continue their survey until the dusk 
sets in with indistinctive softness. Doris, they find, is 
all right. The library is lighted, the sitting-room also. 
Mr. Gilbert fidgets about for a paper. There is the 
Westwater Evening Gazette^ but he finds little in it to 
solace him, and begins to yawn, smokes another cigar, 
and proposes retiring. It is dull in a place like this, 
and he could not endure it for any length of time. 
By ten o'clock the great house is silent and dead, save 
in two or three rooms. Doris falls asleep from sheer ex- 
haustion ; and after the baby is fairly settled, he distmbs 
no one. So far he has been healthy. Doris tries some- 
times to trace familiar outlines, but he is much like other 
young babies. Even his eyes do not settle, but seem to 
waver between blue and brown, and his mother fervently 
prays for the brown. 
 
 
CHAPTER Vn. 
CAN LOVE BETRAY? 
If all is quiet and peaceful at the Elms, it is not so at 
Larch Avenue. That there are jealousies and heart-burn- 
ings, that a sense of exile pervades every soul, are not to 
be wondered at. 
TV^hen Basil Wentworth's mother handed him the letter 
enclosed in hers, announcing the marriage of Lloyd at 
Venice the August of the year previous, he knew by her 
face that something had happened. 
''What is it?" he cries, pale with apprehension. 
'' Lloyd is ill, I know. I have never half believed Dr. 
Prescott's rose-colored version. Mother, I ought to go 
to him. Every month brings him nearer the end." 
"You need not trouble about Lloyd," she answers, 
bitterly. "He would not thank you to go to him. He 
is married." 
"Married! Oh! that cannot be," with an incredulous 
laugh. 
"Well, he may contradict it in your letter. He may 
so far have lost his senses as to descend to an imperti- 
nent hoax, but I doubt it." 
Basil glances over his as he unfolds it. It is very 
finely written. Lloyd always had a ghlish hand. He 
catches sentences — "do not be offended — the sweetest 
girl — a pure, white, innocent soul — if you could see 
her — " 
He dashes the letter from him. He could grind it into 
the floor. His lips are set with a merciless severity. 
Now he looks like his mother. 
" When was this wonderful marriage ? " 
 
"The last of August. The honeymoon has been so 
sweet that he cannot think of his relatives or his duty 
until it is out." 
"Married!" 
Basil picks up the epistle that seems to burn his fin- 
gers, and strides angrily to his room. Between him and 
Lloyd there has existed an unusual love. To him Lloyd 
has seemed womanly, depending. When the great disap- 
pointment of his life came, it was to Basil he turned for 
solace. It was Basil who soothed his hours of desperate 
weakness and trying pain ; Basil who never counted 
fatigue and sleepless nights. They have loved each 
other with something beyond brotherly love. Oh, so to 
love and so to deceive ! Oh, so to trust and so to be 
deceived ! 
Not a thought concerning the fortune comes to Basil in 
that hour. It is simply the lack of confidence, the betrayal 
of affection. For surely Basil had a right to know, if not 
another soul in the world had been told. 
He goes over the letter several times before he can fix 
it in his mind, so great is the utter incredulousness. He 
looks at it with all the prejudice on this side, though he 
calls himself dispassionate. The girl is fair and young 
and sweet, and loves Lloyd ; the aunt has been so good to 
him, and nursed him tenderly through an illness that he 
mentions now for the first time. Basil can see the schem- 
ing underneath, the fortune they think of. No doubt the 
aunt has informed herself of his circumstances, — there are 
plenty of ways. It is a despicable, treacherous plot, and 
Lloyd has been drawn into a net and will be shorn by this 
adventuring Delilah. 
When he says they know nothing of his true position, 
and that in any case the estate must not go out of the 
name or into stranger hands, Basil smiles with stinging 
bitterness. All these old protestations pass for nothing. 
He should not grudge Lloyd's child his father's wealth, 
he says loftily to himself, but to be so wronged in confi- 
dence by the human being you had trusted implicitly! 
Basil pities himself profoundly. 
His has always been the stronger, governing mind. He 
is the elder ; he has one of those imperious, pervasive 
physiques that influence any one they will. He has not 
cared to have a sweetheart ; he has devoted himself to 
Liloyd, and Lloyd used all his eloquence to persuade Basil 
to accompany him abroad ; but since Dr. and Mrs. Pres- 
cott were going, and there seemed an urgent necessity for 
Basil to remain at home, he contented Lloyd with a prom- 
ise that he would come at any urgent summons. Dr. 
Prescott's tidings had been so reassuring. 
There is another keen pang for Basil Wentworth. He 
is an aristocrat perliaps ; he has a love ingrained in his 
very life for old families, old houses, and generations of 
clean, honorable men. Every portrait at the Elms is dear 
to him, every legend is carefully treasured. He would cut 
off his right hand before he would bring a blot on the 
memory of those brave men and fair women. Lloyd has 
not half the family pride. How often he has said, " Why 
did not grandfather choose you to carry on the family, and 
just leave me a competency ? " 
And that this should be thrown away upon a woman 
picked up in a chance manner, with no antecedents, or 
perhaps dishonorable ones, is unendurable. He feels at 
first as if the law ought to interpose and declare Lloyd 
Wentworth an incapable. If it were not that 7ie, Basil, 
might profit by such a step, he would set it on foot at 
once, but a finer honor holds him back. 
" Well," his mother says that evening, when the others 
have gone to their pleasures, " did you make it out? Is 
he really married ? '' 
'' Lloyd could not be a villain, if he is weak. It does 
not run in the Wentworth blood, thank God ! " he an' 
swers, proudly. 
She feels almost as if she could prefer a dishonorable 
connection. 
" Then I suppose — do you think he will return ? " 
' ' No, '' Basil replies, emphatically. ' ' Lloyd is not strong 
enough, mentally or physically, to face us all, and to bear 
