Lemuel, laying the stick he carried across the hat- 
brim on his knees. " Mother was well ; but my sister 
and her husband have had a good deal of sickness." 
"Oh, I' m sorry for that," said Sewell, with the 
general sympathy which Evans accused him of keep 
ing on tap professionally. " Well, how did you like 
the looks of Willoughby Pastures compared with 
Boston ? Rather quieter, I suppose." 
 
" Yes, it was quieter," answered Lemuel. 
" But the first touch of spring must be very lovely 
there ! I find myself very impatient with these 
sweet, early days in town. I envy you your escape 
to such a place." 
Lemuel opposed a cold silence to the lurking 
didacticism of these sentences, and Sewell hastened 
to add, " And I wish I could have had your 
experience in contrasting the country and the town, 
after your long sojourn here, on your first return 
home. Such a chance can come but once in a life 
time, and to very few." 
"There are some pleasant things about the 
country," Lemuel began. 
" Oh, I am sure of it ! " cried Sewell, with 
cheerful aimlessness. 
" The stillness was a kind of rest, after the noise 
here ; I think any one might be glad to get back to 
such a place " 
" I was sure you would," interrupted Sewell. 
" If he was discouraged or broken down any way," 
Lemuel calmly added. 
" Oh ! " said Sewell. " You mean that you found 
more sympathy among your old friends and neigh 
bours than you do here ? " 
"No," said Lemuel bluntly. "That 's what city 
people think. But it 's all a mistake. There isn't 
half the sympathy in the country that there is 
in the city. Folks pry into each other 's business 
more, but they don't really care so much. What I 
mean is that you could live cheaper, and the fight 
 
isn't so hard. You might have to use your hands 
more, but you wouldn't have to use your head 
hardly at all. There isn't so much opposition 
competition." 
"Oh," said Sewell a second time. "But this 
competition this struggle in which one or the 
other must go to the wall, isn't that painful ] " 
"I don't know as it is," answered Lemuel, "as 
long as you're  young and strong. And it don't 
always follow that one must go to the wall. I've 
seen some things where both got on better." 
Sewell succumbed to this worldly wisdom. He 
was frequently at the disadvantage men of cloistered 
lives must be, in having his theories in advance of 
his facts. He now left this point, and covertly 
touched another that had come up in his last talk 
with Evans about Barker. "But you find in the 
country, don't you, a greater equality of social 
condition.? People are more on a level, and have 
fewer artificial distinctions." 
"Yes, there 's that," admitted Lemuel. "I've  
worried a good deal about that, for I've  had to take 
a servant 's place in a good many things, and I've  
thought folks looked down on me for it, even when 
they didn't seem to intend to do it. But I guess it 
isn't so bad as I thought when I first began to notice 
it. Do you suppose it is ? " His voice was suddenly 
tense with personal interest in the question which 
had ceased to be abstract. 
"Oh, certainly not," said the minister, with an 
ease which he did not feel. 
 
" I presume I had what you may call a servant 's 
place at Miss Vane s," pursued Lemuel unflinchingly, 
" and I've been what you may call head waiter at 
the St. Albans, since I Ye been there. If a person 
heard afterwards, when I had made out something, if 
I ever did, that I had been a servant, would they 
they despise me for it ? " 
" Not unless they were very silly people," said 
Sewell cordially, "I can assure you." 
" But if they had ever seen me doing a servant 's 
work, wouldn't they always remember it, no matter 
what I was afterwards ? " Sewell hesitated, and 
Lemuel hurried to add, "I ask because I've  made 
up my mind not to be anything but clerk after this." 
Sewell pitied the simple shame, the simple pride. 
"That isn't the question for you to ask, my dear 
boy," he answered gently, and with an affection 
which he had never felt for his charge before. 
" There 's another question, more important, and 
one which you must ask yourself : Should I care 
if they did ? After all, the matter 's in your own 
hands. Your soul 's always your own till you do 
something wrong." 
"Yes, I understand that." Lemuel sat silently 
thoughtful, fingering his hat-band. It seemed to 
Sewell that he wished to ask something else, and 
was mustering his courage ; but if this was so, it 
exhaled in a sigh, and he remained silent. 
" I should be sorry," pursued the minister, " to 
have you dwell upon such things. There are certain 
ignoble facts in life which we can best combat by 
 
ignoring them. A slight of almost any sort ceases 
to be when you cease to consider it." This did not 
strike Sewell as wholly true when he had said it, and 
he was formulating some modification of it in his 
mind, when Lemuel said 
" I presume a person can help himself some by 
being ashamed of caring for such things, and that 's 
what I've  tried to do." 
" Yes, that 's what I' meant " 
" I guess I've  exaggerated the whole thing some. 
But if a thing is so, thinking it ain't won't unmake 
it." 
"No," admitted Sewell reluctantly. "But I 
should be sorry, all the same, if you let it annoy 
grieve you. What has pleased me in what I've  
been able to observe in you, has been your willing 
ness to take hold of any kind of honest work. I 
liked finding you with your coat off washing dishes, 
that morning, at the Wayfarer 's Lodge, and I liked 
your going at once to Miss Vane 's in a as you 
did- 
" Of course," Lemuel interrupted, " I could do it 
before I knew how it was looked at here." 
" And couldn't you do it now ? " 
"Not if there was anything else." 
" Ah, that 's the great curse of it ; that 's what I 
deplore," Sewell broke out, "in our young people 
coming from the country to the city. They must all 
have some genteel occupation ! I don't blame them; 
but I would gladly have saved you this experience 
this knowledge if I could. I felt that I had done 
 
you a kind of wrong in being the means, however 
indirectly and innocently, of your coming to Boston, 
and I would willingly have done anything to have 
you go back to the country. But you seemed to dis 
trust me to find something hostile in me and I 
did not know how to influence you." 
"Yes, I understand that," said Lemuel. "I 
couldn't help it, at first. But I've got to see it all in 
a different light since then. I know that you meant 
the best by me. I know now that what I wrote 
wasn't worth anything, and just how you must have 
looked at it. I didn't know some things then that I 
do now ; and since I have got to know a little more I 
have understood better what you meant by all you 
said." 
"I am very glad," said Sewell, with sincere 
humility, " that you have kept no hard feeling 
against me." 
" Oh, not at all. It 's all right now. I couldn't 
explain very well that I hadn't come to the city just 
to be in the city, but because I had to do something 
to help along at home. You didn't seem to under 
stand that there wa n't anything there for me to take 
hold of." 
"No, I' m afraid I didn t, or wouldn't quite under 
stand that ; I was talking and acting, I' m afraid, 
from a preconceived notion." Lemuel made no 
reply, not having learned yet to utter the pleasant 
generalities with which city people left a subject ; 
and after a while Sewell added, " I am glad to have 
seen your face so often at church. You have been a 
 
great deal in my mind, and I have wished to do 
something to make your life happy, and useful to 
you in the best way, here, but I haven't quite known 
how." At this point Sewell realised that it was 
nearly eight months since Lemuel had come to 
Boston, and he said contritely, "I have not made 
the proper effort, I' m afraid ; but I did "not know 
exactly how to approach you. You were rather a 
difficult subject," he continued, with a smile in which 
Lemuel consented to join, " but now that we've  come 
to a clearer understanding " He broke off and 
asked, " Have you many acquaintances in Boston ? " 
Lemuel hesitated, and cleared his throat, "Not 
many. " 
Something in his manner prompted the minister 
to say, "That is such a very important thing for 
young men in a strange place. I wish you would 
come oftener to see us, hereafter. Young men, in 
the want of companionship, often form disadvan 
tageous acquaintances, which they can't shake off 
afterwards, when they might wish to do so. I don't 
mean evil acquaintance ; I certainly couldn't mean 
that in your case ; but frivolous ones, from which 
nothing high or noble can come nothing of 
improvement or development." 
Lemuel started at the word and blushed. It was 
Berry 's word. Sewell put his own construction on 
the start and the blush. 
"Especially," he went on, "I should wish any 
young man whom I was interested in to know refined 
and noble woman." He felt that this was perhaps in 
 
Lemuel 's case too much like prescribing port wine 
and carriage exercise to an indigent patient, and he 
added, "If you cannot know such women, it is 
better to know none at all. It is not what women 
say or do, so much as the art they have of inspiring 
a man to make the best of himself. The accidental 
acquaintances that young people are so apt to form 
are in most cases very detrimental. There is no 
harm in them of themselves, perhaps, but all irre 
gularity in the life of the young is to be deplored." 
"Do you mean," asked Lemuel, with that con- 
creteness which had alarmed Sewell before, "that 
they ought to be regularly introduced ? " 
" I' mean that a young girl who allowed a young 
man to make her acquaintance outside of the the 
social sanctions would be apt to be a silly or 
romantic person, at the best. Of course, there are 
exceptions. But I should be very sorry if any 
young man I knew no ; why shouldn't I say you, at 
once ? should involve himself in any such way. 
One thing leads to another, especially with the 
young ; and the very fact of irregularity, of romance, 
of strangeness in an acquaintance, throws a false 
glamour over the relation, and appeals to the senti 
ments in an unwarranted degree." 
" Yes, that is so," said Lemuel. 
The admission stimulated Sewell in the belief that 
he had a clue in his hand which it was his duty to 
follow up. " The whole affair loses proportion and 
balance. The fancy becomes excited, and some of 
the most important interests the very most impor- 
u 
 
tant interests of life are committed to impulse." 
Lemuel remained silent, and it seemed the silence of 
conviction. " A young man is better for knowing 
women older than himself, more cultivated, devoted 
to higher things. Of course, young people must see 
each other, must fall in love and get married ; but 
there need be no haste about such things. If there 
is haste if there is rashness, thoughtlessness there 
is sure to be unhappiness. Men are apt to outgrow 
their wives intellectually, if their wives minds are 
set on home and children, as they should be, and 
allowance for this ought to be made, if possible. I 
would rather that in the beginning the wife should 
be the mental superior. I hope it will be several 
years yet before you think seriously of such things, 
but when the time comes, I hope you will have seen 
some young girl there are such for every one of us 
whom it is civilisation and enlightenment, refine 
ment, and elevation, simply to know. On the other 
hand, a silly girl 's influence is degrading and ruinous. 
She either drags those attached to her down to her 
own level ; or she remains a weight and a clog upon 
the life of a man who loves her." 
"Yes," said Lemuel, with a sigh which Sewell 
interpreted as that of relief from danger recognised 
in time. 
He pursued eagerly. " I could not warn any one 
too earnestly against such an entanglement." 
Lemuel rose and looked about with a troubled 
glance. Sewell continued : " Any such marriage 
a marriage upon any such conditions is sure to be 
 
calamitous; and if the conditions are recognised 
beforehand, it is sure to be iniquitous. So far from, 
urging the fulfilment of even a promise, in such a 
case, I would have every such engagement broken, 
in the interest of humanity of morality " 
Mrs. Sewell came into the room, and gave a little 
start of surprise, apparently not mixed with pleasure, 
at seeing Lemuel. She had never been able to share 
her husband 's interest in him, while insisting upon 
his responsibility ; she disliked him not logically, 
but naturally, for the wrong and folly which he had 
been the means of her husband 's involving himself 
in ; Miss Vane 's kindliness toward Lemuel, which 
still survived, and which expressed itself in questions 
about him whenever she met the minister, was 
something that Mrs. Sewell could not understand. 
She now said, " Oh !. Mr. Barker ! " and coldly gave 
him her hand. " Have you been well ? Must you 
" Yes, thank you. I have got to be getting back. 
Well, good evening." He bowed to the Sewells. 
" You must come again to see me," said the 
minister, and looked at his wife. 
"Yes, it has been a very long time since you were 
here," Mrs. Sewell added. 
" I haven't had a great deal of time to myself," 
said Lemuel, and he contrived to get himself out of 
the room. 
Sewell followed him down to the door, in the 
endeavour to say something more on the subject his 
wife had interrupter), but he only contrived to utter 
OR, 
some feeble repetitions. He came back in vexation, 
which he visited upon Lemuel. " Silly fellow ! " he 
exclaimed. 
" What has he been doing now ? " asked Mrs. 
Sewell, with reproachful discouragement. 
" Oh, / don't know ! I suspect that he 's been 
involving himself in some ridiculous love affair ! " 
Mrs. Sewell looked a silent inculpation. "It 's 
largely conjecture on my part, of course, he 's 
about as confiding as an oyster ! but I fancy I have 
said some things in a conditional way that will give 
him pause. I suspect from his manner that he has 
entangled himself with some other young simple 
ton, and that he J 's ashamed of it, or tired of it, 
already. If that 's the case, I have hit the nail on 
the head. I told him that a foolish, rash engage 
ment was better broken than kept. The foolish 
marriages that people rush into are the greatest 
bane of life ! " 
" And would you really have advised him, David," 
asked his wife, " to break off an engagement if he 
had made one ? " 
" Of course I should ! I 
" Then I am glad I came in in time to prevent 
your doing anything so wicked." 
" Wicked ? " Sewell turned from his desk, where 
he was about to sit down, in astonishment. 
" Yes ! Do you think that nobody else is to be 
considered in such a thing ? What about the poor, 
silly girl if he breaks off with her ? Oh, you men 
are all alike ! Even the best ! You think it is a 
dreadful thing for a young man to be burdened with 
a foolish love affair at the beginning of his career ; 
but you never think of the girl whose whole career 
is spoiled, perhaps, if the affair is broken off! 
Hasn't she any right to be considered ? " 
" I should think," said Sewell, distinctly daunted, 
" that they were equally fortunate, if it were broken 
off." 
"O my dear, you know you don't think any 
thing of the kind ! If he has more mind than she 
has, and is capable of doing something in the world, 
he goes on and forgets her ; but she remembers him. 
Perhaps it 's her one chance in life to get married 
to have a home. You know very well that in a 
case of that kind a rash engagement, as you call it 
both are to blame ; and shall one do all the suffer 
ing ? Very probably his fancy was taken first, and 
he followed her up, and flattered her into liking 
him ; and now shall he leave her because he 's tired 
of her * " 
"Yes," said Sewell, recovering from the first 
confusion which his wife 's unexpected difference of 
opinion had thrown him into, " I should think that 
was the very best reason in the world why he should 
leave her. Would his marrying make matters worse 
or better if he were tired of her ? As for wickedness, 
I should feel myself guilty if I did not do my utmost 
to prevent marriages between people when one or other 
wished to break their engagement, and had not the 
moral courage to do so. There is no more pernicious 
delusion than that one 's word ought to be kept in 
such an affair, after the heart has gone out of it, 
simply because it 's been given." 
" David ! " 
But Sewell was not to be restrained. " I am right 
about this, Lucy, and you know it. Half the miser 
able marriages in the world could be prevented, if 
there were only some frank and fearless adviser at 
hand to say to the foolish things that if they no 
longer fully and freely love each other they can 
commit no treason so deadly as being true to their 
word. I wish," he now added, "that I could be the 
means of breaking off every marriage that the 
slightest element of doubt enters into beforehand. I 
should leave much less work for the divorce courts. 
The trouble conies from that crazy and mischievous 
principle of false self-sacrifice that I' m always crying 
out against. If a man has ceased to love the woman 
he has promised to marry or vice versa the best 
possible thing they can do, the only righteous thing, 
is not to marry." 
Mrs. Sewell could not deny this. She directed an 
oblique attack from another quarter, as women do, 
while affecting not to have changed her ground at 
all. " Very well, then, David, I wish you would 
have nothing to do with that crazy and mischievous 
principle yourself. I wish you would let this ridicu 
lous Barker of yours alone from this time forth. 
He has found a good place, where he is of use, and 
where he is doing very well. Now I think your 
responsibility is fairly ended. I hope you won't 
meddle with his love affairs, if he has any ; for if you 
 
do, you will probably have your hands full. He is 
very good looking, and all sorts of silly little geese 
will be falling in love with him." 
"Well, so far his love troubles are purely conjec 
tural," said Sewell with a laugh. "I' m bound to 
say that Barker himself didn't say a word to justify 
the conjecture that he was either in love or wished 
to be out of it, However, I've  given him some 
wholesome advice which he'll be all the better for 
taking, merely as a prophylactic, if nothing else." 
"I am tired of him," sighed Mrs. Sewell. " Is he 
going to keep perpetually turning up, in this way ? 
I hope you were not very pressing with him in your 
invitations to him to call again ?" 
Sewell smiled. " You were not, my dear." 
" You let him take too much of your time. I 
was so provoked, when I heard you going on with 
him, that I came down to put an end to it." 
" Well, you succeeded," said Sewell easily. " Don't 
you think he 's greatly improved in the short time 
he 's been in the city ? " 
"He 's very well dressed. I hope he isn't 
extravagant." 
" He 's not only well dressed, but he 's beginning 
to be well spoken. I believe he 's beginning to 
observe that there is such a thing as not talking 
through the nose. He still says, ! don't know as, 
but most of the men they turn out of Harvard say 
that; I've  heard some of the professors say it." 
Mrs. Sewell was not apparently interested in this. 
XXII. 
THAT night Lemuel told Mrs. Harmon that she 
must not expect him to do anything thenceforward 
but look after the accounts and the general manage 
ment ; she must get a head-waiter, and a boy to run 
the elevator. She consented to this, as she would 
have consented to almost anything else that he 
proposed. 
He had become necessary to the management of 
the St. Albans in every department ; and if the lady 
boarders felt that they could not now get on with 
out him, Mrs. Harmon was even more dependent. 
With her still nominally at the head of affairs, and 
controlling the expenses as a whole, no radical 
reform could be effected. But there were details of 
the outlay in which Lemuel was of use, and he had 
brought greater comfort into the house for less 
money. He rejected her old and simple device of 
postponing the payment of debt as an economical 
measure, and substituted cash dealings with new 
purveyors. He gradually but inevitably took charge 
of the store-room, and stopped the waste there ; 
early in his administration he had observed 
 
the gross and foolish prodigality with which the 
portions were sent from the carving-room, and after 
replacing Mrs. Harmon 's nephew there, he esta 
blished a standard portion that gave all the needed 
variety, and still kept the quantity within bounds. 
It came to his taking charge of this department 
entirely, and as steward he carved the meats, and 
saw that nothing was in a way to become cold 
before he opened the dining-room doors as head- 
waiter. 
His activities promoted the leisure which Mrs. 
Harmon had always enjoyed, and which her 
increasing bulk fitted her to adorn. Her nephew 
willingly relinquished the dignity of steward. He 
said that his furnaces were as much as he wanted 
to take care of ; especially as in former years, when 
it had begun to come spring, he had experienced a 
stress of mind in keeping the heat just right, when 
the ladies were all calling down the tubes for more 
of it or less of it, which he should now be very glad 
not to have complicated with other cares. He said 
that now he could look forward to the month of 
May with some pleasure. 
The guests, sensibly or insensibly, according to 
their several temperaments, shared the increased 
ease that came from Lemuel 's management. The 
service was better in every way; their beds were 
promptly made, their rooms were periodically swept ; 
every night when they came up from dinner they 
found their pitchers of ice-water at their doors. 
This change was not accomplished without much of 
 OR, 
that rebellion and renunciation which was known at 
the St. Albans as kicking. Chambermaids and table- 
girls kicked, but they were replaced by Lemuel, who 
went himself to the intelligence office, and pledged 
the new ones to his rule beforehand. There was 
even some kicking among the guests, who objected 
to the new portions, and to having a second bill sent 
them if the first remained unpaid for a week ; but the 
general sense of the hotel was in Lemuel 's favour. 
He had no great pleasure in the reform he had 
effected. His heart was not in it, except as waste 
and disorder and carelessness were painful to him. 
He suffered to promote a better state of things, as 
many a woman whose love is for books or pictures 
or society suffers for the perfection of her house 
keeping, and sacrifices her taste to achieve it. He 
would have liked better to read, to go to lectures, to 
hear sermons ; with the knowledge of Mr. Evans 's 
life as an editor and the incentive of a writer near 
him, he would have liked to try again iZ he could not 
write something, though the shame of his failure in 
Mr. Se well 's eyes had burned so deep. Above all, 
since he had begun to see how city people regarded 
the kind of work he had been doing, he would have 
liked to get out of the hotel business altogether, if 
he could have been sure of any other. 
As the spring advanced his cares grew lighter. 
Most of the regular boarders went away to country 
hotels and became regular boarders there. Their 
places were only partially filled by transients from 
the South and West, who came and went, and left 
 
Lemuel large spaces of leisure, in which he read, 
or deputed Mrs. Harmon 's nephew to the care of 
the office and pursued his studies of Boston, some 
times with Mr. Evans, whose newspaper kept him 
in town, and who liked to prowl about with him, 
and to frequent the odd summer entertainments, 
but mostly alone. They became friends after a 
fashion, and were in each other 's confidence as 
regarded their opinions and ideas, rather than their 
history ; now and then Evans dropped a word about 
the boy he had lost, or his wife 's health, but Lemuel 
kept his past locked fast in his breast. 
The art-students had gone early in the summer, 
and Berry had left Boston for Wyoming at the end 
of the spring term of the law-school. He had not 
been able to make up his mind to pop before Miss 
Swan departed, but he thought he should fetch it by 
another winter ; and he had got leave to write to 
her, on condition, he said, that he should conduct 
the whole correspondence himself. 
Miss Carver had left Lemuel dreaming of her as 
an ideal, yet true, with a slow, rustic constancy, to 
Statira. For all that had been said and done, he 
had not swerved explicitly from her. There was no 
talk of marriage between them, and could not be ; 
but they were lovers still, and when Miss Carver 
was gone, and the finer charm of her society was 
unfelt, he went back to much of the old pleasure he 
had felt in Statira 's love. The resentment of her 
narrow-mindedness, the shame for her ignorance 
passed ; the sense of her devotion remained. 
 
Manda Grier wanted her to go home with her 
for part of the summer, but she would not have 
consented if Lemuel had not insisted. She wrote 
him back ill-spelt, scrawly little letters, in one of 
which she told him that her cough was all gone, and 
she was as well as ever. She took a little more 
cold when she returned to town in the first harsh 
September weather, and her cough returned, but she 
said she did not call it anything now. 
The hotel began to fill up again for the winter. 
Berry preceded the art-students by some nervous 
weeks, in which he speculated upon what he should 
do if they did not come at all. Then they came, 
and the winter passed, with repetitions of the last 
winter 's events, and a store of common memories 
that enriched the present, and insensibly deepened 
the intimacy in which Lemuel found himself. He 
could not tell whither the present was carrying 
him ; he only knew that he had drifted so far from 
the squalor of his past, that it seemed like the 
shadow of a shameful dream. 
He did not go to see Statira so often as he used ; 
and she was patient with his absences, and defended 
him against Manda Grier, who did not scruple to 
tell her that she believed the fellow was fooling with 
her, and who could not always keep down a mount 
ing dislike of Lemuel in his presence. One night 
towards spring, when he returned early from 
Statira s, he found Berry in the office at the St. 
Albans. " That you, old man ? " he asked. " Well, 
I' m glad you've come. Just going to leave a little 
 
Billy Ducks for you here, but now I needn t. The 
young ladies sent me down to ask if you had a copy 
of Whittier 's poems ; they want to find something in 
it. I told em Longfellow would do just as well, 
but I couldn't seem to convince em. They say he 
didn't write the particular poem they want." 
"Yes, I've  got Whittier 's poems here," said 
Lemuel, unlocking his desk. " It belongs to Mr. 
Evans ; I guess he won't care if I lend it." 
" Well, now, I tell you what," said Berry ; " don't 
you let a borrowed book like that go out of your 
hands. Heigh ? You just bring it up yourself. 
See ? " He winked the eye next Lemuel with 
exaggerated insinuation. " They'll respect you all 
the more for being so scrupulous, and I guess they 
won't be very much disappointed on general prin 
ciples if you come along. There 's lots of human 
nature in girls the best of em. I'll tell em I left 
you lookin for it. I don't mind a lie or two in a 
good cause. But you hurry along up, now." 
He was gone before Lemuel could stop him ; he 
could not do anything but follow. 
It appeared that it was Miss Swan who wished to 
see the poem ; she could not remember the name of 
it, but she was sure she should know it if she saw it 
in the index. She mingled these statements with 
her greetings to Lemuel, and Miss Carver seemed as 
glad to see him. She had a little more colour than 
usual, and they were all smiling, so that he knew 
Berry had been getting off some of his jokes. But 
he did not care. 
 
Miss Swan found the poem as she had predicted, 
and, " Now all keep still," she said, " and I'll read 
it." But she suddenly added, " Or no ; you read it, 
Mr. Barker, won't you ? " 
"If Barker ain't just in voice to-night, I'll read 
it," suggested Berry. 
But she would not let him make this diversion. 
She ignored his offer, and insisted upon Lemuel 's 
reading. " Jessie says you read beautifully. That 
passage in Ilomola" she reminded him; but 
Lemuel said it was only a few lines, and tried to 
excuse himself. At heart he was proud of his read 
ing, and he ended by taking the book. 
When he had finished the two girls sighed. 
" Isn't it beautiful, Jessie ? " said Miss Swan. 
" Beautiful ! " answered her friend. 
Berry yawned. 
" Well, I don't see much difference between that 
and a poem of Longfellow 's. Why wouldn't Long 
fellow have done just as well ? Honestly, now ! 
Why isn't one poem just as good as another, for all 
practical purposes ? " 
" It is, for some people," said Miss Swan. 
Berry figured an extreme anguish by writhing in 
his chair. Miss Swan laughed in spite of herself, 
and they began to talk in their usual banter, which 
Miss Carver never took part in, and which Lemuel 
was quite incapable of sharing. If it had come to 
savage sarcasm or a logical encounter, he could have 
held his own, but he had a natural weight and 
slowness that disabled him from keeping up with 
 
Berry 's light talk; he envied it, because it seemed 
to make everybody like him, and Lemuel would 
willingly have been liked. 
Miss Carver began to talk to him about the book, 
and then about Mr. Evans. She asked him if he 
went much to his rooms, and Lemuel said no, not 
at all, since the first time Mr. Evans had asked him 
up. He said, after a pause, that he did not know 
whether he wanted him to come. 
"I should think he would," said Miss Carver. 
" It must be very gloomy for him, with his wife such 
an invalid. He seems naturally such a gay person." 
"Yes, that 's what I think," said Lemuel. 
" I wonder," said the girl, " if it seems to you harder 
for a naturally cheerful person to bear things, than 
for one who has always been rather melancholy ? " 
" Yes, it does ! " he answered with the pleasure 
and surprise young people have in discovering any 
community of feeling ; they have thought themselves 
so utterly unlike each other. "I wonder why it 
should ? " 
" I don't know; perhaps it isn't so. But I always 
pity the cheerful person the most." 
They recognised an amusing unreason in this, and 
laughed. Miss Swan across the room had caught 
the name. 
" Are you talking of Mrs. Evans ? " 
Berry got his banjo down from the wall, where 
Miss Swan allowed him to keep it as bric-a-brac, 
and began to tune it. 
"I don't believe it agrees with this banjoseph 
 
being an object of virtue," he said. " What shall 
it be, ladies ? Something light and gay, adapted 
to disperse gloomy reflections?" He played a 
fandango. " How do you like that ? It has a tinge 
of melancholy in it, and yet it 's lively too, as a 
friend of mine used to say about the Dead March," 
" Was his name Berry ? " asked Miss Swan. 
"Not Alonzo W., Jr.," returned Berry tranquilly, 
and he and Miss Swan began to joke together. 
" I know a friend of Mr. Evans s," said Lemuel to 
Miss Carver. " Mr. Sewell. Have you ever heard 
him preach ? " 
" Oh yes, indeed. We go nearly every Sunday 
morning." 
"I nearly always go in the evening now," said 
Lemuel. " Don't you like him ? " 
" Yes," said the girl. " There 's something about 
him I don't know what that doesn't leave you 
feeling how bad you are, but makes you want to be 
better. He helps you so ; and he 's so clear. And 
he shows that he 's had all the mean and silly 
thoughts that you have. I don't know it 's as 
if he were talking for each person alone." 
" Yes, that is exactly the way I feel ! " Lemuel 
was proud of the coincidence. He said, to commend 
himself further to Miss Carver, "I have just been 
round to see him." 
"I should think you would value his acquaint 
ance beyond anything," said the girl. " Is he just as 
earnest and simple as he is in the pulpit ? " 
"He 's just the same, every way." Lemuel went 
 
a little further ; " I knew him before I came to 
Boston. He boarded one summer where we lived." 
As he spoke he thought of the grey, old, unpainted 
house, and of his brother-in-law with his stocking- 
feet on the stove-hearth, and his mother 's bloomers ; 
he thought of his arrest, and his night in the police- 
station, his trial, and the Wayfarer 's Lodge ; and he 
wondered that he could think of such things and 
still look such a girl in the face. But he was not 
without that strange joy in their being unknown to 
her which reserved and latent natures feel in mere 
reticence, and which we all experience in some 
degree when we talk with people and think of our 
undiscovered lives. 
They went on a long time, matching their opinions 
and feelings about many things, as young people do, 
and fancying that much of what they said was new 
with them. When he came away after ten o clock, 
he thought of one of the things that Sewell had said 
about the society of refined and noble women : it 
was not so much what they said or did that helped ; 
it was something in them that made men say and do 
their best, and help themselves to be refined and 
noble men, to make the most of themselves in their 
presence. He believed that this was what Miss 
Carver had done, and he thought how different it 
was with him when he came away from an evening 
with Statira. Again he experienced that compassion 
for her, in the midst of his pride and exultation ; he 
asked himself what he could do to help her ; he did 
not see how she could be changed. 
x 
 
Berry followed him downstairs, and wanted to 
talk the evening over 
" I don't see how I' m going to stand it much 
longer, Barker," he said. "I shall have to pop 
pretty soon or die, one of the two ; and I' m afraid 
either one'll kill me. Wasn't she lovely to-night ? 
Honey in the comb, sugar in the gourd, I say ! I 
wonder what it is about popping, anyway, that makes 
it so hard, Barker ? It 's simply a matter of business, 
if you come to boil it down. You offer a fellow so 
many cattle, and let him take em or leave em. But 
if the fellow happens to have on a long, slim, olive- 
green dress of some colour, and holds her head like a 
whole floral tribute on a stem, and you happen to be 
the cattle you're  offering, you can't feel so indepen 
dent about it, somehow. Well, what 's the use ( 
She 's a daisy, if ever there was one. Ever notice 
what a peculiar blue her eyes are ? " 
" Blue ? " said Lemuel. " They're  brown." 
" Look here, old man," said Berry compassionately, 
" do you think I've  come down here to fool away my 
time talking about Miss Carver ? We'll take some 
Saturday afternoon for that, when we haven't got 
anything else to do ; but it 's Miss Swan that has the 
floor at present. What were you two talking about 
over there, so long ? I can't get along with Miss 
Carver worth a cent." 
" I hardly know what we did talk about," said 
Lemuel dreamily. 
" Well, I've  got the same complaint, I couldn't 
tell you ten words that Madeline said in thine 
 
absence let me call thee Madeline, sweet ! but I 
knew it was making an immortal spirit of me, right 
straight along, every time. The worst thing about 
an evening like this is, it don't seem to last any time 
at all. Why, when those girls began to put up their 
hands to hide their yawns, I felt like I was just 
starting in for a short call. I wish I could have had 
a good phonograph around. I'd put it on my sleep 
less pillow, and unwind its precious record all through 
the watches of the night." He imitated the thin 
phantasmal squeak of the instrument in repeating a 
number of Miss Swan 's characteristic phrases. " Yes, 
sir, a pocket phonograph is the thing I' m after." 
" I don't see how you can talk the way you do," 
said Lemuel, shuddering inwardly at Berry 's auda 
cious freedom, and yet finding a certain comfort in it. 
" That 's just the way I felt myself at first. But 
you'll get over it as you go along. The nicest thing 
about their style of angel is that they're  perfectly 
human, after all. You don't believe it now, of 
course, but you will." 
It only heightened Lemuel 's conception of Miss 
Carver 's character to have Berry talk so lightly and 
daringly of her, in her relation to him. He lay long 
awake after he went to bed, and in the turmoil of 
his thoughts one thing was clear : so pure and high 
a being must never know anything of his shameful 
past, which seemed to dishonour her through his 
mere vicinity. He must go far from her, and she 
must not know why ; but long afterwards Mr. Sewell 
would tell her, and then she would understand. He 
 
owed her this all the more because he could see now 
that she was not one of the silly persons, as Mr. 
Sewell called them, who would think meanly of him 
for having in his ignorance and inexperience, done a 
servant 's work. His mind had changed about that, 
and he wondered that he could ever have suspected 
her of such a thing. 
About noon the next day the street-door was 
opened hesitatingly, as if by some one not used to 
the place; and when Lemuel looked up from the 
menus he was writing, he saw the figure of one of 
those tramps who from time to time presented them 
selves and pretended to want work. He scanned 
the vagabond sharply, as he stood moulding a soft 
hat on his hands, and trying to superinduce an air 
of piteous appeal upon the natural gaiety of his 
swarthy face. " Well ! what 's wanted \ " 
A dawning conjecture that had nickered up in the 
tramp 's eyes flashed into full recognition. 
"Why, mate!" 
Lemuel 's heart stood still. " What what do you 
want here ? " 
" Why, don't you know me, mate ? " 
All his calamity confronted Lemuel. 
" No," he said, but nothing in him supported the 
lie he had uttered. 
" Wayfarer 's Lodge ? " suggested the other cheer 
fully. " Don't you remember ? " 
" I guess you do," said the mate easily. " Anyway, 
I remember you." 
 
Lemuel 's feeble defence gave way. " Come in 
here," he said, and he shut the door upon the 
intruder and himself, and submitted to his fate. 
" What is it ? " he asked huskily. 
"Why, mate! what 's the matter  ? Nobody 's 
goin to hurt you," said the other encouragingly. 
" What 's your lay here ? " 
"Lay]" 
"Yes. Got a job here?" 
"I' m the clerk," said Lemuel, with the ghost of 
his former pride of office. 
" Clerk ? " said the tramp with good-humoured 
incredulity. " Where 's your diamond pin ? Where 's 
your rings ? " He seemed willing to prolong the 
playful inquiry. " Where 's your patent-leather 
boots?" 
" It 's not a common hotel. It 's a sort of u family 
hotel, and I' m the clerk. What do you want ? " 
The young fellow lounged back easily in his chair. 
"Why, I did drop in to beat the house out of a 
quarter if I could, or may be ten cents. Thank you, 
sir. God bless you, sir." He interrupted himself to 
burlesque a professional gratitude. " That style of 
thing, you know. But I don't know about it now. 
Look here, mate ! what 's the reason you couldn't 
get me a job here too *? I been off on a six months 
cruise since I saw you, and I'd like a job on shore 
first-rate. Couldn't you kind of ring me in for 
something ? I ain't afraid of work, although I never 
did pretend to love it. But I should like to reform 
now, and get into something steady. Heigh ] " 
 
" There isn't anything to do there 's no place for 
you," Lemuel began. 
" Oh, pshaw, now, mate, you think ! " pleaded the 
other. " I'll take any sort of a job ; I don't care 
what it is. I ain't got any o that false modesty 
about me. Been round too much. And I don't 
want to go back to the Wayfarer 's Lodge. It 's a 
good place, and I know my welcome 's warm and 
waitin for me, between two hot plates ; but the thing 
of it is, it 's demoralisin . That 's what the chaplain 
said just afore I left the ship, n I promised him 
I'd give work a try, anyway. Now you just think 
up something ! I ain't in any hurry." In proof he 
threw his soft hat on the desk, and took up one of 
the menus. " This your bill of fare ? Well, it ain't 
bad ! Yurmiselly soup, boiled holibut, roast beef, 
roast turkey with cranberry sauce, roast pork with 
apple sauce, chicken corquettes, ditto patties, three 
kinds of pie ; bread puddin , both kinds of sauce ; 
ice cream, nuts, and coffee. Why, mate ! " 
Lemuel sat dumb and motionless. He could see 
no way out of the net that had entangled him. He 
began feebly to repeat. " There isn't anything," 
when some one tried the door. 
"Mr. Barker!" called Mrs. Harmon. "You in 
there ? " 
He made it worse by waiting a moment before 
he rose and opened the door. " I didn't know I'd 
locked it." The lie came unbidden ; he groaned in 
wardly to think how he was telling nothing but lies. 
Mrs. Harmon did not come in. She glanced with 
 
a little question at the young fellow, who had 
gathered his hat from the table, and risen with gay 
politeness. 
It was a crisis of the old sort ; the elevator-boy 
had kicked, and Mrs. Harmon said, " I just stopped 
to say that I was going out and I could stop at the 
intelligence office myself to get an elevator-boy " 
