divan beside his brother. Balsamides and I established ourselves in
chairs, ready to listen with breathless interest to the tale Alexander
was about to tell.
"You remember that night at Santa Sophia, Paul?" began the young man,
leaning back among the cushions, which showed to strong advantage the
extreme beauty of his delicate face. "Yes, of course you remember it,
very vividly, for Mr. Griggs has told me how you acted, and all the
trouble you took to find me. Very well; you remember, then, that the
last time I saw you we were all looking down at those fellows as they
went through their prayers and prostrations, and I stood a little apart
from you. You were very much absorbed in the sight, and the kaváss, who
was a Mussulman, was looking on very devoutly. I thought I should like
to see the sight from the other side, and I walked away and turned the
corner of the gallery. You did not notice me, I suppose, and the noise
of the crowd, rising and falling on their knees, must have drowned my
footsteps."
"I had not the slightest idea that you had moved from where you stood,"
said Paul.
"No. When I reached the corner, I was very much surprised to see a man
standing in the shadow of the pillar. I was still more astonished when I
recognized the hideous negro who had knocked off my hat in the
afternoon. I expected that he would insult me, and I suppose I made as
though I would show fight; but he raised his finger to his lips, and
with the other hand held out a letter, composing his face into a sort of
horrible leer, intended to be attractive. I took the letter without
speaking, for I knew he could not understand a word I said, and that I
could not understand him. The envelope contained a sheet of pink paper,
on which, in an ill-formed hand, but in tolerably good French, were
written a few words. It was a declaration of love."
"From Laleli?" asked Balsamides, with a laugh.
"Exactly," replied Alexander. "It was a declaration of love from Laleli.
I leave you to imagine what I supposed Laleli to be like at that time,
and Paul, who knows me, will tell you that I was not likely to hesitate
at such a moment. The note ended by saying that the faithful Selim would
conduct me to her presence without delay. I was delighted with the
adventure, and crept noiselessly after him in the shadow of the gallery,
lest you should see me; for I knew you would prevent my going with the
man. We descended the stairs, but it was not until we reached the bottom
that I saw we had not come down by the way I had ascended. Selim was
most obsequious, and seemed ready to do everything for my comfort. As we
walked down a narrow street, he presented me with a new fez, and made
signs to me to put it on instead of my hat, which he then carefully
wrapped in a handkerchief and carried in his hand. At a place near the
bridge several caïques were lying side by side. He invited me to enter
one, which I observed was very luxuriously fitted, and which I thought I
recognized as the one in which I had so often seen the woman with the
impenetrable veil. I lay back among the cushions and smoked, while Selim
perched himself on the raised seat behind me, and the four boatmen
pulled rapidly away. It was heavy work for them, I dare say, tugging
upstream, but to me the voyage was enchanting. The shores were all
illuminated, and the Bosphorus swarmed with boats. It was the last time
I was in a caïque. I do not know whether I could bear the sight of one
now."
"So they took you to Laleli's house?" said Paul, anxious to hear the
rest.
"Yes; I was taken to Laleli's house, and I never got out of it till last
night," continued Alexander. "How long is it? I have not the least idea
of the European date."
"This is the 29th of March," said I.
"And that was the end of June,--twenty-one months. I have learned
Turkish since I was caught, to pass the time, and I always knew the
Turkish date after I had learned their way of counting, but I had lost
all reckoning by our style. Well, to go on with my story. They brought
me to the stone pier before the house. Selim admitted me by a curiously
concealed panel at one end of the building, and we found ourselves in a
very narrow place, whence half a dozen steps ascended to a small door. A
little oil lamp burned in one corner. He led the way, and the door at
the top slid back into the wall. We entered, and he closed it again. We
were in the corner of a small room, richly furnished in the worst
possible taste. I dare say you know the style these natives admire.
Selim left me there for a moment. I looked carefully at the wall, and
tried to find the panel; but to my surprise, the wainscoting was
perfectly smooth and even, and I could not discover the place where it
opened, nor detect any spring or sign of a fastening. Laleli, I thought,
understood those things. Presently a door opened on one side of the
room, and I saw the figure I had often watched, beckoning to me to come.
Of course I obeyed, and she retired into the room beyond, which was very
high and had no windows, though I noticed that there was a dome at the
top, which in the day-time would admit the light."
"The Khanum was waiting for you?" I asked.
"Yes. I was surprised to see her dressed in the clothes she wore
out-of-doors, and as thickly veiled as ever. There were lights in the
room. She held out her small hand,--you remember noticing that she had
small white hands?"
"Like a young woman's," replied Balsamides.
"Yes. I took her hand, and spoke in French. I dare say I looked very
sentimental and passionate as I gazed into her black eyes. I could see
nothing of her face. She answered me in Turkish, which of course I could
not understand. All I could say was Pek güzel, very beautiful, which I
repeated amidst my French phrases, giving the words as passionate an
accent as I could command. At last she seemed to relent, and as she bent
towards me I expected that she was about to speak very softly some
Turkish love-word. What was my horror when she suddenly screamed into my
ear, with a hideous harsh voice, my own words, Pek güzel! In a moment
she threw off her black ferigee, and tore the thick veil from her head.
I could have yelled with rage, for I saw what a fool I had made of
myself, and that the old hag had played a practical joke on me in
revenge for the affair in the Valley of Roses. I cursed her in French, I
cursed her in Russian, I cursed her in English, and stamped about the
room, trying to get out. The horrible old witch screamed herself hoarse
with laughter, making hideous grimaces and pointing at me in scorn. What
could I do? I tried to force one of the doors, and twisted at the
handle, and tugged and pushed with all my might. While I was thus
engaged I heard the door at the other end of the room open quickly, and
as I turned and sprang towards it I caught sight of her baggy,
snuff-colored gown disappearing, as she slammed the door behind her.
Before I could reach it the lock was turned, and I was caught in the
trap,--caught like a mouse."
"What a spiteful old thing she was!" I exclaimed. "She might have been
satisfied with keeping you there a day instead of two years."
"Nearly two years. I did everything humanly possible to escape. I gave
all I possessed to Selim to take a message to Paul, to anybody; but of
course that was useless. At first they kept me in the room where I had
been caught. My food was brought to me by the Turkish porter, a brawny
fellow, who could have brained me with his fist. He was always
accompanied by another man, as big as himself, who carried a loaded
pistol, in case I attacked the first. I had no chance, and I wished I
might go mad. Then, one night, they set upon me suddenly, and tied a
handkerchief over my mouth, and bound me hand and foot, in spite of my
struggles. I thought I was to be put into a sack and drowned. They
carried me like a log out into the garden, and put me into that cell
where you found me, which had apparently just been built, for the stones
were new and the cement was fresh. There, at least, I could look through
the gratings. I even thought at one time that I could make myself heard,
having no idea of the desolate position of the place. But I soon gave up
the attempt and abandoned myself to despair. There it was that Selim
used to come occasionally, and talk to me through the bars. That was
better than nothing, and the villain amused his leisure moments by
teaching me to speak Turkish. One day he brought me a book, which I
hailed with delight. It was an old French method for learning the
language. I made great progress, as I studied from morning to night.
Selim grew more familiar to me, and I confess with shame that I missed
his visits when he did not come. The men who brought my food seemed
absolutely mute, and I never succeeded in extracting a word from either
of them. Even Selim was a companion, and talking to him saved me from
going mad. I asked him all sorts of questions, and at last I guessed
from his answers that the Khanum had been terrified by the disturbance
my disappearance had created, and was afraid to set me free lest I
should take vengeance on her. She was also afraid to kill me, for some
reason or other. The result was, that, from having merely wished to
revenge upon me the affair in the Valley of Roses by means of a
practical joke, she found herself obliged to keep me a prisoner. I used
every means of persuasion to move Selim. I told him I was rich, and
would make him rich if he would help me to escape. I promised to take
no steps against the Khanum. It was in vain, I assure you I have
conceived a very high opinion of the fidelity of Lalas in general, and
of Selim in particular."
"They are very faithful," said Balsamides gravely. I have since fancied
that he had some reason for knowing.
Alexander afterwards told us many more details of his confinement; but
this was his first account of it, and embraced all that is most
important to know. The whole affair made a very strong impression on me.
The unfortunate man had fallen a victim to a chain of circumstances
which it had been entirely impossible to foresee, all resulting directly
from his first imprudent action in addressing the veiled lady in the
Valley of Roses. A little piece of folly had ruined two years of his
life, and subjected him to a punishment such as a court of justice would
have inflicted for a very considerable crime.
The remainder of the day was occupied by the meeting of Alexander with
his mother and his introduction to his English relations, upon which it
is needless to dwell long. I never knew what passed between the mother
and son, but the interview must have been a very extraordinary one. It
was necessary, of course, to prepare Madame Patoff for the news and for
the sight of the child she seemed to love better than anything in the
world. Hermione performed the task, as being the one who understood her
best. She began by hinting vaguely that we had advanced another step in
our search, and that we were now confident of finding Alexander before
long, perhaps in a few hours. She gradually, in talking, spoke of the
moment when he would appear, wondering how he would look, and insensibly
accustoming Madame Patoff to the idea. At last she confessed that he had
been found during the night, and that he was ready to come to his mother
at any moment.
It was well done, and the force of the shock was broken. The old lady
nearly swooned with joy, but the danger was past when she recovered her
consciousness and demanded to see Alexander at once. He was admitted to
her room, and the two were left alone to their happiness.
The rest of the family were mad with delight. John Carvel grew ten years
younger, and Mrs. Carvel fairly cried with joy, while Chrysophrasia
declared that it was worth while to be disappointed by the first
impression of Constantinople, when one was consoled by such a thrilling
tale with so joyous a termination,--or happy end, as I should have said.
Hermione's face beamed with happiness, and Macaulay literally melted in
smiles, as he retired to write down the story in his diary.
"Oh, Paul!" Hermione exclaimed when they were alone, "you never told me
he was such a beauty!"
"Yes," he answered quietly, "he is far better-looking than I am. You
must not fall in love with him, Hermy."
"The idea of such a thing!" she cried, with a light laugh.
"I should not be surprised if he fell in love with you, dear," said
Paul, smiling.
"You only say that because you do not like him," she answered. "But you
will like him now, won't you? You are so good,--I am sure you will. But
think what a splendid thing it is that you should have found him. If
aunt Chrysophrasia says, 'Where is your brother?' you can just answer
that he is in the next room."
"Yes; I am a free man now. No one can ever accuse me again. But apart
from that, I am really and sincerely glad that he is alive. I wish him
no ill. It is not his fault that I have been under a cloud for nearly
two years. He was as anxious to be found as I was to find him. After
all, it was not I. It was Balsamides and Griggs who did it at last. I
dare say that if I had been with them I should have spoiled it all. I
could not have dressed myself like a Turkish officer, to begin with. If
I had been caught in the uniform, belonging as I do to the embassy,
there would have been a terrible fuss. I should have been obliged to go
away, very likely without having found my brother at all. I owe
everything to those two men."
"If you had not made up your mind that he should be found, they would
never have found him; they would not have thought of taking the
trouble."
Hermione spoke in a reassuring tone, as though to comfort Paul for
having had no share in the final stroke which had liberated his brother.
In reality Paul needed no consolation. In his heart he was glad that
Alexander had been set free by others, and need therefore never feel
himself under heavy obligations to Paul. It was not in the strong man's
nature to wish to revenge himself upon his brother because the latter
had been the favored child and the favorite son. Nor, if he had
contemplated any kind of vengeance, would he have chosen the Christian
method of heaping coals of fire upon his head. He merely thought of
Alexander as he would have thought of any other man not his relation at
all, and he did not wish to appear in the light of his liberator. It was
enough for Paul that he had been found at last, and that his own
reputation was now free from stain. Nothing prevented him any longer
from marrying Hermione, and he looked forward to the consummation of all
his hopes in the immediate future.
The day closed in a great rejoicing. John Carvel insisted that we should
all dine with him that night; and our numbers being now swelled by the
addition of Alexander Patoff and Gregorios Balsamides, we were a large
party,--ten at table. I shall never forget the genuine happiness which
was on every face. The conversation flowed brilliantly, and every one
felt as though a weight had been lifted from his or her spirits.
Alexander Patoff was of course the most prominent person, and as he
turned his beautiful eyes from one to the other of us, and told us his
story with many episodes and comments, I think we all fell under his
fascination, and understood the intense love his mother felt for him. He
had indeed a woman's beauty with a man's energy, when his energy was
roused at all; and though the feminine element at first seemed out of
place in him, it gave him that singular faculty of charming when he
pleased, and that brilliancy which no manly beauty can ever have.
It was late when we got home, and I went to bed with a profound
conviction that Paul Patoff's troubles had come to a happy end, and that
he would probably be married to Hermione in the course of the summer. If
things had ended thus, my story would end here, and perhaps it would be
complete. Unfortunately, events rarely take place as we expect that they
will, still more rarely as we hope that they may; and it is generally
when our hopes coincide with our expectations, and we feel most sure of
ourselves, that fate overtakes us with the most cruel disappointments.
Paul Patoff had not yet reached the quiet haven of his hopes, and I have
not reached the end of my story. It would indeed be a very easy matter,
as I have said before, to collect all the things which happened to him
into a neat romance, of which the action should not cover more than
four-and-twenty hours of such excitement as no one of the actors could
have borne in real life, any more than Salvini could act a tragedy which
should begin at noon to-day and end at midday to-morrow. I might have
divested Paul of many of his surroundings, have bereaved him of many of
his friends, and made him do himself what others did to him; but if he
were to read such an account of his life he would laugh scornfully, and
say that the real thing was very different indeed, as without doubt it
was.
This is the reason why I have not hesitated to bring before you a great
number of personages, each of whom, in a great or a small way, affected
his life. I do not believe that you could understand his actions in the
sequel without knowing the details of those situations through which he
had passed before. We are largely influenced by little things and little
events. The statement is a truism in the eyes of the moralist, but the
truth is, unfortunately, too often forgotten in real life. The man who
falls down-stairs and breaks his leg has not noticed the tiny spot of
candle grease which made the polished step so slippery just where he
trod.
XIX.
There were great rejoicings when it was known in Pera that Alexander
Patoff had been found. His disappearance had furnished the gossips with
a subject of conversation during many weeks, and his coming back revived
the whole story, with the addition of a satisfactory ending. In
consideration of the fact that Laleli Khanum was dead, Count Ananoff
thought it best to take no official notice of the matter. To treat it
diplomatically would be useless, he said. Alexander had fallen a victim
to his own folly, and though the penalty had been severe, it was
impossible to hold the Ottoman government responsible for what Patoff
had suffered, now that the Khanum had departed this life. Alexander
received permission to take three months' leave to recruit his health
before returning to his regiment, and he resolved to spend a part of the
time in Constantinople, after which his mother promised to accompany him
to St. Petersburg.
The Carvels had very soon made the acquaintance of the small but
brilliant society of which the diplomatic corps constituted the chief
element; and if anything had been needed to make them thoroughly
popular, their near connection with the young man whose story was in
every one's mouth would alone have sufficed to surround them with
interest. The adventure was told with every conceivable variety of
detail, and Alexander was often called upon to settle disputes as to
what had happened to him. He was ready enough at all times to play the
chief part in a drawing-room, and delighted in being questioned by grave
old gentlemen, as well as by inquisitive young women. The women admired
him for his beauty, his grace and brilliancy, and especially for the
expression of his eyes, which they declared in a variety of languages to
be absolutely fascinating. The men were interested in his story, and
envied him the additional social success which he obtained as the hero
of so strange an adventure. Some people admired and praised his devotion
to his mother, which they said was most touching, whatever that may
mean. Others said that he had an angelic disposition, flavored by a dash
of the devil, which saved him from being goody; and this criticism of
his character conveyed some meaning to the minds of those who uttered
it. People have a strange way of talking about their favorites, and when
the praise they mean to bestow is not faint, the expression of it is apt
to be feeble and involved.
Pera is a gay place, for when a set of men and women are temporarily
exiled from their homes to a strange country, where they do not find the
society of a great capital, they naturally seek amusement and pursue it;
creating among themselves those pastimes which in the great European
cities others so often provide for them. Politically, also,
Constantinople is a very important place to most of the powers, who
choose their representatives for the post from among the cleverest men
they can find; and I will venture to say that there is scarcely a court
in the world where so many first-rate diplomatists are gathered together
as are to be met with among the missions to the Sublime Porte. Diplomacy
in Constantinople has preserved something of the character it had all
over the world fifty years ago. Personal influence is of far greater
importance when negotiations are to be undertaken with a half-civilized
form of administration, which is carried on chiefly by persons of
imperfect education, but of immense natural talent for intrigue. The
absence of an hereditary nobility in Turkey, and the extremely
democratic nature of the army and the civil service, make it possible
for men of the lowest birth to attain to the highest power. The immense
and complicated bureaucracy is not in the hands of any one class of the
people; its prizes are won by men of all sorts and conditions, who
continue to pursue their own interests and fortunes with undiminished
energy, when they ought to be devoting their whole powers to the service
of the country. Their power is indeed checked by the centralization of
all the executive faculties in the person of the sovereign. Without the
Sultan's signature the minister of war cannot order a gun to be cast in
the arsenal of Tophanè, the minister of marine cannot buy a ton of coal
for the ironclads which lie behind Galata bridge in the Golden Horn, the
minister of foreign affairs cannot give a reply to an ambassador, nor
can the minister of justice avail himself of the machinery of the law.
Every smallest act must be justified by the Sultan's own signature, and
the chief object of all diplomacy from without, and of all personal
intrigue from within, is to obtain this imperial consent to measures
suggested by considerations of private advantage or public necessity.
The Ottoman Empire may be described as an irregular democracy, whose
acts are all subject to the veto of an absolute autocrat. The officials
pass their lives in proposing, and his Majesty very generally spends his
time in opposing, all manner of schemes, good, bad, and indifferent. The
contradictory nature of the system produces the anomalous position
occupied by the Ottoman Empire in Europe.
The fact that there is no aristocracy and the seclusion of women among
the Mussulmans are the chief reasons why there is no native society, in
our sense of the word. A few of the great Greek families still survive,
descendants of those Fanariotes whose ancestors had played an important
part in the decadence of the Eastern Empire. A certain number of
Armenians who have gained wealth and influence follow more or less
closely the customs of the West. But beyond these few there cannot be
said to be many houses of the social kind. Two or three pashas, of
European origin, and Christians by religion, mix with their families in
the gayety of Pera and the Bosphorus. A few Turkish officers, and
Prussian officers in Turkish service, show their brilliant uniforms in
the ball-rooms, and occasionally some high official of the Porte appears
at formal receptions; but on the whole the society is diplomatic, and
depends almost entirely upon the diplomatists for its existence and for
its diversions. The lead once given, the old Greek aristocrats have not
been behindhand in following it; but their numbers are small, and the
movement and interest in Pera, or on the Bosphorus, centre in the great
embassies, as they do nowhere else in the world.
Small as the society is, it is, nevertheless exceedingly brilliant and
very amusing. Intimacies grow up quickly, and often become lasting
friendships when fostered by such influences. Every one knows every one
else, and every one meets everybody else at least once a week. The
arrival of a new secretary is expected with unbounded interest. The
departure of one who has been long in Constantinople is mourned as a
public loss. Occasionally society is convulsed to its foundations by the
departure of an ambassador to whom every one has been so long accustomed
that he has come to be regarded as one of the fathers of the community,
whose hospitality every one has enjoyed, whose tact and knowledge of the
world have been a source of satisfaction to his colleagues in many a
diplomatic difficulty, and whose palace in Pera is associated in the
minds of all with many hours of pleasure and with much delightful
intercourse. He goes, and society turns out in a body to see him off.
The occasion is like a funeral. People send hundreds of baskets of
flowers. There is an address, there are many leave-takings. Once, at
least, I remember seeing two thirds of the people shedding
tears,--genuine wet tears of sorrow. And there was good reason for their
grief. In such communities as the diplomatic colony in Pera, people
understand the value of those who not only do more than their share in
contributing to the pleasantness of life, but who possess in an
abundant degree those talents which delight us in individuals, and those
qualities which are dear to us in friends. It would be easy to write a
book about society in Pera, and it would be a pleasant book. But these
are not the days of Samuel Pepys; we have hardly passed the age of Mr.
George Ticknor.
In a short time after their arrival, and after the reappearance of
Alexander Patoff, the Carvels knew everybody, and everybody knew them.
Each member of the party found something to praise and some one to like.
John Carvel was soon lost in admiration of Lord Mavourneen, while Mrs.
Carvel talked much with the English missionary bishop of Western
Kamtchatka, who happened to be spending a few days at the embassy. She
asked him many questions concerning the differences between Armenian
orthodox, Armenian catholic, Greek orthodox, and Russian orthodox; and
though his lordship found a great deal to say on the subject, I am bound
to allow that he was almost as much puzzled as herself when brought face
to face in the reality with such a variety of sects. Chrysophrasia had
not come to the East for nothing, either. She meant to indulge what John
called her fancy for pots and pans and old rags; in other words, she
intended to try her luck in the bazaar, and with the bloodhound's scent
of the true collector she detected by instinct the bricabrac hunters of
society. There is always a goodly number of them wherever antiquities
are to be found, and Chrysophrasia was hailed by those of her persuasion
with the mingled delight and jealousy which scientific bodies feel when
a new scientist appears upon the horizon.
As for Hermione, she created a great sensation, and the hearts of many
secretaries palpitated in the most lively manner when she first entered
the ball-room of one of the embassies, two days after her arrival. The
astonishment was great when it was known that she was Paul Patoff's own
cousin; and when it was observed that Paul was very often with her the
cry went up that he had fallen in love at last. Thereupon all the women
who had said that he was a bore, a monster, a statue, and a piece of
ice, immediately declared that there must be something in him, after
all, and began to talk to him whenever they got a chance. Some
disappointment was felt, too, when it was observed that Alexander Patoff
also showed a manifest preference for the society of his beautiful
cousin, and wise old ladies said there would be trouble. Everybody,
however, received the addition to society with open arms, and hoped that
the Carvels' visit might be prolonged for at least a whole year.
Many of these comments reached my ears, and the remarks concerning
Alexander's growing attachment for Hermione startled me, and chilled me
with a sense of evil to come. I opened my eyes and watched, as every one
else was doing, and in a short time I came to the conclusion that public
opinion was right. It was very disagreeable to me to admit it, but I
soon saw that there was no doubt that Alexander was falling in love with
his cousin. I saw, too, what others who knew them less well did not see:
Madame Patoff exercised all her ingenuity in giving her favorite son
opportunities of seeing Hermione alone. It was very easy to do this, and
she did it in the most natural way; she affected to repent bitterly of
her injustice to Paul, and took delight in calling him to her side, and
keeping him with her as long as possible. Sometimes she would make him
stay an hour by her side at a party, going over and over the strange
story of Alexander's imprisonment, and asking him questions again and
again, until he grew weary and absent, and answered her with rather
incoherent phrases, or in short monosyllables not always to the point.
Then at last, when she saw that she could keep him no longer, she would
let him go, asking him to forgive her for being so importunate, and
explaining as an excuse that she could never hear enough of a story that
had ended so happily. Meanwhile Alexander had found ample opportunity
for talking with Hermione, and had made the most of his time.
I have said that I had always been very fond of the young girl, and I
thought that I understood her character well enough; but I find it hard
to understand the phases through which she passed after she first met
Alexander. I believe she loved Paul very sincerely from the first, and I
know that she contemplated the prospect of marrying him at no distant
time. But I am equally sure that she did not escape the influence of
that wonderful fascination which Alexander exercised over everybody. If
it is possible to explain it at all, which is more than doubtful, I
should think that it might be accounted for on some such theory as this.
Hermione was negative as compared with Paul, but in comparison with
Alexander she was positive. It is clear that if this were so she must
have experienced two totally different sets of impressions, according as
she was with the one or the other of the brothers.
To define more clearly what I mean, I will state this theory in other
words. Paul Patoff was a very masculine and dominating man. Hermione
Carvel was a young girl, who resembled her strong, sensible, and manly
father far more than her meek and delicate mother. Though she was still
very young, there was much in her which showed the determined will and
energetic purpose which a man needs to possess more than a woman.
Alexander Patoff, on the other hand, without being effeminate, was
intensely feminine. He had fine sensibilities, he had quick intuitions,
he was capricious and womanly in his ideas. It follows that, in the
scale of characters, Hermione held the mean between the two brothers.
Compared with Paul's powerful nature, her qualities were those of a
woman; in comparison with Alexander's delicate organization of mind,
Hermione's character was more like that of a man. The effect of this
singular scale of personalities was, that when she found herself
alternately in the society of the two brothers she felt as though she
were alternately two different women. To a man entering a house on a
bitter winter's night the hall seems comfortably warm; but it seems
cold to a man who has been sitting over a fire in a hermetically sealed
study.
Now Hermione had loved Paul when he was practically the only man of
those she had ever known intimately whom she believed it possible to
love at all. But she had seen very little of the world, and had known
very few men. Her first recollections of society were indistinct, and no
one individual had made any more impression upon her than another,
perhaps because she was in reality not very impressionable. But Paul was
preëminently a man able to impress himself upon others when he chose. He
had come to Carvel Place, had loved his cousin, and she had returned his
love with a readiness which had surprised herself. It was genuine in its
way, and she knew that it was; nor could she doubt that Paul was in
earnest, since a word from her had sufficed to make him curtail his
visit, and go to the ends of the earth to find his brother. Hermione
more than once wished that she had never spoken that word.
She now entered upon a new phase of her life, she saw a new sort of
society, and she met a man who upset in a moment all her convictions
about men in general. The result of all this novelty was that she began
to look at life from a different point of view. Alexander amused her,
and at the same time he made her feel of more importance in her own
eyes. He talked well, but he made her fancy that she herself talked
better. His thoughts were subtle, though not always logical, and his
quick instincts gave him an immense advantage over people of slower
intelligence. He knew all this himself, perhaps; at all events, he used
his gifts in the cleverest possible way. He possessed the power to
attract Hermione without dominating her; in other words, he made her
like him of her own free will.
She liked him very much, and she felt that there was no harm in it. He
was the brother of her future husband, so that she easily felt it a duty
to like him, as well as a pleasure. Alexander himself affected to treat
her with a sort of cousinly-brotherly affection, and spoke always of
Paul with the greatest respect, when he spoke of him at all; but he
manifestly sought opportunities of expressing his affection, and avoided
all mention of Paul when not absolutely necessary. The position was
certainly a difficult one, but he managed it with the tact of a woman
and the daring of a man. I have always believed that he was really fond
of Hermione; for I cannot imagine him so vile as to attempt to take her
from Paul, when Paul had done so much towards liberating him from his
prison. But whatever were his motives or his feelings, it was evident to
me that he was making love to her in good earnest, that the girl was
more interested in him than she supposed, and that Madame Patoff was
cunningly scheming to break off the match with Paul in order to marry
Hermione to Alexander.
Balsamides had of course become a friend of the family, after the part
he had played in effecting Alexander's escape, and in his own way I
think he watched the situation when he got a chance with as much
interest as I myself. One evening we were sitting in his rooms, about
midnight, talking, as we talked eternally, upon all manner of subjects.
"Griggs," said he, suddenly changing the topic of our conversation, "it
is a great pity we ever took the trouble to find Alexander. I often wish
he were still lying in that pleasant den in Laleli's garden."
"It would be better for every one concerned, except himself, if he
were," I answered.
"I detest the fellow's face. If it were not for his mustache, he might
pass for a woman anywhere."
"He is as beautiful as an angel," I said, wishing to give him his due.
"What business have men with such beauty as that?" asked Gregorios,
scornfully. "I would rather look like a Kurd hamál than like Alexander
Patoff. He is spoiling Paul's life. Not that I care!" he added,
shrugging his shoulders.
"No," I said, "it is none of our business. I liked him at first, I
confess, and I thought that Alexander and Miss Carvel would make a very
pretty couple. But I like him less the more I see of him. However, he
will soon be going back to his regiment, and we shall hear no more of
him."
"His leave is not over yet," answered my friend. "A fellow like that can
do a deal of harm in a few weeks."
Gregorios is a man of violent sympathies and antipathies, though no one
would suppose it from his cold manner and general indifference. But I
know him better than I have known most men, and he is less reticent with
me than with the generality of his friends. It was impossible to say
whether he took enough interest in the Carvels or in Paul to attempt to
influence their destiny, but I was sure that if he crossed Alexander's
path the latter would get the worst of it, and I mentally noted the fact
in summing up Paul's chances.
At that time nothing had openly occurred which suggested the possibility
of a rupture of the unacknowledged engagement between Paul and Hermione.
Paul several times told her that he wished to speak formally to John
Carvel, and obtain his consent to the marriage; but Hermione advised him
to wait a little longer, arguing that she herself had spoken, and that
there was therefore no concealment about the matter. The longer they
waited, she said, the more her father would become accustomed to the
idea, and the more he would learn to like Paul, so that in another month
there would be no doubt but that he would gladly give his consent. But
Paul himself was not satisfied. His mother's conduct irritated him
beyond measure, and he began seriously to suspect her of wishing to make
trouble. He was no longer deceived by her constant show of affection for
himself, for she continued always to make it most manifest just when it
prevented him from talking with Hermione. Alexander, too, treated him as
he had not done before, with a deference and a sort of feline softness
which inspired distrust. Two years ago Paul would have been the first to
expect foul play from his brother, and would have been upon his guard
from the beginning; but Paul himself was changed, and had grown more
merciful in his judgment of others. He found it hard to persuade himself
that Alexander really meant to steal Hermione's love; and even when he
began to suspect the possibility of such a thing, he believed that he
could treat the matter lightly enough. Nevertheless, Hermione continued
to dissuade him from going to her father, and he yielded to her advice,
though much against his will. He found himself in a situation which to
his conscience seemed equivocal. He knew from what John Carvel had
written to me that his suit was not likely to meet with any serious
opposition; he understood that John expected him to speak, and he began
to fancy that his future father-in-law looked at him inquiringly from
time to time, as though anticipating a question, and wondering why it
was not asked.
One day he came to see me, and found me alone. Gregorios had gone to the
palace, and I have no doubt that Paul, who knew his habits, had chosen a
morning for his visit when he was certain that Balsamides would not be
at home. He looked annoyed and almost nervous, as he sat down in silence
and began to smoke.
"Anything wrong?" I asked.
"I hardly know," he replied. "I am very uncomfortable. I am in a very
disagreeable situation."
I was silent. I did not want to invite his confidence, and if he had
come to tell me anything about himself, it was better to let him tell it
in his own way.
"I am in a very disagreeable position," he repeated slowly. "I want to
ask your advice."
"That is always a rash thing to do," I replied.
"I do not care. I must confide in you, as I did once before, but this
time I only want your advice. My position is intolerable. I feel every
day that I ought to ask Mr. Carvel to give me his daughter, and yet I
cannot do it."
"Why not? It is certainly your duty," said I.
"Because Miss Carvel objects," he answered, with sudden energy. His
voice sounded almost fierce as he spoke.
"Do you mean that she has not accepted"----
"I do not know what I mean, nor what she means, either!" exclaimed Paul,
rising, and beginning to pace the floor.
"My dear Patoff," I said, "you made a grave mistake in making me find
your brother. Excuse my abruptness, but that is my opinion."
He turned suddenly upon me, and his face was very pale, while his eyes
gleamed disagreeably and his lip trembled.
"So you have noticed that, too," he said in a low voice. "Well--go on!
What do you advise me to do? How am I to get him out of the way?"
"There can be no doubt that Balsamides would advise you to cut his
throat," I replied. "As for me, I advise you to wait, and see what comes
of it. He must soon go home and rejoin his regiment."
"Wait!" exclaimed Paul impatiently. "Wait! Yes,--and while I am waiting
he will be working, and he will succeed! With that angel's face of his,
he will certainly succeed! Besides, my mother will help him, as you
know."
"Look here," said I. "Either Miss Carvel loves you, or she does not. If
she does, she will not love your brother. If she does not love you, you
had better not marry her. That is the reasonable view."
"No doubt,--no doubt. But I do not mean to be reasonable in that way.
You forget that I love her. The argument might have some weight."
"Not much. After all, why do you love her? You do not know her well."
Paul stared at me as though he thought I were going mad. I dare say that
I must have appeared to him to be perfectly insane. But I was
disconcerted by the gravity of the situation, and I believed that he had
a bad chance against Alexander. It was wiser to accustom his mind to the
idea of failure than to flatter him with imaginary hopes of success. A
man in love is either a hero or a fool; heroes who fail are generally
called fools for their pains, and fools who succeed are sometimes called
heroes. Paul stared, and turned away in silence.
"You do not seem to have any answer ready," I observed. "You say you
love a certain lady. Is there any reason, in the nature of things, why
some one else should not love her at the same time? Then it follows that
the most important point is this,--she must love you. If she does not,
your affection is wasted. I am not an old man, but I am far from being a
young one, and I have seen much in my time. You may analyze your
feelings and those of others, when in love, as much as you please, but
you will not get at any other result. Unless a woman loves you, it is of
very little use that you love her."
"What in the world are you talking about, Griggs?" asked Paul, whose
ideas, perhaps, did not coincide with mine. "What can you know about
love? You are nothing but a hardened old bachelor; you never loved a
woman in your life, I am sure."
I was much struck by the truth of this observation, and I held my peace.
A cannibal cannot be expected to understand French cooking.
"I tell you," continued Paul, "that Miss Carvel has promised to marry
me, and I constantly speak to her of our marriage."
"But does she speak to you of it?" I asked. "I fancy that she never
alludes to it except to tell you not to go to her father."
In his turn Paul was silent, and bent his brows. He must have been half
distracted, or he would not have talked to me as he did. I never knew a
less communicative man.
"This is a very delicate matter," I said presently. "You ask my advice;
I will give you the best I can. Do one of two things. Either go to Mr.
Carvel without his daughter's permission, or else fight it out as you
can until your brother goes. Then you will have the field to yourself."
"The difficulty lies in the choice," said Paul.
"The choice depends upon your own state of mind, and upon your strength,
or rather upon the strength of your position. If Miss Carvel has
promised to marry you, I think you have a right to push matters as fast
as you can."
"I will," said Paul. "Good-by."
He left me at once, and I began to reflect upon what had passed. It
seemed to me that he was foolish and irrational, altogether unlike
himself. He had asked my advice upon a point in which his own judgment
would serve him better than mine, and it was contrary to his nature to
ask advice at all in such matters. He was evidently hard pressed and
unhappy, and I wished I could help him, but it was impossible. He was in
a dilemma from which he could issue only by his own efforts; and
although I was curious to see what he would do, I felt that I was not in
a position to suggest any very definite line of action. I looked idly
out of the window at the people who passed, and I began to wonder
whether even my curiosity to see the end could keep me much longer in
Pera. The crowd jostled and elbowed itself in the narrow way, as usual.
The fez, in every shade of red, and in every condition of newness,
shabbiness, and mediocrity, with tassel and without, rocked, swayed,
wagged, turned, and moved beneath my window till I grew sick of the
sight of it, and longed to see a turban, or a tall hat, or no hat at
all,--anything for a change of head-dress. I left the window rather
wearily, and took up one of the many novels which lay on the table,
pondering on the probable fate of Paul Patoff's love for his cousin.
XX.
Hermione found herself placed in quite as embarrassing a position as
Paul, and before long she began to feel that she had lost herself in a
sort of labyrinth of new sensations. She hardly trusted herself to think
or to reflect, so confusing were the questions which constantly
presented themselves to her mind. It seems an easy matter for a woman to
say, I love this man, or, I love that man, and to know that she speaks
truly in so saying. With some natures first love is a fact, a certainty
against which there is no appeal, and beside which there is no
alternative. To see, with them, is practically to love, and to love once
is to love forever. We may laugh over "love at first sight," as we call
it, but history and every-day life afford so many instances of its
reality that we cannot deny its existence. But the conditions in which
it is found are rare. To love each other at first sight, both the
persons must be impulsive; each must find in the other exactly what each
has long sought and most earnestly desired, and each must recognize the
discovery instantaneously. I suppose, also, that unless such love lasts
it does not deserve the name; but in order that it may be durable it is
necessary that the persons should realize that they have not been
deceived in their estimate of each other, that they should possess in
themselves the capacity for endurance, that their tastes should change
little and their hearts not at all. People who are at once very
impulsive and very enduring are few in the world and very hard to mate;
wherefore love at first sight, but of a lasting nature, is a rare
phenomenon.
Hermione did not belong to this class, and she had certainly not loved
Paul during the first few days of their acquaintance. Her nature was
relatively slow and hard to rouse. A season in society had produced no
impression upon her; and if Paul had stayed only a week, or even a
fortnight, at Carvel Place he might have fared no better than all the
other men who had been presented to her, had talked and danced with her,
and had gone away, leaving her life serenely calm as before. But Paul
had been very assiduous, and had lost no time. Moreover, he loved her,
and was in earnest about it; so that when, on that memorable day in the
park, he had spoken at last, she had accepted his speech and had sealed
her answer.
She believed that she loved him with all her heart, but she was new to
love, and the waking sentiment was not yet a passion. It was only a
sensation, and though its strength was great enough to influence
Hermione's life, it had not yet acquired any great stability. A more
impulsive nature would have been more suddenly moved, but Hermione's
love needed time for its development, and the time had been very short.
Since she had admitted that she loved Paul, she had not seen him until
the eve of his brother's reappearance; and now, owing to Madame Patoff's
skillful management, she talked with Alexander more frequently than with
Paul. Alexander was apparently doing his best to make her love him, and
the world said that he was succeeding. Hermione herself was startled
when she tried to understand her own feelings, for she saw that a great
change had taken place in her, and she could neither account for it nor
assure herself where it would end. It would be unjust to blame her, or
to say that she was unfaithful. She did not waver in her determination
to marry Paul, but she tried to put it off as long as possible,
struggling to clear away her doubts, and trying hard to feel that she
was acting rightly. After all, it is easy to comprehend the confusion
which arises in a young girl's mind when placed in such a position. We
say too readily that a woman who wavers and hesitates is treating a man
badly. Men are so quick to jump at the conclusion that women love them
that they resent violently the smallest signs of hesitation in the other
sex. They do not see that a woman needs time to decide, just as a man
does; and they think it quite enough that they themselves have made up
their minds, as if women existed only to submit themselves to the choice
of men, and had no manner of right to question that choice when once
made.
Paul could not imagine why Hermione hesitated, and she herself would
certainly have refused to account for the delay she caused, by admitting
that Alexander had made an impression upon her heart. But she felt the
charm the man exercised, and her life was really influenced by it. The
strange adventure which had so long kept him a prisoner in Laleli's
house lent him an atmosphere of romantic interest, and his own nature
increased the illusion. The brilliant young officer, with his almost
supernatural beauty, his ready tongue, his sweet voice, and his dashing
grace, was well calculated to make an impression upon any woman; to a
young girl who had grown up in very quiet surroundings, who had hitherto
regarded Paul Patoff as the ideal of all that a man should be, the
soldier brother seemed like a being from another world. At the same time
Hermione was reaching the age when she could enjoy society, because she
began to feel at home in it, because the first dazzling impression of it
had given way to a quieter appreciation of what it offered, and lastly
because she herself was surrounded by many admirers, and had become a
personage of more importance than she had ever thought possible before.
Under such circumstances a young girl's impressions change very rapidly.
She feels the disturbing influence and enjoys the moment, but while it
lasts she feels also that she is unfit to decide upon the greatest
question of her life. She needs time, because she can employ very little
of the time she has in serious thought, and because she doubts whether
all her previous convictions are not shaken to their foundations. She
dreads a mistake, and is afraid that in speaking too quickly she may
speak untruly. It is the desire to be honest which forbids her to
continue in the course she had chosen before this new phase of her life
began, or to come to any new decision involving immediate action,
especially immediate marriage.
Herein lies the great danger to a young girl who has promised to marry a
man before she has seen anything of the world, and who suddenly begins
to see a great deal of the world before the marriage actually takes
place. She is just enough attached to the man to feel that she loves
him, but the bonds are not yet so close as to make her know that his
love is altogether the dominating influence of her life. Unless this
same man whom she has chosen stands out as conspicuously in the new
world she has entered as in the quiet home she has left, there is great
danger that he may fall in her estimation; and in those early stages of
love, estimation is a terribly important element. By estimation I do not
mean esteem. There is a subtle difference between the two; for though
our estimation may be high or low, our esteem is generally high. When a
young girl is old enough to be at home in society, she sets a value on
every man, and perhaps on every woman, whom she meets. They take their
places in the scale she forms, and their places are not easily changed.
Among them the man she has previously promised to marry almost
inevitably finds his rank, and she is fortunate if he is among the
highest; for if he is not, she will not fail to regret that he does not
possess some quality or qualities which she supposes to exist in those
men whom she ranks first among her acquaintance. Where criticism begins,
sympathy very often ends, and with it love. Then, if she is honest, a
woman owns that she has made a mistake, and refuses to abide by her
engagement, because she feels that she cannot make the man happy. Or if
her ideas of faith forbid her from doing this, she marries him in spite
of her convictions, and generally makes him miserable for the rest of
his days. When a girl throws a man over, as the phrase goes, the world
sets up a howl, and vows that she has treated him very badly; but it
always seems to me that by a single act of courage she has freed herself
and the man who loves her from the fearful consequences of a marriage
where all the love would have been on one side, and all the criticism on
the other. It is not always a girl's own fault when she does not know
her own mind, and when she has discovered her mistake she is wise if she
refuses to persist in it. There is more to be said in favor of breaking
off engagements than is generally allowed, and there is usually far too
much said against the woman who has the courage to pursue such a course.
In comparing the two brothers, as she undoubtedly did, Hermione was not
aware that she was making any real comparison between them. What she
felt and understood was that when she was with Paul she was one person,
and when she was with Alexander she was quite another; and the knowledge
of this fact confused her, and made her uncertain of herself. With Paul
she was, in her own feelings, the Hermione he had known in England; with
Alexander she was some one else,--some one she did not recognize, and
who should have been called by another name. Until she could unravel
this mystery, and explain to herself what she felt, she was resolved not
to take any further steps in regard to her marriage.
Pera, at this time, was indulging itself in its last gayeties before the
beginning of the summer season, when every one who is able to leave the
town goes up the Bosphorus, or to the islands. The weather was growing
warm, but still the dancing continued with undiminished vigor. Among
other festivities there was to be a masked ball, a species of amusement
which is very rare in Constantinople; but somebody had suggested the
idea, one of the great embassies had taken it up, and at last the day
was fixed and the invitations were issued. It was to be a great affair,
and everybody went secretly about the business of composing costumes
and disguises. There was much whispering and plotting and agreeing
together in schemes of mystification. The evening came, everybody went,
and the ball was a great success.
Hermione had entirely hidden her costume with a black domino, which is
certainly the surest disguise which anyone can wear. Its wide folds
reached to the ground, and completely hid her figure, while even her
hands were rendered unrecognizable by loose black gloves. Paul had been
told what she was to wear; but he probably knew her by some sign, agreed
upon beforehand, from all the other black dominos; for a number of other
ladies had chosen the same over-garment to hide the brilliant costumes
until the time came for unmasking. He came up to her immediately, and
offered his arm, proposing to walk through the rooms before dancing; but
Hermione would not hear of it, saying that if she were seen with him at
first she would be found out at once.
"Do not be unreasonable," said she, as she saw the disappointed look on
his face. "I want to mystify ever so many people first. Then I will
dance with you as much as you like."
"Very well," said Paul, rather coldly. "When you want me, come to me."
Hermione nodded, and moved away, mixing with the crowd under the
hundreds of lights in the great ball-room. Paul sighed, and stood by the
door, caring little for what went on. He was not a man who really took
pleasure in society, though he had cultivated his social faculties to
the utmost, as being necessary to his career. The fact that all the
ladies were masked dispensed him for the time from the duty of making
the round of the room and speaking to all his acquaintances, and he was
glad of it. But Hermione was bent upon enjoying her first masked ball,
and all the freedom of moving about alone. She spoke to many men whom
she knew, using a high, squeaking voice which in no way recalled her
natural tones. In the course of half an hour she found Alexander Patoff
talking earnestly with a lady in a white domino, whom she recognized, to
her surprise, as her aunt Chrysophrasia. Alexander evidently had no idea
of her identity, for he was speaking in low and passionate tones, while
Miss Dabstreak, who seemed to enter into the spirit of the mystification
with amazing readiness, replied in the conventional squeak. She had
concealed her hands in the loose sleeves of her domino, and as she was
of about the same height as Hermione, it was absolutely impossible to
prove that she was not Hermione herself.
"Hermione," exclaimed Alexander, just as the real Hermione came up to
him, "I cannot bear to hear you talk in that voice! What is the use of
keeping up this ridiculous disguise? Do you not see that I am in
earnest?"
"Perfectly," squeaked Chrysophrasia. "So am I. But somebody might hear
my natural voice, you know."
Hermione started, and drew back a little. It was a strange position, for
Alexander was evidently under the impression that he was making love to
herself, and her aunt was amused by drawing him on. She hesitated, not
knowing what she ought to do. It was clear that, unless she made herself
known to him, he might remain under the impression that she had accepted
his love-making. She waited to see what would happen. But Chrysophrasia
had probably detected her, for presently the white domino moved quickly
away towards the crowd. Alexander sprang forward, and would have
followed, but Hermione crossed his path, and laid her hand on his
sleeve.
"Will you give me your arm, Alexander?" she said, quietly, in her
natural way.
He stopped short, stared at her, and then broke into a short, half-angry
laugh. But he gave her his arm, and walked by her side, with an
expression of bewilderment and annoyance on his beautiful face. Hermione
was too wise to say that she had overheard the conversation, and
Alexander was ashamed to own that he had made a mistake, and taken some
one else for her. But by making herself known Hermione had effectually
annulled whatever false impression Chrysophrasia had made upon him.
"Do you know who that lady in the white domino is, with whom I was
talking a moment ago? Did you see her?" he asked, rather nervously.
"It is our beloved aunt Chrysophrasia," said Hermione, calmly.
"Good heavens! Aunt Chrysophrasia!" exclaimed Alexander, in some horror.
"Why 'good heavens'?" inquired Hermione. "Have you been doing anything
foolish? I am sure you have been making love to her. Tell me about it."
"There is nothing to tell. But what a wonderful disguise! How many
dances will you give me? May I have the cotillon?"
"You may have a quadrille," answered Hermione.
"A quadrille, two waltzes, and the cotillon. That will do very well. As
nobody knows you in that domino, we can dance as often as we please, and
you will only be seen with me in the cotillon. What is your costume? I
am sure it is something wonderful."
"How you run on!" exclaimed the young girl. "You do not give one the
