had not said so, that I did not wish her to follow me.  I examined the
child hastily.  The little fellow stopped crying at the sight of me,
and put up both arms to be taken.  I said:--
"No, Boy.  Papa can't stop now," and put him gently back into his crib.
When I had reached the nursery door I remember that I returned and
kissed him.  I was very angry, but I could not be angry with my baby.
With the touch of his little lips, dewy and sweet, upon mine, I rushed
down to my wife, and tempestuously began again:--
"Helen, I must have an end to this nonsense.  Nothing ails the baby; he
is only a trifle feverish with a new tooth.  It really is very
unpleasant to me that you make such a fuss over him.  If you had
married a greengrocer it might have been pardonable.  Pray remember
that you have married a physician who understands his business, and do
leave me to manage it.  Take the child out of the nursery.  Carry him
downstairs as usual for a few minutes.  He will sleep better.  There!
I'm eight minutes behindhand already, all for this senseless anxiety of
yours.  It is a pity you can't trust me, like other men's wives!  I
wish I'd married a woman with a little wifely spirit!--or else not
married at all."
I shut the door; I am afraid I slammed it.  I cleared the steps at a
bound, and ran fiercely out into the night air.  The wind was rising,
and the weather was growing sharp.  It was frosty and noisy.  Donna, my
chestnut mare, stood pawing the pavement in high temper, and called to
me as she heard my step.  She had dragged at her weight a little; she
was thoroughly displeased with the delay.  It occurred to me that she
felt as I had acted.  It even occurred to me to go back and tell my
wife that I was ashamed of myself.
I turned and looked in through the parlour windows.  The shades were
up, and the gas was low.  Dimly beyond, the bright panel of the lighted
library arose between the crimson curtains.  She stood against it,
midway between the two rooms.  Her hands had dropped closed one into
the other before her.  Her face was toward the street.  She seemed to
be gazing at me, whom she could not see.  Her white dress, which hung
in thick folds, the pallor of her face and her delicate hands, gave her
the look of a statue; its purity, and to my fancy at that moment its
permanence.  She seemed to be carved there, like something that must
stay.
I turned to go back--yes, I would have gone.  It is little enough for a
man to say for himself under circumstances like these; but perhaps I
may be allowed to say it, since to exculpate myself is the last of my
motives.  I had made a stop or two up the flagging between the deep
grass-plots that fronted the house, when the mare, disturbed beyond
endurance at a movement of delay which she too well understood, gave a
shrill whinny, and reared, pulling and dragging at her weight fiercely.
She was a powerful creature, and the weight yielded, hitting at her
heels.  In an instant she had cramped the wheels, and I saw that the
buggy would go over.  To spring back, reach the bit, snatch the reins,
leap over the wheel, and whirl away in the reeling carriage was the
work of some thing less than a thought; it was the elemental instinct
by which a man must manage his horse, come life or death.
Like most doctors, I was something of a horseman, and the idea of being
thwarted by any of Donna's whims had never occurred to me.  I knew that
the horse was pulling hard, but beyond that, I could not be said to
have knowledge, much less fear; the mad conflict between the brute and
the man possessed me to the exclusion of intelligence.
It was some moments before it struck me that my own horse was running
away with me.
My first, perhaps I may say my only emotion at the discovery was one of
overpowering rage.
I did not mean to strike her.  No driver, ever if an angry one, would
have done that.  But I had the whip in my hand, around which the reins
were knotted for the struggle, and when the horse broke into a gallop
the jerk gave her a flick.  I was not in the habit of whipping her.
She felt herself insulted.  It was now her turn to be angry; and an
angry runaway means a bad business.  Donna put down her head, struck
out viciously from behind, and kicked the dasher flat.  From that
moment I lost all control of her.
I thought:--
"She is headed down town.  At this rate, in five minutes she will be in
the thick of travel.  I have so many minutes more."
For how long I cannot tell, I had beyond this no other intelligent
idea.  Then I thought;--
"I should not like to be the man who has got to tell Helen."  This
repeated itself dully: "I should not care to be the fellow who will be
sent to tell Helen."
I had ceased to call to the mare; it only made matters worse; but there
was great hubbub in the streets as we leaped on.  There were several
attempts to head her off, I think.  One man caught at her bridle.  This
frightened her; she threw him off, and threw him down.  I think she
must have hurt him.  We were now well down town.  Window lights and
carriage lights flared by deliriously.  The wind, which was high, at
speed like that seemed something demoniac.  I remember how much it
added to my sense of danger.  I remember that my favourite phrase
occurred to me:--
"I am driven to death."
Suddenly I saw approaching an open landau.  The street was full of
vehicles, some of which I was sure to run down; but none of them seemed
to give me concern except this one carriage.  It contained a lady and a
little boy, patients of mine.  I recognized them forty feet away.  He
was a pretty little fellow, and she was fond of me; sent for me for
everything; trusted me beyond reason; could not live without her
doctor--that kind of patient.  She had been a great sufferer.  It
seemed infernal to me that it should be they.
I shouted to her coachman:--
"Henry!  For God's sake--to the left!  To the left!"
But Henry stared at me like one struck dead.  I thought I heard him
say;--
"Marm, it's the doctor!" and after that I heard no more.
As the crash came, I saw the woman's face.  She had recognized me with
her look of sweet trustfulness; it froze to mortal horror.  She clasped
the child.  I saw his cap come off from his yellow curls, and one
little hand tossed out as the landau went over.  The mare, now mad as
any maniac, ran on.
Something had broken, but it mattered little what.  I think we turned a
corner.  I think she struck a lamp-post or a tree.  At all events, the
buggy went over; and, scooped into the top, and dragged, and blinded,
and stunned, I came to the ground.
As I went down, I uttered the two words of all that are human, most
solemn; perhaps, one may add, most automatic.  Believer or sceptic,
saint or sinner, mortal danger hurls them from us, as it wrests the
soul from out our bodies.
I said, "My God!" precisely as I threw out my arms, to catch at
whatever could hold me when I could no longer hold myself.
CHAPTER V.
How long I had lain stunned upon the pavement I had no means of
knowing; I thought not long.  I was surprised, on coming to myself, to
find that my injuries were not more severe.
My head felt uncomfortable, and I had a certain numbness or stiffness,
as one does from the first trial of long-disused limbs.  I had always
limped a trifle since that accident beside the trout-brook; and, as I
staggered to my feet, I thought:--
"This will play the mischief with that old injury.  I shouldn't wonder
if it came to crutches."
On the contrary, when I had walked some dozen steps I found that an
interesting thing had happened.  The shock had dispersed the limp.
It was with a perfectly even and natural gait, although, as I say,
rather a weak one, that I trod the pavement to try what manner of man
the runaway had left me.  I said:--
"It is one of those cases of nervous rearrangement.  The shock has
acted like a battery upon the nerve-centres.  Instead of a broken neck,
I have a cured leg.  I'm a lucky fellow."
Having already, however, considered myself a lucky fellow for the
greater part of my life, this conclusion did not impress me with the
force which it might some other men; and, laughing lightly, as lucky
people do, at fortune, I turned to examine the condition of my horse
and carriage.
Donna was not to be seen.  She had broken the traces, the breeching,
the shafts, everything, in short, she could, and cleared herself.  I
had been unconscious long enough to give her time to make herself
invisible, and she had made the most of it; in what direction she had
gone, it was impossible for me to tell.  The buggy was a wreck.  No one
was in sight who seemed to have interest or anxiety in the matter.  I
wondered that I did not find myself the victim of a gaping crowd.  But
I reflected that the mishap had taken place in a quiet dwelling street,
not travelled at that hour, and that my fate, therefore, had attracted
no attention.  I remembered, too, my patient, Mrs. Faith, and her boy,
and that dolt of a Henry's helpless face--the whole thing came to mind,
vividly.  It occurred to me that the crowd might be at the scene of an
accident so terrible that no loafer was left to regard my lesser
misfortune.  It was they who had been sacrificed.  It was I who escaped.
My first thought was to go at once and learn the worst; but I found
myself a little out of my way.  I really did not recognize the street
in which I stood.  I had been for so many years accustomed to driving
everywhere that, like other doctors, I hardly knew how to walk; and by
the time I made my way back to the great thoroughfare where I had
collided with Mrs. Faith's carriage, no trace of the tragedy was to be
found; or at least I could not find any.  After looking in vain, for a
while, I stopped a man, and asked him if there had not been a carriage
accident there within half an hour.  He lifted his eyes to me stupidly,
and went on.  I put the same question to some one else--a lazy fellow,
who was leaning against an iron railing and staring at me.  But he
shook his head decidedly.
A young priest passed by, at this moment, saying an Ave with moving
lips and unworldly eyes, and I made inquiries of him whether a lady and
a child had just been injured in that vicinity by a runaway.
"Nay," he said, gazing at me with a luminous look.  "Nay, I see
nothing."
After an instant's hesitation the priest made the sign of the cross
both upon himself and me; and then stretched his hands in blessing over
me, and silently went his way.  I thought this very kind in him; and I
bowed, as we parted, saying aloud:--
"Thank you, Father," for my heart was touched, despite myself, at the
manner of the young devotee.
It had surely been my intention, on failing to find any traces of the
accident in the spot where I supposed that it had taken place, to go at
once to the house of Mrs. Faith, and inquire for her welfare and the
boy's.  It was the least I could do, under the circumstances.
Apparently, however, I myself was more shaken than I had thought; for
after my brief interview with the priest I speedily lost my way, and
could not find my patient's street or number.  I searched for it for
some time confusedly; but the brain was clearly still affected by the
concussion--so much so that it was not long before I forgot what I was
searching for, and went my ways with a dim and idle purpose, such as
must accompany much of the action of those in whom the relation between
mind and body has become, for any cause, disarranged.
After an interval--how long I cannot tell--of this suspended
intelligence, my brain grew more clear and natural, and I remembered
that I was very late at the hospital, at the consultation, at Brake's,
at every appointment of the evening; so late that my accustomed sense
of haste now began to possess me to the exclusion of everything else.
I remembered my wife, indeed, and wondered if I had better go back and
tell her that I was not hurt.  But it did not strike me as necessary.
Donna, if she had not broken her neck somewhere, by this time, would
run straight for the stable; she would not go home.  The buggy was a
wreck, and the police might clear it away.  There was no reason to
suppose that Helen would hear of the accident, that I could see, from
any source.  There would be no scare.  I had better go about my
business, and tell her when I got home.  News like this would keep an
hour or two, and everybody the better for the keeping.
Reasoning in this manner, if it can be said to be reasoning, I took my
way to the hospital as fast as possible.  I did not happen to find a
cab; and I gave myself the unusual experience of hailing a horse-car.
The car did not stop for my signal, and I flung myself aboard as best I
might; for a man so recently shaken up, with creditable ease, I thought.
Trusting to this circumstance, when we reached the hospital I leaped
from the car, which was going at full speed; it was not till I was well
up the avenue that I recalled having forgotten to offer my fare, which
the conductor had forgotten to demand.
"My head is not straight yet," I said.  The little incident annoyed me.
In the hospital I found, as I expected, a professional cyclone raging.
The staff were all there except myself, and so hotly engaged in
discussion that my arrival was treated with indifference.  This was
undoubtedly good for me, but it was not, therefore, agreeable to me;
and I entered at once with some emphasis upon the dispute in hand.
"You are entirely wrong," I began, turning upon my opponents.  "This
institution had seven hundred more applicants than it could accommodate
last year.  We are not chartered to turn away suffering.  We exist to
relieve it.  It is our business to find the means to do so, as much as
it is to find the true remedy for the individual case.  It is"--
"It is an act of financial folly," interrupted my most systematic
professional enemy, a certain Dr. Gazell.  He had a bland voice which
irritated me like sugar sauce put upon horse-radish.  "It cannot be
done without mortgaging ourselves up to our ears--or our eaves.  I
maintain that the hospital can better bear to turn off patients than to
turn on debt."
"And I maintain," I cried, tempestuously, "that this hospital cannot
bear to do either!  If the gentlemen gathered here to-night--the
members of this staff, representing, as they do, the wealthiest and
most influential clientèles in the city--if we cannot among us pledge
from our patients the sum needed to put this thing through, I say it is
a poor show for ourselves.  I, for one, am ready to raise fifteen
thousand dollars within three months.  If the rest of you will do your
share in proportion"--
"Dr. Thorne has always been a little too personal, in this matter,"
said Gazell, reddening; he did not look at me, for embarrassment, but
addressed the chairman of the meeting with a vague air of being in
earnest, if any one could be got to believe it.
"No doubt about that," said one of the staff in an undertone.  "Thorne
is"--I thought I caught the added words, "unreasonable fellow," but I
would not give myself the appearance of having done so.
"But we can't afford to quarrel with him altogether," suggested
Chirugeon, still in a tone not meant for me to overhear.  And with this
they went at it again, till the discussion reached such warmth, and the
motion to leave the subject with the trustees, such favour, that, in
disgust, I seized my hat and strode out of the room.
Smarting, I rushed away from them, and angrily out-of-doors again.  I
was exceedingly angry; but this gave me no more, perhaps (though I
thought, a little), than the usual discomfort.
From the hospital I hurried to the consultation; where I was now well
over-due.  I found the attendant physician about to leave; in fact, I
met him on the stairs, up which I had run rapidly, as soon as my ring
was answered in the familiar house.  This man was followed by old Madam
Decker's daughter, who was weeping.
"She died at six o'clock, Dr. Halt," Miss Decker sobbed, "at six
precisely, for I noticed.  We didn't expect it so soon."
"Nor I, either," said Halt, soothingly, "I did not anticipate"--
"Dead!" I cried.  "Mrs. Decker dead?  I did my best--I have met with an
accident.  I could not come till now.  Did she ask for me?"
"She talked of Dr. Thorne," sobbed Miss Decker, "as long as she could
talk of anything.  She wondered if he knew, she said, how sick she was."
I hastened to explain, to protest, to sympathize, to say the idle words
with which we waste ourselves and weary mourners, at such times; but
the daughter paid little attention to me.  She was evidently hurt at my
delay; and, thinking it best to spare her my presence, I bowed my head
in silence, and left the house.
Halt followed me, and we stood together for a moment outside, where his
carriage and driver awaited him.
"Was she conscious to the end?" I asked.
"Yes," he murmured.  "Yes, yes, yes.  It is a pity.  I'm sorry for that
girl."
Nodding shortly in my direction, he sprang into his coupé, and drove
away.
I had now begun to be very restless to get home.  It seemed suddenly
important to see Helen.  I felt, I knew not why, uneasy and impatient,
and turned my steps toward town.
"But I must stop at Brake's," I thought.  This seemed imperative; so
much so that I went out of my course a little, to reach his house, a
pretty, suburban place.  I remember passing under trees; and the depth
of their shadow; it seemed like a bay of blackness into which the night
flowed.  I looked up through it at the sky; stars showed through the
massed clouds which the wind whipped along like a flock of titanic
celestial creatures.  I had not looked up before, since the accident.
The act gave me strange sensations, as if the sky had lowered, or I had
risen; the sense of having lost the usual scale of measurement.  This
reminded me that I was still not altogether right.
"I have really hurt my head," I thought, "I ought to get home.  I must
hurry this business with Brake.  I must get to Helen."
But Brake was not at home.  As I went up the steps, his servant was
ushering out some one, to whom I heard the man say that Mr. Brake had
left word not to expect him to-night.
"Does he ever stay late at the office?" I asked, thinking that the
panic might render this possibly.
The man turned the expressionless countenance of a well-trained servant
upon me; and repeated:--
"Mr. Brake is not at home.  I know nothing further about Mr. Brake's
movements."
This reply settled the matter in my own mind, and I made my way to
Stock Street as fast as I might.  I could not make it seem unnecessary
to see Brake.  But Helen--Helen--  The sooner this wretched detention
was over, the sooner to see her.  I had begun to be as nervous as a
woman; and, I might add, as unreasonable as a sick one.  I had got
myself under the domination of one of those fixed ideas with which I
had so little patience in the sick.  I could not see Helen till I had
seen Brake: this was the delusion.  I succumbed to it, and knew that I
succumbed to it, and could not help it, and knew that I could not help
it, and did the deed it bade me.  As I hurried on my way, I thought:--
"There has been considerable concussion.  But Helen will take care of
me.  It's a pity I spoke so to Helen."
Stock Street, when I reached it, had a strange look to me.  I was not
used to being there at such an hour; few of us are.  The relative
silence, the few passers, the long empty spaces in the great
thoroughfare, told me that the hour was later than I thought.  This
added to my restlessness, and I sought to look at my watch, for the
first time since the accident; it was gone.  I glanced at the high
clock at the head of the street; but the light was imperfect, and with
the vertigo which I had I did not make out the hour.  It might, indeed,
be really late.  This troubled me, and I hastened my steps till I broke
into a run.
It occurred to me, indeed, that I might be arrested for the suspicions
under which such a pace, at such an hour and in such a street, would
place me.  But as I knew most of the members of the force in that
region more or less well, this did not trouble me.  I ran on,
undisturbed, passing a watchman or two, and came quickly to Brake's
place.  It was locked.
This distressed me.  I think I had confidently expected to find him
there.  It did not seem to me possible to go home without seeing my
broker.  I stood, uncertain, rattling at the heavy door with imbecile
impatience.  This act brought the police to the spot in three minutes.
It was Inspector Drayton who came up, the well-known inspector, so long
on duty in Stock Street; a man famed for his professional shrewdness
and his gentlemanly manner.
"I wish," I said, "Mr. Inspector, that you would be good enough to let
me in.  I want to see Brake.  I have reason to believe he is in his
office.  I must get in."
"It is very important," I added; for the inspector did not answer
immediately, but looked at me searchingly.
"There was certainly some one meddling with this lock," he said, after
a moment's hesitation, looking stealthily up and down and around the
street.
"It was I," I replied, eagerly.  "It was only I, Dr. Thorne.  Come,
Drayton, you know me.  I want to see Brake.  I must see Brake.  It is a
matter brought up by this panic--you know--the Santa Ma.  He sent for
me.  I absolutely must see Brake.  It is a matter of thousands to me.
Let me in, Mr. Inspector."
"Come," for he still delayed and doubted, "let me in somehow.  You
fellows have a way.  Communicate with his watchman--do the proper
thing--anyhow--I don't care--only let me in."
"I will see," murmured the inspector, with a perplexed air; he had not
his usual cordial manner with me, though he was still as polished as
possible, and wore the best of kid gloves.  I think the inspector
touched one of their electric signals--I am not clear about this--but
at any rate, a sleepy watchman came from within, holding a safety
lantern before him, and gingerly opened the huge door an inch or two.
"Let me come in," said the inspector, decidedly.  "It is I--Drayton.  I
have a reason.  I wish to go to Mr. Brake's rooms, if you please."
The inspector slipped in like a ghost, and I followed him.  Neither of
us said anything further to the watchman; we went directly to Brake's
place.  He was not there.
"I will wait a few minutes," I said.  "I think he will be here.  I must
see Brake."
The inspector glanced at me as one does at a fellow who is behaving a
little out of the common course of human conduct; but he did not enter
into conversation with me, seeing me averse to it.  I sank down wearily
upon Brake's biggest brown leather office chair, and put my head down
upon his table.  I was now thoroughly tired and confused.  I wished
with all my heart that I had gone straight home to Helen.  The
inspector and the watchman busied themselves in examining the building,
for some purpose to which I paid no attention.  They conversed in low
tones, "I heard a noise at the door, sir, myself," the watchman said.
"Why don't you tell him it was I?" I called; but I did not lift my
head.  I was too tired to trouble myself.  I must have fallen into a
kind of stupor.
I do not know how long I had remained in this position and condition,
whether minutes or hours; but when at last I roused myself, and looked
about, a singular thing had happened.
The inspector had gone.  The watchman had gone.  I was alone in the
broker's office.  And I was locked in.
CHAPTER VI.
So often and so idly it is our custom to say, I shall never forget!
that the words scarcely cause a ripple of comment in the mind; whereas,
in fact, they are among the most audacious which we ever take upon our
lips.  How know we what law of selection our memories will obey in that
system of mental relations which we call "forever"?
I, who believe myself to have obtained some especial knowledge upon
this point, not possessed by all my readers, and to be more free than
many another to use such language, still retreat before the phrase, and
content myself with saying, "I have never forgotten."  Up to this time
I have never been able to forget the smallest detail of that night
whose history I am now to record.  It seems to me impossible in any set
of conditions that memory could blot that experience from my being; but
of that what know I?  No more than I know of the politics of a meteor.
Upon discovering my predicament I was, of course, greatly disturbed.  I
tried the door, and tried again; I urged the latch violently; I exerted
myself till the mere moral sense of my helplessness overcame my
strength.  I called to the watchman, whose distant steps I heard, or
fancied that I heard, pacing the corridors.  There was a Safe Deposit
in the basement, and the great building was heavily guarded.  I shouted
for my liberty, I pleaded for it, I demanded it; but I did not get it.
No one answered me.  I ran to the barred windows and shook the iron
casement as prisoners and madmen do.  Nobody heard me.  I bethought me
of the private telegraph which stood by Brake's desk, mute and
mysterious, like a thing that waited an order to speak.  I could not
help wondering, with something like superstition, what would be the
next words which would pass the lips of the silent metal.  It occurred
to me, of course, to telegraph for relief; but I did not know how, and
a kind of respect for the intelligence and power of the instrument
deterred me from meddling with it to no visible end.  Suddenly I
remembered the electric signal which so often communicates with
watchman or police in places of this kind.  This, after some search, I
found in a corner, over the desk of Brake's assistant, and this I
touched.  My effort brought no reply.  I pressed the button again with
more force and more desperation; I might say, with more personality.
"Obey me!" I cried, setting my teeth, and addressing the electric
influence as a man addresses a menial.
Instantly a thrill passed from the wire to the hand.  A distant sound
jarred upon the air.  Steps shuffled somewhere beyond the massive
walls.  I even thought that I heard voices, as of the watchman and
others in possible consultation.  No one approached the broker's door.
I urged the signal again and again.  I became quite frantic, for I had
now begun to think with dismay of the effect of all this upon my wife.
I railed upon that signal like a delirious patient at the order of a
physician.  A commotion seemed to follow, in some distant part of the
building.  But no one came within hearing of my voice; the noise soon
ceased, and my efforts at freedom with it.
It having now become evident that I must spend the night where I was, I
proceeded to make the best of it; and a very bad best it was.  I was
exhausted, I was angry, and I was distressed.
The full force of the situation was beginning to fall upon me.  The
inspector had put a not unnatural interpretation upon my condition; he
thought so little of a gentleman who had dined too freely; it was a
perfectly normal incident in his experience.  He had mistaken the
character of the stupor caused by my accident, and left me in that
office for a drunken man.  The fact that he was not accustomed to view
me in such a light in itself probably explained the originality of his
method.  We were on pleasant terms.  Drayton was a good fellow.  Who
knew better than he what would be the professional significance of the
circumstance that Dr. Thorne was seen intoxicated down town at
midnight?  The city would ring with it in twelve hours, and it would
not be for me, though I had been the most popular doctor in town, to
undo the deed of that slander, if once it so much as lifted its
invisible hand against the proud and pure reputation in whose shelter I
lived and laboured, and had been suffered to become what we call
"eminent."  It was possible, too, that the inspector had some human
regard for my family in this matter, and reasoned that to spare them
the knowledge of my supposed disgrace was the truest kindness wherewith
it was in his power to serve me.  He meant to leave me where I was and
as I was to sleep it off till morning.  He would return in good season
and release me quietly, and nobody the wiser but the watchman; who
could be feed.  This was plainly the purpose and the programme.
But Helen--
I returned to the table near which I had been sitting, and took the
office chair again, and tried, like a reasonable creature, to calm
myself.
What would Helen think by this time?  I looked about the office
stupidly.  At first the dreary scene presented few details to me; but
after a time they took on the precision and permanence which trifles
acquire in emergencies.  The gas was not lighted, but I could see with
considerable ease, owing to the overwrought brain condition.  It
occurred to me that I saw like a cat or a medium; I noted this, as
indicative of a certain remedy; and then it further occurred to me that
I might as well doctor myself, having nothing better to do; and plainly
there was something wrong.  I therefore put my hand in my pocket for my
case.  It was gone.
Now, a physician of my sort is as ill at ease without his case as he
would be without his body; and this little circumstance added
disproportionately to my discomfort.  With some irritable exclamation
on my lips I leaned back in the chair, and once more regarded my
environment.  It was a rather large room, dim now, and as solitary as a
graveyard after twilight.  Before me stood the table, an oblong table
covered with brown felt.  A blue blotter, of huge dimensions, was
spread from end to end; it was a new blotter, not much blurred.
Inkstand, pens, paper-weight, calendar, and other trifles of a strictly
necessary nature stood upon the blotter.  Letters on file, and brokers'
memoranda neatly stabbed by the iron stiletto--I forget the name of the
thing--for that purpose made and provided, attracted my sick attention.
An advertisement from a Western mortgage firm had escaped the neat hand
of the clerk who put the office in order for the night, and fell
fluttering to my feet.  It would be impossible to say how important
this seemed to me.  I picked it up conscientiously and filed it, to the
best of my remembrance, with an invitation to the Merchant's Banquet,
and a subscription list in behalf of the blind man who sold
tissue-paper roses at the head of the street.
In one corner of the room, as I have said, was the clerk's desk; the
electric signal shone faintly above it; it had, to my eyes, a certain
phosphorescent appearance.  Opposite, the steam radiator stood like a
skeleton.  There was a grate in the room, with a Cumberland coal fire
laid.  On the wall hung a map of the State, and another setting forth
the proportions of a great Western railroad.  At the extreme end of the
room stood chairs and settees provided for auctions.  Between myself
and these, the high, guarded public desk of the broker rose like a
rampart.
In this sombre and severe place I now abandoned myself to my thoughts;
and these gave me no mercy.
My wife was a reasonable woman; but she was a loving and sensitive one.
I was accustomed to spare her all unnecessary uncertainty as to my
movements--being more careful in this respect, perhaps, than most
physicians would be; our profession covers a multitude of little
domestic sins.  I had not taken the ground that I was never to be
expected till I came.  A system of affectionate communication as to my
whereabouts existed between us; it was one of the pleasant customs of
our honeymoon which had lasted over.  The telegraph and the messenger
boy we had always with us; it was a little matter for a man to take the
trouble to tell his wife why and where he was kept away all night.  I
do not remember that I had ever failed to do so.  It was a bother
sometimes, I admit, but the pleasure it gave her usually repaid me;
such is the small, sweet coin of daily love.
As I sat there at the broker's desk, like a creature in a trap, all
that long and wretched night, the image of my wife seemed to devour my
brain and my reason.
The great clock on the neighbouring church struck one with a heavy and
a solemn intonation, of which I can only say that it was to me unlike
anything I had ever heard before.  It gave me a shudder to hear it, as
if I listened to some supernatural thing.  The first hour of the new
day rang like a long cry.  Some freak of association brought to my mind
that angel in the Apocalypse who proclaimed with a mighty voice that
Time should be no more.  I caught myself thinking this preposterous
thing: Suppose it were all over?  Suppose we never saw each other
again?  Suppose my wife were to die?  To-night?  Suppose some accident
befell her?  If she tripped upstairs?  If the child's crib took fire
and she put it out, and herself received one of those deadly shocks
from burns not in themselves mortal?
Suppose--she herself opening the door to let in the messenger expected
from me--that some drunken fellow, or some tramp--
"This," I said aloud, "is the kind of thing she does when I am delayed.
This is what it means to wait.  Men don't do it often enough to know
what it is.  I wonder if we have any scale of measurement for what
women suffer?"
What she, for instance, by that time was suffering, oh, who in the wide
world else could guess or dream?  There were such suffering cells in
that exquisite nature!  Who but me could understand?
I brought my clinched hand down upon the broker's blue blotting-paper,
and laid my heavy head upon it.
Suppose somebody had got the news to her that the horse had been seen
dashing free of the buggy, or had returned alone to the stable, panting
and cut?
Suppose Helen thought that my unaccountable absence had something to do
with that scene between us?  Suppose she thought--or if she
suspected--perhaps she imagined--
I hid my face within my shaking hands and groaned.  A curse upon the
cruel words that I had spoken to the tenderest of souls, to the dearest
and the gentlest of women!  A curse upon the lawless temper that had
fired them!  Accursed the hot lips that had uttered them, the unmanly
heart that could have let them slip!
I thought of her face--I really had not thought of her face before,
that wretched night.  I had not strictly dared.  Now I found that
daring had nothing to do with it.  I thought because I had to think.  I
dwelt upon her expression when I spoke to her--God forgive me!--as I
did; her attitude, the way her hands fell, her silence, the quiver in
her delicate mouth.  I saw the dim parlour, the lighted room beyond
her, the scarlet shade upon the gas; she standing midway, tall and
mute, like a statue carved by one stroke of a sword.
My own words came back to me; and I was not apt to remember things I
said to people.  So many impressions passed in and out of my mind in
the course of one busy day, that I became their victim rather than
their master.  But now my language to my wife that unhappy evening
returned to my consciousness with incredible vividness and minuteness.
It will be seen from the precision with which I have already recorded
it, how inexorable this minuteness was.
It occurred to me that I might as well have struck her.
In this kind of moral pommelling which sensitive women feel--as they
do--how could I have indulged!  I, who knew what a sensitive woman is,
what fearful and wonderful nervous systems these delicate creatures
have to manage; I, with what I was pleased to term my high organization
and special training--I, like any brutal hind, had berated my wife.  I,
who was punctilious to draw the silken portière for her, who could not
let her pick up so much as her own lace handkerchief, nor allow her to
fold a wrap of the weight of a curlew's feather about her own soft
throat--I had belaboured her with the bludgeons that bruise the life
out of women's souls.  I wondered, indeed, if I should have been a less
amiable fellow if I had worn cow-hide boots and kicked her.
My reproaches, my remorses, my distresses, it is now an idle tale to
tell.  That night passed like none before it, and none which have come
after it.  My mind moved with a piteous monotony over and over and
about the aching thought: to see Helen--to see Helen--to be patient
till morning, and tell Helen--Only to get through this horrible night,
and hurry, rushing to the morning air, to the nearest cab dashing down
the street, and making the mad haste of love and shame, to see my
wife--to tell my wife--
As never in all our lives before, I should tell her how dear she was;
how unworthy was I to love her; how I loved her just as much as if I
were worthy, and could not help it though I tried--or (as we say) could
not help it though I died!  I should run up, ringing the bell, never
waiting to find the latch-key--for I could wait for nothing.  I should
spring into the house, and find her upstairs, in our own room; it would
be so early; she would be only half-dressed yet, pale and lovely,
looking like a spirit, far across the rich colours of the room, her
long hair loose about her.  I should gather her to my heart before she
saw me; my arms and lips should speak before my breaking voice.  I
should kiss my soul out on her lifted face.  I should love her so, she
should forgive me before I could so much as say, Forgive!  And when I
had her--to myself again--when these arms were sure of their own, and
these lips of hers, when her precious breath was on this cheek again,
and I could say;--
"Helen, Helen, Helen"--
and could say no more, for love and shame and sorrow, but only--
"Helen, Helen"--
"Yes," said the watchman's voice in the corridor.  "It is all right,
sir.  Me and Inspector Drayton, we thought we beard a noise, last
night, and we considered it safe to look about.  We had a thorough
search.  We thought we'd better.  But there wasn't nothing.  It's all
straight, sir."
It was morning, and Brake's clerk was coming in.  It was very early,
earlier than he usually came, perhaps; but I could not tell.  He did
not notice me at first, and, remembering Drayton's hypothesis, I shrank
behind the tall desk, and instinctively kept out of sight for a few
uncertain minutes, wondering what I had better do.  The clerk called
the janitor, and scolded a little about the fire, which he ordered
lighted in the grate.  It was a cold morning.  He said the room would
chill a corpse.  He had the morning papers in his hand.  He unfolded
the "Herald," and laid it down upon his own desk, as if about to read
it.
At that instant, the telegraph clicked, and he pushed the damp, fresh
paper away from him, and went immediately to the wires.  The young man
listened to the message with an expression of great intentness, and
wrote rapidly.  Moved by some unaccountable impulse, I softly rose and
glanced over his shoulder.
The dispatch was dated at midnight, and was addressed to Henry Brake.
It said:
"Have you seen my husband, to-night?" and it was signed, "Helen
Thorne."
Oh, poor Helen!...
Now, maniac with haste to get to her, it occurred to me that the moment
while the clerk was occupied in recording this message was as good a
time as I could ask for in which to escape unobserved, as I greatly
wished to do.  As quietly as I could--and I succeeded in doing it very
quietly--I therefore moved to leave the broker's office.  As I did so,
my eye caught the heading, in large capitals, of the morning news in
the open "Herald" which lay upon the desk behind the clerk.  I stopped,
and stooped, and read.  This is what I read:--
  SHOCKING ACCIDENT.
  TERRIBLE TRAGEDY.
  RUNAWAY AT THE WEST END.
  The eminent and popular physician.
  Dr. Esmerald Thorne,
  KILLED INSTANTLY.
CHAPTER VII.
At this moment, the broker entered the office.
With the "Herald" in my hand, I made haste to meet him.
"Brake!" I cried, "Mr. Brake!  Thank Heaven, you have come!  I have
passed such a night--and look here!  Have you seen this abominable
canard?  This is what has come of my being locked into your"--
The broker regarded me with a strange look; so strange, that for very
amazement I stood still before it.  He did not advance to meet me;
neither his hand nor his eyes gave me the human sign of welcome; he
looked over me, he looked through me, as a man does at one whose
acquaintance he has no desire to recognize.
I thought:--
"Drayton has crammed him.  He too believes that I was shut in here to
sleep it off.  The story will get out in two hours.  I am doomed in
this town henceforth for a drunken doctor.  I'd better have been killed
instantly, as this infernal paper says."
But I said,--
"Mr. Brake?  You don't recognize me, I think.  It is I, Dr. Thorne.  I
couldn't get here before two.  I went to your house last evening.  I
got the impression you were here, so I came after you.  I was locked in
here by your confounded watchman.  They have this minute let me free.
I am in a great hurry to get home.  Nice job this is going to be!  Have
you seen that?"
I put my shaking finger upon the "Herald's" fiery capitals, and held
the column folded towards him.
"Jason," he said, after an instant's pause, "pick up the 'Herald,' will
you?  A gust of wind has blown it from the table.  There must be a
draught.  Please shut the door."
To say that I know of no earthly language which can express the
sensation that crawled over me as the broker uttered these words is to
say little or nothing about it.  I use the expression "crawled" with
some faint effort to define the slowness and the repulsiveness with
which the suspicion of that to which I dared not and did not give a
name, made itself manifest to my mind.
"Excuse me, Brake," I said with some agitation, "you did not hear what
I said.  I was locked in.  I am in a hurry to get home.  Ask Drayton.
Drayton let me in.  I must get home at once.  I shall sue the 'Herald'
for that outrageous piece of work--  What do you suppose my wife--
Good God!  She must have read it by this time!  Let me by, Brake!"
"Jason," said the broker, "this is a terrible thing!  I feel quite
broken up about it."
"Brake!" I cried, "Henry Brake!  Let me pass you!  Let me home to my
wife!  You're in my way--don't you see?  You're standing directly
between me and the door.  Let me pass!"
"There's a private dispatch come," said the clerk Badly.  "It is for
you, sir.  It is from Mrs. Thorne herself."
"Brake!" I pleaded, "Brake, Brake!--Jason!--Mr. Brake!  Don't you hear
me?"
"Give me the message, Jason," said Brake, holding out his hand; he
seated himself, as he did so, at the office table, where I had sat the
night out; he looked troubled and pale; he handled the message
reluctantly, as people do in the certainty of bad news.
"In the name of mercy, Henry Brake!" I cried, "what is the meaning of
this?  Don't you hear a word I say?  Don't you feel me?--There!"  I
gripped the broker by the shoulder, and clinched both hands upon him
with all my might.  "Don't you feel me?  God Almighty! don't you
see me, Brake?"
"When did this dispatch come, Jason?" said the broker.  He laid Helen's
message gently down; he had tears in his eyes.
"Henry Brake," I pleaded brokenly, for my heart failed me with a mighty
fear, "answer me, in human pity's name.  Are you gone deaf and blind?
Or am I struck dumb?  Or am I"--
"It came ten minutes ago, sir," replied Jason.  "It is dated, I see, at
midnight.  They delivered it as soon as anybody was likely to be
stirring, here; a bit before, too; considering the nature of the
message, I suppose, sir."
"It is a terrible affair!" repeated the broker nervously.  "I have
known the doctor a good many years.  He had his peculiarities; but he
was a good fellow.  Say--Jason!"
"Yes, sir?"
"How does it happen that Mrs. Thorne--  You say this message was dated
at midnight?"
"At midnight, sir.  12.15."
"How is it she didn't know by that time?  I pity the fellow who had
to tell her.  She's a very attractive woman....  The 'Herald' says--
Where is that paper?"
"The 'Herald' says," answered Jason decorously, "that he was scooped
into the buggy-top, and dragged, and dashed against--  Here it is."
He handed his employer the paper, as I had done, or had thought I did,
with his finger on the folded column.  The broker took the paper, and
slowly put on his glasses, and slowly read aloud:--
"'Dr. Thorne was dragged for some little distance, it is thought,
before the horse broke free.  He must have hit the lamp-post, or the
pavement.  He was found in the top of the buggy, which was a wreck.
The robe was over him, and his face was hidden.  His medicine case lay
beneath him; the phials were crushed to splinters.  Life was extinct
when he was discovered.  His watch had stopped at five minutes past
seven o'clock.  It so happened that he was not immediately identified,
though our reporter could not learn the reason of this extraordinary
mischance.  By some unpardonable blunder, the body of the distinguished
and favourite physician was taken to the Morgue'"--
"That accounts for it," said Jason.
--"'Was taken to the Morgue,'" read on Mr. Brake with agitated voice.
"'It was not until midnight that the mistake was discovered.  A
messenger was dispatched at twenty minutes after twelve o'clock to the
elegant residence of the popular doctor, in Delight Street.  The news
was broken to the widow as agreeably as possible.  Mrs. Thorne is a
young and very beautiful woman, on whom this shocking blow falls with
uncommon cruelty.
"'The body was carried to Dr. Thorne's house at one o'clock.  The time
of the funeral is not yet appointed.  The "Herald" will be informed as
soon as a decision is reached.
"'The death of Dr. Thorne is a loss to this community which it is
impossible to,'--hm--m--'his distinguished talents'--hm--m--hm--m."
The broker laid down the paper, and sighed.
"I sent for him yesterday, to consult about his affairs," he observed
gently.  "It is a pity for her to lose that Santa Ma.  She will need it
now.  I'm sorry for her.  I don't know how he left her, exactly.  He
did a tremendous business, but he spent as he went.  He was a good
fellow--I always liked the doctor!  Terrible affair!  Terrible affair!
Jason!  Where is that advertisement of Grope County Iowa Mortgage?  You
have filed it in the wrong place!  Be more careful in future."
..."Mr. Brake!"  I tried once more; and my voice was the voice of
mortal anguish to my own appalled and ringing ear.
"Do you not hear?  Can you not see?  Is there no one in this place
who hears?  Or sees me, either?"
An early customer had strayed in; Drayton was there; and the watchman
had entered.  The men (there were five in all) collected by the
broker's desk, around the morning papers, and spoke to each other with
the familiarity which bad news of any public interest creates.  They
conversed in low tones.  Their faces wore a shocked expression.  They
spoke of me; they asked for more particulars of the tragedy reported by
the morning press; they mentioned my merits and defects, but said more
about merits than defects, in the merciful, foolish way of people who
discuss the newly dead.
"I've known him ten years," said the broker.
"I've had the pleasure of the doctor's acquaintance myself a good
while," said the inspector politely.
"Wasn't he a quick-tempered man?" asked the customer.
"He cured a baby of mine of the croup," said the watchman.  "It was
given up for dead.  And he only charged me a dollar and a half.  He was
very kind to the little chap."
"He set an ankle for me, once, after a football match," suggested the
clerk.  "I wouldn't ask to be better treated.  He wasn't a bit rough."
..."Gentlemen," I entreated, stretching out my hands toward the group,
"there is some mistake--I must make it understood.  I am here.  It is
I, Dr. Thorne; Dr. Esmerald Thorne.  I am in this office.  Gentlemen!
Listen to me!  Look at me!  Look in this direction!  For God's sake,
try to see me--some of you!"...
"He drove too fast a horse," said the customer.  "He always has."
"I must answer Mrs. Thorne's message," said the broker sadly, rising
and pushing back the office chair.
...I shrank, and tried no more.  I bowed my head, and said no other
word.  The truth, incredible and terrible though it were, the truth
which neither flesh nor spirit can escape, had now forced itself upon
my consciousness.
I looked across the broker's office at those five warm human beings as
if I had looked across the width of the breathing world.  Naught had I
now to say to them; naught could they communicate to me.  Language was
not between us, nor speech, nor any sign.  Need of mine could reach
them not, nor any of their kind.  For I was in the dead, and they the
living men.
..."Here is your dog, sir," said Jason.  "He has followed you in.  He
is trying to speak to you, in his way."
The broker stooped and patted the dumb brute affectionately.  "I
understand, Lion," he said.  "Yes, I understand you."
The dog looked lovingly up into his master's face, and whined for joy.
CHAPTER VIII.
This incident, trifling as it was, I think, did more than anything
which had preceded it to make me aware of the nature of that which had
befallen me.  The live brute could still communicate with the living
man.  Skill of scientist and philosopher was as naught to help the
human spirit which had fled the body to make itself understood by one
which occupied it still.  More blessed in that moment was Lion, the
dog, than Esmerald Thorne, the dead man.  I said to myself:--
"I am a desolate and an outcast creature.  I am become a dumb thing in
a deaf world."
I thrust my hands before me, and wrung them with a groan.  It seemed
incredible to me that I could die; that was more wonderful, even, than
to know that I was already dead.
"It is all over," I moaned.  "I have died.  I am dead.  I am what they
call a dead man."
Now, at this instant, the dog turned his head.  No human tympanum in
the room vibrated to my cry.  No human retina was recipient of my
anguish.  What fine, unclassified senses had the highly-organized
animal by which he should become aware of me?  The dog turned his noble
head--he was a St. Bernard, with the moral qualities of the breed well
marked upon his physiognomy; he lifted his eyes and solemnly regarded
me.
After a moment's pause he gave vent to a long and mournful cry.
"Don't, Lion," I said.  "Keep quiet, sir.  This is dreadful!"
The dog ceased howling when I spoke to him; after a little hesitation
he came slowly to the spot where I was standing, and looked earnestly
into my face, as if he saw me.  Whether he did, or how he did, or why
he did, I knew not, and I know not now.  The main business of this
narrative will be the recording of facts.  Explanations it is not mine
to offer; and of speculations I have but few, either to give or to
withhold.
A great wistfulness came into my soul, as I stood shut apart there from
those living men, within reach of their hands, within range of their
eyes, within the vibration of their human breath.  I looked into the
animal's eyes with the yearning of a sudden and an awful sense of
desolation.
"Speak to me, Lion," I whispered.  "Won't you speak to me?"
"What is that dog about?" asked the customer, staring.  "He is standing
in the middle of the room and wagging his tail as if he had met
somebody."
The dog at this instant, with eager signs of pleasure or of pity--I
could not, indeed, say which--put his beautiful face against my hand,
and kissed, or seemed to kiss it, sympathetically.
"He has queer ways," observed Jason, the clerk, carelessly; "he knows
more than most folks I know."
"True," said his master, laughing.  "I don't feel that I am Lion's
equal more than half the time, myself.  He is a noble fellow.  He has a
very superior nature.  My wife declares he is a poet, and that when he
goes off by himself, and gazes into vacancy with that sort of look, he
is composing verses."
Another customer had strolled in by this time; he laughed at the
broker's easy wit; the rest joined in the laugh; some one said
something which I did not understand, and Drayton threw back his head
and guffawed heartily.  I think their laughter made me feel more
isolate from them than anything had yet done.
"Why!" exclaimed the broker sharply, "what is this?  Jason!  What does
this mean?"
His face, as he turned it over his shoulder to address the clerk, had
changed colour; he was indeed really pale.  He held his fingers on the
great sheet of blue blotting-paper, to which he pointed, unsteadily.
"Upon my soul, sir," said Jason, flushing and then paling in his turn.
"That is a queer thing!  May I show it to Mr. Drayton?"
The inspector stepped forward, as the broker nodded; and examined the
blotting-paper attentively.
"It is written over," he said in a professional tone, "from end to end.
I see that.  It is written with one name.  It is the name of"--
"Helen!" interrupted the broker.
"Yes," replied the inspector.  "Yes, it is: Helen; distinctly, Helen.
Someone must have"--
But I stayed to hear no more.  What some one must have done, I sprang
and left the live men to decide--as live men do decide such
things--among themselves.  I sprang, and crying: "Helen!  Helen!
Helen!" with one bound I brushed them by, and fled the room, and
reached the outer air and sought for her.
As nearly as one can characterize the emotion of such a moment I should
say that it was one of mortal intensity; perhaps of what in living men
we should call maniac intensity.  Up to this moment I could not be said
to have comprehended the effect of what had taken place upon my wife.
The full force of her terrible position now struck me like the edge of
a weapon with whose sheath I had been idling.
Hot in the flame of my anger I had gone from her; and cold indeed had I
returned.  Her I had left dumb before my cruel tongue, but dumb was
that which had come back to her in my name.
I was a dead man.  But like any living of them all--oh, more than any
living--I loved my wife.  I loved her more because I had been cruel to
her than if I had been kind.  I loved her more because we had parted so
bitterly than if we had parted lovingly.  I loved her more because I
had died than if I had lived.  I must see my wife!  I must find my
wife!  I must say to her--I must tell her--  Why, who in all the world
but me could do anything for Helen now?
Out into the morning air I rushed, and got the breeze in my face, and
up the thronging street as spirits do, unnoted and unknown of men, I
passed; solitary in the throng, silent in the outcry, unsentient in the
press.
The sun was strong.  The day was cool.  The dome of the sky hung over
me, too, as over those who raised their breathing faces to its beauty.
I, too, saw, as I fled on, that the day was fair.  I heard the human
voices say:
"What a morning!"
"It puts the soul into you!" said a burly stock speculator to a
railroad treasurer; they stood upon the steps of the Exchange,
laughing, as I brushed by.
"It makes life worth while," said a healthy elderly woman, merrily,
making the crossing with the light foot that a light heart gives.
"It makes life possible," replied a pale young girl beside her, coming
slowly after.
"Poor fellow!" sighed a stranger whom I hit in hurrying on.  "It was an
ugly way to die.  Nice air, this morning!"
