young convert to know if there weren't any waits in the 
play so a man could get out without hurting anybody's 
feelings. But just then the young convert struck up a 
hymn, and Jack stayed. 
He liked the singing. His restless, handsome face 
took on a change such as a windy day takes on toward 
dusk, when the breeze dies clown. When he found 
they were singing Rock of Ages, he tried to sing it too, 
— for he was a famous tenor on deck. But when he had 
sung a line or two, — flash ! down in one of the empty 
pews in front, he saw a thin old lady with blue eyes, sitting 
in a black alpaca dress with her hands clasped on 
her gingham apron. 
"That's my mother. Have I got the jim-jams?" 
asked this unaccustomed worshiper of himself. But 
then he remembered that he was sober. He could sins: 
no longer after this, but bowed his head and looked into 
his old felt hat, and wondered if he were going to cry, 
or get religion. In point of fact, he did neither of these 
things, because a very old church-member arose just 
then, and said he saw a poor castaway in our midst to- 
night, and he besought the prayers of the meeting for 
his soul. Jack stopped crying. He looked hard at the 
old church-member. He knew him ; had always known 
him. The fisherman waited till that prayer was 
through, — it was rather a long prayer, — and then he 
too sprang to his feet. He looked all around the deco- 
rous place ; his face was white with the swift passion of 
the drinking man. 
" I never spoke in meetin' in my life," said Jack in an 
unsteady voice. " I ain't religious. I drink. But I 'm 
sober to-night, and I 've got something to say to you. I 
heard what that man said. I know him. He 's old Jim 
Crownoby. I 've always knowed Jim Crownoby. He 
owns a sight of property in this town. He 's a rich 
man. He owns that block on Black street. You know 
he does. You can't deny it. Nor he can't neither. 
All I want to say is, I 've got drunk in one of them 
places of his, time and again ; and if there ain't anybody
but him to pray for my soul, I 'd rather go to the 
devil." 
Jack stopped short, jammed on his hat, and left the 
meeting. In the shocked rustle that followed, some one 
had the tact to start " Rescue the perishing," as the 
fisherman strode down the broad aisle. He did not go 
again. The poor young convert followed him up for a 
week or two, and gave him an expensive Testament, 
bought out of an almost invisible personal income, in 
vain. 
"I've no objections to you," said Jack candidly; 
" I 'm much obliged to ye for yer politeness, sir. But 
them churches that sub-leases to a rum-seller, I don't 
think they onderstand a drinkin' man. Hey ? Well, 
ain't he their biggest rooster, now ? Don't he do the 
heft of the payin', and the tallest of their crowin', 
consequent ? Thought so. Better leave me go, sir. 
I ain't a pious man ; I 'm a fisherman." 
" Fishes," said Jack, " is no fools." 
He gave voice to this remark one day in Boston, 
when he was twenty-five years old. He was trying to 
entertain a Boston girl ; she was not familiar with Fairharbor
or with the scenery of his calling ; he wanted to 
interest her ; he liked the girl. He had liked a good 
many girls, it need not be said ; but this one had laid 
upon the fisherman — she knew not how, he knew not 
why, and what man or woman of us could have told 
him ? — the power that comes not of reason, or of time, 
or of trying, or of wisdom, or of Tightness, but of the 
mystery to which, when we are not speaking of Jack, 
we give the name of love. It seems a sacrilege, admit, 
to write it here, and of these two. But there, again, it 
would be easy to be wrong. The study of the relativity 
of human feeling is a delicate science; it calls for a fine 
moral equipment. If this were the high-water mark of 
nature for Jack — and who shall say ? — the tide shall 
have its sacred clue, even clown among those weeds and 
in that mud. He liked that girl, among them all, and 
her he thought of gently. He had known her a long 
time ; as much as three months. When the vessel came 
into Boston to sell halibut, he had a few days there, 
drifting about as seamen do, homeless and reckless ; 
clashing out the wages just paid off, in ways that some- 
times he remembered and sometimes he forgot, and that 
usually left him without a dollar toward his next fine 
when he should be welcomed by the police court of his 
native city on returning home. 
Jack thought, I say, gravely of this girl. He never 
once took her name in vain among the fellows ; and she 
had not been a very good girl either. But Jack re- 
flected that he was not very good himself, if you came 
to that. His downright, honest nature stood him in 
stead in this moral distinction ; there was always a 
broad streak of generosity in him at his worst ; it goes 
with the temperament, we say, and perhaps we say it 
too often to give him half the credit of it. 
She was a pretty girl, and she was very young. She 
had told Jack her story, as they strolled about the 
bright Boston streets on comfortable winter evenings ; 
when he took her to the variety show, or to the oystershop, 
and they talked together. Jack pitied her. Per- 
haps she deserved it ; it was a sad little story — and she 
was so very young ! She had a gentle way, with Jack ; 
for some reason, God knows why, she had trusted him 
from the first, and he had never once been known to dis- 
turb her trust. That was the pleasant part of it. 
On this evening that we speak of, Jack was sober. 
He was often sober when he had an evening to spend 
with the Boston girl ; not always — no ; truth must be 
told. She looked as pretty as was in her that night ; 
she had black eyes and a kind of yellow hair that Jack 
had never seen crinkled low on the forehead above black 
eyes before ; he thought her as fine to look at as any 
actress he ever saw ; for the stage was Jack's standard 
of the magnificent, as it is to so many of his sort. The 
girl's name was Teen. Probably she had been called 
Christine once, in her country home ; she even told Jack 
she had been baptized. 
"I wasn't, myself," said Jack; "I roared so, they 
darsen't do it. My mother got me to church, for she 
was a pious woman, and I pummeled the parson in the 
face with both fists, and she said she come away, for she 
was ashamed of me. She always said that christenin' 
wasn't never legal. It disappointed her, too. I was an 
awful baby." 
"I should think likely," said Teen with candor. " Do 
you set much by your mother ? " 
" She 's dead," said Jack in a subdued voice. Teen 
looked at him ; she had never heard him speak like 
that. 
" I 'most wished mine was," said the girl ; "she 'd 'a' 
ben better off — alonsc of me." 
" That 's so," said Jack. 
The two took a turn in silence up and down the 
brightly lighted street ; their thoughts looked out 
strangely from their marred young faces ; they felt as 
if they were in a foreign country. Jack had meant to 
ask her to take a drink, but he gave it up ; he could n't, 
somehow. 
"Was you always a fisherman?" asked Teen, feeling, 
with a woman's tact, that somebody must change the 
current of the subject. 
" I was a fisherman three generations back," Jack an- 
swered her ; " borned a fisherman, you bet ! I couldn't 
'a' ben nothin' else if I 'd drownded for it. It 's a smart 
business. You hev to keep your wits about you. Fishes 
is no fools." 
"Ain't they?" asked the girl listlessly. She was 
conscious of failing in conversational brilliancy ; but the 
truth was, she couldn't get over what they had been 
saying : it was always unfortunate when she remembered 
her mother. Jack began to talk to her about his business 
again, but Teen did not reply ; and when he looked 
down at her to see what ailed her, there were real tears 
rolling over her pretty cheeks. 
" Why, Teen ! " said Jack. 
" Leave go of me, Jack," said Teen, " and let me get 
off ; I ain't good company to-night. I 've got the dumps. 
I can't entertain ye, Jack. And, Jack —don't let 's talk 
about mothers next time, will we ? It spoils the evenin'. 
Leave go of me, and I 'll go home by my own self. I 'd 
rather." 
" I won't leave go of you ! " cried Jack with a sudden 
blazing purpose lighting up all the corners of his soul. 
It was a white light, not unholy ; it seemed to shine 
through and through him with a soft glow like a candle 
on an altar. " I 'll never leave go of you, Teen, if you'll 
say so. I 'd rather marry you." 
" Marry met" said Teen. 
" Yes, marry you. I 'd a sight rather. There, now !
It 's out with it. What do you say to that, Teen ? " 
With one slow finger-tip Teen wiped away the tears 
that fell for her mother. A ring on her finger glistened 
in the light as she did this. She saw the sparkle, tore 
off the ring and dashed it away ; it fell into the mud, 
and was trodden out of sight instantly. Jack sprang 
gallantly to pick it up. 
" Don't you touch it ! " cried the girl. She put her 
bared hand back upon his arm. The ring had left a little 
mark upon her finger ; she glanced at this, and looked 
up into Jack's handsome face ; he looked very kind. 
" Jack, clear," said Teen softly, " I ain't fit to marry 
ye." 
" You 're fitter 'n I be," answered Jack manfully. 
Teen sighed ; she did not speak at once ; other tears 
came now, but these were tears for herself and for Jack. 
Jack felt this, after his fashion ; they gave him singular 
confusion of mind. 
" I wouldn't cry about it, Teen. You needn't have 
me if you don't want to." 
" But I do want to, Jack." 
" Honest ? " 
" Honest it is, Jack." 
" Will ye make a good wife, Teen ? " asked Jack, after 
some unprecedented thought. 
" I 'll try, Jack." 
" You 'll never go back on me, nohow ? " 
" I ain't that sort ! " cried the girl, drawing herself up 
a little. A new dignity sat upon her with a certain grace 
which was beautiful to see. 
" Will you swear it, Teen ? " 
" If you 'd rather, Jack." 
" What 'll you swear by, now ? " asked Jack. " You 
must swear by all you hold holy." 
" What do I hold holy ? " mused Teen. 
"Will you swear," continued Jack seriously, "will you 
swear to me by the Rock of Ages ? " 
" What 's that ? " asked the girl. 
" It 's a hymn-tune. I want you to swear me by the 
Rock of Ages that you 'll be that you say you will, to 
me. Will you do it, Teen ? " 
" Oh yes," said Teen, " I 'll do it. Where shall we 
come across one ? " 
" I guess I can find it," Jack replied. " I can find 
'most anything I set out to." 
So they started out at random, in their reckless 
fashion, in the great city, to find the Rock of Ages for 
the asking. 
Jack led his companion hither and yon, peering into 
churches and vestries and missions, and wherever he 
saw signs of sacred things. Singing they heard abun- 
dantly in the gay town ; songs merry, mad, and sad ; 
but not the song for a girl to swear by, that she would 
be true wife to a man who trusted her. 
Wandering thus, on the strange errand whose pathos 
was so far above their own dream or knowledge, they 
chanced at last upon the place and the little group of 
people known in that part of Boston as Mother Mary's 
meeting. 
The girl said she had been there once, but that Mother 
Mary was too good for her ; she was one of the real 
kind. Everybody knew Mother Mary and her husband ; 
he was a parson. They were poor folks themselves, 
Teen said, and understood poor folks, and did for 
them all the year round, not clearing out, like rich ones, 
when it came hot weather, but stood by 'em, Teen said. 
They kept the little room open, and if you wanted a 
prayer you went in and got it, just as you 'd call for a 
drink or a supper ; it was always on hand for you, and 
a kind word sure to come with it, and you always knew 
where to go for 'em ; and Mother Mary treated you like 
folks. She liked her, Teen said. If she 'd been a different 
girl, she 'd have gone there of a cold night all 
winter. But Teen said she felt ashamed. 
" I guess she 'll have what I 'm after," said Jack. " She 
sounds like she would. Let 's go in and see." 
So they went into the quiet place among the praying 
people, and stood staring, for they felt embarrassed. 
Mother Mary looked very white and peaceful ; she was 
a tall, fair woman ; she wore a black dress with white 
about the bosom ; it was a plain, old dress, much mended. 
Mother Mary did not look rich, as Teen had said. 
The room was filled with poor creatures gathered about 
her like her children, while she talked with them and 
taught them as she could. She crossed the room im- 
mediately to where the young man stood, with the girl 
beside him. 
"We've come," said Jack, "to find the Rock of 
Ages." He drew Teen's hand through his arm, and 
held it for a moment ; then, moved by some fine instinct 
mysterious to himself, he lifted and laid it in Mother 
Mary's own. 
"Explain it to her, ma'am," he said ; "'tell her, won't 
you ? I 'm going to marry her, if she 'll have me. I 
want her to swear by somethin' holy she 'll be a true 
wife to me. She hadn't anything particularly holy herself,
and the holiest thing I know of is the Rock of 
Ages. I 've heard my mother sing it. She 's dead. 
We 've been huntin' Boston over to-night after the Rock 
of Ages." 
"I'll be an honest wife to you." 
Mother Mary was used to the pathos of her sober 
work, but the tears sprang now to her large and gentle 
eyes. She did not speak to Jack, — could not possibly, 
just then ; but, delaying only for the moment till she 
could command herself, she flung her rich, maternal 
voice out upon the words of the. old hymn. Her husband 
joined her, and all the people present swelled the 
chorus. 
" Rock of Ages, cleft for me ! 
Let me hide myself in thee ; 
Be of sin the double cure, 
Cleanse me from its guilt and power." 
They sang it all through, — the three verses that every- 
body knows, — and Jack and Teen stood listening. 
Jack tried to sing himself ; but Teen hid her face, and 
cried upon his arm. 
" Thou must save," sang the praying people ; "Thou 
must save, and thou alone ! " 
The strain died solemnly ; the room was quiet ; the 
minister yonder began to pray, and all the people bowed 
their heads. But Mother Mary stood quite still, with the 
girl's hand trembling in her own. 
" Swear it, Teen ! " Jack bent clown his curly head 
and whispered ; he would not shame his promised wife 
before these people. " Swear by that, you 'll be true 
wife to me ! " 
"I swear it, Jack," sobbed Teen. "If that's the 
Rock of Ages, I swear by it, though I was to die for it, 
I'll be an honest wife to you." 
" Come back when you 've got your license," said 
Mother Mary, smiling through her tears, " and my hus- 
band will marry you if you want him to." 
" We 'll come to-morrow," Jack answered gravely. 
" Jack," said Teen in her pretty way, — for she had a 
very pretty way, — "if I'man honest wife to you, will 
you be kind to me ? " She did not ask him to swear 
it by the Rock of Ages. She took his word for it, poor 
thins: ! Women do. 
III. 
Mother Mary's husband married them next day at 
the Mission meeting ; and Mother Mary sat down at the 
melodeon in the corner of the pleasant place, and played 
and sang Toplady's great hymn for them, as Jack had 
asked her. It was his wedding march. He was very 
sober and gentle, — almost like a better man. Teen 
thought him the handsomest man she had ever seen. 
" Oh, I say, Teen," he nodded to her, as they walked 
away, " one thing I forgot to tell you, — I'm reformed." 
" Are you, Jack ? " 
" If I ever drink a drop again, so help me " — But 
he stopped. 
" So help you, Rock of Ages ? " asked the new-made 
wife. But Jack winced ; he was honest enough to hesitate 
at this. 
" I don't know 's I 'd darst — that" he added ruefully. 
" But I 'm reformed. I have lost all hanker for liquor. 
I shall never drink again. You 'll see, Teen." 
Teen did see, as was to be expected. She saw a 
great deal, poor thing ! Jack did not drink — for a long 
time; it was nearly five months, for they kept close 
count. He took her to Fairharbor, and rented the old 
half of the crumbling cottage where his mother used to 
sit and watch for him on long, late evenings. The 
young wife did the watching now. They planted some 
cinnamon rose-bushes 
by the doorsteps of — the cottage, and fos- 
tered them affectionately. Jack was as 
happy and sober as possible, to begin 
with. He picked the cinnamon roses and 
brought them in for 
his wife to wear. He was proud to have a 
home of his own ; he had not expected to ; 
in fact, he had never had one since that 
night when his mother 
said they were to give her love to him, if he came home 
while she was asleep. He had beaten about so, sleeping 
for the most part in his berth, and sailing again directly ; 
he had never had any place, he said, to hang his winter 
clothes in ; closets and bureaus seemed treasure-houses 
to him, and the kitchen fire a luxury greater than a less 
good-looking man would have deserved. When he came 
home, drenched and chilly, from a winter voyage, and 
Teen took the covers off, and the fiery heart of the coals 
leaped out to greet him, and she stood in the rich color, 
with her yellow hair, young and fair and sweet as any 
man's wife could look,«and said she had missed him, and 
called him her dear husband, Jack even went so far as to 
feel that Teen was the luxury. He treated her accord- 
ingly ; that was at first. He came straight home to her ; 
he kept her in flour and fuel ; she had the little things 
and the gentle words that women need. Teen was very 
fond of him. This was the first of it, — I was going to 
say this was the worst of it. All there was of Teen 
seemed to have gone into her love for Jack. A part of 
Jack had gone into his love for Teen. Teen was very 
happy, to begin with. The respectable neighbors came 
to see her, and said, " We 're happy to make your 
acquaintance." Nobody knew that it had not always been 
so that Teen's acquaintance would have been a source of 
social happiness. And she wrote to her mother that 
she was married ; and her mother came on to make her 
a little visit ; and Teen cried her soul out for joy. She 
was very modest and home-keeping and loving ; no wife 
in the land was truer than this girl he had chosen was 
to the fisherman who chose her. Jack knew that. He 
believed in her. She made him happy ; and therefore 
she kept him right. 
All this was at first. It did not last. Why should 
we expect that, when we see how little there is in the 
relation of man and woman which lasts ? If happy 
birth and gentle rearing, and the forces of what we call 
education, and the silken webs of spun refinements, are 
so strained in the tie which requires two who cannot get 
away from each other to make each other happy, how 
should we ask, of the law of chances, the miracle for 
Teen and Jack ? 
There was no miracle. No transubstantiation of the 
common bread to holy flesh was wrought upon that poor 
altar. Their lot went the way of other lots, with the 
facts of their history dead against them. Trouble came, 
and poverty, and children, and care, and distaste. Jack 
took to his old ways, and his wife to the tears that they 
bring. The children died ; they were poor sickly babies 
who wailed a little while in her arms, and slipped out 
because there wasn't enough to them to stay. And the 
gray house was damp. Some said it was diphtheria ; 
but their mother said it was the will of God. She added : 
Might his will be done ! On the whole she was not 
sorry. Their father struck her when he was in liquor. 
She thought if the babies lived they might get hurt. A 
month before the last one was born she showed to 
Jack's biographer a bruise across her shoulder, long and 
livid. She buttoned her dress over it with hasty re- 
pentance. 
" Maybe I 'd oughtn't to have told," she said. " But 
he said he 'd be kind to me." 
Jack was very sorry about this when he was sober. 
He kissed his wife, and bought a pair of pink kid shoes 
for the baby ; which it never grew large enough to wear. 
I am not writing a temperance story, only the biography
of a fisherman, and a few words will say better than 
many how it was. Alcoholized brain-cells being one of 
the few bequests left to society which the heirs do not 
dispute, Jack went back to his habits with the ferocity 
that follows abstinence. Hard luck came. Teen was 
never much of a housekeeper ; she had left her mother 
too early ; had never been taught. Things were soggy, 
and not always clean ; and she was so busy in being 
struck and scolded, and in bearing and burying babies, 
that it grew comfortless beside the kitchen fire. The 
last of the illusions which had taken the name of home 
within the walls of the crumbling half-cottage withered 
out of it, just as the cinnamon roses did the summer 
Jack watered them with whiskey by a little emotional 
mistake. 
A worse thing had happened too. Some shipmate 
had " told " in the course of time ; and Teen's 
prematrimonial story got set adrift upon the current — 
one of the crudest currents of its kind — of Fairharbor 
gossip. The respectable neighbors made her feel it, as 
only respectable neighbors do such things. Jack, raging, 
overheard her name upon the wharves. Teen had 
been "that she said she would" to him. He knew it. 
No matron in the town had kept her life or heart more 
true. In all her sickness and trouble and slackness, and 
in going cold or hungry, and in her vivid beauty that 
none or all of these things could quench, Teen had carried
a sweet dignity of her own as the racer in the old 
Promethean festival carried the torch while he ran 
against the wind. Jack knew, — oh yes, he knew. 
But he grew sullen, suspicious. When he was drunk 
he was always jealous ; it began to take that form. 
When he was sober he still admired his wife ; sometimes
he went so far as to remember that he loved her.
When this happened, Teen dried her eyes, and brushed 
her yellow hair, and washed up the kitchen floor, and 
made the coffee, and said to the grocer when she paid 
for the sugar : 
"My husband has reformed." 
One night Jack came home unexpectedly ; a strange 
mood sat upon him, which his wife did not find herself 
able to classify by any of the instant and exquisite 
perceptions which grow, like new faculties, in wives. He 
had been drinking heavily when he left her, and she had 
not looked for him for days ; if he sailed as he was, it 
would be a matter of weeks. Teen went straight to 
him ; she thought he might be hurt ; she held out her 
arms as she would to one of her children ; but he met 
her with a gesture of indifference, and she shrank back. 
"She's here," said Jack. " Mother Mary 's in this 
d town. I see her." 
"I wish she'd talk to you," said Teen, saying pre- 
cisely the wrong thing by the fatal instinct which so 
often possesses drunkards' wives. 
" You do, do you ? " quoth Jack. " Well, I don't. I 
haven't give her the chance." He crushed on his hat 
and stole out of the house again. 
But his mood was on him yet ; the difference being 
that his wife was out of it. He sulked and skulked 
about the streets alone for a while ; he did not go back 
to the boys just then, but wandered with the apparent 
aimlessness in which the most tenacious aims are 
hidden. Mother Mary and her husband were holding 
sailors' meetings in the roughest quarter of the town. 
There was need enough of Mother Mary in Fairharbor. 
A crowd had gathered to hear the novelty. Fairharbor 
seamen were none too used to being objects of consideration ; 
it was a matter of mark that a parson and a lady 
should hire a room from a rich fish-firm, pay for it out 
of their own scanty pockets, and invite one in from deck 
or wharf, in one's oil-clothes or jumper, to hear what a 
messmate of Jack's called a "high-toned prayer." He 
meant perhaps to convey the idea that the petition 
treated the audience politely. 
Jack followed the crowd in the dark, shrinking in its 
wake, for he was now sober enough not to feel like himself.
He waited till the last of the fellows he knew had 
gone into the place and then crept up on tiptoe, and 
put his face against the window of the salt-cod warehouse 
where the little congregation was gathered, and 
looked in. The room was full and bright. It wore that 
same look of peace and shelter which he remembered. 
Mother Mary stood, as she had stood before, tall and 
pale in her black dress, with the white covering on her 
bosom. Her husband had been speaking to the fishermen, 
and she, as Jack put his gnarled hand to his ex- 
cited eyes and his eyes to the window -glass, turned 
her face full about, to start the singing. She seemed 
to Jack to look at him. Her look was sad. He felt 
ashamed, and cowered down below the window-sill. 
But he wanted to hear her sing. — he had never heard 
anybody sing like Mother Mary, — and so he stayed there 
for a little while, curled against the fish-house. It 
began to rain, and he was pretty wet ; but Jack was in his 
jumper, and a ragged old jumper at that; he knew he 
was not so handsome as he used to be ; he felt that he 
cut a poor figure even for a drunken fisherman ; all the 
self-respect that life had left him shrank from letting 
Mother Mary see him. Jack would not go in. A con- 
fused notion came to him, as he crouched against the 
warehouse, in the showers, that it was just as well it 
should rain on him ; it might wash him. He pushed up 
his sleeves and let the rain fall on his arms. He found 
an old Cape Ann turkey - box there was lying about, 
turned it edgewise so that one ragged knee might rest 
upon it, and thus bring his eye to a level with the window-sill, 
while yet he could not be seen from within. So 
he crouched listening. The glimmer from the prayer- 
room came across the fisherman's bared right arm, and 
struck the crucifix. Jack had the unconscious attitude 
of one sinking, who had thrown up his arms to be saved. 
The Christ on the crucifix looked starved and sickly. 
Jack did not notice the crucifix. 
At this moment Mother Mary's yearning voice rang 
out above the hoarse chorus of the fishermen, whose 
weather-ragged and reverent faces lifted themselves 
" I'm reformed:' 
mistily before her, as if they had been the countenance 
of one helpless man : 
" Rock of Ages, cleft for me ! " 
" Oh, my God ! " cried Jack. 
IV. 
It was the next day that some one told Mother Mary, 
at the poor boarding-house where she stayed, that a 
woman wanted a few words with her. The visitor was 
Teen. She was worn and wan and sobbing with excite- 
ment. Her baby was soon to be born. She did not 
look as if she had enough to eat. She had come, she 
said, just to see Mother Mary, just to tell her, for Jack 
never would tell himself, but she was sure her husband 
had reformed ; he would never drink again ; he meant to 
be a sober man ; and Mother Mary ought to know she 
did it, for she did, God bless her ! 
" I 've walked all this way to bless you for myself," 
said Teen. " I ain't very fit for walkin', nor I can't afford 
a ferry-ticket, for he didn't leave me nothin' on this 
trip, but I Ve come to bless you. My husband come to 
your meetin', Mother Mary, by himself, Jack did. He 
never goes to no meetin's, — nobody couldn't drove 
him ; but he come to yours because he says you treat a 
man like folks, and he wouldn't go inside, for he 'd ben 
drinkin' and he felt ashamed. So he set outside upon 
a box behind the winder and he peeked in. And he said 
it rained on him while he set peekin', for he wanted to 
get a look at you. And he come home and told me, 
for we 'd had some words beforehand, and I was glad to 
see him. I was settin' there and cryin' when he come. 
'I wouldn't, Teen,' says he, 'for I've seen Mother 
Mary, and I 'm reformed,' says he. So he told me how 
he set upon the box and peeked. He says you looked 
straight at him. He says you stood up very tall and 
kind of white. He says you read something out of a 
book, and then you sang to him. He says the song you 
sano- was Rock of Ages, and it made him feel so bad I 
had to cry to see him. He come in, and he got down 
on the lounge against our window, and he put his hand 
acrost his eyes and groaned like he was hurted in an 
accident. And he says, ' Teen, I wished I was a better 
man.' And I says, 'Jack, I wished you was.' And 
he says, ' I lost the hanker when I heard her sing the 
Rock of Ages, and if I lost the hanker I could swear 
off.' So I didn't answer him, for if I says, ' do swear 
off,' he'd just swear on, — they won't, you know, for 
wives. But I made him a cup of coffee, for I didn't 
know what else to do, and I brought it to him on the 
lounge, and he thanked me. ' Teen,' he says, ' I 'll never 
drink a drop again, so help me Mother Mary ! ' And 
then he kissed me, — for they don't, you know, after 
you 've been married. And he 's gone out haddockin', 
but we parted very kind. And so I come to tell you, 
for it mayn't be many days that I could walk it, and 
I 've been that to him as I said I should, and I thought 
you 'd better know." 
"You've had no breakfast," answered Mother Mary, 
"and you've walked too far. Here, stop at the Holly 
Tree as you go home ; get a bowl of soup ; and take the 
ferry back. There, there ! don't cry quite so hard. 
I 'll try to stay a little longer. I won't leave town till 
Jack comes in. It takes the Rock of Ages to cure the 
hanker, Teen. But I 've seen older men than he is 
stop as if they had been stopped by a lasso thrown from 
heaven. If there's any save in him," added Mother 
Mary below her breath, " he shall have his chance, this 
time." 
He went aboard sober, and sober he stayed. He kept 
a good deal by himself and thought of many things. 
His face paled out and refined, as their faces do, from 
abstinence ; the ghost of his good looks hovered about 
him ; he mended up his clothes ; he did a kind turn to a 
messmate now and then ; he told some excellent clean 
stories, and raised the spirits of the crew ; he lent a 
dollar to a fellow with the rheumatism who had an indebt- 
edness to liquidate for St. Galen's Oil. When he had 
done this, he remembered that he had left his wife 
without money, and said aloud : ''That 's a mean 
trick to play on a woman." 
He had bad luck, however, that trip ; his share was 
small ; he made seven dollars and twenty-seven cents 
in three weeks. This was conceded by the crew of 
the fishing-schooner (her name was the Destiny) to be 
because Jack had "sworn off." It is a superstition 
among them. One unfamiliar with the lives of these 
men will hammer cold iron if he thinks to persuade 
them that rum and luck do not go together ; or that to 
"reform" does not imply a reduction of personal in- 
come. You might as well try to put the fisherman's 
fist into a Honiton lace jumper, as the fisherman's mind 
into proportion upon this point. 
Therefore Jack took his poor trip carelessly ; it was 
to be expected ; he would explain it to Mother Mary 
when he got in. He drank nothing at all ; and they 
weighed for home. 
When Jack stepped off the Destiny, at Zephaniah 
Salt & Co.'s wharf at Fairharbor, after that voyage, 
clean, pale, good-natured, and sober, thinking that he 
would get shaved before he hurried home to Teen, and 
wishing he could pay the grocer's bill upon the way, 
and thinking that, in default of this, he would start an 
account at the market, and carry her a chop or a sausage, 
in fact, thinking about her with an absorption 
which resembled consideration, if not affection, — 
suddenly he caught her name upon the wharves. 
It may have been said of accident, or of the devil, — 
God knew ; they may have been too drunk to notice 
Jack at first, or they may have seen and scented from 
afar the bad blood they stirred, like the hounds they 
were. It will never be told. The scandal of these 
places is incredibly barbarous, but it is less than the 
barbarity of drinking men to a man who strikes out from 
among themselves, and fights for his respectability. 
The words were few, — they are not for us, — but 
they were enough to do the deed. Jack was quite sober. 
He understood. They assailed the honor of his 
home, the truth of his wife ; they hurled her past at her 
and at himself ; they derided the trust which he had in 
her in his absence ; they sneered at the " reformed 
man " whose domestic prospects were — as they were ; 
they exulted over him with the exultation in the sight of 
the havoc wrought, which is the most inexplicable impulse
of evil. 
Everybody knew how hot-blooded Jack was ; and 
when the fury rushed red over his face painted gray by 
abstinence, there was a smart scattering upon the 
wharves. 
His hand clapped to his pockets ; but his was an old, 
cheap, rusty pistol (he had swapped a Bible and his 
trawls for it once, upon a spree, and got cheated) ; it 
held but one cartridge, and his wrist shook. The shot 
went sputtering into the water, and no harm came of it. 
Jack jammed the pistol back into his pocket ; he glared 
about him madly, but had his glare for his pains ; the 
men were afraid of him ; he was alone upon the wharf. 
It can hardly be said that he hesitated. Would that 
it could. Raving to himself, — head down, hands 
clenched, feet stumbling like a blind man's, — the 
fisherman sank into the first open door he staggered by, as 
a seiner, pierced by an invisible swordfish, sinks into 
the sea. He had fifteen such places to pass before 
he reached his house. His chances were — as such 
chances go — at best. 
He drank for half an hour — an hour — a half more — 
came out, and went straight home. 
It was now night of a February day. It had not 
been a very cold day ; a light, clean snow had fallen, 
which was thawing gently. Jack, looking dimly on 
through his craze, saw the light of his half of the gray 
cottage shining ahead ; he perceived that the frost was 
melted from the windows. The warm color came 
quietly down to greet him across the fresh snow ; it had 
to him in his delirium the look of a woman's eyes when 
they are true, and lean out of her love to greet a man. 
He did not put this to himself in these words, but only 
said : 
"Them lamps look like she used to, — curse her ! " 
and so went hurtling on. 
He dashed up against the house, as a bowsprit dashes 
on the rocks, took one mad look through the unfrosted 
window, below the half-drawn curtain, and flung himself 
against the door, and in. 
His wife sat there in the great rocking-chair, leaning 
back ; she had a pillow behind her and her feet on the 
salt-fish box which he had covered once to make a 
cricket for her, when they were first married. She 
looked pale and pretty — very pretty. She was talking 
to a visitor who sat upon the lounge beside her. It was 
a man. Now, Jack knew this man well ; it was an old 
messmate ; he had sworn off, a year ago, and they had 
gone different ways ; he used to be a rough fellow ; but 
people said now you wouldn't know him. 
" I ain't so drunk but I see who you be, Jim," began 
the husband darkly ; " I 'll settle with you another day. 
I 've got that to say to my wife I 'd say better if we 
missed your company. Leave us by ourselves ! " 
" Look here, Jack," Jim flashed good-hum oredly, 
" you 're drunk, you know. She 'll tell you what I come 
for. You ask her. Seein' she wasn't right smart — 
and there 's them as says she lacked for victuals, — my 
wife sent me over with a bowl of cranberry sass, so help 
me Heaven ! " 
" I 'll kill you some other evenin'. Leave us be ! " 
cried Jack. 
" We was settin' and talkin' about the Reform Club 
when you come in," objected Jim, with the patience of 
an old friend. " We was wonderin' if we couldn't get 
you to sign, Jack. Ask her if we was n't. Come, now ! 
I wouldn't make a fool of myself if I was you, Jack. 
See there. You 've set her to cryin' already. And she 
ain't right smart." 
" Clear out of my house ! " * thundered Jack. " Leave 
us be by ourselves ! " 
" I don't know 's I 'd ought to," hesitated Jim. 
* Such peculiarities of Jack's pronunciation as were attributable to his 
condition will not be reproduced here. 
" Leave us be ! or I won't leave you be a minute longer ! Ain't it my house ? Get out of it ! " 
" It is, that 's a fact," admitted the visitor, looking 
perplexed ; " but I declare to Jupiter I don't know 's 
I 'd oughter leave it, the way things look. Have your 
senses, Jack, my boy ! Have your senses ! She ain't 
right smart." 
But with this Jack sprang upon him, and the wife 
cried out between them, for the love of mercy, that 
murder would be done. 
"Leave us be!" she pleaded, sobbing. " Nothin' 
else won't pacify him. Go, Jim, go, and shut the door, 
and thank her, for the cranberry sarse was very kind 
of her, and for my husband's sake don't tell nobody he 
wasn't kind to me. There. That 's right. There." 
She sank back into the rocking-chair, for she was 
feeble still, and looked gently up into her husband's 
face. All the tones of her agitated voice had changed. 
She spoke very low and calmly, as if she gathered her 
breath for the first stage of a struggle whose nature she 
solemnly understood. She had grown exceedingly pale. 
"Jack, dear?" softly. 
" I 'll give ye time," he answered with an ominous 
quiet. "Tell yer story first. Out with it ! " 
"I haven't got nothin' to tell, Jack. He brought 
the cranberry sarse, for his wife took care of me, and 
she was very kind. And he set a little, and we was 
talkin' about the club, just as he says we was. It's 
Mother Mary's club, Jack. She 's made Jim secretary, 
and she wanted you to join, for I told her you 'd 
reformed. Oh, Jack, I told her you 'd reformed ! — Jack, 
Jack ! Oh, Jack ! What are you goin' to do to me ' 
What makes you look like that ? — Jack, Jack, Jack. " 
:and up here ! " he raved. He was past reason, 
and she saw it ; he tore off his coat and pushed up his 
sleeves from his tattooed arms. 
You've plaved me false, I say! I trusted ye. and 
you've tricked me. I 'll teach ye to be the talk upon 
the wharves another time when I get in from George - 
She stood as he bade her, tottered and sank back ; 
crawled up again, holding by the wooden arm of the 
rocking-chair, and stretched one hand out to him, feebly. 
She did not dare to touch him ; if she had clung to him, 
he would have throttled her. When she saw him rolling 
up his sleeves, her heart stood still. But 
thought : "I will not show him I'm afraid of him. It's 
the only chance I 've got.'' 
The poor girl looked up once into his face, and 
thought she smiled. 
"Jack ! Dear Jack !" 
"I 'll teach ye ! I 'll teach you."
"Oh. wait a moment. For the love of Heaven, 
— stop a minute ! I 've been that I said I 'd be to you, 
since we was married. I've been an honest wife to you, 
my boy, and there 's none on earth nor heaven as can 
look me in the eye and darst to say I haven't. I swore 
to've upon the Rock of A_ces. Mother Man,- witnessin', 
— why, Jack?" her voice sank to infiniteness- 
" have ye forgotten ? You ain't yourself, poor boy. 
You'll be so sorry. I ain't very strong, yet. — you'd 
feel bad if you should hit me — again. I 'd hate to 
have vou feel so bad. Jack dear, don't Go look in the 
other room, before you strike again. Ye ain't seen it 
Jack, for the love of mercy ! — Tack ! Jack ! 
"Say you've played me false, and I'll stop. Own 
up, and I 'll quit. Own up to me. 
" I can't own up to you, for I swore you by the Rock 
of Ages ; I swore ye I would be an honest wife. You 
may pummel me to death, but I 'll not lie away them 
words I swore to ye . . . by that, . . . Jack, for the love 
of Heaven, don't ye, Jack ! For the way you used to 
feel to me, clear, dear Jack ! For the sake of the babies 
we had, . . . and you walked beside of me, to bury 'em ! 
Oh, for God's sake . . . Jack ! . . . Oh, you said you 'd 
be kind to me . . . Oh, ye 'll be so sorry ! For the love 
of pity ! For the love of God ! Not the pistol ! Oh, 
for the Rock of " — 
But there he struck her down. The butt end of the 
weapon was heavy enough to do the deed. He struck, 
and then flung it away. 
Upon his bared arm, as it came crashing, the crucifix 
was spattered red. 
V. 
He stood up stupidly and looked about the room. 
The covers were off the kitchen stove, and the heat of 
the coals blazed out. Her yellow hair had loosened as 
she fell, and shone upon the floor. 
He remembered that she spoke about the other room, 
and said of something yonder, that he hadn't seen it 
yet. Confusedly he wondered what it was. He stumbled 
in and stared about the bedroom. It was not very 
light there, and it was some moments before he perceived 
the cradle, standing straight across his way. 
The child waked as he hit the cradle, and began to cry, 
stretching out its hands. 
He had forgotten all about the baby. There had 
been so many. 
" You 'd better get up, Teen," he said as he went 
out; "it's cryin' after you." 
He shut the door and staggered down the steps.- He 
hesitated once, and thought he would go back and say 
to her : 
" What 's the use of layin' there ? " 
But he thought better, or worse, of it, and went his 
way. He went out and reshipped at once, lingering 
only long enough to drink madly on the way, at a place 
he knew, where he was sure to be let alone. The men 
were afraid of Jack, when he was so far gone under as 
this. Nobody spoke to him. He went down to Salt 
Brothers' wharf, opposite Salt & Co.'s, and found the 
Daredevil, just about to weigh. She was short by one 
hand, and took him as he was. 
He was surprised to find himself aboard when the 
next sun went down ; he had turned in his bunk and was 
overheard to call for Teen, ordering her to do some service 
for him, testily enough. 
" Oh," he muttered, " she ain't here, is she ? Be 
blasted if I ain't on the Daredevil." 
He was good for nothing, for a matter of days, and 
silent or sullen for the trip. It had been a heavy spree. 
He fell to, when he came to himself, and fished desperately ;
his luck turned, and he made money ; he made 
seventy - five dollars. They were gone three weeks. 
They had a bitter voyage, for it was March. 
They struck a gale at Georges', and another coming 
home. It snowed a great deal, and the rigging froze. 
The crew were uncommonly cold. They kept the stew- 
ard cooking briskly, and four or five hot meals a clay 
were not enough to keep one's courage up. They were 
particular about their cooking, as fishermen are, and 
the steward of the Daredevil was famous in his calling. 
But it was conceded to be unusually cold, even for 
March, at Georges'. One must keep the blood racing, 
somehow, for life's sake. 
Whiskey flowed fast between meals. Jack was ob- 
served not to limit himself. " It was for luck," he said. 
Take it through, it was a hard trip. The sober men — 
there were some — looked grim and pinched ; the drink- 
ers ugly. 
" It 's a hound's life," said a dory-mate of Jack's one 
day. His name was Rowe — Rowe Salt ; he was a half- 
brother of Jim's. But Jim was at home. And Teen, 
of course, was at home. Jack had not spoken of her ; 
he had thought of her, — he had thought of nothing 
else. God knows what those thoughts had been. When 
Rowe spoke to him in this fashion, Jack looked hard at 
him. 
" I 've been thinkin' ef it disobligated a feller," he 
said. 
" Hey ? " asked Rowe. 
" If you was treated like folks ; but you ain't. You 're 
froze. You 're soaked. You 're wrecked. Your nets 
is stole. You 're drove off in the fog. You 're drownded, 
and you lose your trawls. If you swear off, you 
miss your luck. It 's dirty aboard. Folks don't like 
the looks of you. There 's alwers a hanker in the pit o' 
your stomick. When you get upon a tear you don't 
know what you — do to — folks." 
Jack stopped himself abruptly, and leaned upon his 
oar ; they were trawling, and the weather grew thick. 
"Rowe," he said, staring off into the fog, "did ye 
ever think we was like fishes, us Fairharbor folks ?" 
"I don't know's I hev," said the dory-mate, staring 
too. 
" Well, we be, I think. We live in it and we 're 
drownded in it, and we can't get out on 't, — we can't 
get out. We look like 'em, too. I 've thought about 
that. Some of us look like haddock. You 've got the 
halibut look yourself. Skipper, he 's got the jib of a 
monk-fish, — you ken see it for yourself. There's a 
man I messed with, once, reminded me of a sculpin. I 
guess I 'd pass for a lobster, myself, — for color, anyhow.
We take it out someways, each on us. Don't 
ye know the look the women folks have when they get 
old and have gone hungry ? You can tell by the build 
of a boy which way he'll turn out, — halibut way, or 
hake, or mebbe mackerel if he 's sleek and little. It 's a 
kind of a birth-mark, I shouldn't wonder. There 's no 
