upon better terms with her than they usually were. They were very much
alike, and she objected to him that he was too light and frivolous. He
sat with his sisters, and took an interest in their pursuits. He drove
them about with his father’s sorrels, and resumed something of the old
relations with them which the selfish years of his college life had
broken off. As yet he could not speak of Campobello or of what had
happened there; and his mother and sisters, whatever they thought, made
no more allusion to it than his father had done.
They mercifully took it for granted that matters must have gone wrong
there, or else he would speak about them, for there had been some gay
banter among them concerning the objects of his expedition before he
left home. They had heard of the heroine of his Class Day, and they had
their doubts of her, such as girls have of their brothers’ heroines.
They were not inconsolably sorry to have her prove unkind; and their
mother found in the probable event another proof of their father’s total
want of discernment where women were concerned, for the elder Mavering
had come home from Class Day about as much smitten with this mysterious
Miss Pasmer as Dan was. She talked it over indignantly with her
daughters; they were glad of Dan’s escape, but they were incensed with
the girl who could let him escape, and they inculpated her in a high
degree of heartless flirtation. They knew how sweet Dan was, and they
believed him most sincere and good. He had been brilliantly popular in
college, and he was as bright as he could be. What was it she chose not
to like in him? They vexed themselves with asking how or in what way she
thought herself better. They would not have had her love Dan, but they
were hot against her for not loving him.
They did not question him, but they tried in every way to find out how
much he was hurt, and they watched him in every word and look for signs
of change to better or worse, with a growing belief that he was not very
much hurt.
It could not be said that in three weeks he forgot Alice, or had begun
to forget her; but he had begun to reconcile himself to his fate, as
people do in their bereavements by death. His consciousness habituated
itself to the facts as something irretrievable. He no longer framed
in his mind situations in which the past was restored. He knew that he
should never love again, but he had moments, and more and more of them,
in which he experienced that life had objects besides love. There were
times when he tingled with all the anguish of the first moment of
his rejection, when he stopped in whatever he was doing, or stood
stock-still, as a man does when arrested by a physical pang, breathless,
waiting. There were other times when he went about steeped in gloom so
black that all the world darkened with it, and some mornings when he
woke he wished that the night had lasted for ever, and felt as if the
daylight had uncovered his misery and his shame to every one. He never
knew when he should have these moods, and he thought he should have them
as long as he lived. He thought this would be something rather fine. He
had still other moods, in which he saw an old man with a grey moustache,
like Colonel Newcome, meeting a beautiful white-haired lady; the man had
never married, and he had not seen this lady for fifty years. He bent
over, and kissed her hand.
“You idiot!” said Mavering to himself. Throughout he kept a good
appetite. In fact, after that first morning in Portland, he had been
hungry three times a day with perfect regularity. He lost the idea
of being sick; he had not even a furred tongue. He fell asleep pretty
early, and he slept through the night without a break. He had to laugh
a great deal with his mother and sisters, since he could not very well
mope without expecting them to ask why, and he did not wish to say
why. But there were some laughs which he really enjoyed with the Yankee
foreman of the works, who was a droll, after a common American pattern,
and said things that were killingly funny, especially about women, of
whom his opinions were sarcastic.
Dan Mavering suffered, but not solidly. His suffering was short, and
crossed with many gleams of respite and even joy. His disappointment
made him really unhappy, but not wholly so; it was a genuine sorrow,
but a sorrow to which he began to resign himself even in the monotony
of Ponkwasset Falls, and which admitted the thought of Mrs. Frobisher’s
sister by the time business called him to Boston.
XXIV.
Before the end of the first week after Dan came back to town, that which
was likely to happen whenever chance brought him and Alice together had
taken place.
It was one of the soft days that fall in late October, when the
impending winter seems stayed, and the warm breath of the land draws
seaward and over a thousand miles of Indian summer. The bloom came and
went in quick pulses over the girl’s temples as she sat with her head
thrown back in the corner of the car, and from moment to moment she
stirred slightly as if some stress of rapture made it hard for her
to get her breath; a little gleam of light fell from under her fallen
eyelids into the eyes of the young man beside her, who leaned forward
slightly and slanted his face upward to meet her glances. They said some
words, now and then, indistinguishable to the others; in speaking they
smiled slightly. Sometimes her hand wavered across her lap; in both
their faces there was something beyond happiness--a transport, a
passion, the brief splendour of a supreme moment.
They left the car at the Arlington Street corner of the Public Garden,
and followed the winding paths diagonally to the further corner on
Charles Street.
“How stupid we were to get into that ridiculous horse-car!” she said.
“What in the world possessed us to do it?”
“I can’t imagine,” he answered. “What a waste of time it was! If we had
walked, we might have been twice as long coming. And now you’re going to
send me off so soon!”
“I don’t send you,” she murmured.
“But you want me to go.”
“Oh no! But you’d better.”
“I can’t do anything against your wish.”
“I wish it--for your own good.”
“Ah, do let me go home with you, Alice?”
“Don’t ask it, or I must say yes.”
“Part of the way, then?”
“No; not a step! You must take the first car for Cambridge. What time is
it now?”
“You can see by the clock on the Providence Depot.”
“But I wish you to go by your watch, now. Look!”
“Alice!” he cried, in pure rapture.
“Look!”
“It’s a quarter of one.”
“And we’ve been three hours together already! Now you must simply fly.
If you came home with me I should be sure to let you come in, and if I
don’t see mamma alone first, I shall die. Can’t you understand?”
“No; but I can do the next best thing: I can misunderstand. You want to
be rid of me.”
“Shall you be rid of me when we’ve parted?” she asked, with an inner
thrill of earnestness in her gay tone.
“Alice!”
“You know I didn’t mean it, Dan.”
“Say it again.”
“What?”
“Dan.”
“Dan, love! Dan, dearest!”
“Will that car of yours never come? I’ve promised myself not to leave
you till it does, and if I stay here any longer I shall go wild. I can’t
believe it’s happened. Say it again!”
“Say what?”
“That--”
“That I love you? That we’re engaged?”
“I don’t believe it. I can’t.” She looked impatiently up the street.
“Oh, there comes your car! Run! Stop it!”
“I don’t run to stop cars.” He made a sign, which the conductor obeyed,
and the car halted at the further crossing.
She seemed to have forgotten it, and made no movement to dismiss him.
“Oh, doesn’t it seem too good to be standing here talking in this way,
and people think it’s about the weather, or society?” She set her head a
little on one side, and twirled the open parasol on her shoulder.
“Yes, it does. Tell me it’s true, love!”
“It’s true. How splendid you are!” She said it with an effect for the
world outside of saying it was a lovely day.
He retorted, with the same apparent nonchalance, “How beautiful you are!
How good! How divine!”
The conductor, seeing himself apparently forgotten, gave his bell a
vicious snap, and his car jolted away.
She started nervously. “There! you’ve lost your car, Dan.”
“Have I?” asked Mavering, without troubling himself to look after it.
She laughed now, with a faint suggestion of unwillingness in her laugh.
“What are you going to do?”
“Walk home with you.”
“No, indeed; you know I can’t let you.”
“And are you going to leave me here alone on the street corner, to be
run over by the first bicycle that comes along?”
“You can sit down in the Garden, and wait for the next car.”
“No; I would rather go back to the Art Museum, and make a fresh start.”
“To the Art Museum?” she murmured, tenderly.
“Yes. Wouldn’t you like to see it again?”
“Again? I should like to pass my whole life in it!”
“Well, walk back with me a little way. There’s no hurry about the car.”
“Dan!” she said, in a helpless compliance, and they paced very, very
slowly along the Beacon Street path in the Garden. “This is ridiculous.”
“Yes, but it’s delightful.”
“Yes, that’s what I meant. Do you suppose any one ever--ever--”
“Made love there before?”
“How can you say such things? Yes. I always supposed it would
be--somewhere else.”
“It was somewhere else--once.”
“Oh, I meant--the second time.”
“Then you did think there was going to be a second time?”
“How do I know? I wished it. Do you like me to say that?”
“I wish you would never say anything else.”
“Yes; there can’t be any harm in it now. I thought that if you had
ever--liked me, you would still--”
“So did I; but I couldn’t believe that you--”
“Oh, I could.”
“Alice!”
“Don’t you like my confessing it! You asked me to.”
“Like it!”
“How silly we are!”
“Not half so silly as we’ve been for the last two months. I think we’ve
just come to our senses. At least I have.”
“Two months!” she sighed. “Has it really been so long as that?”
“Two years! Two centuries! It was back in the Dark Ages when you refused
me.”
“Dark Ages! I should think so! But don’t say refused. It wasn’t
refusing, exactly.”
“What was it, then?”
“Oh, I don’t know. Don’t speak of it now.”
“But, Alice, why did you refuse me?”
“Oh, I don’t know. You mustn’t ask me now. I’ll tell you some time.”
“Well, come to think of it,” said Mavering, laughing it all lightly
away, “there’s no hurry. Tell me why you accepted me to-day.”
“I--I couldn’t help it. When I saw you I wanted to fall at your feet.”
“What an idea! I didn’t want to fall at yours. I was awfully mad. I
shouldn’t have spoken to you if you hadn’t stopped me and held out your
hand.”
“Really? Did you really hate me, Dan?”
“Well, I haven’t exactly doted on you since we last met.”
She did not seem offended at this. “Yes, I suppose so. And I’ve gone on
being fonder and fonder of you every minute since that day. I wanted to
call you back when you had got half-way to Eastport.”
“I wouldn’t have come. It’s bad luck to turn back.”
She laughed at his drolling. “How funny you are! Now I’m of rather a
gloomy temperament. Did, you know it?”
“You don’t look it.”
“Oh, but I am. Just now I’m rather excited and--happy.”
“So glad!”
“Go on! go on! I like you to make fun of me.”
The benches on either side were filled with nursemaids in charge of
baby-carriages, and of young children who were digging in the sand
with their little beach shovels, and playing their games back and forth
across the walk unrebuked by the indulgent policemen. A number of
them had enclosed a square in the middle of the path with four of the
benches, which they made believe was a fort. The lovers had to walk
round it; and the children, chasing one another, dashed into them
headlong, or, backing off from pursuit, bumped up against them. They did
not seem to know it, but walked slowly on without noticing: they were
not aware of an occasional benchful of rather shabby young fellows
who stared hard at the stylish girl and well-dressed young man talking
together in such intense low tones, with rapid interchange of radiant
glances.
“Oh, as to making fun of you, I was going to say--” Mavering began, and
after a pause he broke off with a laugh. “I forget what I was going to
say.”
“Try to remember.”
“I can’t.”
“How strange that we should have both happened to go to the Museum this
morning!” she sighed. Then, “Dan,” she broke in, “do you suppose that
heaven is any different from this?”
“I hope not--if I’m to go there.”
“Hush, dear; you mustn’t talk so.”
“Why, you provoked me to it.”
“Did I? Did I really? Do you think I tempted you to do it? Then I must
be wicked, whether I knew I was doing it or not. Yes.”
The break in her voice made him look more keenly at her, and he saw the
tears glimmer in her eyes. “Alice!”
“No; I’m not good enough for you. I always said that.”
“Then don’t say it any more. That’s the only thing I won’t let you say.”
“Do you forbid it, really? Won’t you let me even think it?”
“No, not even think it.”
“How lovely you are! Oh! I like to be commanded by you.”
“Do you? You’ll have lots of fun, then. I’m an awfully commanding
spirit.”
“I didn’t suppose you were so humorous--always. I’m afraid you won’t
like me. I’ve no sense of fun.”
“And I’m a little too funny sometimes, I’m afraid.”
“No, you never are. When?”
“That night at the Trevors’. You didn’t like it.”
“I thought Miss Anderson was rather ridiculous,” said Alice. “I don’t
like buffoonery in women.”
“Nor I in men,” said Mavering, smiling. “I’ve dropped it.”
“Well, now we must part. I must go home at once,” said Alice. “It’s
perfectly insane.”
“Oh no, not yet; not till we’ve said something else; not till we’ve
changed the subject.”
“What subject?”
“Miss Anderson.”
Alice laughed and blushed, but she was not vexed. She liked to have him
understand her. “Well, now,” she said, as if that were the next thing,
“I’m going to cross here at once and walk up the other pavement, and
you must go back through the Garden; or else I shall never get away from
you.”
“May I look over at you?”
“You may glance, but you needn’t expect me to return your glance.”
“Oh no.”
“And I want you to take the very first Cambridge car that comes along. I
command you to.”
“I thought you wanted me to do the commanding.”
“So I do--in essentials. If you command me not to cry when I get home, I
won’t.”
She looked at him with an ecstasy of self-sacrifice in her eyes.
“Ah, I sha’n’t do that. I can’t tell what would open. But--Alice!”
“Well, what?” She drifted closely to him, and looked fondly up into his
face. In walking they had insensibly drawn nearer together, and she had
been obliged constantly to put space between them. Now, standing at the
corner of Arlington Street, and looking tentatively across Beacon, she
abandoned all precautions.
“What! I forget. Oh yes! I love you!”
“But you said that before, dearest!”
“Yes; but just now it struck me as a very novel idea. What if your
mother shouldn’t like the idea?”
“Nonsense! you know she perfectly idolises you. She did from the first.
And doesn’t she know how I’ve begin behaving about you ever since
I--lost you?”
“How have you behaved? Do tell me, Alice?”
“Some time; not now,” she said; and with something that was like a gasp,
and threatened to be a sob, she suddenly whipped across the road. He
walked back to Charles Street by the Garden path, keeping abreast of
her, and not losing sight of her for a moment, except when the bulk of
a string team watering at the trough beside the pavement intervened. He
hurried by, and when he had passed it he found himself exactly abreast
of her again. Her face was turned toward him; they exchanged a smile,
lost in space. At the corner of Charles Street he deliberately crossed
over to her.
“O dearest love! why did you come?” she implored.
“Because you signed to me.”
“I hoped you wouldn’t see it. If we’re both to be so weak as this, what
are we going to do?”
“But I’m glad you came. Yes: I was frightened. They must have overheard
us there when we were talking.”
“Well, I didn’t say anything I’m ashamed of. Besides, I shouldn’t care
much for the opinion of those nurses and babies.”
“Of course not. But people must have seen us. Don’t stand here talking,
Dan! Do come on!” She hurried him across the street, and walked him
swiftly up the incline of Beacon Street. There, in her new fall suit,
with him, glossy-hatted, faultlessly gloved, at a fit distance from her
side, she felt more in keeping with the social frame of things than in
the Garden path, which was really only a shade better than the Beacon
Street Mall of the Common. “Do you suppose anybody saw us that knew us?”
“I hope so! Don’t you want people to know it?”
“Yes, of course. They will have to know it--in the right way. Can you
believe that it’s only half a year since we met? It won’t be a year till
Class Day.”
“I don’t believe it, Alice. I can’t recollect anything before I knew
you.”
“Well, now, as time is so confused, we must try to live for eternity.
We must try to help each other to be good. Oh, when I think what a happy
girl I am, I feel that I should be the most ungrateful person under the
sun not to be good. Let’s try to make our lives perfect--perfect! They
can be. And we mustn’t live for each other alone. We must try to do good
as well as be good. We must be kind and forbearing with every one.”
He answered, with tender seriousness, “My life’s in your hands, Alice.
It shall be whatever you wish.”
They were both silent in their deep belief of this. When they spoke
again, she began gaily: “I shall never get over the wonder of it. How
strange that we should meet at the Museum!” They had both said this
already, but that did not matter; they had said nearly everything two
or three times. “How did you happen to be there?” she asked, and the
question was so novel that she added, “I haven’t asked you before.”
He stopped, with a look of dismay that broke up in a hopeless laugh.
“Why, I went there to meet some people--some ladies. And when I saw you
I forgot all about them.”
Alice laughed to; this was a part of their joy, their triumph.
“Who are they?” she asked indifferently, and only to heighten the
absurdity by realising the persons.
“You don’t know them,” he said. “Mrs. Frobisher and her sister, of
Portland. I promised to meet them there and go out to Cambridge with
them.”
“What will they think?” asked Alice. “It’s too amusing.”
“They’ll think I didn’t come,” said Mavering, with the easy conscience
of youth and love; and again they laughed at the ridiculous position
together. “I remember now I was to be at the door, and they were to
take me up in their carriage. I wonder how long they waited? You put
everything else out of my head.”
“Do you think I’ll keep it out?” she asked archly.
“Oh yes; there is nothing else but you now.”
The eyes that she dropped, after a glance at him, glistened with tears.
A lump came into his throat. “Do you suppose,” he asked huskily, “that
we can ever misunderstand each other again?”
“Never. I see everything clearly now. We shall trust each other
implicitly, and at the least thing that isn’t clear we can speak.
Promise me that you’ll speak.”
“I will, Alice. But after this all will be clear. We shall deal with
each other as we do with ourselves.”
“Yes; that will be the way.”
“And we mustn’t wait for question from each other. We shall know--we
shall feel--when there’s any misgiving, and then the one that’s caused
it will speak.”
“Yes,” she sighed emphatically. “How perfectly you say it? But that’s
because you feel it, because you are good.”
They walked on, treading the air in a transport of fondness for each
other. Suddenly he stopped.
“Miss Pasmer, I feel it my duty to warn you that you’re letting me go
home with you.”
“Am I? How noble of you to tell me, Dan; for I know you don’t want to
tell. Well, I might as well. But I sha’n’t let you come in. You won’t
try, will you? Promise me you won’t try.”
“I shall only want to come in the first door.”
“What for?”
“What for? Oh, for half a second.”
She turned away her face.
He went on. “This engagement has been such a very public affair, so far,
that I think I’d like to see my fiancee alone for a moment.”
“I don’t know what in the world you can have to say more.”
He went into the first door with her, and then he went with her upstairs
to the door of Mrs. Pasmer’s apartment. The passages of the Cavendish
were not well lighted; the little lane or alley that led down to this
door from the stairs landing was very dim.
“So dark here!” murmured Alice, in a low voice, somewhat tremulous.
“But not too dark.”
XXV.
She burst into the room where her mother sat looking over some
housekeeping accounts. His kiss and his name were upon her lips; her
soul was full of him.
“Mamma!” she panted.
Her mother did not look round. She could have had no premonition of the
vital news that her daughter was bringing, and she went on comparing the
first autumn month’s provision bill with that of the last spring month,
and trying to account for the difference.
The silence, broken by the rattling of the two bills in her mother’s
hands as she glanced from one to the other through her glasses, seemed
suddenly impenetrable, and the prismatic world of the girl’s rapture
burst like a bubble against it. There is no explanation of the effect
outside of temperament and overwrought sensibilities. She stared across
the room at her mother, who had not heard her, and then she broke into a
storm of tears.
“Alice!” cried her mother, with that sanative anger which comes to
rescue women from the terror of any sudden shock. “What is the matter
with you?--what do you mean?” She dropped both of the provision bills to
the floor, and started toward her daughter.
“Nothing--nothing! Let me go. I want to go to my room.” She tried to
reach the door beyond her mother.
“Indeed you shall not!” cried Mrs. Pasmer. “I will not have you behaving
so! What has happened to you? Tell me. You have frightened me half out
of my senses.”
The girl gave up her efforts to escape, and flung herself on the sofa,
with her face in the pillow, where she continued to sob. Her mother
began to relent at the sight of her passion. As a woman and as a mother
she knew her daughter, and she knew that this passion, whatever it was,
must have vent before there could be anything intelligible between them.
She did not press her with further question, but set about making her a
little more comfortable on the sofa; she pulled the pillow straight, and
dropped a light shawl over the girl’s shoulders, so that she should not
take cold.
Then Mrs. Pasmer had made up her mind that Alice had met Mavering
somewhere, and that this outburst was the retarded effect of seeing him.
During the last six weeks she had assisted at many phases of feeling in
regard to him, and knew more clearly than Alice herself the meaning of
them all. She had been patient and kind, with the resources that every
woman finds in herself when it is the question of a daughter’s ordeal in
an affair of the heart which she has favoured.
The storm passed as quickly as it came, and Alice sat upright casting
off the wraps. But once checked with the fact on her tongue, she found
it hard to utter it.
“What is it, Alice?--what is it?” urged her mother.
“Nothing. I--Mr. Mavering--we met--I met him at the Museum, and--we’re
engaged! It’s really so. It seems like raving, but it’s true. He came
with me to the door; I wouldn’t let him come in. Don’t you believe it?
Oh, we are! indeed we are! Are you glad, mamma? You know I couldn’t have
lived without him.”
She trembled on the verge of another outbreak.
Mrs. Pasmer sacrificed her astonishment in the interest of sanity, and
returned quietly: “Glad, Alice! You know that I think he’s the sweetest
and best fellow in the world.”
“O mamma!”
“But are you sure--”
“Yes, Yes. I’m not crazy; it isn’t a dream he was there--and I met
him--I couldn’t run away--I put out my hand; I couldn’t help it--I
thought I should give way; and he took it; and then--then we were
engaged. I don’t know what we said: I went in to look at the ‘Joan of
Arc’ again, and there was no one else there. He seemed to feel just as
I did. I don’t know whether either of us spoke. But we, knew we were
engaged, and we began to talk.”
Mrs. Pasmer began to laugh. To her irreverent soul only the droll side
of the statement appeared.
“Don’t, mamma!” pleaded Alice piteously.
“No, no; I won’t. But I hope Dan Mavering will be a little more definite
about it when I’m allowed to see him. Why couldn’t he have come in with
you?”
“It would have killed me. I couldn’t let him see me cry, and I knew I
should break down.”
“He’ll have to see you cry a great many times, Alice,” said her mother,
with almost unexampled seriousness.
“Yes, but not yet--not so soon. He must think I’m very gloomy, and I
want to be always bright and cheerful with him. He knows why I wouldn’t
let him come in; he knew I was going to have a cry.”
Mrs. Pasmer continued to laugh.
“Don’t, mamma!” pleaded Alice.
“No, I won’t,” replied her mother, as before. “I suppose he was
mystified. But now, if it’s really settled between you, he’ll be coming
here soon to see your papa and me.”
“Yes--to-night.”
“Well, it’s very sudden,” said Mrs. Pasmer. “Though I suppose these
things always seem so.”
“Is it too sudden?” asked Alice, with misgiving. “It seemed so to me
when it was going on, but I couldn’t stop it.”
Her mother laughed at her simplicity. “No, when it begins once, nothing
can stop it. But you’ve really known each other a good while, and for
the last six weeks at least you’ve known you own mind about him pretty
clearly. It’s a pity you couldn’t have known it before.”
“Yes, that’s what he says. He says it was such a waste of time. Oh,
everything he says is perfectly fascinating!”
Her mother laughed and laughed again.
“What is it, mamma? Are you laughing at me?”
“Oh no. What an idea!”
“He couldn’t seem to understand why I didn’t say Yes the first time, if
I meant it.” She looked down dreamily at her hands in her lap, and
then she said, with a blush and a start, “They’re very queer, don’t you
think?”
“Who?”
“Young men.”
“Oh, very.”
“Yes,” Alice went on musingly. “Their minds are so different. Everything
they say and do is so unexpected, and yet it seems to be just right.”
Mrs. Pasmer asked herself if this single-mindedness was to go on for
ever, but she had not the heart to treat it with her natural levity.
Probably it was what charmed Mavering with the child. Mrs. Pasmer had
the firm belief that Mavering was not single-minded, and she respected
him for it. She would not spoil her daughter’s perfect trust and hope by
any of the cynical suggestions of her own dark wisdom, but entered into
her mood, as such women are able to do, and flattered out of her every
detail of the morning’s history. This was a feat which Mrs. Pasmer
enjoyed for its own sake, and it fully satisfied the curiosity which
she naturally felt to know all. She did not comment upon many of the
particulars; she opened her eyes a little at the notion of her daughter
sitting for two or three hours and talking with a young man in the
galleries of the Museum, and she asked if anybody they knew had come in.
When she heard that there were only strangers, and very few of them, she
said nothing; and she had the same consolation in regard to the walking
back and forth in the Garden. She was so full of potential escapades
herself, so apt to let herself go at times, that the fact of Alice’s
innocent self-forgetfulness rather satisfied a need of her mother’s
nature; she exulted in it when she learned that there were only nurses
and children in the Garden.
“And so you think you won’t take up art this winter?” she said, when, in
the process of her cross-examination, Alice had left the sofa and got as
far as the door, with her hat in her hand and her sacque on her arm.
“No.”
“And the Sisters of St. James--you won’t join them either?”
The girl escaped from the room.
“Alice! Alice!” her mother called after her; she came back. “You haven’t
told me how he happened to be there.”
“Oh, that was the most amusing part of it. He had gone there to keep an
appointment with two ladies from Portland. They were to take him up in
their carriage and drive out to Cambridge, and when he saw me he forgot
all about them.”
“And what became of them?”
“We don’t know. Isn’t it ridiculous?”
If it appeared other or more than this to Mrs. Pasmer, she did not
say. She merely said, after a moment, “Well, it was certainly devoted,
Alice,” and let her go.
XXVI.
Mavering came in the evening, rather excessively well dressed, and with
a hot face and cold hands. While he waited, nominally alone, in the
little drawing room for Mr. Pasmer, Alice flew in upon him for a swift
embrace, which prolonged itself till the father’s step was heard outside
the door, and then she still had time to vanish by another: the affair
was so nicely adjusted that if Mavering had been in his usual mind he
might have fancied the connivance of Mrs. Pasmer.
He did not say what he had meant to say to Alice’s father, but it seemed
to serve the purpose, for he emerged presently from the sound of his
own voice, unnaturally clamorous, and found Mr. Pasmer saying some very
civil things to him about his character and disposition, so far as they
had been able to observe it, and their belief and trust in him. There
seemed to be something provisional or probational intended, but Dan
could not make out what it was, and finally it proved of no practical
effect. He merely inferred that the approval of his family was
respectfully expected, and he hastened to say, “Oh, that’s all right,
sir.” Mr. Pasmer went on with more civilities, and lost himself in dumb
conjecture as to whether Mavering’s father had been in the class before
him or the class after him in Harvard. He used his black eyebrows a good
deal during the interview, and Mavering conceived an awe of him greater
than he had felt at Campobello, yet not unmixed with the affection
in which the newly accepted lover embraces even the relations of his
betrothed. From time to time Mr. Pasmer looked about with the vague
glance of a man unused to being so long left to his own guidance; and
one of these appeals seemed at last to bring Mrs. Pasmer through
the door, to the relief of both the men, for they had improvidently
despatched their business, and were getting out of talk. Mr. Pasmer
had, in fact, already asked Dan about the weather outside when his wife
appeared.
Dan did not know whether he ought to kiss her or not, but Mrs. Pasmer
did not in the abstract seem like a very kissing kind of person, and he
let himself be guided by this impression, in the absence of any fixed
principle applying to the case. She made some neat remark concerning the
probable settlement of the affair with her husband, and began to laugh
and joke about it in a manner that was very welcome to Dan; it did not
seem to him that it ought to be treated so solemnly.
But though Mrs. Pasmer laughed and joked; he was aware of her meaning
business--business in the nicest sort of a way, but business after all,
and he liked her for it. He was glad to be explicit about his hopes and
plans, and told what his circumstances were so fully that Mrs. Pasmer,
whom his frankness gratified and amused, felt obliged to say that she
had not meant to ask so much about his affairs, and he must excuse her
if she had seemed to do so. She had her own belief that Mavering would
understand, but she did not mind that. She said that, of course,
till his own family had been consulted, it must not be considered
seriously--that Mr. Pasmer insisted upon that point; and when Dan
vehemently asserted the acquiescence of his family beforehand, and urged
his father’s admiration for Alice in proof, she reminded him that his
mother was to be considered, and put Mr. Pasmer’s scruples forward as
her own reason for obduracy. In her husband’s presence she attributed
to him, with his silent assent, all sorts of reluctances and delicate
compunctions; she gave him the importance which would have been
naturally a husband’s due in such an affair, and ingratiated herself
more and more with the young man. She ignored Mr. Pasmer’s withdrawal
when it took place, after a certain lapse of time, and as the moment had
come for that, she began to let herself go. She especially approved
of the idea of going abroad and confessed her disappointment with her
present experiment of America, where it appeared there was no leisure
class of men sufficiently large to satisfy the social needs of Mr.
Pasmer’s nature, and she told Dan that he might expect them in Europe
before long. Perhaps they might all three meet him there. At this he
betrayed so clearly that he now intended his going to Europe merely as a
sequel to his marrying Alice, while he affected to fall in with all Mrs.
Pasmer said, that she grew fonder than ever of him for his ardour and
his futile duplicity. If it had been in Dan’s mind to take part in the
rite, Mrs. Pasmer was quite ready at this point to embrace him with
motherly tenderness. Her tough little heart was really in her throat
with sympathy when she made an errand for the photograph of an English
vicarage, which they had hired the summer of the year before, and she
sent Alice back with it alone.
It seemed so long since they had met that the change in Alice did not
strike him as strange or as too rapidly operated. They met with the
fervour natural after such a separation, and she did not so much assume
as resume possession of him. It was charming to have her do it, to have
her act as if they had always been engaged, to have her try to press
down the cowlick that started capriciously across his crown, and to
straighten his necktie, and then to drop beside him on the sofa; it
thrilled and awed him; and he silently worshipped the superior composure
which her sex has in such matters. Whatever was the provisional
interpretation which her father and mother pretended to put upon the
affair, she apparently had no reservations, and they talked of their
future as a thing assured. The Dark Ages, as they agreed to call the
period of despair for ever closed that morning, had matured their love
till now it was a rapture of pure trust. They talked as if nothing could
prevent its fulfilment, and they did not even affect to consider the
question of his family’s liking it or not liking it. She said that she
thought his father was delightful, and he told her that his father had
taken the greatest fancy to her at the beginning, and knew that Dan was
in love with her. She asked him about his mother, and she said just what
he could have wished her to say about his mother’s sufferings, and the
way she bore them. They talked about Alice’s going to see her.
“Of course your father will bring your sisters to see me first.”
“Is that the way?” he asked: “You may depend upon his doing the right
thing, whatever it is.”
“Well, that’s the right thing,” she said. “I’ve thought it out; and that
reminds me of a duty of ours, Dan!”
“A duty?” he repeated, with a note of reluctance for its untimeliness.
“Yes. Can’t you think what?”
“No; I didn’t know there was a duty left in the world.”
“It’s full of them.”
“Oh, don’t say that, Alice!” He did not like this mood so well as that
of the morning, but his dislike was only a vague discomfort--nothing
formulated or distinct.
“Yes,” she persisted; “and we must do them. You must go to those ladies
you disappointed so this morning, and apologise--explain.”
Dan laughed. “Why, it wasn’t such a very ironclad engagement as all
that, Alice. They said they were going to drive out to Cambridge over
the Milldam, and I said I was going out there to get some of my traps
together, and they could pick me up at the Art Museum if they liked.
Besides, how could I explain?”
She laughed consciously with him. “Of course. But,” she added ruefully,
“I wish you hadn’t disappointed them.”
“Oh, they’ll get over it. If I hadn’t disappointed them, I shouldn’t be
here, and I shouldn’t like that. Should you?”
“No; but I wish it hadn’t happened. It’s a blot, and I didn’t want a
blot on this day.”
“Oh, well, it isn’t very much of a blot, and I can easily wipe it off.
I’ll tell you what, Alice! I can write to Mrs. Frobisher, when our
engagement comes out, and tell her how it was. She’ll enjoy the joke,
and so will Miss Wrayne. They’re jolly and easygoing; they won’t mind.”
“How long have you known them?”
“I met them on Class Day, and then I saw them--the day after I left
Campobello.” Dan laughed a little.
“How, saw them?”
“Well, I went to a yacht race with them. I happened to meet them in the
street, and they wanted me to go; and I was all broken up, and--I Went.”
“Oh!” said Alice. “The day after I--you left Campobello?”
“Well--yes.”
“And I was thinking of you all that day as--And I couldn’t bear to look
at anybody that day, or speak!”
“Well, the fact is, I--I was distracted, and I didn’t know what I was
doing. I was desperate; I didn’t care.”
“How did you find out about the yacht race?”
“Boardman told me. Boardman was there.”
“Did he know the ladies? Did he go too?”
“No. He was there to report the race for the Events. He went on the
press boat.”
“Oh!” said Alice. “Was there a large party?”
“No, no. Not very. Just ourselves, in fact. They were awfully kind. And
they made me go home to dinner with them.”
“They must have been rather peculiar people,” said Alice. “And I don’t
see how--so soon--” She could not realise that Mavering was then
a rejected man, on whom she had voluntarily renounced all claim. A
retroactive resentment which she could not control possessed her with
the wish to punish those bold women for being agreeable to one who had
since become everything to her, though then he was ostensibly nothing.
In a vague way, Dan felt her displeasure with that passage of his
history, but no man could have fully imagined it.
“I couldn’t tell half the time what I was saying or eating. I talked at
random and ate at random. I guess they thought something was wrong; they
asked me who was at Campobello.”
“Indeed!”
“But you may be sure I didn’t give myself away. I was awfully broken
up,” he concluded inconsequently.
She liked his being broken up, but she did not like the rest. She would
not press the question further now. She only said rather gravely, “If
it’s such a short acquaintance, can you write to them in that familiar
way?”
“Oh yes! Mrs. Frobisher is one of that kind.”
Alice was silent a moment before she said, “I think you’d better not
write. Let it go,” she sighed.
“Yes, that’s what I think,” said Dan. “Better let it go. I guess it
will explain itself in the course of time. But I don’t want any blots
around.” He leaned over and looked her smilingly in the face.
“Oh no,” she murmured; and then suddenly she caught him round the neck,
crying and sobbing. “It’s only--because I wanted it to be--perfect. Oh,
I wonder if I’ve done right? Perhaps I oughtn’t to have taken you, after
all; but I do love you--dearly, dearly! And I was so unhappy when I’d
lost you. And now I’m afraid I shall be a trial to you--nothing but a
trial.”
The first tears that a young man sees a woman shed for love of him are
inexpressibly sweeter than her smiles. Dan choked with tender pride and
pity. When he found his voice, he raved out with incoherent endearments
that she only made him more and more happy by her wish to have the
affair perfect, and that he wished her always to be exacting with him,
for that would give him a chance to do something for her, and all that
he desired, as long as he lived, was to do just what she wished.
At the end of his vows and entreaties, she lifted her face radiantly,
and bent a smile upon him as sunny as that with which the sky after a
summer storm denies that there has ever been rain in the world.
“Ah! you--” He could say no more. He could not be more enraptured than
he was. He could only pass from surprise to surprise, from delight to
delight. It was her love of him which wrought these miracles. It was all
a miracle, and no part more wonderful than another. That she, who had
seemed as distant as a star, and divinely sacred from human touch,
should be there in his arms, with her head on his shoulder, where his
kiss could reach her lips, not only unforbidden, but eagerly welcome,
was impossible, and yet it was true.. But it was no more impossible and
no truer, than that a being so poised, so perfectly self-centred as she,
should already be so helplessly dependent upon him for her happiness. In
the depths of his soul he invoked awful penalties upon himself if ever
he should betray her trust, if ever he should grieve that tender heart
in the slightest thing, if from that moment he did not make his whole
life a sacrifice and an expiation.
He uttered some of these exalted thoughts, and they did not seem to
appear crazy to her. She said yes, they must make their separate lives
offerings to each other, and their joint lives an offering to God. The
tears came into his eyes at these words of hers: they were so beautiful
and holy and wise. He agreed that one ought always to go to church,
and that now he should never miss a service. He owned that he had
been culpable in the past. He drew her closer to him--if that were
possible--and sealed his words with a kiss.
But he could not realise his happiness then, or afterward, when he
walked the streets under the thinly misted moon of that Indian summer
night.
He went down to the Events office when he left Alice, and found
Boardman, and told him that he was engaged, and tried to work Boardman
up to some sense of the greatness of the fact. Boardman shoved his fine
white teeth under his spare moustache, and made acceptable jokes, but
he did not ask indiscreet questions, and Dan’s statement of the fact did
not seem to give it any more verity than it had before. He tried to get
Boardman to come and walk with him and talk it over; but Boardman said
he had just been detailed to go and work up the case of a Chinaman who
had suicided a little earlier in the evening.
“Very well, then; I’ll go with you,” said Mavering. “How can you live
in such a den as this?” he asked, looking about the little room before
Boardman turned down his incandescent electric. “There isn’t anything
big enough to hold me but all outdoors.”
In the street he linked his arm through his friend’s, and said he felt
that he had a right to know all about the happy ending of the affair,
since he had been told of that miserable phase of it at Portland. But
when he came to the facts he found himself unable to give them with the
fulness he had promised. He only imparted a succinct statement as to the
where and when of the whole matter, leaving the how of it untold.
The sketch was apparently enough for Boardman. For all comment, he
reminded Mavering that he had told him at Portland it would come out all
right.
“Yes, you did, Boardman; that’s a fact,” said Dan; and he conceived a
higher respect for the penetration of Boardman than he had before.
They stopped at a door in a poor court which they had somehow reached
without Mavering’s privity. “Will you come in?” asked Boardman.
“What for?”
“Chinaman.”
“Chinaman?” Then Mavering remembered. “Good heavens! no. What have I got
to do with him?”
“Both mortal,” suggested the reporter.
The absurdity of this idea, though a little grisly, struck Dan as a good
joke. He hit the companionable Boardman on the shoulder, and then gave
him a little hug, and remounted his path of air, and walked off in it.
XXVII.
Mavering first woke in the morning with the mechanical recurrence of
that shame and grief which each day had brought him since Alice refused
him. Then with a leap of the heart came the recollection of all that
had happened yesterday. Yet lurking within his rapture was a mystery
of regret: a reasonless sense of loss, as if the old feeling had been
something he would have kept. Then this faded, and he had only the
longing to see her, to realise in her presence and with her help the
fact that she was his. An unspeakable pride filled him, and a joy in
her love. He tried to see some outward vision of his bliss in the glass;
but, like the mirror which had refused to interpret his tragedy in the
Portland restaurant, it gave back no image of his transport: his face
looked as it always did, and he and the refection laughed at each other:
He asked himself how soon he could go and see her. It was now seven
o’clock: eight would be too early, of course--it would be ridiculous;
and nine--he wondered if he might go to see her at nine. Would they have
done breakfast? Had he any right to call before ten? He was miserable at
the thought of waiting till ten: it would be three hours. He thought of
pretexts--of inviting her to go somewhere, but that was absurd, for he
could see her at home all day if he liked; of carrying her a book, but
there could be no such haste about a book; of going to ask if he had
left his cane, but why should he be in such a hurry for his cane? All at
once he thought he could take her some flowers--a bouquet to lay beside
her plate at breakfast. He dramatised himself charging the servant who
should take it from him at the door not to say who left it; but Alice
would know, of course, and they would all know; it would be very pretty.
He made Mrs. Pasmer say some flattering things of him; and he made Alice
blush deliciously to hear them. He could not manage Mr. Pasmer very
well, and he left him out of the scene: he imagined him shaving in
another room; then he remembered his wearing a full beard.
He dressed himself as quickly as he could, and went down into the hotel
vestibule, where he had noticed people selling flowers the evening
before, but there was no one there with them now, and none of the
florists’ shops on the street were open yet. He could not find anything
till he went to the Providence Depot, and the man there had to take some
of his yesterday’s flowers out of the refrigerator where he kept them;
he was not sure they would be very fresh; but the heavy rosebuds had
fallen open, and they were superb. Dan took all there were, and when
they had been sprinkled with water, and wrapped in cotton batting, and
tied round with paper, it was still only quarter of eight, and he
left them with the man till he could get his breakfast at the Depot
restaurant. There it had a consoling effect of not being so early; many
people were already breakfasting, and when Dan said, with his order,
“Hurry it up, please,” he knew that he was taken for a passenger just
arrived or departing. By a fantastic impulse he ordered eggs and bacon
again; he felt, it a fine derision of the past and a seal of triumph
upon the present to have the same breakfast after his acceptance as he
had ordered after his rejection; he would tell Alice about it, and it
would amuse her. He imagined how he would say it, and she would laugh;
but she would be full of a ravishing compassion for his past suffering.
They were long bringing the breakfast; when it came he despatched it so
quickly that it was only half after eight when he paid his check at the
counter. He tried to be five minutes more getting his flowers, but the
man had them all ready for him, and it did not take him ten seconds. He
had said he would carry them at half-past nine; but thinking it over
on a bench in the Garden, he decided that he had better go sooner; they
might breakfast earlier, and there would be no fun if Alice did not find
the roses beside her plate: that was the whole idea. It was not till he
stood at the door of the Pasmer apartment that he reflected that he was
not accomplishing his wish to see Alice by leaving her those flowers; he
was a fool, for now he would have to postpone coming a little, because
he had already come.
The girl who answered the bell did not understand the charge he gave her
about the roses, and he repeated his words. Some one passing through
the room beyond seemed to hesitate and pause at the sound of his voice.
Could it be Alice? Then he should see her, after all! The girl looked
over her shoulder, and said, “Mrs. Pasmer.”
Mrs. Pasmer came forward, and he fell into a complicated explanation and
apology. At the end she said, “You had better give them yourself. She
will be here directly.” They were in the room now, and Mrs. Pasmer made
the time pass in rapid talk; but Dan felt that he ought to apologise
from time to time. “No!” she said, letting herself go. “Stay and
breakfast with us, Mr. Mavering. We shall be so glad to have you.”
At last Alice came in, and they decorously shook hands. Mrs. Pasmer
turned away a smile at their decorum. “I will see that there’s a place
for you,” she said, leaving them.
They were instantly in each other’s arms. It seemed to him that all this
had happened because he had so strongly wished it.
“What is it, Dan? What did you come for?” she asked.
“To see if it was really true, Alice. I couldn’t believe it.”
“Well--let me go--you mustn’t--it’s too silly. Of course it’s true.”
 She pulled herself free. “Is my hair tumbled? You oughtn’t to have come;
it’s ridiculous; but I’m glad you came. I’ve been thinking it all over,
and I’ve got a great many things to say to you. But come to breakfast
now.”
She had a business-like way of treating the situation that was more
intoxicating than sentiment would have been, and gave it more actuality.
Mrs. Pasmer was alone at the table, and explained that Alice’s father
never breakfasted with them, or very seldom. “Where are your flowers?”
 she asked Alice.
“Flowers? What flowers?”
“That Mr. Mavering brought.”
They all looked at one another. Dan ran out and brought in his roses.
“They were trying to get away in the excitement, I guess, Mrs. Pasmer;
I found them behind the door.” He had flung them there, without knowing
it, when Mrs. Pasmer left him with Alice.
He expected her to join him and her mother in being amused at this, but
he was as well pleased to have her touched at his having brought them,
and to turn their gaiety off in praise of the roses. She got a vase for
them, and set it on the table. He noticed for the first time the pretty
house-dress she had on, with its barred corsage and under-skirt, and the
heavy silken rope knotted round it at the waist, and dropping in heavy
tufts or balls in front.
The breakfast was Continental in its simplicity, and Mrs. Pasmer said
that they had always kept up their Paris habit of a light breakfast,
even in London, where it was not so easy to follow foreign customs as it
was in America. She was afraid he might find it too light. Then he told
all about his morning’s adventure, ending with his breakfast at the
Providence Depot. Mrs. Pasmer entered into the fun of it, but she said
it was for only once in a way, and he must not expect to be let in if
he came at that hour another morning. He said no; he understood what an
extraordinary piece of luck it was for him to be there; and he was there
to be bidden to do whatever they wished. He said so much in recognition
of their goodness, that he became abashed by it. Mrs. Pasmer sat at the
head of the table, and Alice across it from him, so far off that she
seemed parted from him by an insuperable moral distance. A warm flush
seemed to rise from his heart into his throat and stifle him. He wished
to shed tears. His eyes were wet with grateful happiness in answering
Mrs. Pasmer that he would not have any more coffee. “Then,” she said,
“we will go into the drawing-room;” but she allowed him and Alice to go
alone.
He was still in that illusion of awe and of distance, and he submitted
to the interposition of another table between their chairs.
“I wish to talk with you,” she said, so seriously that he was
frightened, and said to himself: “Now she is going to break it off. She
has thought it over, and she finds she can’t endure me.”
“Well?” he said huskily.
“You oughtn’t to have come here, you know, this morning.”
“I know it,” he vaguely conceded. “But I didn’t expect to get in.”
“Well, now you’re here, we may as well talk. You must tell your family
at once.”
“Yes; I’m going to write to them as soon as I get back to my room. I
couldn’t last night.”
“But you mustn’t write; you must go--and prepare their minds.”
“Go?” he echoed. “Oh, that isn’t necessary! My father knew about it from
the beginning, and I guess they’ve all talked it over. Their minds
are prepared.” The sense of his immeasurable superiority to any one’s
opposition began to dissipate Dan’s unnatural awe; at the pleading face
which Alice put on, resting one cheek against the back of one of her
clasped hands, and leaning on the table with her elbows, he began to be
teased by that silken rope round her waist.
“But you don’t understand, dear,” she said; and she said “dear” as if
they were old married people. “You must go to see them, and tell them;
