For a moment she stared at her father, her lips still moving, her small
hands clenched, then, exhausted by the vehemence of her speech, she sank
back again into the chair which she had vacated.
"No, Eden, not that," her father answered; but he spoke despondently,
with the air of a man battling against a stream, and conscious of the
futility of the effort. "No, not that; you misunderstand. I mean this:
you have confounded suspicion with proof. Whoever this woman is,
Usselex's relations with her may be irreproachable. Mind you, I don't
say they are; I say they may be. I will question him, and he will answer
truthfully."
"Truthfully? You expect him to answer truthfully. In him nothing is
true, not even his lies."
"Eden, I will question him. If it is as you expect, he will tell me and
you will forgive."
"Forgive? yes, it is easy to forgive, but forget, never! Besides, he
will not tell the truth; he will deceive you, as he has deceived me."
"No, Eden," Mr. Menemon answered, "you are wrong." For a moment he
hesitated and glanced at her. "I suppose," he continued, "I may tell you
now. Perhaps it will help to strengthen your confidence."
Again he hesitated; but presently something of his former serenity
seemed to return. "H'm," he went on, "it's a long story and an odd one.
Previous to your engagement, Meredith was here. I wish, instead of lying
across the square in a coffin, he could be here now. However, he came to
see me one day. I happened to mention Usselex's name, and he told me
certain rumors about him. The next afternoon I went to Usselex on the
subject. 'I have already written to you on the matter,' he said; and
sure enough, when I got back here, I found the letter waiting. Would you
like to see it?"
Eden tossed her head. What had the letter to do with her?
"I will read it to you, then."
Mr. Menemon left his chair, went to a safe that stood in a corner,
unlocked it, and after a fumble of a moment, drew out a manuscript,
which he unfolded, and then resumed his former seat.
"It is not very long," he said, apologetically, and he was about to
begin to read it aloud when Eden interrupted him.
"Tell me what is in it, if you must!" she exclaimed; "but spare me his
phrases."
She had risen again and was moving restlessly about the room. Her father
coughed in sheer despair.
"Well, I will tell it to you," he said. "But Eden, do sit down. Do wait
at least until I can give you the gist of what he wrote."
"Go on; go on. Nothing matters now."
Hesitatingly and unencouraged, half to his daughter, and half to some
invisible schoolmaster, whose lesson he might have learned by rote, Mr.
Menemon fluttered the letter and sought some prefatory word.
"You see, Eden," he began, "this was sent me just before he spoke to
you, and just after he had acquainted me of his intentions. You
understand that, do you not?"
"Go on," she repeated.
"Well, from what I had heard, and what he practically substantiates
here, Usselex is a trifle out of the common run. His earliest
recollections are of Cornwall, some manufacturing town there; let me
see--" and the old man fumbled with the letter and with his glasses.
"Yes, yes; Market Dipborough, to be sure. Well, he was brought up there
by his mother, who was of Swiss extraction, and by his father, who was
at the head of a large shoe factory. I say his father and mother;
but--However, he was brought up there. Well, to make a long story short,
it appears that he was given a very good education; his people evidently
were people of some means, and it was expected that he would study for
the bar. He was put at some public school or other, the name is
immaterial, and when he was on the point of entering Oxford, the Swiss
lady or her husband, I forget which--at any rate, somebody died. Do you
follow me, Eden? Well, he then learned that instead of being the son of
the people by whom he had been brought up, he was not their son at all.
And now comes the curious part of it. It seems that the Swiss lady had
been, in years gone by, companion or governess, or something of that
sort, to the Grand-Duchess Thyra of Gothland, who, as you know, became
the wife of the King of Suabia. She died, by the way, a year or two ago.
However, the Swiss lady was her companion or something of the kind, and
in consequence was placed in close relations with her. In fact, she was,
I suppose, what you might call a confidante. In any event, the
Grand-Duchess happened to have for music-teacher a good-looking young
German who took her fancy. The result of it all was that the Swiss lady
agreed to pretend that the offspring was her own, and was handsomely
rewarded for her pains. She left Gothland with the child, and it was not
until she died that Usselex learned that instead of being her son, he
was grandson of the Emperor. He had the bar-sinister, of course, but the
ancestry was there all the same. I don't know that I or any other man
would envy him it; but perhaps it is better than none. However, as soon
as Usselex learned the facts, he packed up and came over here. Now you
have that part of his existence in a nutshell. What do you say to it?"
And Mr. Menemon coughed again, and glanced inquiringly at his daughter.
"I say he is so base I might have known he was of royal blood."
"Eden, you are singularly unjust."
"But what does his birth matter to me?" she cried. "It was not for the
presence or absence of forefathers that I put my hand in his. It was for
the man himself, for what he seemed to me, and when I find that I have
been mistaken in him, when in return for my love I get deceit, when he
leaves me for another woman, and has the infamy to ask me to receive
that woman, then I say, that whether he be the son of a serf or the son
of a king, our ways divide--"
"Eden--"
"Yes, our ways divide."
Urged by her irritation, she still paced the room, graceful as a leopard
is, and every whit as unconstrained. But now, abruptly she halted before
a portrait that hung from the wall. For a moment she gazed at it, then
pointing to it with arm outstretched, she turned.
"Tell me," she asked, her sultry eyes flashing with vistas of victory.
"Tell me how my mother would have acted, had such an indignity been put
on her. Tell me," she repeated, "and through your knowledge of her, so
will I act. Yes," she added, and then paused, amazed at the expression
of her father's face. It was as though some unseen hand had stabbed him
from behind. The mouth twitched in the contraction of sudden pain, the
nostrils quivered, and he bowed his head; then, his eyes lowered and
turned from her, he answered in a voice that trembled just a little and
yet was perfectly distinct:
"It was such a thing as this that marred your mother's life; let it not
mar your own."
For the moment Eden could not credit her hearing. The words seemed
meaningless. She had caught them in a crescendo of stupor. "It is
impossible," she murmured. She stared at her father, her eyes dilated,
her heart throbbing, and every sense alert. "It is impossible," she
repeated, beneath her breath. And as she stared, her father's attitude
accentuated the words, reiterating that the avowal which had been wrung
from him was not the impossible, but the truth. No, there was no
mistake. She had heard aright, and presently, as the understanding of it
reached her, she moved back and away from him. For the first time that
day the tears came to her eyes. "I have drunk of shame," she sobbed;
"now let me drink of death."
IX.
For some time father and daughter were silent. Eden suppressed her sob,
and Mr. Menemon fidgeted nervously in his chair. The funeral across the
way, he told himself, would be gayer than this, and for the moment he
regretted that he had not taken time by its bang and gone to other
lands. Grief was always distressing to him, and the grief of his
daughter was torment. The idea that Usselex had been derelict, he put
from him. He had an interpretation of his own for the incidents on which
he had been called to sit in judgment. Trivialities such as they left
him unaffected. His enervation came of an inability to cope with Eden.
She treated an argument like a cobweb. And besides, had he not in a
spasm of discouragement disclosed a secret which for two decades he had
kept close-locked and secure?
Truly, if Eden had come to him with a valid complaint, he would have
taken arms in an instant. He was by no means one to suffer a child of
his to be treated with contumely. The bit of lignum vitæ which served
him for a heart was all in all for her. A real grievance would have
enraged him more than anyone else. In spite of his apparent indifference
there was much of the she-wolf in his nature. He would have fought for
Eden, he would have growled over her, and shown his false teeth at any
assailant that might happen that way. But of danger there was not a
trace. Listen as he might he could not catch the faintest rumor of
advancing foes. And because she had met her husband in the street,
because a woman had stared at her and some idiotic note had come into
her hands, high-noon must change to night, and laughter into tears.
"She is her mother all over again," the old gentleman muttered. And in
his discomfiture he regretted the funeral, the confidence that he had
made, and fidgeted nervously in his chair.
And as he fidgeted, glancing obliquely the while at his daughter, and
engrossed in the torturing pursuit of some plea that should show her she
erred, and bring her to her senses again, Eden's earlier griefs crackled
like last year's leaves. In this new revelation they seemed dead indeed.
Of her mother she had not the faintest recollection; but there had been
moments when a breath, a perfume, something which she had just read, a
sudden strain, the intoning of a litany, an interior harmony perhaps, or
an emotion, had brought to her a whisper, the sound of her own name; and
with it for one second would come the shadowy reminiscence of an
anterior caress. For a second only would it remain with her, departing
as abruptly as it had come, but leaving her to stroll for hours
thereafter through lands where dreams come true. And at such times she
was wont to feel that could she but clutch that fleeting second and
detain it long enough to catch one further glimpse of the past, the key
of memory would be in it, and the past unlocked. But that second was
never to be detained; it was from her father only that she was able to
learn something of that which was nearest to her heart, and again and
again she had sat with him listening to anecdotes, absorbing repetitions
and familiar details with a renascent interest and a delight that no
other chronicles could arouse. On the subject of her mother she had
indeed been insatiable; she had wished to know everything, even to the
gowns she preferred and the manner in which she had arranged her hair;
and her father had taken evident pleasure in telling of one who had been
wife to him and mother to her, and whose life she now learned for the
first time he had marred.
Mr. Menemon meanwhile was still in pursuit of the plea; but nothing of
any cogency presented itself. In truth he had builded better than he
knew. Anger burns itself out; already its force was spent, and the
revelation he had made had affected his daughter like a douche. In his
ignorance, however, the safest and surest course that occurred to him
was to hold his tongue, send for Usselex, and leave him to settle the
matter as best he might. This course he was about to adopt, and he got
out some paper preparatory to wording the message when a servant
appeared with a card on a tray.
He picked it up, glanced at it, and then over at his daughter. She was
still leaning against the book-case, her back was turned, and her face
hidden in her arms. It seemed probable to him that she was unaware of
the servant's presence.
"Very good," he murmured, and motioned the man away. Again he glanced at
his daughter, but she had not moved, and noiselessly, that he might not
disturb her, he left the room.
Eden indeed had heard nothing. The revelation had been benumbing in its
unexpectedness, and as she leaned against the book-case, an immense pity
enveloped her, and she forgot her sorrow and herself. Her own distress
was trivial perhaps in comparison to what her mother had suffered, and
yet surely her father had repented. As she entered the house had she not
told herself that for twenty years he had been faithful to a memory. So
far back as she could remember, she had seen him compassionate of
others, striving, it may be, through the exercise of indulgence to earn
some little of it for himself. And should she refuse it now? He had
grieved; the stamp of it was on his face. She needed no one to remind
her of that, and that grief perhaps had effaced the fault. And if his
fault was effaceable, might not her husband's be effaceable as well? If
he would but come to her and let her feel that this misstep was one that
he regretted, she might yet forgive. It was as good to forgive as it was
to forget; and how beautiful the future still might be!
The indignation which had glowed so fiercely subsided; one by one the
sparks turned grey; the last one wavered a little and then disappeared.
She turned, her sultry eyes still wet, to where her father had sat. And
as she turned Mr. Menemon reëntered the room. She made no effort to
account for his absence; she was all in all in her present idea, and
she went forward to him at once.
"Did she forgive you?" she asked.
"Who?"
"My mother."
Mr. Menemon made no answer, but his face spoke for him.
"Then I will," she cried, and wound her arms about his neck. "I will
forgive you for her."
"There is another whom you must forgive as well," he answered, gently.
"But you assured me he had done no wrong."
"Nor has he, I think." He hesitated a second. "Come down-stairs," he
added; "we can discuss it better there." And taking her hand in his he
led her from the room.
On reaching the parlor below, he drew the portière aside that she might
pass, and then, as they say in France, he eclipsed himself. Eden entered
unattended. Her father, she supposed, was following her, and she was
about to address some remark to him, when before her, in the dim light
of twin candelabras, she perceived her husband.
Usselex was standing bolt upright, in the position of one who has come
not to render accounts, but to demand them. In his attitude there was
nothing of the repentant sinner, and at sight of him Eden felt herself
tricked. She turned in search of her father, but he had gone. Then,
seeing herself deserted, and yet disdaining retreat, she summoned the
princess air which was ever at her bidding, and crossed the room.
"Why have you left the house?" he began, abruptly.
To this Eden made no answer. She lowered the yellow shade of one candle
and busied herself with another.
"Why did you leave me last night?" he continued. And as she made no
reply, "Why," he asked, "why are you here?"
But still she was silent. To his questions she was dumb. It was as
though she had shut some door between him and her.
"Will you not speak?" he muttered.
And then, for the first time, she looked up at him, measuring him as it
were with one chill glance from head to heel. "If I remember rightly,"
she said, from the tips of her lips, "you left me for your mistress."
"It is false----" Usselex exclaimed. Presumably he was about to make
further protest, but the portière was drawn aside and he was
interrupted.
X.
As it afterwards appeared, Dugald Maule, on leaving the Usselex house
the preceding evening, had gone directly to the Assembly. On arriving,
he went up through the ferns to the vestiary, left his coat and hat, and
while putting on his gloves, gazed down from the balcony which Lander
occupies to the ball-room below.
A quadrille was in progress; a stream of willowy girls, fresh for the
better part, well-dressed and exceptionally plain, were moving about the
floor. They seemed serene and stupid, chattering amiably through pauses
of the dance; and beneath, on the dais, Maule divined the presence of
Mrs. Manhattan, Mrs. Hackensack, Mrs. Bouvery, the Coenties, and other
ladies of maturer years. He was sure they were smiling and fanning
themselves. They always were. And presently, when his gloves were
buttoned, he fell to wondering what he was doing there. The incidents of
the evening had supplied him with a quantum of thought which he had no
desire to dispense in platitude. He was not at all in a mood to mingle
with those whose chiefest ambition was to be ornate. In another minute
he recovered his coat, and to the surprise of the door-keeper went down
through the ferns again. In the memory of man no one before had ever
come to a subscription-ball and deserted it two minutes later. He must
be ill, Johnson reflected, and went on collecting tickets.
Maule, however, was not in any sense indisposed, and as evidence of it
he walked far up Fifth Avenue, and on through the outskirts of the Park.
It was his intention, self-avowed and dominant, that he would come to
some decision in regard to Eden before that walk was done.
Like many another before and since, he found his brain most active when
his legs were in motion. In working up a case for a client, many a time
during an entire day he had reviewed dust-bound books of yellow hue, but
the one point, the clinching argument that was to arrest attention and
win the cause, came to him in the exhilaration of the open air. The
inspiration that was to coördinate conflicting data rarely visited him
at his desk. It was in the fatigue of the flesh that his mind became
clairvoyant. It was then that he found the logic for his brief. And on
this particular evening, as he strode along he kept telling himself that
in all his practice there had been nothing to him as important as this.
It was his own case that he was preparing; and did it result in failure,
how could he venture to undertake one in which the interest would be
feigned and the recompense coin? If he could not plead his own case and
win, then might he take his shingle down.
The facts, such, at least, as they appeared to him, were evangelical in
their simplicity. Here was a girl who had given him her heart's first
love, a girl who had exalted him into an ideal, and then, suspecting
him of infidelity to her, had married the next comer out of pique. No
sooner did he have a chance of exchanging speech with her than she
confessed that she hated her husband.
"Now," he reflected, "when a woman takes a man sufficiently into her
confidence to admit that she hates her husband, that admission is
tantamount to an avowal of love for him. Such admission she has made to
me. Nothing conceivable could have been more explicit than her words."
And at the memory of them he nodded sagaciously to himself. "No other
girl," he continued, "no other in all the world, is as desirable as she.
St. Denis would have hypothecated his aureole to possess her. As I sat
with her to-night I felt mediæval from ears to heel. If our age were a
century or two younger I would have carried her off to a crenelated
castle, let down the draw-bridge, and defied the law. But my apartment
in the Cumberland is hardly a donjon; a hansom is not a vehicle suited
to an elopement; Lochinvar is out of fashion; and besides, she would not
have gone. No, she would not have gone; so the other objections are
immaterial. But then, there are girls who will not go at the asking, but
who will come without instigation. And Eden, I take it, is one of them.
It was six months before she would so much as let me touch the tips of
her fingers; she was afraid of a kiss as of a bee; and at the very
moment when I had given her up she threw herself in my arms: it is true,
she never repeated the performance, which was a pity; though had it not
been for that little affair of mine, we should in all probability be man
and wife to-night. After all, it is for the best, I suppose." And again
he nodded sagaciously.
"Yes," he repeated, "it is for the best. Someone--Shakspere, Martin
Luther, Tupper, or Chauncey Depew--said that there were some good
marriages, but none that were delicious; and I daresay that whoever said
it was right. Yes, certainly it is for the best. It may be sweet and
decorous, as I used to write in my copy-book, to die for one's native
land; but I will be shot if it is sweet and decorous to marry for it.
And practically that is what it amounts to. Men marry for the sake of
others, rarely for their own, and as for women, whatever their reasons
may be, plaudite sed cavite, cives! Eden, I am positive, married out
of pique. It is nonsense to think that she could have any large
affection for a man twice her age; and now that she is not only tired of
him, but hates him to boot, he ought to be gentlemanly enough not to
play the dog in the manger. No, it isn't that. I will admit that he is
well enough in his way, provided that way is out of mine. The difficulty
is that he doesn't seem to keep out of hers. Major premiss,
then--Eden-hates Usselex. Minor premiss--Usselex keeps her from me.
Ergo. Eliminate Usselex, and she is mine. The logic of that is
admirable; the only fault with it is that it doesn't give a hint as to
the manner in which Usselex is to be eliminated. He may eliminate
himself, it is true; but that is a possibility that it is hardly worth
while to count on. And, meanwhile, I know Eden well enough to be aware
that until he does she will decline to listen to me."
Maule had reached the upper part of the Avenue. The night was chill and
clear as our December nights are apt to be. There was a foretaste of
snow in the air, and in that foretaste a tonic. And suddenly the
cathedral loomed, huge, yet unsteepled, as though the designers had lost
heart in its carcass and faith as well. The sky seemed remote and
unneighborly. In the background the moon glinted in derision, and
directly overhead was a splatter of callous stars.
The scene did not divert the channel of his thoughts. He walked steadily
on, leaving behind him the dogma that time had fossilized and man had
forgot. He was indifferent to creeds. The apathy of the stars told him
nothing of worlds to which our own is unknown. In the derision of the
moon he did not see the sneer of a sphere that is dead. The foretaste of
snow in the air brought him no memory of the summer that had gone, and
when he reached the park the leafless trees that spring would regarment
left him unimpressed. The identity of birth and death, the aimlessness
of all we undertake, were matters to which he had never given a thought.
And had the beggar who presently accosted him been a thinker capable of
explaining that life is an exhalation, that we respire, aspire, and
expire, unconscious as is the tree of the futility of it all, Dugald
Maule would have dismissed him with the same indifferent shrug. He was
instinct with aims that end with self. His mind was centered on Eden,
and until he solved the problem she had suggested, he had no thought of
time that life devours or of time that devours life.
And as he tried to devise some form of campaign, suddenly he was visited
by an idea which he grasped and detained. It was, that if Eden hated her
husband a cause for that hatred must exist, and could he but discover it
he would then have something tangible wherewith to work. Certainly, he
told himself, it could not be money; nor did Usselex look like a man
that drank. "I wonder," he mused, "whether it can be that he treats her
badly. H'm. I know very little about Usselex. He may be Chesterfield one
hour and Sykes the next. There are plenty of men of that stamp. If he
is, that poor little thing deserves consolation. No, it can hardly be
that--Eden is too high-spirited to submit to brutality. She would leave
him at once, and everyone would approve. Whereas, if Usselex has got
himself entangled by some woman, Eden, out of sheer pride, would remain
where she is. Nothing can be more galling than the pity which is
manifested for a woman whose husband disports himself abroad. It is
shameful, the world says; and inwardly the world thinks, when a woman
wins a man and fails to hold him, the fault is not his, but hers. Eden
understands that, of course, and if there is a woman in the matter, that
is the reason why she continues to reside on the sunnyside of Fifth
Avenue. But then, it may not be that. I may be miles away. Though if it
is, nothing could be more favorable. It would be becoming of Eden to
keep her misfortune to herself, but it would be unwomanly on her part
not to desire revenge; and what better revenge could she have against
the man whom she married out of pique than in the arms of the man by
whom that pique was excited? But, bah! All this is pure conjecture. I
haven't a fact to go on. I know little or nothing of Usselex, and I
doubt very much whether Eden would be willing to supply me with any
information. The only thing for me to do is to cull a few facts, season
them to suit her taste, and serve hot. At this stage a false step would
be fatal. I must be careful of my cookery. To-morrow, in the absence of
facts, I will see what I can do in the way of condiments; et alors, en
route pour Cythère."
So mused Mr. Maule; then, having reached the end of his tether, he
turned back again in the direction of his home.
The next morning, however, the plan of campaign which he had been
devising was not a whit more tangible to him than it had been during his
midnight stroll. He drank some coffee hopefully, and tried to lose
himself in a damp copy of the Times. But in vain. The coffee brought
him no comfort, and through the columns of the paper came the sultriness
of Eden's eyes. The obituary of a famous general failed to detain his
attention. The intelligence that an emperor was moribund lent no zest
to the day. Mechanically his eyes scanned the Court Calendar; a case in
which he was to appear was numbered therein, but he let it pass
unnoticed. And presently, finding himself occupied in memorizing the
advertisement of a new soap, he tossed the paper from him and started on
his way down town.
It was late when he reached his office. In the corner of the room a fat
little man sat patiently twirling his thumbs, and on a desk were a
number of letters.
"What do you want?" Maule asked. His voice was gruff and inhospitable.
The fat little man started, and then fumbled in a pocket. "Dere was dot
morhgige----" he began.
"Come again, then," Maule interrupted; "I am busy."
"Dot morhgige--" the little man persisted.
"Go to hell with your mortgage," Maule shouted, and slammed a door in
his face.
This rite accomplished, he felt better. The brutality which he had
displayed to the corpulent dwarf pleasured him. He only regretted that
the man had not insisted further, that he might have kicked him down
the stairs. What was a mortgage to him, forsooth, when he had Eden for a
goal? The episode, trivial though it was, had stirred his pulse and left
the effect of a tonic. He smiled, and opened his letters. As he read
them his clerk appeared. With him he consulted for a minute and then
started for court. On his return there was the little fat man again, and
beating a tatoo on the window was Reginald Maule, ex-Minister to France.
"Well, Uncle Regy," he exclaimed, "how are you? Mr. Driscoll," he called
out to the clerk, "attend to that Dutch beast, will you? Uncle Regy,
step this way."
He led Mr. Maule into the inner office and graciously accepted a cigar.
He was in great good-humor again. While in court a luminous idea had
visited him, a plan of campaign which he proposed to elaborate at his
ease. It was alluring as spring, and instinct with promises of success.
Already he roamed in dreams forecast.
"Dugald," the uncle began, "I did not see you at the Matriarch's, last
night."
Until recently Maule had not seen his uncle for several years. But
during these years the uncle had not changed. He had the same agreeable
manner, the same way of seating himself, the same sarcastic fold about
his lips which Maule remembered of old. Even the cut of his waistcoat
was unaltered. Apparently nothing had happened to him; he had contented
himself with continuing to be.
"No," the nephew answered, and flicked the ashes from his cigar. "No,
something else turned up and----"
"Exactly. If I had met you there I should not have come here. Now, I
want a word with you in regard to the estate. Are you busy?" And the
ex-Minister settled himself in his chair with the air of a man confident
that, whatever else might demand attention, his own affairs would take
precedence.
Thereupon, for some little time, nephew and uncle discussed matters of
personal and common interest; and when at last these matters had been
satisfactorily determined, the afternoon had begun to wane. At last the
ex-Minister stood up to go.
"By the way," he said, his hand on the door, "who was it that Petrus
Menemon's daughter married? I looked for her last night. When I saw her
at the opera I could have sworn it was her mother. Same type, same eyes,
same carriage of the head. She made me feel twenty years younger, I give
you my word she did."
"She is pretty," Maule answered, negligently.
"Pretty? She is more intoxicating than the dream of a fallen angel. She
is better looking than her mother. Hum, hum. You don't see such women in
France. What did you say her name is?"
"She married a man named Usselex."
"Usselex? What Usselex?"
"What Usselex I can't tell you. But there seems to be only one, and she
caught him. He has more money than Incoul, Jerolomon, and Bleecker
Bleecker put together."
"You don't mean John Usselex, the banker?"
"Oh, but I do, though."
The ex-Minister opened the door and looked out into the outer room,
then, assured that no one was listening, he resumed his former seat,
crossed his legs, and meditatively beat his knee. In his face was an
expression which a psychologist would have admired, a commingling of the
vatic and the amused, accentuated by sarcasm.
"Well, what of it?" Maule asked shortly, perplexed at the mummery.
The ex-Minister leaned forward and for four or five minutes addressed
his nephew in a monotone. As he spoke Maule's perplexity changed to
surprise, then to bewilderment, and ultimately into jubilation. "Are you
positive of this?" he exclaimed. "Tell me that you are. You must be
positive!"
"I give you the facts--"
"I am off, then;" and he sprang from his seat. "I haven't a minute to
lose," he added; and taking his uncle by the arm he led him from the
office.
In the outer room the corpulent dwarf still sat. "Dere was dot
morhgige--" he stammered.
"Accepted," Maule shouted, and turned to the clerk. "Look over the
papers, will you? If they are right, get a check ready. As for you, my
slim friend," he said to the German, "remember that business men have
business hours." And laughing as though he had said something
insultingly original, he hurried down the stairs, and jumping into a
hansom, he presently rolled up town.
In a trifle over half an hour he was at Eden's door. "There is no time
like the present," he told himself, as he rang the bell. But when, in
answer to his ring, a servant appeared, he learned that Eden was not at
home.
"Does Mrs. Usselex dine out, do you know?" Maule asked.
"I don't think Mrs. Usselex is coming back, sir," was the answer.
"You mean that Mrs. Usselex will not return until late, I suppose."
To this the man made no reply; he scratched the end of his nose
reflectively. In his face was an expression that arrested Maule's
attention.
"What do you mean?" he asked, a sudden suspicion entering his mind.
But still the man made no answer. He raised his arms, the elbows
crooked, and assumed the appearance of an idiot.
"It is worth five dollars," Maule continued. "Here they are;" and with
that he extended a bill of the nation, which the servant took, and then,
glancing over his shoulder, whispered:
"Mrs. Usselex has gone to her father's, sir. I distrust something's
hup."
"That man ought to be dismissed," Maule decided, as he hurried down the
steps. "I say, cabby," he called to the hansom; "Second Avenue and
Stuyvesant Square."
"Damn it all," he muttered, as he seated himself in the vehicle. "I am
afraid I am late for the ball."
It took the hansom but a few minutes to reach its destination, and
presently the door of Mr. Menemon's house was opened. As Maule entered
he caught the sound of Eden's voice. "I want to see Mrs. Usselex," he
said, and without waiting for a reply, he pushed the portière aside.
"It is false," he heard Usselex exclaim.
For a second Maule hesitated. He would have preferred to have found Eden
alone. Indeed, the possibility of encountering her husband had not
occurred to him; but he felt that it was too late to recede, and visited
by that prescience which comes to the alert, he divined that the blow
which he intended to strike must be struck then or never. He let the
portière fall, and taking his courage in both hands, he stepped forward.
As he did so, Eden, in annoyance at the intrusion, moved back, and
Usselex, with a query on his tongue, turned to him. But before the
latter could frame his words, Maule had spoken.
"Mr. Usselex," he said, with the air of one ventilating a conventional
platitude, "are you aware that a man who insults a woman is a coward?"
At this speech Eden's hands fluttered like falling leaves; she made as
would she speak, but Usselex motioned to her to be silent, and flicking
a speck of dust from his sleeve as though the speck represented the
reproof, he answered in a tone as conventional as Maule's. "And are you
aware, sir, that a man who permits himself to interfere between husband
and wife is--"
But whatever he may have intended to say, the sentence remained
unfinished. Maule did not wait for its completion. He advanced yet
nearer to where Usselex stood, he looked him in the face, and without
raising his voice, he said: "This lady, Mr. Usselex, is not your wife,
nor are you her husband." Then, turning to Eden, he added with the grace
of a knight-errant, "Miss Menemon, allow me to present my
congratulations."
The old legends tell of disputants ossified by one glance of Jove's
avenging stare; and when Maule made his melodramatic announcement, both
Usselex and Eden stood transfixed and motionless with surprise. Of the
little group Maule alone preserved any semblance of animation. The palms
of his hands were moist, and he felt unable to control one of the
muscles of his face. But his emotion was not apparent. Outwardly he was
perfectly self-possessed, and admonished by that instinct which at times
warns us that every trace of feeling should be disguised, he succeeded
in heightening the illusion by means of his moustache, to which he
proceeded to give a negligent twirl.
And as he twirled it Eden seemed to recover from her stupor. To her
face, which had been blanched, the color returned. In her eyes came a
gleam as from a reflection caught from without. Her lips moved, and she
glanced from accuser to accused. And as she glanced, dumb and
ineffectual of speech, Mr. Menemon crossed the room.
"What is it you say?" he asked.
It was evident at once that of the scene--which if long in the telling
had in reality not outlasted a moment--he had stood as witness.
"What is it you say?" he repeated.
"I say that this man is a bigamist." And as Maule spoke he tossed his
head as though inviting possible contradiction. "I say," he continued,
"that Mr. John Usselex has a wife living in Paris."
Mr. Menemon smoothed the back of his head reflectively. "Dear me!" he
said; "that may all be. I daresay there are hundreds of John Usselexes.
You don't expect them to remain bachelors because one of their name-sake
gets married, do you?" And with that he nodded and turned with a smile
to his daughter. "He can't expect that, Eden, can he?"
But Eden's eyes were fixed on Usselex. Her attention was wholly centered
in him. Seemingly her father's words were unheeded. And the old
gentleman turned again to Maule.
"What evidence have you that this John Usselex is the John Usselex of
whom you speak?" he asked; and with the hand with which he had smoothed
the back of his head, he now began to caress his chin.
But before Maule could answer, Eden caught her father by the arm. "His
face!" she whispered quickly. "You can see it in his face." She pointed
to him; in her eyes was conviction, and in her voice no tremor of doubt.
"Look at him," she cried; "it is he."
Usselex turned to her in a manner which to those present was
uninterpretable, then his eyes sought Mr. Menemon's, and finally he
lowered them to the ground. His attitude was tantamount to admission,
and as such Eden construed it.
"Thank God!" she exclaimed. "O God! I thank you. I am free." She still
clutched her father's arm, and Maule made a movement toward her.
"Yes," he said, as he did so, "yes, Miss Menemon----"
But before he could reach her, Usselex barred the way. "By what right,
sir--" he began, very firmly, but Eden interrupted him.
"I told you once that I thought Miss Bolten was interested in him. Let
me tell you now he is in love with me."
"Eden, Eden--" her father murmured, reprovingly. Into Usselex' face came
an expression that a demon might have envied. For a second he fronted
Maule, his hand clenched. Then the fingers loosened again. The demon was
transformed into a quiet, self-possessed man, that looked like a monk, a
trifle valetudinarian at that.
"Madam," he said, "when a woman speaks in that way to the man whose name
she bears, there is but one thing for him to do, and that is to
withdraw." He bowed, and without further comment left the room.
"I don't bear your name," Eden called after him, but he had gone. "I
don't bear your name; I throw it to the mud from which it sprang."
"And you are right, Miss Menemon," Maule echoed. "You are right to do
so." And again he moved to her.
"Don't touch me," the girl cried; she was trembling. Evidently the
excitement had been too much for her. "Don't touch me," she repeated;
and drawing from him as from a distasteful thing, she added, with a look
of scorn that an insulted princess might have exhibited: "Though you
have not a lackey's livery, you have a lackey's heart."
"Eden, I beg of you--" Mr. Menemon began. But the girl had turned her
back, and divining the uselessness of any admonition, the old gentleman
addressed himself to Maule. "You will permit me to say, sir," he
continued, "that whatever your motive may have been, and whatever
evidence you may have, your announcement might have been conveyed a
trifle less unceremoniously. I bid you good afternoon."
"But----"
"I bid you good afternoon."
Maule twirled his moustache for a second, and then, with a glance at
Eden, he too left the room.
Hardly had he gone, when Eden threw herself on a lounge. In her ears was
the roar of water displaced. The flooring turned from red to black. Then
all was still; she had fainted.
XI.
As Eden, through thunderclaps, and zig-zagged flames of light, groped
back to consciousness again, it was with the intuition that some
calamity was waiting to greet her. Into the depths of her being, a voice
which refused to be hushed had been whispering, "Come." And Eden,
clinging to the fringes of night, strove to still the call. But the
phantom of things that were persisted and overcame her; it loomed
abruptly, with arms outstretched, forcing her against her will, to
reason with that in which no reason was.
For the moment she was benumbed, out-wearied with effort and enervated
by the strain and depletion of force. She wished herself unconscious
again, and looked back into the absence of sentiency from which she had
issued, as a pilgrim reëntering the desert may recall the groves of
Mekka and the silence of the Khabian tomb. It had been less a swoon to
her than a foretaste of peace, the antithesis of life compressed into a
second; and she longed for a repetition of the sudden suffocation of its
embrace. But memory had got its baton back, and the incidents of the
hour trooped before her gaze. She could not be free of them; they beat
at her heart, filling her thoughts to fulfillment itself. In their
onslaught they brought her new strength, the courage that comes to the
oppressed; and rising from the lounge on which she had fallen, she left
her father and his ministrations, and redescended into the past with
anger for aigrette and hatred for spur.
It was the room that she had occupied during her girlhood to which she
then went, and in the presence of the familiar walls, something reminded
her of the days in which she had believed that the ignoble bore a stigma
on their brow, that infamy of thought or deed left a visible sign. She
recalled the old legends with which her childhood had been charmed, the
combats of heroes with monsters, the struggles of lords with lies. In
those days indeed, evil had been to her an abstraction, a figure of
speech beckoned out of the remotest past, and unencounterable as the
giant bat that darkened the nights of prehistoric time. Then had come a
nearer acquaintance with it, the shudders that chronicles brought, and
the intimations of the fabliaux; but still it had been distant, a
belonging of the past incompetent of survival. And it was not until
within recent years that she learned that it had indeed survived. Even
then the tidings that reached her had as much consistency to her mind as
the news of cholera in Singapore. She could not picture that Orient
port, and the cholera she was sure would never attack her in her
father's house.
And now suddenly she was contaminated. She felt as one may feel who had
been lured into a lazar of lepers. Turn which way she might she could
never wash herself clean. She was degraded in her own sight, and tricked
by those whom she had trusted best. And no issue, not one. The dishonor
into which she had been trapped was a thing that clamored for redress,
and to that clamoring of her heart no answer was vouchsafed. "O God,"
she moaned, "is justice dead? Where are the thunderbolts you used to
wield? Have you wearied of vengeance? have you left it, Jehovah, to us?"
Her forehead was throbbing as it had never throbbed before. Above it
each individual hair seemed to be turning red. Her sultry eyes were
dilated; she was quivering from shoulder to heel. And as in her restless
anger she paced the room, before her on the wall glowed the device her
own hands had made--Keep Yourself Pure. For a second she stared at it,
the color mounting and retreating from her cheeks, and suddenly she tore
it down and trampled it under foot.
"Vengeance is there," she cried; and without even the hesitation of a
hesitation she bent over a table, and finding a sheet of paper, she
scrawled across it--In telling you of Maule's love for me I omitted to
tell you of my own for Adrian. This she addressed and then rang the
bell.
And as she stood waiting for a servant to come, there was a rap on the
door and her father entered. He looked at her for an instant and rubbed
his hands. "It is chilly here, Eden," he said; "had you not better come
down-stairs?"
"Is it worth while? It must be late. Where is Parker? has she not come
with my things?"
"Yes; it is almost six o'clock. Parker--"
"Six! I thought it was midnight. How long have I been here?"
"Three or four minutes at most. I had a note to write. So soon as I
could do so I followed you at once. You are quite yourself again, Eden,
are you not?"
"I can understand," mused Eden, "that there are years that count double
when there are moments that prolong themselves as have these." "Yes,"
she answered, aloud. "I am better. I will come with you."
She picked up the message she had written and left the room. In the
hallway was the servant for whom she had rung. "Take this to Fifth
Avenue," she said. "There is no answer, but see that it is delivered in
person."
XII.
"It is pleasanter here, is it not, Eden?" Mr. Menemon asked, when they
reached the sitting-room. "It makes one think of old times, doesn't it?
Do you remember--" And Mr. Menemon rambled on with some anecdote of days
long past.
Eden gazed at him wonderingly. His words passed her by unheeded. It was
bewildering to her that he could accept the tragedy so lightly, and as
he spoke she kept repeating to herself that Virginius was part of a
world long dead and derided. Truly, she could not understand. He seemed
conscious of no wrong doing. The position in which she was placed
excited him so little that he was able to discourse in platitudes. She
was not wife nor maid nor widow, and for the man who had taken her from
her home and inflicted on her a wrong that merited the penitentiary, her
father expressed no indignation, no sorrow even. He did not even attempt
to condole with her. And it was to him she had turned. Truly, she was
helpless indeed. Yet still she gazed at him, expectant of some sudden
outbreak, some storm of anger which, though it parodied her own, would
at least be in unison with it. Her fingers were restless and her mouth
was parched, a handkerchief which she held she twisted into coils, it
seemed to her that were no word of sympathy forthcoming she would
suffocate, as the traveler in the desert gasps beneath the oppression of
fair and purple skies.
And still Mr. Menemon rambled on. "I should have gone to his funeral,"
he said, "had you not come in. He is to be buried in Washington I hear.
Well, well! he was a brave man and a staunch friend. Yes, he was all of
that. Really, Eden, I ought to have gone. I suppose they will escort the
body to the station. Did you hear the drums when you went up-stairs? It
makes a man of my age feel that his turn may be next."
Mr. Menemon crossed the room and looked out of the window. "See, Eden,"
he continued; "there must be a whole regiment. Not his own, though. The
better part of that went down at Gettysburg. You remember, don't
you----"
With this Mr. Menemon turned with a haste he strove to conceal. "It's
almost dinner time," he added, inconsequently. "I will just change my
coat." And immediately he left the room.
For a moment Eden thought she heard his voice in the hall. Then all was
still again. She was wholly alone. She envied her father's friend who
lay in some catafalque across the square. And presently the sense of
desolation grew so acute that she threw herself prostrate on the lounge,
and clasping a cushion in her arms, she buried her face in its silk.
From the square beyond came a muffled roll, and on her shoulder the
touch of a hand. It was her father, she was sure. She half turned, her
cheeks wet with tears. "What is it?" she sobbed. "Father----"
"It is I, Eden." And through a rift of understanding there filtered the
sound of Usselex's voice. With the flutter of a bird surprised, she
looked up. She started, and would have risen, but the hand weighed her
down. She tried to move, and raising her arm as though to shield her
eyes from some distasteful sight, suddenly she extended it, and motioned
him back.
"Eden," he began.
"Don't speak to me!" she cried; and shaking herself from his hold, she
stood up and dashed the tears away. "Don't speak to me!" she repeated;
"and if anywhere within the purlieus of your being there is a spark of
shame, leave me, and never----"
"Eden, you are unjust."
"Ah, I am unjust, am I not? I am unjust, because I believed in you. I am
unjust, because I discover you in some coarse intrigue, I am unjust,
because I thought myself your wife. I am unjust, am I? Did you get my
note? Is it for that that you are here?"
"Eden, if you will listen a moment----"
"I have listened too long. Where is my father? Why is it you pursue me
here? Are you not satisfied with your work? You meet a girl who only
wishes to trust, and before her eyes you unroll a panorama of deceit.
Oh! you chose her well----"
"It cannot be that you believe that man, Eden----"
"The man I believed was you. What matters the testimony of others when I
find myself deceived----"
"Eden, you have deceived yourself. Last night I told you there were
things I had not wished to tell, not from lack of confidence, but
because----"
"Because you knew that did I hear them I would go."
"No, not that; but because I did not wish to cause you pain."
"Yes, protest. My father said you would. But the protest comes too
late. Besides, I do not care to listen."
And thereat she made a movement as though to leave the room. But this
Usselex prevented. He planted himself very firmly before her. His
attitude was arrestive as an obelisk and uncircuitable as a labyrinth.
Attention was his to command, and he claimed it with a gesture.
"You shall not go," he said; "you shall hear me."
She stepped back to elude him, but he caught her by the wrist.
"Look at me," he continued. "It took fifty years to make my hair gray;
one day has made it white."
Eden succeeded in disengaging herself from his grasp, and she succeeded
the more easily in that a servant unobserved by her, yet seen by
Usselex, had entered the room. He loosed his hold at once and glanced at
the man.
"What is it?" he asked. "No one rang."
"A letter, sir," the man answered; "it was to be delivered to you."
Usselex took the note and held it unexamined in his hand. Eden caught a
glimpse of the superscription. The writing was her own. It was, she
knew, the note which she had dispatched a half hour before. Meanwhile
the servant had withdrawn.
"When I came home this afternoon," Usselex continued, "and found that
you had gone, I could not understand----"
"You might have gone to the Ranleigh for information. Let me pass!"
"Why to the Ranleigh? surely----"
"To Mrs. Feverill, then, since you wish me to be explicit. Let me pass,
I say."
"It was of her I wished to tell you----"
"Was it, indeed? You were considerate enough, however, not to do so."
"Let me tell you now?"
"Rather let me go. I prefer your reticence to your confidence."
"Eden----"
"No, I have no need to learn more of your mistress----"
Usselex stepped aside. "She is my daughter," he said, sadly. "Go, since
you wish to."
--"Nor of your wife," she added, as he spoke.
"I have no other wife than you," he answered, and with the note which he
held in his hand he toyed despondently. As yet he had not so much as
glanced at the address.
Something, a light, an intonation, and influence undiscerned yet
sentiable, stayed her steps. She halted in passing and looked him in the
face. And he, seeing that she hesitated, repeated with an accent sincere
as that which is heard in the voice of the moribund, "No other wife than
you."
"You say that Mrs. Feverill is your daughter?" she exclaimed. It may be
that the average woman, conscious of her own mobility, is more
inattentive of the past than of the present. But however that may be,
the assurance which Eden had just received seemed to affect her less
than the preceding announcement. "You say that she is your daughter,"
she repeated. "Why, you told me--You said--"
"I have told you nothing. Will you sit a moment and let me tell you
now?"
Coerced and magnetized, the girl moved back and sank down again on the
lounge. Usselex still toyed absently with the note, and as he too found
a seat, for the first time she recalled its contents. Then a shudder
beset her.
"I ought perhaps," he began, "to have been franker in this matter. But
my excuse, if it be one, is that I was dissuaded by your father. Before
I ventured to ask you to marry me, I told my story to him, and he
counselled silence. What I say to you now he will substantiate. Shall I
ring and ask him to come here?"
His words reached her from inordinate distances, across preceding days,
and out of and through the note which he held in his hand; and with them
came the acutest pain. "He is telling the truth," she reflected, "and I
deserve to die."
"Shall I ring?" he repeated.
She started and shook her head. "No, no," she replied. "Go on."
"I thank you," Usselex returned. "I can understand that enough has
occurred to shake your confidence. In the circumstances, it is good of
you to be willing to receive my unsupported word. But bear with me a
moment. You will see, I think, that I have done no wrong."
As he spoke she had but one thought, to repossess herself of the note.
Could she but get it and tear it and set it aflame, out of the cinders
life might re-arise.
"You may remember," he continued, "what I said of myself, 'things have
not always been pleasant with me.' You knew as a child what it is to
lose a mother, but think what it must be to have a mother and have that
mother ignore your existence. Such a thing is hard, is it not? But of
her I will not speak; she is dead, poor woman; I hope she never suffered
as have I. The people by whom I was brought up I looked upon as my
parents. They had been paid to adopt me. When I discovered that, I was
old enough to make my own living. With that view I came to this country.
New York was different then. I should not care to land here now and
attempt to make a fortune without a penny to start with. But it is
true, I was young. I was a fair linguist, a rarity in those days, and it
was not long before I found a situation. When I had a little money put
by, I learned of an opening in Boston, and started in business there for
myself. Shortly after I became acquainted with a girl. She was very
beautiful; more so, I thought, than anyone I had ever seen. So soon as I
was in a position to marry she became my wife. We lived together for
three years. During that time I thought her affection as unwavering as
my own. She was an excellent musician, and much sought after, not alone
because of her talent, but because of her beauty as well. The
entertainments which she frequented I was often unable to attend. But I
was glad to have her go without me. I was proud of the admiration which
she aroused. One evening she left me, and did not return. For some time
her disappearance was unexplained. Ultimately I discovered that she was
in New York. She had deserted me for another man. I followed her and
obtained a divorce. Afterwards the man deserted her as she had deserted
me. Then she went abroad. Of her life there I can only judge by hearsay.
I believe that at one time she figured in an opera troupe. Now and then
she wrote, asking for money; but latterly she has ceased. It is a
surprise to me that she calls herself by my name. Perhaps she has done
so because she heard that I had prospered. The reflection of that
prosperity may have been of advantage to her. That, however, can easily
be stopped. But I am sorry, Eden, that you should have learned of it.
Even the children do not know; they think her dead. When she deserted
me, I left them with their grand-parents. In so doing I sought to
separate myself from everything connected with her, and I stipulated
that I would provide for their maintenance on condition that they were
kept in ignorance of their mother's existence and of mine. Some years
ago, however, first the grandfather, then the grandmother, died. I was
obliged to appear more prominently. My daughter had married; I took her
husband into my employ. It was of him I spoke the other day."
He hesitated and paused, his eyes fixed in hers. The phrases had come
from him haltingly, one by one, but each he had dowered with an accent
that carried conviction with it. With the note which he held in his
hand, he still toyed abstractedly.
"You understand now, do you not?" he asked. "You understand and
forgive?"
And Eden, as one who has weathered a storm and sees shipwreck imminent
in port bowed her head. "It is truth," she told herself. "If he reads
that note, he will kill me."
"You understand now, do you not?" he repeated. His voice was sonorous
and caressing as an anthem, and he bent nearer that he might see her
face.
"Too late!" she answered.
"No, Eden, not that. Look at me. You must not hide your eyes. In all the
world there are none as fair as they. Look at me, Eden. Tell me that you
forgive. I have pained you, I know; I have been stupid; but the pain has
been unwitting and the stupidity born of love. Look at me, Eden. See,"
he continued, and bent at her side, "See, I ask forgiveness on my
knees. Can you not give it me?"
"To you, yes, but never to myself." She spoke hoarsely, in a voice
