attention and roused his quick suspicions. He wondered 
whether that former exchange of titles, and consequent exchange of positions were an unpleasant subject of conversation to the prince. But the latter, as though anticipating such 
a doubt in his companion's mind, at once returned to the 
question with the boldness which was natural to him. 
' There was a friendly agreement,' he said, striking a match 
and offering it to the Marchese. ' I have all the documents, 
and have studied them with interest. It might amuse you 
to see them, some day.' 
' I should like to see them, indeed,' answered San Giacinto. 
' They must be very curious. As I was saying, I am going 
to establish myself in Eome. It seems strange to me to be 
playing the gentleman it must seem even more odd to you.' 
' It would be truer to say that you have been playing the 
innkeeper,' observed the prince, courteously. ' No one 
would suspect it,' he added, glancing at his companion's 
correct attire. 
' I have an adaptable nature,' said the Marchese, calmly. 
' Besides,! have always looked forward to again taking my place 
in the world. I have acquired a little instruction not much, 
you will say, but it is sufficient as the times go ; and as for 
education, it is the same for every one, innkeeper or prince. 
One takes off one's hat, one speaks quietly, one says what is 
agreeable to hear is it not enough ? ' 
' Quite enough,' replied the prince. He was tempted 
to smile at his cousin's definition of manners, though he 
could see that the man was quite able to maintain his position. ' Quite enough, indeed, and as for instruction, I am 
afraid most of us have forgotten our Latin. You need have 
no anxiety on that score. But, tell me, how comes it that, 
having been bred in the south, you prefer to establish your 
self in Rome rather than in Naples ? They say that you 
Neapolitans do not like us.' 
' I am a Roman by descent, and I wish to become one 
in fact,' returned the Marchese. ' Besides,' he added, in a 
peculiarly grave tone of voice, ' I do not like the new order 
of things. Indeed, I have but one favour to ask of you, and 
that is a great one.' 
' Anything in my power ' 
' To present me to the Holy Father as one who desires to 
become his faithful subject Could you do so, do you think, 
without any great inconvenience ? ' 
' Eh ! I shall be delighted ! Magarif ' answered the prince, 
heartily. ' To tell the truth, I was afraid you meant to keep 
your Italian convictions, and that, in Rome, would be against 
you, especially in these stormy days. But if you will join 
us heart and soul you will be received with open arms. I 
shall take great pleasure in seeing you make the acquaintance 
of my son and his wife. Come and dine this evening.' 
' Thank you,' said the Marchese. ' I will not fail.' 
After a few more words San Giacinto took his leave, and 
the prince could not but admire the way in which this man, 
ivho had been brought up among peasants, or at best among 
the small farmers of an outlying district, assumed at once an 
air of perfect equality while allowing just so much of respect 
to appear in his manner as might properly be shown by 
a younger member to the head of a great house. When he 
was gone Saracinesca rang the belL 
'Pasquale,' he said, addressing the old butler who 
answered the summons, ' that gentleman who is just gone is 
my cousin, Don Giovanni Saracinesca, who is called Marchese 
di^San Giacinto. He will dine here this evening. You will 
call him Eccellenza, and treat him as a member of the family. 
Go and ask the princess if she will receive me.' 
Pasquale opened his mental eyes very wide as he bowed 
and left the room. He had never heard of this other Sara 
cinesca, and the appearance of a new member of the family 
upon the scene, who must, from his appearance, have been 
in existence between thirty and forty years, struck him as 
astonishing in the extreme ; for the old servant had been 
bred up in the house from a boy and imagined himself 
master of all the secrets connected with the Saracinesca 
household. 
He was, indeed, scarcely less surprised than his master, 
who, although he had been aware for some time past that 
Giovanni Saracinesca existed and was his cousin, had never 
anticipated the event of his coming to Eome, and had expected still less that the innkeeper would ever assume the 
title to which he had a right and play the part of a gentle 
man, as he himself had expressed it. There was a strange 
mixture of boldness and foresight in the way the old prince 
had received his new relation. He knew the strength of his 
own position in society, and that the introduction of a humble 
cousin could not possibly do him harm. At the worst, 
people might laugh a little among themselves and remark 
that the Marchese must be a nuisance to the Saracinesca 
On the other hand, the prince was struck from the first with 
the air of self-possession which he discerned in San Giacinto, 
and foresaw that the man would very probably play a part 
in Roman life. He was a man who might be disliked, but 
who could not be despised ; and since his claims to considera 
tion were undeniably genuine, it seemed wiser to accept him 
frum the first as a member of the family and unhesitatingly 
to treat him as such. After all, he demanded nothing to 
which he had not a clear right from the moment he announced 
his intention of taking his place in the world, and it was 
certainly far wiser to receive him cordially at once, than to 
draw back from acknowledging the relationship because he 
had been brought up in another sphere. 
This was the substance of what Prince Saracinesca com 
municated to his daughter-in-law a few minutes later. She 
listened patiently to all he had to say, only asking a 
question now and then in order to understand more clearly 
what had happened. She was curious to see the man whose 
name had once been so strangely confounded with her husband's by the machinations of the Conte Del Ferice and 
Donna Tullia Mayer, and she frankly confessed her curiosity 
and her satisfaction at the prospect of meeting San Giacinto 
that evening. While she was talking with the prince, 
Giovanni unexpectedly returned from his walk He had 
turned homewards as soon as he had sent the military sur 
geon to Gouache. 
' Well, Giovannino,' cried the old gentleman, ' the prodi 
gal innkeeper has returned to the bosom of the family,' 
' What innkeeper ? ' 
Your worthy namesake, and cousin, Giovanni Saracinesca, 
formerly of Aquila.' 
'Does Madame Mayer want to prove that it is he 
who has married Corona?' inquired Sant' Ilario with a 
laugh. 
' No, though I suppose he is a candidate for marriage. I 
never was more surprised in my life. His wife is dead. He 
is rich, or says he is. He has his card printed in full, 
"Giovanni Saracinesca, Marchese di San Giacinto," in the 
most correct manner. He wears an excellent coat, and 
announces his intention of being presented to the Pope and 
introduced to Roman society.' 
Sant' Ilario stared incredulously at his father, and then 
looked inquiringly at his wife as though to ask if it were not 
all a jest. When he was assured that, the facts were true he 
looked grave and slowly stroked his pointed black beard, a 
gesture which was very unusual with him, and always accom 
panied the deepest meditation. 
' There is nothing to be done but to receive him into the 
family,' he said at last. ' But I do not wholly believe in his 
good intentions. We shall see. I shall be glad to make his 
acquaintance.' 
' He is coming to dinner.' 
The conversation continued for some time and the arrival 
of San Giacinto was discussed in all its bearings. Corona 
took a very practical view of the question, and said that it 
was certainly best to treat him well, thereby relieving her 
father-in-law of a considerable anxiety. He had indeed 
feared lest she should resent the introduction of a man who 
might reasonably be supposed to have retained a certain 
coarseness of manner from his early surroundings, and he 
knew that her consent was all-important in such a case, since 
she was virtually the mistress of the house. Bat Corona regarded the matter in much the same light as the old gentle 
man himself, feeling that nothing of such a nature could 
possibly injure the imposing position of her husband's family, 
and taking it for granted that no one who had good blood in 
his veins could ever behave outrageously. Of all the three, 
Sant' Ilario was the most silent and thoughtful, for he feared 
certain consequences from the arrival of this new relation 
which did not present themselves to the minds of the others, 
and was resolved to be cautious accordingly, even while 
appearing to receive San Giacinto with all due cordiality. 
Later in the day he was alone with his father for a few 
minutes. 
' Do you like this fellow ? ' he asked, abruptly. 
' No,' answered the prince. 
' Neither do I, though I have not seen him.' 
' We shall see,' was the old gentleman's answer. 
The evening came, and at the appointed hour San Giacinto 
was announced. Both Corona and her husband were sur 
prised at his imposing appearance, as well as at the dignity 
and self-possession he displayed. His southern accent was 
not more noticeable than that of many Neapolitan gentlemen, 
aud his conversation, if neither very brilliant nor very fluent, 
was not devoid of interest. He talked of the agricultural 
condition of the new Italy, and old Saracinesca and his 
son were both interested in the subject. They noticed, too, 
that during dinner no word escaped him which could give 
any clue to his former occupation or position, though after 
wards, when the servants were not present, he alluded more 
than once with a frank smile to his experiences as an inn 
keeper. On the whole, he seemed modest and reserved, yet 
perfectly self-possessed and conscious of his right to be where 
he was. 
Such conduct on the part of such a man did not appear 
so surprising to the Saracinesca household, as it would have 
seemed to foreigners. San Giacinto had said that he had an 
adaptable character, and that adaptability is one of the most 
noticeable features of the Italian race. It is not necessary to 
discuss the causes of this peculiarity. They would be incomprehensible to the foreigner at large, who never has any real 
understanding of Italians. I do not hesitate to say that, 
without a single exception, every foreigner, poet or prose- 
writer, who has treated of these people has more or less 
grossly misunderstood them. That is a sweeping statement, 
when it is considered that few men of the highest genius in 
our century have not at one time or another set down upon 
paper their several estimates of the Italian race. The 
requisite for accurately describing people, however, is not 
genius, but knowledge of the subject. The poet commonly 
sees himself in others, and the modern writer upon Italy 
is apt to believe that he can see others in himself. The 
reflection of an Italian upon the mental retina of the foreigner 
is as deceptive as his own outward image is when seen upon 
the polished surface of a concave mirror ; and indeed the 
character studies of many great men, when the subject is 
taken from a race not their own, remind one very forcibly of 
what may be seen by contemplating oneself in the bowl of a 
bright silver spoon. To understand Italians a man must have 
been born and bred among them ; and even then the harder, 
fiercer instinct, which dwells in northern blood, may deceive 
the student and lead him far astray. The Italian is an 
exceedingly simple creature, and is apt to share the opinion 
of the ostrich, who ducks his head and believes his whole 
body is hidden. Foreigners use strong language concerning 
the Italian lie ; but this only proves how extremely transparent the deception is. It is indeed a singular fact, but one 
which may often be observed, that two Italians who lie 
systematically will frequently believe each other, to their own 
ruin, with a childlike faith rarely found north of the Alps. 
This seems to me to prove that their dishonesty has outgrown 
their indolent intelligence ; and indeed they deceive them 
selves nearly as often as they succeed in deceiving their 
neighbours. In a country where a lie easily finds credence, 
lying is not likely to be elevated to the rank of a fine art. 
I have often wondered how such men as Cesare Borgia 
succeeded in entrapping their enemies by snares which a 
modern northerner would detect from the first and laugh to 
scorn as mere child's play. 
There is an extraordinary readiness in Italians to fit 
themselves and their lives to circumstances whenever they 
can save themselves trouble by doing so. Their constitutions 
are convenient to this end, for they are temperate in most 
things and do not easily fall into habits which they cannot 
change at will. The desire to avoid trouble makes them 
the most courteous among nations ; and they are singularly 
obliging to strangers when, by conferring an obligation, they 
are able to make an acquaintance who will help them to 
pass an idle hour in agreeable conversation. They are 
equally surprised, whether a stranger suspects them of 
making advances for the sake of extracting money from him, 
or expresses resentment at having been fraudulently induced 
to part with any cash. The beggar in the street howls like 
a madman if you refuse an alms, and calls you an idiot to his fellow-mendicant if you give him five centimes. The 
servant says in his heart that his foreign employer is a fool, 
and sheds tears of rage and mortification when his shallow 
devices for petty cheating are discovered. And yet the 
servant, the beggar, the shopkeeper, and the gentleman, are 
obliging sometimes almost to philanthropy, and are ever 
ready to make themselves agreeable. 
The Marchese di San Giacinto diifered from his relations. 
the Saracinesca princes, in that he was a full-blooded Italian, 
and not the result of a cosmopolitan race -fusion, like so 
many of the Eoman nobles. He had not the Roman 
traditions, but, on the other hand, he had his fall share of 
the national characteristics, together with something in 
dividual which lifted him above the common herd in point 
of intelligence and in strength. He was a noticeable man ; 
all the more so because, with many pleasant qualities, his 
countrymen rarely possess that physical and mental com 
bination of size, energy, and reserve, which inspires the sort 
of respect enjoyed by imposing personages. 
As he sat talking with the family after dinner on the 
evening of his first introduction to the household what 
passed in his mind and in the minds of his hosts can be 
easily stated. 
Sant' Ilario, whose ideas were more clear upon most 
subjects than those of his father or his wife, said to himself 
that he did not like the man ; that he suspected him, and 
believed he had some hidden intention in coming to Rome ; 
that it would be wise to watch him perpetually and to 
question everything he did ; but that he was undeniably a 
relation, possessing every right to consideration, and entitled 
to be treated with a certain familiarity ; that, finally and on 
the whole, he was a nuisance, to be borne with a good grace 
and a sufficient show of cordiality. 
San Giacinto, for his part, was deeply engaged in main 
taining the exact standard of manners which he knew to be 
necessary for the occasion, and his thoughts concerning his 
relatives were not yet altogether defined. It was his intention 
to take his place among them, and he was doing his best to 
accomplish this object as speedily and quietly as possible. 
He had not supposed that princes and princesses were in any 
way different from other human beings except by the 
accidents of wealth and social position. Master of these two 
requisites there was no reason why he should not feel as 
much at home with the Saracinesca as he had felt in the 
society of the mayor and municipal council of Aquila, who 
possessed those qualifications also, though in a less degree. 
The iSaracinesca probably thought about most questions very 
much as he himself did, or if there were any difference in 
their mode of thinking it was due to Roman prejudice and 
tradition rather than to any peculiarity inherent in the 
organisation of the members of the higher aristocracy. If 
he should find himself in any dilemma owing to his ignorance 
of social details he would not hesitate to apply to the prince 
for information, since it was "by no means his fault if he had 
bepin brought up an innkeeper and was now to be a noble 
man. His immediate oHect was to place himself among his 
equals, and his next purpose was to marry again, in his new 
rank, a woman of good position and fortune. Of this matter 
he intended to speak to the prince in due time, when he 
should have secured the first requisite to his marriage by 
establishing himself firmly in society. He meant to apply 
to the prince, ostensibly as to the head of the family, thereby 
showing a deference to that dignity, which he supposed 
would be pleasing to the old gentleman ; but he had not 
forgotten in his calculations the pride which old Saracinesca 
must naturally feel in his race, and which would probably 
induce him to take very great pains in finding a suitable wife 
for Sa$ Giacinto rather than permit the latter to contract a 
discreditable alliance. 
San Giacinto left the house at half -past nine o'clock, 
under the pretext of another engagement, for he did not 
mean to weary his relations with too much of his company 
in the first instance. When he was gone the three looked at 
each other in silence for some moments. 
' He has surprisingly good manners, for an innkeeper,' said 
Corona at last. ' No one will ever suspect his former life. 
But I do not like him.'
' Nor I,' said the prince. 
' He wants something,' said Santa Ilario. ' And he will 
probably get it,' he added, after a short pause. ' He has a 
determined face.' 
CHAPTER IV 
ANASTASB GOUACHE recovered rapidly from his injuries, but 
not so quickly as he wished. There was trouble in the air, 
and many of his comrades were already gone to the frontier 
where the skirmishing with the irregular volunteers of Garibaldi's guerilla force had now begun in earnest. To be confined 
to the city at such a time was inexpressibly irksome to the 
gallant young Frenchman, who had a genuine love of fight 
ing in him, and longed for the first sensation of danger and 
the first shower of whistling bullets. But his inactivity was 
inevitable, and he was obliged to submit with the best grace 
he could, hoping only that all might not be over before he 
was well enough to tramp out and see some service with his 
companions-in-arms. 
The situation was indeed urgent. The first article of the 
famous convention between France and Italy, ratified in 
September 1864, read as follows : 
' Italy engages not to attack the actual territory of the 
Holy Father, and to prevent, even by force, all attack 
coming from outside against such territory.' 
Relying upon the observance of this chief clause, France 
had conscientiously executed the condition imposed by the 
second article, which provided that all French troops should 
be withdrawn from the States of the Church. The promise 
of Italy to prevent invasion by force applied to Garibaldi 
and his volunteers. Accordingly, on the 24th of September 
1867, the Italian Government issued a proclamation against 
the band and its proceedings, and arrested Garibaldi at 
Sinalunga, in the neighbourhood of Arezzo. This was the 
only force employed, and it may be believed that the Italian 
Government firmly expected that the volunteers would 
disperse as soon as they found themselves without a leader ; 
and had proper measures been taken for keeping the general 
in custody this would in all probability have followed very 
shortly, as his sons, who were left at large, did not possess 
any of their father's qualifications for leadership. Garibaldi, 
however, escaped eighteen days later, and again joined his band, 
which had meanwhile been defeated by the Pope's troops in 
a few small engagements, and had gained one or two equally 
insignificant advantages over the latter. As soon as it was 
known that Garibaldi was again at large, a simultaneous 
movement began, the numerous Garibaldian emissaries who 
had arrived in Rome stirring up an attempt at insurrection 
within the city, while Garibaldi himself made a bold dash 
and seized Monte Rotondo, another force at the same time 
striking at Sutbiaco, which, by a strange ignorance of the 
mountains, Garibaldi appears to have believed to be the 
southern key to the Campagna. In consequence of the 
protestations of the French minister to the court of Italy, 
and perhaps, too, in consequence of the approach of a large 
body of French troops by sea, the Italian Government again 
issued a proclamation against Garibaldi, who, however, 
remained in his strong position at Monte Rotondo. Finally, 
on the 30th of October, the day on which the French 
troops re-entered Rome, the Italians made a show of interfer 
ing in the Pope's favour, General Menatiea authorising the 
Italian forces to enter the Papal States in order to maintain 
order. They did not, however, do more than make a short 
advance, and no active measures were taken, but Garibaldi 
was routed on the 3d and 4th of November by the 
Papal forces, and his band being dispersed the incident was 
at an end. But for the armed intervention of France the 
result would have been that which actually came about in 
1870, when, the same Convention being still valid, the 
French were prevented by their own disasters from sending 
a force to the assistance of the Pope. 
It is not yet time to discuss the question of the an 
nexation of the States of the Church to the kingdom 
of Italy. It is sufficient to have shown that the move 
ment of 1867 took place without any actual violation 
of the letter of the Convention. The spirit in which 
the Italian Government acted might be criticised at 
length. It is sufficient however to notice that the Italian 
Government was, as it still is, a parliamentary one ; and to 
add that parliamentary government, in general, exhibits its 
weakest side in the emergency of war, as its greatest advan 
tages are best appreciated in times of peace. In the Italian 
Parliament of that day, as in that of the present time, there 
was a preponderance of representatives who considered Rome 
to be the natural capital of the country, and who were as 
ready to trample upon treaties for the accomplishment of 
what they believed a righteous end, as most parliaments 
have everywhere shown themselves in similar circumstances. 
That majority differed widely, indeed, in opinion from 
Garibaldi and Mazzini, but they conceived that they had 
a right to take full advantage of any revolution the latter 
chanced to bring about, and that it was their duty to their 
country to direct the stream of disorder into a channel 
which should lead to the aggrandisement of Italy, by making 
use of Italy's standing army. 
The defenders of the Papal States found themselves face 
to face, not with any organised and disciplined force, but 
with a horde of brutal ruffians and half-grown lads, desperate 
in that delight of unbridled license which has such attrac 
tions for the mob in all countries ; and aD alike, Zouaves, 
native troops and Frenchmen, were incensed to the high 
est degree by the conduct of their enemies. It would be 
absurd to make the Italian Government responsible for the 
atrocious defiling of churches, the pillage and the shocking 
crimes of all sorts, which marked the advance or retreat of 
the Garibaldians ; but it is equally absurd to deny that a 
majority of the Italians regarded these doings as a means to 
a very desirable end, and, if they had not been hindered by 
the French, would have marched a couple of army corps in 
excellent order to the gates of Koine through the channel 
opened by a mob of lawless insurgents. 
Anastase Gouache was disgusted with his state of forced 
inaction as he paced the crowded pavement of the Corso 
every afternoon for three weeks after his accident, smoking 
endless cigarettes, and cursing the fate which kept him an 
invalid at home when his fellow-soldiers were enjoying them 
selves amidst the smell of gunpowder and the adventures of 
frontier skirmishing. It was indeed bad luck, he thought, 
to have worn the uniform during nearly two years of perfect 
health and then to be disabled just when the fighting began. 
He had one consolation, however, in the midst of his annoy 
ance, and he made the most of it. He had been fascinated 
by Donna Faustina Montevarchi's brown eyes, and for lack 
of any other interest upon which to expend his energy he had 
BO well employed his time that he was now very seriously in 
love with that young lady. Among her numerous attractions 
was one which had a powerful influence on the young artist, 
namely, the fact that she was, according to all human calcula 
tions, absolutely beyond his reach. Nothing had more charm 
for Gouache, as for many gifted and energetic young men, 
than that which it must require a desperate effort to get, if 
it could be got at all Frenchmen, as well as Italians, con 
sider marriage so much in the light of a mere contract 
which must be settled between notaries and ratified by 
parental assent, that to love a young girl seems to them 
like an episode out of a fairy tale, enchantingly novel and 
altogether delightful. To us, who consider love as a usual 
if not an absolutely necessary preliminary to marriage, this 
point of view is hardly conceivable ; but it is enough to tell 
a Frenchman that you have married your wife because you 
loved her, and not because your parents or your circumstances 
arranged the match for you, to hear him utter the loudest ex 
clamations of genuine surprise and admiration, declaring that 
his ideal of happiness, which he considers of course as quite 
unattainable, would be to marry the woman of his affections. 
The immediate result of a state in which that sort of bliss is 
considered to be generally beyond the grasp of humanity has 
been to produce the moral peculiarities of the French novel, 
of the French play, and of the French household, as it is 
usually exhibited in books and on the stage. 
The artist-Zouave was made of determined stuff. It was 
not for nothing that he had won the great prize which 
brought him to the Academy in Rome, nor was it out of 
mere romantic idleness that he had thrown over the feeble 
conspiracies of Madame Mayer and her set in order to wear 
a uniform. He had profound convictions, though he was 
not troubled with any great number of them. Each new 
one which took hold of him marked an epoch in his young 
life, and generally proved tenacious in proportion as he had 
formerly regarded it as absurd ; and it was a proof of the 
sound balance of his mind that the three or four real convic 
tions which he had accumulated during his short life were in 
no way contradictory to each other. On the contrary, each 
one seemed closely bound up with the rest, and appeared to 
bring a fresh energy to that direct action which, with 
Anastase, was the only possible result of any belief what 
soever. 
There was therefore a goodly store of logic in his mad 
ness, and though, like Childe Harold, he had sighed to 
many, and at present loved but one, yet he was determined, 
if it were possible, that this loved one should be his ; seeing 
that to sigh for anything, and not to take it if it could be 
taken, was the part of a boy and not of a strong man. More 
over, although the social difficulties which lay in his way 
were an obstacle which would have seemed insurmountable 
to many, there were two considerations which gave Anastase 
some hope of ultimate success. In the first place Donna 
Faustina herself was not indifferent ; and, secondly, Anastase 
was no longer the humble student who had come to Rome 
some years earlier with nothing but his pension in his 
pocket and his talent in his fingers. He was certainly not 
of ancient lineage, but since he had attained that position 
which enabled him to be received as an equal in the great 
world, and had by his skill accumulated a portion of that 
filthy lucre which is the platform whereon society moves 
and has its exclusive being, he had the advantage of talking 
to Donna Faustina, wherever he met her, in spite of her 
father's sixty -four quarterings. Nor did those meetings 
take place only under the auspices of so much heraldry and 
blazon, as will presently appear. 
At that period of the year, and especially during such 
a time of disturbance, there was no such thing as gaiety 
possible in Rome. People met quietly in little knots at 
each other's houses and talked over the state of the country, 
or walked and drove as usual in the villas and on the 
Pincio. When society cannot be gay it is very much inclined 
to grow confidential, to pull a long face, and to say thinga 
which, if uttered above a whisper, would be considered ex 
tremely shocking, but which, being communicated, augmented, 
criticised, and passed about quickly without much noise, are 
considered exceedingly interesting. "When every one is sup 
posed to be talking of politics it is very easy for every one 
to talk scandal, and to construct neighbourly biography of 
iv  47 
an imaginary character which shall presently become a part 
of contemporary history. On the whole, society would 
almost as gladly do this as dance. In those days of which 
I am speaking, therefore, there were many places where two 
or three, and sometimes as many as ten were gathered 
together in council, ostensibly for the purpose of devising 
means whereby the Holy Father might overcome his enemies, 
though they were very often engaged in criticising the 
indecent haste exhibited by their best friends in yielding to 
the wiles of Satan. 
There were several of these rallying points, among which 
may be chiefly noticed the Palazzo Valdarno, the Palazzo 
Saracinesca, and the Palazzo Montevarchi. In the first of 
these three it may be observed in passing that there was a 
division of opinion, the old people being the most rigid of 
conservatives, while the children declared as loudly as they 
dared that they were for Victor Emmanuel and United Italy. 
The Saracinesca, on the other hand, were firmly united and 
determined to stand by the existing order of things. Lastly, 
the Montevarchi all took their opinions from the head of the 
house, and knew very well that they would submit like 
sheep to be led whichever way was most agreeable to the 
old prince. The friends who frequented those various 
gatherings were of course careful to say whatever was most 
sure to please their hosts, and after the set speeches were 
made most of them fell to their usual occupation of talking 
about each other. 
Gouache was an old friend of the Saracinesca, and came 
whenever he pleased ; since his accident, too, he had 
become better acquainted with the Montevarchi, and was 
always a welcome guest, as he generally brought the latest 
news of the fighting, as well as the last accounts from 
France, which he easily got through his friendship with the 
young attaches of his embassy. It is not surprising there 
fore that he should have found so many opportunities of 
meeting Donna Faustina, especially as Corona di Sant' Ilario 
had taken a great fancy to the young girl and invited her 
constantly to the house. 
On the very first occasion when Gouache called upon the 
Princess Monte varehi in order to express again his thanks 
for the kindness he had received, he found the room half 
full of people. Faustina was sitting alone, turning over the 
pages of a book, and no one seemed to pay any attention to 
her. After the usual speeches to the hostess Gouache sat 
down heside her. She raised her brown eyes, recognised 
him, and smiled faintly. 
' What a wonderful contrast you are enjoying, Donna 
Faustina,' said the Zouave. 
' How so ? I confess it seems monotonous enough.' 
' I mean that it is a great change for you, from the choir 
of the Sacro Cuore, from the peace of a convent, to this 
atmosphere of war.' 
' Yes ; I wish I were back again.' 
' You do not like what you have seen of the world, 
Mademoiselle ? It is very natural. If the world were 
always like this its attraction would not be dangerous. It 
is the pomps and vanities that are delightful.' 
' I wish they would begin then,' answered Donna Faus 
tina with more natural frankness than is generally found in 
young girls of her education. 
' But were you not taught by the good sisters that those 
things are of the devil ? ' asked Gouache with a smile. 
' Of course. But Flavia says they are very nice.' 
Gouache imagined that Flavia ought to know, but he 
thought fit to conceal his conviction. 
' You mean Donna Flavia, your sister, Mademoiselle ? ' 
'Yes.' 
' I suppose you are very fond of her, are you not ? It 
must be very pleasant to have a sister so nearly of one's own 
age in the world.' 
' She is much older than I, but I think we shall be very 
good friends.' 
' Your family must be almost as much strangers to you 
as the rest of the world,' observed Gouache. 4 Of course you 
have only seen them occasionally for a long time past You 
are fond of reading, I see.' 
He made .this remark to change the subject, and glanced 
at the book the young girl still held in her hand. 
' It is a new book,' she said, opening the volume at the 
title-page. ' It is Manon Lescaut. Flavia has read it it is 
by the Abbe" Prevost. Do you know him ? ' 
Gouache did not know whether to laugh or to look 
grave. 
' Did your mother give it to you V he asked. 
' No, but she says that as it is by an abbe, she supposes 
it must be very moral. It is true that it has not the imprimatur, but being by a priest it cannot possibly be on the 
Index.'
' I do not know,' replied Gouache, ' Prevost was certainly 
in holy orders, but I do not know him, as he died rather 
more than a hundred years ago. You see the book is not 
new.' 
' Oh ! ' exclaimed Donna Faustina, ' I thought it was. 
Why do you laugh ? Am I very ignorant not to know all 
about it ?' 
' No, indeed. Only, you will pardon me, Mademoiselle, 
if I offer a suggestion. You see I am French and know a 
little about these matters. You will permit me ?' 
Faustina opened her brown eyes very wide, and nodded 
gravely. 
' If I were you, I would not read that book yet. You are 
too young.' 
' You seem to forget that I am eighteen years old, Mon 
sieur Gouache.' 
' No, not at all But five and twenty is a better age to 
read such books. Believe me,' he added seriously, 'that 
story is not meant for you.' 
Faustina looked at him for a few seconds and then laid 
the volume on the table, pushing it away from her with a 
puzzled air. Gouache was inwardly much amused at the 
idea of finding himself the moral preceptor of a young girl 
he scarcely knew, in the house of her parents, who passed for 
the most strait-laced of their kind. A feeling of deep 
resentment against Flavia, however, began to rise beneath 
his first sensation of surprise. 
' What are books for V asked Donna Faustina, with a little 
sigh. ' The good ones are dreadfully dull, and it is wrong 
to read the amusing ones until one is married. I wonder 
why V 
Gouache did not find any immediate answer and might 
have been seriously embarrassed had not Giovanni Sant' 
Ilario come up just then. Gouache rose to relinquish his 
seat to the newcomer, and as he passed before the table 
deftly turned over the book with his finger so that the title 
should not be visible. It jarred disagreeably on his sensi 
bilities to think that Giovanni might see a copy of Manon 
Lescaut lying by the elbow of Donna Faustina Montevarchi. 
Sant' Ilario did not see the action and probably would not 
have noticed it if he had. 
Anastase pondered all that afternoon and part of the next 
morning over his short conversation, and the only conclusion 
at which he arrived was that Faustina was the most fascinat 
ing girl he had ever met. When he compared the result 
produced in his mind with his accurate recollection of what 
had passed between them, he laughed at his haste and called 
himself a fool for yielding to such nonsensical ideas. The 
conversation of a young girl, he argued, could only be 
amusing for a short time. He wondered what he should 
say at their next meeting, since all such talk, according to 
his notions, must inevitably consist of commonplaces. And 
yet at the end of a quarter of an hour of such meditation he 
found that he was constructing an interview which was 
anything but dull, at least in his own anticipatory opinion. 
Meanwhile the first ten days of October passed in com 
parative quiet. The news of Garibaldi's arrest produced 
temporary lull in the excitement felt in Borne, although the 
real struggle was yet to come. People observed to each 
other that strange faces were to be seen in the streets, but as 
no one could enter without a proper passport, very little 
anxiety gained the public mind. 
Gouache saw Faustina very often during the month that 
followed his accident. Such good fortune would have been im 
possible under any other circumstances, but, as has been ex 
plained, there were numerous little social confabulations on foot,, 
for people were drawn together by a vague sense of common 
danger, and the frequent meetings of the handsome Zouave 
with the youngest of the Montevarchi passed unnoticed in the 
general stir. The old princess indeed often saw the two 
together, but partly owing to her English breeding, and partly 
because Gouache was not in the least eligible or possible as 
a husband for her daughter, she attached no importance to 
the acquaintance. The news that Garibaldi was again at 
large caused great excitement, and every day brought fresh 
news of small engagements along the frontier. Gouache 
was not yet quite recovered, though he felt as strong as ever, 
and applied every day for leave to go to the front. At last, 
on the 22d of October, the surgeon pronounced him to 
be completely recovered, and Anastase was ordered to leave 
the city on the following morning at daybreak. 
As he mounted the sombre staircase of the Palazzo 
Saracinesca on the afternoon previous to his departure, the 
predominant feeling in his breast was great satisfaction and 
joy at being on the eve of seeing active service, and he him 
self was surprised at the sharp pang he suffered in the anti 
cipation of bidding farewell to his friends. He knew what 
friend it was whom he dreaded to leave, and how bitter that 
parting would be, for which three weeks earlier he could 
have summoned a neat speech expressing just so much of 
feeling as should be calculated to raise an interest in the 
hearer, and prompted by just so much delicate regret as should 
impart a savour of romance to his march on the next day. 
It was different now. 
Donna Faustina was in the room, as he had reason to 
expect, but it was several minutes before Anastase could 
summon the determination necessary to go to her side. She 
was standing near the piano, which faced outwards towards 
the body of the room, but was screened by a semicircular 
arrangement of plants, a novel idea lately introduced by 
Corona, who was weary of the stiff old-fashioned way of 
setting all the furniture against the wall. Faustina was 
standing at this point therefore, when Gouache made towards 
her, having done homage to Corona and to the other ladies 
in the room. His attention was arrested for a moment by 
the sight of San Giacinto's gigantic figure. The cousin of 
the house was standing before Flavia Montevarchi, bending 
slightly towards her and talking in low tones. His magni 
ficent proportions made him by far the most noticeable person 
in the room, and it is no wonder that Gouache paused and 
looked at him, mentally observing that the two would make 
a fine couple. 
As he stood still he became aware that Corona herself was 
at his side. He glanced at her with something of inquiry in 
his eyes, and was about to speak when she made him a sign 
to follow her. They sat down together in a deserted corner 
at the opposite end of the room. 
' I have something to say to you, Monsieur Gouache,' she 
said, in a low voice, as she settled herself against the cushions. 
' I do not know that I have any right to speak, except that 
of a good friend and' of a woman.' 
' I am at your orders, princess.' 
' No, I have no orders to give you. I have only a suggestion 
to make. I have watched you often during the last month. My 
advice begins with a question. Do you love her ? ' 
Gouache's first instinct was to express the annoyance he 
felt at this interrogation. He moved quickly and glanced 
sharply at Corona's velvet eyes. Before the words that were 
on his lips could be spoken he remembered all the secret 
reverence and respect he had felt for this woman since he 
had first known her, he remembered how he had always 
regarded her as a sort of goddess, a superior being, at once 
woman and angel, placed far beyond the reach of mortals 
like himself His irritation vanished as quickly as it had 
arisen. But Corona had seen it. 
' Are you angry ?' she asked. 
' If you knew how I worship you, you would know 
that I am not,' answered Gouache with a strange sim 
plicity. 
For an instant the princess's deep eyes flashed and a dark 
blush mounted through her olive skin. She drew back, 
rather proudly. A delicate, gentle smile played round the 
soldier's mouth. 
' Perhaps it is your turn to be angry, Madame,' he said, 
quietly. ' But you need not be. I would say it to your 
husband, as I would say it to you in his presence. I worship 
you. You are the most beautiful woman in the world, the 
most nobly good. Everybody knows it, why should I not 
say it ? I wish I were a little child, and that you were my 
mother. Are you angry still V 
Corona was silent, and her eyes grew soft again as she 
looked kindly at the man beside her. She did not under 
stand him, but she knew that he meant to express something 
which was not bad. Gouache waited for her to speak. 
' It was not for that I asked you to come with me,' she 
said at last. 
' I am glad I said it,' replied Gouache. ' I am going 
away to-morrow, and it might never have been said. You 
asked me if I loved her. I trust you. I say, yes, I do. I 
am going to say good-bye this afternoon.' 
' I am sorry you love her. Is it serious V 
6 Absolutely, on my part. Why are you sorry ? Is there 
anything unnatural in it?' 
'No, on the contrary, it is too natural. Our lives are 
unnatural You cannot marry her. It seems brutal to tell 
you so, but you must know it already.' 
' There was once a little boy in Paris, Madame, who did 
not have enough to eat every day, nor enough clothes when 
the north wind blew. But he had a good heart. His name 
was Anastase Gouache.' 
' My dear friend,' said Corona, kindly, ' the atmosphere of 
Casa Montevarchi is colder than the north wind. A man 
may overcome almost anything more easily than the old- 
fashioned prejudices of a Roman prince.' 
' You do not forbid me to try V 
' Would the prohibition make any difference V 
' I am not sure.' Gouache paused and looked long at the 
princess. ' No,' he said at last, ' I am afraid not.'
' In that case I can only say one thing. You are a man 
of honour. Do your best not to make her uselessly unhappy. 
Win her if you can, by any fair means. But she has a 
heart, and I am very fond of the child. If any harm comes 
to her I shall hold you responsible. If you love her, think 
what it would be should she love you and be married to 
another man.' 
A shade of sadness darkened Corona's brow, as she remem 
bered those terrible months of her own life. Gouache knew 
what she meant and was silent for a few moments. 
' I trust you,' said she, at last. ' And since you are going 
to-morrow, God bless you. You are going in a good 
cause.' 
She held out her hand as she rose to leave him, and he 
bent over it and touched it with his lips, as he would have 
kissed the hand of his mother. Then, skirting the little 
assembly of people, Anastase went back towards the piano, 
in search of Donna Faustina. He found her alone, as young 
girls are generally to be found in Eoman drawing-rooms, 
unless there are two of them present to sit together. 
' What have you been talking about with the princess ? ' 
asked Donna Faustina when Gouache was seated beside her. 
Could you see from here ' asked Gouache instead of 
answering. ' I thought the plants would have hindered you.' 
' I saw you kiss her hand when you got up, and so I 
supposed that the conversation had been serious.' 
' Less serious than ours must be,' replied Anastase, 
sadly. ' I was saying good-bye to her, and now ' 
' Good-bye ? Why ? ' Faustina checked herself and 
looked away to hide her pallor. She felt cold, and a slight 
shiver passed over her slender figure. 
' I am going to the front to-morrow morning.' 
There was a long silence, during which the two looked 
at each other from time to time, neither finding courage to 
speak. Since Gouache had been in the room it had grown 
dark, and as yet but one lamp had been brought. The 
young man's eyes sought those he loved in the dusk, and as 
his hand stole out it met another, a tender, nervous hand, 
trembling with emotion. They did not heed what was pass 
ing near them. 
As though their silence were contagious, the conversation 
died away, and there was a general lull, such as sometimes 
falls upon an assemblage of people who have been talking 
for some time. Then, through the deep windows there came 
up a sound of distant uproar, mingled with occasional sharp 
detonations, few indeed, but the more noticeable for their 
rarity. Suddenly the door of the drawing-room burst open, 
and a servant's voice was heard speaking in a loud key, the 
coarse accents and terrified tone contrasting strangely with 
the sounds generally heard in such a place. 
' Excellency ! Excellency ! The revolution ! Garibaldi 
is at the gates ! The Italians are coming I Madonna ! 
Madonna ! The revolution, Eccellenza mia I ' 
The man was mad with fear. Every one spoke at once. 
Some laughed, thinking the man crazy. Others, who had 
heard the distant noise from the streets, drew back and 
looked > nervously towards the door. Then Sant' Ilario's 
clear, strong voice, rang like a clarion through the room. 
' Bar the gates. Shut the blinds all over the house 
it is of no use to let them break good windows. Don't 
stand there shivering like a fool. It is only a mob.' 
Before he had finished speaking, San Giacinto was calmly 
bolting the blinds of the drawing-room windows, fastening 
each one as steadily and securely as he had been wont to 
put up the shutters of his inn at Aquila in the old days. 
In the dusky corner by the piano Gouache and Faustina 
were overlooked in the general confusion. There was no 
time for reflection, for at the first words of the servant 
Anastase knew that he must go instantly to his post. 
Faustina's little hand was still clasped in his, as they both 
sprang to their feet. Then with a sudden movement he 
clasped her in his arms and kissed her passionately. 
' Good-bye my beloved ! ' 
The girl's arms were twined closely about him, and her 
eyes looked up to his with a wild entreaty. 
' You are safe here, my darling good-bye ! ' 
' Where are you going ?' 
' To the Serristori barracks. God keep you safe till I 
come back good-bye ! ' 
' I will go with you,' said Faustina, with a strange look 
of determination in her angelic face. 
Gouache smiled, even then, at the mad thought which 
presented itself to the girl's mind. Once more he kissed 
her, and then, she knew not how, he was gone. Other 
persons had come near them, shutting the windows rapidly, 
one after the other, in anticipation of danger from without. 
With instinctive modesty Faustina withdrew her arms from 
the young man's neck and shrank back. In that moment 
he disappeared in the crowd. 
Faustina stared wildly about her for a few seconds, con 
fused and stunned by the suddenness of what had passed, 
above all by the thought that the man she loved was gone from 
her side to meet his death. Then without hesitation she 
left the room. No one hindered her, for the Saracinesca 
men were gone to see to the defences of the house, and 
Corona was already by the cradle of her child. No one 
noticed the slight figure as it slipped through the door and 
was gone in the darkness of the unlighted halls. All was 
cun fusion and noise and flashing of passing lights as the 
servants hurried about, trying to obey orders in spite of 
their terror. Faustina glided like a shadow down the vast 
staircase, slipped through one of the gates just as the 
bewildered porter was about to close it, and in a moment 
was out in the midst of the multitude that thronged the 
dim streets a mere child and alone, facing a revolution in 
the dark. 
CHAPTER V 
GOUACHE made his way as fast as he could to the bridge of 
Sant' Angelo, but his progress was constantly impeded by 
moving crowds bodies of men, women, and children rush 
ing frantically together at the corners of the streets and then 
surging onward in the direction of the resultant produced 
by their combined forces in the shock. There was loud 
and incoherent screaming of women and shouting of men, 
out of which occasionally a few words could be distinguished, 
more often ' Viva Pio Nono ! ' or ' Viva la Repubblica ! ' 
than anything else. The scene of confusion baffled descrip 
tion. A company of infantry was filing out of the castle 
of Sant' Angelo on to the bridge, where it was met by a 
dense multitude of people coming from the opposite direc 
tion. A squadron of mounted gendarmes came up from the 
Borgo Nuovo at the same moment, and half a dozen cabs 
were jammed in between the opposing masses of the soldiers 
and the people. The officer at the head of the column of 
