anger was splendid and glorious to behold. And Tristrem, with the thirst
of one who has drunk of thirst itself, caught the cascade of words, and
found in them the waters and fountains of life.
"These letters----But how is it possible? God in Heaven----! But can't
you see?--the bare idea is an infamy. Your mother was as interested in
Raritan as--as----It's enough to make a mad dog blush. It was just a few
months before you were born----Bah! the imbecility of Erastus Varick
would unnerve a pirate. I know he was always running there, Raritan was,
but anyone with the brain of a wooden Indian would have
understood----Why, they were here--they came to me, all three of them,
and because I knew her father----And precious little thanks I got for my
pains. He said he would see the girl in her grave first. He would have
it that Raritan was after her for her money. It's true he hadn't a
penny--but--what's that got to do with it? The mischief's done. She must
have sent these letters to your mother to return to Raritan just before
she married that idiot Wainwaring. Your mother was her most intimate
friend--they were at school together at Pelham Priory. Raritan, I
suppose, was away. Before he got back, your mother--you were born, you
know, and she died. She had no chance to return them. That imbecile of a
father of yours must have found the letters, and thought----But how is
such a thing possible? Good God! he ought to be dug up and cowhided. And
it was for this he left you a Panama hat! And it was for this you have
turned over millions to an institution for the shelter of vice! It was
for this----See here, since Christ was crucified, a greater stupidity,
or one more iniquitous, has never been committed."
In the magnificence of his indignation, Mr. Van Norden stormed on until
he lacked the strength to continue. But he stormed to ravished and
indulgent ears. And when at last he did stop, Tristrem, who meanwhile
had been silent as a mouse, went over to the arm-chair into which, in
his exhaustion, he had thrown himself, and touched his shoulder.
"If he did not wish me to have the money," he said, "how could I keep
it? How could I?" And before the honesty that was in his face the old
man lowered his eyes to the ground. "I am gladder," Tristrem continued,
"to know myself his son than to be the possessor of all New York. But
when I thought that I was not his son, was that a reason why I should
cease to be a gentleman. Though I lost everything else, what did it
matter if I kept my self-respect?"
He waited a moment for an answer, and then a very singular thing
happened. From Dirck Van Norden's lowered eyes first one tear and then a
second rolled down into the furrows of his cheek. From his throat came a
sound that did not wholly resemble a sob and yet was not like to
laughter, his mouth twitched, and he turned his head aside. "It's the
first time since your mother died," he said at last, but what he meant
by that absurd remark, who shall say?
For some time Tristrem lingered, lost in thought. It was indeed as he
had said. He was gladder to feel again that he was free to love and free
to be loved in return than he would have been at holding all New York in
fee. As he rose from the nightmare in which he suffocated he did not so
much as pay the lost estate the compliment of a regret. It was not that
which had debarred him from her, nor was it for that that she had once
placed her hand in his. He was well rid of it all, since in the riddance
the doors of his prison-house were unlocked. For three months his heart
had been not dead but haunted, and now it was instinct with life and
fluttered by the beckonings of hope. He had fronted sorrow. Pain had
claimed him for its own, and in its intensity it had absorbed his tears.
He had sunk to the uttermost depths of grief, and, unbereft of reason,
he had explored the horrors of the abyss. And now in the magic of the
unforeseen he was transported to dazzling altitudes, to landscapes from
which happiness, like the despot that it is, had routed sorrow and
banished pain. He was like one who, overtaken by years and disease,
suddenly finds his youth restored.
His plans were quickly made. He would go to Narragansett at once, and
not leave until the engagement was renewed. He had even the cruelty to
determine that his grandfather should come to the Pier himself, and
argue with Mrs. Raritan, if argument were necessary.
"I have so much to say," he presently exclaimed, "that I don't know
where to begin."
"Begin at the end," his grandfather suggested.
But Tristrem found it more convenient to begin in the middle. He led the
old gentleman into the rhyme and reason of the rupture, he carried him
forward and backward from old fancies to newer hopes. He explained how
imperative it was that with the demolition of the obstacle which his
father had erected the engagement should be at once renewed; he blamed
himself for having even suggested that Viola was capricious; he mourned
over the position in which she had been placed; he pictured Mrs.
Raritan's relief when she learned of the error into which she had
wandered; and after countless digressions wound up by commanding his
grandfather to write an explanation which would serve him as a passport
to renewed and uninterruptable favor.
"Certainly--certainly," Mr. Van Norden cried, with the impatience of one
battling against a stream. "But even granting that your father wrote to
Mrs. Raritan, which I doubt--although, to be sure, he was capable of
anything--don't you see that you are in a very different position to-day
than you would have been had you not--had you not----"
"You mean about the money?"
"Why, most assuredly I mean about the money," the old gentleman cried,
aroused to new indignation by the wantonness of the question.
At this Tristrem, with the blithe confidence of a lover, shook his head.
"You don't know Viola," he answered. "Besides, I can work. Other men
do--why shouldn't I?"
"And be able to marry when you are ready for the grave. That's nonsense.
Unless the young lady is a simpleton, and her mother a fit subject for
Bedlam, don't tell them that you are going to work. And what would you
work at, pray? No, no--that won't do. You are as fitted to go into
business as I am to open a bake-shop."
"I might try stocks," said Tristrem, bravely.
"So you might, if you had the St. Nicholas money to start with. And even
then you would have to lose two fortunes before you could learn how to
make one. No, if you have not six or seven millions, you will, one of
these days--and the later the day the better for me--you will have a few
hundred thousand. It is paltry enough in comparison to the property
which you threw out of the window, but, paltry or not, it's more than
you deserve. Meanwhile, I will----There, don't begin your nonsense
again, sir. For the last three months you have done nothing but bother
the soul out of me. Meanwhile, if you don't accept what I care to give,
and accept it, what's more, with a devilish good grace, I'll--I'll
disinherit you myself--begad I will. I'll leave everything I have to the
St. Nicholas. It's a game that two can play at. You have set the
fashion, and you can abide by it. And now I would be very much indebted
if you would let me get some rest."
Therewith the fierce old gentleman looked Tristrem in the eyes, and
grasping him by the shoulder, he held him to him for a second's space.
XI.
When Tristrem reached Narragansett he had himself driven to an hotel,
where he removed the incidental traces of travel before venturing to
present himself at the villa. It was a glorious forenoon, and as he
dressed, the tonic that was blown to him through the open window
affected his spirits like wine. The breeze promised victory. He had been
idle and dilatory, he told himself; but he was older, the present was
his, and he felt the strength to make it wholly to his use. The past
would be forgotten and put aside; no, but utterly, as Nature
forgets--and in the future, what things might be!
    "O Magali, ma bien aimée,
    Fuyons tous deux, tous de--ux----"
The old song came back to him, and as he set out for the villa he hummed
it gayly to himself. The villa was but the throw of a stone from the
hotel, and in a moment he would be there. He was just a little bit
nervous, and he walked rapidly. As he reached the gate his excitement
increased. In his breast was a tightening sensation. And then at once he
stopped short. On the door of the cottage hung a sign, bearing for
legend, "To Let--Furnished."
"But it is impossible," he exclaimed, "they were to be here till
October."
He went up and rang the bell. The front windows were closed and barred.
The porch on which he stood was chairless. He listened, and heard no
sound. He tried the door--it was locked.
"But it is impossible," he kept repeating. "H'm! 'To let--furnished; for
particulars apply to J. F. Brown, at the Casino.' Most certainly, I
will--most certainly," and monologuing in the fashion that was peculiar
to him, he went down the road again, mindful only of his own perplexity.
On reaching the Casino he found that he would have no difficulty in
seeing the agent. Mr. Brown, the door-keeper told him, was "right in
there," and as he gave this information he pointed to a cramped little
office which stood to the left of the entrance.
"Is this Mr. Brown?" Tristrem began. "Mr. Brown, I am sorry to trouble
you. Would you be good enough to tell me about Mrs. Raritan's cottage.
I----"
"For next summer? Nine hundred, payable in advance."
"I didn't mean about the price. I meant--I was told that Mrs. Raritan
had taken it until October----"
"So she did. You can sublet for the balance of the season."
"Thank you--yes--but Mrs. Raritan hasn't gone away, has she?"
"She went weeks ago. There's nothing the matter with the cottage,
however. Drainage excellent."
"I have no doubt. But can you tell me where Mrs. Raritan went to?"
"I haven't the remotest idea. Lenox, perhaps. If you want to look at the
cottage I'll give you the key."
"I should think----Really, I must apologize for troubling you. Didn't
Mrs. Raritan leave her address?"
"If she did, it wasn't with me. When do you want the cottage for?"
Tristrem had not the courage to question more. He turned despondently
from Mr. Brown, and passing on through the vestibule, reached the
veranda that fronts the sea. In an angle a group of violinists were
strumming an inanity of Strauss with perfect independence of one
another. Beyond, on the narrow piazza, and on a division of the lawn
that leaned to the road, were a number of small tables close-packed with
girls in bright costumes and men in loose flannels and coats of
diverting hues. At the open windows of the restaurant other groups were
seated, dividing their attention between the food before them and the
throng without. And through the crowd a number of Alsatians pushed their
way, bearing concoctions to the thirstless. The hubbub was enervating,
and in the air was a stench of liquor with which the sea-breeze coped in
vain.
Tristrem hesitated a second, and would have fled. He was in one of those
moods in which the noise and joviality of pleasure-seekers are jarring
even to the best-disposed. While he hesitated he saw a figure rising and
beckoning from a table on the lawn. And as he stood, uncertain whether
or no the signals were intended for him, the figure crossed the
intervening space, and he recognized Alphabet Jones.
"Come and have a drink," said that engaging individual. "You're as
solemn as a comedian. I give you my word, I believe you are the only
sober man in the place."
"Thank you," Tristrem answered; "I believe I do not care for anything. I
only came to ask----By the way, have you been here long?"
"Off and on all summer. It's a good place for points. You got my card,
didn't you? I wanted to express my sympathy at your bereavement."
"You are very kind; I----"
"But what's this I hear about you? You've bloomed out into a celebrity.
Everybody is talking about you--everybody, men, women, and children,
particularly the girls. When a fellow gives away a fortune like that!
Mais, tu sais, mon cher, c'est beau, c'est bien beau, ça." And to
himself he added, "Et bien bête."
Already certain members of immediate groups had become interested in the
new arrival, and it seemed to Tristrem that he heard his name
circulating above the jangle of the waltz.
"I am going to the hotel," he said. "I wish you would walk back with me.
I haven't spoken to a soul in an age. It would be an act of charity to
tell me the gossip." Tristrem, as he made this invitation, marvelled at
his own duplicity. For the time being, he cared for the society of
Alphabet Jones as he cared for the companionship of a bum-bailiff. Yet
still he lured him from the Casino and led him up the road, in the hope
that perhaps without direct questioning he might gain some knowledge of
Her.
As they walked on Jones descanted in the arbitrary didactic manner which
is the privilege of men of letters whose letters are not in capitals,
and moralized on a variety of topics, not with any covert intention of
boring Tristrem, but merely from a habit he had of rehearsing ready-made
phrases and noting their effect on a particular listener. This exercise
he found beneficial. In airing his views he sometimes stumbled on a good
thing which he had not thought of in private. And as he talked Tristrem
listened, in the hope that he might say something which would permit him
to lead up to the subject that was foremost in his mind. But nothing of
such a nature was touched upon, and it was not until the cottage was
reached that Tristrem spoke at all.
"The Raritans have gone, I see," he remarked, nodding at the cottage as
he did so.
"Yes, I see by the papers that they sailed yesterday."
"You don't mean to say they have gone to Europe. I thought--I heard they
were going to Lenox."
"If they were, they changed their plans. Miss Raritan didn't seem up to
the mark when she was here. In some way she reminded me of a realized
ideal--the charm had departed. She used to be enigmatical in her beauty,
but this summer, though the beauty was still there, it was no longer
enigmatical, it was like a problem solved. After all, it's the way with
our girls. A winter or two in New York would take the color out of the
cheeks of a Red Indian. Apropos de bottes, weren't you rather smitten
in that direction?"
"And you say they have gone abroad?" Tristrem repeated, utterly
unimpressed by the ornateness of the novelist's remarks.
"Yes, sir; and were it not that our beastly Government declines to give
me the benefit of an international copyright, I should be able to go and
do likewise. It's enough to turn an author into an anarchist. Why, you
would be surprised----"
Jones rambled on, but Tristrem no longer listened. The position in which
he found himself was more irritating than a dream. He was dumbly
exasperated. It was his own inaction that was the cause of it all. If he
had but bestirred himself sooner! Instead of struggling against that
which every throb of his heart convinced him was false, he had dawdled
with the impossible and toyed with apostils of grief. At the first
obstacle he had turned aside. Where he should have been resolute, he had
been weak. He had taken mists for barriers. A child frightened at its
own shadow was never more absurd than he. And Viola--it was not
surprising that the color had deserted her cheeks. It was no wonder that
in his imbecile silence she had gone away. It was only surprising that
she had not gone before. And if she had waited, might it not be that she
waited expectant of some effort from him, hoping against hope, and when
he had made no sign had believed in his defeat, and left him to it.
There was no blame for her. And now, if he were free again, that very
liberty was due not to his own persistence, but to chance. Surely she
was right to go. Yet--yet--but, after all, it was not too late.
Wherever she had gone he could follow. He would find her, and tell her,
and hold her to him.
Already he smiled in scenes forecast. The exasperation had left him.
Whether he came to Narragansett or journeyed to Paris, what matter did
it make? The errand was identical, and the result would be the same. How
foolish of him to be annoyed because he had not found her, in garlands
of orange-blossoms, waiting on a balcony to greet his coming. The very
fact of her absence added new weight to the import of his message. Yes,
he would return to town at once, and the next steamer would bear him to
her.
And then, unconsciously, through some obscure channel of memory, he was
back where he had once been, in a Gasthof in the Bavarian Mountains.
It was not yet dusk. Through the window came a choir of birds, and he
could see the tender asparagus-green of neighborly trees. He was seated
at a great, bare table of oak, and as he raised from it to his lips a
stone measure of beer, his eyes rested on an engraving that hung on the
wall. It represented a huntsman, galloping like mad, one steadying hand
on the bridle and the other stretched forward to grasp a phantom that
sped on before. Under the picture, in quaint German text, was the
legend, The Chase after Happiness. "H'm;" he mused, "I don't see why I
should think of that."
"That's the gist of it all," Jones was saying. "It's the fashion to rail
against critics. I remember telling one of the guild the other day not
to read my books--they might prejudice him in my favor; but in
comparison to certain publishers the average reviewer stands as a
misdemeanant does to a burglar. No, I have said it before and I say it
again, until that copyright law is passed, the Government is guilty of
nothing less than compounding a felony."
Of what had gone before Tristrem had not heard a single word, and these
ultimate phrases which reached him were as meaningless as
church-steeples. He started as one does from a nap, with that shake of
the head which is peculiar to the absent-minded. He was standing, he
discovered, at the entrance to the hotel at which he lodged.
"Don't you agree with me?" Jones asked. "Come and lunch at the Casino.
You will get nothing here. Narragansett cookery is as iniquitous as the
legislature. Besides, at this hour they give you dinner. It is tragic,
on my word, it is."
"Thank you," Tristrem answered, elusively. "I have an appointment
with--with a train." And with this excuse he entered the hotel, and as
soon after as was practicable he returned to town.
It was, he learned, as Jones had said. Mrs. Raritan and Miss Raritan
were passengers on a steamer which had sailed two days before. It was
then Friday. One of the swiftest Cunarders was to sail the following
morning, and it seemed not improbable to Tristrem that he might reach
the other side, if not simultaneously with, at least but a few hours
after the arrival of the Wednesday boat. Such preparations, therefore,
as were necessary he made without delay. As incidental thereto, he went
to the house in Thirty-ninth Street. There he learned, from a squat
little Irishwoman who came out from the area and eyed him with
unmollifiable suspicion, that, like the Narragansett cottage, the house
was to let. The only address which he could obtain from her was that of
a real-estate agent in the lower part of the city. Thither he posted at
once. Yet even there the information which he gleaned was meagre. The
house was offered for a year. During that period, the agent understood,
Mrs. Raritan proposed to complete her daughter's musical education
abroad; where, the agent did not know. The rental accruing from the
lease of the house was to be paid over to the East and West Trust Co.
Further than that he could say nothing. Thereupon Tristrem trudged
hopefully to Wall Street; but the secretary of the East and West was
vaguer even than the agent. He knew nothing whatever on the subject of
Mrs. Raritan's whereabouts, and from his tone it was apparent that he
cared less. There is, however, an emollient in courtesy which has
softened greater oafs than he, and that emollient Tristrem possessed.
There was in his manner a penetrating and pervasive refinement, and at
the gruffness with which he was received there came to his face an
expression of such perplexity that the secretary, disarmed in spite of
himself, turned from his busy idleness and told Tristrem that if Mrs.
Raritan had not left her address with him she must certainly have given
it to the lawyer who held the power of attorney to collect the rents and
profits of her estate. The name of that lawyer was Meggs, and his office
was in the Mills Building.
In the Mills Building Tristrem's success was little better. Mr. Meggs,
the managing clerk announced, had left town an hour before and would not
return until Monday. However, if there was anything he could do, he
was entirely at Tristrem's disposal. And then Tristrem explained his
errand anew, adding that he sailed on the morrow, and that it was
important for him to have Mrs. Raritan's address before he left. The
clerk regretted, but he did not know it. Could not Mr. Meggs send it to
him?
"He might cable it, might he not?" Tristrem suggested. And as this plan
seemed feasible, he gave the clerk a card with a London address scrawled
on it, and therewith some coin. "I should be extremely indebted if you
would beg Mr. Meggs to send me the address at once," he added; and the
clerk, who had read the name on the card and knew it to be that of the
claimant and renouncer of a great estate, assured him that Mr. Meggs
would take great pleasure in so doing.
After that there was nothing for Tristrem to do but to return to his
grandfather's house and complete his preparations. He dined with Mr. Van
Norden that evening, and a very pleasant dinner it was. Together they
talked of those matters and memories that were most congenial to them;
Mr. Van Norden looking steadily in the past, and Tristrem straight into
the future. And at last, at midnight, when the carriage came to take
Tristrem to the wharf--for the ship was to sail at so early an hour in
the morning that it was deemed expedient for the passengers to sleep on
board--as Tristrem took leave of his grandfather, "Bring her back soon,"
the old gentleman said, "bring her back as soon as you can. And,
Tristrem, you must take this to her once more, with an old man's love
and blessing."
Whereupon he gave Tristrem again the diamond brooch that had belonged to
his daughter.
XII.
The journey over was precisely like any other, except in this, that, the
tide of travel being in the contrary direction, the number of cabin
passengers was limited. Among them there was no one whom Tristrem had
met before; yet, after the second day out, there were few whom his
appearance and manner had not attracted and coerced into some overture
to better acquaintance. Of these his attention was particularly claimed
by an Englishman who sat next to him at table, and a young lady who
occupied the seat opposite to his own. In the eyes of the latter was the
mischievous look of a precocious boy. She was extremely pretty; blonde,
fair, with a mouth that said Kiss me--what the French call a frimousse
frottée de champagne; and her speech was marked by great vivacity. She
was accompanied by an elderly person who appeared at table but once, and
who during the rest of the voyage remained bundled in shawls in the
ladies' cabin, where refreshments were presumably brought her.
It was rumored that this young lady was an ex-star of the Gaiety, and
more recently a member of a burlesque troupe that had disbanded in the
States. It was added--but then, are not ill-natured things said about
everybody? You, sir, and you, madam, who happen to read this page, have
never, of course, been spoken of other than with the greatest respect,
but what is said of your neighbor? and what have you said yourself?
Tristrem, unaffected by the gossip of the smoking-room, to which,
indeed, he lent but an inattentive ear, allowed the young lady to march
him up and down the deck and, as was his wont, permitted himself to be
generally made use of. Yet if the elderly person in the ladies' cabin
had exacted of him similar attentions, the attentions would have been
rendered with the same prompt and diligent willingness. He was not a
good listener, although he seemed one, but there was a breeziness in the
young lady's conversation which helped him not a little to forget the
discomforts of ocean travel. He walked with her, in consequence, mile
after mile, and when she wearied of that amusement, he got her
comfortably seated and, until she needed him again, passed the time in
the smoking-room.
It was there that he became acquainted with the Englishman who sat next
to him at table. His name, he learned, was Ledyard Yorke. He was an
artist by profession, and in the course of a symposium or two Tristrem
discovered that he was a very cultivated fellow besides. He seemed to be
well on in the thirties, and it was evident that there were few quarters
of the globe with which he was not familiar. He was enthusiastic on the
subject of French literature, but the manufactures of the pupils of the
Beaux Arts he professed to abominate.
"The last time I was at the Salon," he said, one evening, "there were in
those interminable halls over three thousand pictures. Of these, there
were barely fifty worth looking at. The others were interesting as
colored lithographs on a dead wall. There was a Manet or two, a Moreau,
and a dozen or more excellent landscapes, but the rest represented the
apotheosis of mediocrity. The pictures which Gérôme, Cabanel,
Bouguereau, and the acolytes of those pastry-cooks exposed were stupid
and sterile as church doors. What is art, after all, if it be not an
imitation of nature? To my thinking, the greater the illusion, the
nearer does the counterfeit approach the model. And look at the nymphs
and dryads which those hair-dressers present. In the first place, nymphs
and dryads are as overdone as the assumption of Virgins and the loves of
Leda. Besides they were not modern, but even if they were, fancy a girl
who lives in the open air in her birthday costume, and who, exposed to
the sun, to say nothing of the wind, still preserves the pink and white
skin of a baby--and a skin, mind you, that looks as though it had been
polished and pinched by a masseur; however, place a dozen of them
lolling in conventional attitudes in a glade, or represent them bathing
in a pond, and although the sun shines on them through the foliage, be
careful not to get so much as the criss-cross of a shadow on their
bodies, smear the whole thing with cold cream, label one 'Arcadia,' and
the other 'Nymphs surprised,' and you have what they call in France the
faire distingué."
There was nothing particularly new in what Mr. Yorke had to say, and if,
like the majority of men whose thoughts run in a particular channel, he
was apt to be dogmatic in his views, he yet possessed that saving
quality, which consists in treating the subject in hand not as were it a
matter of life and death, but rather as one which is as unimportant as
the gout of a distant relative. And it was in the companionship of this
gentleman, and that of the young lady alluded to, that Tristrem passed
the six days which separated him from the Irish coast.
On the day preceding the debarcation he was in great and expectant
spirits, but as the sun sank in the ocean his light-heartedness sank
with it. During dinner his charming vis-à-vis rallied him as best she
might, but he remained unresponsive, answering only when civility made
it necessary for him to do so. It is just possible that the young lady
may have entertained original ideas of her own on the subject of his
taciturnity, but, however that may be, it so happened that before the
meal was done Tristrem went up on deck, and seeking the stern of the
ship, leaned over the gunwale.
So far in the distance as his eyes could reach was a trail of glistening
white. On either side were impenetrable wastes of black. In his ears was
the sob of water displaced, the moan of tireless discontent, and
therewith the flash and shimmer of phosphorus seemed to invite and tell
of realms of enchanted rest beneath. And, as Tristrem watched and
listened, the sibilants of the sea gurgled in sympathy with his
thoughts, accompanying and accentuating them with murmurs of its own.
Its breast was bared to him, it lay at his feet, open-armed as though
waiting his coming, and conjuring him to haste. "There is nothing
sweeter," it seemed to say, "nothing swifter, and naught more still. I
feed my lovers on lotus and Lethe. There is no fairer couch in the world
than mine. A sister's kiss is not more chaste. I am better than fame,
serener than hope; I am more than love, I am peace. I am unforsakable,
and I never forsake."
And as the great ship sped on in fright, it almost seemed to Tristrem
that the sea, like an affianced bride, was rising up to claim and take
him as her own. Many months later, he thought of the sensation that he
then experienced, the query that came to his mind, he knew not how or
whence, whether it were not better perhaps--and then the after-shudder
as he started back, wondering could it be that for the moment he was
mad, and telling himself that in a few hours, a few days at most, he
would be with Her. And what had the sea to do with him? Many months
after he thought of it.
And as he still gazed at the tempting waters, he felt a hand touch his
own, rest on, and nestle in it. He looked around; it was his charming
vis-à-vis who had sought him out and was now looking in his face. She
did not speak; her eyes had lost their mischief, but her mouth framed
its message as before. Awkwardly as men do such things, Tristrem
disengaged his hand. The girl made one little effort to detain it, and
for a moment her lips moved; but she said nothing, and when the hand had
gone from her, she turned with a toss of the head and disappeared in the
night.
Soon after, Tristrem turned, too, and found his way to the smoking-room.
In some way the caress which he had eluded had left a balm. He was as
hopeful as before, and he smiled in silent amusement at the ups and
downs of his needless fears. In a corner of the room was Yorke.
"I have been looking at the sea," he said, as he took a seat at his
side; "it is captious as wine."
"You are a poet, are you not?" Yorke spoke not as though he were paying
a compliment, but in the matter-of-fact fashion in which one drummer
will say "Dry goods?" to another.
"No; I wish I were. I have never written."
"It's a popular prejudice to suppose that a poet must write. The
greatest of all never put pen to paper. What is there left to us of
Linus and Musæus? Siddartha did not write, Valmiki did not know how. The
parables of the Christ were voiced, not written. Besides, the poet
feels--he does not spend a year, like Mallarmé, in polishing a sonnet.
De Musset is certainly the best example of the poet that France has to
offer; with him you always catch the foot-fall of the Muse--you feel, as
he felt, the inspiration. And all the more clearly in that his verses
limp. He never would have had time to express himself if he had tried to
sand-paper his thoughts. Don't you suppose that Murillo was a poet?
Don't you suppose that Guido was? Don't you think that anyone who is in
love with beauty must be? I say beauty where I might say the ideal. That
is the reason I thought you a poet. You have in your face that constant
preoccupation which is distinctive of those who pursue the intangible."
"I am not pursuing the intangible, though," Tristrem answered, with a
little sententious nod.
"Ah, who shall say? We all do. I am pursuing it myself, though not in
the sense that I attribute to you. Did you ever read Flaubert's
Tentation? No? Well, fancy the Sphinx crouching at sunset in the
encroaching sand. In the background is a riot of color, and overhead a
tender blue fading into salmon and the discreetest gray. Then add to
that the impression of solitude and the most absolute silence. In the
foreground flutters a Chimera, a bird with a dragon's tail and the
rainbow wings of a giant butterfly. The Sphinx is staring at you, and
yet through and beyond, as though her eyes rested on some inaccessible
horizon. Cities crumble, nations rise and subside, and still that
undeviating stare! And in her face the unroutable calm of fabulous
beauty. I want those eyes, I want that face. You never heard the duo
which Flaubert gives, did you? It runs somewhat this way: The motionless
Sphinx calls: 'Here, Chimera, rest a while.'
"The Chimera answers: 'Rest? Not I.'
"The Sphinx. Whither goest thou in such haste?
"The Chimera. I gallop in the corridors of the labyrinth. I soar to
the mountain-tops. I skim the waves. I yelp at the foot of precipices. I
cling to the skirt of clouds. With my training tail I sweep the shores.
The hills have taken their curve from the form of my shoulders. But
thou--I find thee perpetually immobile, or else with the end of thy claw
drawing alphabets in the sand.
"The Sphinx. I am guarding my secret, I calculate and I dream.
"The Chimera. I--I am joyous and light of heart. I discover to man
resplendent perspectives, Utopias in the skies, and distant felicities.
Into his soul I pour the eternal follies, projects of happiness, plans
for the future, dreams of fame, and the vows of love and virtuous
resolutions. I incite to perilous journeys, to great undertakings. It is
I that chiselled the marvels of architecture. It is I that hung bells on
the tomb of Porsenna, and surrounded with an orchalc wall the quays of
the Atlantides. I seek new perfumes, larger flowers, and pleasures
unenjoyed. If anywhere I perceive a man whose mind rests in wisdom, I
drop from space and strangle him.
"The Sphinx. All those whom the desire of God torments, I have
devoured."
Yorke had repeated these snatches from the duo in French. He had
repeated them well, bringing out the harmony of the words in a manner
which in our harsher tongue would have been impossible. And now he felt
parched, and ordered some drink of the steward.
"It is the face of that Sphinx that I want," he continued. "If I were a
composer I would put the duo itself to music. I know of no prose more
admirable. I have the scene on canvas, all of it, that is, except the
Sphinx's face, and that, of course, is the most important. I want a face
that she alone could possess. I may find it, I may not. At all events,
you see that just at present I too am in pursuit of the intangible. But
there, tell me of the artist who is not. It is true, you go to the
Academy, and in the Cleopatras and Psyches you recognize the same Mary
Jane who the day before offered herself as model to you. My Sphinx,
however, was not born in Clapham. Nor does she dwell in Pimlico. But,
apropos to Pimlico, I have a fancy that that little friend of yours is
on her way to St. John's Wood."
"What little friend?"
"Why, the girl that sits opposite. And what's more to the point, she's
in love with you. Tous mes compliments, c'est un vrai morceau de roi."
At this Tristrem blushed in spite of himself. She might have been the
Helen for whom the war of the world was fought; she might have been
Mylitta or Venus Basilea, and still would she have left him unimpressed.
He would not have recognized the divinity--he bowed but to one.
"You remind me," said Yorke, who had watched his expression--"you remind
me of De Marsay, who did not know what he did to the women to make them
all fall in love with him. There is nothing as fetching as that. And
there is nothing, at least to my thinking, that compares with that charm
which a woman in love exhales to her lover. It is small matter whether
the woman is the daughter of an earl or whether she is a cocotte. There
are, I know, people who like their claret in decanters, but so long as
the wine is good, what does the bottle matter?
    "'Aimer est le grand point, qu' importe la maitresse?
    Qu' importe le flacon, pourvu qu'on ait l'ivresse?'"
"De Musset was drunk when he wrote that," said Tristrem. "But whether he
was drunk or sober, I don't agree with him. I don't agree with him at
all. It is the speech of a man who can think himself in love over and
over again, and who discovers in the end that through all his affairs he
has loved no one but himself."
All of which Mr. Yorke pooh-poohed in the civilest manner, and when
Tristrem had finished his little speech, expounded the principles of
love as they are formulated in the works of a German metaphysician,
supporting them as he did so with such clarity and force of argument
that Tristrem, vanquished but unconvinced, left him in disgust.
The next day they were at Liverpool. In the confusion that is incidental
to every debarcation Tristrem had had no opportunity of exchanging a
word with his vis-à-vis. But in the custom-house he caught sight of
her, and went forward to bid her good-bye.
"Good-bye," she answered, when he had done so, and putting out her hand,
she looked at him with mischievous eyes. "Good-bye," she repeated,
lightly, and then, between her teeth, she added, "Imbecile that you
are!"
Though what she may have meant by that, Tristrem never understood.
XIII.
It was under cover of a fog of leprous brown striated with ochre and
acrid with smoke that Tristrem entered London. In allusion to that most
delightful of cities, someone has said somewhere that hell must be just
such another place. If the epigrammatist be right, then indeed is it
time that the rehabilitation of the lower regions began. London is
subtle and cruel, perhaps, and to the meditative traveller it not
infrequently appears like an invocation to suicide writ in stone. But
whoso has once accustomed himself to its breath may live ever after in
flowerful Arcadias and yet dream of its exhalations with regret. In
Venice one may coquette with phantoms; Rome has ghosts and memories of
her own; in Paris there is a sparkle that is headier than absinthe;
Berlin resounds so well to the beat of drums that even the pusillanimous
are brave; but London is the great enchantress. It is London alone that
holds the secret of inspiring love and hatred as well.
Tristrem sniffed the fog with a sensation of that morbid pleasure which
girls in their teens and women in travail experience when they crave and
obtain repulsive food. Had he not hungered for it himself? and did she
not breathe it too?
The journey from Euston Square to the hotel in Jermyn Street at which he
proposed to put up, was to him a confusion of impatience and
anticipation. He was sure of finding a cablegram from Mrs. Raritan's
attorney, and was it not possible that he might see Viola that very
night? In Jermyn Street, however, no message awaited him. Under the
diligent supervision of a waiter who had the look and presence of a
bishop he managed later to eat some dinner. But the evening was a blank:
he passed it twirling his thumbs, dumbly irritated, incapable of action,
and perplexed as he had never been before.
The next morning his Odyssey began. He cabled to Mr. Meggs, and saw the
clerk put beneath the message the cabalistic letters A. P. And then,
in an attempt to frighten Time, he had his measure taken in Saville Row
and his hair cut in Bond Street. But in vain--the day dragged as though
its wheels were clogged. By noon he had exhausted every possible
resource. Another, perhaps, might have beguiled the tedium with drink,
or cultivated what Balzac has called the gastronomy of the eye, and
which consists in idling in the streets. But unfortunately for Tristrem,
he was none other than himself. The mere smell of liquor was distasteful
to him, and he was too nervous to be actively inactive. Moreover, as in
September there are never more than four million people in London, his
chance of encountering an acquaintance was slight. Those that he
possessed were among the absent ten thousand. They were in the country,
among the mountains, at the seaside, on the Continent--anywhere, in
fact, except in the neighborhood of Pall Mall. And even had it been
otherwise, Tristrem was not in a mood to suffer entertainment. He had
not the slightest wish to be amused. Wagner might have come to Covent
Garden from the grave to conduct Parsifal in person and Tristrem would
not have so much as bought a stall. He wanted Miss Raritan's address,
and until he got it a comet that bridged the horizon would have left him
incurious as the dead.
On the morrow, with his coffee, there came to him a yellow envelope. The
message was brief, though not precisely to the point "Uninformed of
Mrs. Raritan's address," it ran, and the signature was Meggs.
For the first time it occurred to Tristrem that Fate was conspiring
against him. It had been idiocy on his part to leave New York before he
had obtained the address; and now that he was in London, it would be
irrational to write to any of her friends--the Wainwarings, for
instance--and hope to get it. He knew the Wainwarings just well enough
to attend a reception if they gave one, and a slighter acquaintance than
that it were idle to describe.
Other friends the girl had in plenty, but to Tristrem they were little
more than shadows. There seemed to be no one to whom he could turn.
Indeed he was sorely perplexed. Since the hour in which he learned that
his father and Viola's were not the same he had been possessed of but
one thought--to see her and kneel at her feet; and in the haste he had
not shown the slightest forethought--he had been too feverishly
energetic to so much as wait till he got her address; and now in the
helter-skelter he had run into a cul-de-sac where he could absolutely
do nothing except sit and bite his thumb. The enforced inactivity was
torturesome as suspense. In his restlessness he determined to retrace
his steps; he would return to New York, he told himself, learn of her
whereabouts, and start afresh. Already he began to calculate the number
of days which that course of action would necessitate, and then
suddenly, as he saw himself once more on Fifth Avenue, he bethought him
of Alphabet Jones. What man was there that commanded larger sources of
social information than he? He would cable to him at once, and on the
morrow he would have the address.
The morrow dawned, and succeeding morrows--a week went by, and still no
word from Jones. A second week passed, and when a third was drawing to a
close and Tristrem, outwearied and enervated, had secured a berth on a
returning steamer, at last the answer came--an answer in four
words--"Brown Shipley, Founders' Court." That was all, but to
Tristrem, in his over-wrought condition, they were as barbs of flame.
"My own bankers!" he cried; "oh, thrice triple fool! why did I not think
of them before?" He was so annoyed at his stupidity that on his way to
the city his irritation counterbalanced the satisfaction which the
message brought. "Three whole weeks have I waited," he kept telling
himself--"three whole weeks! H'm! Jones might better have written. No, I
might better have shown some common-sense. Three whole weeks!"
He was out of the cab before it had fairly stopped, and breathless when
he reached the desk of the clerk whose duty it was to receive and
forward the letters of those who banked with the house.
"I want Mrs. Raritan's address," he said--"Mrs. R. F. Raritan, please."
The clerk fumbled a moment over some papers. "Care of Munroe, Rue
Scribe," he answered.
"Thank God!" Tristrem exclaimed; "and thank you. Send my letters there
also."
That evening he started for Paris, and the next morning he was asking in
the Rue Scribe the same question which he had asked the previous
afternoon in Founders' Court. There he learned that Mrs. Raritan had
sent word, the day before, that all letters should be held for her until
further notice. She had been stopping with her daughter at the Hôtel du
Rhin, but whether or not she was still there the clerk did not know. The
Rue Scribe is not far from the Place Vendôme, in which the Hôtel du Rhin
is situated, and it took Tristrem a little less than five minutes to get
there. The concierge was lounging in her cubby-hole.
"Madame Raritan?" Tristrem began.
"Partie, m'sieu, partie d'puis hier--"
And then from Tristrem new questions came thick and fast. The concierge,
encouraged by what is known as a white piece, and of which the value is
five francs in current coin, became very communicative. Disentangled
from layers of voluble digression, the kernel of her information
amounted to this: Mrs. Raritan and her daughter had taken the Orient
Express the day before. On the subject of their destination she declared
herself ignorant. Suppositions she had in plenty, but actual knowledge
none, and she took evident pleasure in losing herself in extravagant
conjectures. "Bien le bonjour," she said when Tristrem, passably
disheartened, turned to leave--"Bien le bonjour, m'sieu; si j'ose
m'exprimer ainsi."
The Orient Express, as Tristrem knew, goes through Southern Germany into
Austria, thence down to Buda-Pest and on to Constantinople. That Viola
and her mother had any intention of going farther than Vienna was a
thing which he declined to consider. On the way to Vienna was Stuttgart
and Munich. In Munich there was Wagner every other night. In Stuttgart
there was a conservatory of music, and at Vienna was not the Opera
world-renowned? "They have gone to one of those three cities," he told
himself. "Viola must have determined to relinquish the Italian school
for the German. H'm," he mused, "I'll soon put a stop to that. As to
finding her, all I have to do is go to the police. They keep an eye on
strangers to some purpose. Let me see--I can get to Stuttgart by
to-morrow noon. If she is not there I will go to Munich. I rather like
the idea of a stroll on the Maximilien Strasse. It would be odd if I met
her in the street. Well, if she isn't in Munich she is sure to be in
Vienna." And as he entered the Grand Hôtel he smiled anew in dreams
forecast.
Tristrem carried out his programme to the end. But not in Stuttgart, not
in Munich, nor in Vienna either, could he obtain the slightest
intelligence of her. In the latter city he was overtaken by a low fever,
which detained him for a month, and from which he arose enfeebled but
with clearer mind. He wrote to Viola two letters, and two also to her
mother. One of each he sent to the Rue Scribe, the others to Founders'
Court. When ten days went by, and no answer came, he understood for the
first time what the fable of Tantalus might mean, and that of Sisyphus
too. He wrote at length to his grandfather, describing his Odyssey, his
perplexities, and asking advice. He even wrote to Jones--though much
more guardedly, of course--thanking him for his cable, and inquiring in
a post-scriptum whether he had heard anything further on the subject of
the Raritans' whereabouts. These letters were barely despatched when he
was visited by a luminous thought. The idea that Viola intended to
relinquish Italian music for that of Wagner had never seemed to him
other than an incongruity. "Idiot that I am!" he exclaimed; "she came
abroad to study at Milan, and there is where she is. She must have left
the Orient Express at Munich and gone straight down through the Tyrol."
And in the visitation of this comforting thought Tantalus and Sisyphus
went back into the night from which they had come; in their place came
again the blue-eyed divinity whose name is Hope.
It is not an easy journey, nor a comfortable one, from Vienna to Milan,
but Hope aiding, it can be accomplished without loss of life or reason.
And Hope aided Tristrem to his destination, and there disappeared. In
all Milan no intelligence of Viola could be obtained. He wrote again to
her. The result was the same. "I am as one accursed," he thought, and
that night he saw himself in dream stopping passers in the street,
asking them with lifted hat had they seen a girl wonderfully fair, with
amber eyes. He asked the question in French, in German, in Italian,
according to the nationality of those he encountered, and once, to a
little old woman, he spoke in a jargon of his own invention. But she
laughed, and seemed to understand, and gave him the address of a
lupanar.
He idled awhile in Milan, and then went to Florence, and to Rome, and to
Naples, crossing over, even, to Palermo; and then retracing his steps,
he visited the smaller cities and outlying, unfrequented towns.
Something there was which kept telling him that she was near at hand,
waiting, like the enchanted princess, for his coming. And he hunted and
searched, outwearied at times, and refreshed again by resuscitations of
hope, and intussusceptions of her presence. But in the search his nights
were white. It was rare for him to get any sleep before the dawn had
come.
Early in spring he reached Milan again. He had written from Bergamo to
the Rue Scribe, asking that his letters should be forwarded to that
place, and among the communications that were given him on his arrival
was a cablegram from New York. Come back, it ran; she is here. It
was from his grandfather, Dirck Van Norden, and as Tristrem read it he
trembled from head to foot. It was on a Tuesday that this occurred, and
he reflected that he would just about be able to get to Havre in time
for the Saturday steamer. An hour later he was in the train bound for
Desenzano, from which place he proposed to go by boat to Riva, and
thence up to Munich, where he could catch the Orient Express on its
returning trip to France.
XIV.
When the boat entered the harbor it was already night. Tristrem was
tired, but his fatigue was pleasant to him. His Odyssey was done. New
York, it is true, was many days away, but he was no longer to wander
feverishly from town to town. If he was weary, at least his mind was at
rest. Riva is on the Austrian frontier, and while the luggage was being
examined Tristrem hummed contentedly to himself. He would get some
dinner at the hotel, for he was hungry as he had not been in months. At
last he would have a good night's rest; there would be no insomnia now.
In the magic of a cablegram that succube had been exorcised forever. On
the morrow he would start afresh, and neither stop nor stay till the
goal was reached. It was no longer vague and intangible--it was full in
sight. And so, while the officers were busy with his traps, he hummed
the unforgotten air, O Magali, ma bien aimée.
The hotel to which he presently had himself conveyed stands in a large
garden that leans to the lake. It is a roomy structure, built
quadrangularwise. On one side is a little châlet. Above, to the right
and left, precipitous cliffs and trellised mountains loom like
battlements of Titan homes. The air is very sweet, and at that season of
the year almost overweighted with the scent of flowers. In spite of the
night, the sky was visibly blue, and high up in the heavens the moon
glittered with the glint of sulphur.
As the carriage drew up at the door there was a clang of bells; an
individual in a costume that was brilliant as the uniform of a
field-officer hastened to greet the guest; at the threshold was the
Oberkellner; a few steps behind him the manager stood bowing
persuasively; and as Tristrem entered, the waiters, hastily marshalled,
ranged themselves on either side of the hall.
"Vorrei," Tristrem began, and then remembering that he was no longer in
Italy, continued in German.
The answer came in the promptest English.
"Yes, my lord; will your lordship dine at table d'hôte? Du, Konrad,
schnell, die Speise-karte."
Tristrem examined the bill of fare which was then brought him, and while
he studied the contents he heard himself called by name. He looked up,
and recognized Ledyard Yorke, his companion of months before on the
outward-bound Cunarder, who welcomed him with much warmth and
cordiality.
"And whatever became of Miss Tippity-fitchet? You don't mean to say you
did not see her again? Fancy that! It was through no fault of hers,
then. But there, in spite of your promise, you didn't so much as look
me up. I am just in from a tramp to Mori; suppose we brush up a bit
and have dinner together?" He turned to the waiter. "Konrad, wir speisen
draussen; verschaffen Sie 'was Monkenkloster."
"Zu Befehl, Herr Baron."
Half an hour later, when the brushing up was done and the Monkenkloster
was uncorked, Tristrem and Yorke seated themselves in an arbor that
overhung the lake.
"It's ever so much better here than at table d'hôte," Yorke began. "I
hate that sort of business--don't you? I have been here over two months,
but after a week or so of it I gave up promiscuous feeding. Since then,
whenever I have been able, I have dined out here. I don't care to have
every dish I eat seasoned with the twaddle of cheap-trippers. To be
sure, few of them get here. Riva is well out of the beaten track. But
one table d'hôte is just like another, and they are all of them
wearying to the spirit and fatiguing to digestion. Look at that water,
will you. It's almost Venice, isn't it? I can tell you, I have done some
good work in this place. But what have you been doing yourself?"
"Nothing to speak of," Tristrem answered. "I have been roaming from
pillar to post. It's the second time I have been over the Continent, and
now I am on my way home. I am tired of it; I shall be glad to be back."
"Yes you were the last person I expected to meet. If I remember rightly,
you said on the steamer that you were to be on this side but a short
time. It's always the unexpected that occurs, isn't it? By the way, I
have got my sphinx."
"What sphinx?"
"I thought I told you. I have been looking for years for a certain face.
I wanted one that I could give to a sphinx. The accessories were
nothing. I put them on canvas long ago, but the face I never could
grasp. Not one of all that I tried suited me. I had almost given it up;
but I got it--I got it at last. I'll show it to you to-morrow."
"I am afraid----You see, I leave very early."
"I'll show it to you to-night, then; you must see it. If I had had it
made to order it could not suit me better. It came about in such an odd
way. All winter I have been at work in Munich. I intended to remain
until June, but the spring there is bleaker than your own New England.
One morning I said to myself, Why not take a run down to Italy? Two days
later, I was on my way. But at Mori, instead of pushing straight on to
Verona, I drove over here, thinking it would be pleasanter to take the
boat. I arrived here at midnight. The next morning I looked out of the
window, and there, right in front of me, in that châlet, was my sphinx.
Well, the upshot of it was, I have been here ever since. I repainted the
entire picture--the old one wasn't good enough."
"I should like to see it very much," said Tristrem, less from interest
than civility.
"I wish you had come in time to see the original. She never suspected
that she had posed as a model, and though her window was just opposite
mine, I believe she did not so much as pay me the compliment of being
aware of my existence. There were days when she sat hour after hour
looking out at the lake, almost motionless, in the very attitude that I
wanted. It was just as though she were repeating the phrase that
Flaubert puts in the Sphinx's mouth, 'I am guarding my secret--I
calculate and I dream.' Wasn't it odd, after all, that I should have
found her in that hap-hazard way?"
"It was odd," Tristrem answered; "who was she?"
"I don't know. French, I fancy. Her name was Dupont, or
Duflot--something utterly bourgeois. There was an old lady with her,
her mother, I suppose. I remember, at table d'hôte one evening, a
Russian woman, with an 'itch' in her name, said she did not think she
was comme il faut. 'She is comme il m'en faut,' I answered, and
mentally I added, 'which is a deuced sight more than I can say of you,
who are comme il n'en faut pas.' The Russian woman was indignant at her,
I presume, because she did not come to the public table. You know that
feeling, 'If it's good enough for me, it's good enough for you.' But my
sphinx not only did not appear at table d'hôte, she did not put her
foot outside of the châlet. One bright morning she disappeared from the
window, and a few days later I heard that she had been confined. Shortly
after she went away. It did not matter, though, I had her face. Let me
give you another glass of Monkenkloster."
"She was married, then?"
"Yes, her husband was probably some brute that did not know how to
appreciate her. I don't mean, though, that she looked unhappy. She
looked impassible, she looked exactly the way I wanted to have her look.
If you have finished your coffee, come up to my little atelier. I wish
you could see the picture by daylight, but you may be able to get an
idea of it from the candles." And as Mr. Yorke led the way, he added,
confidentially, "I should really like to have your opinion."
The atelier to which Yorke had alluded as "little" was, so well as
Tristrem could discern in the darkness, rather spacious than otherwise.
He loitered in the door-way until his companion had lighted and arranged
the candles, and then, under his guidance, went forward to admire. The
picture, which stood on an easel, was really excellent; so good, in
fact, that Tristrem no sooner saw the face of the sphinx than to his
ears came the hum of insects, the murmur of distant waters. It was Viola
Raritan to the life.
"She guarded her secret, indeed," he muttered, huskily. And when Yorke,
surprised at such a criticism, turned to him for an explanation, he had
just time to break his fall. Tristrem had fallen like a log.
As he groped back through a roar and turmoil to consciousness again, he
thought that he was dead and that this was the tomb. "That Monkenkloster
must have been too much for him," he heard Yorke say, in German, and
then some answer came to him in sympathetic gutturals. He opened his
eyes ever so little, and then let the lids close down. Had he been in a
nightmare, he wondered, or was it Viola? "He's coming too," he heard
Yorke say. "Yes, I am quite right now," he answered, and he raised
himself on his elbow. "I think," he continued, "that I had better get to
my room."
