looking into; they had gone on for years and 
years without an overhauling. He had thought 
of going back to see, but now he was too old and 
too tired and the effort was impossible. There was 
nothing for it but for Gaston to go, and go quickly, 
though the moment was rather awkward. The idea 
was communicated to him and the necessity ac 
cepted ; then the plan was relinquished : it seemed 
such a pity he should not wait till after his marriage, 
when he would be able to take Francie with 
him. Francie would be such an introducer. This 
postponement would have taken effect had it not 
suddenly come out that Mr. Dosson himself wanted 
to go for a few weeks, in consequence of some 
news (it was a matter of business), that he had un- 
expectedly received. It was further revealed that 
that course presented difficulties, for he could not 
leave his daughters alone, especially in such a 
situation. Not only would such a proceeding 
have given scandal to the Proberts, but Gaston 
learned, with a good deal of surprise and not a 
little amusement, that Delia, in consequence of 
peculiar changes now wrought in her view of 
things, would have felt herself obliged to protest 
on the score of propriety. He called her 
attention to the fact that nothing would be more 
simple than, in the interval, for Francie to go 
and stay with Susan or Margaret ; Delia herself in 
that case would be free to accompany her father. 
But this young lady declared that nothing would 
induce her to quit the European continent until she 
had seen her sister through, and Gaston shrank 
from proposing that she too should spend five weeks 
in the Place Beauvau or the Rue de Lille. 
Moreover he was startled, he was a good deal 
mystified, by the perverse, unsociable way in which 
Francie asserted that, as yet, she would not lend 
herself to any staying. After, if he liked, but 
not till then. And she would not at the moment 
give the reasons of her refusal ; it was only very 
positive and even quite passionate. 
All this left her intended no alternative but 
to say to Mr. Dosson, " I am not such a fool as 
I look. If you will coach me properly, and trust 
me, I will rush across and transact your business 
as well as my father s." Strange as it appeared, 
Francie could resign herself to this separation 
from her lover it would last six or seven weeks 
rather than accept the hospitality of his 
sisters. Mr. Dosson trusted him; he said to him, 
&lt; Well, sir, you've  got a big brain," at the end of 
a morning they spent with papers and pencils; 
upon which Gaston made his preparations to sail. 
Before he left Paris Francie, to do her justice, 
confided to him that her objection to going in 
such an intimate way even to Mme. de Brecourt s 
had been founded on a fear that in close quarters 
she would do something that would make them 
all despise her. Gaston replied, in the first place, 
that this was gammon and in the second he wanted 
to know if she expected never to be in close 
quarters with her new kinsfolk. "Ah, yes, but 
then it will be safer we shall be married ! " she 
returned. This little incident occurred three days 
before the young man started ; but what happened 
just the evening previous was that, stopping 
for a last word at the Hotel dc I Univers et de 
Cheltenham on his way to take the night express 
to London (he was to sail from Liverpool), he 
found Mr. George Flack sitting in the red satin 
saloon. The correspondent of the Reverberator 
had come back. 
IX. 
ME. FLACK S relations with his old friends did 
not, after his appearance in Paris, take on that 
familiarity and frequency which had marked their 
intercourse a year before : he let them know 
frankly that he could easily see the situation was 
quite different. They had got into the high set 
and they didn 't care about the past : he alluded 
to the past as if it had been rich in mutual vows, 
in pledges now repudiated. " What s the matter ? 
Won 't you come round there with us some day ? " 
Mr. Dosson asked ; not having perceived for him 
self any reason why the young journalist should 
not be a welcome and congruous figure in the 
Cours la Heine. 
Delia wanted to know what Mr. Flack was 
talking about : didn 't he know a lot of people 
that they didn 't know and wasn 't it natural they 
should have their own society ? The young man s 
treatment of the question was humorous, and it 
was with Delia that the discussion mainly went 
forward. When he maintained that the Dossons 
had " shed " him, Mr. Dosson exclaimed, " Well, I 
guess you 'll grow again ! " And Francie observed 
that it was no use for him to pose as a martyr, in 
asmuch as he knew perfectly well that with all 
the celebrated people he saw and the way he flew 
round he had the most enchanting time. She was 
aware she was a good deal less accessible than she 
had been the previous spring, for Mesdames do 
Brecourt and de Cliche (the former much more 
than the latter) took a considerable number of her 
hours. In spite of her protest to Gaston against 
a premature intimacy with his sisters, she spent 
whole days in their company (they had so much 
to tell her about what her new life would be, and 
it was generally very pleasant), and she thought it 
would be nice if in these intervals he should give 
himself to her father and even to Delia as he used 
to do. 
But the flaw of a certain insincerity in Mr. 
Flack s nature seemed to be established by his 
present tendency to rare visits. He evidently 
did not care for her father for himself, and though 
Mr. Dosson was the least querulous of men she 
divined that he suspected their old companion 
had fallen away. There were no more wanderings 
in public places, no more tryings of new cafes. 
Mr. Dosson used to look sometimes as he had 
looked of old when George Flack " located " them 
somewhere ; as if he expected to see their sharp 
cicerone rushing back to them, with his drab over 
coat flying in the wind; but this expectation 
usually died away. He missed Gaston because 
Gaston this winter had so often ordered his dinner 
for him, and his society was not sought by the count 
and the marquis, whose mastery of English was 
small and their other distractions great. Mr. Pro- 
bert, it was true, had shown something of a frater 
nising spirit ; he had come twice to the hotel, since 
his son s departure, and he had said, smiling and 
reproachful, " You neglect us, you neglect us ! " 
Mr. Dosson had not understood what he meant 
by this till Delia explained after the visitor with 
drew, and even then the remedy for the neglect, 
administered two or three days later, had not 
borne any particular fruit. Mr. Dosson called 
alone, instructed by his daughter, in the Cours la 
Reine, but Mr. Probert was not at home. He only 
left a card, on which Delia had superscribed in 
advance the words " So sorry ! " Her father had 
told her he would give the card if she wanted, but 
he would have nothing to do with the writing. 
There was a discussion as to whether Mr. Probert s 
remark was an allusion to a deficiency of polite 
ness on the article of his sons-in-law. Ought not 
Mr. Dosson perhaps to call personally, and not 
simply through the medium of the visits paid by 
his daughters to their wives, on Messieurs de 
Brecourt and de Cliche ? Once, when this sub 
ject came up in George Flack s presence, the old 
man said he would go round if Mr. Flack would 
accompany him. " All right ! " said Mr. Flack, 
and this conception became a reality, with the 
accidental abatement that the objects of the de 
monstration were absent. " Suppose they get in ? " 
Delia had said lugubriously to her sister. 
".Well, what if they do ? " Francie asked. 
" Why, the count and the marquis won 't be 
interested in Mr. Flack." 
"Well then, perhaps he will be interested in 
them. He can write something about them. 
They will like that." 
" Do you think they would ? " Delia demanded, 
in solemn dubiousness. 
" Why, yes, if he should say fine things." 
" They do like fine things," said Delia. " They 
get off so many themselves. Only the way Mr. 
Flack does it it s a different style." 
t( Well, people like to be praised in any style." 
" That s so," Delia rejoined, musingly. 
One afternoon, coming in about three o clock, 
Mr. Flack found Francie alone. She had ex 
pressed a wish, after luncheon, for a couple of 
hours of independence : she intended to write to 
Gaston, and having accidentally missed a post 
promised herself that her letter should be of 
double its usual length. Her companions respected her desire for solicitude, Mr. Dosson taking 
himself off to his daily session in the reading-room 
of the American bank and Delia (the girls had 
now a luxurious coach at their command) driving 
away to the dressmaker s, a frequent errand, to 
superintend and urge forward the progress of her 
sister s wedding-clothes. Francie was not skilled 
in composition ; she wrote slowly and in addressing her lover had a painful sense of literary responsibility. Her father and Delia had a theory 
that when she shut herself up that way she poured 
forth wonderful pages it was part of her high 
cultivation. At any rate, when George Flack was 
ushered in she was still bending over her blotting- 
book on one of the gilded tables and there was an 
inkstain on her pointed forefinger. It was no dis 
loyalty to Gaston but only at the most a sense of 
weariness in regard to the epistolary form that 
made her glad to see her visitor. She didn 't know 
how to finish her letter ; but Mr. Flack seemed in 
a manner to terminate it. 
" I wouldn 't have ventured to propose this, but I 
guess I can do with it, now it s come," the young 
man announced. 
" What can you do with ? " she asked, wiping 
her pen. 
"Well this happy chance. Just you and me 
together." 
" I don 't know what it s a chance for." 
" Well, for me to be a little less miserable for a 
quarter of an hour. It makes me so to see you 
look so happy." 
" It makes you miserable ? " 
" You ought to understand, when I say some 
thing magnanimous." And settling himself on 
the sofa Mr. Flack continued, " Well, how do you 
get on without Mr. Probert ? " 
Very well indeed, thank you." 
The tone in which the girl spoke was not an en 
couragement to free pleasantry, so that if Mr. Flack 
continued his inquiries it was in a guarded and 
respectful manner. He was eminently capable of 
reflecting that it was not in his interest to strike 
her as indiscreet and profane , he only wanted to 
appear friendly, worthy of confidence. At the 
same time he was not averse to the idea that she 
should still perceive in him a certain sense of in 
jury, and that could be indicated only by a touch 
of bitterness here and there. The injury, the 
bitterness might make her pity him. " Well, you 
are in the grand monde, I suppose he resumed at 
last, not with an air of derision but resignedly, 
sympathetically. 
" Oh, I'm not in anything ; I'm just where I've  
always been." 
" I'm sorry ; I hoped you would tell me about 
it," said Mr. Flack, gravely. 
" You think too much of that. What do you 
want to know about it for ? " 
" Dear Miss Francie, a poor devil of a journalist 
who has to get his living by studying up things, 
he has to think too much, sometimes, in order to 
think, or at any rate to do, enough. We find out 
what we can as we can." 
Francie listened to this as if it had had 
the note of pathos. "What do you want to 
study up ? " 
" Everything ! I take in everything. It all 
depends on my opportunity. I try and learn I 
try and improve. Every one has something to 
tell, and I listen and watch and make my profit 
of it. I hoped you would have something to tell. 
I don 't believe but what you've  seen a good deal 
of new life. You won 't pretend they haven 't 
roped you in, charming as you are." 
" Do you mean if they've  been kind to me ? 
They've  been very kind," Francie said. " They 
want to do even more than I 'll let them." 
"Ah, why won 't you let them?" George Flack 
asked, almost coaxingly. 
" Well, I do," the girl went on. " You can 't 
resist them, really ; they have such lovely ways." 
"I should like to hear you talk about their 
ways," her companion observed, after a silence. 
"Oh, I could talk enough if once I were to 
begin. But I don 't see why it should interest 
you." 
" Don 't I care immensely for everything that 
concerns you ? Didn 't I tell you that once ? " 
" You're foolish if you do, and you would be 
foolish to say it again," Francie replied. 
" Oh, I don 't want to say anything, I've  had my 
lesson. But I could listen to you all day." Francie 
gave an exclamation of impatience and incredulity 
and Mr. Flack pursued : " Don 't you remember 
what you told me that time we had that talk at 
Saint-Germain, on the terrace ? You said I might 
remain your friend." 
" Well, that s all right," said the girl. 
"Then ain 't we interested in the development 
of our friends in their impressions, their trans 
formations, their adventures ? Especially a person 
like me, who has got to know life who has got 
to know the world." 
" Do you mean to say I could teach you about 
life ? " Francie demanded. 
" About some kinds, certainly. You know a 
lot of people whom it s difficult to get at unless 
one takes some extraordinary measures, as you 
have done." 
" What do you mean ? What measures have I 
taken ? " 
" Well, they have to get hold of you and it s 
the same thing. Pouncing on you, to secure you ; 
I call that energetic, and don 't you think I ought 
to know ? " asked Mr. Flack, smiling. " I thought 
I was energetic, but they got ahead of me. 
They're a society apart, and they must be very 
curious." 
" Yes, they're curious," Francie admitted, with a 
little sigh. Then she inquired : " Do you want to 
put them in the paper ? " 
George Flack hesitated a moment ; the air of 
the question was so candid, suggested so complete 
an exemption from prejudice. "Oh, I'm very 
careful about what I put in the paper. I want 
everything, as I told you : don 'tyou remember 
the sketch I gave you of my ideals ? But I want 
it in a certain particular way. If I can 'tget it in 
the shape I like it I don 'twant it at all ; genuine, 
first-hand information, straight from the tap, is 
what I'm after. I don 'twant to hear what some 
one or other thinks that some one or other was 
told that some one or other repeated ; and above 
all I don 'twant to print it. There s plenty of 
that flowing in, and the best part of the job is to 
keep it out. People just yearn to come in; they're 
dying to, all over the place ; there s the biggest 
crowd at the door. But I say to them : You've  
got to do something first, then I 'll see ; or at any 
rate you've  got to le something ! " 
" We sometimes see the Reverberator ; you have 
some fine pieces," Francie replied. 
" Sometimes, only ? Don 'tthey send it to your 
father the weekly edition? I thought I had 
fixed that," said George Flack. 
" I don 't know ; it s usually lying round. But 
Delia reads it more than I ; she reads pieces 
aloud. I like to read books ; I read as many as 
I can." 
" Well, it s all literature," said Mr. Flack ; " it s 
all the press, the great institution of our time. 
Some of the finest books have come out first in 
the papers. It s the history of the age." 
" I see you've  got the same aspirations," Francie 
remarked, kindly. 
" The same aspirations ? " 
" Those you told me about that day at Saint- 
Germain." 
" Oh, I keep forgetting that I ever broke out to 
you that way ; everything is so changed." 
"Are you the proprietor of the paper now ? " 
the girl went on, determined not to notice this 
sentimental allusion. 
" What do you care ? It wouldn 't even be 
delicate in me to tell you ; for I do remember the 
way you said you would try and get your father to 
help me. Don 't say you've  forgotten it, because 
you almost made me cry. Any way, that isn 't the 
sort of help I want now and it wasn 't the sort of 
help I meant to ask you for then. I want sympathy 
and interest ; I want some one to whisper once in 
a w hile c Courage, courage ; you 'll come out all 
right. You see I'm a working man and I don 't 
pretend to be anything else," Mr. Flack went on. 
" I don 't live on the accumulations of my ancestors. 
What I have I earn what I am I've  fought 
for : I'm a tmvailleur, as they say here. I rejoice 
in it ; but there is one dark spot in it, all the 
same." 
" And what is that ? " asked Francie. 
" That it makes you ashamed of me." 
" Oh, how can you say ? " And she got up, as 
if a sense of oppression, of vague discomfort, 
had come over her. Her visitor made her 
fidgety. 
" You wouldn 't be ashamed to go round with 
me ? " 
" Round where ? " 
"Well, anywhere: just to have one more walk. 
The very last." George Flack had got up too and 
he stood there looking at her with his bright eyes, 
with his hands in the pockets of his overcoat. As 
she hesitated he continued, " Then I'm not such 
a friend after all." 
Francie rested her eyes for a moment on the 
carpet ;- then, raising them " Where should you 
like to go ? " 
" You could render me a service a real service 
without any inconvenience, probably, to yourself. 
Isn 't your portrait finished ? " 
" Yes, but he won 't give it up." 
" Who won 't give it up ? " 
"Why, Mr. Waterlow. He wants to keep it 
near him to look at in case he should take a fancy 
to change it. But I hope he won 't change it it s 
so pretty as it is ! " Francie declared, smiling. 
" I hear it s magnificent, and I want to see it," 
said George Flack. 
" Then why don 't you go ? " 
"I 'll go if you 'll take me ; that s the service 
you can render me." 
"Why, I thought you went everywhere into 
the palaces of kings ! " Francie cried. 
" I go where I'm welcome, not where I'm not. 
I don 't want to push into that studio _ alone ; he 
doesn 't like me. Oh, you needn 't protest," the 
young man went on ; " if one is sensitive one is 
sensitive. I feel those things in the shade of a 
tone of voice. He doesn 't like newspaper-men. 
Some people don t, you know. I ought to tell you 
that frankly." 
Francie considered again, but looking this time 
at her visitor. " Why, if it hadn 't been for you " 
I am afraid she said " hadn 't have been " " I 
never would have sat to him." 
Mr. Flack smiled at her in silence for an instant. 
" If it hadn 't been for me I think you never would 
have met your future husband." 
" Perhaps not," said Francie ; and suddenly she 
blushed red, rather to her companion s surprise. 
" I only say that to remind you that after all I 
have a right to ask you to show me this one little 
favour. Let me drive with you to-morrow, or next 
day or any day, to the Avenue de Villiers, and I 
shall regard myself as amply repaid. With you I 
sha n 't be afraid to go in, for you have a right to 
take any one you like to see your picture. It s 
always done." 
"Oh, the day you're afraid, Mr. Flack! 
Francie exclaimed, laughing. She had been 
much struck by his reminder of what they all 
owed him ; for he truly had been their initiator, 
the instrument, under providence, that had opened 
a great new interest to them, and it shocked her 
generosity, the intimation that he saw himself 
cast off or disavowed after the prize was gained. 
Her mind had not lingered on her personal in 
debtedness to him, for it was not in the nature of 
her mind to linger ; but at present she was glad 
to spring quickly, at the first word, into the attitude 
of acknowledgment. It had the effect that simpli 
fication always has, it raised her spirits, made her 
merry. 
" Of course I must be quite square with you," 
the young man said. " If I want to see the picture 
it s because I want to write about it. The whole 
thing will go bang into the Reverberator. You 
must understand that, in advance. I wouldn 't 
write about it without seeing it."
" J espere lien ! " said Francie, who was getting 
on famously with her French. " Of course if you 
praise him Mr. Waterlow will like it." 
" I don 't know that he cares for my praise and 
I don 't care much whether lie likes it or not. If 
you like it, that s the principal thing." 
" Oh, I shall be awfully proud." 
" I shall speak of you personally I shall say 
you are the prettiest girl that has ever come over." 
" You may say what you like," Francie rejoined. 
" It will be immense fun to be in the newspapers. 
Come for me at this hour day after to-morrow." 
" You're too kind," said George Flack, taking up 
his hat. He smoothed it down a moment, with 
his glove ; then he said " I wonder if you will 
mind our going alone ? " 
"Alone?" 
" I mean just you and me." 
" Oh, don 't you be afraid ! Father and Delia 
have seen it about thirty times." 
" That will be delightful, then. And it will 
help me to feel, more than anything else could 
make me do, that we are still old friends. I 'll 
come at 3.15," Mr. Flack went on, but without 
even yet taking his departure. He asked two 
or three questions about the hotel, whether it 
were as good as last year and there were 
many people in it and they could keep their 
rooms warm ; then, suddenly, in a different 
order and scarcely waiting for the girl s answer, he 
said : " And now, for instance, are they very 
bigoted? That s one of the things I should 
like to know." 
"Very bigoted?" 
"Ain 't they tremendous Catholics always 
talking about the Holy Father, and that sort of 
thing? I mean Mr. Probe rt, the old gentleman," 
Mr. Flack added. " And those ladies, and all the 
rest of them." 
" They are very religious," said Francie. " They 
are the most religious people I ever saw. They 
just adore the Holy Father. They know him 
personally quite well. They are always going 
down to Rome." 
" And do they mean to introduce you to him ? " 
" How do you mean, to introduce me ? " 
" Why, to make you a Catholic, to take you 
also down to Rome." 
" Oh, we are going to Rome for our voyage de 
noces!" said Francie, gaily. "Just for. a peep." 
"And "won 't you have to have a Catholic 
marriage ? They won 't consent to a Protestant 
one." 
" We are going to have a lovely one, just like 
one that Mme. de Brecourt took me to see at 
the Madeleine." 
" And will it be at the Madeleine too ? " 
" Yes, unless we have it at Notre Dame." 
" And how will your father and sister like that ? " 
" Our having it at Notre Dame ? " 
"Yes, or at the Madeleine. Your not having 
it at the American church." 
"Oh, Delia wants it at the best place," said 
Francie, simply. Then she added : " And you 
know father ain 't much on religion." 
" Well now, that s what I call a genuine fact, 
the sort I was talking about," Mr. Flack replied. 
Whereupon he at last took himself off, repeating 
that he would come in two days later, at 3.15 
sharp. 
Francie gave an account of his visit to her 
sister, on the return of the latter young lady, and 
mentioned the agreement they had come to in 
relation to the drive. Delia, at this, looked grave, 
asseverating that she didn 't know that it was right 
(" as " it was right, Delia usually said,) that Francie 
should be so intimate with other gentlemen 
after she was engaged. 
"Intimate? You wouldn 't think it s very 
intimate if you were to see me ! " cried Francie, 
laughing. 
" I'm sure I don 't want to see you," Delia 
declared; and her sister, becoming strenuous, 
authoritative, went on: " Delia Dosson, do you 
realise that if it hadn 't been for Mr. Flack we 
would never have had that picture, and that if it 
hadn 't been for that picture I should never have 
got engaged ? " 
"It would have been better if you hadn t, if 
that s the way you are going to behave. Nothing 
would induce me to go with you." 
This was what suited Francie ; but she was 
nevertheless struck by Delia s rigidity. " I'm only 
going to take him to see Mr. Waterlow," she 
explained. 
" Has he become all of a sudden too shy to go 
alone ? " 
" Well, you know Mr. Waterlow doesn 't like 
him and he has made him feel it. You know 
Gaston told us so." 
" He told us he couldn 't bear him : that s what 
he told us," said Delia. 
"All the more reason I should be kind to him. 
Why, Delia, do realise," Francie went on. 
" That s just what I do," returned the elder girl; 
" but things that are very different from those you 
want me to. You have queer reasons." 
" I have others too that you may like better. 
He wants to put a piece in the paper about it." 
* About your picture ? " 
" Yes, and about me. All about the whole 
thing." 
Delia stared a moment. " Well, I hope it will 
be a good one ! " she said with a little sigh of 
resignation, as if she were accepting the burden of 
a still larger fate. 
X. 
WHEN Francie, two days later, passed with Mr. 
Flack into Charles Waterlow s studio she found 
Mme. de Cliche before the great canvas. She was 
pleased by every sign that the Proberts took an 
interest in her, and this was a considerable 
symptom, Gaston s second sister s coming all that 
way (she lived over by the Invalides) to look at the 
portrait once more. Francie knew she had seen it 
at an earlier stage ; the work had excited curiosity 
and discussion among the Proberts from the first of 
their making her acquaintance and they went into 
considerations about it which had not occurred to 
the original and her companions frequently 
(as we know) as these good people had conversed 
on the subject. Gaston had told her that opinions 
differed much in the family as to the merit of 
the work and that Margaret, precisely, had gone 
so far as to say that it might be a masterpiece 
of tone but it didn 't make her look like a lady. 
His father on the other hand had no objection to 
offer to the character in which it represented her 
but he didn 't think it well painted. " Eegardez- 
moi pa, ct $a, et $a&gt; je vous demande I " he had 
exclaimed, making little dashes at the canvas, to 
ward spots that appeared to him eccentric, with his 
glove, on occasions when the artist was not at 
hand. The Proberts always fell into French when 
they spoke on a question of art. " Poor dear papa, 
he only understands le vicux jeu ! " Gaston had ex 
plained, and he had still further to expound what 
he meant by the old game. The novelty of Charles 
Waterlow s game had already been a mystifica 
tion to Mr. Probert. 
Francie remembered now (she had forgotten it) 
that Margaret de Cliche had told her she meant 
to come again. She hoped the marquise thought 
by this time that, on canvas at least, she looked 
a little more like a lady. Mme. de Cliche smiled 
at her at any rate and kissed her, as if in fact 
there could be no mistake. She smiled also at Mr. 
Flack, on Francie s introducing him, and only 
looked grave when, after she had asked where the 
others were the papa and the yrandcsoeur the girl 
replied that she hadn 't the least idea : her party 
consisted only of herself and Mr. Flack. Then Mme. 
de Cliche became very stern indeed assumed an 
aspect that brought back Francie s sense that she 
was the individual, among all Gaston s belongings, 
who had pleased her least from the first. Mme. 
de Douves was superficially more formidable but 
with her the second impression was most com 
forting. It was just this second impression of 
the marquise that was not. There were perhaps 
others behind it but the girl had not yet arrived 
at them. Mr. Waterlow might not have been 
very fond of Mr. Flack, but he was none the less 
perfectly civil to him, and took much trouble to 
show him all the work that he had in hand, drag 
ging out canvases, changing lights, taking him off 
to see things at the other end of the great room. 
While the two gentlemen were at a distance 
Mme. de Cliche expressed to Francie the con 
fidence that she would allow her to see her home : 
on which Francie replied that she was not going 
home, she was going somewhere else with Mr. 
Flack. And she explained, as if it simplified the 
matter, that this gentleman was an editor. 
Her interlocutress echoed the term and Francie 
developed her explanation. He was not the only 
editor, but one of the many editors, of a great 
American paper. He was going to publish an 
article about her picture. Gaston knew him 
perfectly; it was Mr. Flack who had been the 
cause of Gaston s being presented to her. Mme. de 
Cliche looked across at him as if the inadequacy 
of the cause projected an unfavourable light upon 
the effect ; she inquired whether Francie thought 
Gaston would like her to drive about Paris alone 
with an editor. " I'm sure I don 't know. I never 
asked him ! " said Francie. " He ought to want 
me to be polite to a person who did so much for 
us." Soon after this Mme. de Cliche withdrew, 
without looking afresh at Mr. Flack, though he 
stood in her path as she approached the door. 
She did not kiss our young lady again, and the 
girl observed that her leave-taking consisted of 
the simple words, "Adieu, mademoiselle." She 
had already perceived that in proportion as the Pro- 
berts became majestic they had recourse to French. 
She and Mr. Flack remained in the studio 
but a short time longer; and when they were 
seated in the carriage again, at the door (they 
had come in Mr. Dosson s open landau), her com 
panion said, " And now where shall we go ? " 
He spoke as if on their way from the hotel he 
had not touched upon the pleasant vision of a 
little turn in the Bois. He had insisted then 
that the day was made on purpose, the air full 
of spring. At present he seemed to wish to give 
himself the pleasure of making his companion 
choose that particular alternative. But she only 
answered, rather impatiently: 
" Wherever you like, wherever you like." And 
she sat there swaying her parasol, looking about 
her, giving no order. 
" Au Bois," said George Flack to the coachman, 
leaning back on the soft cushions. For a few 
moments after the carriage had taken its easy 
elastic start they were silent; but presently he 
went on, " Was that lady one of your relations ? " 
" Do you mean one of Mr. Probert s ? She is 
his sister." 
" Is there any particular reason in that why 
she shouldn 't say good-morning to me ? " 
" She didn 't want you to remain with me. She 
wanted to carry me off." 
" What has she got against me ? " asked Mr. 
Flack. 
Francie seemed to consider a little. "Oh, it s 
these French ideas." 
" Some of them are very base," said her 
companion. 
The girl made no rejoinder; she only turned 
her eyes to right and left, admiring the splendid 
day, the shining city. The great architectural 
vista was fair : the tall houses, with their 
polished shop-fronts, their balconies, their signs 
with accented letters, seemed to make a glitter 
of gilt and crystal as they rose into the sunny air. 
The colour of everything was cool and pretty and 
the sound of everything gay ; the sense of a 
costly spectacle was everywhere. "Well, I like 
Paris, anyway ! " Francie exclaimed at last. 
" It s lucky for you, since you've  got to live 
here." 
"I haven 't got to, there s no obligation. We 
haven 't settled anything about that." 
" Hasn 't that lady settled it for you ? " 
" Yes, very likely she has," said Francie, placidly. 
" I don 't like her so well as the others." 
"You like the others very much?" 
" Of course I do. So would you if they had 
made so much of you." 
" That one at the studio didn 't make much of 
me, certainly." 
"Yes, she s the most haughty," said Francie. 
"Well, what is it all about?" Mr. Flack in 
quired. " Who are they, anyway ? " 
"Oh, it would take me three hours to tell 
you," the girl replied, laughing. " They go back 
a thousand years." 
"Well, we've  got a thousand years I mean 
three hours." And George Flack settled himself 
more on his cushions and inhaled the pleasant 
air. "I do enjoy this drive, Miss Francie," he 
went on. "It s many a day since I've  been to 
the Bois. I don 't fool round much among the 
trees." 
Francie replied candidly that for her too the 
occasion was very agreeable, and Mr. Flack pursued, 
looking round him with a smile, irrelevantly 
and cheerfully: "Yes, these French ideas! I 
don 't see how you can stand them. Those they 
have about young ladies are horrid." 
" Well, they tell me you like them better after 
you are married." 
"Why, after they are married they're worse 
I mean the ideas. Every one knows that." 
"Well, they can make you like anything, the 
way they talk," Francie said. 
" And do they talk a great deal ? " 
" Well, I should think so. They don 't do much 
else, and they talk about the queerest things 
things I never heard of." 
"Ah, that I 'll engage!" George Flack 
exclaimed. 
" Of course I have had most conversation with 
Mr. Probert." 
" The old gentleman ? " 
" No, very little with him. I mean with Gaston. 
But it s not he that has told me most it s Mme. 
de Brecourt. She relates and relates it s very 
interesting. She has told me all their histories, all 
their troubles and complications." 
" Complications ? " 
" That s what she calls them. It seems very 
different from America. It s just like a story 
they have such strange feelings. But there are 
things you can see without being told." 
" What sort of things ? " 
"Well, like Mme. de Cliche s " But Francie 
paused, as if for a word. 
" Do you mean her complications ? " 
" Yes, and her husband s She has terrible ones. 
That s why one must forgive her if she is rather 
peculiar. She is very unhappy." 
" Do you mean through her husband ? " 
"Yes, he likes other ladies better. He flirts 
with Mme. de Brives." 
"Mme. de Brives?" 
"Yes, she s lovely," said Francie. "She isn 't 
very young, but she s fearfully attractive. And he 
used to go every day to have tea with Mme. de 
Villepreux. Mme. de Cliche can 't bear Mme. de 
Villepreux." 
" Lord, what a low character he must be ! " 
George Flack exclaimed. 
" Oh, his mother was very bad. That was one 
thing they had against the marriage." 
" Who had ? against what marriage ? " 
" When Maggie Probert became engaged." 
"Is that what they call her Maggie?" 
"Her brother does; but every one else calls 
her Margot. Old Mme. de Cliche had a horrid 
reputation. Every one hated her." 
"Except those, I suppose, who liked her too 
much. And who is Mme. de Villepreux?" 
" She s the daughter of Mme. de Marignac." 
" And who is Mme. de Marignac ? " 
" Oh, she s dead," said Francie. " She used to be 
a great friend of Mr. Probert of Gaston s father." 
" He used to go to tea with her ? " 
" Almost every day. Susan says he has never 
been the same since her death." 
" Ah, poor man ! And who is Susan ? " 
"Why, Mme. de Brecourt. Mr. Probert just 
loved Mme. de Marignac. Mme. de Villepreux 
isn 't so nice as her mother. She was brought 
up with the Proberts, like a sister, and now she 
carries on with Maxime." 
 
"With Maxime?" 
"That s M. de Cliche." 
"Oh, I see I see!" murmured George Flack, 
responsively. They had reached the top of the 
Champs Elyse es and were passing below the 
wondrous arch to which that gentle eminence 
forms a pedestal and which looks down even on 
splendid Paris from its immensity and across 
at the vain mask of the Tuileries and the river- 
moated Louvre and the twin towers of Notre 
Dame, painted blue by the distance. The con 
fluence of carriages a sounding stream, in which 
our friends become engaged rolled into the large 
avenue leading to the Bois de Boulogne. Mr. 
Flack evidently enjoyed the scene ; he gazed about 
him at their neighbours, at the villas and gardens 
on either hand ; he took in the prospect of the 
far-stretching brown boskages and smooth alleys 
of the wood, of the hour that they had yet to 
spend there, of the rest of Francie s artless prattle, 
of the place near the lake where they could alight 
and walk a little ; even of the bench where they 
might sit down. " I see, I see," he repeated with 
appreciation. " You make me feel quite as if I 
were in the grand monde." 
XI. 
ONE day, at noon, shortly before the time for 
which Gaston had announced his return, a note was 
brought to Francie from Mme. de Brecourt. It 
caused her some agitation, though it contained a 
clause intended to guard her against vain fears. 
" Please come to me the moment you have received 
this I have sent the carriage. I will explain 
when you get here what I want to see you about. 
Nothing has happened to Gaston. We are all 
here." The coupe from the Place Beauvau was 
waiting at the door of the hotel and the girl had 
but a hurried conference with her father and sister ; 
if conference it could be called in which vagueness 
on one side encountered blankness on the other. 
" It s for something bad something bad," Francie 
said, while she tied her bonnet ; though she was 
unable to think what it could be. Delia, who 
looked a good deal scared, offered to accompany 
her ; upon which Mr. Dosson made the first remark 
of a practical character in which he had indulged 
in relation to his daughter s alliance. 
" No you won 't no you won t, my dear. They 
may whistle for Francie, but let them see that they 
can 't whistle for all of us." It was the first sign 
he had given of being jealous of the dignity of the 
Dossons. That question had never troubled him. 
" I know what it is," said Delia, while she ar 
ranged her sister s garments. " They want to talk 
about religion. They have got the priests ; there s 
some bishop, or perhaps some cardinal. They want 
to baptise you." 
" You'd better take a waterproof ! " Francie s 
father called after her as she flitted away. 
She wondered, rolling toward the Place Beauvau, 
what they were all there for ; that announcement 
balanced against the reassurance conveyed in the 
phrase about Gaston. She liked them individually 
but in their collective form they made her uneasy. 
In their family parties there was always something 
of the tribunal. Mme. de Brecourt came out to 
meet her in the vestibule, drawing her quickly into 
a small room (not the salon Francie knew it as 
her hostess s "own room," a lovely boudoir), in 
which, considerably to the girl s relief, the rest of 
the family were not assembled. Yet she guessed 
in a moment that they were near at hand they 
were waiting. Susan looked flushed and strange ; 
she had a queer smile ; she kissed her as if she 
didn 't know that she was doing it. She laughed as 
she greeted her, but her laugh was nervous; she 
was different every way from anything Francie had 
hitherto seen. By the time our young lady had 
perceived these things she was sitting beside her on 
a sofa and Mine, de Brecourt had her hand, which 
she held so tight that it almost hurt her. Susan s 
eyes were in their nature salient, but on this oc 
casion they seemed to have started out of her head. 
" We are upside down terribly agitated. A 
bomb has fallen into the house." 
"What s the matter what s the matter ? " Francie 
asked, pale, with parted lips. She had a sudden 
wild idea that Gaston might have found out in 
America that her father had no money, had lost it 
all ; that it had been stolen during their long 
absence. But would he cast her off for that ? 
"You must understand the closeness of our 
union with you from our sending for you this way 
the first, the only person in a crisis. Our joys 
are your joys and our indignations are yours." 
" What is the matter, please ? " the girl repeated. 
Their "indignations" opened up a gulf; it 
flashed upon her, with a shock of mortification 
that the idea had not come sooner, that something 
would have come out : a piece in the paper, from 
Mr. Flack, about her portrait and even (a little) 
about herself. But that was only more mystify 
ing; for certainly Mr. Flack could only have 
published something pleasant something to be 
proud of. Had he by some incredible perversity 
or treachery stated that the picture was bad, 
or even that she was ? She grew dizzy, remember- 
ing how she had refused him and how little he 
had liked it, that day at Saint-Germain. But they 
had made that up over and over, especially 
when they sat so long on a bench together (the 
time they drove,) in the Bois de Boulogne. 
" Oh, the most awful thing ; a newspaper sent 
this morning from America to my father contain 
ing two horrible columns of vulgar lies and scandal 
