published abstracts of lectures for the past two years I find that none
of the subjects of modern doubt and speculation are ignored—spiritism,
psychical research, the cell theory, the idea of God, socialism,
agnosticism, the Noachinn deluge, theories of government, fundamental
notions of physical science, unity of the human species, potency
of matter, and so on. During the past fifty years this faculty has
contained many men famous as pulpit orators and missionaries, and this
course of lectures on philosophic and scientific subjects has brought it
prominently before the cultivated inhabitants of the town.
Another educational institution of note in St. Louis is the Concordia
Seminar of the Old Lutheran, or the Evangelical Lutheran Church. This
denomination, which originated in Saxony, and has a large membership in
our Western States, adheres strictly to the Augsburg Confession, and is
distinguished from the general Lutheran Church by greater strictness
of doctrine and practice, or, as may be said, by a return to primitive
Lutheranism; that is to say, it grounds itself upon the literal
inspiration of the Scriptures, upon salvation by faith alone, and upon
individual liberty. This Seminar is one of several related institutions
in the Synod of Missouri, Ohio, and other States: there is a college at
Fort Wayne, Indiana, a Progymnasium at Milwaukee, a Seminar of practical
theology at Springfield, Illinois, and this Seminar at St. Louis,
which is wholly devoted to theoretical theology. This Church numbers, I
believe, about 200,000 members.
The Concordia Seminar is housed in a large, commodious building,
effectively set upon high ground in the southern part of the city. It
was erected and the institution is sustained by the contributions of the
congregations. The interior, roomy, light, and commodious, is plain to
barrenness, and has a certain monastic severity, which is matched by the
discipline and the fare. In visiting it one takes a step backward into
the atmosphere and theology of the sixteenth century. The ministers of
the denomination are distinguished for learning and earnest simplicity.
The president, a very able man, only thirty-five years of age, is at
least two centuries old in his opinions, and wholly undisturbed by
any of the doubts which have agitated the Christian world since the
Reformation. He holds the faith “once for all” delivered to the saints.
The Seminar has a hundred students. It is requisite to admission, said
the president, that they be perfect Latin, Greek, and Hebrew scholars.
A large proportion of the lectures are given in Latin, the remainder in
German and English, and Latin is current in the institution, although
German is the familiar speech. The course of study is exacting, the
rules are rigid, and the discipline severe. Social intercourse with
the other sex is discouraged. The pursuit of love and learning are
considered incompatible at the same time; and if a student were
inconsiderate enough to become engaged, he would be expelled. Each
student from abroad may select or be selected by a family in the
communion, at whose house he may visit once a week, which attends to his
washing, and supplies to a certain extent the place of a home. The young
men are trained in the highest scholarship and the strictest code of
morals. I know of no other denomination which holds its members to such
primitive theology and such strictness of life. Individual liberty and
responsibility are stoutly asserted, without any latitude in belief.
It repudiates Prohibition as an infringement of personal liberty, would
make the use of wine or beer depend upon the individual conscience,
but no member of the communion would be permitted to sell intoxicating
liquors, or to go to a beer-garden or a theatre. In regard to the
sacrament of communion, there is no authority for altering the plain
directions in the Scripture, and communion without wine, or the
substitution of any concoction for wine, would be a sin. No member would
be permitted to join any labor union or secret society. The sacrament
of communion is a mystery. It is neither transubstantiation nor
consubstantiation. The president, whose use of English in subtle
distinctions is limited, resorted to Latin and German in explanation
of the mystery, but left the question of real and actual presence, of
spirit and substance, still a matter of terms; one can only say that
neither the ordinary Protestant nor the Catholic interpretation is
accepted. Conversion is not by any act or ability of man; salvation is
by faith alone. As the verbal inspiration of the Scriptures is
insisted on in all cases, the world was actually created in six days
of twenty-four hours each. When I asked the president what he did
with geology, he smiled and simply waved his hand. This communion has
thirteen flourishing churches in the city. In a town so largely German,
and with so many freethinkers as well as free-livers, I cannot but
consider this strict sect, of a simple unquestioning faith and high
moral demands, of the highest importance in the future of the city. But
one encounters with surprise, in our modern life, this revival of the
sixteenth century, which plants itself so squarely against so much that
we call “progress.”
As to the institutions of charity, I must content myself with saying
that they are many, and worthy of a great and enlightened city. There
are of all denominations 211 churches; of these the Catholics lead with
47; the Presbyterians come next with 24; and the Baptists have 22; the
Methodists North, 4; and the Methodists South, 8. The most interesting
edifices, both for associations and architecture, are the old Cathedral;
the old Christ Church (Episcopalian), excellent Gothic; and an exquisite
edifice, the Church of the Messiah (Unitarian), in Locust Street.
The city has two excellent libraries. The Public Library, an adjunct
of the public-school system, in the Polytechnic Building, has an annual
appropriation of about $14,000 from the School Board, and receives about
$5000 more from membership and other sources. It contains about 67,000
volumes, and is admirably managed. The Mercantile Library is in process
of removal into a magnificent six-story building on Broadway and Locust
Street. It is a solid and imposing structure, the first story of red
granite, and the others of brick and terra-cotta. The library and
reading-rooms are on the fifth story, the rest of the building is
rented. This association, which is forty-two years old, has 3500
members, and had an income in 1887 of $120,000, nearly all from
membership. In January, 1888, it had 68,732 volumes, and in a
circulation of over 168,000 in the year, it had the unparalleled
distinction of reducing the fiction given out to 41.95 per cent. Both
these libraries have many treasures interesting to a book-lover, and
though neither is free, the liberal, intelligent management of each has
been such as to make it a most beneficent institution for the city.
There are many handsome and stately buildings in the city, the recent
erections showing growth in wealth and taste. The Chamber of Commerce,
which is conspicuous for solid elegance, cost a million and a half
dollars. There are 3295 members of the Merchants’ Exchange. The
Court-house, with its noble dome, is as well proportioned a building as
can be found in the country. A good deal may be said for the size and
effect of the Exposition Building, which covers what was once a pretty
park at the foot of Lucas Place, and cost 6750,000. There are clubs many
and flourishing. The St. Louis Club (social) has the finest building,
an exceedingly tasteful piece of Romanesque architecture on Twenty-ninth
Street. The University Club, which is like its namesake in other cities,
has a charming old-fashioned house and grounds on Pine Street. The
Commercial Club, an organization limited in its membership to sixty,
has no club-house, but, like its namesake in Chicago, is a controlling
influence in the prosperity of the city. Representing all the leading
occupations, it is a body of men who, by character, intellect, and
wealth, can carry through any project for the public good, and which is
animated by the highest public spirit.
Of the social life of the town one is permitted to speak only in general
terms. It has many elements to make it delightful—long use in social
civilities, interest in letters and in education, the cultivation of
travel, traditions, and the refinement of intellectual pursuits. The
town has no academy of music, but there is a good deal of musical
feeling and cultivation; there is a very good orchestra, one of the very
best choruses in the country, and Verdi’s “Requiem” was recently given
splendidly. I am told by men and women of rare and special cultivation
that the city is a most satisfactory one to live in, and certainly
to the stranger its society is charming. The city has, however, the
Mississippi Valley climate—extreme heat in the summer, and trying
winters.
There is no more interesting industrial establishment in the West than
the plate-glass works at Crystal City, thirty miles south on the river.
It was built up after repeated failures and reverses—for the business,
like any other, had to be learned. The plant is very extensive, the
buildings are of the best, the machinery is that most approved, and the
whole represents a cash investment of $1,500,000. The location of the
works at this point was determined by the existence of a mountain of
sand which is quarried out like rock, and is the finest and cleanest
silica known in the country. The production is confined entirety to
plate-glass, which is cast in great slabs, twelve feet by twelve and
a half in size, each of which weighs, before it is reduced half in
thickness by grinding, smoothing, and polishing, about 750 pounds. The
product for 1887 was 1,200,000 feet. The coal used in the furnaces is
converted into gas, which is found to be the most economical and most
easily regulated fuel. This industry has drawn together a population of
about 1500. I was interested to learn that labor in the production of
this glass is paid twice as much as similar labor in England, and from
three to four times as much as similar labor in France and Belgium. As
the materials used in making plate-glass are inexpensive, the main cost,
after the plant, is in labor. Since plate-glass was first made in this
country, eighteen years ago, the price of it in the foreign market has
been continually forced down, until now it costs the American consumer
only half what it cost him before, and the jobber gets it at an average
cost of 75 cents a foot, as against the $1.50 a foot which we paid the
foreign manufacturer before the establishment of American factories.
And in these eighteen years the Government has had from this source a
revenue of over seventeen millions, at an average duty, on all sizes, of
less than 59 per cent.
Missouri is one of the greatest of our States in resources and in
promise, and it is conspicuous in the West for its variety and capacity
of interesting development. The northern portion rivals Iowa in
beautiful rolling prairie, with high divides and park-like forests; its
water communication is unsurpassed; its mineral resources are immense;
it has noble mountains as well as fine uplands and fertile valleys, and
it never impresses the traveller as monotonous. So attractive is it
in both scenery and resources that it seems unaccountable that so
many settlers have passed it by. But, first slavery, and then a rural
population disinclined to change, have stayed its development. This
state of things, however, is changing, has changed marvellously within
a few years in the northern portion, in the iron regions, and especially
in larger cities of the west, St. Joseph and Kansas City. The State
deserves a study by itself, for it is on the way to be a great empire
of most varied interests. I can only mention here one indication of
its moral progress. It has adopted a high license and local option law.
Under this the saloons are closed in nearly all the smaller villages and
country towns. A shaded map shows more than three-fourths of the area
of the State, including three-fifths of the population, free from
liquor-selling. The county court may grant a license to sell liquor to
a person of good moral character on the signed petition of a majority of
the taxpaying citizens of a township or of a city block; it must grant
it on the petition of two-thirds of the citizens. Thus positive action
is required to establish a saloon. On the map there are 76 white
counties free of saloons, 14 counties In which there are from one to
three saloons only, and 24 shaded counties which have altogether 2263
saloons, of which 1450 are in St. Louis and 520 in Kansas City. The
revenue from the saloons in St. Louis is about 8800,000, in Kansas City
about 8375,000, annually. The heavily shaded portions of the map are on
the great rivers.
Of all the wonderful towns in the West, none has attracted more
attention in the East than Kansas City. I think I am not wrong in saying
that it is largely the product of Eastern energy and capital, and that
its closest relations have been with Boston. I doubt if ever a new town
was from the start built up so solidly or has grown more substantially.
The situation, at the point where the Missouri River makes a sharp bend
to the east, and the Kansas River enters it, was long ago pointed out
as the natural centre of a great trade. Long before it started on its
present career it was the great receiving and distributing point of
South-western commerce, which left the Missouri River at this point
for Santa Fé and other trading marts in the South-west. Aside from this
river advantage, if one studies the course of streams and the incline of
the land in a wide circle to the westward, he is impressed with the fact
that the natural business drainage of a vast area is Kansas City. The
city was therefore not fortuitously located, and when the railways
centred there, they obeyed an inevitable law. Here nature intended, in
the development of the country, a great city. Where the next one will
be in the South-west is not likely to be determined until the Indian
Territory is open to settlement. To the north, Omaha, with reference
to Nebraska and the West, possesses many similar advantages, and is
likewise growing with great vigor and solidity. Its situation on a slope
rising from the river is commanding and beautiful, and its splendid
business houses, handsome private residences, and fine public schools
give ample evidence of the intelligent enterprise that is directing its
rapid growth.
It is difficult to analyze the impression Kansas City first makes upon
the Eastern stranger. It is usually that of immense movement, much of it
crude, all of it full of purpose. At the Union Station, at the time of
the arrival and departure of trains, the whole world seems afloat; one
is in the midst of a continental movement of most varied populations. I
remember that the first time I saw it in passing, the detail that most
impressed me was the racks and rows of baggage checks; it did not seem
to me that the whole travelling world could need so many. At that time
a drive through the city revealed a chaos of enterprise—deep cuts for
streets, cable roads in process of construction over the sharp ridges,
new buildings, hills shaved down, houses perched high up on slashed
knolls, streets swarming with traffic and roaring with speculation. A
little more than a year later the change towards order was marvellous:
the cable roads were running in all directions; gigantic buildings
rising upon enormous blocks of stone gave distinction to the principal
streets; the great residence avenues have been beautified, and showed
all over the hills stately and picturesque houses. And it is worthy of
remark that while the “boom” of speculation in lots had subsided, there
was no slacking in building, and the reports showed a steady increase in
legitimate business. I was confirmed in my theory that a city is likely
to be most attractive when it has had to struggle heroically against
natural obstacles in the building.
I am not going to describe the city. The reader knows that it lies south
of the river Missouri, at the bend, and that the notable portion of it
is built upon a series of sharp hills. The hill portion is already a
beautiful city; the flat part, which contains the railway depot and
yards, a considerable portion of the manufactories and wholesale
houses, and much refuse and squatting population (white and black), is
unattractive in a high degree. The Kaw, or Kansas, River would seem to
be the natural western boundary, but it is not the boundary; the city
and State line runs at some distance east of Kansas River, leaving
a considerable portion of low ground in Kansas City, Kansas, which
contains the larger number of the great packing-houses and the great
stock-yards. This identity of names is confusing. Kansas City (Kansas),
Wyandotte, Armourdale, Armstrong, and Riverview (all in the State of
Kansas) have been recently consolidated under the name of Kansas City,
Kansas. It is to be regretted that this thriving town of Kansas,
which already claims a population of 40,000, did not take the name of
Wyandotte. In its boundaries are the second largest stock-yards in the
country, which received last year 670,000 cattle, nearly 2,500,000 hogs,
and 210,000 sheep, estimated worth 851,000,000. There also are half a
dozen large packing-houses, one of them ranking with the biggest in the
country, which last year slaughtered 195,933 cattle, and 1,907,104 hogs.
The great elevated railway, a wonderful structure, which connects Kansas
City, Missouri, with Wyandotte, is owned and managed by men of Kansas
City, Kansas. The city in Kansas has a great area of level ground for
the accommodation of manufacturing enterprises, and I noticed a good
deal of speculative feeling in regard to this territory. The Kansas side
has fine elevated situations for residences, but Wyandotte itself does
not compare in attractiveness with the Missouri city, and I fancy that
the controlling impetus and capital will long remain with the city that
has so much the start.
Looking about for the specialty which I have learned to expect in every
great Western city, I was struck by the number of warehouses for the
sale of agricultural implements on the flats, and I was told that Kansas
City excels all others in the amount of sales of farming implements. The
sale is put down at 815,000,000 for the year 1887—a fourth of the entire
reported product manufactured in the United States. Looking for the
explanation of this, one largely accounts for the growth of Kansas City,
namely, the vast rich agricultural regions to the west and southwest,
the development of Missouri itself, and the facilities of distribution.
It is a general belief that settlement is gradually pushing the rainy
belt farther and farther westward over the prairies and plains, that
the breaking up of the sod by the plough and the tilling have increased
evaporation and consequently rainfall. I find this questioned by
competent observers, who say that the observation of ten years is not
enough to settle the fact of a change of climate, and that, as not
a tenth part of the area under consideration has been broken by the
plough, there is not cause enough for the alleged effect, and that we
do not yet know the cycle of years of drought and years of rain. However
this may be, there is no doubt of the vast agricultural yield of these
new States and Territories, nor of the quantities of improved machinery
they use. As to facility of distribution, the railways are in evidence.
I need not name them, but I believe I counted fifteen lines and systems
centring there. In 1887, 4565 miles of railway were added to the
facilities of Kansas City, stretching out in every direction. The
development of one is notable as peculiar and far-sighted, the Fort
Scott and Gulf, which is grasping the East as well as the South-west;
turning eastward from Fort Scott, it already reaches the iron industries
of Birmingham, pushes on to Atlanta, and seeks the seaboard. I do not
think I over-estimate the importance of this quite direct connection of
Kansas City with the Atlantic.
The population of Kansas City, according to the statistics of the Board
of Trade, increased from 41,786 in 1877 to 165,924 in 1887, the assessed
valuation from $9,370,287 in 1877 to $53,017,290 in 1887, and the rate
of taxation was reduced in the same period from about 22 mills to 14.
I notice also that the banking capital increased in a year—1886 to
1887—from $3,873,000 to $6,950,000, and the Clearing-house transactions
in the same year from $251,963,441 to $353,895,458. This, with other
figures which might be given, sustains the assertion that while
real-estate speculation has decreased in the current year, there was a
substantial increase of business. During the year ending June 30, 1886,
there were built 4054 new houses, costing $10,393,207; during the year
ending June 30, 1887, 5889, costing $12,839,808. An important feature
of the business of Kansas City is in the investment and loan and trust
companies, which are many, and aggregate a capital of $7,773,000. Loans
are made on farms in Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, and Iowa, and also for
city improvements.
Details of business might be multiplied, but enough have been given to
illustrate the material prosperity of the city. I might add a note
of the enterprise which last year paved (mainly with cedar blocks on
concrete) thirteen miles of the city; the very handsome churches
in process of erection, and one or two (of the many) already built,
admirable in plan and appearance; the really magnificent building of the
Board of Trade—a palace, in fact; and other handsome, costly structures
on every hand. There are thirty-five miles of cable road. I am not
sure but these cable roads are the most interesting—certainly the most
exciting—feature of the city to a stranger. They climb such steeps, they
plunge down such grades, they penetrate and whiz through such crowded,
lively thoroughfares, their trains go so rapidly, that the rider is in
a perpetual exhilaration. I know no other locomotion more exciting and
agreeable. Life seems a sort of holiday when one whizzes through the
crowded city, up and down and around amid the tall buildings, and then
launches off in any direction into the suburbs, which are alive with new
buildings. Independence avenue is shown as one of the finest avenues,
and very handsome it and that part of the town are, but I fancied
I could detect a movement of fashion and preference to the hills
southward.
In the midst of such a material expansion one has learned to expect fine
houses, but I was surprised to find three very good book-stores (as I
remember, St. Louis has not one so good), and a very good start for a
public library, consisting of about 16,000 well-arranged and classified
books. Members pay $2 a year, and the library receives only about
$2500 a year from the city. The citizens could make no better-paying
investment than to raise this library to the first rank. There is also
the beginning of an art school in some pretty rooms, furnished with
casts and autotypes, where pupils practise drawing under direction of
local artiste. There are two social clubs—the University, which occupies
pleasant apartments, and the Kansas City Club, which has just erected a
handsome club-house. In these respects, and in a hundred refinements
of living, the town, which has so largely drawn its young, enterprising
population from the extreme East, has little the appearance of a
frontier place; it is the push, the public spirit, the mixture of
fashion and slouching negligence in street attire, the mingling of
Eastern smartness with border emancipation in manner, and the general
restlessness of movement, that proclaim the newness. It seems to me that
the incessant stir, and especially the clatter, whir, and rapidity of
the cable ears, must have a decided effect on the nerves of the whole
population. The appearance is certainly that of an entire population
incessantly in motion.
I have spoken of the public spirit. Besides the Board of Trade there is
a Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Bureau, which works vigorously to bring
to the city and establish mercantile and manufacturing enterprises. The
same spirit is shown in the public schools. The expenditures in 1887
were, for school purposes, $226,923; for interest on bonds, $18,408; for
grounds and buildings, $110,087; in all, $355,418. The total of children
of school age was, white, 31,667; colored, 4204. Of these in
attendance at school were, white, 12,933; colored, 1975. There were
25 school-houses and 212 teachers. The schools which I saw—one large
grammar-school, a colored school, and the High-school of over 600
pupils—were good all through, full of intelligent emulation, the
teachers alert and well equipped, and the attention to literature, to
the science of government, to what, in short, goes to make intelligent
citizens, highly commendable. I find the annual reports, under Prof.
J. M. Greenwood, most interesting reading. Topics are taken up and
investigations made of great public interest. These topics relate to the
even physical and mental development of the young in distinction from
the effort merely to stuff them with information. There is a most
intelligent attempt to remedy defective eyesight. Twenty per cent, of
school children have some anomaly of refraction or accommodation which
should be recognized and corrected early; girls have a larger per cent,
of anomalies than boys. Irish, Swedish, and German children have the
highest percentage of affections of the eyes; English, French, Scotch,
and Americans the lowest. Scientific observations of the eyes are made
in the Kansas City schools, with a view to remedy defects. Another
curious topic is the investigation of the Contents of Children’s
Minds—that is, what very small children know about common things. Prof.
Stanley Hall published recently the result of examinations made of
very little folks in Boston schools. Professor Greenwood made similar
investigations among the lowest grade of pupils in the Kansas City
schools, and a table of comparisons is printed. The per cent, of
children ignorant of common things is astonishingly less in Kansas City
schools than in the Boston; even the colored children of the Western
city made a much better showing. Another subject of investigation is the
alleged physical deterioration in this country. Examinations were made
of hundreds of school children from the age of ten to fifteen,
and comparisons taken with the tables in Mulhal’s “Dictionary of
Statistics,” London, 1884. It turns out that the Kansas City children
are taller, taking sex into account, than the average English child
at the age of either ten or fifteen, weigh a fraction less at ten, but
upwards of four pounds more at fifteen, while the average Belgian boy
and girl compare favorably with American children two years younger.
The tabulated statistics show two facts, that the average Kansas child
stands fully as tall as the tallest, and that in weight he tips the
beam against an older child on the other side of the Atlantic. With this
showing, we trust that our American experiment will be permitted to go
on.
In reaching the necessary limit of a paper too short for its subject, I
can only express my admiration of the indomitable energy and spirit of
that portion of the West which Kansas City represents, and congratulate
it upon so many indications of attention to the higher civilization,
without which its material prosperity will be wonderful but not
attractive.
XV.—KENTUCKY.
All Kentucky, like Gaul, is divided into three parts. This division,
which may not be sustained by the geologists or the geographers, perhaps
not even by the ethnologists, is, in my mind, one of character: the east
and south-east mountainous part, the central blue-grass region, and the
great western portion, thrifty in both agriculture and manufactures.
It is a great self-sustaining empire, lying midway in the Union, and
between the North and the South (never having yet exactly made up its
mind whether it is North or South), extending over more than seven
degrees of longitude. Its greatest length east and west is 410 miles;
its greatest breadth, 178 miles. Its area by latest surveys, and larger
than formerly estimated, is 42,283 square miles. Within this area
prodigal nature has brought together nearly everything that a highly
civilized society needs: the most fertile soil, capable of producing
almost every variety of product for food or for textile fabrics;
mountains of coals and iron ores and limestone; streams and springs
everywhere; almost all sorts of hard-wood timber in abundance. Nearly
half the State is still virgin forest of the noblest trees, oaks,
sugar-maple, ash, poplar, black-walnut, linn, elm, hickory, beech,
chestnut, red cedar. The climate may honestly be called temperate: its
inhabitants do not need to live in cellars in the summer, nor burn up
their fences and furniture in the winter.
Kentucky is loved of its rivers. It can be seen by their excessively
zigzag courses how reluctant they are to leave the State, and if they do
leave it they are certain to return. The Kentucky and the Green wander
about in the most uncertain way before they go to the Ohio, and the
Licking and Big Sandy exhibit only a little less reluctance. The
Cumberland, after a wide detour in Tennessee, returns; and Powell’s
River, joining the Clinch and entering the Tennessee, finally persuades
that river, after it has looked about the State of Tennessee and
gladdened northern Alabama, to return to Kentucky.
Kentucky is an old State, with an old civilization. It was the pioneer
in the great western movement of population after the Revolution.
Although it was first explored in 1770, and the Boone trail through the
wilderness of Cumberland Gap was not marked till 1775, a settlement
had been made in Frankfort in 1774, and in 1790 the Territory had a
population of 79,077. This was a marvellous growth, considering the
isolation by hundreds of miles of wilderness from Eastern communities,
and the savage opposition of the Indians, who selw fifteen hundred whilc
settlers from 1783 to 1790. Kentucky was the home of no Indian tribe,
but it was the favorite hunting and fighting ground of those north of
the Ohio and south of the Cumberland, and they united to resent white
interference. When the State came into the Union in 1792—the second
admitted—it was the equal in population and agricultural wealth of some
of the original States that had been settled a hundred and fifty years,
and in 1800 could boast 220,750 inhabitants, and in 1810, 400,511.
At the time of the settlement, New York west of the Hudson, western
Pennsylvania, and western Virginia were almost unoccupied except by
hostile Indians; there was only chance and dangerous navigation down
the Ohio from Pittsburg, and it was nearly eight hundred miles of a
wilderness road, which was nothing but a bridle-path, from Philadelphia
by way of the Cumberland Gap to central Kentucky. The majority of
emigrants came this toilsome way, which was, after all, preferable to
the river route, and all passengers and produce went that way eastward,
for the steamboat bad not yet made the ascent of the Ohio feasible. In
1779 Virginia resolved to construct a wagon-road through the wilderness,
but no road was made for many years afterwards, and indeed no vehicle of
any sort passed over it till a road was built by action of the Kentucky
Legislature in 1700. I hope it was better then than the portion of it I
travelled from Pineville to the Gap in 1888.
Civilization made a great leap over nearly a thousand miles into the
open garden-spot of central Kentucky, and the exploit is a unique
chapter in our frontier development. Either no other land ever lent
itself so easily to civilization as the blue-grass region, or it was
exceptionally fortunate in its occupants. They formed almost immediately
a society distinguished for its amenities, for its political influence,
prosperous beyond precedent in farming, venturesome and active in trade,
developing large manufactures, especially from hemp, of such articles
as could be transported by river, and sending annually through the
wilderness road to the East and South immense droves of cattle, horses,
and swine. In the first necessity, and the best indication of superior
civilization, good roads for transportation, Kentucky was conspicuous in
comparison with the rest of the country. As early as 1825 macadam roads
were projected, the turnpike from. Lexington to Maysville on the Ohio
was built in 1829, and the work went on by State and county co-operation
until the central region had a system of splendid roads, unexcelled
in any part of the Union. In 1830 one of the earliest railways in the
United States, that from Lexington to Frankfort, was begun; two years
later seven miles were constructed, and in 1835 the first locomotive and
train of cars ran on it to Frankfort, twenty-seven miles, in two hours
and twenty-nine minutes. The structure was composed of stone sills, in
which grooves were cut to receive the iron bars. These stone blocks can
still be seen along the line of the road, now a part of the Louisville
and Nashville system. In all internal improvements the State was very
energetic. The canal around the Falls of the Ohio at Louisville was
opened in 1831, with some aid from the General Government. The State
expended a great deal in improving the navigation of the Kentucky, the
Green, and other rivers in its borders by an expensive system of locks
and dams; in 1837 it paid $19,500 to engineers engaged in turnpike and
river improvement, and in 1839 $31,075 for the same purpose.
The story of early Kentucky reads like a romance. By 1820 it counted
a population of over 510,000, and still it had scarcely wagon-road
communication with the East. Here was a singular phenomenon, a
prosperous community, as one might say a garden in the wilderness,
separated by natural barriers from the great life of the East, which
pushed out north of it a connected, continuous development; a community
almost self-sustaining, having for his centre the loveliest agricultural
region in the Union, and evolving a unique social state so gracious and
attractive that it was thought necessary to call in the effect of the
blue-grass to explain it, unaided human nature being inadequate, it
was thought, to such a result. Almost from the beginning fine houses
attested the taste and prosperity of the settlers; by 1792 the
blue-grass region was dotted with neat and commodious dwellings, fruit
orchards and gardens, sugar groves, and clusters of villages; while,
a little later, rose, in the midst of broad plantations and park-like
forests, lands luxuriant with wheat and clover and corn and hemp and
tobacco, the manorial dwellings of the colonial period, like the stately
homes planted by the Holland Land Company along the Hudson and the
Mohawk and in the fair Genesee, like the pillared structures on the
James and the Staunton, and like the solid square mansions of old New
England. A type of some of them stands in Frankfort now, a house which
was planned by Thomas Jefferson and built in 1796, spacious, permanent,
elegant in the low relief of its chaste ornamentation. For comfort, for
the purposes of hospitality, for the quiet and rest of the mind,
there is still nothing so good as the colonial house, with the slight
modifications required by our changed conditions.
From 1820 onward the State grew by a natural increment of population,
but without much aid from native or foreign emigration. In 1860 its
population was only about 919,000 whites, with some 225,000 slaves and
over 10,000 free colored persons. It had no city of the first class, nor
any villages specially thriving. Louisville numbered only about 68,000,
Lexington less than 15,000, and Frankfort, the capital, a little over
5000. It retained the lead in hemp and a leading position in tobacco;
but it had fallen away behind its much younger rivals in manufactures
and the building of railways, and only feeble efforts had been made in
the development of its extraordinary mineral resources.
How is this arrest of development accounted for? I know that a short
way of accounting for it has been the presence of slavery. I would not
underestimate this. Free labor would not go where it had to compete with
slave labor; white labor now does not like to come into relations with
black labor; and capital also was shy of investment in a State where
both political economy and social life were disturbed by a color line.
But this does not wholly account for the position of Kentucky as to
development at the close of the war. So attractive is the State in most
respects, in climate, soil, and the possibilities of great wealth by
manufactures, that I doubt not the State would have been forced into the
line of Western progress and slavery become an unimportant factor long
ago, but for certain natural obstacles and artificial influences.
Let the reader look on the map, at the ranges of mountains running from
the north-east to the southwest—the Blue Ridge, the Alleghanies, the
Cumberland, and Pine mountains, continuous rocky ridges, with scarcely a
water gap, and only at long intervals a passable mountain gap—and notice
how these would both hinder and deflect the tide of emigration. With
such barriers the early development of Kentucky becomes ten times a
wonder. But about 1825 an event occurred that placed her at a greater
disadvantage in the competition. The Erie Canal was opened. This made
New York, and not Virginia, the great commercial highway. The railway
development followed. It was easy to build roads north of Kentucky, and
the tide of settlement followed the roads, which were mostly aided
by land grants; and in order to utilize the land grants the railways
stimulated emigration by extensive advertising. Capital and population
passed Kentucky by on the north. To the south somewhat similar
conditions prevailed. Comparatively cheap roads could be built along
the eastern slope of the Alleghanies, following the great valley from
Pennsylvania to Alabama; and these south-westwardly roads were also
aided by the General Government. The North and South Railway of Alabama,
and the Alabama and Great Southern, which cross at Birmingham, were
land-grant roads. The roads which left the Atlantic seaboard passed
naturally northward and southward of Kentucky, and left an immense area
in the centre of the Union—all of western and southwestern Virginia and
eastern Kentucky—without transportation facilities. Until 1880 here was
the largest area east of the Mississippi impenetrated by railways.
The war removed one obstacle to the free movement of men desiring work
and seeking agreeable homes, a movement marked in the great increase
of the industrial population of Louisville and the awakening to varied
industries and trade in western Kentucky. The offer of cheap land,
which would reward skilful farming In agreeable climatic conditions,
has attracted foreign settlers to the plateau south of the blue-grass
region; and scientific investigation has made the mountain district in
the south-east the object of the eager competition of both domestic
and foreign capital. Kentucky, therefore, is entering upon a new era of
development. Two phases of it, the Swiss colonies, and the opening
of the coal, iron, and timber resources, present special points of
interest.
This Incoming of the commercial spirit will change Kentucky for the
better and for the worse, will change even the tone of the blue-grass
country, and perhaps take away something of that charm about which so
much has been written. So thoroughly has this region been set forth by
the pen and the pencil and the lens that I am relieved of the necessity
of describing it. But I must confess that all I had read of it, all
the pictures I had seen, gave me an inadequate idea of its beauty and
richness. So far as I know, there is nothing like it in the world.
Comparison of it with England is often made in the use of the words
“garden” and “park.” The landscape is as unlike the finer parts of Old
England as it is unlike the most carefully tended parts of New England.
It has neither the intense green, the subdivisions in hedges, the bosky
lanes, the picturesque cottages, the niceness of minute garden-culture,
of England, nor the broken, mixed lawn gardening and neglected pastures
and highways, with the sweet wild hills, of the Berkshire region. It
is an open, elevated, rolling land, giving the traveller often the most
extended views over wheat and clover, hemp and tobacco fields, forests
and blue-grass pastures. One may drive for a hundred miles north and
south over the splendid macadam turnpikes, behind blooded roadsters,
at an easy ten-mile gait, and see always the same sight—a smiling
agricultural paradise, with scarcely a foot, in fence corners, by the
road-side, or in low grounds, of uncultivated, uncared-for land. The
open country is more pleasing than the small villages, which have not
the tidiness of the New England small villages; the houses are for the
most part plain; here and there is a negro cabin, or a cluster of them,
apt to be unsightly, but always in view somewhere is a plantation-house,
more or less pretentious, generally old-fashioned and with the colonial
charm. These are frequently off the main thoroughfare, approached by a
private road winding through oaks and ash-trees, seated on some gentle
knoll or slope, maybe with a small flower-garden, but probably with the
old sentimental blooms that smell good and have reminiscences, in the
midst of waving fields of grain, blue-grass pastures, and open forest
glades watered by a dear stream. There seems to be infinite peace in
a house so surrounded. The house may have pillars, probably a colonial
porch and door-way with earving in bass-relief, a wide hall, large
square rooms, low studded, and a general air of comfort. What is new in
it in the way of art, furniture, or bric-à-brac may not be in the best
taste, and may “swear” at the old furniture and the delightful old
portraits. For almost always will be found some portraits of the
post-Revolutionary period, having a traditional and family interest, by
Copley or Jouett, perhaps a Stuart, maybe by some artist who evidently
did not paint for fame, which carry the observer back to the colonial
society in Virginia, Philadelphia, and New York. In a country house and
in Lexington I saw portraits, life-size and miniature, of Rebecca Gratz,
whose loveliness of person and character is still a tender recollection
of persons living. She was a great beauty and toast in her day. It
was at her house in Philadelphia, a centre of wit and gayety, that
Washington Irving and Henry Brevoort and Gulian C. Verplanck often
visited. She shone not less in New York society, and was the most
intimate friend of Matilda Hoffman, who was betrothed to Irving; indeed,
it was in her arms that Matilda died, fadeless always to us as she was
to Irving, in the loveliness of her eighteenth year. The well-founded
tradition is that Irving, on his first visit to Abbotsford, told Scott
of his own loss, and made him acquainted with the beauty and grace of
Rebecca Gratz, and that Scott, wanting at the moment to vindicate a race
that was aspersed, used her as a model for Rebecca in “Ivanhoe.”
One distinction of the blue-grass region is the forests, largely of
gigantic oaks, free of all undergrowth, carpeted with the close-set,
luscious, nutritive blue-grass, which remains green all the season when
it is cropped by feeding. The blue-grass thrives elsewhere, notably in
the upper Shenandoah Valley, where somewhat similar limestone conditions
prevail; but this is its natural habitat. On all this elevated rolling
plateau the limestone is near the surface. This grass blooms towards the
middle of June in a bluish, almost a peacock blue, blossom, which gives
to the fields an exquisite hue. By the end of the month the seed ripens
into a yellowish color, and while the grass is still green and lush
underneath, the surface presents much the appearance of a high New
England pasture in August. When it is ripe, the top is cut for the seed.
The limestone and the blue-grass together determine the agricultural
pre-eminence of the region, and account for the fine breeding of the
horses, the excellence of the cattle, the stature of the men, and the
beauty of the women; but they have social and moral influence also. It
could not well be otherwise, considering the relation of the physical
condition to disposition and character. We should be surprised if a
rich agricultural region, healthful at the same time, where there is
abundance of food, and wholesome cooking is the rule, did not affect the
tone of social life. And I am almost prepared to go further, and
think that blue-grass is a specific for physical beauty and a certain
graciousness of life. I have been told that there is a natural relation
between Presbyterianism and blue-grass, and am pointed to the Shenandoah
and to Kentucky as evidence of it. Perhaps Presbyterians naturally seek
a limestone country. But the relation, if it exists, is too subtle and
the facts are too few to build a theory on. Still, I have no doubt there
is a distinct variety of woman known as the blue-grass girl. A geologist
told me that once when he was footing it over the State with a geologist
from another State, as they approached the blue-grass region from the
southward they were carefully examining the rock formation and studying
the surface indications, which are usually marked on the border line,
to determine exactly where the peculiar limestone formation began.
Indications, however, were wanting. Suddenly my geologist looked up the
road and exclaimed:
“We are in the blue-grass region now.”
“How do you know?” asked the other.
“Why, there is a blue-grass girl.”
There was no mistaking the neat dress, the style, the rounded contours,
the gracious personage. A few steps farther on the geologists found the
outcropping of the blue limestone.
Perhaps the people of this region are trying to live up to the
thorough-bred. A pedigree is a necessity. The horse is of the first
consideration, and either has or gives a sort of social distinction;
first, the running horse, the thorough-bred, and now the trotting horse,
which is beginning to have a recognizable descent, and is on the way to
be a thorough-bred. Many of the finest plantations are horse farms;
one might call them the feature of the country. Horse-raising is here
a science, and as we drive from one estate to another, and note the
careful tillage, the trim fences, the neat stables, the pretty paddocks,
and the houses of the favorites, we see how everything is intended
to contribute to the perfection in refinement of fibre, speed, and
endurance of the noble animal. Even persons who are usually indifferent
to horses cannot but admire these beautiful high-bred creatures, either
the famous ones displayed at the stables, or the colts and fillies,
which have yet their reputations to make, at play in the blue-grass
pastures; and the pleasure one experiences is a refined one in harmony
with the landscape. Usually horse-dealing carries with it a lowering of
the moral tone, which we quite understand when we say of a man that he
is “horsy.” I suppose the truth is that man has degraded the idea of the
horse by his own evil passions, using him to gamble and cheat with.
Now, the visitor will find little of these degrading associations in the
blue-grass region. It is an orthodox and a moral region. The best
and most successful horse-breeders have nothing to do with racing or
betting. The yearly product of their farms is sold at auction, without
reserve or favor. The sole business is the production of the best
animals that science and care can breed. Undeniably where the horse is
of such importance he is much in the thought, and the use of “horsy”
phrases in ordinary conversation shows his effect upon the vocabulary.
The recital of pedigree at the stables, as horse after horse is led out,
sounds a little like a chapter from the Book of Genesis, and naturally
this Biblical formula gets into a conversation about people.
And after the horses there is whiskey. There are many distilleries in
this part of the country, and a great deal of whiskey is made. I am not
defending whiskey, at least any that is less than thirty years old and
has attained a medicinal quality. But I want to express my opinion that
this is as temperate as any region in the United States. There is a
wide-spread strict temperance sentiment, and even prohibition prevails
to a considerable degree. Whiskey is made and stored, and mostly shipped
away; rightly or wrongly, it is regarded as a legitimate business, like
wheatraising, and is conducted by honorable men. I believe this to be
the truth, and that drunkenness does not prevail in the neighborhood of
the distilleries, nor did I see anywhere in the country evidence of a
habit of dram drinking, of the traditional matter-of-course offering of
whiskey as a hospitality. It is true that mint grows in Kentucky,
and that there are persons who would win the respect of a tide-water
Virginian in the concoction of a julep. And no doubt in the mind of
the born Kentuckian there is a rooted belief that if a person needed
a stimulant, the best he can take is old hand-made whiskey. Where the
manufacture of whiskey is the source of so much revenue, and is carried
on with decorum, of course the public sentiment about it differs from
that of a community that makes its money in raising potatoes for starch.
Where the horse is so beautiful, fleet, and profitable, of course
there is intense interest in him, and the general public take a
lively pleasure in the races; but if the reader has been accustomed
to associate this part of Kentucky with horse-racing and drinking as
prominent characteristics, he must revise his opinion.
Perhaps certain colonial habits lingered longer in Kentucky than
elsewhere. Travellers have spoken about the habit of profanity and
gambling, especially the game of poker. In the West generally profane
swearing is not as bad form as it is in the East. But whatever
distinction central Kentucky had in profanity or poker, it has evidently
lost it. The duel lingered long, and prompt revenge for insults,
especially to women. The blue-grass region has “histories”—beauty has
been fought about; women have had careers; families have run out through
dissipation. One may hear stories of this sort even in the Berkshire
Hills, in any place where there have been long settlement, wealth, and
time for the development of family and personal eccentricities. And
there is still a flavor left in Kentucky; there is still a subtle
difference in its social tone; the intelligent women are attractive in
another way from the intelligent New England women—they have a charm
of their own. May Heaven long postpone the day when, by the commercial
spirit and trade and education, we shall all be alike in all parts
of the Union! Yet it would be no disadvantage to anybody if the
graciousness, the simplicity of manner, the refined hospitality, of the
blue-grass region should spread beyond the blue limestone of the Lower
Silurian.
In the excellent State Museum at Frankfort, under the charge of Prof.
John R. Procter, * who is State Geologist and also Director of the
Bureau of Immigration, in addition to the admirable exhibit of the
natural resources of Kentucky, are photographs, statistics, and products
showing the condition of the Swiss and other foreign farming colonics
recently established in the State, which were so interesting and
offered so many instructive points that I determined to see some of the
colonies.
* Whatever value this paper has is so largely due to Professor Procter
that I desire to make to him the most explicit acknowledgments. One of
the very best results of the war was keeping him in the Union.
This museum and the geological department, the intelligent management of
which has been of immense service to the commonwealth, is in one of the
detached buildings which make up the present Capitol. The Capitol is
altogether antiquated, and not a credit to the State. The room in which
the Lower House meets is shabby and mean, yet I noticed that it is
fairly well lighted by side windows, and debate can be heard in it
conducted in an ordinary tone of voice. Kentucky will before many years
be accommodated with new State buildings more suited to her wealth and
dignity. But I should like to repeat what was said in relation to the
Capitol of Arkansas. Why cannot our architects devise a capitol suited
to the wants of those who occupy it? Why must we go on making these
huge inconvenient structures, mainly for external display, in which the
legislative Chambers are vast air-tight and water-tight compartments,
commonly completely surrounded by other rooms and lobbies, and lighted
only from the roof, or at best by high windows in one or two sides that
permit no outlook—rooms difficult to speak or hear in, impossible to
ventilate, needing always artificial light? Why should the Senators of
the United States be compelled to occupy a gilded dungeon, unlighted
ever by the sun, unvisited ever by the free wind of heaven, in which the
air is so foul that the Senators sicken? What sort of legislation ought
we to expect from such Chambers? It is perfectly feasible to build a
legislative room cheerful and light, open freely to sun and air on
three sides. In order to do this it may be necessary to build a group
of connected buildings, instead of the parallelogram or square, which is
mostly domed, with gigantic halls and stair-ways, and, considering the
purpose for which it is intended, is a libel on our ingenuity and a
burlesque on our civilization.
Kentucky has gone to work in a very sensible way to induce immigration
and to attract settlers of the right sort. The Bureau of Immigration
was established in 1880. It began to publish facts about the State, in
regard to the geologic formation, the soils, the price of lands, both
the uncleared and the lands injured by slovenly culture, the kind and
amount of products that might be expected by thrifty farming, and the
climate; not exaggerated general proclamations promising sudden wealth
with little labor, but facts such as would attract the attention of men
willing to work in order to obtain for themselves and their children
comfortable homes and modest independence. Invitations were made for
a thorough examination of lands—of the different sorts of soils in
different counties—before purchase and settlement. The leading idea was
to induce industrious farmers who were poor, or had not money enough
to purchase high-priced improved lands, to settle upon lands that the
majority of Kentuckians considered scarcely worth cultivating, and the
belief was that good farming would show that these neglected lands were
capable of becoming very productive. Eight years’ experience has fully
justified all these expectations. Colonies of Swiss, Germans, Austrians,
have come, and Swedes also, and these have attracted many from the
North and North-west. In this period I suppose as many as ten thousand
immigrants of this class, thrifty cultivators of the soil, have come
into the State, many of whom are scattered about the State, unconnected
with the so-called colonies. These colonies are not organized
communities in any way separated from the general inhabitants of the
State. They have merely settled together for companionship and social
reasons, where a sufficiently large tract of cheap land was found
to accommodate them. Each family owns its own farm, and is perfectly
independent. An indiscriminate immigration has not been desired
or encouraged, but the better class of laboring agriculturists,
grape-growers, and stock-raisers. There are several settlements of
these, chiefly Swiss, dairy-farmers, cheese-makers, and vine-growers, in
Laurel County; others in Lincoln County, composed of Swiss, Germans, and
Austrians; a mixed colony in Rock Castle County; a thriving settlement
of Austrians in Boyle County; a temperance colony of Scandinavians in
Edmonson County; another Scandinavian colony in Grayson County; and
scattered settlements of Germans and Scandinavians in Christian County.
These settlements have from one hundred to over a thousand inhabitants
each. The lands in Laurel and Lincoln counties, which I travelled
through, are on a high plateau, with good air and temperate climate, but
with a somewhat thin, loamy, and sandy soil, needing manure, and called
generally in the State poor land—poor certainly compared with the
blue-grass region and other extraordinarily fertile sections. These
farms, which had been more or less run over by Kentucky farming, were
sold at from one to five dollars an acre. They are farms that a man
cannot live on in idleness. But they respond well to thrifty tillage,
and it is a sight worth a long journey to see the beautiful farms these
Swiss have made out of land that the average Kentuckian thought not
worth cultivating. It has not been done without hard work, and as most
of the immigrants were poor, many of them have had a hard struggle in
building comfortable houses, reducing the neglected land to order, and
obtaining stock. A great attraction to the Swiss was that this land
is adapted to vine culture, and a reasonable profit was expected
from selling grapes and making wine. The vineyards are still young;
experiment has not yet settled what kind of grapes flourish best, but
many vine-growers have realized handsome profits in the sale of fruit,
and the trial is sufficient to show that good wine can be produced. The
only interference thus far with the grapes has been the unprecedented
late freeze last spring.
At the recent exposition in Louisville the exhibit of these Swiss
colonies—the photographs showing the appearance of the unkempt land when
they bought it, and the fertile fields of grain and meadow and vineyards
afterwards, and the neat, plain farm cottages, the pretty Swiss chalet
with its attendants of intelligent comely girls in native costumes
offering articles illustrating the taste and the thrift of the
colonies, wood-carving, the products of the dairy, and the fruit of the
vine—attracted great attention.
I cannot better convey to the reader the impression I wish to in regard
to this colonization and its lesson for the country at large than
by speaking more in detail of one of the Swiss settlements in Laurel
County. This is Bernstadt, about six miles from Pittsburg, on the
Louisville and Nashville road, a coal-mining region, and offering a good
market for the produce of the Swiss farmers. We did not need to be told
when we entered the colony lands; neater houses, thrifty farming, and
better roads proclaimed it. It is not a garden-spot; in some respects it
is a poor-looking country; but it has abundant timber, good water, good
air, a soil of light sandy loam, which is productive under good
tillage. There are here, I suppose, some two hundred and fifty families,
scattered about over a large area, each on its farm. There is no
collection of houses; the church (Lutheran), the school-house, the
store, the post-office, the hotel, are widely separated; for the
hotel-keeper, the store-keeper, the postmaster, and, I believe, the
school-master and the parson, are all farmers to a greater or less
extent. It must be understood that it is a primitive settlement,
having as yet very little that is picturesque, a community of simple
working-people. Only one or two of the houses have any pretension to
taste in architecture, but this will come in time—the vine-clad porches,
the quaint gables, the home-likeness. The Kentuckian, however, will
notice the barns for the stock, and a general thriftiness about the
places. And the appearance of the farms is an object-lesson of the
highest value.
The chief interest to me, however, was the character of the settlers.
Most of them were poor, used to hard work and scant returns for it in
Switzerland. What they have accomplished, therefore, is the result of
industry, and not of capital. There are among the colonists
skilled laborers in other things than vine-growing and
cheese-making—watch-makers and wood-carvers and adepts in various
trades. The thrifty young farmer at whose pretty house we spent the
night, and who has saw-mills at Pittsburg, is of one of the best Swiss
families; his father was for many years President of the republic, and
he was a graduate of the university at Lucerne. There were others of
the best blood and breeding and schooling, and men of scientific
attainments. But they are all at work close to the soil. As a rule,
however, the colonists were men and women of small means at home. The
notable thing is that they bring with them a certain old civilization, a
unity of simplicity of life with real refinement, courtesy, politeness,
good-humor. The girls would not be above going out to service, and they
would not lose their self-respect in it. Many of them would be described
