to his subject, the Indians already forgotten. "I'm not to say anything
to you; I'm to have nothing; and so we're to go on apparently forever.
What is it you are planning for? I am sure I don't know. I know you care
for me, and I don't believe that you'll find anything sweeter than the
love I could give you,--if you would let me."
"There is nothing sweeter," Eve answered.
"Have you given up keeping me off?" He drew her towards him. She did not
resist.
In her heart rose the cry, "For one day, for one hour, let me have it,
have it all! Then--"
XXVII.
On the second day after the alarm, Paul took the Indians back to Port
aux Pins, and dismissed them, after handing the ringleader to the proper
authorities; the others slunk away with their long black hair hanging
down below their white man's hats, their eagle profiles, in spite of
fierceness of outline, entirely unalarming. Paul then selected half a
dozen Irishmen, the least dilapidated he could find (the choice lay
between Indians and Irishmen), and brought them to Jupiter Light to take
the place of the crestfallen aborigines. He remained there a few days to
see that all went well; then he returned to Port aux Pins for a week's
stay. "Come a little way up the lake to meet me," he said to Eve, as he
bade her good-by; "I shall be along about four o'clock next Wednesday
afternoon."
His manner still remained a little despotic. But to women of strong will
despotism is attractive; when a despotism of love, it is enchanting.
Eve's feeling was, "Oh, to have at last found some one who is stronger
than I!"
Even now not for a moment did she bend her opinions, her decisions, to
his, of her own accord; each time it was simply that she was conquered;
after contesting the point as strongly as she could, how she gloried in
feeling herself overridden at last! She would look at Paul with
delighted eyes, and laugh in triumph. To have yielded because she loved
him, would have had a certain sweetness; but to be conquered unyielding,
that was a satisfaction whose intensity could go no further.
Since that walk in the darkness from the Indian quarters to Cicely's
lodge, when, suddenly, she had let her love have its way, she had
allowed herself to be carried along by chance events whithersoever they
pleased; she had defied conscience, she had accepted the bliss that hung
temptingly before her; she did not think, she only enjoyed. Once or
twice she had sent forth mentally this defiance,--"If you feel as I do,
then you may judge me!" To whom was this said? To Fate? To the world
at large? In reality it was said to all women who in that summer of 1869
were young enough to love: "If you can feel as I do, then you may
judge me." But it was only once or twice that this mood had come to her,
only once or twice that she thought of anything but Paul; his offered
hand taken, her acceptance of it was at least superb in its
completeness; there was no looking back, no fear, no regret; nothing
but the fulness of joy.
Still sweeter was it to feel that, deeply as she loved, she was loved as
deeply. Paul might be imperious, he might be negligent in explaining
things, and in other small ways; but there was nothing negligent in his
passion. His genius for directness, which puzzled Hollis in other
matters, showed itself also here; he had little to say--that was
possible--but no woman could have misunderstood the language of his eyes
or of the touch of his hand; or fail to be thrilled by it. The feeling
that possessed him went straight to its end, namely, Eve Bruce for his
wife; the same Eve whom he had not liked at all at first; to whom he had
found it difficult only a few weeks before to write a short letter. This
inconsistency did not trouble him; love had arrived, had descended upon
him in some way, he knew not how, had taken possession of him by force
and forever--he recognized that, and did not contest it. Women are only
women: this had been one of the settled convictions in the depths of his
mind, and it was a conviction not much changed even now; yet this same
Paul, with his mediæval creed, made a lover much more invincible than a
hundred, a thousand other men, who would have said, perhaps, that they
revered women more. "Revered?" Paul would have answered, "I don't revere
Eve, I love her!"
Whatever name he gave it, she knew that she held the joy of his life in
her hands, that he would come to her for this--had already come; and
that it always would be so. This was happiness enough for her.
This happiness had existed but ten days. But these days had seemed like
months of joy, she had lived each moment so fully. "Sejed, Prince of
Ethiopia, vowed to have three days of uninterrupted happiness--" she
might have remembered the old fable and its ending. But she remembered
nothing, she scorned to remember; let the unhappy, the unloved, think of
the past; she would drink in all the sunshine of the present, she would
live, live!
"Row a little way up the lake to meet me," Paul had said. At half-past
three of the afternoon he had indicated, she went to the beach; one of
the Irishmen, under her direction, began to push down a canoe. The open
way in which she did this--in which she had done everything since that
night--was in itself an effectual disguise; no one thought it remarkable
that she should be going to meet Paul. As she was about to take her
place in the canoe, Hollis appeared.
"Going far? We don't know much about that Paddy," he said, in an
undertone.
"Only to meet Paul."
"If he's late, you may have to go a good way."
"He won't be late."
"Well, he may be," answered Hollis, patiently. "I guess I'll take you,
if you'll let me; and then, when we meet, I'll come back with his man in
the other canoe."
"Very well," Eve responded. She did not comment upon the terms of his
offer, she did not care what he thought. She took her place, and he
paddled westward.
It was a beautiful afternoon; a slight coolness, which made itself felt
through the sunshine, showed that the short Northern summer was
approaching its end. As she sat with her back to the prow, she was
obliged to turn her head to look for the other canoe; and this she did
many times. After one of these quests, she saw that Hollis's eyes were
upon her.
"Is there any change in me?" she asked, laughing.
"Rather!"
"What is it?"
But poor Hollis did not know how to say, "You are so much more
beautiful."
"It's my white dress," Eve suggested, in a somewhat troubled voice. "I
had it made in Port aux Pins. It's only piqué." She smoothed the folds
of the skirt for a moment, doubtfully.
"I guess white favors you," answered Hollis, with what he would have
called a festive wave of his hand.
Her mood had now changed. "It's no matter, I'm not afraid!" She was
speaking her thoughts aloud, sure that he would not understand. But he
did understand.
The other canoe came into sight after a while, shooting round a point;
Eve waved her handkerchief in answer to Paul's hail; the two boats met.
"Mr. Hollis knows that you are to take me back," said Eve, as eagerly as
a child.
Paul glanced at Hollis. But the other man bore the look bravely. "Proud
to be of service," he answered, waving his hand again, with two fingers
extended lightly. He changed places with Paul; Paul and Eve, in their
canoe, glided away.
It was at this moment that Cicely, who had been asleep, opened her eyes.
Her lodge was quiet; Mrs. Mile was reading near the window, her seat
carefully placed so that the light should fall over her left shoulder
upon the page.
Cicely gazed at her for some time; then she jumped from the couch with a
quick bound. "It's impossible to lie here another instant and see that
History of Windham! The next thing, you'll be proposing to read it aloud
to me; you look exactly like a woman who loves to read aloud." She began
to put on her shoes.
"You are going for a walk? I shall be glad to go too," answered Mrs.
Mile promptly, putting a marker in her book, and rising.
"No," responded Cicely; "I can't have those boots of yours pounding
along beside me to-day, Priscilla Jane. Impossible."
"Well, I do declare!" said Mrs. Mile, reduced in her surprise to the
language of her youth. "They can't pound much, Mrs. Morrison, in the
sand; and there's nothing but sand here."
"They grind it down!" answered Cicely. "You can call grandpa, if you
don't want me to go alone; but come with me to-day you shall not, you
clean, broad-faced, turn-out-your-toes, do-your-duty old relict of Abner
Whittredge Mile." She looked at Mrs. Mile consideringly as she said
this, bringing out each word in a soft, clear tone.
The judge was listlessly roving about the beach. Mrs. Mile gave him
Cicely's request. "She is saying very odd things to-day, sir," she
added, impersonally.
The judge, alarmed, hurried to the lodge; Mrs. Mile could not keep up
with him.
"Priscilla Jane is short-winded, isn't she?" remarked Cicely, at the
lodge door, as he joined her. "Whenever she comes uphill, she always
stops, and pretends to admire the view, while she pants, 'What a
beautiful scene! What a privilege to see it!'"
The judge grinned; he too had heard Mrs. Mile speak of "privileges."
"Come for a walk, grandpa," Cicely went on. She took his arm and they
went away together, followed by the careful eyes of the nurse, who had
paused at the top of the ascent.
"This is a ruse, grandpa," Cicely said, after a while. "I wanted to take
a walk alone, and she wouldn't let me; but you will."
"Why alone, my child?"
"Because I'm always being watched; I'm just like a person in a cell,
don't you know, with one of those little windows cut in the door,
through which the sentinel outside can always look in; I am never
alone."
"It must be dreadful," the judge answered, with conviction.
"Wait till you have seen Priscilla Jane in her night-gown," said Cicely,
with equal conclusiveness.
"Heaven forbid!" said the judge, with a shrill little chuckle. Then he
turned and looked at her; she seemed so much like her old self.
"You will let me go, grandpa?" She put up her face and kissed him.
"If you will promise to come back soon."
"Of course I will."
He let her go on alone. She looked back and smiled once or twice; then
he lost sight of her; he returned to the beach by a roundabout way, in
order to deceive Priscilla Jane; he was almost as much pleased as Cicely
to outwit her.
Cicely went on through the forest; she walked slowly, not stopping to
gather flowers as usual. After a while her vague glance rested upon two
figures in the distance. She stopped, and as, by chance, she was
standing close beside the trunk of a large tree, her own person was
concealed. The two figures were coming in her direction, they drew
nearer, they paused; and then there followed a picture as old as Paris
and Helen, as old as Tristram and Isolde: a lover taking in his arms the
woman he adores. And it was Paul Tennant who was the lover; it was Eve
who looked up at him with all her heart in her eyes.
A shock passed over Cicely, the expression of her face changed rapidly
as her gaze remained fixed upon Eve: first, surprise; then a strange
quick anger; then perplexity. She left her place, and went rapidly
forward.
Eve saw her first, she drew herself away from Paul; but immediately she
came back to him, laying her hand on his shoulder as if to hold him, to
keep him by her side.
"Paul," said Cicely, still looking at Eve, "something has come to me;
Eve told me that she did a dreadful thing." And now she transferred her
gaze to Paul, looking at him with earnestness, as if appealing to him to
lighten her perplexity.
"Yes, dear; let us go back to the camp," said Paul, soothingly.
"Wait till I have told you all. She came to me, and asked--I don't know
where it was exactly?" And now she looked at Eve, inquiringly.
Eve's eyes met hers, and the deep antagonism of the expression roused
the dulled intelligence. "How you do hate me, Eve! It's because you love
Paul. I don't see how Paul can like you, when you were always so hard
to Ferdie; for from the first she was hard to him, Paul; from the very
first. I remember--"
Eve, terrified, turned away, thus releasing Cicely from the spell of her
menacing glance.
Cicely paused; and then went back to her former narrative confusedly,
speaking with interruptions, with pauses. "She came to me, Paul, and she
asked, 'Cicely, do you know how he died?' And I said, 'Yes; there were
two negroes.' And she answered me, 'No; there were no negroes--'"
"Dreams, Cicely," said Paul, kindly. "Every one has dreams like that."
"No. I have a great many dreams, but this was not one of them,"
responded Cicely. "Wait; it will come to me."
"Take her back to the camp; carry her," said Eve, in a sharp voice.
"Oh, she'll come without that," Paul answered, smiling at the peremptory
tone.
"You go first, then. I will bring her."
"Don't leave me alone with Eve," pleaded Cicely, shrinking close to
Paul.
"Take her back," said Eve. And her voice expressed such acute suffering
that Paul did his best to content her.
"Come," he said, gently, taking Cicely's hand.
"A moment," answered Cicely, putting her other hand on Paul's arm, as if
to hold his attention. "And then she said: 'Don't you remember that we
escaped through the woods to the north point, and that you tried to push
off the boat, and couldn't. Don't you remember that gleam of the candle
down the dark road?'"
Eve made an involuntary movement.
"I wonder what candle she could have been thinking of!" pursued Cicely,
in a musing voice. "There are a great many candles in the Catholic
churches, that I know."
Eve looked across at Paul with triumph in her eyes.
"And she said that a baby climbed up by one of the seats," Cicely went
on. "And that this man--I don't know who he was, exactly--made a dash
forward--" Here she lost the thread, and stopped. Then she began again:
"She took me away ever so far--we went in a steamboat; and Ferdie died
all alone! You can't like her for that, Paul; you can't!" Her face
altered. "Why don't I see him over there on the other beach?" she asked,
quickly.
"You see?" said Eve, with trembling lips.
"Yes," answered Paul, watching the quivering motion. "We haven't had our
walk, Eve; remember that."
"I can come out again. After we have got her back."
Cicely had ceased speaking. She turned and searched Eve's face with eyes
that dwelt and lingered. "How happy you look, Eve! And yet I am sure you
have no right to be happy, I am sure there is some reason--The trouble
is that I can't remember what it is! Perhaps it will come to me yet,"
she added, threateningly.
Paul, drew her away; he took her back to the camp.
That evening, Eve came to him on the beach.
"Do you love me? Do you love me the same as ever?" she said.
He could scarcely hear her.
"Do you think I have had time to change since afternoon?" he asked,
laughing.
And then life came back to the woman by his side, came in the red that
flushed her cheeks and her white throat, in her revived breath.
"Paul," she said, after a while, "send Cicely home; send her home with
her grandfather, she can travel now without danger."
"I can't desert Cicely," said Paul, surprised.
"It wouldn't be desertion; you can always help her. And she would be
much happier there than here."
"She's not going to be very happy anywhere, I am afraid."
"The judge would be happier, too," said Eve, shifting her ground.
"I dare say. Poor old man!"
"A winter in Port aux Pins would kill him," Eve continued.
"I intended to take them south before the real winter, the deep snow."
"Mrs. Mile could go now. And--and perhaps Mr. Hollis."
"Kit? What could Kit do down there?"
"Marry Miss Sabrina," suggested Eve, with a sudden burst of wild
laughter, in which Paul joined.
"They are all to go, are they? But you and I are not to go; is that your
plan?" he went on.
"Yes."
He kissed her. "Paul Tennant and his wife will take Cicely south
themselves," he said, stroking her hair caressingly. "It's always
braided so closely, Eve; how long is it when down?"
But she did not hear these whispered words; she drew herself away from
him with passionate strength. "No, she must go with some one else; she
can go with any one you please; we can have two nurses, instead of one.
But you--you must not go; you must stay with me."
"Why, Eve, I hardly know you! Why do you feel so about poor little
Cicely? Why strike a person who's down?"
"Oh, yes--down; that is what you all say. Yet she has had everything,
even if she has lost it now; and some people go through all their lives
without one single thing they really care for. She shall not rob me of
this, I will not let her. I defy her; I defy her!"
"She shall go back to Romney," said Paul. What these disagreements
between the two women were about, he did not know. His idea was that he
would marry Eve as soon as possible--within the next ten days; and then,
after they were married, he would tell her that it was best that they
should take Cicely south themselves. She would see the good sense of his
decision, she would not dispute his judgment when once she was his wife;
she could not have any real dislike for poor little Cicely, that was
impossible.
Eve came back to him humbly enough. "I am afraid you do not like my
interfering with your plans?" she said.
"You may interfere as much as you like," answered Paul, smiling.
XXVIII.
The next day Paul started at dawn for Port aux Pins, he wished to make
the house ready for his wife; he had not much money, but there was one
room in the plain cottage which should be beautiful. No suspicion came
to him that there would be any difficulty in making it beautiful; his
idea was simply that it was a matter of new furniture.
He reached Port aux Pins at night, and let himself into his cottage with
his key; lighting a candle, he went to his room. He had never been
dissatisfied with this simple apartment, he was not dissatisfied now;
there was a good closet, where he could hang up his clothes; there was a
broad shelf, where he could put his hand in the dark upon anything which
he might want; there was his iron bedstead, and there was his white-pine
bureau; two wooden chairs; a wash-hand stand, with a large bowl; a huge
tin pail for water, a flat bath-tub in position on the floor, and plenty
of towels and sponges--what could man want more?
But a woman would want more; and he gave a little laugh, which had a
thrill in it, as he thought of Eve standing there, and looking about her
at his plain masculine arrangements. The bare floor would not please
her, perhaps; he must order a carpet. "Turkey," he thought, vaguely; he
had heard the word, and supposed that it signified something very light
in color, with a great many brilliant roses. "Perhaps there ought to be
a few more little things," he said to himself, doubtfully. Then, after
another moment's survey: "But I needn't be disturbed, she'll soon fill
it full of tottlish little tables and dimity; she'll flounce everything
with white muslin, and tie everything with blue ribbons; she'll overflow
into the next room too, this won't be enough for her. Perhaps I'd better
throw the two into one, with a big fireplace--I know she likes big
fireplaces; if it's as large as that, I sha'n't be suffocated, even with
all her muslin." And, with another fond laugh, he turned in.
The morning after Paul's departure, Eve did not go near Cicely; she
asked Mrs. Mile, in a tone which even that unimaginative woman found
haughty, how Mrs. Morrison was. (In reality the haughtiness hid a
trembling fear.)
"She seems better, Miss Bruce, as regards her physical state. Truth
compels me to add, however, that she says extremely irrational things."
"What things?" asked Eve, with a pang of dread. For the things which
Mrs. Mile would call irrational might indicate that Cicely was herself
again, Mrs. Mile's idea of the rational being always the commonplace.
"When she first woke, ma'am, she said, 'Oh, what a splendid wind!--how
it does blow! I must go out and run and run. Can you run, Priscilla
Jane?'--when my name, ma'am, is Priscilla Ann. Seeing that she was so
lively, I began to tell her a dream which I had had. She interrupted me:
'Dreams are the reflections of our thoughts by day, Priscilla Jane. I
know your thoughts by day; they are wearing. I don't want repetitions of
them by night, I should be ground to powder.' Now, ma'am, could anything
be more irrational?"
"She is herself again!" thought Eve. She went off into the forest, and
did not return until the noon meal was over. Going to the kitchen, she
ate some bread, she was fond of dry bread; coming back after this frugal
repast, she still avoided Cicely's lodge, she went down to the beach.
Here her restlessness ceased for the moment; she sat looking over the
water, her eyes not seeing it, seeing only Paul. After half an hour,
Hollis, with simulated carelessness, passed that way and stopped. As
soon as he saw her face he said to himself, "They are to be married
immediately!"
"We sha'n't be staying much longer at Jupiter Light, I guess," he said
aloud, in a jocular tone.
"No," Eve answered. "The summer is really over," she added, as if in
explanation.
"Don't look much like it to-day."
She made no reply.
"Paul went back to Potterpins rather in a hurry, didn't he?" pursued
Hollis, playing with his misery.
"Yes.--He has a good deal to do," she continued. If he could not resist
playing with his misery, neither could she help exulting in her
happiness, parading it for her own joy in spoken words; it made it more
real.
"Good deal to do? He didn't tell me about it; perhaps I could have
helped him," Hollis went on awkwardly, but looking at her with all his
heart in his eyes--his poor, hungry, unsatisfied old heart.
"You could be of use to us," said Eve, suddenly; ("Us!" thought
Hollis.)--"the very greatest, Mr. Hollis. If you would go south with
Judge Abercrombie and Mrs. Morrison it would be everything. They will
probably go in a week or ten days, and Mrs. Mile accompanies them; but
if you could go too, it would be much safer."
"And you to stay in Port aux Pins with Paul," thought Hollis. "I don't
grudge it to you, Evie, God knows I don't--may you be very happy, sweet
one! But I shall have to get out of this all the same. I'm ashamed of
myself, old fellow that I am, but I can't stand it, I can't! I shall
have to clear out. I'll go west."
Eve, meanwhile, was waiting for his reply. "Of course, Miss Bruce," he
answered aloud, "should like nothing better than a little run down
South. Why, the old judge and me, we'll make a regular spree of it!" And
he slapped his leg in confirmation.
Eve gave him a bright smile by way of thanks. But she was too much
absorbed to talk long with anybody, and presently she left him, taking a
path through the woods.
In fifteen minutes her restlessness brought her back again. She stopped
at the edge of the camp; Porley, near by, was making "houses"--that is,
squares and pyramids of the little pebbles of the beach, which Master
Jack demolished when completed, with the air of a conqueror. "Porley, go
and ask the nurse how Mrs. Morrison is now;--whether she is more quiet."
"Mis' Morrison, she's ebber so much weller to-day," volunteered Porley.
"When she ain't so quiet, Miss Bruce--droppin' off inter naps all de
time--den she's weller."
"Do as I tell you," said Eve.
The girl went off.
"House," demanded Jack.
Eve took him on her shoulder instead.
"Sing to Jacky; poor, poor Jacky!" said the child, gleefully.
"Mis' Mile, she say Mis' Morrison done gone ter sleep dish yere minute,"
reported Porley, with a crestfallen air, returning.
Eve's spirits rose. "Oh, Jack, naughty boy!" She laughed convulsively,
lifting up her shoulder, as the child tried to insert one of his pebbles
under her linen collar, selecting a particularly ticklish spot on her
throat for the purpose.--"Do you want to go out on the lake?"
Jack dropped his pebble; he was always wild with delight at the prospect
of a voyage. Porley picked up his straw hat, and brought his little
coat, in case the air should grow cool; in ten minutes they were afloat.
Eve turned the canoe down the lake, rowing eastward.
After a voyage of twenty minutes, she headed the boat shoreward and
landed; the woods hereabout had a gray-green look which tempted her;
they brought back the memory of that first walk with Paul. "See to
Jack," she said to Porley briefly, lifting the child safely to the
beach. "I shall be back soon." Entering the wood, she walked on at
random, keeping within sight of the water.
She was lost in a day-dream, one of those day-dreams which come
sometimes to certain temperaments with such vividness that the real
world disappears; she was with Paul, she was looking at him, his arm was
round her, their future life together unrolled itself before her day by
day, hour by hour, in all its details; in her happiness, all remembrance
of anything else vanished away.
How long this state lasted she never knew. At a certain point a distant
cry crossed the still ecstasy; but it reached her vaguely, it did not
bring her back. A second summons was more distinct; but it seemed an
impertinence which it was not necessary to answer. A third time came the
sound, and now there were syllables: "Miss E-eve! Miss E-eve!" Then, a
moment later, "Oh, Ba-by!" She recognized the shrillness of a negro
woman's voice--it was Porley. "Baby?" That could only mean Jack! The
trance was over, she felt as if a whip had been brought suddenly down
upon her shoulders. She rushed to the lake, and from there along the
beach towards the spot where she had left the child.
The screams grew louder. A bend hid that part of the beach from her
view; would she never reach the end of that bend! She was possessed by a
great fear. "Oh, don't let anything happen to baby!" She could not have
told herself to whom she was appealing.
At last she reached the curve, she saw what had happened: the child,
alone in the canoe, had been carried out to deep water.
Porley, frantic with grief, had waded out as far as she could; she was
standing with the water up to her chin, sobbing aloud. Eve's flushed
face turned white. She beckoned to Porley to come to her. Then she
forced herself to stand motionless, in order to recover her breath. As
Porley came up, "Stop crying!" she commanded. "We must not frighten him.
Go back under the trees where he cannot see you, and sit there quietly;
don't speak."
When she was left alone, she went up the beach until she was on a line
with the canoe; the boat moved waywardly and slowly, but it was being
carried all the time still farther from the shore. "Jacky, are you
having a good time out there?" she called, with a smiling face, as
though the escapade had been his own, and he had cleverly outwitted
them.
There was not a grain of the coward in the child. "Ess," he called back,
triumphantly. He was sitting on a folded shawl in the bottom of the
canoe, holding on with his hands to the sides; his eyes came just above
its edge.
"Aunty Eve is going to get a boat and come out after you," Eve went on;
"then we'll go fishing. But Jack must sit perfectly still, or else she
won't come; perfectly still. Does Jacky hear?"
"Ess," called Jack again.
"If you are tired, put your head down and go to sleep. Aunty Eve will
come, soon if you are still; not if you move about."
"I's still," called Jack, in a high key.
"If there was only a man here!--a man could swim out and bring the boat
in," she thought, wringing her hands, and then stopping lest Jack should
see the motion. She did not allow herself to think--"If Paul were only
here!" It was on Paul's account, to be able to think of him by herself,
to dream of their daily life together--it was for this that she had left
her brother's child on that solitary beach, with only a careless negro
girl to watch over him! But there was no man near, and there was no
second boat. The canoe was already visibly farther away; little Jack's
eyes, looking at her, were becoming indistinct, she could see only the
outline of his head and the yellow of his curls. She waved her hand to
him and sang, clearly and gayly:
    "Row the boat, row the boat, up to the strand;
    Before our door there is dry land--"
And Jack answered with a distant "Ess." Then he tried to go on with it.
"Who pums idder, all booted an' spur-r-rd," he chanted, straining his
little lungs to the utmost, so that his auntie should hear him.
The tears poured down Eve's cheeks as she heard the baby voice; she knew
he could not see them. For an instant, she thought of trying to swim out
to him herself. "I can swim. It isn't very far." She began to unbutton
her boots. But should she have the strength to bring him in, either in
the canoe or in her arms? And if she should sink, there would be no one
to save Jack. She rebuttoned her boots and ran to Porley. "Go to the
beach, and walk up and down where Jack can see you. Call to him once in
a while, but not too often; call gayly, don't let him see that you are
frightened; if he thinks you are frightened, he will become frightened
himself and move about; then he will upset the boat. Do you understand
what I mean? I am going back to the camp for another canoe. Keep him in
sight; and try--do try to be sensible."
She was off. Without much hope she began her race. Before she passed
beyond hearing, Porley's voice came to her: "Hi-yi, Jack! Yo're kyar'in
on now, ain't yer? Splendid fun, sho! Wisht I was 'long!" And then
followed a high chuckle, which Porley intended as a laugh. At least the
girl had understood.
Eve could run very swiftly; her light figure, with its long step, made
running easy to her. Yet each minute was now so precious that
instinctively she used every precaution: she let her arms hang
lifelessly, so that no energy should be spent in poising them; she kept
her lips apart, and her eyes fixed on the beach about two yards in
advance of her, so that she could select as she ran the best places for
her feet, and avoid the loose stones. Her slender feet, too (undressed
they were models for a sculptor), aided her by their elasticity; she
wore a light boot, longer than her foot, and the silken web of her
stocking was longer, so that her step was never cramped. But she could
not run as rapidly as her canoe had skimmed the water under her strong
strokes when it had brought her here; and that voyage had lasted twenty
minutes; she remembered this with dread. For a while she ran
rapidly--too rapidly; then, feeling that her breath was labored, she
forced herself to slacken her pace and make it more regular; as much as
possible like a machine. Thus she ran on. Once she was obliged to stop.
Then she fell into a long swinging step, throwing her body forward a
little from right to left as her weight fell now upon one foot, now upon
the other, and this change was such a relief that she felt as if she
could run the remaining distance with comparative ease. But before she
reached the camp, she had come to the end of all her arrangements and
experiments; she was desperate, panting.
"If I can only keep on until they see me!"
The camp had an unusually quiet look; so far as her eyes, injected with
red by the effort she had made, could see, there were no moving figures
anywhere; no one sitting on the benches; no one on the beach. Where were
all the people?--what could have become of them? Hollis and the
judge?--even the cook and the Irishmen? Nothing stirred; it seemed to
her as if the very leaves on the trees and the waters of the lake had
been struck by an unnatural calm. She came to the first stakes, where
the nets were sometimes spread out. The nets were not there now. Then
she came to the cistern--a sunken cask to which water was brought from
an ice-cold spring; still no sound. Then the wood-pile; the Irishmen had
evidently been adding to it that day, for an axe remained in a severed
trunk; but no one was there. Though she had kept up her pace without
break as she ran past these familiar objects, there was now a singing in
her ears, and she could scarcely see, everything being rimmed by the
hot, red blur which seemed to exhale from her own eyes. She reached the
line of lodges at last; leaving the beach, and going through the wood,
she went straight to Cicely's door. It was closed. She opened it.
"Cicely!" she said, or rather her lips formed the name without a sound.
"What is the matter? Where is Jack?" cried Cicely, springing up as soon
as she saw Eve's face.
They met, grasping each other's hands.
"Where is he? What have you done with him?" Cicely repeated, holding Eve
with a grasp of iron.
Eve could not talk. But she felt the agony in the mother's cry. "Safe,"
she articulated.
Cicely relaxed her hold. Eve sank to her knees; thence to the floor.
Cicely seemed to understand; she brought a pillow with business-like
swiftness, and placed it under Eve's head; then she waited. Eve's eyes
were closed; her throat and chest labored so, as she lay with her head
thrown back, that Cicely bent down and quickly took out the little
arrow-pin, and unbuttoned the top buttons of her dress. This relieved
Eve; the convulsive panting grew quiet.
But with her first long breath she was on her feet again. "Come!" she
said. She opened the door and left the lodge, hurrying down to the
beach; thence she ran westward along the shore to the point where the
canoes were kept. Cicely ran by her side without speaking; they had no
need of words.
Reaching the boats, Eve began to push one of them towards the water.
"Call Mr. Hollis;--go up to the edge of the wood and call," she said to
Cicely, briefly.
"Gone fishing," Cicely responded, helping to push the boat on the other
side.
At this moment some one appeared--one of the Irishmen.
"Take him and follow in that other canoe," said Eve. "We want all the
help we can get."
As they pushed off rapidly--three minutes had not passed since they left
the lodge--Priscilla Mile came hurrying down to the shore; she had been
taking her daily exercise--a brisk walk of half an hour, timed by her
watch. "Mrs. Morrison, Mrs. Morrison, where are you going? Take me with
you."
Cicely did not even look at her. "Go on," she said to the man.
Eve was paddling rapidly; the second canoe followed hers.
When Mrs. Mile found that the two boats kept on their course, she went
back to the lodge, put on her bonnet and shawl, and set off down the
beach in the direction in which they were going, walking with steady
steps, the shawl compactly pinned with two strong shawl-pins
representing beetles.
As soon as they were fairly afloat, Cicely called: "Where is Jack? Tell
me about it."
"Presently," answered Eve, without turning her head.
"No. Now!" said the mother, peremptorily.
"He is out on the lake, in the canoe."
"Alone?"
"Yes."
"Oh! and it's getting towards night! Row faster; what is the matter with
you?" (This to the Irishman.) "Eve, wait; how far out is he?"
"It's very calm," Eve answered.
"But in the dark we can never find him," wailed the mother, in a broken
voice.
Eve made swift, tireless strokes. The Irishman could not keep up with
her.
It was growing towards night, as Cicely had said; the days were shorter
now; clouds were gathering too, though the air and water remained
strangely still; the night would be dark.
"Your arms are like willow twigs, you have no strength," said Cicely to
the Irishman. "Hurry!"
The man had plenty of strength, and was exerting every atom of it. Still
Eve kept ahead of him. "Oh, Jack!" she said to herself, "let me be in
time!" It was her brother to whom she was appealing.
She reached the spot where she had left Porley; but there was no Porley
there. Without stopping, she paddled on eastward; Cicely's canoe was now
some distance behind. Fifteen minutes more and she saw Porley, she rowed
in rapidly. "Where is he?"
"Dair!" answered Porley, pointing over the darkening water with a
gesture that was tragic in its despair.
At first Eve saw nothing; then she distinguished a black speck, she
pointed towards it with her paddle.
"Yass'm, dat's him. I 'ain't nebber take my yies off 'em," said the
girl, crying.
"Tell Mrs. Morrison. She's coming," said Eve. She turned her boat and
paddled out rapidly towards the speck.
"If I only had matches--why didn't I bring some? It will be dark soon.
But it's so calm that nothing can have happened to him; he will be
asleep." In spite of her pretended certainty, however, dread held her
heart as in a vise. "I won't think--only row." She tried to keep her
mind a blank, resorting to the device of counting her strokes with great
interest. On the light craft sped, with the peculiar skimming motion of
the Indian canoe, as if it were gliding on the surface of the water. The
twilight grew deeper.
There came a little gust, lightning showed itself for an instant in the
bank of clouds across the southern sky. "There is going to be a storm."
She stopped; the other boat, which had been following her swiftly, came
up.
"Have you ever been out in a canoe in a storm?" she called to the
Irishman, keeping her own boat well away from Cicely's.
"No, mum."
"Take Mrs. Morrison back to shore, then, as fast as you can."
"Go on!" commanded Cicely, with flashing eyes.
There came another gust. The man, perplexed by the contrary orders, made
wrong strokes; the boat careened, then righted itself.
"Take her back," called Eve, starting onward again.
"Follow that canoe!" said Cicely.
The man tried to obey Cicely; to intensify his obedience he stood up and
paddled with his back bent. There came another flurry of wind; his boat
careened again, and he lost his balance, he gave a yell. For a moment
Eve thought that he had gone overboard. But he had only crouched. "Go
back--while you can," she called, warningly.
And this time he obeyed her.
"Eve, take me with you--take me!" cried Cicely, in a tone that went to
the heart.
"We needn't both of us die," Eve answered, calling back for the last
time.
As she went forward on her course, lightning began to show itself
frequently in pallid forks on the dark cloud-bank. "If only there's no
gale!" she thought. Through these minutes she had been able to
distinguish what she supposed was the baby's canoe; but now she lost it.
She rowed on at random; then she began to call. Nothing answered. The
lightning grew brighter, and she blessed the flashes; they would show
her, perhaps, what she was in search of; with every gleam she scanned
the lake in a different direction. But she saw nothing. She called
again: "Jacky! Jack-y!" A great bird flew by, close over her head, and
startled her; its wings made a rushing sound. "Jack-y! Jack-y!" She
rowed on, calling loudly.
It was now perfectly dark. Presently an unusually brilliant gleam
revealed for an instant a dark object on her left. She rowed towards it.
"Jacky, speak to Aunty Eve. Aunty Eve is close beside you." She put her
whole heart into this cry; then she waited, breathless.
From a distance came a sound, the sweetest which Eve Bruce had ever
heard. "Ess," said Jack's brave little voice.
She tried to row towards it. Before she could reach the spot a wind
coming from the south drove her canoe back. "Jacky, Jacky, say yes
again."
"Ess," said the voice, fainter, and farther away.
The wind was stronger now, and it began to make a noise too, as it
crossed the lake.
"Jacky, Jacky, you must answer me."
"Ess."
A crashing peal of thunder broke over their heads; when it had ceased,
she could hear the poor little lad crying. His boat must have drifted,
for his voice came from a new direction.
"I am coming directly to you, Jacky," she called, altering her course
rapidly.
The thunder began again, and filled her ears. When it ceased, all was
still.
"Jacky! Jacky!"
No answer.
And now there came another cry: "Eve, where are you? Wait for me." It
was Cicely.
"This way," called Eve.
She never dreamed that Cicely was alone; she supposed that the Irishman
had taken heart of grace and ventured back. But presently a canoe
touched hers, and there in the night she saw Cicely all alone, like a
phantom. "Baby?" demanded Cicely, holding the edge of Eve's boat.
"I heard him only a moment ago," answered Eve, as excited as herself.
"Jacky! Jacky!"
No reply.
Then Cicely's voice sounded forth clearly: "It's mamma, Jack. Speak to
mamma."
"Mam-ma!" came the answer. A distant sound, but full of joy.
Eve put her paddle in the water again. "Wait," said Cicely. And she
stepped from her canoe into Eve's, performing the difficult feat without
hesitation or tremor. The other canoe was abandoned, and Eve was off
with a strong stroke.
"Call," she said.
Cicely called, and Jack answered.
"Call again."
"His poor little throat will be so tired!" said Cicely, her own voice
trembling.
"We must," said Eve.
"Jack-y!"
"Ess."
On they went, never reaching him, though he answered four times; for, in
spite of the intensity of Eve's exertion, the sound constantly changed
its direction. Cicely called to her child, she sang to him; she even
laughed. "How slow you are!" she said to Eve. "Don't stop."
"I stopped to listen."
But presently they were both listening in vain. Jack's voice had ceased.
The wind now blew not in gusts, but steadily. Eve still rowed with all
her strength, in reality at random, though; with each new flash of
lightning she took a new direction, so that her course resembled the
spokes of a wheel.
"He has of course fallen asleep," said Cicely. "He is always so good
about going to bed."
Their canoe now rose and fell perceptibly; the tranquillity of the lake
was broken, it was no longer gray glass, nor a black floor; first there
was a swell; then little waves showed themselves; by-and-by these waves
had crests. Eve, kneeling on the bottom, exerted all her intelligence to
keep the boat in the right position.
"These canoes never tip over when left alone; it's only when people try
to guide them," said Cicely, confidently. "Now Jack's just like no one;
he's so very light, you know."
Words were becoming difficult, their canoe rose on the crest of one
wave, then plunged down into the hollow behind it; then rose on the
next. A light flared out on their left; it was low down, seeming below
their own level.
"They have kindled--a fire--on the beach," called Eve. She was obliged
to call now, though Cicely was so near.
"Yes. Porley," Cicely answered.
They were not so far out as they had thought; the light of the fire
showed that. Perhaps they had been going round in a circle.
Eve was now letting the boat drift; Jack's canoe was drifting, the same
currents and wind might take theirs in the same direction; it was not
very long since they had heard his last cry, he could not be far away.
The lightning had begun to come in great sheets of white light; these
were blinding, but if one could bear to look, they lit up the surface of
the water for an instant with extraordinary distinctness. Cicely, from
her babyhood so impressionable to lightning, let its glare sweep over
her unmoved; but her beautiful eyes were near-sighted, she could not
see far. Eve, on the contrary, had strong eyesight, and after what
seemed a long time (it was five minutes), she distinguished a dark, low
outline very near at hand; she sent the boat in that direction with all
her might.
"It's Jack!" she called to Cicely.
Cicely, holding on to the sides of the canoe, kept her head turned,
peering forward with her unseeing eyes into the alternating darkness and
dazzling glare. The flashes were so near sometimes that it seemed as if
they would sweep across them, touch them, and shrivel them up.
Now they approached the other boat; they came up to it on the crest of a
wave. Cicely took hold of its edge, and the two boats went down into the
hollow behind together.
"Sit--in the centre--as much--as you can," Eve shouted. Then, being the
taller, she rose, and in the next flash looked within. There lay Jack in
the bottom, probably unconscious, a still little figure with a white
face.
"He's there," she called, triumphantly. And then they went up on the
next wave together, and down again.
"Slip--your hand--along--to the end," Eve called.
Cicely obeyed.
The second canoe, which all her strength had scarcely been able to hold
alongside, now accompanied them more easily, towed by its stern. If it
could have followed them instead of accompanying them, that would have
been easier still; but Cicely's seat was at the bow, and Eve did not
dare to risk a change of places; with the boat in tow, she paddled
towards the shore as well as she could, guided by the fire, which was
large and bright, poor Porley, owing to whose carelessness in the second
place the accident had occurred (Eve's in the first place), expending in
the collecting of dry fuel all the energy of her repentance and her
grief. They were not very far out, but progress was difficult; Eve was
not an expert; she did not know how to allow for the opposition, the
dead weight, of the second canoe attached to the bow of her own; every
now and then, owing to her lack of skill, the wind would strike it, and
drive it from her so strongly that it seemed as if the connecting link,
Cicely's little arm, would be drawn from its socket. The red glow of the
fire looked human and home-like to these wanderers,--should they ever
reach it? The waves grew more formidable as they approached the
beach,--they were like breakers; Eve did her best, yet their progress
seemed snail-like. At length, when they were so far in that she could
distinguish the figures of Porley and the Irishman outlined against the
fire, there came a breaker which struck the second canoe full on its
side, filling it with water. Cicely gave a wild shriek of rage as it was
forced from her grasp. At the same instant the aunt, leaving the paddle
behind her, sprang into the sinking craft, and, seizing the child, went
down with him into the dark lake.
She came up again, grasping the side of the boat; with one arm she
lifted the boy, and gave him to his mother, an enormous effort, as his
little body was rigid and heavy--like death.
And then they got ashore, they hardly knew how, though it took a long
time, Eve clinging to the stern and Cicely paddling, her child at her
feet; the Irishman came to their assistance as soon as he could, the
wind drove them towards the beach; Porley helped when it came to the
landing. In reality they were blown ashore.
Jack was restored. As Eve ceased her rubbing--she had worked over him
for twenty minutes--and gave him alive and warm again to his mother's
arms, Cicely kissed her cheek. "Bend down your head, Eve; I want to tell
you that I forgive you everything. There is nothing the matter with me
now; I understand and know--all; yet I forgive you,--because you have
saved my child."
XXIX.
Priscilla Mile, close-reefed as to her skirts, and walking solidly,
reached the shipwrecked party soon after nine o'clock; as she came by
the beach, the brilliant light of Porley's fire guided her, as it had
guided Cicely and Eve out on the dark lake. Priscilla asked no
questions, her keen eyes took in immediately Eve's wet clothes and
Jack's no clothes, the child being wrapped merely in a shawl. She said
to the Irishman, who was wet also: "Patrick Carty, you go back to the
camp, you run just as fast as you can split; tell them what's happened,
and let them send for us as soon as they can. 'Taint going to rain much,
I guess."
The man hesitated.
"Well, what are you about?" asked Mrs. Mile, walking up to him
threateningly, her beetle shawl-pins shining in the fire-light.
The Irishman, who had been in a confused state ever since Cicely had
forced his canoe into the water again after he had hauled it up on the
beach, and had beaten his hands off fiercely with the oar when he had
tried to stop her progress--a little creature like that turning suddenly
so strong--answered, hurriedly, "It's goin' I am; ye can see it
yersilf!" and was off like a shot. "Wan attack from a fimmale will
do!" was his thought.
The nurse then effected a change of dress; with the aid of part of her
own clothing and part of Cicely's and Porley's, she got Eve and Jack
into dry garments of some sort, Jack being wrapped in a flannel
petticoat. The wind had grown much more violent, but the strange
atmospheric conditions had passed away; the lightning had ceased. It was
now an ordinary gale, the waves dashed over the beach, and the wind
drove by with a shriek; but it was not cold. The four women sheltered
themselves as well as they could, Cicely holding Jack closely; she would
not let any one else touch him.
A little after two o'clock the crouched group heard a sound, and Hollis
appeared in the circle of light shed by the flaring wind-swept fire. He
bore a load of provisions and garments in baskets, in a sack suspended
from his neck, in bags dangling from his arms, as well as in his hands
and pockets; he had even brought a tea-kettle; it was a wonder how he
had come so far with such a load, the wind bending him double. Priscilla
Mile made tea as methodically as though the open beach, with the roaring
water and the shrieking gale, had been a quiet room. Hollis watched them
eat with an eagerness so intense that unconsciously his face made
masticating movements in sympathy. When they had finished, a start
passed over him, as if he were awakening, and, making a trumpet of his
hands, he shouted to Cicely: "Must go now; 'f I don't, the old
judge'll be trying to get here. Back--with boat--soon as ca-a-an."
"I'll take your coat, if you don't mind," said Mrs. Mile, shrieking at
him in her turn; "then Miss Bruce can have this shawl." And she
tapped her chest violently to show him her meaning. Hollis denuded
himself, and started.
With the first light of dawn he was back. They reached the camp about
ten o'clock the next morning.
At three in the afternoon Cicely woke from a sleep of four hours. Her
first movement was to feel for Jack.
Jack was sitting beside her, playing composedly with four spools and a
little wooden horse on rollers.
"We'd better dress him now, hadn't we?" suggested Mrs. Mile, coming
forward. She spoke in her agreeing voice; Mrs. Mile's voice agreed
beforehand that her patients should agree with her.
"I will dress him," said Cicely, rising.
"I wouldn't, now, if I were you, Mrs. Morrison; you're not strong
enough."
"Where is my dress?" asked Cicely, looking about her.
"You don't want anything, surely, but your pretty blue wrapper?" said
Mrs. Mile, taking it from its nail.
"Bring me my thick dress and my walking-shoes, please."
They were brought.
Eve came in while Cicely was dressing.
"Eve, who is this person?" Cicely demanded, indicating the nurse with a
sideward wave of her head.
"Oh, I'm just a lady's maid--they thought you'd better have one; Porley,
in that way, you know, isn't good for much," answered Mrs. Mile,
readily.
"Whatever you are, I shall not need your services longer," said Cicely.
"Do you think you could go to-night?"
"Certainly, ma'am; by the evening boat."
"There is no evening boat. I must have been ill a long while,--you talk
in such a wheedling manner. I am well now, at any rate, and you can
return to Port aux Pins whenever you like; no doubt you have been much
missed there."
Mrs. Mile, giving Eve a significant look, went out.
The storm was over, but the air had turned much colder; the windows of
the lodge were closed. Eve seated herself by the east window.
"I have been ill, then?" asked Cicely.
"Yes."
"I have been out of my mind?"
"Yes," Eve answered again, in a listless voice.
"I'm not so any longer,--you understand that?"
"I understand," Eve responded.
Her cheeks were white, the lines of her face and figure had fallen; she
looked lifeless.
Cicely stopped her work of dressing Jack, and gazed at her sister-in-law
for a moment or two; then she came and stood before her. "Perhaps you
didn't understand what I said on the beach? I told you that I remembered
everything, knew everything. And that I forgave you because you had
saved baby; you jumped into the lake and saved him." She paused a
moment; "I forgive you--yes; but never let us speak of it again--never
on this earth;--do you hear?" And, putting her hands on Eve's shoulders,
she pressed the palms down violently, as emphasis.
Then going back to Jack, she resumed the dressing. "It's the strangest
thing in the world about a child. When it comes, you think you don't
care about it--little red thing!--that you love your husband a million
times more, as of course in many ways you do. But a new feeling comes
too, a feeling that's like no other; it takes possession of you whether
you want it to or not; it's stronger than anything else--than life or
death. You would let yourself be cut to pieces, burned alive, for your
child. Something came burning right through me when I knew that Jacky
was in danger.--Never mind, Jacky, play away; mamma's not frightened
now, and Jacky's her own brave boy.--It made everything clear, and I
came to myself instantly. I shall never lose my senses again; though I
might want to, I'm so miserable."
"And I, who think you fortunate!" said Eve.
