dinner nap by the sound of gay talk and nervous 
giggling in the drawing-room. The talk, which was 
Christine's, and the giggling, which was Mela's, werc 
intershot with the heavier tones of a man's voice ; 
and Dryfoos lay awhile on the leathern lounge in 
his library, trying to make out whether he knew the 
voice. His wife sat in a deep chair before the fire, 
with her eyes on his face, waiting for him to wake. 
" Who is that out there "? " he asked, without 
opening his eyes. 
"Indeed, indeed I don't know, Jacob," his wife 
answered. " I reckon it 's just some visitor of the 
girls." 
"Was I snoring ? " 
" Not a bit. You was sleeping as quiet ! I did 
hate to have 'em wake you, and I was just goin' out 
to shoo them. They've been playin' something, 
and that made them laugh." 
" I didn't know but I had snored," said the old 
man, sitting up. 
"No," said his wife. Then she asked wistfully, 
" Was you out at the old place, Jacob ? " 
 
"Yes." 
" Did it look natural ? " 
" Yes ; mostly. They 're sinking the wells down 
in the woods pasture." 
" And — the children's graves ? " 
" They haven't touched that part. But I reckon 
we got to have 'cm moved to the cemetery. I bought 
a lot." 
The old woman began softly to weep. " It does 
seem too hard that they can't be let to rest in peace, 
pore little things. I wanted you and me to lay there 
too, when our time come, Jacob. Just there, back 
o' the beehives, and under them shoomakes — my, I 
can see the very place ! And I don't believe I 'll 
ever feel at home anywheres else. I woon't know 
where I am when the trumpet sounds. I have to 
think before I can tell where the east is in New 
York ; and what if I should git faced the wrong 
way when I raise  Jacob, I wonder you could sell 
it ! " Her head shook, and the fire-light shone on 
her tears, as she searched the folds of her dress for 
her pocket. 
A peal of laughter came from the drawing-room, 
and then the sound of chords struck on the piano. 
" Hush ! Don't you cry 'Liz'beth ! " said Dryfoos. 
" Here ; take my handkerchief. I 've got a nice lot 
in the cemetery, and I 'm goin' to have a monument, 
with two lambs on it — like the one you always liked 
so much. It ain't the fashion, any more, to have 
family buryin'-grounds ; they're collectin' 'cm into 
the cemeteries, all round." 
" I reckon I got to bear it," said his wife, muffling 
her face in his handkercliief. " And I suppose the 
Lord kin find me, wherever I am. But I always did 
want to lay just there. You mind how we used to 
go out and set there, after milkin', and watch the 
sun go down, and talk about where their angels was, 
and try to figger it out ? " 
" I remember, 'Liz'beth." 
The man's voice in the drawing-room sang a snatch 
of French song, insolent, mocking, salient ; and then 
Christine's attempted the same strain, and another 
cry of laughter from Mela followed. 
" Well, I always did expect to lay there. But \ 
reckon it's all right. It won't be a great while, 
now, any way. Jacob, I don't believe I 'm agoin' to 
live very long. I know it don't agree with mo 
here." 
"Oh, I guess it does, 'Liz'beth. You're just a 
little pulled down with the weather. It's coming 
spring, and you feel it ; but the doctor says you 're 
all right I stopped in, on the way up ; and he says 
so." 
"I reckon he don't know everything," the old 
woman persisted. " I 've been runnin' down ever 
since we left Mofiitt, and I didn't feel any too well 
there, even. It 's a very strange thing, Jacob, that 
the richer you git, the less you ain't able to stay 
where you want to, dead or alive." 
"It's for the children we do it," said Dryfoos. 
" We got to give them their chance in the world," 
" Oh, the world ! Thoy ought to bear the yoke 
 
in their youth, like we done. I know it's what 
Coonrod would like to do." 
Dryfoos got upon his feet. "If Coonrod'll mind 
his own business, and do what I want him to, he 'll 
have yoke enough to bear." He moved from his 
wife, without further effort to comfort her, and 
pottered heavily out into the dining-room. Beyond 
its obscurity stretched the glitter of the deep draw- 
ing-room. His feet, in their broad, flat slippers, 
made no sound on the dense carpet, and he came 
unseen upon the little grouji there near the piano. 
Mela perched upon the stool with her back to the 
keys, and Beaton bent over Christine, who sat with 
a banjo in her lap, letting him take her hands and 
put them in the right place on the instrument. Her 
face was radiant with happiness, and Mela was 
watching her with foolish, unselfish pleasure in her 
bliss. 
There was nothing wrong in the affair to a man of 
Dryfoos's traditions and perceptions, and if it had 
been at home in the farm sitting-room, or even in 
his parlour at Moffitt, he would not have minded a 
j'oung man's placing his daughter's hands on a banjo, 
or even holding them there ; it would have seemed 
a proper attention from him if he was courting her. 
But here, in such a house as this, with the daughter 
of a man who had made as much money as he had, 
he did not know but it was a liberty. He felt the 
angry doubt of it which beset him in regard to so 
many experiences of his changed life ; he wanted to 
show his sense of it, if it was a liberty, but he did 
 
not know how, and he did not know that it was so. 
Besides, he could not help a touch of the pleasure in 
Christine's happiness which Mela showed ; and he 
would have gone hack to the library, if he could, 
without being discovered. 
But Beaton had seen him, and Dryfoos, with a 
nonchalant nod to the young man, camo forward. 
" What you got there, Christine ? " 
" A banjo," said the girl, blushing in her father's 
presence. 
Mela gurgled. " Mr. Beaton is learnun' her the 
first position." 
Beaton was not embarrassed. He was in evening 
dress, and his face, pointed with its brown beard, 
showed extremely handsome above the expanse of 
his broad white shirt-front. He gave back as non- 
chalant a nod as he had got, and without further 
greeting to Dryfoos, he said to Christine, "No, no. 
You must keep your hand and arm so." He held 
them in position. "There! Now strike with your 
right hand. See ? " 
"I don't believe I can ever learn," said the girl, 
with a fond upward look at him. 
" Oh yes, you can," said Beaton. 
They both ignored Dryfoos in the little play of 
protests which followed, and he said, half jocosely, 
half suspiciously, "And is the banjo the fashion, 
now ? " He remembered it as the emblem of low- 
down show business, and associated it with end-men, 
and blackened faces, and grotesque shirt collars. 
" It 's all the rage," Mela shouted in answer for all. 
  
"Everybody plays it. Mr. Beaton borrowed this 
from a lady friend of his. " 
" Humph ! Pity I got you a piano, then," said Dry- 
foos. " A banjo would have been cheaper." 
Beaton so far admitted him to the conversation as 
to seem reminded of the piano by his mentioning it. 
He said to Mela, " Oh, won't you just strike those 
chords ? " and as Mela wheeled about and beat the 
keys, he took the banjo from Christine and sat down 
with it. " This way ! " He strummed it, and mur- 
mured the tune Dryfoos had heard him singing from 
the library, while he kept his beautiful eyes floating 
on Christine's. "You try that, now; it's very 
simple." 
" Where is Mrs. IMandel ? ' Dryfoos demanded, 
trying to assert himself. 
Neither of the girls seemed to have heard him 
at first in the chatter they broke into over what 
Beaton proposed. Then Mela said absently, "Oh, 
she had to go out to see one of her friends that 's 
sick," and she struck the piano keys. " Come ; try 
it, Chris ! " 
Dryfoos turned about unheeded, and went back to 
the library. He would have liked to put Beaton out 
of his house, and in his heart he burned against him 
as a contumacious hand ; he would have liked to dis- 
charge him from the art department of Every Other 
JFcek at once. But he was aware of not having 
treated Beaton with much ceremony, and if the 
young man had returned his behaviour in kind, with 
an electrical response to his own feeling, had he any 
right to complain ? After all, there was no harm in 
his teaching Christine the banjo. 
His wife still sat looking into the fire. " I can't 
see," she said, "as we've got a bit more comfort of 
our lives, Jacob, because we 've got such piles and 
piles of money. I wisht to gracious we was back on 
the farm this minute. I wisht you had held out 
ag'inst the childcrn about sellin' it ; 'twould 'a' bin 
the best thing fur 'cm, I say, I believe in my soul 
they 'll git spoiled liere in New York. I kin sec a 
change in 'em a'ready — in the girls." 
Dryfoos stretched himself on the lounge again. 
' 'I can't see as Coonrod is much comfort, either. 
Why ain't he here with his sisters ? What does all 
that work of his on the East side amount to ? It 
seems as if he done it to cross me, as much as any- 
thing." Diyfoos complained to his wife on the basis 
of mere affectional habit, which in married life often 
survives the sense of intellectual ccuality. He did 
not expect her to reason with him, but there was 
help in her listening, and though she could only 
soothe his fretfulness with soft answers which were 
often wide of the purpose, he still went to her for 
solace. " Here, I 've gone into this newspaper busi- 
ness, or whatever it is, on his account, and he don't 
seem any more satisfied than ever. I can see he 
hain't got his heart in it." 
" The pore boy tries ; I know he docs, Jacob ; and 
he wants to jjleaso you. But he gi\e up a good deal 
when he give up bean' a preacher ; I s'pose we ought 
remember that." 
"A preacher!" sneered Dryfoos. "I reckon 
bein' a preacher wouldn't satisfy liim now. He had 
the impudence to tell me this afternoon that he 
would like to be a priest ; and he threw it up to me 
that he never could be, because I 'd kept him from 
studyin'." 
"He don't mean a Catholic priest — not a Eoman 
one, Jacob," the old woman explained wistfully. 
" He's told me all about it. They ain't the kind o' 
Catholics we been used to; some sort of 'Pisco- 
palians ; and they do a heap o' good amongst the 
poor folks over there. He says we ain't got any 
idea how folks lives in them tenement-houses, hiin- 
derds of 'em in one house, and whole families in a 
room ; and it burns in his heart to help 'em like 
them Fathers, as he calls 'em, that gives their lives 
to it. He can't be a Father, he says, because he 
can't git the eddication, now ; but he can be a 
Brother ; and I can't find a word to say ag'inst it, 
when it gits to talkin', Jacob." 
"I ain't saying anything against his priests, 
'Liz'beth," said Dryfoos. " They 're all well enough 
in their way ; they 've given up their lives to it, and 
it 's a matter of business with them, like any other. 
But what I'm talking about now is Coonrod. I 
don't object to his doin' all the charity he wants to, 
and the Lord knows I've never been stingy with 
him about it. He might have all the money he 
wants, to give round any way he pleases." 
" That 's what I told him once, but he says money 
ain't the thing — or not the only thing you got to 
 
give to them poor folks. You got to give your time, 
ami your knowledge, and your love — I don't know 
what all — you got to give yourself, if you expect to 
help 'em. That 's what Coonrod saj's." 
" Well, I can tell him that charity Logins at home," 
said Dryfoos, sitting up, in his impatience. " And 
he 'd better give himself to us a little — to his old 
father and mother. And his sisters. What 's he 
doin' goin' off there, to his meetings, and I don't 
know what all, an' leavin' them here alone ? " 
" Why, ain't Mr. Beaton with 'em ? " asked the old 
woman. " I thought I hcared his voice." 
" Mr. Beaton ! Of course, he is ! And who 's Mr. 
Beaton, anyway?" 
" Why, ain't he one of the men in Coonrod's 
office ? I thought I cared " 
"Yes, he is! But why is he ? What's he doing 
round here ? Is he makin' up to Christine ? " 
" I reckon he is. From Mely's talk, she 's about 
crazy over the fellow. Don't you like him, Jacob ? " 
" I don't know him, or what he is. He hasn't got 
any manners. Who brought him here ? How 'd he 
come to come, in the first place ? " 
"Mr Fulkerson brung him, I believe," said the old 
woman patiently. 
"Fulkerson!" Dryfoos snorted. "Where's Mrs. 
Mandel, I should like to know ? He brought Jiei; 
too. Does she go trapsein' off this way, every even- 
ingl" 
"No, she seems to be here pretty regular most o' 
the time. I don't know how we could ever git along 
 
without her, Jacob ; she seems to know just what to 
do, and the girls would be ten times as outbreakin' 
without her. I hope you ain't thinkin' o' turnin' her 
off, Jacob ? " 
Dryfoos did not think it necessary to answer such 
a question. " It 's all Fulkerson, Fulkerson, Fulker- 
son. It seems to me that Fulkerson about runs this 
family. He. brought Mrs. Mandel, and he brought 
that Beaton, and he brought that Boston fellow ! I 
guess I give him a dose, though; and I'll learn 
Fulkerson that he can't have everything his own way. 
I don't want anybody to help me spend my money. 
I made it, and I can manage it. I guess Mr. Fulker- 
son can bear a little watching, now. He 's been 
travelling pretty free, and he 's got the notion he 's 
driving, may be. I 'm agoing to look after that book 
a little myself." 
" You 'll kill yourself, Jacob," said his wife, " tryin' 
to do so many things. And what is it all fur ? I 
don't see as we 're better off, any, for all the money. 
It 's just as much care as it used to be when we was 
all there on the farm together. I wisht we could go 
back, Ja " 
" We can't go back ! " shouted the old man fiercely. 
" There 's no farm any more to go back to. The 
fields is full of gas wells and oil wells and hell holes 
generally ; the house is tore down, and the barn 's 
goin' " 
" The harn ! " gasped the old woman. " Oh, my ! " 
" If I was to give all I 'm worth this minute, we 
couldn't go back to the farm, any more than them 
 
girls iu there could go back and be little children. I 
don't say we 're any better ofF, for the money. I 've 
got more of it now than I ever had ; and there 's no 
end to the luck ; it yours in. But I feel like I was 
tied hand and foot. I don't know which way to 
move ; I don't know -what 's best to do about any- 
thing. The money don't seem to buy anything but 
more and more care and trouble. We got a lig 
house that we ain't at home in ; and we got a lot of 
hired girls round under our feet that hinder and don't 
help. Our children don't mind us, aud we got no 
friends or neighbours. But it had to be. I couldn't 
hel}) but sell the farm, and we can't go back to it, 
for it ain't there. So don't you say anything more 
about it, 'Liz'beth." 
"Pore Jacob! "said his wife. "Well, I woon't, 
dear." 
IV, 
It was clear to Beaton that Dryfoos distrusted him; 
and the fact heightened his pleasure in Christine's 
liking for him. He was as sure of this as he was of 
the other, though he was not so sure of any reason 
for his jileasure in it. She had her charm ; the charm 
of wildncss to which a certain wildness in himself 
responded ; and there were times when his fancy 
contrived a common future for them, which would 
have a prosperity forced from the old fellow's love of 
the girl. Beaton liked the idea of this compulsion 
better than he liked the idea of the money ; there 
was something a little repulsive in that ; he imagined 
himself rejecting it ; he almost wished he was 
enough in love with the girl to marry her without 
it j that would be fine. He was taken with her in a 
certain measure, in a certain way ; the question was 
in what measure, in what way. 
It was partly to escape from this question that ho 
hurried down town, and decided to spend with the 
Leightons the hour remaining on his hands before it 
was time to go to the reception for which he was 
dressed. It seemed to him important that he should 
sec Alma Leis-hton. After all, it was her charm that 
 
was most abiding witli him ; perhaps it was to bo 
final. He found himself very happy in his present 
relations with her. She had dropped that barrier of 
pretences and ironical surprise. It seemed to him 
tliat they had gone back to the old ground of com- 
mon artistic interest which he had found so pleasant 
the summer before. Apparently she and her mother 
had both forgiven his neglect of them in the first 
months of their stay in New York ; he was sure that 
Mrs. Leighton liked him as well as ever, and if there 
was still something a little provisional in Alma's 
manner at times, it was something that piqned more 
than it discouraged ; it made him curious, not 
anxious. 
He found the young ladies witli Fulkerson when 
he rang. He seemed to be amusing them both, and 
they were both amused beyond the merit of so small 
a pleasantry, Beaton thought, when Fulkerson said, 
" Introduce myself, Mr. Beaton : Mr. Fulkerson of 
Every Other JFcch. Think I 've met you at our 
place." The girls laughed, and Alma explained that 
her mother was not very well, and would be sorry 
not to see him. Then she turned, as he felt, per- 
versely, and went on talking with Fulkerson and left 
him to Miss Woodburn. 
She finally recognised his disappointment : " Ah 
don't often get a chance at you, Mr. Beaton, and 
Ah 'm just goin' to toak yo' to death. Yo' have been 
Soath yo'self, and yo' know ho' we do toak." 
" I 've survived to say yes," Beaton admitted. 
"Oh, now, do you think we toak so much mo' 
 
than you do in the No'th ? " the young lady depre- 
cated. 
" I don't know. I only know you can't talk too 
much for me. I should like to hear you say Soaih 
and hoase and ahoat for the rest of my life." 
" That 's what Ah call raght personal, Mr. Beaton. 
Isow Ah 'm goin' to be personal, too." Miss Wood- 
burn flung out over her lap the square of cloth 
she was embroidering, and asked him, "Don't you 
think that 's beautiful ? Now, as an artist — a great 
artist ? " 
"As a great awtust, yes," said Beaton, mimicking 
her accent. " If I were less than great I might have 
something to say about the arrangement of colours. 
You 're as bold and original as Nature." 
"Really? Oh, now, do tell mc yo' favo'ite colo', 
Mr. Beaton." 
"My favourite colour'? Bless my soul, why 
should I prefer any ? Is blue good, or red wicked ] 
Do people have favourite colours ? " Beaton found 
himself suddenly interested. 
" Of co'se they do," answered the girl. " Don't 
awtusts ? " 
" I never heard of one that had — consciously." 
" Is it possible ? I supposed they all had. Now 
mah favo'ite colo' is gawnet. Don't you think it 's a 
pretty colo' ? " 
" It depends upon how it 's used. Do you mean 
in neckties ? " Beaton stole a glance at the one 
Fulkerson was wearing. 
Miss Woodburn laughed with her face bowed upon 
her wrist. "Ah do think you gentlemen in the 
No'th awe ten tnhms as lahvely as the ladies." 
" Strange," said Beaton. " In the South — Soath, 
excuse me ! — I made the observation that the ladies 
were ten times as lively as the gentlemen. What is 
that you 're working ? " 
"This?" Miss Woodburn gave it another flirt, 
and looked at it with a glance of dawning recogni- 
tion. "Oh, this is a table-cover. "Wouldn't you 
lahke to see where it 's to go ? " 
"Why, certainly." 
" Well, if you 'll be raght good I 'll let yo' give me 
some professional advass about putting something in 
the co'ners or not, when you have seen it on the 
table." 
She rose and led the way into the other room. 
Beaton knew she wanted to talk with him about 
something else ; but he waited patiently to let her 
play her comedy out. She spread the cover on the 
table, and he advised her, as he saw she wished, 
against putting anything in the corners ; just run a 
line of her stitch around the edge, he said. 
"Mr. Fulkerson and Ah, why, we 've been having 
a regular faght aboat it," she commented. " But we 
both agreed, fahnally, to leave it to you ; Mr. Ful- 
kerson said you 'd be sure to be raght. Ah 'm so glad 
you took mah sahde. But he 's a great adniahrer of 
yours, Mr. Beaton," she concluded demurely, sug- 
gestively. 
"Is he? Well, I 'm a great admirer of Fulker- 
son'.«;," said Beaton, with a capricious willingness to 
 
humour her wish to talk about Fulkcrson. " He 's a 
capital fellow ; generous, magnanimous, with quite 
an ideal of friendship, and an eye single to the main 
chance all the time. He would advertise Every 
Other Week on his family vault." 
Miss Woodburn laughed, and said she should tell 
him what Beaton had said. 
" Do. But he 's used to defamation from me, and 
he 'll think you 're joking." 
"Ah suppose," said Miss Woodbura, "that he's 
qualite the talipe of a New York bu.siness man." She 
added, as if it followed logically, "He's so different 
from what I thought a New York business man 
would be." 
"It's your Virginia tradition to dcspi.'se business," 
said Beaton rudely. 
Miss Woodburn laughed again. " Despahse it ? 
Mall goodness ! we want to get inlo it, and ' woak it 
fo' all it's wo'th,' as Mr. Fulkerson says. Tliat 
tradition is all past. You don't know what the 
Soath is now. Ah suppose mah fathaw despahses 
business, but he 's a tradition himself, as Ah 
tell him." Beaton would have enjoyed joining the 
young lady in anything she might be going to say in 
derogation of her father, but he restrained himself, 
and she went on more and more as if she wished to 
account for her father's habitual hauteur with 
Beaton, if not to excuse it. " Ah tell him he don't 
understand the rising generation. He was brought 
up in the old school, and he thinks we ""re all just 
lahke he was when he was young, with all those 
ahJcals of chivalry and family ; but mail goodness ! 
it 's money that cyoants no'adays in the Soath, just 
lahke it does everywhere else. Ah suppose, if we 
could have slavery back in the fawm mah fathaw 
thinks it could have been brought up to, when the 
commercial spirit wouldn't let it alone, it would be 
the best thing ; but we can't have it back, and Ah 
tell him we had better have the commercial spirit, as 
the next best thing." 
Miss Woodburn went on, with sufficient loyalty 
and piety, to expose the difference of her own and 
her father's ideals, but with what Beaton thought 
less reference to his own unsympathetic attention than 
to a knowledge finally of the jf'sonncl and maidriel 
of Every Oilier Week, and Mr. Fulkerson's relation to 
the enterprise. "You most excuse my asking so 
many questions, Mr. Ecaton. You know it's all 
mah doing that we awe heah in New York. Ah 
just told mah fathaw that if he was CAah goin' to do 
anything with his wrahtings, he had got to come 
No'th, and Ah made him come, i believe he 'd 
have stayed in the Soath all his lahfe. And now 
Mr. Fulkerson wants him to let his editor see some 
of his wrah tings, and Ah wanted to know something 
aboat the magazine. "We awe a great deal excited 
aboat it in this hoase, you know, Mr. Beaton," she 
concluded, with a look that now transferred the 
interest from Fulkerson to Alma. She led the way 
back to the room where they were sitting, and went 
up to triumph over Fulkerson with Beaton's decision 
about the table-cover. 
 
Alma was left with Beaton near the piano, and he 
began to talk about the Dryfooscs, as he sat down 
on the piano stool. Ho said he had been giving 
Miss Dryfoos a lesson on the banjo ; he had borrowed 
the banjo of Miss Vance. Then he struck the chord 
he had been trying to teach Christine, and played 
over the air he had sung. 
" How do you like that ? " he asked, whirling 
round. 
' It seems rather a disrespectful little tune, some- 
how," said Alma placidly. 
Beaton rested his elbow on the corner of the jiiano, 
and gazed dreamily at her. " Your perceptions are 
wonderful. It is disrespectful. I played it, up 
there, because I felt disrespectful to them." 
" Do you claim that as a merit ? " 
" No, I state it as a fact. How can you respect 
such people ?" 
"You might respect yourself, then," said the girl. 
" Or perhaps that wouldn't be so easy, either." 
" No, it wouldn't. I like to have you say these 
things to me," said Beaton impartially, 
" Well, I like to say them," Alma returned. 
"They do me good." 
" Oh, I don't know that that was my motive." 
"There is no one like you — no one," said Beaton, 
as if apostrophising her in her absence. " To come 
from that house, with its assertions of money — you 
can hear it chink ; you can smell the foul old bank- 
notes ; it stifles you — into an atmosphere like this, 
is like comin.fr into another world." 
"Thank you," said Alma. "I'm glad there isn't 
that unpleasant odour here ; but I wisli there was a 
little more of the chinking." 
" No, no ! Don't say that ? " he implored. " I 
like to think that there is one soul uncontaminatcd 
by the sense of money in this big, bnital, sordid city." 
"You mean two," said Alma, with modesty. "But 
if you stille at the Dryfooscs', why do you go there V 
" "Why do I go ] " he nuised. " Don't you believe 
in knowing all the natures, the types, you can ? 
Those girls are a strange study : the young one is a 
simple, earthly creature, as common as an oat-field ; 
and the other a sort of sylvan life : fierce, flashing, 
feline " 
Alma burst out into a laugh. " "What apt allitera- 
tion ! And do they like being studied ? I should 
think the sylvan life might — scratch." 
" No," said Beaton, with melancholy absence, " it 
only — purrs." 
The girl felt a rising indignation. ""Well, then, 
Mr. Beaton; I should hope it tconld scratch, and 
bite, too. I think you've no business to go about 
studying people, as you do. It 's abominable." 
" Go on," said the young man. "That Puritan con- 
science of yours ! It appeals to the old Covenanter 
strain in me — likeavoice of pre-cxistence. Go on " 
" Oh, if I went on I should merely say it was not 
only abominable, but contemptible." 
"You could be my guardian angel, Alma," said 
the young man, making his eyes more and more 
slumbrous and dream v. 
 
" Stuff ! I hope I have a soul above buttons ! " 
He smiled, as she rose, and followed her across the 
room. " Good night, Mr. Beaton," she said. 
Miss Woodburn and Fulkerson came in from the 
other room. " What ! You 're not going, Beaton ? " 
" Yes ; I 'm going to a reception. I stopped in on 
my way." 
" To kill time," Alma explained. 
"Well," said Fulkerson gallantly, "this is the 
last place I should like to do it. But I guess I'd 
better be going too. It has sometimes occurred to 
me that there is such a thing as staying too late. 
But with Brother Beaton, here, just starting in for 
an evening's amusement, it does seem a little early 
yet. Can't you urge me to stay, somebody ? " 
The two girls laughed, and Miss Woodburn said, 
"Mr. Beaton is such a butterfly of fashion! Ah 
wish ylh was on mah way to a pawty. Ah feel 
quahto envious." 
"But he didn't say it to viaJ:e you," Alma ex- 
plained with meek softness. 
" Well, we can't all be swells. Where is your 
party, anyway, Beaton ? " asked Fulkerson. " How 
do you manage to get your invitations to those 
things ? I suppose a fellow has to keep hinting 
round pretty lively, heigh ? " 
Beaton took these mockeries serenely, and shook 
hands with Miss Woodburn, with the effect of 
having already shaken hands with Alma. She stood 
with hers clasped behind her. 
V. 
Beaton "went away  with tlic smile on his face 
which he had kept in listening to Fulkorson, and 
carried it -with him to the reception. He believed 
that Alma "was vexed "with him for more personal 
reasons than she had implied ; it flattered him that 
she should have resented -what he told her of the 
Dryfooses. She had scolded him in their behalf 
apparently; but really because he had made her 
jealous by his interest, of whatever kind, in some 
one else. "What followed, had followed naturally. 
Unless she had been quite a simjjleton she could not 
have met his provisional love-making on any other 
terms ; and the reason "why Beaton chiefly liked 
Alma Lcighton was that slic "was not a simpleton. 
Even up in the country, "when she was overawed by 
his acquaintance, at first, she "was not very deeply 
overawed, and at times she was not overawed at all. 
At such times she astonished him by taking his most 
solemn histi ionics with fli])pant incredulity, and even 
burlesquing them. But he could see, all the same, 
that he had caught her fancy, and he admired the 
skill with which she punished his neglect whcn they 
met ill New York. lie had really come very near 
 
forgetting the Leightons ; the intangible obligations 
of mutual kindness which hold some men so fast, 
hung loosely upon him ; it would not have hurt him 
to break from them altogether ; but when he recog- 
nised them at last, he found that it strengthened 
them indefinitely to have Alma ignore them so com- 
pletely. If she had been sentimental, or softly 
reproachful, that would have been the end ; he could 
not have stood it ; he would have had to drop her. 
But when she met him on his own ground, and 
obliged him to be sentimental, the game was in her 
hands. Beaton laughed, now, when ho thought of 
that, and he said to himself that the girl had grown 
immensely since she had come to Xew York ; nothing 
seemed to have been lost upon her ; she must have 
kept her eyes uncommonly wide open. He noticed 
that especially in their talks over her work ; she liad 
profited by everything she had seen and heard ; she 
had all of Wetmore's ideas pat ; it amused Beaton 
to see how she seized every useful word that he 
dropped, too, and turned him to technical account 
whenever she could. He liked that ; she had a great 
deal of talent ; there was no question of that ; if she 
were a man there could be no question of her future. 
He began to construct a future for her ; it included 
provision for himself too ; it was a common future, 
in which their lives and work were united. 
He was full of the glow of its prosperity when he 
met Margaret Yauce at the reception. 
The house was one where people might chat a 
long time together without publicly committing 
 
themselves to their interest in each other except such 
as grew out of each other's ideas. Miss Vance "was 
there because she united in her catholic sympathies 
or amhitions the objects of the fashionable people 
and of the aesthetic people who met there on common 
ground. It was almost the only house in New York 
where this happened often, and it did not happen 
very often there. It was a literary house, primarily, 
with artistic qv.alifications, and the frequenters of it 
were mostly authors and artists ; "wetmore, who 
was always t:}ing to fit everything with a phrase, 
said it was the imfrequenters who were fashionable. 
There was groat case there, and simplicity ; and if 
there was not di.stinction, it was not for want of 
distinguished people, but because there seems to be 
some solvent in New York life that reduces all men 
to a common level, that touches everybody with its 
potent magic and brings to the surface the deeply 
underlying nobody. The effect for some tempera- 
ments, for consciousness, for egotism, is admirable ; 
for curiosity, for hero-worship, it is rather baffling. 
It is the spirit of the street transferred to the draw- 
ing-room ; indiscriminating, levelling, but doubtless 
finally wholesome, and witnessing the immensity 
of the place, if not consenting to the grandeur of 
reputations or presences. 
Beaton now denied that this house represented a 
salon at all, in the old sense ; and he held that the 
salon was impossible, even undesirable, with us, 
when Miss Vance sighed for it. At any rate, he 
said that this turmoil of coming and going, this 
 
bubble and babble, this cackling and hissing of con- 
versation was not the expression of any such civilisa- 
tion as had created the salon. Here, he owned, were 
the elements of intellectual delightfulness, but he 
said their assemblage in such quantity alone denied 
the salon ; there was too much of a good thing. 
The French word implied a long evening of general 
talk among the guests, crowned with a little chicken 
at supper, ending at cock-crow. Here was tea, with 
milk or with lemon — baths of it — and claret cup for 
the hardier spirits throughout the evening. It was 
very nice, very pleasant, but it was not the little 
chicken — not the salon. In fact, he affirmed, the 
salon descended from above, out of the great world, 
and included the esthetic world in it. But our 
great world — the rich people, were stupid, with no 
wish to be otherwise ; they were not even curious 
about authors and artists. Beaton fancied himself 
speaking impartially, and so he allowed himself to 
speak bitterly ; he said that in no other city in the 
world, except Vienna, perhaps, were such people so 
little a part of society. 
"It isn't altogether the rich people's fault," said 
Margaret; and she spoke impartiallj-, too. "I 
don't believe that the literary men and the artists 
would like a salon that descended to them. Madame 
GeofTrin, you know, was very plebeian ; her husband 
was a business man of some sort." 
"He would have been a howling swell in New 
York," said Beaton, still impartially. 
wetmore came up to their corner, with a scroll 
 
of bread and butter in one hand and a cup of tea in 
the other. Large and fat, and clean shaven, he 
looked like a monk in evening dress. 
"Wo were talking about salons," said Margaret. 
" Why don't you open a saloon yourself ? " asked 
Wetmore, breathing thickly from the anxiety of 
getting through the crowd without spilling his tea. 
" Like poor Lady Barberina Lemon ? " said the 
girl, with a laugh. " What a good story ! That 
idea of a woman who couldn't be interested in any 
of the arts because she was socially and traditionally 
the material of them ! We can never reach that 
height of nonchalance in this country" 
" Not if we tried seriously  " suggested the painter. 
" I 've an idea that if the Americans ever gave their 
minds to that sort of thing, they could take the 
palm — or the cake, as Beaton here would say — just 
as they do in everything else. When we do have 
an aristocracy, it will be an aristocracy that will go 
ahead of anything the world has ever seen. Why 
don't somebody make a beginning, and go in openl}' 
for an ancestry, and a lower middle class, and an 
hereditary legislature, and all the rest ? We 've got 
liveries, and crests, and palaces, and caste feeling. 
We 're all right as far as we 've gone, and we 've got 
the money to go any length." 
" Like your natural-gas man, Mr. Beaton," said tiie 
girl, with a smiling glance round at him. 
" Ah ! " said Wetmore, stirring his tea, " has 
Beaton got a natural-gas man ? " 
"My natural-gas man," said Beaton, ignoring 
 
"Wetmore's question, "doesn't know how to live in 
his palace yet, and I doubt if he has any caste feeling. 
I fancy his family believe themselves victims of it. 
They say — one of the young ladies does — that she 
never saw such an unsociable place as New York ; 
nobody calls." 
" That 's good ! " said Wetmorc. " I suppose 
they 're all ready for company too : good cook, furni- 
ture, servants, carriages ? " 
" Galore," said Beaton. 
" Well, that 's too bad. There 's a chance for you, 
Miss Vance. Doesn't your pliilanthropy embrace the 
socially destitute as well as the financially ? Just 
think of a family like that, without a friend, in a 
great city ! I should think common charity had a 
duty there — not to mention the uncommon." 
He distinguished that kind as Margaret's by a 
glance of ironical deference. She had a repute for 
good works which was out of proportion to the 
works, as it always is, but she was really active in 
that way, under the vague obligation, which we now 
all feel, to be helpful. She was of the church which 
seems to have found a reversion to the imposing 
ritual of the past the way back to the early ideals of 
Christian brotherhood. 
"Oh, they seem to have Mr. Beaton," Margaret 
answered, and Beaton felt obscurely flattered by her 
reference to his patronage of the Dryfooses. 
He explained to Wetmore, " They have me because 
they partly own me. Dryfoos is Fulkerson's financial 
backer in Every Other JFcek." 
 
"Is tliat sol Well, that's interesting too. Aren't 
you rather astonished, Miss Vance, to see what a 
pretty thing Beaton is malcing of that magazine of 
his ? " 
"Oh," said Margaret, ''it's so very nice, every 
way ; it makes you feel as if you did have a countiy, 
after all. It 's as chic— that detestable little word I — 
as those new French books." 
" Beaton modelled it on them. But you mustn't 
suppose he does everything about Every Other JFeeJ: ; 
ho 'd like you to. Beaton, you haven't come up to 
that cover of your first number, since. That was the 
design of one of my pupils. Miss Vance — a little girl 
that Beaton discovered down in New Hampshire last 
summer." 
" Oh yes. And have you great liopes of her, Mr, 
Wetmore ? " 
" She seems to have more love of it and knack for 
it than any one of her sex I 've seen yet. It really 
looks like a case of art for art's sake, at times. But 
you can't tell. They 're liable to get married at any 
moment, you know. Look here, Beaton, when your 
natural-gas man gets to the ])icture-buying stage in 
his development, just remember your old friends, 
will you ? You know, Miss Vance, those new fellows 
have their regular stages. They never know what 
to do with their money, but they find out that 
people buy pictures, at one point. They shut your 
things up in their houses where nobody comes ; and 
after a while they overeat themselves — they don't 
know what else to do— and die of apoplexy, and 
 
leave your pictures to a gallery, and then they see 
 the  light. It 's slow, but it 's pretty sure. Well, I 
see Beaton isn't going to move on, as he ought to do ; 
and so I must. He always teas an unconventional 
creature." 
Wetmore went away, but Beaton remained, and 
he outstayed several other people who came up to 
speak to JMiss Vance. She was interested in every- 
body, and she liked the talk of these clever literary, 
artistic, clerical, even theatrical people, and she liked 
the sort of court with which they recognised her 
fashion as well as her cleverness ; it was A'ery 
pleasant to be treated intellectually as if she were 
one of themselves, and socially as if she was not 
habitually the same, but a sort of guest in Bohemia, 
a distinguished stranger. If it was Arcadia rather 
Ihan Bohemia, still she felt her quality of distin- 
guished stranger. The flattery of it touched her 
fancy, and not her vanity ; she had very little vanity. 
Beaton's devotion made the same sort of ajjpeal ; it 
was not so much that she liked him as she liked 
being the object of his admiration. She was a girl 
of genuine sympathies, intellectual rather than 
sentimental. In fact she was an intellectual person, 
whom equalities of the heart saved from being dis- 
agreeable, as they saved her on the other hand from 
being worldld'' or cruel in her fashionableness. She 
had read a great many books, and had ideas about 
them, cpiite courageous and original ideas; she knew 
about pictures — she had been in Wetmore 's class; 
she was fond of music; she was willing to under- 
stand even politics ; in Boston she might have been 
agnostic, but in New York she vas sincerely religious; 
she "was very accomplished, and pcrhai)S it was her 
goodness that prevented her feeling -what "was not 
best in Beaton. 
" Do you think," she said, after the retreat of one 
of the comers and goers left her alone with him 
again, " that those young ladies "would like mc to 
call on them ] " 
"Those young ladies?" Beaton echoed. "Miss 
Leighton and " 
'' No ; I have been there vith my aunt's cards 
already." 
"Oh yes," said Beaton, as if he had kno"wn of it; 
lie admired the pluck and pride with which Alma 
had refrained from ever mentioning the fact to him, 
and had kept her mother from mentioning it, which 
must have been difficult. 
" I mean the Miss Dryfooses. It seems really 
barbarous, if nobody goes near them. We do all 
kinds of things, and help all kinds of people in some 
ways, but we let strangers remain strangers unless 
they know how to make their way among us." 
" The Dryfooses certainly wouldn't know how to 
make their way among you," said Beaton, with a 
sort of dreamy absence in his tone. 
Miss Vance went on, speaking out the process of 
reasoning in her mind, rather than any conclusions 
she had reached. "We defend ourselves by trying 
to believe that they must have friends of their own, 
or that they would think us i)atronising, and 
 
wouldn't like being made the objects of social 
charity ; but they needn't really suppose anything of 
the kind." 
" I don't imagine they would," said Beaton. " I 
think they 'd be only too happy to have you come. 
But you wouldn't know what to do with each other, 
indeed, Miss Yance." 
"Perhaps we shall like each other," said the girl 
bravely, " and then we shall know. "What church 
are they oil" 
" I don't believe they 're of any," said Beaton. 
" The mother was brought up a Dimkard." 
" A Dunkard ? " 
Beaton told what he knew of the primitive sect, 
with its early Christian polity, its literal interpretation 
of Christ's ethics, and its quaint ceremonial of foot- 
washing ; he made something picturesque of that. 
"The father is a Mammon-worshipper, pure and 
simple. I suppose the young ladies go to church, 
