And to him will cleave alway. 
" If Jesus Christ is a God, 
And the only God, I swear 
I will follow Him through heaven and hell, 
The earth, the sea, and the air ! " 
In February, 1882, there was organized in 
London a society which had what one is half 
tempted to call the opportunity of the cen- 
tury in its hands. In these days, — when the 
multiple power of the unit has reached a point 
of social infliction which makes every fresh 
combination of human beings an object of 
dread, if not of suspicion ; when the well-in- 
structed citizen adds to his litany : " Deliver 
us from associations, and lead us not into 
committees ! " when people who draw up a 
constitution and by-laws, for any purpose 
whatever, must show their charter, or stand 
back in the name of over-organized humanity, 
— it is much to say of any newly associated 
effort that its final cause seems so adequate as 
that of the Society for Psychical Research. 
The prospectus of this society says : — 
" It has been widely felt that the present is an 
opportune time for making an organized and sys- 
tematic attempt to investigate that large group of 
debatable phenomena designated by such terms as 
mesmeric, psychical, and spiritualistic. From the re- 
corded testimony of many competent witnesses, past 
and present, including observations recently made 
by scientific men of eminence in various countries, 
there appears to be, amidst much illusion and de- 
ception, an important body of remarkable phe- 
nomena, which are primd facie inexplicable on 
any generally recognized hypothesis, and which, if 
incontestably established, would be of the highest 
possible value." 
It is not necessary to quarrel with the as- 
sertion of the well-known and well-informed 
gentlemen who stand sponsors for this society, 
when they proceed to say that 
" The task of examining such residual phenom- 
ena has often been undertaken by individual effort, 
but never hitherto by a scientific society organized 
on a sufficiently broad basis." 
When the greatest intellectual discovery of 
our times was made, it was wrought out of the 
inductive method, inch by inch, laboriously, 
consistently, and triumphantly. The theory 
of evolution was a masterpiece of loving toil, 
and of relentless logic. Darwin  was twenty- 
two years in collecting and controlling the ma- 
terial for the " Origin of Species " and the 
"Descent of Man." Wallace, who competed 
with him for the formulation of the evolu- 
tionary law, was submerged like one of their 
own shells in the waves that beat upon the 
shores of the Malay archipelago. These men 
gave their souls and bodies to become students 
of the habits of a mollusk or a monkey, the 
family peculiarities of a bug or a bird, the 
private biographies of a mastodon or a polyp, 
the measurable but imperceptible movement 
of a glacier, the ancestry of a parasite, the 
vanity of a butterfly, the digestion of a fly- 
catcher, the moral nature of a climbing plant, 
or the journey of an insect from one desert 
island to another upon a floating bough. 
Induction, which is as familiar as Bacon, 
and as old as philosophy, became, in the 
hands of the " Greatest since Newton," an ap- 
 "It occurred to me," lie says, "in 1837, that some- 
thing might perhaps be made out on this question by pa- 
tiently accumulating and reflecting. . . . After five years' 
work, I allowed myself to speculate on the subject . . . from that 
period to the present day, I have steadily pursued the same 
object." — Introduction to Origin of Species, published in 
1859. 
plied force which has taught the century — 
nay, which has taught all time and all truth 
— a solemn lesson. Two things are needed 
to the discovery of a great principle : the 
power to attend, and the power to infer. We 
might add a third, the power to imagine, 
which may be overlooked in the construction 
of important theory ; but, whatever may be 
said of that, the power to attend, coming first 
in order, must be first considered. Darwin's 
colossal success was owing, to an extent which 
it is impossible for a lesser mind to measure, to 
his almost supernatural power of attention to 
the natural ; his superhuman patience of ob- 
servation and record. He observed and re- 
corded as no other man of our day has done ; 
his power of inference proved equal to his ob- 
serving and recording power ; and we have the 
doctrine of evolution by which physical science 
has been the first, but will not be the last, may 
even prove to be the least of human interests 
yet to profit unspeakably. 
It would seem that the trained minds called 
to the leadership of the new psychical move- 
ment have been prompt to turn the geist of 
the century in the last direction in which we 
 
should have looked for it. The current that 
wrought marvels out of stocks and stones they 
propose to pour upon air and essence. What 
conquered matter shall assail mind. What 
ordered order shall dominate the disorderly. 
The scientific method shall now rule the un- 
scientific madness, and we shall see what we 
shall see. 
In the metaphysical and in the physical 
worlds the legal fibre is essentially the same* 
The material differs more than the method* 
In this case there exists one distinction : that 
it is in a peculiar sense to the help of the un- 
learned that the learned have appealed in the 
work of the psychical organizations. Here is 
a mass of, let us say, asserted but unverified 
fact, which, if true, is of immeasurable im- 
portance to the interests of the human race. 
Such verification is not, as yet, to be found 
in libraries or in laboratories. Telescope and 
microscope, chip-hammer and retort, do not 
serve the case. The literature of the subject 
is, in great part, untested, illegal, whimsical, 
prehistoric to the spirit of the scientific era, 
and to the spirit in which, if at all, such a 
subject must now be approached. Here we 
have to deal with an inchoate accumulation 
of mind-facts or soul-facts, of which the mind 
or the soul must be clerk, witness, judge, and 
juror. Here, especially, we have to do with 
confused freshets and land-slides of material 
which, preeminently above other material that 
science has sought to arrange and label, de- 
pends upon the intelligence and veracity of 
human beings for its classification. Here, in 
short, we come yesterday, to-day, and forever, 
jaggedly against the supreme difficulties at- 
taching to the validity and credibility of tes- 
timony. Here, because of the supremacy of 
these difficulties, superstition and science must 
not shoot, but grapple. 
Hence, we see, with a keen sense of their 
wisdom, the officers of the psychical societies 
appealing, at the outset, to the public for co- 
operation in the work of investigating that 
which is hidden, not in desert islands, or in 
glaciers, or in craters, or in crucibles, or in 
cuneiform inscriptions, but in human experi- 
ence. On human intelligence and veracity 
the test must strike ; it would seem that the 
electric light of science blazes white enough 
now, if ever, to try them. Did it seem a du- 
 
bious experiment to flood the English-reading 
world with little circulars asking for authentic 
cases of mind-reading, or visions, as reported 
at first-hand by reporters willing to be per- 
sonally investigated ? Was it with amusement 
that we first saw these dignified gentlemen 
subpoena apparitions from the most intelli- 
gent families ? Did we fall into the automatic 
attitudes of perplexity when English science 
solemnly sent social cards to haunted houses ? 
Did we ask why this precious ointment was 
not sold to the poor, when we saw learned 
men playing the " Willing Game " in country- 
houses to find out whether the human mind 
can get through sealed walls ? And when one 
of the most important philosophical chairs in 
this country is represented on the committee 
inviting spiritualistic mediums to " demon- 
strate to us experimentally their possession of 
peculiar powers," do we sneer or smile? 
If we are wise, we shall do neither. It may 
not be too much to say that the greatest phys- 
ical and metaphysical scholars of our day can 
do no belter thing with their gifts, or their 
greatness, than to apply to the psychical facts 
the sheer force which has conquered the phys- 
ical — the force that adequately observes and 
records before inferring ; or, as Darwin puts 
it, that " accumulates " before " reflecting." 
As the apostle of evolution collected, collated, 
colligated his enormous array of facts before 
theorizing, they who undertake this other task 
would collect, collate, and colligate the dis- 
array of their facts before they theorize. 
Men have dedicated their lives to the classi- 
fication of an insect, or the cultivation of an ac- 
cent. Why not study the power which makes 
one man able to make another say Peter Piper, 
across the width of the house, with the doors 
shut ? The spirit which gave to the world her 
great scientific gospel devoured itself till it 
knew why the flesh of a creature invisible with- 
out the miscroscope, was of the color of the leaf 
on which it lived and died. Why, then, should 
not a man keep tally of the relative number 
of times that a blindfold subject will select the 
right card from a pack ? " High authorities " 
have wearied themselves to account for the 
difference in the molars and premolars within 
the jaws of the dog and the Tasmanian wolf. 
May not a scientist eat mustard, to see if his 
mesmeric recipient will say that his mouth is 
 
burnt ? Or even ask why a valuable piece of 
property stands unrented for a generation, 
because a dead woman is said to be heard sob- 
bing in it? In brief, are not the methods 
which overcome the mysteries of matter en- 
titled to the same exercise and to the same 
respect that they have had, when they are ap- 
plied to the mysteries of mind ? Here, we 
say, are the facts. Hundreds of people, whose 
word of honor is as good intellectual coin as 
that of the reader of this page or the writer 
of this paper have testified to the conveyance 
of thought, without visible or audible or tan- 
gible media, from embodied mind to embodied 
mind ; to the tragic or the trivial incidents of 
mesmerism ; to the coincidence of dreams ; to 
the prophecy of mental convictions ; to the 
visual appearance of the distant living ; to 
the sight or sign of what is thought to be the 
more distant dead. 
Thousands of sensible and reliable men and 
women to - day believe these things on the 
strength of personal experience ; and, believ- 
ing, accept them with such explanation of their 
own as they may, in default of any from silent 
science. It would seem as if these circum- 
stances were of as much importance to science 
as the transverse lamellae in the beak of a 
shoveler duck, or the climate of the lowlands 
under the equator during the severe part of 
the glacial period. 
A cautious Spiritualist, prominently identi- 
fied with the movements of his sect, in reply to 
inquiries made for use in this paper writes : — 
" I think it would be within bounds to say, that in 
this country, the number who have by personal inves- 
tigation come into what they believe to be a knowl- 
edge of spirit return and manifestation is not less 
than 2,000,000, and that a still larger number have 
experienced enough to satisfy them that there 4 is 
something in it,' but how much they don't know.'' 
Estimates two or three times as large are 
made by less careful zealots. The writer of 
the article on Spiritualism in the " American 
Encyclopaedia," says : — 
"As the organized bodies of Spiritualists include 
but a small proportion of those who wholly or par- 
tially accept these phenomena, it is impossible to 
make even an approximate estimate of their num- 
ber." 
In Great Britain, the number is supposed 
to be larger than among ourselves. Here, let 
 
us say, to take the most modest figures, are 
two millions of our people, intelligent enough 
to conduct the affairs and obey the laws of 
average civilized society, who habitually and 
confidently approach the awful verities of 
death through the unexplained trance which 
we content ourselves with calling a morbid 
nervous condition ; people whose main reli- 
gious faith is formulated — God help them ! — 
in the columns of papers most of which we 
never read if we can help it, or in the pages 
of what they are pleased to call a New Bible, 
spiritually communicated through mediums of 
the sect. Say what we may (and we ought to 
say it) of the nonsense, say what we may of 
the fraud, of the jugglery, the hysteria, the 
blasphemy mixed to a mush with the whole 
matter, the significant fact remains, that here 
is a huge class not of the lowest or most illit- 
erate, while not yet, to any marked extent, of 
the wisest or highest, who believe themselves, 
in our highly-illuminated times, to have found 
some means of access to the consciousness of 
their dead. Here is the massive bulwark of 
the mystery — be it from within or from with- 
out ; were it from above or from below ; call it 
a base trick or a glorious possibility — where 
the Prince of the Power of the Air intrenches 
himself ; that he gives or assumes to give, or 
is believed to give to the starving human heart, 
bereaved of its bread of life, the crumbs from 
the table of Love and Death. Were it not as 
great a deed, is it not as large a duty, to hunt 
down the facts behind this faith, to grip the 
truth from out this error, to have this law that 
lies between the body and the soul, as it were 
to discover the link between a monkey and a 
man ? 
Modern science is systematically severe in 
the conditions which she lays upon the spirit 
of inquiry. The spirit of inquiry may, in 
turn, demand something of her. We say a 
great deal in these days about the scientific 
basis of thought and action. What do we 
mean by it ? We suppose ourselves to mean 
that a subject shall be approached with two 
qualifications : equipment and candor ; the 
presence of equivalent ability, and the absence 
of nullifying prejudice. These two endow- 
ments we have the right to expect of any in- 
vestigators who penetrate the unexplored upon 
the map of Truth. We may assume that the 
eminent officers and members of the psychical 
societies represent a wide enough range of 
training, psychological and physiological, re- 
ligious and skeptical, to deprive us of all ne- 
cessity to question their possession of the first 
of these conditions. As to the latter, we have 
read of the chemist who said to a philosopher : 
"But the chemical facts, my dear sir, are 
precisely the reverse of what you suppose." 
" Have the goodness, then," was the instanta- 
neous reply, " to tell me what they are, that 
I may explain them on my system." Such a 
spirit, which, alas ! is newer than the story, 
would be worse than no spirit at all, in the 
attempt to bring down so subtle and mock- 
ing a truth as that which flies or floats in ob- 
scure psychical phenomena. We have to deal 
now with wings, not clay ; we must use arrows 
and nets, not derricks and dynamite. We 
must take straight lines through infinite ether, 
and measure the velocities of the zephyrs, 
and the atmospheric pressure of mists. We 
have to keep the judgment as open as a cloud 
to the colors of the sun. Our observation 
must be aerometric, 
There were scholars among the contempo- 
raries of Galileo who never would consent to 
look through a telescope, lest they should be 
compelled to admit the existence of the stars 
which he had discovered. Such intellectual 
palsy is not out of the world's system yet. It 
is the rarest thing upon earth to be fair. It 
is a rarer thing, among what are called sci- 
entific minds, than this paper has space to jus- 
tify itself for asserting. Of all human teach- 
ers, they whose claim to our respect is founded 
most confidently upon their endowment fail 
us sometimes most roundly in this secondary 
qualification of simple, human candor. The 
bigotry of the laboratory and the library is 
quite as robust as the bigotry of the altar and 
the creed. The prcejudicium which is infil- 
trated with matter and fact is as stiff as that 
which has become hygroscopic of mind and 
theory. We hear a great deal about the value 
of scientific evidence. We have the right to 
ask a great deal of the scientific attitude. 
What should it be ? That which George 
Eliot would call one of " massive receptive- 
ness." What must it be ? That which will 
stand the test of its own primer and grammar. 
 
Wise are they who would be unsparing as a 
sieve made from the hair on the brows of 
Minerva, in their definition of "evidence;" 
what sifts through those exquisite meshes is 
worth the pains. An imperceptible jar of 
human prejudice may spoil the finest web of 
attention and inference that ever the human 
mind has wrought. It is his first privilege, 
who would take the attitude that qualifies him 
for handling delicate evidence, to see to it that 
his candor is educated equally with his skill. 
We have passed the time when a man might 
assume the name of philosopher, who did not 
hesitate to say that he would rather be in the 
wrong with Plato than in the right with his 
opponents. What is it, indeed, to be candid,
but to be willing to see a thing turn out 
either way ? What is the scientific spirit, but 
the honest spirit ? What is the investigating 
power, but the judicial power ? What is it to 
be wise, but to be just ? 
A keen modern writer has well said, that 
by the time a man becomes an authority in 
any scientific subject he becomes a nuisance 
upon it, because he is sure to retain errors 
which were in vogue when he was young, but 
which a newer wisdom has rejected. Such an 
accusation ought to become, in proportion to 
the enlightenment of the age, unjust or im- 
possible. The qualification of candor should 
grow as fast as that of equipment. As the 
intellectual outfit of scholars multiplies, fair- 
ness in the use of it should increase pro- 
portionately, must increase proportionately, or 
the investigating power " loses stroke " upon 
one side, and we have an eagle with a wing 
crippled seeking to cut a straight course to the 
stars, or expecting the observer to think he 
does. " Were there a single man," says Bacon, 
" to be found with firmness sufficient to efface 
from his mind the theories and notions vul- 
garly received, and to apply his intellect free 
and without prevention, the best hopes might 
be entertained of his success." 
What is it, then, to be great, but to be 
fair ? He who would approach a subject like 
this of which we write, in the sacred name of 
science, needs to be manned for the results, 
be they what they may. This matter is too 
large for any littleness of spirit to grasp. No 
prepossessions are going to get at it. It is not 
time yet for any " working hypothesis." It is 
 
too early to have assurances that one thing 
can, or another cannot be. We shall never 
have the truth by inventing it, but by dis- 
covering it. We must be equal to the sur- 
prises of truth. If she beat the breath out of 
our dearest delusions, we must be willing to 
bury them. If she strike the keystone out of 
our firmest convictions, we must be able to 
climb their ruins. I say, without hesitation, 
that no investigator is qualified to pass judg- 
ment upon psychical phenomena, who is not 
equally ready to admit, if admit he must, in 
the end, that he is dealing with the physiolog- 
ical action of cells in the frontal lobes of the 
brain, or with the presence of a human soul 
disembodied by death. He must be hospita- 
ble to a hallucination, or to a spectre. He 
must be, if necessary, just to an apparition 
as well as generous to a molecule. He must 
use the eyes of his soul as well as the lens 
his microscope. He must not be frightened 
away from the discovery of some superb un- 
known law, because there is a vulgar din of 
" Ghosts ! " about his ears. He had better 
find a ghost, if ghost there be, than to find 
nothing at all, for fear it may not be " 
scientific " to walk about after one is dead. 
That does not deserve the name of the 
scientific attitude which assumes that the 
supernatural is impossible, any more than that 
which assumes that it is necessary. No fore- 
gone conclusion which restricts the nature of 
an undiscovered law to a purely physical basis 
is more scholarly than the bias which preju- 
dicates a superhuman agency behind the dan- 
cing of a piano in the air. It may be just as 
unscientific to assert prematurely that a man 
of honor, intelligence, and education is 
suffering from a mere local affection of the retina, 
when he testifies that he sees and converses 
with the image of his distant brother at the 
moment of that brother's death by accident, as 
it would be to assert that Aristotle expresses 
himself to the American public through the 
columns of the " Banner of Light." It may 
be no more judicial to predetermine that the 
appearance of phosphorescent letters in the 
air, under given conditions, must of necessity 
be a piece of jugglery, than it would be to 
fall upon our knees before it as the work 
of angels, or cross ourselves before it as the 
threat of demons, He may be no more fitted 
for psychical research who dismisses a 
certified instance of the clairaudient 
inter-consciousness of friends a thousand miles apart, 
as a foredoomed coincidence or exaggeration, 
than he who would accept the " communica- 
tion " of his recently dead son, sent to him 
unsought by the medium who has dared to 
subject the sacred privacy of a stranger's 
bereavement to the paragraph of the Spiritualistic
press, happily unaware that the supposed 
spirit has forgotten, in the educational 
elevation of the disembodied life, how to spell his 
own name. The philosophical faculty may be 
no more exhibited by the student who takes 
it for granted that the raps in a circle of 
investigators are made by knuckles or toe-joints, 
than it is exhibited by the man who guides his 
investments on the advice of a female medium 
who does not know the difference between a 
United States registered bond and Mr. Micaw- 
ber's note-of-hand. To assume that a 
historical case of house possession like that of 
Wesley, or his more modern fellow-sufferers, 
is an ingenious trick or a highly-developed rat, 
is perhaps, if we think of it, not much more 
intelligent than to manage one's matrimonial 
affairs in accordance with the direction of a 
gentleman who examines locks of hair, and 
charges a dollar for his opinion. 
The question : What is evidence ? is a long 
one to answer ; but the question : What is 
prejudice? is short enough. The stiff ma- 
terialist is not educated for a sound investiga- 
tor any more than the limp emotionalist ; and 
the impulse to decry, as a matter of course, 
the mental or psychical basis of obscure phe- 
nomena is scarcely more reasonable than the 
hysteria which hangs upon Indian babble as 
the utterance of the intelligent dead. 
We have said that it is too early to accept 
a working hypothesis. Suppose that the tele- 
pathic theory might explain an immense pro- 
portion (I do not say all) of what are called 
the supernatural facts of Spiritualism ; whether 
it does so, we have not yet " accumulated and 
reflected" enough to say. Both the objec- 
tions to and the arguments for the adaptation 
of telepathy to these phenomena are keenly 
interesting ; but they would require the leis- 
ure of a monograph to discuss them intelli- 
gently. 
There is here, we say, an excellent conjee- 
 
ture, so far as it goes. No student of the sub- 
ject can deny that. But no student of the 
subject ought to assume, at this stage of the 
investigation, that telepathy goes far enough. 
Wait. Let us not repeat the blunder of su- 
perstition or of incredulity. Wait. Let us 
have something that will go to the end of the 
matter. Sir Isaac Newton humbly said that 
he had one talent : the ability to look steadily 
at a problem until he saw it through. The 
only hope that we have in dealing with this 
problem of problems lies in the will and the 
power to look at it until we see it through. 
The world has played with the thing long 
enough. Otherwise sensible human beings 
have been the dupes or the cynics of the sub- 
ject from age to age, and from civilization to 
civilization. It is time that the mystery which 
has baffled twenty centuries found its mas- 
ter. Other secrets of force have defied and 
been conquered. Why not this ? Other laws 
have eluded and been grasped. Why not 
this ? Other dangers have been dared, other 
obstacles pulverized, other ridicule or indiffer- 
ence waived, other patience and passion spent 
for other conflicts with the reluctance of na- 
ture to surrender truth. Why not these, and 
for this ? Here is one fact : the existence 
from all time of a huge sum of inexplicable 
phenomena. Here is another : the intelligent 
human will. At this epoch of our develop- 
ment there ought, if ever, to be an equation 
between the two. The Indian occultist, the 
Jewish sorcerer, the Scotch seer, the Puritan 
witch, the modern medium, have presented but 
so many passing forms of the permanent fact, 
which, like Ahasuerus, has wandered from 
generation to generation, a homeless, deathless, 
unwelcome thing. Like the Spanish knight in 
the song, it 
tl Hides from land to land, 
It sails from sea to sea." 
If the time has come to break lances with it, 
let us do so in downright earnest. 
That was a timely anecdote recalled by one 
of the distinguished investigators in London, 
and attributed to Sir William Hamilton and 
Airey. It was Airey who, Sir William having 
alluded to some important mathematical fact, 
answered : " No, it cannot be." The great 
philosopher gently observed : " I have been 
investigating it closely for the last five months, 
 
and cannot doubt its truth." " But," said 
Airey, " I 've been at it for the last five min- 
utes, and cannot see it at all ! " 
The psychical opportunity, as it may be 
called, takes its due chronological order after 
the great physical opportunity of which mod- 
ern science has already availed itself, and may 
be looked upon as a natural sequence — as a 
case of evolutionary growth in investigation. 
After the more demonstrable comes the more 
elusive ; after the more manifest, the more 
occult. We are now to prepare for what an 
American philosopher calls " the growing pre- 
dominance of the psychical life." 
View it through whatever glass we may, 
there is a chance here for a great discovery 
and for a great discoverer. The day has 
gone when the stock arguments of incredulity 
are strong enough to grip the subject. To 
assume that a large mass of our respectable 
fellow-citizens are either fools or knaves no 
longer quite covers the case. The jugglery 
hypothesis, too often a sound and necessary 
one, is not elastic enough to stretch over the 
circuit ; as in a case of house-possession per- 
sonally known to the writer of this paper, 
which was carried to the leading prestidigi- 
tator of the day for his professional opinion, 
with the inquiry : Is there anything in your 
business which would explain these occur- 
rences ? " " No ! " was the ringing answer, 
with a terrible thump of the conjurer's hand 
upon the table. " No ! And by I would 
not stay in such a house twenty-four hours ! " 
Science has her superstitions as well as 
faith ; it is the first of these to be supersti- 
tiously afraid of superstition. Only with the 
developed courage which is implied in perfect 
skill are the tactics of truth to be mastered. 
We may say that Science at the bayonet's 
point, before the fortress of Mystery, is put 
upon her mettle at last. Too unscholarly has 
been the sneer or the silence ; too feeble the 
attack ; too serious have been the defeats. 
The moment of the charge has come. Most 
great martial crises create great generals. If 
ever there was a chance for one in the history 
of human knowledge, there is a chance for 
one to-day, and here. 
Shall the power which could classify the 
kingdoms of the earth and claim the glory of 
them be thwarted by the capacity of an un- 
 
touched dining-table to thump a man against 
a wall ? Is a " brain-wave " more unmanage- 
able than an ether-wave ? We are taught that 
there are octaves in the wave-lengths of light 
corresponding to octaves in sound-vibrations, 
and that the spectrum has been studied for 
about four octaves beyond the red end, and 
one beyond the violet. Is this a less mys- 
terious accomplishment than the power of the 
human will to act as a substitute for anaesthe- 
sia in a surgical operation ? Is the boldest 
conjecture of telepathy more stupendous than 
the telephone was twelve years ago ? We 
smile when we are told of the telegraphic 
battery constructed for the accommodation of 
what are called spirits who desire to employ 
the Morse alphabet. There are probably few 
readers of this volume who would go beyond 
a smile in regard to such an invention. Yet, 
is the unknown action of mind on mind pos- 
sibly expressed through such a use of the laws 
of electricity more amazing than the phono- 
graph from which we are to hear the treasured 
voices of the dead or absent ? 
Whether we are dealing with matter, mind, 
or spirit, it is too early yet in the process of 
investigation to know. It is not too early to 
know that one law may be no more illegal 
than another law, and that because we under- 
stand the conditions of one, and do not under- 
stand the conditions of the other, is no more 
of a reason why the other should not exist, 
than Franklin's ignorance of the value of 
shares in the Electric Light Company of New 
York city, to-day, was a reason for not put- 
ting up the first lightning-rods. It is not too 
early to know that the psychical opportunity 
is a great chance for honesty and liberality of 
spirit, for originality and force of mind, for 
attention, for patience, for reason, and, we 
may say, for hope. What benefactors to their 
kind will they be who shall clutch from this 
mystery, ancient as earth, shadowy as dreams, 
and sombre as fate, the substance of a verified 
law ! 
Be it the law which guides the telegraph, 
the law which sways an audience, the law by 
which a hand-pass cures a headache, the law 
which unites the thoughts of distant friends, 
or the law by which dumb death should create 
a vocabulary for deaf life, the chance to for- 
mulate it is the chance for a great achieve- 
ment. Accomplished or defeated, it is an 
 
achievement for scholarship and for common- 
sense to undertake with a sober, dedicated 
spirit, adequate to the seriousness of the con- 
sequences involved in success or failure. We 
may add, what is sure to be understood by 
some of our readers, and as sure not to be by 
others, that it is an achievement asking also 
for the higher education of that candid and 
noble power imperfectly called spirituality of 
nature. He who has enough of this faculty 
to respect it will follow our meaning. We 
need not tax the patience of him who has not, 
by here emphasizing the relation of such a 
power to the scientific method. 
In physical theory, the gap between the de- 
velopment of the lower and higher organiza- 
tions has never been filled. In religious belief, 
there remains an insoluble mystery about the 
doctrine that claims to mediate between God 
and man. In psychical speculation, too, shall 
we expect a missing link? Will the conjunc- 
tive between life and death elude us ? — the 
combining medium of soul and body defy us ? 
When we have a psychical system lacking no 
more than science and theology lack, we may 
pause, and we should not pause till then. One 
need not be a Spencerian in philosophy, to cry 
with Spencer : " The deepest truth we can get 
at must be unaccountable." 
The Darwin of the science of the soul is yet 
to be. He has a large occasion. It will be 
found greater to explain the dissolution than 
the evolution of the race. It is more to teach 
us where we go to than to tell us what we 
came from. From the " Descent " to the 
" Destiny " of man is the natural step. The 
German physicist who gave his book the su- 
preme title of u The Discovery of the Soul " 
was wiser than he knew. That was a piercing 
satire on the materialistic philosophy which 
suggested, not long since, that mourners here- 
after be given front seats at geological lec- 
tures, and the most deeply bereaved provided 
with chip-hammers to collect specimens. Older 
than the classic of St. Pierre, and young as 
the anguish of yesterday, is the moan : " Since 
death is a good, and since Virginia is happy, 
I would die, too, and be united to Virginia." 
Science has given us a past. Too long has 
she left it to faith to give us a future. Hu- 
man love cannot be counted out of the forces 
of nature ; and earth-bound human knowledge 
turns to lift its lowered eyes toward the firma- 
ment of immortal life. 
VII. 
THE PSYCHICAL WAVE. 
Truth is terrible. She will have her way. 
One law is as inexorable as another law, and 
the mind that fails, from infatuation with one, 
to keep in relation to another, is brought up 
short, somewhere, by the very constitution of 
things. 
One thinks of this not for the first time 
nor for the last one, but explicitly, in watch- 
ing the course of the current of progress with 
which it is our fortune to be contemporaneous. 
No alert observation would deny that investi- 
gation of psychical phenomena has gone above 
the level of a craze or a fashion. It has 
reached the dignity of an intellectual current. 
All momentum has its equivalent force. What 
is the philosophy working beneath the psy- 
chical wave ? 
When Herbert Spencer wrote the famous 
pages which he entitled " The Rhythm of 
Motion," he gave to the busy world which has 
no time to be scholarly, but which is eager to 
follow the trail of scholarship too great not to 
be comprehensible, a phrase for which we are 
all deep debtors. This term expresses better 
than any of which we have the use, the nature 
of one of the most powerful laws known to the 
universe — the law of vibration. Every cre- 
ated thing oscillates ; this is the amount of 
it. Though we wrought ourselves blind to 
ask the reason, we have not to go beyond the 
timing of our own pulses to learn the fact. 
The petty beat of the pendulum in the kitchen 
clock sways within the majestic diurnal revo- 
lution of the globe. The wave ebbs upon the 
shore ; the tide flows beneath the moon. Your 
telephone message is a shallop set adrift upon 
the ripples of sound. Poetry uses no meta- 
phor when it speaks of the floods of light. 
If a child draw the tip of. a pencil lightly 
across a paper the line will be undulatory. If 
a cannon-ball were uninterrupted by any im- 
peding body, it would return to the spot 
whence it started. A baby's cry rises and 
drops from insistence to subsidence. An 
American storm, spanning the continent from 
Montana to Maine, begins as a " blizzard " 
and ends as a zephyr. A weed growing at 
the bottom of a brook undulates. The use of 
the telescope teaches that every pulsation of 
the heart jars the room. Both lateral and 
vertical oscillations beset the motion of a 
railway train. The songs that muse of " wind- 
ing rivers " sing above the law of conflict be- 
tween the current and the channel. A leaf 
trembles in the wind, and the climate of the 
earth is affected by changes of position " tak- 
ing twenty-one thousand years to complete." 
Sleep visits the blessed once in twenty-four 
hours, and awful periodicities control the jaws 
of earthquakes which swallow cities. An in- 
termittent fever and a variable star obey the 
same authority. Sunrise and sunset, season 
and season, life and decay, are the throbs of 
one mighty circulation poured from an unseen 
Heart. 
These things we are taught as the alphabet 
of modern philosophy. We are told that 
the law leans over, far beyond the scope of 
physics ; that the human mind, like the ulti- 
mate atom, serves the large decree ; and that 
human experience itself is a slave to the eter- 
nal rhythm. We are reminded that grief and 
joy and hope and anguish alternate as much 
as the budding and the fading of a wind- 
flower* We are asked to observe that misery 
has its paroxysms as well as neuralgia ; and 
that mourners smile because they have wept, 
and weep again, since they did smile. We are 
reminded that crime and pestilence pulsate in 
epidemics across the globe. We are called 
upon to record the throbs of the pendulum of 
history, whose swing sweeps from civilization 
to ruin, from the people to the throne, from 
tyranny to riot, from confusion to order, from 
morality to madness, from atheism to bigotry, 
from despair to faith. 
We are asked, in short, to see for ourselves, 
by a review of that close collation of facts 
which the philosophy as well as the science 
of our day delights to honor, that vibration is 
the condition of motion, and that motion is the 
condition of life. 
But we are asked to remember yet another 
thing. The figure of the cone of history is 
almost as old as historical philosophy ; but the 
youngest of our thinkers would fall back upon 
it, who told us to-day that spiral law holds 
over or holds into rhythmic law. A thing or 
a thought works to and fro, but that is not 
all ; it works spirally to and fro. For growth 
or for decline, to the base or to the apex — in 
the phrase of modern thought, to evolution or 
to dissolution — it is in the nature of motion 
to tend. Rhythm is not a simple affair. It 
is a complication. There is rhythm within 
rhythm, motion over against motion ; move- 
ment double, quadruple, complex — if we do 
not say infinite, it is because we are too finite 
to follow the coil. 
The vibration of the violin string seems a 
simple affair of molar disturbance producing 
sound-waves. Who shall say what was the 
rhythm started in the soul of the peasant who 
heard Ole Bull play in a tavern, and, amid the 
hush of his fellows — moved beyond them all 
— brought his hand down thunderously upon 
a table and cried : " This is a lie ! " 
Materialism is not the best word in the 
world to define an aspect of modern thought, 
for which, on the whole, for our purposes, 
there may be no better. It stands, at least in 
the minds of most of us, for something defi- 
nite, in the press of many indefinite views 
as to the nature or the outcome of a conflict 
which is sweeping us all along, soldier and 
civilian, whither we would, or whither we 
would not. The thing which is represented 
in a measure by this word has carried a 
high hand, and had a merry day of it. The 
age has succumbed to what it has called its 
tendency as thoroughly as a hearty boy to the 
measles. We have had it hard. It has been 
thought a feature of force of character not to 
believe too much. Dilettante doubt has made 
bric-a-brac of the gate called Beautiful that 
guarded the temple. All the iconoclasts of 
wit and wisdom have hacked at the shrine. 
To be learned, it has been understood, was 
not to be devout. In proportion to one's 
knowledge one failed to believe. It has been 
the great effort of the time to establish a 
mathematical equation between an instructed 
mind and an abandoned faith. The mere hold- 
ing of certain views has been accepted by a 
powerful class of thinkers as the tattoo-mark of 
intellectual barbarism. Did you not know that 
an immortal soul was old-fashioned? Have 
you not understood that God is out of date ? 
Then go to. Teach your Sunday-school. Join 
a female prayer - meeting. Write religious 
verses. Leave knowledge to science and truth 
to men. 
This has been the spirit of the times, and it 
must be admitted that it has been a successful 
spirit. Precious thing after precious thing 
has crumbled before it. Pearls have been 
dimmed. Hopes have been hurled from great 
heights to heavy depths. Daylight has dark- 
