' Ad exercitium Salamandri ! Eins ! Zwei ! Drei ! ' 
Greif brought his glass down upon the table as he spoke the 
last words, and the long roll began, like rattling musketry, again 
and again, to the due number of times. 
Greif sat down amidst thunders of applause. As a matter of 
fact, he had made a speech rather better than the average of such 
performances, but a cool observer, or one accustomed to such scenes 
would have known that he could not fail to be loudly applauded. 
 
He was the favourite hero of them all. Young, handsome, brave, 
popular, not lacking the assurance that leads a crowd, it might 
have been foreseen that his last feast would crown his University 
triumphs, with a success passing even his own not very modest 
expectations. 
CHAPTER XIV 
THE music rose and swelled and died away. Beneath the brilliant 
light there was clashing of beakers and joyous drinking of deep 
toasts in the intervals between the songs. At regular intervals 
Greif demanded silence and proposed the health of each of the 
other Korps, one by one, in the order of their precedence for the 
year. A couple of hours passed in this way, and then the signal 
was given for the singing of the ' Landesvater,' and the instruments 
struck up the stirring strain. Then at the head of each table rose 
the two eldest fellows, each with a pointed sword in his hand. 
In time with the music, they stood and struck their rapiers one 
against the other, exchanging caps at the last bars, and running 
the sharp blade through the embroidered velvet, so that the small 
head covering ran down upon the hilt. Next, while the others 
stood upon the floor, the two leaders mounted upon the bench 
behind each row, on opposite sides of the table, clashing their 
swords in time, high above the heads of the carousers ; and as the 
verse ended, each snatched the cap from the crown of the man who 
sat below him and ran it down his blade as he had previously done 
with his partner's. Reaching in due time the end of the board, 
the two stood crossing and recrossing their weapons, until all the 
others in the great hall had done the same and not one head 
remained covered. With this the first half of the ' Landesvater ' 
was ended, and a solemn toast was drunk to the health of the 
sovereign. The second part was gone through in a similar manner, 
the leaders returning along the rows with the same ceremony and 
restoring to each man his own head covering at the conclusion of 
each verse. It is a strange old custom of which it is not easy to 
discover the origin, though the meaning is clear enough. Every 
man of the assembly pledges his head to live and die for his 
sovereign prince or king, and in a country where loyalty is a fact, 
and patriotism a passion, the expression of both by an ancient 
 
ceremony is solemnly imposing. So great is the respect felt for 
the * Landesvater ' and the sincerity of those who take part in it, 
that even in such a multitude of recklessly gay youths, the strictest 
sobriety is required of all until it is over, and is exacted under 
penalties of considerable severity. Once over, the mirth and 
enjoyment proceed in an increasing ratio, though it is to the credit 
of the German student that his gaiety on these public occasions 
never degenerates into unbridled licence, and that while he sings, 
laughs and jests over his fiftieth glass, he maintains the outward 
forms of habitual courtesy towards his fellows, together with a 
sort of manly dignity not unworthy of his stern Gothic forefathers. 
The liquor is bland and almost harmless, and the heads are strong, 
and backed by iron constitutions. The object is not intoxication 
but jollity, and there is a deliberation in the manner of attaining 
the end by spending eight or nine hours over it, which effectually 
prevents such scenes as occur at festive meetings where the time 
is limited and men make themselves beastly drunk in the attempt 
to be merry before midnight. There is no closing hour for the 
German students' carousals. The official part of the affair is 
declared to be at an end at twelve or one o'clock, but all may stay 
as long as they please, and many are still in their places when the 
day dawns. 
Greif and Rex sat side by side at the head of the long table. 
It was long past midnight, but neither felt the need of sleep. 
Greif dreaded to go home, for he felt that he was taking his last 
leave of a life he loved. Rex, who was unnaturally calm, even 
for a man of his solid nerve, sat motionless beside his friend, 
emptying his huge beaker twice in every hour with unfailing 
regularity. He talked quietly but constantly, interspersing queer 
bits of cynicism and odds and ends of uncommon wisdom in his 
placid conversation. Greif knew by his manner that he was in 
reality sad and preoccupied, but was grateful for his pleasant talk, 
which blunted the keen edge of this rupture with first youth's 
associations. From time to time Greif wondered rather vaguely 
whether his relations with Rex would continue in after life, and, 
if so, whether they would not be affected for the worse by the 
revelation of Rex's identity. The excitement of the evening had 
perhaps momentarily expanded his natural generosity too far, and 
while he was quite aware that he could not now draw back from 
the friendship with honour, he was by no means sure that he might 
not afterwards regret his readiness to receive so kindly, as a cousin, 
him whom he had so much liked before he had been aware of the 
relationship. As he sat there, conversing with Rex, he attached 
 
an amount of importance to the situation which would have 
amazed him, had he known that of which both were ignorant, 
namely, that Rex was his half-brother as certainly as Rieseneck 
was half-brother to old Greifenstein. 
The hours wore on till scarcely fifty students remained in the 
hall, and they of the sturdy kind who make very little noise over 
their amusements. 
'Shall we go home, or stay till morning  ?' asked Greif at last, 
hesitating whether to light a fresh cigar or not. 
' We might adjourn to your room,' suggested Rex. ' We can 
finish the night there/ 
There was a stir near the door, and Greif looked round, idly at 
first, to see what was the matter, then with an expression of 
dismay. A man had entered the hall, a man with a ghastly face, 
who seemed to be making inquiries of the knot of Korps servants 
who waited for their tardy masters. Greif's eyes fixed themselves 
in the anticipation of evil, when he saw that the fellow wore the 
Greifenstein livery and was one of his father's grooms. What was 
most strange was that he wore boots and spurs, as if he had ridden 
hard, though he could only have reached Schwarzburg by the rail way. 
' Karl ! ' cried Greif in a tone that made the man start. * What 
are you doing here ? ' 
Karl crossed the hall, his face growing paler than ever, and his 
teeth chattering. He had not had time to recover from the thought 
of what he had left behind him. His hands trembled violently as 
they grasped the military cap he held. 
' Herr Baron ' he stammered, staring at Greif with wide and 
frightened eyes. * Herr Baron -' he began again, trying to frame 
the words. 
' Speak, Karl ! ' exclaimed Greif making a desperate effort to 
seem calm, though he instinctively dreaded the words which must 
fall from the man's lips. 
The groom turned appealingly to Rex, who sat motionless in his 
place, scrutinising the messenger with his stony glance. 
'My God!' cried he. 'I cannot tell him! Sir, are you a 
friend of the Herr Baron ? ' 
Rex nodded, and laying one hand upon Greif's shoulder as 
though to make him keep his seat, rose and made a sign to the 
groom to follow him. But Greif would not submit to be treated 
like a child, and sprang up, seizing the man's arm and drawing 
him nearer. 
' I will hear it myself,' he said firmly. ' Is it my father ? ' he 
asked in uncertain tones. 
 
Karl nodded gravely. 
I caught the train as I jumped from the saddle,' he answered. 
' My mother sent you ? ' asked Greif anxiously. 
The groom shook his head, and his tremor increased, while he 
stared wildly about as though in search of some escape from his 
awful mission. 
' Speak, man ! ' cried Greif, mad with anxiety. ' My father is 
ill and you are here though my mother did not send you speak, 
I say.' 
' They are dead,' answered Karl in a low voice. 
Greif sank into his seat and covered his face. Suddenly Rex's 
impenetrable eyes flashed, and he, last of the three, turned white 
to the lips. 
' Is there another gentleman at Greifenstein ? ' he asked quickly. 
' He is also with them, sir.' 
'Dead?' 
' He shot himself.' 
Rex closed his eyes and held the table with his two hands, for 
he knew who the stranger had been. Seeing that Greif did not 
move, and supposing that Rex was a mere acquaintance, the man 
took courage to tell the story, speaking in a low voice to Rex. 
' The gentleman arrived before dinner,' he said. ' Their 
merciful lordships dined together, but the butler said they left the 
table before it was time. Then they heard firing in the house. 
We broke the doors and found the Lady Baroness dead, in the, 
room beyond the Herr Baron's study, and in the study the Herr 
Baron dead with a pistol in his hand, and the other gentleman 
dead with another pistol in his hand. I saw them. They had 
shot themselves as they sat in their chairs before the fire, but 
the fire was nearly gone out, though the lamp was burning. And 
then we saddled and rode, we four, one for the police, one for the 
doctor, one for Sigmundskron, and I for the railway, and here I 
am. You are a good friend of the young Herr, sir ? ' 
'Yes, that I am,' answered Rex, starting as though from sleep. 
' Then it would be best, sir, that you should tell me whither I 
should go, for the young Herr will be worse if he sees me.' 
'Ask your way to the Red Eagle Inn/ said Rex, 'and stay 
there till we send for you.' 
He gave the man a handful of loose coin, thoughtful of all 
contingencies, as he ever was. 
' You need not talk about this horrible catastrophe,' he said, as 
he dismissed the frightened groom. 
The latter disappeared as fast as he could, glad to get away 
 
from the sight of Greif's misery, and glad to have found some one 
to help him in telling his fearful tale. When he was gone Rex 
laid his hand upon Greif's shoulder, and spoke in a tone of quiet 
authority. 
' Come with me,' he said. Greif rose to his feet like a man in 
a dream, and allowed Rex to put on his topcoat for him, and to 
lead him out of the almost deserted hall, through the group of 
servants who loitered at the door and made way respectfully for 
the pair to pass. 
' Whither ? ' asked Greif as they stood in the cold street. 
' To your room,' answered Rex, quietly passing his arm through 
his friend's and gently urging him to move forward. 
Greif did not remember afterwards how he had found his way 
from the hall to his lodging. Neither he nor Rex spoke during 
the quarter of an hour they employed in reaching the street door, 
but Rex's arm was aching with the effort of sustaining and 
directing his companion. He lit a taper arid prepared to help him 
up the stairs. But the sight of the familiar entrance recalled 
Greif to himself and dissipated the first stupor of his grief. He 
ascended the steps firmly, though he went like a man overcome 
with fatigue, to whom every movement is difficult. Still silent, 
Rex lit the lamp in the small room, and began to help Greif to 
take off his mantle. But Greif pushed him aside gently and sat 
down as he was upon the well-worn chair. Rex went and sat 
.himself down in a corner at some distance and waited. His 
instinct told him that his friend must have time to recover from 
the first shock before anything could be done. He shaded his eyes 
from the light with one hand, and thought of his own sorrow. 
The silence was intense. It was as though the spirits of the 
dead, of the mother of both and of the father of each, were 
present in the commonplace chamber where sat their two sons, not 
knowing each other for brothers, though overwhelmed by the 
same calamity. It seemed as if the murdered woman and her 
dead murderers were standing silently in the midst of the small 
room, watching to see what should happen to those they had left 
behind. 
At last Greif raised his white face and looked towards Rex. 
' I must go,' he said simply. 
'Yes,' answered Rex. 'We must bury our dead.' 
Greif looked at him as though asking for an explanation of the 
words. He had not heard all the groom's story. 
' My father is also with them,' said Rex, answering the unspoken 
question. 
 
Greif grasped the table and stared at his companion stupidly 
for a moment. Then all at once his pale face grew luminous and 
his eyes glittered. 
' Eieseneck ? ' he cried, in a suffocated tone. ' Your father has 
slain mine and yet you are here ' He rose from his seat, half 
mad with horror, as though he would spring upon his friend. But 
the latter interrupted him, in a tone which enforced attention. 
'Your mother is dead God knows how. Your father and 
my father shot themselves, sitting in their chairs.' 
Again Greif 's .head sank upon his clasped hands, and again 
the deadly silence descended upon the chamber. 
The long December night was over and it was broad dawn 
when the two men got out of the express train at the station 
nearest to Greifenstein. Without a word they entered the carriage 
that had been waiting for them, and the sturdy horses plunged 
into the forest, breasting the ascent as only strong animals can on 
a cold winter's morning. The early light made the great trees 
look unspeakably gloomy and mournful. There was not a tinge of 
colour to relieve the dead black shadows, or the icy grey of the 
driven snow. The tall firs stood solemn and motionless like over- 
grown cypresses, planted in an endless graveyard, filled with 
myriads of snow-covered graves, and in the midst Greif and Rex 
were whirled along over the winding road, pale as dead men them- 
selves as they sat side by side in their dark garments, with set 
lips and eyes half closed against the freezing wind. 
But when the towering wall of Greifenstein came into sight far 
off above the black tree-tops, Greif started and leaned forward, 
fixing his eyes upon his home ; nor did he change his attitude 
until the carriage drew up before the deep gateway, and he was 
aware of a crowd of men and women who stood there awaiting his 
arrival. Before all the rest, he saw the tall thin figure of Frau 
von Sigmundskron. Her white hands were clasped together and 
she was bareheaded. Standing out before the others, in her gown 
of sober grey, she looked like a mediaeval saint suddenly come 
down to earth in modern times. As Greif descended she held out 
her arms to greet him. He realised that she must have journeyed 
from Sigmundskron in the night in order to be before him. 
' I thank you,' he said, kissing her hands. 
With an effort of will that would have done credit to his dead 
father, he entered the castle, bending his head gravely in acknow- 
ledgment of the servants' tearful salutations. Though most of 
them were the merest hirelings in the house, who had lately 
succeeded others like themselves, yet almost all were in tears. 
 
Fran von Sigmundskron looked at Rex in some surprise. 
' A friend ? ' she asked with some hesitation. 
' More,' answered Greif. ' Let us go to some place where we 
can be alone.' 
He shivered as he felt that he was under the very roof where 
those he loved best were lying cold and stark in death, but he set 
his lips and clenched his fingers, determined to bear all that was 
in store for him. Frau von Sigmundskron hesitated as they 
approached the door of the drawing-room, and she looked sideways 
at Greif. 
' Better to my rooms,' he said. And so the three went on 
through corridors and staircases till they reached the young man's 
apartments. He closed the door, and glanced at Rex. 
' Madam,' said the latter at once, ' I am called Rex, but that is 
not my name. I am the son of Kuno von Rieseneck. I have 
Herr von Greifenstein's permission to pay my last duty to my 
dead father.' 
Frau von Sigmundskron raised her gentle eyes in astonishment 
and looked from one to the other of the two men. 
' Rex is my best friend,' said Greif. ' He needed no permission 
of mine to come here. I will explain all at another time. And 
now -' his voice broke, and he turned away, but recovered 
himself almost immediately. ' And now, I beg that you will tell 
us what you know.' 
The good baroness detested weakness in herself and could not 
bear to see it in others, so that she told her story clearly and 
concisely, though with much caution and thoughtful tact. While 
she spoke she watched the two friends, who sat motionless beside 
her, their hands clasped upon their knees, their heads bent down, 
their faces white with emotion. The sun was already above the 
hills, and while she spoke the first rays fell through the ancient 
casement upon the carpet of the room, casting soft reflexions upon 
the pallid features of the three persons. 
I will go to them,' said Greif when she had finished, and he 
rose to his feet. The baroness prepared to show him the way, 
and Rex would have followed, but she stopped him by a gesture. 
' I will come back for you,' she said. * They are not together.' 
She let Greif enter the chamber alone and softly closed the 
door after him. Then she returned to Rex. He was standing 
where she had left him. 
' I have something to say,' she began, ' and something to give 
you. This letter is yours. It was found in the room, sealed, 
directed and stamped, as though it were to be posted, as it would 
 
have been had you not come. Nothing has been discovered for 
Greif, and this must have been written by Herr von Rieseneck. 
You are older than Greif, though he is brave enough, poor fellow. 
Here it is. Will you be alone to read it ? I will go into the next 
room until you call me.' 
' Madam,' answered Rex, taking the letter, ' I will not trouble 
you by any exhibition of my feelings, if you will stay here.' 
He looked at the superscription, and cut the envelope open neatly 
with his pocket-knife so as not to break the seal. Frau von Sig- 
mundskron was too well-bred to watch his face while he read the 
contents. Had she looked, she would have been terrified. 
The note was very short, but it contained enough to shake 
even Rex's calm nature. 
' My son, when you receive this, I shall be dead. I arrived 
here this evening and I have discovered that Frau von Greifenstein 
is your mother, my wife. She made me believe that she was dead 
and married my brother under a false name. She has atoned for 
her crimes to her two husbands, who have done justice upon her, 
and now we also are about to pay the penalty of having executed 
that justice which is above all laws. At the point of death, I 
give this secret into your keeping. Your brother is a nameless 
bastard. Do not ruin him by betraying the shame of your father 
and of his. You are rich, but were you poor you would have no 
title to my brother's inheritance. Do not come to this place. 
They will bury me as decently as I deserve. Farewell. God 
keep you, and make you happier than I have been. Your father, 
' VON RIESENECK. 
'SciiLOSs GREIFENSTEIN, December ' 
As Rex read the words he instinctively turned away. His face 
was hideously distorted and his stony eyes seemed changed into 
coals of fire. Every fibre of his strong nature was strained and 
tortured by the iron grip of his suffering. Every pulse of his 
body beat with a frantic rage for which no outlet was possible. 
His eyeballs burned with excruciating pain as he attempted to 
read again the letter he still held in his hands. He was one of 
those habitually calm men who become almost insane when they 
are angry, and in whose placid strength passion of any sort, when 
routed, finds its most dangerous material. For a full minute he 
stood speechless, feeling as though his emotion must find some 
physical expression, lest it should kill him there and then. 
He heard a footstep, and then the door opened and closed 
softly. Looking round, he saw that he was alone ; Frau von 
 
Sigmundskron had understood from what she could see of his 
attitude that the letter had brought him news even worse than 
that of his father's death, and she had felt that to stay any 
longer would have been to intrude upon a sorrow in which she 
could have no share. Seeing that she was gone, Rex abandoned 
all restraint over himself, and submitted for a time to the over- 
whelming influences that surrounded him on all sides. His face 
became livid as he threw himself upon the couch, and his fingers 
were twisted unnaturally, as though their nerves were irritated by 
a strong electric current. Lying on his back, he rolled his head 
from side to side, like a man tortured on the rack, while his 
reddening eyes kept their sight fixed upon a blank point of the 
ceiling. The pain in his temples was as that of a red-hot screw 
boring its way through his brain, and while his white teeth ground 
audibly upon each other his quick-coming breath blew a scarcely 
perceptible foam from his strained and parted lips. 
Father, mother, honour, were gone at one blow. Not the 
mother he had learned to dream of as a boy, when some faint 
memory of her fair face Avas still with him ; not the tender and 
gentle mother who, if she had lived, would have been dearest on 
earth to him, and whose untimely death had lent her something 
heavenly and brightly mysterious ; not the mother of whom his 
father had often told him, who from her place of peace looked 
down, perhaps, and smiled when he did well, or was pained when 
he did wrong ; not the mother who, in his sleep, seemed to walk 
beside him when he was a child, robed in white, holding him by 
the hand and pointing heavenwards, like the picture of the 
Guardian Angel so common in his native country; not that 
mother who was to him the embodiment of all that was pure and 
lovely, and saintly and kind; not that sweet mother who for 
nearly forty years had held her secret place in the strange 
labyrinths of the lonely student's heart, to whose angelic figure he 
had often turned for consolation when weary with the aimlessness 
of deep study that led to nothing, or when satiated with all the 
useless, pleasureless pleasure which money could give and which 
there was no one to forbid. That dear image was gone, but she 
was not the mother he had lost. She who had borne him was 
lying near him now, under that very roof. She had cast him off, 
him and his father, to spend all those years when he had thought 
her dead, with another man, worst shame of all, with the brother 
of her husband. And she had borne another son, she had given a 
brother to her first-born, whom the world called noble and rich, 
who in truth was penniless and nameless as any beggar in the 
 
street. She had heaped dishonour upon father and son, and she 
had borne in dishonour a second son and shamed the spotless life 
of a second father. And this woman, this wretch, this creature 
for whom no speakable name could be found, was his own mother, 
and was henceforth to stand in the place of her whose mere 
memory had been half divine. Her vile life, forfeited for her 
crimes as shamefully as though she had died by the defaming 
hands of the common hangman, her hideous existence was thrust 
before him in all its abomination, as the source of his own, in the 
stead of all that had seemed most holy and chaste and worthy of 
his reverence. Was not her blood in his veins ? Must not her 
evil nature of necessity show itself sooner or later in his own ? 
Better the ounce weight of a finger upon that little bar of steel, to 
press which was to go beyond the risk of human infamy, beyond 
the possibility of reproducing in his own life the merest shadow of 
the sins that had darkened hers to the end. Better to cross at 
once that bridge whose passage is never choked because all who 
go over move ever in the same way, and none pause whose path 
has led them to its hither side. Better to leap at once and take 
his secret out of human keeping. 
He would not have believed the horror if he had learned it from 
living man. But the message came from those who had sealed its 
truth with the dark red seal ; it came from two men who had not 
been mistaken, of whom either, suspecting a mistake, would have 
slain the other for the mere accusation ; old men not carried away 
by a fleeting resemblance, by the breath of a word half understood, 
by suspicion of a glance only half seen ; stern, bold men too stern 
to relent, but far too brave to be moved suddenly to senseless wrath 
against an innocent woman; proud men, both, who would have 
denied to each other the possibility of their common shame, so long 
as denial was humanly possible. 
There could be no doubt, no shadow of a hope. Greif von 
Greifenstein was brother to Rex, and both were fatherless and 
motherless on the same clay. Why live on, beneath the weight of 
memories which no time could efface and no future happiness 
soften ? Had he any obligations to mankind, had he any pride of 
half-fulfilled hopes, of half-satisfied ambition ? What had his life 
been ? A nameless one, though of the two he alone could claim a 
name, if all were known. What had he done with it 3 He had 
attempted to explore the sources of life and the first origin of all 
those strange states which life brings with it. He had spent years 
in patient study, and again for months he had experimented upon 
his own incomprehensible sensations, by alternately procuring him- 
 
self every pleasure and amusement which money could command, 
and then seeking the contrast of solitary asceticism. His iron 
constitution of body had survived all, but his bright intelligence 
had wearied of the struggle, bruising its keen edge against the 
rocky barriers of the eternal and the unknown. Wiser than his 
fellows, he knew that he was no wiser than before ; stronger than 
they, he knew the weakness of all strength ; brave as the bravest, 
bravery seemed to him but a clumsy exhibition of vanity at best, 
and altogether contemptible from the moment it began to seek 
occasions for showing itself. He could have understood playing 
the coward for sake of examining the sensation, and would 
have laughed at his own vanity, when it led him to redeem his 
character the next moment by some act of reckless daring. What 
was it all, but an amazing show of puppets, an astounding dance 
of lay-figures, animated by strings of which the ends opposite from 
men were lost in infinite distance? To dance, or not to dance, 
was all the choice men had, and rather than play a part in such a 
show as fell to his lot, it seemed better to break the strings and 
let the miserable marionette fall into the black hole behind the 
stage. 
The possibility of adding a fourth link to the chain of death 
arrested Rex's frenzy. Since it was so easy to die, the escape from 
an earthly hell was always at hand. If, then, he lived, it must 
be of his own free will, and it did not beseem a man to do with 
such an ill grace what he did from his choice. Either he must 
end the matter decently and quietly at once, or, choosing not to 
end it, he must gather his strength and resume the direction of his 
existence. No other conclusion was possible. His secret was his 
own, and none need know it. All was over, and the disclosure 
of the truth could not help justice, any more than its concealment 
could injure any one. On the contrary, to tell what he knew 
would be to ruin Greif. 
At the thought of Greif, Rex grew calm, and sat upright on the 
couch, supporting himself with his hands and gazing absently at 
the opposite wall. He had something left to live for, since Greif 
was his brother Greif, who was at this very moment weeping 
over the body of her who was mother to both, looking for the last 
time upon that face which doubtless recalled to him the same 
tender memories Rex himself had cherished so long and so faith- 
fully. A strong desire to see her took hold of him. The mistaken 
veneration of a lifetime was gone in a moment and Rex experienced 
the necessity of putting in its place the truth, however horrible it 
might be. But, unknown to him, a touch of tenderness remained 
 
in the bottom of his heart. Sinful, ruined, dead by the hands of 
the men she had foully wronged, she had nevertheless been his 
mother. He said to himself that he would see her, in order that 
the last impression might finally wipe out all those that had been 
sweet before it ; but in spite of every circumstance of shame that 
had attended her death, and in spite of his own reasoning, what 
drew him to her was in reality the strength of what he believed to 
be wholly eradicated and torn from him, the unconscious longing 
to see once more the face of her who had borne him, and whose 
image had been with him since he was a little child. 
To see her, and then what then ? The future was a blank, of 
which the monotony was broken only by the figure of Greif. The 
idea of devoting himself to his brother, and of expending all his 
strength and intelligence in the attempt to make him outlive the 
dreadful memory of this day, presented itself to Rex's mind. He 
smiled faintly, for the thought was unlike most of his thoughts. He 
did not remember to have ever before entertained a similar project. 
He had sacrificed his inclinations many times in the pursuit of 
knowledge, and even occasionally out of good nature, but he had 
never set himself the task of systematically benefiting another 
man. And yet, he knew well enough that Greif would need 
support and help and comfort, and that there would be none at 
hand to offer all these, save Rex himself. 
He rose from his seat and paced the room, his hands behind 
him, his eyes bent down. His face still bore the marks of his 
sudden and terrible suffering, but the perfectly balanced powers of 
his mind were already beginning to assert themselves. The habit 
of scepticism, that is, of systematic inquiry into all that befell him, 
was too strong to remain long in abeyance, and the equilibrium of 
the mental forces, cultivated to excess by his method of study, was 
too stable in nature to be long disturbed, even by the greatest 
calamity. To-day he saw the necessity of applying his intelligence 
to the alleviation of Greifs sorrow and to the preservation of 
Greif s existence, endangered by such a blow. In a few weeks at 
the latest, his own sufferings would acquire an objective interest, 
and would become so many data for study in the great case of all 
humanity. Rex could never have been a hero. He could never 
have detached his own individuality from its place in his map of 
mankind, so as to believe himself different from all other men, as 
heroes must believe themselves. He felt that the balance lay 
between his own life and death, and that he could turn the scale 
at his own choice ; he could never have made himself forget life in 
the hope of victory, nor death in the fear of failure. Incapable of 
any transcendental belief whatsoever, his intelligence had deified 
free-agency, while his unacknowledged suspicion of a directing power 
asserted itself in his theories concerning nature's fatalism. He 
supposed that the machinery of the universe produced inevitable 
phases in the lives of individuals and of nations ; he knew that in 
all that had happened to him he had been free to exercise his 
choice between two alternatives. Such a choice was now before 
him, and for the first time in his life he determined to devote 
himself to the welfare of another. 
CHAPTER XV 
AN hour later Rex was supporting Greif as he returned from the 
state bedchamber to his own room. Strong and determined to be 
calm as the young man was, the sight had been too much for him, 
and it was clear that unless he could obtain sleep his nerves must 
break down under the strain they suffered. He reeled in his walk 
like a man half asleep, his bright eyes were glassy and fixed, his 
relaxed fingers were incapable of grasping Rex's arm, and the latter 
held him upright upon his feet and almost carried him along the 
dim corridors. 
Rex also had seen, but when he had once been face to face 
with that which had irresistibly drawn him to the room, he had 
felt no desire to look again. The drawn, white features of the 
dead lady recalled nothing to his mind out of the sweetness of the 
past, while their fixed expression of pain intensified the horror of 
the present until it grew unbearable. He had stayed long in the 
other chamber, where his father lay, and as he gazed upon the 
stern dark face his wrath rose, swelling tumultuously in his breast, 
as the tide of the sea, ebbing away as he thought of what was 
beyond and as he realised that all vengeance had been accomplished, 
and all justice done, so that no one remained alive against whom 
he could feel anger, no one upon whom his hand could fall. They 
had taken the law into their own hands and had executed its 
extreme sentence upon her who had wronged them, and they had 
expiated their deed in their own bodies. Never was tragedy so 
swift, so desperate and so complete. 
And now the morning sun was high in the heavens, mocking 
the solemn darkness of men's hearts with his fierce brightness, 
shining upon the ancient walls of Greifenstein as coldly and 
clearly through the keen winter air as he had shone yesterday 
and as he would shine to-morrow. From eave and stringcourse 
and dripstone of the old castle the melting patches of dazzling 
 
snow sent down mimic showers of diamond drops, and the 
moisture thawed from them made dark stains upon the grey 
masonry. A redbreast skipped about the furrows made in the 
white carpet by the carriage wheels, paused, turned his tiny 
impertinent head, and glanced up at the ramparts with a squint, as 
though to tell the time of day by the sun and the shadows of the 
projecting eaves. From the paved court of the stables, where all 
had been hurry and confusion on the previous night, came the 
occasional noise of an impatient hoof stamping upon the stones, 
the even sound of brushes on smooth coats as the men leisurely 
groomed the horses, the tinkling of curb- chains polished and 
rubbed together by idle lads who were in no hurry, and occasionally 
the echo of a voice, instantly subdued to an undertone as the 
speaker remembered that this day was not to be like other days. 
At the door of the servants' hall the two comfortable policemen 
in their dark uniforms and shining buttons sunned their fair 
beards as they smoked their morning pipes, exchanging a remark 
in a low voice about once in five minutes, and never without 
previously looking round to see whether any one was listening 
to them, but chiefly occupied in watching an underkeeper who 
was feeding the big hounds in a sunny corner of the inner 
court. 
Nature, in her pitiless irony, seemed more than usually mirthful 
on that clear morning. It was such a day as old Greifenstein 
who lay upstairs, dead beside his dead wife, would have chosen 
to tramp far into the forest, with his gun on his shoulder and his 
dogs at his heels. It was such a day as would have made poor 
Clara's lot seem easier, softening her tortured conscience in a 
thaw of passing satisfaction, pleasant while it lasted, transitory as 
the gleam of light and warmth in the dismal winter of the Black 
Forest. The forest itself alone was unchanged. The trees looked 
blacker than ever against the blue sky and under the violent light. 
Around the vast amphitheatre of the hills they stood motionless in 
their even rows, like a great assembly of dark- robed judges, 
judging the dead who lay in their midst, inquisitors whom no 
brightness could brighten, and in whose sombre countenances no 
smile was reflected from the glorious sky and dazzling light. 
Silent, grand, funereal, they stood in their places as they had 
stood a hundred years ago, before those lives began which had 
now suddenly gone out, as they would stand when those other 
lives were extinguished which now were young. 
Neither Greif nor Rex were seen again that day. In the 
course of time the representatives of the law arrived, did their 
 
office, and were regaled with a collation by the butler, during 
which they sat upon the chairs which last night had been occupied 
by those whose end they had come to ascertain. The case was 
very plain and their duties were simple. They went away and 
took the two policemen with them. Frau von Sigmundskron 
moved noiselessly about the house, giving the necessary directions 
when there were any to be given, occasionally sitting down in a 
quiet corner to read a few pages of a devotional book she had 
found. More than once she went to the different rooms where 
Greif and Rex had withdrawn, to see whether she could be of any 
use. Greif was always in the same place, leaning back in a great 
easy-chair, pale and exhausted with grief, but evidently master of 
himself. At last she found him asleep, and she drew a long 
breath of relief, for she knew that the chief danger was past. 
When she went to Rex she found him reading, and he did not relin- 
quish his occupation during the whole day, so far as she could 
ascertain. Whether he understood what he read, or not, was 
more than she could determine. The volume contained a part of 
Goethe's works, and when she glanced at the page she saw that 
the student had selected the second part of Wilhelm Meister for 
his reading. He always looked up quietly when she entered, 
thanked her, and said that he needed nothing. 
Frau von Sigmundskron could not rest. The sense of re- 
sponsibility which she felt might alone have sufficed to sustain 
her energy, but her mind was disturbed by a matter even weightier 
in her eyes. The tremendous difficulties of the future presented 
themselves very clearly to her mental view, and she knew that 
before long they would not be mere shadows of things to come, 
but actual problems with which she must grapple, and upon the 
solution of which she must concentrate all her strength. To- 
morrow, or the next day at the latest, the earth would close for 
ever over what remained of those poor beings whose departure 
from life had saddened her own and made it seem so hard to 
understand. But when the three were buried, she could no 
longer remain at Greifenstein. There would be no reason for 
prolonging her stay, even had she wished to do so, and indeed 
her wishes would lead her homewards as soon as her duties were all 
fulfilled. She had never before been separated even for a day from 
her child, and though she was strong and sensible in mind and 
knew that Hilda was safe with old Berbel, she was conscious that 
it was painful to be away from her. She would therefore return 
to Sigmundskron. From that moment her trouble would begin. 
It was not conceivable that Greif should go away without seeing 
 
Hilda, and yet there were many reasons why it would be better 
that the two should not meet. 
She had foreseen the struggle during the hours of the night, 
but it had not then appeared so formidable as now. She had 
then thought more of Greif, and it had not seemed impossible to 
tell him frankly what she felt. As she reflected upon what must 
be done, she saw that Hilda was the principal figure in the 
situation, and she realised that Hilda's happiness was infinitely 
more dear, to her than anything else in the world. She hesitated, 
and for some time she told herself that the marriage must take 
place, come what might. 
To her, all that had happened since the previous evening was 
shrouded in an impenetrable mystery. Her imagination failed 
utterly to account for the desperate doings of which the horrible 
result was before her. She could have understood that the two 
brothers might have quarrelled on meeting after so many years, and 
that in a moment of reckless anger they should have shot each other. 
Clara might have perished in the struggle, while endeavouring to 
part them. But there was a dreadful appearance of deliberate 
intention in the whole tragedy which made such a hypothesis 
untenable. That Clara had been intentionally murdered, she 
could not doubt. Greifenstein might have slain her in a fit of 
passion and might have taken his own life afterwards, but this 
could not account for Rieseneck's suicide. She could have 
believed that for some unknown reason Eieseneck had killed his 
brother and Clara, and after disposing their bodies as they were 
found, had shot himself. But the examination proved the con- 
trary. It was plainly evident that both men had died in their 
chairs by the weapons found in their own hands. Eieseneck had 
written to his son, but Greifenstein had not, or, at least, if he 
had written anything it had not been discovered. Rex alone 
could know the secret, therefore, if it had been revealed at all. 
She was ignorant that in Germany, when a suicide has been 
committed, the law has a right to see whatever letters were last 
written by the deceased. The stamped letter, addressed to Rex, 
had attracted her attention, and she had taken it from the table 
with the intention of posting it the next day, not meaning to 
conceal it, but, on the contrary, to send it without delay to its 
destination. The legal gentlemen, courteous to the good lady, 
had not pressed her with any questions, taking it for granted that 
if she had found any letter or any clue to an explanation she 
would naturally offer it at once. And so it chanced that Rex 
alone could know the truth if any one knew it. That he had 
 
been terribly moved by what he had read, she had seen for herself, 
but whether the letter had contained a full explanation of the 
circumstances, it was not possible to judge. If so, it was more than 
probable, she thought, that Rex would show it to Greif in due 
time, and that when the first shock was over the contents would 
be communicated to herself. The question was whether this 
would happen before Greif saw Hilda. In spite of her natural 
repugnance to such a plan, she almost resolved to ask Rex directly 
whether what he had received threw any light upon the situation. 
If she could know why those three persons were dead she could 
better guide her course in the future. 
If Greifenstein had been a murderer, as well as a suicide, his 
son could not have Hilda for his wife. It was Greif s misfortune, 
and the baroness gave him all the pity she could spare from her 
own child, but the point could not be yielded. She closed her 
eyes and tried to think it over. She thought of Hilda, married and 
leaving Sigmundskron to live under the very roof where such deeds 
had been done, and the mere idea was painful and repugnant. 
Greif was wholly innocent of all that had happened, but the stain 
was upon his name, and the blood of his father was in his veins. 
Hilda's children would be the grandchildren of a murderer. Old 
Greifenstein had not ended his days in a shameful prison, merely 
because he had found courage to take his own life quickly. But 
if he had done the deed he was a common murderer, and the moral 
result was the same, whether he were alive or dead ; the indelible 
disgrace rested upon his son, and would brand the lives of his son's 
sons after him. Hilda loved Greif, and Greif loved Hilda, but 
that was no argument. Better that Hilda should drag out 
a solitary and childless existence than be happy under such a 
name ; far better that Greif should submit to half a century of 
lonely and loveless years, than get children whose names should 
perpetuate the remembrance of a monstrous crime. Hilda would 
suffer, but suffering was the lot of mankind. The baroness 
wondered sadly whether her daughter's disappointment could 
possibly equal what she herself had borne on that day when her 
gallant soldier-husband had been shot down in battle. Could 
Hilda's sorrow be like her own ? Even if it were, Hilda must bear 
it rather than take such a name unless, indeed, old Greifenstein 
had been innocent of his wife's death. No one could know that 
except Rex, and would he answer her question ? In her horror of 
the whole situation she wished that she might go back to Sigmund- 
skron and end her life in barely decent poverty with Hilda, and never 
again think of the marriage. But her rigid sense of duty reproached 
 
her for such a thought, which made her feel as though she were 
trying to lay down the responsibility that had fallen to her lot. 
Her untiring conscience took up the burden again, to bear it as it 
might. 
Rex must answer her, and upon his answer would depend 
everything. It was not an easy matter to question him, however, 
and for the present it was wholly impossible. She must meet Hilda 
while she herself was yet undecided, so that it seemed simplest 
to be roughly frank with the girl, to tell her plainly what had 
happened, what was known and the extent of what no one knew, 
showing her clearly that if old Greifenstein should turn out to have 
been guilty, she must give up all thought of Greif and submit to 
her poor lot with the best grace she could. Greif would go away 
and travel, perhaps for several years. He would find interests at 
last, which might help him to forget his darkened youth. Hilda 
and her mother would live as they could, and when the mother 
died Sigmundskron must go to the hammer. At all events it was 
not encumbered with debts, and its sale would leave the child a 
pittance to save her from starvation ; possibly she would have more 
than before, but Frau von Sigmundskron could not judge of that. 
Possibly, too, Hilda's sixty-four quarterings would help her to gain 
admittance as a lady-canoness in one of those semi -religious 
foundations, reserved exclusively for the old nobility, of which 
several exist in Germany. 
The short winter's day was over when Fran von Sigmundskron 
reached this stage in her meditations. Lights were brought to the 
room where she was, and a servant came to ask her what she would 
eat. She scarcely knew what she answered, but she remembered 
that some hours had passed since she had been to see Greif or 
Rex and she roused herself to go upon the errand of inquiry. In 
the corridor she was met by another person who came to ask 
about the dispositions for the morrow, an ominous creature in 
black, the sight of whom recalled at once the hideous realities of 
the day, from which her mind had wandered in her anxiety for 
Hilda's welfare. She gave the necessary directions and continued 
upon her way. 
' Come in,' said Greif's voice as she knocked cautiously at the 
door. 
As soon as she entered she saw that his state had been improved 
by the rest he had taken. His eyes were quiet, his colour pale but 
natural, his manner mournfully calm. In the morning she had 
feared he might fall into a delirious fever. 
Frau von Sigmundskron came and stood beside him. He was 
 
comforted by her presence, though he had not always been sure 
that he liked her. At present, he knew what good cause he had 
to be grateful to her for what she had done, and he felt that she 
was his only relation in the world, the only woman alive who 
could in any way take the place of what he had lost. If he had 
not been very fond of her before, it was because he had not under- 
stood her, and because in his eyes her personality was entirely 
eclipsed by Hilda's. He put out his hand and took hers, and 
pressed it gently. 
' You are very good,' he said. * I am glad you have come.' 
She sat down beside his easy-chair and gazed into the fire. 
There was no light in the room save that of the pine logs, blazing 
in the great chimney. Her reflexions of ten minutes earlier seemed 
very far away, for the sight of him and the sound of his voice had 
suddenly recalled those hopes for Hilda from which she had got so 
much happiness. 
'You have slept,' she said. ' I am glad, for you needed rest.' 
She did not know what to say, and there was a pause before 
she spoke again, during which Greif did not move. Unconsciously 
he had taken the manner of one ill, and lay back in his seat, his 
eyes half closed, his hands resting upon the arms of the chair, 
making no effort and only hoping that none would be required of him. 
' Dear Greif,' said the baroness at last, ' you will go away, will 
you not ? ' 
He started a little and his expression changed, as though the 
question pained him. 
'Yes,' he answered. ' I will go away when it is over.' 
' Shall it be to-morrow, then ? ' asked Frau von Sigmundskron 
very softly. 
' Yes. To-morrow morning. I would it were to-night. And 
then -' he stopped and passed his hand wearily across his fore- 
head, letting it drop nerveless by his side almost immediately. 
'And then r 
' Then I must see Hilda before I go.' His eyelids quivered, and 
his lips shut themselves closely. 
' Yes,' answered the baroness in a tone of hesitation. 
' Yes, I must see Hilda,' Greif repeated. * And when I am gone 
then then 
This time Frau von Sigmundskron said nothing, for she saw that 
he was suffering, though she dared not guess what was passing in 
his mind. He seemed to be trying to speak. 
' When I am gone ' he began, but the words died on hia 
lips. 
' Do not talk of this now, dear Greif.' 
He roused himself and sat straight in his chair. There was 
something of his father's look in his face, and his companion 
noticed that his fingers were strained as he grasped the carved wood 
in the effort to steady himself. 
' I must say it now,' he answered firmly. ' To-morrow I shall 
not be able to talk much, and it may happen that we shall never 
have another opportunity.' 
' Never ? ' 
' Perhaps never. It is to be good-bye. You must find another 
husband for Hilda, for I may not come back. That is what I 
wanted to say.' 
The baroness turned a startled look upon him and leant forwards 
toward him from her seat. She had not expected such a turn in 
the drama. 
' You do not suppose that I, an honourable man, would expect 
you to give your daughter to the son of a murderer ? ' 
The question was put so sharply and concisely that Frau von 
Sigmundskron was taken unawares. The thought had been 
painful enough when it had passed unspoken through the confusion 
of her reflexions, but Greif's statement gave it a new and horrible 
vividness. With a single sharp sob, she hid her face in her hands, 
and Greif saw that they trembled. His own heart was beating 
violently, for he had nerved himself to make the effort, but he had 
not anticipated the reaction that followed closely upon it. He felt 
as though, in pronouncing the detested word, he had struck his 
father's dead face with his hand. 
'God knows how I loved him,' he said, under his breath. 
' But he did the deed.' 
Frau von Sigmundskron did not distinguish the words he spoke, 
but she felt that she must say something. Her hands dropped 
from her strained and tearless eyes and fell upon her knees. 
'Oh, Greif! Greif!' she almost moaned, as she stared at the 
blazing logs. 
' That is what it comes to in the end,' he answered, summoning 
all his courage. ' I cannot marry Hilda. It was bad enough to 
be half disgraced by my father's brother you were kind enough 
to set that aside. It is worse now, for the stain is on the name 
itself. I cannot give it to Hilda. Would you have her called 
Greifenstein ? ' 
The baroness could not speak. Half an hour earlier she would 
not have dared to hope that Greif would himself renounce her 
daughter, but it was different now. She could not look upon his 
 
agonised face, and listen to the tones that came from his tortured 
heart, as he gave up all he held dear for the sake of acting honour- 
ably, she could not see his suffering and hear his words, and yet 
brutally admit that he was right, and that his sacrifice was a 
necessity. And yet her own conscience told her that her first 
thought must be for her own child, and not for him. She stared 
at the fire and answered nothing. 
'Would you have her write her name "Hilda von Greifenstein "V 
lie asked, forcing the words sternly from his lips. ' Would you 
have her angel purity darkened with the blood that is on my 
house ? ' 
' But you, Greif what will become of you ? ' 
' It matters little enough, so that I do no harm to those I love,' 
he answered. 
' It does matter,' said the baroness gently. ' It is not right or 
just that an innocent man should suffer for the deeds of others.' 
' It is right that he should suffer anything, rather than injure 
those who are not only innocent but free from inherited reproach.' 
There was a sudden energy in his manner which surprised his 
companion. His white face was illuminated by a sort of radiance 
from within, his voice was full and firm, the glance of his eyes 
piercing and determined. 
