Florida when the war came on. He was so provoked at the treatment he
received that he shipped in the navy at once. I only know that he had a
small steamer in these waters."
"Send for Mr. Amblen at once!" exclaimed the commander, who appeared to
have become suddenly excited. "There will be no moon to-night in these
parts, and we may be able to hurry this matter up if we have a competent
pilot."
Christy called Dave, and sent him for the acting third lieutenant, for
he knew that Mr. Flint had had the watch since four o'clock. Mr. Amblen
was sunning himself on the quarter deck, and he promptly obeyed the
summons.
"I am glad to see you, Mr. Amblen, and I hope you will prove to be as
useful a person as I have been led to believe you may be," said the
captain.
"I shall endeavor to do my duty, sir," replied the third lieutenant,
who was always very ambitious to earn the good opinion of his superiors.
"I mean to do the best I can to make myself useful, Captain Blowitt."
"I know that very well; but the question now is what you know rather
than what you can do as an officer. Mr. Passford informs me that you
were formerly engaged in some kind of a speculation on the west coast
of Florida."
"Hardly a speculation, sir, for I was engaged in the fish business,"
replied Mr. Amblen, laughing at the name which had been given to his
calling. "When I sold a small coaster that belonged to me, I got in
exchange a tug boat. I had been out of health a few years before; I
spent six months at Cedar Keys and Tampa, and got well. Fish were plenty
here, and of a kind that bring a good price farther north. I loaded my
tug with ice, and came down here in her. I did a first-rate business
buying from boats and in catching fish myself, and for a time I made
money, though ice was so dear that I had to sell in the South."
"Did you have a pilot on board of your tug?" asked the captain.
"No, sir; I was my own pilot. I had the charts, and I studied out the
bottom, so that I knew where I was in the darkest night."
"Then you are just the person we want if you are a pilot in these
waters."
"What waters, sir? We are now off Cape St. Blas and Apalachicola Bay.
I have been into the bay, but I am not a pilot in those waters, as you
suggest."
"I have just opened my orders, and I find we are ordered to Cedar Keys,"
interposed the commander.
"That is quite another thing, sir; and there isn't a foot of bottom
within five miles of the Keys to which I have not been personally
introduced. When I was down here for my health I was on the water more
than half of the time, and I learned all about the bay and coast; and I
have been up the Suwanee River, which flows into the Gulf eighteen miles
north of the Keys."
"I am exceedingly glad to find that we have such an excellent pilot on
board. I am informed in my orders that schooners load with cotton at
this place, and make an easy thing of getting to sea," added Captain
Blowitt.
"I should say that it was a capital port for the Confederates to use for
that sort of business. Small steamers can bring cotton down the Suwanee
River, the railroad from Fernandina terminates at the Key, and this road
connects with that to Jacksonville and the whole of western Florida as
far as Tallahassee."
"We may find a steamer or two there."
"You may, though not one any larger than the Bronx, for there is only
eleven feet of water on the bar. Probably no blockaders have yet been
stationed off the port, and it is a good place to run out cotton."
"I am much obliged to you, Mr. Amblen, for the information you have
given me, and your services will probably be in demand this very night,"
added the commander, rising from his chair.
"I am ready for duty at all times, sir," replied Mr. Amblen, as he
retired from the cabin.
The charts were then consulted, and sundry calculations were made. At
one o'clock that night the Bronx was off Cedar Keys.
CHAPTER XXII
A NIGHT EXPEDITION IN THE BOATS
During the evening Captain Blowitt had consulted his officers, and
arranged his plans for operations, or at least for obtaining information
in regard to the situation inside of North Key, where the landing place
is situated. He had already arranged to give the command of the boat
expedition to Christy, with the second lieutenant in another boat, Mr.
Amblen being with the executive officer in the first.
"Now, Mr. Passford, I do not expect you to capture the whole State of
Florida, and if you should return without accomplishing anything at
all, I shall not be disappointed, but I shall feel that you have done
everything that could be done," said the captain, with a very cheerful
smile, when all had been arranged.
"I shall endeavor to obey my orders, Captain Blowitt, if I can do so in
the exercise of a reasonable prudence," replied Christy, who took in all
that his superior looked, as well as all that he said.
"A reasonable prudence is decidedly good, coming from you, Mr.
Passford," said the captain, laughing outright.
"Why is it decidedly good from me rather than from anybody else?" asked
Christy, somewhat nettled by the remark.
"You objected once on board of the Bellevite when I mildly hinted that
you might sometimes, under some circumstances, with a strong temptation
before you, be just a little audacious," said the captain, still
laughing, as though he were engaged in a mere joke.
"That statement is certainly qualified in almost all directions, if you
will excuse me for saying so, captain," replied Christy, who was fully
determined not to take offence at anything his superior might say, for
he had always regarded him as one of his best friends. "If I remember
rightly the mild suggestion of a criticism which you gently and tenderly
applied to me was after we had brought out the Teaser from Pensacola
Bay."
"That was the time. Captain Breaker sent you to ascertain, if you could,
where the Teaser was, and you reported by bringing her out, which
certainly no one expected you would do, and I believe this part of the
programme carried out on that excursion was not mentioned in your
orders."
"It was not; but if I had a good chance to capture the steamer, was it
my duty to pass over that chance, and run the risk of letting the vessel
get out?"
"On the contrary, it was your duty, if you got a good chance, to capture
the steamer."
"And that is precisely what I did. I did not lose a man, or have one
wounded in the expedition; and I have only to be penitent for being
audacious," laughed Christy; and he was laughing very earnestly, as
though the extra cachinnation was assumed for a purpose. "I suppose
I ought to dress myself in ash cloth and sashes, shut myself up in my
state room always when off duty, and shed penitential tears from the
rising of the sun to the going down of the same, and during the lone
watches of the night, and in fortifying my soul against the monstrous
sin of audacity. I will think of it."
"I hope you have no feeling about this matter, Mr. Passford," said the
captain, rising from his chair and taking Christy by the hand.
"Not a particle, Captain Blowitt. I am absolutely sure that you would
have done precisely what I did, if you had been in my situation,"
protested Christy. "About the last thing my father talked about to me
when we parted in this cabin in New York Harbor was the necessity of
prudence and discretion in the discharge of my duties; and I am sure his
advice saved me from falling into the traps set for me by Hungerford and
Pawcett, and enabled me to capture two of the enemy's crack steamers."
"I will never use the word audacity or the adjective audacious to you
again, Christy. I see that it nettles you, to say the least," added the
captain, pressing his hand with more earnestness.
"I am perfectly willing you should apply both words to me when I
deserve it. Audacity means boldness, impudence, according to Stormonth.
Audacious means very bold, daring, impudent. It may have been bold to
run out the Teaser, and the enemy would even call it impudent, for the
meaning of a word sometimes depends upon which side you belong to. My
father was quite as impudent as I was when he ran the Bellevite out of
Mobile Bay, under the guns of Fort Morgan. He was audacious, wasn't he?"
"We should hardly apply that word to him."
"Why not? Simply because my father was forty-five years old when he told
Captain Breaker to do it. If I were only thirty years old I should not
be audacious. I am a boy, and therefore anything that I do is daring,
audacious, impudent, imprudent."
"I rather think you are right, Mr. Passford, and it is your age more
than the results of your actions that is the basis of our judgment,"
said Captain Blowitt.
"I wish to add seriously, captain, as a friend and not as an officer,
I do not claim that the command of this expedition should be given to
me because I am first lieutenant of the Bronx, or for any other reason,"
added Christy with an earnest expression. "Perhaps it would be better to
give the command to the second lieutenant; and if you do so, I assure
you, upon my honor, that it will not produce a particle of feeling in my
mind. I shall honor, respect, and love you as I have always, Captain
Blowitt."
"My dear fellow, you are entirely misunderstanding me," protested the
commander, as earnestly as his subordinate had spoken. "I give you the
command of this expedition because I honestly and sincerely believe you
are the very best person on board to whom I can commit such a
responsibility."
"That is enough, captain, and a great deal more than you were under
any obligations to say to me; and I shall obey my orders with all the
prudence and discretion I can bring to bear upon them," said Christy,
taking the captain's offered hand. "If I fail it will not be because I
do not try to be prudent."
"There is such a thing as being too prudent, and I hope that nothing
which has been said to you by your father or by me will drive you to the
other extreme."
Though this conversation had at times been very animated, Christy was
glad that it had taken place, for it gave him a better insight into his
own standing than he had before. He did not look upon it as a very great
affair to command a couple of boats, in a night expedition, for he had
recently commanded two steamers, and brought them off victorious. He
had it in mind to ask the captain to send Flint in command of the
expedition, though it would compel him, on account of his rank, to
remain inactive on board of the Bronx; but he could not do this,
after what had been said, without leaving some evidence that he was
disaffected by what the commander had said to him about audacity.
It was found after a calculation of the run very carefully made that the
Bronx would arrive too soon at her destination, and she was slowed down
as the evening came on. In the ward room, of which Christy was now the
occupant of the forward berth on the starboard side, he studied the
chart with Amblen a good part of the waiting hours, and the executive
officer obtained all the information he could from the third lieutenant.
There were three principal keys, or cays, one of which, called the North
Key, was the nearest to the mainland, and was set in the mouth of a bay.
This was the nearest to the peninsula at the end of which the railroad
terminates. About southwest of it is the Seahorse Key, on which there is
a light in peaceful times. To the south of the point is the Snake Key,
and between the last two is the main channel to the port, which twists
about like the track of a snake. There is a town, or rather a village,
near the landing.
Six bells struck on deck, and all the officers, including the captain,
adjourned to the bridge, which was a useful institution on such
occasions as the present. A sharp watch had been kept by Lieutenant
Flint in charge; but though the night was clear, nothing had been made
out in the direction of the shore. All lights on board had been put out,
and the Bronx went along in the smooth sea as quietly as a lady on a
fashionable promenade, and it was not believed that anything could be
seen of her from the shore.
About midnight the lookout man aloft reported that he could see a
twinkling light. It was promptly investigated by Mr. Amblen, who went
aloft for the purpose. He was satisfied that it was a light in some
house in the village, probably in the upper story. It soon disappeared,
and it was thought to be occasioned by the late retiring of some person.
"I should say, Captain Blowitt, that we are not more than five miles
outside of Seahorse Key," said Mr. Amblen, after he had interpreted the
meaning of the light. "It is after midnight, and these people are not in
the habit of sitting up so late."
"If they are shipping much cotton from this port, it is not improbable
that there is a force here to protect the vessels, whatever they are,"
added the commander.
"Of that, of course, I can know nothing; but I shall expect to find a
Confederate battery somewhere on the point, and I know about where to
look for it."
"The place has never been of any great importance, and you can hardly
expect to find a very strong force in it," added the captain.
It has since become a place of more note, both as a resort for invalids
and pleasure-seekers, and as the termination of the railroad from
Fernandina and Jacksonville, and steamers have run regularly from the
port to Havana and New Orleans.
"If you will excuse me, Captain Blowitt, I should say that it was not
advisable to take the Bronx nearer than within about four miles of the
Seahorse Key," suggested Mr. Amblen.
"I was just thinking that we had gone as far as it is prudent to go.
Do you think you could take the Bronx up to the landing?" added the
captain.
"I am very sure that I could, for I have been in many a time on a darker
night than this."
"We will not go in to-night, but perhaps we may have occasion to do so
to-morrow. We shall know better what to do when we get a report of the
state of things in the place," replied the captain, as he gave the word
through the speaking tube to stop the steamer.
Christy had been given full powers to make all preparations for the boat
expedition, and was allowed ten men to each of the quarter boats. He had
selected the ones for his own boat, and had required Flint to pick his
own crew for the other. The oars had been carefully muffled by the
coxswains, for it was desirable that no alarm should be given in the
place. The starboard quarter boat was the first cutter, pulled by six
oars, and this was for Christy and Mr. Amblen, with the regular coxswain
and three hands in the bow. The second cutter was in charge of Mr.
Flint, and followed the other boat, keeping near enough to obtain her
course in the twists of the channel.
It was a long pull to the Seahorse Key, and a moderate stroke was taken
as well not to tire the men as to avoid all possible noise. When the
first cutter was abreast of the Key, the pilot pointed out the dark
outline of the peninsula, which was less than a mile distant. No vessel
could be seen; but the pilot thought they might be concealed by the
railroad buildings on the point. Christy asked where the battery was
which the pilot thought he could locate, and the spot was indicated to
him. Christy wanted a nearer view of it, and the cutter was headed in
that direction.
CHAPTER XXIII
THE VISIT TO A SHORE BATTERY
The first cutter reached the Seahorse Key closely followed by the
second. It was within an hour of high tide, the ordinary rise and fall
of which was two and a half feet. On the Key was a light house, and a
cottage for the keeper of it; but the former was no longer illuminated,
and the house was as dark as the head of the tower. So far as could be
discovered there was no one on the Key, though the boats did not stop to
investigate this matter. The crews still pulled a moderate stroke with
their muffled oars, the men were not allowed to talk, and everything was
as silent as the inside of a tomb.
The pilot stood up in the stern sheets of the cutter, gazing intently
in the direction of the point nearly a mile ahead. The outlines of the
buildings could be discerned, and Amblen soon declared that he could
make out the tops of the masts of several vessels to the westward of
the point with which the peninsula terminated. This looked hopeful, and
indicated that the information upon which the expedition had been sent
out was correct. Christy began to think he should have a busy night
before him when Amblen said there were at least three vessels at the
port.
The battery was first to be visited and cared for if there was one,
and it was not probable that a place so open to the operations of
the blockading force would be without one, especially if the people
were actually engaged in loading cotton, as the masts of the vessels
indicated, though the hulls could not yet be seen. As the first cutter
approached nearer to the place the outlines became more distinct, and
soon embodied themselves into definite objects. Both officers in the
stern sheets watched with the most anxious vigilance for any moving
object denoting the presence of life and intelligence.
As the boats came nearer to the shore, a breeze sprang up, and cooled
the air, for early as it was in the season, the weather was very warm,
and it was not uncommon for the thermometer to rise above ninety. These
breezes were usually present to cool the nights, and doubtless the
inhabitants slept the sounder for the one which had just begun to fan
the cheeks of the officers and seamen of the expedition.
"There is a battery there, Mr. Passford," said the pilot in a very low
tone. "I can make it out now, and it is just where I supposed it would
be."
"I can see something that seems like an earthwork at the right of the
buildings," added Christy. "Can you make out anything that looks like a
sentinel?"
"I can see nothing that denotes the presence of a man. If there were
a sentinel there, he would be on the top of the earthwork, or on the
highest ground about it, so that he could see out into the bay, for
there can be no danger from the land side of the place," added Amblen.
"I can hardly imagine such a thing as a battery without a sentinel to
give warning if anybody should try to carry it off. There must be a
sentry somewhere in the vicinity."
"I can't say there isn't, though I can't make out a man, or anything
that looks like one," replied the pilot.
"Very likely we shall soon wake him up, Mr. Amblen; and in that case it
will be necessary for us to find a safer place than in front of the guns
of the battery, for I do not feel at liberty to expose the men to the
fire of the works, whatever they are."
"All you have to do is to pull around to the other side of the point
into the bay, where the vessels are. I am confident there is no battery
on that side, and there can hardly be any need of one, for this one
commands the channel, the only approach to the place for a vessel larger
than a cutter."
"I fancy this battery does not amount to much, and is probably nothing
more than an earthwork, with a few field guns behind it. Suppose we
should wake it up, and have to make for the bay, can we get out of it
without putting the boats under the guns of the battery?"
"Without any difficulty at all, sir. We have only to pull around the
North Key, and pass out to the Gulf, beyond the reach of any field gun
that can be brought to bear on us," replied Mr. Amblen.
"If they have one or two field batteries here, they may hitch on the
horses, and follow us," suggested Christy, who, in spite of the audacity
with which he had been mildly charged, was not inclined to run into any
trap from which he could not readily withdraw his force.
"We shall have the short line, and if they pursue us with the guns, we
can retire by the way of the channel, which they will leave uncovered."
"We are getting quite near the shore," continued Christy. "How is the
water under us?"
"The bottom is sandy, and we shall take the ground before we reach the
shore if we don't manage properly. But we can tell something by the
mangroves that fringe the land," replied the pilot; "and I will go into
the bow of the cutter and look out for them."
Mr. Amblen made his way to the fore sheets, and asked Boxie, who was
there, for the boathook, with which he proceeded to sound. When he had
done so, he raised both his hands to a level with his shoulders, which
was the signal to go ahead, and the men pulled a very slow stroke. He
continued to sound, after he had selected the point for landing.
When the first cutter was within three lengths of the shore, he elevated
both his hands above his head, which was the signal to cease rowing,
though the two bow oarsmen kept their oars in the water instead of
boating them as the others did. Mr. Amblen continued to feel the way,
and in a few minutes more, aided by the shoving of the two bow oarsmen,
he brought the boat to the shore.
Then he gave his attention to the second cutter, bringing it to the
land alongside of the first. Stepping out on the sand himself, he
was followed by all the crew, with cutlass in hand, and revolvers in
readiness for use. The men were placed in order for an advance, and then
required to lie down on the sand, so that they could not readily be seen
if any stroller appeared on the ground.
Leaving the force in charge of Mr. Flint, Christy and Amblen walked
towards the battery, crouching behind such objects as they could
find that would conceal them in whole or in part. The earthwork was
semicircular in form, and was hardly more than a rifle pit. No sentinel
could be discovered, and getting down upon the sand, the two officers
crept cautiously towards the heaps of sand which formed the fort.
Christy climbed up the slope with some difficulty, for the dry sand
afforded a very weak foothold. On the top of it, which was about six
feet wide, they found a solid path which had evidently been a promenade
for sentinels or other persons. Behind it, on a wooden platform, were
four field guns, with depressions in the earthwork in front of the
muzzles.
Christy led the way down the slope on the inside to the pieces, which
were twelve-pounders. At a little distance from the platform was a sort
of casemate, which might have been constructed for a magazine, or for a
place of resort for the gunners if the fort should be bombarded. Not a
man could be seen, and if there was any garrison for the place, they
were certainly taking things very comfortably, for they must have been
asleep at this unseemly hour for any ordinary occupation.
Not far from the battery was a rude structure, hardly better than a
shanty, which Christy concluded must be the barracks of the soldiers if
there were any there. He walked over to it; but there was not a human
being to be seen in the vicinity. It was half past one at night, when
honest people ought to be abed and asleep, and the first lieutenant of
the Bronx concluded that the garrison, if this shanty was their
quarters, must be honest people.
Christy walked very cautiously to the side of the building, for the
entrance was at the end nearest to the fort, and found several windows
there, from which the sashes seemed to have been removed, if there had
ever been any. The bottom of each opening was no higher than his head,
and he went to one of them and looked in.
Extending along the middle of the interior was a row of berths. It was
very dark inside, and he could not make out whether or not these bunks
were occupied. The windows on the other side of the shanty enabled him
to see that there were two rows of berths, each backing against the
other. There were two in each tier, and he judged that the barrack would
accommodate forty-eight men.
He retained his place at the window in order to discover any movement
made by a sleeper that would inform him whether or not the berths were
occupied. If there were any soldiers there, they were as quiet as
statues; but while he was watching for a movement, he heard a decided
snore. There was at least one man there, and he continued to hear his
sonorous breathing as long as he remained at the window, which was the
first on the side of the shanty.
  [Illustration: Christy walked the whole length of the shanty.]
Christy decided to push the investigation still farther, and he went
to a window in the middle of the building. He regarded the berths with
attention for a few minutes, but he could perceive no movement. He could
hear two snorers who seemed to be competing with each other to see who
could make the most noise.
If the berths were all occupied, three snorers were not a very great
proportion in forty-eight. He was very anxious to ascertain if this was
the number of soldiers in the place, but it was too dark in the shanty
for him to determine whether or not the bunks were all in use. It was
too many for him to encounter with his force of twenty men and three
officers in the open field.
Christy returned to the end of the building, and tried the door. It was
not locked, and he decided to make use of a little of the audacity of
which he was accused of having a good deal. Taking off his shoes, and
passing his sword to Mr. Amblen, he entered the barrack on tiptoe.
The boards of the floor began to creak under his weight; he stooped down
and felt till he found the nail holes; then he knew that he was on a
timber, and he walked the whole length of the shanty, returning on the
opposite side, counting the occupied berths, for he passed within three
feet of all of them. The count gave seventeen men as the number of
sleepers, though this might not be all the force at the place.
He had ascertained all he wished to know, and he walked back to the
shore where the men were concealed. Apart from the men, he had a
conference with Flint and Amblen, giving them the details of what he had
discovered. Then he stated his plan, and the men were marched silently
to the battery, and were posted behind the breastwork. Not a man was
allowed to move, and Christy and Flint went to the casemate, which
looked like a mound of sand.
It was locked, but taking a bar of iron they found with some tools for
digging, they tore off the padlock. A lantern had been brought from
the steamer, which was lighted. The structure was found to be for the
protection of the artillerists in the first instance; but the apartment
was connected with the magazine, the lock of which was removed.
Amblen was sent for ten men, and all the ammunition they could carry was
removed. The rest of it was thrown into a pool of water made by recent
rains. The powder, solid shot, and shells were carried to the boats. The
rest of the men drew the four guns to the shore, where one was placed,
with its carriage, in each of the cutters, and the other two put where
they could be carried to the Bronx, or thrown overboard in deep water,
as occasion might require.
The seventeen soldiers, reinforced by any that might be in the town,
were thus deprived of the power to do any mischief except in a
hand-to-hand fight. If the place was not actually captured, it was
practically lost to the enemy. The next business of the expedition was
to examine the bay, and ascertain what vessels were at the landing
place. The boats shoved off, and pulled around the point.
CHAPTER XXIV
CAPTAIN LONLEY OF THE STEAMER HAVANA
The two twelve-pounders in each boat were believed to weigh about six
hundred pounds each, while the ordinary bronze boat gun of the same
calibre weighs seven hundred and sixty pounds. The four guns, therefore,
were rather too heavy a burden for the size of the cutters. But Christy
was unwilling to throw the two without carriages overboard, for the
water in this locality was so clear that they could have been seen at a
depth of two or three fathoms. They were useless for the duty in which
the expedition was engaged, and the commander of the expedition decided
to land them on the Seahorse Key till he had completed his operations in
the bay, when they could be taken off and transported to the Bronx as
trophies, if for nothing better.
Mr. Flint was disposed to object to this plan, on account of the time it
would require; but he yielded the point when Christy informed him that
it was only half past two, as he learned from the repeater he carried
for its usefulness on just such duty as the present expedition.
The guns and all that belonged to them were landed on the Key, and the
boats shoved off, the lieutenants happy in the thought that they were no
longer embarrassed by their weight, while they could not be brought to
bear upon them.
The boats had hardly left the little island behind them when the noise
of paddle wheels ahead was reported by one of the trio in the bow of the
first cutter. Christy listened with all his ears, and immediately heard
the peculiar sounds caused by the slapping of the paddle wheels of a
steamer upon the water.
"We are in for something," said he to the pilot, as he listened to the
sounds. "What might that be?"
"It is a steamer without any doubt coming around the point, and she will
be in sight in a moment or two," replied Mr. Amblen. "It may be a river
steamer that has brought a load of cotton down the Suwanee, and is going
out on this tide."
"Then we may need those guns we have left on the key," suggested
Christy.
"If she is a river steamer, there is not much of a force on board of
her," replied the pilot.
"We might return to the island, and use the two guns with carriages
there."
"If she is a river steamer, we shall not need great guns to capture
her."
Christy had ordered the men to cease rowing, and the two cutters lay
motionless on the full sea, for the tide was at its height by this time.
Even in the darkness they could make out whether the approaching vessel
was a river or a sea steamer as soon as she could be seen.
"Whatever she is, we must capture her," said Christy, very decidedly.
"If she is a river steamer, she will be of no use to the government,"
added Mr. Amblen.
"Of none at all." replied Christy. "In that case I shall burn her, for
it would not be safe to send good men in such a craft to a port where
she could be condemned. The next question is, shall we take her here,
or nearer to the shore."
"The farther from the shore the better, I should say, Mr. Passford.
After she passes the Seahorse Key, she will be in deep water for a
vessel coming out of that port; and until she gets to the Key, she will
move very slowly, and we can board her better than when she is going at
full speed," said Mr. Amblen.
"You are doubtless quite right, Mr. Amblen, and I shall adopt your
suggestion," replied Christy. "There she comes, and she is no river
steamer."
She had not the two tall funnels carried by river steamers, and that
point was enough to settle her character. There could be no doubt she
would have been a blockade runner, if there had been any blockade to
run at the entrance to the port. Christy decided to board the steamer
between the two keys, the channel passing between Snake and Seahorse.
The first cutter fell back so that Christy could communicate with Mr.
Flint, and he instructed him to take a position off the Snake Key, where
his boat could not be discovered too soon, and board the steamer on the
port side, though he did not expect any resistance. Each cutter took its
position and awaited in silence the approach of the blockade runner. The
only thing Christy feared was that she would come about and run back to
the port, though this could only delay her capture.
The steamer, as well as the officers could judge her in the distance,
was hardly larger than the Bronx. They concluded that she must be loaded
with cotton, and at this time it was about as valuable a cargo as could
be put on board of her. She would be a rich prize, and the masts of the
schooners were still to be seen over the tops of the buildings. She must
have chosen this hour of the night to go out, not only on account of the
tide, but because the darkness would enable her to get off the coast
where a blockader occasionally wandered before the blockade was fully
established. Her paddle wheels indicated that she had not been built
very recently, for very nearly all sea steamers, including those of the
United States, were propelled by the screw.
As Mr. Amblen had predicted the steamer moved very slowly, and it was
all of a quarter of an hour before she came to the Seahorse Key. At the
right time Christy gave the word to the crew to "Give way lively!" and
the first cutter shot out from the concealment of the little island,
while Flint did the same on the other side of the channel. Almost in the
twinkling of an eye the two boats had made fast to her, and seven men
from each boat leaped on the deck of the steamer, cutlass in hand. No
guns were to be seen, and the watch of not more than half a dozen men
were on the forecastle; and perhaps this was the entire force of the
sailing department.
"What does all this mean?" demanded a man coming from the after part of
the vessel, in a voice which Christy recognized as soon as he had heard
half of the sentence.
"Good morning, Captain Lonley," said Christy, in the pleasantest of
tones. "You are up early, my friend, but I think we are a little ahead
of you on this occasion."
"Who are you, sir?" demanded Lonley; and Christy had at once jumped to
the conclusion that he was the captain of the steamer. "I have heard
your voice before, but I cannot place you, sir."
"Fortunately for me, it is not necessary that you should place me this
time," replied Christy. "It is equally fortunate that I am not compelled
to place you again, as I felt obliged to do, on board of the Judith in
Mobile Bay."
"Passford!" exclaimed Captain Lonley, stepping back a pace in his
astonishment.
"Passford, late of the Bellevite, and now executive officer of the
United States steamer Bronx, formerly the Teaser, privateer," answered
Christy, in his usual cheerful tones. "May I inquire the name of this
steamer?"
"This steamer is the Havana," replied Captain Lonley. "May I ask you,
Mr. Passford, in regard to your business on board of her?"
"I have a little affair on board of her, and my duty compels me to
demand her surrender as a prize to the Bronx."
"Caught again!" exclaimed Captain Lonley, stamping violently on the deck
in his disgust at his misfortune, and it was the third time that Christy
had thrown him "out of a job."
"The way of the transgressor is hard, Captain Lonley," added the
commander of the expedition.
"Transgressor, sir!" ejaculated the captain of the Havana. "What do you
mean by that, Mr. Passford?"
"Well, captain, you are in arms against the best government that the
good God ever permitted to exist for eighty odd years; and that is the
greatest transgression of which one can be guilty in a patriotic sense."
"I hold no allegiance to that government."
"So much the worse for you, Captain Lonley; but we will not talk
politics. Do you surrender?"
"This is not an armed steamer, and I have no force to resist; I am
compelled to surrender," replied the captain as he glanced at the
cutlasses of the men from the Bronx.
"That is a correct, though not a cheerful view of the question on
your part. I am very happy to relieve you from any further care of the
Havana, and you may retire to your cabin, where I shall have the honor
to wait upon you later."
"One word, Mr. Passford, if you please," said Captain Lonley, taking
Christy by the arm and leading him away from the rest of the boarding
party. "This steamer and the cotton with which she is loaded are the
property of your uncle, Homer Passford."
"Indeed?" was all that Christy thought it necessary to say in reply.
"You have already taken from him one valuable cargo of cotton; and it
would be magnanimous in you, as well as very kind of a near relative,
to allow me to pass on my way with the property of your uncle."
"Would it have been kind on the part of a near relative to allow his own
brother to pass out of Mobile Bay in the Bellevite?"
"That would have been quite another thing, for the Bellevite was
intended for the Federal navy," protested the Confederate captain. "It
would have been sacrificing his country to his fraternal feelings. This
is not a Confederate vessel, and is not intended as a war steamer,"
argued Lonley.
"Every pound of cotton my uncle sells is so much strength added to the
cause he advocates; and I hope, with no unkind thoughts or feelings in
regard to him, I shall be able to capture every vessel he sends out.
That is my view of the matter, and I am just as strong on my side of the
question as Uncle Homer is on his side. I would cut off my right hand
before I would allow your vessel or any other to escape, for I have
sworn allegiance to my government, and when I fail to do my duty at any
sacrifice of personal feeling, it will be when I have lost my mind; and
my uncle would do as much for his fractional government. We need not
discuss such a subject as you suggest, captain."
Captain Lonley said no more, and retired to his cabin. Christy was ready
for the next question in order. Accompanied by Mr. Flint, he looked the
steamer over. The mate had lighted his pipe and seated himself on a
water cask; and he seemed to be the only officer besides the captain on
board. The engineers were next visited. There were two of them, but they
were red hot for the Confederacy, and nothing was said to them except to
order them on deck, where they were placed with the crew, and a guard of
seamen set over them. The firemen were negroes, and they were willing to
serve under the new master, and doubtless were pleased with the change.
The crew of the Bronx on board of the Havana were canvassed to find a
man who had run an engine, but not one of them had any experience.
"That's bad," said Flint, when they had finished the inquiry. "We have
not an engineer on board, and we shall have to send off to the Bronx for
one."
"Not so bad as that, Mr. Flint," replied Christy. "There is one loyal
engineer on board, and I am the one. You will take the deck, and Mr.
Amblen will go into the pilot house. I am not quite ready to go off to
the Bronx yet, for there are two or three cotton schooners in this port,
and we are so fortunate as to have a steamer now to tow them out."
"Very likely those soldiers have waked up by this time," said Flint.
"Let them fire those guns at us, if they can find them," laughed
Christy.
Then he took Mr. Amblen into the engine room with him.
CHAPTER XXV
THE NEW ENGINEER OF THE PRIZE STEAMER
While enthusiastically pursuing his studies as an engineer, Christy
had visited a great many steamers with Paul Vapoor for the purpose of
examining the engines, so that he could hardly expect to find one with
whose construction he was not familiar, whether it was an American or a
foreign built machine. At the first glance after he entered the engine
room of the Havana, he knew the engine, and was ready to run it without
spending any time in studying it. He had brought the pilot with him in
order to come to an understanding in regard to the bells, for in the
navy the signals differ from those in the commercial marine.
"This steamer is provided with a gong and a jingling bell," said
Christy, as he pointed them out to his companion.
"My little steamer on this coast was run with just such bells," replied
Mr. Amblen.
"And so was the Bellevite, so that I am quite accustomed to the system
of signals; but it is well to be sure that we understand each other
perfectly if we expect to get this vessel out of the bay after we go
up to the port," added Christy.
"I agree with you entirely, sir. A single strong stroke on the gong is
to start or to stop her according to the circumstances," said the pilot.
"Precisely so; and two strokes are to back her," continued Christy.
"Going at full speed, the jingler brings the engine down to half speed,
or at half speed carries it up to full speed."
"That is my understanding of the matter," replied Mr. Amblen.
"Then we understand each other to a charm," continued the temporary
engineer. "Report to Mr. Flint that we are ready to go ahead."
Christy found a colored man who was on duty as an oiler, and four others
in the fire room, who seemed to be engaged in an earnest discussion of
the situation, for the capture of the Havana was a momentous event to
all of them. The oiler was at work, and had thoroughly lubricated the
machinery, as though he intended that any failure of the steamer should
not be from any fault on his part.
The new official set two of the firemen at work, though the boilers had
a good head of steam. The gong bell gave one sharp stroke, and Christy
started the engine.
The Havana was headed out to sea when she was captured, and in the slack
water she had not drifted at all. He went ahead slowly, and soon had the
bell to stop her; but he expected this, for the channel was narrow, and
it required considerable manoeuvring to get the steamer about. Then he
happened to think of the guns on the Seahorse Key, and through the
speaking tube he passed the word to Mr. Flint to have him land there
in order to take the guns and ammunition on board.
After a great deal of backing and going ahead, the Havana was headed
for the key, where she was stopped as near to it as the depth of water
would permit. The guns and other material were brought off, two of the
firemen, the oiler, and other colored men of the crew of the Havana
assisting in the work. The two guns that were provided with carriages
were mounted, and placed on the forecastle. They were loaded and
prepared for service by the trained gunners of the crew. Christy had
directed all this to be done on account of the delay which had attended
the good fortune of the expedition, for he might not get out of the bay
before the daylight came to reveal the presence of the force he
commanded to the people on the shore.
The gong rang again when all these preparations had been made, and the
Havana steamed slowly up the channel towards the bay. The oiler appeared
to have finished his work for the present. He was a more intelligent man
than the others of his color on board, and seemed to understand his
duties. Christy spoke to him, for he said nothing unless he was spoken
to, and he had learned that the commander of the expedition was doing
duty as engineer in the absence of any other competent person.
"How many schooners are there at the landing place at the keys?" asked
Christy.
"Only two schooners, sir," replied the man very respectfully.
"Are they loaded, --what is your name?" asked the engineer.
"My name is Dolly, sir."
"Dolly? That is a girl's name."
"My whole name is Adolphus, sir; but everybody calls me Dolly, and
I can't help myself," replied the oiler soberly, as though he had a
real grievance on account of the femininity of his nickname. "The two
schooners are not quite loaded, sir, but they are very nearly full. They
had some trouble here, among the hands."
"Had some trouble, did they? I should think there were soldiers enough
here to keep everything straight. How many artillerists or soldiers do
they keep here?" added Christy.
"They had about forty, but they don't have half that number now."
"What has become of them?"
"They were sent away to look for the hands that took to the woods. One
of the officers and about half of the men were sent off yesterday,"
replied Dolly, who seemed willing to tell all he knew.
"Why did the men run off?" asked Christy curiously.
"They brought about fifty hands, all slaves, down here to load the
steamer and the schooners. They set them at work yesterday morning, and
they had nearly put all the cotton into the schooners at dinner time.
To make the niggers work harder, they gave them apple jack."
"What is that?" asked the engineer, who never heard the name before.
"It is liquor made out of apples, and it is very strong," answered
Dolly; and he might have added that it was the vilest intoxicant to
be found in the whole world, not even excepting Russian vodka.
"And this liquor made the hands drunk, I suppose."
"They did not give them enough for that, sir; but it made them kind of
crazy, and they wanted more of it. That made the trouble; the hands
struck for liquor before dinner, and when they didn't get it, they took
to the woods, about fifty of them. The soldiers had to get their dinner
before they would start out after them; and that is the reason the
schooners are not full now, sir, and not a bale had been put into this
steamer."
"But she seems to be fully loaded now."
"Yes, sir; Captain Lonley paid the soldiers that were left to load the
Havana. They worked till eleven in the evening; they were not used to
that kind of work, and they got mighty tired, I can tell you," said
Dolly, with the first smile Christy had seen on his yellow face, for he
appeared to enjoy the idea of a squad of white men doing niggers' work.
"That was what made them sleep so soundly, and leave the battery on the
point to take care of itself," said Christy. "Where were the officers?"
"Two of them have gone on the hunt for the hands, and I reckon the
captain is on a visit to a planter who has a daughter, about forty miles
from here."
"The soldiers were sleeping very soundly in the barrack about two this
morning; and perhaps they were also stimulated with apple jack," added
Christy. "Did you drink any of it, Dolly?"
"No, sir, I never drink any liquor, for I am a preacher," replied the
oiler, with a very serious and solemn expression on his face.
"How do you happen to be a greaser on a steamer if you are a preacher?"
"I worked on a steamer on the Alabama River before I became a preacher,
and I took it up again. I was raised in a preacher's family, and worked
in the house."
He talked as though he had been educated, but he could neither read nor
write, and had picked up all his learning by the assistance of his ears
alone. But Christy had ascertained all he wished to know in regard to
the schooners, and he was prepared to carry out his mission in the bay.
At the fort it appeared that all the commissioned officers were absent
from the post, and the men, after exhausting themselves at work to which
they were unaccustomed, had taken to their bunks and were sleeping off
the fatigue, and perhaps the effects of the apple jack. While he was
thinking of the matter, the gong struck, and Christy stopped the engine.
"Do you know anything about an engine, Dolly?" he asked, turning to the
oiler.
"Yes, sir; I run the engine of the Havana over here from Mobile,"
replied Dolly. "I can do it as well as any one, if they will only trust
me."
"Then stand by the machine, and obey the bells if they are struck,"
added Christy, as he went on deck.
He found the second and third lieutenants standing on the rail engaged
in examining the surroundings. The day was just beginning to show itself
in the east, though it was not yet light enough to enable them to see
clearly on shore. By the side of the railroad building was a pier, at
which the two schooners lay. They could hear the sounds of some kind of
a stir on shore, but were unable to make out what it meant.
"We are losing time," said Christy, as he took in at a glance all he
deemed it necessary to know in regard to the situation.
"I was about to report to you, Mr. Passford; but Mr. Amblen wished to
ascertain whether or not there is a battery on this side of the point,"
said Flint.
"Do you find anything, Mr. Amblen?"
"No, sir; I can see nothing that looks like a battery," replied the
pilot.
"Then run in, and we will make fast to these schooners and haul them
out," added Christy in hurried tones.
The pilot went to the wheel, and rang one bell on the gong. Dolly
started the engine before Christy could reach the machine. He said
nothing to the oiler, but seated himself on the sofa, and observed his
movements. A few minutes later came the bell to stop her, and then two
bells to back her. Dolly managed the machine properly and promptly, and
seemed to be at home in the engine room. The color of his skin was a
sufficient guaranty of his loyalty, but Christy remained below long
enough to satisfy himself that Dolly knew what he was about, and then
went on deck.
By this time the noise on shore had become more pronounced, and he saw
the dark forms of several persons on the wharf. Flint and Amblen were
making fast to the nearest schooner, and a couple of seamen had been
sent on shore to cast off the fasts which held her to the wharf. This
was the work of but a moment, and the two men returned to the steamer;
but they were closely followed by two men, one of whom stepped on the
deck of the schooner.
"What are you about here?" demanded the foremost of the men, in a rude
and impertinent manner.
"About our business," replied Christy, with cool indifference.
"Who are you, young man?" demanded the one on the deck.
"I am yours truly; who are you?"
"None of your business who I am! I asked you a question, and you will
answer it if you know when you are well off," blustered the man, who was
rather too fat to be dangerous; and by this time, Christy discovered
that he wore something like a uniform.
"I will try to find out when I am well off, and then I will answer you,"
replied Christy.
"All fast, sir," reported Flint.
The commander of the expedition, turning his back to the fat man, went
forward to the pilot house.
CHAPTER XXVI
THE BATTLE WITH THE SOLDIERS
Mr. Amblen went to the pilot house, and rang two bells. Dolly responded
properly by starting the engine on the reverse, and the schooner
alongside began to move away from the wharf, for the stern of the Havana
pointed out into the bay.
"Stop, there! What are you about?" shouted the fat man on the deck of
the schooner.
"About going," replied Christy.
"These vessels are the property of a citizen of the Confederate States,
and I command you to stop," yelled the fat man with all the voice he
could muster.
"All right," replied Christy, as the gong sounded to stop her. "Now, Mr.
Flint, cast off the fasts, and let the schooner go astern," he added to
the second lieutenant.
"All clear, sir," replied Flint a moment later, and after the steamer
lost her headway, the vessel continued to back, though the Havana was
checked by the engine.
The fat man went adrift in the schooner, but Christy gave no further
attention to him. The steamer was started ahead again; her bow was run
alongside of the other vessel at the wharf, and Flint proceeded in the
same manner as with the first one.
"Orderly!" shouted the fat man, evidently addressing the man who had
come to the schooner with him, and had retreated to the wharf when the
vessel began to move.
"Captain Rowly!" replied the man, who was doubtless the orderly sergeant
of the company.
"Go to the barracks and have the men haul the four field pieces over to
the wharf," yelled the fat captain.
"All right, little one! Have them hauled over by all means," said
Christy, as the men made fast to the other schooner, and cast off the
fasts.
But it was soon evident that the sleepy soldiers had been roused from
their slumbers by some other agency than the orderly, though it was not
quite possible for them to haul over the four guns, as they happened
to be on the forward deck of the Havana. But the men were armed with
muskets, and were capable of doing a great deal of mischief with them.
Christy hurried up the men at the fasts, but they had about finished
their task.
"All clear, Mr. Passford," called Mr. Flint, as the soldiers
double-quicked across the railroad to the wharf, upon which there was
still a huge pile of bales of cotton.
"Back her, Mr. Amblen," said Christy, as he hastened aft to avoid a
collision with the other schooner.
But the tide had begun to recede, and had carried the first vessel to a
safe distance from the wharf.
The soldiers reached the edge of the wharf, and were probably under the
command of the orderly by this time. At any rate they marched farther
down the pier, where they could be nearer to the Havana as she backed
away. Then the troops fired a volley at the steamer; but in the darkness
they did no serious injury to the party, though two seamen were slightly
wounded.
"Cast off the fasts!" shouted Christy, when he realized that some of his
men were in a fair way to be shot down before they could get the two
schooners alongside and properly secured for the trip to the Bronx, and
the order was promptly obeyed. "Now, check her, Mr. Amblen;" and two
bells were sounded on the gong, after one to stop her.
The second schooner kept on her course out into the bay to join the
first one cast loose; but Christy feared that they might get aground,
and give them trouble. The seventeen soldiers whom he had counted in
their bunks appeared to have been reinforced either by the return of the
absent party, or by the civilians in the place, for they presented a
more formidable front than the smaller number could make. Whatever the
number of the defenders of the place, they could harass the expedition
while the men were preparing for the final departure.
"With what were those two guns charged, Mr. Flint?" asked Christy.
"With solid shot, sir," replied the second lieutenant.
"Open fire on the wharf, and then load with the shrapnel," added
Christy.
The two guns, which had been placed in proper position for use on the
top-gallant forecastle, were aimed by Flint himself, and discharged. The
report shook the steamer, and Christy, who retained his position on the
quarter deck, heard a scream of terror, coming from a female, issue from
the companion way, at the head of which a seaman had been placed as a
sentinel over the officers below.
"What was that, Neal?" asked the commander of the expedition.
"It was the scream of a lady, sir, and that is all I know about it,"
replied the man. "I haven't seen any lady, sir, and I think she must
have been asleep so far. The captain tried to come on deck a while ago,
but I sent him back, sir."
By this time the two field pieces had been loaded again, and they were
discharged. Christy watched the effect, and he had the pleasure of
seeing the whole troop on the wharf retire behind the great pile of
bales of cotton. A random fire was kept up from this defence, but the
soldiers were safe behind their impenetrable breastwork. Flint continued
to fire into it.
At the report of the guns, nearly together, which made the Havana shake,
and everything on board of her rattle, for she was not built to carry
a battery of guns, another scream came forth from the companion way.
A moment later, Christy saw a female form ascending the stairs. The
sentinel placed his cutlass across the passage; but the lieutenant told
him to let her come on deck if she desired to do so.
It was light enough for the gallant young officer to see that she was
young and fair, though she had evidently dressed herself in great haste.
She looked around her with astonishment, perhaps to find that the
steamer was no longer at the wharf. The guns on the forecastle were
again discharged, and she shrunk back at the sound.
"Do not be alarmed, miss," said Christy, in his gentlest tones. "But I
must say that you will be safer in the cabin than on deck."
"Will you please to tell me what has happened, sir, or what is going to
happen?" asked the lady; and the listener thought he had never heard a
sweeter voice, though he might not have thought so if he had heard it at
Bonnydale, or anywhere else except in the midst of the din of pealing
guns and the rattling of musketry.
