the hope that the Liberal candidate at Harsh would be 
returned. Nash replied first : " Oh, I hadn't been in this 
place then ! " but he defended himself more effectually in 
saying that it was not of Nick's having got elected that he 
complained : it was of his visible hesitancy to throw up his 
seat. Nick requested that he wouldn't speak of this, and his 
gallantry failed to render him incapable of saying : " The fact 
is I haven't the nerve for it." They talked then for a while 
of what he could do, not of what he couldn't ; of the mysteries 
and miracles of reproduction and representation ; of the strong, 
sane joys of the artistic life. Nick made afresh, with more 
fullness, his great confession, that his private ideal of happi- 
ness was the life of a great painter of portraits. He uttered 
his thought about this so copiously and lucidly that Nash's 
own abundance was stilled, and he listened almost as if he had 
been listening to something new, difficult as it was to suppose 
that there could be a point of view in relation to such a matter 
with which he was unacquainted. 
" There it is," said Nick at last " there's the naked, pre- 
posterous truth : that if I were to do exactly as I liked I 
should spend my years copying the more or less vacuous 
countenances of my fellow-mortals. I should find peace and 
pleasure and wisdom and worth, I should find fascination and 
a measure of success in it : out of the din and the dust and the 
scramble, the world of party labels, party cries, party bargains 
and party treacheries of humbuggery, hypocrisy and cant. 
The cleanness and quietness of it, the independent effort to do 
something, to leave something which shall give joy to man 
long after the howling has died away to the last ghost of an 
echo such a vision solicits me at certain hours with an almost 
irresistible force." 
As he dropped these remarks Nick lolled on a big divan, 
with one of his long legs folded up ; and his visitor stopped in 
front of him, after moving about the room vaguely and softly, 
almost on tiptoe, not to interrupt him. "You speak with the 
eloquence that rises to a man's lips on a very particular occa- 
sion ; when he has practically, whatever his theory may be, 
renounced the right and dropped hideously into the wrong. 
Then his regret for the right, a certain exquisite appreci- 
ation of it, takes on an accent which I know well how to 
recognize." 
Nick looked up at him a moment. " You've hit it, if you 
mean by that that I haven't resigned my seat and that I don't 
intend to." 
" I thought you took it only to give it up. Don't you 
remember our talk in Paris ? " 
" I like to be a part of the spectacle that amuses you, 
but I could scarcely have taken so much trouble as that 
for it." 
" But isn't it an absurd comedy, the life you lead ? " 
" Comedy or tragedy I don't know which ; whatever it is 
I appear to be capable of it to please two or three people." 
. "Then you can take trouble," said Nash. 
"Yes, for the woman I'm to marry." 
" Ah, you're to marry ? " 
" That's what has come on since we met in Paris, and it 
makes just the difference." 
" Ah, my poor friend," smiled Gabriel, standing there, " no 
wonder you have an eloquence, an accent ! " 
" It's a pity I have them in the wrong place. I'm expected 
to have them in the House of Commons." 
" You will when you make your farewell speech there to 
announce that you chuck it up. And may I venture to ask 
Avho's to be your wife ] " Gabriel went on. 
" Mrs. Dallow has kindly consented. I think you saw her 
in Paris." 
" Ah, yes : you spoke of her to me. I remember asking 
you if you were in love with her." 
" I wasn't then." 
Nash hesitated a moment. " And are you now ? " 
"Oh dear, yes," said Nick. 
" That would be better if it wasn't worse." 
" Nothing could be better ; it's the best thing that can 
happen to me." 
"Well," said Nash, "you must let me very respectfully 
approach her. You must let me bring her round." 
" Bring her round ? " 
"Talk her over." 
" Over to what ? " Nick repeated his companion's words, a 
little as if it were to gain time, remembering the effect Gabriel 
Nash had produced upon Julia an effect which scantily 
ministered to the idea of another meeting. Julia had had no 
occasion to allude again to Nick's imperturbable friend ; he 
had passed out of her life at once and forever ; but there 
flickered up a vivid recollection of the contempt he had led 
her to express, together with a sense of how odd she would 
think it that her intended should have thrown over two 
pleasant visits to cultivate such company. 
" Over to a proper pride in what you may do what you 
may do above all if she will help you." 
" I scarcely see how she can help me," said Nick, with an 
air of thinking. 
" She's extremely handsome, as I remember her : you could 
do great things with her." 
" Ah, there's the rub," Nick went on. " I wanted her to 
sit for me this week, but she wouldn't." 
" Elle a bien tort. You should do some fine strong type. 
Is Mrs. Dallow in London ? " Nash inquired. 
" For what do you take her ? She's paying visits." 
" Then I have a model for you." 
"Then you have ?" Nick stared. "What has that to 
do with Mrs. Dallow's being away ? " 
" Doesn't it give you more time ? " 
" Oh, the time flies ! " sighed Nick, in a manner that caused 
his companion to break into a laugh a laugh in which for 
a moment he himself joined, blushing a little. 
"Does she like you to paint?" Nash continued, with one 
of his candid intonations. 
" So she says." 
" Well, do something fine to show her." 
" I'd rather show it to you," Nick confessed. 
" My dear fellow, I see it from here, if you do your duty. 
Do you remember the Tragic Muse ? " Nash pursued, ex- 
plicatively. 
" The Tragic Muse ? " 
"That girl in Paris, whom we heard at the old actress's 
and whom we afterwards met at the charming entertainment 
given by your cousin (isn't he?) the secretary of embassy." 
" Oh, Peter's girl : of course I remember her." 
" Don't call her Peter's ; call her rather mine," Nash said, 
with good-humoured dissuasiveness. "I invented her, I 
introduced her, I revealed her." 
" I thought on the contrary you ridiculed and repudiated 
her." 
" As an individual, surely not ; I seem to myself to have 
been all the while rendering her services. I said I disliked 
tea-party ranters, and so I do ; but if my estimate of her 
powers was below the mark she has more than punished me." 
" What has she done ? " asked Nick. 
" She has become interesting, as I suppose you know." 
" How should I know ? " 
" You must see her, you must paint her," said Nash. 
" She tells me that something was said about it that day at 
Madame Carre's." 
" Oh, I remember said by Peter." 
" Then it will please Mr. Sherringham you'll be glad to 
do that. I suppose you know all he has done for Miriam ? " 
" Not a bit. I know nothing about Peter's affairs, unless 
it be in general that he goes in for mountebanks and mimes 
and that it occurs to me I have heard one of my sisters 
mention the rumour had come to her that he has been 
backing Miss Kooth." 
" Miss Rooth delights to talk of his kindness : she's charm- 
ing when she speaks of it. It's to his good offices that she 
owes her appearance here." 
"Here? Is she in London ?" Nick inquired. 
" D'ou tombez-vous ? I thought you people read the papers." 
" What should I read, when I sit (sometimes !) through the 
stuff they put into them ? " 
" Of course I see that that your engagement at your own 
theatre keeps you from going to others. Learn then," said 
Gabriel Nash, " that you have a great competitor and that 
you are distinctly not, much as you may suppose it, the rising 
comedian. The Tragic Muse is the great modern personage. 
Haven't you heard people speak of her, haven't you been taken 
to see her?" 
"I dare say I've heard of her; but with a good many 
other things on my mind I had forgotten it." 
" Certainly I can imagine what has been on your mind. 
She remembers you at any rate ; she repays neglect with 
sympathy. She wants to come and see you." 
"To see me?" 
"To be seen by you it comes to the same thing. She's 
worth seeing : you must let me bring her ; you'll find her very 
suggestive. That idea that you should paint her she appears 
to consider it a sort of bargain." 
" A bargain ? What will she give me ? " Nick asked. 
" A splendid model. She is splendid." 
" Oh, then bring her," said Nick. 
XXV. 
NASH brought her, the great modern personage as ne had 
described her, the very next day, and it took Nick Dormer 
but a short time to appreciate his declaration that Miriam 
Rooth was splendid. She had made an impression upon him 
ten months before, but it had haunted him only for a day, 
immediately overlaid with other images. Yet after Nash had 
spoken of her a few moments he evoked her again ; some of 
her attitudes, some of her tones began to hover before- him. 
He was pleased in advance with the idea of painting her. 
When she stood there in fact however it seemed to him that 
lie had remembered her wrong : the brilliant young lady who 
instantly filled his studio with a presence that it had never 
known was exempt from the curious clumsiness which had 
interfused his former admiration of her with a certain pity. 
Miriam Rooth was light and bright and straight to-day 
straight without being stiff and bright without being garish. 
To Nick's perhaps inadequately sophisticated mind the model, 
the actress were figures with a vulgar setting ; but it would 
have been impossible to show that taint less than his present 
extremely natural yet extremely distinguished visitor. She 
was more natural even than Gabriel Nash ("nature" was 
still Nick's formula for his old friend), and beside her he 
appeared almost commonplace. i 
Nash recognized her superiority with a frankness that was 
honourable to both of them, testifying in this manner to his 
sense that they were all three serious beings, worthy to deal 
with realities. She attracted crowds to her theatre, but to 
his appreciation of such a fact as that, important doubtless in 
its way, there were limits which he had already expressed. 
What he now felt bound in all integrity to express was his 
perception that she had, in general and quite apart from the 
question of the box-office, a remarkable, a very remarkable 
artistic nature. He confessed that she had surprised him 
there ; knowing of her in other days mainly that she was 
hungry to adopt an overrated profession, he had not imputed 
to her the normal measure of intelligence. Now he saw he 
had had some talks with her that she was intelligent ; so 
much so that he was sorry for the embarrassment it would be 
to her. Nick could imagine the discomfort of having that 
sort of commodity to dispose of in such conditions. " She's a 
distinguished woman really a distinguished woman," Nash 
explained, kindly and lucidly, almost paternally ; " and the 
head you can see for yourself." 
Miriam, smiling, as she sat on an old Venetian chair, held 
aloft, with the noblest effect, that portion of her person to 
which this patronage was extended, and remarked to Nick 
that, strange as it might appear, she had got quite to like poor 
Mr. Nash : she could make him go about with her ; it was a 
relief to her mother. 
" When I take him she has perfect peace," the girl said ; 
" then she can stay at home and see the interviewers. She 
delights in that and I hate it, so our friend here is a great 
comfort. Of course & fernme de theatre is supposed to be able 
to go out alone, but there's a kind of appearance, an added 
chic, in having some one. People think he's my companion ; 
J'm sure they fancy I pay him. I would pay him rather than 
give him up, for it doesn't matter that he's not a lady. He is 
one in tact and sympathy, as you see. And base as he thinks 
the sort of thing I do, he can't keep away from the theatre. 
When you're celebrated, people will look at you who before 
could never find out for themselves why they should." 
" When you're celebrated you become handsomer ; at least 
that's what has happened to you, though you were pretty 
too of old," Gabriel argued. " I go to the theatre to look 
at your head ; it gives me the greatest pleasure. I take up 
anything of that sort as soon as I find it ; one never knows 
how long it may last." 
" Are you speaking of my appearance  ? " Miriam asked. 
"Dear no, of my own pleasure, the first freshness," Nash 
went on. " Dormer at least, let me tell you in justice to 
him, hasn't waited till you were celebrated to want to see 
you again (he stands there open-eyed) ; for the simple reason 
that he hadn't the least idea of your renown. I had to 
announce it to him." 
"Haven't you seen me act  ?" Miriam asked, without 
reproach, of her host. 
"I'll go to-night," said Nick. 
" You have your Parliament, haven't you ? What do they 
call it the demands of public life ? '' Miriam continued : to 
which Gabriel Nash rejoined that he had the demands of 
private as well, inasmuch as he was in love he was on the 
point of being married. Miriam listened to this with par- 
ticipation ; then she said : " Ah, then, do bring your what 
do they call her in English ? I'm always afraid of saying 
something improper jour future. I'll send you a box, under 
the circumstances ; you'd like that better." She added that 
if he were to paint her he would have to see her often on the 
stage, wouldn't he ? to profit by the optique de la scene (what 
did they call that in English?) studying her and fixing his 
impression. Before he had time to respond to this proposition 
she asked him if it disgusted him to hear her speak like that, 
as if she were always posing and thinking about herself, 
living only to be looked at, thrusting forward her person. 
She often got sick of doing so, already ; but a la guerre comme 
a la guerre. 
" That's the fine artistic nature, you see a sort of divine 
disgust breaking out in her," Nash expounded. 
" If you want to paint me at all, of course. I'm struck 
with the way I'm taking that for granted," Miriam continued. 
" When Mr. Nash spoke of it to me I jumped at the idea. I 
remembered our meeting in Paris and the kind things you 
said to me. But no doubt one oughtn't to jump at ideas 
when they represent serious sacrifices on the part of others." 
" Doesn't she speak well ! " Nash exclaimed to Nick. 
"Oh, she'll go far!" 
" It's a great privilege to me to paint you ; what title in 
the world have I to pretend to such a model?" Nick replied 
to Miriam. " The sacrifice is yours a sacrifice of time and 
good-nature and credulity. You come in your beauty and 
your genius to this shabby place where I've nothing to show, 
not a guarantee to offer you ; and I wonder what I've done 
to deserve such a gift of the gods." 
"Doesn't he speak well?" Nash demanded, smiling, of 
Miriam. 
She took no notice of him, but she repeated to Nick that 
she hadn't forgotten his friendly attitude in Paris ; and when 
he answered that he surely had done very little she broke 
out, first resting her eyes on him a moment with a deep, 
reasonable smile and then springing up quickly : " Ah, well, 
if I must justify myself, I liked you ! " 
"Fancy my appearing to challenge you!" laughed Nick. 
" To see you again is to want tremendously to try something ; 
but you must have an infinite patience, because I'm an awful 
duffer." 
Miriam looked round the walls. " I see what you have 
done bien des choses." 
" She understands she understands," Gabriel dropped. 
And he added to Miriam : " Imagine, when he might do 
something, his choosing a life of shams ! At bottom he's like 
you a wonderful artistic nature." 
" I'll have patience," said the girl, smiling at Nick. 
" Then, my children, I leave you the peace of the Lord be 
with you." With these words Nash took his departure. 
The others chose a position for Miriam's sitting, after she 
had placed herself in many different attitudes and different 
lights ; but an hour had elapsed before Nick got to work 
began, on a large canvas, to knock her in, as he called it. 
He was hindered a little even by a certain nervousness, the 
emotion of finding himself, out of a clear sky, confronted with 
such a sitter and launched in such a task. The situation was 
incongruous, just after he had formally renounced all manner 
of "art" the renunciation taking effect not a bit the less 
from the whim that he had consciously treated himself to as a 
whim (the last he should ever indulge), the freak of relapsing 
for a fortnight into a fingering of old sketches, for the 
purpose, as he might have said, of burning them up, of 
clearing out his studio and terminating his lease. There were 
both embarrassment and inspiration in the strange chance of 
snatching back for an hour a relinquished joy : the jump 
with which he found he could still rise to such an occasion 
took away his breath a little, at the same time that the idea 
the idea of what one might make of such material touched 
him with an irresistible wand. On the spot, to his inner 
vision, Miriam became a magnificent result, drawing a 
hundred formative instincts out of their troubled sleep, defy- 
ing him where he privately felt strongest and imposing 
herself triumphantly in her own strength. He had the 
good fortune to see her, as a subject, without striking matches, 
in a vivid light, and his quick attempt was as exciting as a 
sudden gallop it was almost the sense of riding a runaway 
horse. 
She was in her way so fine that he could only think how 
to "do" her: that hard calculation soon flattened out the 
consciousness, lively in him at first, that she was a beautiful 
woman who had sought him out in his retirement. At the 
end of their first sitting her having sought him out appeared 
the most natural thing in the world : he had a perfect right 
to entertain her there explanations and complications were 
engulfed in the productive mood. The business of " knocking 
her in " held up a lamp to her beauty, showed him how much 
there was of it and that she was infinitely interesting. He 
didn't want to fall in love with her (that would be a sell ! as 
he said to himself), and she promptly became much too 
interesting for that. Nick might have reflected, for simpli- 
fication's sake, as his cousin Peter had done, but with more 
validity, that he was engaged with Miss Rooth in an under- 
taking that didn't in the least refer to themselves, that they 
were working together seriously and that work was a sus- 
pension of sensibility. But after her first sitting (she came, 
poor girl, but twice), the need of such exorcisms passed from 
his spirit : he had so thoroughly, practically taken her up. 
As to whether Miriam had the same bright, still sense of 
co-operation to a definite end, the sense of the distinctively 
technical nature of the answer to every question to which the 
occasion might give birth, that mystery would be cleared up 
only if it were open to us to regard this young lady through 
some other medium than the mind of her friends. We have 
chosen, as it happens, for some of the advantages it carries 
with it, the indirect vision ; and it fails as yet to tell us 
(what Nick of course wondered about before he ceased to 
care, as indeed he intimated to his visitor) why a young 
person crowned with success should have taken it into her 
head that there was something for her in so blighted a spot. 
She should have gone to one of the regular people, the great 
people : they would have welcomed her with open arms. 
When Nick asked her if some of the R. A.'s hadn't expressed 
a desire to have a crack at her she said : " Oh, dear, no, only 
the tiresome photographers ; and fancy them, in the future ! 
If mamma could only do that for me ! " And she added, with 
the charming fellowship for which she was conspicuous on this 
occasion : " You know I don't think any one yet has been 
quite so much struck with me as you." 
"Not even Peter Sherringham ? " asked Nick, laughing and 
stepping back to judge of the effect of a line. 
"Oh, Mr. Sherringham's different. You're an artist." 
"For heaven's sake, don't say that!" cried Nick. "And 
as regards your art I thought Peter knew more than any 
one." 
" Ah, you're severe," said Miriam. 
"Severe?" 
"Because that's what he thinks. But he does know a lot 
he has been a providence to me." 
"And why hasn't he come here to see you act?" 
Miriam hesitated a moment. " How do you know he 
hasn't come?" 
" Because I take for granted he would have called on me if 
he had." 
' Does he like you very much ? " asked Miriam. 
' I don't know. I like him." 
' Ha's a gentleman pour cela," said Miriam. 
' Oh, yes, for that ! " Nick went on absently, sketching hard. 
' But he's afraid of me afraid to see me." 
' Doesn't he think you're good enough ? " 
' On the contrary he believes I shall carry him away and 
he s in a terror of my doing it." 
' He ought to like that," said Nick. 
' That's what I mean when I say he's not an artist. How- 
ever, he declares he does like it, only it appears it is not the 
right thing for him. Oh, the right thing he's bent upon 
getting that. But it's not for me to blame him, for I am too. 
He's coming some night, however : he shall have a dose ! " 
" Poor Peter ! " Nick exclaimed, with a compassion none the 
less real because it was mirthful : the girl's tone was so 
expressive of good-humoured, unscrupulous power. 
"He's such a curious mixture," Miriam went on ; "some- 
times I lose patience with him. It isn't exactly trying to 
serve both God and Mammon, but it's muddling up the stage 
and the world. The world be hanged ; the stage, or anything 
of that sort (I mean one's faith), comes first." 
"Brava, brava, you do me good," Nick murmured, still 
hilarious and at his work. " But it's very kind of you, when 
I was in this absurd state of ignorance, to attribute to me the 
honour of having been more struck with you than any one 
else," he continued, after a moment. 
"Yes, I confess I don't quite see when the shops were full 
of my photographs." 
" Oh, I'm so poor I don't go into shops," returned Nick. 
" Are you very poor ? " 
" I live on alms." 
" And don't they pay you the government, the ministry ? " 
"Dear young lady, for what? for shutting myself up with 
beautiful women? " 
"Ah, you have others, then?" asked Miriam. 
" They are not so kind as you, I confess." 
" I'll buy it from you what you're doing : I'll pay you 
well when it's done," said the girl. " I've got money now ; I 
make it, you know a good lot of it. It's too delightful, after 
scraping and starving. Try it and you'll see. Give up the 
base, bad world." 
"But isn't it supposed to be the base, bad world that 
pays?" 
 " Precisely ; make it pay, without mercy squeeze it dry. 
That's what it's meant for to pay for art. Ah, if it wasn't 
for that ! I'll bring you a quantity of photographs, to-morrow 
you must let me come back to-morrow : it's so amusing to 
have them, by the hundred, all for nothing, to give away. 
That's what takes mamma most : she can't get over it. That's 
luxury and glory ; even at Castle Nugent they didn't do that. 
People used to sketch me, but not so much as mamma veut 
bien le dire ; and in all my life I never had but one poor little 
carte-de-visite, when I was sixteen, in a plaid frock, with the 
banks of a river, at three francs the dozen." 
XXVI. 
IT was success, Nick felt, that had made Miriam finer the 
full possession of her talent and the sense of the recognition 
of it. There was an intimation in her presence (if he had 
given his mind to it) that for him too the same cause would 
produce the same effect that is would show him that there 
is nothing like being launched in the practice of an art to 
learn what it may do for one. Nick felt clumsy beside a 
person who manifestly now had such an extraordinary 
familiarity with the point of view. He remembered too the 
inferiority that had been in his visitor something clumsy 
and shabby, of quite another quality from her actual smart- 
ness, as London people would call it, her well-appointedness 
and her evident command of more than one manner. Hand- 
some as she had been the year before, she had suggested 
provincial lodgings, bread-and-butter, heavy tragedy and 
tears ; and if then she was an ill-dressed girl with thick hair 
who wanted to be an actress, she was already in a few weeks 
an actress who could act even at not acting. She showed 
what a light hand she could have, forbore to startle and 
looked as well for unprofessional life as Julia : which was 
only the perfection of her professional character. 
This function came out much in her talk, for there were 
many little bursts of confidence as well as many familiar 
pauses as she sat there ; and she was ready to tell Nick the 
whole history of her debut the chance that had suddenly 
turned up and that she had caught with a jump as it passed. 
He missed some of the details, in his attention to his own 
task, and some of them he failed to understand, attached as 
they were to the name of Mr. Basil Dashwood, which he heard 
for the first time. It was through Mr. Dash wood's extra- 
ordinary exertions that a hearing a morning performance at 
a London theatre had been obtained for her. That had been 
the great step, for it had led to the putting on at night of the 
play at the same theatre, in place of a wretched thing they 
were trying (it was no use) to keep on its feet, and to her 
engagement for the principal part. She had made a hit in it 
(she couldn't pretend not to know that) ; but she was already 
tired of it, there were so many other things she wanted to do ; 
and when she thought it would probably run a month or two 
more she was in the humour to curse the odious conditions of 
artistic production in such an age. The play was a simplified 
version of a new French piece, a thing that had taken in 
Paris, at a third-rate theatre, and had now, in London, proved 
itself good enough for houses mainly made up of ten-shilling 
stalls. It was Dashwood who had said it would go, if they 
could get the rights and a fellow to make some changes : he 
had discovered it at a nasty little theatre she had never been 
to, over the Seine. They had got the rights and the fellow 
who had made the changes was practically Dashwood himself ; 
there was another man, in London, Mr. Gushmore Miriam 
didn't know whether Nick would ever have heard of him 
(Nick hadn't), who had done some of it. It had been awfully 
chopped down, to a mere bone, with the meat all gone ; but 
that was what people in London seemed to like. They were 
very innocent, like little dogs amusing themselves with a bone. 
At any rate, she had made something, she had made a figure 
of the woman (a dreadful idiot, really, especially in what 
Dashwood had muddled her into) ; and Miriam added, in the 
complacency of her young expansion : " Oh, give me fifty 
words, any time, and the ghost of a situation, and I'll set you 
up a figure. Besides, I mustn't abuse poor Yolande she has 
saved us," she said. 
"Yolande?" 
" Our ridiculous play. That's the name of the impossible 
woman. She has put bread into our mouths and she's a loaf 
on the shelf for the future. The rights are mine." 
" You're lucky to have them," said Nick, a little vaguely, 
troubled about his sitter's nose, which was somehow Jewish 
without the convex arch. 
" Indeed I am. He gave them to me. Wasn't it charming ? " 
' ; He gave them Mr. Dash wood ? " 
" Dear me, no ; where should poor Dash wood have got 
them ? He hasn't a penny in the world. Besides, if he had got 
them he would have kept them. I mean your blessed cousin." 
" I see they're a present from Peter." 
" Like many other things. Isn't he a dear ] If it hadn't 
been for him the shelf would have remained bare. He bought 
the play for this country and America for four hundred 
pounds, and on the "chance : fancy ! There was no rush for 
it, and how could he tell ] And then he gracefully handed 
it to me. So I have my little capital. Isn't he a duck ? 
You have nice cousins." 
Nick assented to the proposition, only putting in an amend- 
ment to the effect that surely Peter had nice cousins also, and 
making, as he went on with his work, a tacit preoccupied 
reflection or two ; such as that it must be pleasant to render 
little services like that to youth, beauty and genius (he rather 
wondered how Peter could afford them), and that, " duck " as 
he was, Miss Rooth's benefactor was rather taken for granted. 
Sic vos non vobis faintly murmured itself in Nick's brain. 
This community of interests, or at least of relations, quickened 
the flight of time, so that he was still fresh when the sitting 
came to an end. It was settled that Miriam should come 
back on the morrow, to enable her portrayer to make the most 
of the few days of the parliamentary recess ; and just before 
she left she asked 
" Then you will come to-night ] " 
" Without fail. I hate to lose an hour of you." 
" Then I'll place you. It will be my affair." 
" You're very kind," he responded. " Isn't it a simple 
matter for me to take a stall ? This week I suppose they're 
to be had." 
"I'll send you a box," said Miriam. " You shall do it well. 
There are plenty now." 
" Why should I be lost, all alone, in the grandeur of a 
box?" 
" Can't you bring your friend ? " 
" My friend ? " 
" The lady you are engaged to." 
" Unfortunately she's out of town." 
Miriam looked at him with a grand profundity. " Does she 
leave you alone like that ? " 
" She thought I should like it I should be more free to 
paint. You see I am." 
" Yes, perhaps it's good for me. Have you got her 
portrait ? " Miriam asked. 
" She doesn't like me to paint her." 
" Really ? Perhaps then she won't like you to paint me." 
" That's why I want to be quick," laughed Nick. 
" Before she knows it ? " 
" She'll know it to-morrow. I shall write to her." 
Miriam gave him another of her special looks ; then she 
said : " I see ; you're afraid of her." And she added, " Mention 
my name : they'll give you the box at the theatre." 
Whether or no Nick were afraid of Mrs. Dallow, he still 
protested against receiving this bounty from the hands of Miss 
Rooth repeated that he would rather take a stall according 
to his wont and pay for it. This led her to declare with a 
sudden nicker of passion that if he didn't do as she wished 
she would never sit to him again. 
"Ah then, you have me," returned Nick. "Only I don't 
see why you should give me so many things." 
" What in the world have I given you? " 
"Why, an idea." And Nick looked at his picture a little 
ruefully. " I don't mean to say I haven't let it fall and 
smashed it." 
" Ah, an idea that is a great thing for people in our line. 
But you'll see me much better from the box, and I'll send you 
Gabriel Nash," Miriam added, getting into the hansom which 
her host's servant had fetched for her. As Nick turned back 
into his studio after watching her drive away he laughed at 
the conception that they were in the same " line." 
Nick shared his box at the theatre with Gabriel Nash, who 
talked during the entr'actes not in the least aboiit the per- 
formance or the performer, but about the possible greatness 
of the art of the portraitist its reach, its range, its fascination, 
the magnificent examples it had left us in the past : windows 
open into history, into psychology, things that were among 
the most precious possessions of the human race. He insisted, 
above all, on the interest, the richness arising from this great 
peculiarity of it : that, unlike most other forms, it was a 
revelation of two realities, the man whom it was the artist's 
conscious effort to reveal and the man (the interpreter) 
expressed in the very quality and temper of that effort. It 
offered a double vision, the strongest dose of life that art 
could give, the strongest dose of art that life could give. Nick 
Dormer had already become aware that he had two states of 
mind in listening to Gabriel Nash : one of them in which he 
laughed, doubted, sometimes even reprobated, and at any rate 
failed to follow or to accept ; the other in which this contem- 
plative genius seemed to take the words out of his mouth, to 
utter for him, better and more completely, the very things he 
was on the point of saying. Nash's saying them at such 
moments appeared to make them true, to set them up in the 
world, and to-night he said a good many, especially as to the 
happiness of cultivating one's own garden ; growing there in 
stillness and freedom certain strong, pure flowers that would 
bloom forever, long after the rank weeds of the hour were 
withered and blown away. 
It was to keep Miriam Rooth in his eye for his object that 
Nick had come to the play ; and she dwelt there all the 
evening, being constantly on the stage. He was so occupied 
in watching her face (for he now saw pretty clearly what he 
should attempt to make of it) that he was conscious only in a 
secondary degree of the story she illustrated, and in regard 
to her acting in particular had mainly a surprised sense that 
she was extraordinarily quiet. He remembered her loudness, 
her violence in Paris, at Peter Sherringham's, her wild wails, 
the first time, at Madame Carre's ; compared with which her 
present manner was eminently temperate and modern. Nick 
Dormer was not critical at the theatre ; he believed what he 
saw and had a pleasant sense of the inevitable ; therefore he 
would not have guessed what Gabriel Nash had to tell him 
that for Miriam, with her tragic cast and her peculiar attri- 
butes, her present performance, full of actuality, of light, fine 
indications and, in parts, of pointed touches of comedy, was a 
rare tour de force. It went on altogether in a register that 
he had not supposed her to possess ; in which, as he said, she 
didn't touch her capital, doing it wholly with her little savings. 
It gave him the idea that she was capable of almost anything. 
In one of the intervals they went round to see her ; but for 
Nick this purpose was partly defeated by the wonderful ami- 
ability with which he was challenged by Mrs. Rooth, whom 
they found sitting with her daughter and who attacked him 
with a hundred questions about his dear mother and his 
charming sisters. She maintained that that day in Paris they 
had shown her a kindness she should never forget. She 
abounded also in gracious expressions in regard to the portrait 
he had so cleverly begun, declaring that she was so eager to 
see it, however little he might as yet have accomplished, that 
she should do herself the honour to wait upon him in the 
morning, when Miriam came to sit. 
" I'm acting for you to-night," the girl said to Nick, before 
lie returned to his place. 
" No, that's exactly what you are not doing," Nash inter- 
posed, with one of his intellectual superiorities. " You have 
stopped acting, you have reduced it to the least that will do, 
you simply are you are just the visible image, the picture on 
the wall. It keeps you wonderfully in focus. I have never 
seen you so beautiful." 
Miriam stared at this; then it could be seen that she 
coloured. "What a luxury in life to have everything ex- 
plained ! He's the great explainer," she said, turning to 
Nick. 
He shook hands with her for good-night. " Well then, we 
must give him lots to do." 
She came to his studio in the morning, but unaccompanied 
by her mother ; in allusion to whom she simply said : " Mamma 
wished to come, but I wouldn't let her." They proceeded 
promptly to business. The girl divested herself of her hat and 
coat, taking the position already established for her. After 
they had worked for more than an hour, with much less talk 
than the day before, Nick being extremely absorbed and 
Miriam wearing in silence the kindest, most religious air of 
consideration for the sharp tension she imposed upon him at 
the end of this period of patience, pervaded by a holy calm, 
our young lady suddenly got up and exclaimed, " I say, I must 
see it ! " with which, quickly, she stepped down from her place 
and came round to the canvas. She had, at Nick's request, 
not looked at his work the day before. He fell back, glad to 
rest, and put down his palette and brushes. 
" All bien, c'est tape " Miriam cried, as she stood before the 
easel. Nick was pleased with her ejaculation, he was even 
pleased with what he had done ; he had had a long, happy 
spurt and felt excited and sanctioned. Miriam, retreating 
also a little, sank into a high-backed, old-fashioned chair that 
stood two or three yards from the picture, and reclined in it, 
with her head on one side, looking at the rough resemblance. 
She made a remark or two about it, to which Nick replied 
standing behind her and after a moment leaning on the top of 
the chair. He wag away from his work and his eyes searched 
it with a kind of fondness of hope. They rose, however, as he 
presently became conscious that the door of the large room 
opposite to him had opened without making a sound and that 
some one stood upon the threshold. The person on the 
threshold was Julia Dal low. 
As soon as he perceived her Nick wished he had posted a 
letter to her the night before. He had written only that 
morning. Nevertheless there was genuine joy in the words 
with which he bounded towards her " Ah, my dear Julia, 
what a jolly surprise ! " for her unannounced descent spoke 
to him above all of an irresistible desire to see him again 
sooner than they had arranged. She had taken a step forward, 
but she had done no more, stopping short at the sight of the 
strange woman, so divested of visiting-gear that she looked 
half undressed, who lounged familiarly in the middle of the 
room and over whom Nick had been still more familiarly 
hanging. Julia's eyes rested on this embodied unexpectedness, 
and as they did so she grew pale so pale that Nick, observing 
it, instinctively looked back to see what Miriam had done to 
produce such an effect. She had done nothing at all, which 
was precisely what was embarrassing; only staring at the 
intruder, motionless and superb. She seemed, somehow, in 
indolent possession of the place, and even in that instant Nick 
noted how handsome she looked ; so that he exclaimed some- 
where, inaudibly, in a region beneath his other emotions : 
" How I should like to paint her that way ! " Mrs. Dallow 
transferred her eyes for a single moment to Nick's ; then they 
turned away away from Miriam, ranging over the room. 
" I've got a sitter, but you mustn't mind that ; we're taking 
a rest. I'm delighted to see you," said Nick. He closed the 
door of the studio behind her ; his servant was still at the 
outer door, which was open and through which he saw Julia's 
carriage drawn up. This made her advance a little further, 
but still she said nothing ; she dropped no answer even when 
Nick went on, with a sense of awkwardness : " When did you 
come back ? I hope nothing has gone wrong. You come at a 
very interesting moment," he continued, thinking as soon as 
he had spoken that they were such words as might have made 
her laugh. She was far from laughing ; she only managed to 
look neither at him nor at Miriam and to say, after a little, 
when he had repeated his question about her return : 
"I came back this morning I came straight here." 
" And nothing's wrong, I hope? " 
" Oh, no everything's all right," she replied very quickly 
and without expression. She vouchsafed no explanation of her 
premature return and took no notice of the seat Nick offered 
her ; neither did she appear to hear him when he begged her 
not to look yet at the work on the easel it was in such a 
dreadful state. He was conscious, as he phrased it, that his 
request gave to Miriam's position directly in front of his 
canvas an air of privilege which her neglect to recognize in 
any way Mrs. Dallow's entrance or her importance did nothing 
to correct. But that mattered less if the appeal failed to reach 
Julia's intelligence, as he judged, seeing presently how deeply 
she was agitated. Nothing mattered in face of the sense of 
danger which took possession of him after she had been in the 
room a few moments. He wanted to say : " What's the diffi- 
culty ? Has anything happened ? " but he felt that she would 
not like him to utter words so intimate in presence of the 
person she had been rudely startled to find between them. He 
pronounced Miriam's name to Mrs. Dallow and Mrs. Dallow's 
to Miriam, but Julia's recognition of the ceremony was so 
slight as to be scarcely perceptible. Miriam had the air of 
waiting for something more before she herself made a sign ; 
and as nothing more came she continued to be silent and not 
to budge. Nick added a remark to the effect that Mrs. Dallow 
would remember to have had the pleasure of meeting Miss 
Rooth the year before in Paris, that day, at her brother 
Peter's ; to which Mrs. Dallow rejoined, " Ah, yes," without 
any qualification, while she looked down at some rather rusty 
studies, on panels, which were ranged along the floor, resting 
against the base of the wall. Her agitation was evidently a 
pain to herself ; she had had a shock of extreme violence, and 
Nick saw that as Miriam showed no symptom of offering to 
give up her sitting her stay would be of the briefest. He 
wished Miriam would do something say she would go, get up, 
move about ; as it was she had the appearance of watching 
from her point of vantage Mrs. Dallow's discomfiture. He 
made a series of inquiries about Julia's doings in the country, 
to two or three of which she gave answers monosyllabic and 
scarcely comprehensible, while she turned her eyes round and 
round the room as if she were looking for something she 
couldn't find for an escape, for something that was not 
Miriam. At last she said it was at the end of a very few 
minutes : 
" I didn't come to stay when you're so busy. I only 
looked in to see if you were here. Good-bye." 
" It's charming of you to have come. I'm so glad you've 
seen for yourself how well I'm occupied," Nick replied, not 
unaware that he was very red. This made Mrs. Dallow look 
at him, while Miriam considered them both. Julia's eyes had 
something in them that he had never seen before a flash of 
fright by which he was himself frightened. " Of course I'll 
see you later," he added, laughing awkwardly, while she 
reached the door, while she opened it herself and got off 
without a good-day to Miriam. " I wrote to you this morning 
you've missed my letter," he repeated behind her, having 
already given her this information. The door of the studio 
was very near that of the house, but before Mrs. Dallow had 
reached the street the visitors' bell was set ringing. The 
passage was narrow and she kept in advance of Nick, antici- 
pating his motion to open the street-door. The bell was 
tinkling still when, by the action of her own hand, a gentle- 
man on the step stood revealed. 
" Ah my dear, don't go ! " Nick heard pronounced in quick, 
soft dissuasion and in the now familiar accents of Gabriel 
Nash. The rectification followed more quickly still, if that 
were a rectification which scarcely improved the matter : " I
beg a thousand pardons. I thought you were Miriam." 
Gabriel gave way, and Mrs. Dallow dashed out of the 
house. Her carriage, a victoria with a pair of horses who had 
got hot, had taken a turn up the street, but the coachman 
had already perceived his mistress and was rapidly coming 
back. He drew near ; not so fast however but that Gabriel 
Nash had time to accompany Mrs. Dallow to the edge of the 
pavement with an apology for the freedom into which he had 
blundered. Nick was at her other hand, waiting to put her 
into her carriage and freshly disconcerted by the encounter 
with Nash, who somehow, as he stood making Julia an 
explanation that she didn't listen to, looked less eminent than 
usual, though not more conscious of difficulties. Nick coloured 
deeper and watched the footman spring down as the victoria 
drove up ; he heard Nash say something about the honour of 
having met Mrs. Dallow in Paris. Nick wanted him to go 
into the house ; he damned inwardly his want of delicacy. 
He desired a word with Julia alone as much alone as the two 
inconvenient servants would allow. But Nash was not too 
much discouraged to say : " You came for a glimpse of the 
great model? Doesn't she sit? That's what I wanted too, 
this morning just a look, for a blessing on the day. Ah, 
but you, madam " 
Julia had sprung into the carriage while he was still speak- 
ing and had flashed out to the coachman a "Home ! " which 
of itself set the vehicle in motion. The carriage went a few 
yards, but while Gabriel, with a magnificent bow, turned 
away, Nick Dormer, with his hand on the edge of the hood, 
moved with it. 
" You don't like it, but I'll explain," he said, laughing and 
in a low tone. 
" Explain what ? " Mrs. Dallow asked, still very pale and 
grave, but showing nothing in her voice. She was thinking 
of the servants. She could think of them even then. 
"Oh, it's all right. I'll conie in at five," Nick returned, 
gallantly jocular, while the carriage rolled away. 
Gabriel had gone into the studio and Nick found him 
standing in admiration before Miriam, who had resumed the 
position in which she was sitting. 
" Lord, she's good to-day ! Isn't she good to-day ? " Nash 
broke out, seizing Nick by the arm to give him a certain 
view. Miriam looked indeed still handsomer than before, 
and she had taken up her attitude again with a splendid 
sphinx-like air of being capable of keeping it forever. Nick 
said nothing, but he went back to work with a tingle of 
confusion, which proved in fact, when he resumed his palette, 
to be a sharp and, after a moment, a delightful stimulus. 
Miriam spoke never a word, but she was doubly grand, and 
for more than an hour, till Nick, exhausted, declared he must 
stop, the industrious silence was broken only by the desultory 
discourse of Gabriel Nash. 
XXVII. 
KICK DOKMER went to Great Stanhope Street at five o'clock 
and learned, rather to his surprise, that Mrs. Dallow was not 
at home to his surprise because he had told her he would 
come at that hour, and he attributed to her, with a certain 
simplicity, an eager state of mind in regard to his explanation. 
Apparently she was not eager ; the eagerness was his own 
he was eager to explain. He recognized, not without a certain 
consciousness of magnanimity in doing so, that there had 
been some reason for her quick withdrawal from his studio, 
or at any rate for her extreme discomposure there. He had 
a few days before put in a plea for a snatch of worship in 
that sanctuai-y, and she had accepted and approved it ; but 
the worship, when the curtain happened to blow back, pi-oved 
to be that of a magnificent young woman, an actress with 
disordered hair, who wore in a singular degree the aspect of a 
person settled to spend the day. The explanation was easy : 
it resided in the circumstance that when one was painting, 
even very badly and only for a moment, one had to have 
models. Nick was impatient to give it, with frank, affection- 
ate lips and a full, jocose admission that it was natural Julia 
should have been startled ; and he was the more impatient 
that, though he would not in the least have expected her to 
like finding a strange woman domesticated for the hour 
under his roof, she had disliked it even more than would have 
seemed probable. That was because, not having heard from 
him about the matter, the impression was for the moment 
irresistible with her that a trick had been played her. But 
three minutes with him alone would make the difference. 
They would indeed have a considerable difference to make, 
Nick reflected, as minutes much more numerous elapsed with- 
out bringing Mrs. Dallow home. For he had said to the butler 
that he would come in and wait (though it was odd she should 
not have left a message for him) : she would doubtless return 
from one moment to the other. Nick had of course full license 
to wait, anywhere he preferred ; and he was ushered into 
Julia's particular sitting-room and supplied with tea and the 
evening papers. After a quarter of an hour however he gave 
little attention to these beguilements, owing to the increase of 
his idea that it was odd that when she definitely knew he was 
coming she should not have taken more pains to be at home. 
He walked up and down and looked out of the window, took 
up her books and dropped them again, and then, as half an 
hour had elapsed, began to feel rather angry. What could 
she be about when, at a moment when London was utterly 
empty, she could not be paying visits ? A footman came in to 
attend to the fire ; whereupon Nick questioned him as to the 
manner in which Mrs. Dallow was probably engaged. The 
'man revealed the fact that his mistress had gone out only a 
quarter of an hour before Nick arrived, and, as if he appre- 
ciated the opportunity for a little decorous conversation, gave 
him still more information than he asked for. From this it 
appeared that, as Nick knew or could surmise, she had the 
evening previous, in the country, telegraphed for the victoria 
to meet her in the morning at Paddington and had gone straight 
from the station to the studio, while her maid, with her 
luggage, proceeded in a cab to Great Stanhope Street. On 
