the laborer's rights, and all that. Most men mend of that 
as they get older, and have taken a large amount of returns 
iu ingratitude." 
Regina has flushed in a most troublesome fashion at the 
outset, but is lier calm, gracious self again, and brings him 
back to the subject of the cottage. There are several that 
have been rented merely for the summer. He will make it 
his business to inquire, and again ventures a delicate sur- 
mise about Mr. Bradley's state of mind. 
" He is better every way," Kegina declares. 
Mr. Sayre is satisfled there has been no disagreement 
between the branches of the family, and admits to himself 
that Miss Hall ord's, reasons are sufficient. 
She walks along the side of the beautiful old park in 
the grateful shade, as she has a call or two to make. 
When she thinks of Winterburne's generous impulse, and 
she cannot dismiss it from her mind, cannot even crowd it 
out by thrusting in half a dozen other subjects, her soul is 
strangely disquieted. All the morning she has gone about 
with a sense of humiliation, of insecurity. This fabric she 
has reared so patiently, and with such a nice adjustment of 
material as well as mental proportions, seems trembling to 
its very foundation. She cannot endure to have Jasper 
Bradley consider his beliefs and impulses the cpunterpai-t 
of hers. A swift dart of mortification strikes her. She 
totters on her lofty elevation, and shrinks from the valley 
below, from which she has so proudly climbed. 
She is not in the least complimented by Jasper's avowal. 
In fact, she feels keyed in a lower octave by the idea of his 
looking at her in the light of a possible wife. Yet she has 
liked him, she has even endeavored to correct some quali- 
ties that were ill-balanced in her estimation, to shape him 
to finer, grander aims. But he really has no aims at all. 
For the first time she sees him nearer to his true light, and 
she feels there has been a secret obstinacy clouding her 
judgment from that first evening when she so readily con- 
 
sented to his taking the highest seat. Is there any quality 
in his love besides jealous anger ? How ready she has been 
to look at Wiuterburne through his eyes ! He has known it, 
doubtless, he has secretly delighted in swaying her. It is 
monsti-ous that she should have allowed herself to be 
blinded by a specious course of fa;lse reasoning. 
Kegina goes homeward presently, and all the afternoon 
entertains her mother in a sweet, affectionate manner, read- 
ing aloud a rather weak, pretty story that is a trial to her, 
as she sits in her mental sackcloth and ashes, longing for a 
bitter, bracing draught that shall tend to restore her self- 
respect. 
Supper is still on the table when the party returns. 
She hears Jasper's voice on the stoop with his soft, mellif- 
luous laugh pointing some sentence. 
" I am tired to the last gasp," cries Cynthia. " Do pour 
me a cup of tea, some one, to revive my sinking pulses. 
We have had the gayest time imaginable ! I have danced 
until I haven't a foot to stand on — the improvised floor 
was so humpy and hillocky, and now and then a stone 
rolled under your foot, and gave your ankle a wrench. 
Once I thought I was shattered beyond repair, and would 
have to be left upon a rock, Andromeda wise. The Catlin 
Point people came down, and they had some enchanting 
music. Altogether it has been a grand success ! I like 
pleasures to be pleasures pure and simple. I hate to stand 
round staring at people, who feel just as bored in their 
inmost souls as I do, for all their inane smiles. And 
Jasper was simply enchanting ! " 
Eegina has poured the tea, and Cynthia sips it with a 
cup carefully poised between one thumb and finger and 
a fan in the other hand. Her brilliance has been unneces- 
sarily heightened by wind and sun, and her eyes have the 
intense dusk of midnight. There is a sense of warm, 
glowing life about her. But Regina's eyes furtively wan- 
der to Ferdita. She is quiet, but she looks mysteriously 
satisfied, and at Cynthia's last sentence a warm, soft light 
.hovers about her face, and her lips part in s:niles. 
An hour later, as the girls are lingering on the porch in 
the stillness of the starlight, Cynthia breaks out suddenly, — 
" Do you suppose Jasper is clear knocked up, Perdita ? 
There isn't a sound and only a light in Mr. Bradley's room. 
I thought he would be out here to talk it all over. That's 
half the fun, criticising the people and laughing at the 
mishaps. And he was so uncommonly amiable to every- 
body." 
" He seems to have made a deep impression upon you," 
comments Regina dryly. 
" Well, I don't over-praise him usually. He thinks I 
give him very scant measure. I'm making amends for 
conscience' sake." 
Has all this affability been something put on for the 
day, Regina wonders ? It would be simply ridiculous for 
her to think it a shield for any deep wound. There have 
been times when she has used her utmost skill and tact to 
ward off what she fancied sentimental approaches, but she 
cannot believe even now that Jasper has been seriously in 
love with her, or has any lasting wound. Yet it would 
have been so like Jasper to make everybody feel that he 
had been annoyed. 
He is at first quite lofty with her the next morning, but 
through the course of the day they come back to the old 
friendly terms. She has; remarked before how difficult it 
was to establish any refd-distance between them. There 
comes a sense of rest at the thought that soon she will be 
able to shut him partly out of her life. She feels tired 
already with the conflicting emotions that are so barren of 
results. 
The arrangements are made for their trip to Mount 
Sardis. The hotels have not looked so attractive to her as 
the cottage annexes, and she has selected three rooms in 
one of these, where they can be very comfortable and have 
their meals sent in if they desire. They will take the 
pony and phaeton. Martha is very glad to have a holidny 
long enough to visit her sister who lives across the river in 
a neighboring State. 
 
" Yon will not quite shut me out," Jasper says to her on 
one occasion, surprising her as she is walking leisurely- 
down the hill into town. " I shall drive up every day, re- 
membering that there can never be a superabundance of 
men at a summer resort." 
" I have no desire to shut you out," she says coldly. 
" We are going for mother's sake." 
" You are still angry with me," he retorts, as if it were 
an argument not yet finished. 
Regina halts a moment and looks clearly at him, her 
deep blue eyes almost black with excess of annoyance. 
"You will make me angry," she says quietly, "It is 
best to forget all that has been unpleasant. There is " — 
she corrects herself — " there can be the old tie and the 
old friendliness. You will find you have been mistaken " — 
" Yes," laughing insolently. " I have been mistaken in 
some matters. I have been searching for the clew to your 
unexpected conduct, and have found it. I might have 
known that a woman of your characteristics, your ambi- 
tion " — he chooses the word with evident deliberation — 
" would take money into consideration. Vulcan can always 
buy Venus in our modern times. I am, after all, a compar- 
atively poor man with no immediate prospect of riches. I 
have neither mines nor processes nor any of the parapher- 
nalia of business. I hate business ! " viciously. " So I 
cannot compete with my worthy cousin. Perhaps I ought 
not blame you for preferring him of late, since his fortune 
has been assured. But I know at first you detested him. 
Circumstances rule us all. Here is a bit of advice : have 
a care that the piquant, keen-eyed Cynthia does not distance 
you in the race." 
There has been no way to evade or elude him, even if 
she had considered such a step. They have walked side 
by side, for the path is narrow and the road dusty, while 
the undergrowth of bushes and tangled vines hem her in 
on the other hand. Then the accusation is too overmaster- 
ing in spite of its falsity. That she has softened a little 
to Win terburne, after taking extreme care to establish a fixed 
status between them, she realizes. It has not been Iovp, 
it has not been special interest in his success, though she 
is secretly glad of it. Still, if he had been unfortunate, lie 
would have had her sympathy, perhaps a finer regard than 
at present. But she can see, with a mysterious, agonizing, 
shame, that much of this may look true to an unfriendly 
third person. The vague dissatisfactions with Jasper 
Bradley suddenly take shape. Her judgment, her penetra- 
tion, that she has been training to fine issues, are all at 
fault. The conscious surprise at herself is as great as the 
certainty that his trivial imperfections may be strongly 
rooted faults. 
"Are you through?" she cries with infinite contempt, 
glancing up in such extreme indignation that he is spell- 
bound, not with any sense of remorse, but at her impressive 
beauty, that would make the fortune of an actress. She 
is the correct and striking impersonation of her emotion. 
He has touched her to the quick, and she is vulnerable. 
She must care for Winterburne. His apparent knowledge 
has hitherto been based upon speculation, and his flings 
have been mere jealousy. At one time he has loved her as 
much as his capricious nature admits, at others he has 
defied, rebelled, feared, and now he seems to do all in a 
breath. He would like to be her master, her conqueror, 
but he knows too well that the only positive force left to 
him is to be her enemy. 
" I could go on," with suave insolence, " but one weakens 
one's cause by repetition. I know now why you refused 
me." 
"I refused you because I did not love you. I shall 
marry no man unless I love him as my very life. I doubt 
if I marry at all. Go your way, Jasper Bradley " — and 
she motions haughtily as she stops short in the path. 
"Our ways are the same for a short distance," he says 
with unperturbed grace. " They part naturally at the foot 
of the hill. You will hate me, no doubt, as a woman 
always does the man who surprises her secret." 
"You have surprised no secret. I am not in love w»i 
 
Norman Winterburne.'' She shuts her lips in a straight 
line, and her eyes have the deep flame of steel. 
" You will marry him all the same. Ambition is the end 
and aim of your life, its ruling motive." 
Shf" makes no reply. Perhaps he has been studying her 
as well, and gone as wide of the mark as she in fancied 
discrimination. She is amazed at his daring ; she feels a 
little at loss in her conclusions, like one suddenly set adrift 
in a wide sea. 
" Good morning," in a dainty, mellifluous voice. How 
mucli of him is real, how much assumed ? She despises 
herself for having been caught by the meretricious graces. 
Has she been really honest with herself ? 
So far as Winterburne is concerned, she is not in love. 
A strenuous effort has kept her out of his reach, but she 
will not consider why it was necessary to make the effort. 
Jasper has suggested Cynthia. If she has occasion, she 
can turn this point against him. His frivolous fancy will 
soon come to an end. 
CHAPTER XVI 
PEEDITA 
Love that ia Ignorant, and hatred, have almost the same ends. — Ben Jonson. 
The change and the different life quite restore Regina 
Halford to her usual composure. She would like to con- 
sider the episode between herself and Jasper Bradley one 
of those vague, startling, morning dreams that sometimes 
haunt one's last nap ; it may be in retributive fashion for 
lingering so long on the downy banks of slumber. But 
betweefi them there is a secret, uncompromising alienation. 
Outwardly, she resolves that for the few days left she will 
make no difference. Mr. Bradley is extremely friendly and 
seems to regret their going, as well as to count on their re- 
turn. Regina fancies he is dropping down again ; he has a 
nervous, apprehensive air about him, and his delicate face 
seems shrunken. What will he do when they go alto- 
gether ? Her heart is moved to pity. And suppose she 
cannot induce Mrs. Halford to consent ? 
The adieus have been kindly. Jasper has promised the 
girls that they shall see a good deal of him. But he cannot 
remain under the same roof much of the time, and she 
means to detach Perdita as much as possible. She men- 
tions this to Cynthia. 
" I do believe he cares for her," says Cynthia. " And I 
know the foolish little thing is fond of him, so why should 
one interfere ? If it is a fancy it will die out naturally, and 
if a love you will only fan it into a fiercer flame. There, 
doesn't that sound philosophical ? " and she points it with 
her gay laugh. " Only I don't believe it is original." 
" She is so young ! What leads you to imagine that he 
really cares ? " She could disabuse Cynthia. 
 
" I can't tell you. Trifles light as air. I don't pretend 
that is first hand. Don't you sometimes feel as if all the 
bright and pretty things had been said years ago, Kegina, 
and there was nothing at all left on which to be original, 
even if one tried ? Perdita — let us see — I think it was 
the day of the last picnic — he was rather pronounced, I 
fancied. He had the air of not caring if he did commit 
himself." 
A white terror flies up in Eegina's face, runs over her 
whole body in a shiver. That certainly was more mortified 
self-love than any regard for another. 
" It is not a wise thing. If we have no influence we 
must call in mother's authority." 
"I am afraid you will not rouse mother to any active 
opposition. She likes Jasper, and with the rest of woman- 
kind, loves a lover. Do you realize, Eegina, that none of 
us have had an actual lover yet ? Mr. Winterburne used to 
drop in when he was a poor young man, and I half suspect 
you were the attraction " — She is looking out of the win- 
dows at the promenaders and does not see the scarlet flam- 
ing in Regina's face. " Then I have mistrusted Jasper of 
the weakness of aiming at a star! Why, it is really time 
one of us had a lover." 
Cynthia is in a volatile mood, and will not take matters 
with due gravity. And Regina feels herself "girt as by 
fire." She cannot stir alone in this undertaking and expose 
herself to unjust suspicions. Jasper would be too ready 
to arm Perdita against her. 
The only resource, then, is to throw the young girl into 
a found of gayety. Of this there is no lack. There are the 
early drives, the games for the younger people on the great 
shady lawns that are a succession of small, elegantly kept 
parks, while the bands discourse music and the elders sit 
around ; there are dainty luncheon parties, the , siesta in 
one's room, or the numerous hammocks suspended under 
waving trees or on cottage piazzas ; the afternoon drive, 
the promenade, the lounging on the wide hotel balconies, 
that are like rooms in their spaciousness ; the pretty young 
girls floating about in. the enchanting beauty of summer 
toilets, the elders in the glory and pride of grander cos- 
tumes and statelier demeanor. It is like a charming aud 
select town, just large enough for one to feel perfectly at 
home. 
Eegina enjoys it very much. She drives her mother 
out in the morning, and in a few days the tall, beautiful 
girl becomes quite an object of admiration. The younger 
girls go afterward ; it is quite admissible, though some of 
the new people are bringing in more fastidious regulations. 
They take their dinner at the hotel, they go to luncheon 
parties, and nearly every evening there is some dancing- 
party or a hop. The older-fashioned people who have been 
in the habit of coming for years, who carry their Quaker 
descent in their plain attire, their sweet, grave faces, protest 
a little at the unwonted gayety. 
Jasper keeps his word. He rides up in time for the 
afternoon outing on his glossy black thoroughbred, and 
often remains to dinner, especially if the girls are going 
to dance in the evening. Mrs. Halford is much interested 
in the enjoyment of young people, and does not object to 
remaining for an hour or two. They make some friends 
almost immediately who are not averse to chaperoning a 
party of attractive girls, especially when they have a hand- 
some attendant. Jasper does become a great favorite. 
Eegina speculates upon the curious fascination he pos- 
sesses. To a certain extent she excuses herself for hav- 
ing been deceived by the assumption of graceful virtues 
he deftly counterfeits. Really she sometimes thinks the 
high and rather austere virtues are at quite a discount. 
Not that she is tempted to rail at society or despise it in 
her secret soul. There are certain phases that do not 
attract her; she remembers her disgust when she saw 
them under other conjunctions. There is not the rush nor 
the rivalry of the larger summer worlds, but there is quite 
enough of envying and jostling and heart-burning and try- 
ing to be greatest. 
Cynthia persuades Miss Hilliard, or, rather, entreats her 
 
SO -wrarmly to join them when slie picks a bit out of a k'ttcr 
that suggests a desire for chang:', that Mr. Wiiiterburue 
surprises them one morning by coming up to make in- 
quiries. Perhaps he is nothing loath to have an excuse to 
see them all frequently under cover of brotherly solicitude. 
But it is Cynthia who pilots him about and discusses the 
merits and demerits of every location. Their own cottage 
is full of " permanents." But they find two rooms in one 
near by, and he returns to take lunclieon with them. 
E,egina is very curiously cold and constrained. Even Mrs. 
Halford seems stnick with her want of interest. 
" Re," cries Cynthia in a tone of vexation, when he has 
gone, and they are up in one of the sleeping-rooms prepar- 
ing for the next stage, which is dreamy indolence, "Re, 
why do you dislike Mr. Winterburne ? I can't imagine 
any cause — what he has done or left undone ; but I know 
lie admires you very much. You don't half appreciate 
him, for he is really magnitioent. Still, I won't complain 
of that. He may not be of your kind, but you might be 
a little more than barely civil — for relation's sake." 
" I do not dislike him," Regina answers in a measured 
tone. " I am not enthusiastic and vivacious, like you, and 
when you come to think" — she smiles very faintly and 
glances up past Cynthia with an attempt at pleasantry — 
" I hardly had a chance to say anything." 
" It is not merely in talking." Cynthia draws her brows 
in her familiar, puzzled frown. "It is something indescrib- 
able, a manner. And you know you seem to put it on for 
him alone, or perhaps you have used it latterly to Jasper. 
It is as if you fenced yourself quite out. Re, what a 
grand, high-toned woman of fashion you would make ! 
You would only need to hold up your head and stare and 
you could wither your most aggressive enemy." 
" Am I so haughty ? " 
" You certainly are. It's very becoming to you, of course. 
Regina, you are a handsome woman ! " Cynthia studies 
her as if the fact had just dawned on her astonished mind. 
'"There were some people talking about you last evening 
and wondering who we were, who.yow were more particu- 
larly. I'm not pretty, enough to stir up any one's envy." 
" No one need envy me," Regina cries with an intense 
bitterness. She is thinking how even here the net seems 
drawn around her. She is standing between two fires. 
She cannot turn to the left nor the right, for fear the flame 
will touch her. 
" I was thinking of one thing," she begins with hasty 
irrelevancy. " You will have to take your turn at mana- 
ging. I wish these two men could have remained apart. 
There is a secret antagonism between them." 
Cynthia laughs with hearty amusement. 
" Upon my word, Regina, you had better take up novel- 
writing. Secret antagonism is good ! Jasper is rather 
envious of Mr. Winterburne's good-fortune, and somehow 
sets himself up on a little higher plane ; but he isn't half 
as large or noble, though he has many graces and refine- 
ments. Mr. Winterburue couldn't hate anybody — it isn't 
in him. I do not believe he admires Jasper in a very 
rapturous fashion, but he (Joesn't mind meeting him. And 
they will not meet very often here. How silly to give 
yourself any uneasiness ! " 
The uneasiness is for herself, and she cannot be open 
about it, unfortunately. Something in her womanly delicacy 
forbids any discussion of Jasper's proposal to her. She 
has come to consider it a base, unmanly act, half insolence, 
half a desire to try his power over her. So he would no 
doubt explain it, and she shrinks in bitter mortification lest 
he shall some day laugh over it to Perdita. Cynthia 
would bluntly resent it. Still, she is sorry that Winter- 
burue will feel free to come at present. 
Before the day ends another anxiety is added. This is 
a note from Mr. Sayre in which he begs her to drive down 
soon, and inspect two cottages that he has found. One 
quite near to them he hopes will suit. 
Fortunately that evening both girls go out under the 
wing of a friend, and she has the opportunity to discuss 
the project with her mother, who is at first much surprised 
 
and extremely reluctant. Her kindly, sympathetic soul 
deplores the loneliness of the two who will be left behind. 
" I am sure you were loath to leave the old house when 
they first came, Kegina ! And you liked it from the very 
beginning. There is plenty of room for us all, and as we 
are related — not a very large family either," ramblingly, 
and glancing up at her daughter in entreaty. 
"But you see Mr. Sayre is _ anxious to get the estate 
settled, and the Bradleys might like to make some new 
arrangements. Then it would be so much pleasanter in 
town during the winter. Cynthia "will be going out to 
parties, and it is so inconvenient to drag people clear 
up there if we desire to invite them, as we certainly 
should. We are not compelled to consider the Bradleys at 
every turn," she says haughtily. 
" No, my dear, not compelled, . certainly," with a slight 
emphasis. "But Mr. Bradley has days of being quite 
feeble" — 
" And if you were ill it would be much better for us to be 
near everything, friends, and the doctor. We should have 
more enjoyments. Is not our pleasure worth considering ? " 
and Regina smiles fondly down into her mother's face. 
" And do all of you want to go ? " she asks helplessly. 
Even if she resists this tall, dignified daughter, she cannot 
run counter to the other persuasions. She has grown so 
accustomed to the old house that it seems a part of her 
very life. 
" Of course I shouldn't have consulted them first" re- 
plies Regina with a tender, complimentary admission. 
" Let us talk it over in the morning, then." 
So Regina brings her book, and reads aloud until her 
mother is ready to retire. The young moon has gone down, 
and the stars have come out in long processions. The 
pines and hemlocks have lost their distinctness of outline, 
- and look weird in the darkness. She can see nothing out 
of this level. It is like her life, hemmed around with 
vague shadows that bring a weird apprehensiveness in their 
train. She has attained to some of her desires, but she is 
Strangely dissatisfied. There is au unknown quantity in 
the problem she has set byfore herself that continually 
eludes her. So far, she has really done nothing with her 
life but to acquire knowledge, that to-night has the flavor 
of ashes. Oh, how do people live rich, satisfying lives, 
and carry the impress of it in their faces ? She has seen 
a few. Life is so trivial after all, — sleeping, eating, amuse- 
ment, and she sighs. 
The subject of removal comes up over their breakfast- 
table the next morning, the meal being sent in, and laid in 
their cosey sitting-room. Cynthia assents with delight and 
enthusiasm. Perdita is startled, and glances questioningly 
at Regina. 
"It will be much more convenient for you," she says 
quietly, "and pleasanter in every respect. Or, Perdita, 
you might prefer to go away somewhere to school for a 
year or two ? I should like to enter a college myself if it 
were possible." 
" Go away ! " cries Perdita, turning many shades paler. 
"I'll keep the house, and let you go to college," says 
Cynthia, quite struck with the idea. "What would you 
take up ? You would make a dignified Portia. I can't 
imagine you delighting in medicine and sick people. 
There are professorships now for women " — 
" I told you long ago that I had no genius ; " and Eegina 
fills in the pause rather bitterly. Perhaps her ideals are 
very high ; at all events, she has developed no gift that will 
accord with them. 
" Well, you outshine us in beauty," returns Cynthia good- 
humoredly. " Were you taking the consensus of the meet- 
ing about leaving Bradley House ? Oh, do let us come 
down,' and have a snug little cottage, and be our olden 
selves again. I don't enjoy being up on stilts so much of 
the time, and it is dismal in the winter. Isn't it a kind 
of empty honor — this sitting in the chairs, and eating off 
the tables, of your ancestors ? Dit, you have expressed no 
opinion. Regina, did you mention a school ? Here's your 
one opportunity of emancipation ; " and she glances at 
Perdita, who is trembling with excitement. 
 
"Regina, what wild schemes have entered your head ?" 
exclaims her mother. " Send Perdita away ? " 
" Oh, you will not let her ! " Perdita flings her arms 
around the neek of her mother by adoption, and kisses her 
witli a passion of tenderness. 
" My dear Perdita, it was merely a suggestion for you to 
accept or not," returns Eegina, much annoyed at the panic 
she has created. 
" The removal will be quite bad enough ! " protests Mrs. 
Halford. 
" Really, we need do nothing," the elder says in a dis- 
pirited tone. " I meant it for the best, for our comfort ; " 
and her eyes fill with tears. How can she endure facing 
Jasper daily. Shall she tell them all her reasons ? 
" My dear Regina ! " Cynthia's sympathy is immediately 
aroused. If she has some deeper reason, her desires ought 
to be respected. If she has grown tired of the isolation of 
the old house, of the dignity that has at times rather 
fretted them all, let them then make no objection to her 
descent. 
Cynthia has a smoother way of putting things. She is 
nun'e persuasive. 
" Mother dear," she begins smilingly, " let us consider 
its advantages. What the Bradleys will do without us 
I can't imagine," and she makes a funny little moue. 
'• But they might leave us in the lurch. I did hear Jasper 
suggesting some city amusements during the winter. I 
sft[)pose Beverly pleasures are rather mild for a travelled, 
young gentleman. A summer may do very well, but I 
fancy him rather restless, needing fresh fields. Mr. Sayre 
means to press them for a decision, and, who knows ? we 
may be warned out." 
By the time the meal has ended, she has them all in 
an amicable frame of mind. What charm does Cynthia 
Ossess ? Has Eegina ever given her full credit for ail 
her virtues ? 
Pprdita has no argument in favor of remaining that she 
has the courage to put into words. She has a firm belief 
that she is beloved. Why should, they not be openly en- 
gaged ? The stolen interviews have been daring and sweet, 
but it will be more comfortable to have an avowed lover. 
She is quite certain no one but Regina would raise a dis- 
senting voice. 
The elder asks Cynthia to drive in town with her, but 
she has a previous engagement with Miss Hilliard. Perdita 
glances up eagerly. 
" Would you like to go ? " 
" I want some things that I have forgotten — two pairs 
of gloves and my white cloth jacket." 
" Come with me then." Has she not been rather sharp 
with this poor little butterfly ? Perhaps Jasper would 
stand a much better chance of happiness with her, in her 
utter faith, her sweet credulities, her innocent vanities, and 
her passion for music, truer than his it may be. Regina is 
quite certain that all her efforts at shaping him to superior 
nobleness have been in vain. How much can one influence 
another person ? 
" Oh, may I go ? " Perdita is bright and smiling again. 
" While I am busy with Mr. Sayre you may drive up." 
Surely there can no harm happen to the child in that brief 
while. Regina will show her perfect confidence. 
The drive down the long, winding road is delightfuL 
Both are occupied with their own thoughts, and Regina 
cannot ramble over commonplaces for the mere love of 
talking. It is her misfortune, perhaps, that she likes 
thinking so much better, and just now she does not care to 
disturb Perdita's contented mood. There have been so 
many uncomfortable outbreaks of late that she is satisfied 
with the serenity. 
At Mr. Sayre's door she steps out, after giving the reins 
to Perdita. 
" You will not need more than half an hour ! " she says ; 
" I shall be waiting here for you." 
Mr. Sayre comes out, touches his hat to Perdita, and 
takes Miss Halford to inspect the cottages, while the young 
girl starts her horse onward with a gentle admonition, and 
 
he trots on up to Bradley Hoiise. Old Abram, the gardener, 
is cutting the grass with his scythe, and trimming the 
edges with a sickle. No new-fangled rattling lawn-mowers 
for him, cutting the very heart out of every root. 
" Ah, miss, yer humsick, I des say ; " and he grins as he 
rubs his stubbly chin. "The old gentleman went fer a 
walk a few minutes back, V the young 'un off somewher — 
let me fassen ther pony an' yer won't sile yer gloves. Cats 
in gloves catch no mice, I've hearn say ; " and he chuckles. 
Mrs. Grouse lets her in, and she runs lightly up-stairs, 
unlocks her drawers, and exhumes her treasures. Is that 
a soft whistle of a voice she knows full well ? She wraps 
her parcel daintily, throws the cloak over her arm, and 
trips across the hall, unbars the door that leads to the 
cross passage, and peers into the empty room. 
" Jasper ! " she cries softly, " Jasper ! " 
He must be up in the tower room. As she crosses the 
floor something on the table catches her eye, arrests her 
step. A thick, yellow, curious sheet of paper nearly cov- 
ered with writing in a coarse, round hand. Something 
holds her spellbound. With the distinctness of a vision 
that imprints itself on the brain at once, she reads — " The 
last Will and Testament of Silas Bradley, Esqr." The 
room swims round. She is rooted to the spot. All that 
follows is a blurred mass, but she would not care to read it 
if she could. 
A step comes down the stair. She makes a tremendous 
effort and moves a few paces, but it is a ghostly face that 
confronts him. 
" Perdita ! " he cries sharply, " where did you come 
from ? How did you get in ? How " — dared you ! he 
is about to say, then his tone changes, his arms are around 
her, and she is sobbing on his shoulder with hysterical 
passion. 
" My darling, my little darling, you can't imagine how 
you startled me ! Are you quite sure you are no ghost ? " 
and he is kissing passionately amid the tears, gathering 
her to his heart that she feels throbbing against hers, 
sweeping her off her feet in a swift, bewildering current 
that she can not, that she does not desire to, stem. " Did 
you drop from the clouds — who is with you ? " suddenly, 
as his face turns curiously white. 
" No one. Regina came down to Mr. Sayre's. I wanted 
some articles I had forgotten — and — I wanted to see you, 
Jasper," with piteous entreaty. 
" Yes," nervously leading her across the room in a blind 
kind of way. "Oh, you came through this hall. It is 
always fastened on your side ; " and he laughs with, a thin, 
shrill sound unusual to him. "I can hardly believe you 
real ; may I pinch you to see ? Why, you look like a 
ghost. What did you do to take the pink out of your 
cheeks, and the red from your lips ? " 
She is drenched in scarlet then, but only for an instant, 
when the pallor returns, and she trembles visibly, clings to 
him in wordless terror. 
" Come down and let me give you a little wine." He 
carries her as if she were a haby, and takes her to the 
shaded parlor that is cool and dimly lighted, and brings 
her the merest sip in a fragile, little glass. " There, now 
you shall tell me what startled you so. Was it a mysteri- 
ous noise, or a mysterious combination that wore a ghostly 
aspect to your sweet eyes that were looking for something 
else, for me, perhaps ? " smiling softly. " Tell me, tell 
me," imperiously. 
Her tongue cleaves to her mouth, and will not even allow 
the lips to open. He faces her steadily. 
" You little fluttering bird, it was just nothing at all ; " 
and he laughs with a sound of dainty triumph. "You were 
in a strange place, you were afraid of not finding me. And 
I shouldn't easily have forgiven you if you had gone with- 
out hunting me up. What profound secret was there back 
of your desire to see me ? Come, I must have the sweet 
confession." 
His tender, adoring manner quite restores her. And she 
remembers she must not waste her time, for E.egina will 
fall to questioning her if she is late. 
 
"O Jasper!" she cries piteously, "they are all going 
away from Bradley House. Eegina " — 
" They are away now. Come, your senses are not quite 
clear yet. Give me some more important news." 
" I mean they are planning to live in town. Regina has 
gone to look at some houses with Mr. Sayre. Mother did 
not want to at first, but they talked her over. And maybe 
I shall be sent away to school." 
" Do they suspect that — that I care for you ? " he asks. 
Only a little while ago he asked Regina to marry him. He 
could laugh at the farce he makes of his life — but all lives 
are half comedy except to these tragic little people like 
Perdita. He will marry her — it is best now. 
"I — I think they do," she admits tremulously. 
" I may as well confess — Regina is jealous of you, my 
wee bit rosebud. Regina wants to reign over all hearts, 
she can bear no rivals. But we will outwit them all. You 
know enough. There are to be no more schools for you." 
" I don't mind — if I can stay at home." 
"Does it matter whether we marry soon or late, since 
we shall marry sometime ? I want you for my very own. 
And we will surprise them by a step " — 
" Jasper, if you love me, if you will let me belong to 
you, I can wait in patience ! " 
She is such a simple child that the whole world revolves 
around this fascination at present. He in his selfish dal- 
liance has made it so intensely dear and absorbing that her 
very life would seem to go out in darkness if it ended. 
He has, piqued her with alternate hope and fear, with ten- 
derness and indifference, with those delicate attentions to 
others that have stung her soul to jealousy. She has known 
that he loved her — this is not his first confession, but it is 
the first time he has spoken of their future together, and in 
one great bound of delight she forgives liiin any pang he 
has caused. She has never really believed Regina would 
marry him, only her influence took him in such different 
cha:inels. There was the hurt, impatient sense of being 
out-grown. And uuw — 
The softly shining brown eyes express their supreme 
content. The dewy lips smile. She is so pretty in her 
warm, glowing tints, her flesh-and-blood loveliness. 
" But I shall not be patient," he declares with his imperi- 
ous smile. " We have known each other all summer. We 
are relatives, we have lived together, and we have not quar- 
relled very much. What more is there to know ? I sup- 
pose Eegina would want all a man's life from  the moment 
he stepped out of the cradle ! I haven't distinguished my- 
self in any way, and I may never make a fortune. Why, 
how do you know but that I have had an eye on your 
money ? We always forget you are quite an heiress ! If 
you have any serious objection to me as a husband, state it 
now ; " and he stands before her smiling in his handsome 
audacity. 
She smiles too. " Hers ! hers ! " the seductive refrain 
surges in her soul. The sense of possessorship in the mys- 
terious bond that is to come — marriage — fills her thoughts 
to the exclusion of aught else. He understands the en- 
trancement, and it does please him. 
" This is our secret at present," he says with his beguil- 
ing smile. " Remember, I trust you with my secret ; it is 
not yours alone. And I know you will be true always, for- 
ever, in everything, my little darling." 
" Yes," she murmurs betweeit his kisses. Then a dull 
yellow ghost rises up, but she shrinks away from it. Why 
should she question his secret, perhaps not even his ? 
" I must go," she cries in sudden alarm. " Why — how 
long have I been here ? Eegina gave me half an hour. 
Perhaps I ought not have told "you " — and her face clouds 
over with anxiety. 
" I shall wait to receive information from headquarters," 
he says with a bright laugh. " Yes, I am glad you came, 
glad you told me. I shall take some steps to secure my 
own little fluttering bird. Depend upon it we shall not be 
separated for long." 
Dolly has been pawing up the path and nibbling the 
grass Abram has brought in a pile before her. 
 
" I shall take you down to the foot of the hill ; " and he 
assists her in daintily, then follows. He is very bright and 
amusing, and thauks her again for hunting hinj up, "for I 
might have loitered around like an idiot and never have 
seen you at all," he says ; " but you are such a sweet little 
blossom ! " 
Regina has been delayed longer than she expected, and 
Perdita reaches the tryst first, but a moment or two later 
she sees the tall, slim figure in its soft, smoke-colored dress. 
Ah, she shall never envy Regina again. She may win the 
admiration of the whole world, she may gain the knowledge 
of savants, but she, Perdita, will be satisfied with love. 
She is so happy that she proffers amends for her temper of 
the morning. 
" I was cross about the house," she begins in a coaxing 
voice, one of her charms. " It is lovely down here in the 
town. Since you like it better " — 
" We will drive around and view a new prospect, not lurs 
quite yet," and E«gina smiles kindly down into the little 
face she is willing to meet half way. " We must all have 
our say. The cottage nearest Mr. Sayre's is quite small. 
This has two such roomy piazzas that I know mother will 
prefer it in summer, and it has a heater which will delight 
Cynthia. There is a pretty garden and enough fruit and a 
small stable, for of course we cannot give up Dolly." 
" Oh," says Perdita, " I know the place well. The Hart- 
man girls live only two doors below." 
It is on a pleasant, shaded street. There is no such 
broad outlook as at Bradley House, no such wealth of woods 
and grassy fields, but one cannot live with nature all the 
time, and Regina wonders if it does not make one rather ' 
tense and intolerant of smaller subjects, impatient with the 
inferiority of a large part of humanity. She has a misgiv- 
ing that she has been too far on the outside rims, that she 
must come nearer her kind in daily life and take a deeper 
interest in the ordinary wants, if she is to make her work 
of any real service. Admiration is not a wholly satisfying 
sustenance; there is a worthier one — love. 
As they turn again they face Jasper Bradley who pauses, 
then steps to the curb and exchanges a pleasant greeting. 
A warm color flies into Perdita's face, and a sensation of 
deceitfulness stings her. Yet how many times she has met 
Jasper and rambled through the woods with him and held 
her peace ! 
"I have not had time to inquire of Perdita if your father 
is well," Regina asks with friendliness. 
" Quite as well as usual. I think he has been out all the 
morning. Oh, you were up to the house ? " 
Perdita nods under the shade of her large hat. 
" You found a lonely place, then," he responds carelessly. 
" I sometimes think I am getting tired of it. What it will 
be in winter I dare not even think ; " and he shrugs his 
shoulders in an expressive fashion. 
There is so much to talk about that Perdita can keep her 
own counsel easily. For the first time it is a burden. 
She has never been called to account for every moment or 
every friend, and in one way there is a delicious thrill when 
she thinks of her lover, really hers. She salves her con- 
science with the certainty that he will acknowledge it in 
true orthodox style. No one will reall y object. They will 
say she is too young, but there are brides at the hotel 
younger than she. And no one can be so cruel as to refuse 
her the happiness of her whole life. She is eager and rest- 
less and yet very charming, with a touch of tenderness that 
is like the Perdita of two months ago. 
Jasper is over that evening and dances with the gay, 
young people bent on amusement. He studies Perdita 
keenly, and feels that his secret will be quite safe when he 
attaches her to himself in indissoluble bonds. That is his 
surest step. 
There follows a week or so of unwonted interest for the 
Halfords. Miss Hilliard comes, and the very first day 
Regina finds her a striking and interesting figure in the little 
circle. She is certainly an attractive woman. Her voice 
seems to hold a charm, her manner has some grace that 
distinguishes it, and her misfortune is just enough for re- 
 
spectful sympathy. The fact, too, that Mr. Wintsrburne 
is beginning to be so well known as one of the coming 
successful men is not without significance. But there is 
some occult charm in her, Eegina is forced to admit, that 
attracts not a few of the most noted men and women to 
her side. She is not pedantic, yet she is at home on the 
larger questions of the day : she knows what is going on in 
the world of art, she seems to understand the rare secret of 
entertaining without effort, of pleasing with no anxiety. 
Regina moves among them with a grace that cannot divest 
itself of haughtiness, that is indeed commented upon to her 
disfavor, and yet she does not mean to arrogate to herself 
any special virtue. It is the old, curious problem never yet 
satisfactorily solved as to what is due to money, and what 
part it takes in shaping character. She will not bow down 
to the golden calf. Her dispute with Jasper has sent her 
to the olden extreme where Norman Winterburne is con- 
cerned. But the two men do not clash in any degree, 
hardly indeed meet on any common ground. Winterburne 
is not a dancing man, and Jasper does not concern himself 
with the question of benefit to any human soul but his own. 
Cynthia is Miss Halford's shadow, and they make a 
most entertaining couple. Perdita seems to slip out of her 
grasp, and how can one attend to everything, when the 
last days of the season are so full ? Some of those wlio 
take autumn for their journeyings are going ; others, who 
flit from place to place for incidents to count up on their 
fingers over winter luncheons, come in for a few days, and 
glance about superciliously to see if there is anything wortli 
remembering, any people who may be talked about eithei- 
in praise or scandal. How wearisome it all is ! 
It is just then that Jasper Bradley electrifies not only her, 
but the circle who have been watching what seems an odd 
flirtation between the handsome young fellow and the soft- 
eyed girl whose curious brown tints harmonize so oddly 
with his golden ones. She looks such a mere child ; but 
the family connection covers the piquant familiarity. 
Perdita has gone out one morning without a word to any 
one. At noon she and Jasper make their appearance ; he 
in jaunty defiance, she trembling and agitated. 
"My dear Mrs. Halford," he exclaims insouciantly, 
" allow me to present to you my wife, Mrs. Jasper Bradley. 
We decided not to have any fuss, but were married an hour 
ago at E . Here are the legal documents. At two 
we start on our bridal trip. You are not to blame Perdita 
— I over-persuaded her." 
Perdita clasps her arms around Mrs. Halford's neck, and 
gives way to the emotion that has threatened to master her 
more than once since she started off on her brief journey, 
not then really aware of its import. 
"Everybody was so busy pleasuring," he says with a 
satirical laugh, " that we decided to bother no one for con- 
sent. I merely informed my father. Does no one mean to 
wish us joy ? " 
Eegina meets his eyes with bitter, silent scorn. It is 
Cynthia who first recovers from the surprise. 
 
CHAPTER XVII 
THE SLINGS OF FORTUNE 
You have too much respect upon the world ; 
They lose It that do buy it with much care. 
Merchant of Venice, 
Mount Sardis seems to have saved its most sparkling 
if not its best wine to the last. At the hotel dinner some- 
thing gets whispered about, and the young couple are quite 
aware of it before the meal is ended. Jasper lingers over 
his fruit — now that he has surprised them with one 
daring step, which waB certainly necessary to another, 
treading fast on its heels, and likely to create still greater 
consternation ; he can afford to face it with a serenity that 
is almost insolent. Perdita is hidden under the friendly 
shelter of her wide-brimmed hat, too much frightened and 
too deeply excited to know whether she is happy or not, 
and aware of only one fact : that she is Jasper's to the end 
of her life — a girl's dream, who thinks death of the beloved 
one the crudest of misfortunes, that can hardly happen to 
her, indeed, since she will go first. 
Jasper glances at his watch and makes a significant little 
motion. Perdita rises with downcast eyes and wild-rose 
cheeks, and would meekly follow her lord, but he draws 
her arm through his. The carriage is waiting for them, 
and they start out on their journey together. She has said 
good-by to those who have been nearest and dearest. 
All the air is full of gossip. Such a bomb thrown into 
the social camp must scatter fragments far and wide. If 
Jasper Bradley had studied for weeks, he could not have 
struck Regina in a more sensitive chord. She has a horror 
of this meretricious notoriety, as all refined natures must 
.have, and she has been cultivating hers to the extreme of 
morbidness, as strenuous souls are apt to do unconsciously. 
That there can be any sharper stab she does not believe. 
Does fate maliciously hunt up spent arrows and fling them 
anew at us as we plod through the valley of humilia/- 
tion? 
Cynthia has an afternoon engagement, and boldly keeps 
it. " Yes," she admits, " Perdita Cope, who is a cousin and 
adopted daughter, not their own sister, is truly married. 
The only surprise is the suddenness ; but Mr. Bradley is a 
distant cousin, and they have been sharing Bradley House 
with him and his father since their return to Beverly, 
where the elder Mr. Bradley spent all his early years. Of 
c iLirse, they all knew of the tendresse. So many people 
have heard of the Bradley fortune and the search for the 
heirs. They, the Halfords, had decided to leave the old 
house and come down in town." And Cynthia laughingly 
declares it must have been the prospect of a separation 
that brought about this climax. 
She is very straightforward, and believes when the truth 
is frankly acknowledged, the keenest edge is taken off of 
whatever may follow. It is a consolation to her in being 
spared the continual haunting ghost of curiosity. Regina's 
plan of a new home seems now a master stroke of policy. 
There is one duty left. They have accepted an invita- 
tion for the evening, to accompany Miss Hilliard to a select, 
artistic gathering. Kegina has met this little clique, and 
enjoyed it very much, but they will not go now. To- 
morrow must be devoted to making arrangements for leav- 
ing, which would come only a few days later if this had 
