needle so slowly that not a drop of blood followed it, and having made
it pass thrice through the carpet she restored it to her hair, after
which she fastened the dead man's vest again, so that nothing was
disarranged. She sang on, after this for some time, and then after a
short silence she sprang up from the couch, uttering loud screams and
lamentations and beating her breast violently.
The women of the harem came in quickly, and when they saw that their
master was dead, they sat down with Almasta and wept with her, for as he
lay dead there was no mark of any violence nor any sign whereby it could
be told that he had not died naturally.
When Khaled heard that Abdul Kerim was dead, he was much grieved at
heart, for the man had been brave and had been often at his right hand
in battle. But the news being brought to him at dawn when he awoke, he
immediately sent the Jewish physician of the court to ascertain if
possible the cause of the sudden death. The physician made careful
examination of the body, and having purified himself returned to Khaled
to give an account.
'I have executed my lord's orders with scrupulous exactness,' he said,
'and I find that without doubt the sheikh of the horsemen died suddenly
by an access of humours to the heart, the sun being at that time in the
Nadir, for he died about midnight, and being moreover in evil
conjunction with the Dragon's Tail in the Heart of the Lion, and not yet
far from the square aspect of Al Marech which caused the death of his
majesty the late Sultan, upon whom be peace.'
But Khaled was thoughtful, for he reflected that this was the second
time that a man had died suddenly when he was about to be Almasta's
husband, and he remembered, how she had attempted to kill the Sultan of
Haïl, and had ultimately brought about his death.
'Have you examined the dead man as minutely as you have observed the
stars?' he inquired. 'Is there no mark of violence upon him, nor of
poison, nor of strangling?'
'There is no mark. By Allah! I speak truth. My lord may see for himself,
for the man is not yet buried.'
'Am I a jackal, that I should sniff at dead bodies?' asked Khaled. 'Go
in peace.'
The physician withdrew, for he saw that Khaled was displeased, and he
was himself as much surprised as any one by the death of Abdul Kerim, a
man lean and strong, not given to surfeiting and in the prime of health.
'Min Allah!' he said as he departed. 'We are in the hand of the Lord,
who knoweth our rising up and our lying down. It is possible that if I
had seen this man at the moment of death, or a little before, I might
have discovered the nature of his disease, for I could have talked with
him and questioned him.'
But Khaled went in and talked with Zehowah. She was greatly astonished
when she heard that Almasta's husband was dead, but she was satisfied
with the answer of the Jewish physician, who enjoyed great reputation
and was believed to be at that time the wisest man in Arabia.
'Give her back to me, to be one of my women,' said she. 'It is not
written that she should marry a man of Nejed, unless you will take her
yourself.'
But Khaled bent his brow angrily and his eyes glowed like the coals of a
camp fire which is almost extinguished, when the night wind blows
suddenly over the ashes.
'I have spoken,' he said.
'And I have heard,' she answered. 'Let there be an end. But give me this
woman to divert me with her broken speech.'
'I fear she will do you an injury of which you may not live,' said
Khaled.
'What injury can she do me?' asked Zehowah in astonishment, not
understanding him.
'She asked of your father the head of the Sultan of Haïl, whom she
hated. And your father gave it to her.'
'Peace be upon him!' exclaimed Zehowah piously.
'Upon him peace. And when he would have married her, he died suddenly at
the feasting. And now this Abdul Kerim, who was to have been her
husband, is dead also, without sign, in the night, as a man stung by a
serpent in his sleep. These are strange doings.'
'If you think she has done evil, let her be put to death,' said Zehowah.
'But the physician found no mark upon Abdul Kerim. By the hand of Allah
he was taken.'
'Doubtless his fate was about his neck. But it is strange.'
Zehowah looked at Khaled in silence, but presently she smiled and laid
her hand upon his.
'This woman loves you with her whole soul,' she said. 'You think that
she has slain Abdul Kerim by secret arts, in the hope that she may marry
you.'
'And your father also.'
Then they were both silent, and Zehowah covered her face, since she
could not prevent tears from falling when she thought of her father,
whom she had loved.
'If this be so,' she said after a long time, 'let the woman die
immediately.'
'It is necessary to be just,' Khaled answered. 'I will put no one to
death without witnesses, not even a captive woman, who is certainly an
unbeliever at heart. Has any one seen her do these deeds, or does any
one know by what means a man may be slain in his sleep, or at a feast,
so that no mark is left upon his body? At Dereyiyah your father was
alone with her in the inner part of the tent, and she was singing to him
that he might sleep. For I have made inquiry. And when Abdul Kerim died
he was also alone with her. I cannot understand these things. But you
are a woman and subtle. It may be that you can see what is too dark for
me.'
'It may be. Therefore give her back to me, and I will lay a trap for
her, so that she will betray herself if she has really done evil. And
when we have convicted her by her own words she shall die.'
'Are you not afraid, Zehowah?'
'Can I change my destiny? If my hour is come, I shall die of a fever, or
of a cold, whether she be with me or not. But if my years are not full,
she cannot hurt me.'
'This is undoubtedly true,' answered Khaled, who could find nothing to
say. 'But I will first question the woman myself.'
So he sent slaves with a litter to bring Almasta from the house of
mourning to the palace, and when she was come he sent out all the other
women and remained alone with her and Zehowah, making her sit down
before him so that he could see her face. Her cheeks were pale, for she
had not slept, having been occupied in weeping and lamentation during
the whole night, and her eyes moved restlessly as those of a person
distracted with grief.
Khaled then drew his sword and laid it across his feet as he sat and
looked fixedly at Almasta.
'If you do not speak the truth,' he said, 'I will cut off your head with
my own hand. Allah is witness.'
When Almasta saw the drawn sword, her face grew whiter than before, and
for some moments she seemed not able to breathe. But suddenly she began
to beat her breast, and broke out into loud wailings, rocking herself to
and fro as she sat on the carpet.
'My husband is dead!' she cried. 'He was young; he was beautiful! He is
dead! Wah! Wah! my husband is dead! Kill me too!'
Khaled looked at Zehowah, but she said nothing, though she watched
Almasta attentively. Then Khaled spoke to the woman again.
'Make an end of lamenting for the present,' he said. 'It has pleased
Allah to take your husband to the fellowship of the faithful. Peace be
upon him. Tell us in what manner he died, and what words he spoke when
he felt his end approaching, for he was my good friend and I wish to
know all.'
Almasta either did not understand or made a pretence of not
understanding, but when she heard Khaled's words she ceased from wailing
and sobbed silently, beating her breast from time to time.
'How did he die?' Khaled asked in a stern voice.
'He was asleep. He died,' replied Almasta in broken tones.
'You will get no other answer,' said Zehowah. 'She cannot speak our
tongue.'
'Is there no woman among them all who can talk this woman's language?'
asked Khaled with impatience, for he saw how useless it was to question
her.
'There is no one. I have inquired. Leave her with me, and if there is
anything to be known, I will try to find it out.'
So Khaled went away and Zehowah endeavoured to soothe Almasta and make
her talk in her broken words. But the woman made as though she would not
be comforted, and went and sat apart upon the stone floor where there
was no carpet, rocking to and fro, and wailing in a low voice. Zehowah
understood that whatever the truth might be Almasta was determined to
express her sorrow in the customary way, and that it would be better to
leave her alone.
For seven days she sat thus apart, covering her head and mourning, and
refusing to speak with any one, so that all the women supposed her to be
indeed distracted with grief at the death of Abdul Kerim. And each day
Khaled inquired of his wife whether she had yet learned anything, and
received the same answer. But in the meantime he was occupied with his
own thoughts, as well as with the affairs of the kingdom, though the
latter were as nothing in his mind compared with the workings of his
heart when he thought of Zehowah.
It chanced one evening that Khaled was riding among the gardens without
the city, attended only by a few horsemen, for he was simple in all his
ways and liked little to have a great throng of attendants about him. So
he rode alone, while the horsemen followed at a distance.
'Was ever a man, or an angel, so placed in the world as I am placed?' he
thought. 'How much better would it have been had I never seen Zehowah,
and if I had never slain the Indian prince. For I should still have
been with my fellows, the genii, from whom I am now cut off, and at
least I should have lived until the day of the resurrection. But now my
horse may stumble and fall, and my neck may be broken, and there is no
hereafter. Or I may die in my sleep, or be killed in my sleep, and there
will be no resurrection for me, nor any more life, anywhere in earth or
heaven. For Zehowah will never love me. Was ever a man so placed? And I
am ashamed to complain to her any more, for she is a good wife, obedient
and careful of my wants, and beautiful as the moon at the full, rising
amidst palm trees, besides being very wise and subtle. How can I
complain? Has she not given me herself, whom I desired, and a great
kingdom which, indeed, I did not desire, but which no man can despise as
a gift? Yet I am burned up within, and my heart is melting as a piece of
frankincense laid upon coals in an empty chamber, when no man cares for
its sweet savour. Surely, I am the most wretched of mankind. Oh, that
the angel who made garments for me of a ghada bush, and a bay mare of a
locust, would come down and lay his hand upon Zehowah's breast and make
a living heart of the stone which Allah has set in its place!'
So he rode slowly on, reasoning as he had often reasoned before, and
reaching the same conclusion in all his argument, which availed him
nothing. But suddenly, as the sun went down, a new thought entered his
mind and gave him a little hope.
'The sun is gone down,' he said to himself. 'But Allah has not destroyed
the sun. It will rise in the east to-morrow when the white cock crows in
the first heaven. Many things have being, which the sight of man cannot
see. It may be that although I see no signs of love in the heaven of
Zehowah's eyes, yet love is already there and will before long rise as
the sun and illuminate my darkness. For I am not subtle as the evil
genii are, but I must see very clearly before I am able to distinguish.'
He rode back into the city, planning how he might surprise Zehowah and
obtain from her unawares some proof that she indeed loved him. To this
end he entered the palace by a secret gate, covering his garments with
his aba, and his head with the kefiyeh he wore, in order to disguise
himself from the slaves and the soldiers whom he met on his way to the
harem. He passed on towards Zehowah's apartment by an unlighted passage
not generally used, and hid himself in a niche of the wall close to the
open door, from which he could see all that happened, and hear what was
said.
Zehowah was seated in her accustomed place and Almasta was beside her.
Khaled could watch their faces by the light of the hanging lamps, as the
two women talked together.
'You must put aside all mourning now,' Zehowah was saying. 'For I will
find another husband for you.'
'Another husband?' Almasta smiled and shook her head.
'Yes, there are other goodly men in Riad, though Abdul Kerim was of the
goodliest, as all say who knew him. He was the Sultan's friend, but he
was more soldier than courtier. He deserved a better death.'
'Abdul Kerim died in peace. He was asleep.' Almasta smiled still, but
more sadly, and her eyes were cast down.
'He died in peace,' Zehowah repeated, watching her narrowly. 'But it is
better to die in battle by the enemy's hand. Such a man, falling in the
front of the fight for the true faith, enters immediately into paradise,
to dwell for ever under the perpetual shade of the tree Sedrat, and
neither blackness nor shame shall cover his face. There the rivers flow
with milk and with clarified honey, and he shall rest on a couch covered
with thick silk embroidered with gold, and shall possess seventy
beautiful virgins whose eyes are blacker than mine and their skin whiter
than yours, having colour like rubies and pearls, and their voices like
the song of nightingales in Ajjem, of which travellers tell. These are
the rewards of the true believer as set forth in Al Koran by our
prophet, upon whom peace. A man slain in battle for the faith enters
directly into the possession of all this, but unbelievers shall be
taken by the forelock and the heels and cast into hell, to drink boiling
molten brass, as a thirsty camel drinks clear water.'
Almasta understood very little of what Zehowah said, but she smiled,
nevertheless, catching the meaning of some of the words.
'The Sultan Khaled loves black eyes,' she said. 'He will go to
paradise.'
'Doubtless, he will quench his thirst in the incorruptible milk of
heavenly rivers,' Zehowah replied. 'He is the chief of the brave, the
light of the faith and the burning torch of righteousness. Otherwise
Allah would not have chosen him to rule. But I spoke of Abdul Kerim.'
'He died in peace,' said Almasta the second time, and again looking
down.
'I do not know how he died,' Zehowah answered, looking steadily at the
woman's face. 'It was a great misfortune for you. Do you understand? I
am very sorry for you. You would have been happy with Abdul Kerim.'
'I mourn for him,' Almasta said, not raising her eyes.
'It is natural and right. Doubtless you loved him as soon as you saw
him.'
Almasta glanced quickly at Zehowah, as though suspecting a hidden
meaning in the words, and for a moment each of the women looked into
the other's eyes, but Zehowah saw nothing. For a wise man has truly said
that one may see into the depths of black eyes as into a deep well, but
that blue eyes are like the sea of Oman in winter, sparkling in the sun
as a plain of blue sand, but underneath more unfathomable than the
desert.
Almasta was too wise and deceitful to let the silence last. So when she
had looked at Zehowah and understood, she smiled somewhat sorrowfully
and spoke.
'I could have loved him,' she said. 'I desire no husband now.'
'That is not true,' Zehowah answered quickly. 'You wish to marry Khaled,
and that is the reason why you killed Abdul Kerim.'
Almasta started as a camel struck by a flight of locusts.
'What is this lie?' she cried out with indignation. 'Who has told you
this lie?' But her face was as grey as a stone, and her lips trembled.
'You probably killed him by magic arts learned in your own country,'
said Zehowah quietly. 'Do not be afraid. We are alone, and no one can
hear us. Tell me how you killed him. Truly it was very skilful of you,
since the physician, who is the wisest man in Arabia, could not tell how
it was done.'
But Almasta began to beat her breast and to make oaths and
asseverations in her own language, which Zehowah could not understand.
'If you will tell me how you did it, I will give you a rich gift,'
Zehowah continued.
But so much the more Almasta cried out, stretching her hands upwards and
speaking incomprehensible words. So Zehowah waited until she became
quiet again.
'It may be that Khaled will marry you, if you will tell me your secret,'
Zehowah said, after a time.
Then Almasta's cheek burned and she bent down her eyes.
'Will you tell me how to kill a man and leave no trace?' asked Zehowah,
still pressing her. 'Look at this pearl. Is it not beautiful? See how
well it looks upon your hair. It is as the leaf of a white rose upon a
river of red gold. And on your neck--you cannot see it yourself--it is
like the full moon hanging upon a milky cloud. Khaled would give you
many pearls like this, if he married you. Will you not tell me?'
'Whom do you wish to kill?' Almasta asked, very suddenly. But Zehowah
was unmoved.
'It may be that I have a private enemy,' she said. 'Perhaps there is one
who disturbs me, against whom I plot in the night, but can find no way
of ridding myself of him. A woman might give much to destroy such a
one.'
'Khaled will kill your enemies. He loves you. He will kill all whom you
hate.'
'You make progress. You speak our language better,' said Zehowah,
laughing a little. 'You will soon be able to tell the Sultan that you
love him, as well as I could myself.'
'But you do not love him,' Almasta answered boldly.
Zehowah bent her brows so that they met between her eyes as the grip of
a bow. Then Khaled's heart leaped in his breast, for he saw that she was
angry with the woman, and he supposed it was because she secretly loved
him. But he held his breath lest even his breathing should betray him.
'The portion of fools is fire,' said Zehowah, not deigning to give any
other answer. For she was a king's daughter and Almasta a bought slave,
though Khaled had taken her in war.
'Be merciful!' exclaimed Almasta, in humble tones. 'I am your handmaid,
and I speak Arabic badly.'
'You speak with exceeding clearness when it pleases you.'
'Indeed I cannot talk in your language, for it is not long since I came
into Arabia.'
'We will have you taught, for we will give you a husband who will teach
you with sticks. There is a certain hunchback, having one eye and marked
with the smallpox, whose fists are as the feet of an old camel. He will
be a good husband for you and will teach you the Arabic language, and
your skin shall be dissolved but your mind will be enlightened thereby.'
'Be merciful! I desire no husband.'
'It is good that a woman should marry, even though the bridegroom be a
hunchback. But if you will tell me your secret I will give you a better
husband and forgive you.'
'There is no secret! I have killed no one!' cried Almasta. 'Who has told
you the lie?'
'And moreover,' continued Zehowah, not regarding her protestations,
'there are other ways of learning secrets, besides by kindness; such,
for instance, as sticks, and hot irons, and hunger and thirst in a
prison where there are reptiles and poisonous spiders, besides many
other things with which I have no doubt the slaves of the palace are
acquainted. It is better that you should tell your secret and be happy.'
'There is no secret,' Almasta repeated, and she would say nothing else,
for she did not trust Zehowah and feared a cruel death if she told the
truth.
But Zehowah wearied of the contest at last, being by no means sure that
the woman had really done any evil, and having no intention of using any
violent means such as she had suggested. For she was as just as she was
wise and would have no one suffer wrongly. Khaled, indeed, cared little
for the pain of others, having seen much blood shed in war, and would
have caused Almasta to be tortured if Zehowah had desired it. But she
did not, preferring to wait and see whether she could not entrap the
slave into a confession.
Khaled now came out of his hiding-place into the room and advanced
towards Zehowah, who remained sitting upon the carpet, while Almasta
rose and made a respectful salutation. But neither of the women knew
that he had been hidden in the niche. Zehowah did not seem surprised,
but Almasta's face was white and her eyes were cast down, though indeed
Khaled wished that it had been otherwise. He was encouraged, however, by
what he had seen, for Zehowah had certainly been angry with Almasta on
his account, and he dismissed the latter that he might be alone with his
wife.
'You are wise, Zehowah,' he said, 'and gifted with much insight, but you
will learn nothing from this woman, though you talk with her a whole
year. For she suspects you and is guarded in her speech and manner. I
was standing by the doorway a long time. You did not see me, but I heard
all that you said.'
'Why did you hide yourself?' Zehowah asked, looking at him curiously.
'In order to listen,' he answered. 'And I heard something and saw
something which pleased me. For when she said that you did not love me,
you were angry.'
'Did that please you? You are more easily pleased than I had thought.
Shall I bear such things from a slave? How is it her business whether I
love or not?'
'But you were angry,' Khaled repeated, vainly hoping that she would say
more, yet not wishing to press her too far, lest she should say again
that she did not love him.
She, however, said nothing in reply, but busied herself in taking his
kefiyeh from his head and his sword from his side that he might be at
ease. He rested against the cushions and drank of the cool drink she
offered him.
'This woman, Almasta, is exceedingly beautiful,' he said at last. 'It
would indeed be a pity that a slave of such value should go into the
possession of another so that we could see her no more. It is best that
you should keep her with you.'
Zehowah laughed a little, as she sat down beside him and began to play
with her beads.
'This is what I have always said,' she answered. 'I will keep her with
me.'
'It is better so,' said Khaled.
Then he remained silent in deep thought, having devised a new plan for
gaining what he most desired. It seemed to him possible that Zehowah
might be moved by jealousy, if by nothing else; for although he had
sworn to her, and angrily, that he would never take Almasta for his
wife, and though nothing could really have prevailed upon him to make
him do so, yet it would be easy for him to talk to the woman and speak
to her of her beauty, and appear to take delight in her singing, which
was more melodious than that of a Persian nightingale. Since she would
be now permanently established in his harem, nothing would be easier
than for him to spend many hours in the woman's society. Being a
simple-minded man the plan seemed to him subtle, and he determined to
put it into execution without delay. He knew also that Almasta had loved
him since the first day when she had been brought before him in the
palace at Haïl, and this would make it still more easy to rouse
Zehowah's jealousy.
Though she had herself advised him to marry Almasta, he did not believe
that she was greatly in earnest, and he felt assured that if the
possibility were presented before her, in such a way as to appear
imminent, she would be deceived by the appearance.
'It is better that she should remain here,' he said after a long time.
'For we cannot put her to death without evidence of her guilt, and if we
are obstinate in wishing to give her a husband, we do not know how many
husbands she may destroy before she is satisfied. She is beautiful, and
will be an ornament in your kahwah. Indeed I do not know why I sent her
away just now, when I came in. Let us call her back, that she may sing
to us some of her own songs.'
Zehowah clapped her hands and Almasta immediately returned, for she had
indeed been waiting outside the door, endeavouring to hear what was
said, since she suspected that Khaled would speak of her and ask
questions. She understood well enough, and often much better than she
was willing to show, though she could as yet speak but few words of the
Arabic language.
'Sit at my feet,' said Khaled, 'and sing to me the songs of your own
people.'
Almasta took a musical instrument from the wall and sat down to sing.
Her voice, indeed, was of enchanting sweetness, but as for the words of
her songs, the seven wise men themselves could not have understood a
syllable of them, seeing that they were neither Arabic nor Persian, nor
even Greek. Nevertheless, Khaled made a pretence of being much pleased,
resting his head against the cushions and closing his eyes as though the
sound soothed him. As for Zehowah, she watched the woman with great
curiosity, wondering whether it were possible that a creature so fair as
Almasta could have done the evil deeds of which she was suspected, and
planning how she might surprise her into a confession of guilt.
CHAPTER VII
Not many days passed after this, before the women of the harem began to
whisper among themselves in the passages and outer chambers.
'See,' they said, 'how our master favours this foreign woman, who is in
all probability a devil from the Persian mountains. Every day he will
have her to sing to him, and to bring him drink, and to sit at his feet.
And he has given her several bracelets of gold and a large ruby. Surely
it will be better for us to flatter her and show her reverence, for if
not she will before long give us sticks to eat, and we shall mourn our
folly.'
So they began to exhibit great respect for Almasta, giving her always
the best seat amongst them and setting aside for her the best portions
of the mutton, and the whitest of the rice, and the largest of the
sweetmeats and the mellowest of the old sugar dates, so that Almasta
fared sumptuously. But though she understood the reason why the women
treated her so much more kindly than before, she was careful always to
appear thankful and to speak softly to them, for she feared Zehowah, to
whom they might speak of her, and who was very powerful with the Sultan.
She was indeed secretly transported with joy, for she loved Khaled and
she began to think that before long he would marry her. This was her
only motive, also, for she was not otherwise ambitious, and though she
afterwards did many evil deeds, she did them all out of love for him.
Though Khaled was by no means soft-hearted, he could not but pity her
sometimes, seeing how she was deceived by his kindness, while he was
only making a pretence of preferring her in order to gain Zehowah's
love. Often he sat long with closed eyes while she sang to him or played
softly upon the barbat, and he tried to fancy that the voice and the
presence were Zehowah's. But her strange language disturbed him, for
there were sounds in it like the hissing of serpents and like choking,
which caused him to start suddenly just when her voice was sweetest. For
the Georgian tongue is barbarous and not like any human speech under the
sun, resembling by turns the inarticulate warbling of birds, and the
croaking of ravens, and the noises made by an angry cat. Nevertheless,
Khaled always made a pretence of being pleased, though he enjoined upon
Almasta to learn to sing in Arabic.
'For Arabic,' he said to her, 'is the language of paradise, and is
spoken by all beings among the blessed, from Adam, our father, who waits
for the resurrection in the first heaven, to the birds that fly among
the branches of the tree Sedrat, near the throne of Allah, singing
perpetually the verses of Al Koran. The black-eyed virgins reserved for
the faithful, also speak only in Arabic.'
'Shall I be of the Hur al Oyun of whom you speak?' Almasta inquired.
'How is it possible that you should be of the black-eyed ones, when your
eyes are blue?' Khaled asked, laughing. 'And besides, are you not an
unbeliever?'
'I believe what you believe, and am learning your language. There is no
Allah beside Allah.'
'And Mohammed is Allah's prophet.'
'And Mohammed is Allah's prophet,' Almasta repeated devoutly.
'Good. And the six articles of belief are also necessary.'
'Teach me,' said Almasta, laying the barbat upon the carpet and folding
her hands.
'You must believe first in Allah, and secondly in all the angels.
Thirdly you must believe in Al Koran, fourthly in the prophets of Allah,
fifthly in the resurrection of the dead and the last judgment, and
lastly that your destiny is about your neck so that you cannot escape
it.'
'I believe in everything,' said Almasta, who understood nothing of these
sacred matters. 'Shall I now be one of the Hur al Oyun?'
'But you have blue eyes.'
'When I know that I am dying, I will paint them black,' said Almasta,
laughing sweetly.
'The angels Monkar and Nakir will discover your deception,' said Khaled.
'When you are dead and buried, these two angels, who are black, will
enter your tomb. They are of extremely terrible appearance. Then they
will make you sit upright in the grave and will examine you first as to
your belief and then as to your deeds. You will then not be able to tell
lies. If you truly believe and have done good, your soul will then be
breathed out of your lips and will float in a state of rest over your
grave until the last judgment. But if not, the black angels will beat
your head with iron maces, and tear your soul from your body with a
torment greater than that caused by tearing the flesh from the bones.'
'I believe in everything,' Almasta said again, supposing that her assent
would please him.
'You find it an easy matter to believe what I tell you,' he said, for he
could see that she would have received any other faith as readily. 'But
it is not easy for a woman to enter paradise, and since it is your
destiny to have blue eyes, they will not become black. The Hur al Oyun,
however, are not mortal women and no mortal woman can ever be one of
them, since they are especially prepared for the faithful. But a man's
wives may enter paradise with him, in a glorified beauty which may not
be inferior to that of the black-eyed ones. If, for instance, Abdul
Kerim had lived and been your husband, you might, by faith and good
works, have entered heaven with him as one of his wives.'
Almasta looked long at Khaled, trying to see whether he still suspected
her, and indeed he found it very hard to do so, for her look was clear
and innocent as that of a young dove that is fed by a familiar hand.
'I would like to enter paradise with you,' said Almasta, with an
appearance of timidity. 'Is it not possible?'
'It may be possible. But I doubt it,' Khaled answered, with gravity.
In those days, while Khaled thus spent many hours with Almasta, Zehowah
often remained for a long time in another part of the harem, either
surrounded by her women, or sitting alone upon the balcony over the
court, absorbed in watching the people who came and went. The slaves
were surprised to see that Khaled seemed to prefer the society of the
Georgian to that of his wife, but they dared say nothing to Zehowah and
contented themselves with watching her face and endeavouring to find out
whether she were displeased at what was happening, or really indifferent
as she appeared to be.
Almasta herself was distrustful, supposing that Khaled and Zehowah were
in league together to entrap her into a self-accusation, and though her
heart was transported with happiness while she was with Khaled, yet she
did not forget to be cautious whenever any reference was made to Abdul
Kerim's death. She also took the long needle out of her hair and hid it
carefully in a corner, in a crevice between the pavement and the wall,
lest it should at any time fall from its place and bring suspicion upon
her.
Khaled watched Zehowah as narrowly as the women did, to see whether any
signs of jealousy showed themselves in her face, and sometimes they
talked together of Almasta.
'It is strange,' said Khaled, 'that Allah, being all powerful, should
have provided matter for dissension on earth by creating one woman more
beautiful than another, the one with blue eyes, the other with black,
the one with red hair and the other with hair needing henna to brighten
it. Are not all women the children of one mother?'
'And are not all men her sons also?' asked Zehowah. 'It is strange that
Allah, being all powerful, should have provided matter for sorrow by
creating one man with a spirit easily satisfied, and the other with a
soul tormented by discontent.'
Khaled looked fixedly at his wife, and bent his brows. But in secret he
was glad, for he supposed that she was beginning to be jealous. However,
he made a pretence of being displeased.
'Is man a rock that he should never change?' he asked. 'Or has he but
one eye with which to see but one kind of beauty? Have I not two hands,
two feet, two ears, two nostrils and two eyes?'
'That is true,' Zehowah answered. 'But a man has only one heart with
which to love, one voice with which to speak kind words, and one mouth
with which to kiss the woman he has chosen. And if a man had two souls,
they would rend him so that he would be mad.'
At this Khaled laughed a little and would gladly have shown Zehowah that
she was right. But he feared to be treated with indifference, if he
yielded to her argument so soon, and he held his peace.
'Nevertheless,' Zehowah continued, after a time, 'you are right and so
am I. You said, indeed, not many days ago that your two hands should
wither at the wrists if you took another wife, yet I advised you to do
so; and now it is clear from what you say that you wish to marry
Almasta. I am your handmaiden. Take her, therefore, and be contented,
for she loves you.'
But now Khaled was much disturbed as to what he should answer, for he
had hoped that Zehowah would break out into jealous anger. He could not
accept her advice, because of his oath and still more because of his
love for her; yet he could not send away Almasta, since by so doing he
would be giving over his last hope of obtaining Zehowah's love by
rousing her jealousy.
'Take her,' Zehowah repeated. 'The palace is wide and spacious. There is
room for us both, and for two others also, if need be, according to
divine law. Take her, and let there be contentment. Have you not said
that she is more beautiful than I?'
'No,' answered Khaled, 'I have not said so.'
'You have thought it, which is much the same, for you said that her hair
was red but that mine needed henna to brighten it. Marry her therefore,
this very day. Send for the Kadi, and order a feast, and let it be done
quickly.'
'Is it nothing to you, whether I take her or not?' Khaled asked, seeking
desperately for something to say.
'Is it for me to set myself up against the holy law? Or did any one
exact from you a promise that you would not take another wife? And if
you rashly promised anything of your own free will, the promise is not
binding seeing that there is no authority for it in Al Koran, and that
no one desires you to keep it--neither I, nor Almasta.'
Zehowah laughed at her own speech, and Khaled was too much disturbed to
notice that the laugh was rather of scorn than of mirth.
'How shall I take a woman who is perhaps a murderess?' he asked. 'Shall
I take her who was perhaps the cause of your revered father's death? May
Allah give him peace! Surely, the very thought is terrible to me, and I
will not do it.'
'Will you convict her without witnesses? And where is your witness? Did
not the physician explain the reason of the death, and did he suspect
that there was anything unnatural about it? But if you still think that
she destroyed my father and Abdul Kerim--peace on them both--why do you
make her sit all day long at your feet and sing to you in her barbarous
language, which resembles the barking of jackals? And why do you command
her to bring you drink and fan you when it is hot, and you sleep in the
afternoon? This shows a forgiving and trustful disposition.'
'This is an unanswerable argument,' thought Khaled, being very much
perplexed. 'Can I answer that I do all this in order to see whether
Zehowah is jealous? She would certainly laugh to herself and say in her
heart that she has married a fool.'
So he said nothing, but bent his brows again, and endeavoured to seem
angry. But Zehowah took no notice of his face and continued to urge him
to marry Almasta.
'Have you ever seen such a woman?' she asked. 'Have you ever seen such
eyes? Are they not like twin heavens of a deep blue, each having a
shining sun in the midst? Is not her hair like seventy thousand pieces
of gold poured out upon the carpet from a height? Her nose is a straight
piece of pure ivory. Her lips are redder than pomegranates when they are
ripe, and her cheeks are as smooth as silk. Moreover she is as white as
milk, freshly taken from the camel, whereas my hands are of the colour
of blanket-bread before it is baked.'
'Your hands are much smaller than hers,' said Khaled, who could not
suffer Zehowah to discredit her own beauty.
'I do not know,' she answered, looking at her fingers. 'But they are
less white. And Almasta is far more beautiful than I. You yourself said
so.'
'I never said so,' Khaled replied, more and more perplexed. 'There are
two kinds of beauty. That is what I said. Allah has willed it. Almasta
is a slave, and her hands are large. It is a pity, for she is like a
mare that has many good points, but whose hoofs are overgrown through
too much idleness in the stable. I say that there are two kinds of
beauty. Yours is that of the free woman of a pure and beautiful race;
hers is that of the slave accidentally born beautiful.'
Zehowah gathered up her three long black tresses and laid them across
her knees as she sat. Then she shook off her golden bracelets, one after
the other, to the number of a score and heaped them upon the hair.
'Which do you like best?' she asked. 'The black or the gold? The day or
the night? Here you see them together and can judge fairly between
them.'
Khaled sought for a crafty answer and made a pretence of pondering the
matter deeply.
'After the night,' he said at last, 'the day is very bright and
glorious. But when we have looked on it long, only the night can bring
rest and peace.'
He was pleased with himself when he had made this answer, supposing that
Zehowah would find nothing to say. But he had only laid a new trap for
himself.
'That is quite true,' she answered, laughing. 'That is also the reason
why Allah made the day and the night to follow each other in succession,
lest men should grow weary of eternal light or eternal darkness. For the
same reason also, since you have a wife whose hair is black, I counsel
you to take a red-haired one. In this way you will obtain that variety
which the taste of man craves.'
'If I follow your advice, you will regret it,' said Khaled.
'You think I shall be jealous, but you are mistaken. I am what I am. Can
another woman make me more or less beautiful? Moreover, I shall always
be first in the palace, though you take three other wives. The others
will rise up when you come in, but I shall remain sitting. I shall
always be the first wife.'
'Undoubtedly, that is your right,' Khaled replied. 'Do you suppose that
I wish to put any woman in your place?'
Then Zehowah laughed, and laid her hand upon Khaled's arm.
'How foolish men are!' she exclaimed. 'Do you think you can deceive me?
Do you imagine, because I have answered you and talked with you to-day,
and listened to your arguments, that I do not understand your heart? Oh,
Khaled, this is true which you often say of yourself, that your wit is
in your arm. If I were a warrior and stood before you with a sword in my
hand, you could argue better, for you would cut off my head, and the
argument would end suddenly. But Allah has not made you subtle, and
words in your mouth are of no more avail than a sword would be in mine,
for you entangle yourself in your own language, as I should wound myself
if I tried to handle a weapon.'
At this Khaled was much disconcerted, and he stroked his beard
thoughtfully, looking away so as not to meet her eyes.
'I do not know what you mean,' he said, at last. 'You certainly imagine
something which has no existence.'
'I imagine nothing, for I have seen the truth, ever since the first day
when you desired to be alone with Almasta. You are only foolishly trying
to make me jealous of her, in order that I may love you better.'
When Khaled saw that she understood him, he was without any defence, for
he had built a wall of sand for himself, like a child playing in the
desert, which the first breath of wind causes to crumble, and the second
blast leaves no trace of it behind.
'And am I foolish, because I have done this thing?' he cried, not
attempting to deny the truth. 'Am I a fool because I desire your love?
But it is folly to speak of it, for you will reproach me and say that I
am discontented, and will offer me another woman for my wife. Go. Leave
me alone. If you do not love me, the sight of you is as vinegar poured
into a fresh wound, and as salt rubbed into eyes that are sore with the
sand. Go. Why do you stay? Do you not believe me? Do you wish me to kill
you that I may have peace from you? It is a pity that you did not marry
one of the hundred suitors who came before me, for you certainly loved
one of them, since you cannot love me. You doubtless loved the Indian
prince. Would you have him back? I can give you his bones, for I slew
him with my own hands and buried him in the Red Desert, where his soul
is sitting upon a heap of sand, waiting for the day of resurrection.'
Then Zehowah was greatly astonished, for neither she nor any one else
had ever known what had been the end of that suitor, and after waiting a
long time, his people who had been with him had departed sorrowing to
their own country, and she had heard no more of them.
'What is this?' she asked in amazement. 'Why did you kill him? And how
could you have done this thing unseen, since he was guarded by many
attendants?'
'I took him out of the palace in the night, when all were asleep, and
then I killed him,' said Khaled, and Zehowah could get no other answer,
for he would not confess that he had been one of the genii, lest she
should not believe the truth, or else, believing, should be afraid of
him in the future.
'I will give you his bones,' he said, 'if you desire them, for I know
where they are, and you certainly loved him, and are still mourning for
him. If he could be alive, I would kill him again.'
'I never loved him,' Zehowah answered, at last. 'How was it possible?
But I would perhaps have married him, hoping to convert all his people
to the true faith.'
'As you have married me in the hope, or the assurance, of giving your
people a just king.'
'You are angry, Khaled. And, indeed, I could be angry, too, but with
myself and not with you, as you are with me, though it be for the same
reason. For I begin to see and understand why you are discontented, and
indeed I will do what I can to satisfy you.'
'You must love me, as I love you, if you would save me from
destruction,' said Khaled.
Though Zehowah could not comprehend the meaning of the words, she saw by
his face that he was terribly moved, and she herself began to be more
sorry for him.
'Indeed, Khaled,' she said, 'I will try to love you from this hour. But
it is a hard thing, because you cannot explain it, and it is not easy to
learn what cannot be explained. Do you think that all women love their
husbands in this way you mean? Am I unlike all the rest?'
Khaled took her hand and held it, and looked into her eyes.
'Love is the first mystery of the world,' he said. 'Death is the second.
Between the two there is nothing but a weariness darkened with shadows
and thick with mists. What is gold? A cinder that glows in the darkness
for a moment and falls away to a cold ash in our hand when we have taken
it. But love is a treasure which remains. What is renown? A cry uttered
in the bazar by men whose minds are subject to change as their bodies
are to death. But the voice of love is heard in paradise, singing beside
the fountains Tasnim and Salsahil. What is power? A net with which to
draw wealth and fame from the waters of life? To what end? We must die.
Or is power a sword to kill our enemies? If their time is come they will
die without the sword. Or is it a stick to purify the hides of fools?
The fool will die also, like his master, and both will be forgotten. But
they who love shall enter the seventh heaven together, according to the
promise of Allah. Death is stronger than man or woman, but love is
stronger than death, and all else is but a vision seen in the desert,
having no reality.'
'I will try to understand it, for I see that you are very unhappy,' said
Zehowah.
She was silent after this, for Khaled's words were earnest and sank into
her soul. Yet the more she tried to imagine what the passion in him
could be like, the less she was able to understand it, for some of
Khaled's actions had been foolish, but she supposed that there must
have been some wisdom in them, having its foundation in the nature of
love.
'What he says is true,' she thought. 'I married him in order to give my
people a just and brave king, and he is both brave and just. And I am
certainly a good wife, for I should be dissolved in shame if another man
were to see my face, and moreover I am careful of his wants, and I take
his kefiyeh from his head with my own hands, and smooth the cushions for
him and bring him food and drink when he desires it. Or have I withheld
from him any of the treasures of the palace, or stood in the way of his
taking another wife? Until to-day, I thought indeed that this talk of
love meant but little, and that he spoke of it because he desired an
excuse for marrying Almasta who loves him. But when I said at a venture
that he wished to make me jealous, he confessed the truth. Now all the
tales of love told by the old women are of young persons who have seen
each other from a distance, but are hindered from marrying. And we are
already married. Surely, it is very hard to understand.'
After this Khaled never called Almasta to sit at his feet and sing to
him, as he had done before, and Zehowah was constantly with him in her
stead. At first Almasta supposed that Khaled only made a pretence of
disregarding her, out of respect for his wife, but she soon perceived
that he was indifferent and no longer noticed her. She then grew fierce
and jealous, and her voice was not heard singing in the harem; but she
went and took her needle again from the crevice in the pavement and hid
it in her hair, and though Zehowah often called her, when Khaled was not
in the house, she made as though she understood even less of the Arabic
language than before and sat stupidly on the carpet, gazing at her
hands. Zehowah wearied of her silence, for she understood the reason of
it well enough.
'I am tired of this woman,' she said to Khaled. 'Do you think I am
jealous of her now?'
Khaled smiled a little, but said nothing, only shaking his head.
'I am tired of her,' Zehowah repeated. 'She sits before me like a sack
of barley in a grainseller's shop, neither moving nor speaking.'
'She is yours,' Khaled answered. 'Send her away. Or we will give her in
marriage to one of the sheikhs who will take her away to the desert. In
this way she will not be able even to visit you except when her husband
comes into the city.'
But they decided nothing at that time. Some days later Khaled was
sitting alone upon a balcony, Zehowah having gone to the bath, when
Almasta came suddenly before him and threw herself at his feet, beating
her forehead and tearing her hair, though not indeed in a way to injure
it.
'What have I done?' she cried. 'Why is my lord displeased?'
Khaled looked at her in surprise, but answered nothing at first.
'Why are my lord's eyes like frozen pools by the Kura, and why is his
forehead like Kasbek in a mist?'
Khaled laughed a little at her words.
'Kasbek is far from Riad,' he answered, 'and the waters of the Kura do
not irrigate the Red Desert. I am not displeased. On the contrary, I
will give you a husband and a sufficient dowry. Go in peace.'
But Almasta remained where she was, weeping and beating her forehead.
'Let me stay!' she cried. 'Let me stay, for I love you. I will eat the
dust under your feet. Only let me stay.'
'I think not,' Khaled answered. 'You weary Zehowah with your silence and
your sullenness.'
'Let me stay!' she repeated, over and over again.
She was not making any pretence of grief, for the tears ran down
abundantly and stained the red leather of Khaled's shoes. Though he was
hard-hearted he was not altogether cruel, for a man who loves one woman
greatly is somewhat softened towards all such as do not stand
immediately in his way.
'It is true,' he thought, 'that I have given this woman some occasion of
hope, for I have treated her kindly during many days, and she has
probably supposed that I would marry her. For she is less keen-sighted
than Zehowah, and moreover she loves me.'
'Do not drive me out!' cried Almasta. 'For I shall die if I cannot see
your face. What have I done?'
'You have indeed done nothing worthy of death, for I cannot prove that
you killed Abdul Kerim. I will therefore give you a good husband and you
shall be happy.'
But Almasta would not go away, and embracing his knees she looked up
into his face, imploring him to let her remain. Khaled could not but see
that she was beautiful, for the mid-day light fell upon her white face
and her red lips, and made shadows in her hair of the colour of mellow
dates, and reflections as bright as gold when the burnisher is still in
the goldsmith's hand. Though he cared nothing for Almasta and little for
her sorrow, his eye was pleased and he smiled.
Then he looked up and saw Zehowah standing before him, just as she had
come from the bath, wrapped in loose garments of silk and gold. He gazed
at her attentively for there was a distant gleam of light in her eyes
and her cheeks were warm, though she stood in the shadow, so that he
thought she had never been more beautiful, and he did not care to look
at Almasta's face again.
'Why is Almasta lamenting in this way?' Zehowah asked.
'She desires to stay in the palace,' Khaled answered; 'but I have told
her that she shall be married, and yet she wishes to stay.'
'Let her be married quickly, then. Is she a free woman, that she should
resist, or is she rich that she should refuse alms? Let her be married.'
'There is a certain young man, cousin to Abdul Kerim, a Bedouin of pure
descent. Let him take her, if he will, and let the marriage be
celebrated to-morrow.'
But Almasta shook her head, and her tears never ceased from flowing.
'You will marry him,' said Khaled. 'And if any harm comes to him, I will
cause you to be put to death before the second call to prayer on the
following morning.'
When Almasta heard this, her tears were suddenly dried and her lips
closed tightly. She rose from the floor and retired to a distance within
the room.
On that day Khaled sent for the young man of whom he had spoken, whose
name was Abdullah ibn Mohammed el Herir, and offered him Almasta for a
wife. And he accepted her joyfully, for he had heard of her wonderful
beauty, and was moreover much gratified by being given a woman whom the
former Sultan would probably have married if he had lived. Khaled also
gave him a grey mare as a wedding gift, and a handsome garment.
The marriage was therefore celebrated in the customary manner, and no
harm came to Abdullah. But as the autumn had now set in, he soon
afterwards left the city, taking Almasta with him, to live in tents,
after the manner of the Bedouins.
CHAPTER VIII
Abdullah ibn Mohammed, though a young man, was now the sheikh of a
considerable tribe which had frequently done good service to the late
Sultan, Zehowah's father, and which had also borne a prominent part in
the recent war. Abdul Kerim, whom Almasta had murdered, had been the
sheikh during his lifetime, and if the claims of birth had been justly
considered, his son, though a mere boy, should have succeeded him. But
Abdullah had found it easy to usurp the chief place, and in the council
which was held after Abdul Kerim's death he was chosen by acclamation.
It chanced, too, that he was not married at the time when he took
Almasta, for of two wives the one had died of a fever during the summer,
and he had divorced the other on account of her unbearable temper,
having been deceived in respect of this by her parents, who had assured
him that she was as gentle as a dove and as submissive as a lamb. But
she had turned out to be as quarrelsome as a wasp and as unmanageable as
an untrained hawk, so he divorced her, and the more readily because she
was not beautiful and her dower had been insignificant. Almasta
therefore found that she was her husband's only wife.
She would certainly have killed him, as she had killed Abdul Kerim, and,
indeed, the late Sultan, in the hope of being taken back into the
palace, but she was prevented by the fear of death, for she had seen
that Khaled's threat was not empty and would be executed if harm came to
Abdullah after his marriage. She accordingly set herself to please him,
and first of all she learned to speak the Arabic language, in order that
she might sing to him in his own tongue and tell him tales of distant
countries, which she had learned in her own home.
Abdullah passed the months of autumn and the early winter in the desert,
moving about from place to place, as is the custom of the Bedouins, it
being his intention to reach a northerly point of Ajman in the spring,
in order to fall upon the Persian pilgrims and extort a ransom before
they entered the territory of Nejed. For it would not be lawful to
attack them after that, since there was a treaty with the Emir of
Basrah, allowing the pilgrims a safe and free passage towards Mecca, for
which the Emir paid yearly a sum of money to the Sultan of Nejed.
But Almasta knew nothing of this, for she was wholly ignorant of the
desert; and moreover Abdullah was a cautious man, who held that
whatsoever is to be kept secret must not be uttered aloud, though there
be no one within three days' journey to hear it.
Abdullah treated her with great consideration, not obliging her to weary
herself overmuch with cooking and other work of the tents. For he
rejoiced in her beauty and in the sweetness of her voice, and his chief
delight was to sit in the door of the tent at night, chewing
frankincense, while Almasta sat within, close behind him, and told him
tales of her own country, or of the life in the palace of Riad. The
latter indeed was as strange to him as the former, and much more
interesting.
Now one evening they were alone together in this manner, and it was not
yet very cold. But the stars shone brightly as though there would be a
frost before morning, and the other tents were all closed and no one was
near the coals which remained from the fire after baking the
blanket-bread. One might hear the chewing of the camels in the dark and
the tramping of a mare that moved slowly about, her hind feet being
chained together.
'Tell me more of the palace at Riad,' said Abdullah. 'For your Kura, and
your snow-covered Kasbek, and your Tiflis with its warm springs and
gardens, I shall never see. But I have seen the courts of the palace
from my youth, and the Sultan's kahwah, and the latticed windows of the
harem, from which you say that you saw me and loved me in the last days
of summer.'
Almasta had said this to please him, though it was not true. For she
knew that men easily believe what flatters them, as women believe that
what they desire must come to pass.
'The palace is a wonderful palace,' said Almasta, 'and I will tell you
of the treasures which are in it.'
