"I wonder where Mr. F. Grant Palmer is now," said Frank. "I feel sure
he is the real burglar."
"Then he has probably gone over into Canada," returned Fred. "It is
unlucky for me that he left the watch and chain, but lucky for Mr.
Carver, who will now recover them."
Meanwhile let us follow Mr. Palmer, whose movements are of interest to
us in connection with the suspicion he has managed to throw on Fred.
When he left the Lynch House he proposed, as a measure of safety, to go
over to the Canada side, and indeed he did so. He made his way to the
Clifton House, and registered there, depositing his valise at the
office while he went in to breakfast.
"We have no room at present," said the clerk, politely, "but by the
middle of the forenoon we shall undoubtedly have a few vacancies. Will
that answer?"
"Oh, yes," said Palmer easily. "I am in no special hurry for a room,
but will take breakfast and go out for a walk."
It did occur to Mr. Palmer that the valise, containing as it did the
bonds stolen from Mr. Carver in Elmira, should be carefully guarded.
However, it would surely be as safe in the care of the hotel clerk of
the Clifton as in any hotel room, and probably even safer. So he ate
breakfast with an easy mind, and then, purchasing a cigar, took a walk
along the road which presents the best views of the Falls.
Mr. Palmer felt very complacent.
"It is a blessing to gentlemen in my profession," he soliloquized,
"that Canada is so conveniently near. Here the minions of the law
cannot touch us for any little indiscretion committed under the stars
and stripes. I hear people talking of annexing Canada to the States,
but to that I am unalterably opposed. I should have to retire from
business, and I am not able to do that at present."
He was standing at a convenient point surveying the Falls, when he felt
a light touch on his shoulder. Such was the force of habit that Mr.
Palmer started violently, and turned round nervously.
It was a stout man with a smiling face that confronted him.
"Ha, Palmer!" said the new arrival. "Did you mistake me for----"
"How are you, Wellington? I am glad to see you."
"Instead of----"
"Oh, pshaw! A man naturally starts when he is tapped on the shoulder
unexpectedly."
"I see. You were admiring the Falls."
"Yes."
"There is a good deal of romance in your composition, my dear Palmer,"
said his friend banteringly. "Anything new?"
"Well, yes," said Palmer, glancing around him cautiously.
"Made a strike, eh?"
"Well, something of the sort."
"What is it?"
"I managed to have a stroke of luck at Elmira, yesterday afternoon."
"How much did you get away with?"
"Hush! don't speak so plainly. Suppose any one should hear you?"
"My dear fellow, there is no one within two hundred yards."
"Well, there must be five thousand dollars in bonds and money."
"Very neat, upon my word! You are in luck!"
"How about you?"
"I made a small raise at Buffalo--a paltry three hundred dollars'
worth. It was hardly worth the trouble of taking. Still, a man must
live."
"To be sure!"
"Now with what you picked up you can live a year or two in comfort.
Upon my soul, I envy you. Are you suspected?"
"I have managed to divert suspicion, I think;" and Palmer told his
friend the story of his secreting the gold watch and chain in Fred's
luggage.
"Very shrewd!" said his friend approvingly. "Palmer, you are a credit
to our profession. I shall be content to take lessons of you."
"Oh, you are only joking," said Palmer, his expression showing,
however, that he felt proud of the compliment.
They took a long and leisurely walk together, talking over their mutual
experiences. They had known each other for ten years, having been
fellow boarders together as far back as that at Sing Sing, since then
neither had been caught, though both had been engaged in violating the
laws. Their similar professions had given them a common bond of
sympathy, and they found so much satisfaction in each other's company
that the time slipped by insensibly, and it was half-past twelve before
they found their way back to the Clifton.
Mr. Palmer stepped up to the desk.
"Have you a room for me yet?" he inquired.
"Yes, sir; I can give you No. 67. Here, front!"
A hall boy answered the summons.
"Take the gentleman up to 67," said the clerk.
"Any luggage, sir?"
"You may hand me my valise, if you please."
"Beg pardon; here it is."
"Come up with me, Wellington. We'll continue our talk up stairs."
Palmer merely glanced at the valise, and continued talking with his
friend. The hall boy unlocked the door of No. 67 and led the way
inside.
It was a pleasant room, and Palmer looked about him approvingly.
"I shall be very comfortable here," he said.
"Is everything right?" asked the hall boy, lingering.
Palmer smiled, drew a quarter from his pocket and put it into the ready
hand of the young man.
"You take American coins, don't you?" he asked with a smile.
"Oh, dear, yes, sir. Thank you!"
"That is all for the present. If I want anything I will ring."
Wellington scanned the valise with an eye of interest.
"So that holds the swag, does it?" he asked.
"My dear friend, don't use such vulgar terms!" said Palmer
reproachfully. "It's not only inelegant, but it's imprudent. Suppose
anybody heard you?"
"Your reproof is just, Palmer. I am rather a blunderer, I admit. I see
you are traveling under a false name."
"What do you mean?"
Wellington pointed to a small card attached to the valise. It bore the
name of Edmund Lawrence.
When Palmer's glance fell on this card, a quick glance of dismay swept
over his face.
"That isn't my valise!" he said.
"Not your valise!"
"No. The clerk has made a mistake. I must see him at once!" continued
Palmer, in an agitated voice. "He may have given my valise to this man
Lawrence, and in that case I am ruined. Stay here till I return."
Palmer seized the satchel, opened the door, and descended to the office
in breathless haste. As he dashed up to the desk the clerk eyed him in
mild surprise.
"What is the matter?" he asked.
"Matter enough! You have given me the wrong valise."
"Is it possible?"
"See here; this belongs to a party named Lawrence--Edmund Lawrence.
Give me mine at once."
The clerk looked troubled.
"I am afraid I can't," he faltered apologetically. "I gave Mr. Lawrence
your valise--you will observe that they are very much alike--and he
carried it away two hours since."
Palmer felt ready to drop. To think that after all his careful planning
everything should be jeopardized by a hotel clerk's error.
"Do you know what you have done?" he said, in a hollow voice. "My
valise contained two thousand dollars' worth of securities."
"I am terribly sorry, Mr. Palmer, but I don't think you will suffer any
loss. This Mr. Lawrence looks like a high-toned gentleman. You can see
him within an hour. He went from here to the International Hotel on the
American side of the Falls. I advise you to go over at once, take his
bag with you, and exchange."
CHAPTER XIV.
THE MISSING VALISE.
That he was imprudent in trusting himself on the American side Mr.
Grant Palmer was well aware, but he felt that he was in danger of
losing the entire proceeds of his skilful burglary, and to this he
could not make up his mind. Besides the danger was not very great. Why
should any one suppose that an ordinary valise contained stolen
property? There was nothing remarkable about the appearance of his
hand-bag. Hundreds of them are carried every day. If it were opened by
a dishonest person, of course it would be doubtful if he ever got it
back, but the clerk at the Clifton had said that this Mr. Lawrence
seemed like a high-toned gentleman, who would of course scorn to avail
himself of property not his own.
"Risk or no risk!" decided Palmer, "I must go over and reclaim my
property."
Leaving him to cross to the American side, we will follow Mr. Lawrence,
who, not at all suspecting that the valise he had received from the
clerk was not his own, repaired to the International Hotel and engaged
one of the best rooms in the house, for he was a man of ample means. He
laid his valise on the bed and went down-stairs. Later in the day he
went out to take his customary walk.
Meanwhile Fred and his two companions walked about in a leisurely
manner, surveying the Falls from different points, and finally went to
Goat Island. Here they sat down on a bench and surrendered themselves
to the fascinations of the scene.
"Well, what do you think of Niagara, Fred?" asked Frank.
"It is even finer than I had supposed," replied the train boy.
"Some people are disappointed," said Mr. Ferguson, "because they expect
too much. The Falls of Montmorency are considerably higher but not
nearly as wide. There are some cascades in the Yosemite Valley of over
a thousand feet descent, but they are only a few feet wide. For
grandeur Niagara excels them all."
"I shouldn't like to be swept over the Falls," said Fred.
"It must be terrible!" said Frank, with a shudder.
"The reality is worse than any picture drawn by the imagination. Ten
years since it happened to me to see a poor wretch drawn down to
destruction over the cataract."
The boys looked eager for the story, and he proceeded.
"I may state," continued the detective, "that I was indirectly the
cause of the tragedy. A defaulting bank cashier had got as far as this
point on his way to Canada, which as now was a haven of refuge to
gentlemen of his character. I was close upon his track, and he was in
imminent danger of capture. There seemed to be only one way of
escape--crossing the river above the Falls. By some means he obtained
a row-boat, and being a fair rower set out on his dangerous trip,
exulting in having outwitted me and made his escape. I remember very
well how he stood up in the boat, and with a smile on his face waved
me a mock adieu, as he impelled the little craft out toward the middle
of the river.
"He was a strong, sturdy rower, but he had no conception of the
strength and rapidity of the current. He battled manfully, but the boat
immediately began to tend towards the cataract with continually
increasing rapidity. At length he came to realize the fate that
certainly awaited him. His smile was succeeded by a look of despair. I
can see even now the expression of terror and desperation, formed upon
the poor fellow's face when he saw that, struggle as he might, there
was no help or deliverance, I am sure at that time he would have
welcomed me as a friend and savior, and gone with me willingly to
prison, if only he could have been rescued from the impending doom.
Still, however, he plied the oars with desperate vigor and would not
resign himself to his fate. I was painfully excited, and in the poor
fellow's peril quite forgot that he was a criminal of whom I was in
pursuit. The end came speedily. When six feet from the edge of the
cataract, he dropped his oars, threw up his hands, and an instant later
boat and man were swept down into the gulf below."
"Was his body ever found?" asked Fred.
"Yes, but it was so mangled as to be almost beyond recognition. Many a
time when looking at the Falls I have pictured to myself the unhappy
victim of that day's tragedy."
"I suppose," said Frank, "it is impossible to go over the cataract and
live."
"Not if all stories are to be believed. There is a boy in the village
here who is said to have gone over the Falls, and yet he does not seem
to have suffered any injury. The same story is told of a cat, but cats
are noted for having nine lives, and therefore the story is not so
surprising."
After a little more chat the three left the island and returned to the
mainland. They had hardly reached it when a telegraph boy approached
Mr. Ferguson and handed him a despatch.
He opened it and read as follows:
ELMIRA, SUNDAY.
My nephew, Edmund Lawrence, is at Niagara. Communicate with him.
PHILO CARVER.
"This is your business," said the detective, handing the telegram to
Fred.
"Let us try to find Mr. Lawrence," said Fred, after reading it.
"It will be the best way. Mr. Carver does not mention at what hotel his
nephew is staying."
"Probably he does not know."
"Undoubtedly you are right."
"What will you do?"
"There is only one thing to do to call at the principal hotels, and
look over the registers. We will go first to the International."
"Very well, sir."
Ferguson scanned Fred with a smile.
"You certainly don't act like one under suspicion," he said.
Fred smiled in return. "I find it hard to realize that I am a suspected
burglar," he responded.
"So do I. Let us hope that you will very soon be cleared from
suspicion."
The detective and the two boys turned their steps towards the spacious
and attractive International.
"It seems a little ahead of the Lynch House," said Fred, "but probably
the prices at the latter suit my pocketbook better."
They stepped on the piazza, and went into the office.
Mr. Ferguson opened the hotel register, and among the recent entries
found the name of Edmund Lawrence.
"Is Mr. Lawrence in?" he asked the clerk.
"Yes, sir; he came in from a walk five minutes since."
"I will send up my card."
The detective wrote on a blank card:
OSCAR FERGUSON,
DETECTIVE.
Important.
This was handed to a hall boy, who took it up to Mr. Lawrence's room,
and returned with a message that the gentleman was to come up at once.
"I think you will have to go with me," said Ferguson to Fred. "It won't
do for me to give you a chance to escape."
"That is the last thing I have in mind," said the train-boy; "but I
shall be glad to see Mr. Lawrence."
Edmund Lawrence, a pleasant-looking man of middle age, looked somewhat
surprised when turning his eyes toward the door, he saw Ferguson enter,
followed by two boys.
"You wish to see me on important business?" he said interrogatively.
"Yes, sir."
"And you are a detective?"
"Yes, sir."
"I hope that I have not fallen under any suspicion."
"Not at all. Have you heard that your uncle--Philo Carver, of
Elmira--has been the victim of a burglary?"
"No! Tell me about it."
The detective told the story, and Mr. Lawrence listened with great
interest.
"Is any one suspected?" he asked.
"A party has been arrested on suspicion," answered the detective.
"Indeed! who is it?"
"This boy!" answered Ferguson, pointing to Fred.
"Impossible!" ejaculated Lawrence, eying Fred with incredulous
amazement.
CHAPTER XV.
MR. PALMER WALKS INTO A TRAP.
"Nevertheless it is true. I arrested him at the Lynch House this
morning," affirmed the detective.
"Do you believe him guilty?" asked Mr. Lawrence, noting with perplexity
Fred's open countenance and tranquil manner.
"No. Still, circumstances are against him."
"Please explain."
"I found your uncle's gold watch and chain in his bundle?"
"Is it possible?"
"It is quite true, Mr. Lawrence," said Fred calmly. "Mr. Ferguson will
allow me to say that I was as much surprised as he to find them. The
bundle was a small one and only contained a shirt and collar which I
bought at Jersey City yesterday morning. I can only say that the watch
was not in the bundle then."
"Perhaps," said Lawrence, who was favorably impressed by Fred's
openness, "you have some theory as to the manner in which the watch got
into your bag."
"Yes, sir, I have. I had for a room-mate a stranger--a man whom I only
met last evening after the train arrived. We fell in with each other
the way to the hotel. We were obliged to room together on account of
there being but one room vacant at the hotel."
"What was the man's appearance?"
"He was rather tall, thin, and dark complexioned. Though it was late he
did not go to bed at once, but sat up for a while finishing a book in
which he was interested. When I awoke in the morning he was gone."
"You think he was the real burglar?"
"Yes, sir."
"What is your reason?"
"Because it must have been he that put the watch and chain in my
bundle."
"With a view of diverting suspicion from himself?"
"Yes, sir."
"One question more. When were you in Elmira, last?"
"I was never in Elmira at all," said Fred promptly. "I have never been
so far West before."
"What was your object in making your present journey?"
"I came to make money," answered Fred, smiling.
"That answer may go against you," said the detective.
"Not when I explain that I am the train boy. I have usually made short
runs, but yesterday morning the superintendent told me I was to go to
Niagara, and gave me permission to stay over Sunday to have a chance to
see the Falls. I began to think I would not see them, after all, but
Mr. Ferguson was kind enough to walk out with me, and let me have a
view of them."
"Is this boy also a train boy?" asked Lawrence, indicating Frank
Hamblin.
"No; he is related to the clerk of the Lynch House, and was kind enough
to come up to my room and keep me company."
"Who has the watch?" asked Lawrence, after a pause. "I have," answered
the detective, producing it. Lawrence took it from his hand.
"It is my uncle's watch, sure enough," he said. "I remember it a dozen
years since. He sent to Europe for it."
"His name is in it," said Ferguson. "But for that I might not have
recognized it as one of the articles lost."
"Do you know what was taken besides?"
"Money and securities, I am informed, but to what value I have not
learned."
"You think the boy's room-mate has them in his possession?"
"There seems to be little doubt of it."
"Where do you think he is?"
"On the Canada side, no doubt."
"He went there this morning?"
"Yes."
"I was myself at the Clifton House this morning, and I now remember the
arrival of a man presenting the appearance of this young fellow's
room-mate. He is probably still at the Clifton House."
"Then he is beyond my jurisdiction," said Ferguson.
"Do you remember what luggage he had?" asked Lawrence, turning to Fred.
"He had a small valise, about the size of this," said Fred, his eyes
resting on the satchel which Lawrence had brought from the Clifton, and
thrown down carelessly. "Why," continued Fred, in excitement, "this is
his valise. I recognize it by a dark spot on the side."
"What do you mean?" said Lawrence sharply. "This is my valise."
He took it in his hand, and uttered an ejaculation.
"The boy is right! This is not my valise."
"Do you mean to say this valise belongs to the man who roomed with you
last night?" demanded die detective.
"Yes, I feel sure of it."
"Then--good Heavens!--it no doubt contains the property stolen from my
uncle. Mr. Ferguson, shall we be justified in opening it?"
"I will take the responsibility," said the detective.
He took from his pocket a bent wire, and dexterously inserting it in
the lock opened the valise.
All gathered eagerly about it, anxious to ascertain whether their
suspicions were correct.
There were a few articles of underwear, which the detective took out
hastily and laid upon the bed.
"Ha, here we have it!" he exclaimed triumphantly as he drew out two
long envelopes, such as are employed for bonds and securities. "I will
take the liberty to open them."
One envelope proved to contain two one thousand dollar railroad bonds.
The other contained two U. S. Government bonds of five hundred dollars
each, and miscellaneous securities all together amounting to three
thousand dollars more.
"A very clever capture on my word!" said Ferguson. "Really, Mr.
Lawrence, you have beaten me in my own line."
"I am entitled to no credit. It belongs to the boy who identified the
valise. I assure you the wrong bag was given me at the Clifton most
fortunately. I am content to lose the few articles which my own
contained for the sake of recovering my uncle's property. It really
seems like an interposition of Providence."
"I suspect the thief will feel very ill-satisfied with the exchange. I
wonder what he will do about it."
There was little chance for speculation on this point. There was a
knock at the door, and a hall boy put in his head.
"There is a gentleman below who wishes to see you, Mr. Lawrence," he
said. "Here is his card."
Mr. Lawrence took from his hand a card on which had been written the
name
F. GRANT PALMER.
"That is the man, Mr. Lawrence," exclaimed Fred in excitement. "He has
come for his valise."
"Bring Mr. Palmer up in about five minutes," said Lawrence; "not
sooner."
"All right, sir!"
"Now let us repack the valise," said the detective. "I always carry a
large bunch of keys with me, and shall probably find one that will
relock it."
The shirts, socks, and other articles which had been taken from the bag
were carefully replaced, and Ferguson, as he had thought probable,
found a key which fitted the lock. Then the valise was laid carefully
on the sofa.
"Mr. Palmer must not see us, and particularly the train-boy," said the
detective, "or he will think something is up. Where can you conceal
us?"
"There is a bedroom attached to the apartment," said Lawrence. "Go in
there, all of you, and remain till I call you. You can leave the door
ajar, as you will probably be curious to hear what goes on between us."
"Capital! Couldn't be better!"
Ferguson, followed by the two boys, entered the smaller room, and
waited impatiently for the entrance of Palmer.
A knock was heard.
"Come in!" Lawrence called out lazily.
The door opened, and F. Grant Palmer entered, carrying in his hand a
valise which seemed to be a fac-simile of the one lying on the sofa.
Palmer's quick eye caught sight of it as he entered the room.
"Pardon me for my intrusion!" he said suavely, "but I believe we
exchanged valises--at the Clifton--this morning."
CHAPTER XVI.
PALMER'S MALICE.
"Indeed!" said Lawrence, in assumed surprise.
"Yes, mine was left with the clerk."
"And mine also."
"And he doubtless made a mistake in delivering them. Upon my word I am
not surprised, as they certainly are very much alike."
"So they are!" said Lawrence, taking the valise from Palmer's hand.
"And here is your name too."
"It is quite a joke, ha, ha!" laughed Palmer, his spirits rising as he
saw that there would be no difficulty in effecting the exchange. "I
suppose I may take mine?"
"You are quite sure it is yours? Pardon my asking, but you are a
stranger to me."
"Oh, it's all right! You see this spot on my valise. Outside of that,
there is really no difference."
"You are willing to swear that valise I brought over from the Clifton
is yours?"
"Why, of course!" returned Palmer in surprise. "How can there be a
doubt after what I have said?"
"You will pardon my caution. It certainly does seem like it, but I
don't want to run any risk of giving it to the wrong party."
"Oh, that's all right!" said Palmer impatiently, setting down Lawrence
in his own mind as a crank.
"Probably you have the key that opens it."
"Certainly."
"Then do you mind opening it, and satisfying yourself and me that it
really belongs to you?"
"Surely not," said Palmer, really glad of an opportunity of satisfying
himself that the bonds were safe.
He drew from his pocket a bunch of keys, and carefully selecting one
inserted it in the lock of the valise. It opened at once, and Palmer
eagerly scanned the contents. The under-clothing had been carefully
replaced, and he did not discover that it had been disturbed, but when
he lifted it to look for the envelopes containing the bonds, his face
underwent a change.
"What is the matter?" inquired Lawrence, calmly.
"That valise has been opened," said Palmer, angrily.
"What makes you think so?"
"The most valuable contents have been removed. I hold you accountable
for this, Mr. Lawrence," continued Palmer, fiercely.
"Please be a little more explicit. What is it that you miss?"
"Two envelopes, containing valuable bonds."
"This is a serious charge. Are you sure they were in the valise?"
"Of course I am. I put them there myself, and when I opened the valise
this morning they were there."
"Wasn't it rash in you to leave articles of such value in your valise?
Can you name any of the bonds?"
"Yes; there were two Erie mortgage bonds of a thousand dollars each,
two government bonds of five hundred dollars each, some bank bills, and
miscellaneous securities."
"You don't mean it? And you placed them there?"
"I did, and I am willing to swear to the statement. I demand of you,
sir, where they are."
Mr. Lawrence rose from his seat, and on pretense of examining the
contents of the open valise, managed to get in between Palmer and the
door.
"A man in my employ had charge of the valise for a short time," he
said. "He may have opened it."
"Where is he? He must be arrested before he can get away," said Palmer
in excitement.
"Ferguson!" called Mr. Lawrence.
The detective, who had of course heard all that had passed, stepped out
from the inner room. He assumed the tone of a servant.
"Did you call, sir?" he asked.
"Yes."
"I am at your service."
"This gentleman here claims the valise as his property. He says that
some bonds have been abstracted from it. Am I right?"
"Yes," assented Palmer, with a fierce glance at the detective.
"He charges me with having opened the valise, and taken them."
"What does he say to that?" demanded Palmer in excitement.
"It is true," said Ferguson, calmly.
"You hear?" said Palmer. "Give me back those bonds, you scoundrel, and
I may let you go free. Otherwise I will have you arrested, and you can
guess what will follow. Don't let the fellow escape!" he added quickly,
as the detective edged towards the door.
Lawrence upon this went to the door and locked it.
"What have you to say for yourself?" he demanded, turning to Ferguson.
"Only that I am a detective, and that I am specially deputed to search
for and recover the bonds stolen from Philo Carver of Elmira, yesterday
afternoon. I have reason to think I have found them."
"Duped!" exclaimed Palmer, sinking into a chair in dismay.
"Yes, Mr. Palmer, it looks like it. There is one article missing, a
gold watch and chain."
"I don't know anything about them."
"We may find some one who does. Fred!"
At the summons the train boy stepped out from the inner room, followed
by Frank Hamblin.
At sight of his late room-mate Palmer first showed surprise, and then
anger.
"Did you put up this job on me?" he asked fiercely.
"It seems that you put up a job on me," said Fred, quietly. "The watch
was found in my bundle."
"Yes, that was to be your share," answered Palmer maliciously.
"Gentlemen, I suppose I shall have to surrender at discretion, but I am
not the only guilty party. That boy is my confederate!"
"It is an outrageous falsehood!" burst out Fred indignantly.
"It is of no use your denying it. I am convinced that you have betrayed
me, and I will have no mercy on you. Gentlemen, arrest me if you think
best, but arrest him too. He is just as guilty as I am."
"You assert that he is your confederate?" said Lawrence.
"Yes."
"How long have you known him?"
"Ever since he was born. His mother was a cousin of mine," Palmer
asserted unblushingly.
"Do you believe this, Mr. Ferguson?" asked Fred, quite overwhelmed. "I
never saw this man till last evening."
"If he is your cousin, what is his name?" asked the detective, not
answering Fred's appeal.
"Fred Fenton," said Palmer coolly.
"He has got my name right, but he saw it in the hotel register," said
Fred.
"I presume you are right," said Ferguson.
"You seem interested in my young cousin," said Palmer with a malicious
sneer.
"Do you mean to say that he was with you in Elmira?" asked Lawrence.
"Yes; he stood outside to warn me if any one came along, who was likely
to interfere with me."
"And you both took the train for Niagara after the burglary was
effected?"
"Exactly."
Lawrence was staggered by the positive assertions of the culprit. It
must be considered that he was not acquainted with Fred, who, so far as
he knew, might be an artful young adventurer.
"Why didn't you take the boy over to the Canada side with you?"
"It was understood that he was to come over later in the day. We passed
for strangers at the Lynch House, and I thought it might excite
suspicion if we both went away together at so early an hour in the
morning."
"Mr. Palmer," said Fred warmly, "you know perfectly well that all these
statements are false, and that I never met you or had anything to do
with you till last evening."
"It won't do, Fred!" said the burglar. "You and I are in the same boat.
You are a boy, and will probably get a lighter sentence than I. But you
shouldn't go back on your old pal like this."
"Do you believe that man, Mr. Ferguson?" asked Fred with a troubled
look.
"No, but I shall be obliged to hold you till I produce him in court
to-morrow."
CHAPTER XVII.
TWO YOUNG LADY PASSENGERS AT ODDS.
Ferguson produced a pair of handcuffs and pinioned the wrists of his
captive. Palmer protested against the humiliation, but Ferguson said
quietly: "You are too important a prisoner for me to run any risk."
"Are you going to handcuff him?" asked the burglar, indicating Fred.
"No."
"Why not? Why should you treat him better than me?"
"I don't think he is guilty; but even if he is I am not afraid of his
running away."
"You are deceived in him. He looks innocent enough, but he has been
concerned in a dozen burglaries."
"I hear considerable news about myself," said Fred, "but the truth will
come out at last."
As the party passed through the streets they naturally attracted
considerable attention. Though a criminal, Palmer had for years evaded
arrest, and he felt mortified at the position in which he was placed.
He reflected bitterly that but for the mistake of the hotel clerk, he
might be at ease with his booty on the Canada side. As it was, things
seemed to have worked steadily against him, notwithstanding his clever
schemes. A long term of imprisonment stared him in the face, instead of
a couple of years of luxury on which he had counted. If he could only
involve Fred in his own misfortune it would be partial satisfaction. To
effect this he was prepared to swear to anything and everything.
Fred, though only nominally a prisoner, felt very uncomfortable. He was
saved from the disgrace of being handcuffed, and was consoled by
knowing that not even the detective believed him guilty of any
connection with the burglary. Still he was not his own master, to come
and go as he pleased, and it was not certain that he would be able to
go back to New York the next day as he had planned. Circumstances thus
far had worked against him, but there was to be a turn in the tide. As
they walked through the streets on the way to the station house, where
Palmer was to be locked up for safekeeping, they met a man whose dress
showed him to be an employee of the Erie road.
"Mr. Ferguson," said Fred eagerly, "that is the conductor of one of my
trains. He will tell you that I am the train-boy."
The conductor had just discovered and recognized Fred.
"You are staying over, like me," he said.
"Yes, I have permission."
"And so have I. I have a brother living here, and got two days off.
Where are you stopping?"
"At the Lynch House. Will you tell this gentleman that I am an Erie
train boy?"
"Certainly; but why is that necessary?" asked the conductor in
surprise.
"I will tell you later. Mr. Ferguson, have you any questions to ask?"
"Was this boy on your train yesterday?"
"Yes."
"Did he get on at Elmira?"
"Certainly not. He came all the way from New York."
"It is false!" said Palmer.
"What does he mean, Fred?" asked the conductor.
"He committed a burglary at Elmira yesterday afternoon, and is trying
to make out that I was connected with it."
"There he tells a falsehood," said the conductor bluntly. "I saw you on
the train through the entire journey."
"A very good alibi, Fred," said the detective. "Mr. Lawrence, after
this testimony it is hardly necessary for me to hold the boy. Are you
satisfied that I should let him go free?"
"Entirely so. I felt from the first that he was innocent."
"Then, Fred, you may consider yourself at liberty to go where you
please. I am as glad as you are that you are freed from suspicion."
"Thank you, sir. I will go with you as far as the lock-up."
Palmer scowled at him, but saw that it was useless to persist in his
charges against the boy, and walked on with head bent, reflecting
bitterly that he had not only lost the proceeds of the burglary, but
his freedom besides. He could see now that but for his secreting the
stolen watch and chain in Fred's bundle, he would probably have escaped
scot free. As for the present, at least, we shall have nothing more to
do with F. Grant Palmer, it may be briefly set down that after a speedy
trial he was found guilty by the jury without leaving their seats. He
was sentenced to seven years' imprisonment, and is now serving out his
term at Auburn.
Daring the remainder of his stay at Niagara, Fred used his time to
advantage, and it was with a thankful heart that he took his place on
the through train to New York the next morning. Just before starting,
Mr. Lawrence appeared on the platform, and handed him a small package
covered with brown paper.
"Have you a pocket where this will be safe?" he asked.
"Yes, sir."
"Then put it away, and open it when you arrive home."
"Thank you, sir."
Fred's attention was taken up by his duties as train boy, and he gave
no thought to the package, though he wondered at the moment what it
contained.
The train left at 8:43, and was not due in Jersey City till 10:10 P.M.
At Port Jervis a young lady came on board dressed in a very plain and
quiet manner. In his rounds through the train Fred stopped at her seat
with a pile of recent novels under his arm and asked her to buy.
"No, thank you," she answered courteously, and Fred observed that her
face was very sad. If she had been dressed in mourning, he would have
supposed that she had lost a near relative, but there was nothing in
her dress to justify such a supposition. Being naturally sympathetic,
Fred from time to time glanced at the young lady passenger, wishing it
were in his power to lighten her sorrow, whatever it might be.
Sitting next to her was a young lady, handsomely dressed, who was
evidently annoyed at the near neighborhood of one whom she considered
her social inferior. It chanced to be the only seat unoccupied when the
train reached Port Jervis, and the young lady was compelled to avail
herself of it. But when she reached the seat she found it occupied by a
fat poodle of uncertain temper, belonging to the fashionable young
lady.
"May I take this seat?" asked the new arrival.
"Don't you see that it is occupied?" snapped the dog's owner.
"There is no other seat vacant," said the new passenger deprecatingly.
"Then you had better go into the next car." As the young girl stood in
the aisle, undecided, Fred, who had heard the entire colloquy, and was
naturally indignant, made up his mind to interfere.
"These seats were meant for passengers--not for dogs," he said.
"Boy, you are impertinent!" said the fashionable young lady haughtily.
"Where is the impertinence?" asked Fred composedly. "Do you wish this
young lady to stand up in order that your dog may have a seat?"
"I will report you to the railroad company for insolence."
"Just as you like, but I will remove the dog in order to give this
young lady a seat."
"Oh, I don't want to make any trouble," said the new arrival.
"Touch my dog if you dare, boy," said the young lady with a flush of
anger on her face.
Just then the conductor entered the car, and Fred called him.
"Mr. Collins," he said, "this young lady refuses to remove her dog from
the seat to make room for a passenger."
"Is this true, madam?" asked the conductor.
"She can go into the next car."
"Are you paying for two seats?"
"No," snapped the lady.
"I must take your dog into the baggage car. It is against our rules to
have them in the regular cars, and they certainly cannot be allowed to
keep our passengers from occupying seats."
"Don't you dare to touch my dog!"
"Do you go to Jersey City?"
"Yes."
"Then you can call for the dog there," and in spite of the remonstrance
of the dog's owner, and the growling of the poodle, the conductor
removed the animal to the baggage car, much to the secret satisfaction
of the passengers, who had observed with disgust the selfishness of its
owner.
"I am indebted to you for this," said the young lady, with a furious
glance at the train boy.
Fred did not think himself called upon to make any answer. The young
lady scornfully drew aside her dress to avoid contact with her
unwelcome companion, saying audibly, "It is only in America that
servant girls are allowed to thrust themselves in the company of their
betters."
"I am not a servant girl," said the new passenger, "but even if I were
I have paid my fare, and am entitled to a seat."
"Do not address me, girl!" said her seat-mate haughtily.
"I thought your remark was addressed to me."
"I am forced to sit beside you, but I don't care to converse with you."
The other took the hint, and left her undemocratic neighbor to herself.
Fred was naturally a little curious to ascertain the name of the young
lady who had made herself so disagreeable. The mystery was solved in a
way to surprise him.
On reaching the depot at Jersey City all the passengers left the cars.
The young lady looked about her evidently in search of some one whom
she expected to meet her.
Greatly to Fred's surprise, his Cousin Raymond Ferguson turned out to
be the party expected.
"Here you are, sis," he said. "Come right along. It is late."
"I can't go yet. My poor little Fido is in the baggage car. They
wouldn't let me have him in the car with me. Go and get him, and I will
stay here."
"Gracious!" thought Fred, "that must be Cousin Ferguson's daughter
Luella. Well, I can't say I am proud of the relationship."
CHAPTER XVIII.
UNSATISFACTORY RELATIONS.
Miss Ferguson waited till her brother returned with the dog, who seemed
to be in a bad humor.
"My precious Fido!" exclaimed the young lady, as she embraced the
little animal. "Did they put him in the dirty baggage car?" Then,
turning to Fred, who stood by, she said spitefully: "It was all your
work, you impertinent boy. I have a great mind to report you to the
president of the road."
Raymond's attention was directed to Fred by his sister's attack.
"Fred Fenton!" he exclaimed in surprise.
"Yes," answered Fred, amused. "I was not aware that it was your sister
and a relative of mine when I took sides against her."
"What does the boy mean?" demanded Miss Ferguson haughtily.
"It is Fred Fenton," explained Raymond deprecatingly.
"Does he claim relationship with me?" asked the young lady, looking
disgusted.
"No, Miss Ferguson, I don't claim it, though I believe it exists," said
Fred.
"A common train boy!" ejaculated the young lady. "This is altogether
too much. Raymond, let us go!"
As they left the station the other young lady passenger who had
listened eagerly to the conversation asked in a tone of almost painful
excitement, "Is that the daughter of Robert Ferguson?"
"Yes, do you know him?" asked Fred in surprise.
"To my sorrow. When my poor father died Mr. Ferguson was appointed
executor and trustee of his estate. It was not large, but we supposed
it would amount to ten thousand dollars, and perhaps more. Last week my
mother received a letter from him stating that he had satisfied all
claims against the estate, and that only seventy-five dollars was left.
This leaves us well-nigh penniless."
"Is it possible? Do you suspect that any fraud has been practised upon
you?"
"My mother feels sure of it, but what can we do? We are poor, and the
poor are always friendless," continued the girl bitterly.
"Have you come to New York to see Mr. Ferguson?"
"Yes; my mother wishes me to ask full particulars, and to appeal to him
to do us justice. I fear it will be of no avail, but it is the only
thing that we can do."
"Pardon me," said Fred, "but we had better be getting on board the
ferry-boat, or we shall have to wait till the next."
"Thank you! I hardly know what I am doing."
Fred accompanied the young lady to the ladies' cabin and sat down
beside her.
"Can I be of any service to you?" asked the train boy. "It is late for
a young lady to arrive in New York."
"I supposed we should reach the city at nine. That is what a neighbor
told me. I hardly know where to go," she added timidly. "Can you
recommend a cheap hotel or boarding-house?"
"There would be a difficulty about obtaining admission to either this
evening."
"Then what shall I do?" asked the girl, looking distressed.
"I think you had better come home with me for to-night. Our home is a
very humble one but mother will take good care of you. To-morrow you
can make other arrangements if you desire."
"Oh, how kind you are! I should like nothing better, if you really
think your mother would not be annoyed."
Fred smiled.
"She is too kind-hearted for that," he said. "Just wait till you see
her, and you won't feel any doubt."
"How fortunate I am to fall in with such a friend! I now see how unwise
it was for me to take such a late train."
They walked to the Cortlandt Street station of the Sixth Avenue
Elevated Road, and ascended the steps. In spite of her anxieties the
young lady felt interested in the novel means of locomotion, and asked
a variety of questions of the train boy. At Thirty-Third Street they
descended, and walking a short distance up Broadway turned down a side
street, and were soon at the door of Fred's modest home.
Mrs. Fenton was sitting up, and had come to feel anxious.
"How long you have been away, Fred!" she said.
"Not quite three days, mother."
"But you were never away before. Bertie and I have missed you very
much."
"Mother," said Fred, "you don't see that I have company."
Then, for the first time, the widow observed the young lady.
"Who is it, Fred?" she asked, as a wild and improbable suspicion
entered her mind. Could it be that Fred, who was only a boy in years,
had contracted a marriage and brought his wife home?
"I shall have to ask the young lady to introduce herself," said Fred.
"My name is Ruth Patton," said the girl timidly. "I hope you will not
be angry with your son for bringing me here. I am a stranger in the
city, and indeed I did not know that the train arrived so late. Your
son told me that it would be difficult to get into any hotel or
boarding-house at this hour, and I have ventured to throw myself on
your hospitality for to-night."
"You are heartily welcome," said Mrs. Fenton, ready to smile at her
first wild suspicion. "Remove your wraps, and in ten minutes I can
offer you a cup of tea and some eggs and toast. You will sleep the
better for a little supper."
"You are a wise woman, mother," said Fred. "You have guessed what I was
longing for."
"Let me help you, Mrs. Fenton," said Ruth, already looking more
cheerful.
"Then you may toast the bread," said Mrs. Fenton. "I don't dare to
trust Fred. I did once to my sorrow, and the toast turned out to be as
black as my shoe."
"I can promise to do better than that. I have plenty of experience."
She set herself to the task, as if she felt quite at home, and soon
they were able to sit down to a plain but welcome supper.
"Do you know, mother," said Fred, between mouthfuls, "Luella Ferguson
was on the train."
"How did you recognize her? Did she speak to you?"
Fred smiled roguishly.
"She did. Shall I tell you what she said?"
"I should be glad to hear it."
"She said: 'Boy, I will report you to the railroad company for
insolence.' She's a sweet girl, Cousin Luella!"
"But you were not really insolent?"
Thereupon Fred told the whole story, and his mother agreed with him
that Miss Ferguson's conduct was very selfish and unladylike.
"What's more, mother, Miss Patton tells me that Cousin Ferguson has
cheated her mother and herself out of ten thousand dollars. I'll tell
you about it to-morrow. It is just striking twelve, and I can hardly
keep my eyes open."
CHAPTER XIX.
RUTH PATTON CALLS ON MR. FERGUSON.
The next day Ruth Patton confided her story to Mrs. Fenton.
"My mother and I," she said, "in our grief for father's death, never
dreamed that it would bring us destitution. Though he never furnished
us particulars of his pecuniary condition, he gave us to understand
that he would be comfortably provided for. Robert Ferguson we knew to
have been a life-long friend, or perhaps I should rather say
acquaintance, and we felt that as a trustee he would consider our
interests. We were thunderstruck when a letter was received from him
last week, stating that, in place of the ten thousand dollars on which
we fully counted, a pitiful balance of seventy-five dollars alone
remained to us."
"It was shameful!" said Mrs. Fenton indignantly.
"Nearly all of this sum will be swallowed up by small debts due in Port
Jervis. You will understand now why I have come to lay our case before
Mr. Ferguson, and see if he cannot give us more, or at any rate find me
employment, for on me now rests the duty of providing for my poor
mother."
"I wish I could encourage you, Miss Patton----"
"Don't call me Miss Patton. I look upon yon as a kind friend, and hope
you will call me Ruth."
"So indeed I will, for I feel a strong interest in you, Ruth."
"And I will look to you for advice."
"Then I advise you to call this evening on Mr. Ferguson, and find out
the worst."
"Meanwhile perhaps you can direct me to a cheap boarding-house."
"You will stay here till you have had time to form your plans."
"I will gladly do so if you will let me pay you."
"All in good time, Ruth. To-day you can help me if you will, and it
will be time to pay board when you are earning something."
It was not till he sat down to an early breakfast that Fred thought of
the package handed him by Mr. Lawrence at the Niagara Falls station. He
opened it in some curiosity, and to his surprise discovered a roll of
bills, accompanied by this note:
To FRED FENTON,
MY YOUNG FRIEND:--Though I have not yet had a chance to communicate
with my uncle in Elmira, I feel authorized to act as his
representative, and in his name ask you to accept the inclosed sum as
an acknowledgment of your valuable assistance in bringing about the
recovery of the securities stolen from his house, and incidentally as a
recompense for the annoyance you experienced in being yourself
suspected. Your conduct has been very creditable, and I feel that to
you we are largely indebted for the recovery of the property and the
conviction of the burglar. I infer that you are mainly dependent, on
your earnings, which are probably limited, and I therefore take
pleasure in handing you a substantial reward which I hope will be of
service to you.
                          Yours sincerely,
                          EDMUND LAWRENCE.
Fred counted the bills, and alike to his surprise and gratification
found that they amounted to two hundred dollars.
"Where did you get so much money, Fred?" asked his mother, entering the
room as he completed his count.
"That letter will explain, mother," answered Fred radiant with delight.
"We are indeed rich!" said Mrs. Fenton joyfully. "This removes all
anxiety for a long time to come."
"Yes, we can afford to snap our fingers at the landlord."
"I hope you are not going to carry all this money round with you, Fred.
You might get robbed."
"I shall deposit it in the Dime Savings Bank this forenoon."
"But you will leave before the bank opens."
"No, I am to take a midday train."
At ten o'clock Fred went to the Union Dime Savings Bank fronting on
Thirty-Second Street, and deposited the hundred dollars in gold left
him by his mining friend, and one hundred and seventy-five dollars
besides from his recent gift. The other twenty-five he handed to his
mother.
"Mother," he said, "you need a new dress, and Albert needs a new suit.
Take this money, and buy what you think best."
"I can go a little longer without a dress, Fred."
"But I don't want you to. We can spare the money well enough, and there
is no better way to spend it."
