“It seems to me that if we mixed the three ramifications together--”
The earl grasped him by the hand and shook it gratefully.
“It solves the whole problem,” he said. “One ship, one funeral, one
grave, one monument--it is admirably conceived. It does you honor,
Major Hawkins, it has relieved me of a most painful embarrassment and
distress, and it will save that poor stricken old father much suffering.
Yes, he shall go over in one basket.”
“When?” asked the wife.
“To-morrow-immediately, of course.”
“I would wait, Mulberry.”
“Wait? Why?”
“You don’t want to break that childless old man’s heart.”
“God knows I don’t!”
“Then wait till he sends for his son’s remains. If you do that, you will
never have to give him the last and sharpest pain a parent can know--I
mean, the certainty that his son is dead. For he will never send.”
“Why won’t he?”
“Because to send--and find out the truth--would rob him of the one
precious thing left him, the uncertainty, the dim hope that maybe, after
all, his boy escaped, and he will see him again some day.”
“Why Polly, he’ll know by the papers that he was burnt up.”
“He won’t let himself believe the papers; he’ll argue against anything
and everything that proves his son is dead; and he will keep that up and
live on it, and on nothing else till he dies. But if the remains should
actually come, and be put before that poor old dim-hoping soul--”
“Oh, my God, they never shall! Polly, you’ve saved me from a crime, and
I’ll bless you for it always. Now we know what to do. We’ll place them
reverently away, and he shall never know.”
CHAPTER X.
The young Lord Berkeley, with the fresh air of freedom in his nostrils,
was feeling invincibly strong for his new career; and yet--and yet--if
the fight should prove a very hard one at first, very discouraging, very
taxing on untoughened moral sinews, he might in some weak moment want to
retreat. Not likely, of course, but possibly that might happen. And so
on the whole it might be pardonable caution to burn his bridges behind
him. Oh, without doubt. He must not stop with advertising for the
owner of that money, but must put it where he could not borrow from it
himself, meantime, under stress of circumstances. So he went down town,
and put in his advertisement, then went to a bank and handed in $500 for
deposit.
“What name?”
He hesitated and colored a little; he had forgotten to make a selection.
He now brought out the first one that suggested itself:
“Howard Tracy.”
When he was gone the clerks, marveling, said:
“The cowboy blushed.”
The first step was accomplished. The money was still under his command
and at his disposal, but the next step would dispose of that difficulty.
He went to another bank and drew upon the first bank for the $500 by
check. The money was collected and deposited a second time to the credit
of Howard Tracy. He was asked to leave a few samples of his signature,
which he did. Then he went away, once more proud and of perfect courage,
saying:
“No help for me now, for henceforth I couldn’t draw that money without
identification, and that is become legally impossible. No resources to
fall back on. It is work or starve from now to the end. I am ready--and
not afraid!”
Then he sent this cablegram to his father:
“Escaped unhurt from burning hotel. Have taken fictitious name.
Goodbye.”
During the evening while he was wandering about in one of the outlying
districts of the city, he came across a small brick church, with a bill
posted there with these words printed on it: “MECHANICS’ CLUB DEBATE.
ALL INVITED.” He saw people, apparently mainly of the working class,
entering the place, and he followed and took his seat. It was a humble
little church, quite bare as to ornamentation. It had painted pews
without cushions, and no pulpit, properly speaking, but it had a
platform. On the platform sat the chairman, and by his side sat a man
who held a manuscript in his hand and had the waiting look of one who is
going to perform the principal part. The church was soon filled with a
quiet and orderly congregation of decently dressed and modest people.
This is what the chairman said:
“The essayist for this evening is an old member of our club whom you all
know, Mr. Parker, assistant editor of the Daily Democrat. The subject of
his essay is the American Press, and he will use as his text a couple of
paragraphs taken from Mr. Matthew Arnold’s new book. He asks me to read
these texts for him. The first is as follows:
“‘Goethe says somewhere that “the thrill of awe,” that is to say,
REVERENCE, is the best thing humanity has.”
“Mr. Arnold’s other paragraph is as follows:
“‘I should say that if one were searching for the best means to efface
and kill in a whole nation the discipline of respect, one could not do
better than take the American newspapers.”
Mr. Parker rose and bowed, and was received with warm applause. He then
began to read in a good round resonant voice, with clear enunciation and
careful attention to his pauses and emphases. His points were received
with approval as he went on.
The essayist took the position that the most important function of a
public journal in any country was the propagating of national feeling
and pride in the national name--the keeping the people “in love with
their country and its institutions, and shielded from the allurements
of alien and inimical systems.” He sketched the manner in which the
reverent Turkish or Russian journalist fulfilled this function--the one
assisted by the prevalent “discipline of respect” for the bastinado, the
other for Siberia. Continuing, he said:
The chief function of an English journal is that of all other journals
the world over: it must keep the public eye fixed admiringly upon
certain things, and keep it diligently diverted from certain others. For
instance, it must keep the public eye fixed admiringly upon the glories
of England, a processional splendor stretching its receding line down
the hazy vistas of time, with the mellowed lights of a thousand years
glinting from its banners; and it must keep it diligently diverted from
the fact that all these glories were for the enrichment and
aggrandizement of the petted and privileged few, at cost of the blood
and sweat and poverty of the unconsidered masses who achieved them but
might not enter in and partake of them. It must keep the public eye
fixed in loving and awful reverence upon the throne as a sacred thing,
and diligently divert it from the fact that no throne was ever set up by
the unhampered vote of a majority of any nation; and that hence no
throne exists that has a right to exist, and no symbol of it, flying
from any flagstaff, is righteously entitled to wear any device but the
skull and crossbones of that kindred industry which differs from royalty
only business-wise--merely as retail differs from wholesale. It must
keep the citizen’s eye fixed in reverent docility upon that curious
invention of machine politics, an Established Church, and upon that bald
contradiction of common justice, a hereditary nobility; and diligently
divert it from the fact that the one damns him if he doesn’t wear its
collar, and robs him under the gentle name of taxation whether he wears
it or not, and the other gets all the honors while he does all the work.
The essayist thought that Mr. Arnold, with his trained eye and
intelligent observation, ought to have perceived that the very quality
which he so regretfully missed from our press--respectfulness, reverence
--was exactly the thing which would make our press useless to us if it
had it--rob it of the very thing which differentiates it from all
other journalism in the world and makes it distinctively and preciously
American, its frank and cheerful irreverence being by all odds the
most valuable of all its qualities. “For its mission--overlooked by Mr.
Arnold--is to stand guard over a nation’s liberties, not its humbugs and
shams.” He thought that if during fifty years the institutions of the
old world could be exposed to the fire of a flouting and scoffing press
like ours, “monarchy and its attendant crimes would disappear from
Christendom.” Monarchists might doubt this; then “why not persuade the
Czar to give it a trial in Russia?” Concluding, he said:
Well, the charge is, that our press has but little of that old world
quality, reverence. Let us be candidly grateful that it is so. With its
limited reverence it at least reveres the things which this nation
reveres, as a rule, and that is sufficient: what other people revere is
fairly and properly matter of light importance to us. Our press does not
reverence kings, it does not reverence so called nobilities, it does not
reverence established ecclesiastical slaveries, it does not reverence
laws which rob a younger son to fatten an elder one, it does not
reverence any fraud or sham or infamy, howsoever old or rotten or holy,
which sets one citizen above his neighbor by accident of birth: it does
not reverence any law or custom, howsoever old or decayed or sacred,
which shuts against the best man in the land the best place in the land
and the divine right to prove property and go up and occupy it. In the
sense of the poet Goethe--that meek idolater of provincial three carat
royalty and nobility--our press is certainly bankrupt in the “thrill of
awe”--otherwise reverence; reverence for nickel plate and brummagem. Let
us sincerely hope that this fact will remain a fact forever: for to my
mind a discriminating irreverence is the creator and protector of human
liberty--even as the other thing is the creator, nurse, and steadfast
protector of all forms of human slavery, bodily and mental.
Tracy said to himself, almost shouted to himself, “I’m glad I came to
this country. I was right. I was right to seek out a land where such
healthy principles and theories are in men’s hearts and minds. Think of
the innumerable slaveries imposed by misplaced reverence! How well he
brought that out, and how true it is. There’s manifestly prodigious
force in reverence. If you can get a man to reverence your ideals, he’s
your slave. Oh, yes, in all the ages the peoples of Europe have been
diligently taught to avoid reasoning about the shams of monarchy and
nobility, been taught to avoid examining them, been taught to reverence
them; and now, as a natural result, to reverence them is second nature.
In order to shock them it is sufficient to inject a thought of the
opposite kind into their dull minds. For ages, any expression of
so-called irreverence from their lips has been sin and crime. The sham
and swindle of all this is apparent the moment one reflects that he is
himself the only legitimately qualified judge of what is entitled to
reverence and what is not. Come, I hadn’t thought of that before, but it
is true, absolutely true. What right has Goethe, what right has Arnold,
what right has any dictionary, to define the word Irreverence for me?
What their ideals are is nothing to me. So long as I reverence my own
ideals my whole duty is done, and I commit no profanation if I laugh at
theirs. I may scoff at other people’s ideals as much as I want to. It is
my right and my privilege. No man has any right to deny it.”
Tracy was expecting to hear the essay debated, but this did not happen.
The chairman said, by way of explanation:
“I would say, for the information of the strangers present here, that in
accordance with our custom the subject of this meeting will be debated
at the next meeting of the club. This is in order to enable our members
to prepare what they may wish to say upon the subject with pen and
paper, for we are mainly mechanics and unaccustomed to speaking. We are
obliged to write down what we desire to say.”
Many brief papers were now read, and several offhand speeches made in
discussion of the essay read at the last meeting of the club, which had
been a laudation, by some visiting professor, of college culture, and
the grand results flowing from it to the nation. One of the papers was
read by a man approaching middle age, who said he hadn’t had a college
education, that he had got his education in a printing office, and had
graduated from there into the patent office, where he had been a clerk
now for a great many years. Then he continued to this effect:
The essayist contrasted the America of to-day with the America of bygone
times, and certainly the result is the exhibition of a mighty progress.
But I think he a little overrated the college-culture share in the
production of that result. It can no doubt be easily shown that the
colleges have contributed the intellectual part of this progress, and
that that part is vast; but that the material progress has been
immeasurably vaster, I think you will concede. Now I have been looking
over a list of inventors--the creators of this amazing material
development--and I find that they were not college-bred men. Of course
there are exceptions--like Professor Henry of Princeton, the inventor of
Mr. Morse’s system of telegraphy--but these exceptions are few. It is
not overstatement to say that the imagination-stunning material
development of this century, the only century worth living in since time
itself was invented, is the creation of men not college-bred. We think
we see what these inventors have done: no, we see only the visible vast
frontage of their work; behind it is their far vaster work, and it is
invisible to the careless glance. They have reconstructed this nation--
made it over, that is--and metaphorically speaking, have multiplied its
numbers almost beyond the power of figures to express. I will explain
what I mean. What constitutes the population of a land? Merely the
numberable packages of meat and bones in it called by courtesy men and
women? Shall a million ounces of brass and a million ounces of gold be
held to be of the same value? Take a truer standard: the measure of a
man’s contributing capacity to his time and his people--the work he can
do--and then number the population of this country to-day, as multiplied
by what a man can now do, more than his grandfather could do. By this
standard of measurement, this nation, two or three generations ago,
consisted of mere cripples, paralytics, dead men, as compared with the
men of to-day. In 1840 our population was 17,000,000. By way of rude but
striking illustration, let us consider, for argument’s sake, that four
of these millions consisted of aged people, little children, and other
incapables, and that the remaining 13,000,000 were divided and employed
as follows:
 2,000,000     as ginners of cotton.
 6,000,000  (women) as stocking-knitters.
 2,000,000  (women) as thread-spinners.
 500,000   as screw makers.
 400,000   as reapers, binders, etc.
 1,000,000   as corn-shellers.
 40,000  as weavers.
 1,000  as stitchers of shoe soles.
Now the deductions which I am going to append to these figures may sound
extravagant, but they are not. I take them from Miscellaneous Documents
No. 50, second session 45th Congress, and they are official and
trustworthy. To-day, the work of those 2,000,000 cotton-ginners is done
by 2,000 men; that of the 6,000,000 stocking-knitters is done by 3,000
boys; that of the 2,000,000 thread-spinners is done by 1,000 girls; that
of the 500,000 screw makers is done by 500 girls; that of the 400,000
reapers, binders, etc., is done by 4,000 boys; that of the 1,000,000
corn-shellers is done by 7,500 men; that of the 40,000 weavers is done
by 1,200 men; and that of the 1,000 stitchers of shoe soles is done by 6
men. To bunch the figures, 17,900 persons to-day do the above-work,
whereas fifty years ago it would have taken thirteen millions of persons
to do it. Now then, how many of that ignorant race--our fathers and
grandfathers--with their ignorant methods, would it take to do our work
to-day? It would take forty thousand millions--a hundred times the
swarming population of China--twenty times the present population of the
globe. You look around you and you see a nation of sixty millions--
apparently; but secreted in their hands and brains, and invisible to
your eyes, is the true population of this Republic, and it numbers forty
billions! It is the stupendous creation of those humble unlettered, un-
college-bred inventors--all honor to their name.
“How grand that is!” said Tracy, as he wended homeward. “What a
civilization it is, and what prodigious results these are! and brought
about almost wholly by common men; not by Oxford-trained aristocrats,
but men who stand shoulder to shoulder in the humble ranks of life and
earn the bread that they eat. Again, I’m glad I came. I have found a
country at last where one may start fair, and breast to breast with his
fellow man, rise by his own efforts, and be something in the world and
be proud of that something; not be something created by an ancestor
three hundred years ago.”
CHAPTER XI.
During the first few days he kept the fact diligently before his mind
that he was in a land where there was “work and bread for all.” In fact,
for convenience’ sake he fitted it to a little tune and hummed it to
himself; but as time wore on the fact itself began to take on a doubtful
look, and next the tune got fatigued and presently ran down and
stopped. His first effort was to get an upper clerkship in one of the
departments, where his Oxford education could come into play and do
him service. But he stood no chance whatever. There, competency was no
recommendation; political backing, without competency, was worth six of
it. He was glaringly English, and that was necessarily against him in
the political centre of a nation where both parties prayed for the Irish
cause on the house-top and blasphemed it in the cellar. By his dress he
was a cowboy; that won him respect--when his back was not turned--but
it couldn’t get a clerkship for him. But he had said, in a rash moment,
that he would wear those clothes till the owner or the owner’s friends
caught sight of them and asked for that money, and his conscience would
not let him retire from that engagement now.
At the end of a week things were beginning to wear rather a startling
look. He had hunted everywhere for work, descending gradually the scale
of quality, until apparently he had sued for all the various kinds of
work a man without a special calling might hope to be able to do, except
ditching and the other coarse manual sorts--and had got neither work nor
the promise of it.
He was mechanically turning over the leaves of his diary, meanwhile, and
now his eye fell upon the first record made after he was burnt out:
“I myself did not doubt my stamina before, nobody could doubt it now, if
they could see how I am housed, and realise that I feel absolutely no
disgust with these quarters, but am as serenely content with them as any
dog would be in a similar kennel. Terms, twenty-five dollars a week. I
said I would start at the bottom. I have kept my word.” A shudder went
quaking through him, and he exclaimed:
“What have I been thinking of! THIS the bottom! Mooning along a whole
week, and these terrific expenses climbing and climbing all the time! I
must end this folly straightway.”
He settled up at once and went forth to find less sumptuous lodgings. He
had to wander far and seek with diligence, but he succeeded. They made
him pay in advance--four dollars and a half; this secured both bed and
food for a week. The good-natured, hardworked landlady took him up three
flights of narrow, uncarpeted stairs and delivered him into his room.
There were two double-bedsteads in it, and one single one. He would be
allowed to sleep alone in one of the double beds until some new boarder
should come, but he wouldn’t be charged extra.
So he would presently be required to sleep with some stranger! The
thought of it made him sick. Mrs. Marsh, the landlady, was very friendly
and hoped he would like her house--they all liked it, she said.
“And they’re a very nice set of boys. They carry on a good deal, but
that’s their fun. You see, this room opens right into this back one, and
sometimes they’re all in one and sometimes in the other; and hot nights
they all sleep on the roof when it don’t rain. They get out there the
minute it’s hot enough. The season’s so early that they’ve already had a
night or two up there. If you’d like to go up and pick out a place, you
can. You’ll find chalk in the side of the chimney where there’s a brick
wanting. You just take the chalk and--but of course you’ve done it
before.”
“Oh, no, I haven’t.”
“Why, of course you haven’t--what am I thinking of? Plenty of room on
the Plains without chalking, I’ll be bound. Well, you just chalk out
a place the size of a blanket anywhere on the tin that ain’t already
marked off, you know, and that’s your property. You and your bed-mate
take turnabout carrying up the blanket and pillows and fetching them
down again; or one carries them up and the other fetches them down,
you fix it the way you like, you know. You’ll like the boys, they’re
everlasting sociable--except the printer. He’s the one that sleeps in
that single bed--the strangest creature; why, I don’t believe you could
get that man to sleep with another man, not if the house was afire. Mind
you, I’m not just talking, I know. The boys tried him, to see. They
took his bed out one night, and so when he got home about three in the
morning--he was on a morning paper then, but he’s on an evening one
now--there wasn’t any place for him but with the iron-moulder; and if
you’ll believe me, he just set up the rest of the night--he did, honest.
They say he’s cracked, but it ain’t so, he’s English--they’re awful
particular. You won’t mind my saying that. You--you’re English?”
“Yes.”
“I thought so. I could tell it by the way you mispronounce the words
that’s got a’s in them, you know; such as saying loff when you mean laff
--but you’ll get over that. He’s a right down good fellow, and a little
sociable with the photographer’s boy and the caulker and the blacksmith
that work in the navy yard, but not so much with the others. The fact
is, though it’s private, and the others don’t know it, he’s a kind of
an aristocrat, his father being a doctor, and you know what style that
is--in England, I mean, because in this country a doctor ain’t so very
much, even if he’s that. But over there of course it’s different. So
this chap had a falling out with his father, and was pretty high strung,
and just cut for this country, and the first he knew he had to get to
work or starve. Well, he’d been to college, you see, and so he judged he
was all right--did you say anything?”
“No--I only sighed.”
“And there’s where he was mistaken. Why, he mighty near starved. And I
reckon he would have starved sure enough, if some jour’ printer or other
hadn’t took pity on him and got him a place as apprentice. So he learnt
the trade, and then he was all right--but it was a close call. Once
he thought he had got to haul in his pride and holler for his father
and--why, you’re sighing again. Is anything the matter with you?--does
my clatter--”
“Oh, dear--no. Pray go on--I like it.”
“Yes, you see, he’s been over here ten years; he’s twenty-eight, now,
and he ain’t pretty well satisfied in his mind, because he can’t get
reconciled to being a mechanic and associating with mechanics, he being,
as he says to me, a gentleman, which is a pretty plain letting-on that
the boys ain’t, but of course I know enough not to let that cat out of
the bag.”
“Why--would there be any harm in it?”
“Harm in it? They’d lick him, wouldn’t they? Wouldn’t you? Of course
you would. Don’t you ever let a man say you ain’t a gentleman in this
country. But laws, what am I thinking about? I reckon a body would think
twice before he said a cowboy wasn’t a gentleman.”
A trim, active, slender and very pretty girl of about eighteen walked
into the room now, in the most satisfied and unembarrassed way. She
was cheaply but smartly and gracefully dressed, and the mother’s quick
glance at the stranger’s face as he rose, was of the kind which inquires
what effect has been produced, and expects to find indications of
surprise and admiration.
“This is my daughter Hattie--we call her Puss. It’s the new boarder,
Puss.” This without rising.
The young Englishman made the awkward bow common to his nationality and
time of life in circumstances of delicacy and difficulty, and these were
of that sort; for, being taken by surprise, his natural, lifelong self
sprang to the front, and that self of course would not know just how to
act when introduced to a chambermaid, or to the heiress of a mechanics’
boarding house. His other self--the self which recognized the equality
of all men--would have managed the thing better, if it hadn’t been
caught off guard and robbed of its chance. The young girl paid no
attention to the bow, but put out her hand frankly and gave the stranger
a friendly shake and said:
“How do you do?”
Then she marched to the one washstand in the room, tilted her head this
way and that before the wreck of a cheap mirror that hung above it,
dampened her fingers with her tongue, perfected the circle of a little
lock of hair that was pasted against her forehead, then began to busy
herself with the slops.
“Well, I must be going--it’s getting towards supper time. Make yourself
at home, Mr. Tracy, you’ll hear the bell when it’s ready.”
The landlady took her tranquil departure, without commanding either of
the young people to vacate the room. The young man wondered a little
that a mother who seemed so honest and respectable should be so
thoughtless, and was reaching for his hat, intending to disembarrass the
girl of his presence; but she said:
“Where are you going?”
“Well--nowhere in particular, but as I am only in the way here--”
“Why, who said you were in the way? Sit down--I’ll move you when you are
in the way.”
She was making the beds, now. He sat down and watched her deft and
diligent performance.
“What gave you that notion? Do you reckon I need a whole room just to
make up a bed or two in?”
“Well no, it wasn’t that, exactly. We are away up here in an empty
house, and your mother being gone--”
The girl interrupted him with an amused laugh, and said:
“Nobody to protect me? Bless you, I don’t need it. I’m not afraid. I
might be if I was alone, because I do hate ghosts, and I don’t deny it.
Not that I believe in them, for I don’t. I’m only just afraid of them.”
“How can you be afraid of them if you don’t believe in them?”
“Oh, I don’t know the how of it--that’s too many for me; I only know
it’s so. It’s the same with Maggie Lee.”
“Who is that?”
“One of the boarders; young lady that works in the fact’ry.”
“She works in a factory?”
“Yes. Shoe factory.”
“In a shoe factory; and you call her a young lady?”
“Why, she’s only twenty-two; what should you call her?”
“I wasn’t thinking of her age, I was thinking of the title. The fact
is, I came away from England to get away from artificial forms--for
artificial forms suit artificial people only--and here you’ve got them
too. I’m sorry. I hoped you had only men and women; everybody equal; no
differences in rank.”
The girl stopped with a pillow in her teeth and the case spread open
below it, contemplating him from under her brows with a slightly puzzled
expression. She released the pillow and said:
“Why, they are all equal. Where’s any difference in rank?”
“If you call a factory girl a young lady, what do you call the
President’s wife?”
“Call her an old one.”
“Oh, you make age the only distinction?”
“There ain’t any other to make as far as I can see.”
“Then all women are ladies?”
“Certainly they are. All the respectable ones.”
“Well, that puts a better face on it. Certainly there is no harm in a
title when it is given to everybody. It is only an offense and a wrong
when it is restricted to a favored few. But Miss--er--”
“Hattie.”
“Miss Hattie, be frank; confess that that title isn’t accorded by
everybody to everybody. The rich American doesn’t call her cook a
lady--isn’t that so?”
“Yes, it’s so. What of it?”
He was surprised and a little disappointed, to see that his admirable
shot had produced no perceptible effect.
“What of it?” he said. “Why this: equality is not conceded here, after
all, and the Americans are no better off than the English. In fact
there’s no difference.”
“Now what an idea. There’s nothing in a title except what is put into
it--you’ve said that yourself. Suppose the title is ‘clean,’ instead of
‘lady.’ You get that?”
“I believe so. Instead of speaking of a woman as a lady, you substitute
clean and say she’s a clean person.”
“That’s it. In England the swell folks don’t speak of the working people
as gentlemen and ladies?”
“Oh, no.”
“And the working people don’t call themselves gentlemen and ladies?”
“Certainly not.”
“So if you used the other word there wouldn’t be any change. The swell
people wouldn’t call anybody but themselves ‘clean,’ and those others
would drop sort of meekly into their way of talking and they wouldn’t
call themselves clean. We don’t do that way here. Everybody calls
himself a lady or gentleman, and thinks he is, and don’t care what
anybody else thinks him, so long as he don’t say it out loud. You think
there’s no difference. You knuckle down and we don’t. Ain’t that a
difference?”
“It is a difference I hadn’t thought of; I admit that. Still--calling
one’s self a lady doesn’t--er--”
“I wouldn’t go on if I were you.”
Howard Tracy turned his head to see who it might be that had introduced
this remark. It was a short man about forty years old, with sandy hair,
no beard, and a pleasant face badly freckled but alive and intelligent,
and he wore slop-shop clothing which was neat but showed wear. He had
come from the front room beyond the hall, where he had left his hat, and
he had a chipped and cracked white wash-bowl in his hand. The girl came
and took the bowl.
“I’ll get it for you. You go right ahead and give it to him, Mr. Barrow.
He’s the new boarder--Mr. Tracy--and I’d just got to where it was
getting too deep for me.”
“Much obliged if you will, Hattie. I was coming to borrow of the boys.”
 He sat down at his ease on an old trunk, and said, “I’ve been listening
and got interested; and as I was saying, I wouldn’t go on, if I were
you. You see where you are coming to, don’t you? Calling yourself a lady
doesn’t elect you; that is what you were going to say; and you saw that
if you said it you were going to run right up against another difference
that you hadn’t thought of: to-wit, Whose right is it to do the
electing? Over there, twenty thousand people in a million elect
themselves gentlemen and ladies, and the nine hundred and eighty
thousand accept that decree and swallow the affront which it puts upon
them. Why, if they didn’t accept it, it wouldn’t be an election, it
would be a dead letter and have no force at all. Over here the twenty
thousand would-be exclusives come up to the polls and vote themselves
to be ladies and gentlemen. But the thing doesn’t stop there. The nine
hundred and eighty thousand come and vote themselves to be ladies and
gentlemen too, and that elects the whole nation. Since the whole million
vote themselves ladies and gentlemen, there is no question about that
election. It does make absolute equality, and there is no fiction about
it; while over yonder the inequality, (by decree of the infinitely
feeble, and consent of the infinitely strong,) is also absolute--as real
and absolute as our equality.”
Tracy had shrunk promptly into his English shell when this speech began,
notwithstanding he had now been in severe training several weeks for
contact and intercourse with the common herd on the common herd’s terms;
but he lost no time in pulling himself out again, and so by the time the
speech was finished his valves were open once more, and he was forcing
himself to accept without resentment the common herd’s frank fashion of
dropping sociably into other people’s conversations unembarrassed and
uninvited. The process was not very difficult this time, for the man’s
smile and voice and manner were persuasive and winning. Tracy would
even have liked him on the spot, but for the fact--fact which he was not
really aware of--that the equality of men was not yet a reality to him,
it was only a theory; the mind perceived, but the man failed to feel it.
It was Hattie’s ghost over again, merely turned around. Theoretically
Barrow was his equal, but it was distinctly distasteful to see him
exhibit it. He presently said:
“I hope in all sincerity that what you have said is true, as regards the
Americans, for doubts have crept into my mind several times. It seemed
that the equality must be ungenuine where the sign-names of castes were
still in vogue; but those sign-names have certainly lost their offence
and are wholly neutralized, nullified and harmless if they are the
undisputed property of every individual in the nation. I think I realize
that caste does not exist and cannot exist except by common consent of
the masses outside of its limits. I thought caste created itself and
perpetuated itself; but it seems quite true that it only creates itself,
and is perpetuated by the people whom it despises, and who can dissolve
it at any time by assuming its mere sign-names themselves.”
“It’s what I think. There isn’t any power on earth that can prevent
England’s thirty millions from electing themselves dukes and duchesses
to-morrow and calling themselves so. And within six months all the
former dukes and duchesses would have retired from the business. I
wish they’d try that. Royalty itself couldn’t survive such a process.
A handful of frowners against thirty million laughers in a state of
irruption. Why, it’s Herculaneum against Vesuvius; it would take another
eighteen centuries to find that Herculaneum after the cataclysm. What’s
a Colonel in our South? He’s a nobody; because they’re all colonels down
there. No, Tracy” (shudder from Tracy) “nobody in England would call you
a gentleman and you wouldn’t call yourself one; and I tell you it’s
a state of things that makes a man put himself into most unbecoming
attitudes sometimes--the broad and general recognition and acceptance of
caste as caste does, I mean. Makes him do it unconsciously--being bred
in him, you see, and never thought over and reasoned out. You couldn’t
conceive of the Matterhorn being flattered by the notice of one of your
comely little English hills, could you?”
“Why, no.”
“Well, then, let a man in his right mind try to conceive of Darwin
feeling flattered by the notice of a princess. It’s so grotesque that
it--well, it paralyzes the imagination. Yet that Memnon was flattered
by the notice of that statuette; he says so--says so himself. The system
that can make a god disown his godship and profane it--oh, well, it’s
all wrong, it’s all wrong and ought to be abolished, I should say.”
The mention of Darwin brought on a literary discussion, and this topic
roused such enthusiasm in Barrow that he took off his coat and made
himself the more free and comfortable for it, and detained him so long
that he was still at it when the noisy proprietors of the room came
shouting and skylarking in and began to romp, scuffle, wash, and
otherwise entertain themselves. He lingered yet a little longer to offer
the hospitalities of his room and his book shelf to Tracy and ask him a
personal question or two:
“What is your trade?”
“They--well, they call me a cowboy, but that is a fancy. I’m not that. I
haven’t any trade.”
“What do you work at for your living?”
“Oh, anything--I mean I would work at, anything I could get to do, but
thus far I haven’t been able to find an occupation.”
“Maybe I can help you; I’d like to try.”
“I shall be very glad. I’ve tried, myself, to weariness.”
“Well, of course where a man hasn’t a regular trade he’s pretty bad off
in this world. What you needed, I reckon, was less book learning and
more bread-and-butter learning. I don’t know what your father could have
been thinking of. You ought to have had a trade, you ought to have had a
trade, by all means. But never mind about that; we’ll stir up something
to do, I guess. And don’t you get homesick; that’s a bad business. We’ll
talk the thing over and look around a little. You’ll come out all right.
Wait for me--I’ll go down to supper with you.”
By this time Tracy had achieved a very friendly feeling for Barrow and
would have called him a friend, maybe, if not taken too suddenly on a
straight-out requirement to realize on his theories. He was glad of his
society, anyway, and was feeling lighter hearted than before. Also he
was pretty curious to know what vocation it might be which had furnished
Barrow such a large acquaintanceship with books and allowed him so much
time to read.
CHAPTER XII.
Presently the supper bell began to ring in the depths of the house, and
the sound proceeded steadily upward, growing in intensity all the way up
towards the upper floors. The higher it came the more maddening was the
noise, until at last what it lacked of being absolutely deafening, was
made up of the sudden crash and clatter of an avalanche of boarders
down the uncarpeted stairway. The peerage did not go to meals in this
fashion; Tracy’s training had not fitted him to enjoy this hilarious
zoological clamor and enthusiasm. He had to confess that there was
something about this extraordinary outpouring of animal spirits which he
would have to get inured to before he could accept it. No doubt in time
he would prefer it; but he wished the process might be modified and made
just a little more gradual, and not quite so pronounced and violent.
Barrow and Tracy followed the avalanche down through an ever increasing
and ever more and more aggressive stench of bygone cabbage and kindred
smells; smells which are to be found nowhere but in a cheap private
boarding house; smells which once encountered can never be forgotten;
smells which encountered generations later are instantly recognizable,
but never recognizable with pleasure. To Tracy these odors were
suffocating, horrible, almost unendurable; but he held his peace and
said nothing. Arrived in the basement, they entered a large dining-room
where thirty-five or forty people sat at a long table. They took their
places. The feast had already begun and the conversation was going on
in the liveliest way from one end of the table to the other. The table
cloth was of very coarse material and was liberally spotted with coffee
stains and grease. The knives and forks were iron, with bone handles,
the spoons appeared to be iron or sheet iron or something of the sort.
The tea and coffee cups were of the commonest and heaviest and most
durable stone ware. All the furniture of the table was of the commonest
and cheapest sort. There was a single large thick slice of bread by each
boarder’s plate, and it was observable that he economized it as if
he were not expecting it to be duplicated. Dishes of butter were
distributed along the table within reach of people’s arms, if they
had long ones, but there were no private butter plates. The butter was
perhaps good enough, and was quiet and well behaved; but it had more
bouquet than was necessary, though nobody commented upon that fact or
seemed in any way disturbed by it. The main feature of the feast was
a piping hot Irish stew made of the potatoes and meat left over from a
procession of previous meals. Everybody was liberally supplied with
this dish. On the table were a couple of great dishes of sliced ham, and
there were some other eatables of minor importance--preserves and New
Orleans molasses and such things. There was also plenty of tea and
coffee of an infernal sort, with brown sugar and condensed milk, but the
milk and sugar supply was not left at the discretion of the boarders,
but was rationed out at headquarters--one spoonful of sugar and one of
condensed milk to each cup and no more. The table was waited upon by two
stalwart negro women who raced back and forth from the bases of
supplies with splendid dash and clatter and energy. Their labors were
supplemented after a fashion by the young girl Puss. She carried
coffee and tea back and forth among the boarders, but she made pleasure
excursions rather than business ones in this way, to speak strictly. She
made jokes with various people. She chaffed the young men pleasantly
and wittily, as she supposed, and as the rest also supposed, apparently,
judging by the applause and laughter which she got by her efforts.
Manifestly she was a favorite with most of the young fellows and
sweetheart of the rest of them. Where she conferred notice she conferred
happiness, as was seen by the face of the recipient; and at the same
time she conferred unhappiness--one could see it fall and dim the faces
of the other young fellows like a shadow. She never “Mistered” these
friends of hers, but called them “Billy,” “Tom,” “John,” and they called
her “Puss” or “Hattie.”
Mr. Marsh sat at the head of the table, his wife sat at the foot. Marsh
was a man of sixty, and was an American; but if he had been born a
month earlier he would have been a Spaniard. He was plenty good enough
Spaniard as it was; his face was very dark, his hair very black, and his
eyes were not only exceedingly black but were very intense, and there
was something about them that indicated that they could burn with
passion upon occasion. He was stoop-shouldered and lean-faced, and the
general aspect of him was disagreeable; he was evidently not a very
companionable person. If looks went for anything, he was the very
opposite of his wife, who was all motherliness and charity, good
will and good nature. All the young men and the women called her Aunt
Rachael, which was another sign. Tracy’s wandering and interested
eye presently fell upon one boarder who had been overlooked in the
distribution of the stew. He was very pale and looked as if he had but
lately come out of a sick bed, and also as if he ought to get back into
it again as soon as possible. His face was very melancholy. The waves
of laughter and conversation broke upon it without affecting it any more
than if it had been a rock in the sea and the words and the laughter
veritable waters. He held his head down and looked ashamed. Some of the
women cast glances of pity toward him from time to time in a furtive
and half afraid way, and some of the youngest of the men plainly had
compassion on the young fellow--a compassion exhibited in their faces
but not in any more active or compromising way. But the great majority
of the people present showed entire indifference to the youth and his
sorrows. Marsh sat with his head down, but one could catch the malicious
gleam of his eyes through his shaggy brows. He was watching that
young fellow with evident relish. He had not neglected him through
carelessness, and apparently the table understood that fact. The
spectacle was making Mrs. Marsh very uncomfortable. She had the look of
one who hopes against hope that the impossible may happen. But as the
impossible did not happen, she finally ventured to speak up and remind
her husband that Nat Brady hadn’t been helped to the Irish stew.
Marsh lifted his head and gasped out with mock courtliness, “Oh, he
hasn’t, hasn’t he? What a pity that is. I don’t know how I came
to overlook him. Ah, he must pardon me. You must indeed
Mr--er--Baxter--Barker, you must pardon me. I--er--my attention was
directed to some other matter, I don’t know what. The thing that grieves
me mainly is, that it happens every meal now. But you must try to
overlook these little things, Mr. Bunker, these little neglects on my
part. They’re always likely to happen with me in any case, and they are
especially likely to happen where a person has--er--well, where a
person is, say, about three weeks in arrears for his board. You get my
meaning?--you get my idea? Here is your Irish stew, and--er--it gives me
the greatest pleasure to send it to you, and I hope that you will enjoy
the charity as much as I enjoy conferring it.”
A blush rose in Brady’s white cheeks and flowed slowly backward to his
ears and upward toward his forehead, but he said nothing and began to
eat his food under the embarrassment of a general silence and the sense
that all eyes were fastened upon him. Barrow whispered to Tracy:
“The old man’s been waiting for that. He wouldn’t have missed that
chance for anything.”
“It’s a brutal business,” said Tracy. Then he said to himself, purposing
to set the thought down in his diary later:
“Well, here in this very house is a republic where all are free and
equal, if men are free and equal anywhere in the earth, therefore I have
arrived at the place I started to find, and I am a man among men, and
on the strictest equality possible to men, no doubt. Yet here on the
threshold I find an inequality. There are people at this table who are
looked up to for some reason or another, and here is a poor devil of a
boy who is looked down upon, treated with indifference, and shamed by
humiliations, when he has committed no crime but that common one of
being poor. Equality ought to make men noble-minded. In fact I had
supposed it did do that.”
After supper, Barrow proposed a walk, and they started. Barrow had a
purpose. He wanted Tracy to get rid of that cowboy hat. He didn’t see
his way to finding mechanical or manual employment for a person rigged
in that fashion. Barrow presently said:
“As I understand it, you’re not a cowboy.”
“No, I’m not.”
“Well, now if you will not think me too curious, how did you come to
mount that hat? Where’d you get it?”
Tracy didn’t know quite how to reply to this, but presently said,
“Well, without going into particulars, I exchanged clothes with a
stranger under stress of weather, and I would like to find him and
re-exchange.”
“Well, why don’t you find him? Where is he?”
“I don’t know. I supposed the best way to find him would be to continue
to wear his clothes, which are conspicuous enough to attract his
attention if I should meet him on the street.”
“Oh, very well,” said Barrow, “the rest of the outfit, is well enough,
and while it’s not too conspicuous, it isn’t quite like the clothes
that anybody else wears. Suppress the hat. When you meet your man he’ll
recognize the rest of his suit. That’s a mighty embarrassing hat, you
know, in a centre of civilization like this. I don’t believe an angel
could get employment in Washington in a halo like that.”
Tracy agreed to replace the hat with something of a modester form, and
they stepped aboard a crowded car and stood with others on the rear
platform. Presently, as the car moved swiftly along the rails, two men
crossing the street caught sight of the backs of Barrow and Tracy, and
both exclaimed at once, “There he is!” It was Sellers and Hawkins.
Both were so paralyzed with joy that before they could pull themselves
together and make an effort to stop the car, it was gone too far, and
they decided to wait for the next one. They waited a while; then
it occurred to Washington that there could be no use in chasing one
horse-car with another, and he wanted to hunt up a hack. But the Colonel
said:
“When you come to think of it, there’s no occasion for that at all. Now
that I’ve got him materialized, I can command his motions. I’ll have him
at the house by the time we get there.”
Then they hurried off home in a state of great and joyful excitement.
The hat exchange accomplished, the two new friends started to walk back
leisurely to the boarding house. Barrow’s mind was full of curiosity
about this young fellow. He said,
“You’ve never been to the Rocky Mountains?”
“No.”
“You’ve never been out on the plains?”
“No.”
“How long have you been in this country?”
“Only a few days.”
“You’ve never been in America before?”
“No.”
Then Barrow communed with himself. “Now what odd shapes the notions of
romantic people take. Here’s a young fellow who’s read in England about
cowboys and adventures on the plains. He comes here and buys a
cowboy’s suit. Thinks he can play himself on folks for a cowboy, all
inexperienced as he is. Now the minute he’s caught in this poor little
game, he’s ashamed of it and ready to retire from it. It is that
exchange that he has put up as an explanation. It’s rather thin, too
thin altogether. Well, he’s young, never been anywhere, knows nothing
about the world, sentimental, no doubt. Perhaps it was the natural
thing for him to do, but it was a most singular choice, curious freak,
altogether.”
Both men were busy with their thoughts for a time, then Tracy heaved a
sigh and said,
“Mr. Barrow, the case of that young fellow troubles me.”
“You mean Nat Brady?”
“Yes, Brady, or Baxter, or whatever it was. The old landlord called him
by several different names.”
“Oh, yes, he has been very liberal with names for Brady, since Brady
fell into arrears for his board. Well, that’s one of his sarcasms--the
old man thinks he’s great on sarcasm.”
“Well, what is Brady’s difficulty? What is Brady--who is he?”
“Brady is a tinner. He’s a young journeyman tinner who was getting along
all right till he fell sick and lost his job. He was very popular before
he lost his job; everybody in the house liked Brady. The old man was
rather especially fond of him, but you know that when a man loses his
job and loses his ability to support himself and to pay his way as he
goes, it makes a great difference in the way people look at him and feel
about him.”
“Is that so! Is it so?”
Barrow looked at Tracy in a puzzled way. “Why of course it’s so.
Wouldn’t you know that, naturally. Don’t you know that the wounded deer
is always attacked and killed by its companions and friends?”
Tracy said to himself, while a chilly and boding discomfort spread
itself through his system, “In a republic of deer and men where all
are free and equal, misfortune is a crime, and the prosperous gore the
unfortunate to death.” Then he said aloud, “Here in the boarding house,
if one would have friends and be popular instead of having the cold
shoulder turned upon him, he must be prosperous.”
“Yes,” Barrow said, “that is so. It’s their human nature. They do turn
against Brady, now that he’s unfortunate, and they don’t like him as
well as they did before; but it isn’t because of any lack in Brady--he’s
just as he was before, has the same nature and the same impulses, but
they--well, Brady is a thorn in their consciences, you see. They know
they ought to help him and they’re too stingy to do it, and they’re
ashamed of themselves for that, and they ought also to hate themselves
on that account, but instead of that they hate Brady because he makes
them ashamed of themselves. I say that’s human nature; that occurs
everywhere; this boarding house is merely the world in little, it’s
the case all over--they’re all alike. In prosperity we are popular;
popularity comes easy in that case, but when the other thing comes our
friends are pretty likely to turn against us.”
Tracy’s noble theories and high purposes were beginning to feel pretty
damp and clammy. He wondered if by any possibility he had made a mistake
in throwing his own prosperity to the winds and taking up the cross
of other people’s unprosperity. But he wouldn’t listen to that sort of
thing; he cast it out of his mind and resolved to go ahead resolutely
along the course he had mapped out for himself.
Extracts from his diary:
Have now spent several days in this singular hive. I don’t know quite
what to make out of these people. They have merits and virtues, but they
have some other qualities, and some ways that are hard to get along
with. I can’t enjoy them. The moment I appeared in a hat of the period,
I noticed a change. The respect which had been paid me before, passed
suddenly away, and the people became friendly--more than that--they
became familiar, and I’m not used to familiarity, and can’t take to it
right off; I find that out. These people’s familiarity amounts to
impudence, sometimes. I suppose it’s all right; no doubt I can get used
to it, but it’s not a satisfactory process at all. I have accomplished
my dearest wish, I am a man among men, on an equal footing with Tom,
Dick and Harry, and yet it isn’t just exactly what I thought it was
going to be. I--I miss home. Am obliged to say I am homesick. Another
thing--and this is a confession--a reluctant one, but I will make it:
The thing I miss most and most severely, is the respect, the deference,
with which I was treated all my life in England, and which seems to be
somehow necessary to me. I get along very well without the luxury and
the wealth and the sort of society I’ve been accustomed to, but I do
miss the respect and can’t seem to get reconciled to the absence of it.
There is respect, there is deference here, but it doesn’t fall to my
share. It is lavished on two men. One of them is a portly man of middle
age who is a retired plumber. Everybody is pleased to have that man’s
notice. He’s full of pomp and circumstance and self complacency and bad
grammar, and at table he is Sir Oracle and when he opens his mouth not
any dog in the kennel barks. The other person is a policeman at the
capitol-building. He represents the government. The deference paid to
these two men is not so very far short of that paid to an earl in
England, though the method of it differs. Not so much courtliness, but
the deference is all there.
Yes, and there is obsequiousness, too.
It does rather look as if in a republic where all are free and equal,
prosperity and position constitute rank.
CHAPTER XIII.
The days drifted by, and they grew ever more dreary. For Barrow’s
efforts to find work for Tracy were unavailing. Always the first
question asked was, “What Union do you belong to?”
Tracy was obliged to reply that he didn’t belong to any trade-union.
“Very well, then, it’s impossible to employ you. My men wouldn’t stay
with me if I should employ a ‘scab,’ or ‘rat,’” or whatever the phrase
was.
Finally, Tracy had a happy thought. He said, “Why the thing for me to
do, of course, is to join a trade-union.”
“Yes,” Barrow said, “that is the thing for you to do--if you can.”
“If I can? Is it difficult?”
“Well, Yes,” Barrow said, “it’s sometimes difficult--in fact, very
difficult. But you can try, and of course it will be best to try.”
Therefore Tracy tried; but he did not succeed. He was refused admission
with a good deal of promptness, and was advised to go back home, where
he belonged, not come here taking honest men’s bread out of their
mouths. Tracy began to realize that the situation was desperate, and the
thought made him cold to the marrow. He said to himself, “So there is
an aristocracy of position here, and an aristocracy of prosperity, and
apparently there is also an aristocracy of the ins as opposed to the
outs, and I am with the outs. So the ranks grow daily, here. Plainly
there are all kinds of castes here and only one that I belong to, the
outcasts.” But he couldn’t even smile at his small joke, although he
was obliged to confess that he had a rather good opinion of it. He was
feeling so defeated and miserable by this time that he could no longer
look with philosophical complacency on the horseplay of the young
fellows in the upper rooms at night. At first it had been pleasant to
see them unbend and have a good time after having so well earned it by
the labors of the day, but now it all rasped upon his feelings and his
dignity. He lost patience with the spectacle. When they were feeling
good, they shouted, they scuffled, they sang songs, they romped about
the place like cattle, and they generally wound up with a pillow fight,
in which they banged each other over the head, and threw the pillows in
all directions, and every now and then he got a buffet himself; and they
were always inviting him to join in. They called him “Johnny Bull,” and
invited him with excessive familiarity to take a hand. At first he had
endured all this with good nature, but latterly he had shown by his
manner that it was distinctly distasteful to him, and very soon he saw a
change in the manner of these young people toward him. They were souring
on him as they would have expressed it in their language. He had never
been what might be called popular. That was hardly the phrase for it; he
had merely been liked, but now dislike for him was growing. His case
was not helped by the fact that he was out of luck, couldn’t get work,
didn’t belong to a union, and couldn’t gain admission to one. He got a
good many slights of that small ill-defined sort that you can’t quite
put your finger on, and it was manifest that there was only one thing
which protected him from open insult, and that was his muscle. These
young people had seen him exercising, mornings, after his cold sponge
bath, and they had perceived by his performance and the build of his
body, that he was athletic, and also versed in boxing. He felt pretty
naked now, recognizing that he was shorn of all respect except respect
for his fists. One night when he entered his room he found about a
