succeeded under any circumstances, though it might have ended in killing
or disabling the commander. Christy felt that a kind Providence had
saved him, and he rendered devout thanks for the merciful interposition,
as it seemed to him.
While he was still considering the subject, he heard the call for "All
the port watch!" on deck, and Mr. Camden came below to wake the third
lieutenant, for the routine was hardly in working order on board of the
steamer. The commander went into his stateroom, and soon returned with
the sealed envelope in his hand. He was deeply interested in its
contents, for he hoped his vessel was ordered to take part in the
Mississippi expedition, which was to attack Forts Jackson and St.
Philip, and capture the city of New Orleans. Eight bells had been
struck, indicating midnight, which was the hour at which he was directed
to break the seal. The first lieutenant was quite as much interested in
ascertaining the destination of the Bronx as the commander. Christy had
invited him to his cabin.
"Midnight is rather an odd time for the opening of the envelope
containing the orders," said Mr. Flint, as he seated himself at the
table. "But I suppose it was chosen for a purpose."
"Undoubtedly; headed to the south-west the ship would be off the passes
of the Mississippi at eight bells in the forenoon. If we are sent to
Lake Pontchartrain or Ship Island, we should be a long way off our
course at that time," added Christy, as he broke the seal of the
envelope. "Neither Lake Pontchartrain nor the Mississippi. We are
ordered to Barataria Bay, where a steamer is loading with cotton."
"I did not believe a little vessel like the Bronx would be sent up
the river," said Mr. Flint, when the commander had read the paper.
"Barataria Bay--that locality is noted for something in history, isn't
it, captain?"
"Perhaps you have never read 'Lafitte, the Pirate of the Gulf;' but this
bay was his famous resort," said Christy, smiling. "It was formerly
quite as noted as a resort for smugglers, and Lafitte was more a
smuggler than a pirate in this region. He was six feet two inches in
height, a well educated and handsome man, so that he was a first-class
hero for a novel of the dime class," added Christy.
"I believe your late passenger in the cabin knows something about
Barataria Bay and its surroundings, for I think I heard the Russian say
that he had done some smuggling in this quarter," said Mr. Flint. "As
you are doubtless aware, by a series of lakes, bayous, and a canal which
comes out near Carrollton, just above New Orleans, water communication
is open to the Mississippi River for small vessels."
"Do you say that Captain Flanger has been a smuggler in these waters?"
"I think the Russian said so."
"In that case, probably Mike was with him, and he may be a useful man to
us as a pilot," replied Christy. "The commodore says the Western Gulf
squadron had no steamer that was suitable for this service, for there is
only nine feet of water on the bar of Barataria at low water. For this
reason he had been requested to send the Bronx, not only on account of
her light draft, but of her speed."
The commander read his orders through. It was believed that vessels were
loading with cotton there, towed down in flatboats by small steamers,
and that a steamer of four hundred tons was fitting out in the bay as a
privateer. It might not be practicable for the Bronx to go into the bay;
but she was to do what she could to capture the cotton vessels and the
steamer when they came out.
Mr. Flint went to his stateroom, and turned in; but Christy spread his
chart of the Gulf of Mexico, and using his parallel ruler, he found that
the present course of the Bronx would take her to the Pass à Loutre, the
most northerly entrance of the Mississippi River. He went to the bridge
at once, and directed the officer of the deck to make the course
south-west by south. Everything was going well on deck, and Mr. Pennant
had proved that he was a competent officer.
By this time the commander began to feel that sleep was a necessity for
him, for he had hardly rested at all the night before, and he turned in
at two bells. He dropped asleep almost instantly, and did not wake
till he heard eight bells in the morning. It was quite light in his
stateroom, and he realized that it was eight o'clock, instead of four,
as he at first supposed.
Dressing himself hastily, Christy hastened on deck, and to the bridge,
where he found Mr. Flint, who informed him that the Bronx was off the
South Pass of the Mississippi. The fleet of the flag-officer of the
Western Gulf squadron had gone up the river, with the exception of a
single vessel, which had not been able to get over the bar. There were a
few sail in sight.
"We are all right on the course, Mr. Flint; now make it west," said
Christy to the executive officer; and then went to his cabin for his
breakfast, directing the officer of the deck to report to him when the
steamer was off the South West Pass.
When he had finished his morning meal, he proceeded to study his
chart again. He had never been to the westward of the mouths of the
Mississippi; but he had a chart of the entrance to Barataria Bay. He
examined it with the greatest care, and made himself familiar with the
bearings and distances. In about an hour after he left the deck, a
messenger came to the door of the cabin to inform him that the South
West Pass was in sight, bearing due north.
"Make the course west north-west," said he to the first lieutenant,
as he joined him on the bridge.
"West north-west, sir," repeated the executive officer, as he gave it to
the quartermaster at the wheel.
"We shall soon be where our operations begin; but I am afraid we are to
have a lazy time of it," added Christy, as soon as the vessel's head had
been pointed in the direction indicated.
"Why so, Captain Passford?" asked Mr. Flint.
"Barataria Bay makes a big hole in the State of Louisiana, and most of
it is shoal water. At the south of it is the Isle Grande Terre, on the
western end of which is a fort, which commands the entire channel,"
replied the captain.
"That's bad," added Mr. Flint, shaking his head.
"I have no idea of its strength; but I do not care to have the Bronx
knocked to pieces by the big guns of a fort. The bar of Barataria and
the shoal water of the entrance to the bay extend out about two miles
into the Gulf. At low water, two miles from the fort, we should bury our
keel in the mud. It looks just now as though we should have to put the
Bronx under the guns of the fort, or simply blockade the entrance to the
bay. That makes it look like a quiet time in these waters."
"Of course the Confederates on the lower Mississippi are using all their
resources to strengthen Fort Jackson and Fort St. Philip; and they can
make a better use of big guns and artillerymen than in defending an
opening like this one," replied Mr. Flint.
"This is not a cotton-growing region, but is given up to sugar raising,"
added Christy. "They have to bring the cotton a long distance in order
to ship it here."
"For these reasons, I do not believe this fort is of much account."
"Perhaps not; but I should not care to have the Bronx sunk by a
columbiad in the attempt to find out the strength of the fort."
"It is possible that the Russian knows something about this region,"
suggested Mr. Flint.
"I will have a talk with him," replied the commander, as he left the
bridge.
Seating himself on the quarter-deck, he sent for Michael Bornhoff, who
presently reported to him. This man had proved himself to be entirely
faithful and reliable; and Christy had no doubts in regard to his
loyalty, for his race guaranteed that.
"Do you know where we are bound, Mike?" asked Christy.
"I know what all the crew know, for word has been passed around that we
are bound to Barataria Bay," replied the Russian with a cheerful smile.
"Were you ever there, Mike?"
"Was I ever there, captain? I lived there a year!" exclaimed the
contraband. "I was in the fishing business at that time," he added with
a significant smile on his face.
"What do you mean by that?"
"We had the Magnolia over here then, and I used to go out fishing in her
about every night," chuckled Mike. "Sometimes I did not catch any fish,
and sometimes I caught five hundred boxes of Havana cigars. I often
caught other kinds of fish."
"You did not always eat the fish you caught," suggested Christy.
"No, sir; but I used to drink some of them."
"Precisely so; West India rum and wines."
"Cigars mostly, sir, was the kind of fish we caught. Captain Flanger
brought them outside the Grand Pass: I took them up to Fort Lafitte,
and the captain's brother worked them into New Orleans and other places.
They did a big business before the custom-house folks broke it up."
"Very likely; and I dare say you know all about this region."
"No doubt of that, sir."
"What do you know about the fort?"
"Not much, captain, for in our business we did not have anything to do
with forts and such things," chuckled Mike. "The old quarters of the
mechanics and laborers used to be on the Gulf shore, but they moved them
up north of the fort, on the Grand Pass. About a mile east of the fort
there is a big plantation."
"That is all for the present, Mike," added Christy.
The contraband touched his cap, for he had been rigged out in a new
suit of seaman's clothes. The commander retired to his cabin, and again
devoted himself to the study of the chart of the locality. His first
purpose must be to obtain accurate information in regard to the strength
of the fort, and the position of the steamer, if there were such a craft
in the bay. He decided to approach the entrance by the East Channel,
though it would not be possible for the Bronx to reach the Grand Pass
from that direction, for there were hardly more than six feet of water
at low tide; and the rise and fall was less than a foot and a half.
He had decided upon his method of operations, and then wished again that
he was not in command of the steamer; for the expedition he intended to
send out was one he would have been glad to command in person, instead
of remaining inactive on board of the Bronx. As soon as he had arranged
his plan, he went on deck. To the astonishment of the first lieutenant,
he changed the course of the steamer to the north, and at noon let go
the anchor in four fathoms of water. The vessel remained there till it
was dark, and then proceeded to the westward, sounding all the time.
CHAPTER XXVIII
THE NEGRO VILLAGE ON THE ISLE GRANDE TERRE
The commander of the Bronx had explained his plan to the first
lieutenant. There was nothing especially perilous in the expedition to
be sent out; and it was the policy of Christy to keep the steamer out of
sight of the fort, and of those in the immediate vicinity of it. After
the Bronx had been on her course about two hours, and four bells had
just struck, the leadsman reported two fathoms. A little later eleven
feet was the depth.
"Quartermaster, strike one bell," said Christy.
"One bell, sir," repeated the petty officer at the wheel.
"Ten feet!" shouted the man at the lead.
"Strike three bells," added the commander; and the steamer began to back
her screw.
As soon as the Bronx had lost her headway, the screw was stopped, and
a drift lead was dropped into the water. A sharp lookout had been kept,
and some flickering lights had been reported. The weather had become
cloudy since noon, but there was no fog and no wind.
"You will let Mr. Pennant command this expedition, Mr. Flint," said
Christy. "He will take the first cutter, with ten men, including
Quartermaster Vincent and Bornhoff."
The third lieutenant was sent for, and his instructions were given to
him. Mike would be his pilot, and could give him such information as he
required in regard to the locality. He was to land in some convenient
locality, cross the island on foot at the plantation, to Fort Lafitte,
distant less than a mile, and ascertain if there were a steamer or other
vessels in the bay. He was also instructed to use all means in his power
to ascertain the strength of the fort. He was to make a landing about
half a mile west of the plantation buildings.
Within the limits of these instructions, he was to act on his own
judgment. Mike was sent for, and further information in regard to the
course was obtained from him. The officer was cautioned to be prudent,
and not fall into any traps. If he discovered that there was a steamer
in the bay, and that the fort was not heavily armed, he was to burn a
red roman candle as a signal to the Bronx, which would proceed to the
southward, and then enter the Grand Pass by the deepest water.
"Where are the negro quarters of this plantation, Mike?" asked Mr.
Pennant.
"Just west of the big house, sir," replied the Russian.
"I don't know exactly where we are now, Captain Passford," said the
officer of the expedition.
"We lie about south of what Mike calls the big house, a mile and a half
distant from it. Make the boat's course north north-west, and you will
strike the shore about half way between the planter's house and the
fort. But when you get near enough to see both of them, you can land
where you think best," Christy explained.
The boat's crew had already lowered the first cutter into the water. The
oars were muffled, for the chances were that no one in the vicinity of
the plantation had discovered the presence of the Bronx, and it was not
advisable to alarm the people. Vincent acted as cockswain of the boat,
while the Russian, as most of the officers and men insisted upon calling
him, was seated in the stern sheets with the third lieutenant. The eight
men at the oars formed the rest of the crew.
"I don't believe you will find many hands down here, Mr. Pennant," said
Mike in a whisper.
"What do you mean by hands?" asked the officer.
"Laborers, niggers," replied the Russian.
"Why not?"
"I expect they have sent all the strong ones up to work on the
fortifications."
"Shall we find no one at the negro quarters?" asked the lieutenant with
interest.
"Only the women and the old hands, too old to do much work."
"Can you make out where you are, Mike?" inquired Mr. Pennant, after
about half a mile had been made.
"I can just see the fort and the big house. It is not so very dark
to-night," answered the Russian.
The course was believed to be correct for the point indicated by the
captain, and in less than half an hour the boat grounded; but the shore
was bold enough to enable the men to land. Mr. Pennant went to the
forward part of the boat and took a careful look all around him. All was
as silent as a tomb. Stepping into the fore-sheets, he leaped on shore,
directing the Russian to follow him.
"Vincent, you will remain in charge of the boat and the men," said the
third lieutenant, addressing the quartermaster. "I will explore the
island with Mike. I have the fireworks with me, and you will keep a
sharp lookout in the direction of the fort. If you see a light close to
the water, make for it as fast as you can. Do you understand me?"
"Perfectly, Mr. Pennant."
"But you need not expect any signal for a couple of hours, or even
three. If we get into trouble, we shall retreat upon the boat direct;
so keep your eyes wide open."
The officer led the way up the shore, and the rows of sugar-cane
extended almost to the water. They could make out the little village of
negro cabins which lay between them and the planter's house, and they
directed their steps towards it. It was but a short walk, and they soon
reached the lane that extended between the rows of huts.
The lieutenant took his two revolvers from his hip pockets, and examined
them as well as he could in the dark, and Mike did the same, for it was
necessary to be prepared for whatever might happen. The village was as
silent as though it were entirely deserted; but it was nearly midnight,
and doubtless they were asleep in the cabins. They entered one. It was
still and dark within the house. Mr. Pennant had brought with him a
small lantern, which he lighted where the glare of the match could not
be seen; but it revealed nothing to the inquirers.
Covering the lantern so that its light could not be seen, they followed
the lane between the two rows of cabins for some distance farther, and
then entered another. Like the first, it was deserted. They crossed to
the other side of the avenue, where they saw some signs that the cabin
was inhabited. Uncovering his lantern, Mr. Pennant threw the light upon
the interior. It contained two beds, and each of them was occupied by
two persons. In one were two silvered heads to be seen, while the other
displayed two heads that appeared to belong to women.
"Shut the door, Mike," said the officer, in order to prevent the light
from being seen.
"I think I know one of the old men," added the Russian as he returned
from the door, "Shall I wake him up?"
"Yes; but don't frighten him," replied Mr. Pennant.
"Uncle Job," said Mike, placing his hand on the shoulder of the sleeper
on the side of the bed nearest to him.
The head and hair of the old colored man were peculiar enough to enable
the Russian to identify him if he had ever seen him even once before.
His mouth was twisted to one side either naturally or by some injury,
and his kinky hair made him look as though he carried a great bale of
cotton on the top of his head. He opened his eyes when Mike shook him
gently, and looked at the two men at the side of his bed with a
wondering rather than an alarmed expression.
"Who dar?" inquired the negro.
"Good-morning, Uncle Job," replied Mike, taking the hand of the aged
colored person. "How is your health?"
"Don't hab no healf, massa," replied Job, gazing earnestly at the
intruder upon his slumbers.
"Don't you know me, Uncle Job?"
"'Pears like I do; I reckon you's Massa Cap'n Flanger."
"Not exactly; but I'm his man, Mike Bornhoff."
"Jes' so; you was born ob de debbil," replied the old negro, rising in
his bed, and showing all his remaining teeth in an expansive smile.
"He remembers me," said Mike turning to the lieutenant. "We have struck
the right man. But he don't mean that I am any wickeder than the rest of
the world. I used to be called here by my last name, and Job invented
the pun he has just used."
"Why do you say that we have struck the right man, Mike?" asked Mr.
Pennant, caring little for the former relations of the two men.
"Because, though he don't look it, he is the best posted nigger in these
parts. He is the wise man among his people, and a sort of leader among
them, and fetich man besides."
"All right; get him up if you can. Is he able to walk?"
"He is as tough as a he-bear, and can walk a hundred miles on a
stretch," replied Mike. "He knows everything that is going on in these
times."
The lieutenant had covered his lantern, for he did not wish to wake the
other sleepers in the cabin, after the description the Russian had given
of his man. Mike spoke in a low tone to him, and it did not take him
long to make his toilet, for he slept just as he was clothed during
the day. No one knew how old he was, but he was still brisk in his
movements. The officer led the way to one of the deserted cabins at a
considerable distance from the one occupied by Uncle Job.
No one was stirring in the vicinity, and the silence was as profound
as death itself. Not a word was said till they reached the cabin the
officer had selected, and when they had entered, he closed the door
behind them. The lantern was unveiled, and the lieutenant seated himself
upon a block of timber, of which there were several in the room.
"Now, Uncle Job, I want you to answer some questions," Mr. Pennant
began.
"'Pose I don't answer 'em?" suggested the negro.
"Then I shall put you in irons, and take you on board of the steamer,"
added the officer sternly.
"De steamer! wot's de steamer? Is't a Yankee gumboat?" demanded Uncle
Job, opening his eyes with wonder and astonishment.
"That's just what it is."
"Den I gib you all de answers you want," replied the negro with a
cheerful smile. "Whar de gumboat?"
"She is off the shore not far from here. Now you will answer my
questions. There is a fort here?"
"Yes, sar; ober dar," he replied, pointing to the west.
"How many men are there at the fort?"
"Only twenty, sar; all gone ober to New Orleans, sar."
"How many guns has it? I mean big guns, Uncle Job?"
"I done count only four ob dem w'en I was dar last time."
"Only four!" exclaimed Mr. Pennant. "Are you telling me the truth, Uncle
Job?"
"I neber spoke noffin but the truf, Massa Ossifer."
"Are those four very large,--long as this cabin is wide?" asked the
lieutenant with interest.
"No, sar!" exclaimed Job with energy.
"But they must have had very big guns."
"Yes, sar; but dey done tote 'em all ober to de Mis'sip Riber."
This seemed to be reasonable to the lieutenant, and in accordance
with the belief of his superiors on board of the Bronx, for no Union
man-of-war of any size could pass through the water courses to the great
river. It looked as though the big guns had been replaced with those of
smaller calibre.
Mr. Pennant put out the light in his lantern, and the party started to
cross the island.
CHAPTER XXIX
A PROFESSIONAL VISIT TO THE FORT
Mr. Pennant had some doubts about the correctness of the important
information he had obtained, but he was at a loss to know how to verify
it. It was a matter of course that sentinels patrolled the vicinity of
the fort, or at least the principal approach to it. He decided to
postpone his inquiry into this matter till a later hour of the night or
morning.
"Whar you gwine, Massa Ossifer?" asked Uncle Job, after they had walked
a short distance from the negro village.
"Over to the other side of the island," replied the lieutenant.
"Wot you gwine to do ober dar, massa?"
"I want to see what there is over there."
"Dis nigger kin told you wot dar is over dar."
"Well, what is there over there?"
"Dar's a steamer ober dar, an' I speck de Yankee gumboat's gwine in
dar to look arter dat steamer," said Uncle Job, chuckling as though he
enjoyed the prospect of such an event. "Say, Massa Ossifer, is Massa
Linkum in yore gumboat?"
"Not exactly; but she is well filled with his people," replied Mr.
Pennant, laughing.
"I done wish dat Massa Linkum come down here hisself," added the
venerable colored person.
"He can hardly spare the time to do that; his business is such that he
cannot leave," replied the lieutenant, much amused at the simplicity of
the negro. "Now tell me something more about this steamer in the bay.
How big is she?"
"I can't told you 'zackly, massa; she as big as de fort."
"Where did she come from?" asked the lieutenant, who had more confidence
in the honesty than in the intelligence of Job.
"I dunno, massa; but she done come in from de sea. When she git off dar
two mile she done stick in de mud," answered the negro, pointing in the
direction of the bar. "Den de little steamers from up the bay take off
de loadin', and she done come in."
"With what was she loaded?"
"All sorts o' tings, massa; guns, and pistols, and close. Dis nigger
help take de tings out ob her."
"What is she doing now in the bay?"
"Loadin' wid cotton de steamers fotch down."
"Where does she lie now?"
"Jes' off de ole Fort Lafitte, whar de water's deep."
In less than half an hour the party reached the locality indicated by
Job. The officer could see the steamer which looked, in the gloom of the
night, as though she was a craft of about five hundred tons. She was
moored in the deep water so far in that she could not be seen by vessels
in the offing. On each side of her was a small river steamer, and she
seemed not to have completed her cargo.
"Do you know the name of that steamer, Uncle Job," inquired Mr. Pennant.
"Yes, sar; I knows it like my own name, but I can't spoke it if I die
for't," answered Job, laughing.
"Try to do so."
"No use, Massa Ossifer; dis nigger don't hab teef enough to do dat."
"Can't you spell it?"
"No, sar; can't spell noffin."
But Job was very obliging, and he made a hissing sound, followed by an
effort to sneeze which was a failure. Then he hissed some more, though
the loss of his front teeth interfered with the effort. Then he said
"fing."
"I know what he means," interposed the Russian. "I know that steamer,
for she came in at Cedar Keys when I was there. He means the Sphinx."
"Dat's it, Massa Ossifer!" exclaimed Job, apparently delighted to find
that he had made himself understood.
"Has she any big guns?"
"Yes, sar; she done h'ist two out ob her innards, and done took two more
from de fort."
"All right; I think we understand the situation up here," said Mr.
Pennant, as he led the way in the direction from which they had come.
They returned to the negro village, for the commander of the expedition
did not feel as though he had yet finished his mission on shore.
"Mind yore eye, Massa Gumboat!" exclaimed Job, in a low tone, but with
great earnestness.
"Dar's somebody comin' from de fort! He's comin' mighty quick shore."
The negro hurried the officer and Mike into one of the cabins, and
shoved them into a sort of closet, while he went to the door himself. He
passed out into the lane, as the man came into it from the middle of the
field, for he had not been near enough to the shore to discover the
boat.
"Who dar?" called Job.
"Soldier from the fort," replied the man. "What are you doing out here
at this time of night?"
"I done get sick, massa, and I's gwine up to de big house to see de
doctor," replied the negro, who probably used the first excuse that came
into his head.
"The doctor!" exclaimed the soldier. "Is there a doctor there?"
"I reckon dar's one dar if he done habn't leabe yisterday."
"Then you can do my errand for me," added the soldier.
"Yes, sar; what's dat, massa?"
"One of our men is very sick, and we have no doctor. We are afraid he
will die before morning, and we want a doctor. Ours was ordered off a
week ago."
"I go for de doctor if he's dar," said Job.
"Very well; I will go back and tell the sick man the doctor's coming,"
added the soldier. "That will give him a hope, if nothing more."
"Dis nigger's 'feered de doctor done gone away."
"If he isn't there, we can't have him; but hurry up, Uncle Job, and come
over and tell us if he isn't there," said the soldier, as he hurried
away as rapidly as he came, evidently believing that hope was a panacea
to a sick man.
As the soldier did not offer to come into the cabin, Mr. Pennant had
come out of his hiding-place, and had heard all that was said by the
soldier, even while he was in concealment.
"Is there any doctor at the big house?" asked the lieutenant as soon as
Job entered the house.
"No, sar; all de family done leave, an' was gwine to New Orleans. Arter
a while I go to de fort and tell de sodgers the doctor done gone,"
replied Job.
"I will go with you, Uncle Job," added Mr. Pennant quietly.
"You, Massa Gumboat!" cried the negro. "De sodgers put de bagonet frou
your crop like a knife frou a pullet's froat!"
"Not if you tell them I am the doctor," added the lieutenant.
"De doctor! Be you a doctor, sar?"
"I have done something in the business, and perhaps I can cure the man
who is sick, if they have the proper medicine," added the officer.
"Dey hab de medicine at de big house."
"Can you get into it?"
"Yes, sar; de oberseer's sick abed, and dis nigger go right in like
massa hisself," replied Job, as he led the way in the direction of the
planter's house.
The Russian was sent to the boat to await the return of the lieutenant;
but he was instructed not to open his mouth to his shipmates in regard
to what had been done on the island. Job found a way to get into the big
house, and conducted the officer to the dispensary, where he had so
often gone for remedies for his ailments. He found what he wanted, and
then he felt reasonably certain that he should make a success of his
professional visit to the soldier. He took several small bottles of
medicines in addition to the particular one upon which he depended.
Job conducted him to the fort, which was over a mile distant. The
lieutenant was not dressed in his uniform with the shoulder straps,
though he had procured one from the store ship at the station; but he
had adjusted his garments to the needs of the occasion, so that, if
captured he could hardly be recognized as a Union officer. But he had
his navy revolvers in his hip pockets, though they were covered by the
skirts of the frock coat he wore, for he had borrowed this garment of
the surgeon.
At the principal entrance of the fort they were challenged by the
sentinel. Mr. Pennant was somewhat afraid his northern dialect would
betray him, for he was not a highly educated man, though he was
exceedingly well informed in all matters pertaining to the duties of
a shipmaster.
"Stand! Who comes there?" said the sentinel.
"Friends," replied the lieutenant.
"Advance, friends, and give the countersign!"
"We have no countersign to give."
"Who are you?" demanded the soldier.
"Dr. Waterton," answered Mr. Pennant, giving the first name that came
into his head, for the medical title was the essential thing.
"All right, doctor; I have been directed to admit you. Pass in, sir."
Job was familiar with the interior of the fort, and he led the way; but
before they had crossed the parade, the soldier who had gone for the
doctor came to them, and conducted them to a casemate, where the sick
soldier was still suffering terrible pains.
"Lieutenant Fourchon, this is the doctor; but I do not know his name,"
said the soldier.
"Dr. Waterton," added Mr. Pennant.
"I am glad to see you, Dr. Waterton, for I have exhausted all my
remedies," said Lieutenant Fourchon. "I was not born to be a doctor.
The patient seems to be no better."
"It does not look like a very bad case," added the doctor, finding it
necessary to say something, as he felt the pulse of the sufferer.
Though the lieutenant of the Bronx was not a physician, he was not
altogether a pretender, for in the capacity of mate and temporary
commander, he had done duty in the healing art in the absence of a more
skilful person.
"A glass of water and a teaspoon," said he to the soldier-nurse; and
they were promptly brought to him.
The doctor took from his pocket a small bottle of chloroform he had
obtained from the big house, and dropped a quantity of it into the
teaspoon. Mixing it with a little water in a glass, he gave it to the
patient, who swallowed it quickly in spite of its burning taste.
"Now a piece of flannel," added the doctor.
Upon this when it was brought he dropped a quantity of the chloroform,
and applied it to the seat of the pain. In a moment the soldier cried
out against the burning heat of the remedy; but the practitioner
insisted that it should remain a while longer. But he relieved him of
it in a short time.
"How do you feel?" asked the doctor.
"Better; a great deal better," replied the patient.
In fact, in less than an hour he said he was entirely relieved from the
severe pain. He was very grateful to the doctor, whom no one suspected
of being a Yankee gunboat officer.
"I had the same thing once before, and I was sure I should die with it
this time," said the sick soldier, "It lasted me all night and part of
the next day the other time."
"I am afraid you did not have a very skilful doctor at that time,"
replied the practitioner with a smile.
Lieutenant Fourchon pressed the hand of the doctor, and left the
casemate with him.
CHAPTER XXX
THE ATTACK UPON THE FORT
The Confederate officer was evidently of French descent; at any rate, he
was very polite. He expressed his obligations to the supposed physician
for the service he had rendered in very earnest terms. Mr. Pennant had
been able to see that there were no guns in the casemates of the fort,
and this was really all he wanted to know.
"All your guns seem to be mounted outside," said the naval officer as he
halted on the parade.
"Yes, sir; most of the guns have been removed to points where they can
be used to greater advantage than here. The few we have are twenty-four
pounders, mounted en barbette," replied Lieutenant Fourchon. "The fort
is practically abandoned; and in a short time will be entirely so, for
the enemy's ships of war can do no harm here, and there is not water
enough above to permit their passage into the Mississippi."
"But the fort can protect your vessels in the bay," suggested the
lieutenant of the Bronx.
"The shoal water is the best protection for the small steamers that ply
on these inside waters; and the Yankee gunboats can take all others as
they come out. The entrance to the bay has not been regularly blockaded,
for there has been little occasion to do so thus far."
Mr. Pennant had learned all he wanted to know, and from the parade he
could see even in the darkness that only four guns were mounted on the
works. He began to feel in a hurry to carry out the remainder of the
programme assigned to him. He took the hand of the Confederate officer
when he reached the point where Uncle Job was waiting for him, bade him
good-morning, and left the fort.
"How's de sick man, Massa Gumboat?" asked the old negro, chuckling as
though he appreciated the stroke of strategy made by his companion.
"He is better; in fact, he was about well when I left him," replied
the practitioner. "But I have no more time to waste," added he, as he
quickened his pace, moving in the direction of the shore.
The day was beginning to break in the east, and he was afraid the
commander of the Bronx would become uneasy in regard to him. The
quarters of the soldiers were passed, though they were not in use, and
the shore reached. The lieutenant thanked the guide for the service he
had rendered, and told him he could go back to his cabin, and finish his
night's sleep.
"No, sar; see you frou, Massa Gumboat," replied Job.
"Do you wish to leave this place, Uncle Job?" asked the officer.
"No, sar; I want to be free, but I'm not gwine away, I want to see de
gumboat."
"You shall see it, and go on board of it if you wish; but we may have a
battle with the fort."
"Don't care for de fight, sar; Job isn't 'feered o' noffin'."
It was less than halt a mile to the cutter, and they soon reached it.
The Russian was standing on the shore, and most of the men were asleep
on the thwarts, though Vincent was wide awake. Mike recognized the form
of the old negro, and reported that the lieutenant was coming.
"Now burn your roman candle, and let us get off as soon as possible,"
said Mr. Pennant. "Bowman, help this man to a seat in the stern sheets;"
and he assisted Uncle Job to get in himself.
The men passed him along over the thwarts, and seated him in the stern.
Vincent burned the red candle himself, and it cast a fiery glare over
the scene, which must have astonished the occupants of the fort if they
saw it. As soon as it had burned out, the quartermaster leaped over the
stem of the cutter, and made his way to the stern, where he jumped over
the backboard, and took his place at the tiller ropes. The cutter was
backed off the ground, and out into the deeper water.
"Up oars! Let fall!" said Mr. Pennant. "Stern, all! Give way!"
The cutter backed rapidly from the shore, and was then brought about.
The lieutenant stood up in his place, and could just distinguish the
Bronx, a mile and a half distant, in the gloom of the early morning. He
watched her a few minutes and soon saw her swing around, and head to the
south-east.
"Make the course about south, Vincent," said the officer, as soon as he
discovered that the steamer was in motion.
"South, sir," replied the quartermaster.
"Now, give way with a will, my men!" called Mr. Pennant in brisk tones,
"for we shall soon have a twenty-four pound shot chasing us out."
When the cutter was about half a mile from the shore, making it about
three-quarters of a mile from the fort, the peal of a cannon was heard,
and a puff of smoke could be seen as it rose on the clear, starred sky,
for the clouds had rolled away during the night. The shot dropped into
the water a short distance abreast of the cutter.
"Good!" exclaimed Mr. Pennant; and this was the first time he had ever
been under fire, though he had imagined it enough to feel entirely at
home.
Another shot followed the first, and dropped into the water; and if it
had gone fifty feet farther, it would have struck the boat.
"Good again!" exclaimed the lieutenant. "I think that is about the range
of those guns."
A third shot fell a little nearer the cutter; but it was evident enough
that it was out of the reach of the feeble guns of the fort. The firing
continued but a few minutes longer, for it was as plain to Lieutenant
Fourchon as to Lieutenant Pennant that the shots were harmless to the
boat. The commander on shore could see by this time, if he had not
before, that a gunboat was in the offing, and that he might soon have
a better use for his powder than wasting it upon the boat.
The lieutenant had closely watched the movements of the Bronx. He had
made the signal that the fort was not very dangerous to the well-being
of the gunboat, and he understood her present movement. The light was
increasing, and the Bronx could be distinctly seen, headed to the
south-east, or in other words, making for the deep water outside the
bar. Mr. Pennant still kept the cutter headed to the south.
The steamer went off till she looked very much smaller, and then changed
her course to the south-west. The lieutenant in the cutter ordered the
bowman to sound with the small hand lead, after he had brought the boat
to a full stop. The man reported eight feet. The head of the boat was
then turned to the west, and the crew ordered to give way. In a quarter
of an hour more the course was checked, and the bowman directed to sound
again. Sixteen feet was reported.
Mr. Pennant stood up in the stern sheets, and gazed in the direction of
the fort. On the shore of the Grand Pass, above the fort, were three
buildings, formerly occupied by mechanics and laborers. The sailing
directions for entering the bay were to bring the fronts of these
structures in range, and proceed for a time on the course indicated.
Mr. Pennant had obtained this bearing after he had backed the boat a few
feet. The depth of water then informed him that he was in the channel.
But he had no intention of again approaching the fort, and he headed the
boat to the south-east, or nearly so, and then ordered the men to give
way. He called the attention of the coxswain to the range, and directed
him to keep it. The bowman was required to keep the lead going all the
time.
"Ten and a half feet!" reported the bowman.
"That is the shoalest we shall get," added the officer.
The crew had been ordered to ease off, and the cutter moved very slowly.
A quarter of an hour later the sounding was ten and three-quarters feet.
The next report was fourteen feet, and then no bottom at twenty feet.
The Bronx was approaching the boat with full steam, and stopped her
screw a short distance from the cutter. In a few moments more the boat
was at the davits, and the commander of the expedition reported to
Captain Passford.
"What have you here, Mr. Pennant?" asked the commander with a smile,
as he pointed to Uncle Job, who seemed to be as bashful as a young girl,
and utterly confounded by what he saw on the deck of the Bronx.
"That is Uncle Job, Captain Passford," replied the lieutenant. "He has
been of very great service to me, and he enables me to make a very full
report to you, sir. This is the captain of the gunboat, Uncle Job," he
added to the negro.
The old man had no hat to touch or take off, for the mass of hair was a
sufficient protection to his head; but he bowed almost to the deck, and
was too timid to say a single word.
"I am very glad to see you, Uncle Job," said Christy, taking the hand of
the venerable colored person. "I thank you for the service rendered to
my officer. Now, Mr. Pennant, you will come to my cabin and make your
report. Bring Uncle Job with you."
As soon as he reached the cabin, Christy brought from his stateroom
twenty dollars in gold, which he presented to the old negro, who
accepted the gift with many thanks.
"Dave," called the captain.
"Here, sir," replied the steward, coming into the cabin and gazing with
astonishment at the negro. "This man has done a good work; take care of
him, give him a good breakfast, and see that no one insults him."
As soon as the steward had taken him to the steerage, Mr. Pennant
made his report in full, even to the number and calibre of the guns at
the fort, and including the cure he had wrought upon the Confederate
soldier. Christy was amused at this last part of the narrative; but he
had no time to waste in conversation.
The screw of the Bronx was started again. Though the Russian was a pilot
over the bar, his services were not needed as such. The first cutter had
kept the range of the buildings on the island, and Mr. Flint had already
picked it up. The steamer proceeded at less than half speed, but the
tide was at its highest. By this time it was seven o'clock in the
morning, for a great deal of the time had been used up in moving the
cutter and the steamer. Breakfast had been served to all hands, and
Christy had fortified his stomach for a busy forenoon. As the Bronx
proceeded on her course, the lead going all the time, making not more
than two knots an hour, the report of a gun was heard from the fort.
"They are awake there," said Christy with a smile to the first
lieutenant, and both of them watched for the fall of the shot, which
struck the water at least a quarter of a mile ahead of the vessel. "Beat
to quarters, Mr. Flint."
The strength of the Bronx was mainly in her heavy midship gun. The
commander had ascertained the range of the twenty-four pounder barbette
guns of the fort, and made his calculations accordingly. He could batter
down the masonry of the works at his leisure, if he chose to waste his
time and ammunition in that way; but the Confederates proposed to
abandon the fort, and it would not pay to destroy it.
"Fourteen and a half feet!" shouted the leadsman.
"That will do, Mr. Flint; stop her, and let go the anchor. Get out a
spring astern and make it fast to that buoy," said the commander.
In ten minutes more the Bronx quivered under the discharge of the great
midship gun, and a cloud of smoke rose above her deck.
"Good for you, Mr. Ambleton!" exclaimed Christy, a few seconds later,
when he saw the wreck of one of the twenty-four pounders on the fort.
This result was followed by emphatic cheers from the forty-five men on
deck.
"I can do that again, Captain Passford," replied the gunner, who was in
charge of the piece.
"Do it, then," added Christy.
He did not do quite as well every time, but in two hours there was not a
gun in place on the barbette of the fort.
CHAPTER XXXI
A WOUNDED COMMANDER
The fort had become harmless so far as the use of its guns was
concerned; but the channel of the Grand Pass was hardly a quarter of a
mile in width, and even twenty soldiers with muskets could pick off the
men on the deck of the Bronx. Christy's orders required him to capture
the steamer that was fitting out in the bay, and he intended to do it.
The order to weigh the anchor and cast off the spring was given, and the
commander sent for the chief engineer.
"We are within a mile of the fort, Mr. Sampson, and I mean to run by it.
We shall be exposed to the fire of musketry for about half a mile, and
the quicker we make this distance, the less the danger to the men," said
the commander, when the engineer presented himself. "We will not get
under way till you have all the steam you need to give the steamer her
best speed."
"I understand the situation perfectly, Captain Passford, and I will
report when we are ready to go ahead in the manner you desire," replied
Mr. Sampson, as he saluted the captain and hastened below.
"The officer in command of that fort is not idle," said Mr. Flint, who
had been using his glass very industriously since the firing ceased.
"The soldiers are busy setting up the guns again, or some of them."
"We will soon stop that," added Christy. "Give them another shot from
the midship gun, Mr. Flint."
The gunner was again fortunate in his aim, and it was seen that the
solid shot cleaned off the carriage upon which the soldiers were at
work. With the aid of the glass it was found that two of the men had
been killed or wounded. The work on that gun was suspended, but the
officer could be seen in the act of directing his force to another of
the barbette pieces.
"That lieutenant is a brave man," said Mr. Pennant, "and I know he is a
gentleman."
"I am only sorry that he is fighting on the wrong side," added Christy,
as he observed the earnestness of the officer in the discharge of his
duty. "Is he an old man?"
"No, sir; I don't believe he is over twenty, if he is that," replied the
third lieutenant.
Another solid shot sped on its way, and Mr. Ambleton, the gunner, fully
justified the reputation he had earned, though the missile only ploughed
up the earth in front of the party on the fort. But then Lieutenant
Fourchon proved that he was a wise and a prudent man, as well as a brave
one, for he retreated from the exposed position with his men. It was
almost sure death for them to remain there, for they could not help
seeing the cloud of smoke that rose from the funnel of the Bronx,
indicating her intention to go up the Pass.
"Mr. Sampson directs me to report that he is ready to proceed," said a
messenger from the chief engineer.
Quartermaster Vincent was placed in charge of the wheel, with Boxie as
helmsman. All that could be done to protect the pilot-house had been
done, though it was not yet supposed to be proof against the musket ball
that would be fired in that direction. All the men not absolutely needed
for duty were sent below, but they were armed with revolvers and
cutlasses, ready for service at any instant. The officers retired from
the bridge, for it was folly for any one to be unnecessarily exposed to
the musketry fire from the loopholes of the fort.
"Strike one bell, Vincent!" said Mr. Flint, when the captain had given
him the order to go ahead.
The steamer went ahead slowly; but the steam was hissing, and she seemed
to be as impatient as a fiery horse at the slow starting.
"Four bells, Mr. Flint!" added the commander when the Bronx was fairly
under way.
The order went to the quartermaster, and the vessel began to dart ahead
as though she fully realized what was expected of her. There was nothing
to impede her progress, for the fort was as silent as though it had
ceased to exist. A trusty hand was heaving the lead in the fore-chains,
for the Bronx was not yet within musket-shot range of the island.
"Mark under water three!" shouted the leadsman, with an earnestness
inspired by the occasion.
Christy planked the deck with Mr. Flint just abaft the foremast. Both of
them were as cool and self-possessed as though they had been sitting at
the cabin-table; but neither of them felt that the battle had been won,
for the officer in command of the fort was evidently a man of ability,
who had not yet exhausted his resources. The first lieutenant had
watched the works very closely with his glass, and he had informed the
captain that something was in progress there, though he could not tell
what it was.
Christy certainly felt very anxious, and he could not help asking
himself whether or not he was engaged in a foolhardy enterprise in
attacking the fort. His orders related only to the steamer that was
loading in the bay, and he had been warned in his instructions to take
the fort into consideration in his operations. He felt that he had given
proper attention to the fort, inasmuch as he had disabled all its guns.
He might have simply blockaded the entrance to the Pass; but he might
have stayed in the offing a month before she ventured to come out. He
was still willing to believe that he had not overstepped his orders.
"And a quarter three!" cried the leadsman.
"Make the course north-west, Mr. Flint," said Christy, following the
sailing directions with a proper allowance for the tide. "No more
sounding; send the man below. We shall have from three to seven fathoms
of water till we have passed the fort."
The Bronx continued to dart ahead at her best speed, and no sound came
from the fort. It was only a question of minutes now before the steamer
reached a point inside of the island where she could accomplish her
mission by the capture of the Sphinx. The officers remained on deck, but
they were protected by the bulwarks, the masts, and especially under the
shelter of the top-gallant forecastle. Christy had earnestly warned the
second and third lieutenants not to expose themselves needlessly to the
musketry of the fort, and Mr. Flint was discreet enough to need no such
warning.
"Soldiers on the fort, sir!" shouted Vincent, when the Bronx was within
less than a quarter of a mile of the works.
Christy and the first lieutenant sprang from the shelter where they had
been waiting the passage of the fort, and rushed up the steps to the
bridge. The commander of the force on shore, with half a dozen men, was
at work on one of the guns on the barbette; but it was impossible to
make out what they were doing. Then there was a flash, a cloud of
smoke went up, and a shot crashed into the deck directly under the
pilot-house, tearing up the planks, and disappearing in the space below.
"Wheel disabled, sir!" shouted the quartermaster.
"Beat to quarters, Mr. Flint!" said Christy, trying to make out what
mischief had been done by the shot; but he could only see that it had
cut the wheel ropes.
"Strike two bells, Vincent!" he called to the quartermaster.
By this time the executive officer had beat the crew to quarters, and
every man was at his station.
"Strike three bells, Vincent," continued the commander. "Mr. Flint, open
fire upon the fort with the midship gun. Have the carpenter report at
once on the damage done by that shot. Strike two bells, Vincent."
It was plain enough to all the officers and men that the commander
knew what to do in the emergency, and every one was energetic in the
discharge of his duty. Mr. Ambleton was fully alive to the peril of the
moment, and he was careful to make his aim sure with the great gun. It
had been loaded before with a solid shot, and presently the steamer was
shaken to her keel by the concussion of its discharge.
Christy was still on the bridge, and he watched with intense interest
the effect of the shot. In a moment he saw the carriage of the only gun
that seemed to be mounted on the barbette flying in pieces in every
direction. He directed the gunner to use a shell next time; but the
soldiers had hastened away from the place, bearing with them two of
their companions, doubtless wounded by the splinters.
"Let go the anchor, Mr. Flint!" shouted Christy.
This was done under the direction of Mr. Camden. A fresh breeze had
sprung up from the north-west, and the Bronx came up to the cable still
headed in the direction of her former course. The carpenter reported
that the shot had passed out at the side between decks, and that he had
plugged the hole. The third lieutenant was busy rigging new wheel ropes,
which he said would be ready in half an hour. Mr. Flint, at the order
of the captain, had manned the broadside guns, and loaded them with
shrapnel, for the most perilous part of the enterprise was yet to come.
The fort was silent. It was evident now that the commander of the little
garrison had not left the barbette before till he had prepared at least
one of his guns for further service; but it had again been disabled, and
it was not known on board of the steamer whether or not he had any other
gun fit for use. It was presumed that he had not, for the Bronx was
within easy cannon shot of his works. Christy used the glass, but could
not discover any gun that appeared to be mounted.
"All ready, Mr. Flint," reported the third lieutenant, when he had
completed the repairs on the steering gear.
The first lieutenant inspected the work, and reported to the captain,
who immediately ordered him to weigh the anchor. The chief engineer had
been directed to be ready to proceed, and the steam was hissing with a
merry music. The midship gun was of no service now, and Mr. Flint had
been directed to keep up a steady fire with the broadside guns at the
embrasures of the fort as soon as the Bronx was in range.
Again the steamer darted ahead at a speed which would soon carry her
beyond the reach of the musket ball of the soldiers. Christy still
remained upon the bridge, observing the fort and all that was done on
the deck of the Bronx. He directed his glass frequently at the barbette
of the fort; but the prudent commander of the garrison had evidently
concluded to confine his efforts to the casemates. At least one-fourth
of his men had been disabled.
"Open with the broadside guns, Mr. Flint!" called Christy, as the Bronx
came abreast of the works.
As he spoke, Boxie dropped in his place at the wheel, and Vincent
grasped the spokes. The blood was streaming down the face of the old
man, and he did not move after he fell. Two sailors bore him below; but
the surgeon promptly declared that he was dead.
The rattle of musketry became quite sharp, and the bullets were
penetrating the bulwarks. Two had been wounded at one of the guns, and
carried below. Christy stepped over to the end of the bridge to call a
hand to take the place of Boxie, and at that moment he felt a sharp
sting, as it were, in his right arm, above the elbow. Involuntarily he
raised his hand to the place, and felt the warm blood oozing from the
wound. It produced a momentary faintness; but he braced himself up, and
wound his handkerchief around his arm, calling upon the wheelman to tie
it, as he hastened to the aid of Vincent. He said not a word about the
accident.
The Bronx dashed upon her course, and in a moment more she was out of
the reach of the balls from the muskets. Half a mile farther up the
