know, I told you I would go and leave a card with inquiries, and you
advised me not to. I went—in fact, I called several times.”
“You never told me. Why should you? It was foolish of me, too. It was
none of my business.”
“I wish I had taken your advice. The old man got well again, but I have
not seen him till to-day. Just now, as I walked here, he was coming out
of his club, and I ran against him before I knew where I was. Do you
know? He had taken my inquiries seriously. Thought I asked out of pure
milk and water of human kindness, so to say—thanked me so nicely and
asked me to go and see him! I felt like such a beast.”
Constance laughed and for some reason or other the high, musical ring of
her laughter did not give George as much satisfaction as usual.
“What did you do?” she asked, a moment later.
“I hardly know. I could not tell him to his face that he had not
appreciated my peculiar style of humour, that I loathed him as I loathe
the plague, and that I had called to know whether the undertaker was in
the house. I believe I said something civil—contemptibly civil,
considering the circumstances—and he left me in front of the club
feeling as if I had eaten something I did not like. I wish you had been
there to get me out of the scrape with some more good advice!”
“I? Why should I——”
“Because, after all, you got me into it, Miss Fearing,” George answered
rather sadly. “So, perhaps, you would have known what to do this time.”
“I got you into the scrape?” Constance looked as much distressed as
though it were really all her fault.
“Oh, no—I am not in earnest, exactly. Only, I have such an abominably
contrary nature that I went to Tom Craik’s door just because you advised
me not to—that is all. I had only seen you twice then—and——” he stopped
and looked fixedly at the young girl’s face.
“I knew I was wrong, even then,” Constance answered, with a faint blush.
The colour was not the result of any present thought, nor of any
suspicion of what George was about to say; it was due to her
recollection of her conduct on that long remembered afternoon nearly
four months earlier.
“No. I ought to have known that you were right. If you were to give me
advice now——”
“I would rather not,” interrupted the young girl.
“I would follow it, if you did,” said George, earnestly. “There is a
great difference between that time and this.”
“Is there?”
“Yes. Do you not feel it?”
“I know you better than I did.”
“And I know you better—very much better.”
“I am glad that makes you more ready to follow sensible advice——”
“Your advice, Miss Fearing. I did not mean——”
“Mine, then, if you like it better. But I shall never offer you any
more. I have offered you too much already, and I am sorry for it.”
“I would rather you gave me advice—than nothing,” said George in a lower
voice.
“What else should I give you?” Her voice had a ring of surprise in it.
She seemed startled.
“What you will never give, I am afraid—what I have little enough the
right to ask.”
Constance laid down the work she held, and looked out of the window.
There was a strange expression in her face, as though she were wavering
between fear and satisfaction.
“Mr. Wood,” she said suddenly, “you are making love to me.”
“I know I am. I mean to,” he answered, with an odd roughness, as the
light flashed into his eyes. Then, all at once, his voice softened
wonderfully. “I do it badly—forgive me—I never did it before. I should
not be doing it now, if I could help myself—but I cannot. This once—this
once only—Constance, I love you with all my heart.”
He was timid, and women, whether old or young, do not like timidity. It
was not that he lacked either force or courage by nature, nor any of
those qualities whereby women are won. But the life he had led had kept
him younger than he believed himself to be, and his solitary existence
had given his ideal of Constance the opportunity of developing more
quickly than the reality. He loved her, it is true, but as yet in a
peaceful, unruffled way, which partook more of boundless admiration than
of passion. An older man would have recognised the difference in
himself. The girl’s finer perceptions were aware of it without
comprehending it in the least. Nevertheless it was an immense
satisfaction to George to speak out the words which in his heart had so
long been written as a motto about the shrine of his imagination.
Constance said nothing in answer, but rose, after a moment’s pause, and
went and stood before the fireplace, now filled with ferns and plants,
for the weather was already warm. She turned her back upon George and
seemed to be looking at the things that stood on the chimney-piece.
George rose, too, and came and stood beside her, trying to see her face.
“Are you angry?” he asked softly. “Have I offended you?”
“No, I am not angry,” she answered. “But—but—was there any use in saying
it?”
“You do not love me at all? You do not care whether I come or go?”
She pitied him, for his disappointment was genuine, and she knew that he
suffered something, though it might not be very much.
“I do not know what love is,” she said thoughtfully. “Yes—I care. I like
to see you—I am interested in what you do—I should be sorry never to see
you again—but I do not feel—what is it one should feel, when one loves?”
“Is there any one—any man—whom you like better than you like me?”
“No,” she answered with some hesitation, “I do not think there is.”
“And there is a chance that you may like me better still—that you may
some day even love me?”
“Perhaps. I cannot tell. I have not known you very long.”
“It seems long to me—but you give me all I ask, more than I had a right
to hope for. I thank you, with all my heart.”
“There is little to thank me for. Do you think I mean more than I say?”
She turned her head and looked calmly into his eyes. “Do you think I am
promising anything?”
“I would like to think so. But what could you promise me? You would not
marry me, even if you loved me as I love you.”
“You are wrong. If I loved you, I would marry you—if I were sure that
your love was real, too. But it is not. I am sure it is not. You make
yourself think you love me——”
The young man’s dark face seemed to grow darker still as she watched it.
There was passion in it now, but of a kind other than loving. His over
sensitive nature had already taken offence.
“Please do not go on, Miss Fearing,” he said, in a low voice that
trembled angrily. “You have said enough already.”
Constance drew back in extreme surprise, and looked as though she had
misunderstood him.
“Why—what have I said?” she asked.
“You know what you meant. You are cruel and unjust.”
There was a short pause, during which Constance seemed to be trying to
grasp the situation, while George stood at the other end of the
chimney-piece, staring at the pattern in the carpet. The girl’s first
impulse was to leave the room, for his anger frightened and repelled
her. But she was too sensible for that, and she thought she knew him too
well to let such a scene pass without an explanation. She gathered all
her courage and faced him again.
“Mr. Wood,” she said with a firmness he had never seen in her, “I give
you my word that I meant nothing in the least unkind. It is you who are
doing me an injustice. I have a right to know what you understood from
my words.”
“What could you have meant?” he asked coldly. “You are, I believe, very
rich. Every one knows that I am very poor. You say that I make myself
think I love you——”
“Good heavens!” cried Constance. “You do not mean to say that you
thought that! But I never said it, I never meant it—I would not think
it——”
There was a little exaggeration in the last words. She had thought of
it, and that recently, though not when she had spoken. It was enough,
however. George believed her, and the cloud disappeared from his face.
It was she who took his hand first, and the grasp was almost
affectionate in its warmth.
“You will never think that of me?” he asked earnestly.
“Never—forgive me if any word of mine could have seemed to mean that I
did.”
“Thank you,” he answered. “It is only my own folly, of course, and I am
the one to be forgiven. Things may be different some day.”
“Yes,” assented Constance with a little hesitation, “some day.”
A moment later George left the house, feeling as a soldier does who has
been under fire for the first time.
                              CHAPTER VII.
Not long after the events last chronicled, the Fearings left New York
for the summer, and George was left to his own meditations, to the
society of his father and to the stifling heat of the great city. He had
seen Constance again more than once before she and her sister had left
town, and he had parted from her on the best of terms. To tell the
truth, since his sudden exhibition of violent temper, she had liked him
even better than before. His genuine anger had to some extent dissipated
the cloud of doubt which always seemed to her to hang about his motives.
The doubt itself was not gone, for as it had a permanent cause in her
own fortune it was of the sort not easily driven away.
As for George himself, he considered himself engaged, of course in a
highly conditional way, to marry Miss Constance Fearing. She had
repeated, at his urgent solicitation, what she had said when he had
first declared himself, to wit, that if she ever loved him she would
marry him, and that there was no one whom she at present preferred to
him. More than this, he could not obtain from her, and in his calm
moments, which were still numerous, he admitted that she was perfectly
fair and just in her answer. He, on his part, had declared with great
emphasis that, however she might love him, he would not marry her until
he was independent of all financial difficulties, and had made himself a
name. On the whole, nothing could have seemed more improbable than that
the marriage could ever take place. The distance between writing
second-rate reviews at ten dollars a column, and being one of the few
successful writers of the day is really almost as great as it looks to
the merest outsider. Moreover, a friendship of several months’ standing
is generally speaking a bad foundation on which to build hopes of love.
The very intimacy of intercourse forbids those surprises in which love
chiefly delights. Friendly hands have taken the bandage from his eyes,
and he has learned to see his way about with remarkable acuteness of
perception.
Perhaps the most immediate and perceptible effect of the last few
interviews with Constance was to be found in the work he turned out, and
in the dissatisfaction it caused in quarters where it had formerly been
considered excellent. It was beginning to be too good to serve its end,
for the writer was beginning to feel that he could no longer efface his
individuality and repress his own opinions as he had formerly done. He
exceeded in his articles the prescribed length, he made vicious Latin
quotations, and concocted savagely epigrammatic sentences, he inserted
sharp remarks about prominent writers, where they were manifestly beside
the purpose, besides being palpably unjust, there was a sting in almost
every paragraph which did not contain a paradox, and, altogether, he
made the literary editors who employed him very nervous.
“It won’t do, Mr. Wood,” one of them said. “The publishers don’t like
it. Several have written to me. The paper can’t stand this kind of
thing. I suppose the fact is that you are getting too good for this
work. Take my advice. Either go back to your old style, or write
articles over your own name for the magazines. They like quotations and
snap and fine writing—authors and publishers don’t, not a bit.”
“I have tried articles again and again,” George answered. “I cannot get
them printed anywhere.”
“Well—you just go ahead and try again. You’ll get on if you stick to it.
If you think you can write some of your old kind of notices, here’s a
lot of books ready. But seriously, Mr. Wood, if you write any more like
the last dozen or so, I can’t take them. I’m sorry, but I really can’t.”
“I’ll have one more shot,” said George, desperately, as he took up the
books. He could not afford to lose the wretched pay he got for the work.
He soon saw that other managers of literary departments thought very
much as this first specimen did.
“A little more moderation, Mr. Wood,” said a second, who was an elderly
æsthetic personage. “I hate violence in all its forms. It is so
fatiguing.”
“Very well,” said George submissively.
He went to another, the only one whom he knew rather intimately, a pale,
hardworking, energetic young fellow, who had got all manner of
distinctions at English and German universities, who had a real critical
talent, and who had risen quickly to his present position by his innate
superiority over all competitors in his own line. George liked him and
admired him. His pay was not brilliant, for he was not on one of the
largest papers, but he managed to support his mother and two young
sisters on his earnings.
“Look here, Wood,” he said one morning, “this is not the way criticism
is done. You are not a critic by nature. Some people are. I believe I
am, and I always meant to be one. You do this sort of thing just as you
would do any writing that did not interest you, and you do it fairly
well, because you have had a good education, and you know a lot of
things that ordinary people do not know. But it is not your strong
point, and I do not believe it ever will be. Try something else. Write
an article.”
“That is what everybody tells me to do,” George answered. He was
disappointed, for he believed that what he did was really good, and he
had expected that the man with whom he was now speaking would have been
the one of all others to appreciate his work. “That is what they all
tell me,” he continued, “but they do not tell me how to get my articles
accepted. Have you a recipe for that, Johnson?”
The pale young man did not answer at once. He was extremely
conscientious, which was one reason why he was a good critic.
“I cannot promise much,” he said at last. “But I will tell you what I
will do for you. If you will write an article, or a short story—say five
to eight thousand words—I will read it and give you my honest opinion.
If I like it, I’ll push it, and it may get into print. If I don’t, I’ll
tell you so, and I’ll do nothing. You will have to try again. But I am
convinced that you are naturally an author and not a critic.”
“Thank you,” said George gratefully. He knew what the promise meant,
from such a man as Johnson, who would have to sacrifice his time to the
reading of the manuscript, and whose opinion was worth having.
“Can you give me any work this week?” he asked, before he took his
leave.
Johnson looked at him quietly, as though making up his mind what to say.
“I would rather not. You do not do it as well as you did, and I am
responsible. If there is anything else I could do for you——” He stopped.
“If you will be so kind as to read my article——”
“Yes, of course. I said I would. I mean——” Johnson looked away, and his
pale face blushed to the roots of his hair. “I mean—if you should need
twenty dollars while the article is being written, I can——”
George felt a very peculiar emotion, and his voice was a little thick,
as he took the other’s hand.
“Thank you, Johnson, but I don’t need it. You are awfully kind, though.
Nobody ever did as much for me before.”
When he left the room, the nervous flush had not yet disappeared from
the literary editor’s forehead, nor had the odd sensation quite subsided
from George’s own throat. If Tom Craik had offered him the loan of
twenty dollars, he would have turned his back on him with a bitter
answer. It was a very different matter when poor, overworked Johnson put
his hand in his pocket and proffered all he could spare. For a minute
George forgot all his disappointments and troubles in the gratitude he
felt to the pale young man. Nor did he ever lose remembrance of the
kindly generosity that had prompted the offer.
But as he walked slowly homewards the bitterness of his heart began to
show itself in another direction. He thought of the repeated admonitions
and parcels of advice which had been thrust upon him during the last few
days, he thought of his poverty, of his failures, and he compared all
these facts with his aspirations. He, a poor devil who seemed to be
losing the power to earn a miserable ten dollars with his pen, he, whose
carefully prepared articles had been rejected again and again, often
without a word of explanation, he, the unsuccessful scribbler of
second-rate notices, had aspired, and did still aspire, not only to
marry Constance Fearing, but to earn for himself such a position as
should make him independent of her fortune, so far as money was
concerned, and which, in the direction of personal reputation, should
place him in the first rank in his own country. Wonderful things
happened, sometimes, in the world of letters; but, so far as he knew,
they needed a considerable time for their accomplishment. He was well
advanced in his twenty-sixth year already, and it was madness to hope to
achieve fame in less than ten years at the least. In ten years,
Constance would be two and thirty. He had not thought of that before,
and the idea filled him with dismay. It seemed a great age, an absurd
age for marriage. And, after all, there was not the slightest
probability of her waiting for him. In the first place, she did not love
him, or, at least, she said that she did not, and if her affection was
not strong enough to declare itself, it could hardly be taken into
consideration as an element in the great problem. The whole thing was
ridiculous, and he would give up the idea—if he could.
But he could not. He recognised that the thought of Constance was the
bright spot in his life, and that without her image he should lose half
his energy. In the beginning, there had been a sort of complacent
acquiescence in the growth of his love, which made it seem as though he
had voluntarily set up an idol of his own choosing, which he could
change at will. But the idol had begun to feed on his heart, and was
already exerting its mysterious, dominating influence over his actions
and beliefs. He began to concoct a philosophy of self-deception, in the
hope of obtaining a good result. It seemed certain that he could never
marry Constance—certain, at all events, while this mood lasted—but he
could still dream of her and look forward to his union with her. The
great day would come, of course, when she would marry some one else, and
when he should doubtless be buried in the ruin of his dreams, but until
then he would sustain the illusion.
And what an illusion it was! The magnitude of it appalled him.
Penniless, almost; dependent for his bread upon his ruined father;
baffled at every turn; taught by experience that he had none of the
power he seemed to feel—that was the list of his advantages, to be set
in the balance against those possessed by Constance Fearing. George
laughed bitterly to himself as he pursued his way through the crowded
streets. It struck him that he must be a singularly unlucky man, and he
wondered how men felt upon whom fortune smiled perpetually, who had
never known what it meant to work hard to earn a dollar, to whom money
seemed as common and necessary an element as air. He remembered indeed
the time when, as a boy, he had known luxury, and existed in unbroken
comfort, and the memory added a bitterness to his present case.
Nevertheless he was not downhearted. Black as the world looked, he could
look blacker, he fancied, and make the cheeks of fortune smart with the
empty purse she had tossed in his face. His walk quickened, and his
fingers itched for the pen. He was one of those men who harden and grow
savage under defeat, reserving such luxuries as despondency for the
hours of success.
Without the slightest hesitation, he set to work. He scarcely knew how
it was that he determined to write an article upon critics and
criticism; but when he sat down to his table the idea was already
present, and phrases of direful import were seething in the fire of his
brain. All at once he realised how he hated the work he had been doing,
how he loathed himself for doing it, how he detested those who had doled
out to him his daily portion. What a royal satisfaction it was to “sling
ink,” as the reporters called it! To heap his full-stocked thesaurus of
abuse upon somebody and something, and most especially upon himself, in
his capacity as one of the critics! To devote the whole profession to
the perdition of an everlasting contempt, to hold it up as a target for
the public wrath, to spit upon it, to stamp upon it, to tear it to rags,
and to scatter the tatters abroad upon the tempest of his reprobation!
The phrases ran like wildfire along the paper, as he warmed to his work,
and dragged old-fashioned anathemas from the closets of his memory to
swell the hailstorm of epithets that had fallen first. Anathema
Maranatha! Damn criticism! Damn the critics! Damn everything!
It was a very remarkable piece of work when it was finished, more
remarkable in some ways than anything he ever produced afterwards, and
if he had taken it to Johnson in its original form, the pale young man’s
future career might have been endangered by a fit of sudden and
immoderate mirth. Fortunately, George already knew the adage—is it not
Hood’s?—which says “it is the print that tells the tale.” He was well
aware that writing ink is to printers’ ink as a pencil drawing to a
painted canvas, and that what looks mild and almost gentle when it
appears in an irregular handwriting upon a sheet of foolscap can seem
startlingly forcible when impressed upon perfectly new and very
expensive paper, in perfectly new and very expensive type. He read the
article over.
“Perhaps it is a little strong,” he said to himself, with a grim smile,
as he reviewed what he had written. “I feel a little like Wellington
revisiting Waterloo!”
Indeed, from the style of the discourse, one might have supposed that
George had published a dozen volumes simultaneously, and that every
critic in the civilised world had sprung up and rent him with one
accord. “English Bards and Scotch Reviewers” was but milk and water,
with very little milk, compared with his onslaught. The dead lay in
heaps, as it were, in the track of his destroying charge, and he had
hanged, drawn and quartered himself several times for his own
satisfaction, gibbeting the quarters on every page. In his fury and
unquenchable thirst for vengeance, he had quoted whole passages from
notices he had written, only to tear them to pieces and make bonfires of
their remains.
“I think I had better wait a day or two,” he remarked, as he folded up
the manuscript and put it into a drawer of his table.
It is characteristic of the profession and its necessities, that, after
having crushed and dismembered all critics, past, present and to come,
in the most complete and satisfactory manner, George Wood laid his hand
upon the new volumes which he had last brought home and proceeded during
several days with the task of reviewing them. Moreover, he did the work
much better than usual, taking an odd delight in affecting the attitude
of a gentle taster, and in using the very language he most despised,
just for the sake of persuading himself that he was right in despising
it. The two editors who had given him work to do that week were
surprised to find that he had returned with such success to his former
style of writing. They were still further surprised when an article
entitled “Cheap Criticism” appeared, about six weeks later, in a well
known magazine, signed with his name in full. They did not like it all.
George had recast the paper more than once, and at last, when he had
regretfully “rinsed all the starch out of it,” as he said to himself, he
had taken it to Johnson.
“I did not know that any modern human being could use such violent
language without swearing,” said the pale young man, catching a phrase
here and there as he ran his eye over the manuscript.
“Do you call that violent?” asked George, delighted to find that he had
left his work more forcible than he had supposed. “I wish you could have
seen the first copy! This looked like prayer and meditation compared
with it.”
“If you pray in that style,” remarked Johnson, “your prayers will be at
least heard, if they are not answered. They will attract attention in
some quarter, though perhaps not in the right one.”
George’s face fell.
“Do you think it is too red-hot?” he asked. “I have been spreading
butter on the public nose so long,” he added, almost apologetically.
“Oleomargarine,” suggested Johnson. “It is rather warm. That
phrase—‘revelling in the contempt of appearing contemptible’—I say,
Wood, that is not English, you know, and it’s a scorcher, too.”
“Not English!” exclaimed George, whose blood was up at once. “Why not?”
“Because it is Volapück, or Malay—or something else, I don’t know what
it is, though I admit its force.”
“I do not see how I can put it, then. It is just what we all feel.”
“Look here. You do not mean that your victim despises himself for
appearing to be despicable, do you? He does, I dare say, but you wanted
to hit him, not to show that he is still capable of human feeling. I
think you meant to say that he rejoiced in his own indifference to
contempt.”
“I believe I did,” said George, relinquishing the contest as soon as he
saw he was wrong. “But ‘revel’ is not bad. Let that stand, at least.”
“You cannot revel in indifference, can you?” asked Johnson pitilessly.
“No. That is true. But it was English, all the same, though it did not
mean what I intended.”
“I think not. You would not say an author appears green, would you? You
would say he appears to be green. Then why say that a critic appears
contemptible?”
“You are always right, Johnson,” George answered with a good-natured
laugh. “I should have seen the mistake in the proof.”
“But that is the most expensive way of seeing mistakes. I will read this
carefully, and I will send you word to-morrow what I think of it.”
“What makes you so quick at these things?” asked George, as he rose to
go.
“Habit. I read manuscript novels for a publishing house here. I do it in
the evening, when I can find time. Yes—it is hard work, but it is
interesting. I am both prophet and historian. The book is the reality
which I see alternately from the point of view of the future and the
past.”
The result was that Johnson, who possessed much more real power than
George had imagined, wrote a note, with which the manuscript was sent,
and to George’s amazement the paper was at once accepted and put into
type, and the proofs were sent to him. Moreover the number of the
magazine in which his composition appeared was no sooner published than
he received a cheque, of which the amount at once demonstrated the
practical advantages of original writing as compared with those of
second-rate criticism.
With regard to the attention attracted by his article, however, George
was bitterly disappointed. He was on the alert for the daily papers in
which an account of the contents of the periodicals is generally given,
and he expected at least a paragraph from each.
In the first one he took up, after an elaborate notice of articles by
known persons, he found the following line:—
“Mr. George Winton Wood airs his views upon criticism in the present
number.”
That was all. There was not a remark, nor a hint at the contents of his
paper, nothing to break the icy irony of the statement. He pondered long
over the words, and then crammed the open sheet into the waste-paper
basket. This was the first. There might be better in store for him. On
the evening of the same day he found another.
“An unknown writer has an article upon criticism,” said the oracle,
without further comment.
This was, if possible, worse. George felt inclined to write to the
editor and request that his name might be mentioned. It was a peculiarly
hard case, as he had reviewed books for this very paper during the last
two years, and was well known in the office. The third remark was in one
of those ghastly-spritely medleys written under the heading of
“Chit-Chat.”
“By the way,” inquired the reviewer, “who is Mr. George Winton Wood? And
why is he so angry with the critics? And does anybody mind? And who is
he, any way?”
Half a dozen similar observations had the effect of cooling George’s
hopes of fame very considerably. They probably did him good by
eradicating a great deal of nonsense from his dreams. He had before
imagined that in labouring at his book notices he had seen and known the
dreariest apartment in the literary workhouse, forgetting that all he
wrote appeared anonymously and that he himself was shielded behind the
ægis of a prosperous newspaper’s name. He had not known that a beginner
is generally received, to use a French simile, like a dog in a game of
ninepins, with kicks and execrations, unless he is treated with the cold
indifference which is harder to bear than any attack could be. And yet,
cruel as the method seems, it is the best one in most cases, and saves
the sufferer from far greater torments in the future. What would happen
if every beginner in literature were received at the threshold with
cakes and ale, and were welcomed by a chorus of approving and
encouraging critics? The nine hundred out of every thousand who try the
profession and fail, would fail almost as certainly a little later in
their lives, and with infinitely greater damage to their sensibilities.
Moreover the cakes and ale would have been unworthily wasted, and the
chorus of critics would have been necessarily largely leavened with
skilful liars, which, it is to be hoped and believed, is not the case in
the present condition of criticism, in spite of George Wood and his
opinions. Is it better that boys should be allowed to remain in school
two or three years without being examined, and that the ignorant ones
should then be put to shame before their comrades? Or is it better that
the half-witted should be excluded from the first, and separately
taught? The question answers itself. We who, rightly or wrongly, have
fought our way into public notice, have all, at one time or another,
been made to run the gauntlet of abuse, or to swim the dead sea of
indifference. The public knows little of our lives. It remembers the
first book of which everybody talked and which, it foolishly supposed,
represented our first experiment in print. It knows nothing of the many
years of thankless labour in the columns of the daily press, it has
never heard of our first paper in a magazine, nor of our pride at seeing
our signature in a periodical of some repute, nor of the sovereign
contempt with which the article and the name were received. The
comfortable public has never dreamed of the wretched prices most of us
received when we entered the ranks, and, to be honest, there is no
reason why it should. It would be quite as sensible to found a society
for the purpose of condoling with school-boys during their examinations,
as to excite the public sympathy on behalf of what one may call
undergraduate authors. The weeding at the beginning keeps the garden
clean and gay—and amputations must be performed in good time, if the
gangrene is to be arrested effectually.
George Wood, as has been said before, was not of the kind to be
despondent, though he was easily roused to anger. The porcupine is an
animal known to literature, as well as a beast of the field, and the
quills of the literary porcupine can be very easily made to stand on
end. George was one of the species and, on the whole, a very favourable
specimen. Fortunately for those who had accorded so little appreciation
to his early efforts, he was at that time imprisoned in the enclosure
appropriated to unknown persons. He bristled unseen and wasted his wrath
on the desert air. He had looked forward to the publication of his first
article, as to an emancipation from slavery, whereas he soon discovered
that he had only been advanced to a higher rank in servitude. That is
what most men find out when they have looked forward to emancipation of
any kind, and wake up to find that instead of being chained to one side
of the wall, they are chained to the other.
George supposed that it would now be an easier matter to get some of his
former work into print. He had four or five things in very tolerable
shape, resting in a drawer where he had put them when last rejected. He
got them out again, and again began to send them to periodicals, without
consulting his friend Johnson. To his surprise, they were all returned
without comment.
“Go and ask for a job,” said Johnson, the omniscient, when he heard of
the failure. “Suggestion on the part of the editor is the better part of
valour in the writer.”
“What do you mean?” asked George. He had supposed that there was nothing
he did not know in this connection.
“They won’t take articles on general subjects without a deal of interest
and urging,” answered the other. “Get introduced to them in person. I
will do it with most of them. Then go to them and say, ‘I am a very
remarkable young man, though you do not seem to know it. I will write
anything about anything in the earth or under the earth. Sanskrit,
botany and the differential calculus are my especially strong points,
but the North Pole has great attractions for me, I am strong in theology
and political economy, and, if anything, I would rather spend a year in
writing up the Fiji Islands than not. If you have nothing in this line,
there is music and high art, in which I am sound, I have a taste for
architecture and I understand practical lobster-fishing. Have you
anything for me to do?’ That is the way to talk to these men,” Johnson
added with a smile. “Try it.”
George laughed.
“But that is not literature,” he objected.
“Not literature? Everything that can be written about is literature,
just as everything that can be eaten is man—in another form. You can
learn as much English in writing up lobster-fishing, as in trying to
compose a five-act tragedy, and you will be paid for it into the
bargain. Besides, if you are ever going to write anything worth reading,
you must see more and think less. Don’t read books for a while; read
things and people. Thinking too much, without seeing, is like eating too
much—it makes your writing bilious.”
“This is the critic’s recipe for acquiring fame in letters!” exclaimed
George.
“Fame in letters is a sort of stuffed bugbear. You can frighten children
with it, but it belongs to the days of witches and hobgoblins. The
object of literature nowadays is to amuse without doing harm. If you do
that well you will be famous and rich.”
“You are utterly cynical to-day, Johnson. Are you in earnest in what you
advise me to do?”
“Perfectly. Try everything. Offer your services to write anything. Among
all the magazines and weeklies there is sure to be one that is in
difficulties because it cannot get some particular article written.
Don’t be too quick to say you understand the subject, if you don’t. Say
you will try it. A man may get up almost any subject in six weeks, and
it is a good thing for the mind, once in a long time. Try everything, I
say. Make a stir. Let these people see you—make them see you, if they
don’t want to. It is not time lost. You can use them all in your books
some day. There is an age when it is better to wear out shoe-leather
than pens—when the sweat of the brow is worth a dozen bottles of ink.
Don’t sit over your desk yelping your discontent, while your real brain
is rusting. Confound it all! It is the will that does it, the stir, the
energy, the beating at other people’s doors, grinding up their stairs,
making them feel that they must not lose the chance of using a man who
can do so much, making them ashamed to send you away. Do you think I got
to be where I am without a rough and tumble fight at the first? Take
everything that comes into your way, do it as well as you know how, with
all your might, and keep up a constant howl for more. They will respect
you in spite of themselves.”
The pale young man’s steel-blue eyes flashed, the purple veins stood out
on his white clenched hands and there was a smile of triumph in his face
and a ring of victory in his voice. He had fought them all and had got
what he wanted, by talent, by industry, but above all by his restless
and untiring energy, and he was proud of it.
To George Wood, in his poverty, it seemed very little, after all, to be
the literary editor of a daily paper. That was not the position he must
win, if he would marry Constance Fearing.
                             CHAPTER VIII.
The summer passed quickly away without bringing any new element into
George’s life. He did not reject Johnson’s advice, but he did not follow
it to the letter. His instinct was against the method suggested by his
friend, and he felt that he had not the assurance to follow it out. He
was too sensitive and proud to employ his courage in besieging persons
who did not want him. Nevertheless he found work to do, and his position
was improved, though his writings still failed to attract any attention.
He had imagined that there was but a step from the composition of
magazine articles to the making of a book, but he soon discovered the
fallacy of the idea, and almost regretted the old days of
“book-tasting.”
Meanwhile, his thoughts dwelt much on Constance, and he adorned the
temple of his idol with everything upon which, figuratively speaking, he
could lay his hands. Strange to say, her absence during the summer was a
relief to him. It made the weakness of his position and the futility of
his hopes seem less apparent, and it gave him time to make at least a
step in the direction of success. He wrote to her, as often as he dared,
and twice in the course of the summer she answered with short letters
that had in his eyes a suspicious savour of kindness rather than of
anything even distantly approaching to affection. Nevertheless those
were great days in his calendar on which these missives came. The notes
were read over every morning and evening until Constance returned, and
were put in a place of safety during the day and night.
George looked forward with the greatest anxiety to Miss Fearing’s
return. He had long felt that her sister’s antagonism was one of the
numerous and apparently insurmountable obstacles that barred his path,
and he dreaded lest Grace’s influence should, in the course of the long
summer, so work upon Constance’s mind as to break the slender thread
that bound her to him. As regards Grace’s intention he was by no means
wrong. She lost no opportunity of explaining to Constance that her
friendship for George Wood was little short of ridiculous, that the man
knew he had no future and was in pursuit of nothing but money, that his
writings showed that he belonged to the poorest class of amateurs, that
men who were to succeed were always heard of from boyhood, at school, at
college and in their first efforts and that Constance was allowing her
good nature to get the better of her common-sense in encouraging such a
fellow. In short there was very little that Grace left unsaid. But
though George had foreseen all this, as Grace, on her part, had
determined beforehand upon her course of action during the summer,
neither Grace nor George had understood the effect that such talk would
produce upon her whom it was meant to influence. There was in
Constance’s apparently gentle nature an element of quiet resistance
which, in reality, it was not hard to rouse. Like many very good and
very conscientious people, she detested advice and abominated
interference, even on the part of those she loved best. Her attachment
for her sister was sincere in its way, though not very strong, and it
did not extend to a blind respect for Grace’s opinions. Grace could be
wrong, like other people, and Grace was hasty and hot-tempered,
prejudiced and not free from a certain sort of false pride. These were
assuredly not the defects of Constance’s character, at least in her own
opinion.
Her opposition was aroused and she began to show it. Indeed, her two
letters to George were both written immediately after conversations had
taken place in which Grace had spoken of him with more than usual
bitterness. She felt as though she owed him some reparation for the
ill-treatment he got at her sister’s hands, and this accounted in part
for the flavour of kindness which George detected in her words. The
situation was further strained by the arrival of one of the periodicals
which contained an article by him. The sisters both read it, and
Constance was pleased with it. In an indirect way, too, she felt
flattered, for it looked as though George were beginning to follow her
advice.
“It is trash,” said Grace authoritatively, as she threw the magazine
aside.
Constance allowed a full minute to elapse before she answered, during
which she seemed to be intently watching the sail of a boat that was
slowly working its way up the river. The two girls had paused between
one visit and another to rest themselves in a place they owned upon the
Hudson. The weather was intensely hot, and it was towards evening.
“It is not trash,” said Constance quietly. “You are quite mistaken. You
are completely blinded by your prejudice.”
Grace was very much surprised, for it was unlike Constance to turn upon
her in such a way.
“I think it is trash for two reasons,” she said, with a short laugh.
“First, because my judgment tells me it is, and secondly because I know
that George Wood could not possibly write anything else.”
“You can hardly deny that you are prejudiced after that speech. Do you
know what you will do, if you go on in this way? You will make me fall
in love with Mr. Wood and marry him, out of sheer contrariety.”
“Oh no!” laughed Grace. “You would not marry him. At the last minute you
would throw him over, and then he would bring an action against you for
breach of promise with a view to the damages.”
Constance suddenly grew very pale. She turned from the window where she
was standing, crossed the small room and stood still before her sister.
“Do you mean that?” she asked very coldly.
Grace was frightened, for the first time in her life, but she did her
best to hide it.
“What difference does it make to you, whether I mean it or not?” she
inquired with a rather scornful smile.
“This difference—that if you think such things, you and I may as well
part company before we quarrel any further.”
“Ah—you love him, then? I did not know.” Grace laughed nervously.
“I do not love him, but if I did I should not be ashamed to say so to
you or to the whole world. But I like him very, very much, and I will
not hear him talked of as you talk of him. Do you understand?”
“Perfectly. Nothing could be clearer,” said Grace with a contemptuous
curl of the lip.
“Then I hope you will remember,” Constance answered.
Grace did remember. Indeed, for some time she could think of nothing
else. It seemed clear enough to her that something more than friendship
was needed to account for the emotion she had seen in her sister’s face.
It was the first time in her recollection, too, that Constance had ever
been really angry, and Grace was not inclined to rouse her anger a
second time. She changed her tactics and ignored George Wood altogether,
never mentioning him nor reading anything that he sent to Constance. But
this mode of treating the question proved unsatisfactory, for it was
clear that Wood wrote often, and there was nothing to prove that
Constance did not answer all his letters. Fortunately the two sisters
were rarely alone together during the rest of the summer, and their
opportunities of disagreeing were not numerous. They were not in reality
as fond of each other as the world thought, or as they appeared to be.
Their natures were too different, and at the same time the difference
was not of that kind in which each character seems to fill a want in the
other. On the contrary the points in which they were unlike were
precisely those which most irritated the other’s sensibilities. They had
never before quarrelled nor been so near to a quarrel as they were in
the course of the conversation just recorded, but they were in reality
very far from being harmonious.
The devoted affection of their mother had kept them together while she
had lived, and, to some extent, had survived her, the memory of her
still exercising a strong influence over both. Constance, too, was
naturally very pacific, and rarely resented anything Grace said, in jest
or in earnest. Grace was often annoyed by what she called her sister’s
sweetness, and it was that very quality which prevented the other from
retaliating. She had now shown that she could turn, and fiercely, if
once aroused, and Grace respected her the more for having shown that she
had a temper.
Enough has been said to show that George’s fear that Constance would
think less well of him through Grace’s influence, was without
foundation. She even went so far as to send for him as soon as she
returned to New York in the autumn. It was a strange meeting, for there
was constraint on both sides, and at the same time each felt the
necessity of showing the other that no change had taken place for the
worse in their mutual relations.
Constance was surprised to find how very favourably George Wood compared
with the men she had seen during the summer—men all more or less alike
in her eyes, but nevertheless representing in her imagination the
general type of what the gentleman is supposed to be, the type of the
man of her own class, the mate of her own species. Grace had talked so
much, in the early part of the season, of George’s inferior social
position, of his awkward manner, and, generally, of his defects, that
Constance had almost feared to find that she had been deceived at first
and that there was a little truth in her sister’s words. One glance, one
phrase of his, sufficed to set her mind at rest. He might have
peculiarities, but they were not apparent in his way of dressing, of
entering a room or of pronouncing the English language. He was
emphatically what he ought to be, and she felt a keen pleasure in taking
up her intercourse with him at the point where it had been interrupted
more than four months earlier.
And now the exigencies of this history require that we should pass
rapidly over the period that followed. It was an uneventful time for all
concerned. George Wood worked with all his might and produced some very
creditable papers on a variety of subjects, gradually attracting a
certain amount of notice to himself, and advancing, as he supposed, as
fast as was possible in his career. Success, of the kind he craved,
still seemed very far away in the dim future, though there were not
wanting those who believed that he might not wait long for it. Foremost
among those was Constance Fearing. To her there was a vast difference
between the anonymous scribbler of small notices whom she had known a
year ago, and the promising young writer who appeared to her to have a
reputation already, because most of her friends now knew who he was, had
read one or more of his articles and were glad to meet him when occasion
offered. She felt indeed that he had not yet found out his best talent,
but her instinct told her that the time could not be very distant when
it would break out of its own impulse and surprise the world by its
brilliancy. That he actually possessed great and rare gifts she no
longer doubted.
Next to Constance, the Sherrington Trimms were the loudest in their
praise of George’s doings. Totty could talk of nothing else when she
came to the house in Washington Square, and her husband never failed to
read everything George wrote, and to pat him on the back after each
fresh effort. Even George’s father began to relent and to believe that
there might be something in literature after all. But he showed very
little enthusiasm until, one day, an old acquaintance with whom he had
not spoken for years, crossed the street and shook hands with him,
congratulated him upon his boy’s “doing so well.” Then Jonah Wood felt
that the load of anxiety he had borne for so many years was suddenly
lifted from his shoulders. People thought his boy was “doing well”! He
had not hoped to be told that spontaneously by any one for years to
come. The dreary look began to fade out of his grey face, giving way to
something that looked very like happiness.
George himself was the least appreciative of his own success. Even
Johnson, who was sparing of praise in general, wrote occasional notes in
his paper expressive of his satisfaction at his friend’s work and
generally containing some bit of delicate criticism or learned reference
that lent them weight and caused them to be reprinted into other
newspapers.
So the winter came and went again and the month of May came round once
more. George was with Constance one afternoon almost exactly a year from
the day on which he had first told her of his love. Their relations had
been very peaceful and pleasant of late, though George was not so often
alone with her as in former times. The period of mourning for the girls’
mother was past and many people came to the house. George himself had
gradually made numerous acquaintances and led a more social life than
formerly, finding interest, as Johnson had predicted, in watching people
instead of poring over books. He was asked to dinner by many persons who
had known his father and were anxious to make amends for having judged
him unjustly, and when they had once received him into their houses,
they liked him and did what they could to show it. Moreover he was
modest and reticent in regard to himself and talked well of current
topics. Insensibly he had begun to acquire social popularity and to
forget much of his boyish cynicism. He fancied that he went into society
merely because it sometimes gave him an opportunity of meeting
Constance, but he was too natural and young not to like it for itself.
“Shall we not go out?” he asked, when he found her alone in the
drawing-room.
Constance looked up and smiled, as though she understood his thought. He
was afraid that Grace would enter the room and spoil his visit, as had
happened more than once, and Constance feared the same thing. Neither
had ever said as much to the other, but there was a tacit understanding
between them, and their intimacy had developed so far that Constance
made no secret of wishing to be alone with him when he came to the
house. She smiled in spite of herself and George smiled in return.
“Yes. We can take a turn in the Square,” she said. “It will be—cooler,
you know.” A soft laugh seemed to explain the hesitation, and George
felt very happy.
A few minutes later they were walking side by side under the great
trees. Instinctively they kept away from the Fearings’ house—Grace might
chance to be at the window.
“It was almost a year ago,” said George, suddenly.
“What?”
“That I told you I loved you. You think differently of me now, do you
not?”
“A little differently, perhaps,” Constance answered. Then, feeling that
she was blushing, she turned her face away and spoke rapidly. “Yes and
no. I think more of you—that is to say, I think better of you. You have
done so much in this year. I begin to see that you are more energetic
than I fancied you were.”
“Does it seem to you as though what I have done has brought us any
nearer together, you and me?”
“Nearer? Perhaps. I do not quite see how you mean.” The blush had
disappeared, and she looked puzzled.
“I mean because I have begun—only begun—to make something like a
position for myself. If I succeed I hope we shall seem nearer yet—nearer
and nearer, till there shall be no parting at all.”
“I think you mistake a letter in the word—you talk as though you meant
dearer, more than nearer—do you not?” Constance laughed, and blushed
again.
“If I said that you were making love to me—to-day, as you said a year
ago—would you answer that you meant it—as I did?”
“What impertinence!” exclaimed Constance still laughing lightly.
“No—but would you?”
“I cannot tell what I should do, if you said anything so outrageous!”
“I love you. Is that outrageous and impertinent?”
“N—o. You say it very nicely—almost too nicely. I am afraid you have
said it before.”
“Often, though I cannot expect you to remember the exact number of
repetitions. How would you say it—if you were obliged to say it? I have
a good ear for a tune. I could learn your music.”
“Could you?” Constance hesitated while they paused in their walk and
George looked into her eyes.
She saw something there that had not been present when he had first
spoken, a year ago. He had seemed cold then, even to her inexperience.
Now there was both passion and tenderness in his look, and there was
sadness in his face.
“You do love me now,” she said softly. “I can see it.”
“And you, dear—will you not say the little words?”
Again she hesitated. Then she put out her hand and touched his very
gently. “I hate you, sir,” she said. But she pronounced the syllables
with infinite softness and delicacy, and the music of her voice could
not have been more sweet if she had said “I love you, dear.” Then she
laughed again.
“I could hear you say that very often, without being hurt,” said George
tenderly.
“I only wanted to show you how I should say those other words—if I
would,” she answered.
“Is that all? Well—if there is a just proportion between your hatred and
your love and your way of expressing them, your love must be——” he
stopped.
“Must be what?”
“As great as mine. I cannot find anything stronger than that to say—nor
could you, if you knew.”
“So you love me, then. I wonder how long it will last? When did it
begin?”
“The second time I saw you.”
“Love at second sight! How romantic—so much more original than at first
sight, and so much more natural. No—you must not take my hand—there are
people over there—and besides, there is no reason why you should. I told
you I hated you. There—walk like a sensible being and talk about your
work!”
“You are a strange creature, Constance.”
“Am I? Why do you call me Constance? I do not call you George—indeed I
do not like the name at all.”
“Nor I, if you do not—you can call me Constantine if you like. That name
would be more like yours.”
“I do not like my own. It makes me think of the odiously good little
girls in story books. Besides, what is it? Why am I called Constance? Is
it for the town in Switzerland? I was never there. Is it for the virtue
I least possess?”
“As your sister is called Grace,” suggested George.
“Hush! Grace is a very graceful girl. Take it in that way, and leave her
alone. Am I the English for Constantia? Come, give me an explanation!
Talk! Say something! You are leaving the burden of the conversation to
me, and then you are not even listening!”
“I was thinking of you—I always am. What shall I talk about? You are the
only subject on which I could be at all eloquent.”
“You might talk about yourself, for a change,” suggested Constance.
“But you say you hate me, so that you would not find an account of me
agreeable, would you?”
“I think my hatred could be made very accommodating, if you would talk
pleasantly—even about yourself.”
“I would rather make love to you than talk.”
“I have no doubt you would, but that is just what I do not want you to
do. Besides, you have done it before—without any result.”
“That is no reason for not trying again, is it?”
“Why try it at all?”
“Love is its own reason,” said George, “and it is the reason for most
other things as well. I love you and I am not in search of reasons. I
love you very, very much, with all my heart—so much that I do not know
how to say it. My life is full of you. You are everywhere. You are
always with me. In everything I have done since I have known you I have
thought of you. I have asked myself whether this would please you,
whether that would bring a smile to your dear face, whether these words
or those would speak to your heart and be sweet to you. You are
everything the world holds for me, the sun that shines, the air I
breathe. Without the thought of you I could neither think nor work. If a
man can grow great by the thought of woman’s love, you can make me one
of the greatest—if men die of broken hearts you can kill me—you are
everything to me—life, breath and happiness.”
