Master said nothing.
“The second levite moved back, and a third advanced.
“ ‘I testify that I have heard that man blaspheme in calling God his
father, and in declaring himself to be one with Him.’
“ ‘Is that blasphemy or is it not?’ Caiaphas bawled. But the Master’s lips
never moved.
“The third levite gave way to a fourth.
“ ‘I testify that that man has broken the Sabbath in healing the sick on
that day, and further that he has seduced others to break it. On the
Sabbath I have heard him order a cripple to take up his bed and carry it
to his home. I have heard him also declare that he could destroy the
Temple and rebuild it, in three days, anew.’
“Caiaphas turned to the Master. ‘Do you still refuse to answer?’ he asked.
‘Do you think that silence can save you? Have you heard these witnesses?’
“And as the Master still made no reply, Caiaphas lifted his hand and
cried, ‘I adjure you by the Eternal to answer, Are you the Messiah, the
Son of God?’
“In the breathless silence Jesus raised his eyes. He looked at the
high-priest, at the levites, the Scribes. ‘You have said it,’ he murmured,
and smiled with that air he has.
“Caiaphas grew purple. He caught his gown at the throat and ripped it from
neck to hem. The elders started. I heard them mutter, ‘Ish maveth.’ The
high-priest glanced toward them. ‘You have heard this ragged blasphemy?’
he exclaimed; and, turning to where the Scribes stood, ‘What,’ he asked,
‘does the Law decree concerning the Sabbath-breaker?’
“One of them, the book unrolled in his hand, advanced and read:
“ ‘Ye shall keep the Sabbath holy. Whoso does any work thereon shall be
cut off from his people.’
“ ‘And what of blasphemy?’
“The Scribe glanced at the roll and repeated from memory: ‘He that
blasphemeth the name of the Lord shall be put to death. The congregation
shall stone him, as well the stranger as he that was born in the land.’
“Caiaphas closed the fingers on the palm of his left hand, and, raising
it, turned again to the elders. ‘Ish maveth,’ they repeated, closing
their fingers as he had done.
“I knew then that he was condemned. After all”—and Eleazer looked wearily
to the ground—“it was legal enough. Each moment I expected him to give
some sign, but, save to affirm the charge of blasphemy, during the entire
time he kept silent. Yes, it was legal enough. From where I stood I heard
the Scribes say that he would be sentenced at sunrise, and then Pilate
would have a word with him. I could do nothing. Caiaphas still fumed. I
went out in the court again. In the corridor was Judas. Peter was
wrangling with the servants. I did not wait for more. I got away and into
the valley and up again on the hill. A cock was crowing, and I saw the
dawn. O Mary, the pity of it!”
He looked at his sister. There was no weakness now in her face, nor beauty
either. Age must have passed her in the night.
“And I will have a word with Pilate too,” she said.
As a somnambulist might, she drew her mantle closer, and, moving to the
wayside, ascended the hill. The silver and green of the olives closed
around her, and with them the branching dates. Above, a star left by the
morning glimmered feebly. In a myrtle a bird began to sing, and a lizard
that had come out to intercept the sun scurried as she passed. Upward and
onward still she went, and, the summit reached, for a moment she stopped
and rested.
To the east the Dead Sea lay, a stretch of silk. At its edge was the
flutter of ospreys feasting on the barbels and breams of the Jordan, which
as they enter, die. Beyond was a glitter of white and gold, the scarp of
Moriah and its breast of stone, the Tyrian bevel of Solomon, the porphyry
of Nehemiah, the marble that Herod gave; ascending terraces, engulfing
porticoes, the splendor of Jerusalem at dawn. Between the houses nearest
was the dimness that shadows cast; those further away had a scatter of
pink; about it all was a wall surmounted by turrets; beneath was a ravine
in which was a brook, and a city of booths and tents, grazing camels and
fat-tailed sheep.
Through the pines and cypresses Mary passed down to where the olives were.
The brook sent a message to her; the blood that had flowed from the
sacrifices was in it, and in the fresh morning it reeked a little, as such
brooks do. It was here, she thought, the Master had been taken, and for a
second she stopped again. The sun now was rising behind her; the color of
the sky shifted. Beyond Jerusalem a mountain was melting in excesses of
vermilion, and the ravine that had been gray was assuming the tenderest
green. The star had disappeared, but from each tree broke the greeting of
a bird.
A rustle of the leaves near by startled her, and she looked about,
fearful, as women are, of some beast of prey. A white robe was there, a
white turban, and beneath it the swart face of one whom she had known.
To her eyes came massacres. “Judas!” she exclaimed, and looked up in that
roof of her world where day puts its blue and night puts its black.
“Judas!” she repeated. Her small hands clenched, and the rhymes of her
mouth grew venomous.
Then the woman spoke in her. “Why did you not kill me first?”
Judas swayed like an ox hit on the forehead. The motion distracted and
irritated her. “Can’t you speak,” she cried, “or does hell hold you,
tongue and all?”
He raised a hand as though he feared another blow. The gesture was so
human and yet so humble that Mary looked into his face. Time, which turns
the sweet-eyed girl into a withered spectre, must have touched him with
its thumb. His eyes were ringed and cavernous, his cheeks empty.
“You have heard, then?” he said; but he evinced no curiosity. He spoke
with the apathy of one who takes everything for granted, one with whom
fate is to have its will. “I have just come from there,” he added, with a
backward gesture. “I never thought that such a thing could be. No, I swear
it, I never did.” Then, in answer perhaps to some inner twinge, perhaps
also because of the expression of Mary’s lips, he continued: “If there is
a new oath, one that has never been used before, prompt me, and I will
swear again, I never did. I thought——”
Mary interrupted him savagely: “There are ten kinds of hypocrisy. You have
nine of them; you will develop the tenth and invent a new one besides.”
At this Judas made a pass with his hands and stared absently at the
ground. “Mary,” he said, “life is a book which man reads when he dies.
During the last hour I have been unrolling it. In its scroll I found
existence a wine-shop where the guest fares so badly that he would go at
once were it not that he fears to call for the reckoning. The reckoning,
Mary, is death. I have called for it. I am about to pay. Let me tell you.
I have no excuse to offer, no forgiveness now to await. My heart was a
meadow: you made it stone. There were well-springs in it: you dried them,
Mary. When I first saw you, you were a dream fulfilled. Others had brought
echoes of life; you brought its song. It was then that I heard the Master
speak. I followed him, and tried to forget. It must be that I failed, for
when I saw you in Capharnahum my blood danced, and when you spoke I
trembled. It was love, Mary; and love, when it is not death, is life. It
was that I sought at your side. You would not listen. Innocence is a
garment. You seemed to have wrapped it about you. I tried to tear it away.
There was my fault, and this my punishment. Your right was inflexible as a
prison-door, and yet always behind it was the murmur of a mysterious
Perhaps. The others turned to me; I turned to you. I forgot again, but
this time it was my duty, my allegiance, and my faith. Mary, I loved the
Master more wholly even than I loved you. He was the Spirit; you were the
flesh. In him was the future; in you the tomb. I thought to conquer both.
While I mixed my darkness with his light, I pursued you as night pursues
the day. On the light I have cast a shadow, and to you I have brought a
blight. But, Mary, both will disappear. The one consolation I cling to now
is that belief. When I delivered him up, it was myself I betrayed, not
him. I am forever dead, and he forever living. While I bargained with the
priests and pretended that my aim was coin, when I led the levites and the
Temple-guard just here to where he stood, during all the hours since I
left you, I tried to escape from that cage we call Fate. Mary, there is
something about us higher than our will. The revenge I sought on you
forsook me before I reached the city’s gate. It is the intangible that has
brought me where I am. I have sworn to you I never thought this thing
could be. I swear it now again. In carrying out the threat I made, I
thought to make you fear my hate and make him greater than he was. His
enemies, I had seen, were many. Those that had believed in him grew daily
less. In Jerusalem his miracles had ceased, and I thought that, when the
levites and the Temple-guard approached, he would speak with Samuel’s
thunder, answer with Elijah’s flame. I thought the stars would shake, the
moon grow red; that he would produce the lost Urim, the vanished Ark, and
so forever silence disbelief. I was wrong, and he was right. Belief is in
the heart, not in the senses; the visible contradicts, but faith is not to
be confuted. No, Mary, the tombs are not dumb. I said so once, I know, but
they answer, and mine will speak. On it perhaps a caricature may be
daubed, and about it prejudice will uncoil. I deserve it. Yet though you
think me wholly base, remember no man is that. Since I met you my life has
been a battle-field in which I have fought with conscience. It has
conquered. I am its slave; it commands, and I obey.”
He drew a breath as though he had more to add, and turned to where she
stood. There was no one there. From an olive-branch a red-start piped to
the morning; over the buds of a pomegranate a bee buzzed its delight;
across the leaves of a myrtle a blue spider was busy with its web, but
Mary was no longer there. He peered through the underbrush, and wandered
to the grove beyond. There was no one. He looked to the hill-top: there
was the advancing sun. He looked in the valley: there were the pilgrims’
booths, the grazing camels and fat-tailed sheep.
“She has gone,” he told himself. “She would not even listen.”
He bent his head. For the first time since boyhood the tears rolled down
his face.
“She might at least have heard me,” he thought, and brushed the tears
away. Others came and replaced them. When they had fallen, there were
more.
“Yes, she might at least have listened. If I had no excuse to offer, at
least I had regret.” For a moment he fancied her, cruel as only woman is,
hurrying to some unknown goal. The tears he had tried to stanch ceased now
abruptly. “She is right,” he mused. “She has left me to conscience and to
death.”
He turned again and went back to where he had stood before. As he crossed
the intervening space he unloosed the long girdle which he wore, and from
which still hung the treasury of the twelve. The bag that held it fell
where the bee was buzzing. One end of the girdle he tossed over a branch;
the red-start spread its wings and fled. He looked about. There was a
stone near by; he got it and with a little labor rolled it beneath the
branch. Then he made a noose, very carefully, that it might not come
undone, and settling it well under the chin, he tied the other end of the
girdle to it and swung himself from the stone.
                               CHAPTER IX.
                                   IX.
In the apartment of Claudia Procula, Mary and the wife of the procurator
stood face to face.
The apartment itself overlooked Jerusalem. Beneath was an open space tiled
with little oblong stones, red, yellow, and blue; the blue predominating.
On either side the colossal white wings of the palace stretched to a park,
very green in the sunlight, cut by colonnades in which fountains were, and
surrounded by a marble wall that was starred with turrets and fluttered
with doves. The Temple, which, from its cressets, radiated to the hills
beyond a glare of gold, was not as fair nor yet as vast as this. Within
its gates an army could manœuvre; in its banquet-hall a cohort could have
supped. It was Herod’s triumph, built subsequent to the Temple, to show
the world, perhaps, that to surpass a masterpiece he had only to conceive
another.
To it now and then, for a week or more, the procurator descended from his
residence by the sea. He preferred the latter; the day was freer there,
life less cramped. But during festival times, when the fanatic Jews were
apt to be excited and need the chill of a curb, it was well for him and
his soldiery to be on hand. And so on this occasion he had come, and with
him his wife, Claudia Procula, and the tetrarch Antipas, who had joined
them on the way.
Antipas and his retinue occupied the Ægrippeum, the north wing of the
palace, while in the Cæsareum, the wing that leaned to the south, was
Pilate, his wife and body-guard.
And now on this clear morning the sweet-faced patrician, Claudia Procula,
with perfectly feminine curiosity was looking into the drawn features of
the Magdalen, and wondering whence her rumored charm could come.
“I will do my best,” she said, at last, in answer to an anterior request.
And calling a servant, she wrote on a tablet a word for Pilate’s eye.
Mary moved to the portico. The variegated tiles of the quadrangle were
nearly covered now. A flight of wide, low steps led to the main entrance
of the palace, and there a high seat of enamelled ebony had been placed.
In it Pilate sat, in his hand the staff of office. Beside him were his
assessors, members of his suite, and Calcol, a centurion. On one of the
steps Caiaphas stood, near him the elders of the college. Below was the
Christ, bound and guarded. Across the quadrangle was a line of soldiery,
behind it a mob.
The helmets, glancing mail, short skirts, and bare legs of the Romans
contrasted refreshingly with the blossoming garments, effeminate girdles,
frontlets, and horned blue bonnets of the priesthood. And in the riot of
color and glint of steel the Christ, bound as he was, looked, in the
simplicity of his seamless robe, the descendant of a larger sphere. Above,
to the left, Antipas, aroused by the clamor, leaned from a portico.
Opposite where the sunlight fell Mary held her cloak about her.
Caiaphas, a hand indicating Jesus, his head turned to Pilate, was
formulating a complaint. Not indeed that the prisoner had declared himself
a divinity. There were far too many gods in the menagerie of the Pantheon
for a procurator to be the least disturbed at the rumor of a new one. It
was the right to rule, that attribute of the Messiah, on which he intended
the gravamen of the charge should rest. But he began circuitously, feeling
the way, in Greek at that, with an accent which might have been improved.
“And so,” he concluded, “in many ways he has transgressed the Law.”
“Why don’t you judge him by it, then?” asked Pilate, grimly.
A servant approached with a tablet. The procurator glanced at it, looked
up at the man, and motioned him away.
“My lord governor, we have. The Sanhedrim, having found him guilty, has
sentenced him to death. But the Sanhedrim, as you know, may not execute
the sentence. The Senate has deprived us of that right. It is for you, as
its legate, to order it done.”
Pilate sneered. “I can’t very well, until I know of what he is guilty.
What crime has he committed—written a letter on the Sabbath, or has he
been caught without his phylacteries?”
“He has declared himself Israel’s king!”
“Ah!” And Pilate smiled wearily. “You are always expecting one; why not
take him?”
“Why not, my lord? Because it is treason to do so.”
Pilate nodded with affected approval. “I admire your zeal.” And with a
glance at the prisoner, he added: “You have heard the accusation; defend
yourself. What!” he continued, after a moment, “have you nothing to say?”
Caiaphas exulted openly. The corners of his mouth had the width and
cruelty, and his nostrils the dilation, of a wolf.
“My lord,” he cried, “his silence is an admission.”
“Hold your tongue! It is for me to question.” And therewith Pilate gave
the high-priest a look which was tantamount to a knee pressed on the
midriff. He glanced again at the tablet, then at the prisoner.
“Tell me, do you really claim to be king?”
“Is it your idea of me?” the Christ asked; and in his bearing was a
dignity which did not clash with the charge; “or have others prompted
you?”
“But I am not a Jew,” Pilate retorted. “The matter only interests me
officially. It is your hierarchy that bring the charge. Why have they?
What have you done? Tell me,” he continued, in Latin, “do you think
yourself King?”
“Tu dixisti,” Jesus answered, and smiled as he had before, very gravely.
“But my royalty is not of the earth.” And with a glance at his bonds, one
which was so significant that it annulled the charge, he added, still in
Latin, “I am Truth, and I preach it.”
Pilate with skeptical indulgence shook his head. Truth to him was an
elenchicism, an abstraction of the Platonists, whom in Rome he had
respected for their wisdom and avoided with care. He turned to Caiaphas.
The latter had been regretting the absence of an interpreter. This
amicable conversation, which he did not understand, was not in the least
to his liking, and as Pilate turned to him he frowned in his beard.
“I am unable to find him guilty,” the procurator announced. “He may call
himself king, but every philosopher does the same. You might yourself, for
that matter.”
“A philosopher, this mesîth!” Caiaphas gnashed back. “Why, he seduces the
people; he incites to sedition; he is a rebel to Rome. It is for you, my
lord, to see the empire upheld. Would it be well to have another complaint
laid before the Cæsar? Ask yourself, is this Galilean worth it?”
The thrust was as keen and as venomous as the tooth of a rat. Pilate had
been rebuked by the emperor already; he had no wish to incur further
displeasure. Sejanus, the emperor’s favorite, to whom he owed his
procuratorship, had for suspected treason been strangled in a dumb dungeon
only a little before. Under Tiberius there was quiet, a future historian
was to note; and Pilate was aware that, should a disturbance occur, the
disturbance would be quelled, but at his expense.
An idea presented itself. “Did I understand you to say he is a Galilean?”
he asked.
“Yes,” Caiaphas answered, expecting, perhaps, the usual jibe that was
flung at those who came from there. “Yes, he is a Nazarene.”
“Hm. In that case I have no jurisdiction. The tetrarch is my guest; take
your prisoner to him.”
“My lord,” the high-priest objected, “our law is such that if we enter the
palace we cannot officiate at the Passover to-night.”
Pilate appeared to reflect. “I suppose,” he said at last, “I might ask him
whether he would care to come here. In which case,” he added, with a
gesture of elaborate courtesy, “you may remain uncontaminated where you
are. Ressala!”
An official stepped forward; an order was given; he disappeared. Presently
a massive throne of sandalwood and gold was trundled out. Caiaphas had
seen it before, and in it—Herod.
“The justice that comes from there,” he muttered, “is as a snake that
issues from a tomb.”
His words were drowned in the clamors of the crowd. The sun had crossed
the zenith; in its rays the waters that gushed from the fountain-mouths of
bronze lions fell in rainbows and glistened in great basins that glistened
too. There was sunlight everywhere, a sky of untroubled blue, and from the
Temple beyond came a glare that radiated from Olivet to Bethlehem.
Pilate was bored. The mantle which Mary wore caught his eye, and he looked
at her, wondering how she came in his wife’s apartment, and where he had
seen her before. Her face was familiar, but the setting vague. Then at
once he remembered. It was at Machærus he had seen her, gambling with the
emir, while Salomè danced. She was with Antipas, of course. He looked
again; she had gone.
The Sanhedrim consulted nervously. The new turn of affairs was not at all
to their liking. The clamors of the mob continued. Once a fanatic pushed
against a soldier. There was a thud, a howl, and a mouth masked with
liquid red gasped to the sun and was seen no more.
Behind the procurator came a movement. The officials massed about the
entrance parted in uneven ranks, and in the great vestibule beyond,
Antipas appeared. Pilate rose to greet him. The elders made obeisance. The
tetrarch moved forward and seated himself in his father’s throne. At his
side was Pahul, the butler, balancing himself flamingowise on one leg, his
bold eyes foraging the priests.
Caiaphas formulated the complaint anew, very majestically this time, and,
thinking perhaps to overawe the tetrarch, his voice assumed the authority
of a guardian of the keys of heaven, a chamberlain of the sceptres of the
earth.
Antipas ignored him utterly. He plucked at his fan-shaped beard, and
stared at the Christ. He could see now he bore no resemblance to Iohanan.
There was nothing of the hyena about him, nor of the prophet either.
Evidently he was but a harmless vagabond, skilled in simples, if report
were true; perhaps a thaumaturge. And it was he whom he had feared and
fancied might be that Son of David for whom a star was created, whom the
magi had visited, whom his father had sought to destroy, and whom now from
his father’s own throne he himself was called upon to judge! He shook his
head, and in the sunlight the indigo with which his hair was powdered made
bright blue motes.
“I say——”
Just beyond, where the assessors stood, Mary suddenly appeared. He stopped
abruptly; for more than a year he had not seen her. Pahul had told him she
had gone to Rome. If she had, he reflected, the journey had not improved
her appearance. Then for the moment he dismissed her, and returned to the
Christ.
“See here: somebody the other day told me you worked miracles. I have
wanted to see one all my life. Gratify me, won’t you? Oh, something very
easy to begin with. Send one of the guards up in the air, or turn your
bonds into bracelets.”
The Christ did not seem to hear. Pahul laughed and held to the throne for
support. Antipas shrugged his shoulders.
“He looks harmless enough,” he said. “Why not let him go?”
Caiaphas glowered, and his fingers twitched. “He claims to be king!”
At this statement the tetrarch laughed too. He gave an order to Pahul, who
vanished with a grin.
“He has jeered at the Temple your father built,” Caiaphas continued. “He
has declared he could destroy it and rebuild a better one, in three days
at that.”
“He is king, then, but of fools.”
“And he has called you a fox,” Caiaphas added, significantly.
“He doesn’t claim to be one himself, does he?”
“He is guilty of treason, and it is for you, his ruler, to sentence him.”
“Not I. The blood of kings is sacred. Pahul, make haste!”
The butler, reappearing, held in his hand the glittering white vestment of
a candidate. The tetrarch took it and held it in air.
“Here, put this on him, and let his subjects admire him to their hearts’
content.”
“Antipas, you disgrace your purple!”
At the exclamation, the Sanhedrim, the guards, the assessors, the
officials, Pilate himself, everyone save the prisoner, turned and looked.
On the colored pavement Mary stood, her face very pale.
The tetrarch flushed mightily; anger mounted into his shifting eyes. For a
moment the sky was blood-red; then he recovered himself and answered
lightly:
“It seems to me, my dear, that you take things with a high hand. It may be
that you forget yourself.”
“I take them from where I am,” she cried. “As for forgetfulness, remember
that my grandfather was satrap of Syria, my father after him, while
yours——”
“Yes, yes, I dare say. He is not in power now; I am.”
“Not here, Antipas, nor in Rome. I appeal to Pilate.”
The tetrarch rose from the throne. The elders whispered together. Pilate
visibly was perplexed. Remembering Mary as he did, he looked upon the
incident as a family quarrel, one in which it would be unseemly for him to
interfere, and which none the less disturbed the decorum of his court.
Caiaphas edged up to the tetrarch, but the latter brushed him aside.
“The hetaira is right,” he exclaimed. “I am not in power here. If I were,
she should be lapidated.”
And, preceded by the butler, Antipas passed through the parting ranks to
the vestibule beyond.
The perplexity of the procurator increased. He did not in the least
understand. To him Mary stood in the same relation to Antipas that
Cleopatra had to Herod. There had been a feud between the tetrarch and
himself, one recently mended, and which he had no wish to renew. Yet
manifestly Antipas was aggrieved, and his own path in the matter by no
means clear.
“Bah!” he muttered, in the consoling undertone of thought, “what are their
beastly barbarian manners to me?”
These reflections Caiaphas interrupted.
“We are waiting, my lord, for the sentence to be pronounced.”
The tone he used was not, however, indicative of patience, and in
conjunction with the incident that had just occurred it irritated and
jarred. Besides, Pilate did not care to be prompted. It was for him to
speak first. He strangled an oath, and, gathering some fringe of the
majesty of Rome, he announced very measuredly:
“You have brought this man before me as a rebel. I have examined him and
find no ground for the charge. His ruler, the tetrarch, has also examined
him, and by him too he has been acquitted. But in view of the fact that he
appears to have contravened some one or another of your laws I order him
to be scourged and to be liberated.”
With that he turned to the prisoner. During the entire proceedings the
attitude of Jesus had not altered. He stood as a disinterested spectator
might—one whom chance had brought that way and there hemmed in—his eyes on
remote, inaccessible horizons, the tongue silent, the head a little
raised.
“Scourging, my lord,” Caiaphas interjected, “is fit and proper, but,” he
continued, one silk-gloved hand uplifted, “our law prescribes death. Only
an enemy to Tiberius would prevent it.”
At the veiled menace Pilate gnawed his under lip. He had no faith at all
in the loyalty of the hierarch; at any other time the affection the latter
manifested for the chains he bore would have been ludicrous and nothing
else. But at the moment he felt insecure. There were Galileans whom he had
sacrificed, Judæans whom he had slaughtered, Samaritans whom he had
oppressed, an embassy might even now be on its way to Rome; he thought
again of Sejanus, and, with cause, he hesitated. Yet of the inward
perturbation he gave no outward sign.
“On this day,” he said at last, “it is customary that in commemoration of
your nation’s delivery out of Egypt I should release a prisoner to you.
There are three others here, among them Jesus Barabba.”
Then, for support perhaps, he looked over at the clamoring mob.
“I will leave the choice to the people.”
A wind seemed to raise the elders; they scattered through the court like
leaves. “Have done with the Nazarene,” cried one. “He would lead you
astray,” insinuated another. “He has violated the Law,” exclaimed a third.
And, filtering through the soldiery into the mob without, they exhorted
and prayed and coerced. “Ask for Barabba; denounce the blasphemer. Trust
to the Sanhedrim. We are your guides. Let him atone for his crimes. The
God of your fathers commands that you condemn. Demand Barabba; uphold your
nation. To the cross with the Nazarene!”
“Whom do you choose?” shouted Pilate.
And the pleb of Jerusalem shouted back as one man, “Barabba!”
At the moment Pilate fancied himself in an amphitheatre, the arena filled
with beasts. There were the satin and stripes of the panther, the yellow
of treacherous eyes, the gnash of fangs, the guttural rumble, the
deafening yell, the scent of blood, and above, the same blue tender sky.
“What of the prisoner?” he called.
A roar leapt back. “Sekaph! Sekaph! Let him be crucified.”
Pilate had fronted a rabble before, and in two minutes had turned that
rabble into so many dead flies, the legs in the air. He shook his head,
and told himself he was not there to be coerced.
“Release Barabba,” he ordered. “And as for the prisoner, take him to the
barracks and have him scourged.”
“Brute!” cried a voice that lifted him as a blow might from his ebony
chair. “Pilate, though you are a plebeian, why show yourself a slave?”
And Mary, with the strength of anger, brushed through the encircling
officials and towered before him, robed in wrath.
“Ah, permit me,” he answered; “you are singularly unjust.”
“Prove me so, and countermand the order that you gave.”
As she spoke she adjusted her mantle, which had become disarranged, and
looked him from head to foot, measuring him as it were, and finding him,
visibly, very small.
Already the prisoner had been led away, and beyond, in the barracks, was
the whiz of jagged leather that lacerated, rebounded, and lacerated again.
“I will not,” he answered. “What I have ordered, I have ordered. As for
you——”
There had come to her that look which sibyls have. “Pilate,” she
interrupted, “you are powerful here, I know, but”—and her hand shot out
like an arrow from a bow—“over there vultures are circling; in your power
is a corpse. What the vultures scent, I see.”
So abrupt and earnest was the gesture that unconsciously Pilate found
himself looking to where she seemed to point. He lowered his eyes in
vexation. Wrangling with a woman was not to his taste.
“There, there,” he said, much as one might to a fretful child; “don’t
throw stones.”
“I have but one; it is Justice, and that I keep to hurl at you.”
The procurator’s mouth twitched ominously. “My dear,” he said, “you are
too pretty to talk that way; it spoils the looks. Besides, I have no time
to listen.”
“Tiberius has and will.”
Pilate nodded; it was the third time he had heard the threat that day.
“There are many rooms in his palace,” he answered, with covert
significance.
“Yes, I know it. There are many, as you say. But there is one I will
enter. On the door stands written The Future, and behind it, Pilate, is
your death.”
The Roman, goaded to exasperation, sprang to his feet. An expression which
Antipas had used occurred to him. “Away with the hetaira,” he cried; and
he was about, it may be, to order her to be tossed to the fierce wild
swine in the paddocks of the park when the prisoner and his guards
reappeared on the tessellated pavement, and Mary, already dragged from
him, was instantly forgot.
A tattered sagum, which had once been scarlet, but which had faded since,
hung, detained at the shoulder by a rusty buckle, and bordered by a
laticlave, loosely about his form. In his hand a bulrush swayed; on his
head was a twisted coil of bear’s-breech, in which, among the ruffled
leaves, one bud remained; it was white, the opening edges flecked with
pink, perhaps with blood, for from the temples and about the ear a rill
ran down and mixed with the purple of the laticlave below. And in this red
parody of kingship the Christ stood, unmoved as a phantom, but in his face
and eyes there was a projecting light so luminous, so intangible, and yet
so real, that the skeptical procurator started, the staff of office
pendent in his grasp.
“Ecce homo!” he exclaimed. Instinctively he drew back, and, wonderingly,
half to himself, half to the Christ, “Who are you?” he asked.
“A flame below, a soul above,” Jesus answered, yet so inaudibly that the
guards beside him did not catch the words.
To Pilate his lips had barely moved, and his wonderment increased. “Why do
you not answer?” he said. “You must know that I have the power to condemn
and to acquit.”
With that gentleness that was the flower of his parables Jesus raised his
voice. “No,” he replied, “you can have no power against me unless it come
from above.”
Again Pilate drew back. Unsummoned to his lips had sprung the words,
“Behold the man!” and now he exclaimed, “Behold the king!”
But to the mob the vision he intercepted was lost. They saw the jest
merely, and with it the stains that torture leaves. The sight of blood is
heady; it inebriates more surely than wine. The mob, trained by the
elders, and used by them as a body-guard, fanatic before, were intoxicated
now. With one accord they shrieked the liturgy again.
“Sekaph! Sekaph! Let him be crucified.”
In that gust of hatred Pilate recovered. He turned to Caiaphas:
“I have released one prisoner; I will release another too.”
“My lord, be warned by one who is your elder.”
“One whom I can remove.”
“No doubt, my lord; but suffer him while he may to warn you not to cause a
revolution on the day of the Paschal feast. You hear that multitude. Then
be warned.”
“But your feast is one of mercy.”
The high-priest gazed curiously at his silk-gloved hands. You would have
said they were objects he had never seen before. Then he returned the
procurator’s stare.
“We know of no such god.”
“Ah!” And the procurator drew a long breath of understanding. “It is that,
I believe, he preaches.”
“And it is for that,” Caiaphas echoed, “that he must die. Yes, Pilate, it
is for that. There is no such doctrine in the Pentateuch. We have done our
duty. We have convicted a rebel of his guilt. We have brought him to you,
and we demand his sentence. Pilate, it is not so very long ago you had
hundreds massacred without judgment, without trial either, and for
what?—for one rebellious cry. You must have a reason for the favor you
show this man. It would interest me to learn it; it would interest
Tiberius as well. Listen to that multitude. If you pay no heed to our
accusation nor yet to their demand, on you the consequences rest. We are
absolved.”
“He is your king,” the procurator objected, meditatively.
Caiaphas wheeled like a feather a breeze has caught. One hand outstretched
he held to the mob, with the other he pointed to the Christ.
“Our king!” he cried. “The procurator says he is our king!”
As the thunder peals, a roar surged back:
“We have no other king than Cæsar.”
“Think of Sejanus,” the high-priest suggested. The thrust was so well
timed it told.
Pilate looked sullenly about. “Fetch me water,” he ordered.
A silver bowl was brought, and borrowing a custom from the Jews he
loathed, he dipped his fingers in it.
“I wash my hands of it all,” he muttered.
Caiaphas looked at the elders and sighed with infinite relief. He had
conquered. For the first time that day he smiled. He became gracious also,
and he bowed.
“The blood be upon us, my lord, and on our children. Will you give the
order?”
“Calcol!”
The centurion approached. An order was given him in an undertone, and as
he turned to the guards, Pilate drew the staff of office across his knee,
snapped it in two, tossed the pieces to the ground, and through the ranks
of his servitors passed on into the great blue vestibule beyond.
                                CHAPTER X.
                                    X.
In a sook near the Gannath Gate Mary stood. In the distance the palace of
Herod defied the sun. Beyond the gate lay the Hennom Valley, the Geia
Hennom, contracted by the people into Ge’ Hennom, or Gehenna, and
converted by them into a sewer, a place where carrion was thrown, and the
filth of a great city. In earlier days children had been immolated to
Moloch there, human victims had been burned; it was a place accursed, and
to purify the air, as a safeguard against pestilence, the offal was
consumed by bonfires that were constantly renewed and never extinguished.
At its extremity was an elevation, a hilly contour which to the popular
fancy suggested a skull. To the west it fell steeply away. It was called
Gülgolta.
The sook in which Mary stood was affected by shoemakers. Against the
dwelling of one of them she leaned. The mantle was gone from her now, and
the olive robe had a rent, but the splendor of her hair fell unconfined,
the perils of her eyes had increased; yet in their depths where love had
been was hate. One arm lay along the resisting stone, the other hung at
her side; her face was turned to the palace, her thin nostrils quivering,
her breath coming and going with that spasmodic irregularity which the
consciousness of outrage brings. She laid it all to Judas; he must have
returned to Kerioth, she thought. The sook itself was silent, stirred
merely by some echo of the uproar in the palace beyond.
From a grilled lattice near by an old man peered out. He had the restless
eyes of a ferret, and a white beard that was very long. He too was looking
toward the palace. Now and then he muttered inaudibly in Aramaic to
himself. In the shadow of a neighboring house a woman appeared; he shook
at the lattice as an ape does at the bars of a cage, and spat a bestial
insult at her. The woman shrank back. Instinctively Mary turned. In the
retreating figure she recognized Ahulah, and at once, without conscious
effort, she divined that the dwelling against which she leaned was that of
Baba Barbulah, the husband of the woman whom the Master had declined to
condemn.
But other things possessed her—the outrage to the Christ, perplexity as to
how the trial would result, more remotely the indignity to herself, the
slurs of the tetrarch and of the procurator; and with them, sapping her
heart as fever might, was that thirst for reparation, unquenchable in its
intensity, which comes to those who have seen their own life wrecked and
its ideals dispersed.
Already Ahulah was forgot. On the wings of vagabond fancy she was in Rome,
demanding vengeance of Tiberius, wresting it from him by the sheer force
of entreaty, and with it exulting in the death-throes of the procurator.
Oh, to see his nails pulled out, his outer skin removed, his tongue
severed, his eyes seared with irons, his wrists slowly twisted till they
snapped! to hear him cry for mercy! to promise it and not fulfil!—dear
God, what joy was there!
From the alley into which Ahulah had shrunk a man issued. He was sturdy as
a bludgeon, and he had a growth of thick black hair that curled about an
honest face. In his hand was a basket. At the sight of Mary his steps
hesitated, and his eyes followed hers to where the palace lay. Then he
crossed the zigzag of the intervening space, but he had to touch her
outstretched arm before she noticed him.
“Simon!” she exclaimed, with that start one has when suddenly awaked.
“Yes, Simon indeed;” and through the silence of the sook his clear laugh
rang. “I frightened you, did I not?”
Mary interrupted him. “Haven’t you heard? Has not Eleazer told you——”
“When I left Bethany he was sleeping with both fists closed. Martha——”
“The Master is arrested. Last night he was before the Sanhedrim; he is
before the procurator now.”
Hurriedly Mary gave an account of what had occurred. As the recital
continued, Simon’s expression grew darker than his curling hair, he
clutched at the basket which he held, so tightly that the handle severed,
the basket fell, and fruit that imprisoned the sunlight rolled on the
ground.
“They were for the Master,” he said. “I thought he would sup with us
to-night.”
“He may do so yet,” she answered. “Perhaps——”
“Never!” cried a voice from the lattice. “They are leading him to Gülgolta
now.”
Beyond, through the palace gate, a mass undulated, the body elongated,
expanding as it moved. It was black, but at the sides was the glisten that
cobras have. About it dust circled, and from it came the rumble of thunder
heard afar. As the bulk increased, the roar deepened; the black lessened
into varying hues. To the glisten came the glint of steel; the cobra
changed into a multitude, the escort of a squad of soldiery, fronted by a
centurion and led by the banner of Imperial Rome.
Behind the centurion, Jesus, in his faded sagum, staggered, overweighted
by the burden of a cross. Two comrades in misery were at his side, but
they moved with steadier step, bearing their crosses with the brawn of
muscular and untired arms. The soldiers marched impassibly, preceding the
executioners—four stalwart Cypriotes, distinguishable by the fatness of
their calves—while behind was the Sanhedrim, and, extending indefinitely
to the rear, the rabble of yelling Jews.
In a cobra’s coils is death, its eyes transfix. Neither Mary nor Simon had
spoken, and now, as the soldiery was upon them, they leaned yet nearer the
wall. For a moment Mary hid her face. At her feet the Christ had fallen,
and from her came one wail, choked down at once. She stooped to aid him,
but he stood up unassisted and reached to the wall for support.
The bars of the lattice shook; the old man peered out.
“Don’t touch my house, you vagabond! Move on!” he cried.
Calcol had turned to Simon, who was raising the cross. “Carry it for him,”
he commanded.
Baba Barbulah still shook at the lattice. “Move on!” he repeated. “Seducer
of the people, remitter of sins, upholder of adultery, move on; don’t
touch my house, it will fall down on you! Move on, I say!”
Calcol’s command Simon had anticipated. He shouldered the cross. It was
heavier to him than to the Christ, not in weight, perhaps, but in purpose.
In the narrowness of the sook the crowd was impeded, but from the rear
they pushed, surprised at the halt.
Mary sprang at the lattice. “It is you that shall move on,” she cried;
“yes, you; and forever. The desert will call to you, ‘March;’ and the sea
will snarl, ‘Further yet.’ The gates of cities will deny you, and the
doors of hamlets be closed. The eagles may return to their eyrie, the
panthers retreat to their lair, but you will have no home, no rest, and,
till time dies, no tomb.”
The old man gnashed back at her an insult more bestial than he used
before, and spat at her through the bars. But Mary had turned to the
Christ. He was surrounded now by some women who had filtered through the
alley above. Johanna, Mary Clopas, the wife of Zebdia, and Bernice, a
fragile girl newly enrolled. The latter was wiping from his face the
stains of blood and dust. The others were beating their breasts, crying
aloud.
Of the disciples there was no trace, nor yet of any of those who had
greeted him as the Messiah. It may be that the admiring throngs that had
gathered about him had faded before a superior force. It may be they had
lost heart, belief perhaps as well. Invective never propitiates. Recently
he had omitted to prophesy, he argued. The exquisite parables with which
he had been wont to charm even the recalcitrant seemed to have been put
aside, and with them those wonders which rumor held him to have worked.
But now that pathos and grace which endeared, that perfection of sentiment
and expression which exalted the heart, returned to him, accentuated
perhaps by the agonies he had endured.
“Weep for me no more,” he entreated. “But weep for yourselves and for your
children. The days are coming,” he added, with a gesture at the impatient
mob—“the days are coming in which they shall say to the mountains, Fall on
us; to the hills, Cover us. For if these things are done in the green
tree, what will be done in the dry?”
And in this entreaty, in which he exhorted them to view disaster otherwise
than from the external and evanescent aspect, the voice of the prophet
rang once more.
Mary as yet had not realized the full portent of the soldiery and the mob.
When it was approaching it had occurred to her that it might be another
triumphal escort, such as she had once seen surround him on his way to a
feast. As it advanced, the roar bewildered, and she had ceased to
conjecture; then the Master had fallen, and the old Jew had vomited his
slime. At the moment it was that, and that only, which had impressed her,
and she had answered with the force of that new strength which suddenly
she had found. But now at the sight of the women beating their breasts,
and the blood-stained face of the Master, an inkling came to her; she
stared open-mouthed at the cross, at Calcol, and at the executioners that
were there.
Then immediately that horrible longing to know the worst beset her, and
she darted to where the centurion stood.
“What is it?” she gasped. “What are you to do with him?”
By way of answer Calcol extended his arms straight out from either side,
his head thrown back. He was a good-natured ruffian, with clear and
pleasant eyes.
“Not crucify?” she cried. “Tell me, it is not that?”
Calcol nodded. To him one Jew more, one Jew less, was immaterial, provided
he had his pay, and the prospect of a return to Rome was not too long
delayed. Yet none the less in some misty way he wondered why this woman,
with her splendid hair and scorching eyes, should have upbraided the
tetrarch and abused the procurator because of the friendless Galilean whom
he was leading to the cross. Woman to him, however, was, as she has been
to others wiser than he, an enigma he failed to solve. And so he nodded
merely, not unkindly, and smiled in Mary’s face.
The horrible longing now was stilled. She knew the worst; yet as the
knowledge of it penetrated her being, it seemed to her as though it could
not be true, that she was the plaything of some hallucination, her mind
inhabited by a nightmare from which she must presently awake. The howl of
the impatient mob undeceived her. It was real; it was actual; it was life.
She stared at Calcol, her fair mouth agape. There were many things she
wanted to say; her thoughts teemed with arguments, her mind with
persuasions; but she could utter nothing; she was as one struck dumb; and
it was not until the centurion smiled that the spell dissolved and the
power of speech returned.
“Ah, that never; you shall kill me first!” she cried. And already she
saw herself circumventing the centurion, blinding the soldiery, defying
the mob, and leading the Master through byways and underground passages
out of the accursed city into the fresh glades of Gethsemane, over the
hill, down the hollows to the Jordan, and into the desert beyond. There
was one spot she knew very well; one that only a bird could find; one that
she would mention to no one, but to which she could take him and keep him
hidden there in the brakes till night came, and the fording of the river
was safe.
“That never!” she cried. And brushing Bernice off, she caught the Master
by the cloak. “Come with me,” she murmured. “I know a way——”
And she would have dragged him perhaps, regardless of the others, but the
centurion had her by the arm.
“See here, my pretty friend, your place is not here.”
With a twist he sent her spinning back to Baba Barbulah’s wall.
“March!” he ordered.
The soldiery, disarranged, fell in line. The two robbers picked up their
burden. The Master turned to Mary, to the others as well, with that
expression which he alone possessed, that look which both promised and
assuaged, and, it may be, would have said some word of encouragement, but
Mary was at his side again, her hand upon his cloak.
“It shall never be,” she repeated. “They must kill me first.”
Calcol wheeled. His short sword glistened, reversed, and her cheek was
laid open by the hilt. She staggered back. The soldiery moved on. The
women surrounded her and stanched the wound. To her the blow held the
difference between a cut and a cancer; she knew that it could never heal;
and, as the blood poured down her face, for the first time she divined the
uselessness of revolt.
Presently a wave of the mob caught her, separating her from the other
women, and carrying her in its eddy through the gate, into the valley and
on to the hillock beyond. On one side were the glimmer of fires, the smell
of smoke, of offal too. On the infrequent trees vultures perched. To the
right was a nest of gardens and of tombs.
In the eddies Mary lost foothold and lagged a little to the rear. When she
reached Gülgolta the soldiery had formed three sides of a square. In it
were the executioners, the prisoners, and the centurion. At the place
where a fourth side might have been a steep decline began.
Within the square three crosses lay; before them the prisoners stood,
stripped of their clothing now, and naked.
The Sanhedrim was grouped about that side of the square which leaned to
the south, the horned bonnet of Caiaphas towering its lacework above the
others. To the wide and cruel corners of his mouth had come the calm of a
cheetah devouring its prey. At the outer angle, to the right, the standard
of the empire swayed; and from an oak two vultures soared with a scream
into the air, their eyes fixed on the vision of bare white flesh.
Through the ranks an elder passed. In his hand was a gourd, which he
offered to one of the thieves.
“Drink of it, Dysmas,” he invited. “In it grains of frankincense have been
dissolved.”
To the rear Annas nodded his approval. His lean, lank jaws parted. “Give
strong drink,” he announced, authoritatively; “give strong and heady drink
to those about to die, and wine to those that sorrow.”
Dysmas drank abundantly of the soporific, and held the gourd to his
comrade.
“Take it, Stegas.”
As the second thief raised it to his lips, with a motion of arm and knee
an executioner caught Dysmas beneath the chin, behind the leg, and the
thief lay on a cross. In a second his wrists were bound, his feet as well.
There was the blow of a hammer on a nail, a spurt of blood from the open
hand; another blow, another spurt; and the cross, upraised, settled in a
cavity already prepared, a beam behind it for support.
Stegas, his thirst slaked, fell as Dysmas had, and the elder caught the
gourd and offered it to the Christ. If he had been tempted in the desert,
as rumor alleged, the temptation could have been as nothing in comparison
to the enticements of that cup. It held relief from thought, from the
acutest pain that flesh can know, from life, from death.
He waved it aside. The executioner started with surprise; but he had his
duty to perform, and, recovering himself, he caught the Christ, and in a
moment he too was down, his hands transfixed, the cross upraised. The
blood dripped leisurely on the sand beneath. Across his features a shadow
passed and vanished. His lips moved.
“Father,” he murmured, “forgive them; they know not what they do.”
Calcol gave an order. Over the heads of Dysmas and of Stegas the sanis
were affixed, wooden tablets smeared with gypsum, bearing the name of the
crucified and with it the offence. They were simple and terse; but above
the Christ appeared a legend in three tongues, in Aramaic, in Greek, and
in Latin:
                       [Aramaic: Mâlkâ dî Jehudâje]
                        Ὁ βασιλεὺς τῶν Ἰουδαίων.
                              Rex Judæorum.
Caiaphas sprang back as from the point of a sword.
“Mâlkâ dî Jehudâje!” he bellowed. “King of the Jews! It is a blasphemy, an
iniquity, and an outrage. Centurion, tear it down.”
Calcol shrugged his shoulders, and pointed to the palace. “What the
procurator has written he has written,” he answered.
In the tone, in the gesture that preceded it, and in its impertinence
Caiaphas read Pilate’s one yet supreme revenge, the expression of his
absolute contempt for the whole Sanhedrim and the nation that it ruled.
From the rear the mob jumped at the title as at a catchword. To them the
irony of the procurator presumably was lost.
“King of the Jews!” they shouted. “Mâlkâ dî Jehudâje, come down from your
cross!”
It was a great festival, and as they jeered at Jesus they enjoyed
themselves hugely.
In their vast delight the voice of Stegas was drowned.
“I am a Roman citizen,” he kept repeating, his head swaying, and
indicating with his eyes the wounds in his hands, the torture he endured.
“Kill me,” he implored. And finding entreaty idle, he reviled the
centurion, cursed the soldiery, and would have spat at them, but to his
burning throat no spittle came.
The tongue of Dysmas lolled from his mouth. He had not the ability to
speak, even if in speech relief could come. Flame licked at his flesh, his
joints were severing, each artery was a nerve exposed, and something was
crunching his brain. He could no longer groan; he could suffer merely,
such suffering as hell perhaps has failed to contrive, that apogee of
agony which it was left for man to devise.
Stegas, catching the refrain the mob repeated, turned his eyes from the
soldiery to the adjacent cross.
“If you are as they say,” he cried, “save yourself and us.”
As a taunt to Caiaphas, Calcol echoed, “Behold your king!” and raising a
stalk of hyssop, on which was a sponge that he had dipped in the posca,
the thin wine the soldiers drink, he offered it to the Christ.
The sun was nearing the horizon. Caiaphas gathered his ample folds about
him. He had seen enough. The feast, wretchedly embittered, was nearly
done. There was another at which he must officiate: the shofa presently
would sound; the skewering of the Paschal lamb it was needful for him to
superintend. It was time, he knew, to return to the Temple; and as he gave
a last indignant look at the placard, the lips of the Christ parted to one
despairing cry:
“Elî, Elî, lemâh shebâktanî?”
Caiaphas, nodding to the elders, smiled with satisfaction.
At last the false pretender was forced to acknowledge the invalidity of
his claims. The Father whose son he vaunted himself to be had disowned him
when his recognition was needed, if ever it had been needed at all. And
so, with the smile of one whose labor has had its recompense, Caiaphas
patted his skirt, and the elders about him strolled back through the
Gannath Gate to the Temple that awaited him.
The multitude meanwhile had decreased. To the crowd also the Temple had
its attractions, its duties, and its offices. Moreover, the spectacle was
at an end. With a blow of the mallet the legs of the thieves had been
broken. They had died without a shriek, a thing to be regretted. The
Galilean too, pierced by the level stroke of a spear, had succumbed
without a word. Sundown was approaching. Clearly it was best to be within
the walls where other gayeties were. The mob dispersed, leaving behind but
the dead, the circling vultures, a group of soldiers throwing dice for the
garments of the crucified, and, remotely, a group of women huddled beneath
a protecting oak.
During the hour or two that intervened, the force which had visited Mary
evaporated in strength overtaxed. She was conscious only that she
suffocated. The words of the women that had drawn her to them were empty
as blanks in a dream; the jeers of the mob vacant as an empty bier. To but
one thing was she alive, the fact that death could be. Little by little,
as the impossible merged into the actual, the understanding came to her
that the worst that could be had been done, and she ceased to suffer. The
departing hierarchy, the dispersing mob, retreating before encroaching
night, left her unimpressed. To her the setting sun was Christ.
The soldiers passed. She did not see them. Calcol called to her. She did
not hear. The women had gone from her; she did not notice it. She stood as
a cataleptic might, her eyes on the cross. Once only, when the Christ had
uttered his despairing cry, she too had cried in her despair. In the roar
of the mob the cry was lost as a stone tossed in the sea. Since then she
had been dumb, sightless also, existing, if at all, unconsciously, her
life-springs nourished by death.
Though she gazed at the cross, she had ceased to distinguish it. A little
group that had reached it before the soldiery left had been unmarked by
her. On the platform of her dream a serpent had emerged. In its coils were
her immortal hopes. It was that she saw, and that alone. Those moments of
agony in which the imagination oscillates between the past and the future,
devouring the one, fumbling the other, had been endured, and resignation
failed to bring its balm. She had believed with a faith so firm that now
in its demolition there was nothing left—an abyss merely, where light was
not.
A hand touched her, and she quivered as a leaf does at the wing of a bird.
“Mary, come with us,” some one was saying; “we are taking him to a tomb.”
Just beyond were men and women whom she knew. Joseph of Haramathaïm, a
close follower of the Master; Nikodemon, the richest man in all Judæa;
Johanna, Mary Clopas, Salomè, Bernice, and the servants of the opulent
Jew. It was Ahulah who had touched her; and as Mary started she saw before
her a coffin which the others bore.
“Come with us,” Ahulah repeated; and Mary crossed the intervening ridge to
where the gardens were and the tombs she had already passed.
At the door of a sepulchre the brief procession halted. Within was a room,
a little grotto furnished with a stone slab and a lamp that flickered,
