expense. I can help you in another way also. I am a good shot, and I
hope to add a deer or an antelope to your stock at frequent intervals.”
“We shall be glad to have you join us,” said Mrs. Cooper hospitably.
“Our meeting with you is quite providential.”
Giles Crosmont took off his hat and bowed respectfully to Mrs. Cooper.
It was evident that he was a gentleman by birth and training.
“It was what I was waiting for,” he said; “an invitation from the lady.
I am afraid I must ask you to help convey the provisions to the camp.”
“Grant and I will undertake that,” said Tom, with alacrity.
“And I will help you,” added the blacksmith. “We are in luck to find
food on such an easy condition.”
In half an hour the providential supply was stowed in the wagon, and the
party, augmented to five, started on its way.
Generally Tom and Grant had walked together, but the stranger showed
such a preference for Grant’s society that Tom fell back and joined his
father, leaving his friend and their new acquaintance to journey
together.
“So you are going to California to dig for gold, Grant?” said Crosmont,
as he moderated his pace to adapt himself to Grant’s shorter steps.
“Yes, sir,” answered Grant enthusiastically. “I wish I were there now.”
“Suppose now that you should be fortunate, and secure, say, ten thousand
dollars; you would be happy?”
“Oh, yes.”
“To a boy like you, the possession of money seems sure to bring
happiness.”
“In my case, yes. Remember, Mr. Crosmont, I have a mother to care for. I
should like to take her from Mr. Tarbox’s house, where she is a slave,
and give her a nice home of her own. That wouldn’t take more than two
thousand dollars, and with the balance I could go into business.”
“Yes, you have your mother to live for,” said Crosmont; and he dropped
into a thoughtful mood.
“Will you go to the mines also?” asked Grant, less from curiosity than
in order to break the silence.
“No—yes; I will go with you for a time; but the mines have no attraction
for me.”
“Don’t you care for gold?”
“I have enough already.”
Then, seeing that Grant’s curiosity was excited, he added: “I don’t mind
telling you, Grant, that I am a rich man, rich beyond my wants, and I
have no temptation to increase my wealth.”
Grant regarded his companion with the respect that a boy of his age is
apt to feel for a rich man—so rich that he doesn’t care to increase his
wealth.
“I wonder how it would seem to be rich,” he said thoughtfully.
“Perhaps you will have a chance to experience the feeling some time.”
“I hope so.”
“You are young, strong, self-reliant. In your favored country this will
help you to become rich. But after you have acquired wealth, I doubt if
you will find it makes you as happy as you expect.”
“But,” said Grant, “if I am rich I can help others. That will make me
happy.”
“True!” returned the other, as if it were a new idea. “This ought to
have occurred to me before. I will remember it.”
“Were you always rich, sir?”
“Yes. I was born to wealth. My father was a wealthy gentleman living in
Devonshire, England. From my earliest years I was accustomed to all that
wealth could buy. I never knew what poverty meant.”
“I should think you would wish to live in England.”
“If I lived there it would be alone.”
“Then you have no family!”
Giles Crosmont was silent, and a pained expression showed itself on his
face.
“Excuse me if I have shown too much curiosity,” said Grant
apologetically.
“There is no need to apologize, yet your question called up painful
memories. I had a son—I don’t know if he is still alive—who must now be
twenty-five years old. He disappointed me. I sent him to college, and he
plunged into extravagance. I paid his debts twice. The last time, in my
anger, I declined to do so. He forged a check on me for a large sum,
paid his debts with part of the proceeds, and then disappeared.”
“How long ago was that?” inquired Grant, in a sympathetic tone.
“Four years. For a year I remained at my home, hoping to hear something
from him, but no tidings came. Then I began to travel, and am still
travelling. Sometime I may meet him, and if I do——”
“You will forgive him?”
“I will try to reclaim him.”
“I wish my father were living.”
“You have your mother.”
“Yes, I wish I could see her at this moment.”
“I think you are a good boy. I wish my boy had been like you.”
“Thank you, Mr. Crosmont. I will try to deserve your compliment.”
“Grant and the Englishman are getting pretty thick,” said Tom to his
mother.
“Yes, Tom. He seems to have taken a fancy to the boy.”
“No wonder. Grant is a good fellow. I wonder if this Mr. Crosmont is
rich?” For Grant had respected the confidence of his new acquaintance
and had not communicated what he had learned to his companions.
“I hope he is. Then he might do something for Grant, and the boy
deserves it.”
“He’ll never get much from old Tarbox, I’ll be bound.”
Day by day they drew nearer to the land of gold. The stock of provisions
held out wonderfully, for Mr. Crosmont made good his promise, and more
than one deer and antelope fell before his unerring aim, and eked out
the supply. At length, after some weeks, they crossed the mountains and
looked upon the promised land. From this point on there were
settlements, and there was no fear of starvation.
                              CHAPTER XV.
                         ARRIVAL AT SACRAMENTO.
At length the little party reached Sacramento. This was already a place
of some importance, as it was in the neighborhood of the mining region,
and it was here that mining parties obtained their outfits and came at
intervals to bring their gold dust and secure supplies. Situated, as it
was, on the Sacramento River, with communication with San Francisco by
water, it was, besides, the starting-point of numberless lines of stages
bound for the different mines. For a town of its size the activity
seemed almost incredible. The party went to a hotel, where, for very
indifferent accommodations, they were charged five dollars a day. To the
blacksmith, accustomed to village prices, this seemed exorbitant.
“We needn’t engage board till night,“ suggested Tom. “We’ll take our
meals at a restaurant till then.”
They were all hungry, and this suggestion seemed a good one. Looking
about, Tom found a small, one-story building, on the front of which was
this sign:
                   METROPOLITAN HOTEL AND RESTAURANT.
“What do you ask for breakfast?” inquired Tom, entering.
“A dollar a head!”
“A dollar!” repeated Mrs. Cooper, in dismay.
“Tom,” said Mr. Cooper, “I haven’t had a civilized meal or sat down at a
table for months. No matter what it costs, I’m going to have breakfast
now.”
“All right, father! I guess I can do my share of eating.”
Grant listened with dismay to the announcement of prices. Of all the
money he had brought with him he had but ten dollars left. How long
would it last?
“Grant, are you going to join us?” asked Tom.
“I don’t know as I can afford it,” answered Grant anxiously.
“We can’t any of us afford it,” returned Mr. Cooper. “Sit down, boy, and
we’ll borrow trouble afterward.”
“Now,” said Mr. Cooper, as he rose from the table, “I’ll take a turn
round the town and see what information I can gain. I’ll turn in the
wagon into the yard alongside. Mrs. Cooper, will you keep your eye on it
while the rest of us go on a tour of inspection? I don’t think the oxen
will be likely to run away,” he added jocosely.
“All right, father.”
Mr. Cooper, Tom, and Grant set out in different directions.
Grant started on his walk feeling sober, if not depressed. Here he was,
two thousand miles from his old home, with only nine dollars in his
pocket, and the prices for living extortionate. How was he to get to the
mines? Before he could get ready to leave Sacramento his money would be
exhausted. Since he left home, four months before, Grant hadn’t felt so
perplexed and disturbed.
He had walked only five minutes, when he found himself in front of the
Sacramento Hotel, the largest in the place.
Half a dozen stages were in the street outside, each drawn by four
horses, and each bearing the name of some mining camp to which it
proposed to carry passengers. The drivers were calling lustily for
recruits. This was what Grant heard—“All aboard for Hangtown! Only four
seats left! Who’s going to Gold Gulch? Now’s your chance! Get you
through in six hours. Start in fifteen minutes for Frost’s Bar! Richest
diggings, within fifty miles!”
“I wonder what they charge,” thought Grant. “I’ll ask.” He went up to
the stage bound for Weaver Creek, and inquired the fare.
“Carry you through for ten dollars,” was the reply. “Jump aboard. We’ll
start in half an hour.”
“No,” answered Grant slowly. “I shan’t be ready by that time. Besides, I
have only nine dollars.”
“I’ll take you to Frost’s Bar for that,” said the driver of the Frost’s
Bar stage.
“I suppose you will,” interposed the Weaver Creek driver with a sneer.
“Your regular charge is only seven dollars. You want to cheat the boy
out of two dollars.”
This led to an altercation between the rival drivers, in which some
blows were exchanged, but neither was hurt. Before they had finished
Grant had passed on. He knew that, with his limited capital, he could
not afford to go to either place and arrive at the mines without a
penny.
                              CHAPTER XVI.
                           GRANT GETS A JOB.
An hour later Grant was surprised to come across Tom sawing and
splitting wood in front of a restaurant.
“What are you doing, Tom?” he asked, in surprise.
“Earning some money,” answered Tom complacently.
“How much will you get for the job?” asked Grant.
“Three dollars and my dinner. It won’t take me more than three hours to
finish up the job. What do you think of that?”
“I’d like a job like it. I’m getting alarmed at the high prices here in
Sacramento. I don’t know what I am going to do.”
“How much have you got left?”
“Only nine dollars, and it will cost me that to get to the nearest
mines.”
“That’s bad!” said Tom, looking perplexed. “Perhaps father’ll lend you
some.”
Grant shook his head.
“I don’t want to borrow of him,” he said. “He will have all he can do to
look out for himself and your mother.”
“I don’t know but he will.”
“I guess I’ll get along somehow,” said Grant, with assumed cheerfulness.
“If I can help you, Grant, I will; but it isn’t like being out on the
plains. It didn’t cost so much there for living.”
At this point a stout man came to the door of the restaurant. It was the
proprietor.
“How are you getting on with the wood?” he asked Tom.
“Pretty well.”
“Whenever you want your dinner you can stop short and come in.”
“Thank you. I took a late breakfast, and will finish the job first.”
“Who is the boy—your brother?”
“No; it’s a friend of mine.”
“Do you want a job?” asked the proprietor, turning to Grant.
“Yes, if it’s anything I can do.”
“One of my waiters has left me and gone to the mines. The rascal left
without notice, and I am short-handed. Did you ever wait in a
restaurant?”
“No, sir.”
“Never mind, you’ll soon learn. Will you take the job?”
“How much do you pay?”
“Three dollars a day and board.”
“I’ll take it,” said Grant promptly.
“Come right in, then.”
Grant followed his new employer into the Eldorado restaurant, and
received instructions. It may seem easy enough to wait on guests at an
eating-house, but, like everything else, an apprenticeship is needful.
Here, however, it was easier than in a New York or Chicago restaurant,
as the bill of fare was limited, and neither the memory nor the hands
were taxed as severely as would have been the case elsewhere. Grant was
supplied with an apron, and began work at once. When Tom got through his
job, and came in for dinner it was Grant who waited upon him.
Tom smiled.
“It seems queer to have you waiting upon me, Grant,” he said. “How do
you like it as far as you’ve got?”
“There’s other things I would like better, Tom, but I think I’m lucky to
get this.”
“Yes; yours is a more permanent job than mine. I’m through.”
“Just tell your father and mother where I am,” said Grant. “I hear I’m
to sleep in the restaurant.”
“That’ll save the expense of a bed. How long do you think you’ll keep at
it, Grant?”
“A month, perhaps, if I suit well enough. By that time I’ll have money
enough to go to the mines.”
“Then you haven’t given that up?”
“No; I came out to California to dig gold, and I shan’t be satisfied
till I get at it.”
When meal hours were over that afternoon Grant started out for a stroll
through the town. As he was passing the Morning Star saloon a rough,
bearded fellow, already under the influence of liquor, seized him by the
arm.
“Come in, boy, and have a drink,” he said.
Grant shrank from him with a repugnance he could not conceal.
“No, thank you!” he answered. “I don’t drink.”
“But you’ve got to drink,” hiccoughed his new acquaintance.
In reply Grant tried to tear himself away, but he could not release the
strong grip the man had on his coat-sleeve.
“Come along, boy; it’s no use. Do you want to insult me?”
“No, I don’t,” said Grant; “but I never drink.”
“Are you a temperance sneak?” was the next question. “Don’t make no
difference. When Bill Turner wants you to drink, you must drink—or
fight. Want to fight?”
“No.”
“Then come in.”
Against his will Grant was dragged into the saloon, where half a dozen
fellows were leaning against the bar.
                             CHAPTER XVII.
                        AN UNPLEASANT ADVENTURE.
“Couple of whiskeys—straight—for me and the kid,” ordered Grant’s
companion, as he came to a standstill in front of the bar.
“None for me!” said Grant quickly.
But, all the same, two glasses were set out, and the bottle placed
beside them.
“Pour it out!” said the miner to the barkeeper. “I’m afraid the boy will
get away.”
The barkeeper, with a smile, followed directions, and the two glasses
were filled.
The miner tossed his off at a single gulp, but Grant left his standing.
“Why don’t you drink, boy?” demanded his companion, with an oath.
“I told you I wouldn’t,” said Grant angrily.
“We’ll see if you won’t,” said the miner, and, seizing the glass, he
attempted to pour it down Grant’s throat, but his arm was unsteady from
the potations he had already indulged in, and the whiskey was spilled,
partly on the floor, and partly on the boy’s clothes. Grant seized this
opportunity to dash out of the saloon, with the miner after him.
Fortunately for him, Bill Turner, as he called himself, tripped and
fell, lying prostrate for a moment, an interval which Grant improved to
so good purpose that, by the time the miner was again on his feet, he
was well out of harm’s way.
“I thought the drinking habit was bad enough at home,” thought Grant;
“but no one ever tried to make me drink before.”
And now we will go back and see how it fared with Mr. Cooper.
Some quarter of a mile from the Metropolitan Hotel and Restaurant his
attention was drawn to a blacksmith’s shop. That was his own line of
business, and he felt a curiosity to interview his California
brother-workman.
Entering, he saw a stout, black-bearded man in the act of shoeing a
horse.
“Good-morning, friend,” he said.
“Good-morning, stranger.”
“I thought I’d take a look in, as you are in my line of business.”
“Is that so?” asked the blacksmith, looking up with interest. “How long
since you arrived?”
“Just got in this morning.”
“Going to stay in Sacramento?”
“I am ready for anything that will bring money. I suppose I shall go to
the mines.”
“Humph! Why not buy me out, and carry on your old business in
Sacramento?”
“Do you want to sell?” asked Jerry Cooper, surprised.
“Yes; I want a little change. I might go to the mines myself.”
“Can’t you make money blacksmithing?” asked Cooper cautiously.
“Yes; that isn’t my reason. I haven’t seen anything of the country yet.
I bought out this shop as soon as I reached Sacramento, and I’ve been at
work steady. I want a change.”
“How well does it pay you?”
“I get big prices. A dollar for a single shoe, and I have all I can do.
Why, how much money do you think I have made since I took the shop, a
year since?”
“I can’t tell.”
“I’ve laid up three thousand dollars, besides paying all expenses.”
“You don’t say so!” exclaimed the blacksmith, impressed.
“Yes; I shan’t make as much money at the mines probably, but it’ll be a
change, and not so hard work.”
“Then you want to sell out?”
“Yes.”
“What will you take?”
“A thousand dollars. That buys the shop, too. It’s dirt cheap.”
“It may be, but I haven’t the money.”
“I will take half cash, and a mortgage for the balance.”
“Suppose I bought, is there a house near by where I can live?”
“What family have you?”
“A wife and son; but I suppose Tom will want to go to the mines.”
“There is a cabin across the street with three rooms. It is empty. You
can hire it for fifty dollars a month, likely.”
“Fifty dollars a month for a cabin with three rooms!” ejaculated Cooper.
“Yes; or you can buy it for five hundred dollars, I expect.”
“Seems to me prices are pretty steep in Sacramento.”
“So they are; but you can get rich faster than at home, in spite of the
high prices.”
“Well, that’s a consideration, certainly. How much time will you give me
to consider your offer?”
“Till to-morrow.”
“I’ll let you know by that time.”
Jerry Cooper walked away in a state of excitement. He felt that he would
rather stay in Sacramento and carry on his own old business, with which
he was thoroughly acquainted, than undertake gold-mining, of which he
knew nothing. He was a man of fifty, and was not so enterprising as he
had been when half the age.
“It seems a good chance,” he reflected. “But how will I get the money?”
He had five hundred dollars left, perhaps more; but all this would have
to be paid down for the shop, without leaving anything to provide for
his family in the interval before he got to earning an income.
“If I only had the money I would take the shop,” he said to himself. “I
wonder if I could borrow any. I might send home for some, but it would
come too late.”
He walked slowly back to the hotel and restaurant.
In front of it Mrs. Cooper was waiting for him.
“I’m glad you’ve come, father,” she said. “I was afraid you would be
gone all day.”
“Were you discontented, mother?”
“No; it isn’t that; but I’ve had an offer for the wagon and oxen.”
“You have?”
“Yes; quarter of an hour after you went away a man came in and inquired
of the landlord who owned the team. He was referred to me, and asked me
if I wanted to sell. I told him I didn’t know what your plan might be,
but finally he offered me eight hundred dollars, or a thousand if Dobbin
were thrown in.”
“You should have accepted,” exclaimed her husband excitedly.
“I didn’t dare to. I didn’t know what you would say. But he’s coming
back again, and—there he is!”
Fifteen minutes later the bargain was struck and the money paid, cash
down.
“That settles it!” decided the blacksmith. “Mother and I will stay in
Sacramento.”
                             CHAPTER XVIII.
                             A TRUE FRIEND.
The next morning, as Grant was enjoying a few minutes’ rest, breakfast
being over, he was surprised by the entrance of Giles Crosmont. It
seemed pleasant to see a familiar face.
“I am glad to see you, Mr. Crosmont,” he said warmly. “Will you have
breakfast?”
“No; I am staying at the hotel and have already breakfasted. I have come
in to see you.”
“I am glad to see you, sir. I was afraid we would not meet again. How
did you know where to find me?”
“I met Tom Cooper on the street early this morning.”
“Tom has gone to the mines.”
“So he told me. That is, he told me he was to start this morning. You
intended to go to the mines, did you not?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Then why didn’t you go?”
“I hadn’t money enough,” answered Grant candidly.
“That needn’t have prevented your going.”
Grant looked inquiringly at Mr. Crosmont.
“I mean that I would have lent you a hundred dollars. That would have
been enough, wouldn’t it?”
“It would have been ample. You are very kind, Mr. Crosmont.”
“Why shouldn’t I be? I have more money than I know what to do with.”
“But I might never have been able to repay you.”
“I would have taken the risk of that. Besides, to be frank, I should
have intended the money as a gift, not a loan.”
“Thank you, sir,” said Grant gratefully. “I never met such kindness
before.”
“Do you wish to give up your situation, and go to the mines at once?”
“No, sir. I enjoy feeling that I am so well paid for my labor. You see I
never earned much before; Mr. Tarbox only gave me my board.”
“And how much are you paid for your services here?”
“Three dollars a day and my board,” answered Grant proudly.
“That is indeed high pay for a boy of your age. If you will let me
advise you, don’t let it make you extravagant. Don’t form the habit of
gambling. I notice there are several gambling saloons here.”
“No, sir, I won’t. I know nothing about cards.”
“You could soon learn.”
“Thank you for your advice, Mr. Crosmont.”
“I give it because I feel an interest in you, Grant. I can’t explain
why, for I have met a good many young persons in my travels, and never
was drawn to any one as I am drawn to you.”
“I am glad to have so good a friend, Mr. Crosmont,” said Grant
earnestly.
“And I am glad to have found some one in whom I can feel an interest. I
begin to feel that there is some object in living.”
“Are you going to remain in Sacramento, Mr. Crosmont?”
“No, I start this afternoon for San Francisco.”
Grant’s countenance fell. Just as he had ascertained how true and
reliable a friend Mr. Crosmont was, he was destined to part with him.
“Then I shall not see you again,” he said soberly.
“I hope you will, Grant,” returned Mr. Crosmont, with a friendly smile.
“Indeed, I mean that you shall. I don’t propose to lose sight of you.
How long do you think you shall remain in your present employment?”
“One month, and possibly two. I would like to get a good sum of money
together before I start. I shall need to buy a few things.”
“What things?”
“Some underclothing, a new pair of shoes, and a new suit. The clothes I
have on were pretty well worn out by the trip across the plains.”
“Don’t trouble yourself about that. I will take your directions on the
size, and send you what you need from San Francisco.”
“I can’t thank you enough, Mr. Crosmont. It will save me a good deal of
money.”
“You will need all the money you can earn. Now I will give you my
address in San Francisco, and if you have any occasion to ask help or
advice write unhesitatingly. I shall travel a part of the time, but I
shall always answer your letters as soon as I receive them.”
“Thank you, sir.”
“You have no father. Look upon me as a father or guardian, whichever you
please. This will be my address.”
He took a card from his pocket, and wrote upon it, under his name, “Care
of C.D. Vossler, Jeweler, Market St., San Francisco.”
“Mr. Vossler is an old friend of mine,” he said, “and he will take care
of any letters that come directed in this way. I don’t know where I
shall put up, so that it will be best always to address me, when you
write, in his care.”
“Thank you, sir. I will remember.”
“Yes; don’t lose the card.”
Mr. Crosmont left the restaurant, and Grant did not again see him before
his departure. He felt cheered to think he had found such a friend. Two
thousand miles from home, it was worth a good deal to think that, if he
were sick or got into trouble he had a friend who would stand by him,
and to whom he could apply for help or advice.
The next day, in an hour which was given him during the time when
business was slack, Grant went round to see Mr. Cooper.
He found the blacksmith busy in his shop. He had bought the little cabin
opposite, and his family had already moved in.
“It didn’t take me long to get established, Grant,” he said with a
well-satisfied smile.
“No, sir. I was quite taken by surprise to hear it.”
“I did a good thing in coming to California. I am convinced of that.
Why, Grant, how much do you think I took in for work yesterday?”
“Ten dollars,” suggested Grant.
“Better than that—seventeen! Why, at this rate, I shall be able to buy
back my old place in a year out of my savings.”
“I am glad to hear of your good luck, Mr. Cooper.”
“You have got employment, too, Grant?”
“Yes, sir.”
“How much are you paid?”
“My board and three dollars a day.”
“Why, that’s fine, and you only sixteen years old, too. I shall be well
pleased if Tom does as well at the mines.”
“If he does well, I expect to join him in a month or two.”
“I don’t know as it’s wise. Perhaps you had better stay where you are.”
“I might not make as much money, but I should not be satisfied to come
to California and not go to the mines.”
“That’s just exactly what I am going to do. Me and mother are better off
in Sacramento. However, you are young, and that makes a difference.”
“I must leave you now, Mr. Cooper, and get back to business.”
“Are you a good deal confined?”
“Yes, that’s the worst of it. I have to be at the restaurant in the
evening till ten o’clock, but I can get off for an hour every
afternoon.”
“Well, come out and see us often. I would invite you to come and take
supper some night, but I suppose you couldn’t accept.”
“No, Mr. Cooper, thanking you just the same.”
“You haven’t been homesick yet, Grant, have you?”
“No; except the first day, when I didn’t know how I was coming out.”
“And you wouldn’t like to be back on Mr. Tarbox’s farm again?”
“Not much; but I should like to see mother again, if only for a few
minutes.”
“If you do well, and carry home a good sum of money, you can make things
comfortable for her, you know.”
“That’s what I am thinking of all the time.”
Grant took leave of the blacksmith and went back to work. He was glad to
think he had some one to call upon who reminded him of home. He worked
long hours, though the labor could not be considered hard. There was one
other waiter beside himself, a young man of twenty-five, named Albert
Benton. He was thin and dark-complexioned, and Grant, without being able
to explain why, conceived a dislike to him. He saw that Benton was
inclined to shirk work, though he received higher pay than his young
associate. He was paid five dollars per day and had a room outside. Mr.
Smithson, the proprietor of the restaurant, had desired him to sleep in
a small room over the restaurant, but he had declined to do so. Upon
this the same request was made of Grant, and he complied, glad to save
the price of lodging elsewhere. When the restaurant closed at ten
o’clock, frequently Grant would go out for a short walk, as it was a
relief to breathe the fresh outside air after being confined in the
close atmosphere of the eating-house during the day and evening.
Generally he and Benton went out together, but his companion soon left
him, finding a simple walk entirely too slow and unexciting for his
taste.
                              CHAPTER XIX.
                      GRANT FALLS UNDER SUSPICION.
It struck Grant as strange that his fellow waiter, though he received
five dollars a day, never seemed to have any money on hand. More than
once he had borrowed a couple of dollars of Grant, which, however, he
always repaid.
“What can he do with his money?” thought Grant. “He gets very little
chance to spend it, for he is confined in the restaurant from twelve to
fourteen hours a day.”
The mystery was solved when, one night, he saw Benton entering a
notorious gambling saloon not far from the restaurant.
“So that is where he disposes of his money,” reflected Grant. “I wish I
could venture to give him a hint. But probably he would pay it no
attention, as I am a boy considerably younger than he.”
He did, however, find occasion for speaking soon afterward.
“Have you ever been to the mines, Mr. Benton?” he asked.
“No.”
“Don’t you ever expect to go?”
“I would go in a minute if I had money enough.”
“I should think you might save money enough in a month or two. You get
good pay.”
“It’s tiresome saving from one’s daily pay. I want to make a strike.
Some day I shall. I might win five hundred dollars in the next week.
When I do I’ll bid the old man good-by, and set out for the mines.”
“I believe in saving. A friend of mine, now in San Francisco, warned
me to keep clear of the gambling-houses, and I would be sure to get on.”
Albert Benton regarded Grant suspiciously.
“Does the boy know I gamble, I wonder?” he said to himself.
“Your friend’s an old fogy,” he said, contemptuously.
“Don’t you think his advice good?”
“Well, yes; I don’t believe in gambling to any extent, but I have been
in once or twice. It did me no harm.”
If he had told the truth, he would have said that he went to the
gambling-house nearly every evening.
“It’s safest to keep away, I think.”
“Well, yes, perhaps it is, for a kid like you.”
No more was said at the time. But something happened soon which involved
both Benton and his associate.
Mr. Smithson, the proprietor, began to find that his receipts fell off.
This puzzled him, for it appeared to him that the restaurant was doing
as good a business as ever. He mentioned the matter to the senior
waiter.
“Benton,” said he, “last week I took in fifty dollars less than usual.”
“Is that so?” asked Benton indifferently.
“Yes; I can’t understand it. Has the trade fallen off any, do you
think?”
“Really, I can’t say. It seemed about the same as usual—that is, the
number of customers did.”
“So it seemed to me.”
“Perhaps they ordered less. Now I think of it, I feel sure that they
did.”
“That might explain it partially, but not so large a falling off.”
“I suppose you haven’t thought of any other solution of the question?”
said Benton, slowly scrutinizing the face of his employer.
“Have you?”
“Well, sir, I have, but I don’t like to mention it.”
“Out with it!”
“I don’t know anything, sir.”
“If you suspect anything, it’s your duty to tell me.”
“Well, perhaps it is, but I might be doing injustice to Grant.”
“Ha! what has Grant to do with it?”
“Nothing that I know of.”
“Good Heavens, man, don’t tantalize me in this way. What do you
suspect?”
“Well, sir, the boy always appears to have money.”
“He seems to be economical, and I pay him well. That counts for
nothing.”
“No, sir, but—some one told me that he had seen him entering a
gambling-house on the street.”
“Ha! that would account for his needing a good deal of money. By the
way, do you ever enter such places?”
“I have entered out of curiosity, sir,” answered Benton, with a burst of
candor. “I wanted to see what they were like.”
“Better keep out of them altogether.”
“No doubt you are right, sir.”
“But about the boy—have you ever seen him take anything from the
drawer?”
“I couldn’t be sure of it, but once when he was alone I entered
suddenly, and saw him near the drawer. He flushed up and came away in a
hurry. I couldn’t swear that he took anything.”
However, Benton’s tone implied that he felt sure of it all the same, and
so it impressed Mr. Smithson.
“Did you have any recommendations with Grant?” inquired Benton, in an
insinuating tone.
“No; but, then, I had none with you, either.”
“That is true. Still, I hope you have confidence in me.”
“I know of no reason why I should not. Do you know if Grant drinks?”
“I don’t think he drinks much.”
“Does he drink at all?” asked Smithson curtly.
“One evening I saw him coming out of a drinking saloon pretty well
loaded. That is the only time, however.”
“It was once too often. Benton, I have been greatly deceived in that
fellow. I thought him a model boy.”
“So did I, sir, and I don’t think he is very bad now. Perhaps he has
been a little indiscreet.”
“It is very kind of you to excuse him; but if what you say is true, I
shall not be able to retain him in my employment.”
“Give him a little more time. Remember that I know nothing positive to
his discredit. He may not have taken the money.”
This half-hearted defence of Grant led Mr. Smithson to think that Benton
was his friend and spoke against him unwillingly. It never occurred to
him that his senior waiter was only seeking to divert suspicion from
himself.
“Very well,” he said. “I’ll keep him on a week longer. Perhaps something
may occur in that time to confirm my suspicions or discredit them.”
The result of this conversation was that the restaurant keeper was all
but convinced that Grant was a sly young villain and was secretly
robbing him. He had a friend, however, who had once been a detective in
St. Louis, though now engaged in a different business in Sacramento.
He sought him out and told him the story.
Vincent listened attentively.
“It looks bad for the boy; don’t you think so?” Smithson asked.
“Yes, if all is true that is said against him. But who says it?”
“Albert Benton.”
“The old waiter?”
“Yes.”
“You have never yourself seen the boy drunk, or coming out of a
gambling-house?”
“No.”
“Then all the testimony to that effect is that of the man Benton?”
“Yes.”
“May not Benton have an object in slandering the boy?”
“He seemed very reluctant to say anything against him.”
“That may be all artfulness, and to divert suspicion from himself.”
“You surely don’t think he would rob me?”
“Why not?”
“He has been in my employ for a year.”
“Then he ought by this time to have a good deal of money saved up—that
is, if his habits are good.”
“I am sure he has not.”
“What evidence have you on the subject?”
“At one time, three months since, I thought of selling out the
restaurant, and asked Benton if he didn’t want to buy it.”
“Well, what did he say?”
“That he hadn’t got fifty dollars in the world.”
“How much do you pay him?”
“Five dollars a day and his board.”
“Whew! and he spends all that?”
“He seems to.”
“Look here, Smithson, you are on the wrong tack. He is the thief, and
not the boy.”
“I can’t believe it.”
“Leave the matter in my hands, and I will prove it to you.”
“How!”
“I shall follow Benton in the evening, and see how he spends his time
and money. But you must be careful not to let him know that he is
suspected. If anything is said of the disappearance of money, tell him
that you attribute it to decrease in trade.”
“All right; I will do as you suggest.”
“He doesn’t know me, and will not imagine that I am watching him.”
Two days later Albert Benton, a little anxious to know whether he had
himself eluded suspicion, asked his employer: “Have you found out
anything about the lost money?”
“I am not sure that any has been lost,” answered Smithson carelessly.
“Have you watched the boy?”
“Yes, but he doesn’t look to me like a thief. It may be, after all, that
we are doing less business.”
“Yes, sir; that’s very likely,” responded Benton, glad that his employer
was disposed to regard the matter from this point of view.
“I don’t like to think that any one in my employ would rob me.”
“Very true, sir. It would be a great shame.”
“It’s all right!” thought Benton complacently. “It is better so. I don’t
care to have the boy discharged. Some one might succeed him whom I
couldn’t hoodwink so easily.”
                              CHAPTER XX.
                           BENTON IS TRAPPED.
Judging that his employer’s suspicions were allayed, Benton ventured to
take two five-dollar bills from the till before he went out in the
evening. Currency was at that time mixed, and bills, as well as gold and
silver, were in circulation.
He left the restaurant at the usual time. It so happened that Grant had
something to do and did not go out with him. Benton, therefore, went at
once to the gambling-house which he was in the habit of frequenting.
“I’m getting tired of being cooped up in the restaurant day after day,”
he said impatiently. “Why can’t I make a strike? If I could scoop in
four hundred dollars to-night I would leave Sacramento and go to the
mines. Then I might strike it rich and carry home ten thousand dollars,
as Grant’s friend did.”
Grant had told him the story of John Heywood’s good fortune, and it had
impressed him.
“If a clodhopper like that can make a fortune, why shouldn’t I?” he
asked himself.
So his purpose to go to the mines and try his luck was strengthened. If
he had begun six months before to save money, he would have had enough
to start before this, but Albert Benton was one of those who despised
small and steady savings, and are always on the lookout to “make a
strike,” as he termed it.
“That boy won’t spy on me to-night,” he said to himself. “I must be
careful. If the old man knew where I spent my evenings he would smell a
rat. I wonder how much I’ve taken from the drawer in the last three
months. Fully as much as my wages, I expect. Well, he can stand it. He’s
making plenty of money, anyhow.”
It was in this way that he excused his thefts. Yet he felt that he would
like to leave the restaurant and put himself in the way of making that
fortune for which he yearned.
Though Grant was not in the street to see where he went, there was
another who quietly noticed his movements and followed his steps. This
was John Vincent, the ex-detective. From the first he had suspected
Benton and doubted Grant’s guilt. He was a man skilled in physiognomy,
and he had studied Benton’s face and formed a pretty accurate estimation
of his real character.
“If Benton hasn’t robbed my friend Smithson’s till, then I lose my
guess,” he said to himself.
He did not, however, say much of his suspicions to the keeper of the
restaurant, who, he saw, was disposed to consider Grant the guilty
party. He waited till he had some evidence to offer in confirmation of
his theory.
When Benton entered the gambling-house Vincent followed close behind
him. Benton saw him, but did not know that he was a special friend of
Mr. Smithson.
Vincent placed himself at a neighboring table in such a position that he
could watch Benton. He saw him take out one of the bills which he had
abstracted from the till, and stake it.
“What do you put down paper for?” asked a man beside him. “Gold is
better.”
“Bills are just as good,” said Benton.
“I will give you gold for bills,” said Vincent. “I want to send some
money to the East.”
“All right, and thank you,” said Benton. “Here are two fives.”
“And here are two gold pieces,” said Vincent.
There was a secret look of elation on his face as he received the bills,
and furtively noticed a red cross on the back of each. They had been
secretly marked by himself as a trap to catch the thief, whoever he
might be.
“Now I have you, my man,” he thought. “This is the evidence I have been
looking for. It settles the question of Benton’s guilt and Grant’s
innocence.”
Vincent played two or three times for slight stakes, and rose from the
table after a while neither a loser nor a winner.
He did not go immediately, but stayed, like many others, simply as a
looker on.
“Won’t you join us?” asked Benton.
“No; I must go away soon. I want to write a letter. I only dropped in
for a few minutes.”
Albert Benton played with unusual good fortune. He had been in the habit
of bewailing his poor luck, but to-night the fates seemed to favor him.
The little pile of gold before him gradually increased, until he had
four hundred and seventy-five dollars.
“Twenty-five dollars more, and then I will stop,” he said. “To-morrow I
will give notice to Smithson and get ready to leave Sacramento.”
But instead of winning the sum desired, he began to lose. He lost
twenty-five dollars, and in desperation staked fifty. Should he win he
would still have five hundred dollars, and then he would leave off. Upon
that he was quite determined. But again he lost. He bit his lips, his
face flushed, his hands trembled, and there was a gleam of excitement in
his eye. He had no thought of leaving off now. It must be five hundred
dollars or nothing!
There is no need to follow him through his mutations of luck. At the end
of an hour he rose from the table without a dollar. He had enough,
however, to buy a glass of whiskey, which he gulped down, and then
staggered out of the gambling-house.
“I was so near, and yet I lost!” he said to himself bitterly. “Why
didn’t I keep the four hundred and seventy-five dollars when I had it,
and get the other from the restaurant? I have been a fool—a besotted
fool!”
He pulled down his hat over his eyes and bent his steps homeward, where
he tossed all night, unable to sleep.
But in the morning his courage returned.
“After all,” he reflected, “I am only ten dollars worse off than when I
entered the gambling house, and that was money I took from Smithson.
I’ve had a pretty good lesson. The next time fortune smiles upon me I’ll
make sure of what I have won, and leave off in time.”
Vincent went straight from the gambling-house to the house of his friend
Smithson. The latter came down stairs half dressed and let him in.
“What brought you here so late?” he asked, rubbing his eyes.
“Because I have some news for you.”
“What is it? Nothing bad, I hope.”
“Oh, no; it is only that I have found the thief who has been robbing
you.”
“It is the boy, then, as I thought,” said Smithson eagerly.
“No, it isn’t the boy.”
“Who, then?”
“Who else is there? It is Albert Benton.”
“Are you sure of this?” asked Smithson, dumfounded.
“Yes; there is no doubt of it.”
“Come in and tell me how you found out.” Vincent entered and sat down on
a chair in the front room.
“I will tell you,” he answered. “I took the liberty to go to your money
drawer and mark four bills this afternoon. I marked them with a red
cross on the right-hand corner of the reverse side. Well, Benton took
two of those bills with him this evening when he stopped work.”
“How do you know?”
“I was near by when he left the restaurant. I followed him at a
distance, and saw him enter Poole’s gambling-house.”
“Well?”
“I entered too, and took my place at a neighboring table. He produced a
five-dollar bill, when some one suggested that gold was preferable. Upon
that I offered to give him gold for bills. He produced two fives, and I
gave him two gold pieces for them.”
“Well?”
“Here they are.”
The detective drew from his wallet two bank-notes, and showed Smithson
the red cross on the reverse side of each.
                              CHAPTER XXI.
                       ALBERT BENTON IS UNMASKED.
“That’s pretty conclusive evidence, isn’t it?” said John Vincent,
tapping the marked bills.
“I didn’t dream of it,” said the restaurant keeper.
“I did. I suspected him as soon as you told me he was trying to fasten
suspicion upon Grant Colburn.”
“You don’t think the boy had anything to do with the theft?”
“I feel sure of it. The boy is an honest boy. You have only to look in
his face to see that. I haven’t been a detective for nothing. I may be
mistaken at times, but I can generally judge a man or boy by his face.”
“Does Benton know that you suspect him?”
“No. I wasn’t going to give myself away. By the way, he had quite a
stroke of luck tonight.”
“At the gambling-house?”
“Yes. At one time he was a winner of nearly or quite five hundred
dollars.”
“Then he will be able to make up to me the amount he has taken.”
“Don’t flatter yourself! I said he was a winner of that amount at one
time. I didn’t say he went out with that sum. As a matter of fact, he
lost it all, and left the place probably without a dollar.”
Smithson looked disappointed.
“Then,” he said, “I shan’t get my money back.”
“I am afraid not.”
“He must have taken hundreds of dollars.”
“Quite likely.”
“The villain!” exclaimed the restaurant keeper. “And I have paid him so
liberally, too!”
“Well, Smithson, it might have been worse. I suspect you have a pretty
tidy sum laid by.”
Smithson’s face changed, and he looked complacent.
“Yes, Vincent,” he said. “I’m worth a little money.”
“Good! Look upon this as a little set-back that won’t materially affect
you, and put it down to the account of profit and loss.”
“Very, good! I will do so. But to-morrow I will give Mr. Benton his
walking ticket.”
Albert Benton came to work as usual in the morning. His employer came in
half an hour late. By this time the waiter had become resigned to his
disappointment of the night previous. He recognized his folly in not
making sure of the large sum he had at one time won, and determined to
act more wisely in future.
Presently, when he chanced to be unemployed, Smithson beckoned to him.
“Benton,” he said, “you remember my speaking to you about missing money
from the till?”
“Yes, sir; but I thought you decided that it was only a falling off in
receipts.”
“Yes, I said that; but it seems to me that the deficiency is too great
to be accounted for in that way.”
“You may be right, sir. You remember what I told you about the boy?”
“You think he took the money?”
“I feel about sure of it.”
“And you think he gambles it away?”
“Such is my impression.”
“How am I to find out the truth of the matter?”
“I would suggest that you have the boy searched. I feel sure that you
will find that he has a considerable sum of money in his pocket.”
“That may be, but he will say that he has saved it from his wages.”
“Oh, yes; I have no doubt he will say so,” said Benton, nodding his head
significantly.
“And it may be true. He doesn’t seem to spend much.”
“He has bought some clothes.”
“True; but he was quite able to do so out of what I pay him and have
money left over.”
“Well, I hope it is so. I don’t want to harm the boy, but I thought it
only due to you to tell you what I know.”
“You don’t appear to know much. You only suspect. However, I will call
Grant and see what he has to say.”
Grant, being summoned, came up to where they were standing.
“Do you want to speak to me, Mr. Smithson?” he asked.
“Yes, Grant; about an unpleasant matter.”
“Have I done anything wrong? Are you dissatisfied with me?”
“I can’t say. The fact is, for some time past I have been missing money
from the drawer.”
Grant’s look of surprise was genuine.
“I am very sorry to hear it,” he said.
“Of course the money could not have disappeared of itself. Some one must
have taken it.”
“I hope you don’t suspect me,” said Grant quickly.
“I have always regarded you as honest, but Benton here tells me that you
have formed some bad habits.”
“I should be glad to know what Mr. Benton has to say about me,” said
Grant, regarding his fellow waiter with indignation. Benton, in spite of
his assurance, could not help looking confused and ill at ease.
“He tells me that you are in the habit of visiting gambling saloons.”
“He has told you a falsehood,” said Grant boldly.
“I told you he would deny it, Mr. Smithson,” said Benton, determined to
face it through.
“Has he seen me in a gambling-house?” demanded Grant.
“I have seen you coming out of one.”
“That’s false. If he can find any one to confirm his false charge, I
will not object to your believing it.”
“I have no doubt a good many have seen you there.”
“Is there any other charge he brings against me, Mr. Smithson?”
“He says he has seen you under the influence of liquor.”
“That also is false. He has invited me to go into a saloon and take a
drink, but I always refused.”
“Oh, you are an angel!” sneered Benton.
“I don’t pretend to be an angel, but I am honest and temperate, and I
never drink.”
“I think, Mr. Smithson, if you will search the boy you will find a good
sum of money in his pocket.”
“Is that true, Grant?” asked the restaurant keeper.
“Yes, sir. I have about a hundred dollars in my pocket.”
“I told you so,” said Benton triumphantly.
“I never knew there was anything wrong in saving money,” retorted Grant.
