out and see us, Laura," she said, turning to her step-sister, to whom
Francesco was talking in a low voice. "You used to like Gerano when we
were girls. Do you remember dear old Don Tebaldo, who used to shed tears
because you were a Protestant?"
"Indeed I do. I hear he is alive still. It is two years since I was
there the last time. Francesco has been telling me all about your
illness. I am so sorry. I should think you would do better to consult
some good specialist. But, of course, the country can do you no harm."
"I hope not," said Adele, with sudden despondency. "I have borne enough
already. I could not bear much more."
"Nobody can understand what is the matter with her," observed Francesco,
and his tone showed that he did not care.
"You have let her dance too much this winter," said Laura, addressing
him. "You ought to keep her from over-tiring herself."
"It is not easy to prevent Adele from doing anything she wishes to do,"
answered Savelli. "This winter she has insisted on going everywhere. I
have warned her a hundred times, but she would not listen to me, and of
course this is the result."
"When did it begin?" asked Ghisleri, who seemed interested in Adele's
mysterious illness. "When did you first lose your sleep?"
"You remember," she answered. "We were just talking of our meeting in
the street, and the sulphonal. It was about that time--a little before
that, of course, for I had been suffering several days when I met you."
"Ah, yes--I remember when that was," said Ghisleri, in a tone of
reflection.
He joined in the conversation during a few minutes longer, and then took
leave of the three. Formerly he would have gone to spend an hour or two
with Maddalena, but he had no inclination to do so now. He would gladly
have stayed with Laura if the Savelli couple had not come. He wished to
be alone, now, and to think over what he had done. It was the first time
that he had ever told the story of his love for Bianca Corleone to any
one, and calm as he had seemed while telling it, he had felt a very
strong emotion. He was glad to be at home again, alone with his own
thoughts, and with the picture that reminded him of the dead woman. He
knew that she would have forgiven him for speaking of her to-day as he
had spoken, and to such a woman as Laura Arden. For in his heart he
compared the two. There had been grand lines in Bianca Corleone's
character, as there were in that of her passionate brother, as Ghisleri
believed there must be in Laura Arden's also, and great generosities,
the readiness to go to any length for the sake of real passion, the
power to hate honestly, to love faithfully, and to forgive wholly--all
things which Pietro missed in himself. And Laura had to-day waked the
memory of that great love which had once filled his existence, and which
had not ended with the life that had gone out before its day, in all its
beauty and freshness. He was grateful to her for that, and he sat long
in his chair after his lonely meal, thinking of her and of the other,
and of poor Maddalena dell' Armi, whose very name, sounding in his
imagination, sent a throb of remorse through his heart.
A pencil lay near him and he took a sheet of paper and began to write,
as he often did when he was alone, scribbling verses without rhyme, and
often with little meaning except in their connection with his thoughts.
He was no poet.
   "A sweet, dark woman, with sad, holy eyes,
    Laid her cool hand upon my heart to-day,
    And touched the dear dead thing that's buried there.
    Her saintly magic cannot make it live,
    Nor sting once more with passionate deep thrill
    The bright torn flesh where my lost love breathed last.
   "She has no miracles for me--nor God
    Forgiveness, nor earth healing--nor death fear.
    I think I fear life more--and yet, to live
    Were easy work, could I but learn to die;
    As, if I learned to live, I should hate death.
    But I cannot hate death--not even death--
    Since that is dead which made death hateful once;
    Nor hate I anything; let all live on,
    Just and unjust, bad, good, indifferent,
    Sinner and saint, man, devil, angel, martyr--
    What are they all to me? Good night, sweet rest--
    I wish you most what I can find the least.
    We meet again soon. Have you heard the talk
    About the latest scandal of our town?
    No? Nor have I. I care less than I did
    About the men and women I have known.
    Good night--and thanks for being kind to me."
CHAPTER XVI.
Donna Adele Savelli was ill. There was no denying the fact, though her
husband had ignored it as long as possible, and was very much annoyed to
find that he could not continue to do so until the usual time for moving
to the country arrived. As has been said already, the world attributed
her ill-health to some unexpected awakening of the family skeleton, and
when the Savelli couple suddenly retired to Gerano, it was sure that
Francesco had lost money and that they had gone for economy. But there
was no lack of funds in Casa Savelli. That ancient and excellent house
had, as a family, a keen appreciation of values great and small, and
continued to put away more of its income in safe investments than any
one knew of. Nor was there any other trouble to account for Adele's
illness, so far as any member of the household could judge. Every one
else was well, including the children. Everybody was prosperous. It was
not conceivable that Adele should have taken Herbert Arden's death to
heart in a way to endanger her own health. She might, perhaps, feel some
remorse for having spoken of him as she had--for Savelli had discovered
that something, at least, of the gossip could be traced to her--but she
could not be supposed to care so much as to fall ill. What she suffered
from was evidently some one of those mysterious nervous diseases which,
in Francesco's opinion, modern medical science had invented expressly in
order that it might deal with them. Unfortunately, the particular man of
learning who could cure Adele was not forthcoming. The doctors who were
consulted said that something was preying on her mind, and when she
assured them that this was not the case, they shrugged their shoulders
and prescribed soothing medicines, country air, and exercise. She
particularly dreaded the night, and could not bear to be left alone for
a moment after dark. She said she saw things; when asked what things she
saw, she seemed to draw upon her imagination. Francesco began to fear
that she might go mad, though there was no insanity in the Braccio
family. The prospect was not pleasing, and he would have greatly
preferred that she should die and leave him at liberty to marry Laura
Arden. He never dreamed that the latter would refuse to wed the heir of
all the Savelli, if he were free to ask her hand, and in his cautious,
unenterprising fashion he loved her still, while remaining religiously
faithful to his wife--and not, on the whole, treating her unkindly. The
consequence of all this was that he made her try the simple cure
suggested by the doctors, and accompanied her to Gerano in the early
spring.
The hereditary stronghold from which the head of the Braccio family took
his principal title was a vast and gloomy fortress in the lower range of
the Sabine mountains, situated in a beautiful country, and overlooking
the broad Campagna that lay between it and the distant sea. The great
dark walls were flanked by round towers, and were in some places ten and
twelve feet thick, so that the deep embrasures of the windows were in
themselves like little rooms opening off the great halls behind. The
furniture was almost all old, and was well in keeping with the vaulted
ceilings, the frescoed friezes, and the dark marble door-posts. Donna
Adele's sleeping-chamber was as large as most of the drawing-rooms in
the Palazzo Braccio, and her dressing-room was almost of the same size.
To reach the hall in which she and her husband dined, it was necessary
to traverse five other rooms and a vaulted passage fifty or sixty yards
long, in which the steps of any one who passed echoed and rang on the
stone pavement, and echoed again during some seconds afterwards in a
rather uncanny fashion. The sitting-room was next to the dining-hall,
and consequently also at a great distance from the bedrooms. There was
more of comfort in it than elsewhere, for the walls were hung with
tapestries, and there was a carpet on the floor, whereas in the other
apartments there were only rugs thrown down here and there, where they
were most needed; here, too, the doors had heavy curtains. But, on the
whole, a more ghostly and gloomy place than the castle of Gerano could
hardly be imagined, especially at dusk when the blackness deepened in
the remote corners and recesses of the huge chambers, and the sculptured
corbels of grey stone, high up at the spring of each arch, grew shadowy
and alive with hideous grimaces in the gathering dimness.
Adele had never been subject to any fear of the supernatural, and the
old place was so familiar to her from childhood, that she had looked
forward with pleasure to seeing it again. She was attached to almost
everything connected with it, to the walls themselves, to her own rooms,
to the ugly corbels, to the lame old warder, Giacomo, and to his wife
who helped him to take care of the rooms. She was a woman quite capable
of that sort of feeling, and capable, indeed, of much more, had it
fallen in her path. She could not have hated as she did, if she had not
had some power to love also. Circumstances, however, had developed the
one far more than the other, for her first great passion had been
jealousy.
She and Francesco reached the castle in the afternoon of the day
following their visit to Laura Arden. The weather was fine and the
westering sun streamed through the broad windows and lent everything a
passing air of life and almost of gaiety. During the first hours, Adele
felt that she must soon be better, and that she could find some rest at
last in the atmosphere which recalled her childish days and all her
peaceful girlhood.
But when the sun was low and the golden light turned to purple and then
to fainter hues, and died away into twilight, she shivered as she sat in
the deep window-seat, and she called to her husband, telling him to
order the lamps.
"You used to like the dusk," he observed, as he tugged at the
old-fashioned bell-rope. "I cannot imagine what makes you so afraid of
being in the dark."
"Nor I," she said nervously. "It must be part of my illness. Please have
as much light as possible, and lamps in the passage and in our rooms as
well."
"I suppose candles will do," answered Savelli. "I do not believe there
are more than half a dozen lamps out here. Your people always bring them
when they come."
"Oh, candles, then--anything! Only let me have plenty of light. If there
were no night, I should get well."
"Unfortunately, nature has not provided that form of cure for
invalids," said Savelli, with a laugh. "But we will do our best," he
added, always willing to humour his wife in anything reasonable.
The servants' quarters were very far away, and several minutes elapsed
before a man appeared, and Francesco could give the necessary orders.
The gloom deepened, and Adele came from her place at the window,
evidently in some sort of distress. She sat down close to her
husband--almost cowering at his side. He could not see her face clearly,
but he understood that she was frightened.
"I wish you would tell me what it is you see in the dark," he said, with
a sort of good-natured impatience.
"Oh, please do not talk about it!" she cried. "Talk to me of something
else--talk, for Heaven's sake, talk, until they bring the lamps! I
sometimes think I shall go mad when there is no light."
It is not a particularly easy affair to comply, at short notice, with
such a request for voluble conversation, especially when there is no
extraordinary sympathy between two people, nor any close community of
ideas. But it chanced that Savelli had been reading the papers he had
brought with him, and he began to tell Adele the news he had read, so
that he managed to keep up a fairly continuous series of sentences until
the first lamp was placed on the table.
"Thank you, Carissimo," she said. "No shade!" she exclaimed quickly, as
the man was about to slip one over the light.
"Do you feel better now?" inquired Francesco, with some amusement.
"Yes--much better," she answered, drawing a long breath, and seating
herself by the table in the full glare of the unshaded lamp. "I only ask
one thing," she continued: "Do not leave me if you can help it, and go
with me when we go to our room. I am ashamed of it, but I am so nervous
that I am positively afraid to be alone."
"Would it not be better to have a nurse out, to stay with you all the
time?" inquired Francesco, who had an eye to his own liberty and
comfort, and had no idea of spending several weeks in perpetual
attendance on his wife. "And there is your maid, too. She might help."
"I have taken such a dislike to that woman that I hate the sight of
her."
"I suppose that is a part of your illness," answered her husband
philosophically.
On that first evening he scrupulously fulfilled her wishes, and followed
her closely when she went from room to room. He was in a certain degree
anxious, for her allusion to possible madness coincided with his own
preconceived opinion of her case, and he dreaded such a termination very
greatly. He saw that what she said was quite true, and that she was
unaffectedly frightened if he left her side for a moment. On the
following day he sent a messenger to the city to procure a nurse, for he
saw that he could not otherwise count on an hour's freedom. Being a
careful man, he wished that Adele might have been contented to be
followed about by her maid and a woman from the place, but she refused
altogether to agree to such an arrangement. In her nervous condition,
she could not bear the constant presence of a person for whom she felt
an unreasoning repulsion. Moreover, she had almost decided to send Lucia
away and to get some one more congenial in her place.
Several days passed in this way, and if she was no better she was not
worse. She drove and walked in the spring sunshine, and felt refreshed
by the clear air of the country, but the nights were as unbearable as
ever,--endless, ghostly, full of imaginary horrors, although the lamps
burned brightly in her room till sunrise, and the patient nurse sat by
her bedside reading to herself, and sometimes reading aloud when Adele
desired it. Occasionally, and more often towards morning, snatches of
broken sleep interrupted the monotony of the long-drawn-out suffering.
Adele had implored the doctor who had charge of her case to give her
opiates, or at least chloral; but he had felt great hope that the change
to a country life would produce an immediate good effect, and had
represented to her in terms almost exaggerated the danger of taking such
remedies. The habit once formed, he said, soon became a slavery, and in
nervous organisations like hers was very hard to break. People who took
chloral often ended by taking morphia, and Donna Adele had doubtless
heard enough about the consequences of employing this drug to dread it,
as all sensible persons did. Adele was very far from being persuaded,
but as she could not procure what she wanted without a doctor's order,
which she could not obtain, she was obliged to fall back on the
sulphonal which Ghisleri had recommended to her. She took it in large
quantities, but it had almost ceased to produce any effect, though she
attributed the little rest she got to its influence. The doctor was to
come out and see her at the end of a week, unless sent for especially.
Before the seven days were out, however, a crisis occurred, brought
about by a slight accident, which made his presence imperatively
necessary.
One evening, immediately after dinner, Adele had seated herself in a low
chair by the table in the drawing-room, and had taken up a novel. For a
wonder, it had interested her when she had begun it in the afternoon,
and she returned to it with unwonted delight, looking forward to the
prospect of losing herself in the story during a few hours before going
to bed. Not far from her Savelli sat with that day's papers, gleaning
the news of the day in an idle fashion, and smoking a cigarette. He
rarely smoked anything else, but for some reason or other, he had, on
this particular night, discovered that only a cigar would satisfy him.
Many men are familiar with that craving, but the satisfaction of it
rarely leads to distinct and important results. Francesco rose from his
seat, laid down his paper, and went in search of what he wanted, well
knowing that he could get it much faster than by a servant, and
forgetting that he must leave his wife alone for a few minutes in order
to go to his dressing-room where he kept the box. As has been said, the
drawing-room was carpeted, and his step made very little noise. Adele,
intensely interested in what she was reading, paid less attention to his
movements than usual, and indeed supposed that he had only risen to get
something from another table. The heavily curtained door which opened
upon the great vaulted passage before mentioned was behind her as she
sat, and she did not realise that Francesco was gone until she heard his
echoing footsteps on the stone pavement outside. Then she started, and
almost dropped her book. She held her breath for a moment and then
called him. But he walked quickly, and was already out of hearing. Only
the booming echo reached her through the curtains, reverberated, and
died away. There was nothing to be done but to wait, for she had not the
courage to face the dim passage alone and run after him. She clutched
her book tightly and tried to read again, pronouncing almost aloud the
words she saw. A minute or two passed, and then she heard the echo
again. Francesco was returning. No, it was not his walk. She turned very
pale as she listened. It was the step of a very lame man, irregular and
painful. The novel fell to the ground, and she grasped the arms of her
chair. It was exactly like Arden's step; she had heard it before, in the
gallery at her father's palace, where the floor was of marble. Nearer
and nearer it came, in a sort of triple measure--two shorts and a long,
like an anapæst--and the sharp click of the stick between. She tried to
look behind her, but her blood froze in her veins, and she could not
move. Every instant increased her agony of fear. A moment more and
Herbert Arden would be upon her. Suddenly a second echo, that of
Francesco Savelli's firm, quick step reached her ears. Then she heard
voices, and as the curtain was lifted she recognised the tones of old
Giacomo, the lame warder, who had met her husband in the passage, and
was asking for the orders to be given to the carter who started for
Rome every other night and brought back such provisions as could not be
obtained in Gerano.
Adele sank back in her chair, almost fainting, in her sudden relief from
her ghostly fears. Savelli talked some time with Giacomo. With a great
effort at self-command, Adele took up her novel again and held it before
her eyes, while her heart beat with terrible violence after having
almost stood still while the fright had lasted. Then Francesco came in,
with a lighted cigar between his teeth.
"Do you wish to send anything to Rome--any message?" he asked. "Nothing
else, Giacomo," he said, as he saw that she shook her head.
"Good rest, Excellency," she heard Giacomo say. Then the curtain
dropped, the door was closed from without, and she listened once more to
the lame man's retreating footsteps--terribly like Herbert Arden's walk,
though she was not frightened now.
"I asked you not to leave me alone," she said, as Savelli resumed his
seat and took up the paper again.
"It was only for a minute," he answered indifferently. "I wanted a
cigar. I hope you were not frightened this time."
"No. But I might have been. Another time, please ring for what you
want."
Savelli, who was already deep in the local news about Rome, made an
inarticulate reply intended for assent, and nothing more was said. Adele
took up her book again and did her best to read, but without
understanding a word as she followed the lines.
That night, in despair, she swallowed a larger dose of sulphonal than
she had ever taken before. The consequence was that towards two o'clock
she fell asleep and seemed more quiet than usual, as the nurse watched
her. An hour passed without her waking, then another, and then the dawn
stole through the panes of the deep windows, and daylight came at last.
The room was quite light, and Adele was generally awake at that hour.
But this morning she slept on. The nurse was accustomed to take away
the lamps as soon as Adele needed them no longer, not extinguishing them
in the room on account of the disagreeable smell they made. It chanced
on this occasion--or fate had decreed it--that one of these gave signs
of going out. The nurse rose very softly and took it away, moving
noiselessly in her felt slippers, passing through the open door of the
dressing-room in order to reach the corridor in which the lamps were
left to be taken and cleaned at a later hour. She set the one she
carried upon a deal table which stood there, and tried to put it out, so
as to leave no part of the wick still smouldering, lest it should smoke.
She was a very careful and methodical woman, and took pains to be neat
in doing the smallest things. Just now, too, she was in no hurry, for it
was broad daylight, and Adele would not be nervous if she awoke and
found herself alone.
And Adele was awake. She opened her eyes wearily, realised that there
was no one beside her, and sat up staring at the bright window. Being
nervous, restless, and never at any time languid, she got up, threw a
wrapper over her, and went to the door of the dressing-room, meaning to
look at the rising sun, which was visible from the window on the other
side, the dressing-room itself being at one of the angles of the castle,
with a door leading from the corner of it into the tower.
Adele paused on the threshold, started, stared at something, turned, and
uttered a piercing scream of terror. A moment later she fell in a heap
upon the floor. She had distinctly seen Herbert Arden's figure standing
at one of the windows, his head and hands alone concealed by the inner
shutter which, by an accident, was not wide open, but was turned about
half-way towards the panes. He was dressed in dark blue serge, as she
had often seen him in life, with rather wide trousers almost concealing
the feet, and a round jacket. She had even seen how the cloth was
stretched at the place where his shoulder was most crooked, and how it
hung loosely about his thin figure below that point. He was standing
close to the window, with his back almost quite turned towards her,
apparently looking out, though the shutter hid his face. The whole
attitude was precisely as she had often noticed it when he was alive,
and chanced to be looking at something in the street--the misshapen,
protruding shoulder, the right leg bent in more than the other, not a
detail was missing as she came upon the vision suddenly in the cold
morning light.
The nurse was at her side almost instantly, bending over her and raising
her as well as she could. A moment later the maid rushed in,--she slept
on the other side of the corridor where the nurse had left the
lamp,--and then Francesco Savelli himself, who temporarily occupied a
room next to Adele's and who appeared, robed in a wide dressing-gown of
dark brown velvet, and showing signs of considerable anxiety. He reached
the door before which his wife had fainted and lifted her in his arms.
As he regained his upright position, his eyes naturally fell upon the
figure standing at the window. His sight was not remarkably good, and
from the fact of the shutter being half closed the dressing-room was
darker than the sleeping-chamber. The impression he had was strong and
distinct.
"Who is that man?" he asked, staring at what he saw, while he held
Adele's unconscious form in his arms.
The nurse and the maid both started and looked round. The latter laughed
a little, involuntarily.
"It is not a man, Excellency," she said. "It is Donna Adele's serge
driving cloak. I hung it there last night because there are not enough
hooks in the dressing-room for all her Excellency's things."
She went to the window and took the mantle, which had been hung upon the
knob of the old-fashioned bolt by the two tapes sewn under the shoulders
for the purpose. The folds of the lower part had taken the precise shape
of a man's wide trousers, and the cape, falling half way only, hung
exactly like a jacket, the fulness caused by gathering the upper
portion together at one point, giving the appearance of a hump on a
man's back.
"That was what frightened her," said Savelli, as he turned away with his
burden. "I do not wonder--the thing looked just as Lord Herbert did when
he used to stand at the window."
Adele came to herself in a state of the utmost prostration. Her husband
explained to her carefully what had happened, and tried to persuade her
that she had been the victim of an optical illusion, but though she did
not deny this, he could see that the occurrence had produced a very deep
impression on her mind, and had perhaps had an even more serious effect
on her nerves. He despatched a messenger to Rome for the doctor, and
after doing all he could left her to the care of her nurse and maid and
went out for a walk in the hills, glad to be free for a while from the
irksome task imposed upon him when he remained at home.
While making the most desperate attempts to control herself, Adele was
in a state of the wildest and most conflicting emotion. Her strength
returned, indeed, in a certain measure after a few hours, but her
distress seemed rather to increase than to diminish, when she was able
to walk about the room and submit to being dressed. Her maid irritated
her unaccountably, too, and at last, giving way to the impulse she had
felt so long, she told her that she must go at the end of the month.
The maid, Lucia by name, had for some time expected that her days in
Casa Savelli were numbered, for Adele had shown her dislike very plainly
of late, so that the woman did not show much surprise, and accepted her
dismissal respectfully and quietly, promising herself to tell tales in
her next place concerning Adele's toilette which, though without the
slightest foundation, would be repeated and believed all over Rome.
Later in the day Adele shut herself up in her room, at the time when the
sunshine was streaming in and making everything look bright and
cheerful. She stayed there a long time, and the thoughtful Lucia,
watching her through the keyhole, saw with surprise that her mistress
spent almost an hour upon her knees before the dark old crucifix which
hung above the prayer-stool opposite to the door of the dressing-room.
She noticed that Adele from time to time beat her breast, and then
buried her face in her hands for many minutes. The nurse was asleep far
away and Lucia was quite safe. At last Adele rose, and as though acting
under an irresistible impulse sat down at a table on which she kept her
own writing materials, and began to write rapidly. For a long time she
kept her seat, and her hand moved quickly over the paper. Then, when she
seemed to have finished, she took up the sheets as though she meant to
read them over, and did in fact read a few lines. She dropped the paper
suddenly, and Lucia saw the look of horror that was in her white face.
She seemed to hesitate, rose, turned, and made two steps towards the
crucifix, then returned, and hastily folded up the lengthy letter and
slipped it into a large envelope, on which she wrote an address before
she left the table a second time. When she opened the door of the
dressing-room to call Lucia, the maid was quietly seated by a window
with a piece of needle-work, and rose respectfully as her mistress
entered.
"Send me Giacomo," said Adele, holding the letter in her hand, but as
Lucia went towards the door, she stopped her. "No," she said suddenly.
"Take this to him yourself; tell him to have it registered at once, and
to bring me back the receipt from the post-office. Tell him to be
careful, as it is very important. I am going to lie down. Come to me
some time before sunset."
Lucia took the letter and went out into the corridor. Adele listened a
moment, then went back into her room, bolting the door behind her, as
well as turning the key in the lock. Since her fright in the morning,
she instinctively barricaded herself on that side. But at present the
sunshine was so bright and the place was so cheerful that her fears
seemed almost groundless.
She lay down and closed her eyes. In spite of all the emotions of terror
she had suffered on the previous evening and to-day, and although the
writing of any letter so long as the one she had just finished must
necessarily be very tiring, she felt better than she had been for a long
time, and would perhaps have fallen asleep if the doctor had not arrived
from Rome soon afterwards.
On learning all that had happened, he yielded at last to necessity, and
gave her chloral to take in small doses, showing her how to use it. It
was evident that unless she slept she must break down altogether before
long, and it was no longer safe to let nature have her own way. He had
brought the medicine with him, and gave it into Francesco's keeping,
cautioning him not to let her use it in larger quantities than he had
prescribed. After giving various pieces of good advice he returned to
the city.
Lucia gave her mistress the receipt for the registered letter, and Adele
put it away in the small jewel-case she had brought with her to the
country. That night she took the chloral, and fell asleep peacefully
before half-past eleven o'clock, not to awake until nearly nine on the
following morning. She felt so much better for the one night's rest that
she went for a long walk with her husband, ate well for the first time
in many weeks, and went to bed again almost without having felt a
sensation of fear all day nor during the evening. Once more the chloral
had the desired effect, and on the second morning she began to imagine
that she was recovering. The world looked bright and cheerful, the
swallows wheeled and darted before her windows, and the thrushes and
blackbirds sang far down among the fruit-trees. Even Francesco was less
tiresome and unsympathetic than usual. She was in such a good humour
that she almost repented of having dismissed Lucia.
Then the blow came. The post brought her a letter addressed in a small,
even handwriting, very plain and entirely without flourish or
ornament--such a hand as learned men and theologians often write. The
contents read as follows:
    "MOST EXCELLENT PRINCESS, I have to inform you that I have just
    received, registered, and evidently addressed by your most excellent
    hand, an envelope bearing the Gerano postmark, but containing only
    four blank sheets of ordinary writing paper. As I cannot suppose
    that your Excellency has designed to make me the object of a jest,
    and as it is to be feared that the blank paper has been substituted
    for a writing of importance, by some malicious person, I have
    immediately informed your Excellency of what has occurred. Awaiting
    any instruction or enlightenment with regard to this subject which
    it may please you, most Excellent Princess, to communicate, I write
    myself
    "Your Excellency's most humble, obedient servant,
    "BONAVENTURA, R.R. P.P.O. Min."
Now Padre Bonaventura of the Minor Order of St. Francis was Adele's
confessor in Rome. After the long struggle which Lucia had watched
through the door, Adele's conscience had got the upper hand, aided by
the belief that in following its dictates she would be doing the best
she could towards recovering her peace of mind. Not being willing to go
to the parish priest of Gerano, who had known her and all her family
from her childhood, and who was by no means a man able to give very wise
advice in difficult cases, and being, moreover, afraid of rousing her
husband's suspicions if she insisted upon going to Rome merely to
confess, she had written out a most careful confession of those sins of
which she accused herself, and, as is allowable in extreme cases, had
sent it by post to Padre Bonaventura.
The news that such a document had never reached its destination would
have been enough to disturb most people.
CHAPTER XVII.
Laura Arden's plans for the summer were not by any means settled, but
she was anxious to leave Rome soon, both because travelling in the heat
would be bad for little Herbert, and because she wished to quit the
rather expensive apartment in which she had continued to live after her
husband's death. A far smaller and less pretentious dwelling would be
amply sufficient for her next winter, and in the meantime she intended
to go to some quiet town either in Switzerland or by the seaside, and to
keep as much alone as possible. Her mother might be willing to spend a
month or two with her, and Laura would be very glad of her company, but
there was no one else whose society she desired. She could, of course,
go to England and stay at her brother-in-law's house in solemn and
solitary state, but she feared the long journey for her child, and she
cared little for the sort of existence she must lead in the magnificent
country-seat, in the absence of the Lulworths themselves. It would be
pleasant to lead a very simple and quiet life somewhere out of the
world, and as far as possible from the scene of all her sufferings. If
Adele and Francesco had not appeared while Ghisleri was making his first
visit, she would probably have asked his advice. He had been almost
everywhere, and being himself fond of solitude, would in all likelihood
have told her of some beautiful and secluded spot where she could live
in the way she desired. But in the presence of her step-sister she had
not cared to speak on the subject.
After they had left her she thought a long time of Ghisleri and his
story, and, for the first time in her life, she wished she might see him
again before long. He had shown her a side of himself which she had
neither seen nor guessed at before, and she began to understand, dimly
at first and then more clearly, the strong liking her husband had always
shown for him. He was capable of deep and earnest beliefs and of high
and generous impulses, in spite of his contempt for himself and of the
irregular life he led. His present existence, so far as she knew
anything of it, she condemned as unworthy. She was not, however, a woman
so easily shocked at the spectacle of evil in the lives of others as
might have been expected. There was a great deal of sound good sense in
the composition of her character, and she had seen enough of the world
to have learnt that perfection is a word used to define what is a little
better than the average. What she had disliked in Ghisleri from her
first acquaintance with him was not connected with his reputation, of
which, at that time, she had known very little. Besides, though people
called him fast and wild and more or less heartless, he was liked, on
the whole, as much as any unmarried man in society. He was known to be
honourable, courageous, and very discreet, and the latter quality almost
invariably brings its reward in the end. That he should have been
entangled in more than one love affair was only what was to be expected
of such a man, at two or three and thirty years of age, and no one
really considered him any the worse on that account, while the great
majority of women thought him vastly more interesting for that very
reason. Laura was not, perhaps, so entirely different from the rest of
her sex as Ghisleri was fond of believing. Her education had not been
that of young Roman girls, it is true, and the singular circumstances of
her short married life had not developed her character in the same
direction as theirs generally was by matrimony. But in real womanliness
she was as much a woman as any of them, liable to the same influences
and to the same class of enthusiasms. Because she had loved and married
Herbert Arden, it did not follow that she could not and did not admire
all that was brave and generous and strong, independently of moral
weakness and faults.
Arden himself, indeed, though he had excited her pity by his physical
defects, had commanded her respect by the manly courage he showed under
all his sufferings. She had been able to forget his deformity in the
superior gifts of intelligence and heart which had unquestionably been
his, and, after all, she had loved him most because she had felt that
but for an accident he would have been pre-eminently a manly man.
Cripple as he was, she had always known that she could rely on him, and
her instinct had always told her that he could protect her.
But she had never trusted Ghisleri. He had the misfortune to show his
worst side to most people, and he had shown it to her. She had seen more
than once that he was ready to undertake and carry out almost anything
for his friend's sake, and she had been honestly grateful to him for all
he had done. But she had not been able, until now, to shake off that
feeling of distrust and timid dislike she had always felt in his
presence. She had, indeed, succeeded tolerably well in hiding it from
him, but it had always made her cold in conversation and somewhat formal
in manner, and he, being outwardly a rather formal and cold man had, so
to say, put himself in harmony with her key. For the first time in their
acquaintance, and under pressure of what he considered necessity, he had
suddenly unbent, and had told her the principal story of his life with a
frankness and simplicity that had charmed her. From that hour she judged
him differently. After that first visit, he went often to see her, and
on each occasion he felt drawn more closely to her than before.
"You are very much changed," he said to her one day. "Do you mind my
saying it?"
"Not in the least," Laura answered, with a smile. "But in what way am I
different?"
"In one great thing, I think. You used to be very imposingly calm with
me. You never seemed quite willing to speak freely about anything. Now,
it is almost always you who make me talk by making me feel that you will
talk yourself. That is not very clearly put, is it? I do not know
whether you ever disliked me--if you did, you never showed it. But I
really begin to think that you almost like me. Is there any truth in
that?"
"Yes--a great deal." She smiled again. "More truth than you guess--for I
do not mind saying it since it is all over. I did not like you, and I
used to try and hide it. But I like you now, and I am quite willing that
you should know it."
"That is good of you--good as everything you do is. But I would really
like to know why you have changed your mind. May I?"
"Because I have found out that you are not what I took you for."
"Most discoveries of that kind are disappointments," observed Ghisleri,
with a dry laugh.
"That is just the sort of remark I used to dislike you for," said Laura.
"The world is not all bad, and you know it. Yet out of ten observations
you make, nine, at least, would lead one to believe that you think it
is."
"Excepting yourself, we are all as bad as we can be. What is the use of
denying it?"
"We are not all bad, and I do not choose to be made an exception of. I
am just like other people, or I should be if I were placed as they are.
I not only am sure that you are not a bad man, but I am quite convinced
that in some ways you are a very good one."
"What an odd mistake!"
"Why do you persistently try to make yourself out worse than you are,
and to show your worst side to the world?"
"I suppose that is the side most apparent to myself," answered Ghisleri.
"I cannot help seeing it."
"Because you are not Launcelot, you take yourself for Cæsar Borgia--"
"That would be flattering myself too much. Borgia was by far the more
intelligent of the two. Say Thersites."
"I know nothing about Thersites."
"Then say Judas. There seems to be very little difference of opinion as
to that personage's moral obliquity," Ghisleri laughed.
"Very well," said Laura, gravely. "I suppose you have no doubt, then,
that Judas would have acted as you did in your affair with Don
Gianforte. He would, of course, have submitted to insult rather than
break a promise, and would have allowed--"
"Will you please stop, Lady Herbert?" Ghisleri fixed his blue eyes on
her.
"No, I will not," answered Laura, with decision. "What I like about you
is precisely what you try the most to hide, and I mean to see it and to
make you see it, if possible. You would be much happier if you could. I
suppose that if the majority of people could hear us talking now, they
would think our conversation utterly absurd. They would say that you
were posing, in order to make yourself interesting, and that I was
enough attracted by you to be deceived by the comedy. Is not that the
way the world would look at it?"
"Probably," assented Ghisleri. "Perhaps I am really posing. I do not
pretend to know."
"I am willing to believe that you are not, if you will let me, and I
would much rather. In the first place, you are, at all events, not any
worse than most men one knows. That is evident enough from your actions.
Secondly,--you see I am arguing the case like a lawyer,--if you had not
a high ideal of what you wish to be, you would not have such a poor
opinion of what you are. Is that clear?"
"If there were no right, there could not possibly be any wrong. But
black would be black, even if you could only compare it with blue,
green, and yellow, instead of with white."
"I am not talking of chromolithographs," said Laura. "What I say is
simple enough. If you did not wish to be good, and know what good means,
and if you had not a certain amount of goodness in you, you would not
think yourself so bad. And you are unhappy, as you have told me before
now, because you think all your motives are insincere, or vain, or
defective in some way. I suppose you wish to be happy, and if you do,
you must learn to find some satisfaction in having done your best. I
have said precisely what I mean, and you must not pretend to
misunderstand me."
"Think yourself good, and you will be happy," observed Ghisleri. "That
is the modern form of the proverb."
"Of course it is, and the better reason you really have for thinking
yourself good, the more real and lasting your happiness will be."
Ghisleri laughed to himself, and at himself, as he went away, for being
so much impressed as he was by what Laura said. But he could not deny
that the impression had been made and remained for some time after he
had left her. There was a healthy common-sense about her mind which was
beginning to act upon the tortuous and often morbid complications of his
own. She seemed to know the straight paths and the short cuts to simple
goodness, and never to have guessed at the labyrinthine ways by which he
seemed to himself to be always trying to escape from the bugbear sent to
pursue him by the demon of self-mistrust. He laughed at himself, for he
realised how utterly impossible it would always be for him to think as
she did, or to look upon the world as she saw it. There had been a time
when he had thought more plainly, when a woman had exerted a strong
influence over him, and when a few good things and a few bad ones had
made up the sum of his life. But she was dead, and he had changed. Worse
than that, he had fallen. As he sat in his room and glanced from time to
time at the only likeness he had of Bianca Corleone, he thought of
Beatrice's reproach to Dante in the thirty-first canto of the
"Purgatory":
   "And yet, because thou'rt shamed of me in all
    Thy sin, and that in later days to come
    Thou mayst be brave, hearing the Siren's voice
    Sow deep the seed of tears and hear me speak.
    So shalt thou know how thou should'st have been moved
    By my dead body in ways opposite.
    Nor art nor nature had the power to tempt thee
    With such delight as that fair body could
    In which I lived--which now is scattered earth--
    And if the highest joy was lost to thee
    By my young death, what mortal living thing
    Should have had strength to drag thee down with it?"
As he repeated the last words he started for they reminded him with
painful force of Gianforte Campodonico's insulting speech, and he
detested himself for even allowing the thought to cross his mind--for
allowing himself to repeat Beatrice's words up to that point. It was he
who had dragged down Maddalena dell' Armi to his level, not she who had
made him sink to hers. And yet Campodonico had said almost the same
thing as Beatrice, and certainly without knowing it. In his heart he
knew that Bianca might have reproached him so, but then, deeper still,
he knew that the reproach, from her lips, would have fallen on himself
alone, and would never have been meant for Maddalena.
Ghisleri fell to thinking over his own life and the lives of others, in
one of those black moods which sometimes seized him and in which he
believed in no one's motives, from his own upward. In the course of his
lonely and bitter meditations, he came across an idea which at first
seemed wild and improbable enough, but which, little by little, took
shape as he concentrated his attention upon it, and at last chased every
other memory away. He was not naturally an over-suspicious man, but when
his suspicions were once roused he was apt to go far in pursuit of the
truth, if the matter interested him. He rose and got a book from the
shelves which lined one side of the wall, and began to turn over the
pages rapidly, until he stopped at the place he was looking for. He read
three or four pages very carefully twice over and returned the volume to
its place. Then he sat down to think, and did not move for another
quarter of an hour. At the end of that time he called his servant, a
quiet, hard-working fellow from the Abbruzzi, who rejoiced in the name
of Bonifazio.
"Do you happen to know," he asked, "if there was much scarlet fever in
the city last winter? I have always wondered how poor Lord Herbert
caught it."
Bonifazio had known Lord Herbert for years, just as Donald had known
Ghisleri, for the two friends had often made short journeys together,
taking their servants with them. The Italian thought a long time before
he gave an answer.
"No, Signore. I do not remember hearing that there were many cases. But
then, I am not in the way of knowing. It may have been."
"You are a very discreet man, Bonifazio," said Ghisleri. "Lord Herbert
fell ill on the day after he had dined in Casa Savelli. Do you think you
could find out for me whether any one of the servants had the scarlet
fever at that time?"
"Perhaps, signore. I will try. I know Giuseppe, the butler, who is a
very good person, but who is not fond of talking. When there is such an
illness they either send the servants to the hospital, in the Roman
houses, or else they put them in an attic and try not to let any one
know. For the rest, I will do what I can. You say well, Signore, for it
is possible that the blessed soul of the Milord caught the fever at the
dinner in Casa Savelli."
"That is what I think," said Ghisleri. And he thought a good deal more
also, which he did not communicate to his man.
Bonifazio, as his master said, was discreet. He was also very patient
and very uncommunicative, as the men of the Abbruzzi often are. They
make the best servants when they can be got, for, in addition to the
good qualities most of them possess in a greater or less degree, they
are almost always physically very strong men, though rarely above middle
height, and often extremely pale. Ghisleri knew that so soon as
Bonifazio had anything to tell, he would tell it without further
question or reminder.
Several days passed, during which Ghisleri, who gained strength rapidly,
began to resume his former mode of life, went to the club, saw his
friends, and made a few visits. He went more than once to Maddalena's
house and stayed some time with her when he found her alone. Little by
little he fancied that her look was changing and growing more
indifferent. He was glad of it. He wished that he might be to her
exactly what she was to him. That, indeed, could never be, but he wished
it were possible. He knew that when she ceased to love him altogether,
she could never feel friendly devotion, gratitude, or respect for him,
and he felt all three for her in a far greater degree than she could
imagine. On the whole, during that time their relations were peaceable,
and altogether undisturbed by the frequent differences that had so often
nearly estranged them from one another in earlier days. There was, of
course, an air of constraint about their meetings, more evident in
Maddalena's manner than in Ghisleri's, and the latter hardly hoped that
this could ever quite wear off and leave at last a sincere and true
friendship behind it. That was, indeed, the best that could be hoped for
either of them, and he had no right to expect the best, nor anything
approaching to it.
One evening as he was dressing for dinner, Bonifazio gave him the news
he desired. It had not been easy to extract any communication on the
subject from old Giuseppe, the Savelli's butler, but such as he had at
last given was clear, concise, and to the point. There had been a case
of scarlet fever in the house. Donna Adele's maid had taken it, and was
just convalescent at the time when the Ardens dined with Adele and her
husband. The woman's name was Lucia, and on falling ill she had been at
once removed to a distant room in the upper part of the palace. The case
had been rather a severe one, Giuseppe believed, and it was only within
the last few weeks that Lucia seemed to have regained her strength. She
was at present at Gerano with her mistress, but had written to the wife
of the Savelli's porter saying that she had been dismissed, and was to
leave at the end of the month, and asking for assistance in finding a
new place. Ghisleri was satisfied for the present. It was quite clear
that Arden must have caught the fever that killed him so suddenly in
Casa Savelli. Whether Donna Adele had in any way communicated the
contagion was another matter, and not easily decided. Her inexplicable
nervousness, beginning about the time that Arden died, might be
accounted for on the ground that she was aware of having been the
unintentional cause of his illness, and felt that by a little precaution
she might have averted the catastrophe. The idea was constantly present
in Ghisleri's mind, but it lacked detail and clearness, and constituted
at most a rather strong suspicion. Of course it was quite possible, and,
considering Adele's character, more than likely, that she had never been
near the maid during her illness. If she had never had the scarlet fever
herself, it was quite certain. But that was a point easily settled, and
was a very important one.
On the following day, Ghisleri called at the Palazzo Braccio. The
Princess received him, as she always did, without any signs of
satisfaction, but without marked coldness. To her he was always "that
wild Ghisleri," and she thoroughly disapproved of him, wishing that he
would not visit her daughter so often. He was quite aware of the feeling
she entertained towards him, and was always especially careful in his
conversation with her. In spite of her long residence in Rome, as a
Roman, and among Romans, she had remained altogether English in nature.
Laura, English on both sides by her birth, had far less of prejudice
than her mother, and was altogether more of a cosmopolitan in every way.
On the present occasion, Ghisleri led the conversation so as to speak of
her. He began by asking the Princess where she herself meant to spend
the summer, and whether she intended to be with her daughter.
"I hope to be with her a great part of the time," she answered. "I do
not like to think of her as travelling about the world alone. Indeed, I
do not at all approve of her living without a companion, as she insists
upon doing. She is far too young, and people are far too ready to talk
about her."
"She has such wonderful dignity," answered Ghisleri, "that she could do
with impunity what most women could not do at all. Besides, her mourning
protects her for the present, and her child. She is looking wonderfully
well--do you not think so?"
"Yes. When one thinks of all she has suffered, it is amazing. But she
was always strong."
"I should suppose so. Any one else would have caught the scarlet fever."
"As for that," said the Princess, unsuspiciously, "people rarely have it
twice."
"She has had it, then."
"Oh, yes. Both the girls had it at the same time, when they were little
things. Let me see--Laura must have been six years old then. They had it
rather badly, and I remember being terribly anxious about them."
"I see," answered Ghisleri, carelessly. "That accounts for it. But to go
back to what we were speaking of, I wonder that Lady Herbert does not
spend the summer with you at Gerano, if you go there as usual."
"I do not think she will consent to that," said the Princess, rather
coldly. "She says she prefers the north for the baby. It is quite true
that it is often very hot at Gerano."
"Donna Adele was good enough to ask me to go out and spend a day or two
while she is there. It must be very pleasant just now, in the spring
weather."
"Why do you not go?" asked the Princess, with more warmth, for she
preferred that Ghisleri should be where he could not see Laura every
day, as she believed he now did. "You would be doing them both a
kindness. Poor Adele was obliged to go to the country against her
will--she is in such a terribly nervous state. I really do not know what
to make of it."
"What news have you of her?" inquired Ghisleri, in a tone of polite
solicitude. "Is she at all better?"
"She was better after the first few days. Then it appears that she had a
fright--I do not quite understand how it was from what Francesco wrote
to my husband--but it seems to have been one of those odd
accidents--optical illusions, I suppose--which sometimes terrify
people."
"How very unfortunate! What did she fancy she saw?"
"It was absurd, of course!" answered the Princess, who had no special
reason for being reticent on the subject. "It seems that there was a
blue cloak of hers hanging somewhere in her dressing-room,--at a window,
I believe,--and she went in suddenly very early in the morning before it
was quite broad daylight, and took the cloak for a man. In fact she
thought it was poor dear Arden. You know he always used to wear blue
serge clothes. Francesco saw it himself afterwards and says that it was
extraordinarily like. But I cannot understand how any one in their
senses could be deceived in that way. Adele is dreadfully overwrought
and imaginative. She has danced too much this winter, I suppose."
When Ghisleri went away he was almost quite persuaded that Adele was
conscious of having communicated the fever to Arden. Of course, it might
all be mere coincidence, but to him the evidence seemed strong. He wrote
a note to Adele, asking whether he might avail himself of her
invitation, and spend a day at Gerano. Her answer came by return of
post, begging him to come at once, and to stay as long as possible. The
handwriting was so illegible that he had some difficulty in reading it.
To judge from that, at least, Adele was no better.
Before leaving Rome, he thought it best to inform Laura of his intended
visit. He had never spoken of her step-sister in a way to make her
suppose that he disliked her, but Laura knew very well what part he had
played at the time when Adele was spreading slanderous reports, for her
mother had repeated the story precisely as the Prince had told it to
her. Ghisleri, of course, was not aware of this, for Arden had not
mentioned the matter to him, unless his reference to the enemies he and
Laura had in Rome, during the last conversation he had with his friend,
could be taken as implying that Ghisleri knew as much as he himself. But
in any case, he was sure that Laura would be surprised at his going to
Gerano, even for a day, and it was better to warn her beforehand, and
if possible give her some reasonable explanation of his conduct. He
chose to refer his visit at once to motives of curiosity, together with
a natural desire to breathe the purer air of the country, now that he
was able to make the short journey without fatigue or danger.
"I have never been to Gerano," he added. "It is said to be a wonderful
place--one of the finest mediæval castles in this part of the world. I
really wish to see it--they say the air is good--and since Donna Adele
is so kind as to ask me, I shall go."
"You would see it better if you went when my mother and step-father are
there. He would show you everything and give you all sorts of historical
details which Adele has forgotten and which Francesco never knew."
"No doubt, but there is one objection," answered Ghisleri. "They have
never asked me. I am not a favourite with the Princess. I am sure you
know that."
"She thinks you are very wild," said Laura, with a smile. "She
disapproves of you on moral grounds--not at all in the way I used
to--and still do, sometimes," she added, incautiously.
"Still?"
"Oh, it is very foolish! Do not talk about it. When are you going out?"
Laura had undeniably felt a sudden return of her old distrust in him,
when she had heard of the visit. It was natural enough that she should,
