though she could not deny that he had some distinct qualification for
it. The air of confidence which he diffused about him unconsciously, and
which often served him so well in newspaper life, was in itself the most
valuable property that a detective could have. She said this, and she
did not object to the profession itself, except for the dangers that she
believed it involved. She did not wish Pinney to incur these, and she
would not be laughed out of her fears when he told her that there were
lines of detective work that were not half so dangerous, in the long
run, as that of a reporter subject to assignment. She only answered that
she would much rather he kept along on the newspaper. But this offer to
look up Northwick in behalf of his family, was a different affair. That
would give them a chance for their outing in Canada, and pay them better
than any newspaper enterprise. They agreed to this, and upon how much
good it would do the baby, and they imagined how Mrs. Pinney should stay
quietly at Quebec, while Pinney went about, looking up his man, if that
was necessary.
"And then," he said, "if I find him, and all goes well, and I can get
him to come home with me by moral suasion, I can butter my bread on both
sides. There's a reward out for him; and I guess I will just qualify as
a detective before we start, so as to be prepared for emergencies--"
"Lorenzo Pinney!" screamed his wife. "Don't you think of such a wicked
thing! So dishonorable!"
"How wicked? How dishonorable?" demanded Pinney.
"I'm ashamed to have to tell you, if you don't see; and I won't. But
if you go as a detective, go as a detective; and if you go as their
friend, to help them and serve them, then go that way. But don't you try
to carry water on both shoulders. If you do, I won't stir a step with
you; so there!"
"Ah!" said Pinney, "I understand. I didn't catch on, at first. Well, you
needn't be afraid of my mixing drinks. I'll just use the old fellow for
practice. Very likely he may lead to something else in the defaulter
line. You won't object to that?"
"No; I won't object to that."
They had the light preparations of young housekeepers to make, and they
were off to the field of Pinney's work in a very few days after he had
seen Matt, and told him that he would talk it over with his wife. At
Quebec he found board for his family at the same hotel where Northwick
had stopped in the winter, but it had kept no recognizable trace of him
in the name of Warwick on its register. Pinney passed a week of search
in the city, where he had to carry on his investigations with an eye not
only to Northwick's discovery, but to his concealment as well. If he
could find him he must hide him from the pursuit of others, and he went
about his work in the journalistic rather than the legal way. He had not
wholly "severed his connection," as the newspaper phrase is, with the
Events. He had a fast and loose relation with it, pending a closer tie
with his friend, the detective, which authorized him to keep its name on
his card; and he was soon friends with all the gentlemen of the local
press. They did not understand, in their old-fashioned, quiet ideal of
newspaper work, the vigor with which Pinney proposed to enjoy the
leisure of his vacation in exploiting all the journalistic material
relating to the financial exiles resident in their city. But they had a
sort of local pride in their presence, and with their help Pinney came
to know all that was to be known of them. The colony was not large, but
it had its differences, its distinctions, which the citizens were very
well aware of. There are defaulters and defaulters, and the blame is not
in all cases the same, nor the breeding of the offenders. Pinney learned
that there were defaulters who were in society, and not merely because
they were defaulters for large sums and were of good social standing at
home, but because there were circumstances that attenuated their offence
in the eyes of the people of their city of refuge; they judged them by
their known intentions and their exigencies, as the justice they had
fled from could not judge them. There were other defaulters of a
different type and condition, whose status followed them: embezzlers who
had deliberately planned their misdeeds, and who had fallen from no
domestic dignity in their exclusion from respectable association abroad.
These Pinney saw in their walks about the town; and he was not too
proud, for the purposes of art, to make their acquaintance, and to study
in their vacancy and solitude the dulness and weariness of exile. They
did not consort together, but held aloof from one another, and professed
to be ignorant each of the affairs of the rest. Pinney sympathized in
tone if not in sentiment with them, but he did not lure them to the
confidence he so often enjoyed; they proved to be men of reticent
temper; when frankly invited to speak of their history and their hopes
in the interest of the reputations they had left behind them, they said
they had no statement to make.
It was not from them that Pinney could hope to learn anything of the man
he was seeking; Northwick was not of their order, morally or socially,
and from the polite circles where the more elect of the exiles moved,
Pinney was himself excluded by the habits of his life and by the choice
of the people who formed those circles. This seemed to Pinney rather
comical, and it might have led him to say some satirical things of the
local society, if it had been in him to say bitter things at all. As it
was, it amused his inexhaustible amiability that an honest man like
himself should not be admitted to the company of even the swellest
defaulters when he was willing to seek it. He regretted that it should
be so, mainly because Northwick could have been heard of among them, if
at all; and when all his other efforts to trace him at Quebec failed, he
did not linger there. In fact he had not expected to find him there, but
he had begun his search at that point, because he must stop there on his
way to Rimouski, where Northwick's letter to the Events was posted.
This postmark was the only real clue he had; but he left no stone
unturned at Quebec, lest Northwick should be under it. By the time he
came to the end of his endeavors, Mrs. Pinney and the baby were on such
friendly terms with the landlady of the hotel where they were staying,
that Pinney felt as easy at parting from them as he could ever hope to
feel. His soft heart of husband and father was torn at leaving them
behind; but he did not think it well to take them with him, not knowing
what Rimouski might be like, or how long he might be kept remote from an
English-speaking, or English-practising, doctor. He got a passage down
the river on one of the steamers for Liverpool; and with many vows, in
compliance with his wife's charges, that he would not let the vessel by
any chance carry him on to Europe, he rent himself away. She wagged the
baby's hand at him from the window where she stood to watch him getting
into the calash, and the vision of her there shone in his tears, as the
calash dashed wildly down Mountain Hill Street, and whirled him through
the Lower Town on to the steamer's landing. He went to his stateroom as
soon as he got aboard, that he might give free course to his heartache,
and form resolutions to be morally worthy of getting back alive to them,
and of finding them well. He would, if he could, have given up his whole
enterprise; and he was only supported in it by remembering what she had
said in praise of its object. She had said that if he could be the means
of finding their father for those two poor women, she should think it
the greatest thing that ever was; and more to be glad of than if he
could restore him to his creditors. Pinney had laughed at this womanish
view of it; he had said that in either case it would be business, and
nothing else; but now his heart warmed with acceptance of it as the only
right view. He pledged himself to it in anticipative requital of the
Providence that was to bring them all together again, alive and well;
good as he had felt himself to be, when he thought of the love in which
he and his wife were bound, he had never experienced so deep and
thorough a sense of desert as in this moment. He must succeed, if only
to crown so meritorious a marriage with the glory of success and found
it in lasting prosperity.
II.
These emotions still filled Pinney to the throat when at last he left
his cabin and went forward to the smoking-room, where he found a number
of veteran voyagers enjoying their cigars over the cards which they had
already drawn against the tedium of the ocean passage. Some were not
playing, but merely smoking and talking, with glasses of clear, pale
straw-colored liquid before them. In a group of these the principal
speaker seemed to be an American; the two men who chorused him were
Canadians; they laughed and applauded with enjoyment of what was
national as well as what was individual in his talk.
"Well, I never saw a man as mad as old Oiseau when he told about that
fellow, and how he tried to start him out every day to visit his
soap-mine in the 'ill, as he called it, and how the fellow would slip
out of it, day after day, week after week, till at last Oiseau got
tired, and gave him the bounce when the first boat came up in the
spring. He tried to make him believe it would be good for his health, to
go out prospecting with him, let alone making his everlasting fortune;
but it was no good; and all the time Oiseau was afraid he would fall
into my hands and invest with me. 'I make you a present of 'im, Mr.
Markham,' says he. 'I 'ave no more use for him, if you find him.'"
One of the Canadians said, "I don't suppose he really had anything to
invest."
"Why, yes, that was the curious thing about it; he had a belt full of
thousand-dollar bills round him. They found it when he was sick; and old
Oiseau was so afraid that something would happen to him, and he would
be suspected of it, that he nursed him like a brother till he got well,
and as soon as he was able to get away he bounced him."
"And what do you suppose was the matter with him, that he wouldn't even
go to look at Oiseau's soap-mine?"
"Well," said the American, closing his eyes for the better enjoyment of
the analysis, and giving a long, slow pull at his cigar, "there might
have been any one of several things. My idea is that he was a defaulter,
and the thousand-dollar bills--there were forty or fifty of them, Oiseau
says--were part of the money he got away with. Then, very likely he had
no faith in Oiseau--knew it was probably a soap-mine, and was just
putting him off till he could get away himself. Or, maybe his fever left
him a little cracked, and he didn't know exactly what he was about.
Then, again, if my theory of what the man was is true, I think that kind
of fellow gets a twist simply from what he's done. A good many of them
must bring money away with them, and there are business openings
everywhere; but you never hear of their going into anything over here."
"That is odd," said the Canadian.
"Or would be if it were not so common. It's the rule here, and I don't
know an exception. The defaulter never does anything with his money,
except live on it. Meigs, who built those railroads on the Andes, is the
only one who ever showed enterprise; and I never understood that it was
a private enterprise with him. Anyway, the American defaulter who goes
to Canada never makes any effort to grow up with the country. He simply
rests on his laurels, or else employs his little savings to negotiate a
safe return. No, sir; there's something in defalcation that saps a man's
business energies, and I don't suppose that old fellow would have been
able to invest in Oiseau's gold mine if it had opened at his feet, and
he could have seen the sovereigns ready coined in it. He just
couldn't. I can understand that state of mind, though I don't pretend
to respect it. I can imagine just how the man trembled to go into some
speculation, and didn't dare to. Must have been an old hand at it, too.
But it seems as if the money he steals becomes sacred to a man when he
gets away with it, and he can't risk it."
"I rather think you could have overcome his scruples, Markham, if you
could have got at him," said the Canadian.
"Perhaps," Markham assented. "But I guess I can do better with our stock
in England."
Pinney had let his cigar go out, in his excitement. He asked Markham for
a light, though there were plenty of matches, and Markham accepted the
request as an overture to his acquaintance.
"Brother Yank?" he suggested.
"Boston."
"Going over?"
"Only to Rimouski. You don't happen to know the name of that defaulter,
do you?"
"No; I don't," said Markham.
"I had an idea I knew who it was," said Pinney.
Markham looked sharply at him. "After somebody in Rimouski?"
"Well, not just in that sense, exactly, if you mean as a detective. But
I'm a newspaper man, and this is my holiday, and I'm working up a little
article about our financiers in exile while I'm resting. My name's
Pinney."
"Markham can fill you up with the latest facts," said the Canadian,
going out; "and he's got a gold mine that beats Oiseau's hollow. But
don't trust him too far. I know him; he's a partner of mine."
"That accounts for me," said Markham, with the tolerant light of a
much-joked joker in his eyes. With Pinney alone he ceased to talk the
American which seemed to please his Canadian friend, and was willing
soberly to tell all he knew about Oiseau's capitalist, whom he merely
conjectured to be a defaulter. He said the man called himself Warwick,
and professed to be from Chicago; and then Pinney recalled the name and
address in the register of his Quebec hotel, and the date, which was
about that of Northwick's escape. "But I never dreamt of his using half
of his real name," and he told Markham what the real name was; and then
he thought it safe to trust him with the nature of his special mission
concerning Northwick.
"Is there any place on board where a man could go and kick himself?" he
asked.
"Do it here as well as anywhere," said Markham, breaking his cigar-ash
off. But Pinney's alluring confidence, and his simple-hearted
acknowledgment of his lack of perspicacity had told upon him; he felt
the fascinating need of helping Pinney, which Pinney was able to inspire
in those who respected him least, and he said, "There was a priest who
knew this man when he was at Haha Bay, and I believe he has a parish
now--yes, he has! I remember Oiseau told me--at Rimouski. You'd better
look him up."
"Look him up!" said Pinney, in a frenzy. "I'll live with him before
I'm in Rimouski twenty seconds."
He had no trouble in finding Père Étienne, but after the first hopeful
encounter with the sunny surface sweetness of the young priest, he found
him disposed to be reserved concerning the Mr. Warwick he had known at
Haha Bay. It became evident that Père Étienne took Pinney for a
detective; and however willing he might have been to save a soul for
Paradise in the person of the man whose unhappiness he had witnessed, he
was clearly not eager to help hunt a fugitive down for State's prison.
Even when Pinney declared his true character and mission, the priest's
caution exacted all the proofs he could give, and made him submit his
authorization to an English-speaking notary of the priest's
acquaintance. Then he owned that he had seen Mr. Warwick since their
parting at Haha Bay; Mr. Warwick had followed him to Rimouski, after
several weeks, and Père Étienne knew where he was then living. But he
was still so anxious to respect the secrecy of a man who had trusted him
as far as Northwick had, that it required all the logic and all the
learning of the notary to convince him that Mr. Warwick, if he were the
largest defaulter ever self-banished, was in no danger of extradition at
Pinney's hands. It was with many injunctions, and upon many promises,
that at last he told Pinney where Mr. Warwick was living, and furnished
him with a letter which was at once warrant and warning to the exile.
Pinney took the first train back toward Quebec; he left it at St. André,
and crossed the St. Lawrence to Malbaie. He had no trouble there, in
finding the little hostelry where Mr. Warwick lodged. But Pinney's
spirit, though not of the greatest delicacy, had become sensitized
toward the defaulter through the scrupulous regard for him shown by Père
Étienne no loss than by the sense of holding almost a filial relation to
him in virtue of his children's authorization. So his heart smote him at
the ghastly look he got, when he advanced upon Warwick, where he sat at
the inn-door, in the morning sun, and cheerily addressed him, "Mr.
Northwick, I believe."
It was the first time Northwick had heard his real name spoken since
Putney had threatened him in the station, the dark February morning when
he fled from home. The name he had worn for the last five months was
suddenly no part of him, though till that moment it had seemed as much
so as the white beard which he had suffered to hide his face.
"I don't expect you to answer me," said Pinney, feeling the need of
taking, as well as giving time, "till you've looked at this letter, and
of course I've no wish to hurry you. If I'm mistaken, and it isn't Mr.
Northwick, you won't open the letter."
He handed him, not the letter which Père Étienne had given him, but the
letter Suzette Northwick had written her father; and Pinney saw that he
recognized the hand-writing of the superscription. He saw the letter
tremble in the old man's hand, and heard its crisp rustle as he clutched
it to keep it from falling to the ground. He could not bear the sight of
the longing and the fears that came into his face. "No hurry; no hurry,"
he said, kindly, and turned away.
III.
When Pinney came back from the little turn he took, Northwick was still
holding the unopened letter in his hand. He stood looking at it in a
kind of daze, and he was pale, and seemed faint.
"Why, Mr. Northwick," said Pinney, "why don't you read your letter? If
it hadn't been yours, don't I know that you'd have given it back to me
at once?"
"It isn't that," said the man, who was so much older and frailer than
Pinney had expected to find him. "But--are they well? Is it--bad news?"
"No!" Pinney exulted. "They're first-rate. You needn't be afraid to read
the letter!" Pinney's exultation came partly from his certainty that it
was really Northwick, and partly from the pleasure he felt in reassuring
him; he sympathized with him as a father. His pleasure was not marred by
the fact that he knew nothing of the state of Northwick's family, and
built his assertion upon the probability that the letter would contain
nothing to alarm or afflict him, "Like a glass of water?" he suggested,
seeing Northwick sit inert and helpless on the steps of the inn-porch,
apparently without the force to break the seal of the letter. "Or a
little brandy?" Pinney handed him the neat leather-covered flask his
wife had reproached him for buying when they came away from home; she
said he could not afford it; but he was glad he had got it, now, and he
unscrewed the stopple with pride in handing it to Northwick. "You look
sick."
"I haven't been very well," Northwick admitted, and he touched the
bottle with his lips. It revived him, and Pinney now saw that if he
would leave him again, he would open the letter. There was little in it
but the tender assurance Suzette gave him of their love, and the anxiety
of Adeline and herself to know how and where he was. She told him that
he was not to feel troubled about them; that they were well, and unhappy
only for him; but he must not think they blamed him, or had ever done
so. As soon as they were sure they could reach him, she said, they would
write to him again. Adeline wrote a few lines with her name, to say that
for some days past she had not been quite well; but that she was better
and had nothing to wish for but to hear from him.
When Pinney came back a second time, he found Northwick with the letter
open in his hand.
"Well, sir," he said, with the easy respectfulness toward Northwick that
had been replacing, ever since he talked with Matt Hilary, the
hail-fellow manner he used with most men, and that had now fully
established itself, "You've got some noble scenery about here." He meant
to compliment Northwick on the beauty of the landscape, as people
ascribe merit to the inhabitants of a flourishing city.
Northwick, by his silence, neither accepted nor disclaimed the credit of
the local picturesqueness; and Pinney ventured to add, "But you seem to
take it out in nature, Mr. Northwick. The place is pretty quiet, sir."
Northwick paid no heed to this observation, either; but after sitting
mute so long that Pinney began to doubt whether he was ever going to
speak at all, he began to ask some guarded and chary questions as to how
Pinney had happened to find him. Pinney had no unwillingness to tell,
and now he gave him the letter of Père Étienne, with a eulogy of the
priest's regard for Northwick's interest and safety. He told him how
Markham's talk had caught his attention, and Northwick tacitly
recognized the speculator. But when Pinney explained that it was the
postmark on his letter to the Events that gave him the notion of going
to Rimouski, he could see that Northwick was curious to know the effect
of that letter with the public. At first he thought he would let him
ask; but he perceived that this would be impossible for Northwick, and
he decided to say, "That letter was a great sensation, Mr. Northwick."
The satisfaction that lighted up Northwick's eyes caused Pinney to add,
"I guess it set a good many people thinking about you in a different
way. It showed that there was something to be said on both sides, and I
believe it made friends for you, sir. Yes, sir." Pinney had never
believed this till the moment he spoke, but then it seemed so probable
he had that he easily affirmed it. "I don't believe, Mr. Northwick," he
went on, "but what this trouble could be patched up, somehow, so that
you could come back, if you wanted to, give 'em time to think it over a
little."
As soon as he said this, the poison of that ulterior purpose which his
wife had forbidden him, began to work in Pinney's soul. He could not
help feeling what a grand thing it would be if he could go back with
Northwick in his train, and deliver him over, a captive of moral
suasion, to his country's courts. Whatever the result was, whether the
conviction or the acquittal of Northwick, the process would be the
making of Pinney. It would carry him to such a height in the esteem of
those who knew him, that he could choose either career, and whether as a
reporter or a detective, it would give his future the distinction of one
of the most brilliant pieces of work in both sorts. Pinney tried his
best to counteract the influence of these ideas by remembering his
promises to his wife; but it was difficult to recall his promises with
accuracy in his wife's absence; and he probably owed his safety in this
matter more to Northwick's temperament than to any virtue of his own.
"I think I understand how that would be," said the defaulter coldly; and
he began very cautiously to ask Pinney the precise effect of his letter
as Pinney had gathered it from print and hearsay. It was not in Pinney's
nature to give any but a rose-colored and illusory report of this; but
he felt that Northwick was sizing him up while he listened, and knew
just when and how much he was lying. This heightened Pinney's respect
for him, and apparently his divination of Pinney's character had nothing
to do with Northwick's feeling toward him. So far as Pinney could make
out it was friendly enough, and as their talk went on he imagined a
growing trustfulness in it. Northwick kept his inferences and
conclusions to himself. His natural reticence had been intensified by
the solitude of his exile; it stopped him short of any expression
concerning Pinney's answers; and Pinney had to construct Northwick's
opinions from his questions. His own cunning was restlessly at work
exploring Northwick's motives in each of these, and it was not at fault
in the belief it brought him that Northwick clearly understood the
situation at home. He knew that the sensation of his offence and flight
were past, and that so far as any public impulse to punish him was
concerned, he might safely go back. But he knew that the involuntary
machinery of the law must begin to operate upon him as soon as he came
within its reach; and he could not learn from Pinney that anything had
been done to block its wheels. The letter from his daughters threw no
light upon this point; it was an appeal for some sign of life and love
from him; nothing more. They, or the friends who were advising them, had
not thought it best to tell him more than that they were well, and
anxious to hear from him; and Pinney really knew nothing more about
them. He had not been asked to Hatboro' to see them before he started,
and with all the will he had to invent comfortable and attractive
circumstances for them, he was at a disadvantage for want of material.
The most that he could conjecture was that Mr. Hilary's family had not
broken off their friendly relations with them. He had heard old Hilary
criticised for it, and he told Northwick so.
"I guess he's been standing by you, Mr. Northwick, as far as he
consistently could," he said; and Northwick ventured to reply that he
expected that. "It was young Hilary who brought me the letter, and
talked the whole thing up with me," Pinney added.
Northwick had apparently not expected this; but he let no more than the
fact appear. He kept silent for a time; then he said, "And you don't
know anything about the way they're living?"
"No, I don't," said Pinney, with final candor. "But I should say they
were living along there about as usual. Mr. Hilary didn't say but what
they were. I guess you haven't got any cause to be uneasy on that score.
My idea is, Mr. Northwick, that they wanted to leave you just as free as
they could about themselves. They wanted to find out your whereabouts in
the land of the living, first of all. You know that till that letter of
yours came out, there were a good many that thought you were killed in
that accident at Wellwater, the day you left home."
Northwick started. "What accident? What do you mean?" he demanded.
"Why, didn't you know about it? Didn't you see the accounts? They had a
name like yours amongst the missing, and people who thought you were not
in it, said it was a little job you had put up. There was a despatch
engaging a Pullman seat signed, T. W. Northwick--"
"Ah! I knew it!" said Northwick. "I knew that I must have signed my real
name!"
"Well, of course," said Pinney, soothingly, "a man is apt to do that,
when he first takes another. It's natural."
"I never heard of the accident. I saw no papers for months. I wouldn't;
and then I was sick--They must have believed I was dead!"
"Well, sir," said Pinney, "I don't know that that follows. My wife and
myself talked that up a good deal at the time, and we concluded that it
was about an even thing. You see it's pretty hard to believe that a
friend is dead, even when you've seen him die; and I don't understand
how people that lose friends at a distance can ever quite realize that
they're gone. I guess that even if the ladies went upon the theory of
the accident, there was always a kind of a merciful uncertainty about
it, and that was my wife's notion, too. But that's neither here nor
there, now, Mr. Northwick. Here you are, alive and well, in spite of all
theories to the contrary--though they must have been pretty well
exploded by your letter to the Events--and the question is what answer
are you going to let me take back to your family? You want to send some
word, don't you? My instructions were not to urge you at all, and I
won't. But if I was in your place, I know what I should do."
Northwick did not ask him what it was he would do. He fell into a deep
silence which it seemed to Pinney he would never break; and his face
became such a blank that all Pinney's subtlety was at fault. It is
doubtful, indeed, if there was anything definite or directed in the mute
misery of Northwick's soul. It was not a sharp anguish, such as a finer
soul's might have been, but it was a real misery, of a measure and a
quality that he had not felt before. Now he realized how much he must
have made his children suffer. Perhaps it wrung him the more keenly
because it seemed to be an expression of the divine displeasure, which
he flattered himself he had appeased, and was a fatal consequence of his
guilt. It was a terrible suggestion of the possibility that, after all,
Providence might not have been a party to the understanding between
them, and that his good-will toward those he had wronged had gone for
nothing. He had blamed himself for not having tried to retrieve himself
and make their losses good. It was no small part of his misery now to
perceive that anything he might have done would have gone for nothing in
this one-sided understanding. He fetched a long, unconscious sigh.
"Why, it's all over, now, Mr. Northwick," said Pinney, with a certain
amusement at the simple-heartedness of this sigh, whose cause he did not
misinterpret. "The question is now about your getting back to them."
"Getting back? You know I can't go back," said Northwick, with bitter
despair, and an openness that he had not shown before.
Far beneath and within the senses that apprehend the obvious things,
Pinney felt the unhappy man beginning to cling to him. He returned,
joyously, "I don't know about that. Now, see here, Mr. Northwick, you
believe that I'm here as your friend, don't you? That I want to deal in
good faith with you?" Northwick hesitated, and Pinney pursued, "Your
daughter's letter ought to be a guaranty of that!"
"Yes," Northwick admitted, after another hesitation.
"Well, then, what I'm going to say is in your interest, and you've got
to believe that I have some authority for saying it. I can't tell you
just how much, for I don't know as I know myself exactly. But I think
you can get back if you work it right. Of course, you can't get back for
nothing. It's going to cost you something. It's going to cost you all
you've brought with you,"--Pinney watched Northwick's impassive face for
the next change that should pass upon it; he caught it, and added--"and
more. But I happen to know that the balance will be forthcoming when
it's needed. I can't say how I know it, for I don't exactly know how
I know it. But I do know it; and you know that it's for you to take
the first step. You must say how much money you brought with you, and
where it is, and how it can be got at. I should think," said Pinney,
with a drop in his earnestness, and as if the notion had just occurred
to him, "you would want to see that place of yours again."
Northwick gave a gasp in the anguish of homesickness the words brought
upon him. In a flash of what was like a luminous pang, he saw it all as
it looked the night he left it in the white landscape under the high,
bare wintry sky. "You don't know what you're talking about," he said,
with a kind of severity.
"No," Pinney admitted, "I don't suppose any one can begin to appreciate
it as you do. But I was there, just after you skipped--"
"Then I was the kind of man who would skip," Northwick swiftly
reflected--
"And I must say I would take almost any chance of getting back to a
place like that. Why," he said, with an easy, caressing cordiality, "you
can't have any idea how completely the thing's blown over. Why, sir,
I'll bet you could go back to Hatboro' now, and be there twenty-four
hours before anybody would wake up enough to make trouble for you. Mind,
I don't say that's what we want you to do. We couldn't make terms for
you half as well, with you on the ground. We want you to keep your
distance for the present, and let your friends work for you. Like a
candidate for the presidency," Pinney added, with a smile. "Hello! Who's
this?"
A little French maid, barefooted, black-eyed, curly-headed, shyly
approached Northwick, and said, "Diner, Monsieur."
"That means dinner," Northwick gravely interpreted. "I will ask you to
join me."
"Oh, thank you, I shall be very glad," said Pinney rising with him. They
had been sitting on the steps of a structure that Pinney now noticed was
an oddity among the bark-sheathed cabins of the little hamlet. "Why,
what's this?"
"It's the studio of an American painter who used to come here. He hasn't
been here for several years."
"I suppose you expect to light out if he comes," Pinney suggested, in
the spirit of good fellowship towards Northwick now thoroughly
established in him.
"He couldn't do me any harm, if he wanted to," answered Northwick, with
unresentful dignity.
"No," Pinney readily acquiesced, "and I presume you'd be glad to hear a
little English, after all the French you have around."
"The landlord speaks a little; and the priest. He is a friend of Father
Étienne."
"Oh, I see," said Pinney. He noticed that Northwick walked slowly and
weakly; he ventured to put his hand under his elbow, and Northwick did
not resent the help offered him.
"I had a very severe sickness during the latter part of the winter," he
explained, "and it pulled me down a good deal."
"At Rimouski, I presume?" said Pinney.
"No," said Northwick, briefly.
IV.
Over the simple dinner, which Pinney praised for the delicacy of the
local lamb, and Northwick ate of so sparingly, Northwick talked more
freely. He told Pinney all about his flight, and his winter journey up
toward the northern verge of the civilized world. The picturesque
details of this narrative, and their capability of distribution under
attractive catch-heads almost maddened the reporter's soul in Pinney
with longing to make newspaper material of Northwick on the spot. But he
took his honor in both hands, and held fast to it; only he promised him
that if the time ever came when that story could be told, it should be
both fortune and fame to him.
They sat long over their dinner. At last Pinney pulled out his watch.
"What time did you say the boat for Quebec got along here?"
Northwick had not said, of course, but he now told Pinney. He knew the
time well in the homesickness which mounted to a paroxysm as that hour
each day came and went.
"We must get there some time in the night then," said Pinney, still
looking at his watch. "Then let's understand each other about this: Am I
to tell your family where you are? Or what? Look here!" he broke off
suddenly, "why don't you come up to Quebec with me? You'll be just as
safe there as you are here; you know that; and now that your whereabouts
are bound to be known to your friends, you might as well be where they
can get at you by telegraph in case of emergency. Come! What do you
say?"
Northwick said simply, "Yes, I will go with you."
"Well, now you're shouting," said Pinney. "Can't I help you to put your
traps together? I want to introduce you to my wife. She takes as much
interest in this thing as I do; and she'll know how to look after you a
great deal better,--get you to Quebec once. She's the greatest little
nurse in this world; and, as you say, you don't seem over and above
strong. I hope you don't object to children. We've got a baby, but it's
the best baby! I've heard that child cry just once since it was
born, and that was when it first realized that it was in this vale of
tears; I believe we all do that; but our baby finished up the whole
crying-business on that occasion."
With Pinney these statements led to others until he had possessed
Northwick of his whole autobiography. He was in high content with
himself, and his joy overflowed in all manner of affectionate services
to Northwick, which Northwick accepted as the mourner entrusts his
helplessness to the ghastly kindness of the undertaker, and finds in it
a sort of human sympathy. If Northwick had been his own father, Pinney
could not have looked after him with tenderer care, in putting his
things together for him, and getting on board the boat, and making
interest with the clerk for the best stateroom. He did not hesitate to
describe him as an American financier; he enjoyed saying that he was in
Canada for his health; and that he must have an extra room. The clerk
gave up the captain's, as all the others were taken, and Pinney occupied
it with Northwick. It was larger and pleasanter than the other rooms,
and after Pinney got Northwick to bed, he sat beside him and talked.
Northwick said that he slept badly, and liked to have Pinney talk;
Pinney could see that he was uneasy when he left the room, and glad when
he got back; he made up his mind that Northwick was somehow a very sick
man. He lay quite motionless in the lower berth, where Pinney made him
comfortable; his hands were folded on his breast, and his eyes were
closed. Sometimes Pinney, as he talked on, thought the man was dead; and
there were times when he invented questions that Northwick had to answer
yes or no, before he felt sure that he was still alive; his breath went
and came so softly Pinney could not hear it.
Pinney told him all about his courtship and married life, and what a
prize he had drawn in Mrs. Pinney. He said she had been the making of
him, and if he ever did amount to anything, he should owe it to her.
They had their eye on a little place out of town, out Wollaston way, and
Pinney was going to try to get hold of it. He was tired of being mewed
up in a flat, and he wanted the baby to get its feet on the ground, when
it began to walk. He wanted to make his rent pay part of his purchase.
He considered that it was every man's duty to provide a permanent home
for his family, as soon as he began to have a family; and he asked
Northwick if he did not think a permanent home was the thing.
Northwick said he thought it was, and after he said that, he sighed so
deeply that Pinney said, "Oh, I beg your pardon." He had, in fact, lost
the sense of Northwick's situation, and now he recurred to it with a
fresh impulse of compassion. If his compassion was mixed with interest,
with business, as he would have said, it was none the less a genuine
emotion, and Pinney was sincere enough in saying he wished it could be
fixed so that Northwick could get back to his home; at his time of life
he needed it.
"And I don't believe but what it could be fixed," he said. "I don't
know much about the points of the case; but I should say that with the
friends you've got, you wouldn't have a great deal of trouble. I presume
there are some legal forms you would have to go through with; but those
things can always be appealed and continued and nolle prossed, and all
that, till there isn't anything of them, in the end. Of course, it would
have been different if they could have got hold of you in the beginning.
But now," said Pinney, forgetting what he had already said of it, "the
whole thing has blown over, so that that letter of yours from Rimouski
hardly started a ripple in Boston; I can't say how it was in Hatboro'.
No, sir, I don't believe that if you went back now, and your friends
stood by you as they ought to,--I don't believe you'd get more than a
mere nominal sentence, if you got that."
Northwick made no reply, but Pinney fancied that his words were having
weight with him, and he went on: "I don't know whether you've ever kept
the run of these kind of things; but a friend of mine has, and he says
there isn't one case in ten where the law carries straight. You see,
public feeling has got a good deal to do with it, and when the people
get to feeling that a man has suffered enough, the courts are not going
to be hard on him. No, sir. I've seen it time and again, in my newspaper
experience. The public respects a man's sufferings, and if public
opinion can't work the courts, it can work the Governor's council. Fact
is, I looked into that business of yours a little, after you left, Mr.
Northwick, and I couldn't see, exactly, why you didn't stay, and try to
fix it up with the company. I believe you could have done it, and that
was the impression of a good many other newspaper men; and they're
pretty good judges; they've seen a lot of life. It's exciting, and it's
pleasant, newspaper work is," said Pinney, straying back again into the
paths of autobiography, "but I've got about enough of it, myself. The
worst of it is, there ain't any outcome to it. The chances of promotion
are about as good as they are in the U. S. Army when the Reservations
are quiet. So I'm going into something else. I'd like to tell you about
it, if you ain't too sleepy?"
"I am rather tired," said Northwick, with affecting patience.
"Oh, well, then, I guess we'll postpone it till to-morrow. It'll keep.
My! It don't seem as I was going back to my wife and baby. It seems
too good to be true. Every time I leave 'em, I just bet myself I sha'n't
get back alive; or if I do that I sha'n't find 'em safe and sound; and
I'm just as sure I'll win every time, as if I'd never lost the bet yet."
Pinney undressed rapidly, and before he climbed into the berth over
Northwick's, he locked the door, and put the key under his pillow.
Northwick did not seem to notice him, but a feeling of compunction made
him put the key back in the door. "I guess I'd better leave it there,
after all," he said. "It'll stop a key from the outside. Well, sir,
good-night," he added to Northwick, and climbed to his berth with a
light heart. Toward morning he was wakened by a groaning from the lower
berth, and he found Northwick in great pain. He wished to call for help;
but Northwick said the pain would pass, and asked him to get him some
medicine he had in his hand-bag; and when he had taken that he was
easier. But he held fast to Pinney's hand, which he had gripped in one
of his spasms, and he did not loose it till Pinney heard him drawing his
breath in the long respirations of sleep. Then Pinney got back to his
berth, and fell heavily asleep.
He knew it was late when he woke. The boat was at rest, and must be
lying at her landing in Quebec. He heard the passengers outside hurrying
down the cabin to go ashore. When he had collected himself, and recalled
the events of the night, he was almost afraid to look down at Northwick
lest he should find him lying dead in his berth; when he summoned
courage to look, he found the berth empty.
He leaped out upon the floor, and began to throw himself into his
clothes. He was reassured, for a moment, by seeing Northwick's
travelling-bag in the corner with his own; but the hand-bag was gone. He
rushed out, as soon as he could make himself decent, and searched every
part of the boat where Northwick might probably be; but he was not to be
seen.
He asked a steward how long the boat had been in; and the steward said
since six o'clock. It was then eight.
Northwick was not waiting for Pinney on the wharf, and he climbed
disconsolately to his hotel in the Upper Town. He bet, as a last
resource, that Northwick would not be waiting there for him, to give him
a pleasant surprise, and he won his disastrous wager.
It did not take his wife so long to understand what had happened, as
Pinney thought it would. She went straight to the heart of the mystery.
"Did you say anything about his going back?"
"Why--in a general way," Pinney admitted, ruefully.
"Then, of course, that made him afraid of you. You broke your word, Ren,
and it's served you right."
His wife was walking to and fro with the baby in her arms; and she said
it was sick, and she had been up all night with it. She told Pinney he
had better go out and get a doctor.
It was all as different from the return Pinney had planned as it could
be.
"I believe the old fool is crazy," he said, and he felt that this was
putting the mildest possible construction upon Northwick's behavior.
"He seems to have known what he was about, anyway," said Mrs. Pinney,
coldly. The baby began to cry. "Oh, do go for the doctor!"
V.
The day was still far from dawning when Northwick crept up the silent
avenue, in the dark of its firs, toward his empty house, and stealthily
began to seek for that home in it which had haunted his sleeping and
waking dreams so long. He had a kind of ecstacy in the risk he ran; a
wild pleasure mixed with the terror he felt in being what and where he
was. He wanted to laugh when he thought of the perfect ease and safety
of his return. At the same time a thrilling anxiety pierced him through
and through, and made him take all the precautions of a thief in the
night.
A thief in the night: that was the phrase which kept repeating itself to
him, till he said it over under his breath, as he put off his shoes, and
stole up the piazza-steps, and began to peer into the long windows, at
the blackness within. He did not at once notice that the shutters were
open, with an effect of reckless security or indifference, which struck
a pang to his heart when he realized it. He felt the evil omen of this
faltering in the vigilance which had once guarded his home, and which he
had been the first to break down, and lay it open to spoil and waste. He
tried the windows; he must get in, somehow, and he did not dare to ring
at the door, or to call out. He must steal into his house, as he had
stolen out of it.
One of the windows yielded; the long glass door gave inward, and he
stepped on the carpetless floor of the library. Then the fact of the
change that must have passed upon the whole house enforced itself, and
he felt a passionate desire to face and appropriate the change in every
detail. He lit one of the little taper matches that he had with him,
and, hollowing his hands around it, let its glimmer show him the
desolation of the dismantled and abandoned rooms. He passed through the
doors set wide between library and drawing-room and dining-room and
hall; and then from his dying taper he lit another, and mounted the
stairs. He had no need to seek his daughter's rooms to satisfy himself
that the whole place was empty; they were gone; but he had a fantastic
expectation that in his own room he might find himself. There was
nothing there, either; it was as if he were a ghost come back in search
of the body it had left behind; any one that met him, he thought, might
well be more frightened than he; and yet he did not lose the sense of
risk to himself.
He had an expectation, born of long custom, and persisting in spite of
the nakedness of the place otherwise, that he should see the pictured
face of his wife, where it had looked so mercifully at him that last
night from the portrait above the mantel. He sighed lightly to find it
gone; her chair was gone from the bay-window, where he had stood to gaze
his last over the possessions he was abandoning. He let his little taper
die out by the hearth, and then crept toward the glimmer of the window,
and looked out again. The conservatories and the dairies and the barns
showed plain in the gray of the moonless, starless night; in the
coachman's quarters a little point of light appeared for a moment
through the window, and then vanished.
Northwick knew from this that the place was inhabited; unless some
homeless tramp like himself was haunting it, and it went through his
confusion that he must speak to Newton, and caution him about tramps
sleeping in the barns anywhere; they might set them on fire. His mind
reverted to his actual condition, and he wondered how long he could come
and go as a vagrant without being detected. If it were not for the
action against vagrants which he had urged upon the selectmen the summer
before, he might now come and go indefinitely. But he was not to blame;
it was because Mrs. Morrell had encouraged the tramps by her reckless
charity that something had to be done; and now it was working against
him. It was hard: he remembered reading of a man who had left his family
one day, and taken a room across the street, and lived there in sight of
them unknown till he died: and now he could not have passed his own door
without danger of arrest as a vagrant. He struck another match, and
looked at himself in the mirror framed as a window at one side of the
bay; he believed that with the long white beard he wore, and his hair
which he had let grow, his own children would not have known him.
It was bitter; but his mind suddenly turned from the thought, with a
lightness it had, and he remembered that now he did not know where his
children lived. He must find out, somehow; he had come to see them; and
he could not go back without. He must hurry to find them, and be gone
again before daylight. He crept out to the stairs, and struck a match to
light himself down, and he carried it still burning, toward the window
he had left open behind him in the library. As soon as he stepped out on
the piazza he found himself gripped fast in the arms of a man.
"I've got you! What you doing in here, I'd like to know? Who are you,
anyway, you thief? Just hold that lantern up to his face, a minute,
'Lectra."
Northwick had not tried to resist; he had not struggled; he had known
Elbridge Newton's voice at the first word. He saw the figure of a woman
beside him, stooping over the lantern, and he knew that it was Mrs.
Newton; but he made no sort of appeal to either. He did not make the
least sound or movement. The habit of his whole life was reticence,
especially in emergencies; and this habit had been strengthened and
deepened by the solitude in which he had passed the last half-year. If a
knife had been put to his throat, he would not have uttered a cry for
mercy; but his silence was so involuntary that it seemed to him he did
not breathe while Mrs. Newton was turning up the wick of the lantern for
a good look at him. When the light was lifted to his face, Northwick
felt that they both knew him through the disguise of his white beard.
Elbridge's grip fell from him and let him stand free. "Well, I'll be
dumned," said Elbridge.
His wife remained holding the lantern to Northwick's face. "What are you
going to do with him?" she asked at last, as if Northwick were not
present; he stood so dumb and impassive.
"I d' know as I know," said Newton, overpowered by the peculiar
complications of the case. He escaped from them for the moment in the
probable inference: "I presume he was lookin' for his daughters. Didn't
you know," he turned to Northwick, with a sort of apologetic reproach,
"lightin' matches that way in the house, here, you might set it on fire,
and you'd be sure to make people think there was somebody there,
anyhow?"
Northwick made no answer to this question, and Newton looked him
carefully over in the light of the lantern. "I swear, he's in his
stockin' feet. You look round and see if you can find his shoes,
anywhere, 'Lectra. You got the light." Newton seemed to insist upon this
because it relieved him to delegate any step in this difficult matter to
another.
His wife cast the light of her lantern about, and found the shoes by the
piazza-steps, and as Northwick appeared no more able to move than to
speak, Elbridge stooped down, and put on his shoes for him where he
stood. When he lifted himself, he stared again at Northwick, as if to
make perfectly sure of him, and then he said, with a sigh of perplexity,
"You go ahead, a little ways, 'Lectra, with the lantern. I presume we've
got to take him to 'em," and his wife, usually voluble and wilful,
silently obeyed.
"Want to see your daughters?" he asked Northwick, and at the silence
which was his only response, Newton said, "Well, I don't know as I
blame him any, for not wantin' to commit himself. You don't want to be
afraid," he added, to Northwick, "that anybody's goin' to keep you
against your will, you know."
"Well, I guess not," said Mrs. Newton, finding her tongue, at last.
"If they was to double and treble the reward, I'd slap 'em in the face
first. Bring him along, Elbridge."
As Northwick no more moved than spoke, Newton took him by the arm, and
helped him down the piazza-steps and into the dark of the avenue,
tunnelled about their feet by the light of the lantern, as they led and
pushed their helpless capture toward the lodge at the avenue gate.
Northwick had heard and understood them; he did not know what secret
purpose their pretence of taking him to his children might not cover;
but he was not capable of offering any resistance, and when he reached
the cottage he sank passively on the steps. He shook in every nerve,
while Elbridge pounded on the door, till a window above was lifted, and
Adeline's frightened voice quavered out, "Who is it? What is it?"
Mrs. Newton took the words out of her husband's mouth. "It's us, Miss
Northwick. If you're sure you're awake--"
"Oh, yes. I haven't been asleep!"
"Then listen!" said Mr. Newton, in a lowered tone. "And don't be scared.
Don't call out--don't speak loud. There's somebody here--Come down, and
let him in."
Northwick stood up. He heard the fluttered rush of steps on the stairs
inside. The door opened, and Adeline caught him in her arms, with
choking, joyful sobs. "Oh, father! Oh, father! Oh, I knew it! I knew it!
Oh, oh, oh! Where was he? How did you find him?"
She did not heed their answers. She did not realize that she was
shutting them out when she shut herself in with her father; but they
understood.
VI.
Northwick stared round him in the light of the lamp which Adeline turned
up. He held fast by one of her hands. "What's he going to do? Has he
gone for the officer? Is he going to give me up?"
"Who? Elbridge Newton? Well, I guess his wife hasn't forgot what you did
for them when their little boy died, if he has, and I guess he
hasn't gone for any officer! Where did you see him?"
"In the house. I was there."
"But how did he know it?"
"I had to have a light to see by."
"Oh, my goodness! If anybody else had caught you I don't know what I
should have done. I don't see how you could be so venturesome!"
"I thought you were there. I had to come back. I couldn't stand it any
longer, when that fellow came with your letter."
"Oh, he found you," she cried, joyfully. "I knew he would find you,
and I said so--Sit down, father; do." She pushed him gently into a
cushioned rocking-chair. "It's mother's chair; don't you remember, it
always stood in the bay-window in your room, where she put it? Louise
Hilary bought it at the sale--I know she bought it--and gave it to me.
It was because the place was mother's that I wouldn't let Suzette give
it up to the company."
He did not seem to understand what she was saying. He stared at her
piteously, and he said with an effort: "Adeline, I didn't know about
that accident. I didn't know you thought I was dead, or I--"
"No! Of course you didn't! I always told Suzette you didn't. Don't you
suppose I always believed in you, father? We both believed in you,
through it all; and when that letter of yours came out in the paper I
knew you were just overwrought."
Northwick rose and looked fearfully round him again, and then came
closer to her, with his hand in his breast. He drew it out with the roll
of bank-notes in it. "Here's that money I took away with me. I always
kept it in my belt: but it hurt me there. I want you should take care of
it for me, and we can make terms with them to let me stay."
"Oh, they won't let you stay. We've tried it over and over; and the
court won't let you. They say you will have to be tried, and they will
put you in prison."
Northwick mechanically put the money back.
"Well, let them," said the broken man. "I can't stand it any longer. I
have got to stay." He sank into the chair, and Adeline broke into tears.
"Oh, I can't let you! You must go back! Think of your good name, that
there's never been any disgrace on!"
"What--what's that?" Northwick quavered, at the sound of footsteps
overhead.
"Why, it's Suzette, of course! And I hadn't called her," said Adeline,
breaking off from her weeping. She ran to the foot of the stairs, and
called, huskily, "Suzette, Suzette! Come down this instant! Come down,
come down, come down!" She bustled back to her father. "You must be
hungry, ain't you, father? I'll get you a cup of tea over my lamp here;
the water heats as quick! And you'll feel stronger after that. Don't you
be afraid of anything; there's nobody here but Suzette; Mrs. Newton
comes to do the work in the morning; they used to stay with us, but we
don't mind it a bit, being alone here. I did want to go into the
farmhouse, when we left our own, but Suzette couldn't bear to live right
in sight of our home, all the time; she said it would be worse than
being afraid; but we haven't been afraid; and the Newtons come all the
time to see if we want anything. And now that you've got back--" She
stopped, and stared at him in a daze, and then turned to her lamp again,
as if unable to cope with the situation. "I haven't been very well,
lately, but I'm getting better; and if only we could get the court to
let you come back I should be as well as ever. I don't believe but what
Mr. Hilary will make it out yet. Father!" She dropped her voice, and
glanced round; "Suzette's engaged to young Mr. Hilary--oh, he's the
best young man!--and I guess they're going to be married just as soon
as we can arrange it about you. I thought I'd tell you before she came
down."
Northwick did not seem to have taken the fact in, or else he could not
appreciate it rightly. "Do you suppose," he whispered back, "that she'll
speak to me?"
"Speak to you!"
"I didn't know. She was always so proud. But now I've brought back the
money, all but the little I've had to use--"
There was a rustle of skirts on the stairs. Suzette stood a moment in
the doorway, looking at her father, as if not sure he was real; then she
flung herself upon him, and buried her face in his white beard, and
kissed him with a passion of grief and love. She sank into his lap, with
a long sigh, and let her head fall on his shoulder. All that was not
simply father and daughter was for the moment annulled between them.
Adeline looked on admiring, while she kept about heating the water over
her lamp; and they all took up fitfully the broken threads of their
lives, and tried to piece them again into some sort of unity.
