

 



longer were; a stretch of ivory on 
which shone three words, each begining with a V; images of gods dis- 
turbed, the Rhine, the Rhone, the 
captive Ocean in massive gold; the 
glitter of three thousand crowns 
offered to the dictator by the army 
and allies of Rome. Then came the 
standards of the republic, a swarm 
of eagles, the size of pigeons, in pol- 
ished silver upheld by lances which 
ensigns bore, preceding the six 
hundred senators who marched in a 
body, their togas bordered with red, 
while to the din of incessant insults, 
interminable files of prisoners passed, 
their wrists chained to iron collars, 
which held their heads very straight, 
and to the rear a litter, in which 
crouched the Vincegetorix of Gaul, a 
great moody giant, his menacing eyes 
nearly hidden in the tangles of his 
tawny hair. 



 



When they had gone the street was 
alive with explosions of brass, aflame 
with the burning red cloaks of laureled 
lictors making way for the coming 
of Caesar. Four horses, harnessed 
abreast, their manes dyed, their fore- 
locks puffed, drew a high and wonderfully jeweled car; and there, in the 
attributes and attitude of Jupiter 
Capitolinus, Csesar sat, blinking his 
tired eyes. His face and arms were 
painted vermilion; above the Tyrian 
purple of his toga, above the gold 
work and palms of his tunic, there 
oscillated a little ball in which there 
were charms against Envy. On his 
head a wreath concealed his increasing baldness; along his left arm the 
sceptre la}; behind him a boy admonished him noisily to remember he was 
man, while to the rear for miles and 
miles there rang the laugh of trumpets, 
the click of castanets, the shouts of 



 



dancers, the roar of the multitude, the 
tramp of legions, and the cry, caught 
up and repeated, "/o/ Trwmphe/" 

Presently, in the temple of the god 
of gods, side by side with the statue of 
Jupiter, Csesar found his own statue 
with " Caisar, demi-god," at its base. 
The captive chiefs disappeared in 
the Tullianum, and a herald called, 
"They have lived!" Through the 
squares jesters circulated, polyglot 
and obscene; in the circus the flower 
of the nobility held the reins; across 
the Tiber, in an artificial lake, the 
flotilla of Egypt fought against that 
of Tyr; in the amphitheatre there 
was a combat of soldiers, infantry 
against cavalry, one that indemnified 
those that had not seen the massacres 
in Thessaly and in Spain. There were 
public feasts, gifts to every one. 
Tables were set in the Forum, in the 
circuses and theatres. Falernian circulated in amphorse, Chius in barrels, 
When the populace was gorged there ' 
were the red feathers to enable it to 
gorge again. Intoxication knew no 
frontiers. In the arenas the gladiators died consoled. Of the Rome of 
Romulus there was nothing left save 
the gaunt she-wolf, her wide lips curled 
at the descendants of her nursling. 

Later, when in slippered feet Csesar 
wandered through those lovely gardens of his that lay beyond the Tiber, 
it may be that he recalled a dream 
which had come to him as a lad; one 
which concerned the submission of 
his mother; one which had disturbed 
him until the soothsayers said: "The 
mother you saw is the earth, and you 
will be her master." And as the 
memory of the dream returned, perhaps with it came the memory of the 
hour when as simple qutestor he had 
wept at Gaddir before a statue that 



 



was there. Demi-god, yes; he was 
that. More, even ; he was dictator, but 
the dream was unfulfilled. There were 
the depths of Hither Asia, the mysteries that lay beyond; there were the 
glimmering plains of the Caucasus; 
there were the Vistula and the Baltic; 
the diadems of Cyrus and of Alexander defying his ambition yet, and 
what were triumphs and divinity to 
one who would own the world! 

It was this that preoccupied him. 
The immensity of his successes seemed 
petty and Rome very small. Hereto- 
fore he had forgiven those who had 
opposed him. Presently his attitude 
changed, and so subtly that it was the 
more humiliating; it was not that he 
no longer forgave, he disdained to 
punish. His contempt was absolute. 
The senate made his office of pontifix maximus hereditary and accorded 
the title of I(pperator to his heirs. He 



 



snubbed tlie senate and the honors 
that it brought. The senate was 
shocked. Composed of men whose 
fortunes he had made, the senate was 
not only shocked, its education in in- 
gratitude was complete. Already 
there had been murmurs. Not con- 
tent with disarranging the calendar, 
outlining an empire, drafting a code 
while planning fresh beauties, new theatres, bi-lingual libraries, larger temples, grander gods, Ciesar was at work 
in the markets, in the kitchens of the 
gourmets, in the jewel-boxes of the 
virgins. Liberty, visibly, was taking 
flight. Besides, the power concentrated in him might be so pleasantly 
distributed. It was decided that 
Csesar was in the way. To put him 
out of it a pretext was necessary. 

One day the senate assembled at 
his command. They were to sign a 
decree creating him king. In order 



 



not to, Suetonius says, they killed him, 
wounding each other in the effort, for 
Caesar fought Hke the demon that he 
was, desisting only when he recognized Brutus, to whom, in Greek, he 
muttered a reproach, and, draping his 
toga that he might fall with decency, 
fell backward, his head covered, a 
few feet from the bronze wolf that 
stood, its ears pointed at the letters 
S. P. Q. R. which decorated a frieze 
of the Curia. 

Brutus turned to harangue the senate; it had fled. He went to the 
Forum to address the people ; there was 
no one. Rome was strangely empty. 
Doors were barricaded, windows 
closed. Through the silent streets 
gladiators prowled. Night came, 
and with it whispering groups. The 
groups thickened, voices mounted. 
Caesar's will had been read. He had 
left his gardens to the people, a gift 



 

to every citizen, his wealth and power 
to his butchers. The body, which two 
slaves had removed, an arm hanging 
from the litter, had never been as 
powerfully alive. Caesar reigned then 
as never before. An actor mouthed: 

"I brought them life, they gave me death." 

And willingly would the mob have 
made Rome the funeral pyre of their 
idol. In the sky a comet appeared. 
It was his soul on its way to Olympus. 




"I received Rome in brick; I shall 
leave it in marble," said Augustus, 
who was fond of fine phrases, a trick 
he had caught from Vergil. And 
when he looked from his home on the 
Palatine over the glitter of the Forum 
and the glare of the Capitol to the 
new and wonderful precinct which 
extended to the Field of Mars, there 
was a stretch of splendor which sanctioned the boast. The city then was 
very vast. The tourist might walk in 
it, as in the London of to-day,mile after 
mile, and at whatever point he placed 
himself, Rome still lay beyond; a 
Rome quite like London — one that 
was choked with mystery, with gold 
and curious crime. 







 



But it was not all marble. There 
were green terraces and porphyry 
porticoes that leaned to a river 
on which red galleys passed; there 
were theatres in which a multitude 
could jeer at an emperor, and arenas 
in which an emperor could watch 
a multitude die; there were bronze 
doors and garden roofs, glancing villaa 
and temples that defied the sun; there 
were spacious streets, a Forum curtained with silk, the glint and evoca- 
tions of trophies of war, the splendor 
of a host of gods, but it was not all 
marble; there were rents in the mag- 
nificence and tatters in the laticlave 
of state. 

In the Subura, where at night 
women sat in high chairs, ogling the 
passer with painted eyes, there was 
still plenty of brick ; tall tenements, 
soiled linen, the odor of Whitechapel 
and St, Giles. The streets were noisy 



 

With match-peddlers, with vendors of 
cake and tripe and coke; there were 
touts there too, altars to unimportant 
divinities, lying Jews who dealt in old 
clothes, in obscene pictures and unmentionable wares; at the crossings 
there were thimbleriggers, clowns and 

jugglers, who rnade glass balls appear 
and disappear surprisingly ; there were 

doorways decorated with curious invitations, gossippy barbershops, where 
through the liberality of politicians, 
the scum of a great city was shaved, 
curled and painted free; and there 
were public houses, where vagabond 

slaves and sexless priests drank the 

 

mulled wine of Crete, supped on the 
flesh of beasts slaughtered in the 
arena, or watched the Syrian women 
twist to the click of castanets. 

Beyond were grey quadrangular 
buildings, the stomach of Rome, 
through which, each noon, ediles 



 



verifying the prices, thel 
weights and measures of the market 
men, examining the fish and meats, 
the enormous cauHflowers that came 
from the suburbs, Veronese carrots, , 
Arician pears, stout thrushes, suckhng' 
pigs, eggs embedded in grass, oysters 
from Baia;, boxes of onions and garlic 
mixed, mountains of poppies, beans 
and fennel, destroying whatever had 
ceased to be fresh and taxing thatl 
which was. 

On the Via Sacra were the fine 
shops frequented by ladies; bazaars 
where silks and xylons were to be  
had, essences and unguents, travel- 
ing boxes of scented wood, switches 
of yellow hair, useful drugs such 
as hemlock, aconite, mandragora 
and cantharidcs; the last thing 
of Ovid's and the Mdyjowt h>):,v those 
improper linle novels that came from 
Greece. 



On the Appian Way, through green 
afternoons and pink arcades, fashion 
strolled. There wealth passed in its 
chariots, smart young men that smelt 
of cinnamon instead of war, nobles, 
matrons and cocottes. 

At the other end of the city, beyond the menagerie of the Pantheon, 
was the Field of Mars, an open-air 
gymnasium, where every form of exercise was to be had, even to that simple promenade in which the Romans 
delighted, and which in Csesar's camp 
so astonished the Verronians that they 
thought the promenaders crazy and 
offered to lead them to their tents. 
There was tennis for those who liked 
it ; racquets, polo, football, quoits, 
wrestling, everything apt to induce 
perspiration and prepare for the hour 
when a gong of bronze announced the 
opening of the baths — those wonderful baths, where the Roman, his slaves 







about him, after passing through 
steam and water and the hands of the 
masseur, had every hair plucked from 
his arms, legs and armpits; his flesh 
rubbed down with nard, his limbs 
polished with pumice; and then, 
wrapped in a scarlet robe, lined with 
fur, was sent home in a litter. "Strike 
them in the face!" cried Ctesar at 
Pharsalus, when the J'oung patricians 
made their charge; and the young 
patricians, who cared more for their 
looks than they did for victory, turned 
and fled. 

It was to the Field of Mars that 
Agrippa came, to whom Rome owed 
the Pantheon and the demand for a 
law which should inhibit the private 
ownership of a masterpiece. There, 
too, his eunuchs about him, Mecsenas 
lounged, companioned by Varus, by 
Horace and the mime Bathylle, all 
of whom he was accu-tonied to invite 



 



to that lovely villa of his which over- 
looked the blue Sabinian hills, and 
where suppers were given such ns 
those which Petronius has described 
so alertly and so well. 

In a hall like that of Mecienas', one 
divided against itself, the upper half 
containing the conches and tables, the 
other reserved for the service and the 
entertainments that follow, the ceiling 
was met by columns, the walls hidden by panels of gems. On a frieze 
twelve pictures, surmounted by the 
signs of the zodiac, represented the 
dishes of the different months. Beneath the bronze beds and silver 
tables mosaics were set in imitation 
of food that had fallen and had not 
been swept away. And there, in 
white ungirdled tunics, the head and 
neck circled with coils of amaranth  
the perfume of which in opening the 
pores neutralizes the fumes of wine  



 



the guests lay, fanned by boys, whose 
curly hair they used for napkins. 
Under the supervision of a butler the 
courses were served on platters so 
large that they covered the tables; 
sows' breasts with Lybian truffles; 
dormice baked in poppies and honey; 
peacock-tongues flavored with cin- 
namon; oysters stewed in garum — a 
sauce made of the intestines of fish — 
sea-wolves from the Baltic; sturgeons 
from Rhodes; fig-peckers from Samos; 
African snails; pale beans in pink 
lard; and a jxllow pig cooked after 
the Trojan fashion, from which, when 
carved, hot sausages fell and live 
thrushes flew. Therewith was the 
mulsum, a cup made of white wine, 
nard, roses, absinthe and honey; the
delicate sweet wines of Greece; and I 
crusty Falernian of the year six hundred and thirty-two. As the cups 
circulated, choirs entered, chanting 



 



sedately the last erotic song; lithe 
virgins, their bodies rubbed with oil, 
wrestled like athletes in the games; a 
clown danced on the top of a ladder, 
which he maintained upright as he 
danced, telling meanwhile untellable 
stories to the frieze; and host and 
guests, unvociferously, as good breeding dictates, chatted through the 
pauses of the service; discussed the 
disadvantages of death, the value of 
Ncevian iambics, the disgrace of Ovid, 
banished because of Livia's eyes. 

Such was the Rome of Augustus. 
"Caesar," cried a mime to him one 
day, "do you know that it is important for you that the people should be 
interested in Bathylle and in myself. " 

The mime was right. The sover- 
eign of Rome was not the Cgesar, nor 
yet the aristocracy. The latter was 
dead. It had been banished by barbarian senators, by barbarian gods; 



 

it had died twice, at Pharsalus, at 
Philippi; it was the people that was 
sovereign, and it was important that 
that sovereign should be amused — 
flattered, too, and fed. For thirty 
years not a Roman of note had died 
in his bed; not one but had kept by 
him a slave who should kill him when 
his hour had come; anarchy had been 
continuous; but now Rome was at 
rest and its sovereign wished to laugh. 
Made up of every nation and every 
vice, the universe was ransacked for 
its entertainment. The mountains 
sent its lions, the desert giraffes; there 
were boas from the jungles, bulls from 
the plains, and hippopotami from the 
waters of the Nile. Into the arenas 
patricians descended; in the amphitheatre there were criminals from 
Gaul; in the Forum philosophers from 
Greece. On the stage there were 
tragedies, pantomimes and farce; 



 

there were races in the circus, and 
in the sacred groves girls with the 
Orient in their eyes and slim waists 
that swayed to the crotals. For the 
thirst of the sovereign there were 
aqueducts, and for its hunger Africa, 
Egypt, Sicily contributed grain. 
Syria unveiled her altars, Persia the 
mystery and magnificence of her 
gods. 

Such was Rome. Augustus was 
less noteworthy; so unnecessary even 
that every student must regret Actium, Anthony's defeat, the passing 
of Cresar's dream. For Anthony was 
made for conquests; it was he who, 
fortune favoring, might have given 
the world to Rome. A splendid, an 
impudent bandit, first and foremost a 
soldier, vaunting himself a descendant 
of Hercules whom lie resembled; 
hailed at Ephcsus as Bacchus, in 
Egypt as Osiris ; Asiatic in lavishness, 



 



and Teuton in his capacity for drink; 
vomiting in the open Forum, and 
making and unmaking kings; weaving with that ipcr of the Nile a 
romance which is history; passing initiate into the inimitable life, it would 
have been curious to have watched 
him that last night when the silence 
was stirred by the hum of harps, the 
cries of bacchantes bearing his tute- 
lary god back to the Roman camp, 
while he bade farewell to love, to 
empire and to life. 

Augustus resembled him not at all. 
He was a colorless monarch; an 
emperor in ever3thing but dignity, a 
prince in everything but grace; a tactician, not a soldier; a superstitious 
braggart, afraid of nothing but danger; 
seducing women to learn their hus- 
bands' secrets; exiling his daughter, 
not because she had lovers, but because she had other lovers than himself; exiling Ovid because of Livia, 
who in the end poisoned her prince, 
and adroitly, too; illiterate, blundering 
of speech, and coarse of manner — a 
hypocrite and a comedian in one — so 
guileful and yet so stupid that while 
a credulous moribund ordered the 
gods to be thanked that Augustus 
survived him, the people publicly 
applied to him an epithet which designates an unnameable beast. 

Such was the individual whom 
school-girls are instructed to admire, 
though for what reason it is difficult 
to fancy, unless it be that he is 
regarded as a patron of letters of 
which he knew nothing, the host of 
pedantic bores. After Philippi and 
the suicide of Brutus; after Actium 
and Anthony's death, admittedly, for 
the first time in ages, the gates of the 
Temple of Janus were closed. There 
was peace in the world; but it was 





the sword of Csesar, not of Augustus, 
that brought the insurgents to book. 
At each of the victories he was either 
asleep or ill. At the time of battle 
there was always some god warning 
him to be careful. The battle won, 
he was brave, pitiless and ready of 
jest. A father and son begged for 
mercj-. He promised forgiveness to 
the son on condition that he killed 
his father. The son accepted and did 
the work; then he had the son des- 
patched. A prisoner begged but for 
a grave. "The vultures will see to 
it," he answered. When at the head 
of CECsar's legions, he entered Rome 
to avenge the latter's death, he announced beforehand that he would 
imitate neither Caesar's moderation 
nor Sylla's cruelty. There would be 
only a few proscriptions, and a price 
— and what a price, liberty! — was 
placed on the heads of hundreds of 



 



senators and thousands of knights. 
And these notables, who had more 
slaves than they knew by sight, slaves 
whom they tossed alive to fatten tish, 
slaves to whom they affected never 
to speak, and who were crucified did 
they so much as sneeze in their 
presence — at the feet of these slaves 
the aristocrats rolled, imploring them 
not to deliver them up. Now and 
then a slave was merciful ; Augustus 
never. 

Successes such as these made him 
ambitious. Having vanquished with 
the sword, he tried the pen. "Yon 
may grant the freedom of the city to 
your barbarians," said a wit to him 
one day, "but not to your solecisms." 
Undeterred he began a tragedy 
entitled AJax, and discovering his 
incompetence, gave it up. "And 
what has become of Ajax. " a parasite asked, "Ajax threw himself on 



 



a Sponge," replied Augustus, whose 
father, it is to be regretted, did not do I
likewise. Nevertheless, it were pleasant to have assisted at his funeral. 

A couch of ivory and gold, ten 
feet high, draped with purple, stood 
for a week in the atrium of the 
ace. Within the couch, hidden from 
view, the body of the emperor lay, 
ravaged by poison. Above was a- 
statue, recumbent, in wax, made after 
his image and dressed in imperial 
robes. Near by a little slave with a 
big fan protected the statue from flies. 
Each day ph3"sicians came, gazed at 
the closed wax mouth, and murmured, 
"He is worse." In the vestibule was a 
pot of burning ilex, and stretching 
out through the portals a branch of 
cypress warned the pontiffs from the 
contamination of the sight of death. 

At high noon on the seventh day 
the funeral crossed the city. First 



 



were the flaming torches; the statues 
of the House of Octavia; senators in 
blue; knights in scarlet; magistrates; 
Hctors ; the pick of the praetorian guard. 
Then, to the alternating choruses of 
boys and girls, the rotting body passed 
down the Sacred Way. Behind it 
Tiberius in a travelling-cloak, his 
hands unringed, marched meditating 
on the curiosities of life, while to the 
rear there straggled a troop of dancing satyrs, led by a mime dressed in 
resemblance of Augustus, whose defects he caricatured, whose vices he 
parodied and on whom the surging 
crowd closed in. 

On the Field of Mars the pyre had 
been erected, a great square structure 
of resinous wood, the interior filled 
with coke and sawdust, the exterior 
covered with illuminated cloths, on 
which, for base, a tower rose, three 
stones high. Into the first story flowers and perfumes were thrown, into 
the second the couch was raised, then 
a torch was applied. 

As the smoke ascended an eagle 
shot from the summit, circled a moment, and disappeared. For the sum 
of a million sesterces a senator swore 
that with the eagle he had seen the 
emperor's soul. 



Mention Tiberius, and the name 
evokes a sceptered butcher, ill with 
satyrisis; a taciturn tyrant, hideous 
and debauched; an unclean old man 
devising in the crypts of a palace infamies so monstrous that to describe 
them new words were coined. 

In the Borghese collection Tiberius 
is rather good-looking than otherwise, 
not an Antinous certainly, but manifestly a dreamer ; one whose eyes must 
have been almost feline in their ab- 
straction, and in the corners of whose 
mouth you detect pride, no doubt, but 
melancholy as well. The pride was 
congenital, the melancholy was not. 

Under Tiberius there was quiet, a 
romancer wrote, and the phrase in its 





 



significance passed into legend, forming as it passed one of those miscon- 
ceptions that shroud the unprotected 
dead. During the dozen or more  
years that Tiberius ruled in Rome, 
his wisdom, moderation, modesty and 
impartiality were recognized and attested. The Tiber overflowed, the 
senate looked for a remedy in the Sibyline Books. Tiberius set some eru.
gineers to work. A citizen swore by 
Augustus and swore falsely. The sen- 
ate sought to punish him, not for per- 
jury but for sacrilege. It is for Au-
gustus to punish, said Tiberius. The  
senate wanted to name a month after I
him. Tiberius declined. "Suppos- 
ing I were the thirteenth Caesar, what  
would you do ?" For years he reigned,  
popular and acclaimed, caring the I 
while nothing for popularity and less  
for pomp. Sagacious, witty even, believe  perhaps in little eise than fate  



 



and mathematics, yet maintaining the 
institutions of the land, striving resolutely for the best, outwardly impassible and inwardly mobile, he was a 
man and his patience had bounds. 
There were conspirators in the atrium, 
there was death in the courtier's 
smile; and finding his favorites false, 
his life threatened, danger at every 
turn, his conception of rulership 
changed. Where moderation had 
been suddenly there gleamed the axe. 
Tacitus, always dramatic, states 
that at the time terror dcvasted the 
citj". It so happened that under the 
republic there was a law against 
whomso diminished the majesty of 
the people. The republic was a god, 
one that had its temple, its priests, its 
altars. When the republic succumbed, its divinity passed to the 
emperor; he became Jupiter's peer, 
and, as such, possessed of a majesty 





which it was sacrilege to slight. 
Consulted on the subject, Tiberius 
replied that the law must be observed. 
Originally instituted in prevention of 
offenses against the public good, it 
was found to ciiange into a crime, a 
word, a gesture or a look. It was a 
crime to undress before a statue of 
Augustus, to mention his name in the 
latrinfe, to carry a coin with his image 
into a lupanar. The punishment was 
death. Of the property of the 
accused, a third went to the informer, 
the rest to the state. Then abruptly 
terror stalked abroad. No one was 
safe except the obscure, and it was the 
obscure that aLXused. Once an 
accused accused his accuser; the 
latter went mad. There was but one 
refuge — the tomb. If the accused had 
time to kill himself before he was 
tried, his property was safe from 
seizure and his corpse from disgrace. 








Suicide became endemic in Rome. 
Never among the rich were orgies as 
frenetic as then. There was a breathless chase after delights, which the 
summons, "It is time to die," might 
at any moment interrupt. 

Tiberius meanwhile had gone from 
Rome. It was then his legend began. 
He was represented living at Capri 
in a collection of twelve villas, each 
of which was dedicated to a particular form of lust, and there with the 
paintings of Parrhasius for stimulant 
the satyr lounged. He was then an old 
man; his life had been passed in public, his morals unreproved. If no one 
becomes suddenly base, it is rare for 
a man of seventy to become abruptly 
vile. "Whoso," Sakya Muni an- 
nounced — "whoso discovers that grief 
comes from affection, will retire into the 
jungles and there remain," Tiberius 
had made the discovery. The jungles 







 



he selected were the gardens by the 
sea. And in those gardens, gossip 
represented him devising new forms 
of old vice. On the subject every 
doubt is permissible, and even otherwise, morality then existed in but one 
form, one which the entire nation 
observed, wholly, absolutely, and with 
all its soul; that form was patriotism- 
Chastity was expected of the vestal, 
but of no one else. The matrons had 
certain traditions to maintain, certain 
appearances to preserve, but otherwise everybody was free enough, and 
that everybody made use of that 
freedom, the law Pappea Poppcea 
attests. 

In those days matrimony was not 
as frequent as it has since become. 
When it occurred, divorce was its 
natural consequence. Incompatibility 
was sufficient cause. Cicero, who has 
given it to history that the by




women counted the years not numerically, but by their different husbands, 
obtained a divorce on the ground that 
his wife did not idoHze him. Many 
a man on his return from a journey 
discovered that the lad}- he had left at 
the head of his house had obtained a 
divorce in his absence. According 
to Plutarch, a gentleman, Ilortensius 
by name, became enamored of 
Cato's daughter, Portia, then the wife 
of Bibulus, and begged Cato to hand 
her over to him. Cato refused, alleging that Portia was in love with her 
husband. At this, Hortensins, casting 
about for a seductive argument, sug- 
gested that if Portia would consent 
to be his wife, so soon as she became 
a mother, she might return to Bibulus, 
Cato, however, was firm; he persisted 
in his refusal; yet, that it might not 
create ill feeling, he gave his own wife 
to Ilortensius, and when, later, Hortensis was gathered to his fathers, 
remarried the widow. 

But that everyone was not as anx- 
ious for matrimony the law Pappea 
Poppcca shows. According to its 
canons matrimony was an obligation 
the citizen owed to the state, procreation a duty. Whoso at twenty-five 
was not married, whoso, divorced or 
widowed did not remarry, whoso, 
though married, was without children, 
was regarded as an enemy and declared incapable of inheriting or of 
