"Didn't you hear? I said Mr. Rogers was out."
"I heard you," said Dan, quietly.
"Then why do you remain? Do you doubt my word?"
"Not at all, sir; but Mr. Rogers asked me to call this morning. I can
wait."
"You can tell me your business."
"Thank you, but I don't think that would do."
The book-keeper eyed him sharply, and his face lighted up with a sudden
discovery.
"I know you now," he said. "You sell papers in front of the Astor House,
don't you?"
"That has been my business."
"I thought so; I have bought papers of you."
"Thank you for your patronage."
"What can you want of Mr. Rogers?"
"Mr. Rogers wants me, I suppose, or he would not have asked me to call,"
returned Dan.
"You are a cool hand."
"Not always," said Dan, with a smile. "Some hot days I am far from
cool."
"I suppose Mr. Rogers wishes you to supply him with an evening paper?"
"Perhaps he does," returned Dan, with a smile.
"Confound the fellow! I can't make anything of him. When did you see Mr.
Rogers last?"
"In the supper-room of the Fifth Avenue Hotel."
"How happened you to be there?" demanded Talbot, the book-keeper, in
surprise.
"I was taking supper," said Dan, rather enjoying the others surprise,
"and Mr. Rogers saw me from another table."
"Humph! Do you often take supper at the Fifth Avenue Hotel?"
"Not often."
"Selling papers must be very profitable."
"I'm willing to change places with you."
Just then Mr. Rogers entered the warehouse.
"Ah! you are here before me, Dan," he remarked, pleasantly. "Have you
been here long?"
"No, sir; only about five minutes."
"I must keep you waiting a few minutes longer while I look at my
letters. The letters have arrived, have they not, Mr. Talbot?"
"Yes, sir."
"Amuse yourself as you like while you are waiting, Dan," said the
merchant.
Mr. Talbot, the book-keeper, followed the merchant into the
counting-room, and Dan was left alone. He looked about him with
interest, thinking it probable that this was to be his future business
home. It would certainly be a piece of good fortune to become attached
to so large and important a house, and he felt in very good spirits,
though he foresaw that Mr. Talbot would not make it very pleasant for
him. But with his employer on his side he need not be alarmed.
Fifteen minutes passed, and Mr. Rogers emerged from the counting-room.
"I have to go out a few minutes," he said to Dan. "Come with me, and we
can talk on the way."
"Certainly, sir."
Mr. Talbot followed the two with a frown upon his brow.
"How on earth has that boy managed to get round Mr. Rogers?" he asked
himself. "I hope he won't be foolish enough to take him in here."
Talbot had a nephew whom he was anxious to get into the business, and
Dan's engagement would interfere with his little plan. This partly
accounts for his brusque reception of Dan on his first arrival.
"Well, how do you like our place of business, Dan?" asked Mr. Rogers.
"Very much, sir."
"Would you rather sell papers or take employment with me?"
"I should like very much to be in your employ, sir."
"How much did you earn as a newsboy?"
"When I was lucky I made a dollar a day."
"Then I ought to give you six dollars a week."
"I will come for less, sir."
"I will pay you what I said. It is more than boys generally get at the
start, but I am willing to pay a good sum to a boy who suits me."
"I will try to suit you, sir."
"Do you know why I take you into my employ?"
"Out of kindness, sir."
"I feel kindly disposed to you, Dan, but that is not my chief reason."
Dan was puzzled, and waited to hear more.
"My attention was drawn to you on the ferry-boat. I observed your
detection of the mean scamp who cheated a poor flower-girl by offering
her bad money, and I inferred that you were sharp and keen."
"I hope I am, sir."
"That is the sort of boy I want just now. Did you observe Mr. Talbot, my
book-keeper?"
"Yes, sir."
"What did you think of him?"
Dan smiled.
"I don't think he admires me much," he answered. "He wanted to clear me
out before you came in."
"Did he?"
"Yes; he recognized me as a newsboy."
"I understand his reception of you. He has a nephew whom he wishes me to
engage. He is jealous of all possible rivals."
"Perhaps his nephew would suit you better, sir," said Dan, modestly.
"Are you willing to resign in his favor?"
"I prefer to leave that to you, sir."
"You can do so safely. The nephew is a disagreeable boy, who would not
suit me at all. He thinks more of dress than of duty, and, if I read him
aright, is lazy and incompetent. Nevertheless, Mr. Talbot has spoken to
me about taking him."
"Perhaps he doesn't know his nephew's faults."
"He knows them well enough, but is desirous of promoting his interests.
He won't look upon you very favorably when he learns that I have engaged
you."
"If you are satisfied, I won't care for that."
"Well spoken, my lad. And now for a few words in confidence," and Mr.
Rogers lowered his voice. "Our business is a large one, and the sums of
money handled are necessarily large. Three months since I ascertained
that somewhere in my establishment there was a leak. We are losing money
in some unexplained way. I believe that some one in whom I repose
confidence is betraying me."
Dan listened in earnest attention.
"Do you suspect any one, sir?" he asked.
"I suspect Mr. Talbot," he said, in the same low voice.
Dan started in surprise.
"It seems strange, perhaps, that I should speak so confidentially to
you--a mere boy--but I am impressed with the idea that you can help me."
"If I can, sir, I will," said Dan, earnestly.
"I don't doubt it. My first injunction is to say no word, even to your
nearest relations, of what I have told you."
"I won't, sir."
"Next, keep a watch over Mr. Talbot. I want to know what are his habits,
whether he uses money freely, with whom he associates. Can you, without
betraying to him that he is watched, find out some information for me on
these points?"
"I will try, sir."
"If you secure any information, never communicate it to me in the
office. Either come to my house, or write me there."
"Yes, sir."
"You understand that I am employing you in a detective capacity, and
that your time will partly be taken up out of business hours. I intend
to pay you extra, according to results. Is that satisfactory?"
"Perfectly so, Mr. Rogers, but I am afraid you will be disappointed in
me."
"I will take my risk of that."
"Have you any directions to give me, sir, as to how to go to work?"
"No; I am nothing of a detective myself. I leave that to you. I might,
of course, employ a professional detective, but Talbot is sharp, and he
would suspect. You he will not suspect. He won't dream of my employing a
boy. That is all I have to say for the present. When can you come to
work?"
"I can come to-morrow morning. To-day we are going to move."
"To-morrow let it be, then. Good-morning, Dan."
Mr. Rogers shook hands with our hero, and walked away.
"I am afraid I have a hard job on my hands," thought Dan, "but I will do
my best."
CHAPTER XVI.
DAN MAKES A DISCOVERY.
Dan's mother was much pleased with her new quarters. The large room,
occupied by Althea and herself, was bright and cheerful, and well
furnished. Besides the ordinary chamber furniture, there was a
comfortable arm-chair and a lounge. Mrs. Mordaunt felt that she would
not be ashamed now to receive a visit from some of her former friends.
She had anticipated some trouble about the preparation of meals, but
Mrs. Brown made a proposition which wonderfully removed all
difficulties.
"Mrs. Mordaunt," she said, "your family is about the same as mine. I
have a son who is employed in a newspaper office down town, and you have
two young children. Now, suppose we club together, and each pay half of
the table supplies. Then one day you can superintend the cooking--you
will only have to direct my servant Maggie--and the next day I will do
it. Then, every other day, each of us will be a lady of leisure, and not
have to go into the kitchen at all. What do you say?"
"The arrangement will be so much to my advantage that I can say only
one thing--I accept with thanks. But won't you be doing more than your
share? You will be furnishing the fuel, and pay Maggie's wages."
"I should have to do that at any rate. The plan is perfectly
satisfactory to me, if it suits you."
Mrs. Mordaunt found that the expense was not beyond her means. Her
income for the care of Althea was fifty dollars a month, and Dan paid
her four dollars a week out of his wages, reserving the balance as a
fund to purchase clothes. She went herself to market and selected
articles for the table, and, for the first time since her husband's
failure, found herself in easy circumstances.
There was no need now to make vests at starvation prices. She had
thought of continuing, but Dan insisted upon her giving it up entirely.
"If you want to sew, mother," he said, "you can make some of Althea's
clothes, and pay yourself out of the ten dollars a month allowed for her
clothes."
This was sensible and proper, and Mrs. Mordaunt decided to follow Dan's
advice. She lost no time in obtaining books for the little girl, and
commencing her education. Althea knew her letters, but nothing more. She
was bright and eager to learn, and gained rapidly under her new teacher.
Naturally, Dan and his mother were curious as to Althea's early
history, but from the little girl they obtained little information.
"Do you remember your mother, Althea?" asked Dan, one evening.
"Yes," said the little girl.
"When did you see her last?"
"Not long ago. Only a little while before you brought me here."
"Your mother isn't dead, is she?"
"No; but she's gone away."
"Why did she go away?"
"She is sick. That's what auntie told me. Poor mamma cried very much
when she went away. She kissed me, and called me her darling."
"Do you know where she went?"
"No; I don't know."
"Perhaps her lungs are affected, and she has gone to a warmer climate,"
suggested Mrs. Mordaunt. "She may have gone to Florida, or even to
Italy."
"Where is your father?" asked Dan, turning to Althea.
"Father is a bad man," said the child, positively. "He made mamma cry.
He went away a good while ago."
"And didn't he come back?"
"He came back once, and then mamma cried again. I think he wanted mamma
to give him some money."
Dan and his mother talked over the little girl's revelations, and
thought they had obtained a clew to the mystery in which the child's
history was involved. Althea's mother might have married a man of bad
habits, who wanted to get possession of her fortune, and rendered a
separation necessary. Ill health might have required her to leave home
and shift the care of the little girl upon strangers. It seemed rather
odd that she should have been handed over to utter strangers, but there
might have been reasons of which they knew nothing.
"We won't trouble ourselves about it," said Dan. "It's good luck for us,
even if it was bad luck for Althea's mother. I like the idea of having a
little sister."
Althea's last name was not known to her new protector. When Dan
inquired, he was told that she could pass by his name, so Althea
Mordaunt she became.
Both Dan and his mother had feared that she might become homesick, but
the fear seemed groundless. She was of a happy disposition, and almost
immediately began to call Mrs. Mordaunt mother.
"I call you mother," she said, "but I have a mamma besides; but she has
gone away."
"You must not forget your mamma, my dear," said the widow.
"No, I won't. She will come back some day; she said she would."
"And I will take care of you till she does, Althea."
"Yes," said the child, nodding. "I am glad I came to you, for now I have
a brother Dan."
"And I have a little sister," said Dan.
While Dan was away, and now he was away after supper regularly, Althea
was a great deal of company for Mrs. Mordaunt.
In the pleasant afternoons she took the little girl out to walk,
frequently to Union Square Park, where she made acquaintance with other
little girls, and had a merry time, while her new mother sat on one of
the benches.
One day a dark-complexioned gentleman, who had been looking earnestly at
Althea, addressed Mrs. Mordaunt.
"That is a fine little girl of yours, madam," he said.
"Thank you," said Mrs. Mordaunt.
"She does not resemble you much," he said, inquiringly.
"No; there is very little resemblance," answered Mrs. Mordaunt, quietly,
feeling that she must be on her guard.
"Probably she resembles her father?" again essayed the stranger.
Mrs. Mordaunt did not reply, and the stranger thought she was offended.
"I beg your pardon," he said, "but she resembles a friend of mine, and
that called my attention to her."
Mrs. Mordaunt bowed, but thought it wisest not to protract the
conversation. She feared that the inquirer might be a friend of the
father, and hostile to the true interests of the child.
For a week to come she did not again bring Althea to the park, but
walked with her in a different direction. When, after a week, she
returned to the square, the stranger had disappeared. At all events, he
was not to be seen.
We pass now to Dan and his interests.
Mr. Talbot heard of his engagement with anything but satisfaction. He
even ventured to remonstrate with Mr. Rogers.
"Do you know that this boy whom you have engaged is a common newsboy?"
he asked. "I have bought a paper more than once of him, in front of the
Astor House."
"So have I," answered Mr. Rogers, quietly.
"Then you know all about him?"
"Yes."
"It is none of my business, but I think you could easily get a better
boy. There is my nephew----"
"Your nephew would not suit me, Mr. Talbot."
The book-keeper bit his lip.
"Won't you give him a trial?" he asked.
"I have engaged Dan."
"If Dan should prove unsatisfactory, would you try my nephew?"
"Perhaps so."
It was an incautious concession, for it was an inducement to the
book-keeper to get Dan into trouble.
It was Dan's duty to go to the post-office, sometimes to go on errands,
and to make himself generally useful about the warehouses. As we know,
however, he had other duties of a more important character, of which Mr.
Talbot knew nothing.
The first discovery Dan made was made through the book-keeper's
carelessness.
Mr. Rogers was absent in Philadelphia, when Talbot received a note which
evidently disturbed him. Dan saw him knitting his brows, and looking
moody. Finally he hastily wrote a note, and called Dan.
"Take that to -- Wall street," he said, "and don't loiter on the way."
The note was directed to Jones & Robinson.
On reaching the address, Dan found that Jones & Robinson were stock
brokers.
Jones read the note.
"You come from Mr. Talbot?" he asked.
"Yes, sir."
"Tell him we will carry the stocks for him a week longer, but can't
exceed that time."
"Perhaps you had better write him a note," suggested Dan, "as he may not
like to have me know his business."
"Very well."
So Dan carried back the note.
"I believe I have made a discovery," he said to himself. "Mr. Talbot is
speculating in Wall street. I wonder if he speculates with his own money
or the firm's?"
His face, however, betrayed nothing as he handed the note to the
book-keeper, and the latter, after a searching glance, decided that
there was nothing to fear in that quarter.
CHAPTER XVII.
TALBOT'S SECRET.
Some light may be thrown upon Mr. Talbot's operations, if the reader
will accompany him to a brownstone house on Lexington avenue, on the
evening of the day when Dan was sent to the office of the Wall street
brokers.
Mr. Talbot ascended the steps, not with the elastic step of a man with
whom the world is prospering, but with the slow step of a man who is
burdened with care.
"Is Miss Conway at home?" he inquired of the servant who answered the
bell.
"Yes, sir."
"Will you tell her I should like to speak with her?"
"Yes, sir."
Talbot walked in with the air of one who was familiar with the house,
and entering a small front room, took a seat.
The furniture was plain, and the general appearance was that of a
boarding-house.
Talbot seemed immersed in thought, and only raised his eyes from the
carpet when he heard the entrance of a young lady. His face lighted up,
and he rose eagerly.
"My dear Virginia," he said, "it seems a long time since I saw you."
"It is only four days," returned the young lady, coolly.
"Four days without seeing you is an eternity."
The young lady smiled. It was easy to see that Talbot was in love, and
she was not.
"A very pretty compliment," she said. "Well, have you any news?"
"Not good news," said he, soberly.
She shrugged her shoulders, and looked disappointed.
Before going further, it may be as well to describe briefly the young
lady who had so enthralled the book-keeper.
She had the advantage of youth, a complexion clear red and white, and
decidedly pretty features. If there was a defect, it was the expression
of her eyes. There was nothing soft or winning in her glance. She
seemed, and was, of a cold, calculating, unsympathetic nature. She was
intensely selfish, and was resolved only to marry a man who could
gratify her taste for finery and luxurious living.
She was the niece of Mrs. Sinclair, who kept the boarding-house, and
though living in dependence upon her aunt, did nothing to relieve her
from the care and drudgery incidental to her business.
"It's too provoking," she said, pouting.
"So it is, Virginia;" and Talbot tried to take her hand, but she quietly
withdrew it.
"You told me that you would have plenty of money by this time, Mr.
Talbot."
"I expected it, but a man can't foresee the fluctuations of Wall street.
I am afraid I shall meet with a loss."
"I don't believe you are as smart as Sam Eustis--he's engaged to my
cousin. He made ten thousand dollars last month on Lake Shore."
"It's the fools that blunder into luck," said Talbot, irritated.
"Then you'd better turn fool; it seems to pay," said Virginia, rather
sharply.
"No need of that--I'm fool enough already," said Talbot, bitterly.
"Oh, well, if you've only come here to make yourself disagreeable, I'm
sure you'd better stay away," said the young lady, tossing her head.
"I came here expecting sympathy and encouragement," said Talbot.
"Instead, you receive me with taunts and coldness."
"You are unreasonable, Mr. Talbot," said Virginia. "I will be cheerful
and pleasant when you bring me agreeable news."
"Oh, Virginia!" exclaimed Talbot, impulsively. "Why will you require
impossibilities of me? Take me as I am. I have an income of two thousand
dollars a year. We can live comfortably on that, and be happy in a snug
little home."
"Snug little home!" repeated the young lady, scornfully. "Thank you; I'd
rather not. I know just what that means. It means that I am to be a
household drudge, afraid to spend an extra sixpence--perhaps obliged to
take lodgers, like my aunt."
"Not so bad as that, Virginia."
"It would come to that in time."
"I am sure you cannot love me when you so coolly give me up for money."
"I haven't given you up, but I want you to get money."
"Would to Heaven I could!"
"You could if you were in earnest."
"Do you doubt that?"
"Where there's a will, there's a way, Mr. Talbot. If you really care so
much for me, you will try to support me as I want to live."
"Tell me, in a word, what you want."
"Well," said Virginia, slowly, "I want to go to Europe for my
honey-moon. I've heard so much of Paris, I know I should like it ever
so much. Then I want to live respectably when I get back."
"What do you call living respectably?" asked Talbot.
"Well, we must have a nice little house to ourselves, and I think, just
at first, I could get along with three servants; and I should want to go
to the opera, and the theater, and to concerts."
"You have not been accustomed to live in that way, Virginia."
"No; and that's why I have made up my mind not to marry unless my
husband can gratify me."
"Suppose this is impossible?"
"Impossible for you!" said Miss Conway, significantly.
"You mean you will look elsewhere?" said Talbot, hastily.
"Yes, I think so," said Virginia, coolly.
"And you would desert me for a richer suitor?" he demanded, quickly.
"Of course I would rather marry you--you know that," said Virginia, with
perfect self-possession; "but if you can't meet my conditions, perhaps
it is better that we should part."
"You are cruel--heartless!" exclaimed Talbot, angrily.
"No; only sensible," she returned, calmly. "I don't mean to marry you
and be unhappy all my life; and I can't be happy living in the stuffy
way my aunt does. We should both be sorry for such a marriage when it
was too late."
"I will take the risk, Virginia," said Talbot, fixing his eyes with
passionate love on the cold-hearted girl.
"But I will not," said Virginia, decidedly. "I am sure you needn't take
it to heart, Mr. Talbot. Why don't you exert yourself and win a fortune,
as other people do? I am sure plenty of money is made in Wall street."
"And lost."
"Not if you are smart. Come now, smooth your face, and tell me you will
try," she said, coaxingly.
"Yes, Virginia, I will try," he answered, his face clearing. "And if I
try----"
"You will succeed," she said, smiling.
"Well, I hope I may."
"And now don't let us talk about disagreeable things. Do you know, sir,
it is a week since you took me to any place of amusement? And here I
have been moping at home every evening with my aunt, who is terribly
tiresome, poor old soul!"
"I would rather spend the evening here with you, Virginia, than go to
any place of amusement."
"Then I can't agree with you. One gets tired of spooning."
"I don't--if you call by that name being in the company of one you
love."
"You would, if you had as little variety as I have."
"Tell me one thing, Virginia--you love me, don't you?" asked Talbot, in
whose mind sometimes there rose an unpleasant suspicion that his love
was not returned.
"Why, of course I do, you foolish man," she said, carelessly. "And now,
where are you going to take me?"
"Where do you want to go, my darling?"
"To the Italian opera. To-morrow they play 'The Huguenots.'"
"I thought you didn't care for music, Virginia?"
"I don't go for that. I want to go because it's fashionable, and I want
to be seen. So, be a good boy, and get some nice seats for to-morrow
evening."
"Very well, my darling."
"And you'll try to get rich, for my sake?"
"Yes, Virginia. How rich must I be?"
"As soon as you can tell me you have ten thousand dollars, and will
spend half of it on a trip to Europe, I will marry you."
"Is that a bargain?"
"Yes."
"Then I hope to tell you so soon."
"The sooner the better."
When Talbot left the house it was with the determination to secure the
sum required by any means, however objectionable. His great love had
made him reckless.
Virginia Conway followed his retreating form with her cool, calculating
glance.
"Poor man! he is awfully in love!" she said to herself. "I'll give him
two months to raise the money, and if he fails, I think I can captivate
Mr. Cross, though he's horrid."
Mr. Cross was a middle-aged grocer, a widower, without children, and
reputed moderately wealthy.
When Mr. Talbot had entered the house, Dan was not far off. Later, he
saw him at the window with Virginia.
"I suppose that's his young lady," thought Dan. "All right! I guess he's
safe for this evening."
CHAPTER XVIII.
TWO KNIGHTS OF THE HIGHWAY.
Stocks took an upward turn, so that Talbot's brokers were willing to
carry them for him longer without an increase of margin. The market
looked so uncertain, however, that he decided to sell, though he only
made himself whole. To escape loss hardly satisfied him, when it was so
essential to make money.
He was deeply in love with Virginia Conway, but there was no hope of
obtaining her consent to a marriage unless he could raise money enough
to gratify her desires.
How should he do it?
He was returning to his boarding-house at a late hour one night, when,
in an unfrequented street, two figures advanced upon him from the
darkness, and, while one seized him by the throat, the other rifled his
pockets.
Talbot was not a coward, and having only a few dollars in his
pocket-book, while his watch, luckily, was under repair at Tiffany's, he
submitted quietly to the examination.
The pocket-book was opened and its contents eagerly scanned.
An exclamation of disgust mingled with profanity followed.
"Only five dollars, Mike!" muttered one of the ruffians.
"Why don't you carry money, like a gentleman?" demanded the man called
Mike. "Ain't you ashamed to carry such a lean wallet as that there?"
"Really, gentlemen, if I had expected to meet you, I would have provided
myself better," said Talbot, not without a gleam of humor.
"He's chaffing us Bill," said Mike.
"You'd better not, if you know what's best for yourself," growled Bill.
"Where's your ticker?"
"My watch is at Tiffany's."
"That's too thin."
"It's the truth. You ought to have waited till next week, when I'd have
had it for you."
"You're a cool customer."
"Why not?"
"We might hurt you."
"You have already. Don't squeeze my throat so next time."
"Have you any jewelry about you?"
"Only a pair of sleeve buttons."
"Gold?"
"Yes; but they are small, and not worth much."
"You've took us in reg'lar! A gent like you ought to have diamond studs,
or a pin, or something of value."
"I know it, and I'm sorry I haven't, for your sakes."
"No chaffing!" said Bill, with an ominous growl.
"Don't be afraid. I look upon you as gentlemen, and treat you
accordingly. In fact, I'm glad I've met with you."
"Why?" asked Mike, suspiciously.
"I may be able to put something in your way."
"Are you on the square?" asked Bill, rather surprised.
"Yes."
"What is it?"
"I can't tell you in the street. Is there any quiet place, where we
shall not be disturbed or overheard?"
The men looked at each other in doubt.
"This may be a plant," said Mike, suspiciously.
"On my honor, it isn't."
"If it is," growled Bill, "you'd better make your will."
"I know the risk, and am not afraid. In short, I have a job for you."
The men consulted, and finally were led to put confidence in Talbot.
"Is there money in it?" asked Mike.
"Two hundred dollars apiece."
"We'll hear what you have to say. Bill, let's go to your room."
"Is it far away?" asked Talbot.
"No."
"Lead on, then."
The three made their way to a dilapidated building on Houston street,
and ascended to the fourth floor.
Bill kicked open the door of a room with his foot and strode in.
A thin, wretched-looking woman sat in a wooden chair, holding a young
child.
"Is it you, Bill?" she asked.
"Yes, it's me!" growled her husband. "Just clear out into the other
room. Me and these gentlemen have business together."
She meekly obeyed the command of her lord, glancing curiously at Talbot
as she went out. Mike she knew only too well, as one of her husband's
evil companions.
The door was closed, but the wife bent her ear to the keyhole and
listened attentively.
Suspecting nothing, the conspirators spoke in louder tones than they
were aware of, so that she obtained a pretty clear idea of what was
being planned.
"Now go ahead," said Bill, throwing himself on the chair his wife had
vacated. "What's your game?"
"Can you open a safe?" asked Talbot.
"We might, 'specially if we knowed the combination."
"Perhaps I can manage that."
"Where is it?"
Talbot gave the name of his employer and the number of his store.
"What have you got to do with it?"
"I'm the book-keeper."
"You are? What are you going to make out of it?"
"Leave that to me. I'll guarantee that you'll find four hundred dollars
there to pay you for your trouble."
"That isn't enough. The risk is too great."
"It is only one night's work."
"If we're caught, it'll be Sing Sing for seven years."
"That's true. How much do you require, gentlemen?"
The men consulted.
"We might do it for five hundred apiece," said Bill.
There was a little discussion, but finally this was acceded to. Various
details were discussed, and the men separated.
"I'm goin' your way," said Mike. "I'll show you the way out."
"All right, thank you, but we'd better separate at the street door."
"Why? Are you too fine a gentleman to be seen with the likes of me?"
demanded Mike, feeling insulted.
"Not at all, my friend; but if we were seen together by any of the
police, who know me as book-keeper, it would excite suspicion later."
"You're right. Your head's level. You're sure you're on the square?"
"Yes, my friend. I shouldn't dare to tamper with men like you and Bill.
You might find a way to get even with me."
"That's so, stranger. I guess we can trust you."
"You may be sure of that."
"More crime!" said the miserable wife to herself, as she heard through
the keyhole the details of the plan. "Bill is getting worse and worse
every day. Where will it all end?"
"Here, Nancy, get me something to eat," said Bill, when his visitors had
departed.
"Yes, Bill, I will get you all there is."
The wife brought out from a small closet a slice of bread and a segment
of cheese.
"Pah!" said the burly ruffian, turning up his nose. "What are you giving
us?"
"It's all I've got, Bill."
"Where's the meat, I say?"
"There is none."
"You and your brat have eaten it!" said he, irritably.
"God help us, Bill! We have had no meat for a week."
"That's a lie! I can't eat such trash as that. Do you mean to starve
me?"
"I can't make food, Bill. If you will give money, I will provide better.
I can't do anything without money."
"Whining, are you?" said the brute, furiously. "I'll teach you to
complain of me. Take that, and that!" and he struck the woman two brutal
blows with his fist. One, glancing, struck the child, who began to cry.
This further irritated Bill, who, seizing his wife by the shoulders,
thrust her out on the landing.
"There, stay there with the cursed brat!" he growled. "I mean to have
one quiet night."
The wretched wife crept down stairs, and out into the street, scarcely
knowing what she did. She was not wholly destitute of spirit, and
though she might have forgiven personal injury, felt incensed by the
treatment of her innocent child.
"My poor baby!" she said, pitifully, "must you suffer because your
father is a brute? May Heaven avenge our wrongs! Sooner or later it
will."
She sat down on some steps near by; the air was chilly, and she shivered
with the cold, but she tried to shelter her babe as well as she could.
She attracted the attention of a boy who was walking slowly by.
It was Dan, who had at a distance witnessed Talbot's encounter with the
burglars, and his subsequent friendly companionship with them, and was
trying to ascertain the character of the place which he visited.
"What's the matter with you?" asked Dan, in a tone of sympathy.
[Illustration: "What's the matter with you?" asked Dan, in a tone of
sympathy. Page 148]
"My husband has thrust me out of doors with my poor baby."
"He must be a nice husband. Do you want a lodging?"
"I have no money."
"I can let you have enough for that. There's a cheap hotel near by. I'll
take you to it, and pay for your lodging, and pay for it in advance."
"Heaven bless you! You are indeed a friend."
"Take my arm."
Supported by Dan, the poor woman rose and walked to an humble tavern not
far away.
"She may know something about Talbot's visit. I'll question her,"
thought Dan.
CHAPTER XIX.
DAN AS A GOOD SAMARITAN.
"What made your husband treat you so badly?" asked Dan.
"Rum!" answered the woman. "Rum has been sinking him lower and lower,
and it's easy to see the end."
"What will be the end?"
"The prison--perhaps the gallows."
"You are taking too dark a view of your husband," said Dan, soothingly.
"He won't go as far as that."
The woman shook her head.
"I know him only too well," she said. "This very evening he has been
planning a burglary."
Dan started, and a sudden suspicion entered his mind.
"Did you hear him doing it?" he asked.
"Yes."
"Do you know where it is?" he asked, eagerly.
"Yes; it is a store on Pearl street."
Dan felt that he was on the track of a discovery. He was likely to be
repaid at last for the hours he had spent in detective service.
"Who put him up to it?" he asked, fixing his eyes intently on the woman.
"I don't know his name; he is a well-dressed man. I think he is in the
store."
"Was it a man who came to your rooms this evening?"
"Yes."
"Is this the way he looked?" Here Dan gave a rapid description of
Talbot.
"That is the man. Do you know him?"
"Yes, I know him. He is the book-keeper of the firm."
"He is a bad man. He is to pay a thousand dollars for the job. Bill is
to have half of it."
"Bill, I suppose, is your husband?"
"Yes."
Dan looked thoughtful. Here was a most important discovery. He must
consider what to do.
By this time they had reached a small public-house, of humble exterior,
but likely to afford his companion better accommodations than she had at
home.
"Come in," said Dan.
The woman followed him, with the child in her arms. A stout German, who
appeared to be the proprietor of the establishment, was sitting in an
arm-chair, smoking a pipe. He scanned the party phlegmatically.
"What you wants?" he asked.
"Can you give this lady a room?" asked Dan.
"Is she your vife?" asked the German, with a broad grin.
"No; she is an acquaintance of mine. Her husband has driven her out of
his house in a fit of drunkenness. Can she sleep here?"
"Has she got any money?" asked the Dutchman, shrewdly.
"I will pay for her lodging."
"That's all right. She shall stay here."
"What will you charge?"
"Fifty cents a night for the lodging."
"Here it is."
"Will the lady go up now?" asked the landlord, upon whom the silver
half-dollar produced a visible impression.
"Yes," said the woman; "my poor baby is tired."
"You had better stay here two nights," said Dan. "Don't let your husband
know where you are just yet. Here is money to pay for another night's
lodging, and enough to buy food besides."
"God bless you, boy!" she said, gratefully. "But for you I should have
had to stay out all night."
"Oh, no; some one would have taken you in."
"You don't know this neighborhood; the policeman would have found me,
and taken me to the station-house. For myself I care little; but my poor
babe, who is worse than fatherless----" and she burst into tears.
"Keep up your courage, madam. Brighter days may be in store," said Dan,
cheerfully.
"I will come and see you day after to-morrow," said Dan. "Good-night."
Our hero must not be awarded too great credit for his generosity. He
knew that Mr. Rogers would willingly defray all expenses connected with
the discovery, and that the money he had advanced to his unfortunate
companion would be repaid. Had it been otherwise, however, his generous
heart would have prompted him to relieve the woman's suffering.
CHAPTER XX.
LAYING THE TRAIN.
Very early the next morning Dan rang the bell at Mr. Rogers' residence.
"Can I see Mr. Rogers?" he asked.
"The master won't be up for an hour," said the servant.
"Tell him Dan wishes to see him on business of importance."
The girl shrugged her shoulders.
"I don't think he'll see you. He was up late last night," she said.
"Never mind. Let him know I am here."
"It's very important you make yourself," said Susan, crossly.
"I am a person of great importance," said Dan, smiling. "Mr. Rogers
will see me, you'll find."
Two minutes later Susan descended the stairs a little bewildered.
"You're to walk into the parlor," she said. "Master'll be down
directly."
Dan did not have long to wait. Mr. Rogers came down stairs almost
directly in dressing-gown and slippers.
"Well, Dan, what is it?" he asked.
"The store is to be broken open to-night and the safe robbed!" said Dan.
"Good heavens! By whom?"
"By two men living in Houston street--at least, one lives there."
"Have you any more to tell?"
"Yes, sir; they are employed by Mr. Talbot."
Mr. Rogers started.
"Are you sure of this?" he asked.
"Quite sure."
"How did you find out?"
"Partly by accident, sir."
"Go on. Tell me all."
Dan rehearsed the story, already familiar to our readers, combining with
it some further information he had drawn from the woman.
"I didn't think Talbot capable of this," said Mr. Rogers. "He has been
in our employ for ten years. I don't like to think of his treachery,
but, unhappily, there is no reason to doubt it. Now, Dan, what is your
advice?"
"I am afraid my advice wouldn't be worth much, Mr. Rogers," said Dan,
modestly.
"I am not sure of that. I am indebted to you for this important
discovery. You are keen and ready-witted. I won't promise to follow your
advice, but I should like to hear it."
"Then, sir, I will ask you a question. Do you want to prevent the
robbery, or to catch the men in the act?"
"I wish to catch the burglars in the act."
"Then, sir, can you stay away from the store to-day?"
"Why?"
"Your looks might betray your suspicions."
"There is something in that. But how can I take measures to guard
against loss?"
"You can act through me, sir. Is there much money in the safe?"
"No; but Talbot is authorized to sign checks. He will draw money if I am
not at the store."
"Will he place it in the safe?"
"Probably."
"Then let him do so. He is to tell the burglars the combination. He will
get it from the janitor."
"The scoundrel!"
"I will see the janitor, and ask him to give the book-keeper the wrong
word."
"What else?"
"I will secretly notify the police, whom he will admit and hide till the
time comes."
"That is well planned."
"Then," continued Dan, flushing with excitement, "we'll wait till the
burglars come, and let them begin work on the safe. While they are at
work, we will nab them."
"You say we."
"Yes, sir; I want to be there."
"There may be danger."
"I'll risk it, sir."
"Dan, you are a brave boy."
"I don't know about that, sir. But if anything is going on to-night, I
want to be in it."
"You shall, but be prudent. I don't want you to be hurt."
"Thank you, sir. If Mr. Talbot sends me with a large check to the bank,
what shall I do?"
"Take it."
"He may make off with the money during the day."
"I will set another detective to watch him, and have him arrested in
that event."
"This is going to be an exciting day," said Dan to himself, as he set
out for the store.
CHAPTER XXI.
TWELVE THOUSAND DOLLARS.
As Dan entered the store he noticed that Talbot looked excited and
nervous. Ordinarily the book-keeper would have reprimanded him sharply
for his late arrival, but he was not disposed to be strict this morning.
"I'm a little late this morning, Mr. Talbot," said Dan.
"Oh, well, you can be excused for once," said Talbot.
He wished to disarm suspicion by extra good humor. Besides, he intended
to send Dan to the bank presently for a heavy sum, and thought it best
to be on friendly terms with him.
About ten o'clock a messenger entered the store with a note from Mr.
Rogers to the book-keeper. It was to this effect:
     "I am feeling rather out of sorts this morning, and shall not come
     to the store. Should you desire to consult me on any subject, send
     a messenger to my house."
Talbot read this note with great satisfaction. The only obstacle to
carrying out his plans was the apprehended presence and vigilance of his
employer. Now he had a clear field.
About one o'clock he called Dan into the office.
"Here, Dan," he said, "I want you to go to the bank at once."
"Yes, sir."
"Here is a check for twelve thousand dollars--rather a heavy amount--and
you must be very careful not to lose any of it, or to let any one see
that you have so much with you. Do you understand?"
"Yes, sir. In what denominations shall I get the money?"
"You may get one hundred dollars in fives and tens, and the remainder in
large bills."
"All right, sir."
"He means to make a big haul," said Dan to himself, as he left the
store. "I hope our plans won't miscarry. I wouldn't like Mr. Rogers to
lose so large a sum."
As Dan left the store a man of middle size, who was lounging against a
lamp-post, eyed him sharply. As Dan was turning the corner of the street
he left his post, and, walking rapidly, overtook him.
"Where are you going?" he asked.
"What is that to you?" demanded Dan.
"You are in the employ of Barton & Rogers, are you not?"
"Yes, sir."
"Is your name Dan?"
"Yes, sir."
"I am a detective, on watch here by order of Mr. Rogers. Now will you
answer my question?"
"Certainly. I am going to the bank."
"To draw money?"
"Yes, sir."
"How much?"
"Twelve thousand dollars."
"Whew! That is a big sum. Who sent you?"
"Mr. Talbot."
"He is the book-keeper, is he not?"
"Yes, sir."
"I will walk along with you. There is no need of watching till you bring
back the money. Where do you think Talbot will put the money?"
"In the safe, I think, sir."
"I am not sure of that. I believe he will retain the greater part on his
own person. If the men who are to rob the safe got hold of all the money
they would be likely to keep it, and not limit themselves to the sum he
agrees to pay them."
"I suppose you are right, sir. What, then, are we to do?" asked Dan,
perplexed.
"I shall take care to keep Talbot in view. He doesn't propose to run
away. He means to have it understood that all this money has been taken
by the burglars, whereas but a tithe of the sum will be deposited in the
safe."
Dan nodded assent. He was convinced that the detective was right. Still
he was anxious.
"It seems to me there is a risk of losing the money," he said.
The detective smiled.
"Don't be afraid," he said, confidentially. "Talbot won't leave the
city. I will take care of that."
His words inspired confidence, and Dan entered the bank without
misgivings.
The check was so large that the bank officials scrutinized it carefully.
There was no doubt about its being correct, however.
"How will you have it?" was asked.
Dan answered as he had been directed.
"Be very careful, young man," said the disbursing clerk. "You've got too
much to lose."
"All right, sir."
Dan deposited one roll of bills in the left inside pocket of his coat,
and the balance in the right pocket, and then buttoned up the coat.
"I'm a boy of fortune for a short time," he said to himself. "I hope
the time will come when I shall have as much money of my own."
Dan observed that the detective followed him at a little distance, and
it gave him a feeling of security. Some one might have seen the large
sum of money paid him, and instances had been known where boys in such
circumstances had suddenly been set upon in the open street at midday
and robbed. He felt that he had a friend near at hand who would
interfere in such a case.
"What time is it, boy?" asked an ill-looking man, suddenly accosting
him.
"Half-past one."
"Look at your watch."
"I don't carry one," said Dan, eying the questioner suspiciously.
"Nor I. I have been very unfortunate. Can't you give me a quarter to buy
me some dinner?"
"Ask some one else; I'm in a hurry," said Dan, coldly.
The man went away muttering.
"I'm not as green as you take me for," said Dan to himself.
He thought his danger was over, but he was mistaken.
Suddenly a large man, with red hair and beard, emerging from Dan knew
not where, laid his hand on his shoulder.
Dan turned in surprise.
"Boy," said he, in a fierce undertone, "give me that money you have in
your coat-pocket, or I will brain you."
"You forget we are in the public street," said Dan.
"No, I don't."
"You would be arrested."
"And you would be--stunned, perhaps killed!" hissed the man. "Look here,
boy, I am a desperate man. I know how much money you have with you. Give
me half, and go."
Dan looked out of the corner of his eye, to see the detective close at
hand. This gave him courage, for he recognized that the villain was only
speaking the truth, and he did not wish to run any unnecessary risk. He
gave a nod, which brought the detective nearer, and then slipped to one
side, calling:
"Stop thief!"
The ruffian made a dash for him, his face distorted with rage, but his
arm was grasped as by an iron vise.
"Not so fast, Jack Benton!" exclaimed the detective, and he signaled to
a policeman. "You are up to your old tricks again, as I expected."
"Who are you?" demanded Jack, angrily.
"A detective."
"The devil!" ejaculated the foiled burglar. "I have taken nothing," he
added, sullenly.
"That isn't your fault. I heard you threatening the boy, unless he gave
up the money in his possession. Take him away, officer. I will appear
against him."
"Thank you, sir," said Dan, gratefully.
