the dawn, all meet for a brief moment at one of the crossings in daily
life’s labyrinth, through all the four and twenty hours in which each
pulsation is completed, until that dull, far-off roll of the earliest
cart echoes again, followed within a few minutes by many others,--round
and round the clock again, with unfailing exactness, you may note the
same rise and fall of the life-stream.
The point at which Ralston and his companions crossed Broadway is a
particularly busy one. It is near many of the principal theatres; there
are a number of big hotels in the neighbourhood; there are some
fashionable shops; it is only one short block from the junction of
Broadway and Sixth Avenue, where there is an important station of the
elevated road, and there are the usual carts, vans and horse-cars
chasing each other up and down, and not leaving even enough road for two
carriages to pass one another on either side of the tracks. The streams
of traffic meet noisily, and thump and bump and jostle through the
difficulty, and a man standing there may watch the expression change in
all the faces as they approach the point. The natural look disappears
for a moment; the eyes glance nervously to the right and left; the lips
are set as though for an effort; the very carriage of the body is
different, as though the muscles were tightened for an exertion which
the frame may or may not be called upon to make instantly without
warning. It is an odd sight, though one which few people see, every one
being concerned to some extent for his own safety, and oblivious of his
neighbour’s dangers.
Ralston and the others stood at the corner waiting for an opportunity to
pass. There was a momentary interruption of the line of vehicles on the
up-town side, which was nearest to them. Ralston stepped forward first
toward the track. Glancing to the left, he saw a big express cart coming
up at full speed, and on the other track, from his right as he stood, a
horse-car was coming down, followed at some distance by a large, empty
van. The horse-car was nearest to him, and passed the corner briskly. A
small boy, wheeling an empty perambulator and leading a good-looking
rough terrier by a red string, crossed towards Ralston between the
horse-car and the van, dragging the dog after him, and was about to
cross the other track when he saw that the express cart rattling up town
was close upon him. He paused, and drew back a little to let it pass,
pulling back his perambulator, which, however, caught sideways between
the rails. At the same instant the clanging bell and the clatter of a
fire engine, followed by a hook and ladder cart, and driven at full
speed, produced a sudden commotion, and the man who was driving the
empty van looked backward and hastened his horses, in order to get out
of the way. In the confusion the little boy and his perambulator were in
danger of annihilation.
Ralston jumped the track, snatched the boy in one arm and lifted the
perambulator bodily with his other hand, throwing them across the second
pair of rails as he sprang. He fell at full length in the carriage way.
He lay quite still for a moment, and the horses of the empty van stuck
out their fore-feet and stopped with a plunge close beside him. The
people paused on the pavement, and one or two came forward to help him.
There is no policeman at this crossing as a rule, as there is one a
block higher, at the main corner. Ralston was not hurt, however, though
he had narrowly escaped losing his foot, for the wheel of one of the
vehicles had torn the heel from his shoe. He was on his legs in a few
moments, holding the terrified boy by the collar, and lecturing him
roughly upon the folly of doing risky things with a perambulator.
Meanwhile the horse-cars and wagons which had blocked the crossing
having moved off in opposite directions, Bright and Frank Miner ran
across. Bright was very pale as he passed his arm through Ralston’s and
drew him away. Miner looked at him with silent admiration, having all
his life longed to be the hero of some such accident.
“I wish you wouldn’t do such things, Jack,” said Bright, in his calm
voice. “Are you hurt?”
“Not a bit,” answered Ralston, who seemed to have enjoyed the
excitement. “The thing almost took off my foot, though. I can’t walk.
Come over to the Imperial again. I’ll get brushed down, and take a cab.
Come along--I can’t stand this crowd. There’ll be a reporter in a
minute.”
Without further words the three recrossed the street to the hotel.
“I don’t suppose the most rigid doctor would object to my having
something to drink after that tumble,” observed Ralston, as they passed
through the crowded hall.
“Every man is the best judge of what he wants,” answered Bright.
Few people noticed, or appeared to notice, Ralston’s dilapidated
condition, his smashed hat, his dusty clothes and his heelless shoe. He
found a hall-boy who brushed him, and little Frank Miner did his best to
restore the hat to an appearance of respectability.
“All right, Frank,” said Ralston. “Don’t bother--I’m going home in a
cab, you know.”
He led the way to the bar, swallowed half a tumbler of whiskey neat, and
then got into a carriage.
“See you this evening,” he said briefly, as he nodded to Bright and
Miner, and shut the cab door after him.
The other two watched the carriage a moment, as it drove away, and then
looked at one another. Miner had a trick of moving his right ear when he
was puzzled. It is rather an unusual peculiarity, and his friends knew
what it meant. As Bright looked at him the ear began to move slowly,
backwards and forwards, with a slight upward motion. Bright smiled.
“You needn’t wag it so far, Frank,” he said. “He’s going home. It will
be all right now.”
“I suppose so--or I hope so, at least. I wonder if Mrs. Ralston is in.”
“Why?”
“The trouble with you intelligent men is that you have no sense,”
answered the little man. “He’s had another drink--four fingers it was,
too--and he’s been badly shaken up, and he had the beginning of a ‘jag’
on before, and he’s going home in a rolling cab, which makes it worse.
If he meets his mother, there’ll be a row. That’s all. Even when I was a
boy it wasn’t good form to be drunk before dinner, and nobody drinks
now--at least, not as they used to. Well--it’s none of my business.”
“It’s everybody’s business,” said Bright. “But a harder man to handle I
don’t know. He’ll either come to grief or glory, or both together, one
of these days. It’s not the quantity he takes--it’s the confounded
irregularity of him. I’m going to the club--are you coming?”
“I may as well correct my proofs there as anywhere else. Pocket’s full
of them.” Miner tapped his round little chest with an air of some
importance.
“Proofs, eh? Something new?”
“I’ve worn them out, my boy. They’re incapable of returning me with
thanks any more--until next time. I’ve worn them out, heel and
toe,--right out.”
“Is it a book, Frank?”
“Not yet. But it’s going to be. This is the first--a series of essays,
you know--this is the wedge, and I’ve got it in, and I’m going to drive
it for all I’m worth, and when there are six or seven they’ll make a
book, together with some other things--something in the same
style--which have appeared before.”
“I’m very glad, old man. I congratulate you. Go in and win.”
“It’s an awful life, though,” said Frank Miner, growing suddenly grave.
Bright glanced at the neat, rotund little figure, at the pink cheeks and
bright eyes, and he smiled quietly.
“It’s not wearing you to the bone yet,” he observed.
“Oh--that’s no sign! Look at Napoleon. He had rather my figure, I
believe. What’s the good of getting thin about things, anyhow? It’s only
unhappy people who get thin. You work hard enough, Ham, in your humdrum
way--oh, I don’t envy your lot!--and you’re laying it on, Ham, you’re
laying it on steadily, year after year. You’ll be a fat man, Ham--ever
so much fatter than I am, because there’s twice as much of you, to begin
with. Besides, you’ve got a big chest and that makes a man look stout.
But then, you don’t care, do you? You’re perfectly happy, so you get
fat. So would Apollo, if he were a successful banker, and gave up
bothering about goddesses and things. As for me, I about keep my weight.
Given up bread, though--last summer. Bad thing, bread.”
So Miner chattered on as he walked by his friend’s side, towards the
club. There was no great talent in him, though he had drifted into
literature, and of industry he had not so much as he made people
believe. But he possessed the treasure of cheerfulness, and dispensed it
freely in his conversation, whereas in his writings he strove at the
production of gruesome and melancholy tales, stories of suffering and
horror, the analysis of pain and the portraiture of death in many forms.
The contradiction between the disposition of literary men and their
works is often a curious study.
Mrs. Ralston was at home that afternoon, or rather, to be accurate in
the social sense, she was in, and had given orders to the general effect
that only her particular friends were to be admitted. This, again, is a
statement susceptible of misapprehension, as she had not really any
particular friends in the world, but only acquaintances in divers
degrees of intimacy, who called themselves her friends and sometimes
called one another her enemies. But of such matters she took little
heed, and was at no pains to set people right with regard to her private
opinion of them. She did many kind things within society’s limits and
without, but she was wise enough to expect nothing in return, being well
aware that real gratitude is a mysterious cryptogam like the truffle,
and indeed closely resembling the latter in its rarity, its spontaneous
growth, its unprepossessing appearance, and in the fact that it is more
often found and enjoyed by the lower animals than by man.
It may be as well to elucidate here the somewhat intricate points of the
Lauderdales’ genealogy and connections, seeing that both have a direct
bearing upon the life of Katharine Lauderdale, of John Ralston, and of
many others who will appear in the course of this episodic history.
In old times the primeval Alexander Lauderdale, a younger son of an
honourable Scotch family, brought his wife, with a few goods and no
particular chattels, to New York, and they had two sons, Alexander and
Robert, and died and were buried. Of these two sons the elder,
Alexander, did very well in the world, married a girl of Dutch family,
Anna Van Blaricorn, and had three sons, and he and his wife died and
were buried beside the primeval Alexander.
Of these three sons the eldest was Alexander Lauderdale, the
philanthropist, of whom mention has been made, who was alive at the time
this story begins, who married a young girl of Puritan lineage and some
fortune. She died when their only son, Alexander Lauderdale Junior, was
twenty-two years of age. The latter married Emma Camperdown, of the
Kentucky Catholic family, and had two daughters, the elder, Charlotte,
married at the present time to Benjamin Slayback of Nevada, member of
Congress, the younger, Katharine Lauderdale, being John Ralston’s dark
cousin.
So much for the first of the three sons. The second was Robert
Lauderdale, the famous millionaire, the uncle Robert spoken of by
Ralston and the others, who never married, and was at the time of this
tale about seventy-five years of age. He originally made a great sum by
a fortunate investment in a piece of land which lies in the heart of the
present city of Chicago, and having begun with real estate he stuck to
it like the wise man he was, and its value doubled and decupled and
centupled, and no one knew how rich he was. He was the second son of the
elder son of the primeval Alexander.
The third son of that elder son was Ralph Lauderdale, who was killed at
the battle of Chancellorsville in the Civil War. He married a Miss
Charlotte Mainwaring, whose father had been an Englishman settled
somewhere in the South. Katharine, the widow of the late Admiral
Ralston, was the only child of their marriage, and her only child was
John Ralston, second cousin to Katharine Lauderdale and Mrs. Slayback.
But the primeval Alexander had a second son Robert, who had only one
daughter, Margaret, married to Rufus Thompson. And Rufus Thompson’s
sister married Livingston Miner of New York, and was the mother of Frank
Miner and of three unmarried daughters. That is the Miner connection.
And on the Lauderdale side Rufus Thompson had one daughter by his wife,
Margaret Lauderdale; and that daughter married Richard Bright of
Cincinnati, who died, leaving two children, Hamilton Bright and his
sister Hester, the wife of Walter Crowdie, the eminent painter of New
York. This is the relationship of the Brights to the Lauderdales.
Bright, John Ralston and Katharine Lauderdale were all descended from
the same great-great-grandfather--the primeval Alexander. And as there
is nothing duller to the ordinary mind than genealogy, except the
laborious process of tracing it, little more shall be said about it
hereafter, and the ingenious reader may refer to these pages when he is
in doubt.
It has been shown, however, that all these modern individuals with whom
we have to do come from a common stock, except little Frank Miner, who
could only boast of a connection by marriage. For it was a good stock,
and the families of all the women who had married into it were proud of
it, and some of them were glad to speak of it when they had a chance.
None of the Lauderdales had ever come to any great distinction, it is
true, except Robert, by his fabulous wealth. But none of them had ever
done anything dishonourable either, nor even approaching it. There had
not even been a divorce in the family. Some of the men had fought in the
war, and one had been killed, and, through Robert, the name was a power
in the country. It was said that there had never been any wild blood in
the family either, until Ralph married Miss Mainwaring, and that John
Ralston got all his faults from his grandmother. But that may or may not
be true, seeing that no one knows much of the early youth of the
primeval Alexander before he came to this country.
It is probably easier for a man to describe a man than a woman. The
converse may possibly be true also. Men see men, on the whole, very much
as they are, each man being to each other an assemblage of facts which
can be catalogued and referred to. But most men receive from woman an
indefinite and perhaps undefinable impression, besides, and sometimes
altogether at variance with what is merely visible. It is very hard to
convey any idea of that impression to a third person, even in the actual
presence of the woman described; it is harder still when the only means
are the limited black and white of printed English.
Katharine Lauderdale, at least, had a fair share of beauty of a certain
typical kind, a general conception of which belongs to everybody, but
her aunt Katharine had not even that. No one ever called Katharine
Ralston beautiful, and yet no one had ever classed her among pretty
girls when she had been young. Between the two, between prettiness and
beauty, there is a debatable country of brown-skinned, bright-eyed,
swift-like women of aquiline feature, and sometimes of almost man-like
energy, who succeed in the world, and are often worshipped for three
things--their endurance, their smile and their voice. They are women who
by laying no claim to the immunities of womanhood acquire a direct right
to consideration for their own sakes. They also may often possess that
mysterious gift known as charm, which is incomparably more valuable than
all the classic beauty and perfection of colouring which nature can
accumulate in one individual. Beauty fades; wit wears out; but charm is
not evanescent.
Katharine Ralston had it, and sometimes wondered what it was, and even
tried to understand herself by determining clearly what it was not. But
for the most part she thought nothing about it, which is probably the
best rule for preserving it, if it needs any sort of preservation.
Outwardly, her son strongly resembled her. He had from her his dark
complexion, his lean face and his brown eyes, as well as a certain grace
of figure and a free carriage of the head which belong to the pride of
station--a little exaggerated--which both mother and son possessed in a
high degree. Katharine Ralston did not talk of her family, but she
believed in it, as something in which it was good to believe from the
bottom of her heart, and she had brought up John to feel that he came
from a stock of gentlemen and gentlewomen who might be bad, but could
not be mean, nor anything but gentle in the vague, heraldic sense of
that good word.
She was a sensible woman and saw her son’s faults. They were not small,
by any means, nor insignificant by their nature, nor convenient faults
for a young gentleman about town, who had the reputation of having tried
several occupations and of having failed with quite equal brilliancy in
all. But they were not faults that estranged him from her, though she
suffered much for his sake in a certain way. She would rather have had
him a drunkard, a gambler, almost a murderer, than have seen him turn
out a hypocrite. She would far rather have seen him killed before her
than have known that he had ever lied to save himself, or done any of
the mean little sins, for which there may be repentance here and
forgiveness hereafter, but from the pollution of which honour knows no
purification.
Religion she had none whatever, and frankly owned the fact if questioned
directly. But she made no profession of atheism and gave no grounds for
her unbelief. She merely said that she could not believe in the
existence of the soul, an admission which at once settled all other
kindred points, so far as she was concerned. But she regretted her own
position. In her childhood, her ideas had been unsettled by the constant
discussions which took place between her parents. Her father, like all
the Lauderdales, had been a Presbyterian. Her mother had been an
Episcopalian, and, moreover, a woman alternately devout and doubting.
Katharine shared neither the prejudices nor the convictions of either.
Then she had married Admiral Ralston, a man, like many officers of the
Navy, of considerable scientific acquirements, and full to overflowing
of the scientific arguments against religion, which were even more
popular in his day than they are now. What little hold the elder
Katharine had still possessed upon an undefined future state was finally
destroyed by her sailor husband’s rough, sledge-hammer arguments. In the
place of religion she set up a sort of code of honour to which she
rigidly adhered, and in the observance of which she brought up her only
son.
It is worth remarking that until he finally left college she encouraged
him to be religious, if he would, and regularly took him to church so
long as he was a boy. She even persuaded his father not to talk atheism
before him; and the admiral, who was as conservative as only republicans
can be, was quite willing to let the young fellow choose for himself
what he should believe or reject when he should come to years of
discretion. Up to the age of twenty-one, Jack had been a remarkably
sober and thoughtful young fellow. He began to change soon after his
father died.
Ralston let himself in with his key when he got home and went upstairs,
supposing that his mother was out, as she usually was at that hour. She
heard his footstep, however, as he passed the door of her own
sitting-room, on the first landing, and having no idea that anything was
wrong, she called to him.
“Is that you, Jack?”
Ralston stopped and in the dusk of the staircase realized for the first
time that he was not sober. He made an effort when he spoke, answering
through the closed door.
“It’s all right, mother; I’ll be down in a few minutes.”
Something unusual in the tone of his voice must have struck Mrs.
Ralston. He had made but two steps forward when she opened the door,
throwing the light full upon him.
“What’s the matter, Jack?” she asked, quietly.
Then she saw his face, the deep lines, the drawn expression, the shadows
under the eyes and the unnatural dull light in the eyes themselves. And
in the same glance she saw that his hat was battered and that his
clothes were dusty and stained. She knew well enough that he drank more
than was good for him, but she had never before seen him in such a
state. The broad daylight, too, and the disorder of his clothes made him
look much more intoxicated than he really was. Katharine Ralston stood
still in silence for a moment, and looked at her son. Her face grew a
little pale just before she spoke again.
“Are you sober enough to take care of yourself?” she asked rather
harshly, for there was a dryness in her throat.
John Ralston was no weakling, and was, moreover, thoroughly accustomed
to controlling his nerves, as many men are who drink habitually--until
the nerves themselves give way. He drew himself up and felt that he was
perfectly steady before he answered in measured tones.
“I’m sorry you should see me just now, mother. I had a little accident,
and I took some whiskey afterwards to steady me. It has gone to my head.
I’m very sorry.”
That was more than enough for his mother. She came swiftly forward, and
gently took him by the arm to lead him into her room. But Ralston’s
sense of honour was not quite satisfied.
“It’s partly my fault, mother. I had been taking other things before,
but I was all right until the accident happened.”
Mrs. Ralston smiled almost imperceptibly. She was glad that he should
be so honest, even when he was so far gone. She led him through the door
into her own room, and made him sit down in a comfortable chair near the
window.
“Never mind, Jack,” she said, “I’m just like a man about understanding
things. I know you won’t do it again.”
But Ralston knew his own weakness, and made no rash promises then,
though a great impulse arose in his misty understanding, bidding him
then and there make a desperately solemn vow, and keep it, or do away
with himself if he failed. He only bowed his head, and sat down, as his
mother bid him. He was ashamed, and he was a man to whom shame was
particularly bitter.
Mrs. Ralston got some cold water in a little bowl, and bathed his
forehead, touching him as tenderly as she would have touched a sick
child. He submitted readily enough, and turned up his brows gratefully
to her hand.
“Your head is a little bruised,” she said. “Were you hurt anywhere else?
What happened? Can you tell me now, or would you rather wait?”
“Oh, it was nothing much,” answered Ralston, speaking more easily now.
“There was a boy, with a perambulator, getting between the cars and
carts. I got him out of the way, and tumbled down, because there wasn’t
even time to jump. I threw myself after the boy--somehow. The wheel took
off the heel of my boot, but I wasn’t hurt. I’m all right now. Thank
you, mother dear. There never was anybody like you to understand.”
Mrs. Ralston was very pale again, but John could not see her face.
“Don’t risk such things, Jack,” she said, in a low voice. “They hurt one
badly.”
Ralston said nothing, but took her hand and kissed it gently. She
pressed his silently, and touched his matted hair with her tightly shut
lips. Then he got up.
“I’ll go to my room, now,” he said. “I’m much better. It will be all
gone in half an hour. I suppose it was the shaking,--but I did swallow a
big dose after my tumble.”
“Say nothing more about it, my dear,” answered Mrs. Ralston, quietly.
She turned from him, ostensibly to set the bowl of water upon a table.
But she knew that he could not be perfectly himself again in so short a
time, and if he was still unsteady, she did not wish to see it--for her
own sake.
“Thank you, mother,” he said, as he left the room.
She might have watched him, if she had chosen to do so, and she would
have seen nothing unusual now--nothing but his dusty clothes and the
slight limp in his gait, caused by the loss of one low heel. He was
young, and his nerves were good, and he had a very strong incentive in
the shame he still felt. Moreover, under ordinary circumstances, even
the quantity he had drunk would not have produced any visible bodily
effect on him, however it might have affected his naturally uncertain
temper. It was quite true that the fall and the excitement of the
accident had shaken him.
He reached his own room, shut the door, and then sat down to look at
himself in the glass, as men under the influence of drink very often do,
for some mysterious reason. Possibly the drunken man has a vague idea
that he can get control over himself by staring at his own image, and
into the reflection of his own eyes. John Ralston never stayed before
the mirror longer than was absolutely necessary, except when he had
taken too much.
But to-day he was conscious that, in spite of appearances, he was
rapidly becoming bodily sober. If it had all happened at night, he would
have wound up at a club, and would probably have come home in the small
hours, in order to be sure of not finding his mother downstairs, and he
would have been in a very dubious condition. But the broad light, the
cold water, his profound shame and his natural nerve had now combined to
restore him, outwardly at least, and so far as he was conscious, to his
normal state.
He bathed, looked at the clock, and saw that it was not yet five, and
then dressed himself as though to go out. But, before doing so, he sat
down and smoked a cigarette. He felt nervously active now, refreshed and
able to face anything. Before he had half finished smoking he had made
up his mind to show himself to his mother and then to go for a walk
before dinner.
He glanced once more at the mirror to assure himself that he was not
mistaken, and was surprised at the quick change in his appearance. His
colour had come back, his eyes were quiet, the deeper lines were gone
from his face--lines which should never have been there at five and
twenty. He turned away, well pleased, and went briskly down the stairs,
though it was already growing dark, and the steps were high. After all,
he thought, it was probably the loss of the heel from his shoe that had
made him walk unsteadily. Such an absurd accident had never happened to
him before. He knocked at the door of his mother’s sitting-room, and she
bade him come in.
“You see, mother, it was nothing, after all,” he said, going up to her
as she sat before the fire.
She looked up, saw his face, and then smiled happily.
“I’m so glad, Jack,” she answered, springing to her feet and kissing
him. “You have no idea how you looked when I saw you there on the
landing. I thought you were really--quite--but quite, quite, you know,
my dear boy.”
She shook her head, still smiling, and holding both his hands.
“I’m going for a bit of a walk before dinner,” he said. “Then we’ll have
a quiet evening together, and I shall go to bed early.”
“That’s right. The walk will do you good. You’re quite wonderful, Jack!”
She laughed outright--he looked so perfectly sober. “Don’t drink any
more whiskey to-day!” she added, not half in earnest.
“Never fear!” And he laughed too, without any suspicion of himself.
He walked rapidly down the street in the warm glow of the evening,
heedless of the direction he took. By fate or by habit, he found himself
a quarter of an hour later opposite to Alexander Lauderdale’s house. He
paused, reflected a moment, then ascended the steps and rang the bell.
“Is Miss Katharine at home?” he enquired of the girl who opened the
door.
“Yes, sir. She came in a moment ago.”
John Ralston entered the house without further question.
CHAPTER III.
Ralston entered the library, as the room was called, although it did not
contain many books. The house was an old-fashioned one in Clinton Place,
which nowadays is West Eighth Street, between Fifth Avenue and Sixth
Avenue, a region respectable and full of boarding houses. In accordance
with the customs of the times in which it had been built, the ground
floor contained three good-sized rooms, known in all such houses as the
library, the drawing-room or ‘parlour,’ and the dining-room, which was
at the back and had windows upon the yard. The drawing-room, being under
the middle of the house, had no windows at all, and was therefore really
available only in the evening. The library, where Ralston waited, was on
the front.
There was an air of gravity about the place which he had never liked. It
was not exactly gloomy, for it was on too small a scale, nor vulgarly
respectable, for such objects as were for ornament were in good taste,
as a few engravings from serious pictures by great masters, a good
portrait of the primeval Alexander Lauderdale, a small bronze
reproduction of the Faun in the Naples museum, two or three fairly good
water-colours, which were apparently views of Scotch scenery, and a big
blue china vase with nothing in it. With a little better arrangement,
these things might have gone far. But the engravings and pictures were
hung with respect to symmetry rather than with regard to the light. The
stiff furniture was stiffly placed against the wall. The books in the
low shelves opposite to the fireplace were chiefly bound in black, in
various stages of shabbiness, and Ralston knew that they were largely
works on religion, and reports of institutions more or less educational
or philanthropic. There was a writing table near the window, upon which
a few papers and writing materials were arranged with a neatness not
business-like, but systematically neat for its own sake--the note paper
was piled with precision upon the middle of the blotter, upon which lay
also the penwiper, and a perfectly new stick of bright red sealing-wax,
so that everything would have to be moved before any one could possibly
write a letter. The carpet was old, and had evidently been taken to
pieces and the breadths refitted with a view to concealing the
threadbare parts, but with effect disastrous to the continuity of the
large green and black pattern. The house was heated by a furnace and
there was no fire in the grim fireplace. That was for economy, as
Ralston knew.
For the Lauderdales were evidently poor, though the old philanthropist
who lived upstairs was the only living brother of the arch-millionaire.
But Alexander Senior spent his life in getting as much as he could from
Robert in order to put it into the education of idiots, and would
cheerfully have fed his son and daughter-in-law and Katharine on bread
and water for the sake of educating one idiot more. The same is a part
of philanthropy when it becomes professional. Alexander Junior had a
magnificent reputation for probity, and was concerned in business, being
connected with the administration of a great Trust Company, which
brought him a fixed salary. Beyond that he assured his family that he
had never made a dollar in his life, and that only his health, which
indeed was of iron, stood between them and starvation, an argument which
he used with force to crush any frivolous tendency developed in his wife
and daughter. He had dark hair just turning to a steely grey, steel-grey
eyes, and a long, clean-shaven, steel-grey upper lip, but his eyebrows
were still black. His teeth were magnificent, but he had so little
vanity that he hardly ever smiled, except as a matter of politeness. He
had looked pleased, however, when Benjamin Slayback of Nevada had led
his daughter Charlotte from the altar. Slayback had loved the girl for
her beauty and had taken her penniless; and uncle Robert had given her a
few thousands for her bridal outfit. Alexander Junior had therefore
been at no expense for her marriage, except for the cake and
decorations, but it was long before he ceased to speak of his
expenditure for those items. As for Alexander Senior, he really had no
money except for idiots; he wore his clothes threadbare, had his
overcoats turned, and secretly bought his shoes of a little Italian
shoemaker in South Fifth Avenue. He was said to be over eighty years of
age, but was in reality not much older than his rich brother Robert.
It would be hard to imagine surroundings more uncongenial to Mrs.
Alexander Junior, as Katharine Lauderdale’s mother was generally called.
An ardent Roman Catholic, she was bound to a family of rigid
Presbyterians; a woman of keen artistic sense, she was wedded to a man
whose only measure of things was their money-value; a nature originally
susceptible to the charm of all outward surroundings, and inclining to a
taste for modest luxury rather than to excessive economy, she had
married one whom she in her heart believed to be miserly. She admitted,
indeed, that she would probably have married her husband again, under
like circumstances. The child of a ruined Southern family, loyal during
the Civil War, she had been brought early to New York, and almost as
soon as she was seen in society, Alexander Lauderdale had fallen in love
with her. He had seemed to her, as indeed he was still, a splendid
specimen of manhood; he was not rich, but was industrious and was the
nephew of the great Robert Lauderdale. Even her fastidious people could
not say that he was not, from a social point of view, of the best in New
York. She had loved him in a girlish fashion, and they had been married
at once. It was all very natural, and the union might assuredly have
turned out worse than it did.
Seeing that according to her husband’s continual assurances they were
growing poorer and poorer, Mrs. Alexander had long ago begun to turn her
natural gifts to account, with a view to making a little money wherewith
to provide herself and her daughters with a few harmless luxuries. She
had tried writing and had failed, but she had been more successful with
painting, and had produced some excellent miniatures. Alexander Junior
had at first protested, fearing the artistic tribe as a whole, and
dreading lest his wife should develop a taste for things Bohemian, such
as palms in the drawing-room, and going to the opera in the gallery
rather than not going at all. He did not think of anything else Bohemian
within the range of possibilities, except, perhaps, dirty fingers, which
disgusted him, and unpunctuality, which drove him mad. But when he saw
that his wife earned money, and ceased to ask him for small sums to be
spent on gloves and perishable hats, he rejoiced greatly, and began to
suggest that she should invest her savings, placing them in his hands at
five per cent interest. But poor Mrs. Alexander never was so successful
as to have any savings to invest. Her husband accepted gratefully a
miniature of the two girls which she once painted as a surprise and gave
him at Christmas, and he secretly priced it during the following week at
a dealer’s, and was pleased when the man offered him fifty dollars for
it,--which illustrates Alexander’s thoughtful disposition.
This was the household in which Katharine Lauderdale had grown up, and
these were the people whose characters, temperaments, and looks had
mingled in her own. So far as the latter point was concerned, she had
nothing to complain of. It was not to be expected that the children of
two such handsome people should be anything but beautiful, and Charlotte
and Katharine had plenty of beauty of different types, fair and dark
respectively. Charlotte was most like her mother in appearance, but more
closely resembled her father in nature. Katharine had inherited her
father’s face and strength of constitution with many of her mother’s
gifts, more or less modified and, perhaps, diminished in value. At the
time when this history begins, she was nineteen years old, and had been
what is called ‘out’ in society for more than a year. She therefore,
according to the customs of the country and age, enjoyed the privilege
of receiving alone the young gentlemen of her set who either admired her
or found pleasure in her conversation. Of the former there were many; of
the latter, a few.
Ralston stood with his back to the empty fireplace, staring at the dark
mahogany door which led to the regions of the staircase. He had only
waited five minutes, but he was in an impulsive frame of mind, and it
had seemed a very long time. At last the door opened. Katharine entered
the room, smiled and nodded to him, and then turned and shut the door
carefully before she came forward.
She was a very beautiful girl. No one could have denied that, in the
main. Yet there was something puzzling in the face, primarily due,
perhaps, to the mixture of races. The features were harmonious, strong
and, on the whole, noble and classic in outline, the mouth especially
being of a very pure type, and the curved lips of that creamy, salmon
rose-colour occasionally seen in dark persons--neither red, nor pink nor
pale. The very broadly marked dark eyebrows gave the face strength, and
the deep grey eyes, almost black at times, had an oddly fixed and
earnest look. In them there was no softness on ordinary occasions. They
expressed rather a determination to penetrate what they saw, not
altogether unmixed with wonder at the discoveries they made. The whole
face was boldly outlined, but by no means thin, and the skin was
perceptibly freckled, which is unusual with dark people, and is the
consequence of a red-haired strain in the inheritance. The primeval
Alexander had been a red-haired man, and Robert the Rich had resembled
him before he had grown grey. Charlotte Slayback had christened the
latter by that name. She had a sharp tongue, and called the primeval one
Alexander the Great, her grandfather Alexander the Idiot, and her father
Alexander the Safe. Katharine had her own opinions about most of the
family, but she did not express them so plainly.
She was still smiling as she met Ralston in the middle of the room.
“You look happy, dear,” he said, kissing her forehead softly.
“I’m not,” she answered. “I’m glad to see you. There’s a difference. Sit
down.”
“Has there been any trouble?” he asked, seating himself in a little low
chair beside the corner of the sofa she had chosen.
“Not exactly trouble--no. It’s the old story--only it’s getting so old
that I’m beginning to hate it. You understand.”
“Of course I do. I wish there were anything to be done--which you would
consent to do.” He added the last words as though by an afterthought.
“I’ll consent to almost anything, Jack.”
The smile had vanished from her face and she spoke in a despairing tone,
fixing her big eyes on his, and bending her heavy eyebrows as though in
bodily pain. He took her hand--firm, well-grown and white--in his and
laid it against his lean cheek.
“Dear!” he said.
His voice trembled a little, which was unusual. He felt unaccountably
emotional and was more in love than usual. The tone in which he spoke
the single word touched Katharine, and she leaned forward, laying her
other hand upon his other one.
“You do love me, Jack,” she said.
“God knows I do,” he answered, very earnestly, and again his voice
quavered.
It was very still in the room, and the dusk was creeping toward the
high, narrow windows, filling the corners, and blackening the shadowy
places, and then rising from the floor, almost like a tide, till only
the faces of the two young people seemed to be above it, still palely
visible in the twilight.
Suddenly Katharine rose to her feet, with a quick-drawn breath which was
not quite a sigh.
“Pull down the shades, Jack,” she said, as she struck a match and lit
the gas at one of the stiff brackets which flanked the mantelpiece.
Ralston obeyed in silence. When he came back she had resumed her seat
in the corner of the sofa, and he sat down beside her instead of taking
the chair again.
He did not speak at once, though it seemed to him that his heart had
never been so full before. As he looked at the lovely girl he felt a
thrill of passionate delight that ran through him and almost hurt him,
and left him at last with an odd sensation in the throat and a painful
sinking at the heart. He did not reflect upon its meaning, and he
certainly did not connect it with the reaction following what he had
made his nerves bear during the day. He was sincerely conscious that he
had never been so deeply, truly in love with Katharine before. She
watched him, understanding what he felt, smiling into his eyes, but
silent, too. They had known each other since they had been children, and
had loved one another since Katharine had been sixteen years old,--more
than three whole years, which is a long time for first love to endure,
unless it means to be last as well as the first.
“You said you would consent to almost anything,” said Ralston, after a
long pause. “It would be very simple for us to be married, in spite of
everybody. Shall we? Shall we, dear?” he asked, repeating the question.
“I would almost do that--” She turned her face away and stared at the
empty fireplace.
“Say, quite! After all, what can they all do? What is there so dreadful
to face, if we do get married? We must, one of these days. Life’s not
life without you--and death wouldn’t be death with you, darling,” he
added.
“Are you in earnest, Jack,--or are you making love to me?”
She asked the question suddenly, catching his hands and holding them
firmly together, and looking at him with eyes that were almost fierce.
The passion rose in his own, with a dark light, and his face grew pale.
Then he laughed nervously.
“I’m only laughing, of course--you see I am. Why must you take a fellow
in earnest?”
But there was nothing in his words that jarred upon her. He could not
laugh away the truth from his look, for truth it was at that moment,
whatever its source.
“I know--I understand,” she said, in a low voice. “We can’t live apart,
you and I.”
“It’s like tearing out fingers by the joints every time I leave you,”
Ralston answered. “It’s the resurrection of the dead to see you--it’s
the glory of heaven to kiss you.”
The words came to his lips ready, rough and strong, and when he had
spoken them, hers sealed every one of them upon his own, believing every
one of them, and trusting in the strength of him. Then she pushed him
away and leaned back in her corner, with half-closed eyes.
“I don’t know why I ever ask if you’re in earnest, dear,” she said. “I
know you are. It would kill me to think that you’re playing. Women are
always said to be foolish--perhaps it’s in that way--and I’m no better
than the rest of them. But you don’t spoil me in that way. You don’t
often say it as you did just now.”
“I never loved you as I do now,” said Ralston, simply.
“I feel it.”
“But I wish--well, impossibilities.”
“What? Tell me, Jack. I shall understand.”
“Oh--nothing. Only I wish I could find some way of proving it to you.
But people always say that sort of thing. We don’t live in the middle
ages.”
“I believe we do,” answered Katharine, thoughtfully. “I believe people
will say that we did, hundreds of years hence, when they write about us.
Besides--Jack--not that I want any proof, because I believe you--but
there is something you could do, if you would. I know you wouldn’t like
to do it.”
It flashed across Ralston’s mind that she was about to ask him to make a
great sacrifice for her, to give up wine for her sake, having heard,
perhaps--even probably--of some of his excesses. He was nervous,
overwrought and full of wild impulses that day, but he knew what such a
promise would mean in his simple code. He was not in any true sense
degraded, beyond the weakening of his will. In an instant so brief that
Katharine did not notice his hesitation he reviewed his whole life, so
familiar to him in its worse light that it rose instantaneously before
him as a complete picture. He felt positively sure of what she was about
to ask him, and as he looked into her great grey eyes he believed that
he could keep the pledge he was about to give her, that it would save
him from destruction, and that he should thus owe his happiness to her
more wholly than ever.
“I’ll do it,” he answered, and the fingers of his right hand slowly
closed till his fist was clenched.
“Thank you, dear one,” answered Katharine, softly. “But you mustn’t
promise until you know what it is.”
“I know what I’ve said.”
“But I won’t let you promise. You wouldn’t forgive me--you’d think that
I had caught you--that it was a trap--all sorts of things.”
Ralston smiled and shook his head. He felt quite sure of her and of
himself. And it would have been better for her and for him, if she had
asked what he expected.
“Jack,” she said, lowering her voice almost to a whisper, “I want you to
marry me privately--quite in secret--that’s what I mean. Not a human
being must know, but you and I and the clergyman.”
John Ralston looked into her face in thunder-struck astonishment. It is
doubtful whether anything natural or supernatural could have brought
such a look into his eyes. Katharine smiled, for the idea had long been
familiar to her.
“Confess that you were not prepared for that!” she said. “But you’ve
confessed it already.”
“Well--hardly for that--no.”
The look of surprise in his face gradually changed into one of wondering
curiosity, and his brows knit themselves into a sort of puzzled frown,
as though he were trying to solve a difficult problem.
“You see why I didn’t want you to promise anything rashly,” said
Katharine. “You couldn’t possibly foresee what I was going to ask any
more than you can understand why I ask it. Could you?”
“No. Of course not. Who could?”
“I’m not going to ask any one else to, you may be sure. In the first
place, do you think it wrong?”
“Wrong? That depends--there are so many things--” he hesitated.
“Say what you think, Jack. I want to know just what you think.”
“That’s the trouble. I hardly know myself. Of course there’s nothing
absolutely wrong in a secret marriage. No marriage is wrong, exactly, if
the people are free.”
“That’s the main thing I wanted to know,” said Katharine, quietly.
“Yes--but there are other things. Men don’t think it exactly honourable
to persuade a girl to be married secretly, against the wishes of her
people. A great many men would, but don’t. It’s somehow not quite fair
to the girl. Running away is all fair and square, if people are ready to
face the consequences. Perhaps it is that there are consequences to
face--that makes it a sort of pitched battle, and the parents generally
give in at the end, because there’s no other way out of it. But a secret
marriage--well, it doesn’t exactly have consequences, in the ordinary
way. The girl goes on living at home as though she were not married,
deceiving everybody all round--and so must the man. In fact it’s a kind
of lie, and I don’t like it.”
Ralston paused after this long speech, and was evidently deep in
thought.
“All you say is true enough--in a sense,” Katharine answered. “But when
it’s the only way to get married at all, the case is different. Don’t
you think so yourself? Wouldn’t you rather be secretly married than go
on like this--as this may go on, for ten, fifteen, twenty years--all our
lives?”
“Of course I would. But I don’t see why--”
“I do, and I want to make you see. Listen to my little speech, please.
First, we are both of age--I am so far as being married is concerned,
and we have an absolute right to do as we please about it--to be married
in the teeth of the lions, if that’s not a false metaphor--or
something--you know.”
“In the jaws of hell, for that matter,” said Ralston, fervently.
“Thank you for saying it. I’m only a girl and mustn’t use strong
language. Very well, we have a perfect right to do as we please. That’s
a great point. Then we have only to choose, and it becomes a matter of
judgment.”
“You talk like print,” laughed Ralston.
“So much the better. We have made up our minds that we can’t live
without each other, so we must be married somehow. You don’t think it’s
not--what shall I say?--not quite like a girl for me to talk in this
way, do you? We have talked of it so often, and we decided so long ago!”
“What nonsense! Be as plain as possible.”
“Because if you do--then I shall have to write it all to you, and I
can’t write well.”
Ralston smiled.
“Go on,” he said. “I’m waiting for the reasons.”
“They could simply starve us, Jack. We’ve neither of us a dollar in the
world.”
“Not a cent,” said Ralston, very emphatically. “If we had, we shouldn’t
be where we are.”
“And your mother can’t give you any money, and my father won’t give me
any.”
“And I’m a failure,” Ralston observed, with sudden grimness and hatred
of himself.
“Hush! You’ll be a success some day. That’s not the question. The point
is, if we tried to get married openly, there would be horrible scenes
first, and then war, and starvation afterwards. It’s not a pretty
prospect, but it’s true.”
“I suppose it is.”
“It’s so deadly true that it puts an open marriage out of the question
altogether. If there were nothing else to be done, it would be
different. I’d rather starve than give you up. But there is a way out of
it. We can be married secretly. In that way we shall avoid the scenes
and the war.”
“And then wait for something to happen? We should be just where we are
now. To all intents and purposes you would be Spinster Lauderdale and I
should be Bachelor Ralston. I don’t see that it would be the slightest
improvement on the present situation--honestly, I don’t. I’m not
romantic, as people are in books. I don’t think it would be sweeter than
life to call you wife, and when we’re married I shall call you Katharine
just the same. I don’t distrust you. You know I don’t. I’m not really
afraid that you’ll go and marry Ham Bright, or Frank Miner, nor even the
most desirable young man in New York, who has probably proposed to you
already. I’m not vain, but I know you love me. I should be a brute if I
doubted it--”
“Yes--I think you would, dear,” said Katharine, with great directness.
“So that since I’m to wait for you till ‘something happens’--never mind
to whom, and long life to all of them!--I’d rather wait as we are than
go through it with a pack of lies to carry.”
“I like you, Jack--besides loving you. It’s quite another feeling, you
know. You’re such a man!”
“I wish I were half what you think I am.”
“I’ll think what I please. It’s none of your dear business. But you
haven’t heard half I have to say yet. I’ll suppose that we’re
married--secretly. Very well. That same day, or the next day, and as
soon as possible, I shall go to uncle Robert and tell him the whole
truth.”
“To uncle Robert!” exclaimed Ralston, who had not yet come to the end of
the surprises in store for him. “And ask him for some money, I suppose?
That won’t do, Katharine. Indeed it won’t. I should be letting you go
begging for me. That’s the plain English of it. No, no! That can’t be
done.”
“You’ll find it hard to prevent me from begging for you, or working for
you either, if you ever need it,” said Katharine. There was a certain
grand simplicity about the plain statement.
“You’re too good for me,” said Ralston, in a low voice, and for the
third time there was a quiver in his tone. Moreover, he felt an
unaccustomed moisture in his eyes which gave him pleasure, though he was
ashamed of it.
“No, I’m not--not a bit too good for you. But I like to hear--I don’t
know why it is, but your voice touches me to-day. It seems changed.”
Ralston was truthful and honourable. If he had himself understood the
causes of his increased emotion, he would have hanged himself rather
than have let Katharine say what she did, without telling her what had
happened. He drank, and he knew it, and of late he had been drinking
hard, but it was the first time that he had ever spoken to Katharine
Lauderdale when he had been drinking, and he was deceived by his own
apparent soberness beyond the possibility of believing that he was on
the verge of being slightly hysterical. Let them who doubt the
possibility of such a case question those who have watched a thousand
cases.
There was a little pause after Katharine’s last words. Then she went
on,--explaining her project.
“Uncle Robert always says that nobody understands him as I do. I shall
try and make him understand me, for a change. I shall tell him just what
has happened, and I shall tell him that he must find work for you to do,
since you’re perfectly capable of working if you only have a fair
chance. You never had one. I don’t call it a chance to put an active man
like you into a gloomy law office to copy fusty documents. And I don’t
call it giving you a chance to glue you to a desk in Beman Brothers’
bank. You’re not made for that sort of work. Of course you were
disgusted and refused to go on. I should have done just the same.”
“Oh, you would--I’m quite sure!” answered Ralston, with conviction.
“Naturally. Not but that I’m just as capable of working as you are,
though. To go back to uncle Robert. It’s just impossible, with all his
different interests, all over the country, and with his influence--and
you know what that is--that he should not have something for you to do.
Besides, he’ll understand us. He’s a great big man, on a big scale, a
head and shoulders mentally bigger than all the rest of the family.”
“That’s true,” assented Ralston.
“And he knows that you don’t want to take money without giving an
equivalent for it.”
“He’s known that all along. I don’t see why he should put himself out
any more now--”
“Because I’ll make him,” said Katharine, firmly. “I can do that for you,
and if you torture your code of honour into fits you can’t make it tell
you that a wife should not do that sort of thing for her husband. Can
you?”
“I don’t know,” answered Ralston, smiling. “I’ve tried it myself often
enough with the old gentleman. He says I’ve had two chances and have
thrown them up, and that, after all, my mother and I have quite enough
to live on comfortably, so he supposes that I don’t care for work. I
told him that enough was not nearly so good as a feast. He laughed and
said he knew that, but that people couldn’t stand feasting unless they
worked hard. The last time I saw him, he offered to make Beman try me
again. But I couldn’t stand that.”
“Of course not.”
“I can’t stand anything where I produce no effect, and am not to earn my
living for ever so long. I wasn’t to have any salary at Beman’s for a
year, you know, because I knew nothing about the work. And it was the
same at the lawyer’s office--only much longer to wait. I could work at
anything I understood, of course. But I suppose I do know precious
little that’s of any use. It can’t be helped, now.”
“Yes, it can. But you see my plan. Uncle Robert will be so taken off his
feet that he’ll find you something. Then the whole thing will be
settled. It will probably be something in the West. Then we’ll declare
ourselves. There’ll be one stupendous crash, and we shall disappear from
the scene, leaving the family to like it or not, as they please. In the
end they will like it. There would be no lies to act--at least, not
after two or three days. It wouldn’t take longer than that to arrange
things.”
“It all depends on uncle Robert, it seems to me,” said Ralston,
doubtfully. “A runaway match would come to about the same thing in the
end. I’ll do that, if you like.”
“I won’t. It must be done in my way, or not at all. If we ran away we
should have to come back to see uncle Robert, and we should find him
furious. He’d tell us to go back to our homes, separately, till we had
enough to live on--or to go and live with your mother. I won’t do that
either. She’s not able to support us both.”
“No--frankly, she’s not.”
“And uncle Robert would be angry, wouldn’t he? He has a fearful temper,
you know.”
“Yes--he probably would be raging.”
“Well, then?”
“I don’t like it, Katharine dear--I don’t like it.”
“Then you can never marry me at all, Jack. At least, I’m afraid not.”
“Never?” Ralston’s expression changed suddenly.
“There’s another reason, Jack dear. I didn’t want to speak of it--now.”
CHAPTER IV.
Ralston said nothing at first. Then he looked at Katharine as though
expecting that she should speak again and explain her meaning, in spite
of her having said that she had not meant to do so.
“What is this other reason?” he asked, after a long pause.
