over a slow fever, yet. 
" Calhoun said it," observed the boy whom 
Don had addressed as Trouncey. " I don't 
mind telling. Mean thing to say. Sick boy. 
T isn't fair fight." 
" Lee Calhoun ? Are you there ? "thundered Don. 
" Ye-es," drawled Callioun. " I'm here, 
and I said it, and I 'll say it again." 
Pie stepped forward and confronted Don. 
He was a tall, indolent-looking, handsome 
fellow, with a sandy mustache and a sneer 
too pronounced for his years twitching its 
corners down. 
" I don't fancy Fleet," he urged insolently. 
" He 's a dig. And why can't he dress like 
a gentleman, if he is one ? " 
" Here 's why ! " cried Don, in a white 
rage. He sprang upon Calhoun, and would 
have twisted him like a willow stick in 
muscles so developed by rowing and the 
gymnasium that everybody in college respected 
his knuckles, even Trouncey O Grian ; 
and Trouncey was the son of the prize 
fighter of that distinguished name. 
But Trouncey interposed, and Jamie Fleet 
himself. 
" You 'll spoil the fun," urged Trouncey. 
" Can't stop to fight to-night. Have it out 
next time. I 'll second you." 
" I can defend myself," put in Jamie 
quickly. " There 's no need of anybody 
fighting over me. Let him alone, Don, do. 
There are other ways than fighting. I 'll 
meet him in some of em any time he says, 
class rank, for instance." 
 
" Let him apologize, then ! " cried hot 
headed Don. " I 'll let you off, Lee Calhoun, 
this time, to oblige my chum. That 's the 
only reason, mind you. Get out of my way ; 
I need your room. Now, Trouncey ! Boys ! 
Come, boys ! Form ! Form ! R-r-r-ush ! " 
" I want to be a Peeler, 
And with the Peelers stand ; 
A pistol in my pocket, 
And a billy in my hand, 
sang the boys upon the fence. 
As quickly as the passing of the word, the 
students formed, Freshmen and Sophomores 
leading. 
A line of perhaps a dozen men from each 
class stood linked, elbow within elbow, 
presenting a solid front. Against them the rest 
pressed up, class to class ; the remainder of 
the college joining according to inclination, 
though in the main the Juniors supported 
the Freshmen, while the Seniors backed the 
Sophomores. Then the huge mass gathered, 
nervous, electric, ready for anything in the 
nature of a fight, and stood, swaying and 
excitable. In the centre of the Freshmen 
ranks, guarded by picked men, stood the 
Freshman Cane, the innocent object of 
this mighty warfare. A Sophomore victory 
 
meant that no member of the Freshman 
class could carry a cane that year upon the 
streets of Harle. 
The boys upon the fence began to be rest 
less, and added to the musical interest of the 
occasion after this manner : 
" I dreamt that I dwelt in marble halls 
Where we don't go home till morning- ! 
If you loved me still the same 
One, two, three, and away you go ! 
Last night she died she did ! 
Drink her down ! Drink her dow-ow-own ! 
Bi-ennials are a bore-ore-ore ! 
John Brown 's body Nelly was a lady 
Rush ! Rush ! Rush and away we go 
Our souls come marching on! " 
With this they came, piling, boy after boy, 
over the fence, and over each other, leaving 
the tutor in possession of the field. The 
rush was too much for the pickets ; they 
deserted bodily, and came panting up to see 
the fun. 
Before one could have said whether the 
play had fairly begun, it had become dead 
earnest. A solid mass, the students blocked 
and closed. Then by main force and sheer 
endurance the contest held. Now this side 
staggered, and then that. The Sophomores 
wavered, and the Freshmen made ground ; 
and the Sophomores shook again ; both lost ; 
 
each gained ; it was a drawn game ; it was a 
doubtful one ; it was a persistent one ; it 
began to be an angry one ; it threatened to 
be a serious one. An onlooker would have 
received a new impression of the sense in the 
phrase, " Clear push" 
Tutors were on the scene now, but nobody 
noticed them. All attempt at secrecy was 
gone. The boys began to cry out and to 
yell like little beasts. They had forgotten 
everybody and everything except the mere 
brute, masculine instinct of fight. 
That preeminent Sophomore, Donald 
Marcy, was in the thick of it, in the front 
of it. He was usually in the front of things, 
if we except the marking-list in class-room. 
His fine figure, eminent and alert, flashed 
to and fro ; his strong shoulder gave many 
a magnificent shove. But he never gave a 
brutal knock. He did not lose his chivalry 
in his frolic. 
Everybody else was not so controlled, and 
the play was waxing hot. Some heavy 
blows were given ; some bruises, too serious, 
received. A colored student in particular 
a Freshman had a hard time. He was 
a sturdy fellow, and took his part in the rush 
as naturally as any white man ; quite as 
 
effectually as most of them. It was noticed 
that he played quite fair, and dealt no foul 
blows. 
Suddenly the negro gave a cry, and fell. 
The mass of boys, too heavily charged to 
stop at an instant 's notice, swayed to and fro 
above him. Some walked over him ; one fell 
on him. Shouts and ugly words arose ; then 
came the cry, so fatal to the fun of a college 
rush : 
" Give him air ! Stand back ! Hold up, 
boys ! somebody 's down ! somebody 's hurt ! 
Air ! give him air ! Who did it ? Who hit 
foul ? It 's George Washington Clay ! Who 
struck Clay ? " 
"Calhoun did it! Calhoun ! Calhoun ! 
He hit a classmate ! " 
" He handled me," said Lee Calhoun, trem 
bling, and white with rage. " He pushed me 
impertinently. He is a nigger, and I knocked 
him down." 
Now the son of the prize - fighter stood 
near enough to overhear this. His big, good- 
natured face flushed slowly with the terrible 
blood of his inheritance. He said nothing. 
Nobody noticed him. He stepped up so 
quietly in front of Calhoun that the action 
attracted no attention till Calhoun lay flat 
 
upon the ground, where one blow of Troun- 
cey 's mighty fist had stretched him. 
" There ! " said Trouncey O Grian to the 
reviving negro, whom the boys were fanning 
and unfastening and helping to his feet. 
" He won't sarse you again to-night. This 
is a free college and a free country. Come 
and look at him, if you want to. He 'll have 
a headache for a week or two, I take it. 
Don't be scared, boys. He isn't hurt. You 
don't suppose I'd be such a flat as that." 
But the rush broke up now in confusion. 
Calhoun was insensible ; the colored student 
bleeding ; the tutors on the spot ; the police 
coming ; Trouncey O Grian suspended ; 
Calhoun marked ; and generally there was the 
mischief to pay. 
Don Marcy went to his room that night a 
little gloomily. Jamie Fleet was there, hard 
at his Antigone for to-morrow. 
" Hi, Don ! " he said cordially. " How'd 
the rush go off ? I didn't stay. I've got an 
extra job on to-night. And it took you so 
long to get at it. Have a good time ? " 
" Got forty marks," answered Don so 
berly. " Ten more will expel me. I shall 
have to get up to prayers all the rest of the 
term. Counted on those forty to sleep over. 
 
It was no kind of a rush, anyhow. Didn't 
get the cane. Nobody got the cane. Tutor 
got the cane. Jerry McCarty arrested the 
cane. Two fellows busted. Faculty there. I 
lost my smoking-cap, too. Got my clothes 
torn off of me see ! clear down to the 
waist. I came home in a coat of Trouncey s. 
I sprained my shoulder somehow. Somebody 
squashed my toes. It was the greatest tom 
fool of a rush, anyhow." 
" Didn't pay, did it ? " asked Jamie sym 
pathetically. 
" Where 's the Greek lesson ? " growled 
Don. He sat down very hard and looked it 
over. He presented anything but a scholarly 
appearance ; his handsome face was pounded 
and bleeding, his flannel shirt in strips, and 
Trouncey 's big coat fastened across his
shoulders by the sleeves. " They 'll flunk me, sure 
pop," he said disconsolately. " I haven't 
learned a Greek for two weeks, I've been so 
busy. Well, anyway, I've got to go and get 
a bath, now" 
Lee Calhoun, while he was recovering 
from the effects of Trouncey O Grian 's blow, 
employed his time in writing home the most 
dismal letters that had visited his ancestral 
halls since Lee came to college. The result 
 
of the most explicit was a communication 
from his father to the President of Harle, 
which ran as follows : 
PRESIDENT OF HARLE UNIVERSITY Sir : 
My son complains to me that he is required to sit 
by the side of a negro student. I am compelled 
to make it a personal request that his seat be 
changed. Respectfully, 
C. C. CALHOUN. 
To this letter the President sent, by return 
mail, the following reply : 
C. C. CALHOUN, ESQ. Dear Sir : I am 
happy to be able to inform you that your cause of 
complaint in the case of your son will be entirely 
removed at the close of this term. Hitherto, we 
have seated the students alphabetically in the 
recitation-room ; hereafter, they will be seated 
according to scholarship. 
I am, sir, respectfully, 
A. B. BAXTER, 
President of Harle University. 
CHAPTER III. 
HAZING. 
WHEN Don Marcy was* a Freshman at 
Harle, he took his turn at a slight acquaint 
ance with the ancient and fortunately now 
unfashionable practice of hazing which had 
such a mysterious relation to the culture of 
a liberal education, as imbibed by the mas 
culine race. Marcy 's experience was in this 
wise : 
Nobody had handled him, or threatened to, 
till the first term was nearly over. He was 
such a good-natured, sensible lad, mannered 
with the modesty of real good breeding, and 
he had the lack of ostentation which accom 
panies plenty of money when one is born to 
it, or, at least, well-born to it, he had 
such merry eyes, and treated everybody so 
decently ; and was clever at recitation when 
he chose to trouble himself, and never swag 
gered or swelled, and was such a plucky fel 
low in particular, that it had been hard to 
make out a case against him. At last, however, 
a Sophomore raised the objection that 
he was too well dressed, and took a Professor 's 
daughter to drive. This accusation carried 
the class, and a delegation of a dozen Sopho 
mores waited upon Marcy one pleasant even 
ing with vengeance in their eyes. 
Donald was alone ; he had no chum just 
then ; he was studying in his comfortable 
room, the most tastefully fitted of any in 
the college. It was not a showy room, but 
refinedly elegant, from the damask drapery 
curtains on his study windows and the brass 
fender and fire-set at the fireplace, to the 
little Persian rug that lay before the toilet- 
table in his chamber. Don was a fellow of 
delicate personal habits, and kept that room 
as neat as any lady might have done. He 
enjoyed it amazingly, and it had never 
occurred to him, by the way, that two views 
could be taken of the subject, till Jamie 
Fleet 's father came in one day with Don 's 
own parental visitor they had been class 
mates, and had forgotten each other, and 
met again and remembered at Harle, where 
their two sons entered college together to 
see the boy 's room. 
Dr. Fleet was a poor man, a country minister.
He had the same gentle, attractive 
 
eyes that Jamie had: he wrote for the 
reviews from his rural parish, and was not 
unknown in the great world where the elder 
Mr. Marcy lived upon his income, and 
frequented what is called " society." 
" There, Fleet, what do you think of it ? " 
asked the other father fondly. " Isn't this 
a pretty good thing in the way of a boy 's 
room ? I've tried to make Don comfortable. 
He 's used to it, you know." 
" Sir," answered his old classmate, smil 
ing, and rubbing the toe of his patched boot 
over the pattern of the heavy Axminster on 
which they stood, " if you really want to 
know what I think of it, I 'll tell you. You'll 
never raise a scholar on that carpet" 
It was on this unscholarly carpet that 
Donald tipped back his chair to listen when 
the hazing party knocked at his door. 
" Oh, come in," he said pleasantly. ," Delighted,
I'm sure. Make yourself at home, 
boys. A dozen ? I'm honored. Sit down ? 
Have cigars ? No ? What will you have, 
then ? Me ? Stand upon that table and sing 
Mother Goose ? Well, I'm not in voice 
to-night. Thank you, no. I don't undress 
before strange guests. Nor I don't gargle 
my throat with raw alcohol and molasses 
 
and red pepper. I don't care to go downstairs 
with you, either, and out to the pump - 
See here ! " cried the Freshman, suddenly 
changing his tone, and moving a chair into 
the doorway, where he seated himself se 
renely. " Do you see this crowbar ? It 's a 
new one. I bought it last week. I'm busy 
to-night. I've got a lesson to learn. I 'll 
just sit here, if you please, and learn it. 
Now, gentlemen, the first man of you that 
enters this room gets the crowbar ! " 
With that, Donald 's bright eye looked 
them over firmly and fearlessly ; he took his 
book and his crowbar ; the hazing party, 
after a whispered consultation, took their 
departure. They dropped away, one by one, 
with an air of having an appointment with 
another fellow. 
" Plucky," they saict. " One of the kind ! 
Equal to it ! Couldn't say what he'd do ! 
No go ! Try another room ! " 
Now the Freshman has views about haz 
ing ; he considers it a brutal and unmanly 
practice. The Sophomore replaces these 
opinions by the lax creed of conscious power. 
The Sophomore regards hazing as an inno 
cent custom, affording a little college fun, 
and to be deprecated, chiefly, when it meets 
 
with mishaps which bring the practice before 
the attention of the faculty or the police. 
Don, I regret to say, had suffered this 
" class change " in his principles. From a 
Freshman and a hazee he had become a 
Sophomore and a hazor. His position was 
underaroinar one of the revolutions which 
circumstances wrest from any of us if we have 
not acquired a pretty firm moral and mental 
leverage of our own. 
In the course of time that is to say, in 
the course of the first term of Sophomore 
year Don, without much thought, easily 
and lightly as such boys do such things, " for 
the fun of it," joined a hazing party which 
had for its objective point two or three 
unpopular Freshmen. Of these, Calhoun 
was the most prominent, and the especially 
doomed man. Calhoun had never been a 
favorite at Harle. From the first week of 
his college career he had contrived to create 
an atmosphere of personal irritation around 
himself. It was hard to say just how this 
was done, except by a series of petty offenses, 
all of them bearing in some form or other 
upon the sense of caste that in Calhoun was 
developed to a degree against which the 
hearty, healthy spirit of human equality 
 
among his classmates rebelled. Calhoun, in 
short, considered himself a gentleman who 
must maintain his position. The students 
of Harle College considered him a disagree 
able fellow who hadn't any position, because 
he felt it necessary to maintain it. 
This was a difference of opinion not easily 
reconciled, and snobbishness is the last fault 
which a college full of sturdy young demo 
crats will overlook. In an institution where 
the negro was respected, and the prize-fight 
er 's son personally respectable, Calhoun was 
not at home. The Vermont clergyman 's boy 
and the New York gentleman 's son knew 
how to adapt themselves to the social
problems of that world-in-little which a large New 
England college represents. But Calhoun 
had received a different education. 
The accident at the interrupted rush, in 
which Calhoun had been so unpleasantly 
prominent, gave the final touch to his 
unpopularity. A fellow who would spoil a 
rush, hit foul, and turn on a classmate, met 
with small favor at Harle College. From 
the date of that event Calhoun was doomed 
for the severest hazing of the year. 
Donald Marcy went into the affair hotly 
enough. The vigorous sense of chivalry in 
 
him, which Calhoun had so offended, was not 
balanced enough to keep him out of a secret 
personal attack, ten men to one. It did 
not occur to him that he might be doing as 
mean a deed as Calhoun 's ; clearly a meaner 
one from certain points of view, such as 
regulate the conditions of conflict between man 
and man in any other civilized set of 
circumstances outside of a college world. He 
plunged in, and thought about it as little as 
possible. 
Calhoun was in his room when the boys 
came upon him, a group of ten, disguised, 
masked, and determined. The door was 
locked. The hazors demanded admittance. 
Calhoun requested them, firmly enough, to 
visit a region geographically warmer than 
the entry of North Middle, top floor, upon 
that chilly night. 
" May as well let us in," insisted Donald 
Marcy. " We're bound to have you." 
" I 'll see you further, first ! " replied the 
Freshman. 
" It would save you some expense in locks," 
suggested one of the Sophomores. 
Calhoun made no answer. The pleasant 
puff of a plantation cheroot came out through 
the cracks of the door. The hazing party 
 
agreeably suggested that if he kept such a 
weed as that, he should invite them in for one 
apiece all round. Receiving no hospitality 
of this nature, they put their shoulder to the 
locked and bolted door, burst it in, and piled 
pell-mell into the Freshman 's room. 
Calhoun was standing there in the middle 
of the room, in his embroidered slippers and 
quilted dressing-gown, looking as pale and 
as plucky as was possible. He knew that he 
was unpopular in Harle College, and he 
knew that his hour had come. 
" Why didn't you let us in? " asked one 
of the fellows. " It would have been better 
for you." 
" I open my doors to gentlemen," replied 
the Southerner, " not to burglars." 
There was something in the justice and 
in the dignity of this reply not calculated to 
soothe the hazing party, who revenged them 
selves by proceeding to extreme measures 
with their victim without further parley. 
One of the boys produced a pair of hand 
cuffs, with which he intimated the intention 
of securing the Freshman, to start with ; for, 
as they all knew, he was a hot-blooded fellow. 
This particular Sophomore, his name, by 
the way, was Braggs ; Ben Braggs, when 
 
he had taken ten steps toward Calhoun, 
uttered an exclamation more warm than 
polite, and retreated more heartily than he had 
advanced. He was confronted by a fine 
Southern rifle, held straight to his face ; so 
close, that he could feel the cold lips of the 
weapon upon his forehead. 
CHAPTER IV. 
BURIED ALIVE. 
HARDLY had Calhoun presented the rifle 
when he observed that he would be some- 
thing-or-othered if they tried that again. 
" Oh, come," said Don Marcy. " What 's 
the use, Calhoun ? Why don't you put 
up with college fun as other fellows do ? 
There 's no sense in shooting. We're not 
blacklegs." 
" Oh, aren't you ? " asked Calhoun with 
his cold sneer. " It 's just as well you 
mentioned it. Pray, what are you, then ? " 
" Gentlemen and scholars," replied Don 
promptly. 
" Really ? " scoffed Calhoun. " Dear me ! 
I'm so glad you told me." 
" Look here ! " roared Trouncey O Grian 
in his big, bass voice, " we've fooled with 
you long enough, Calhoun. I'll put those 
handcuffs on, if you please, in the name of 
the Sophomore class of Harle College." 
Trouncey presented himself, breast to the 
 
rifle, with incredible coolness, and made a 
magnificent spring upon the Freshman, whose 
arms he pinioned with his own mighty ones 
sooner than the time it takes to tell it. As 
Calhoun sank into the scientific embrace of 
the prize-fighter 's son the trigger snapped, 
and the rifle dropped harmlessly to the floor 
as the handcuffs closed upon the Freshman 's 
writhing wrists. 
Trouncey O Grian smiled. He did not 
stop just then to explain to his host that he 
had climbed into that room at supper-time 
four stories up by the blinds and a peg or 
two he had taken pains to insert, and a rope 
or so thrown from the entry window by 
a friendly hand, and had successfully 
ransacked the Freshman 's apartments for that 
very weapon. Calhoun was understood to 
be a good shot ; he came from Carolina. 
Trouncey had embarrassed that rifle with 
cold soapsuds, dried it carefully upon the 
outside, and put it back in the closet of 
Calhoun 's apartment. For the chance that 
Calhoun might have discovered the trick and 
reloaded, he risked it, being the son of his 
father. The law of chances was against it. 
Trouncey felt that it was the advantage of 
an education to know that. 
 
It is my unpleasant duty to record that 
Calhoun was subjected to almost every in 
dignity that Harle Sophomores, in those long- 
past days, ever inflicted upon an unpopular 
Freshman. The incident of the rifle made 
the Sophomores too angry to keep their 
senses. 
Calhoun was choked, tossed in a blanket 
till he hit the ceiling, run out of his window 
on a rope, dangled in the cold night air in a 
very lightly robed condition, fed with milk 
from a bottle, and washed with vinegar and 
salt. 
His infuriated resistance added fire to the 
boys vengeance ; and worse things soon fell 
upon him. 
The night had now worn on to be quite late. 
Seizing a convenient opportunity, when 
discovery was unlikely, the hazing party 
took their victim, dressed only in flannel and 
trousers, out of doors and tied him in a 
wheelbarrow, by means of which they rode 
him to a pump in the outskirts of the town. 
The night was cold. The water was colder. 
The Freshman was held under the pump, 
and, it must be admitted, cruelly ducked. 
" I 'll kill you ! " hissed Calhoun between 
his teeth. " If I live to get out of this, I 'll 
 
shoot every man of you down as I would so 
many niggers." 
" Pity you said that," drawled Ben Braggs. 
" We'd have let you go, if you hadn't. Now 
we shall have to bury you alive in simple 
self-defense. You're in for it now." 
" Look here," said Trouncey O Grian, 
" we've gone far enough. I move we're out 
of it." 
Trouncey 's view of the case did not meet 
with general approval ; and he, at that point, 
left the party. He said he didn't think it 
was fair play, and he was tired of it. 
" All right," said Braggs. " We 'll do 
without you." 
" Get him some dry clothes first," urged 
Marcy, excited and hesitating. " Anyhow, 
we mustn't kill the fellow." 
So Calhoun was taken into the shelter of 
a shed, and rubbed off, and put into fresh 
clothes that somebody brought from some 
where ; and then, forthwith, that hazing 
party did proceed to an old, deserted ceme 
tery without the city limits, where a scout or 
two awaited them, standing like mourners, 
mutely in the ghastly dark. A coffin stood 
there on a bier. Beyond it, yawned a newly- 
made grave. The tombstones of the long-for- 
 
gotten dead slanted tipsily, showing faintly 
white in the night, and in the flash of a 
single dark lantern, carried by one of the 
boys. 
Calhoun was now wild with terror; but 
either he had too much spirit left to 
manifest the full force of his fears, or the boys 
were now too far gone in the hazing fever to 
appreciate the real seriousness of the situation.
They were not brutes, though they 
acted like them ; and who meant to hurt the 
fellow ? It was only " college fun." 
Calhoun was uncompromisingly buried. 
He was put into the coffin, the lid shut, only 
the face-lid turned back to give him air ; he 
was actually lowered by ropes into the newly- 
made grave, and left there. Voices called 
to him to say his prayers. Other voices 
chanted dirges upon the edge of his grave. 
Then the earth began to drop upon that 
coffin, a handful first. The half-insensible 
man, listening in an agony, heard a spade 
ful fall, another ; two, three, more 
" Great heavens ! " thought Calhoun. 
" They are burying me alive ! I scared 
them, saying I'd shoot them and they're 
afraid to let me go. I am murdered ! I am 
buried alive ! 
 
He called in mortal terror for help 
mercy life pardon - - everything he 
could think of that might appeal to the 
sympathy of the young savages. But no one 
answered him. 
Steps retreated, grew fainter, ceased. 
The Freshman in his coffin was left alone. 
Giving one yell of despair, he swooned away 
from the consciousness of his situation. 
CHAPTER V. 
GHOSTS ! 
WHEN the hazing party had stealthily left 
the cemetery, they stood outside the walls 
consulting in whispers what to do next. Don 
Marcy was not happy. A growing uneasiness 
possessed him to the exclusion of all 
pleasure in that night 's performance. It did 
not seem to him as funny as he had expected, 
to put a live man through a mock burial, 
and go off and leave him in a coffin at the 
bottom of a grave. 
" I move we go right back," suggested 
Don. 
" Oh, no," said Braggs, " too soon yet. 
Scare him a little. Leave him there half an 
hour or so." 
" I don't agree with you," urged Donald 
more earnestly. " I think we've gone far 
enough with this thing, boys." 
For his own part, Don wished he had 
backed out of the whole thing when 
Trouncey O Grian did. But he did not feel like 
 
saying so. He was a little ashamed that the 
prize-fighter 's son should have shown a finer 
sense of hazing honor than he himself. 
The rest of the fellows wavered, but, on 
the whole, disagreed with him. Ben Braggs 
carried the day, or, we might say, carried the 
night, and the students seated themselves on 
the cemetery wall, to wait awhile, till the 
buried Freshman should be suitably pun 
ished for all his general and particular 
unpopularity. A few took their cigars ; but 
most of them did not smoke. The receiving- 
tomb looked a little too near, and too ghastly, 
rising gray and dumb^in the darkness beside 
them. Thoughts they would not entertain 
glided through their minds like ghosts. They 
heartily wished, some of them, that the 
business were over. But they thought it 
" manly " not to say so. They began to talk 
in low tones, to keep each other 's courage up. 
The fellow who held the dark lantern turned 
it round and round perpetually, with a be 
nevolent intention of enlivening the scene. 
When the dark side came toward the grave 
yard, he looked over his shoulder. Then the 
fellow beside him would start and look over 
his shoulder. In fact, all those brave boys 
who had fallen, ten to one, upon a defense- 
 
less fellow, and subjected him to outrages 
which the civil statutes would have probably 
justified him in resenting with the sacrifice 
of their ten lives, all those courageous 
young men looked over their shoulders with 
a frequency and a nervousness surprising ; 
and always did they look in the direction of 
the tipsy old tombstones, and the deserted 
dead. 
While they were amusing each other in 
this desolate fashion, Donald Marcy, 
unnoticed by any of the hazing party, had slipped 
away. 
He had now become too uneasy to bear it 
another moment. As he made his way back 
silently through the graveyard, to the spot 
where Calhoun had been left, he wondered 
how he ever could have thought it amusing 
to get into such a scrape as this. Stretching 
out his arms to feel his way, he shrank back 
with an awful chill ; they had closed about 
the cold body of a slate headstone, a hundred 
years old. As he clasped it, the stone stirred, 
shook, and lumbered heavily over upon him. 
With an exclamation of horror, and a 
bruised knee, Donald extricated himself from 
the horrid weight and pushed on. 
His feet sank in sodden places whose nature 
lie did not dare to contemplate. Stum 
bling in and out, and hurrying to put an end 
to these horrors, he tripped and fell over a 
large flat mound, which must have been a 
grave made not too long ago to have lost its 
natural proportions. Briers and mud rubbed 
his face and tore his hands as he lay there ; 
and disgust entered his heart as he struggled 
up and made on. 
He had now managed to reach the open 
grave where the partially entombed Fresh 
man lay. As he came up to the dark and 
dreadful spot, it seemed less and less 
amusing to Donald that he should have had a 
hand in this affair. No sound issued from 
the grave. It was as still as it was dark. 
" Calhoun ! " called Marcy softly. 
There was no reply. 
" Calhoun ! Lee Calhoun ! Calhoun ! " 
Silence only answered what had become a 
very eagerly urgent cry. That silence did 
not seem funny at all to Donald Marcy ; in 
fact, a biennial examination would have been 
funnier. It would have struck him as more 
interesting at that moment to have been 
cramming for rank, or earning the name of 
a " dig," or even getting up in season to go 
to morning prayers, or pursuing any of those 
 
secondary and immaterial college 
occupations with which the fellow who " goes in for 
fun " fails to concern himself. 
" Lee Cal-hou-ou-oim ! " cried the repent 
ant Sophomore, in real distress. " Don't 
make game of me ! I've come to let you out. 
Speak up, man ! Why don't you answer? " 
But the buried Freshman, like other dead 
men, gave no reason why. The grave 's depth 
was dumb to the cry of the grave 's edge ; 
there as anywhere ; there as everywhere. 
Great heavens ! What had the mock death 
become ? 
The murder? 
Marcy, the cold drops bursting on his 
forehead, struck a match and held it, 
sheltered in his trembling hand, far over the 
gaping mouth of the grave. By the flut 
tering light he could distinctly see a sight 
which his young life carried with him from 
that moment, a scorching imprint, a pho 
tograph cut in vitriol upon his bare and 
shrinking brain. 
Lee Calhoun lay in the coffin as he had 
been left, quite quietly, his face turned over 
on one side ; there were no evidences of a 
struggle. Why, a plucky fellow, a live fel 
low, could have got out ! Calhoun 's 
countenance was the countenance of the dead ; its 
pallor, rigidity, the eyes, the jaw ! Marcy 
gave one look, uttered a terrible cry for help, 
and without waiting for it, went crashing 
into that grave. He tore off the coffin-lid 
with his strong hands ; he jerked the head 
of the unhappy Freshman into the air, sat 
the body upright, and felt for the heart. It 
seemed to him that it beat, but if so, it was 
a motion which could stop so much more 
easily than it could go on, that he felt no 
perceptible sense of relief. 
The fellows did not come. Had they not 
heard him ? Where were the fellows ? And 
Marcy and the dead or dying man sat up 
together in that coffin at the bottom of that 
grave, as helpless and useless members of 
society as any two students in Harle University. 
But Donald was an ingenious fellow, as 
well as a strong one, and, realizing now the 
full dreadfulness of his situation, put all his 
mind and muscle to the proof, and slowly 
lifted the unfortunate Freshman out of the 
coffin ; and so, as quickly and gently as he 
might, he dragged the burden to the upper 
air, and laid it upon the grass at the grave 's 
edge. 
 
" Boys ! " he called in an appealing voice. 
" Boys, come quick ! Trouble here ! Fellows ! " 
But the boys did not come ; nor did they 
answer. Thinking that they were vexed 
with him for leaving the hazing party, and 
visiting the victim on his own responsibility, 
and that they purposely refrained from're 
sponding to his cry, or had indeed perhaps 
gone home and left him to his corpse and his 
fate, Donald reexamined Calhoun 's body as 
well as he knew how, putting to the test all 
his knowledge he was surprised to find it 
as vague as his views of the higher mathe 
matics of the practicable means of 
resuscitating a human being from apparent death. 
It was awkward work in the dark and under 
the circumstances. He fanned the body ; he 
breathed upon the body ; he sat it up ; he 
laid it down ; he rubbed it and he warmed 
it. He .had no water ; he had no brandy ; 
he had nothing but his own warm life and 
throbbing agony to save. He was so 
agitated that he began to sob there by himself. 
It was a terrible moment. 
" There ! " he cried at last, not caring if 
all the world should hear him. " That heart 
does beat ! Thank God ! Thank God ! " 
 
At this instant steps were heard upon the 
graveyard grass. Voices sounded. Figures 
were coining up, stumbling across the graves. 
They were not the boys. 
After Marcy had left the hazing party, 
that philosophical group of young men sat 
on, entertaining themselves grimly upon the 
cemetery walls. A few ghost stories, 
mitigated by college anecdotes, a few cigarettes, 
and a pint of peanuts, served to pass the 
time. They did not immediately miss Donald. 
When they discovered his absence it 
was with extreme displeasure. 
" He 's gone home," said one of the fel 
lows contemptuously. " He 's backed out. 
He 's left us to finish the job." 
" Marcy isn't that kind," suggested some 
body else reasonably. " Great Scott ! 
What 's that?" 
"What 's what? Where?" 
" There ! There 's somebody coming out 
of that receiving-vault. I saw something 
more there past the door ! See ? " 
"By Jove! No! Yes! Where? How? 
Yes ! No, I don't ! Do you ? " 
" No, I don't. Can't be anything. Great 
gracious ! what makes you look so ? You're 
as pale as a woman ! " 
 
" Might be Marcy. Must be Marcy." 
" Ghosts are played out," said one fellow 
contemptuously. " Protoplasm 's done away 
with em. Spooks are out of fashion. They 
give us the amosba these days. No chance 
for dead people. The missing link takes it. 
Don't be jackasses. It 's Marcy, of course. 
Marcy f" 
The boys huddled together. They all 
looked a little gray about the mouth. He 
who had the dark lantern flashed it full on 
the receiving-vault. 
Marcy was nowhere to be seen. They 
called him in every tone of jest, anger, 
threat, and entreaty. No one responded. 
One of the boys swore that the door of the 
receiving-tomb swung in and out upon its 
hinges. Another vowed that a muffled fig 
ure glided behind the old brick vault, and 
crouched and watched there. There was one 
fellow who saw six apparitions, and each 
had eyes of flame, and their winding-sheets 
smoked. Ben Braggs moved that they go 
home. He explained that he did not refer 
to the ghosts. They were on their own 
ground ; had a right there, so far as he 
knew; and, so far as he cared, they were 
welcome to it. One of the boys reminded 
him that they couldn't go home and leave a 
fellow buried alive. He thought they might 
get as much as forty marks apiece for it. 
While they were disputing and discussing 
the situation in their fashion, one of the 
most nervous fellows in the group suddenly 
gave a piercing yell, and took to his legs as 
fast as he could, without a word or sign of 
explanation. The boys sprang to their feet 
simultaneously, and glared at the receiving- 
vault with dilated eyes. Their teeth chat 
tered in their heads when they distinguished, 
past the doubt or query of the coolest or 
bravest, two tall, vague, threatening figures 
advancing upon them from the tomb. There 
was no Marcy about that. The rest of the 
hazing party made after the nervous fellow 
as fast as possible, and stayed to make no 
further investigations. They got a good 
start, and clattered down the long, deserted, 
frozen road like wild colts. The apparitions 
gave chase. They certainly did that very 
thing. This circumstance added vigor to the 
scene. Presumably, the boys were younger 
and better gymnasts than the tenants of a 
graveyard of that ancient description. At 
any rate, they had their start, and kept the 
advantage of it. The ghosts gave out before 
long, very much out of breath, and 
returned to their receiving-tomb in ghostly 
silence. 
Donald Marcy, sitting on the graveyard 
grass with Calhoun 's head upon his lap, and 
Calhoun 's pulse beneath his terrified fingers, 
