happened. She did not spare herself at any point, and she ended the
story with the expression of her belief that she had deserved it all.
"It wasn't boxing that little wretch's ears that was the disgrace; it
was having brought myself to where I had to box them."

"Yes, that was it," sighed Charmian, with deep conviction.

"And I had to tell him that I could never care for him, because I
couldn't bear to tell him what a fool I had been."

"No, no; you never could do that!"

"And I couldn't bear to have him think I was better than I really was,
or let him care for me unless I told him all about that miserable old
affair."

"No, you couldn't, Cornelia," said Charmian solemnly. "Some girls
might; most girls would. They would just consider it a flirtation,
and not say anything about it, or not till after they were engaged, and
then just laugh. But you are different from other girls--you are so
true! Yes, you would have to tell it if it killed you; I can see
that; and you couldn't tell it, and you had to break his heart. Yes,
you had to!"

"Oh, Charmian Maybough! How cruel you are!" Cornelia flung herself
forward and cried; Charmian whirled round, and kneeling before her,
threw her arms around her, in a pose of which she felt the perfection,
and kissed her tenderly.

"Why didn't you let me see how you were looking? How I have gone
on----"

Cornelia pulled herself loose. "Charmian! Do you dare to mean that I
want him to ever speak to me again--or look at me?"

"No, no----"

"Or that I'm sorry I did it?"

"No; it's this cold that's making me so stupid."

"If he were to come back again this instant, I should have to tell him
just the same, or else tell him about that--that--and you know I
couldn't do that if I lived a thousand years."

Now she melted, indeed, and suffered Charmian to moan over her, and
fortify her with all the reasons she had urged herself in various forms
of repetition. Charmain showed her again how impossible everything that
she had thought impossible was, and convinced her of every conviction.
She made Cornelia's tragedy her romance, and solemnly exulted in its
fatality, while she lifted her in her struggle of conscience to a
height from which for the present at least, Cornelia could not have
descended without a ruinous loss of self-respect. In the renunciation
in which the worshipper confirmed her saint, Ludlow and his rights and
feelings were ignored, and Cornelia herself was offered nothing more
substantial than the prospect that henceforth she and Charmian could
live for each other in a union that should be all principle on one side
and all adoration on the other.




XXXIII.


Cornelia did not go to pass that week in Lent with Mrs. Westley. When
she went, rather tardily, to withdraw her promise, she said that the
time was now growing so short she must give every moment to the
Synthesis. Mrs. Westley tacitly arranged to cancel some little plans
she had made for her, and in the pity a certain harassed air of the
girl's moved in her, she accepted her excuses as valid, and said, "But
I am afraid you are overworking at the Synthesis, Miss Saunders. Are
you feeling quite well?"

"Oh, perfectly," Cornelia answered with a false buoyancy from which she
visibly fell. She looked down, and said, "I wish the work was twice as
hard!"

"Ah, you have come to that very soon," said Mrs. Westley; and then they
were both silent, till she added, "How are you getting on with your
picture of Miss Maybough?"

"Oh, I'm not doing anything with that," said Cornelia, and she stood up
to go.

"But you are going to exhibit it?" Mrs. Westley persisted.

"No, T don't know as I am. I should have to offer it first."

"It would be sure to be accepted; Mr. Ludlow thinks it would."

"Oh, yes; I know," said Cornelia, feeling herself get very red. "But I
guess I won't offer it. Goodbye."

Mrs. Westley kept the impression of something much more personal than
artistic in Cornelia's reference to her picture, and when she met
Ludlow a few days after, she asked him if he knew that Miss Saunders
was not going to offer her picture to the Exhibition.

He said simply that he did not know it.

"Don't you think she ought? I don't think she's looking very well, of
late; do you?"

"I don't know; isn't she? I haven't seen her----" He began carelessly;
he added anxiously. "When did you see her?"

"A few days ago. She came to say she could not take the time from the
Synthesis to pay me that little visit. I'm afraid she's working too
hard. Of course, she's very ambitious; but I can't understand her not
wanting to show her picture, there, and trying to sell it."

Ludlow stooped forward and pulled the long ears of Mrs. Westley's
fashionable dog which lay on the rug at his feet.

"Have you any idea why she's changed her mind?"

"Yes," said Ludlow. "I think it's because I helped her with it."

"Is she so independent? Or perhaps I am not quite discreet----"

"Why not? You say she didn't look well?"

"She looked--worried."

He asked, as if it immediately followed, "Mrs. Westley, should you mind
giving me a little advice about a matter--a very serious matter?"

"If you won't follow it."

"Do we ever?"

"Well?"

"How much use can a man be to a girl when he knows that he can't be of
the greatest?"

"None, if he is sure."

"He is perfectly sure."

"He had better let her alone, then. He had better not try."

"I am going to try. But I thank you for your advice more than if I were
going to take it."

They parted laughing; and Mrs. Westley was contented to be left with
the mystery which she believed was no mystery to her.

Ludlow went home and wrote to Cornelia:

    "DEAR MISS SAUNDERS: I hear you are not going to try to get your
    picture into the Exhibition. I will not pretend not to understand
    why, and you would not wish me to; so I feel free to say that you
    are making a mistake. You ought to offer your picture; I think it
    would be accepted, and you have no right to forego the chance it
    would give you, for the only reason you can have. I know that Mr.
    Wetmore would be glad to advise you about it; and I am sure you
    will believe that I have not asked him to do so.

    "Yours sincerely,

    "W. LUDLOW."

Cornelia turned this letter in many lights, and tried to take it in
many ways; but in the end she could only take it in the right way, and
she wrote back:

    "DEAR MR. LUDLOW: I thank you very much for your letter, and I am
    going to do what you say. Yours sincerely,

    "CORNELIA SAUNDERS.

    "P. S. I do appreciate your kindness very much."

She added this postscript after trying many times to write a reply that
would seem less blunt and dry; but she could not write anything at all
between a letter that she felt was gushing and this note which
certainly could not be called so; she thought the postscript did not
help it much, but she let it go.

As soon as she had done so, it seemed to her that she had no reason for
having done so, and she did not see how she could justify it to
Charmian, whom she had told that she should not offer her picture. She
would have to say that she had changed her mind simply because Mr.
Ludlow had bidden her, and she tried to think how she could make that
appear sufficient. But Charmian was entirely satisfied. "Oh, yes," she
said, "that was the least you could do, when he asked you. You
certainly owed him that much. Now," she added mystically, "he never
can say a thing."

They were in Charmian's studio, where Cornelia's sketch of her had been
ever since she left working on it; and Charmian ran and got it, and set
it where they could both see it in the light of the new event.

It's magnificent, Cornelia. There's no other word for it. Did you know
he was going to give me his?"

"Yes, he told me he was going to," said Cornelia, looking at her
sketch, with a dreamy suffusion of happiness in her face.

"It's glorious, but it doesn't come within a million miles of yours.
Mr. Wetmore isn't on the Committee, this year, but he knows them all,
and----"

Cornelia turned upon her. "Charmian Maybough, if you breathe, if you
dream a word to him about it I will never speak to you. If my picture
can't get into the Exhibition without the help of friends----"

"Oh, I shan't speak to him about it," Charmian hastened to assure
her. In pursuance of her promise, she only spoke to Mrs. Wetmore, and
at the right time Wetmore used his influence with the committee. Then,
for the reason, or the no reason that governs such matters, or because
Cornelia's picture was no better than too many others that were
accepted, it was refused.




XXXIV.


The blow was not softened to Cornelia by her having prophesied to
Charmian as well as to herself, that she knew her picture would be
refused. Now she was aware that at the bottom of her heart she had
always hoped and believed it would be accepted. She had kept it all
from her mother, but she had her fond, proud visions of how her mother
would look when she got her letter saying that she had a picture in the
Exhibition, and how she would throw on her sacque and bonnet, and run
up to Mrs. Burton for an explanation and full sense of the honor. In
these fancies Cornelia even had them come to New York, to see her
picture in position; it was not on the line, of course, and yet it was
not skyed.

Her pride was not involved, and she suffered no sting of wounded vanity
from its rejection: her hurt was in a tenderer place. She would not
have cared how many people knew of her failure, if her mother and Mrs.
Burton need not have known; but she wrote faithfully home of it, and
tried to make neither much nor little of it. She forbade Charmian the
indignation which she would have liked to vent, but she let her cry
over the event with her. No one else knew that it had actually happened
except Wetmore and Ludlow; she was angry with them at first for
encouraging her to offer the picture, but Wetmore came and was so
mystified and humbled by its refusal, that she forgave him and even
comforted him for his part in the affair.

"She acted like a little man about it," he reported to Ludlow. "She'll
do. When a girl can take a blow like that the way she does, she makes
you wish that more fellows were girls. When I had my first picture
refused, it laid me up. But I'm not going to let this thing rest. I'm
going to see if that picture can't be got into the American Artists'."

"Better not," said Ludlow so vaguely that Wetmore thought he must mean
something.

"Why?"

"Oh--I don't believe she'd like it."

"What makes you think so? Have you seen her?"

"No----"

"You haven't? Well, Ludlow, I didn't lose any time. Perhaps you think
there was no one else to blame for the mortification of that poor
child."

"No, I don't. I am to blame, too. I encouraged her to try--I urged
her."

"Then I should think you would go and tell her so."

"Ah, I think she knows it. If I told her anything, I should tell her no
one was to blame but myself."

"Well, that wouldn't be a bad idea." Wetmore lighted his pipe.
"Confound those fellows! I should like to knock their heads together.
If there is anything like the self-righteousness of a committee when
it's wrong---but there isn't, fortunately."

It was not the first time that Ludlow had faltered in the notion of
going to Cornelia and claiming to be wholly at fault. In thought he was
always doing it, and there were times when he almost did it in reality,
but he let these times pass effectless, hoping for some better time
when the thing would do itself, waiting for the miracle which love
expects, when it is itself the miracle that brings all its desires to
fulfilment. He certainly had some excuses for preferring a passive part
in what he would have been so glad to have happen. Cornelia had
confessed that she had once cared for him, but at the same time she had
implied that she cared for him no longer, and she had practically
forbidden him to see her again. Much study of her words could make
nothing else of them, and it was not until Ludlow saw his way to going
impersonally in his quality of mistaken adviser, from whom explanation
and atonement were due, that he went to Cornelia. Even then he did not
quite believe that she would see him, and he gladly lost the bet he
made himself, at the sound of a descending step on the stairs, that it
was the Irish girl coming back to say that Miss Saunders was not at
home.

They met very awkwardly, and Ludlow had such an official tone in
claiming responsibility for having got Cornelia to offer her picture,
and so have it rejected, that he hardly knew who was talking. "That is
all," he said, stiffly; and he rose and stood looking into his hat. "It
seemed to me that I couldn't do less than come and say this, and I hope
you don't feel that I'm--I'm unwarranted in coming."

"Oh, no," cried Cornelia, "it's very kind of you, and no one's to blame
but me. I don't suppose I should care; only"--she bit her lips hard,
and added deep in her throat--"I hated to have my mother---- But I am
rightfully punished."

She meant for the Dickerson business, but Ludlow thought she meant for
her presumption, and his heart smote him in tender indignation as her
head sank and her face averted itself. It touched him keenly that she
should speak to him in that way of her mother, as if from an
instinctive sense of his loving and faithful sympathy; and then,
somehow he had her in his arms, there in Mrs. Montgomery's dim parlor;
he noted, as in a dream, that his hat had fallen and was rolling half
the length of it.

"Oh, wait!" cried the girl. "What are you doing---- You don't know.
There is something I must tell you--that will make you hate me----" She
struggled to begin somehow, but she did not know where.

"No," he said. "You needn't tell me anything. There isn't anything in
the world that could change me to you--nothing that you could tell me!
Sometime, if you must--if you wish; but not now. I've been too
miserable, and now I'm so happy."

"But it's very foolish, it's silly! I tell you----"

"Not now, not now!" He insisted. He made her cry, he made her laugh;
but he would not listen to her. She knew it was all wrong, that it was
romantic and fantastic, and she was afraid of it; but she was so happy
too, that she could not will it for the moment to be otherwise. She put
off the time that must come, or let him put it off for her, and gladly
lost herself in the bliss of the present. The fear, growing more and
more vague and formless, haunted her rapture, but even this ceased
before they parted, and left her at perfect peace in his love--their
love.

He told her how much she could be to him, how she could supplement him
in every way where he was faltering and deficient, and he poured out
his heart in praises of her that made her brain reel. They talked of a
thousand things, touching them, and leaving them, and coming back, but
always keeping within the circle of their relation to themselves. They
flattered one another with the tireless and credulous egotism of love;
they tried to tell what they had thought of each other from the first
moment they met, and tried to make out that they neither had ever since
had a thought that was not the other's; they believed this. The
commonplaces of the passion ever since it began to refine itself from
the earliest savage impulse, seemed to have occurred to them for the
first time in the history of the race; they accused themselves each of
not being worthy of the other; they desired to be very good, and to
live for the highest things.

They began this life by spending the whole afternoon together. When
some other people came into the parlor, they went out to walk. They
walked so long and far, that they came at last to the Park without
meaning to, and sat on a bench by a rock. Other people were doing the
same: nurses with baby-carriages before them; men smoking and reading;
elderly husbands with their elderly wives beside them, whom they
scarcely spoke to; it must have been a very common, idle thing, but to
them it had the importance, the distinction of something signal, done
for the first time. They staid there till it was almost dark, and then
they went and had tea together in the restaurant of one of the vast
hotels at the entrance of the Park. It was a very Philistine place,
with rich-looking, dull-looking people, travellers and sojourners,
dining about in its spacious splendor; but they got a table in a corner
and were as much alone there as in the Park; their happiness seemed to
push the world away from them wherever they were, and to leave them
free within a wide circle of their own. She poured the tea for them
both from the pot which the waiter set at her side; he looked on in
joyful wonder and content. "How natural it all is," he sighed. "I
should think you had always been doing that for me. But I suppose it is
only from the beginning of time!"

She let him talk the most, because she was too glad to speak, and
because they had both the same thoughts, and it did not need two to
utter them. Now and then, he made her speak; he made her answer some
question; but it was like some question that she had asked herself.
From time to time they spoke of others besides themselves; of her
mother and the Burtons, of Charmian, of Mrs. Westley, of Wetmore; but
it was in relation to themselves; without this relation, nothing had
any meaning.

When they parted after an evening prolonged till midnight in Mrs.
Montgomery's parlor, that which had been quiescent in Cornelia's soul,
stirred again, and she knew that she was wrong to let Ludlow go without
telling him of Dickerson. It was the folly of that agreement of theirs
about painting Charmian repeating itself in slightly different terms,
and with vastly deeper meaning, but to a like end of passive deceit, of
tacit untruth; his wish did not change it. She thought afterwards she
could not have let him go without telling him, if she had not believed
somehow that the parallel would complete itself, and that he would come
back, as he had done before, and help her undo what was false between
them; but perhaps this was not so; perhaps if she had been sure he
would not come back she would not have spoken; at any rate he did not
come back.




XXXV.


Cornelia was left to no better counsels than those of Charmian
Maybough, and these were disabled from what they might have been at
their best, by Cornelia's failure to be frank with her. If she was
wronging Charmian by making her a half-confidant only, she could not be
more open with her than with Ludlow, and she must let her think that
she had told him everything until she had told him everything.

She did honestly try to do so, from time to time; she tried to lead him
on to ask her what it was he had kept her from telling him in that
first moment of their newly confessed love, when it would have been
easier than it could ever be again. She reproached him in her heart for
having prevented her then; it seemed as if he must know that she was
longing for his help to be frank; but she never could make that cry for
his help pass her lips where it trembled when she ought to have felt
safest with him. She began to be afraid of him, and he began to be
aware of her fear.

He went home after parting with her that first night of their
engagement too glad of all that was, to feel any lack in it; but the
first thought in his mind when he woke the next morning was not that
perfect joy which the last before he fell asleep had been. His
discomfort was a formless emotion at first, and it was a moment before
it took shape in the mistake he had made, in forbidding Cornelia to
tell him what she had kept from him, merely because he knew that she
wished to keep it. He ought to have been strong enough for both, and he
had joined his weakness to hers from a fantastic impulse of generosity.
Now he perceived that the truth, slighted and postponed, must right
itself at the cost of the love which it should have been part of. He
began to be tormented with a curiosity to know what he could not ask,
or let her suspect that he even wished to know. Whether he was with her
or away from her, he always had that in his mind, and in the small
nether ache, inappeasable and incessant, he paid the penalty of his
romantic folly. He had to bear it and to hide it. Yet they both seemed
flawlessly happy to others, and in a sort they seemed so to themselves.
They waited for the chance that should make them really so.

Cornelia kept on at her work, all the more devotedly because she was
now going home so soon and because she knew herself divided from it by
an interest which made art seem slight and poor, when she felt secure
in her happiness, and made it seem nothing when her heart misgave her.
She never could devolve upon that if love failed her; art could only be
a part of her love henceforward. She could go home and help her mother
with her work till she died, if love failed her, but she could never
draw another line.

There was going to be an exhibition of Synthesis work at the close of
the Synthesis year, and there was to be a masquerade dance in the
presence of the pictures. Charmian was the heart and soul of the
masquerade, and she pushed its claims to the disadvantage of the
exhibition. Some of the young ladies who thought that art should have
the first place, went about saying that she was for the dance because
she could waltz and mask better than she could draw, and would rather
exhibit herself than her work, but it was a shame that she should make
Miss Saunders work for her the way she did, because Miss Saunders,
though she was so overrated, was really learning something, thanks to
the Synthesis atmosphere; and Charmian Maybough would never learn
anything. It was all very well for her to pretend that she scorned to
send anything to a school exhibition, but she was at least not such a
simpleton as to risk offering anything, for it would not be accepted.
That, they said, was the real secret of her devotion to the masquerade
and of her theory that the spirit of the Synthesis could be expressed
as well in making that beautiful, as in the exhibition. Charmian had
Cornelia come and stay with her the whole week before the great event,
and she spent it in a tumult of joyful excitement divided between the
tremendous interests of Ludlow's coming every night to see Cornelia,
and of having them both advise with her about her costume. Ludlow was
invited to the dance, and he was to be there so as to drive home with
her and Cornelia.

In the mean time Charmian's harshest critics were not going to be
outdone, if they could help it, in any way; they not only contributed
to the exhibition, but four or five days beforehand they began to stay
away from the Synthesis, and get up their costumes for the masquerade.
Everything was to be very simple, and you could come in costume or not,
as you pleased, but the consensus was that people were coming in
costume, and you would not want to look odd.

The hall for the dancing was created by taking down the board
partitions that separated three of the class-rooms; and hanging the
walls with cheese-cloth to hide the old stains and paint-marks, and
with pictures by the instructors. There was a piano for the music, and
around the wall rough benches were put, with rugs over them to save the
ladies' dresses. The effect was very pretty, with palettes on nails,
high up, and tall flowers in vases on brackets, and a life-study in
plaster by one of the girls, in a corner of the room. It all had the
charm of tasteful design yielding here and there to happy caprice; this
mingling of the ordered and the bizarre, expressed the spirit, at once
free and submissive, of the place. There had been a great deal of
trouble which at times seemed out of all keeping with the end to be
gained, but when it was all over, the trouble seemed nothing. The
exhibition was the best the Synthesis had ever made, and those who had
been left out of it were not the least of those in the masquerade; they
were by no means the worst dressed, or when they unmasked, the
plainest, and Charmian's favorite maxim that art was all one, was
verified in the costumes of several girls who could not draw any better
than she could. If they were not on the walls in one way neither were
they in another. After they had wandered heart-sick through the
different rooms, and found their sketches nowhere, they had their
compensation when the dancing began.

The floor was filled early, and the scene gathered gayety and
brilliancy. It had the charm that the taste of the school could give in
the artistic effects, and its spirit of generous comradery found play
in the praises they gave each other's costumes, and each other's looks
when they were not in costume. It was a question whether Cornelia who
came as herself, was lovelier than Charmian, who was easily
recognizable as Cleopatra, with ophidian accessories in her dress that
suggested at once the serpent of old Nile, and a Moqui snake-dancer.
Cornelia looked more beautiful than ever; her engagement with Ludlow
had come out and she moved in the halo of poetic interest which
betrothal gives a girl with all other girls; it was thought an
inspiration that she should not have come in costume, but in her own
character. Ludlow's fitness to carry off such a prize was disputed; he
was one of the heroes of the Synthesis, and much was conceded to him
because he had more than once replaced the instructor in still-life
there. But there remained a misgiving with some whether Cornelia was
right in giving up her art for him; whether she were not recreant to
the Synthesis in doing that; the doubt, freshly raised by her beauty,
was not appeased till Charmian met it with the assertion that Cornelia
was not going to give up her art at all, but after her marriage was
coming back to study and paint with Ludlow.

Charmian bore her honors graciously, both as the friend of the new
fiancée, and as the most successful mask of the evening. In her pride
and joy, she set the example of looking out for girls who were not
having a good time, and helping them to have one with the men of her
own too constant following, and with those who stood about, wanting the
wish or the courage to attach themselves to any one. In the excitement
she did not miss Cornelia, or notice whether Ludlow had come yet. When
she did think of her it was to fancy that she was off somewhere with
him, and did not want to be looked up. Before the high moment when one
of the instructors appeared, and chose a partner fur the Virginia Reel,
Charmian had fused all the faltering and reluctant temperaments in the
warmth of her amiability. Nobody ever denied her good nature, in fact,
whatever else they denied her, and there were none who begrudged her
its reward at last. She was last on the floor, when the orchestra,
having played as long as it had bargained to, refused to play any
longer, and the dance came to an end. She then realized that it was
after twelve, and she remembered Cornelia. She rushed down into the
dressing-room, and found her sitting there alone, bonneted and wrapped
for the street. There was something suddenly strange and fateful about
it all to Charmian.

"Cornelia!" she entreated. "What is the matter? What has become of Mr.
Ludlow? Hasn't he been here to-night?"

Cornelia shook her head, and made a hoarse murmur in her throat, as if
she wished to speak and could not. There seemed to be some sort of
weight upon her, so that she could not rise, but Charmian swiftly made
her own changes of toilet necessary for the street, and got Cornelia
out of doors and into her coupé which was waiting for them, before the
others descended from the dancing-room, where the men staid to help the
janitor put out the lights. As the carriage whirled them away, they
could hear the gay cries and laughter of the first of the revellers who
came out into the night after them.




XXXVI.


The solemn man-servant, who was now also sleepy, but who saved the
respect due the young ladies by putting his hand over a yawn when he
let them in, brought Cornelia a letter which he seemed to have been
keeping on his professional salver. "A letter for you, miss. It came
about an hour after you went out. The messenger said he wasn't to wait
for an answer, and Mrs. Maybough thought she needn't send it to you at
the Synthesis. She wanted me to tell you, miss."

"Oh, it is all right, thank you," said Cornelia, with a tremor which
she could not repress at the sight of Ludlow's handwriting.

Charmian put her arm round her. "Come into the studio, dear. You can
answer it there, if you want to, at once."

"Well," said Cornelia, passively.

Charmian found her sitting with the letter in her lap, as if she had
not moved from her posture while she had been away exchanging her
Ptolemaic travesty for the ease of a long silken morning gown of Nile
green. She came back buttoning it at her throat, when she gave a start
of high tragic satisfaction at something stonily rigid in Cornelia's
attitude, but she kept to herself both her satisfaction and the
poignant sympathy she felt at the same time, and sank noiselessly into
a chair by the fireless hearth.

After a moment Cornelia stirred and asked, "Do you want to see it,
Charmian?"

"Do you want me to?" Charmian asked back, with her heart in her throat,
lest the question should make Cornelia change her mind.

There were two lines from Ludlow, unsigned: "I have received the
enclosed letter, which I think you should see before I see you again."
His note enclosed a letter from Dickerson to Ludlow, which ran:

    "Although you are a stranger to me, I feel an old friend's interest
    in your engagement to Miss Cornelia Saunders, of which I have just
    been informed. I can fully endorse your good taste. Was once
    engaged to the young lady myself some years since, and have been in
    correspondence with her up to a very recent date. Would call and
    offer my well wishes in person, but am unexpectedly called away on
    business. Presume Miss Saunders has told you of our little affair,
    so will not enlarge upon the facts. Please give her my best
    regards and congratulations.

    "Yours respect'ly,

    "J. B. DICKERSON."

Charmian let the papers fall to her lap, and looked at Cornelia who
stared blankly, helplessly back at her. "What a hateful, spiteful
little cad!" she began, and she enlarged at length upon Mr. Dickerson's
character and behavior. She arrested herself in this pleasure, and
said, "But I don't understand why Mr. Ludlow should have staid away
this evening on account of his letter, or why he should have sent it to
you, if he knew about it already. It seems to me----"

"He didn't know about it," said Cornelia. "I haven't told him yet."

"Why, Cornelia!"

The reproachful superiority in Charmian's tone was bitter to Cornelia,
but she did not even attempt to resent it. She said meekly, "I did try
to tell him. I wanted to tell him the very first thing, but he wouldn't
let me, then; and then--I couldn't."

Charmian's superiority melted into sympathy: "Of course," she said.

"And now, I never can tell him," Cornelia desperately concluded.

"Never!" Charmian assented. The gleam of common-sense which had visited
her for an instant, was lost in the lime-light of romance, which her
fancy cast upon the situation. "And what are you going to do?" she
asked, enraptured by its hopeless gloom.

"Nothing. What can I do?"

"No. You can do nothing." She started, as with a sudden inspiration.
"Why, look here, Cornelia! Why wouldn't this do?"

She stopped so long that Cornelia asked, somewhat crossly, "Well?"

"I don't know whether I'd better tell you. But I know it would be the
very thing. Do you want me to tell you?"

"Oh, it makes no difference," said Cornelia, hopelessly.

Charmian went on tentatively, "Why, it's this. I've often heard of such
things: Me to pretend that I wrote this horrid Dickerson letter, and
there isn't any such person; but I did it just for a joke, or wanted to
break off the engagement because I couldn't bear to give you up. Don't
you see? It's like lots of things on the stage, and I've read of them,
I'd be perfectly willing to sacrifice myself in such a cause, and I
should have to, for after I said I had done such a thing as that, he
would never let you speak to me again, or look at me, even. But I
should die happy----" She stopped, frozen to silence, by the scornful
rejection in Cornelia's look. "Oh, no, no! It wouldn't do! I see it
wouldn't! Don't speak! But there's nothing else left, that I know of."
She added, by another inspiration, "Or, yes! Now--now--we can live
for each other, Cornelia. You will outlive this. You will be terribly
changed, of course; and perhaps your health may be affected; but I
shall always be with you from this on. I have loved you more truly than
he ever did, if he can throw you over for a little thing like that. If
I were a man I should exult to ignore such a thing. Oh, if men could
only be what girls would be if they were men! But now you must begin to
forget him from this instant--to put him out of your mind--your life."

To further this end Charmian talked of Ludlow for a long time, and
entered upon a close examination of his good and bad qualities; his
probable motives for now behaving as he was doing, and the influence of
the present tragedy upon his future as a painter. It would either
destroy him or it would be the fire out of which he would rise a
master; he would degenerate into a heartless worldling, which he might
very well do, for he was fond of society, or he might become a gloomy
recluse, and produce pictures which the multitude would never know were
painted with tears and blood. "Of course, I don't mean literally; the
idea is rather disgusting; but you know what I mean, Cornelia. He may
commit suicide, like that French painter, Robert; but he doesn't seem
one of that kind, exactly; he's much more likely to abandon art and
become an art-critic. Yes, it may make an art-critic of him."

Cornelia sat in a heavy muse, hearing and not hearing what she said.
Charmian bustled about, and made a fire of lightwood, and then kindled
her spirit lamp, and made tea, which she brought to Cornelia. "We may
as well take it," she said. "We shall not sleep to-night anyway. What a
strange ending to our happy evening. It's perfectly Hawthornesque.
Don't you think it's like the Marble Faun, somehow? I believe you
will rise to a higher life through this trouble, Cornelia, just as
Donatello did through his crime. I can arrange it with mamma to be with
you; and if I can't I shall just simply abandon her, and we will take a
little flat like two newspaper girls that I heard of, and live
together. We will get one down-town, on the East Side."

Cornelia look the tea and drank it, but she could not speak. It would
have been easier to bear if she had only had herself alone to blame,
but mixed with her shame, and with her pity for him, was a sense of his
want of wisdom in refusing to let her speak at once, when she wanted to
tell him all about Dickerson. That was her instinct; she had been
right, and he wrong; she might be to blame for everything since, but he
was to blame then and for that. Now it was all wrong, and past undoing.
She tried, in the reveries running along with what she was hearing of
Charmian's talk, every way of undoing it that she could imagine: she
wrote to Ludlow; she sent for him; she went to him; but it was all
impossible. She did not wish to undo the wrong that she might have back
her dream of happiness again; she had been willing to be less than
true, and she could wish him to know that she hated herself for that.

It went on and on, in her brain; there was no end to it; no way to undo
the snarl that life had tangled itself up into. She looked at the clock
on the mantel, and saw that it was three o'clock. "Why don't you go to
bed?" she asked Charmian.

"I shall not go to bed, I shall never go to bed," said Charmian darkly.
She added, "If you'll come with me, I will."

"I can't," said Cornelia, with a sort of dry anguish. She rose from
where she had been sitting motionless so long. "Let me lie down on that
couch of yours, there. I'm tired to death."

She went toward the alcove curtained off from the studio, and Charmian
put her arm round her to stay her and help.

"Don't. I can get along perfectly well."

"I will lie down here with you," said Charmian. "You won't mind?"

"No, I shall like to have you."

Cornelia shivered as she sat down on the edge of this divan, and
Charmian ran back to put another stick of lightwood on the fire, and
turn the gas down to a blue flame. She pulled down rugs and draperies,
and dragged them toward the alcove for covering. "Oh, how different it
is from the way I always supposed it would be when I expected to sleep
here!" She sank her voice to a ghostly whisper, and yawned. "Now you go
to sleep, Cornelia; but if you want anything I shall be watching here
beside you, and you must ask me. Would you like anything now? An olive,
or a--cracker?"

"Nothing," said Cornelia, tumbling wearily upon the couch.

Charmian surveyed her white, drawn face with profound appreciation.
Then she stretched herself at her side, and in a little while Cornelia
knew by her long, regular breathing that she had found relief from the
stress of sympathy in sleep.




XXXVII.


The cold north-light of the studio showed that it was broad day when a
tap at the door roused Cornelia from a thin drowse she had fallen into
at dawn. She stirred, and Charmian threw herself from the couch to her
feet. "Don't move--I'll get it--let me----" She tossed back the black
mane that fell over her eyes and stared about her. "What--what is it?
Have I been asleep? Oh, I never can forgive myself!"

The tapping at the door began again, and she ran to open it. The
inexorable housemaid was there; she said that Mrs. Maybough was
frightened at her not finding either of the young ladies in their
rooms, and had sent her to see if they were in the studio.

"Yes, tell her we are, please; we fell asleep on the couch, please;
and, Norah! we want our breakfast here. We are very--busy, and we can't
be disturbed."

She twisted her hair into a loose knot, and cowered over the hearth,
where she kindled some pieces of lightwood, and then sat huddled before
it, watching the murky roll of its flames, till the maid came back with
the tray. Charmian wished to bring Cornelia a cup of coffee where she
still lay, so crushed with the despair that had rolled back upon her
with the first consciousness that she thought she never could rise
again. But as the aroma of the coffee that Charmian poured out stole to
her, she found strength to lift herself on her elbow, and say, "No, I
will take it there with you."

The maid had put the tray on the low table where Charmian usually
served tea, but in spite of all the poignant associations of this piece
of furniture with happier times, the two girls ate hungrily of the
omelette and the Vienna rolls; and by the time the maid had put the
studio in order, and beaten up the cushions of the couch into their
formal shape, they had cleared the tray, and she took it away with her
quite empty. Even in the house of mourning, and perhaps there more than
elsewhere, the cravings of the animal, which hungers and thirsts on,
whatever happens, satisfy themselves, while the spirit faints and
despairs.

Perhaps if Cornelia had thought of it she would not have chosen to
starve to no visible end, but she did not think, and she ate ravenously
as long as there was anything left, and when she had eaten, she felt so
much stronger in heart and clearer in mind, that after the maid had
gone she began, "Charmian, I am going home, at once, and you mustn't
try to stop me; I mean to Mrs. Montgomery's. I want to write to Mr.
Ludlow. I shall tell him it is all true."

"Cornelia!"

"Yes; what else could I tell him?"

"Oh, you must! But must you write it?"

"Yes; I never can see him again, and I won't let him think that I want
to, or to have him forgive me. He was to blame, but I was the most, for
he might have thought it was just some little thing, and I knew what it
was, and that it was something he ought to know at once. He will always
believe now that it was worse than it is, if anything can be worse. I
shall tell him that after I had seen Mr. Dickerson again, and knew just
what a--a dreadful thing he was, I tolerated him, and lured him on----"

"You didn't lure him on, and I won't let you say such a thing,
Cornelia Saunders," Charmian protested. "You always did profess to have
sense, and that isn't sense."

"I never had any sense," said Cornelia, "I can see that now. I have
been a perfect fool from the beginning."

"You may have been a fool," said Charmian, judicially, "but you have
not been false, and I am not going to let you say so. If you don't
promise not to, I will tell Mr. Ludlow myself that you were always
perfectly true, and you couldn't help being true, any more than a--a
broomstick, or anything else that is perpendicular. Now, will you
promise?"

"I will tell him just how everything was, and he can judge. But what
difference? It's all over, and I wouldn't help it if I could."

"Yes, I know that," said Charmian, "but that's all the more reason why
you shouldn't go and say more than there is. He can't think, even if
you're just to yourself, that you want to--wheedle."

"Wheedle!" cried Cornelia.

"Well, not wheedle, exactly, but what would be wheedling in some
other girl--in me," said Charmian, offering herself up. "Will you let
me see the letter before you send it? I do believe I've got more sense
than you have about such things, this minute."

"You wouldn't have any to brag of, even then," said Cornelia with
gloomy meekness, and unconscious sarcasm. "Yes, I will let you see the
letter."

"Well, then, you needn't go home to write it; you can write in your
room here. I want to see that letter, and I sha'n't let it go if
there's the least thing wrong in it." She jumped up gayly, as if this
were the happiest possible solution of the whole difficulty, and began
to push Cornelia out of the room. "Now go, and after you've put
yourself in shape, and got your hair done, you'll have some
self-respect. I suppose you won't begin to write till you're all as
spick and span as if you were going to receive a call from him. I'm
such a slouch that I should just sit down and write, looking every
which-way--but I know you can't."

She came back to the studio an hour later, and waited impatiently for
Cornelia's appearance. She was so long coming that Charmian opened the
door, to go and ask her some question, so as to get her to say that she
would be with her in a moment, even if she didn't come, and almost ran
against the man-servant, who was bringing her a card. She gave a little
nervous shriek, and caught it from his salver.

"For Miss Saunders, miss," he said, in respectful deprecation of her
precipitate behavior.

"Yes, yes; it's all right. Say that she--is in the studio." Charmian
spoke in thick gasps. The card was Ludlow's; and between the man's
going and Ludlow's coming, she experienced a succession of sensations
which were, perhaps, the most heroically perfect of any in a career so
much devoted to the emotions. She did not stop to inquire what she
should do after she got Ludlow there, or to ask herself what he was
coming for, a little after nine o'clock in the morning; she simply
waited his approach in an abandon which exhausted the capabilities of
the situation, and left her rather limp and languid when he did appear.
If it had been her own affair she could not have entered into it with
more zeal, more impassioned interest. So far as she reasoned her action
at all, it was intended to keep Ludlow, after she got him there, till
Cornelia should come, for she argued that if she should go for her
Cornelia would suspect something, and she would not come at all.




XXXVIII.


When Ludlow found Charmian and not Cornelia waiting for him, he managed
to get through the formalities of greeting decently, but he had an
intensity which he had the effect of not allowing to relax. He sat down
with visible self-constraint when Charmian invited him to do so.

"Miss Saunders has just gone to her room; she'll be back in a moment."
She added, with wild joy in a fact which veiled the truth, "She is
writing a note."
