self-possessed man, who was generally said to be of a gentle
disposition, inclined to live harmoniously with his surroundings. He
soon went away, leaving the artist and the man of letters to themselves.
Miner did not like Crowdie very much either, but he admired him as an
artist and had the faculty of making him talk.
If Ralston had really been drinking, he could not have been in a more
excited state than when he left the club, leaving his best friend
stretched on his back in the hall. He was half conscious of having done
something which would be considered wholly outrageous among his
associates, and among gentlemen at large. The fact that Bright was his
distant cousin was hardly an excuse for tripping him up even in jest,
and if the matter were to be taken in earnest, Bright’s superior
strength would not excuse Ralston for using his own far superior skill
and quickness, in the most brutal way, and on rather slender
provocation. No one but he himself, however, even knew that he had been
making a great effort to cure himself of a bad habit, and that although
it was now Thursday, he had taken nothing stronger than a little weak
wine and water and an occasional cup of coffee since Monday afternoon.
Bright could therefore have no idea of the extent to which his
accusation had wounded and exasperated the sensitive man--rendered ten
times more sensitive than usual by his unwonted abstention.
Ralston, however, did not enter into any such elaborate consideration of
the matter as he hurried along, too much excited just then to stop and
look for a cab. He was still whole-heartedly angry with Bright, and was
glad that he had thrown him, be the consequences what they might. If
Bright would apologize for having laid rough hands on him, Ralston would
do as much--not otherwise. If the thing were mentioned, he would leave
the club and frequent another to which he belonged. Nothing could be
simpler.
But he had received a much more violent impression than he fancied, and
he forgot many things--forgetting even for a moment where he was going.
Passing an up-town hotel on his way, he entered the bar by sheer force
of habit--the habit of drinking something whenever his nerves were not
quite steady. He ordered some whiskey, still thinking of Bright, and it
was not until he had swallowed half of it that he realized what he was
doing. With a half-suppressed oath he set down the liquor unfinished,
dropped his money on the metal table and went out, more angry than ever.
Realizing that he was not exactly in a condition to talk quietly to any
one, he turned into a side street, lit a strong cigar and walked more
slowly for a few minutes, trying to collect his thoughts, and at last
succeeding to a certain extent, aided perhaps by the tonic effect of the
spoonful of alcohol he had swallowed.
The whole thing had begun in a very simple way--the gradual increase of
tension from the early morning until towards evening had been produced
by small incidents following upon the hasty marriage ceremony, which, as
has been said, had produced a far deeper impression upon him than upon
Katharine herself. The endless hours of waiting, the solitary luncheon,
the waiting again, Katharine’s summary dismissal of him, almost without
a word of explanation--then more waiting, and Miner’s tiresome
questions, and the sudden call to the telephone, and stumbling against
Crowdie--and all the rest of it. Small things, all of them, after the
marriage itself, but able to produce at least a fit of extremely bad
temper by their cumulative action upon such a character. Ralston was
undoubtedly a dangerous man to exasperate at five o’clock on that
Thursday afternoon.
He had been summoned by Robert Lauderdale himself, and this had
contributed not a little to the haste which had brought him into
collision with Bright. The old gentleman had asked him to come up to his
house at once; John had said that he would come immediately, but on
asking a further question he found the communication closed.
It immediately struck him that Katharine had not found uncle Robert at
home in the morning, that she had very possibly gone to him again in the
afternoon, and that they were perhaps together at that very moment, and
had agreed to send for Ralston in order to talk matters over. It was
natural enough, considering his strong desire to see Katharine before
the ball, and his anxiety to hear Robert Lauderdale’s definite answer,
upon which depended everything in the immediate present and future, that
he should not have cared to waste time in exchanging civilities in the
hall of the club with Bright, whom he saw almost every day, or with
Crowdie, whom he detested. The rest has been explained.
Nor was it at all unnatural that the three men should all have been
simultaneously deceived into believing that he had been drinking more
than was good for him. A man who is known to drink habitually can
hardly get credit for being sober when he is perfectly quiet--never,
when he is in the least excited. Ralston had been more than excited. He
had been violent. He had disgraced himself and the club by a piece of
outrageous brutality. If any one but Bright had suffered by it, there
would have been a meeting of the committee within twenty-four hours, and
John Ralston’s name would have disappeared from the list of members
forever. It was fortunate for him that Bright chanced to be his best
friend.
Ralston scarcely realized how strongly the man was attached to him.
Embittered as he was by being constantly regarded as the failure of the
family, he could hardly believe that any one but his mother and
Katharine cared what became of him. A young man who has wasted three or
four years in fruitless, if not very terrible, dissipation, whose nerves
are a trifle affected by habits as yet by no means incurable, and who
has had the word ‘failure’ daily branded upon him by his discriminating
relatives, easily believes that for him life is over, and that he can
never redeem the time lost--for he is constantly reminded of this by
persons who should know better. And if he is somewhat melancholic by
nature, he is very ready to think that the future holds but two
possibilities,--the love of woman so long as it may last, and an easy
death of some sort when there is no more love. That was approximately
John Ralston’s state of mind as he ascended the steps of Robert
Lauderdale’s house on that Thursday afternoon.
CHAPTER XIX.
Ralston shook himself and stamped his feet softly upon the rug as he
took off his overcoat in the hall of Robert Lauderdale’s house. He was
conscious that he was nervous and tried to restore the balance of forces
by a physical effort, but he was not very successful. The man went
before him and ushered him into the same room in which Katharine had
been received that morning. The windows were already shut, and several
shaded lamps shed a soft light upon the bookcases, the great desk and
the solid central figure of the great man. Ralston had not passed the
threshold before he was conscious that Katharine was not present, as he
had hoped that she might be. His excitement gave place once more to the
cold sensation of something infinitely disappointing, as he took the old
gentleman’s hand and then sat down in a stiff, high-backed chair
opposite to him--to be ‘looked over,’ he said to himself.
“So you’re married,” said Robert Lauderdale, abruptly opening the
conversation.
“Then you’ve seen Katharine,” answered the young man. “I wasn’t sure you
had.”
“Hasn’t she told you?”
“No. I was to have seen her this afternoon, but--she couldn’t do more
than tell me that she would talk it all over this evening.”
“Oh!” ejaculated the old man. “That rather alters the case.”
“How?” enquired Ralston, whose bad temper made him instinctively choose
to understand as little as possible of what was said.
“Well, in this way, my dear boy. Katharine and I had a long interview
this morning, and as I supposed you must have met before now, I
naturally thought she had explained things to you.”
“What things?” asked Ralston, doggedly.
“Oh, well! If I’ve got to go through the whole affair again--” The old
man stopped abruptly and tapped the table with his big fingers, looking
across the room at one of the lamps.
“I don’t think that will be necessary,” said Ralston. “If you’ll tell me
why you sent for me that will be quite enough.”
Robert Lauderdale looked at him in some surprise, for the tone of his
voice sounded unaccountably hostile.
“I didn’t ask you to come for the sake of quarrelling with you, Jack,”
he replied.
“No. I didn’t suppose so.”
“But you seem to be in a confoundedly bad temper all the same,” observed
the old gentleman, and his bushy eyebrows moved oddly above his bright
old eyes.
“Am I? I didn’t know it.” Ralston sat very quietly in his chair, holding
his hat on his knees, but looking steadily at Mr. Lauderdale.
The latter suddenly sniffed the air discontentedly, and frowned.
“It’s those abominable cocktails you’re always drinking, Jack,” he said.
“I’ve not been drinking any,” answered Ralston, momentarily forgetting
the forgetfulness which had so angered him ten minutes earlier.
“Nonsense!” cried the old man, angrily. “Do you think that I’m in my
dotage, Jack? It’s whiskey. I can smell it!”
“Oh!” Ralston paused. “It’s true--on my way here, I began to drink
something and then put it down.”
“Hm!” Robert Lauderdale snorted and looked at him. “It’s none of my
business how many cocktails you drink, I suppose--and it’s natural that
you should wish to celebrate the wedding day. Might drink wine, though,
like a gentleman,” he added audibly.
Again Ralston felt that sharp thrust of pain which a man feels under a
wholly unjust accusation brought against him when he has been doing his
best and has more than partially succeeded. The fiery temper--barely
under control when he had entered the house--broke out again.
“If you’ve sent for me to lecture me on my habits, I shall go,” he said,
moving as though about to rise.
“I didn’t,” answered the old gentleman, with flashing eyes. “I asked you
to come here on a matter of business--and you’ve come smelling of
whiskey and flying into a passion at everything I say--and I tell
you--pah! I can smell it here!”
He took a cigar from the table and lit it hastily. Meanwhile Ralston
rose to his feet. He evidently had no intention of quarrelling with his
uncle unnecessarily, but the repeated insult stung him past endurance.
The old man looked up, with the cigar between his teeth, and still
holding the match at the end of it. With the other hand he took a bit of
paper from the table and held it out towards Ralston.
“That’s what I sent for you about,” he said.
Ralston turned suddenly and faced him.
“What is it?” he asked sharply.
“Take it, and see.”
“If it’s money, I won’t touch it,” Ralston answered, beginning to grow
pale, for he saw that it was a cheque, and it seemed just then like a
worse insult than the first.
“It’s not for you. It’s a matter of business. Take it!”
Ralston shifted his hat into his left hand and took the cheque in his
right, and glanced at it. It was drawn in favour of Katharine Lauderdale
for one hundred thousand dollars. He laughed in the old man’s face,
being very angry.
“It’s a curiosity, at all events,” he said with contempt, laying it on
the table.
“What do you mean?” cried his uncle, growing redder as Ralston turned
white.
“There is no Katharine Lauderdale, in the first place,” answered the
young man. “The thing isn’t worth the paper it’s written on. If it were
worth money, I’d tear it up--if it were for a million.”
“Oh--would you?” The old gentleman looked at Ralston with a sort of
fierce, contemptuous unbelief.
“Yes--I would. So would Katharine. I daresay she told you so.”
Robert Lauderdale bit his cigar savagely. It was a little too much to be
browbeaten by a mere boy, when he had been used to commanding all his
life. Whether he understood Ralston, or whether he completely lost his
head, was never clear to either of them, then, or afterwards. He took a
fresh cheque and filled it in carefully. His face was scarlet now, and
his sandy eyebrows were knitted angrily together. When he had done, he
scrutinized the order closely, and then laid it upon the end of the desk
under Ralston’s eyes.
‘Pay to the order of John Ralston one million dollars, Robert
Lauderdale.’
Ralston glanced at the writing without touching the paper, and
involuntarily his eyes were fascinated by it for a moment. There was
nothing wrong about the cheque this time.
In the instant during which he looked at it, as it lay there, the
temptation to take it was hardly perceptible to him. He knew it was
real, and yet it did not look real. In the progress of his increasing
anger there was a momentary pause. The exceeding magnitude of the figure
arrested his attention and diverted his thoughts. He had never seen a
cheque for a million of dollars before, and he could not help looking at
it, for its own sake.
“That’s a curiosity, too,” he said, almost unconsciously. “I never saw
one.”
A moment later he set down his hat, took the slip of paper and tore it
across, doubled it and tore it again, and mechanically looked for the
waste-paper basket. Robert Lauderdale watched him, not without an
anxiety of which he was ashamed, for he had realized the stupendous risk
into which his anger had led him as soon as he had laid the cheque on
the desk, but had been too proud to take it back. He would not have been
Robert the Rich if he had often been tempted to such folly, but the
young man’s manner had exasperated him beyond measure.
“That was a million of dollars,” he said, in an odd voice, as the shreds
fell into the basket.
“I suppose so,” answered Ralston, with a sneer, as he took his hat
again. “You could have drawn it for fifty millions, I daresay, if you
had chosen. It’s lucky you do that sort of thing in the family.”
“You’re either tipsy--or you’re a better man than I took you for,” said
Robert Lauderdale, slowly regaining his composure.
“You’ve suggested already that I am probably drunk,” answered Ralston,
brutally. “I’ll leave you to consider the matter. Good evening.”
He went towards the door. Old Lauderdale looked after him a moment and
then rose, heavily, as big old men do.
“Jack! Come back! Don’t be a fool, my boy!”
“I’m not,” replied the young man. “The wisest thing I can do is to
go--and I’m going.” He laid hold of the handle of the door. “It’s of no
use for me to stay,” he said. “We shall come to blows if this goes on.”
His uncle came towards him as he stood there. Hamilton Bright was more
like him in size and figure than any of the other Lauderdales.
“I don’t want you to go just yet, Jack,” he said, more kindly than he
had spoken yet, and laying his hand on Ralston’s arm very much as Bright
had done in the club.
Ralston shrank from his touch, not because he was in the least afraid
of being violent with an old man, but because the mere thought of such a
thing offended his sense of honour, and the position in which the two
were standing reminded him of what had happened but a short time
previously.
“Just tell me one thing, my dear boy,” began Robert Lauderdale, whose
short fits of anger were always succeeded immediately by a burst of
sunshiny good humour. “I want to know what induced you to go and marry
Katharine in that way?”
Ralston drew back still further, trying to avoid his touch. It was
utterly impossible for him to answer that he had very reluctantly
yielded to Katharine’s own entreaties. Nor was his anger by any means as
transient as the old man’s.
“I entirely refuse to discuss the matter,” he said, and paused. “Do you
want a plain statement?” he asked, a moment later. “Very well. It was
understood that Katharine was to tell you about the marriage, and she
has done so. You’re the head of the family, and you have a right to
know. If I ever had any intention of asking anything of you, it
certainly wasn’t money. And I’ve asked nothing. Possibly, just now, you
meant to be generous. It struck me in rather a different light. I
thought it was pretty clear, in the first place, that you took me for
the sort of man who would be willing to live on his wife’s money, if
she had any. If you meant to give her the money, there was no reason for
putting the cheque into my hands--nor for writing a cheque at all. You
could, and you naturally should, have written a note to Beman to place
the sum to her credit. That was a mere comedy, to see what I would
do--to try me, as I suppose you said to yourself. Thank you. I never
offered myself to be a subject for your experiments. As for the cheque
for a million--that was pure farce. You were so angry that you didn’t
know what you were doing, and then your fright--yes, your fright--calmed
you again. But there’s no harm done. You saw me throw it into the
waste-paper basket. That’s all, I think. As you seem to think I’m not
sober, you may as well let me take myself off. But if I’m drunk--well,
don’t try any of those silly experiments on men who aren’t. You’ll get
caught, and a million is rather a high price to pay for seeing a man’s
expression of face change. Good night--let me go, please.”
During this long tirade Robert Lauderdale had walked up and down before
him with short, heavy steps, uttering occasional ejaculations, but at
the last words he took hold of Ralston’s arm again--rather roughly this
time.
“You’re an insolent young vagabond!” he cried, breaking into a fresh fit
of anger. “You’re insulting me in my own house.”
“You’ve been insulting me in your own house for the last quarter of an
hour,” retorted Ralston.
“And you’re throwing away the last chance you’ll ever get from me--”
“It wasn’t much of a chance--for a gentleman,” sneered the young man,
interrupting him.
“Confound it! Can’t you let me speak? I say--” He hesitated, losing the
thread of his intended speech in his anger.
“You don’t seem to have anything especial to say, except in the way of
abuse, and there’s no reason at all why I should listen to that sort of
thing. I’m not your son, and I’m not your butler--I’m thankful I’m not
your dog!”
“John!” roared the old man, shaking him by the arm. “Be silent, sir! I
won’t submit to such language!”
“What right have you to tell me what I shall submit to, or not submit
to? Because you’re a sort of distant relation, I suppose, and have got
into the habit of lording it over the whole tribe--who would lick the
heels of your boots for your money--every one of them, except my mother
and Katharine and me. Don’t tell me what I’m to submit to--”
“I didn’t say you!” shouted old Lauderdale. “I said that I wouldn’t hear
such language from you--you’re drunk, John Ralston--you’re mad drunk.”
“Then you’ll have to listen to my ravings just as long as you force me
to stay under your roof,” answered Ralston, almost trembling with rage.
“If you keep me here, I shall tell you just what I think of you--”
“By the Eternal--this is too much--you young--puppy! You graceless,
ungrateful--”
“I should really like to know what I’m to be grateful to you for,” said
Ralston, feeling that his hands were growing icy cold. “You’ve never
done anything for me or mine in your life--as you know. You’d much
better let me go. You’ll regret it if you don’t.”
“And you dare to threaten me, too--I tell you--I’ll make you--” His
words choked him, and again he shook Ralston’s arm violently.
“You won’t make me forget that you’re three times my age, at all
events,” answered the young man. “But unless you’re very careful during
the next ten minutes you’ll have a fit of apoplexy. You’d much better
let me go away. This sort of thing isn’t good for a man of your age--and
it’s not particularly dignified either. You’d realize it if you could
see yourself and hear yourself--oh! take care, please! That’s my hat.”
Robert Lauderdale’s fury had boiled over at last and expressed itself in
a very violent gesture, not intended for a blow, but very like one, and
utterly destructive to Ralston’s hat, which rolled shapeless upon the
polished wooden floor. The young man stooped as he spoke the last words,
and picked it up.
“Oh, I say, Jack! I didn’t mean to do that, my boy!” said the old
gentleman, with that absurdly foolish change of tone which generally
comes into the voice when one in anger has accidentally broken
something.
“No--I daresay not,” answered Ralston, coldly.
Without so much as a glance at old Lauderdale, he quickly opened the
door and left the room, as he would have done some minutes earlier if
his uncle had not held him by the arm. The library was downstairs, and
he was out of the house before Lauderdale had sufficiently recovered
from his surprise to call him back.
That, indeed, would have been quite useless, for Ralston would not have
turned his head. He had never been able to understand how a man could be
in a passion at one moment and brimming with good nature at the next,
for his own moods were enduring, passionate and brooding.
It had all been very serious to him, much more so than to the old
gentleman, though the latter had been by far the more noisy of the two
in his anger. If he had been able to reflect, he might have soon come to
the conclusion that the violent scene had been the result of a
misunderstanding, in the first instance, and secondly, of Robert
Lauderdale’s lack of wisdom in trying to make him take money for
Katharine. In the course of time he would have condoned the latter
offence and forgiven the former, but just now both seemed very hard to
bear.
After being exceptionally abstemious,--and he alone knew at what a cost
in the way of constant self-control,--he had been accused twice within
an hour of being drunk. And as though that were not enough, with all the
other matters which had combined to affect his temper on that day,
Robert Lauderdale had first tried to make him act dishonourably, as
Ralston thought, or at least in an unmanly way, and had then tried to
make a fool of him with the cheque for a million. He almost wished that
he could have kept the latter twenty-four hours for the sake of
frightening the old man into his senses. It would have been a fair act
of retaliation, he thought, though he would not in reality have stooped
to do it.
It was quite dark when he came out upon Fifty-ninth Street, and the
weather was foggy and threatening, though it was not cold. He had
forgotten his overcoat in his hurry to get away, and did not notice even
now that he was without it. Half mechanically he had pushed his high hat
into some sort of shape and put it on, and had already forgotten that it
was not in its normal condition. His face was very pale, and his eyes
were bright. Without thinking of the direction he was taking, he turned
into Fifth Avenue by force of habit. As he walked along, several men who
knew him passed him, walking up from their clubs to dress for dinner.
They most of them nodded, smiled rather oddly and went on. He noticed
nothing strange in their behaviour, being very much absorbed in his own
unpleasant reflections, but most of them were under the impression, from
the glimpse they had of him under the vivid electric light, that he was
very much the worse for drink, and that he had lost his overcoat and had
his hat smashed in some encounter with a rough or roughs unknown. One or
two of his rows had remained famous. But he was well known, too, for his
power of walking straight and of taking care of himself, even when he
was very far gone, and nobody who met him ventured to offer him any
assistance. On the other hand, no one would have believed that he was
perfectly sober, and that his hat had been destroyed by no less a person
than the great Robert Lauderdale himself.
He certainly deserved much more pity than he got that day. But good and
bad luck run in streaks, as the winds blow across land-locked waters,
and it is not easy to get across from one to the other. Ralston was
drifting in a current of circumstances from which he could not escape,
being what he was, a man with an irritable temper, more inclined to
resent the present than to prepare the future. Presently he turned
eastwards out of Fifth Avenue. He remembered afterwards that it must
have been somewhere near Forty-second Street, for he had a definite
impression of having lately passed the great black wall of the old
reservoir. He did not know why he turned just there, and he was probably
impelled to do so by some slight hindrance at the crossing he had
reached. At all events, he was sure of having walked at least a mile
since he had left Robert Lauderdale’s house.
The cross street was very dark compared with the Avenue he had left. He
stopped to light a cigar, in the vague hope that it might help him to
think, for he knew very well that he must go home before long and dress
for a dinner party, and then go on to the great Assembly ball at which
he was to meet Katharine. It struck him as he thought of the meeting
that he would have much more to tell her about their uncle Robert than
she could possibly have to relate of her own experience. He lit his
cigar very carefully. Anger had to some extent the effect of making him
deliberate and precise in his small actions. He held the lighted taper
to the end of his cigar several seconds, and then dropped it. It had
dazzled him, so that for the moment the street seemed to be quite black
in front of him. He walked on boldly, suspecting nothing, and a moment
later he fell to his full length upon a heap of building material piled
upon the pavement.
It is worth remarking, for the sake of those who take an interest in
tracing the relations of cause and effect, that this was the first, the
last and the only real accident which happened to John Ralston on that
day, and it was not a very serious one, nor, unfortunately, a very
unfrequent one in the streets of New York. But it happened to him, as
small accidents so often do, at an hour which gave it an especial
importance.
He lay stunned as he had fallen for more than a minute, and when he came
to himself he discovered that he had struck his head. The brim of his
already much injured hat had saved him from a wound; but the blow had
been a violent one, and though he got upon his feet almost immediately
and assured himself that he was not really injured, yet, when he had got
beyond the obstacle over which he had stumbled, he found it impossible
to recollect which way he should go in order to get home. The slight
concussion of the brain had temporarily disturbed the sense of
direction, a phenomenon not at all uncommon after receiving a violent
blow on the head, as many hard riders and hunting men are well aware.
But it was new to Ralston, and he began to think that he was losing his
mind. He stopped under a gas-lamp and looked at his watch, by way of
testing his sanity. It was half past six, and the watch was going. He
immediately began a mental calculation to ascertain whether he had been
unconscious for any length of time. He remembered that it had been after
five o’clock when he had been called to the telephone at the club. His
struggle with Bright had kept him some minutes longer, he had walked to
Robert Lauderdale’s, and his interview had lasted nearly half an hour,
and on recalling what he had done since then he had that distinct
impression of having lately seen the reservoir, of which mention has
already been made.
He walked on like a man in a dream, and more than half believing that he
was really dreaming. He was going eastwards, as he had been going when
he had entered the street, but he found it impossible to understand
which way his face was turned. He came to Madison Avenue, and knew it at
once, recognizing the houses, but though he stood still several minutes
at the corner, he could not distinguish which was up town and which down
town. He believed that if he could have seen the stars he could have
found his way, but the familiar buildings, recognizable in all their
features to his practised eye even in the uncertain gaslight, conveyed
to him no idea of direction, and the sky was overcast. In despair, at
last, he continued in the direction in which he had been going. If he
was crossing the avenue he must surely strike the water, whether he
went forwards or backwards, and he was positive that he should know the
East River from the North River, even on the darkest night, by the look
of the piers. But to all intents and purposes, though he knew where he
was, he was lost, being deprived of the sense of direction.
The confusion increased with the darkness of the next street he
traversed, and to his surprise the avenue beyond that did not seem
familiar. It was Park Avenue where it is tunnelled along its length for
the horse-cars which go to the Central Station. It was very dark, but in
a moment he again recognized the houses. By sheer instinct he turned to
the right, trusting to luck and giving up all hope of finding his way by
any process of reasoning. The darkness, the blow he had received when he
had fallen and all that had gone before, combined with the cold he felt,
deadened his senses still more.
He noticed for the first time that his overcoat was gone, and he
wondered vaguely whether it had been stolen from him when he had fallen.
In that case he must have been unconscious longer than he had imagined.
He felt for his watch, though he had looked at it a few moments
previously. It was in his pocket as well as his pocket-book and some
small change. He felt comforted at finding that he had money about him,
and wished he might come across a stray cab. Several passed him, but he
could see by the lamplight that there were people in them, dressed for
dinner. It was growing late, since they were already going to their
dinner-parties. He felt very cold, and suddenly the flakes of snow began
to fall thick and fast in his face. The weather had changed in half an
hour, and a blizzard was coming. He shivered and trudged on, not knowing
whither. He walked faster and faster, as men generally do when they have
lost their way, and he turned in many directions, losing himself more
completely at every new attempt, yet walking ever more rapidly, pursued
by the nervous consciousness that he should be dressing for dinner and
that there was no time to be lost. He did not feel dizzy nor weak, but
he was utterly confused, and began to be unconscious of the distance he
was traversing and of the time as it passed.
All at once he came upon a vast, dim square full of small trees. At
first he thought he was in Gramercy Park, but the size of the place soon
told him that he was mistaken. By this time it was snowing heavily and
the pavements were already white. He pulled up the collar of his frock
coat and hid his right hand in the front of it, between the buttons,
blowing into his left at the same time, for both were freezing. He
stared up at the first corner gas-lamp he came to, and read without
difficulty the name in black letters. He was in Tompkins Square.
He had been there once or twice in his life, and had been struck by the
great, quiet, open place, and he understood once more where he was, and
looked at his watch. It was nearly ten o’clock. He rubbed his eyes, and
then rubbed the snow-flakes off the glass, for they fell so fast that he
could not hold it to the light a moment before one of them fell into the
open case. He had been wandering for nearly three hours, dinnerless, in
the snow, and he suddenly felt numb and hungry and thirsty all at once.
But at the same time, as though by magic, the sense of locality and
direction returned. He put his watch into his pocket again, stamped the
wet snow from his shoes and struck resolutely westward. He knew how
hopeless it was to expect to find a carriage of any sort in that poor
quarter of the city. Oddly enough, the first thing that struck him was
the absurdity of his own conduct in not once asking his way, for he was
certain that he had met many hundreds of people during those hours of
wandering. He marched on through the snow, perfectly satisfied at having
recovered his senses, though he now for the first time felt a severe
pain in his head.
Before long he reached a horse-car track and waited for the car to come
up, without the least hesitation as to its direction. He got on without
difficulty, though he noticed that the conductor looked at him keenly
and seemed inclined to help him. He paid his five cents and sat down in
the corner away from the door. It was pleasantly warm by contrast with
the weather he had been facing for hours, and the straw under his feet
seemed deliciously comfortable. He remembered being surprised at finding
himself so tired, and at the pain in his head. There was one other man
in the car, who stood near the door talking with the conductor. He was a
short man, very broad in the shoulders and thick about the neck, but not
at all fat, as Ralston noticed, being a judge of athletes. This man wore
an overcoat with a superb sable collar, and a gorgeous gold chain was
stretched across the broad expanse of his waistcoat. He was perfectly
clean shaven, and looked as though he might be a successful prize
fighter. At this point in his observation John Ralston fell asleep.
He had two more intervals of consciousness.
He had gone to sleep in the horse-car. He woke to find himself fighting
the man with the fur coat and the chain, out under the falling snow,
with half a dozen horse-car drivers and conductors making a ring, each
with a lantern. He thought he remembered seeing a red streak on the face
of his adversary. A moment later he saw a vivid flash of light, and
then he was unconscious again.
When he opened his eyes once more he looked into his mother’s face, and
he saw an expression there which he never forgot as long as he lived.
CHAPTER XX.
Katharine looked in vain for Ralston near the door of the ball-room that
night, as she entered with her mother, passed up to curtsy to one of the
ladies whose turn it was to receive and slowly crossed the polished
floor to the other side. He was nowhere to be seen, and immediately she
felt a little chill of apprehension, as though something had warned her
that he was in trouble. The sensation was merely the result of her
disappointment. Hitherto, even to that very afternoon, he had always
shown himself to be the most scrupulously exact and punctual man of her
acquaintance, and it was natural enough that the fact of his not
appearing at such an important juncture as the present should seem very
strange. Katharine, however, attributed what she felt to a presentiment
of evil, and afterwards remembered it as though it had been something
like a supernatural warning.
When she had assured herself that he was really not at the ball, her
first impulse was to ask every one she met if he had been seen, and as
that was impossible, she looked about for some member of the family who
might enlighten her and of whom she might ask questions without
exciting curiosity. It was not an easy matter, however, to find just
such a person as should fulfil the requirements of the case. Hamilton
Bright or Frank Miner would have answered her purpose, and it was just
possible that one or both of them might appear at a later hour, though
neither of them were men who danced. Crowdie would come, of course, with
his wife, but she felt that she could not ask him questions about
Ralston, and Hester would hardly be likely to know anything of the
latter’s movements.
It was quite out of the question for Katharine to sit in a quiet corner
under one of the galleries, and watch the door, as a cat watches the
hole from which she expects a mouse to appear. She was too much
surrounded by the tribe of high-collared, broad-tied, smooth-faced,
empty-headed, and very young men who, in an American ball-room, make it
more or less their business to inflict their company upon the most
beautiful young girl present at any one time. Older men would often be
only too glad to talk with her, and she would prefer them to her bevy of
half-fledged admirers, but the older man naturally shrinks from
intruding himself amongst a circle of very young people, and
systematically keeps away. On the whole, too, the young girls enjoy
themselves exceedingly well and do not complain of their following.
At last, however, Katharine determined to speak to her mother. She had
seen the latter in close conversation with Crowdie. That was natural
enough. Crowdie thought more of beauty than of any other gift, and if
Mrs. Lauderdale had been a doll, which she was not, he would always have
spent half an hour with her if he could, merely for the sake of studying
her face. She was very beautiful to-night, and there was no fear of a
repetition of the scene which had occurred by the fireplace in Clinton
Place on Monday night. It seemed as though she had recalled the dazzling
freshness of other days--not long past, it is true--by an act of will,
determined to be supreme to the very end. She knew it, too. She was
conscious that the lights were exactly what they should be, that the
temperature was perfect, that her gown could not fit her better and that
she had arrived feeling fresh and rested. Charlotte’s visit had done her
good, also, for Charlotte had made herself very charming on that
afternoon, as will be remembered by those who have had the patience to
follow the minor events of the long day. Even her husband had been more
than usually unbending and agreeable at dinner, and it was probably her
appearance which had produced that effect on him. Like most very strong
and masculine men, whatever be their characters, he was very really
affected by woman’s beauty. For some time he had silently regretted the
change in his wife’s appearance, and this evening he had noticed the
return of that brilliancy which had attracted him long ago. He had even
kissed her before his daughter, when he had put on her cloak for her,
which was a very rare occurrence. Crowdie had seen Mrs. Lauderdale as
soon as he had left Hester to her first partner and had been at liberty
to wander after his own devices, and had immediately gone to her.
Katharine had observed this, for she had good eyes and few things within
her range of vision escaped her. Naturally enough, too, she had glanced
at her mother more than once and had seen that the latter was evidently
much interested by some story which Crowdie was telling. Her own mind
being entirely occupied with Ralston, it was not surprising that she
should imagine that they were talking of him.
She watched her opportunity, and when Crowdie at last left her mother’s
side, went to her immediately. They were a wonderful pair as they stood
together for a few moments, and many people watched them. Mrs.
Lauderdale, who was especially conscious of the admiration she was
receiving that night, felt so vain of herself that she did not attempt
to avoid the comparison, but drew herself up proudly to her great height
in the full view of every one, and as though remembering and repenting
of the bitter envy she had felt of Katharine’s youth even as lately as
the previous day, she looked down calmly and lovingly into the girl’s
face. Katharine was not in the least aware that any one was looking at
them, nor did she imagine any comparison possible between her mother and
herself. Her faults of character certainly did not lie in the direction
of personal vanity. Many people, too, thought that she was not looking
her best, as the phrase goes, on that evening, while others said that
she had never looked as well before. She was transparently pale, with
that fresh pallor which is not unbecoming in youth and health when it is
natural, or the result of an emotion. The whiteness of her face made her
deep grey eyes seem larger and deeper than ever, and the broad, dark
eyebrows gave a look of power to the features, which was striking in one
so young. Passion, anxiety, the alternations of hope and fear, even the
sense of unwonted responsibility, may all enhance beauty when they are
of short duration, though in time they must destroy it, or modify its
nature, spiritualizing or materializing it, according to the objects and
reasons from which they proceed. The beauty of Napoleon’s death mask is
very different from that of Goethe’s, yet both, perhaps, at widely
different ages, approached as nearly to perfection of feature as
humanity ever can.
“Well, child, have you come back to me?” asked Mrs. Lauderdale, with a
smile.
There was nothing affected in her manner, for she had too long been
first, yet she knew that her smile was not lost on others--she could
feel that the eyes of many were on her, and she had a right to be as
handsome as she could. Even Katharine was struck by the wonderful return
of youth.
“You’re perfectly beautiful to-night, mother!” she exclaimed, in genuine
admiration.
There was something in the whole-hearted, spontaneous expression of
approval from her own daughter which did more to assure the elder woman
of her appearance than all Crowdie’s compliments could have done.
Katharine rarely said such things.
“You’re not at all ugly yourself to-night, my dear!” laughed Mrs.
Lauderdale. “You’re a little pale--but it’s very becoming. What’s the
matter? Are you out of breath? Have you been dancing too long?”
“I didn’t know that I was pale,” answered Katharine. “No, I’m not out of
breath--nor anything. I just came over to you because I saw you were
alone for a moment. By the bye, mother, have you seen Jack anywhere?”
It was not very well done, and it was quite clear that she had crossed
the big ball-room solely for the purpose of asking the question. Mrs.
Lauderdale hesitated an instant before giving any answer, and she had a
puzzled expression.
“No,” she said, at last. “I’ve not seen him. I don’t believe he’s here.
In fact--” she was a truthful woman--“in fact, I’m quite sure he’s not.
Did you expect him?”
“Of course,” answered Katharine, in a low voice. “He always comes.”
She knew her mother’s face very well, and was at once convinced that she
had been right in supposing that Crowdie had been speaking of Ralston.
She saw the painter at some distance, and tried to catch his glance and
bring him to her, but he suddenly turned away and went off in the
opposite direction. She reflected that Crowdie did not pass for a
discreet or reticent person, and that if there were anything especial to
be told he had doubtless confided it to his wife before coming to the
ball. She looked about for Hester, but could not see her at first,
neither could she discover Bright or Miner in the moving crowd. She
stood quietly by her mother for a time, glad to escape momentarily from
her usual retinue of beardless young dandies. Mrs. Lauderdale still
seemed to hesitate as to whether she should say any more. The story
Crowdie had told her was a very strange one, she thought, and she
herself doubted the accuracy of the details. And he had exacted a sort
of promise of secrecy from her, which, in her experience, very generally
meant that a part, or the whole of what was told, might be untrue.
Nevertheless, she had never thought that the painter was a spiteful
person. She was puzzled, therefore, but she very soon resolved that she
should tell Katharine nothing, which was, after all, the wisest plan.
Just then a tall, lean man made his way up to her and bowed rather
stiffly. He was powerfully made, and moved like a person more accustomed
to motion than to rest. He had a weather-beaten, kindly face, clean
shaven, thin and bony. His features were decidedly ugly, though by no
means repulsive. His hair was thick and iron grey, and he was about
fifty years of age. Mrs. Lauderdale gave him her hand, and seemed glad
to see him.
“Mr. Griggs--my daughter,” she said, introducing him to Katharine, who
had immediately recognized him, for she had seen him at a distance on
the previous evening at the Thirlwalls’ dance.
Paul Griggs bowed again in his stiff, rather foreign way, and Katharine
smiled and bent her head a little. She had always wished she might meet
him, for she had read some of his books and liked them, and he was
reported to have led a very strange life, and to have been everywhere.
“I saw you talking to Mrs. Crowdie,” said Mrs. Lauderdale. “She’s
charming, isn’t she?”
“Very,” answered Mr. Griggs, in a deep, manly voice, but without any
special emphasis. “Very,” he repeated vaguely. “She was a mere girl--not
out yet--when I was last at home,” he added, suddenly showing some
interest.
“By the bye, where is she?” asked Katharine, in the momentary pause
which followed. “I was looking for her.”
“Over there,” replied Mr. Griggs, nodding almost imperceptibly in the
direction he meant to indicate. As he was over six feet in height, and
could see over the heads of most of the people, Katharine had not gained
any very accurate information.
“You can see her,” he continued in explanation. “She’s sitting up among
the frumps; she’s looking for her husband, and there’s a man with yellow
hair talking to her--it’s her brother--over there between the first and
second windows from the end where the music is. Do you make her out?”
“Yes. How can you tell that she is looking for her husband at this
distance?” Katharine laughed.
“By her eyes,” answered Mr. Griggs. “She’s in love with him, you
know--and she’s anxious about him for some reason or other. But I
believe he’s all right now. I used to know him very well in Paris once
upon a time. Clever fellow, but he had--oh, well, it’s nobody’s
business. What a beautiful ball it is, Mrs. Lauderdale--”
“What did Mr. Crowdie have in Paris?” asked Katharine, with sudden
interest, and interrupting him.
“Oh--he was subject to bad colds in winter,” answered Mr. Griggs,
coolly. “Lungs affected, I believe--or something of that sort. As I was
saying, Mrs. Lauderdale, this is a vast improvement on the dances they
used to have in New York when I was young. That was long before your
time, though I daresay your husband can remember them.”
And he went on speaking, evidently making conversation of a most
unprofitable kind in the most cold-blooded and cynical manner, by sheer
force of habit, as people who have the manners of the world without its
interests often do, until something strikes them.
A young man, whose small head seemed to have just been squeezed through
the cylinder of enamelled linen on which it rested as on a pedestal,
came up to Katharine and asked her for a dance. She went away on his
arm. After a couple of turns, she made him stop close to Hester Crowdie.
“Thanks,” she said, nodding to her partner. “I want to speak to my
cousin. You don’t mind--do you? I’ll give you the rest of the dance some
other time.”
And without waiting for his answer, she stepped upon the low platform
which ran round the ball-room, and took the vacant seat by Hester’s
side. Hamilton Bright, who had only been exchanging a word with his
sister when Griggs had caught sight of him, was gone, and she was
momentarily alone.
“Hester,” began Katharine, “where is Jack Ralston? I’m perfectly sure
your husband knows, and has told you, and I know that he has told my
mother, from the way she spoke--”
“How did you guess that?” asked Mrs. Crowdie, starting a little at the
first words. “But I’m sorry if he has spoken to your mother about it--”
She stopped suddenly, feeling that she had made a mistake.
She was very nervous herself that evening, and as Griggs had said, she
was anxious about her husband. There was no real foundation for her
anxiety, but since her recent experience, she was very easily
frightened. Crowdie had spoken excitedly to her about Ralston’s conduct
at the club that afternoon, and she had fancied that there was something
unusual in his look.
“Oh, Hester, what is it?” asked Katharine, bending nearer to her and
laying a hand on hers.
“Don’t look so awfully frightened, dear!” Hester smiled, but not very
naturally. “It’s nothing very serious. In fact, I believe it’s only that
Walter saw him at the club late this afternoon and got the idea that he
wasn’t--quite well.”
“Not well? Is he ill? Where is he? At home?” Katharine asked the
questions all in a breath, with no suspicion that Hester had softened
the truth almost altogether into something else.
“I suppose he’s at home, since he’s not here,” answered Mrs. Crowdie,
wishing that she had said so at first and had said nothing more.
“Oh, Hester! What is it? I know it’s something dreadful!” cried
Katharine. “I shall go and ask Mr. Crowdie if you won’t tell me.”
“Don’t!” exclaimed Mrs. Crowdie, so quickly and so loudly that the
people near her turned to see what was the matter.
“You’ve told me, now--he must be very ill, or you wouldn’t speak like
that!” Katharine’s lips began to turn white, and she half rose from her
seat.
Mrs. Crowdie drew her back again very gently.
“No, dear--no, I assure--I give you my word it’s not that, dear--oh, I’m
so sorry I said anything!” Katharine yielded, and resumed her seat.
“Hester, what is it?” she asked very gravely for the third time. “You’re
my best friend--the only friend I have besides him. If it’s anything
bad, I’d much rather hear it from you. But I can’t stand this suspense.
I shall ask everybody until somebody tells me the truth.”
Mrs. Crowdie seemed to reflect for a moment before answering, but even
while she was thinking of what she should say, her passionate eyes
sought for her husband’s pale face in the crowd--the pale face and the
red lips that so many women thought repulsive.
“Dear,” she said at last, “it’s foolish to make such a fuss and to
frighten you. That sort of thing has happened to almost all men at one
time or another--really, you know! You mustn’t blame Jack too much--”
“For what? For what? Speak, Hester! Don’t try to--”
“Katharine darling, Walter says that Jack was--well--you know--just a
little far gone--and they had some trouble with him at the club. I don’t
know--it seems that my brother tried to hold him for some reason or
other--it’s not quite clear--and Jack threw Ham down, there in the hall
of the club, before a lot of people--Katharine dearest, I’m so sorry I
spoke!”
Katharine was leaning back against the cushion, her hands folded
together, and her face set like a mask; but she said nothing, and
scarcely seemed to be listening, though she heard every word.
“Of course, dear,” continued Mrs. Crowdie, “I know how you love him--but
you mustn’t think any the worse of him for this. Ham just told me it
wasn’t--well--it wasn’t as bad as Walter made out, and he was very angry
with Walter for telling me--as though he would keep anything from me!”
She stopped again, being much more inclined to talk of Crowdie than of
Ralston, and to defend his indiscretion. Katharine did not move nor
change her position, and her eyes looked straight before her, though it
was clear that they saw nothing.
“I’m glad it was you who told me,” she said in a low, monotonous tone.
“So am I,” answered her friend, sympathetically. “And I’m sure it’s not
half as bad as they--”
“They all know it,” continued Katharine, not heeding her. “I can see it
in their eyes when they look at me.”
“Nonsense, Katharine--nobody but Walter and Ham--”
“Your husband told my mother, too. She spoke very oddly. He’s been
telling every one. Why does he want to make trouble? Does he hate Jack
so?”
“Hate him? No, indeed! I think he’s rather fond of him--”
“It’s a very treacherous sort of fondness, then,” answered Katharine,
with a bitter little laugh, and changing her position at last, so that
she looked into her friend’s face.
“Katharine!” exclaimed Hester. “How can you talk like that--telling me
that Walter is treacherous--”
“Oh--you mustn’t mind what I say--I’m a little upset--I didn’t mean to
hurt you, dear.”
Katharine rose, and without another word she left her friend and began
to go up the side of the room alone, looking for some one as she went.
In a moment one of her numerous young adorers was by her side. He had
seen her talking to Mrs. Crowdie, and had watched his opportunity.
“No,” said Katharine, absently, and without looking at him. “I don’t
want to dance, thanks. I want to find my cousin, Hamilton Bright. Have
you seen him?”
“Oh--ah--yes!” answered the young man, with an imitation of the advanced
English manner of twenty years ago, which seems to have become the ideal
of our gilded youth of to-day. “He’s in the corner under the
balcony--he’s been--er--rather leathering into Crowdie--you
know--er--for talking about Jack Ralston’s last, all over the place--I
daresay you’ve heard of it, Miss Lauderdale--being--er--a cousin of your
own, too. No end game, that Ralston chap!”
Katharine lost her temper suddenly. She stopped and looked the young
dandy in the eyes. He never forgot the look of hers, nor the paleness of
her lips as she spoke.
“You’re rather young to speak like that of older men, Mr. Van De Water,”
she said.
She coolly turned her back on the annihilated youth and walked away from
him alone, almost as surprised at what she had done as he was. He, poor
boy, got very red in the face, stood still, helped himself into
countenance by sticking a single glass in his eye and then went in
search of his dearest friend, the man who had just discovered that
extraordinary tailor in New Burlington Street, you know.
Katharine had been half stunned by what Hester Crowdie had told her,
which she felt instinctively was not more than a moiety of the truth.
She had barely recovered her self-possession when she was met by what
rang like an insult in her ears. It was no wonder that her blood boiled.
Without looking to the right or to the left, she went forward till she
was under the great balcony, and there, by one of the pillars, she came
upon Bright and Crowdie talking together in low, excited tones.
Bright’s big shoulders slowly heaved as in his anger he took about twice
as much breath as he needed into his lungs at every sentence. His fresh,
pink face was red, and his bright blue eyes flashed visibly. What the
young dandy had said was evidently true. He was still ‘leathering into’
Crowdie with all his might, which was considerable.
Crowdie, perfectly cool and collected, leaned against the wooden pillar
with a disagreeable sneer on his red mouth. One hand was in his pocket;
the other hung by his side, and his fingers quietly tapped a little
measure upon the fluted column. Almost every one has that trick of
tapping upon something in moments of anxiety or uncertainty, but the
way in which it is done is very characteristic of the individual.
Crowdie’s pointed white fingers did it delicately, drawing back lightly
from contact with the wood, as a woman’s might, or as though he were
playing upon a fine instrument.
“It’s just like you, Walter,” Bright was saying, to go about telling the
thing to all the women. Didn’t I tell you this afternoon that I was the
principal person concerned, that it was my business and not yours and
that if I wished it kept quiet, nobody need tell? And you said yourself
that you hoped Hester might not hear it, and then the very first thing I
find is that you’ve told her and cousin Emma and probably Katharine
herself--”
“No, I’ve not told Katharine,” said Crowdie, calmly. “I shan’t, because
she loves him. The Lord knows why! Drunken beast! I shall leave the club
myself, since he’s not to be turned out--”
Crowdie stopped suddenly, for he was more timid than most men, and his
face plainly expressed fear at that moment--but not of Hamilton Bright.
Katharine Lauderdale was looking at him over Bright’s shoulder and had
plainly heard what he had said. A man’s fear of woman under certain
circumstances exceeds his utmost possible fear of man. The painter knew
at once that he had accidentally done Katharine something like a mortal
injury. He felt as a man must feel who has accidentally shot some one
while playing with a loaded pistol.
As for Katharine, this was the third blow she had received within five
minutes. The fact that she was in a measure prepared for it had not
diminished its force. It had the effect, however, of quenching her
rising anger instead of further inflaming it, as young Van De Water’s
foolish remarks had done. She begun to feel that she had a real calamity
to face--something against which mere anger would have no effect. She
heard every word Crowdie said, and each struck her with cruel precision
in the same aching spot. But she drew herself up proudly as she came
between the two men. There was something almost queenly in the quiet
dignity with which she affected to ignore what she had heard, even
trying to give her white lips the shadow of a civil smile as she spoke.
“Mr. Crowdie, I wish to speak to Hamilton a moment--you don’t mind, do
you?”
Crowdie looked at her with undisguised amazement and admiration. He
uttered some polite but half inaudible words and moved away, glad,
perhaps, to get out of the sphere of Bright’s invective. Bright
understood very well that Katharine had heard, and admired her calmness
almost as much as Crowdie did, though he did not know as much as the
latter concerning Katharine’s relations with Ralston. Hester Crowdie,
who told her husband everything, had told him most of what Katharine had
confided to her, not considering it a betrayal of confidence, because
she trusted him implicitly. No day of disenchantment had yet come for
her.
“Won’t you come and sit down?” asked Bright, rather anxiously. “There’s
a corner there.”
“Yes,” said Katharine, moving in the direction of the vacant seats.
“I’m afraid you heard what that brute said,” Bright remarked before they
had reached the place. “If I’d seen you coming--”
