They came around in the course of their talk to 
the future of Chester House. Why Pearl should 
have pleaded for Winchester she could not herself 
have told, except that the talks with Olmstead, as 
they wandered about the old garden or lingered 
on the porch, had made a deep impression upon 
her. It was a place to love, yet few modern peo- 
ple would feel drawn to it. She could imagine 
herself coming summer after summer, offering to 
others the rest and refreshment of its great trees, 
its shady walks, its quaint, quiet rooms. Not as a 
real gift, but set aside, just as it had been named 
in the first instance, — a "King's Country" for the 
toilwprn and weary. But she should always think 
of the man who had been crowded out. Down in 
her heart it seemed as if these two people might 
heal their differences, and — what was it she really 
wished for them ? Past midnight Sabrina rose 
and took both of Pearl's hands in hers. 
''Then," she said gravely, "if Hollis Winches- 
ter, knowing that he can have it, makes no sign, 
you will agree to my proposal? Why, Pearl, I 
have done so little good with my money ! Those 
two poor women shamed me ; they were so glad 
to give of their small fortune." 
"Yes ; then I will take it," Pearl answered with 
a strange tremble in her voice. ^ 
Two days after this they laid Miss Barclay in 
the spot she had chosen, where a tall white lilac 
was to wave over her in the summer. The neigh- 
bors joined to swell the small procession, and 
Parke Olmstead spoke words of gracious comfort. 
Rhea clung close to Mrs. Duane, and straightened 
up her fragile form with a sense of protecting love. 
That evening, as Parke Olmstead was about to 
leave them, he handed Miss Eastwood a sealed 
note. 
"I want to bespeak your kindness," he said in a 
low tone. 
Sabrina went back to her corner by the wide 
fireplace and read the note with a flushed face 
and varying emotions. There was a sincerity and 
manliness about it that touched her, — an apology 
for his ill-considered blunder of the past. For 
some moments she seemed to sit in breathless 
suspense. Then she read and reread, taking 
courage. It was not the language of a man who 
had any lingering hope. He made no appeal to 
her tenderness, but he admitted frankly his love 
for the home doubly sacred to him in that it held 
all his memories of his mother. He had under- 
stood the place was in the market. Would she 
state her price and the terms, and allow him to 
enter the list of the claimants ? 
She folded her letter and sat in silent medita- 
tion. There were other things she could do for 
Pearl. And there had come to her a change not 
yet fully comprehended by herself. A wider out- 
look to life, a feeling that she was not content to 
draw to herself all the uses and benefits of life un- 
glorified by any higher purpose than mere enjoy- 
ment. This link that connected her with wider 
interests and purposes, also brought to her new 
duties. It was very easy to love her neighbor as 
herself when that neighbor was Stacy Delamater 
or Pearl Disbrowe: it was easy to be generous 
when inclination ran in the same channel; but 
when that shrank back and fortified itself with 
excuses, did she really forgive? Was there still 
some hatred and uncharitableness ? 
Sabrina gave a vague, intangible smile. She 
was holding to her mother's feud. What if, in that 
far country, her mother saw the unwisdom of it ? 
She had really wondered at it. Her quarrel with 
Hollis Winchester was that he had shown her too 
plainly that he was ready to marry her to get 
Chester House, because it was the one spot he 
loved. He had honorably ofiEered her more than 
its value then, and she had scornfully refused. 
And here he had apologized in such a manly man- 
ner, so enfranchised from any suggestion of love, 
that in spite of herself her heart softened. If 
she was to begin a new life, was not this one of 
the crucial points ? The old line came back to 
her. She had given up a possibility; if it had 
been meant for her, would the sacrifice have been 
placed so plainly in her way? 
Pearl and Mr. Olmstead leaned to Mr. Winches- 
ter's side. Sometimes she felt strangely jealous. 
If he came largely into their lives, must not she 
be barred out ? Yet they were to go away ; he 
would be here alone. Would he come here — 
sit in this corner maybe, poke the fire into fitful 
flashes, and dream about his mother.? He would 
take a hand in the new town — to make money of 
course; her lip curled a little. Would it better 
her life to stand in his way.? She rose presently, 
and, kissing Pearl, who sat crocheting a fluffy mass 
(( 
of silk and wool, went to her room. The fire was 
burning dreamily upon the hearth, just as it had 
down-stairs. She almost loved the place at the 
very moment when she had decided to put away 
her right forever. 
She drew out her desk and wrote her note, brief, 
business-like. She stated what the Land Im- 
provement Society had offered her, and intimated 
that there had been some speculative inquiries. 
She had decided, also, to consider any offer he 
might make. (She wondered if that would appear 
grasping to him.) Then she referred to the cir- 
cumstances that had enhanced its money value, 
but had in no wise increased her estimation of 
it. He must consider his own interest in the 
place. 
She sealed her note and took it down to Amos 
Pike, who went over early for the mail. There 
was no opportunity of changing her mind, but 
at breakfast the next morning a letter from her 
guardian lay beside her plate. It upbraided her 
in rather severe terms. Her dilatoriness had 
prevented an excellent bargain. He did not 
mention that his own high figure, increased 
since the first proposal, had been a factor as 
well. He briefly advised her to take the other 
offer, as purely speculative values were falling, 
and the furore about the new town was dying 
out, he had been informed. Sabrina drew a 
breath of relief. 
Meanwhile, plans were being rapidly formed 
for the impending change. Pearl and Sabrina 
made a trip to the city, to secure an apart- 
ment suitable for Mrs. Duane and Rhea, and 
arrange for the furnishing. Mrs. Vantine had 
gone to Tuxedo in something of a huff, declar- 
ing that she shouldn't be surprised if Sabrina 
married Winchester after all ! The Eastwoods 
had a queer streak in them, and Sabrina had 
changed beyond everything. It seemed to be 
the fashion for young women to take up queer 
fads, as if marrying was a sort of secondary 
matter, to fall back upon when they had tired 
of everything else. 
Mr. Vantine was so engrossed in some new 
schemes, that he simply advised Sabrina to make 
the best bargain that she could, since she had 
not seized the opportune moment. 
"There will be no more a ' King's Country,' " 
Sabrina said on their return. The air of deso- 
lation about the place struck her. The summer 
was gone. Even the serene, ripening autumn 
had faded. This day in early November pre- 
figured winter. She shuddered at the wind 
through the bare trees, at the heaps of leaves 
and the withered grass. 
"'The kingdom of Heaven is within you, 
Pearl made answer. "And we shall find it at 
Wendover. We shall find it many times, I 
trust.' 
"I am not sure that I should like to leave 
you here after all ; " and Sabrina paused on the 
porch. " It is strange, but I am quite reconciled 
to the new ownership. Yours is the chief loss. 
Pearl. How shall I make it up to you?" 
"It will be made up tenfold." 
" You are so content. Let us go in and read 
our fate." 
It was there awaiting her. After a long strug- 
gle Hollis Winchester's affection for his old home 
had conquered. With her permission he would 
be over the next day to arrange terms. 
CHAPTER XVI 
AND IN THAT COUNTRY ABIDE THE FAITHFUL 
The dreary day had passed without a storm. 
The sun was shining with a hazy light, a sug- 
gestion of Indian summer. It lay warm on the 
old garden, and in sheltered places there were 
clusters of pansies still abloom, and some late 
flowers ; while the old box borders wore their 
perennial green. 
In both rooms great log-fires were burning. 
Even the hall had a cheerful warmth ; and there 
was a great jar of clematis and bitter-sweet, 
the red berries intermingling with the soft gray- 
ish white furze. The hammocks had been swung 
in-doors, and gave a cosey look. - 
It was Pearl who came to meet Olmstead 
and his friend Hollis Winchester. Pale from 
his long confinement, and still leaning heavily 
on his cane, he crossed the hall, and followed 
her into the familiar room, changed, yet strangely 
the same. He glanced furtively about, then his 
eyes returned to his gracious hostess, who begged 
them to be seated, and was glad he had so far 
recovered. She would summon Miss Eastwood. 
''Not just yet, please," Winchester said. 
Olmstead was watching him closely. Was it the
sight of the old house that so moved him, or 
the thought of meeting — the hesitation of meet- 
ing — Sabrina Eastwood. 
"You have enjoyed the place this summer.^" 
he began awkwardly. 
" It has been delightful — to us all. Yet I 
think I can understand your deeper regard for 
it, Mr. Winchester. And I am glad it is to 
come back to you." 
She was standing by the corner of the wide 
chimney, and the blaze threw up her figure in 
artistic relief, giving her fair face a touch of 
warmth, a tenderness that he remembered see- 
ing once in a Madonna by some modern painter. 
The voice stirred him curiously. 
" Thank you." 
What a stick she must think him, to have no 
more to say than that ! But his tongue seemed 
numbed by some strange spell. 
Olmstead came to his relief, and asked how it 
had fared with Pearl's errand to the city. 
They had been very successful. They had 
found a pretty suite of partly furnished rooms in 
a very desirable neighborhood ; and only the home- 
like accessories would need to be added. But 
Mrs. Duane and Rhea were to make a visit at 
Wendover before their essay at housekeeping. 
Rhea would begin with her music and singing les- 
sons as soon as they were settled in the city. 
And only this morning a letter had come from 
Miss Searle, who was pleasantly situated and con- 
tent. 
Olmstead had placed a chair for Miss Disbrowe, 
but she had only rested her hand lightly on the 
back of it. Winchester was glad she did not sit 
down. The slim, graceful figure was like a pic- 
ture. The slight movements were so harmonious, 
the expressions of her fine face so attractive. She 
was like a dream that haunted one, or a strain of 
music that recurred frequently, and one could 
always remember. If he never saw her again, he 
should be able to recall every rare point, the deli- 
cate expressions of her face when she spoke. 
She turned to him presently. It was as if she 
had given him time to recover from the first 
awkwardness of a return to Chester House. 
" We have all been so interested in your 
recovery," she began. " And I am glad you came today ; 
for we go away so soon. We have had a 
;' happy summer in your old house," glancing up 
I with eyes that had a soft radiance in them. 
" He flushed with a sense of shame. How he 
had hated their coming here! He had never been 
near the place, and heretofore it had been his 
Sunday morning ride, with a curious solemnity, 
like that of church-going. " Your old house.' 
How tenderly the words fell from her lips ! 
" I hope you will leave a breath of the happi- 
ness,' he returned almost abruptly. " The place 
will be the better to me because you all have been 
here " — yes, he would include them all, though 
her presence alone would have sanctified it. 
''Will you see Miss Eastwood now, Winchester.? 
This is the longest ride he has taken," turning to 
Pearl in an explanatory fashion, " and I had strict 
injunctions not to tire him out." 
She smiled and went to summon Sabrina. Olmstead paced up and down the room until he heard 
the soft stir of the trailing silken gown in the hall. 
He just spoke as he pressed her hand. 
" Miss Disbrowe," he said, " come and have a 
walk in the old garden." 
Winchester rose and leaned against the chair- 
back. His illness had changed him greatly. He 
looked older, and the dominant imperiousness had 
gone out of his face. His hand that hung against 
the cushion was as white as her own, and much 
thinner. 
" I owe you a boundless debt of gratitude," and 
there was the strain of emotion in his voice. 
" Let me say it before I lose courage, Miss East- 
wood. I have not deserved this recognition at 
your hands. I have been obstinate and wrong-headed 
enough to fight against established facts. 
I was a boor and a bully that time, two years and 
more ago," and his face turned almost swarthy 
with the remembrance. " I sincerely beg your 
pardon. I want you to know that I regret it, that 
I would take back every rude and unjust word if I 
could. I have changed my own opinion of myself 
since then." 
She bowed her head in acknowledgment. He 
stood there in the agonizing mortification of a cul- 
prit, quite at her mercy. True, she had offered to 
be merciful, else he had not dared to come at all. 
She was more beautiful than when he had seen 
her before ; but it was not the beauty that moved 
him, — the kind of princess-like elegance, the high- 
bred face, the perfection of training in every line, 
the subtle coldness that could wither one with its 
glance. And he had once imagined she might 
marry him ! What utter idiocy had possessed 
him.
She caoae straight to the point. Other men 
had asked her in marriage, and this incident was 
no triumph to remember. In fact, just now, she 
did not think of it. 
"You considered the proposal," she began in 
her clear, trained tone. " The Land Improvement 
Company made it in the summer. My guardian 
did not think it exorbitant " — - 
She felt at that moment she would like to offer 
it back for half the money. Something in his air 
and attitude touched, — a kind of manly humility. 
" And I thought if it was to be sold, you should 
have a chance with " — 
That was not quite true. She flushed a little. 
" It is more consideration than I had any right 
to expect. And I am glad to purchase my old 
home at any price. I may — nay, I shall have 
to ask for a little favor in some respects. I con- 
template a change in all my business relations, 
which will take time. And my physician insists 
upon a long holiday. When we have settled this 
I shall go away for some weeks, and not take up 
my new life until later on. But if you do not 
object to this being concluded now" — 
He raised his eyes to her calm, fair face. 
"I should like it finished. We are all going 
away. The house would be shut up." 
"And I may take possession ?"
" Whenever you like." 
" '' Shall I send some one in the city to see Mr. 
Vantine ? " 
" It would be better. Still, if you prefer, I will 
make my part of the bargain secure here and 
now ; then I shall have no opportunity to repent ; " 
Miss Eastwood said in a softer tone. 
" You do not mean — I had thought you did not 
care for Chester House ?" What if she had come 
to a curious regard for it ? 
" I should never be likely to live here. I have 
no tender associations with it. All the interest 
has been in this summer. I do not think it could 
ever be repeated." 
She moved toward the desk, and opened it. As 
she did so her eye caught sight of Pearl and Olm- 
stead wandering about the faded garden. Would 
any other woman ever fit so into the old-time 
pleasance.? What plans had they? Was there 
something between the three that she was shut 
out oi? Would they have a life, a joy quite out- 
side of anything she could give. 
Winchester came over to the desk and wrote. 
It did not look like his usual decisive business 
hand. Then he laid down a check, and she gave 
him a receipt, and signed the other paper. 
"Will you go out with them ? " she asked, mak- 
ing a little gesture. 
"Yes." He picked up his cane, and she saw 
that he walked carefully and with an effort. 
"Would Thursday suit you ? " he asked. "I 
will come over with my lawyer. I will send to 
Mr. Vantine to-day." 
"Very well." She left him at the end of the 
hall. He found when he stepped out on the sun- 
shiny porch that he was alone. But Pearl Dis- 
browe came and gave him a welcoming smile that 
kindled a sudden warmth in every pulse. 
" Am I to congratulate you ? "she asked. 
" That I have won back my birthright ? No ; 
let me be honest,' and he took the hand so cor- 
dially outstretched, while a smile answered hers, 
that illumined his face, — a smile no one had ever 
seen there before, and he was unconscious of the 
great gladness it expressed. " We were all in the 
wrong, and the Eastwoods were right. But my 
father believed it otherwise, and lived up to his 
belief. Still, he would never have touched a dol- 
lar of another man's money or his goods. He was 
a sternly upright man, and blinded by his great 
love for what he had been trained to consider his. 
But I am grateful to your friend ; " he glanced 
from one to the other. 
Pearl colored vividly, and there was a fascinat- 
ing softness in her eyes. 
" I am very glad for your sake." 
They turned into the old paths. What was 
there about this woman, that could touch the 
edges of awkwardness and straightway glorify 
them into friendly converse ? She moved him with 
a strange sympathy ; she had such a love for the 
simple things of nature. If the fair ghost of his 
mother could come back — but this one had a 
more radiant beauty. Yes, he would always be 
glad she had been here. There would be two 
ghosts to call up in this old garden. Of course 
Olmstead meant to marry her — perhaps they 
would both come and partake of the cheer by his 
fireside. 
Pearl found Miss Eastwood in her room when 
the two men were gone. 
" Oh," she cried, throwing herself on the has- 
sock and leaning her arms on Sabrina's knee, " do 
you repent ? Have I persuaded you against your 
will, your better judgment ? " 
" Against my will, yes," and she smiled ; 
" against my better judgment, no. For I under- 
stand that it is in all things, not in the one thing 
that pleases us. I have not been such a poor 
scholar. Pearl, believe me. And if I have re- 
solved to take the ' better way,' I must not turn 
aside to follow selfish, prideful whims. I can do 
something else for you if ever that time comes. 
Last evening it looked so dreary that I was quite 
reconciled ; and through the winter we should 
have done nothing with it. I am glad the thing 
is settled, — that the old dispute is ended. And, 
Pearl, I do not believe you were as much in love 
with the place as with the people." 
" Some of those we take with us. It has been a 
happy summer ; but perhaps both of us have another 
place in the world. We are to go on to the next 
things, not sit apart waiting for them to come to 
us. And you have given a greater happiness, 
done a higher work this morning, than any I 
might have accomplished."
" P^rl, why are you — so moved at Winches- 
ter's gratification ? It is his purely personal pleas- 
ure. If he were like Parke Olmstead " — she 
colored vividly. 
" There is a turning-point in some lives, and 
Mr. Olmstead thinks it has come to him. Just a 
little this way or that," Pearl made a dainty ges- 
ture with her hand. " There are so many that 
help or hinder, and one would like to think after- 
ward that one had helped." 
" If you will let me make it up to you " — ah, 
when the greatest of all joy came to her, what 
was there that Sabrina Eastwood could add ? 
She would not even be a poor clergyman's wife. 
" You shall make it up to me an hundred-fold. 
You see, I am going to trust you for the time to 
come," and Pearl smiled tenderly. 
The rest of the day was busy enough. By Sat- 
urday they would be out of the old house. Pearl, 
Mrs. Duane, and Rhea going for a short stay at 
Wendover, Miss Eastwood to the city. 
On Thursday Mr. Vantine sent his lawyer and 
all necessary papers, but could not come, as he 
was in the midst of a big railroad deal. Win- 
chester, with his friend and a notary, and Sa- 
brina Eastwood, signed away the estate that had 
cost her mother so much struggling and heart- 
burning, and at last a thrill of triumphant ven- 
geance. Did it matter any to poor mamma now ? 
If she, Sabrina, was to begin a new life, why 
should she hamper it with the old burdens ? 
Winchester reached out and took her hand 
as he was going away. But he hesitated over the 
words he meant to say, and looked into her eyes 
with a wordless satisfaction. 
" Don't thank me," she cried. " If you are 
ever grateful to any one, it must be Pearl Dis- 
browe. I offered the place to her for any be- 
nevolent purpose she might desire, and she 
resigned in your favor. Between us it has been 
the merest business. But I shall be glad if 
you are happy here, and you have your heart's 
desire." 
He stood amazed, confused. Miss Eastwood 
slipped away. It was Pearl to whom he said 
good-by, and she wondered at the depth of feeling. 
Did Olmstead know of this, and approve } 
Well, there was something nobler in human na- 
ture than he had believed. He had bent so many 
events to his own selfish purposes and aims. 
This had come to him in a way he had least ex- 
pected. It had a new and strange sacredness. 
It was curious to go back to the life she had 
stepped out of last June, Sabrina Eastwood found. 
The house had' been put in its usual elegant order. 
Mrs. Vantine was away. Mr. Vantine welcomed 
her. 
" My dear Sabrina," he said as they sat at their 
dinner, " I do not think you made a wonderful 
bargain — women haven't that faculty. But the 
old house will soon need a good deal of repair- 
ing and modernizing, and you never get back the 
money you spend. What a pity it wasn't just 
the new town ! Suburban property is one of 
the things you can never be certain about ; it may 
lie unproductive for years. And I have such a 
fine investment for your money. I am sorry 
you didn't squeeze Winchester a little harder, and 
make him pay down more, but I suppose he 
pleaded misfortunes and all that, and you were 
tender-hearted } " 
She had let him make his own terms. What 
would Mr. Vantine say if he had known of her 
wish to donate the house to a charity. 
" Mr. Winchester has been unfortunate," she 
answered briefly. 
" Yes ; but, my dear girl, if one set out to pity 
all the unfortunate people, one would need to 
have a long purse indeed. And I dare say in 
a few years he will make a big profit on the 
land. Seventy acres! Well, right here in the 
city it would be tremendous ; "and he laughed 
with unction. 
Sabrina was very glad of a few days' quiet in 
which to arrange her future a little. It would 
be different — it must be different. The old 
round of fashion and admiration and pleasure 
no longer satisfied her. There were higher, 
purer joys ; there was a dread accountability she 
could not throw off carelessly. ' To whom much 
was given much would be required.' She could 
not evade. Much had been given to her. Not 
wealth merely. She had all the strength and 
richness of youth, she had many womanly gifts, 
as she was beginning to understand, — To grow 
brave and thoughtful, to make the higher virtues 
attractive, to win others to find pleasure and 
sweet reward in aims worth living for. An 
ideal had been suddenly awakened in her, but 
this, like the sunshine, must warm and revivify 
those without, or it will prove of no avail. 
She had supposed she would be married pres- 
ently ; nearly all girls were, and she had not lacked 
opportunities hitherto. But marriage has a new 
sanctity in her eyes. It is not because she and 
Pearl have discussed it — lovers have been quite 
outside of their summer's efforts. She has simply 
seen a sweet, outgiving woman, too essentially 
true to flirt, and a man who has been " about his 
Master's business," but whose truth and noble- 
ness would glorify any life, perhaps. She will 
not be silly enough to hold herself aloof, to de- 
cline a comforting friendship, because the love 
might have been offered and was not. When the 
time comes she will rejoice in their happiness. 
Meanwhile, she must make beautiful the new 
truths that have found a foothold in her soul. 
There are girls and women in her very circle who 
are longing to be uplifted, encouraged, who can- 
not well go out of it any more than she. A 
warm, sympathetic attitude will bring them to- 
gether, cheer them, render possible the good 
work Pearl has been doing. One need not go to 
the slums. It is " Whatsoever thy hand findeth." 
And she is to make religion look lovely in her 
own circle, to win others, to help those who are 
weakly struggling, who long to believe and do. 
Can she show by her living that she has been in 
the King's Country? 
CHAPTER XVII 
WITH SKIES SERENE 
The season was at its height. There were 
teas, receptions, some notable weddings, — the 
Patriarchs' and the Batchelors where the young 
"buds" were crowding in eagerly. 
Mrs. Vantine was distinctly captious. Other 
chaperons had married off their charges, and 
were patronizing elegant brides. Sabrina was 
twenty-four, and had been in society six years. 
It was mortifying, to say the least. 
Yet, she admitted to herself that Sabrina had 
never been more beautiful, seldom as gracious. 
The little touch of coldness had often kept peo- 
ple at a distance. It was very well with your 
inferiors, and with the nouveaux riches^ but Sabrina 
had unconsciously carried it to extremes where 
men were concerned. And now she would surely 
be relegated to a second or third place, with these 
new " fads." 
" It is mortifying when we have both done our 
best for her," said Mrs. Vantine complainingly 
to her husband. " You have doubled her money, 
and I have given her every advantage. The next 
thing will be her going over to one of those 
'settlements' where you live with the poor and 
nurse them and wait on them. My opinion is 
that we pamper the poor too much. They ought 
to be set to work." 
" Yes,' said her husband indifferently, studying 
the list of stocks. 
Mrs. Vantine sighed. 
"I shall give a dance for the young people,' 
she began presently. "We have been fearfully 
dull this winter. And there are only three weeks 
more of the season. I felt sure Sabrina would 
be married by this Easter. If she will be so 
obstinate " — 
Mr. Vantine began to doze. 
But Miss Eastwood had not found it stupid. 
True, she had not danced as much, not tired her- 
self over trivialities. She had gone a little out of 
the old paths. With a delicate consideration she 
managed to bring pleasures to the fresh young 
souls who, in the first dawn of delight, could not 
believe in any hollowness. Some who had con- 
sidered her cold and exclusive, warmed to her, 
glanced at her wistfully, entreated little favors 
with hesitation, then adored her in so new a man- 
ner that Sabrina was surprised. Could she win 
Others to love her as Stacy had ? Could she be a 
friend to young girls, and influence them if even 
a little in the way of a more serious womanhood? 
It seemed to her as if the world was waking up 
on the subject, but it was only that her eyes were 
opened to discern earnest souls, such as there had 
been from the beginning. There was more heart 
even in conventional charity than she had be- 
lieved. 
Pearl had been called away by the illness of her 
brother, and then had gone to Florida with him 
and his wife. Sabrina had to welcome Mrs. 
Duane and induct her into her new home, to 
which she had added some gifts besides the 
piano. She studied Mrs. Duane with a new 
interest. The graces and dignity of her old- 
fashioned formalisms became her so well. She 
could recall some of the grandmothers in society 
who had just this quaint refinement, supposed to 
be an inheritance of blue blood. A little pros- 
perity and happiness had worked a wonderful 
transformation. How much was wasted every- 
where that might go far toward redeeming worthy 
people, instead of leaving them to want, misery, 
and despair. 
Rhea's bright dark eyes spoke eloquently ; yet 
her nature was not effusive. There had not been 
much sentiment among those with whom her 
early life had been spent, though they were often 
kind to each other. But no matter how intensely 
your soul went into your work, it was mere com- 
modity, and paid for by the money. You could 
not stop for sympathy, relentless toil hurried you 
on at such a pace. 
Wendover had been a revelation to Rhea Vas- 
ilis. She felt as if she had lived years since 
that close summer morninor when she had fainted 
at her work. Oh, what a delightful world it was, 
and she was so glad to live in it ! She did not 
mind being small and dark and lame, even when 
there were so many beautiful women and girls in 
the world. She had a home in one dear heart, 
with all her imperfections. 
Sabrina visited them, took them out in the 
carriage, and to several matinees that filled the 
child with speechless delight. She could only 
thank Miss Eastwood with eyes shining in tears 
that would have overflowed at a word. • 
Were there not others pining for a little pleas- 
ure in their dreary round. Why, she had never 
thought of it before ! 
One day Rhea looked wistfully at her as she 
seated herself in the pretty room and began to 
ask about her music practising. 
"I am going on very well, I believe, though 
perhaps I shall not come up to your highest 
hopes of me. I try my best. And the lessons 
in designing are a pleasure. But I keep thinking 
all the time it is so^uch for me to have, and 
the long hours of delightful leisure, the books to 
read, and all the ease " — 
" My dear child, you surely do not want to go 
back to the old life ? " Miss Eastwood asked in 
surprise. 
" Oh, no. And yet the work wasn't so bad when 
one was well. It was the terrible living. One day 
I went in to see some of the girls. There were 
two — if Miss Disbrowe had been here I should 
have asked her. I do not want to displease either 
of you " — 
Rhea hesitated, and turned from pale to red. 
" You surely did not go back to work ? " 
Rhea shook her head. "Though I found I could 
]! sell some designs, and that gave me courage to — 
to bring these poor girls here. They were living 
in ah attic — rents are so high for the very poor, 
you know. And there was a room I could let 
them have. Mrs. Duane agreed. We had called 
it Miss Pearl's room. But when she comes I can 
give her mine. And O Miss Eastwood ! you can 
hardly imagine the pleasure the few evenings they 
have been here. And the meals — so different 
from the little you can fix in your haste in the 
morning, and you come home so tired at night 
that you hardly care. It is the being with some- 
body, the pleasant talk, the interest, that is such 
a comfort. And they are sueh nice girls. One is 
an orphan, and the other has a wretched, drunken 
.father who used to beat her and turn her out-of- 
doors. And they pay what it cost them to live 
there. But you see I shouldn't want to spend 
Mrs. Duane's money on them, and I shall help it 
out. You will not think it " — 
Rhea's lip quivered. 
" My dear child, I think it very kind and lovely 
in you and Mrs. Duane." 
" I shall not neglect anything. I wanted you 
to feel that your plans for me would be kept stead- 
ily in my mind. But when I had so'much " — 
Had she learned her lesson so quickly ? Pearl's 
kindness was bringing in fourfold. And she, 
Sabrina, had once wondered if you were not likely 
to injure these people by taking them out of their 
narrow sphere. Who is least among you shall 
be greatest. Sabrina felt humbled by this simple 
endeavor. Yes, the greatest of all was to take 
another into the very heart of things. 
Not just now, but in the future, half a dozen 
years perhaps, when she should have become quite 
settled, and the question of marriage set aside, 
what if she were to make a home for some of the 
least of these who had missed their opportunity or 
\ 
been crowded out of it ! Girls with aching hearts 
and longing desires for beauty and improvement, 
who had gifts and tastes above the average, as 
this little Rhea. She could not keep Pearl as 
her exclusive friend. PearFs destiny was surely 
settled. Yes, she was glad she had stood aside, 
and not marred so lovely a purpose. 
For in Florida the Disbrowes had stumbled 
over Olmstead and Winchester. Pearl had said a 
good deal about Winchester in her recent letters, 
but been delicately silent as to Olmstead. Sabrina 
fancied she could read between the lines. Yes, 
Stacy had been right. And she had so much that 
surely she need not grudge this blessing to an- 
other. Yet there was a sudden, strange loneliness 
stretching out before her. 
On a late winter afternoon she sat pouring tea 
at one of the very elegant occasions where she 
was among the hostesses by special invitation. 
Her table had been a centre of attraction among 
men a little tired of the ingMue, They had been 
discussing some of the problems of the day, and 
people were beginning to consider Miss Eastwood 
curiously entertaining. 
Some one crossed the large room with an air 
and bearing that seemed suddenly to freshen the 
languid atmosphere. She felt the presence in 
every pulse before she even raised her eyes. He 
 
held out his hand and took hers in a warm, eager 
pressure that sent the blood thrilling through 
every pulse. 
" I wondered if I should find you," Parke Olmstead 
said in a low but inspiriting tone. "We just 
came in this morning. And you should see Win- 
chester ! You would hardly know him. There has 
been something beside mere pleasure, but that 
was very delightful. I have so much to tell you. 
Have you a cup of tea for me.^" 
It was quite late, and the women were thinning 
out. Even some of the men had the dinner hour 
in mind. Olmstead helped himself to a chair, so 
near that no one could come between. 
She handed him his tea. " And Pearl ? " she 
asked almost under her breath. 
"Very well, but longing for her Northern friends 
and her work." He smiled a little. " I am to 
report everything to her at once. I have been 
spending an hour with Mrs. Duane. How cosey 
they are in their little nest ! And how pretty 
Miss Vasilis has grown ! Then I was to lose no 
time in seeing you. Pearl has hungered for the 
very sight of you." 
" Pearl!" He did not say Miss Disbrowe. He 
must feel very much at home with her. Sabrina 
made a great effort. Was not this the thing -she 
had assented to in her secret heart. Why should 
it move her thus ? 
" When is she coming ? " Oh, if she were here 
this very instant Sabrina would feel stronger. 
" Th^ Disbrowes are to take a fortnight's jour- 
neying about, perhaps longer, though Mr. Dis- 
browe considers himself entirely recovered. I 
should have gone with them ; but Winchester had 
his head so full of plans, and there was some im- 
portant business. I have something to tell you 
about Pearl — she gave me permission, and I am 
to ask a great favor." He smiled mysteriously, 
talking low and in a rapid tone of voice. 
The picturesque throng surged to and fro. Miss 
Eastwood poured tea in her quiet, elegant fashion ; 
and two or three rather elderly bachelors thought 
what an admirable mistress she would make, and 
wondered that no man had carried her off. 
Olmstead watched her also. There was a softened 
beauty, a suggestion of vital warmth and interest, 
quite new. A group of girls came to bid her 
adieu, and she gave them an exquisite smile. 
" What do you do this evening ? " he asked 
presently. 
"There is a musicale and supper at Mrs. Sel- 
wyn's. The music is for a child's charity." 
Should she offer him a ticket ? 
"And I am to take supper at Mrs. Duane's. 
Well — in the morning — are you disengaged ? " 
" No," she answered softly. She was glad to 
put it off even a little while. "But at three, 
if it suits you " — 
"Yes." 
Miss Eastwood's carriage was announced. 
She disappeared with a gracious nod, and pres- 
ently came down-stairs in a soft, furry wrap. 
How beautiful she was ! Would a man dare 
ask her to come over to the work-day world ? 
"Allow me," and he handed her to her car- 
riage. There was a long, questioning look in 
his eyes that brought a cruel confusion to cheek 
and pulse, and she was glad, yes, strangely glad, 
to get away. It meant nothing, she told her- 
self, only a friend's joy at meeting an old friend. 
It was her foolish weakness. Surely she was 
overliving it. But the interview had come so 
suddenly. 
Sabrina Eastwood would not have been sur- 
prised if he had found his way to Mrs. Selwyn's. 
But he did not, and she grew stronger, calmer. 
Surely Pearl had given back tenfold for the 
one little thing she had taken, that had been 
meant for her from the beginning. Because 
she could give it up to her friend, she knew 
she was a worthier woman. 
She was very busy the next morning, perhaps 
needlessly  so. There were some guests in to 
luncheon. She was lingering in Mrs. Vantine's 
room with two of the ladies when Parke Olm- 
stead's card was brought up. 
He was standing near a Madonna, by quite 
a modern painter, who had managed to put the 
most exquisite mother-love in Mary's eyes. So 
rapt was he that he did not hear the light step ; 
but as she paused he felt her presence and turned, 
taking both her hands m his. A curious, un- 
translatable expression wavered over the fair face, 
and she withdrew them, made a gesture of ex- 
quisite grace that he followed, and seated him- 
self by the richly draped window, while she sat 
a little apart. There was a momentary silence. 
Perhaps he had been over-hasty. 
" About Pearl ? " she said in a gravely sweet 
tone. "Though I fancied — and she is worthy 
of the highest joy." Her voice broke in a little 
confusion, for she felt his eyes upon her. 
" She hesitated a little on your account, I 
do believe. I did not dream of such a thing ! 
I think he fell in love with her in the old gar- 
den, and you gave him the key yourself in her 
renunciation of Chester House. And he wants 
to see you. He has changed so much. He will 
be as strong on the right side as he was in 
selfish indifference. You conquered his pride 
when you allowed him to go back to Chester 
House as its master." 
" He ? Do you mean Hollis Winchester ? " 
A mist swam before Sabrina Eastwood's eyes. 
" I thought you fancied — that Pearl must 
have told her secret unwittingly. Sabrina!" 
Her face was scarlet. She. made a move- 
ment to turn it away. 
"Sabrina," Olmstead cried, "did you think 
because we were co-workers and pilgrims on 
the same road that " — why had he not loved 
Pearl Disbrowe .^ He could not tell — they had 
been too good friends, too good comrades, for the 
thought of love. And he had been so interested 
in watching the unfolding process of this other. 
Would he ask too much in asking her love. 
"I love you," he said with a man's single- 
ness of purpose. " I might hesitate in asking 
you to share poverty. But out of our abun- 
dance can we not make glad the hearts of some 
poor pilgrims struggling along the byways ? Can 
we not be righteous stewards of what God has 
given us both ? Will you come into my life, 
and make it stronger to spread abroad the great 
gladness of Him who loved us while we were yet 
strangers ? " 
He had risen, and by some earnest power had 
impelled her to her feet. She was blushing and 
trembling, yet all the sacredness of his meaning 
dawned upon hen 
"Oh," she cried in great humility, "are you 
quite sure ? Do you think I might take up that 
high life ? I have gone such a little way. I have 
stumbled so often." 
" He giveth liberally. No good thing will he 
withhold.' My darling, I think there is a great 
need of light shining in the high places, of mak- 
ing religion attractive to those who know pleas- 
ure as only an enjoyment of self. The poor 
cannot go to the rich, but the rich might go to 
each other, when they have learned of Him who 
is the Maker of us all. I have been watching 
your unfolding. I long to gather the fragrant 
blossoms, to make sweet all my life, to help and 
sustain when the paths are hard, the rewards 
