
" Perhaps he thought to make us wish to see 
him the more," suggested Valencia. 

"No," I said: "he has no ridiculous van- 
ities. " 

Chonita wandered back and forth behind the 
arches, waiting for Prudencia's long confession 
of sinless errors to conclude. 

''What has a baby like that to confess?" 
she thought, impatiently. "She could ndt sin 
if she tried. She knows nothing of the dark 
storms of rage and hatred and revenge which 
can gather in the breeists of stronger and 
weaker beings. I never knew, either, until

lately ; but the storm is so black I dare not 
face it and carry it to the priest. I am a sort 
of human chaos, and I wish I were dead. I 
thought to forget him, and I see him as plainly 
as on that morning when he told me that it was 
he who would send my brother to prison " 

She stopped short with a little cry. Diego 
Estenega stood before the Mission in the broad 
swath of moonlight. She had heard a horse 
gallop up the valley, but had paid no attention 
to the familiar sound. Estenega had appeared 
as suddenly as if he had arisen from the 
earth. 

"It is I, senorita." He ascended the 
Mission steps. "Do not fear. May I kiss your 
hand ? " 

She gave him her hand, but withdrew it 
hurriedly. Of the tremendous mystery of 
sex she knew almost nothing. Girls were 
brought up in such ignorance in those days 
that many a bride ran home to her mother on 
her wedding night ; and books teach Innocence 
little. But she was fully conscious that there 
was something in the touch of Estenega's lips 
and hand that startled while it thrilled and 
enthralled. 

" I thought you stayed with the Ortegas 
tonight," she said. Oh, blessed conventions I 



 

"I did, — for a few hours. Then I wanted 
to see you, and I left them and came on. At 
Casa Grande I found no one but Eustaquia ; 
every one else had gone to the gardens ; and 
she told me that you were here." 

Chonita's heart was beating as fast as it had 
beaten that morning ; even her hands shook 
a little. A glad wave of warmth rushed over 
her. She turned to him impetuously. "Tell 
me? "she exclaimed. "Why do I feel like 
this for you ? I hate you : you know that. 
There are many reasons, — five ; you counted 
them. And yet I feel excited, almost glad, at 
your coming. This morning I was disap- 
pointed when you did not. Tell me, — you 
know everything, and I so little, — why is it ? " 

Her cheeks were flushed, her eyes terrified 
and appealing. She looked very lovely and 
natural. Probably for the first time in his life 
Estenega resisted a temptation. He passion- 
ately wished to take her in his arms and tell 
her the truth. But he was too clever a man ; 
there was too much at stake ; if he frightened 
her now he might never even see her again. 
Moreover, she appealed to his chivalry. And 
it suddenly occurred to him that so sweet a 
heart would be warped in its waking if passion 
bewildered and controlled her first. 

'* Dona Chonita," he said, '* like all women, 
— all beautiful and spoiled women, — you 
demand variety. I happen to be made of harder 
stuff than your caballeros, and you have not 
seen me for two months ; that is all. " 

" And if I saw you every day for two months 
would I no longer care whether you came or 
went ? " 

" Undoubtedly. 

" Is it sweet or terrible to feel this way ? " 
thought the girl. "Would I regret if he no 
longer made me tremble, or would I go on my 
knees and thank the Blessed Virgin ?" Aloud 
she said, "It was strange for rtie to ask you 
such questions ; but it is as if you had some- 
thing in your mind separate from yourself, and 
that it would tell me, and you could not pre- 
vent its being truthful. I do not believe in 
you ; you look as if nothing were worth the 
while to lie or tell the truth about ; but your 
mind is quite different. It seems to me that it 
knows all things, that it is as cold and clear as 
ice.'' 

"What a whimsical creature you are ! My 
mind, like myself, — I feel as if I were twins, — 
is at your service. Forget that I am Diego 
Estenega. Regard me as a sort of archive of 
impressions which may amuse or serve you as 

the poorest of your books do. That they happen to be catalogued under the general title of 
Diego Estenega is a mere detail ; an accident, 
for that matter ; they might be pigeon-holed in 
the skull of a Bandini or a Pico. I happen to 
be the magnet, that is all." 

" If I could forget that you were an Este- 
nega, — just for a week, while you are here," 
she said, wistfully. 

"You are a woman of will and imagination, 
— also of variety. Make an experiment ; it 
will interest you. Of course there will be 
times when you will be bitterly conscious 
that I am the enemy of your house ; it would 
be idle to expect otherwise ; but when we 
happen to be apart from disturbing influences, 
let us agree to forget that we are anything but 
two human beings, deeply congenial. As for 
what I said in the garden at Monterey, the last 
time we spoke together, — I shall not bother 
you." 

" You no longer care ? " she exclaimed. 

"I did not say that. I said I should not 
bother you, — recognizing your hostility and 
your reasons. Be faithful to your traditions, 
my beautiful doomswoman. No man is worth 
the sacrifice of those dear old comrades. 
What presumption for a man to require you 

to abandon the cause of your house, give up 
your brother, sacrifice one or more of your 
religious principles; one, too, who would 
open his doors to the Americans you hate ! 
No man is worth such a sacrifice as that." 

" No," she said, "no man." But she said it 
without enthusiasm. 

" A man is but one ; traditions are fivefold, 
and multiplied by duty. Poor grain of sand — 
what can he give, comparable to the cold 
serene happiness of fidelity to self? Love is 
sweet, — horribly sweet, — but so common a 
madness can give but a tithe of the satisfac- 
tion of duty to pure and lofty ideals. " 

" I do not believe that. " The woman in her 
arose in resentment. " A life of duty must be 
empty, cold, and wrong. It was not that we 
were made for." 

"Let us talk Httle of love, senorita : it is a 
dangerous subject." 

"But it interests me, and I should like to 
understand it." 

" I will explain the subject to you fully, some 
day. I have a fancy to do that on my own 
territory, — up in the redwoods " 

" Here is Prudencia." 

A small black figure swept down the steps 
of the church. She bowed low to Estenegfa 

when he was presented, but uttered no word. 
The Indian servants brought the horses to the 
door, and they rode down the valley to Casa 
Grande. 


XVII. 

The guests of Casa Grande — there were many 
besides Alvarado and his party ; the house was 
full again — were gathered with the family on 
the corridor as Estenega, Chonita, and Pru- 
dencia dis'mounted at the extreme end of the 
court-yard. As Reinaldo saw the enemy of 
his house approach he ran down the steps, 
advanced rapidly, and bowed low before him. 

" Welcome, Senor Don Diego Estenega," he 
said, — " welcome to Casa Grande. The house 
is thine. Burn it if thou wilt. The servants 
are thine ; I myself am thy servant. This is 
the supreme moment of my life, supremer even 
than when I learned of my acquittal of the 
foul charges laid to my door by scheming and 
jealous enemies. It is long — alas ! — since an 
Estenega and an Iturbi y Moncada have met in 
the court-yard of the one or the other. Let this 
moment be the seal of peace, the death of 
feud, the unification of the North and the 
South." 

" You have the hospitality of the true Cali- 
fornian, Don Reinaldo. It gives me pleasure 
to accept it." 

" Would, then, thy pleasure could equal 
mine ! " " Curse him ! " he added to Chonita, as 
Estenega went up the steps to greet Don Guil- 
lermo and Dona Trinidad, '*I have just re- 
ceived positive information that it was he who 
kept me from distinguishing myself and my 
house in the Departmental Junta, he who cast 
me in a dungeon. It poisons my happiness to 
sleep under the same roof with him." 

"Ay!" exclaimed Chonita. '*Why canst 
thou not be more sincere, my brother ? Hos- 
pitality did not compel thee to say so much to 
thine enemy. Couldst thou not have spoken 
a few simple words like himself, and not 
blackened thy soul ? " 

"My sister! thou never spokest to me so 
harshly before. And on my marriage eve ! " 

" Forgive me, my most beloved brother. 
Thou knowest I love thee. But it grieves me 
to think that even hospitality could make thee 
false." 

When they ascended the steps, not a woman 
was to be seen ; all had followed Prudencia to 
her chamber to see the donas of the groom, 
which had arrived that day from Mexico. 
Chonita tarried long enough to see that her 


father had forgotten the family grievance in 
his revived susceptibility to Estenega, then 
went to Prudencia's room. There women, 
young and old, crowded each other, jabbering 
like monkeys. The little iron bed, the chairs 
and tables, every article of furniture, in fact, 
but the altar in the corner, displayed to ad- 
vantage exquisite materials for gowns, a mass 
of elaborate underclothing, a white lace man- 
tilla to be worn at the bridal, lace flounces fine 
and deep, crepe shawls, sashes from Rome, 
silk stockings by the dozen. On a large table 
were the more delicate and valuable gifts : a 
rosary of topaz, the cross a fine piece of carv- 
ing ; a jeweled comb ; a string of pearls ; 
diamond hoops for the ears ; a large pin painted 
with a head of Guadalupe, the patron saint 
of California ; and several fragile fans. Quite 
apart, on a little table, was the crown and 
pride of the donas, — six white cobweb-like 
smocks, embroidered, hemistitched, and de- 
shaladoed. Did any Californian bridegroom 
forget that dainty item he would be repudiated 
on his wedding-eve. 

"God of my life!" murmured Valencia, 
" he has taste as well as gold. And all to go 
on that round white doll ! " 

There was little envy among the other girls. 


Their eyes sparkled with good-nature as they 
kissed Prudencia and congratulated her. The 
older women patted the things approvingly ; 
and, between religion, a donas to satisfy an 
angel, and prospective bliss, Prudencia was 
the happiest little bride-elect in all The Califor- 
nias. 

" Never were such smocks ! " cried one of 
the girls. " Ay ! he will make a good husband. 
That sign never fails." 

"Thou must wear long, long trains now, 
my Prudencia, and be as stately as Chonita." 

" Ay I " exclaimed Prudencia. Did not every 
gown already made have a train longer than 
herself ? 

" Thou needst never wear a mended stocking 
with all these to last thee for years, " said another : 
never had silk stockings been brought to the 
Californias in sufficient plenty for the dancing 
feet of its daughters. 

'*I shall always mend my stockings," said 
Prudencia, "I myself." 

" Yes," said one of the older women, " thou 
wilt be a good wife and waste nothing." 

Valencia laid her arm about Chonita^s waist 
"Iwish to meet Don Diego Estenega," she 
said. ''Wilt thou not present him to me ? " 

"Thou art very forward," said Chonita, 


coldly. '* Canst thou not wait until he comes 
thy way ? " 

" No, my Chonita ; I wish to meet him now. 
My curiosity devours me." 

" Very well; come with me and thou shalt 
know him. — Wilt thou come too, Eustaquia? 
There are only men on the corridor." 

We found Diego and Don Guillermo talking 
politics in a corner, both deeply interested. 
Estenega rose at once. 

"Don Diego Estenega," said Chonita, "I 
would present you to the Senorita Dona Va- 
lencia Menendez, of the Rancho del Fuego." 

Estenega bowed. "Ihave heard much of 
Dona Valencia, and am delighted to meet her." 

Valencia was nonplussed for a moment ; he 
had not given her the customary salutation, 
and she could hardly murmur the customary 
reply. She merely smiled and looked so hand- 
some that she could aiford to dispense with 
words. 

"A superb type," said Estenega to me, as 
Don Guillermo claimed the beauty's attention 
for a moment. "But only a type; nothing 
distinctive." 

Nevertheless, ten minutes later, Valencia, 
with the manoeuvring of the general of many a 
battle, had guided him to a seat in the sala 
under Dona Trinidad's sleepy wing, and her eyes 
were flashing the language of Spain to his. I 
saw Chonita watch them for a moment, in 
mingled surprise and doubt, then saw a sudden 
look of fear spring to her eyes as she turned 
hastily and walked away. 

Again I shared her room, — the thirty rooms 
and many in the out-buildings were overflowing 
with guests who had come a hundred leagues 
or less, — and after we had been in bed a half- 
hour, Chonita, overcome by the insinuating 
power of that time-honored confessional, told 
me of her meeting with Estenega at the Mission. 
I made few comments, but sighed ; I knew 
him so well. " It will be strange to even seem 
to be friends with him,'' she added, — '* to hate 
him in my heart and yet delight to talk with 
him, and perhaps to regret when he leaves." 

'* Are you sure that you still hate him ? " 

She sat up in bed. The solid wooden shutters 
were closed, but over the door was a small 
square aperture, and through this a stray moon- 
beam drifted and fell on her. Her hair was 
tumbling about her shoulders, and she looked 
decidedly less statuesque than usual. 

'*Eustaquia," she said, solemnly, "I believe 
I can go to confession." 



XVIII. 

At sunrise the next morning the guests of Casa 
Grande were horsed and ready to start for the 
Mission. The valley between the house and 
the Mission was alive with the immediate
rancheros and their families, and the people of the 
town, aristocrats and populace. 

At Estenega's suggestion, I climbed with him 
to the attic of the tower, much to the detriment 
of my frock. But I made no complaint after 
Diego had removed the dusty little windows on 
both sides and I looked through the apertures 
at the charming scene. The rising sun gave 
added fire to the bright red tiles of the long 
white Mission, and threw a pink glow on its 
noble arches and towers and on the white mas- 
sive aqueduct. The bells were crashing their 
welcome to the bride. The deep valley, wooded 
and rocky, was pervaded by the soft glow of the 
awakening, but was as lively as midday. There 
were horses of every color the Lord has decreed 
that horses shall wear. The saddles upon 
them were of embossed leather or rich embroidered 
silk heavily mounted with silver. Above 
all this gorgeousness sat the caballeros and the 
donas, in velvet and silk, gold lace and Spanish, 
jewels and mantillas, and silver- weighted som- 
breros ; a confused mass of color and motion ; 
a living picture, shifting like a kaleidoscope. 
Nor was this all : brown, soberly-dressed old 
men and women in satin-padded carretas, — 
heavy ox-carts on wheels made from solid sec- 
tions of trees, and driven by a ganan seated on 
one of the animals ; the populace in cheap 
finery, some on foot, others astride old mules or 
broken-winded horses, two or three on one 
lame old hack ; all chattering, shouting, eager, 
interested, impatiently awaiting the bride and 
a week of pleasure. 

In the court-yard and plaza before it the 
guests of the house were mounted on a cap- 
on era of palominas, — horses peculiar to the 
country ; beautiful creatures, golden-bronze, 
and burnished, with luxuriant manes and tails 
which waved and shone like the sparkling silver 
of a water-fall. A number were riderless, await- 
ing the pleasure of the bridal party. One alone 
was white as a Californian fog. He lifted his 
head and pranced as if aware of his proud dis- 
tinction. The aquera and saddle which em- 
bellished his graceful beauty were of pink silk 


worked with delicate leaves in gold and silver 
thread. The stirrups, cut from blocks of wood, 
were elaborately carved. The glistening reins 
were made from the long crystal hairs of his 
mane, and linked with silver. A strip of pink 
silk, joined at the ends with a huge rosette, 
was hung from the high silver pommel of the 
saddle, depending on the left side, — a stirrup 
for my lady's foot. 

A deeper murmur, a sudden lifting of som- 
breros and waving of little hands, proclaimed 
that the bridal party had appeared, and we 
hastened down. 

Prudencia, the mantilla of the donas depending
from a comb six inches high, was attired in 
a white satin gown with a train of portentous 
length, and looked like a kitten with a long tail. 
Reinaldo was dazzling. He wore white velvet 
embroidered with gold ; his linen and lace 
were more fragile than cobwebs ; his white 
satin slippers were clasped with diamond 
buckles, the same in which his father had mar- 
ried ; his jacket was buttoned with diamonds. 
His white velvet sombrero was covered with 
plumes. Never have I seen so splendid a 
bridegroom. I saw Estenega grin ; but I main- 
tain that, whatever Reinaldo's deficiencies, he 
was a picture to be thankful for that morning. 


Dona Trinadad was quietly gowned in gray 
satin, but Don Guillermo was as picturesque 
in his way as his son. His black silk hand- 
kerchief had been knotted hurriedly about his 
head, and the four corners hung upon his 
neck. His short breeches were of red velvet, 
his jacket of blue cloth trimmed with large silver 
buttons and gold lace ; his vest was of yellow 
damask, his linen embroidered. Attached to 
his slippers were enormous silver spurs inlaid 
with gold, the rowels so long that they 
scratched more trains than one that day. 

The bridesmaids stood in a group apart, a 
large bouquet : each wore a gown of a different 
color. Valencia blazed forth in yellow, and 
flashed triumphant glances at Estenega, now 
and again one of irrepressible envy and 
resentment at Reinaldp. Chonita looked like a 
water-witch in pale green covered with lace 
that stirred with every breath of air ; her man- 
tilla was as delicate as sea-spray. About her 
was something subtle, awakened, restive, that 
I noticed for the first time. Once she inter- 
cepted one of Valencia's lavish glances, and her 
own eyes were extremely wicked and danger- 
ous for a moment. I looked at Estenega. He 
was regarding her with a fierce intensity which 
piade him oblivious for the moment of his sur? 

 

Foundings. I looked at Valencia. Thunder- 
clouds were those heavy brows, lowered to the 
lightning which sprang fro»n depths below. 
I looked again at Chonita. The pink color was 
in her marble face ; pinker were her carven 
lips. 

'God of my soul ! " I said to Estenega. 
"Go home.'' 

"My Prudencia," said Don Guillermo. He 
lifted her to the pink saddle, adjusted her foot 
in the pink ribbon, climbed up behind her, 
placed one arm about her waist, took the bridle 
in his other hand, and cantered out of the 
court- yard. Reinaldo sprang to his horse, 
lifted his mother in front of him, and followed. 
Then went the bridesmaids ; and the rest of 
us fell into line as we listed. As we rode up 
the valley, those awaiting us joined the caval- 
cade, the populace closing it, spreading out 
like a fan attached to the tail of a snake. The 
bells rang out a joyful discordant peal ; the 
long undulating line of many colors wound 
through the trees, passed the long corridor of 
the Mission, to the stone steps of the church. 

The ceremony was a long one, for com- 
munion was given the bride and groom ; and 
during the greater part of it I do not think 
Estenega removed his gaze from Chonita. I 

could not help observing her too, although I 
was deeply impressed with the solemnity of the 
occasion. Her round womanly figure had 
never appeared to greater advantage than in 
that close-fitting gown ; her hips being rather 
wide, she wore fewer gathers than was the 
fashion. Her faultless arms had a warmth in 
their whiteness ; the filmy lace of her mantilla 
caressed a throat so full and round and white 
and firm that it seemed to invite other caresses ; 
even the black pearls clung lovingly about it. 
Her graceful head was bent forward a little, 
and the soft black lashes brushed her cheeks. 
The pink flush was still in her face, like the 
first tinge of color on the chill desolation of 
dawn. 

" Is she not beautiful.? " whispered Estenega, 
eagerly. "Is not that a woman to make 
known to herself.? Think of the infinite possi- 
bilities, the sublimation of every "' 

Here I ordered him to keep quiet, reminding 
him that he was in church, a fact he had quite 
forgotten. I inferred that he remembered it 
later, for he moved restlessly more than once 
and looked longingly toward the door. 

It was over at last, and as the bride and 
groom appeared in the door of the church and 
descended the steps, a salute was fired from 


the Presidio. On the long corridor a table had 
been built from end to end and a goodly ban- 
quet provided by the padres. We took our 
seats at once, the populace gathering about a 
feast spread for them on the grass. 

Padre Jimeno, the priest who had officiated at 
the ceremony, sat at the head of the table ; the 
other priests were scattered among us, and good 
company all of them were. We were a very 
lively party. Prudencia was toasted until her 
calm important head whirled. Reinaldo made 
a speech as full of flowers as the occasion
demanded. Alvarado made one also, five sentences 
of plain well-chosen words, to which the 
bridegroom listened with scorn. Now and 
again a girl swept the strings of a guitar or a 
caballero sang. The delighted shrieks of the 
people came over to us ; at regular intervals 
cannons were fired. 

Estenega found himself seated between Cho- 
nita and Valencia. I was opposite, and begin- 
ning to feel profoundly fascinated by this drama 
developing before my eyes. I saw that he was 
amused by the situation and not in the least 
disconcerted. Valencia was nervous and eager. 
Chonita, whose pride never failed her, had 
drawn herself up and looked coldly indif- 
ferent. 



"Senor,' murmured Valencia, "thou wilt 
tarry with us long, no ? We have much to 
show thee in Santa Barbara, and on our ran- 
chos." 

"I fear that I can stay but a week, senorita. 
I must return to Los Angeles. " 

" Would nothing tempt thee to stay, Don 
Diego ? " 

He looked into her rich Southern face and 
approved of it : when had he ever failed to 
approve of a pretty woman ? ' ' Thine eyes, 
senorita, would tempt a man to forget more 
than duty." 

"And thou wilt stay?" 

"When I leave Santa Barbara what I take 
of myself will not be worth leaving." 

" Ay ! and what thou leavest thou never 
shalt have again. " 

"There is my hope of heaven, senorita." 

He turned from this glittering conversation 
to Chonita. 

"You are a little tired," he said, in a low 
voice. " Your color has gone, and the shadows 
are coming about your eyes." 

The suspicion was borne home to her that 
he must have observed her closely to detect 
those shades of difference which no one else 
had noted 
 

"A little, sefior. I went to bed late and 
rose early. Such times as these tax the endu- 
rance. But after a siesta I shall be refreshed." 

" You look strong and very healthy." 

"Ay, but I am ! I am not delicate at all. 
I can ride all day, and swim — which few of 
our women do. I even like to walk ; and I 
can dance every night for a week. Only, this 
is an unusual time." 

Her supple elastic figure and healthy white- 
ness of skin betokened endurance and vitality, 
and he looked at her with pleasure. "Yes, 
you are strong," he said. ''You look as if you 
would last, — as if you never would grow brown 
nor stout." 

" What difference, if the next generation be 
beautiful ? " she said, lightly. " Look at Don 
Juan de la Borrasca. See him gaze upon Pan- 
chita Lopez, who is just sixteen. What does 
he care that the women of his day are coffee- 
colored and stringy or fat ? You will care as 
little when you too are brown and dried up, 
afraid to eat dulces, and each month seeking a 
new parting for your hair. " 

' ' You are a hopeful seer ! But you — are you 
resigned to the time when even the withered 
old beau will not look at you, — you who are 
the loveliest woman in the Californias ? " 


It was the first compliment he had paid her, 
and she looked up with a swift blush, then low- 
ered her eyes again. " With truth, I never im- 
agine myself except as I am iiow ; but I should 
have always my books, and no husband to 
teach me that there were other women more 
fair." 

" And books will suffice, then ? " 

"Sure." She said it a little wistfully. Then 
she added, abruptly, " I shall go to confession 
this week." 

^'Ah!" 

"Yes ; for although I hate you still — that is, 
I do not like you — I have forgiven you. I believe
you to be kind and generous, although 
the enemy of my brother ; that if you did op- 
pose him and cast him into prison, you did so 
with a loyal motive ; you cannot help making 
mistakes, for you are but human. And I do 
not forget that if it were not for you he would 
not be a bridegroom to-day. Also, you are 
not responsible for being an Estenega ; so, 
although I do not forgive the blood in you, — how 
could I, and be worthy to bear the name of 
Iturbi y Moncada ? — I forgive you, yourself, 
for being what you cannot help, and for what 
you have unwittingly and mistakenly done. 
Do you understand ? " 



" I understand. Your subtleties are magnifi- 
cent. " 

''You must not laugh at me. Tell me, how 
do you like my friend Valencia .? " 

" Well enough. I want to hear more about 
your confession. You fall back into the bosom 
of your Church with joy, I suppose ? " 

''Ay!" 

"And you would never disobey one of her 
mandates ? " 

"Holy God! no." 

"Why?" 

" Why ? Because I am a Catholic." 

"That is not what I asked you. Why are 
you a Catholic ? if I must make myself more 
plain. Why are you afraid to disobey ? Why 
do you cling to the Church with your back 
braced against your intelligence ? It is hope 
of future reward, I suppose, — or fear ? " 

"Sure. I want to go to the heaven of the 
good Catholic. " 

"Do not waste this life, particularly the 
youth of it, preparing for a legendary hereafter. 
Granting, for the sake of argument, that this 
existence is supplemented by another : you 
have no knowledge of what elements you will 
be composed when you lay aside your mortal 
part to enter there. Your power of enjoyment 




may be very thin indeed, like the music of a 
band without brass ; the sort of happiness one 
can imagine a human being to experience out 
of whose anatomy the nervous system has by 
some surgical triumph been removed, and in 
whom love of the arts alone exists, abnormally 
cultivated. But one thing we of earth do know ; 
you do not, but I will tell you ; we have a 
slight capacity for happiness and a large 
capacity for enjoyment. There is not much in life, 
God knows, but there is something. One can 
get a reasonable amount out of it with due 
exercise of philosophy. Of that we are sure. 
Of what comes after we are absolutely unsure." 

She had endeavored to interrupt him once 
or twice, and did so now, her eyes flashing. 
" Are you an atheist t " she demanded, ab- 
ruptly. ''Are you not a Catholic ? " 

"I am neither an atheist nor a Catholic. 
The question of religion has no interest for me 
whatever. I wish it had none for you." 

She looked at him sternly. For a moment I 
thought the Doomswoman would annihilate 
the renegade. But her face softened suddenly. 
" I will pray for you, " she said, and turned to 
the man at her right. 

Estenega's face turned the chalky hue I al- 
ways dreaded, and he bent his lips to her ear. 




" Pray for me many times a day ; and at other 
times recall what I said about the relative 
value of possible and improbable heavens. 
You are a woman who thinks. " 

'*Don Diego," exclaimed Valencia, unable 
to control her impatience longer, and turning 
sharply from the caballero who was talking to 
her in a fiery undertone, " thou hast not spoken 
to me for ten minutes. " 

"For ten hours, senorita. Thou hast treated 
me with the scorn and indifference of one 
weary of homage. " 

She blushed with gratification. " It is thou 
who hast forgotten me. " 

" Would that I could!" 

" Dost thou wish to?" 

'*When I am away from thee, or thou talk- 
est to other men, — sure." 

" It is thy fault if I talk to other men." 

" You make me feel the Good Samaritan." 

'* But I care not to talk to them." 

'*Thy heart is a comb of honey, senorita. 
On my knees I accept the little morsel the 
queen bee — thy swift messenger — brings me. 
Truly, never was sweet so sweetly sweet. " 

"It is thou who hast the honey on thy 
tongue, although I fear there may be a stone 
in thy heart." 

 

" Ah ! Why ? No stone could sit so h'ghtly 
in my breast as my heart when those red lips 
smile to me." 

Chonita listened to this conversation with 
mingled amazement and anger. She did not 
doubt Estenega's sincerity to herself; neither 
did Valencia appear to doubt him. But his 
present levity was manifest to her. Why 
should he care to talk so to another woman ? 
How strange were men ! She gave up the 
problem. 

After the long banquet concluded, the caval- 
cade formed once more, and we returned to 
the town. Prudencia rode her white horse alone* 
this time, her husband beside her. Leading the 
cavalcade was the Presidio band. Its members 
wore red jackets trimmed with yellow cord, 
Turkish trousers of white wool, and red Polish 
caps. With their music mingled the regular 
detonations of the Presidio cannon. After we 
had wound the length of the valley we made a 
progress through the town for the benefit of 
the populace, who ran to the corridors to watch 
us, and shouted with delight. But the sun was 
hot, and we were all glad to be between the 
thick adobe walls once more. 

We took a long siesta that day, but hours 
before dark the populace was crowded in the 

court-yard under the booth which had been 
erected during the afternoon. After the early 
supper the guests of Casa Grande, and our 
neighbors of the town, filled the sala, the large 
bare rooms adjoining, and the corridors. The 
old people of both degrees seated themselves 
in rows against the wall, the fiddles scraped, 
the guitars twanged, the flutes cooed, and the 
dancing began. * 

In the court-yard a small space was cleared, 
and changing couples danced El Jarabe and 
La Jota, — two stately jigs, — whilst the spec- 
tators applauded with wild and impartial en- 
thusiasm, and Don Guillermo from the corridor 
threw silver coins at the dancers' feet. Now 
and again a pretty girl would dance alone, her 
gay skirt lifted with the tips of her fingers, her 
eyes fixed upon the ground. A man would 
approach from behind and place his hat on her 
head. Perhaps she would toss it saucily aside, 
perhaps let it rest on her coquettish braids, — a 
token that its owner was her accepted gallant 
for the evening. 

