bark of the gum-tree, held on by ties of bullock hide. For the most part
they contained but one room each. One, however, was large and, the boys
afterward learned, was occupied by the captain of the bushrangers.
Another served as a stable for the horses of the party.
This Harry judged to be the home of the outlaws, for no sooner had they
come in sight of it than they leaped from their horses and led them up
to the stable, relieving them of their saddles. Then the bushrangers sat
down on the ground, and lounged at their ease. The attendants forthwith
made preparations for a meal, appropriating the stores which had just
been taken from Obed and the boys. The captives were not sorry that
there was a prospect of a meal, for by this time they were hungry. They
followed the example of their companions, and threw themselves down on
the ground. Next to them was a young bushranger, apparently about
twenty-two years of age, who had a pleasant face, indicative of good
humor.
"How do you like our home?" he asked, turning to Harry with a smile.
"It is a pleasant place," answered Harry.
"How would you like to live here?"
"I don't think I should like it," Harry replied honestly.
"And why not? Is it not better than to be pent up in a city? Here we
breathe the pure air of the woods; we listen to the songs of the birds;
we are not chained to the desk or confined from morning till night in a
close office."
"That is true, but are there not some things you do not like about it?"
asked Harry significantly.
"Such as what?"
"Is it not better to earn your living, even if you are chained to a
desk, than to get it as you do?"
Harry felt that he was rather bold in asking this question, but he was
reassured by the pleasant face of the young outlaw.
"Well," admitted the latter, "there are some objections to our life."
"It would not do for all to get their living as you do."
"That is true. Some must work, in order that others may relieve them of
a portion of their property."
"Are you not afraid of being interfered with?"
"By the mounted police?"
"Yes."
"We are strong enough to overcome them," said the bushranger
carelessly.
"What is the name of your captain?" asked Harry.
"Stockton. No doubt you heard of him in Melbourne."
Harry shook his head.
The outlaw seemed surprised. "I thought everybody in Australia had heard
of Ben Stockton," he said. "He has a great name," he added with evident
pride. "He is as strong as a lion, fears nothing, and his name is
associated with some of the most daring robberies that have ever taken
place in this country."
"And still he is free," said Harry suggestively.
"The authorities are afraid of him. They have offered a reward for his
capture, but it doesn't trouble him. He only laughs at it."
They were far enough away from the rest of the party to carry on their
conversation unheard--otherwise, neither Harry nor his informant would
have ventured to speak with so much freedom. At this eulogium, however,
Harry scanned, with some curiosity, the face and figure of the famous
bushranger, who was sitting about three rods distant. He was a man of
large frame, powerfully built, with hair and beard black as night, and
keen, penetrating eyes that seemed to look through those upon whom they
were fixed. He had about him an air of command and conscious authority,
so that the merest stranger could not mistake his office. About his
mouth there was something which indicated sternness and cruelty. He was
a man to inspire fear, and Harry, after a steady examination, felt no
surprise at the man's reputation.
"How long has he been captain?" asked Harry.
"Ever since I joined the band," answered the young man. "I don't know
how much longer."
"How long have you been a member of the band?"
"Five years."
"You must have been a mere boy when you joined."
"I was seventeen. I am twenty-two now."
"I should like to ask you a question, but you may not like to answer
it."
"Go on! If I don't care to answer, I will tell you so."
"What induced you to join the bushrangers?"
"I will tell you," said the young man, showing neither offence nor
reluctance. "I was employed in Melbourne in a business establishment.
One of my fellow-clerks stole some money, and, to screen himself,
managed to implicate me by concealing a part of the stolen money in my
coat pocket. I knew no way to prove my innocence, and my employer was
not a man to show pity, so I escaped from Melbourne and took refuge in
the bush. There I fell in with Captain Stockton, who offered me a place
in his band. I accepted, and here I am."
"But for the act of your fellow clerk you would have been an honest
business man today, then?"
"Very likely."
"What a pity!" said Harry regretfully, for he was much attracted by the
open face and pleasant manners of the young man.
"So I thought at first, but I became used to it. After a while I grew to
like the free life of the bush."
"I don't call it free. You can't go back to Melbourne for fear of
arrest."
"Oh, yes, I have been there several times," said the young man
carelessly.
"How did you manage it?" asked Harry, puzzled.
"I disguised myself. Sometimes the captain sends me on special
business."
"Like Fletcher?" asked Harry quickly.
"No; I shouldn't like that work. It suits him, however."
"I never should have taken you for a bushranger. You look too honest."
The other laughed.
"I think I was meant to be an honest man," he said. "That is, I am
better suited to it. But fate ordained otherwise."
"Fate?"
"Yes; I believe that everything that happens to us is fated, and could
not have been otherwise."
"You think, then, that you were fated to be a bushranger?"
"I am sure of it."
"That, then, accounts for it not troubling you."
"You are right. We can't kick against fate, you know."
"I shouldn't like to believe as you do," said Harry earnestly.
"You'll come to believe it sooner or later," said the outlaw, with an
air of conviction.
"Then what is the use of trying to lead a good and honorable life?"
"That's just what I say. There isn't any use."
Harry had never before met anyone holding such views of fate. He was
interested, but repelled. He felt that he could not and would not accept
any such idea, and he said so.
"You'll change your mind after you become one of us," said his
companion.
"After what?" ejaculated Harry.
"After you become one of us."
"But that will never be. How can you think such a thing!"
"Because I know it is to be. Why do you think the captain brought you
here? He had your money, and couldn't get any more out of you."
"Do you really mean what you say?" asked Harry, his heart filled with a
sickening apprehension that this might be true.
"Of course I do. The captain likes young people. You two boys are smart
and bright, and he is going to make you members of the band."
"He can't! I'll die first!" exclaimed Harry with suppressed energy.
"You will see. But hush! don't speak so loud. For my part I shall be
very glad to have you among us. You will be companions for me. You are
only about a year younger than I was when I joined."
At this moment their companion was called away, and Harry, bending
toward Jack, whispered in his ear: "I am afraid he is right about the
captain's intentions. We must try to escape as soon as there is any
chance."
"I'm with you," Jack whispered back.
CHAPTER XIII.
A TRIAL AND ITS TRAGIC FINALE.
Harry was very much disturbed by the communication of his new
acquaintance, whose name he ascertained to be Wyman. It was not very
pleasant, of course, to be a prisoner, but this he could have borne,
being confident, sooner or later, of escaping. But to be forced to join
these lawless men, and render himself, like them, an outlaw and outcast
from respectable society, seemed terrible. He determined that, come what
would, he would preserve his integrity and his honest name. He might be
ill-treated, but they could not force him to become a bushranger. He
talked the matter over with Jack, and the young sailor agreed with him.
Presently the meal was ready, and the two boys were served with the
rest. Notwithstanding their precarious position, each ate heartily It
takes a good deal to spoil the appetite of a growing boy.
After eating, the captain, clearing his throat, addressed the band:
"My men," he said, "we have refreshed ourselves by eating, and now a
less pleasant scene awaits us. I am your captain, and to me you have
sworn implicit obedience. Is it not so?"
"Yes, yes!" answered the bushrangers.
"It is a necessity of our position. We have withdrawn from the world,
and we lead a free, untrammelled life in the bush. We scorn the laws
that the colonists have made, and prefer to govern ourselves. Is this
so?"
There was a hoarse murmur of assent.
"As a consequence," the captain proceeded, "we are hunted like wild
beasts. Our enemies have laid plots to ensnare us, but thus far they
have not succeeded. While we stand together we are safe."
Again there were signs of assent and approval as Captain Stockton
paused.
"But one thing is essential. There must be no traitor, no malcontents
among us. A large reward has been offered for my apprehension--five
thousand pounds! It shows how much they are afraid of us," and he raised
his head with unconscious pride. "Against open enemies we can hold our
own, but not against the secret foe who sits beside us as a friend, and
eats and drinks with us. When such a one is found, what shall be his
fate?"
He paused for a reply, and it came from the lips of all in one stern
word--"Death!"
"I am answered," said the captain. "The sentence has been pronounced,
not by my lips but by your own."
Here he turned to two attendants, who were stationed near at hand.
"Bring forth the traitor," he said.
The two men disappeared within one of the huts, and immediately
reappeared, leading behind them a third, with his hands tied behind him.
His face was covered by a black cloth, which effectually screened his
features from the general observation. All eyes were turned on the
unhappy man. Harry and Jack regarded the scene with painful interest.
They guessed what was coming.
"Complete your task!" said the captain with a wave of his hand.
The two guards set the offender with his back to a tree, and producing a
rope, quickly passed it round his waist and tied him securely, with his
screened face toward the band.
"Wretch!" said the captain in a terrible voice, "you thought to betray
us, and expose us to punishment and death, but the doom which you were
ready to bring upon us has recoiled upon yourself. You would have sold
your captain and comrades for gold. They have pronounced your doom, and
it is Death! Have you anything to say?"
The victim did not speak, but slowly inclined his head in hopeless
submission to his fate.
"You have nothing to say for yourself. Is there anyone to speak for
you?"
One of the bushrangers sprang forward impetuously. "Yes, captain, I will
speak for him."
Captain Stockton frowned fiercely, but uttered one word, "Speak!"
The daring outlaw, who had stepped forward a little from the line,
commenced: "This man is my brother. We were nursed by the same mother,
we played together by the same fireside, we grew into manhood together,
and together we joined this band of brothers."
He paused a moment, and the captain said briefly, "Well?"
"Now," continued the brother, "you would condemn him to a shameful
death, which he does not deserve."
"What!" exclaimed the captain, his face becoming pale with anger; "what
do you dare to say? Do you question the justice of our sentence? Would
you excuse a traitor?"
"He is no traitor!" said the brother boldly.
"Was he not caught attempting to escape? Answer me instantly."
"Yes, but he had no intention of betraying any of us."
"What then was his object?" demanded Captain Stockton sternly.
"He meant to leave you. He had become tired of the life of a bushranger.
He wished to return to the paths of honesty, and live by labor at some
respectable trade."
"And why was this? Why, after so many years, had he become tired of our
noble independence?"
"In one of his missions, undertaken in the interest of the fraternity,
he had made the acquaintance of a young girl, modest and attractive. He
wished to marry her, but as a bushranger he knew this was impossible.
Therefore, he resolved to leave our band, and enter upon a new life. He
would never have uttered a word to imperil the safety of his captain or
his comrades."
"And you expect us to believe this?" said the captain with a sneer.
"I do. I swear it is true."
"And what do you expect me to do, Robert Graham?"
"To consider his temptations, and to show mercy upon him."
"Perhaps also you expect me to release him, and bid him go his way to
the maiden who is waiting for him."
"It would be a generous act."
"But I am not so generous," said the captain. "Your plea is ingenious,
but I put no faith in it. It is utterly improbable. You and your brother
have been with us for seven years. You have become accustomed to our
ways. He was faithful and loyal till the love of gold made him a
traitor. What he sought was blood money."
"No, a thousand times, no!" exclaimed the brother earnestly.
"I say it is so," said Captain Stockton harshly. "It is plain to every
member of the band. Yet, because you have never transgressed, I have
been willing to listen to you, remembering that he is your brother."
"Spare his life at least; even if you are convinced that he is guilty.
He has not lived his life half out. Be merciful!"
"I cannot," answered the captain in an inflexible tone. "If I yielded to
such a weakness all discipline would be at an end. If treachery is to be
pardoned, who knows which one among you might be the next to imitate the
example of this man. No! justice is stern, and punishment must be
inflicted. The guilty must be punished though the heavens fall. Men,
stand aside!"
This was addressed to the two men who stood, one on each side of the
condemned bushranger.
They obeyed the command of their chief and he, raising his revolver,
pointed it at the breast of the unhappy offender.
There was a moment of intense excitement. Harry and Jack were
spellbound. Their faces were pale, and wore an expression of horror.
They were about to see a human life taken. They could hardly forbear
uttering a groan.
The silence was broken by a sharp, explosive sound. The deadly weapon
had done its work; but it was not the captive who had received the
winged messenger of death. It was the captain himself who staggered and
with one convulsive movement fell prone to the earth.
CHAPTER XIV.
ELECTION OF A NEW CAPTAIN.
The excitement among the bushrangers was intense. Simultaneously they
started forward, and two of them, bending over, lifted the body of their
prostrate leader. But he was already dead. The bullet had reached his
heart, and probably he never knew what hurt him.
Robert Graham, the man who had caused his death, stood erect and
unflinching.
He threw his weapon upon the ground, folded his arms, and said, in a
tone devoid of fear: "Comrades, do with me what you will. I could not
help doing what I did. It was either my brother's life or his. Sandy was
innocent of the crime charged against him. He had no thought of
treachery, though he did mean to leave your ranks. Is there anyone among
you that would stand by and see his brother murdered before his eyes
when he had the means of preventing it?"
The bushrangers looked at each other in doubt. They had at first
accepted the captain's statement that Sandy Graham was a traitor. His
brother's explanation of his attempted desertion put a new face on the
matter. Then, again, there was not one among them that had not tired of
their despotic leader. Alive, he had impressed them with fear, and held
them in strict subordination, but he was far from popular, and had no
real friend among them. So, though they were startled and shocked, there
was no one to shed a tear over the dead. It was a moment of doubt when a
leader was wanted.
"Well," said Robert Graham, after a pause, "what are you going to do
with me? I wait your pleasure."
"He ought to be served as he served the captain," said Fletcher, who
disliked Graham, and had always been a toady to Captain Stockton.
"I say no," rejoined Rupert Ring, a man of medium height, but of great
muscular development. "It was a terrible deed, but had my brother--I
have a brother in England, whom I have not seen for fifteen years--been
in Sandy Graham's shoes, I would have done the same."
There was a half murmur, which seemed like approval.
"And after all," continued Ring, "though Sandy Graham was in fault, he
is not the first man that has been beguiled by a fair face."
"No, no!" was heard from several of the bushrangers.
"I don't wish to speak ill of the dead, but he drew the reins too tight
at times. He forgot that we have rights."
Again there was a murmur of assent. It was evident that he was carrying
his comrades with him.
"I move, therefore, that we pass over Robert Graham's deed as one to
which he was impelled by brotherly affection, and that we restore Sandy
Graham to his place in our ranks, on condition that he does not repeat
the offence. Those who agree with me, hold up their right hands."
All hands were raised except that of Fletcher.
"Release the prisoner," said Ring, turning to the two attendants.
Instantly the rope was cut, the dark cloth was removed, and Sandy
Graham, a tall, athletic, good-looking fellow, stepped forth, his face
pale from the terrible strain to which he had been subjected.
"Comrades, brothers," he said, in a voice indicating deep emotion, "I
thank you for giving me back my life. It shall be devoted to your
service."
The first to press forward, and grasp his hand convulsively was his
brother, Robert Graham.
"Robert," said Sandy, "but for your brave act I should have been lying
dead instead of him," and he pointed, with a shudder, to the dead
captain.
"For your sake, Sandy," said Robert solemnly, "I have shed human blood.
To save your life, I have become a murderer."
"No, Robert, you cannot be called that any more than if you had shed
blood in self-defence."
Their conversation was interrupted by Rupert Ring.
"Comrades," he said, "the captain is dead. We can do nothing without a
leader. We should appoint one at once."
Here Fletcher pushed forward.
"I am the oldest in service among you," he said. "I was the trusted
friend of Captain Stockton. I submit that I have the best claim to be
your leader."
But among bushrangers, as in other communities, the man who is the most
anxious to secure office is very apt to be left in the lurch. Now, it
happened that Fletcher was by no means a favorite in the band. He was
sly and sneaking in his methods, currying favor with the captain, even
at the expense of manliness and self-respect, and there were serious
doubts as to his courage. If he had been wiser, he would not have made a
boast of his standing with the late leader, for the men were heartily
tired of his tyranny, and resolved to elect someone in his place who
bore no similarity to him.
Rupert Ring smiled slightly as he heard Fletcher's modest claim.
"Comrades," he said, "you have heard Fletcher's appeal. It is true that
he is the oldest in service among you. It is for you to consider whether
that entitles him to the post of leader. Those of you who are in favor
of Dick Fletcher as your leader will signify it by raising your right
hands."
Fletcher's eye wandered anxiously around the circle. To his chagrin not
a single hand was raised save his own. There was a cheer of derision
which brought an angry flush to his cheek.
Then a clear voice was heard. It was that of the young man, Wyman, whose
conversation with the two boys has already been recorded.
"I nominate Rupert Ring for our leader," he said.
There was a chorus of approval, which emboldened Wyman to add: "As he
can't very well put the question on his own nomination, I will do so.
Those of you who want Ring for your captain, please hold up your right
hands." All hands were raised except that of Fletcher.
"That settles it," said Wyman, who was unversed in parliamentary
language. "I call for three cheers for Captain Ring!"
The woods echoed to the lusty cheers of the bushrangers. It was evident,
from the general expression of satisfaction, that the choice was a
popular one.
"Comrades," said the new captain modestly, "I did not look for this
promotion, as you may have thought from my taking the lead just now, but
I saw that it was necessary for somebody to act. I don't know whether
you have made a wise choice or not, but I will do my best to make you
think so. Since I am your captain, it is my duty first to see that
proper honor is paid to the remains of your late captain, whom sudden
death has overtaken. You two lift the body and carry it into yonder
cabin."
The two attendants did so.
"Prepare a coffin, and at daybreak we will commit him to the earth.
Whatever else may be said of him, he was a brave man, and knew not
fear."
"That is true," said Robert Graham in a low voice.
"As to his faults, those we have no further concern with. All of us have
faults and no doubt grave ones."
Fletcher, till now, had sulked in silence. He was terribly disappointed
that he had been passed over and Rupert Ring promoted to the place of
chief, but since it was so he felt that it was politic to stand well
with the new administration.
"Captain Ring," he said, extending his hand, "let me be the first to
congratulate you on your election as our captain."
Ring smiled slightly. He had never liked Fletcher.
"I accept your congratulations, Fletcher," he said, "and condole with
you on your own disappointment. We can't all be leaders."
"I hope to enjoy your favor, as I did that of Captain Stockton,"
continued Fletcher smoothly.
"That will depend on yourself," said Ring shortly.
"I would like to suggest that the two boys"--here Fletcher turned in the
direction where Harry and Jack had been standing, and ejaculated in
dismay, "I don't see them. What has become of them?"
"They have taken advantage of the excitement and confusion to run away,
I fancy," said the new captain quietly.
This was quite true. Just after the fatal shot had been fired, and the
attention of all had been taken up by the tragedy, Harry had whispered
to Jack, "Now's our time to escape, Jack. Follow me!"
"I'm with you," responded Jack promptly, and no one noticed the two as
they vanished among the trees.
"Shall I go after them, Captain Ring?" asked Fletcher in excitement.
"I'll take another man, and scour the woods for them."
"It is not necessary," said Ring indifferently. "Let them go! They would
only be in our way."
"But," protested Fletcher, "Captain Stockton meant to take them into the
band. They are bright and smart boys, and would grow up into useful
members."
"Heaven forbid!" said Ring earnestly. "Our lives are spoiled already,
and we have no chance but to continue. Leave them to grow up innocent."
"This is strange talk for a captain of bushrangers," said Fletcher,
disappointed.
"Remember that I am your captain," retorted Ring sharply, "and don't
attempt to interfere with me! Go, I would be alone."
Fletcher slunk away, mortified and disappointed. It was well for the two
boys that he had not been elected captain.
CHAPTER XV.
LOST IN THE WOODS.
Yes, the two boys had escaped. When the excitement produced by the fatal
shot was at its height, it had flashed upon Harry like an inspiration
that then, if ever, was the time to escape. He knew that it would be at
the risk of their lives, and but for one consideration it is doubtful if
he would have been willing to incur the peril of the attempt. But he
felt that to stay was to run a risk as great that of being compelled to
join the ranks of the bushrangers, and of that he had a great dread.
The boys never stopped running till they had set half a mile between
them and the camp of the bushrangers. Jack was the first to show
distress.
"Hold on, Harry," he said, panting, "I am all out of breath."
Harry instantly slackened his speed.
"Look back, Jack," he said anxiously; "see if you can discover anyone
pursuing us."
"I see no one," answered Jack after a prolonged look.
"They have other things to think of," said Harry. "The murder of their
captain has put all thoughts of us out of their heads. When the
excitement has subsided a little, I am afraid they will look for us. How
terrible it was!" he added with a shudder.
"Yes," returned Jack. "I saw that man--the captive's brother--lift his
weapon and point it at the captain. Almost before I could speak it was
discharged and the captain fell. He must have been killed instantly."
"I little thought what lay before me when I left home," said Harry.
"I wish I knew what lies before us now," said Jack.
"I am afraid our prospects are rather dark. We must take care at any
rate not to fall again into the hands of the bushrangers. I am most
afraid of that man Fletcher. If he could have his way, he would show us
no mercy."
"Let us go on again," said Jack. "I only stopped to catch my breath."
"You are right, Jack. The farther we get away from the bushrangers the
better."
Before them was a densely wooded hill. The way had become difficult with
the scrub bushes that filled up the distance between the trees. The
latter were no longer the same which they had hitherto encountered, the
tall and stately eucalyptus, but were smaller and wider branched.
"We can't make our way here, Harry," said Jack despondently.
"Oh, yes, we can. Besides, don't you see, the rougher and more difficult
the way, the less are we likely to be followed. I am willing to go
through a good deal to save capture."
"So am I," answered Jack. "You are always right. Push ahead, and I'll
follow."
For three or four hours the boys kept on their way. They surmounted the
hill, and found a clearer country. Finally, turning to the right they
came upon an open tract. By this time it was growing dark, and the boys
were feeling both fatigued and hungry.
"I think we can rest now, Jack," said Harry.
With a sigh of relief Jack threw himself on the ground.
"This is worse than any work I did on shipboard," he said.
Harry smiled.
"I don't think it is likely to cure you of your love for the sea, Jack,"
he said. "Though I haven't your fondness for sea life, I confess I would
rather be on the deck of a good stanch ship than here."
"Harry," said Jack anxiously, "when do you think we shall find something
to eat? I am terribly hungry."
"So am I, Jack. It's the hard walk that has increased our appetite."
"I have often thought I might be afloat in an open boat without anything
to eat, but I never expected to be caught in such a pickle on land."
"A good many things have happened to us to-day that we didn't expect,"
said Harry. "Do you know, Jack, it seems the longest day I ever spent?"
"I can say the same."
"This morning we set out with Obed, free from care. We have been
captured by bushrangers, taken to their camp, seen the murder of their
leader, escaped, and after walking for miles through a rough wilderness
here we are, tired out and in danger of starvation."
"Don't say any more, Harry," said Jack faintly. "I can realize it
without your description."
"I wish Obed were with us," said Harry, after a pause. "Perhaps he could
think of some way out of our trouble. He is an experienced man, and is
used to roughing it. As for me, I feel helpless."
"Do you think there is likely to be any house near at hand?"
"It doesn't look like it," said Harry, shaking his head.
"I don't think I should mind much being caught and carried back by the
bushrangers, if they would give me a good supper," said Jack ruefully.
"Poor Jack!" said Harry compassionately; "I do believe you are suffering
for food."
"I told you so, Harry."
"My appetite no doubt will come later. At present I am not very
uncomfortable. Well, Jack, there is only one thing to do. We must
explore further and see if we can find any trace of a human habitation.
Suppose you go to yonder knoll, and climb the tree at the top. Then use
your eyes for all they are worth. They are better than mine, at any
rate, for you are accustomed to use them at sea. All sailors, I have
heard, are farsighted."
Jack was ready to obey Harry, feeling much more confidence in his
judgment and discretion than in his own. He accordingly followed his
advice, and with a sailor's agility mounted the tree. Then shading his
eyes with his hand, he looked earnestly, first in one direction, then in
another.
"Well, Jack?" inquired Harry anxiously, for he, too, appreciated the
gravity of their situation.
There was a pause; then Jack called out joyfully: "I see a light: yes, I
am sure I see a light."
"Whereaway?"
"Straight ahead, or a little to the left."
"Take a good look, Jack, so as to be sure of your bearings. Then we will
make our way toward it with the best speed we can muster."
Jack scrambled down from the tree with his face actually cheerful. The
prospect of a meal had put new life into him.
"Follow me!" he said. "I don't think it can be more than a mile away."
CHAPTER XVI.
THE SHEPHERD'S HUT.
Not feeling their fatigue so much now that they were buoyed up by the
hope of shelter and food, the two boys plodded on. The way was at times
difficult, and there was no glimpse of the light which Jack had seen
from the tree-top.
"Do you think you are on the right track, Jack?" asked Harry anxiously.
"Yes, I feel sure of it," answered the young sailor.
"It would be very unlucky if we had wandered from the right direction."
"Yes, I should feel like lying down and giving up, but I am sure I am
right."
Events proved that Jack was right. They came to an open place, from
which they could distinctly see the light gleaming from a dwelling only
forty rods away.
"There, what did I tell you?" demanded Jack triumphantly.
"You are right, Jack. I am glad enough to admit it. Now the question is,
will the people who occupy the house let us in?"
"They can't be so inhuman as to refuse. Pass on, Harry."
They were not long in reaching the hut. It was one of those slab huts
which are used by shepherds. They are lonely enough, the stations being
in some instances twenty miles from the nearest dwelling. This was a
single dwelling, the home of one of the out keepers. The chief stations
are usually an aggregation of dwellings. In the yard was a pile of wood
for fuel. Close at hand was a paddock surrounded by a rail fence, over
which hung a number of sheepskins. All these evidences of habitation
cheered the hearts of the lonely boys.
Harry went up to the door and knocked.
His knock appeared to create some commotion inside. A voice was heard,
and then there was audible the barking of a dog, but no one came to the
door.
"Suppose you knock again, Harry," said Jack.
"They must have heard my first knock. Perhaps they don't want to let us
in."
However, Harry knocked again.
Again the dog inside barked, this time with fierce emphasis.
"Is there no one inside but the dog?" thought Harry anxiously. Having no
weapon with him, he took a piece of a broken rail, so that in case of
necessity he might have a means of defence.
He was about to venture on a third knock when a tremulous voice, which
the boys at once recognized as that of a girl, was heard from within.
"Who are you? What do you want?"
"We are two boys who have lost our way, and are almost starved,"
answered Harry. "For Heaven's sake let us in, and give us something to
eat."
There was a pause, the girl being evidently undecided.
"Are there only two of you?" she asked.
"Only two."
"You are sure there is no one with you?"
"No one."
"And you are boys?"
"Yes."
"What brings you here--in this lonely place, at this hour?"
"We are on our way to the gold-fields of Bendigo."
"But this is off the road."
"I know it. The fact is, we were captured by the bushrangers, and have
made our escape. We plunged into the woods, thinking we were less likely
to be caught and carried back."
There was a change in the girl's tone as she said: "Is this really true?
You are not bushrangers yourselves?"
"No, I hope not," answered Harry with a boyish laugh.
This laugh, which sounded natural and genuine, evidently inspired the
girl with confidence.
"If I let you in, will you promise to do no mischief?" she asked.
"You shall have no cause to regret admitting us, we promise that."
There was still a little pause of indecision, and then a bolt was drawn,
and the door opened. The two boys saw in the doorway a pleasant-faced
girl of fourteen, whose eyes fell upon them not without a shade of
anxiety. But when she saw that the two visitors were boys not much older
than herself, there was a look of relief, and she said: "I will trust
you. Come in if you like. Hush, Bruno!"
This was addressed to a large shepherd dog that stood beside her, eying
them suspiciously.
A weight seemed lifted from the hearts of the two boys, as they caught
sight of the comfortable interior of the hut. On the one side of the
room was a large open fireplace, on which a good fire was burning. The
flickering flames helped illumine the apartment, and diffused a
home-like air, which was most grateful to the two tired wanderers.
"You are very kind to admit us," said Harry. "You have no idea how great
a favor it is."
"I would have let you in before, but I thought you might be
bushrangers," said the girl.
"We don't look much like bushrangers, do we?" said Harry with a smile.
The girl smiled too. She was evidently pleased with the appearance of
her two visitors.
"No; if I had seen you, I should have known better than to think you
belonged to their band. Come in and sit down by the fire."
"Thank you."
Harry and Jack seated themselves on a settle near the fire, and the girl
continued to eye them curiously.
"I suppose you are boys," she said.
"We don't call ourselves men yet," answered Harry.
"I never saw a boy before," was the unexpected remark of their young
hostess.
"WHAT!" ejaculated the two boys in concert.
"I scarcely ever saw anybody," explained the girl. "My father and I live
here alone, and have lived here for years. He has a flock of fifteen
hundred sheep to watch and tend. Sometimes another shepherd calls here,
and we had a visit from the bushrangers last year."
"It must be very lonely for you," said Harry in a sympathetic tone.
"Yes, it is; but I am used to it. Father is away all day, but he leaves
Bruno to keep me company."
"Come here, Bruno!" said Jack in a coaxing tone.
Bruno eyed Jack dubiously, and finally walked up to him deliberately,
and allowed himself to be stroked.
"Bruno doesn't think we are bushrangers," said Jack, smiling.
"He did at first, though," the girl replied with an answering smile.
"Have you been walking all day?"
"Yes; the greater part of the day."
"Then you must be hungry."
"We are almost starved!" said Harry tragically. "Are we not, Jack?"
"I am quite starved," said the young sailor.
"Then I must get you some supper," said the girl in a hospitable tone.
"Thank you," said Harry earnestly. "Will you let me know your name?" he
asked.
"My name is Lucy."
"My grandmother's name was Lucy," said Jack.
"Then you may look upon me as your grandmother," said the girl
demurely.
Of course all three laughed heartily at this absurdity. Then Lucy moved
about with quick steps, and soon a goodly supper of mutton-chops was
fizzling in the frying-pan, sending forth savory odors that made their
mouths water. Presently Lucy drew out a table, and placed upon it the
chops and some cold bread.
"I would boil some potatoes," she said, "but you might not like to wait
so long."
"I think we won't wait, Lucy."
"You haven't told me your name," said Lucy as they drew up to the
table.
"My name is Harry Vane," said the possessor of that name.
"And mine is Jack Pendleton."
"Harry and Jack," repeated Lucy, nodding.
"Yes."
"And where do you come from?"
"From America."
"Isn't that a long way off?"
"Yes, thousands of miles off; seven or eight, I think."
"You are very young to walk so far," said Lucy, "but perhaps you rode.
Did the bushrangers steal your horses?"
"We came over the sea," said Harry. "Jack is a sailor."
Lucy looked at Jack curiously, as if a sailor were a strange species of
animal.
At this point Bruno raised his head, looked toward the door, and began
to bark.
"I think my father must be close by," said Lucy. "Bruno is always the
first to hear him."
CHAPTER XVII.
A WELCOME IN THE WILDS.
Before Lucy could reach the door, it was opened, and a stalwart man of
middle age paused on the threshold, in evident surprise.
"Whom have you here, Lucy?" he asked in a tone of displeasure.
"Two boys, papa, who came here in distress, having lost their way."
"Did I not caution you against admitting strangers?" continued her
father with a slight frown.
"Yes, but these are boys, not men."
Harry Vane thought it was time to start.
"I hope, sir," he said, "you won't blame your daughter for her kindness
to us. We stood greatly in need of friendly help, having been robbed of
everything by the bushrangers, from whom we managed by good luck to
escape some hours since."
The shepherd regarded Harry keenly, and proceeded to cross-examine him.
"You say you were captured by the bushrangers?" he said.
"Yes, sir."
"When was this?"
"This morning, just after breakfast."
"Where did it happen?"
Harry told him.
"Where were you going?"
"To the mines at Bendigo."
"How large was your party?"
"There were only three of us--a countryman of ours and ourselves."
"Where is he?"
"The bushrangers robbed him and let him go."
"Why did they not release you and your friend?"
"Because, as a young member of the band told us, the captain meant to
spare us to join the band."
"You are young to be travelling to the mines. What countrymen are you?"
"We are Americans."
"Humph! your story sounds well enough, but how do I know that you are
not spies of the bushrangers?"
Harry Vane's eyes flashed indignantly.
"I hope you won't think so badly of us," he said.
The shepherd seemed somewhat impressed by his indignant denial, which
certainly seemed genuine enough, but wanted information on one point.
"How did you manage to escape? That doesn't seem very probable, at any
rate."
"We both took advantage of the excitement occasioned by the murder of
Captain Stockton----" he began.
"What!" exclaimed the shepherd in profound astonishment, "Captain
Stockton murdered! When? By whom?"
Of course Harry told the story, but that need not be repeated.
The shepherd listened in evident excitement.
"If this is true," he said, "nothing better could have happened for this
part of Australia. This man--Stockton--is noted everywhere as the most
desperate and cruel of the bushrangers. I can't begin to tell you how
many atrocious crimes he has committed. He killed my brother in cold
blood three years since,"--here the shepherd's face darkened--"because
he defended the property of another, and tried to save it from being
stolen. If he is dead I am deeply, profoundly grateful!"
"You need have no doubt on that point, sir," said Harry. "Jack and
myself saw him shot down. There can be no doubt of his death."
"I believe you speak the truth. You don't look as if you were deceiving
me. So you took the opportunity to give the bushrangers legbail, eh?"
"We didn't stay to bid them good-by," said Harry, smiling. "We ran till
we were out of breath, but saw no one on our track. Probably it was some
time before we were thought of, and our escape noticed. We have been
walking ever since, and were ready to drop with hunger and fatigue when
we espied the light of your cottage, and ventured to ask for help."
"You are welcome to all that we can do for you," said the shepherd, his
tone changing. "I was suspicious at first, for the bushrangers are up to
all sorts of tricks, but the news you have brought insures you a
welcome. At last my poor brother is avenged, and the bloodthirsty
villain who killed him has gone to his account. You don't know who is
elected in his place?"
"No, sir, we came away at once."
"Of course, of course; I should have thought of that."
"I hope it isn't Fletcher," said Jack.
"Ha! what do you know of Dick Fletcher?"
"More than we want to. He it was who passed himself off on us as a
returned miner, and betrayed us into the hands of his comrades."
"I know of him, too. He would be as bad as the captain if he dared, but
he is a coward. His turn will come after a while. But, Lucy,"--here he
addressed his daughter,--"you are not treating your guests very well.
Where are your potatoes and other vegetables?"
"They were so hungry they preferred not to wait for them, papa."
"You may put them in the pot now. I want them, and I think our young
friends will be able to eat them later."
"You are very kind, sir, but I am afraid Jack and I will not be able to
compensate you. The bushrangers took all we had, and left us
penniless."
"I don't want your money, boy. You are welcome to all you get in this
house. We don't have visitors very often. When they do come, they have
no bills to pay."
"Unless they are bushrangers, father!" said Lucy with a smile.
"If they are bushrangers, they will meet with a still warmer reception,"
said the shepherd grimly. "And now, daughter, hurry up supper, for I
have a very fair appetite myself."
Lucy moved about quietly but actively in obedience to her father's
directions. An hour later, or perhaps less, the table was spread once
more, and all got up to it. The boys, though the edge of their appetite
was taken away, managed to eat the vegetables with a relish, not having
had a chance to eat any for a considerable time, except at their hotel
in Melbourne.
After supper they sat down beside the fire and talked. Living so much
alone, the shepherd and his daughter were anxious to hear all that the
boys could tell them of the great world from which they lived aloof.
Later in the evening, the shepherd, whose name, by the way, was Andrew
Campbell, said, "Now, let us have a little music. Lucy, bring me the
bagpipe."
His daughter went into an adjoining room, and brought out a Highland
bagpipe, which Campbell received, and straightway began to play upon it
some characteristic Scotch tunes. It was loud and harsh, but the boys
enjoyed it for want of better.
"Don't you sing, Miss Lucy?" asked Harry, when her father laid down the
instrument.
"No," answered the girl, smiling. "I wish I did. Father is very fond of
singing."
"Aye, am I; Lucy's mother sang, but the gift has not descended to her."
"Harry is a professional singer," said Jack. "He sings in public."
"Please sing something, then," pleaded Lucy.
"If you really wish it," answered Harry.
"I shall be glad to hear you, young sir," said the shepherd.
Harry hesitated no longer, but sang at once, choosing such Scotch
melodies as he knew in preference. The shepherd's eyes glistened, and he
was evidently much moved.
"It calls back my early days, when as a lad I trod the heath in
Scotland," he said. "You are a fine singer. I don't mind when I have
enjoyed an evening as much."
"I am very glad, sir, if I have been able in this way to repay your
kindness," said Harry.
"Don't speak of it, lad," said the shepherd, lapsing into his Scotch
mode of speech. "We shan't miss the bit sup we have given you."
At nine o'clock all retired for the night, for the shepherd must be up
early in the morning to look after his flocks. Harry and Jack slept in a
small room back. They were very tired, and fell asleep as soon as their
heads struck the pillow.
CHAPTER XVIII.
A DANGEROUS ACQUAINTANCE.
Though the boys were very much fatigued they were up in time for an
early breakfast the next morning. It consisted of muttonchops, potatoes,
bread, and coffee, and they were prepared, notwithstanding their hearty
supper of the night before to do full justice to it.
The shepherd had got over his first impression, and nothing could be
more friendly than his manner toward them. He gave a still stronger
proof of his confidence and friendship.
"So you think of going to the mines, my lads," he said.
"Yes, sir."
"I don't know about the wisdom of your plans. It isn't all that find the
gold they look for. Are you expecting to come back with fortunes?"
"They would not be unwelcome, sir," said Harry, "but we shall at any
rate like the advantage of it, and we are young enough to try
experiments."
"That's true; but about the gold I'm thinkin' you'll be disappointed. At
any rate I'll make you an offer--the two of you. Stay here and help me
tend sheep. I'll give you your living and clothes, and when you are
twenty-one, I will make you a present of a hundred sheep each to start
in business for yourselves."
The proposal took Harry and Jack by surprise. They could not but observe
that Lucy's face brightened with hope, as she awaited their answer. It
was clear that she hoped it would be favorable. It must be acknowledged
that this made a considerable impression upon them. Lucy was a pretty
girl, and they felt flattered by her desire that they should remain. But
their resolution was only shaken, not changed. They had but to look
about them at the unbroken solitude to feel that life under such
circumstances would be unendurable. Both of them had led lives of
activity and excitement, and neither felt prepared to settle down, but
they felt grateful.
"Jack and I thank you for your kindness, Mr. Campbell," said Harry, "and
consider your offer a good one. But it would be lonely for us here, and,
though we may change our minds, we would like to try the gold-fields
first."
"It's only natural, lads," said the shepherd. "You are young, and you
crave excitement. When you are as old as I am, you won't mind the quiet.
Go, then, to Bendigo, but if you have bad luck, come back here, and you
shall be welcome to stay as long as you like, and to accept my offer if
you feel like it then."
"I am sorry you won't stay," said Lucy, with a shade of sadness.
"I wish we could be contented to do so," said Harry. "You may be sure we
won't forget your kindness, Miss Campbell."
"Do you mean me?" asked Lucy, smiling. "I never was called Miss Campbell
before."
"I will say Lucy, if you will allow me."
"I would rather you did."
"Then good-by, Lucy. We shall always remember you."
"And you will come back some day?"
"If we can."
"Then good-by, and don't forget your promise."
There was a suspicious moisture in the girl's eyes, for she knew that
when the young visitors were gone she would feel lonelier than ever.
"That's a nice girl, Jack," said Harry after a pause.
"That's so, Harry. I never saw a girl so nice before," responded Jack
emphatically.
"Do you know, Jack," said Harry, turning to him with a smile, "it is
just as well we are going away."
"What do you mean, Harry?"
"If we stayed here till we were both young men, we might both fall in
love with Lucy, and quarrel over her."
"I might fall in love with her, but I would never quarrel with you,
Harry," said Jack affectionately.
"No, Jack, I don't think you would. Nothing shall ever divide us."
"You are very kind to a poor sailor boy," said Jack. "You know a great
deal more than I, and I am not fit to be your friend."
"Take care, Jack, I may quarrel with you if you say anything against
yourself. Fit or unfit, you are my chosen friend, and I should not be
willing to exchange you for anyone else I have ever met."
"Not even for Montgomery Clinton?" said Jack archly.
"Not even for him, with all his stock of trousers."
Reference was made to a young man from Brooklyn, a fellow passenger on
the ship Nantucket, who had acquired the reputation of a dude, and had
afforded much amusement to all on board. He will be remembered by the
readers of the preceding volume, "Facing the World."
The boys did not set out on their journey empty-handed. Lucy, by
direction of her father, had packed a basket with provisions enough to
last them two or three days. The shepherd wished also to lend them some
money, but this Harry declined.
"We might not be able to pay it back," he said.
"I shan't miss it, lads, if you don't," urged the shepherd.
"We might be robbed of it as we were of our other money, sir. We thank
you all the same."
But they gladly accepted the basket of provisions, without which,
indeed, they might have fared badly in that uninhabited wilderness.
"How far is it to Bendigo?" Harry had asked the shepherd.
"Twenty-five miles, or thereabouts," was the answer.
"If it were a straight road and good travelling we might be there by
night."! "But it is neither. You will be fortunate if you reach there in
three or four days."
"Give us the direction, and we will try it, sir."
The two young travellers, refreshed by their night's sleep and two
substantial meals, made good progress, and by noon found themselves,
despite the difficulties of the way, seven miles distant from the
station where they had received such hospitable treatment. By this time
they were hungry, and were glad to sit down at the base of a gigantic
gum-tree and attack the provisions they had brought with them. They were
in good spirits and chatted cheerfully. Many thousands of miles away
from home, without a penny in their pockets, and with only a basket of
provisions between them and starvation, they did not allow themselves to
be depressed by their uncertain prospects, but looked forward
hopefully.
"Jack," said Harry, "it seems so lonely here, I could easily believe
that we two are alone in the world."
"It does seem so," said Jack.
"I feel a little like Robinson Crusoe on his island."
"Am I to be Friday?" asked Jack, with a smile.
Jack had read very few books, but who is there who has not read Robinson
Crusoe?
"I don't think you are of the right color, Jack, but I would a good deal
rather have you than Friday."
They were not so far away from human companionship as they supposed, as
they soon learned to their dismay. Suddenly they heard a crunching as of
