stomach-ache.
When he got to be old enough to begin to toddle about and say broken
words and get an idea of what his hands were for, he was a more
consummate pest than ever. Roxy got no rest while he was awake. He would
call for anything and everything he saw, simply saying "Awnt it!" (want
it), which was a command. When it was brought, he said in a frenzy, and
motioning it away with his hands, "Don't awnt it! don't awnt it!" and
the moment it was gone he set up frantic yells of "Awnt it! awnt it!
awnt it!" and Roxy had to give wings to her heels to get that thing back
to him again before he could get time to carry out his intention of
going into convulsions about it.
What he preferred above all other things was the tongs. This was because
his "father" had forbidden him to have them lest he break windows and
furniture with them. The moment Roxy's back was turned he would toddle
to the presence of the tongs and say "Like it!" and cock his eye to one
side to see if Roxy was observing; then, "Awnt it!" and cock his eye
again; then, "Hab it!" with another furtive glance; and finally, "Take
it!"--and the prize was his. The next moment the heavy implement was
raised aloft; the next, there was a crash and a squall, and the cat was
off on three legs to meet an engagement; Roxy would arrive just as the
lamp or a window went to irremediable smash.
Tom got all the petting, Chambers got none. Tom got all the delicacies,
Chambers got mush and milk, and clabber without sugar. In consequence
Tom was a sickly child and Chambers wasn't. Tom was "fractious," as Roxy
called it, and overbearing; Chambers was meek and docile.
With all her splendid common sense and practical every-day ability, Roxy
was a doting fool of a mother. She was this toward her child--and she
was also more than this: by the fiction created by herself, he was
become her master; the necessity of recognizing this relation outwardly
and of perfecting herself in the forms required to express the
recognition, had moved her to such diligence and faithfulness in
practicing these forms that this exercise soon concreted itself into
habit; it became automatic and unconscious; then a natural result
followed: deceptions intended solely for others gradually grew
practically into self-deceptions as well; the mock reverence became real
reverence, the mock obsequiousness real obsequiousness, the mock homage
real homage; the little counterfeit rift of separation between
imitation-slave and imitation-master widened and widened, and became an
abyss, and a very real one--and on one side of it stood Roxy, the dupe
of her own deceptions, and on the other stood her child, no longer a
usurper to her, but her accepted and recognized master. He was her
darling, her master, and her deity all in one, and in her worship of him
she forgot who she was and what he had been.
In babyhood Tom cuffed and banged and scratched Chambers unrebuked, and
Chambers early learned that between meekly bearing it and resenting it,
the advantage all lay with the former policy. The few times that his
persecutions had moved him beyond control and made him fight back had
cost him very dear at headquarters; not at the hands of Roxy, for if she
ever went beyond scolding him sharply for "forgitt'n' who his young
marster was," she at least never extended her punishment beyond a box on
the ear. No, Percy Driscoll was the person. He told Chambers that under
no provocation whatever was he privileged to lift his hand against his
little master. Chambers overstepped the line three times, and got three
such convincing canings from the man who was his father and didn't know
it, that he took Tom's cruelties in all humility after that, and made no
more experiments.
Outside of the house the two boys were together all through their
boyhood. Chambers was strong beyond his years, and a good fighter;
strong because he was coarsely fed and hard worked about the house, and
a good fighter because Tom furnished him plenty of practice--on white
boys whom he hated and was afraid of. Chambers was his constant
body-guard, to and from school; he was present on the playground at
recess to protect his charge. He fought himself into such a formidable
reputation, by and by, that Tom could have changed clothes with him, and
"ridden in peace," like Sir Kay in Launcelot's armor.
He was good at games of skill, too. Tom staked him with marbles to play
"keeps" with, and then took all the winnings away from him. In the
winter season Chambers was on hand, in Tom's worn-out clothes, with
"holy" red mittens, and "holy" shoes, and pants "holy" at the knees and
seat, to drag a sled up the hill for Tom, warmly clad, to ride down on;
but he never got a ride himself. He built snow men and snow
fortifications under Tom's directions. He was Tom's patient target when
Tom wanted to do some snowballing, but the target couldn't fire back.
Chambers carried Tom's skates to the river and strapped them on him,
then trotted around after him on the ice, so as to be on hand when
wanted; but he wasn't ever asked to try the skates himself.
In summer the pet pastime of the boys of Dawson's Landing was to steal
apples, peaches, and melons from the farmers' fruit-wagons,--mainly on
account of the risk they ran of getting their heads laid open with the
butt of the farmer's whip. Tom was a distinguished adept at these
thefts--by proxy. Chambers did his stealing, and got the peach-stones,
apple-cores, and melon-rinds for his share.
Tom always made Chambers go in swimming with him, and stay by him as a
protection. When Tom had had enough, he would slip out and tie knots in
Chambers's shirt, dip the knots in the water and make them hard to undo,
then dress himself and sit by and laugh while the naked shiverer tugged
at the stubborn knots with his teeth.
Tom did his humble comrade these various ill turns partly out of native
viciousness, and partly because he hated him for his superiorities of
physique and pluck, and for his manifold cleverness. Tom couldn't dive,
for it gave him splitting headaches. Chambers could dive without
inconvenience, and was fond of doing it. He excited so much admiration,
one day, among a crowd of white boys, by throwing back somersaults from
the stern of a canoe, that it wearied Tom's spirit, and at last he
shoved the canoe underneath Chambers while he was in the air--so he came
down on his head in the canoe-bottom; and while he lay unconscious,
several of Tom's ancient adversaries saw that their long-desired
opportunity was come, and they gave the false heir such a drubbing that
with Chambers's best help he was hardly able to drag himself home
afterward.
When the boys were fifteen and upward, Tom was "showing off" in the
river one day, when he was taken with a cramp, and shouted for help. It
was a common trick with the boys--particularly if a stranger was
present--to pretend a cramp and howl for help; then when the stranger
came tearing hand over hand to the rescue, the howler would go on
struggling and howling till he was close at hand, then replace the howl
with a sarcastic smile and swim blandly away, while the town boys
assailed the dupe with a volley of jeers and laughter. Tom had never
tried this joke as yet, but was supposed to be trying it now, so the
boys held warily back; but Chambers believed his master was in earnest,
therefore he swam out, and arrived in time, unfortunately, and saved his
life.
This was the last feather. Tom had managed to endure everything else,
but to have to remain publicly and permanently under such an obligation
as this to a nigger, and to this nigger of all niggers--this was too
much. He heaped insults upon Chambers for "pretending" to think he was
in earnest in calling for help, and said that anybody but a block-headed
nigger would have known he was funning and left him alone.
Tom's enemies were in strong force here, so they came out with their
opinions quite freely. They laughed at him, and called him coward, liar,
sneak, and other sorts of pet names, and told him they meant to call
Chambers by a new name after this, and make it common in the town--"Tom
Driscoll's niggerpappy,"--to signify that he had had a second birth into
this life, and that Chambers was the author of his new being. Tom grew
frantic under these taunts, and shouted--
"Knock their heads off, Chambers! knock their heads off! What do you
stand there with your hands in your pockets for?"
Chambers expostulated, and said, "But, Marse Tom, dey's too many of
'em--dey's--"
"Do you hear me?"
"Please, Marse Tom, don't make me! Dey's so many of 'em dat--"
Tom sprang at him and drove his pocket-knife into him two or three times
before the boys could snatch him away and give the wounded lad a chance
to escape. He was considerably hurt, but not seriously. If the blade had
been a little longer his career would have ended there.
Tom had long ago taught Roxy "her place." It had been many a day now
since she had ventured a caress or a fondling epithet in his quarter.
Such things, from a "nigger," were repulsive to him, and she had been
warned to keep her distance and remember who she was. She saw her
darling gradually cease from being her son, she saw that detail perish
utterly; all that was left was master--master, pure and simple, and it
was not a gentle mastership, either. She saw herself sink from the
sublime height of motherhood to the somber depths of unmodified slavery.
The abyss of separation between her and her boy was complete. She was
merely his chattel, now, his convenience, his dog, his cringing and
helpless slave, the humble and unresisting victim of his capricious
temper and vicious nature.
Sometimes she could not go to sleep, even when worn out with fatigue,
because her rage boiled so high over the day's experiences with her boy.
She would mumble and mutter to herself--
"He struck me, en I warn't no way to blame--struck me in de face, right
before folks. En he's al'ays callin' me nigger-wench, en hussy, en all
dem mean names, when I's doin' de very bes' I kin. Oh, Lord, I done so
much for him--I lift' him away up to what he is--en dis is what I git
for it."
Sometimes when some outrage of peculiar offensiveness stung her to the
heart, she would plan schemes of vengeance and revel in the fancied
spectacle of his exposure to the world as an imposter and a slave; but
in the midst of these joys fear would strike her: she had made him too
strong; she could prove nothing, and--heavens, she might get sold down
the river for her pains! So her schemes always went for nothing, and she
laid them aside in impotent rage against the fates, and against herself
for playing the fool on that fatal September day in not providing
herself with a witness for use in the day when such a thing might be
needed for the appeasing of her vengeance-hungry heart.
And yet the moment Tom happened to be good to her, and kind,--and this
occurred every now and then,--all her sore places were healed, and she
was happy; happy and proud, for this was her son, her nigger son,
lording it among the whites and securely avenging their crimes against
her race.
There were two grand funerals in Dawson's Landing that fall--the fall of
1845. One was that of Colonel Cecil Burleigh Essex, the other that of
Percy Driscoll.
On his death-bed Driscoll set Roxy free and delivered his idolized
ostensible son solemnly into the keeping of his brother, the Judge and
his wife. Those childless people were glad to get him. Childless people
are not difficult to please.
Judge Driscoll had gone privately to his brother, a month before, and
bought Chambers. He had heard that Tom had been trying to get his father
to sell the boy down the river, and he wanted to prevent the
scandal--for public sentiment did not approve of that way of treating
family servants for light cause or for no cause.
Percy Driscoll had worn himself out in trying to save his great
speculative landed estate, and had died without succeeding. He was
hardly in his grave before the boom collapsed and left his hitherto
envied young devil of an heir a pauper. But that was nothing; his uncle
told him he should be his heir and have all his fortune when he died; so
Tom was comforted.
Roxy had no home, now; so she resolved to go around and say good-by to
her friends and then clear out and see the world--that is to say, she
would go chambermaiding on a steamboat, the darling ambition of her race
and sex.
Her last call was on the black giant, Jasper. She found him chopping
Pudd'nhead Wilson's winter provision of wood.
Wilson was chatting with him when Roxy arrived. He asked her how she
could bear to go off chambermaiding and leave her boys; and chaffingly
offered to copy off a series of their finger-prints, reaching up to
their twelfth year, for her to remember them by; but she sobered in a
moment, wondering if he suspected anything; then she said she believed
she didn't want them. Wilson said to himself, "The drop of black blood
in her is superstitious; she thinks there's some devilry, some
witch-business about my glass mystery somewhere; she used to come here
with an old horseshoe in her hand; it could have been an accident, but I
doubt it."
CHAPTER V.
The Twins Thrill Dawson's Landing.
Training is everything. The peach was once a bitter almond; cauliflower
is nothing but cabbage with a college education.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's
Calendar.
Remark of Dr. Baldwin's, concerning upstarts: We don't care to eat
toadstools that think they are truffles.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
Mrs. York Driscoll enjoyed two years of bliss with that prize,
Tom--bliss that was troubled a little at times, it is true, but bliss
nevertheless; then she died, and her husband and his childless sister,
Mrs. Pratt, continued the bliss-business at the old stand. Tom was
petted and indulged and spoiled to his entire content--or nearly that.
This went on till he was nineteen, then he was sent to Yale. He went
handsomely equipped with "conditions," but otherwise he was not an
object of distinction there. He remained at Yale two years, and then
threw up the struggle. He came home with his manners a good deal
improved; he had lost his surliness and brusqueness, and was rather
pleasantly soft and smooth, now; he was furtively, and sometimes openly,
ironical of speech, and given to gently touching people on the raw, but
he did it with a good-natured semiconscious air that carried it off
safely, and kept him from getting into trouble. He was as indolent as
ever and showed no very strenuous desire to hunt up an occupation.
People argued from this that he preferred to be supported by his uncle
until his uncle's shoes should become vacant. He brought back one or two
new habits with him, one of which he rather openly
practised--tippling--but concealed another which was gambling. It would
not do to gamble where his uncle could hear of it; he knew that quite
well.
Tom's Eastern polish was not popular among the young people. They could
have endured it, perhaps, if Tom had stopped there; but he wore gloves,
and that they couldn't stand, and wouldn't; so he was mainly without
society. He brought home with him a suit of clothes of such exquisite
style and cut and fashion,--Eastern fashion, city fashion,--that it
filled everybody with anguish and was regarded as a peculiarly wanton
affront. He enjoyed the feeling which he was exciting, and paraded the
town serene and happy all day; but the young fellows set a tailor to
work that night, and when Tom started out on his parade next morning he
found the old deformed negro bell-ringer straddling along in his wake
tricked out in a flamboyant curtain-calico exaggeration of his finery,
and imitating his fancy Eastern graces as well as he could.
Tom surrendered, and after that clothed himself in the local fashion.
But the dull country town was tiresome to him, since his
acquaintanceship with livelier regions, and it grew daily more and more
so. He began to make little trips to St. Louis for refreshment. There he
found companionship to suit him, and pleasures to his taste, along with
more freedom, in some particulars, than he could have at home. So,
during the next two years his visits to the city grew in frequency and
his tarryings there grew steadily longer in duration.
He was getting into deep waters. He was taking chances, privately, which
might get him into trouble some day--in fact, did.
Judge Driscoll had retired from the bench and from all business
activities in 1850, and had now been comfortably idle three years. He
was president of the Free-thinkers' Society, and Pudd'nhead Wilson was
the other member. The society's weekly discussions were now the old
lawyer's main interest in life. Pudd'nhead was still toiling in
obscurity at the bottom of the ladder, under the blight of that unlucky
remark which he had let fall twenty-three years before about the dog.
Judge Driscoll was his friend, and claimed that he had a mind above the
average, but that was regarded as one of the Judge's whims, and it
failed to modify the public opinion. Or rather, that was one of the
reasons why it failed, but there was another and better one. If the
Judge had stopped with bare assertion, it would have had a good deal of
effect; but he made the mistake of trying to prove his position. For
some years Wilson had been privately at work on a whimsical almanac, for
his amusement--a calendar, with a little dab of ostensible philosophy,
usually in ironical form, appended to each date; and the Judge thought
that these quips and fancies of Wilson's were neatly turned and cute; so
he carried a handful of them around, one day, and read them to some of
the chief citizens. But irony was not for those people; their mental
vision was not focussed for it. They read those playful trifles in the
solidest earnest, and decided without hesitancy that if there had ever
been any doubt that Dave Wilson was a pudd'nhead--which there
hadn't--this revelation removed that doubt for good and all. That is
just the way in this world; an enemy can partly ruin a man, but it takes
a good-natured injudicious friend to complete the thing and make it
perfect. After this the Judge felt tenderer than ever toward Wilson, and
surer than ever that his calendar had merit.
Judge Driscoll could be a free-thinker and still hold his place in
society because he was the person of most consequence in the community,
and therefore could venture to go his own way and follow out his own
notions. The other member of his pet organization was allowed the like
liberty because he was a cipher in the estimation of the public, and
nobody attached any importance to what he thought or did. He was liked,
he was welcome enough all around, but he simply didn't count for
anything.
The widow Cooper--affectionately called "aunt Patsy" by everybody--lived
in a snug and comely cottage with her daughter Rowena, who was nineteen,
romantic, amiable, and very pretty, but otherwise of no consequence.
Rowena had a couple of young brothers--also of no consequence.
The widow had a large spare room which she let to a lodger, with board,
when she could find one, but this room had been empty for a year now, to
her sorrow. Her income was only sufficient for the family support, and
she needed the lodging-money for trifling luxuries. But now, at last, on
a flaming June day, she found herself happy; her tedious wait was ended;
her year-worn advertisement had been answered; and not by a village
applicant, oh, no!--this letter was from away off yonder in the dim
great world to the North: it was from St. Louis. She sat on her porch
gazing out with unseeing eyes upon the shining reaches of the mighty
Mississippi, her thoughts steeped in her good fortune. Indeed, it was
specially good fortune, for she was to have two lodgers instead of one.
She had read the letter to the family, and Rowena had danced away to see
to the cleaning and airing of the room by the slave woman Nancy, and the
boys had rushed abroad in the town to spread the great news, for it was
matter of public interest, and the public would wonder and not be
pleased if not informed. Presently Rowena returned, all ablush with
joyous excitement, and begged for a re-reading of the letter. It was
framed thus:
Honored Madam: My brother and I have seen your advertisement, by chance,
and beg leave to take the room you offer. We are twenty-four years of
age and twins. We are Italians by birth, but have lived long in the
various countries of Europe, and several years in the United States. Our
names are Luigi and Angelo Capello. You desire but one guest; but dear
Madam, if you will allow us to pay for two, we will not incommode you.
We shall be down Thursday.
"Italians! How romantic! Just think, ma--there's never been one in this
town, and everybody will be dying to see them, and they're all ours!
Think of that!"
"Yes, I reckon they'll make a grand stir."
"Oh, indeed they will. The whole town will be on its head!
Think--they've been in Europe and everywhere! There's never been a
traveler in this town before. Ma, I shouldn't wonder if they've seen
kings!"
"Well, a body can't tell, but they'll make stir enough, without that."
"Yes, that's of course. Luigi--Angelo. They're lovely names; and so
grand and foreign--not like Jones and Robinson and such. Thursday they
are coming, and this is only Tuesday; it's a cruel long time to wait.
Here comes Judge Driscoll in at the gate. He's heard about it. I'll go
and open the door."
The Judge was full of congratulations and curiosity. The letter was read
and discussed. Soon Justice Robinson arrived with more congratulations,
and there was a new reading and a new discussion. This was the
beginning. Neighbor after neighbor, of both sexes, followed, and the
procession drifted in and out all day and evening and all Wednesday and
Thursday. The letter was read and re-read until it was nearly worn out;
everybody admired its courtly and gracious tone, and smooth and
practised style, everybody was sympathetic and excited, and the Coopers
were steeped in happiness all the while.
The boats were very uncertain in low water, in these primitive times.
This time the Thursday boat had not arrived at ten at night--so the
people had waited at the landing all day for nothing; they were driven
to their homes by a heavy storm without having had a view of the
illustrious foreigners.
Eleven o'clock came; and the Cooper house was the only one in the town
that still had lights burning. The rain and thunder were booming yet,
and the anxious family were still waiting, still hoping. At last there
was a knock at the door and the family jumped to open it. Two negro men
entered, each carrying a trunk, and proceeded up-stairs toward the
guest-room. Then entered the twins--the handsomest, the best dressed,
the most distinguished-looking pair of young fellows the West had ever
seen. One was a little fairer than the other, but otherwise they were
exact duplicates.
CHAPTER VI.
Swimming in Glory.
Let us endeavor so to live that when we come to die even the undertaker
will be sorry.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
Habit is habit, and not to be flung out of the window by any man, but
coaxed down-stairs a step at a time.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
At breakfast in the morning the twins' charm of manner and easy and
polished bearing made speedy conquest of the family's good graces. All
constraint and formality quickly disappeared, and the friendliest
feeling succeeded. Aunt Patsy called them by their Christian names
almost from the beginning. She was full of the keenest curiosity about
them, and showed it; they responded by talking about themselves, which
pleased her greatly. It presently appeared that in their early youth
they had known poverty and hardship. As the talk wandered along the old
lady watched for the right place to drop in a question or two concerning
that matter, and when she found it she said to the blond twin who was
now doing the biographies in his turn while the brunette one rested--
"If it ain't asking what I ought not to ask, Mr. Angelo, how did you
come to be so friendless and in such trouble when you were little? Do
you mind telling? But don't if you do."
"Oh, we don't mind it at all, madam; in our case it was merely
misfortune, and nobody's fault. Our parents were well to do, there in
Italy, and we were their only child. We were of the old Florentine
nobility"--Rowena's heart gave a great bound, her nostrils expanded, and
a fine light played in her eyes--"and when the war broke out my father
was on the losing side and had to fly for his life. His estates were
confiscated, his personal property seized, and there we were, in
Germany, strangers, friendless, and in fact paupers. My brother and I
were ten years old, and well educated for that age, very studious, very
fond of our books, and well grounded in the German, French, Spanish, and
English languages. Also, we were marvelous musical prodigies--if you
will allow me to say it, it being only the truth.
"Our father survived his misfortunes only a month, our mother soon
followed him, and we were alone in the world. Our parents could have
made themselves comfortable by exhibiting us as a show, and they had
many and large offers; but the thought revolted their pride, and they
said they would starve and die first. But what they wouldn't consent to
do we had to do without the formality of consent. We were seized for the
debts occasioned by their illness and their funerals, and placed among
the attractions of a cheap museum in Berlin to earn the liquidation
money. It took us two years to get out of that slavery. We traveled all
about Germany receiving no wages, and not even our keep. We had to be
exhibited for nothing, and beg our bread.
"Well, madam, the rest is not of much consequence. When we escaped from
that slavery at twelve years of age, we were in some respects men.
Experience had taught us some valuable things; among others, how to take
care of ourselves, how to avoid and defeat sharks and sharpers, and how
to conduct our own business for our own profit and without other
people's help. We traveled everywhere--years and years--picking up
smatterings of strange tongues, familiarizing ourselves with strange
sights and strange customs, accumulating an education of a wide and
varied and curious sort. It was a pleasant life. We went to Venice--to
London, Paris, Russia, India, China, Japan--"
At this point Nancy the slave woman thrust her head in at the door and
exclaimed:
"Ole Missus, de house is plum' jam full o' people, en dey's jes
a-spi'lin' to see de gen'lmen!" She indicated the twins with a nod of
her head, and tucked it back out of sight again.
It was a proud occasion for the widow, and she promised herself high
satisfaction in showing off her fine foreign birds before her neighbors
and friends--simple folk who had hardly ever seen a foreigner of any
kind, and never one of any distinction or style. Yet her feeling was
moderate indeed when contrasted with Rowena's. Rowena was in the clouds,
she walked on air; this was to be the greatest day, the most romantic
episode, in the colorless history of that dull country town. She was to
be familiarly near the source of its glory and feel the full flood of it
pour over her and about her; the other girls could only gaze and envy,
not partake.
The widow was ready, Rowena was ready, so also were the foreigners.
The party moved along the hall, the twins in advance, and entered the
open parlor door, whence issued a low hum of conversation. The twins
took a position near the door, the widow stood at Luigi's side, Rowena
stood beside Angelo, and the march-past and the introductions began. The
widow was all smiles and contentment. She received the procession and
passed it on to Rowena.
"Good mornin', Sister Cooper"--hand-shake.
"Good morning, Brother Higgins--Count Luigi Capello, Mr. 
Higgins"--hand-shake, followed by a devouring stare and "I'm glad to see
ye," on the part of Higgins, and a courteous inclination of the head and
a pleasant "Most happy!" on the part of Count Luigi.
"Good mornin', Roweny"--hand-shake.
"Good morning, Mr. Higgins--present you to Count Angelo Capello."
Hand-shake, admiring stare, "Glad to see ye,"--courteous nod, smily
"Most happy!" and Higgins passes on.
None of these visitors was at ease, but, being honest people, they
didn't pretend to be. None of them had ever seen a person bearing a
title of nobility before, and none had been expecting to see one now,
consequently the title came upon them as a kind of pile-driving surprise
and caught them unprepared. A few tried to rise to the emergency, and
got out an awkward "My lord," or "Your lordship," or something of that
sort, but the great majority were overwhelmed by the unaccustomed word
and its dim and awful associations with gilded courts and stately
ceremony and anointed kingship, so they only fumbled through the
hand-shake and passed on, speechless. Now and then, as happens at all
receptions everywhere, a more than ordinary friendly soul blocked the
procession and kept it waiting while he inquired how the brothers liked
the village, and how long they were going to stay, and if their families
were well, and dragged in the weather, and hoped it would get cooler
soon, and all that sort of thing, so as to be able to say, when they got
home, "I had quite a long talk with them"; but nobody did or said
anything of a regrettable kind, and so the great affair went through to
the end in a creditable and satisfactory fashion.
General conversation followed, and the twins drifted about from group to
group, talking easily and fluently and winning approval, compelling
admiration and achieving favor from all. The widow followed their
conquering march with a proud eye, and every now and then Rowena said to
herself with deep satisfaction, "And to think they are ours--all ours!"
There were no idle moments for mother or daughter. Eager inquiries
concerning the twins were pouring into their enchanted ears all the
time; each was the constant center of a group of breathless listeners;
each recognized that she knew now for the first time the real meaning of
that great word Glory, and perceived the stupendous value of it, and
understood why men in all ages had been willing to throw away meaner
happinesses, treasure, life itself, to get a taste of its sublime and
supreme joy. Napoleon and all his kind stood accounted for--and
justified.
When Rowena had at last done all her duty by the people in the parlor,
she went up-stairs to satisfy the longings of an overflow-meeting there,
for the parlor was not big enough to hold all the comers. Again she was
besieged by eager questioners and again she swam in sunset seas of
glory. When the forenoon was nearly gone, she recognized with a pang
that this most splendid episode of her life was almost over, that
nothing could prolong it, that nothing quite its equal could ever fall
to her fortune again. But never mind, it was sufficient unto itself, the
grand occasion had moved on an ascending scale from the start, and was a
noble and memorable success. If the twins could but do some crowning
act, now, to climax it, something unusual, something startling,
something to concentrate upon themselves the company's loftiest
admiration, something in the nature of an electric surprise--
Here a prodigious slam-banging broke out below, and everybody rushed
down to see. It was the twins knocking out a classic four-handed piece
on the piano, in great style. Rowena was satisfied--satisfied down to
the bottom of her heart.
The young strangers were kept long at the piano. The villagers were
astonished and enchanted with the magnificence of their performance, and
could not bear to have them stop. All the music that they had ever heard
before seemed spiritless prentice-work and barren of grace or charm when
compared with these intoxicating floods of melodious sound. They
realized that for once in their lives they were hearing masters.
CHAPTER VII.
The Unknown Nymph
One of the most striking differences between a cat and a lie is that a
cat has only nine lives.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
The company broke up reluctantly, and drifted toward their several
homes, chatting with vivacity, and all agreeing that it would be many a
long day before Dawson's Landing would see the equal of this one again.
The twins had accepted several invitations while the reception was in
progress, and had also volunteered to play some duets at an amateur
entertainment for the benefit of a local charity. Society was eager to
receive them to its bosom. Judge Driscoll had the good fortune to secure
them for an immediate drive, and to be the first to display them in
public. They entered his buggy with him, and were paraded down the main
street, everybody flocking to the windows and sidewalks to see.
The Judge showed the strangers the new graveyard, and the jail, and
where the richest man lived, and the Freemasons' hall, and the Methodist
church, and the Presbyterian church, and where the Baptist church was
going to be when they got some money to build it with, and showed them
the town hall and the slaughter-house, and got out the independent fire
company in uniform and had them put out an imaginary fire; then he let
them inspect the muskets of the militia company, and poured out an
exhaustless stream of enthusiasm over all these splendors, and seemed
very well satisfied with the responses he got, for the twins admired his
admiration, and paid him back the best they could, though they could
have done better if some fifteen or sixteen hundred thousand previous
experiences of this sort in various countries had not already rubbed off
a considerable part of the novelty of it.
The Judge laid himself out hospitably to make them have a good time, and
if there was a defect anywhere it was not his fault. He told them a good
many humorous anecdotes, and always forgot the nub, but they were always
able to furnish it, for these yarns were of a pretty early vintage, and
they had had many a rejuvenating pull at them before. And he told them
all about his several dignities, and how he had held this and that and
the other place of honor or profit, and had once been to the
legislature, and was now president of the Society of Free-thinkers. He
said the society had been in existence four years, and already had two
members, and was firmly established. He would call for the brothers in
the evening if they would like to attend a meeting of it.
Accordingly he called for them, and on the way he told them all about
Pudd'nhead Wilson, in order that they might get a favorable impression
of him in advance and be prepared to like him. This scheme
succeeded--the favorable impression was achieved. Later it was confirmed
and solidified when Wilson proposed that out of courtesy to the
strangers the usual topics be put aside and the hour be devoted to
conversation upon ordinary subjects and the cultivation of friendly
relations and good-fellowship,--a proposition which was put to vote and
carried.
The hour passed quickly away in lively talk, and when it was ended the
lonesome and neglected Wilson was richer by two friends than he had been
when it began. He invited the twins to look in at his lodgings,
presently, after disposing of an intervening engagement, and they
accepted with pleasure.
Toward the middle of the evening they found themselves on the road to
his house. Pudd'nhead was at home waiting for them and putting in his
time puzzling over a thing which had come under his notice that morning.
The matter was this: He happened to be up very early--at dawn, in fact;
and he crossed the hall which divided his cottage through the center,
and entered a room to get something there. The window of the room had no
curtains, for that side of the house had long been unoccupied, and
through this window he caught sight of something which surprised and
interested him. It was a young woman--a young woman where properly no
young woman belonged; for she was in Judge Driscoll's house, and in the
bedroom over the Judge's private study or sitting-room. This was young
Tom Driscoll's bedroom. He and the Judge, the Judge's widowed sister
Mrs. Pratt and three negro servants were the only people who belonged in
the house. Who, then, might this young lady be? The two houses were
separated by an ordinary yard, with a low fence running back through its
middle from the street in front to the lane in the rear. The distance
was not great, and Wilson was able to see the girl very well, the
window-shades of the room she was in being up, and the window also. The
girl had on a neat and trim summer dress, patterned in broad stripes of
pink and white, and her bonnet was equipped with a pink veil. She was
practising steps, gaits and attitudes, apparently; she was doing the
thing gracefully, and was very much absorbed in her work. Who could she
be, and how came she to be in young Tom Driscoll's room?
Wilson had quickly chosen a position from which he could watch the girl
without running much risk of being seen by her, and he remained there
hoping she would raise her veil and betray her face. But she
disappointed him. After a matter of twenty minutes she disappeared, and
although he stayed at his post half an hour longer, she came no more.
Toward noon he dropped in at the Judge's and talked with Mrs. Pratt
about the great event of the day, the levee of the distinguished
foreigners at Aunt Patsy Cooper's. He asked after her nephew Tom, and
she said he was on his way home, and that she was expecting him to
arrive a little before night; and added that she and the Judge were
gratified to gather from his letters that he was conducting himself very
nicely and creditably--at which Wilson winked to himself privately.
Wilson did not ask if there was a newcomer in the house, but he asked
questions that would have brought light-throwing answers as to that
matter if Mrs. Pratt had had any light to throw; so he went away
satisfied that he knew of things that were going on in her house of
which she herself was not aware.
He was now waiting for the twins, and still puzzling over the problem of
who that girl might be, and how she happened to be in that young
fellow's room at daybreak in the morning.
CHAPTER VIII.
Marse Tom Tramples His Chance.
The holy passion of Friendship is of so sweet and steady and loyal and
enduring a nature that it will last through a whole lifetime, if not
asked to lend money.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
Consider well the proportions of things. It is better to be a young
June-bug than an old bird of paradise.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
It is necessary now, to hunt up Roxy.
At the time she was set free and went away chambermaiding, she was
thirty-five. She got a berth as second chambermaid on a Cincinnati boat
in the New Orleans trade, the Grand Mogul. A couple of trips made her
wonted and easy-going at the work, and infatuated her with the stir and
adventure and independence of steamboat life. Then she was promoted and
became head chambermaid. She was a favorite with the officers, and
exceedingly proud of their joking and friendly way with her.
During eight years she served three parts of the year on that boat, and
the winters on a Vicksburg packet. But now for two months she had had
rheumatism in her arms, and was obliged to let the wash-tub alone. So
she resigned. But she was well fixed--rich, as she would have described
it; for she had lived a steady life, and had banked four dollars every
month in New Orleans as a provision for her old age. She said in the
start that she had "put shoes on one bar'footed nigger to tromple on her
with," and that one mistake like that was enough; she would be
independent of the human race thenceforth forevermore if hard work and
economy could accomplish it. When the boat touched the levee at New
Orleans she bade good-by to her comrades on the Grand Mogul and moved
her kit ashore.
But she was back in a hour. The bank had gone to smash and carried her
four hundred dollars with it. She was a pauper, and homeless. Also
disabled bodily, at least for the present. The officers were full of
sympathy for her in her trouble, and made up a little purse for her. She
resolved to go to her birthplace; she had friends there among the
negroes, and the unfortunate always help the unfortunate, she was well
aware of that; those lowly comrades of her youth would not let her
starve.
She took the little local packet at Cairo, and now she was on the
home-stretch. Time had worn away her bitterness against her son, and she
was able to think of him with serenity. She put the vile side of him out
of her mind, and dwelt only on recollections of his occasional acts of
kindness to her. She gilded and otherwise decorated these, and made them
very pleasant to contemplate. She began to long to see him. She would go
and fawn upon him, slave-like--for this would have to be her attitude,
of course--and maybe she would find that time had modified him, and that
he would be glad to see his long-forgotten old nurse and treat her
gently. That would be lovely; that would make her forget her woes and
her poverty.
Her poverty! That thought inspired her to add another castle to her
dream: maybe he would give her a trifle now and then--maybe a dollar,
once a month, say; any little thing like that would help, oh, ever so
much.
By the time she reached Dawson's Landing she was her old self again; her
blues were gone, she was in high feather. She would get along, surely;
there were many kitchens where the servants would share their meals with
her, and also steal sugar and apples and other dainties for her to carry
home--or give her a chance to pilfer them herself, which would answer
just as well. And there was the church. She was a more rabid and devoted
Methodist than ever, and her piety was no sham, but was strong and
sincere. Yes, with plenty of creature comforts and her old place in the
amen-corner in her possession again, she would be perfectly happy and at
peace thenceforward to the end.
She went to Judge Driscoll's kitchen first of all. She was received
there in great form and with vast enthusiasm. Her wonderful travels, and
the strange countries she had seen and the adventures she had had, made
her a marvel, and a heroine of romance. The negroes hung enchanted upon
the great story of her experiences, interrupting her all along with
eager questions, with laughter, exclamations of delight and expressions
of applause; and she was obliged to confess to herself that if there was
anything better in this world than steamboating, it was the glory to be
got by telling about it. The audience loaded her stomach with their
dinners, and then stole the pantry bare to load up her basket.
Tom was in St. Louis. The servants said he had spent the best part of
his time there during the previous two years. Roxy came every day, and
had many talks about the family and its affairs. Once she asked why Tom
was away so much. The ostensible "Chambers" said:
"De fac' is, ole marster kin git along better when young marster's away
den he kin when he's in de town; yes, en he love him better, too; so he
gives him fifty dollahs a month--"
"No, is dat so? Chambers, you's a-jokin', ain't you?"
"'Clah to goodness I ain't, mammy; Marse Tom tole me so his own self.
But nemmine, 'tain't enough."
"My lan', what de reason 'tain't enough?"
"Well, I's gwine to tell you, if you gimme a chanst, mammy. De reason it
ain't enough is 'ca'se Marse Tom gambles."
Roxy threw up her hands in astonishment and Chambers went on--
"Ole marster found it out, 'ca'se he had to pay two hundred dollahs for
Marse Tom's gamblin' debts, en dat's true, mammy, jes as dead certain as
you's bawn."
"Two--hund'd--dollahs! Why, what is you talkin' 'bout? 
Two--hund'd--dollahs. Sakes alive, it's 'mos' enough to buy a tol'able
good second-hand nigger wid. En you ain't lyin', honey?--you wouldn't
lie to yo' ole mammy?"
"It's God's own truth, jes as I tell you--two hund'd dollahs--I wisht I
may never stir outen my tracks if it ain't so. En, oh, my lan', ole
Marse was jes a-hoppin'! he was b'ilin' mad, I tell you! He tuck 'n'
dissenhurrit him."
He licked his chops with relish after that stately word. Roxy struggled
with it a moment, then gave it up and said--
"Dissenwhiched him?"
"Dissenhurrit him."
"What's dat? What do it mean?"
"Means he bu'sted de will."
"Bu's--ted de will! He wouldn't ever treat him so! Take it back, you
mis'able imitation nigger dat I bore in sorrow en tribbilation."
Roxy's pet castle--an occasional dollar from Tom's pocket--was tumbling
to ruin before her eyes. She could not abide such a disaster as that;
she couldn't endure the thought of it. Her remark amused Chambers:
"Yah-yah-yah! jes listen to dat! If I's imitation, what is you? Bofe of
us is imitation white--dat's what we is--en pow'ful good imitation,
too--yah-yah-yah!--we don't 'mount to noth'n as imitation niggers; en as
for--"
"Shet up yo' foolin', 'fo' I knock you side de head, en tell me 'bout de
will. Tell me 'tain't bu'sted--do, honey, en I'll never forgit you."
"Well, 'tain't--'ca'se dey's a new one made, en Marse Tom's all right
ag'in. But what is you in sich a sweat 'bout it for, mammy? 'Tain't none
o' your business I don't reckon."
"'Tain't none o' my business? Whose business is it den, I'd like to
know? Wuz I his mother tell he was fifteen years old, or wusn't I?--you
answer me dat. En you speck I could see him turned out po' en ornery on
de worl' en never care noth'n' 'bout it? I reckon if you'd ever be'n a
mother yo'self, Valet de Chambers, you wouldn't talk sich foolishness as
dat."
"Well, den, ole Marse forgive him en fixed up de will ag'in--do dat
satisfy you?"
Yes, she was satisfied now, and quite happy and sentimental over it. She
kept coming daily, and at last she was told that Tom had come home. She
began to tremble with emotion, and straightway sent to beg him to let
his "po' ole nigger mammy have jes one sight of him en die for joy."
Tom was stretched at his lazy ease on a sofa when Chambers brought the
petition. Time had not modified his ancient detestation of the humble
drudge and protector of his boyhood; it was still bitter and
uncompromising. He sat up and bent a severe gaze upon the fair face of
the young fellow whose name he was unconsciously using and whose family
rights he was enjoying. He maintained the gaze until the victim of it
had become satisfactorily pallid with terror, then he said--
"What does the old rip want with me?"
The petition was meekly repeated.
"Who gave you permission to come and disturb me with the social
attentions of niggers?"
Tom had risen. The other young man was trembling now, visibly. He saw
what was coming, and bent his head sideways, and put up his left arm to
shield it. Tom rained cuffs upon the head and its shield, saying no
word: the victim received each blow with a beseeching, "Please, Marse
Tom!--oh, please, Marse Tom!" Seven blows--then Tom said, "Face the
door--march!" He followed behind with one, two, three solid kicks. The
last one helped the pure-white slave over the door-sill, and he limped
away mopping his eyes with his old ragged sleeve. Tom shouted after him,
"Send her in!"
Then he flung himself panting on the sofa again, and rasped out the
remark, "He arrived just at the right moment; I was full to the brim
with bitter thinkings, and nobody to take it out of. How refreshing it
was! I feel better."
Tom's mother entered now, closing the door behind her, and approached
her son with all the wheedling and supplicating servilities that fear
and interest can impart to the words and attitudes of the born slave.
She stopped a yard from her boy and made two or three admiring
exclamations over his manly stature and general handsomeness, and Tom
put an arm under his head and hoisted a leg over the sofa-back in order
to look properly indifferent.
"My lan', how you is growed, honey! 'Clah to goodness, I wouldn't
a-knowed you, Marse Tom! 'deed I wouldn't! Look at me good; does you
'member old Roxy?--does you know yo' old nigger mammy, honey? Well, now,
I kin lay down en die in peace, 'ca'se I'se seed--"
"Cut it short, ------ it, cut it short! What is it you want?"
"You heah dat? Jes the same old Marse Tom, al'ays so gay and funnin' wid
de ole mammy. I 'uz jes as shore--"
"Cut it short, I tell you, and get along! What do you want?"
This was a bitter disappointment. Roxy had for so many days nourished
and fondled and petted her notion that Tom would be glad to see his old
nurse, and would make her proud and happy to the marrow with a cordial
word or two, that it took two rebuffs to convince her that he was not
funning, and that her beautiful dream was a fond and foolish vanity, a
shabby and pitiful mistake. She was hurt to the heart, and so ashamed
that for a moment she did not quite know what to do or how to act. Then
her breast began to heave, the tears came, and in her forlornness she
was moved to try that other dream of hers--an appeal to her boy's
charity; and so, upon the impulse, and without reflection, she offered
her supplication:
"Oh, Marse Tom, de po' ole mammy is in sich hard luck dese days; en
she's kinder crippled in de arms and can't work, en if you could gimme a
dollah--on'y jes one little dol--"
Tom was on his feet so suddenly that the supplicant was startled into a
jump herself.
"A dollar!--give you a dollar! I've a notion to strangle you! Is that
your errand here? Clear out! and be quick about it!"
Roxy backed slowly toward the door. When she was half-way she stopped,
and said mournfully:
"Marse Tom, I nussed you when you was a little baby, en I raised you all
by myself tell you was 'most a young man; en now you is young en rich,
en I is po' en gitt'n ole, en I come heah b'lievin' dat you would he'p
de ole mammy 'long down de little road dat's lef' 'twix' her en de
grave, en--"
Tom relished this tune less than any that had preceded it, for it began
to wake up a sort of echo in his conscience; so he interrupted and said
with decision, though without asperity, that he was not in a situation
to help her, and wasn't going to do it.
"Ain't you ever gwine to he'p me, Marse Tom?"
"No! Now go away and don't bother me any more."
Roxy's head was down, in an attitude of humility. But now the fires of
her old wrongs flamed up in her breast and began to burn fiercely. She
raised her head slowly, till it was well up, and at the same time her
great frame unconsciously assumed an erect and masterful attitude, with
all the majesty and grace of her vanished youth in it. She raised her
finger and punctuated with it:
"You has said de word. You has had yo' chance, en you has trompled it
under yo' foot. When you git another one, you'll git down on yo' knees
en beg for it!"
A cold chill went to Tom's heart, he didn't know why; for he did not
reflect that such words, from such an incongruous source, and so
solemnly delivered, could not easily fail of that effect. However, he
did the natural thing: he replied with bluster and mockery:
"You'll give me a chance--you! Perhaps I'd better get down on my knees
now! But in case I don't--just for argument's sake--what's going to
happen, pray?"
"Dis is what is gwine to happen. I's gwine as straight to yo' uncle as I
kin walk, en tell him every las' thing I knows 'bout you."
Tom's cheek blenched, and she saw it. Disturbing thoughts began to chase
each other through his head. "How can she know? And yet she must have
found out--she looks it. I've had the will back only three months, and
am already deep in debt again, and moving heaven and earth to save
myself from exposure and destruction, with a reasonably fair show of
getting the thing covered up if I'm let alone, and now this fiend has
gone and found me out somehow or other. I wonder how much she knows? Oh,
oh, oh, it's enough to break a body's heart! But I've got to humor
her--there's no other way."
Then he worked up a rather sickly sample of a gay laugh and a hollow
chipperness of manner, and said:
"Well, well, Roxy dear, old friends like you and me mustn't quarrel.
Here's your dollar--now tell me what you know."
He held out the wild-cat bill; she stood as she was, and made no
movement. It was her turn to scorn persuasive foolery, now, and she did
not waste it. She said, with a grim implacability in voice and manner
which made Tom almost realize that even a former slave can remember for
ten minutes insults and injuries returned for compliments and flatteries
received, and can also enjoy taking revenge for them when the
opportunity offers:
"What does I know? I'll tell you what I knows. I knows enough to bu'st
dat will to flinders--en more, mind you, more!"
Tom was aghast.
"More?" he said. "What do you call more? Where's there any room for
more?"
Roxy laughed a mocking laugh, and said scoffingly, with a toss of her
head, and her hands on her hips--
"Yes!--oh, I reckon! Co'se you'd like to know--wid yo' po' little ole
rag dollah. What you reckon I's gwine to tell you for?--you ain't got no
money. I's gwine to tell yo' uncle--en I'll do it dis minute, too--he'll
gimme five dollahs for de news, en mighty glad, too."
She swung herself around disdainfully, and started away. Tom was in a
panic. He seized her skirts, and implored her to wait. She turned and
said, loftily--
"Look-a-heah, what 'uz it I tole you?"
"You--you--I don't remember anything. What was it you told me?"
"I tole you dat de next time I give you a chance you'd git down on yo'
knees en beg for it."
Tom was stupefied for a moment. He was panting with excitement. Then he
said:
"Oh, Roxy, you wouldn't require your young master to do such a horrible
thing. You can't mean it."
"I'll let you know mighty quick whether I means it or not! You call me
names, en as good as spit on me when I comes here po' en ornery en
'umble, to praise you for bein' growed up so fine en handsome, en tell
you how I used to nuss you en tend you en watch you when you 'uz sick en
hadn't no mother but me in de whole worl', en beg you to give de po' ole
nigger a dollah for to git her som'n' to eat, en you call me
names--names, dad blame you! Yassir, I gives you jes one chance mo', and
dat's now, en it las' on'y a half a second--you hear?"
Tom slumped to his knees and began to beg, saying--
"You see, I'm begging, and it's honest begging, too! Now tell me, Roxy,
tell me."
The heir of two centuries of unatoned insult and outrage looked down on
him and seemed to drink in deep draughts of satisfaction. Then she
said--
"Fine nice young white gen'l'man kneelin' down to a nigger-wench! I's
wanted to see dat jes once befo' I's called. Now, Gabr'el, blow de hawn,
I's ready ... Git up!"
Tom did it. He said, humbly--
"Now, Roxy, don't punish me any more. I deserved what I've got, but be
good and let me off with that. Don't go to uncle. Tell me--I'll give you
the five dollars."
"Yes, I bet you will; en you won't stop dah, nuther. But I ain't gwine
to tell you heah--"
"Good gracious, no!"
"Is you 'feared o' de ha'nted house?"
"N-no."
"Well, den, you come to de ha'nted house 'bout ten or 'leven to-night,
en climb up de ladder, 'ca'se de sta'r-steps is broke down, en you'll
find me. I's a-roostin' in de ha'nted house 'ca'se I can't 'ford to
roos' nowhers' else." She started toward the door, but stopped and said,
"Gimme de dollah bill!" He gave it to her. She examined it and said,
"H'm--like enough de bank's bu'sted." She started again, but halted
again. "Has you got any whisky?"
"Yes, a little."
"Fetch it!"
He ran to his room overhead and brought down a bottle which was
two-thirds full. She tilted it up and took a drink. Her eyes sparkled
with satisfaction, and she tucked the bottle under her shawl, saying,
"It's prime. I'll take it along."
Tom humbly held the door for her, and she marched out as grim and erect
as a grenadier.
CHAPTER IX.
Tom Practises Sycophancy.
Why is it that we rejoice at a birth and grieve at a funeral? It is
because we are not the person involved.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
It is easy to find fault, if one has that disposition. There was once a
man who, not being able to find any other fault with his coal,
complained that there were too many prehistoric toads in it.--Pudd'nhead
Wilson's Calendar.
Tom flung himself on the sofa, and put his throbbing head in his hands,
and rested his elbows on his knees. He rocked himself back and forth and
moaned.
"I've knelt to a nigger wench!" he muttered. "I thought I had struck the
deepest depths of degradation before, but oh, dear, it was nothing to
