


"Are you tired?" asked Gethryn, looking at the 
clock; "you have ten minutes more." 

"No," said the girl, "continue." 

Finally Gethryn rose and stepped back. 

"Time," he said, still regarding his work. 
"Come and give me a criticism, Elise." 

The girl stretched her limbs, and then, stepping down, trotted over to Gethryn. 

"What do you say?" he demanded, anxiously. 

Artists often pay more serious attention to 
the criticisms of their models than to those of a 
brother artist. For, although models may be 
ignorant of methods which, however, is not 
always the case, from seeing so much good 
work, they acquire a critical acumen which 
often goes straight to the mark. 

It was for one of these keen criticisms that 
the young man was listening now. 

"I like it very much, very much," answered 
the girl, slowly; "but, you see, I am not so cold 
in the face, am I?" 

"Hit it, as usual," muttered the artist, biting 
his lip; "I've  got more greens and blues in 
there than there are in a peacock's tail. You're 
right," he added, aloud, "I must warm that up 



 

a bit, there in the shadows, and keep the high 
lights pure and cold." 

Elise nodded seriously. "Monsieur Chaplain 
and I have finished our picture," she announced, 
after a pause. 

It is a naive way models have of appropriat 
ing work, in which, truly enough, they have no 
small share. They often speak of "our pictures" 
and "our success." 

"How do you like it?" asked the artist, ab 
sently. 

"Good;" she shrugged her shoulders, "but 
not truth." 

"Right again," murmured Gethryn. 

"I prefer Dagnan," added the pretty critic. 

"So do I, rather!" laughed Gethryn. 

"Or you," said the girl. 

"Come, come," cried the young man, coloring 
with pleasure, "you don't mean it, Elise!" 

"I say what I mean, always," she replied, 
marching over to the pups and gathering them 
into her arms. 

"I'm going to take a cigarette," she an 
nounced, presently. 

"All right," said Gethryn, squeezing more 





paint on his palette, "you'll find some mild ones 
on the bookcase." 

Elise gave the pups a little hug and kiss, and 
stepped lightly over to the bookcase. Then she 
lighted a cigarette and turned and surveyed her 
self in the mirror. 

"I'm thinner than I was last year. What do 
you think?" she demanded, studying her pretty 
figure in the glass. 

"Perhaps a bit, but it's all the better. Those 
corsets simply ruined you as a model last year." 

Elise looked serious, and shook her head. 

"I do feel so much better without them. I 
won't wear them again." 

"No, you have a pretty, slender figure, and 
you don't want them. That's why I always get 
you when I can. I hate to draw or paint from 
a girl whose hips are all discolored with ugly 
red creases from her confounded corset." 

The girl glanced contentedly at her supple, 
clean-limbed figure, and then, with a laugh, 
jumped upon the model stand. 

"It's not time," said Gethryn, "you have five 
minutes yet." 

"Go on, all the same." And soon the rattle 
of the brushes alone broke the silence. 



 

At last Gethryn rose and backed off with a sigh. 

"How's that, Elise?" he called. 

She sprang down and stood looking over his 
shoulder. 

"Now I'm like myself!" she cried, frankly; 
"it's delicious! But hurry and block in the legs, 
why don't you?" 

"Next pose," said the young man, squeezing 
out more color. 

And so the afternoon wore away, and at six 
o clock Gethryn threw down his brushes with a 
long-drawn breath. 

"That's all for to-day. Now, Elise, when 
can you give me the next pose? I don't want a 
week at a time on this; I only want a day now 
and then." 

The model went over to her dress and rum 
maged about in the pockets. 

"Here," she said, handing him a note-book 
and diary. 

He selected a date, and wrote his name and 
the hour. 

"Good," said the girl, reading it; and replacing the book, picked up her stockings and slowly 
began to dress. 





Gethryn lay back on the lounge, thoroughly 
tired out. Elsie was humming a Normandy fish 
ing song. When, at last, she stood up, and drew 
on her gloves, he had fallen into a light sleep. 

She stepped softly over to the lounge, and 
listened to the quiet breathing of the young man. 

"How handsome and how good he is!" she 
murmured, wistfully. 

She opened the door very gently. 

"So different, so different from the rest!" she 
sighed, and noiselessly went her way. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

Although the sound of the closing door was 
hardly perceptible, it was enough to wake 
Gethryn. 

"Elise!" he called, starting up, "Elise!" 

But the girl was beyond earshot. 

"And she went away without her money, too; 
I'll drop around to-morrow and leave it; she 
may need it," he muttered, rubbing his eyes 
and staring at the door. 

It was dinner time, and past, but he had lit 
tle appetite. 

"I'll just have something here," he said to 
himself, and catching up his hat ran down-stairs. 
In twenty minutes he was back with eggs, but 
ter, bread, a pate, a bottle of wine and a can of 
sardines. The spirit lamp was lighted and the 
table deftly spread. 

"I'll have a cup of tea too, "he thought, shak 
ing the blue tea canister, and then, touching a 






match to the well-filled grate, soon had the kettle 
fizzling and spluttering merrily. 

The wind had blown up cold from the east, 
and the young man shivered as he closed and 
fastened the windows. Then he sat down, his 
chin on his hands, and gazed into the glowing 
grate. Mrs. Gummidge, who had smelled the 
sardines, came rubbing up against his legs, 
uttering a soft mew from sheer force of habit. 
She was not hungry, in fact, Gethryn knew 
that the concierge, whose duty it was to feed 
all the creatures, overdid it from pure kindness 
of heart, at Gethryn's expense. 

"Gummidge, you're stuffed up to your eyes, 
aren't you?" he said. 

At the sound of his voice the cat hoisted her 
tail, and began to march in narrowing circles 
about her master's chair, making gentle observations in the cat language. 

Gethryn placed a bit of sardine on a fork 
and held it out, but the little humbug merely 
sniffed at it daintily, and then rubbed against 
her master's hand. 

He laughed and tossed the bit of fish into the 
fire, where it spluttered and blazed until the 



 

parrot woke up with a croak of annoyance. 
Gethryn watched the kettle in silence. 

Faces he could never see among the coals, 
but many a time he had constructed animals 
and reptiles from the embers, and just now he 
fancied he could see a resemblance to a shark 
among the bits of blazing coal. 

He watched the kettle dreamily. The fire 
glowed and flashed and sank, and glowed again. 
Now he could distinctly see a serpent twisting 
among the embers. The clock ticked in meas 
ured unison with the slow oscillation of the flame 
serpent. The wind blew hard against the panes, 
and sent a sudden chill creeping to his feet. 

Bang! Bang! went the blinds. The hall 
way was full of strange noises. He thought he 
heard a step on the threshold; he imagined 
that his door creaked, but he did not turn around 
from his study of the fire; it was the wind, of 
course, 

The sudden hiss of the kettle, boiling over, 
made him jump and seize it. As he turned to 
set it down, there was a figure standing beside 
the table. Neither spoke. The kettle burnt his 
hand and he set it back on the hearth; then he 





remained standing, his eyes fixed on the 
fire. 

After a while Yvonne broke the silence, 
speaking very low: "Are you angry?" 

"Why?" 

"I don't know," said the girl with a sigh. 

The silence was too strained to last, and 
finally Gethryn said, "Won't you sit down?" 

She did so silently. 

"You see I'm I'm about to do a little cook 
ing," he said, looking at the eggs. 

The girl spoke again, still very low. 

"Won't you tell me why you are angry?" 

"I'm not," began Gethryn, but he sat down 
and glanced moodily at the girl. 

"For two weeks you have not been to see 
me." 

"You are mistaken, I have been" he began, 
but stopped. 

"When?" 

"Saturday." 

"And I was not at home?" 

"And you were at home," he said grimly. 
"You had a caller, it was easy to hear his 
voice, so I did not knock," 



 

She winced, but said quietly, "Don't you think 
that is rude?" 

"Yes," said Gethryn, "I beg pardon." 

Presently she continued: "You and and he 
are the only two men who have been in my 
room." 

"I'm honored, I'm sure," he answered, dryly- 

The girl threw back her mackintosh, and 
raised her veil. 

"I ask your pardon again," he said; "allow 
me to relieve you of your waterproof." 

She rose, suffering him to aid her with her 
cloak, and then sat down and looked into the fire 
in her turn. 

"It has been so long, I hoped you would 
come." 

"Whom were you with in the Luxembourg 
Gardens?" he suddenly broke out. 

She did not misunderstand or evade the question, and Gethryn, watching her face, thought 
perhaps she had expected it. But she resented 
his tone. 

"I was with a friend," she said, simply. 

He came and sat down opposite her. 





"It is not my business, "he said, sulkily; "excuse me." 

She looked at him for some moments in si 
lence. 

"It was Mr. Pick," she said at length. 

Gethryn could not repress a gesture of disgust. 

"And that, Jew was in your rooms? That 
Jew!" 

"Yes." She sat nervously rolling and unroll 
ing her gloves. "Why do you care?" she asked, 
looking into the fire. 

"I don't." 

"You do." 

There was a pause. 

"Rex," she said, very low, "will you listen?" 

"Yes, I'll listen." 

"He is a a friend of my sister s. He came 
from her to to " 

"To what!" 

"To borrow a little money. I distrusted 
him, the first time he came, the time you heard 
him in my room, and I refused him. Saturday he stopped me in the street, and, hoping 
to avoid a chance of meeting you, I walked 
through the park," 



 

"And you gave him the money, I saw you!" 

I did, all I could spare." 

"Is he, is your sister married?" 

"No," she whispered. 

"And why" began Gethryn, angrily, "Why 
does that scoundrel come to beg money He 
stopped, for the girl was in evident dis 
tress. 

"Ah! You know why," she said in a scarce 
audible voice. 

The young man was silent. 

"And you will come again ?" she asked timidly. 

No answer. 

She moved toward the door. 

"We were such very good friends." 

Still he was silent. 

"Is it au revoir?" she whispered, and waited 
for a moment on the threshold. 

"Then it is adieu." 

"Yes," he said, huskily, "that is better." 

She trembled a little and leaned against the 
doorway. 

"Adieu, mon ami-" She tried to speak, but 
her voice broke and ended in a sob. 

Then, all at once, and neither knew just how 





it was, she was lying in his arms, sobbing passionately. 



"Rex," said Yovnne, half an hour later, as 
she stood before the mirror arranging her disordered curls, "are you not the least little bit 
ashamed of yourself?" 

The answer appeared to be satisfactory, but 
the curly head was in a more hopeless state of 
disorder than before, and at last the girl gave a 
little sigh, and exclaimed, "There! I'm all 
rumpled, but it's your fault. Will you oblige me 
by regarding my hair?" 

"Better let it alone; I'll only rumple it some 
more!" he cried, omniously. 

"You mustn t! I forbid you!" 

"But I want to!" 

"Not now, then " 

"Yes immediately !" 

    "Rex you mustn't O, Rex II" 

"What?" he laughed, holding her by her slen 
der wrists. 

She flushed scarlet and struggled to break 
away. 

"Only one," 



 

"No." 

"One." 

"None." 

"Shall I let you go?" 

"Yes," she said, but catching sight of his 
face, stopped short. 

He dropped her hands with a laugh and looked 
at her. Then she came slowly up to him, and 
flushing crimson, pulled his head down to hers. 

"Yvonne, do you love me? Truthfully?" 

"Rex, can you ask?" Her warm little head 
lay against his throat, her heart beat against his, 
her breath fell upon his cheek, and her curls 
clustered among his own. 

"Yvonne Yvonne," he murmured, "I love 
you, once and forever." 

"Once and forever," she repeated, in a half 
whisper. 

"Forever," he said. 

' ' ' ' 

An hour later they were seated tete-a-tete at 
Gethryn's little table. She had not permitted 
him to poach the eggs, and perhaps they were 
better on that account. 

"Bachelor habits must cease," she cried, with 





a little laugh, and Gethryn smiled in doubtful 
acquiescence. 

"Do you like grilled sardines on toast?" she 
asked. 

"I seem to," he smiled, finishing his fourth; 
"they are delicious, yours," he added. 

"Oh, that tea!" she cried, "and not one bit 
of sugar. What a hopelessly careless man!" 

But Gethryn jumped up, crying, "Wait a mo 
ment!" and returned triumphantly with a huge 
mass of rock-candy, the remains of one of 
Clifford's abortive attempts at "rye-and-rock." 

They each broke off enough for their cups, 
and Gethryn, tasting his, declared the tea "de 
licious." Yvonne sat, chipping an egg and 
casting sidelong glances at Gethryn, which were 
always met and returned with interest 

"Yvonne, I want to tell you a secret." 

"What, Rex?" 

"I love you." 

"Oh!" 

"And you?" 

"No not at all!" cried the girl, shaking her 
pretty head. Presently she gave him a swift 
glance from beneath her drooping lashes, 



 

"Rex?" 

"What, Yvonne?" 

"I want to tell you a secret." 

"What, Yvonne?" 

"If you eat so many sardines " 

"Oh!" cried Gethryn, half angrily, but laugh 
ing, "you must pay for that!" 

"\Vhat?" she said, innocently, but jumped 
up and kept the table between him and herself. 

"You know!" he cried, chasing her into a 
corner. 

"We are two babies," she said, very red, 
following him back to the table. The pate was 
eaten in comparative quiet. 

"Now," she said, with great dignity, setting 
down her glass, "behave and get me some hot 
water." 

Gethryn meekly brought it. 

"If you touch me while I am washing these 
dishes!!!" 

"But let me help?" 

"No, go and sit down instantly." 

He fled in affected terror, and ensconced him 
self upon the sofa. Presently he inquired, in a 
plaintive voice: "Have you nearly finished?" 





"No," said the girl, carefully drying and ar 
ranging the quaint Egyptian tea-set, "and I 
won't for ages." 

"But you're not going to wash all those 
things? The concierge does that." 

"No, only the wine-glasses and the tea-set. 
The idea of trusting such fragile cups to a con 
cierge! What a boy!" 

But she was soon ready to dry her slender 
hands, and caught up a towel with a demure 
glance at Gethryn. 

"Which do you think most of, your dogs, 
or me?" 

"Pups." 

"That parrot, or me?" 

"Poll." 

"The raven, or me? The cat, or me?" 

"Bird and puss." 

She stole over to his side and knelt down. 

"Rex, if you ever tire of me, if you ever are 
unkind, if you ever leave me, I think I shall 
die." 

He drew her to him. "Yvonne," he whispered, 
"we can't always be together." 

"I know it, I'm foolish," she faltered. 




"I shall not always be a student. I shall not 
always be in Paris, dear Yvonne." 
She leaned closer to him. 
"I must go back to America some day." 
"And and marry?" she whispered, chok- 



"No not to marry," he said, "but it is my 
home." 

"I I know it, Rex, but don't let us think of 
it. Rex," she said, some moments after, "are 
you like all students?" 

"How do you mean?" 

"Have you ever loved, before, a girl, here 
in Paris, like me?" 

"There are none, like you." 

"Answer me, Rex." 

"No, I never have," he said, truthfully. 
Presently he added, "And you, Yvonne?" 

She put her warm little hand across his mouth. 

"Don't ask," she murmured. 

"But I do!" he cried, struggling to see her 
eyes, "won't you tell me?" 

She hid her face tight against his breast. 

"You know I have; that is why I am alone 
here, in Paris," 





"You loved him?" 

"Yes, not as I love you." 

Presently she raised her eyes to his. 

"Shall I tell you all? I am like so many so 
many others. When you know their story, you 
know mine." 

He leaned down and kissed her. 

"Don't tell me," he said. 

But she went on. 

"I was only seventeen I am nineteen now. 
He was an officer at at Chartres, where we 
lived. He took me to Paris." 

"And left you." 

"He died of the fever in Tonquin." 

"When?" 

"Three weeks ago." 

"And you heard?" 

"To-night." 

"Then he did leave you." 

"Don t, Rex, he never loved me, and I I 
never really loved him. I found that out." 

"When did you find it out?" 

"One day, you know when, in a  cab." 

"Dear Yvonne," he whispered, "can't you go 
back to to your family?" 



 

"No, Rex." 

"Never?" 

"I don't wish, to now. No, don't ask me 
why! I can't tell you. I am like all the rest 
all the rest. The Paris fever is only cured 
by death. Don't ask me, Rex; I am content 
indeed I am." 

Suddenly a heavy rapping at the door caused 
Gethryn to spring hurriedly to his feet. 

"Rex!" 

It was Braith's voice. 

"What!" cried Gethryn, hoarsely. 

There was a pause. 

"Aren't you going to let me in?" 

"I can t, old man; I I'm not just up for company to-night," stammered Gethryn. 

"Company be damned, are you ill?" 

"No." 

There was a silence. 

"I'm sorry," began Gethryn, but was cut short 
by a gruff, 

"All right; good-night!" and Braith went 
away. 

Yvonne looked inquiringly at him. 

"It was nothing," he murmured, very pale, 



and then threw himself at her feet, crying, "Oh, 
Yvonne Yvonne !" 

Outside the storm raged furiously. 

Presently she whispered, "Rex, shall I light 
the candle? It is midnight." 

&lt;Yes," he said. 

She slipped away, and after searching for 
some time, cried, "The matches are all gone, 
but here is a piece of paper, a letter; do you 
want it? I can light it over the lamp." 

She held up an envelope to him. 

"I can light it over the lamp," she repeated. 

"What is the address" 

"It is very long, I can't read it all, only Flor 
ence, Italy. ' 

"Burn it, "he said, in a voice so low she could 
scarcely hear him. 

Presently she came over and knelt down by 
his side. Neither spoke or moved. 

"The candle is lighted," she whispered, at 
last. 

"And the lamp?" 

"Is out." 



CHAPTER IX. 

Cholmondeley Rowden had invited a select 
circle of friends to join him in a "petit diner a 
la stag," as he expressed it. 

Eight months of Paris and the cold, cold 
world had worked a wonderful change in Mr. 
Rowden. For one thing, he had shaved his whiskers and now wore only a mustache. For 
another, he had learned to like and respect a 
fair portion of the French students, and in con 
sequence was respected and liked in return. 

He had had two fights, in both of which he 
had contributed to the glory of the British Empire, and prize ring. 

He was a better sparrer than Clifford, and 
was his equal in the use of the foils. Like Clifford, 
he was a capital banjoist, but he insisted that 
cricket was far superior to base-ball, and this 
was the only bone of contention that ever fell 
between the two. 

Clifford played his shameless jokes as usual, 






accompanied by the enthusiastic applause of 
Rowden. Clifford also played "The Widow 
Nolan's Goat" upon his banjo, accompanied by 
the intricate pizzicatos of Rowden. 

Clifford drank numerous bottles of double X 
with Rowden, and Rowden consumed uncounted 
egg- flips with Clifford. They were inseparable; 
in fact, the triumvirate, Clifford, Elliott and 
Rowden, even went so far as to dress alike, and 
mean-natured people hinted that they had but 
one common style in painting. But they did 
not make the remark to any of the triumvirate. 
They were very fond of each other, these pre 
cious triumvirs, but they did not address each 
other by nicknames, and perhaps it was because 
they respected each other enough to refrain 
from familiarities that this alliance lasted as long 
as they lived. 

It was a beautiful sight, that of the three 
youths, when they sallied forth in company, 
hatted, clothed, and gloved alike, and each followed by a murderous-looking bull-dog. The 
animals were of the brindled variety, and each 
was garnished with a steel spiked collar. Timid 
people often crossed to the other side of the 
street on meeting this procession. 



 

Braith laughed at the whole performance, 
but secretly thought that a little of their spare 
