she heard Yan Dam's comment on it, " Yes, a devil 
of a nun." 
The library was as cozy as ever, but did not 
appear to be used much as a library. Henderson, 
indeed, had no time to add to his collection or enjoy it. Most of the books strewn on the tables 
were French novels or such American tales as had 
the cachet of social riskiness. But Carmen liked 
the room above all others. She enjoyed her cigarette there, and had a fancy for pouring her five- 
o'clock tea in its shelter. Books which had all 
sorts of things in them gave somehow an unconventional atmosphere to the place, and one could 
say things there that one couldn't say in a drawing-room. 
Henderson himself, it must be confessed, had 
grown stout in the ten years, and puffy under the 
eyes. There were lines of irritation in his face and 
lines of weariness. He had not kept the freshness 
of youth so well as Carmen, perhaps because of his 
New England conscience. To his guest he was 
courteous, seemed to be making an effort to be so, 
and listened with well-assumed interest to the story 
of her day's pilgrimage. At length he said, with 
a smile, "Life seems to interest you, Mrs. De- 
lancy." 
" Yes, indeed," said Edith, looking up brightly ; 
" doesn't it you ?" 
" Why, yes ; not life exactly, but things, doing 
things conflict." 
" Yes, I can understand that. There is so much 
to be done for everybody." 
Henderson looked amused. "You know in the 
city the gospel is that everybody is to be done." 
"Well," said Edith, not to be diverted, "but, Mr. 
Henderson, what is it all for this conflict ? Per- 
haps, however, you are fighting the devil?" 
" Yes, that's it ; the devil is usually the other 
fellow. But, Mrs. Delancy," added Henderson, 
with an accent of seriousness, " I dont know what 
it's all for. I doubt if there is much in it." 
" And yet the world credits you with finding a 
great deal in it." 
" The world is generally wrong. Do you under- 
stand poker, Mrs. Delancy ? No ! Of course you 
do not. But the interest of the game isn't so much 
in the cards as in the men." 
" I thought it was the stakes." 
" Perhaps so. But you want to win for the sake 
of winning. If I gambled it would be a question 
of nerve. I suppose that which we all enjoy is the 
exercise of skill in winning." 
" And not for the sake of doing anything just 
winning? Don't you get tired of that?" asked 
Edith, quite simply. 
There was something in Edith's sincerity, in her 
fresh enthusiasm about life, that appeared to strike 
a reminiscent note in Henderson. Perhaps he re- 
membered another face as sweet as hers, and ideals, 
faint and long ago, that were once mixed with his 
ideas of success. At any rate, it was with an ac- 
cent of increased deference, and with a look she 
had not seen in his face before, that he said : 
" People get tired of everything. I'm not sure 
but it would interest me to see for a minute how 
the world looks through your eyes." And then he 
added, in a different tone, " As to your East Side, 
Mrs. Henderson tried that some years ago." 
" Wasn't she interested ?" 
"Oh, very much. For a time. But she said 
there was too much of it." And Edith could detect 
no tone of sarcasm in the remark. 
Down at the other end of the table matters were 
going very smoothly. Jack was charmed with his 
hostess. That clever woman had felt her way 
along from the heresy trial, through Tuxedo and 
the Independent Theatre and the Horse Show, 
until they were launched in a perfectly free con- 
versation, and Carmen knew that she hadn't to 
look out for thin ice. 
"Were you thinking of going on to the Conven- 
tional Club to-night, Mr. Delancy ?" she was saying. 
"I don't belong," said Jack. "Mrs. Delancy 
said she didn't care for it." 
"Oh, I don't care for it, for myself," replied 
Carmen. 
" I do," struck in Miss Tavish. It's awfully 
nice." 
" Yes, it does seem to fill a want. Why, what 
do you do with your evenings, Mr. Delancy ?" 
" "Well, here's one of them." 
" Yes, I know, but I mean between twelve o'clock 
and bedtime." 
" Oh," said Jack, laughing out loud, " I go to bed 
sometimes." 
" Yes, there's always that. But you want some 
place to go to after the theatres and the dinners ; 
after the other places are shut up you want to go 
somewhere and be amused." 
" Yes," said Jack, falling in, " it is a fact that 
there are not many places of amusement for the 
rich ; I understand. After the theatres you want 
to be amused. This Conventional Club is " 
" I tell you what it is. It's a sort of Midnight 
Mission for the rich. They never have had any- 
thing of the kind in the city." 
" And it's very nice," said Miss Tavish, demurely. " The performers are selected. You can see 
things there that you want to see at other places 
to which you can't go. And everybody you know 
is there." 
" Oh, I see," said Jack. " It's what the Inde- 
pendent Theatre is trying to do, and what all the 
theatrical people say needs *to be done, to elevate 
the character of the audiences, and then the man- 
agers can give better plays." 
" That's just it. We want to elevate the stage," 
Carmen explained. 
" But," continued Jack, " it seems to me that 
now the audience is select and elevated, it wants to 
see the same sort of things it liked to see before it 
was elevated." 
" You may laugh, Mr. Delancy," replied Carmen, 
throwing an earnest simplicity into her eyes, " but 
why shouldn't women know what is going on as 
well as men?" 
"And why," Miss Tavish asked, " will the ser- 
pentine dances and the London topical songs do 
any more harm to women than to men ?" 
" And besides, Mr. Delancy," Carmen said, chim- 
ing in, " isn't it just as proper that women should 
see women dance and throw somersaults on the 
stage as that men should see them ? And then, you 
know, women are such a restraining influence." 
" I hadn't thought of that," said Jack. " I thought 
the Conventional was for the benefit of the audi- 
ence, not for the salvation of the performers." 
"It's both. It's life. Don't you think women 
ought to know life ? How are they to take their 
place in the world unless they know life as men 
know it?" 
" I'm sure I don't know whose place they are to 
take, the serpentine dancer's or mine," said Jack, 
as if he were studying a problem. "How does 
your experiment get on, Miss Tavish ?" 
Carmen looked up quickly. " Oh, I haven't any 
experiment," said Miss Tavish, shaking her head, 
" It's just Mr. Delancy's nonsense." 
" I wish I had an experiment. There is so little 
for women to do. I wish I knew what was right." 
And Carmen looked mournfully demure, as if life, 
after all, were a serious thing with her. 
" Whatever Mrs. Henderson does is sure to be 
right," said Jack, gallantly. 
Carmen shot at him a quick sympathetic glance, 
tempered by a grateful smile. " There are so many 
points of view." 
Jack felt the force of the remark as he did the 
revealing glance. And he had a s.vift vision of 
Miss Tavish leading him a serpentine dance, and of 
Carmen sweetly beckoning him to a pleasant point 
of view. After all it doesn't much matter. Every- 
thing is in the point of view. 
After dinner and cigars and cigarettes in the 
libra^, the talk dragged a little in duets. The 
dinner had been charming, the house was lovely, 
the company was most agreeable. All said that. 
It had been so somewhere else the night before 
that, and would be the next night. And the ennui 
of it all! No one expressed it, but Henderson 
could not help looking it, and Carmen saw it. That 
charming hostess had been devoting herself to 
Edith since dinner. She was so full of sympathy 
with the East-Side work, asked a hundred questions 
about it, and declared that she must take it up 
again. She would order a cage of canaries from 
that poor German for her kitchen. It was such a 
beautiful idea. But Edith did not believe in her 
one bit. She told Jack afterwards that " Mrs. 
Henderson cares no more for the poor of Xew 
York than she does for " 
" Henderson ?" suggested Jack. 
" Oh, I don't know anything about that. Hen- 
derson has only one idea to get the better of ev- 
erybody, and be the money king of Kew Tork. 
But I should not wonder if he had once a soft spot 
in his heart. He is better than she is." 
It was still early, lacked half an hour of mid- 
night, and the night was before them. Some one 
proposed the Conventional. " Yes," said Carmen ; 
" all come to our box." The Yan Dams would go, 
Miss Tavish, the Chesneys ; the suggestion was a 
relief to everybody. Only Mr. Henderson pleaded 
important papers that must have his attention that 
night. Edith said that she was too tired, but that 
her desertion must not break up the party. 
" Then you will excuse me also," said Jack, a 
little shade of disappointment in his face. 
" No, no," said Edith, quickly ; " you can drop 
me on the way. Go, by all means, Jack." 
" Do you really want me to go, dear ?" said Jack, 
aside. 
" Why of course ; I want you to be happy." 
And Jack recalled the loving look that accom- 
panied these words, later on, as he sat in the Hen- 
derson box at the Conventional, between Carmen 
and Miss Tavish, and saw, through the slight haze 
of smoke, beyond the orchestra, the praiseworthy 
efforts of the Montana Kicker, who had just re- 
turned with the imprimatur of Paris, to relieve the 
ennui of the modern world. 
The complex affair we call the world requires a 
great variety of people to keep it going. At one 
o'clock in the morning Carmen and our friend Mr. 
Delancy and Miss Tavish were doing their part. 
Edith lay awake listening for Jack's return. And 
in an alley off Kivington Street a young girl, pretty 
once, unknown to fortune but not to fame, was 
about to render the last service she could to the 
world by leaving it. 
The impartial historian scarcely knows how to 
distribute his pathos. By the electric light (and 
that is the modern light) gayety is almost as pa- 
thetic as suffering. Before the Montana girl hit 
upon the happy device that gave her notoriety, her 
feet, whose every twinkle now was worth a gold 
eagle, had trod a thorny path. There was a fort- 
une now in the whirl of her illusory robes, but any 
day such are the whims of fashion she might be 
wandering again, sick at heart, about the great 
city, knocking at the side doors of variety sho\vs 
for any engagement that would give her a pit- 
tance of a few dollars a week. How long had 
Carmen waited on the social outskirts ; and now 
she had come into her kingdom, was she anything 
but a tinsel queen? Even Henderson, the great 
Henderson, did the friends of his youth respect 
him ? had he public esteem ? Carmen used to cut 
out the newspaper paragraphs that extolled Hen- 
derson's domestic virtue and his generosity to his 
family, and show them to her lord, with a queer 
smile on her face. Miss Tavish, in the nervous 
consciousness of fleeting years, was she not still 
waiting, dashing here and there like a bird in a 
net for the sort of freedom, audacious as she was, 
that seemed denied her? She was still beautiful, 
everybody said, and she was sought and flat- 
tered, because she was always merry and good- 
natured. Why should Van Dam, speaking of 
women, say that there were horses that had 
been set up, and checked up and trained, that 
held their heads in an aristocratic fashion, moved 
elegantly, and showed style, long after the spirit 
had gone out of them? And Jack himself, hap- 
pily married, with a comfortable income, why 
was life getting flat to him? What sort of ca- 
reer was it that needed the aid of Carmen and 
the serpentine dancer? And why not, since it 
is absolutely necessary that the world should be 
amused ? 
We are in no other world when we enter the 
mean tenement in the alley off Rivington Street. 
Here also is the life of the town. The room is 
small, but it contains a cook -stove, a chest of 
drawers, a small table, a couple of chairs, and two 
narrow beds. On the top of the chest are a look- 
ing-glass, some toilet articles, and bottles of medi- 
cine. The cracked walls are bare and not clean. 
In one of the beds are two children, sleeping 
soundly, and on the foot of it is a middle-aged wom- 
an, in a soiled woollen gown with a thin figured 
shawl drawn about her shoulders, a dirty cap half 
concealing her frowzy hair; she looks tired and 
worn and sleepy. On the other bed lies a girl of 
twenty years, a woman in experience. The kero- 
sene lamp on the stand at the head of the bed casts 
a spectral light on her flushed face, and the thin 
arms that are restlessly thrown outside the cover. 
By the bedside sits the doctor, patient, silent, and 
watchful. The doctor puts her hand caressingly 
on that of the girl. It is hot and dry. The girl 
opens her eyes with a startled look, and says, 
feebly, 
" Do you think he will come ?" 
" Yes, dear, presently. He never fails." 
The girl closed her eyes again, and there was 
silence. The dim rays of the lamp, falling upon 
the doctor, revealed the figure of a woman of less 
than medium size, perhaps of the age of thirty or 
more, a plain little body, you would have said, who 
paid the slightest possible attention to her dress, 
and when she went about the city was not to be 
distinguished from a working- woman. Her friends, 
indeed, said that she had not the least care for her 
personal appearance, and unless she was watched, 
she was sure to go out in her shabbiest gown and 
most battered hat. She wore to-night a brown 
ulster and a nondescript black bonnet drawn close 
down on her head and tied with black strings. In 
her lap lay her leathern bag, which she usually car- 
ried under her arm, that contained medicines, lint, 
bandages, smelling-salts, a vial of ammonia, and so 
on ; to her patients it was a sort of conjurer's bag, 
out of which she could produce anything that an 
emergency called for. 
Dr. Leigh was not in the least nervous or excited. 
Indeed, an artist would not have painted her as a 
rapt angelic visitant to this abode of poverty. This 
contact with poverty and coming death was quite 
in her ordinary experience. It would never have 
occurred to her that she was doing anything un- 
usual, any more than it would have occurred to the 
objects of her ministrations to overwhelm her with 
thanks. They trusted her, that was all. They 
met her always with a pleasant recognition. She 
belonged perhaps to their world. Perhaps they 
would have said that " Dr. Leigh don't handsome 
much," but their idea was that her face was good. 
That was what anybody would have said who saw 
her to-night, " She has such a good face" ; the face 
of a woman who knew the world, and perhaps was 
not very sanguine about it, had few illusions and 
few antipathies, but accepted it, and tried in her 
humble way to alleviate its hardships, without any 
consciousness of having a mission or making a sac- 
rifice. 
Dr. Leigh Miss Euth Leigh was Edith's friend. 
She had not come from the country with an ex- 
alted notion of being a worker among the poor 
about whom so much was written ; she had not 
even descended from some high circle in the city 
into this world, moved by a restless enthusiasm for 
humanity. She was a woman of the people, to 
adopt a popular phrase. From her childhood she 
had known them, their wants, their sympathies, 
their discouragements; and in her heart though 
you would not discover this till you had known 
her long and well there was a burning sympathy 
with them, a ympathy born in her, and not as- 
sumed for the sake of having a career. It was this 
that had impelled her to get a medical education, 
which she obtained by hard labor and self-denial. 
To her this was not a means of livelihood, but 
simply that she might be of service to those all 
about her who needed help more than she did. 
She didn't believe in charity, this stout-hearted, 
clear-headed little woman ; she meant to make 
everybody pay for her medical services who could 
pay ; but somehow her practice was not lucrative, 
and the little salary she got as a dispensary doctor 
melted away with scarcely any perceptible im- 
provement in her own wardrobe. Why, she need- 
ed nothing, going about as she did. 
She sat now waiting for the end ; and the good 
face, so full of sympathy for the living, had no 
hope in it. Just another human being had come 
to the end of her path the end literally. It was 
so every day. Somebody came to the end, and 
there was nothing beyond. Only it was the end, 
and that was peace. One o'clock half -past one. 
The door opened softly. The old woman rose from 
the foot of the bed with a start and a low " Herr ! 
griiss Gott." It was Father Damon. The girl 
opened her eyes with a frightened look at first, and 
then an eager appeal. Dr. Leigh rose to make 
room for him at the bedside. They bowed as he 
came forward, and their eyes met. She shook her 
head. In her eyes was no expectation, no hope. 
In his was the glow of faith. But the eyes of the 
girl rested upon his face with a rapt expression. It 
was as if an angel had entered the room. 
Father Damon was a young man, not yet past 
thirty, slender, erect. He had removed as he came 
in his broad-brimmed soft hat. The hair was close- 
cut, but not tonsured. He wore a brown cassock, 
falling in straight lines, and confined at the waist 
with a white cord. From his neck depended from 
a gold chain a large gold cross. His face was 
smooth-shaven, thin, intellectual, or rather spirit- 
ual ; the nose long, the mouth straight, the e} r es 
deep gray, sometimes dreamy and puzzling, again 
glowing with an inner fervor. A face of long vig- 
ils and the schooled calmness of repressed energy. 
You would say a fanatic of God, with a dash of 
self-consciousness. Dr. Leigh knew him well. They 
met often on their diverse errands, and she liked, 
when she could, to go to vespers in the little mis- 
sion chapel of St. Anselm, where he ministered. It 
was not the confessional that attracted her, that 
was sure ; perhaps not altogether the service, though 
that was soothing in certain moods ; but it was the 
noble personality of Father Damon. He was de- 
voted to the people as she was, he understood them ; 
and for the moment their passion of humanity as- 
sumed the same aspect, though she knew that what 
he saw, or thought he saw, lay beyond her agnostic 
vision. 
Father Damon was an Englishman, a member of 
a London Anglican order, who had taken the three 
vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience, who had 
been for some years in New York, and had finally 
come to live on the East Side, where his work was. 
In a way he had identified himself with the peo- 
pie ; he attended their clubs ; he was a Christian 
socialist ; he spoke on the inequalities of taxation ; 
the strikers were pretty sure of his sympathy ; he 
argued the injustice of the present ownership of 
land. Some said that he had joined a lodge of the 
Knights of Labor. Perhaps it was these things, 
quite as much as his singleness of purpose and his 
spiritual fervor, that drew Dr. Leigh to him with a 
feeling that verged on devotion. The ladies up- 
town, at whose tables Father Damon was an infre- 
quent guest, were as fully in sympathy with this 
handsome and aristocratic young priest, and 
thought it beautiful that he should devote himself 
to the poor and the sinful ; but they did not see 
why he should adopt their views. 
It was at the mission that Father Damon had 
first seen the girl. She had ventured in not long 
ago at twilight, with her cough and her pale face, 
in a silk gown and flower-garden of a hat, and 
crept into one of the confessional boxes, and told 
him her story. 
" Do you think, father," said the girl, looking up 
wistfully, " that I can can be forgiven ?" 
Father Damon looked down sadly, pitifully. 
" Yes, my daughter, if you repent. It is all with 
our Father. He never refuses." 
He knelt down, with his cross in his hand, and 
in a low voice repeated the prayer for the dying. 
As the sweet, thrilling voice went on in supphca- 
tion the girl's eyes closed again, and a sweet smile 
played about her mouth ; it was the innocent smile 
of the little girl long ago, when she might have 
awakened in the morning and heard the singing of 
birds at her window. 
When Father Damon arose she seemed to be 
sleeping. They all stood in silence for &, moment. 
" You will remain ?" he asked the doctor. 
" Yes," she said, with the faintest wan smile on 
her face. " It is I, you know, who have care of 
the body." 
At the door he turned and said, quite low, 
" Peace be to this house !" 
CHAPTER Vi 
FATHER DAMON came dangerously near to being 
popular. The austerity of his life and his known 
self - chastening vigils contributed to this effect. 
His severely formal, simple ecclesiastical dress, 
coarse in material but perfect in its saintly lines, 
separated him from the world in which he moved 
so unostentatiously and humbly, and marked him 
as one who went about doing good. His life was 
that of self-absorption and hardship, mortification 
of the body, denial of the solicitation of the senses, 
struggling of the spirit for more holiness of pur- 
pose a life of supplication for the perishing souls 
about him. And yet he was so informed with the 
modern spirit that he was not content, as a zealot 
formerly might have been, to snatch souls out of 
the evil that is in the world, but he strove to lessen 
the evil. He was a reformer. It was probably 
this feature of his activity, and not his spiritual 
mission, that attracted to him the little group of 
positivists on the East Side, the demagogues of the 
labor lodges, the practical workers of the working- 
girls' clubs, and the humanitarian agnostics like 
Dr. Leigh, who were literally giving their lives 
without the least expectation of reward. Even the 
refined ethical-culture groups had no sneer for Fa- 
ther Damon. 
The little chapel of St. Anselm was well known. 
It was always open. It was plain, but its plainness 
was not the barrenness of a non-conformist chapel. 
There were two confessionals ; a great bronze lamp 
attached to one of the pillars scarcely dispelled the 
obscurity, but cast an unnatural light upon the gi- 
gantic crucifix that hung from a beam in front of 
the chancel. There were half a dozen rows of 
backless benches in the centre of the chapel. The 
bronze lamp, and the candles always burning upon 
the altar, rather accented than dissipated the heavy 
shadows in the vaulted roof. At no hour was it 
empty, but at morning prayer and at vespers the 
benches were apt to be filled, and groups of peni- 
tents OP spectators were kneeling or standing on 
the floor. At vespers there were sure to be car- 
riages in front of the door, and among the kneeling 
figures were ladies who brought into these simple 
services for the poor something of the refinement 
of grace as it is in the higher circles. Indeed, at 
the hour set apart for confession, there were in the 
boxes saints from up-town as well as sinners from 
the slums. Sometimes the sinners were from up- 
town and the saints from the slums. 
"When the organ sounded, and through a low 
door in the chancel the priest entered, preceded by 
a couple of acolytes, and advanced swiftly to the 
reading-desk, there was an awed hush in the con- 
gregation. One would not dare to say that there 
was a sentimental feeling for the pale face and 
rapt expression of the devotee. It was more than 
that. He had just come from some scene of suffer- 
ing, from the bed of one dying ; he was weary with 
watching. He "was faint with lonely vigils ; he 
was visibly carrying the load of the poor and the 
despised. Even Ruth Leigh, who had dropped in 
for half an hour in one of her daily rounds even 
Ruth Leigh, who had in her stanch, practical mind 
a contempt for forms and rituals, and no faith in 
anything that she could not touch, and who at 
times was indignant at the efforts wasted over the 
future of souls concerning w r hich no one knew any- 
thing, when there were so many bodies, which had 
inherited disease and poverty and shame, going to 
worldly wreck before so-called Christian eyes even 
she could scarcely keep herself from adoring this 
self-sacrificing spirit. The woes of humanity grieved 
him as they grieved her, and she used to say she 
did not care what he believed so long as he gave 
his life for the needy. 
It was when he advanced to the altar -rail to 
speak that the man best appeared. His voice, 
which was usually low and full of melody, could 
be something terrible when it rose in denunciation 
of sin. Those who had travelled said that he had 
the manner of a preaching friar the simple lan- 
guage, so refined and yet so homely and direct, the 
real, the inspired word, the occasional hastening 
torrent of words. When he had occasion to ad- 
dress one of the societies of ladies for the promo- 
tion of something among the poor, his style and 
manner were simplicity itself. One might have 
said there was a shade of contempt in his familiar 
and not seldom slightly humorous remarks upon 
society and its aims and aspirations, about which 
he spoke plainly and vigorously. And this was 
what the ladies liked. Especially when he referred 
to the pitifulness of class distinctions, in the light 
of the example of our Lord, in our short pilgrimage 
in this world. This unveiling and denunciation 
made them somehow feel nearer to their work, and, 
indeed, while they sat there, co-workers with this 
apostle of righteousness. 
Perhaps there was something in the priestly 
dress that affected not only the congregation in 
the chapel, but all the neighborhood in which Fa- 
ther Damon lived. There was in the long robe, 
with its feminine lines, an assurance to the women 
that he was set apart and not as others were ; and, 
on the other hand, the semi-feminine suggestion of 
the straight-falling garment may have had for the 
men a sort of appeal for defence and even protec- 
tion. It is certain, at any rate, that Father Damon 
had the confidence of high and low, rich and poor. 
The forsaken sought him out, the hungry went to 
him, the dying sent for him, the criminal knocked 
at the door of his little room, even the rich repro- 
bate would have opened his bad heart to him sooner 
than to any one else. It is evident, therefore, that 
Father Damon was dangerously near to being pop- 
ular. 
Human vanity will feed on anything within its 
reach, and there has been discovered yet no situa- 
tion that will not minister to its growth. Suffering 
perhaps it prefers, and contumely and persecution. 
Are not opposition, despiteful anger, slander even, 
rejection of men, stripes even, if such there could be 
in these days, manna to the devout soul consciously 
set apart for a mission ? But success, obsequious- 
ness, applause, the love of women, the concurrent 
good opinion of all humanitarians, are these not 
almost as dangerous as persecution ? Father Da- 
mon, though exalted in his calling, and filled with 
a burning zeal, was a sincere man, and even his ec- 
centricities of saintly conduct expressed to his mind 
only the high purpose of self-sacrifice. Yet he 
saw, he could not but see, the spiritual danger in 
this rising tide of adulation. He fought against its 
influence, he prayed against it, he tried to humiliate 
himself, and his very humiliations increased the 
adulation. He was perplexed, almost ashamed, 
and examined himself to see how it was that he 
himself seemed to be thwarting his own work. 
Sometimes he withdrew from it for a week togeth- 
er, and buried himself in a retreat in the upper part 
of the island. Alas ! did ever a man escape him- 
self in a retreat ? It made him calm for the mo- 
ment. But why was it, he asked himself, that he 
had so many followers, his religion so few ? Why 
was it, he said, that all the humanitarians, the re- 
formers, the guilds, the ethical groups, the agnostics, 
the male and female knights, sustained him, and 
only a few of the poor and friendless knocked, by 
his solicitation, at the supernatural door of life? 
How was it that a woman whom he encountered 
so often, a very angel of mercy, could do the things 
he was doing, tramping about in the misery and 
squalor of the great city day and night, her path 
umlluminated by a ray from the future life? 
Perhaps he had been remiss in his duty. Per- 
haps he was letting a vague philanthropy take the 
place of a personal solicitude for individual souls. 
The elevation of the race! What had the land 
question to do with the salvation of man ? Suppose 
everybody on the East Side should become as in- 
dustrious, as self-denying, as unselfish as Ruth Leigh, 
and yet without belief, without hope ! He had ac- 
cepted the humanitarian situation with her, and 
never had spoken to her of the eternal life. What 
unfaithfulness to his mission and to her! It should 
be so no longer. 
It was after one of his weeks of retreat, at the 
close of vesper service, that Dr. Leigh came to him. 
He had been saying in his little talk that poverty 
is no excuse for irreligion, and that all aid in the 
hardship of this world was vain and worthless un- 
less the sinner laid hold on eternal life. Dr. Leigh, 
who was laboring with a serious practical problem, 
heard this coldly, and with a certain contempt for 
what seemed to her a vague sort of consolation. 
" Well," he said, when she came to him in the 
vestry, with a drop from the rather austere manner 
in which he had spoken, " what can I do for you ?" 
" For me, nothing, Father Damon. I thought 
perhaps you would go round with me to see a pret- 
ty bad case. It is in your parish." 
" Ah, did they send for me ? Do they want spir- 
itual help?" 
" First the natural, then the spiritual," she re- 
plied, with a slight tone of sarcasm in her voice. 
" That's just like a priest," she was thinking. " I 
do not know what to do, and something must be 
done." 
" Did you report to the Associated Charities ?" 
" Yes. But there's a hitch somewhere. The ma- 
chine doesn't take hold. The man says he doesn't 
want any charity, any association, treating him like 
a pauper. He's off peddling ; but trade is bad, and 
he's been away a week. I'm afraid he drinks a 
little." 
"Well?" 
" The mother is sick in bed. I found her trying 
to do some fine stitching, but she was too weak to 
hold up the muslin. There are five young children. 
The family never has had help before." 
Father Damon put on his hat, and they went out 
together, and for some time picked their way along 
the muddy streets in silence. 
At length he asked, in a softened voice, " Is the 
mother a Christian ?" 
" I didn't ask," she replied, shortly. " I found 
her crying because the children were hungry." 
Father Damon, still under the impression of his 
neglect of duty, did not heed her warning tone, 
but persisted, " You have so many opportunities, 
Dr. Leigh, in your visits of speaking a word." 
"About what?" she asked, refusing to under- 
derstand, and hardened at the slightest sign of 
what she called cant. 
" About the necessity of repentance and prepa- 
ration for another life," he answered, softly but 
firmly. " You surely do not think human beings 
are created just for this miserable little experience 
here?" 
" I don't know. I have too much to do with the 
want and suffering I see to raise anxieties about a 
world of which no one can possibly know any- 
thing." 
" Pardon me," he persisted, " have you no sense 
of incompleteness in this life, in your own life? 
no inward consciousness of an undying person- 
ality?" 
The doctor was angry for a moment at this intru- 
sion. It had seemed natural enough for Father 
Damon to address his exhortations to the poor and 
sinful of his mission. She admired his spirit, she 
had a certain sympathy with him ; for who could 
say that ministering to minds diseased might not 
have a physical influence to lift these people into a 
more decent and prosperous way of living ? She 
had thought of herself as working with him to a 
common end. But for him now to turn upon her, 
absolutely ignoring the solid, rational, and scien- 
tific ground on which he knew, or should know, 
she stood, and to speak to her as one of the " lost," 
startled her, and filled her with indignation. She 
had on her lips a sarcastic reply to the effect that, 
even if she had a soul, she had not taken up her 
work in the city as a means of saving it; but she 
was not given to sarcasm, and before she spoke she 
looked at her companion, and saw in the eyes a look 
of such genuine humble feeling, contradicting the 
otherwise austere expression of his face, that her 
momentary bitterness passed away. 
" I think, Father Damon," she said, gently, " we 
had better not talk of that. I don't have much 
time for theorizing, you know, nor much inclina- 
tion," she added. 
The priest saw that for the present he could 
make no progress, and after a little silence the 
conversation went back to the family they \vere 
about to visit. 
They found the woman better at least, more 
cheerful. Father Damon noticed that there were 
medicines upon the stand, and that there were the 
remains of a meal which the children had been 
eating. He turned to the doctor. "I see that 
you have been providing for them." 
" Oh, the eldest boy had already been out and 
begged a piece of bread when I came. Of course 
they had to have something more at once. But it 
is very little that I can do." 
He sat down by the bed, and talked with the 
mother, getting her story, while the doctor tidied 
up the room a bit, and then, taking the youngest 
child in her lap and drawing the others about her, 
began to tell a story in a low voice. Presently she 
was aware that the priest was on his knees and say- 
ing a prayer. She stopped in her story, and looked 
out through the dirty window into the chill and 
dark area. 
" What is he doing ?" whispered one of the chil- 
dren. 
" I don't know," she said, and a sort of chill came 
over her heart. It all seemed a mockery, in these 
surroundings. 
When he rose he said to the woman, "We will see 
that you do not want till your husband comes back." 
" And I will look in to-morrow," said the doctor. 
When they were in the street. Father Damon 
thanked her for calling his attention to the case, 
thanked her a little formally, and said that he 
would make inquiries and have it properly attend- 
ed to. And then he asked : " Is your work ended 
for the day ? You must be tired." 
"Oh no; I have several visits to make. I'm 
not tired. I rather think it is good for me, being 
out-of-doors so much." She thanked him, and said 
good-by. 
For a moment he stood and watched the plain, 
resolute little woman threading her way through 
the crowded and unclean street, and then slowly 
walked away to his apartment, filled with sadness 
and perplexity. 
The apartment which he occupied was not far 
from the mission chapel, and it was the one clean 
spot among the ill-kept tenements ; but as to com- 
fort, it was not much better than the cell of an 
anchorite. Of this, however, he was not thinking 
as he stretched himself out on his pallet to rest a 
little from the exhausting labors of the day. Prob- 
ably it did not occur to him that his self-imposed 
privations lessened his strength for his work. 
He was thinking of Kuth Leigh. "What a rare 
soul! And yet apparently she did not think or 
care whether she had a soul. What could be the 
spring of her incessant devotion? If ever woman 
went about doing good in an unselfish spirit it 
was she. Yet she confessed her work hopeless. 
She had no faith, no belief in immortality, no ex- 
pectation of any reward, nothing to offer to any- 
body beyond this poor life. Was this the enthusi- 
asm of humanity, of which he heard so much ? 
But she did not seem to have any illusions, or to be 
burned up by enthusiasm. She just kept on. Ah, 
he thought, what a woman she would be if she were 
touched by the fire of faith ! 
Meantime, Euth Leigh went on her round. 
One day was like another, except that every day 
the kaleidoscope of misery showed new combina- 
tions, new phases of suffering and incompetence, 
and there was always a fresh interest in that. For 
years now this had been her life, in the chill of 
winter and the heat of summer, without rest or 
vacation. The amusements, the social duties, the 
allurements of dress and society, that so much 
occupied the thoughts of other women, did not 
seem to come into her life. For books she had 
little time, except the books of her specialty. The 
most exciting novels were pale compared with her 
daily experiences of real life. Almost her only 
recreation was a meeting of the working-girls, a 
session of her labor lodge, or an assembly at the 
Cooper Union, where some fiery orator, perhaps a 
priest, or a clever agitator, a working-man glib of 
speech, who had a mass of statistics at the end of 
his tongue, who read and discussed, in some private 
club of zealots of humanity, metaphysics, psychol- 
ogy, and was familiar with the whole literature of 
labor and socialism, awoke the enthusiasm of the 
discontented or the unemployed, and where men 
and women, in clear but homely speech, told their 
individual experiences of wrong and injustice. 
There was evidence in all these demonstrations 
and organizations that the world was moving, and 
that the old order must change. 
Years and years the little woman had gone on 
with her work, and she frankly confessed to Edith, 
one day when they were together going her rounds, 
that she could see no result from it all. The prob- 
lem of poverty and helplessness and incapacity 
seemed to her more hopeless than when she be- 
gan. There might be a little enlightenment here 
and there, but there was certainly not less misery. 
The state of things was worse than she thought at 
first ; but one thing cheered her : the people were 
better than she thought. They might be dull and 
suspicious in the mass, but she found so much pa- 
tience, unselfishness, so many people of good hearts 
and warm affections. 
" They are the people," she said, i{ I should choose 
for friends. They are natural, unsophisticated. 
And do you know," she went on, " that what most 
surprises me is the number of reading, thoughtful 
people among those who do manual labor. I doubt 
if on your side of town the best books, the real fun- 
damentai and abstruse books, are so read and dis 
cussed, or the philosophy of life is so seriously con 
sidered, as in certain little circles of what you call 
the working-classes." 
" Isn't it all very revolutionary ?" asked Edith. 
"Perhaps," replied the doctor, dryly. "But 
they have no more fads than other people. Their 
theories seem to them not only practical, but they 
try to apply them to actual legislation; at any 
rate, they discriminate in vagaries. You would 
have been amused the other night in a small circle 
at the lamentations over a member he was a car- 
driver who was the authoritative expositor of 
Schopenhauer, because he had gone off into The- 
osophy. It showed such weakness." 
" I have heard that the members of that circle 
were Nihilists." 
" The club has not that name, but probably the 
members would not care to repudiate the title, or 
deny that they were Nihilists theoretically that 
is, if Nihilism means an absolute social and political 
overturning in order that something better may be 
built up. And, indeed, if you see what a hopeless 
tangle our present situation is, where else can the 
mind logically go?" 
" It is pitiful enough," Edith admitted. But all 
this movement you speak of seems to me a vague 
agitation." 
" I don't think," the doctor said, after a moment, 
"that you appreciate the intellectual force that is 
in it all, or allow for the fermenting power in the 
great discontented mass of these radical theories on 
the problem of life." 
This was a specimen of the sort of talk that 
Edith and the doctor often drifted into in their 
mission work. As Ruth Leigh tramped along late 
this afternoon in the slush of the streets, from one 
house of sickness and poverty to another, a sense of 
her puny efforts in this great mass of suffering and 
injustice came over her anew. Her indignation rose 
against the state of things. And Father Damon, 
who was trying to save souls, was he accomplishing 
anything more than she ? Why had he been so curt 
with her when she went to him for help this after- 
noon? Was he just a narrow-minded, bigoted 
priest? A few nights before she had heard him 
speak on the single tax at a labor meeting. She re- 
called his eloquence, his profound sympathy with 
the cause of the people, the thrilling, pathetic 
voice, the illumination of his countenance, the au- 
thority, the consecration in his attitude and dress; 
and he was transfigured to her then, as he was now 
in her thought, into an apostle of humanity. Alas ! 
she thought, what a leader he would be if he would 
break loose from his superstitious traditions I 
CHAPTER VII 
THE acquaintance between the house of Hender- 
son and the house of Delancy was not permitted to 
languish. Jack had his reasons for it, which may 
have been financial, and Carmen had her reasons, 
which were probably purely social. What was the 
good of money if it did not bring social position ? 
and what, on the other hand, was the good of so- 
cial position if you could not use it to get money ? 
In his recent association with the newly rich, 
Jack's twenty thousand a year began to seem 
small. In fact, in the lowering of the rate of inter- 
est and the shrinkage of securities, it was no longer 
twenty thousand a year. This would have been a 
matter of little consequence in the old order. His 
lot was not cast among the poor ; most of his rela- 
tions had solid fortunes, and many of them were 
millionaires, or what was equivalent to that, before 
the term was invented. But they made little dis- 
play ; none at all merely for the purpose of exhibi- 
tion, or to gain or keep social place. In this atmos- 
phere in which he was born Jack floated along 
without effort, with no demand upon him to keep 
up with a rising standard of living. Even impecu- 
niosity, though inconvenient, would not have made 
him lose caste. 
All this was changing now. Since the introduc- 
tion of a new element even the conservative old 
millions had begun to feel the stir of uneasiness, 
and to launch out into extravagance in rivalry with 
the new millions. Even with his relations Jack 
began to feel that he was poor. It did not spur him 
