shame and pity; it really had such an effect of mawkish sentimentality.
But my friends received it in the best possible way. They did not laugh;
they heard him out, and then they quietly deferred to the banker, who made
answer for us all:
“Well, I can be almost as brief as the historian of Iceland in his chapter
on snakes: those people have no leisure to spend.”
“Except when they go out on a strike,” said the manufacturer, with a
certain grim humor of his own; I never heard anything more dramatic than
the account he once gave of the way he broke up a labor union. “I have
seen a good many of them at leisure then.”
“Yes,” the doctor chimed in, “and in my younger days, when I necessarily
had a good deal of charity practice, I used to find them at leisure when
they were ‘laid off.’ It always struck me as such a pretty euphemism. It
seemed to minify the harm of the thing so. It seemed to take all the
hunger and cold and sickness out of the fact. To be simply ‘laid off’ was
so different from losing your work and having to face beggary or
starvation.”
“Those people,” said the professor, “never put anything by. They are
wasteful and improvident, almost to a man; and they learn nothing by
experience, though they know as well as we do that it is simply a question
of demand and supply, and that the day of overproduction is sure to come,
when their work must stop unless the men that give them work are willing
to lose money.”
“And I’ve seen them lose it, sometimes, rather than shut down,” the
manufacturer remarked; “lose it hand over hand, to keep the men at work;
and then as soon as the tide turned the men would strike for higher wages.
You have no idea of the ingratitude of those people.” He said this toward
the minister, as if he did not wish to be thought hard; and, in fact, he
was a very kindly man.
“Yes,” replied the minister, “that is one of the most sinister features of
the situation. They seem really to regard their employers as their
enemies. I don’t know how it will end.”
“I know how it would end if I had my way,” said the professor. “There
wouldn’t be any labor unions, and there wouldn’t be any strikes.”
“That is all very well,” said the lawyer, from that judicial mind which I
always liked in him, “as far as the strikes are concerned, but I don’t
understand that the abolition of the unions would affect the impersonal
process of ‘laying off.’ The law of demand and supply I respect as much as
any one--it’s something like the constitution; but, all the same, I should
object extremely to have my income stopped by it every now and then. I’m
probably not so wasteful as a working-man generally is; still, I haven’t
laid by enough to make it a matter of indifference to me whether my income
went on or not. Perhaps the professor has.” The professor did not say, and
we all took leave to laugh. The lawyer concluded: “I don’t see how those
fellows stand it.”
“They don’t, all of them,” said the doctor. “Or their wives and children
don’t. Some of them die.”
“I wonder,” the lawyer pursued, “what has become of the good old American
fact that there is always work for those who are willing to work? I notice
that wherever five thousand men strike in the forenoon, there are five
thousand men to take their places in the afternoon--and not men who are
turning their hands to something new, but men who are used to doing the
very thing the strikers have done.”
“That is one of the things that teach the futility of strikes,” the
professor made haste to interpose, as if he had not quite liked to appear
averse to the interests of the workman; no one likes to do that. “If there
were anything at all to be hoped from them, it would be another matter.”
“Yes, but that isn’t the point, quite,” said the lawyer.
“By-the-way, what is the point?” I asked, with my humorous lightness.
“Why, I supposed,” said the banker, “it was the question how the working
classes amused their elegant leisure. But it seems to be almost anything
else.”
We all applauded the neat touch, but the Altrurian eagerly entreated:
“No, no; never mind that now. That is a matter of comparatively little
interest. I would so much rather know something about the status of the
working-man among you.”
“Do you mean his political status? It’s that of every other citizen.”
“I don’t mean that. I suppose that in America you have learned, as we have
in Altruria, that equal political rights are only means to an end, and as
an end have no value or reality. I meant the economic status of the
working-man, and his social status.”
I do not know why we were so long girding up our loins to meet this simple
question. I myself could not have hopefully undertaken to answer it; but
the others were each in their way men of affairs, and practically
acquainted with the facts, except perhaps the professor; but he had
devoted a great deal of thought to them, and ought to have been qualified
to make some sort of response. But even he was silent; and I had a vague
feeling that they were all somehow reluctant to formulate their knowledge,
as if it were uncomfortable or discreditable. The banker continued to
smoke quietly on for a moment; then he suddenly threw his cigar away.
“I like to free my mind of cant,” he said, with a short laugh, “when I can
afford it, and I propose to cast all sorts of American cant out of it in
answering your question. The economic status of the working-man among us
is essentially the same as that of the working-man all over the civilized
world. You will find plenty of people here, especially about election
time, to tell you differently, but they will not be telling you the truth,
though a great many of them think they are. In fact, I suppose most
Americans honestly believe because we have a republican form of
government, and manhood suffrage, and so on, that our economic conditions
are peculiar, and that our working-man has a status higher and better than
that of the working-man anywhere else. But he has nothing of the kind. His
circumstances are better, and provisionally his wages are higher, but it
is only a question of years or decades when his circumstances will be the
same and his wages the same as the European working-man’s. There is
nothing in our conditions to prevent this.”
“Yes, I understood from our friend here,” said the Altrurian, nodding
toward me, “that you had broken only with the political tradition of
Europe in your Revolution; and he has explained to me that you do not hold
all kinds of labor in equal esteem; but--”
“What kind of labor did he say we did hold in esteem?” asked the banker.
“Why, I understood him to say that if America meant anything at all it
meant the honor of work, but that you distinguished and did not honor some
kinds of work so much as others; for instance, domestic service, or
personal attendance of any kind.”
The banker laughed again. “Oh, he drew the line there, did he? Well, we
all have to draw the line somewhere. Our friend is a novelist, and I will
tell you in strict confidence that the line he has drawn is imaginary. We
don’t honor any kind of work any more than any other people. If a fellow
gets up, the papers make a great ado over his having been a woodchopper or
a bobbin-boy, or something of that kind, but I doubt if the fellow himself
likes it; he doesn’t if he’s got any sense. The rest of us feel that it’s
infra dig., and hope nobody will find out that we ever worked with our
hands for a living. I’ll go further,” said the banker, with the effect of
whistling prudence down the wind, “and I will challenge any of you to
gainsay me from his own experience or observation. How does esteem usually
express itself? When we wish, to honor a man, what do we do?”
“Ask him to dinner,” said the lawyer.
“Exactly. We offer him some sort of social recognition. Well, as soon as a
fellow gets up, if he gets up high enough, we offer him some sort of
social recognition; in fact, all sorts; but upon condition that he has
left off working with his hands for a living. We forgive all you please to
his past on account of the present. But there isn’t a working-man, I
venture to say, in any city or town, or even large village, in the whole
length and breadth of the United States who has any social recognition, if
he is still working at his trade. I don’t mean, merely, that he is
excluded from rich and fashionable society, but from the society of the
average educated and cultivated people. I’m not saying he is fit for it;
but I don’t care how intelligent and agreeable he might be--and some of
them are astonishingly intelligent, and so agreeable in their tone of mind
and their original way of looking at things that I like nothing better
than to talk with them--all of our invisible fences are up against him.”
The minister said: “I wonder if that sort of exclusiveness is quite
natural? Children seem to feel no sort of social difference among
themselves.”
“We can hardly go to children for a type of social order,” the professor
suggested.
“True,” the minister meekly admitted. “But somehow there is a protest in
us somewhere against these arbitrary distinctions--something that
questions whether they are altogether right. We know that they must be,
and always have been, and always will be, and yet--well, I will confess
it--I never feel at peace when I face them.”
“Oh,” said the banker, “if you come to the question of right and wrong,
that is another matter. I don’t say it’s right. I’m not discussing that
question; though I’m certainly not proposing to level the fences; I should
be the last to take my own down. I say simply that you are no more likely
to meet a working-man in American society than you are to meet a colored
man. Now you can judge,” he ended, turning directly to the Altrurian, “how
much we honor labor. And I hope I have indirectly satisfied your curiosity
as to the social status of the working-man among us.”
We were all silent.
Perhaps the others were occupied like myself in trying to recall some
instance of a working-man whom they had met in society, and perhaps we
said nothing because we all failed.
The Altrurian spoke at last.
“You have been so very full and explicit that I feel as if it were almost
unseemly to press any further inquiry; but I should very much like to know
how your working-men bear this social exclusion.”
“I’m sure I can’t say,” returned the banker. “A man does not care much to
get into society until he has something to eat, and how to get that is
always the first question with the working-man.”
“But you wouldn’t like it yourself?”
“No, certainly, I shouldn’t like it myself. I shouldn’t complain of not
being asked to people’s houses, and the working-men don’t; you can’t do
that; but I should feel it an incalculable loss. We may laugh at the
emptiness of society, or pretend to be sick of it, but there is no doubt
that society is the flower of civilization, and to be shut out from it is
to be denied the best privilege of a civilized man. There are society
women--we have all met them--whose graciousness and refinement of presence
are something of incomparable value; it is more than a liberal education
to have been admitted to it, but it is as inaccessible to the working-man
as--what shall I say? The thing is too grotesquely impossible for any sort
of comparison. Merely to conceive of its possibility is something that
passes a joke; it is a kind of offence.”
Again we were silent.
“I don’t know,” the banker continued, “how the notion of our social
equality originated, but I think it has been fostered mainly by the
expectation of foreigners, who argued it from our political equality.
As a matter of fact, it never existed, except in our poorest and most
primitive communities, in the pioneer days of the West and among the
gold-hunters of California. It was not dreamed of in our colonial society,
either in Virginia or Pennsylvania or New York or Massachusetts; and the
fathers of the republic, who were mostly slave-holders, were practically
as stiff-necked aristocrats as any people of their day. We have not a
political aristocracy, that is all; but there is as absolute a division
between the orders of men and as little love, in this country as in any
country on the globe. The severance of the man who works for his living
with his hands from the man who does not work for his living with his
hands is so complete, and apparently so final, that nobody even imagines
anything else, not even in fiction. Or, how is that?” he asked, turning to
me. “Do you fellows still put the intelligent, high-spirited, handsome
young artisan, who wins the millionaire’s daughter, into your books? I
used sometimes to find him there.”
“You might still find him in the fiction of the weekly story-papers; but,”
 I was obliged to own, “he would not go down with my readers. Even in the
story-paper fiction he would leave off working as soon as he married the
millionaire’s daughter, and go to Europe, or he would stay here and become
a social leader, but he would not receive working-men in his gilded
halls.”
The others rewarded my humor with a smile, but the banker said: “Then I
wonder you were not ashamed of filling our friend up with that stuff about
our honoring some kinds of labor. It is true that we don’t go about openly
and explicitly despising any kind of honest toil--people don’t do that
anywhere now; but we contemn it in terms quite as unmistakable. The
working-man acquiesces as completely as anybody else. He does not remain a
working-man a moment longer that he can help; and after he gets up, if he
is weak enough to be proud of having been one, it is because he feels that
his low origin is a proof of his prowess in rising to the top against
unusual odds. I don’t suppose there is a man in the whole civilized
world--outside of Altruria, of course---who is proud of working at a
trade, except the shoemaker Tolstoy, and is a count, and he does not make
very good shoes.”
We all laughed again: those shoes of Count Tolstoy’s are always such an
infallible joke.
The Altrurian, however, was cocked and primed with another question; he
instantly exploded it: “But are all the working-men in America eager to
rise above their condition? Is there none willing to remain among the mass
because the rest could not rise with him, and from the hope of yet
bringing labor to honor?”
The banker answered: “I never heard of any. No, the American ideal is not
to change the conditions for all, but for each to rise above the rest if
he can.”
“Do you think it is really so bad as that?” asked the minister, timidly.
The banker answered: “Bad? Do you call that bad? I thought it was very
good. But, good or bad, I don’t think you’ll find it deniable, if you
look into the facts. There may be working-men willing to remain so for
other working-men’s sake, but I have never met any--perhaps because the
working-man never goes into society.”
The unfailing question of the Altrurian broke the silence which ensued:
“Are there many of your working-men who are intelligent and agreeable--of
the type you mentioned a moment since?”
“Perhaps,” said the banker, “I had better refer you to one of our friends
here, who has had a great deal more to do with them than I have. He is a
manufacturer, and he has had to do with all kinds of work-people.”
“Yes, for my sins,” the manufacturer assented; and he added: “They are
often confoundedly intelligent, though I haven’t often found them very
agreeable, either in their tone of mind or their original way of looking
at things.”
The banker amiably acknowledged his thrust, and the Altrurian asked: “Ah,
they are opposed to your own?”
“Well, we have the same trouble here that you must have heard of in
England. As you know now that the conditions are the same here, you won’t
be surprised at the fact.”
“But the conditions,” the Altrurian pursued--“do you expect them always to
continue the same?”
“Well, I don’t know,” said the manufacturer. “We can’t expect them to
change of themselves, and I shouldn’t know how to change them. It was
expected that the rise of the trusts and the syndicates would break the
unions, but somehow they haven’t. The situation remains the same. The
unions are not cutting one another’s throats now any more than we are. The
war is on a larger scale--that’s all.”
“Then let me see,” said the Altrurian, “whether I clearly understand the
situation as regards the working-man in America. He is dependent upon the
employer for his chance to earn a living, and he is never sure of this. He
may be thrown out of work by his employer’s disfavor or disaster, and his
willingness to work goes for nothing; there is no public provision of work
for him; there is nothing to keep him from want nor the prospect of
anything.”
“We are all in the same boat,” said the professor.
“But some of us have provisioned ourselves rather better and can generally
weather it through till we are picked up,” the lawyer put in.
“I am always saying the working-man is improvident,” returned the
professor.
“There are the charities,” the minister suggested.
“But his economical status,” the Altrurian pursued, “is in a state of
perpetual uncertainty, and to save himself in some measure he has
organized, and so has constituted himself a danger to the public peace?”
“A very great danger,” said the professor.
“I guess we can manage him,” the manufacturer remarked.
“And socially he is non-existent?”
The Altrurian turned with this question to the banker, who said: “He is
certainly not in society.”
“Then,” said my guest, “if the working-man’s wages are provisionally so
much better here than in Europe, why should they be discontented? What is
the real cause of their discontent?”
I have always been suspicious, in the company of practical men, of an
atmosphere of condescension to men of my calling, if nothing worse. I
fancy they commonly regard artists of all kinds as a sort of harmless
eccentrics, and that literary people they look upon as something droll, as
weak and soft, as not quite right. I believed that this particular group,
indeed, was rather abler to conceive of me as a rational person than most
others, but I knew that if even they had expected me to be as reasonable
as themselves they would not have been greatly disappointed if I were not;
and it seemed to me that I had put myself wrong with them in imparting to
the Altrurian that romantic impression that we hold labor in honor here. I
had really thought so, but I could not say so now, and I wished to
retrieve myself somehow. I wished to show that I was a practical man, too,
and so I made answer: “What is the cause of the working-man’s discontent?
It is very simple: the walking delegate.”
IV
I suppose I could not have fairly claimed any great originality for my
notion that the walking delegate was the cause of the labor troubles: he
is regularly assigned as the reason of a strike in the newspapers, and is
reprobated for his evil agency by the editors, who do not fail to read the
working-men many solemn lessons and fervently warn them against him, as
soon as the strike begins to go wrong--as it nearly always does. I
understand from them that the walking delegate is an irresponsible tyrant,
who emerges from the mystery that habitually hides him and from time to
time orders a strike in mere rancor of spirit and plenitude of power, and
then leaves the working-men and their families to suffer the consequences,
while he goes off somewhere and rolls in the lap of luxury, careless of
the misery he has created. Between his debauches of vicious idleness and
his accesses of baleful activity he is employed in poisoning the mind of
the working-men against his real interests and real friends. This is
perfectly easy, because the American working-man, though singularly shrewd
and sensible in other respects, is the victim of an unaccountable
obliquity of vision which keeps him from seeing his real interests and
real friends--or, at least, from knowing them when he sees them.
There could be no doubt, I thought, in the mind of any reasonable person
that the walking delegate was the source of the discontent among our
proletariate, and I alleged him with a confidence which met the approval
of the professor, apparently, for he nodded, as if to say that I had hit
the nail on the head this time; and the minister seemed to be freshly
impressed with a notion that could not be new to him. The lawyer and the
doctor were silent, as if waiting for the banker to speak again; but he
was silent, too. The manufacturer, to my chagrin, broke into a laugh. “I’m
afraid,” he said, with a sardonic levity which surprised me, “you’ll have
to go a good deal deeper than the walking delegate. He’s a symptom; he
isn’t the disease. The thing keeps on and on, and it seems to be always
about wages; but it isn’t about wages at the bottom. Some of those fellows
know it and some of them don’t, but the real discontent is with the whole
system, with the nature of things. I had a curious revelation on that
point the last time I tried to deal with my men as a union. They were
always bothering me about this and about that, and there was no end to the
bickering. I yielded point after point, but it didn’t make any difference.
It seemed as if the more I gave the more they asked. At last I made up my
mind to try to get at the real inwardness of the matter, and I didn’t wait
for their committee to come to me--I sent for their leading man, and said
I wanted to have it out with him. He wasn’t a bad fellow, and when I got
at him, man to man that way, I found he had sense, and he had ideas--it’s
no use pretending those fellows are fools; he had thought about his side
of the question, anyway. I said: ‘Now what does it all mean? Do you want
the earth, or don’t you? When is it going to end?’ I offered him something
to take, but he said he didn’t drink, and we compromised on cigars. ‘Now
when is it going to end?’ said I, and I pressed it home, and wouldn’t let
him fight off from the point. ‘Do you mean when is it all going to end?’
said he. ‘Yes,’ said I, ‘all. I’m sick of it. If there’s any way out I’d
like to know it.’ ‘Well,’ said he, ‘I’ll tell you, if you want to know.
It’s all going to end when you get the same amount of money for the same
amount of work as we do.’”
We all laughed uproariously. The thing was deliciously comical; and
nothing, I thought, attested the Altrurian’s want of humor like his
failure to appreciate this joke. He did not even smile in asking: “And
what did you say?”
“Well,” returned the manufacturer, with cosey enjoyment, “I asked him if
the men would take the concern and run it themselves.” We laughed again;
this seemed even better than the other joke. “But he said, ‘No’; they
would not like to do that. And then I asked him just what they would like,
if they could have their own way, and he said they would like to have me
run the business, and all share alike. I asked him what was the sense of
that, and why, if I could do something that all of them put together
couldn’t do, I shouldn’t be paid more than all of them put together; and
he said that if a man did his best he ought to be paid as much as the best
man. I asked him if that was the principle their union was founded on, and
he said, ‘Yes,’ that the very meaning of their union was the protection of
the weak by the strong and the equalization of earnings among all who do
their best.”
We waited for the manufacturer to go on, but he made a dramatic pause at
this point, as if to let it sink into our minds; and he did not speak
until the Altrurian prompted him with the question, “And what did you
finally do?”
“I saw there was only one way out for me, and I told the fellow I did not
think I could do business on that principle. We parted friends, but the
next Saturday I locked them out and smashed their union. They came back,
most of them--they had to--but I’ve treated with them ever since ‘as
individuals.’”
“And they’re much better off in your hands than they were in the union,”
 said the professor.
“I don’t know about that,” said the manufacturer, “but I’m sure I am.”
We laughed with him, all but the minister, whose mind seemed to have
caught upon some other point, and who sat absently by.
“And is it your opinion, from what you know of the working-man generally,
that they all have this twist in their heads?” the professor asked.
“They have, until they begin to rise. Then they get rid of it mighty soon.
Let a man save something--enough to get a house of his own, and take a
boarder or two, and perhaps have a little money at interest--and he sees
the matter in another light.”
“Do you think he sees it more clearly?” asked the minister.
“He sees it differently.”
“What do you think?” the minister pursued, turning to the lawyer. “You are
used to dealing with questions of justice--”
“Rather more with questions of law, I’m afraid,” the other returned,
pleasantly, putting his feet together before him and looking down at them
in a way he had. “But, still, I have a great interest in questions of
justice, and I confess that I find a certain wild equity in this
principle, which I see nobody could do business on. It strikes me as
idyllic--it’s a touch of real poetry in the rough-and-tumble prose of our
economic life.”
He referred this to me as something I might appreciate in my quality of
literary man, and I responded in my quality of practical man: “There’s
certainly more rhyme than reason in it.”
He turned again to the minister:
“I suppose the ideal of the Christian state is the family?”
“I hope so,” said the minister, with the gratitude that I have seen people
of his cloth show when men of the world conceded premises which the world
usually contests; it has seemed to me pathetic.
“And if that is the case, why, the logic of the postulate is that the
prosperity of the weakest is the sacred charge and highest happiness of
all the stronger. But the law has not recognized any such principle, in
economics at least, and if the labor unions are based upon it they are
outlaw, so far as any hope of enforcing it is concerned; and it is bad for
men to feel themselves outlaw. How is it,” the lawyer continued, turning
to the Altrurian, “in your country? We can see no issue here, if the first
principle of organized labor antagonizes the first principle of business.”
“But I don’t understand precisely yet what the first principle of business
is,” returned my guest.
“Ah, that raises another interesting question,” said the lawyer. “Of
course, every business man solves the problem practically according to his
temperament and education, and I suppose that on first thoughts every
business man would answer you accordingly. But perhaps the personal
equation is something you wish to eliminate from the definition.”
“Yes, of course.”
“Still, I would rather not venture upon it first,” said the lawyer.
“Professor, what should you say was the first principle of business?”
“Buying in the cheapest market and selling in the dearest,” the professor
promptly answered.
“We will pass the parson and the doctor and the novelist as witnesses of
no value. They can’t possibly have any cognizance of the first principle
of business; their affair is to look after the souls and bodies and
fancies of other people. But what should you say it was?” he asked the
banker.
“I should say it was an enlightened conception of one’s own interests.”
“And you?”
The manufacturer had no hesitation in answering: “The good of Number One,
first, last, and all the time. There may be a difference of opinion about
the best way to get at it; the long way may be the better, or the short
way; the direct way or the oblique way, or the purely selfish way, or the
partly selfish way; but if you ever lose sight of that end you might as
well shut up shop. That seems to be the first law of nature, as well as
the first law of business.”
“Ah, we mustn’t go to nature for our morality,” the minister protested.
“We were not talking of morality,” said the manufacturer; “we were talking
of business.”
This brought the laugh on the minister, but the lawyer cut it short:
“Well, then, I don’t really see why the trades-unions are not as
business-like as the syndicates in their dealings with all those outside
of themselves. Within themselves they practise an altruism of the highest
order, but it is a tribal altruism; it is like that which prompts a Sioux
to share his last mouthful with a starving Sioux, and to take the scalp of
a starving Apache. How is it with your trades-unions in Altruria?” he
asked my friend.
“We have no trades-unions in Altruria,” he began.
“Happy Altruria!” cried the professor.
“We had them formerly,” the Altrurian went on, “as you have them now. They
claimed, as I suppose yours do, that they were forced into existence by
the necessities of the case; that without union the working-man was unable
to meet the capitalist on anything like equal terms, or to withstand his
encroachments and oppressions. But to maintain themselves they had to
extinguish industrial liberty among the working-men themselves, and they
had to practise great cruelties against those who refused to join them or
who rebelled against them.”
“They simply destroy them here,” said the professor.
“Well,” said the lawyer, from his judicial mind, “the great syndicates
have no scruples in destroying a capitalist who won’t come into them or
who tries to go out. They don’t club him or stone him, but they under-sell
him and freeze him out; they don’t break his head, but they bankrupt him.
The principle is the same.”
“Don’t interrupt Mr. Homos,” the banker entreated. “I am very curious to
know just how they got rid of labor unions in Altruria.”
“We had syndicates, too, and finally we had the reductio ad absurdum--we
had a federation of labor unions find a federation of syndicates, that
divided the nation into two camps. The situation was not only impossible,
but it was insupportably ridiculous.”
I ventured to say: “It hasn’t become quite so much of a joke with us yet.”
“Isn’t it in a fair way to become so?” asked the doctor; and he turned to
the lawyer: “What should you say was the logic of events among us for the
last ten or twenty years?”
“There’s nothing so capricious as the logic of events. It’s like a woman’s
reasoning--you can’t tell what it’s aimed at, or where it’s going to fetch
up; all that you can do is to keep out of the way if possible. We may come
to some such condition of things as they have in Altruria, where the faith
of the whole nation is pledged to secure every citizen in the pursuit of
happiness; or we may revert to some former condition, and the master may
again own the man; or we may hitch and joggle along indefinitely, as we
are doing now.”
“But come, now,” said the banker, while he laid a caressing touch on the
Altrurian’s shoulder, “you don’t mean to say honestly that everybody works
with his hands in Altruria?”
“Yes, certainly. We are mindful, as a whole people, of the divine law--‘In
the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat bread.’”
“But the capitalists? I’m anxious about Number One, you see.”
“We have none.”
“I forgot, of course. But the lawyers, the doctors, the parsons, the
novelists?”
“They all do their share of hand-work.”
The lawyer said: “That seems to dispose of the question of the working-man
in society. But how about your minds? When do you cultivate your minds?
When do the ladies of Altruria cultivate their minds, if they have to do
their own work, as I suppose they do? Or is it only the men who work, if
they happen to be the husbands and fathers of the upper classes?”
The Altrurian seemed to be sensible of the kindly scepticism which
persisted in our reception of his statements, after all we had read of
Altruria. He smiled indulgently, and said: “You mustn’t imagine that work
in Altruria is the same as it is here. As we all work, the amount that
each one need do is very little, a few hours each day at the most, so that
every man and woman has abundant leisure and perfect spirits for the
higher pleasures which the education of their whole youth has fitted them
to enjoy. If you can understand a state of things where the sciences and
arts and letters are cultivated for their own sake, and not as a means of
livelihood--”
“No,” said the lawyer, smiling, “I’m afraid we can’t conceive of that. We
consider the pinch of poverty the highest incentive that a man can have.
If our gifted friend here,” he said, indicating me, “were not kept like a
toad under the harrow, with his nose on the grindstone, and the poorhouse
staring him in the face--”
“For Heaven’s sake,” I cried out, “don’t mix your metaphors so, anyway!”
“If it were not for that and all the other hardships that literary men
undergo--
  ‘Toil, envy, want, the patron and the jail’--
his novels probably wouldn’t be worth reading.”
“Ah!” said the Altrurian, as if he did not quite follow this joking; and,
to tell the truth, I never find the personal thing in very good taste.
“You will understand, then, how extremely difficult it is for me to
imagine a condition of things like yours--although I have it under my very
eyes--where the money consideration is the first consideration.”
“Oh, excuse me,” urged the minister; “I don’t think that’s quite the
case.”
“I beg your pardon,” said the Altrurian, sweetly; “you can see how easily
I go astray.”
“Why, I don’t know,” the banker interposed, “that you are so far out in
what you say. If you had said that money was always the first motive, I
should have been inclined to dispute you, too; but when you say that money
is the first consideration, I think you are quite right. Unless a man
secures his financial basis for his work, he can’t do his work. It’s
nonsense to pretend otherwise. So the money consideration is the first
consideration. People here have to live by their work, and to live they
must have money. Of course, we all recognize a difference in the
qualities, as well as in the kinds, of work. The work of the laborer may
be roughly defined as the necessity of his life; the work of the business
man as the means, and the work of the artist and scientist as the end.
We might refine upon these definitions and make them closer, but they
will serve for illustration as they are. I don’t think there can be
any question as to which is the highest kind of work; some truths are
self-evident. He is a fortunate man whose work is an end, and every
business man sees this, and owns it to himself, at least when he meets
some man of an aesthetic or scientific occupation. He knows that this
luckier fellow has a joy in his work which he can never feel in business;
that his success in it can never be embittered by the thought that it is
the failure of another; that if he does it well, it is pure good; that
there cannot be any competition in it--there can be only a noble
emulation, as far as the work itself is concerned. He can always look up
to his work, for it is something above him; and a business man often has
to look down upon his business, for it is often beneath him, unless he is
a pretty low fellow.”
I listened to all this in surprise; I knew that the banker was a
cultivated man, a man of university training, and that he was a reader and
a thinker; but he had always kept a certain reserve in his talk, which he
now seemed to have thrown aside for the sake of the Altrurian, or because
the subject had a charm that lured him out of himself. “Well, now,” he
continued, “the question is of the money consideration, which is the first
consideration with us all: does it, or doesn’t it degrade the work, which
is the life, of those among us whose work is the highest? I understand
that this is the misgiving which troubles you in view of our conditions?”
The Altrurian assented, and I thought it a proof of the banker’s innate
delicacy that he did not refer the matter, so far as it concerned the
aesthetic life and work, to me; I was afraid he was going to do so. But he
courteously proposed to keep the question impersonal, and he went on to
consider it himself: “Well, I don’t suppose any one can satisfy you fully.
But I should say that it put such men under a double strain, and perhaps
that is the reason why so many of them break down in a calling that is
certainly far less exhausting than business. On one side, the artist is
kept to the level of the working-man, of the animal, of the creature whose
sole affair is to get something to eat and somewhere to sleep. This is
through his necessity. On the other side, he is exalted to the height of
beings who have no concern but with the excellence of their work, which
they were born and divinely authorized to do. This is through his purpose.
Between the two, I should say that he got mixed, and that his work shows
it.”
None of the others said anything, and, since I had not been personally
appealed to, I felt the freer to speak. “If you will suppose me to be
speaking from observation rather than experience--” I began.
“By all means,” said the banker, “go on;” and the rest made haste in
various forms to yield me the word.
“I should say that such a man certainly got mixed, but that his work kept
itself pure from the money consideration, as it were, in spite of him. A
painter or actor, or even a novelist, is glad to get all he can for his
work, and, such is our fallen nature, he does get all he knows how to get:
but, when he has once fairly passed into his work, he loses himself in it.
He does not think whether it will pay or not, whether it will be popular
or not, but whether he can make it good or not.”
“Well, that is conceivable,” said the banker. “But wouldn’t he rather do
something he would get less for, if he could afford it, than the thing he
knows he will get more for? Doesn’t the money consideration influence his
choice of subject?”
“Oddly enough, I don’t believe it does,” I answered, after a moment’s
reflection. “A man makes his choice once for all when he embraces the
aesthetic life, or, rather, it is made for him; no other life seems
possible. I know there is a general belief that an artist does the kind of
thing he has made go because it pays; but this only shows the prevalence
of business ideals. If he did not love to do the thing he does, he could
not do it well, no matter how richly it paid.”
“I am glad to hear it,” said the banker, and he added to the Altrurian:
“So, you see, we are not so bad as one would think. We are illogically
better, in fact.”
“Yes,” the other assented. “I knew something of your literature as well as
your conditions before I left home, and I perceived that by some anomaly
the one was not tainted by the other. It is a miraculous proof of the
divine mission of the poet.”
“And the popular novelist,” the lawyer whispered in my ear, but loud
enough for the rest to hear, and they all testified their amusement at my
cost.
The Altrurian, with his weak sense of humor, passed the joke. “It shows no
signs of corruption from greed, but I can’t help thinking that, fine as it
is, it might have been much finer if the authors who produced it had been
absolutely freed to their work, and had never felt the spur of need.”
“Are they absolutely freed to it in Altruria?” asked the professor. “I
understood you that everybody had to work for his living in Altruria.”
“That is a mistake. Nobody works for his living in Altruria; he works for
others’ living.”
“Ah, that is precisely what our working-men object to doing here,” said
the manufacturer. “In that last interview of mine with the walking
delegate he had the impudence to ask me why my men should work for my
living as well as their own.”
“He couldn’t imagine that you were giving them the work to do--the very
means of life,” said the professor.
“Oh no, that’s the last thing those fellows want to think of.”
“Perhaps,” the Altrurian suggested, “they might not have found it such a
hardship to work for your living if their own had been assured, as it is
with us. If you will excuse my saying it, we should think it monstrous in
Altruria for any man to have another’s means of life in his power; and in
our condition it is hardly imaginable. Do you really have it in your power
to take away a man’s opportunity to earn a living?”
The manufacturer laughed uneasily. “It is in my power to take away his
life; but I don’t habitually shoot my fellow-men, and I never dismissed a
man yet without good reason.”
“Oh, I beg your pardon,” said the Altrurian. “I didn’t dream of accusing
you of such inhumanity. But, you see, our whole system is so very
different that, as I said, it is hard for me to conceive of yours, and I
am very curious to understand its workings. If you shot your fellow-man,
as you say, the law would punish you; but if, for some reason that you
decided to be good, you took away his means of living, and he actually
starved to death--”
“Then the law would have nothing to do with it,” the professor replied for
the manufacturer, who did not seem ready to answer. “But that is not the
way things fall out. The man would be supported in idleness, probably,
till he got another job, by his union, which would take the matter up.”
“But I thought that our friend did not employ union labor,” returned the
Altrurian.
I found all this very uncomfortable, and tried to turn the talk back to a
point that I felt curious about: “But in Altruria, if the literary class
is not exempt from the rule of manual labor, where do they find time and
strength to write?”
“Why, you must realize that our manual labor is never engrossing or
exhausting. It is no more than is necessary to keep the body in health. I
do not see how you remain well here, you people of sedentary occupations.”
“Oh, we all take some sort of exercise. We walk several hours a day, or we
row, or we ride a bicycle, or a horse, or we fence.”
“But to us,” returned the Altrurian, with a growing frankness which
nothing but the sweetness of his manner would have excused, “exercise for
exercise would appear stupid. The barren expenditure of force that began
and ended in itself, and produced nothing, we should--if you will excuse
my saying so--look upon as childish, if not insane or immoral.”
V
At this moment the lady who had hailed me so gayly from the top of the
coach while I stood waiting for the Altrurian to help the porter with the
baggage, just after the arrival of the train, came up with her husband to
our little group and said to me: “I want to introduce my husband to you.
He adores your books.” She went on much longer to this effect, while the
other men grinned round and her husband tried to look as if it were all
true, and her eyes wandered to the Altrurian, who listened gravely. I knew
perfectly well that she was using her husband’s zeal for my fiction to
make me present my friend; but I did not mind that, and I introduced him
to both of them. She took possession of him at once and began walking him
off down the piazza, while her husband remained with me, and the members
of our late conference drifted apart. I was not sorry to have it broken up
for the present; it seemed to me that it had lasted quite long enough, and
I lighted a cigar with the husband, and we strolled together in the
direction his wife had taken.
He began, apparently in compliment to literature in my person: “Yes, I
like to have a book where I can get at it when we’re not going out to the
theatre, and I want to quiet my mind down after business. I don’t care
much what the book is; my wife reads to me till I drop off, and then she
finishes the book herself and tells me the rest of the story. You see,
business takes it out of you so! Well, I let my wife do most of the
reading, anyway. She knows pretty much everything that’s going in that
line. We haven’t got any children, and it occupies her mind. She’s up to
all sorts of things--she’s artistic, and she’s musical, and she’s
dramatic, and she’s literary. Well, I like to have her. Women are funny,
anyway.”
He was a good-looking, good-natured, average American of the money-making
type; I believe he was some sort of a broker, but I do not quite know what
his business was. As we walked up and down the piazza, keeping a discreet
little distance from the corner where his wife had run off to with her
capture, he said he wished he could get more time with her in the
summer--but he supposed I knew what business was. He was glad she could
have the rest, anyway; she needed it.
“By-the-way,” he asked, “who is this friend of yours? The women are all
crazy about him, and it’s been an even thing between my wife and Miss
Groundsel which would fetch him first. But I’ll bet on my wife every time,
when it comes to a thing like that. He’s a good-looking fellow--some kind
of foreigner, I believe; pretty eccentric, too, I guess. Where is
Altruria, anyway?”
I told him, and he said: “Oh yes. Well, if we are going to restrict
immigration, I suppose we sha’n’t see many more Altrurians, and we’d
better make the most of this one. Heigh?”
I do not know why this innocent pleasantry piqued me to say: “If I
understand the Altrurians, my dear fellow, nothing could induce them to
emigrate to America. As far as I can make out, they would regard it very
much as we should regard settling among the Eskimos.”
“Is that so?” asked my new acquaintance, with perfect good temper. “Why?”
“Really, I can’t say, and I don’t know that I’ve explicit authority for my
statement.”
“They are worse than the English used to be,” he went on. “I didn’t know
that there were any foreigners who looked at us in that light now. I
thought the war settled all that.”
I sighed. “There are a good many things that the war didn’t settle so
definitely as we’ve been used to thinking, I’m afraid. But, for that
matter, I fancy an Altrurian would regard the English as a little lower in
the scale of savagery than ourselves even.”
“Is that so? Well, that’s pretty good on the English, anyway,” said my
companion, and he laughed with an easy satisfaction that I envied him.
“My dear!” his wife called to him from where she was sitting with the
Altrurian, “I wish you would go for my shawl. I begin to feel the air a
little.”
“I’ll go if you’ll tell me where,” he said, and he confided to me, “Never
knows where her shawl is one-quarter of the time.”
“Well, I think I left it in the office somewhere. You might ask at the
desk; or perhaps it’s in the rack by the dining-room door--or maybe up in
our room.”
“I thought so,” said her husband, with another glance at me, as if it were
the greatest fun in the world, and he started amiably off.
I went and took a chair by the lady and the Altrurian, and she began at
once: “Oh, I’m so glad you’ve come! I have been trying to enlighten Mr.
Homos about some of the little social peculiarities among us that he finds
so hard to understand. He was just now,” the lady continued, “wanting to
know why all the natives out here were not invited to go in and join our
young people in the dance, and I’ve been trying to tell him that we
consider it a great favor to let them come and take up so much of the
piazza and look in at the windows.”
She gave a little laugh of superiority, and twitched her pretty head in
the direction of the young country girls and country fellows who were
thronging the place that night in rather unusual numbers. They were well
enough looking, and, as it was Saturday night, they were in their best. I
suppose their dress could have been criticised; the young fellows were
clothed by the ready-made clothing-store, and the young girls after their
own devices from the fashion papers; but their general effect was good,
and their behavior was irreproachable; they were very quiet--if anything,
too quiet. They took up a part of the piazza that was yielded them by
common usage, and sat watching the hop inside, not so much enviously, I
thought, as wistfully; and for the first time it struck me as odd that
they should have no part in the gayety. I had often seen them there
before, but I had never thought it strange they should be shut out. It had
always seemed quite normal, but now, suddenly, for one baleful moment, it
seemed abnormal. I suppose it was the talk we had been having about the
working-men in society which caused me to see the thing as the Altrurian
must have seen it; but I was, nevertheless, vexed with him for having
asked such a question, after he had been so fully instructed upon the
point. It was malicious of him, or it was stupid. I hardened my heart, and
answered: “You might have told him, for one thing, that they were not
dancing because they had not paid the piper.”
“Then the money consideration enters even into your social pleasures?”
 asked the Altrurian.
“Very much. Doesn’t it with you?”
He evaded this question, as he evaded all straightforward questions
concerning his country: “We have no money consideration, you know. But do
I understand that all your social entertainments are paid for by the
guests?”
“Oh no, not so bad as that, quite. There are a great many that the host
pays for. Even here, in a hotel, the host furnishes the music and the room
free to the guests of the house.”
“And none are admitted from the outside?”
“Oh yes, people are welcome from all the other hotels and boarding-houses
and the private cottages. The young men are especially welcome; there are
not enough young men in the hotel to go round, you see.” In fact, we could
see that some of the pretty girls within were dancing with other girls;
half-grown boys were dangling from the waists of tall young ladies and
waltzing on tiptoe.
“Isn’t that rather droll?” asked the Altrurian.
“It’s grotesque!” I said, and I felt ashamed of it. “But what are you to
do? The young men are hard at work in the cities, as many as can get work
there, and the rest are out West, growing up with the country. There are
twenty young girls for every young man at all the summer resorts in the
East.”
“But what would happen if these young farmers--I suppose they are
farmers--were invited in to take part in the dance?” asked my friend.
“But that is impossible.”
“Why?”
“Really, Mrs. Makely, I think I shall have to give him back to you,” I
said.
The lady laughed. “I am not sure that I want him back.”
“Oh yes,” the Altrurian entreated, with unwonted perception of the humor.
“I know that I must be very trying with my questions; but do not abandon
me to the solitude of my own conjectures. They are dreadful!”
“Well, I won’t,” said the lady, with another laugh. “And I will try to
tell you what would happen if those farmers, or farm-hands, or whatever
they are, were asked in. The mammas would be very indignant, and the young
ladies would be scared, and nobody would know what to do, and the dance
would stop.”
“Then the young ladies prefer to dance with one another and with little
boys--”
“No, they prefer to dance with young men of their own station; they would
rather not dance at all than dance with people beneath them. I don’t say
anything against these natives here; they are very civil and decent. But
they have not the same social traditions as the young ladies; they would
be out of place with them, and they would feel it.”
“Yes, I can see that they are not fit to associate with them,” said the
Altrurian, with a gleam of commonsense that surprised me, “and that as
long as your present conditions endure they never can be. You must excuse
the confusion which the difference between your political ideals and your
economic ideals constantly creates in me. I always think of you
politically first, and realize you as a perfect democracy; then come these
other facts, in which I cannot perceive that you differ from the
aristocratic countries of Europe in theory, or practice. It is very
puzzling. Am I right in supposing that the effect of your economy is to
establish insuperable inequalities among you, and to forbid the hope of
the brotherhood which your policy proclaims?”
Mrs. Makely looked at me as if she were helpless to grapple with his
meaning, and, for fear of worse, I thought best to evade it. I said: “I
don’t believe that anybody is troubled by those distinctions. We are used
to them, and everybody acquiesces in them, which is a proof that they are
a very good thing.”
Mrs. Makely now came to my support. “The Americans are very high-spirited,
in every class, and I don’t believe one of those nice farm-boys would like
being asked in any better than the young ladies. You can’t imagine how
proud some of them are.”
“So that they suffer from being excluded as inferiors?”
“Oh, I assure you they don’t feel themselves inferior! They consider
themselves as good as anybody. There are some very interesting characters
among them. Now, there is a young girl sitting at the first window, with
her profile outlined by the light, whom I feel it an honor to speak to.
That’s her brother, standing there with her--that tall, gaunt young man
with a Roman face; it’s such a common type here in the mountains. Their
father was a soldier, and he distinguished himself so in one of the last
battles that he was promoted. He was badly wounded, but he never took a
pension; he just came back to his farm and worked on till he died. Now the
son has the farm, and he and his sister live there with their mother. The
daughter takes in sewing, and in that way they manage to make both ends
meet. The girl is really a first-rate seamstress, and so cheap! I give her
a good deal of my work in the summer, and we are quite friends. She’s very
fond of reading; the mother is an invalid, but she reads aloud while the
daughter sews, and you’ve no idea how many books they get through. When
she comes for sewing, I like to talk with her about them; I always have
her sit down; it’s hard to realize that she isn’t a lady. I’m a good deal
criticised, I know, and I suppose I do spoil her a little; it puts notions
into such people’s heads, if you meet them in that way; they’re pretty
free and independent as it is. But when I’m with Lizzie I forget that
there is any difference between us; I can’t help loving the child. You
must take Mr. Homos to see them, Mr. Twelvemough. They’ve got the father’s
sword hung up over the head of the mother’s bed; it’s very touching. But
the poor little place is so bare!”
Mrs. Makely sighed, and there fell a little pause, which she broke with a
question she had the effect of having kept back.
“There is one thing I should like to ask you, too, Mr. Homos. Is it true
that everybody in Altruria does some kind of manual labor?”
“Why, certainly,” he answered, quite as if he had been an American.
“Ladies, too? Or perhaps you have none.”
I thought this rather offensive, but I could not see that the Altrurian
had taken it ill. “Perhaps we had better try to understand each other
clearly before I answer that question. You have no titles of nobility as
they have in England--”
“No, indeed! I hope we have outgrown those superstitions,” said Mrs.
Makely, with a republican fervor that did my heart good. “It is a word
that we apply first of all to the moral qualities of a person.”
“But you said just now that you sometimes forgot that your seamstress was
not a lady. Just what did you mean by that?”
Mrs. Makely hesitated. “I meant--I suppose I meant--that she had not the
surroundings of a lady; the social traditions.”
“Then it has something to do with social as well as moral qualities--with
ranks and classes?”
“Classes, yes; but, as you know, we have no ranks in America.” The
Altrurian took off his hat and rubbed an imaginable perspiration from his
forehead. He sighed deeply. “It is all very difficult.”
“Yes,” Mrs. Makely assented, “I suppose it is. All foreigners find it so.
In fact, it is something that you have to live into the notion of; it
can’t be explained.”
“Well, then, my dear madam, will you tell me without further question what
you understand by a lady, and let me live into the notion of it at my
leisure?”
“I will do my best,” said Mrs. Makely. “But it would be so much easier to
tell you who was or who was not a lady. However, your acquaintance is so
limited yet that I must try to do something in the abstract and impersonal
for you. In the first place, a lady must be above the sordid anxieties in
every way. She need not be very rich, but she must have enough, so that
she need not be harassed about making both ends meet, when she ought to be
devoting herself to her social duties. The time is past with us when a
lady could look after the dinner, and perhaps cook part of it herself, and
then rush in to receive her guests and do the amenities. She must have a
certain kind of house, so that her entourage won’t seem cramped and mean,
and she must have nice frocks, of course, and plenty of them. She needn’t
be of the smart set; that isn’t at all necessary; but she can’t afford to
be out of the fashion. Of course, she must have a certain training. She
must have cultivated tastes; she must know about art and literature and
music, and all those kind of things, and, though it isn’t necessary to go
in for anything in particular, it won’t hurt her to have a fad or two. The
nicest kind of fad is charity; and people go in for that a great deal. I
think sometimes they use it to work up with, and there are some who use
religion in the same way; I think it’s horrid; but it’s perfectly safe;
you can’t accuse them of doing it. I’m happy to say, though, that mere
church association doesn’t count socially so much as it used to. Charity
is a great deal more insidious. But you see how hard it is to define
a lady. So much has to be left to the nerves, in all these things. And
then it’s changing all the time; Europe’s coming in, and the old American
ideals are passing away. Things that people did ten years ago would be
impossible now, or at least ridiculous. You wouldn’t be considered vulgar,
quite, but you would certainly be considered a back number, and that’s
almost as bad. Really,” said Mrs. Makely, “I don’t believe I can tell you
what a lady is.”
We all laughed together at her frank confession. The Altrurian asked: “But
do I understand that one of her conditions is that she shall have nothing
whatever to do?”
“Nothing to do!” cried Mrs. Makely. “A lady is busy from morning till
