in a row were sitting on their heels in front of the post-office.
Mountain women on horseback, wearing deep sun-bonnets, rode up and down
the street, bartering. Wagons passed along, loaded with peaches heaped
together as though they were potatoes. Miss Billy was now traversing all
the cross-roads to the left. When this was accomplished she came back to
the main street, and began over again. It took about an hour to make the
entire circuit. At half-past five, on her fourth round, still walking
quickly and always with an air of being bound to some especial point,
she met Achilles Larue. "Oh--really--is this you, Mr. Larue? Such a
surprise to see you! Lovely day, isn't it? I've been buying gloves."
She opened the package and turned over the gloves hastily. "Light
shades, you see. I--I thought I'd better."
Larue, slightly lifting his hat, was about to pass on.
But Miss Billy detained him. "Of course you are interested in the news,
Mr. Larue? Weren't you surprised? I was. I am afraid she is a little too
young for him. I think it is rather better when they are of about the
same age--don't you?" She had no idea that she had been walking, and at
twice her usual speed, for more than four hours. But her slender body
knew; it trembled from fatigue.
Larue made another move, as if about to continue his course.
"But do tell me--weren't you surprised?" Billy repeated, hastily. (For,
oh! he must not go so soon.)
"I don't think I am ever surprised, Miss Breeze."
Here Anthony Etheridge came by, and stopped. He looked sternly at Miss
Billy. "But what do you think of it, Mr. Larue?" Billy was inquiring.
"I have not thought of it," Larue responded, coldly.
"Are you selling gloves?" inquired Etheridge. For the paper having
fallen to the ground, the two dozen pairs were visible, lying in
confusion over Billy's arm.
"To Mr. Larue?" (Giggle.) "Oh, I couldn't." (Giggle.) "They're only No.
6." For poor Billy had one humble little pride--her pretty hand.
There was a sound of horses' feet, and Ruth Franklin rode round the
corner, on Kentucky Belle, giving them a gay nod as she passed. Horace
Chase and Malachi Hill were with her, both mounted on beautiful
horses--one black, one chestnut; and at some distance behind followed
Chase's groom. "How happy she looks!" murmured Miss Billy, with an
involuntary sigh.
"Yes. She has obtained what she likes," commented Larue. "Hers is a
frivolous nature; she requires gayety, change, luxury, and now she will
have them. Her family are very wise to consent. For they have, I
suspect, but little money. Her good looks will soon disappear; at thirty
she will be plain." And this time, decidedly, he walked away.
Miss Billy, her eyes dimmed by unshed tears, looked after him. "Such
a--such a worldly view of marriage!" she managed to articulate.
"What can you expect from a fish?" answered Etheridge, secretly glad of
his opportunity. "Achilles Larue is as cold-blooded as a mackerel, and
always was. I don't say he will never marry again; but if he does, the
woman he selects will have to go down on her knees and stay there" (Miss
Billy's eyes looked hopeful); "and bring him, also, a good big sum of
money in her hand." Here, noticing that one of the pairs of gloves had
slipped down so far that it was held by the tips of its fingers only, he
turned away with a sudden "Good-afternoon." For he had had rheumatism
all night in the small of his back; he could walk, but he could not
stoop.
Miss Billy went home much depressed. The night before, after her usual
devotions and an hour's perusal of The Blue Ridge in the Glacial
Period (she read the volume through regularly once a month), she had
attempted a thought-transferrence. She had, indeed, made many such
experiments since Maud Muriel's explanation of the process. But last
night she had for the first time succeeded in keeping her mind strictly
to the subject; for nearly ten minutes, with her face screwed up by the
intensity of the effort, she had willed continuously, "Like me,
Achilles, like me!" (She was too modest even to think "love" instead
of "like.") "You must! You shall!" And now, when at last she had
succeeded in meeting him, this was the result! She put away the gloves
mechanically: she had bought them not from any need, but simply because
she had felt the wish to go out and do something when the exciting
news of Ruth Franklin's engagement had reached her at noon. Stirred as
she already was by her own private experiment of the previous night, the
thought in her heart was: "Well, it isn't extravagance, for light gloves
are always useful. And then in case of--of anything happening to me,
they'd be all ready."
When Anthony Etheridge left her, he went to L'Hommedieu, where he found
Dolly in the parlor with Petie Trone, Esq. Trone's basket had been
established by Ruth under the pedestal which now held his own likeness.
For Chase had kept his word; Maud Muriel's clever work had been
reproduced in bronze. The squirrel also was present; he was climbing up
the window-curtain. "So you have to see to the pets, do you?" remarked
the visitor as he seated himself. He had known of the engagement for
several days; he had already made what he called "the proper speeches"
to Mrs. Franklin and Ruth, and to Chase himself. "I have just seen
her--on Kentucky Belle," he went on. "Well, he will give her everything,
that's one certainty. On the whole, she's a lucky girl."
"It is Mr. Chase who is lucky," answered Dolly, stiffly. She was
finishing off the toe of a stocking, and did not look up. "I consider
Mr. Chase a miraculously fortunate man."
"Miraculously? How do you mean? Because she is young? The good-fortune,
as regards that, is for the wife, not the husband; for she will always
be so much his junior that he will have to consider her--he will never
dare to neglect her. Well, Dolly, all Asheville has heard the news this
morning; the town is ringing with it. And it is such an amiable
community that it has immediately given its benediction in the most
optimistic way. Of course, though, there are some who maintain that she
is marrying him for his money."
Dolly knitted more rapidly.
"And so she is," Etheridge added. "Though not in their sense, for she
has never reflected, never thought about it, never made a plan. All the
same, it is his wealth, you know, which has fascinated her--his wealth
and his liberality. She has never seen anything like it. No one she
knows has ever done such things--flowers, jewels, journeys, her brother
lifted out of his troubles as if by magic, a future sparkling and
splendid opening before her; no wonder she is dazzled. In addition, she
herself has an ingrained love of ease--"
Dolly dropped her stocking. "Do you think I intend to sit here and
listen to you?" she demanded, with flashing eyes.
"Wait, wait," answered Etheridge, putting out his hand as if to explain;
"you don't see what I am driving at, Dolly. As Mrs. Chase, your sister
will have everything she wishes for; all her tastes and fancies
gratified to the full; and that is no small affair! Chase will be fond
of her; in addition, he will be excessively indulgent to her in every
way. With her nature and disposition, her training, too (for you have
spoiled her, all of you), it is really an ideal marriage for the girl,
and that is what I am trying to tell you. You might search the world
over, and you could not find a better one."
"I don't like it; I never shall like it," answered Dolly, implacably.
"And mother in her heart agrees with me, though she has, somehow, a
higher idea of the man than I have. As for Ruth--Ruth is simply swept
away--"
"Exactly; swept into her proper sphere," interrupted Etheridge. "Don't
interfere with the process."
"She doesn't understand--" Dolly began.
"She understands immensely well what she likes! Give Ruth indulgence,
amusement, pleasure, and she will be kind-hearted, amiable, generous; in
short, good and happy. On the other hand, there might be another story.
Come, I am going to be brutal; I don't know how much money your mother
has; but I suspect very little, with the possibility, perhaps, of less.
And I can't imagine, Dolly, any one more unhappy than your sister would
be, ten years hence, say, if shut up here in Asheville, poor, her good
looks gone, to face a life of dull sameness forever. I think it would
kill her! She is not at all the girl to accept monotony with resignation
or heroism; to settle down to mending and reading, book-clubs and
whist-clubs, puddings and embroidery, gossip and good works."
Here the house-door opened; Mrs. Franklin and Genevieve came in
together, and entered the parlor. When Dolly heard Genevieve's step, she
rose. Obliged to walk slowly, she could not slip out; but she made a
progress which was almost stately, as, without speaking to her
sister-in-law, or looking at her, she left the room.
Genevieve, however, required no notice from Dolly. Her face was radiant
with satisfaction. She shook hands with Etheridge warmly. "I have not
seen you since it happened, commodore. I know you are with us in our
pleasure? I know you congratulate us?"
Etheridge had always thought the younger Mrs. Franklin a beautiful
woman; she reminded him of the Madonna del Granduca at Florence. Now she
held his hand so long, and looked at him with such cordial friendliness,
that he came out with the gallant exclamation, "Chase is the one I
congratulate, by Jove!--on getting such a sister-in-law!"
"Think of all Ruth will now be able to do--all the good! I seem to see
even my hospital," added Genevieve, gayly.
"Hum--yes," added Etheridge. Walking away a step or two, he put his
hands in the pockets of his trousers and looked towards his legs
reflectively for a moment, as though surveying the pattern of the
garments--a convenient gesture to which a (slender) man can resort when
he wishes to cover a silence.
"For dear mamma, too, it is so delightful," continued Genevieve. She had
seated herself, and she now drew her mother-in-law down beside her.
"Ruth will never permit mamma to have another care."
"Yes--I think I'll just run up and take off my bonnet," said Mrs.
Franklin, disengaging herself. And she left the room.
Genevieve was not disturbed by this second departure; she was never
disturbed by any of the actions or the speeches of her husband's family.
She did her own duty regarding them regularly and steadily, month after
month; it was part of her rule of conduct. But what they did or said to
her in return was less important. "Ruth is a fortunate girl," she went
on, as she drew off her gloves with careful touches. "And she
appreciates it, commodore--I am glad to tell you that; I have been
talking to her. She is very happy. Horace is such an able and splendidly
successful man--a man whom every one must respect and admire most
warmly."
"Yes, a clever speculator indeed!" commented Etheridge, ungratefully,
throwing over his drive with the bays.
"Speculator? Oh no; it is all genuine business; I can assure you of
that," answered Genevieve, seriously. "And now perhaps you can help us a
little. Horace is anxious to have the marriage take place this fall. And
I am on his side. For why, indeed, should they wait? The usual delays
are prudential, or for the purpose of making preparations. But in this
case there are no such conditions; he already has a house in New York,
for he has always preferred home life. Ruth is willing to have it so.
But mamma decidedly, almost obstinately, opposes it."
"Dolly too, I suppose?"
"Oh, I never count Dolly; her temper is so uncertain. But it is very
natural that it should be so, and one always excuses her, poor dear!
Couldn't you say a word or two to mamma, commodore? You have known her
so long; I am sure you have influence. But my chief dependence, of
course, is upon Jay. Mamma always yields to Jay."
"Franklin, then, is pleased with the engagement?" said Etheridge,
walking about the room, taking up books, looking at them vaguely, and
laying them down again.
"How could he not be! As it happens, however, we have not yet heard
from him, for when our letters reached Charleston he had just started
for New York on one of their steamers; some business errand. But he was
to return by train, and I am expecting to hear from him to-morrow."
There was a sound outside. "Here they come," said Etheridge, looking
out.
Genevieve rose quickly to join him at the window. Chase and Malachi Hill
were dismounting. Then Chase lifted Ruth from Kentucky Belle. "Those are
two new horses, you know," explained Genevieve, in a low tone; "Horrie
sent for them. And he lets Mr. Hill ride one of them every day."
"Yes; horses enough!" grumbled Etheridge, discontentedly.
Ruth, holding up the skirt of her habit, was coming towards the house,
talking to her two escorts. When she entered the parlor, Genevieve went
forward and put her arm round her. "I know you have enjoyed your ride,
dear?"
"Of course I have. How do you do, commodore? I have just been planning
another excursion with Horace." (The name came out happily and
securely.) "To Cæsar's Head this time; you to drive the four-in-hand,
and I to ride Kentucky Belle."
"Yes, that's right; arrange it with him," said Chase. "For I must go; I
have letters to write which can be postponed no longer. You have had
enough of me for to-day, I guess? May I come in to-morrow
afternoon--early?"
"Come to lunch," said Ruth, giving him her hand. He held it out for a
moment, looking at her with kindly eyes. "You don't know how much I
enjoyed my ride," said the girl, heartily. "It is such a joy to be on
Kentucky Belle; she is so beautiful, and she moves so lightly! It was
the nicest ride I have ever had in my life!"
This seemed to please Chase. He took leave of the others and went away.
"I will wait here, if you will allow it, Miss Ruth, until he is out of
sight," said Malachi Hill. "For I may as well confess to you--I have
already told Miss Dolly--that I seem fairly to lose my head when I find
myself with Mr. Chase alone! I am so haunted by the idea of all he could
do for the Church in these mountains that in spite of the generous gifts
he has already made, I keep hankering after more--like a regular
gorilla of covetousness!"
"I shall have to see that he is never left alone with you," said Ruth,
laughing.
"There! he has turned the corner. Now I'll go the other way,"
continued the missionary, his seriousness unbroken.
"Mr. Hill is such a good man," remarked Genevieve as she closed the
window.
"Miss Billy thinks him full of the darkest evil," commented Ruth. "Why
do you shut the window?"
"You were in a draught. After your ride you must be warm."
"I'm a precious object, am I?"
"Yes, dear, you certainly are," replied Genevieve, with all the
seriousness of Malachi Hill.
"If that simpleton of a Billy could see the parson eat apples, she would
change her opinion about him," remarked Etheridge. "A man who can devour
with relish four, five, and even six, cold raw apples (and the Asheville
apples are sixteen inches round) late in the evening, cores, seeds, and
all, must be virtuous--as virtuous as mutton!" He was looking at Ruth
as he spoke. The girl was leaning back in an easy-chair; Petie Trone,
Esq., had lost no time, he was already established in her lap, and the
squirrel had flown to her shoulder. She had taken off her gauntlets, and
as she lifted her hands to remove her hat, he saw a flash. "Trinkets?"
he said.
"Oh--you haven't seen it?" She drew off a ring and tossed it across to
him.
"Take care!" said Genevieve.
But Etheridge had already caught it. It was a solitaire diamond ring,
the stone of splendid beauty, large, pure, brilliant.
"It came yesterday," Genevieve explained. Then she folded her
hands--this with Genevieve was always a deliberate motion. "There will
be diamonds--yes. But there will be other things also; surely our dear
Ruth will remember the duties of wealth as well as its pleasures."
Ruth paid no heed to this; put on her ring again, using the philopena
circlet as a guard; then she said, "Petie Trone, Esq., there will be
just time before dinner for your Saturday scrubbing."
Half an hour later when she returned, the little dog trotting behind
her, his small body pinned up in a hot towel, Genevieve cried in alarm,
"Where are your rings?"
"Oh," said Ruth, looking at her hands, "I didn't miss them; they must
have come off in the tub. Since then I have been in my room, dressing."
"And Rinda may have thrown away the water!" exclaimed her sister-in-law,
rushing up the stairs in breathless haste.
But Rinda was never in a hurry to perform any of her duties, and the
wooden tub devoted to Mr. Trone still stood in its place. Genevieve,
baring her white arms, plunged both her hands into the water, her heart
beating with anxiety. But the rings, very soapy, were there.
That evening, at nine o'clock, Mrs. Franklin was galloping through the
latest tale of Anthony Trollope. For she always read a novel with racing
speed to get at the story, skipping every description; then, if she had
been interested, she went back and reperused it in more leisurely
fashion. It was unusual to have a book fresh from the press; the
well-fingered volumes which Miss Billy borrowed for her so industriously
were generally two or three years old. Horace Chase, learning from Ruth
the mother's liking for novels, had sent a note to New York, ordering in
his large way "all the latest articles in fiction;" a package to be sent
to L'Hommedieu once a month. The first parcel had just arrived, and Mrs.
Franklin, opening it, much surprised, had surveyed the gift with mixed
feelings. She was alone; Dolly was upstairs. Ruth, seized with a sudden
fancy for a glass of cream, had gone, with Rinda as protector, to a
house at some distance, where cream was sold; for with Ruth fancies were
so vivid that it always seemed to her absolutely necessary to follow
them instantly. The mother turned over the volumes. "It doesn't make me
like him a bit better!" she said to herself. But her easy-chair was
comfortable; the reading-lamp was burning brightly at her elbow. For
fourteen years novels had been her opiates; she put on her glasses, took
up the Trollope, and began. She had not been reading long, when her
attention suddenly jumped back to the present, owing to a sound outside.
For the window was open, somebody was coming up the path from the gate,
and she recognized--yes, she recognized the step. Letting the book drop,
she ran to the house-door. "Jared! Why--how did you get here? The stage
came in long ago."
"I drove over from Old Fort," answered her son as he entered.
"And you did not find Genevieve? She has gone with Mr. Hill to--"
"I haven't been to the Cottage yet; I came directly here. Where is
Ruth?"
"Out. But she will be in soon. Dolly isn't well to-night; she has gone
to bed."
"The coast is clear, then, and we can talk," said Jared. "So much the
better." They were now in the parlor; before seating himself he closed
the door. "I have come up, mother, about this affair of Ruth's. As soon
as I got back to Charleston and read your letters, I started at once.
You have been careless, I fear; but at least I hope that nothing has
been said, that no one knows?"
"Everybody knows, Jared. At least, everybody in Asheville."
"Who has told? Chase?" asked Jared, angrily.
"Oh no; he left that to us. I have said nothing, and Dolly has said
nothing. But--but--"
"But what?"
"Genevieve has announced it everywhere," answered Mrs. Franklin, her
inward feeling against her daughter-in-law for once getting the better
of her.
"I will speak to Genevieve. But she is not the one most in fault,
mother; she could not have announced it unless you had given your
consent. And how came you to do that?"
"I don't think I have consented. I have been waiting for you."
"Very well, then; we can act together. Now that I have come, Horace
Chase will find that there's some one on hand to look after you; he will
no longer be able to do as he pleases!"
"Our difficulty is, Jared, that it is not so much a question of his
doing as he pleases as it is of Ruth's doing as she pleases; she
thinks it is all enchanting; and she is headstrong, you know."
"Yes. That is the very reason why I think you have been careless,
mother. You were here and I was not; you, therefore, were the one to
act. You should have taken Ruth out of town at once; you should have
taken her north, if necessary, and kept her there; you should have done
this at any sacrifice."
"It is not so easy--" began his mother. Then she stopped. For she was
living on credit; she owed money everywhere, and there were still ten
days to elapse before any remittances could reach her. But she would
have borne anything, and resorted to everything, rather than let Jared
know this. "It took me so completely by surprise," she said, beginning
again. "I am sure that you yourself had no suspicion of any such
possibility when we took that French Broad drive?"
"No, I had not. And it enrages me to think how blind I was! He was
laying his plans even then; the whole trip, and all those costly things
he did--that was simply part of it." And leaving his chair, the brother
walked up and down the room, his face darkly flushed with anger.
"Ruth--a child! And he--thirty years older!"
"Not that, dear. He is thirty-eight; and she was nineteen last week."
"He looks much more than thirty-eight. But that isn't the point. You
don't seem to see, mother, what makes it so insufferable; he has bribed
her about me, bribed her with that place in Charleston; that's the
whole story! She is so happy about that, that she forgets all else."
"I don't like the idea of an engagement between them any better than you
do, Jared. But I ought to say two things. One is, that I don't believe
he made any plot as to the Charleston place; I think he likes to help
people--"
"Yes, our family!" interrupted the son, hotly. "No, mother, you don't
understand him in the least. Horace Chase is purely a business man, a
long-headed, driving, money-making fellow; all his ambition (and he has
plenty of it) is along that one line. It's the only line, in fact, which
he thinks important. But the idea of his being a philanthropist would
make any one who has ever had business dealings with him laugh for a
week!"
"Well, have that as you like. But even if he first gave you the place on
Ruth's account (for he has fallen very much in love with her, there is
no doubt of that), I don't see that he has any need to be a benefactor
in keeping you there. They are no doubt delighted to have you; he says
so himself, in fact. A navy officer, a gentleman--they may well be!"
added Mrs. Franklin, looking for the moment very much like her father,
old Major Seymour, with his aristocratic notions.
"Why, mother, don't you know that people with that brutal amount of
money--Chaise and the Willoughbys, for instance--don't you know that
they look upon the salaries of army and navy officers simply as genteel
poverty?" said Jared, forgetting for the moment his anger in amusement
over her old-fashioned mistake.
But he could not have made Mrs. Franklin believe this in ten years of
repetition, much less in ten minutes. "And the other thing I had to
say," she went on, "is that I don't think Ruth is marrying him on your
account solely."
"Oh yes, she is, though she may not be conscious of it. But when I have
given up the Charleston place, which I shall do to-morrow, then she will
be free again. The moment she sees that she can do me no good, all
will look different to her. I'd rather do anything--sell the Cottage,
and live on a crust all the rest of my days--than have a sister of mine
help me along in that way!"
His mother watched him as he paced to and fro. He looked ill; there were
hollows at his temples and dark circles under his eyes; his tall figure
had begun to stoop. He was the dearest of all her children; his
incurable, unspoken regrets, his broken life, were like a dagger in her
heart at all times. He would give up his place, and then he would have
nothing; and she, his mother, could not help him with a penny. He would
give up his place and sell the Cottage, and then--Genevieve! It all came
back to that; it would always come back to that--Genevieve! She
swallowed hard to keep down the sob in her throat. "He is very much in
love with her," she repeated, vaguely, in order to say something.
"Who cares if he is! I almost begin to think you like it, after all?"
"No, dear, no; neither Dolly nor I like it in the least. But Ruth is not
easy to manage. And Genevieve was sure that you--"
"This is not Genevieve's affair. It is mine!" thundered Jared.
His mother jumped up, ran to him, and gave him a kiss. For the moment
she forgot his illness, his uncertain future, her own debts, all her
troubles, in the joy of hearing him at last assert his will against
that of his wife. But it was only for a moment; she knew--knew far
better than he did--that the even-tempered feminine pertinacity would
always in the end have its way. Jared, impulsive, generous,
affectionate, was no match for Genevieve. In a contest of this sort it
is the nobler nature, always, that yields; the self-satisfied, limited
mind has an obstinacy that never gives way. She leaned her head against
her son's breast, and all the bitterness of his marriage came over her
afresh like a flood.
"Why, mother, what is it?" asked Jared, feeling her tremble. He put his
arm round her, and smoothed her hair tenderly. "Tell me what it is that
troubles you so?"
The gate swung to. Mrs. Franklin lifted her head. "Ruth is coming," she
whispered. "Say what you like to her. But, under all circumstances,
remember to be kind. I will come back presently." She hurried out.
Rinda and Ruth entered. Rinda went to the kitchen, and Ruth, after
taking off her hat, came into the parlor, carrying her glass of cream.
"Jared!" She put down the glass on the table, and threw her arms round
her brother's neck. "Oh, I am so glad you have come!"
"Sit down. Here, by me. I wish to speak to you, Ruth."
"Yes--about my engagement. It's very good of you to come so soon;" and
she put her hand through his arm in her old affectionate way.
"I do not call it an engagement when you have neither your mother's
consent nor mine," answered her brother. "Whatever it is, however, you
must make an end of it."
"An end of it? Why?"
"Because we all dislike the idea. You are too young to comprehend what
you are doing."
"I am nineteen; that is not so very young. I comprehend that I am going
to be happy. And I love to be happy! I have never seen any one half so
kind as Mr. Chase. If there is anything I want to do, he arranges it. He
doesn't wait, and hesitate, and consider; he does it. He thinks of
everything; it is perfectly beautiful! Why, Jared--what he did for you,
wasn't that kind?"
"Exactly. That is what he has bribed you with!"
"Bribed?" repeated Ruth, surprised, as she saw the indignation in his
eyes. Then comprehending what he meant, she laughed, coloring a little
also. "But I am not marrying him on your account; I am marrying him on
my own. I am marrying because I like it, because I want to. You don't
believe it? Why--look at me." She rose and stood before him. "I am the
happiest girl in the world as I stand here! I should think you could see
it for yourself?" And in truth her face was radiant. "If I have ever had
any dreams of what I should like my life to be (and I have had plenty),
they have all come true," she went on, with her hands behind her,
looking at him reflectively. "Think of all I shall have! And of where I
can go! And of what I can do! Why--there's no end of it!"
"That is not the way to talk of marriage."
"How one talks of it is not important. The important point is to be
happy in it, and that I shall be to the full--yes, to the full. His
Grand shall have whatever she likes; and Dolly too. First of all, Dolly
shall have a phaeton, so that she can drive to the woods every day. The
house shall be put in order from top to bottom. And--oh, everything!"
"Is that the way you talk to him?"
But the sarcasm fell to the ground. "Precisely. Word for word," answered
Ruth, lightly. And he saw that she spoke the truth.
"He is much too old for you. If there were no other--"
But Ruth interrupted him with a sort of sweet obstinacy. "That is for me
to judge, isn't it?"
"He is not at all the person you fancy he is."
"I don't care what he is generally, what he is to other people; all I
care for is what he is to me. And about that you know nothing; I am the
one to know. He is nicer to me, and he always will be nicer, than
Genevieve has ever been to you!" And turning, the girl walked across
the room.
"If I have been unhappy, that is the very reason I don't want you to
be," answered her brother, after a moment's pause.
His tone touched her. She ran back to him, and seated herself on his
knee, with her cheek against his. "I didn't mean it, dear; forgive me,"
she whispered, softly. "But please don't be cross. You are angry because
you believe I am marrying to help you. But you are mistaken; I am
marrying for myself. You might be back in the navy, and mother and Dolly
might have more money, and I should still marry him. It would be because
I want to, because I like him. If you had anything to say against him
personally, it would be different, but you haven't. He is waiting to
tell you about himself, to introduce you to his family (he has only
sisters), and to his partners, the Willoughbys. Your only objections
appear to be that I am marrying him on your account, and I have told you
that I am not; and that he is older than I am, and that I like; and
that he has money, while we are poor. But he gets something in getting
me," she added, in a lighter tone, as she raised her head and looked at
him gayly. "Wait till you see how pretty I shall be in fine clothes."
The door opened, and Mrs. Franklin came in.
Ruth rose. "Here is mother. Now I must say the whole. Listen, mother;
and you too, Jared. I intend to marry Horace Chase. If not with your
consent, then without it. If you will not let me be married at home,
then I shall walk out of the house, go to Horace, and the first
clergyman or minister he can find shall marry us. There! I have said it.
But why should you treat me so? Don't make me so dreadfully unhappy."
She had spoken wilfully, determinedly. But now she was pleading--though
it was pleading to have her own way. Into her beautiful eyes came two
big tears as she gazed at them. Neither Mrs. Franklin nor Jared could
withstand those drops.
CHAPTER VII
The wedding was over. Pretty little Trinity Church was left alone with
its decorations of flowers and vines, the work of Miss Billy Breeze.
Miss Billy, much excited, was now standing beside Ruth in the parlor at
L'Hommedieu; for Miss Billy and Maud Muriel were the bridesmaids. Maud
Muriel had consented with solemnity. "It is strange that such a man as
Horace Chase, a man of sense and importance, should be taken with a
child like Ruth Franklin," she confided to Miss Billy. "However, I won't
desert him at such a moment. I'll stand by him." She was in reality not
so much bridesmaid as groomsman.
L'Hommedieu was decked with flowers. It was a warm autumn day, the
windows and doors were open. All Asheville was in attendance, if not in
the house and on the verandas, then gazing over the fence, and waiting
outside the gate. For there were many things to engage its attention.
First, there was Mrs. Franklin, looking very distinguished; then
Genevieve, the most beautiful woman present. Then there was Bishop
Carew, who had come from Wilmington to officiate. All Asheville admired
the bishop--the handsome, kindly, noble old man, full of dignity, full
of sweetness as well; they were proud that he had come to "their"
wedding. For that was the way they thought of it. Even the
negroes--those who had flocked to old Daniel's race--had a sense of
ownership in the affair.
A third point of interest was the general surprise over Maud. As Ruth
had selected the costumes of her bridesmaids, Miss Mackintosh was
attired for the first time in her life in ample soft draperies. Her
hair, too, arranged by Miss Billy, had no longer the look of the
penitentiary, and the result was that (to the amazement of the town) the
sculptress was almost handsome.
Anthony Etheridge, much struck by this (and haunted by his old idea),
pressed upon her a glass of punch.
"Take it," he urged, in a low tone, "take two or three. Then, as soon as
this is over, hurry to your studio and let yourself go. You'll do
wonders!"
Two of Chase's partners were present, Nicholas Willoughby, a
quiet-looking man of fifty-eight, and his nephew Walter of the same
name; Walter was acting as "best man." The elder Willoughby had made use
of the occasion to take a general look at this mountain country, with
reference to Chase's ideas concerning it, in order to make a report to
his brother Richard. For Nicholas and Richard were millionaires many
times over; their business in life was investment. Asheville itself,
meanwhile, hardly comprehended the importance of such an event as the
presence within its borders of a New York capitalist; it knew very
little about New York, still less about capitalists. Mrs. Franklin,
however, possessed a wider knowledge; she understood what was
represented by the name of Willoughby. And it had solaced her
unspeakably also to note that the uncle had a genuine liking for her
future son-in-law. "They have a real regard for him," she said to her
son, in private. "And I myself like him rather better than I once
thought I should."
Jared had come from Charleston on the preceding day. "Oh, that's far too
guarded, mother," he answered. "The only way for us now is to like
Horace Chase with enthusiasm, to cling to him with the deepest
affection. We must admire unflinchingly everything he says and
everything he does--swallow him whole, as it were; it isn't difficult to
swallow things whole! Just watch me." And, in truth, it was Jared's
jocularity that enlivened the reception, and made it so gay; it reached
even Dolly, who (to aid him) became herself a veritable Catherine-wheel
of jokes, so that every one noticed how happy all the Franklins
were--how delighted with the marriage.
Chase himself appeared well. His rather ordinary face was lighted by an
expression of deep inward happiness which was touching; its set lines
were relaxed; his eyes, which were usually too keen, had a softness that
was new to them. He was very silent; he let his best man talk for him.
Walter Willoughby performed this part admirably; standing beside the
bridegroom, he "supported" him gayly through the two hours which were
given up to the outside friends.
Ruth looked happy, but not particularly pretty. The excitement had given
her a deep flush; even her throat was red.
At three o'clock Peter and Piper were brought round to the door; Chase
was to drive his wife over the mountains, through the magnificent
forest, now gorgeous with the tints of autumn, and at Old Fort a special
train was waiting to take them eastward.
A few more minutes and then they were gone. There was nothing left but
the scattered rice on the ground, and Petie Trone, Esq., barking his
little heart out at the gate.
CHAPTER VIII
Early on a moonlit evening in January, 1875, Mr. and Mrs. Horace Chase
were approaching St. Augustine. They had come by steamer up the broad
St. Johns, the beautiful river of Florida, to the lonely little landing
called Tocoi; here they had intrusted themselves to the Atlantic Ocean
Railroad. This railroad undertook to convey travellers across the
peninsula to the sea-coast, fifteen miles distant; and the promise was
kept. But it was kept in a manner so leisurely that more than once
Horace Chase had risen and walked to and fro, as though, somehow, that
would serve to increase the speed. The rolling-stock possessed by the
Atlantic Ocean Railroad at that date consisted of two small street-cars,
one for passengers, one for luggage; Chase's promenade, therefore,
confined as it was to the first car, had a range of about four steps.
"I'm ridiculously fidgety, and that's a fact," he said to his wife,
laughing at himself. "I can be lazy enough in a Pullman, for then I can
either read the papers or go to sleep. But down here there are no papers
to read. And who can sleep in this jolting? I believe I'll ask that
darky to let me drive the mules!"
"Do," said Ruth. "Then I can be out there with you on the front
platform."
As there were no other passengers (save Petie Trone, Esq., asleep in his
travelling basket), Abram, the negro driver, gave up the reins with a
grin. Taking his station on the step, he then admonished the volunteer
from time to time as follows: "Dish yere's a bad bit; take keer, boss."
"Jess ahead de rail am splayed out on de lef'. Yank 'em hard to de
right, or we'll sut'ny run off de track. We ginerally do run off de
track 'bout yere." On each side was a dense forest veiled in the gray
long moss. Could that be snow between the two black lines of track
ahead? No snow, however, was possible in this warm atmosphere; it was
but the spectral effect of the moonlight, blanching to an even paler
whiteness the silvery sand which formed the road-bed between the rails.
This sand covered the sleepers to such a depth that the mules could not
step quickly; there was always a pailful of it on each foot to lift and
throw off. They moved on, therefore, in a sluggish trot, the cow-bells
attached to their collars keeping up a regular tink-tank, tink-tank.
The tableau of her husband driving these spirited steeds struck Ruth as
comical. She was seated on a camp-stool by his side, and presently she
broke into a laugh. "Oh, you do look so funny, Horace! If you could
only see yourself! You, so particular about horses that you won't drive
anything that is not absolutely perfect, there you stand taking the
greatest pains, and watching solemnly every quiver of the ear of those
old mules!"
They were alone, Abram having gone to the baggage-car to get his tin
horn. "Come, now, are you never going to stop making fun of me?"
inquired Chase. "How do you expect to hit St. Augustine to-night if this
fast express runs off the track?" But in spite of his protest, it was
easy to see that he liked to hear her laugh.
Abram, coming back, put the horn to his lips and blew a resounding
blast; and presently, round a curve, the half-way station came into
view--namely, a hut of palmetto boughs on the barren, with a bonfire
before it. The negro station-men, beguiling their evening leisure by
dancing on the track to their own singing and the music of a banjo, did
not think it necessary to stop their gyrations until the heads of the
mules actually touched their shoulders. Even then they made no haste in
bringing out the fresh team which was to serve as motive power to St.
Augustine, and Mr. and Mrs. Chase, leaving the car, strolled up and down
near by. The veiled forest had been left behind; the rest of the way lay
over the open pine-barrens. The leaping bonfire, the singing negroes,
and the little train on its elevated snow-like track contrasted with the
wild, lonely, silent, tree-dotted plain, stretching away limitlessly in
the moonlight on all sides.
"Perhaps Petie Trone, Esq., would like to take a run," said Ruth.
Hastening into the car with her usual heedlessness, she tripped and
nearly fell, Chase, who had followed, catching her arm just in time to
save her.
"Some of these days, Ruthie, you will break your neck. Why are you
always in such a desperate hurry?"
"Talk about hurry!" answered Ruth, as she unstrapped the basket and woke
the lazy Mr. Trone. "Who saw the whole of Switzerland in five days? and
found it slow at that?" And then they both laughed.
After a stretch, Petie Trone decided to make a foray over the barren;
his little black figure was soon out of sight. "Horace, now that we are
here, I wish you would promise to stay. Can't we stay at least until the
middle of March? It's lovely in Florida in the winter," Ruth declared,
as they resumed their walk.
"Well, I'll stay as long as I can. But I must go to California on
business between this and spring," Chase answered.
"Why don't you make one of the Willoughbys do that? They never do
anything!"
"That's all right; I'm the working partner of the firm; it was so
understood from the beginning. The Willoughbys only put in capital; all
but Walter, of course, who hasn't got much. But Walter's a knowing young
chap, who will put in brains. My California business, however, has
nothing to do with the Willoughbys, Ruthie; it's my own private affair,
that is. If I succeed, and I think I shall, it'll about double my
pile. Come, you know you like money." He drew her hand through his arm
and held it. "How many more rings do you want? How many more houses?
How many more French maids and flounces? How many more carriages?"
"Oh, leave out the carriages, do," interrupted Ruth. "When it comes to
anything connected with a horse, who spends money--you or I?"
"My one small spree compared to your fifty!"
"Small!" she repeated. "Wherever we go, whole troops of horses appear by
magic!" Then, after a moment, she let her head rest against his shoulder
as they strolled slowly on. "You are only too good to me," she added, in
another tone.
"Well, I guess that's about what I want to be," Chase answered,
covering, as he often did, the deep tenderness in his heart with a vein
of jocularity.
The Atlantic Ocean Railroad's terminal station at St. Augustine
consisted of a platform in the sand and another flaring bonfire. At
half-past six Mrs. Franklin, Dolly, and Anthony Etheridge were waiting
on this platform for the evening train. With them was a fourth
person--Mrs. Lilian Kip. "Oh, I can scarcely wait to see her!" exclaimed
this lady, excitedly. "Will she be the same? But no. Impossible!"
"She is exactly the same," answered Dolly, who, seated on an empty
dry-goods box, was watching the bonfire.
"But you must remember that Ruth did not come to Florida last winter
after her marriage. And this summer, when I was in Asheville, she was
abroad. And as none of you came south winter before last--don't you see
that it makes nearly two years since I have seen her?" Mrs. Kip went
on. "In addition, marriage changes a woman's face so--deepens its
expression and makes it so much more beautiful. I am sure, commodore,
that you agree with me there?" And she turned to the only man present.
"Yes, yes," answered Etheridge, gallantly. In his heart he added: "And
therefore the more marriage the better? Is that what you are thinking
of, you idiot?"
The presence of Mrs. Kip always tore Etheridge to pieces. He had never
had any intention of marrying, and he certainly had no such intention
now. Yet he could not help admiring this doubly widowed Lilian very
deeply, after a fashion. And he knew, too--jealously and angrily he knew
it--that before long she would inevitably be led to the altar a third
time; so extremely marriageable a woman would never lack for leaders.
"Ruth is handsomer," remarked Mrs. Franklin; "otherwise she is
unchanged. You will see it for yourself, Lilian, when she comes."
The mother's tone was placid. All her forebodings had faded away, and
she had watched them disappear with thankful eyes. For Ruth was happy;
there could be no doubt about that. In the year that had passed since
her marriage, she had returned twice to Asheville, and Mrs. Franklin
also had spent a month at her son-in-law's home in New York. On all
these occasions it had been evident that the girl was enjoying greatly
her new life; that she was delightedly, exultantly, and gleefully
contented, and all in a natural way, without analyzing it. She delighted
in the boundless gratification of her taste for personal ease and
luxury; she exulted in all that she was able to do for her own family;
she was full of glee over the amusements, the entertainments, and
especially the change, that surrounded her like a boundless horizon. For
her husband denied her nothing; she had only to choose. He was not what
is known as set in his ways; he had no fixed habits (save the habit of
making money); in everything, therefore, except his business affairs, he
allowed his young wife to arrange their life according to her fancy.
This freedom, this power, and the wealth, had not yet become an old
story to Ruth, and, with the enjoyment which she found in all three, it
seemed as if they never would become that. It had been an immense
delight to her, for instance, to put L'Hommedieu in order for her
mother. A month after her marriage, on returning to Asheville for a
short visit, she had described her plan to Dolly. "And think what fun it
will be, Dolly, to have the whole house done over, not counting each
cent in Genevieve's deadly way, but just recklessly! And then to see
her squirm, and say 'surely!' And you and mother must pretend not to
care much about it; you must hardly know what is going on, while they
are actually putting in steam-heaters, and hard-wood floors, and
bath-rooms with porcelain tubs--hurrah!" And, with Petie Trone barking
in her arms, she whirled round in a dance of glee.
Chase happening to come in at this moment, she immediately repeated to
him all that she had been saying.
He agreed; then added, with his humorous deliberation, "But you don't
seem to think quite so much of my old school-mate as I supposed you
did?"
"Sisters-in-law, Mr. Chase, are seldom very devoted friends,"
explained Dolly, going on with her embroidery. Dolly always did
something that required her close attention whenever Horace Chase was
present. "How, indeed, can they be? A sister sees one side of her
brother's nature, and sees it correctly; a wife sees another side, and
with equal accuracy. Each honestly believes that the other is entirely
wrong. Their point of view, you see, is so different!"
The waiting group at the St. Augustine station on this January evening
heard at last the blast of Abram's horn, and presently the train came
in, the mules for the last few yards galloping madly, their tin bells
giving out a clattering peal, and Chase still acting as driver, with
Ruth beside him. Affectionate greetings followed, for all the Franklins
were warmly attached to each other. Mrs. Kip was not a Franklin, but she
was by nature largely affectionate; she was probably the most
affectionate person in Florida. To the present occasion she contributed
several tears of joy. Then she signalled to Juniper, her colored
waiter; for, being not only affectionate, but romantic as well, she had
brought in her phaeton a bridal ornament, a heart three feet high, made
of roses reposing upon myrtle, and this symbol, amid the admiration of
all the bystanders, black and white, was now borne forward in the arms
of Juniper (who, being a slender lad, staggered under its weight). Ruth
laughed and laughed as this edifice was presented to her. But as, amid
her mirth, she had kissed the donor and thanked her very prettily, Mrs.
Kip was satisfied. For Ruth might laugh--Ruth, in fact, always
laughed--but marriage was marriage none the less; the most beautiful
human relation; and it was certainly fit that the first visit of a
happily wedded pair to the land of flowers should be commemorated
florally. Mrs. Kip volunteered to carry her heart to Mrs. Franklin's
residence; she drove away, therefore, Etheridge accompanying her, and
Juniper behind, balancing the structure as well as he could on his
knees, with his arms stretched upward to their fullest extent in order
to grasp its top.
In a rickety barouche drawn by two lean horses the others followed,
laughing and talking gayly. Chase got on very well with his
mother-in-law; and he supposed, also, that he got on fairly well with
Dolly: he had not divined Dolly's mental attitude towards him, which was
that simply of an armed neutrality. Dolly would have been wildly happy
if, for herself and her mother at least, she could have refused every
cent of his money. This had not been possible. Chase had settled upon
his wife a sum which gave her a large income for her personal use,
independent of all their common expenses; it was upon this income that
Ruth had drawn for the restoration of L'Hommedieu, and also for the
refurnishing of her mother's house at St. Augustine. "I can't be happy,
His Grand, I can't enjoy New York, or our trip to Europe, or anything,
unless I feel certain that you are perfectly comfortable in every way,"
she had said during that first visit at home. "All this money is mine; I
am not asked what I do with it, and I never shall be asked; you don't
know Horace if you think he will ever even allude to the subject. He
intends it for my ownest own, and of course he knows what I care the
most for, and that is you and Jared and Dolly. I have always suspected
that something troubled you every now and then, though I didn't know
what. And if it was money, His Grand, you must take some from me, now
that I have it; you must take it, and make your little girl really
happy. For she can't be happy until you do."
This youngest child really was still, in the mother's eyes, her "baby."
And when the baby, sitting down in her lap, put her arms round her neck
and pleaded so lovingly, the mother yielded. Her debts were now all
paid; it was a secret between herself and Ruth. The disappearance of the
burden was a great relief to the mother, though not so much so as it
would have been to some women; for it was characteristic of Mrs.
Franklin that she had never thought there was anything wrong in being
in debt; she had only thought that it was unfortunate. It would not have
occurred to her, even in her worst anxieties, to reduce sternly her
expenses until they accorded with her means, no matter how low that
might lead her; there was a point, so she believed, beyond which a Mrs.
Franklin could not descend with justice to her children. And justice to
her children was certainly a mother's first duty; justice to creditors
must take a second place.
To Dolly, unaware of the payment of the debts, the acceptance even of
the restoration of the two houses had been bitter enough; for though the
money came through Ruth's hands, it was nevertheless provided by this
stranger. "If I had only been well, I could have worked and saved mother
from this," she thought. "But I am helpless. Not only that, but a care!
Nobody stops to think how dreary a lot it is to be always a care. And
how hard, hard, never to be able to give, but always to have to accept,
accept, and be thankful!" But Dolly, at heart, had a generous nature;
she would not cloud even by a look her mother's contentment or the
happiness of Ruth. So when Chase said, as the barouche swayed crazily
through the deep mud-hole which for years formed the junction between
the station lane and the main road, "This old rattletrap isn't safe,
ma'am. Is it the best St. Augustine can do? You ought to have something
better!"--when Chase said this to her mother, Dolly even brought forward
a smile.
The rattletrap followed the long causeway which crossed the salt-marsh
and the San Sebastian River. Entering the town beneath an archway of
foliage, this causeway broadened into a sandy street under huge
pride-of-India trees, whose branches met overhead. Old Miss
L'Hommedieu's winter residence was not far from St. Francis Barracks, at
the south end of the town. It was an old coquina house which rose
directly from a little-travelled roadway. An open space on the other
side of this roadway, and the absence of houses, gave it the air of
being "on the bay," as it was called. Chase had taken, for a term of
years, another house not far distant, which really was on the bay. He
had done this to please Ruth. It was not probable that they should spend
many winters in Florida; but in case they should wish to come
occasionally, it would be convenient to have a house ready. "And when we
don't want it, Jared could stay here now and then," Ruth had suggested.
"Your brother? I guess he isn't going to be a very easy chap to arrange
for, here or anywhere," Chase had answered, laughing. "We've already
slipped up once pretty well--Charleston, you know." Then, seeing her
face grow troubled, "But he'll take another view of something else I
have in mind," he went on. "If my California project turns out as I
hope, it will be absolutely necessary for me to have a confidential man
to see to the New York part of it--some one whom I can trust. And I
shall be able to convince Franklin that this time, at any rate, instead
of its being a favor to him, it'll be a favor to me. He won't kick at
that, I reckon."
For Jared was now again at Raleigh, working as a clerk for the man who
had bought his former business; he had resigned his Charleston place in
spite of Ruth, in spite even of Genevieve. He had waited until the
wedding was over, in order that Ruth might not be made unhappy at the
moment; and then he had done it.
Notwithstanding this, his wife had never had so much money in her life
as she had now. For she and Ruth, with the perfectly good conscience
which women have in such matters, had combined together, as it were, to
circumvent secretly the obstinate naval officer. Ruth was warmly
attached to her brother; he was the one person who had been able to
control her when she was a child; his good opinion had been a hundred
times more important to her than that of her mother and Dolly. Now that
she was rich, she was bent upon helping him; and having found that she
could not do it directly, she had turned all her intelligence towards
doing it indirectly, through the capable, the willing Genevieve. Mrs.
Jared Franklin, Junior, had quietly and skilfully bought land in
Asheville (in readiness for the coming railroad); she had an account at
the bank; she had come into the possession of bonds and stock; she had
enlarged her house, and she had also given herself the pleasure (she
called it the benediction) of laying the foundations of an addition to
the Colored Home. As she kept up a private correspondence with Ruth,
she had heard of the proposed place in New York for Jared, the place
where his services would be of value. She was not surprised; it was what
she had been counting upon. Jared's obstinacy would give way, must
give way, before this new opportunity; and in the meanwhile, here at
Asheville, all was going splendidly well.
Amid these various transactions Jared Franklin's mother had been obliged
to make up her mind as to what her own attitude should be. It had been
to her a relief unspeakable, an overmastering joy, to know that her son
would not, after all, sink to harassing poverty. Soothed by this, lulled
also by the hope that before very long he would of his own accord
consent to give up what was so distasteful to him, she had virtually
condoned the underhand partnership between Ruth and Genevieve, arranging
the matter with her conscience after her own fashion, by simply turning
her head away from the subject entirely. As she had plenty of
imagination, she had ended by really convincing herself that she was not
aware of what was going on, because she had not heard any of the
details. (She had, in fact, refused to hear them.) This left her free to
say to Jared (if necessary) that she had known nothing. But she hoped
that no actual words of this sort would be required. Her temperament,
indeed, had always been largely made up of hope.
It was true that Jared for the present was still at Raleigh, drudging
away at a very small salary. That, however, would not last forever. And
in the meantime (and this was also extraordinarily agreeable to the
mother) Madame Genevieve was learning that she could not lead her
husband quite so easily as she had supposed she could. In her enjoyment
of this fact, Mrs. Franklin, in certain moods, almost hoped that (as his
affairs were in reality going on so well) her son would continue to hold
out for some time longer.
The house which Horace Chase had taken at St. Augustine was much larger
than old Miss L'Hommedieu's abode; it was built of coquina, like hers,
but it faced the sea-wall directly, commanding the inlet; from its upper
windows one could see over Anastasia Island opposite, and follow miles
of the blue southern sea. Ruth's French maid, Félicité, had arrived at
this brown mansion the day before, with the heavy luggage; to-night,
however, new-comers were to remain with the mother in the smaller house.
When the barouche reached Mrs. Franklin's door, Etheridge, Mrs. Kip, and
the heart were already there. "I won't stay now," said Mrs. Kip. "But
may I look in later? Evangeline Taylor is perfectly wild to come."
When she returned, a little after eight, Chase was still in the
dining-room with Anthony Etheridge, who had dined there. The heart had
been suspended from a stout hook on the parlor wall, and Ruth happened a
moment before to have placed herself under it, when, having discovered
her old guitar in a closet, she had seated herself to tune it. "It's
so sweet, Ruth, your sitting there under my flowers," said the
visitor, tearfully. "And yet, for me, such an--such an association!"
"I thought your daughter was coming?" said Mrs. Franklin, peering
towards the door over her glasses.
"Evangeline Taylor will be here in a moment," answered her mother; "her
governess is bringing her." And presently there entered a tall, a
gigantically tall girl, with a long, solemn, pale face. As she was
barely twelve, she was dressed youthfully in a short school-girl frock
with a blue sash. Advancing, she kissed Ruth; then, retiring to a
corner, she seated herself, arranged her feet in an appropriate pose,
