troopers passed came from a party of strollers, it afterwards appeared;
and Buck Lagger, in charge of the camp, had not discovered the presence
of the cavalry from Riverlawn.

At the point where Cato had been first seen, and who had given the
information in regard to the outrage at the mansion, the road to the
south branched off, or rather crossed the other at right angles. On this
one was the mansion of Mr. Barkland, and about three miles farther south
was the reported camp of the Texans. Deck had had no opportunity to
study the panorama of the region as it might be seen in the daytime from
the hill by the planter's house, for the darkness shut off his view.

The camp of the first company was on the south road, and the boys rode
in the direction of the railroad bridge. The day was breaking in the
east, but it was not light enough to see distinctly the prominent object
in the vicinity. They could make out the hill where they expected to
find Captain Truman, but not the one on the other side of the railroad.

"Hold on, Deck!" said Artie, when they came to the crossing of the
roads. "I hear a noise off towards the west."

"It is the tramp of men's feet; but that is none of our affair," replied
Deck.

"I have no doubt it is the Home Guards," added Artie.

"I know it is; didn't father say they were to come over here to do their
work? We can report to Captain Truman that the enemy are approaching,
and he will be glad to get the information."

Deck started his horse; but they had been directed to move with as
little noise as possible, and they could not hurry. They took the
cross-road, and the hill was on the right, and the railroad bridge on
the left of it. Leaving the road, they struck into the field, and moved
toward the station of the first half of the second company.

"Who comes there?" called a voice from the grove that surrounded the
hill.

"Friends," replied Deck.

"Advance, friends, and give the countersign."

"Riverlawn," answered Deck, giving the word that had been selected the
day before. "We have a message for Captain Truman from Major Lyon. Where
is he?"

"Not far from here," replied Blenks, who was in charge of the picket
line. "I will conduct you to him."

They found the captain seated on his horse, apart from his command,
eating his breakfast from his haversack. The men were all mounted, and
in readiness for immediate service, though they were standing at ease,
some of them taking their morning meal.

"Good-morning, Deck," said Captain Truman, as he recognized his early
visitors. "You left your bunk in good time this morning."

"We are the bearers of orders from Major Lyon," replied Deck, who was in
the habit of doing most of the talking, though Artie had a tongue of his
own; and he repeated all the orders and all the information with which
they had been charged.

"Captain Titus a prisoner!" exclaimed the captain, when he had finished.
"Then it remains to be proved whether or not Lieutenant Buck Lagger will
execute the orders received by Captain Titus."

"We heard them down the road as we came along," said Artie.

"I have no doubt they will be at work within half an hour," added Deck.
"But we must hurry back, for our company will move farther to the south,
I think, judging from the message we brought to you."

"But you can't go now, for you will meet the Home Guards by the time you
get to the south road. The ruffians would be glad to get a couple of
prisoners like you and Artie; for then Buck Lagger could exchange you
both for his captain."

"Such an arrangement would not suit Buck Lagger at all," replied Deck.
"When Levi Bedford brought Buck to the fort at Riverlawn, after he
attempted to kill him on the road, the villain did not speak very
handsomely of his captain, but said he should soon be in command of the
company himself."

"Be that as it may, you ought not to throw yourselves into the midst of
these ruffians," the captain insisted. "If they don't capture you, they
would take great pleasure in abusing you."

"Mounted as we are, I think we could take care of ourselves against the
whole of them," answered Deck.

The soldiers of the squadron had an utter contempt for the fighting
qualities of this company, and Deck and Artie shared it with the
others. But the captain protested so earnestly against their exposing
themselves to a needless peril, that they agreed to wait behind some
bushes near the south road till the company had passed. They would
gladly have learned something more in regard to the plan of the captain;
but he was as reticent as military men usually are, and kept his own
counsel. The messengers rode to the knoll covered with bushes which they
had observed near the road when they entered the field.

"We shall have a chance to see something of this affair," said Deck, as
he stopped his horse at a point where the bushes would conceal them from
those passing in the road.

"Do you suppose the first company will remain where they are for any
length of time?" asked Artie.

"Father didn't say anything about that; but I imagine he will put the
company in a position to meet the Texans."

"There they come!" exclaimed Artie. "They are just turning into the
south road. Buck Lagger looks big enough to be a brigadier-general."

"But they are straggling along as though they were going to a picnic,"
added Deck. "There are some of them half a mile in the rear."

Then the boys observed two wagons drawn by mules, and the stragglers
appeared to be the guard for their protection. Buck Lagger led the
compact portion of his command, who were armed with axes as well as
muskets. The south road ran under the railroad bridge, and the Guard
halted there. The lieutenant lost no time in beginning his work. A
portion of the men went to work at the abutment, trying to remove some
of the stones in the wall, evidently with the intention of blowing up
the end of the structure when the wagons arrived with the powder.

About one-half of the men were sent to the platform of the bridge,
climbing up the embankment a short distance beyond the wall. As soon as
they reached the wooden portion of the bridge, they began to pull up the
planks of the platform, and toss them over into the creek, a work which
would not at all interfere with the usefulness of the structure for the
passage of trains. These men were in so elevated a position that the
boys could distinctly see their operations.

Then they heard the crack of a rifle, and one of the soldiers dropped
from the bridge into the creek. This single effective shot was followed
by a volley; and, though they could not be seen, it was clear that
Lieutenant Gadbury had led his command to the front, and they had opened
fire on the destroyers of the bridge. His men were good marksmen; for
not a few of them were hunters, and they had had abundant practice at
the camp.

"They can't stand much of that sort of thing," said Deck, much excited
by what he saw.

"Not they; they are coming down from the bridge now," added Artie.

"Here come the rest of the company," exclaimed Deck, as Captain Truman,
followed by his fifty men by fours, dashed through the field at full
gallop. "I reckon I don't stay here any longer."

"But the baggage-train of the enemy has not come up yet," suggested
Artie.

"But I want to see what is going on, and we can't see anything in the
road from here, and that is where the fight is going to be," returned
Deck, who was far more excited than his brother. "I suppose Lieutenant
Gadbury is coming down to the bridge from the north, and now Captain
Truman is approaching it from the south. They will have it out there."

Both divisions of the company halted at some distance from the enemy,
and began to pour a murderous fire into them, crushed as they were
between the upper and nether millstones. The plan of Major Lyon had been
carried out to the letter. The Guards returned the fire with all the
energy they could muster; but it was very soon evident that their
weapons were doing little harm to the cavalry.

"This is little better than wholesale murder!" exclaimed Captain Truman;
and he sent the second lieutenant, with half his men, into the field,
with orders to charge the enemy in concert with him.

This charge was made; and the enemy were ridden down by the horsemen,
till they cried out for quarter. Buck Lagger lay dead upon the ground,
with not less than a dozen others, while half the rest of them were
wounded. The victory was complete, and the cavalrymen were only sorry
they had not met a foe worthy of their steel. Eight of them were
wounded, two of them severely.




CHAPTER IX

AN ENCOUNTER WITH THE ENEMY'S SCOUTS


The baggage-train of the Guards had seen from a distance that the battle
had begun, and they had halted in the road. They still blocked the way
for Deck and Artie; but they could no longer remain as spectators to the
exciting scene which had just transpired, and had ridden down to the
field of action; but the fighting had ceased. The cavalrymen were
picking up their wounded; and Dr. Farnwright, the surgeon of the
battalion, was attending to their needs.

"Well, boys, this affair seems to be finished; and we made very short
work of it," said Captain Truman, as they rode up to the spot where he
was observing the labors of the men.

"We have seen the whole of it, and now we are ready to return to our
company," replied Deck.

"The road is clear now, and there is nothing to prevent your return."

"The wagons of the enemy have halted in the road, and there seems to be
half-a-dozen men or more in charge of them," said Deck.

"I will send a squad to bring them in," replied the captain, as he
called a sergeant near him, and directed him to take ten men and perform
this duty. "You will go with Sergeant Langford, boys, and I think you
will be all right."

"Have you any message for the major, Captain?" asked Deck.

"You have seen the skirmish yourselves, and you can report it as it was.
We were fired upon smartly for a time; but the muskets of the enemy were
of all sorts and kinds, and most of them good for nothing. We have eight
men wounded, two of them badly, and the rest slightly. Sergeant Langford
has just reported to me that the enemy lost eight men killed, and
fifteen wounded, some of them fatally. The rest of the command are
prisoners."

Sergeant Langford appeared with his ten men, and the boys went with him
on their return to their company. It was not yet sunrise, and the
principal task of the morning had been accomplished; for the action had
lasted hardly more than a quarter of an hour. Lieutenant Blenks was
compelling the Guards to pick up and care for their own wounded, and to
bury their dead. The men were sulky, and the cavalrymen were compelled
to drive them to this duty.

"It was sharp work for a few minutes," said Langford to the boys, after
he had called them to his side.

"It was; but the thing was very handsomely done," replied Deck. "I think
these ruffians have had quite enough of it."

"They are as sulky as a bear that has lost her cubs. They were not
willing to pick up their own dead and wounded, and wanted our boys to do
it for them; but a few slaps with the flat of the sabres brought them to
the point," added the sergeant. "I suppose the work in this quarter is
done now."

"I think not. I doubt whether we have finished," replied Deck; but he
said nothing about the Texan Rangers, for he did not feel at liberty to
use the information he had obtained as a messenger.

The wagons of the enemy had halted where the men in charge of them could
see what had happened at the bridge; but when the sergeant's squad
approached them, they brought their muskets to their shoulders, as
though they intended to defend their property.

"Unsling carbines!" called Langford to his men; and they promptly obeyed
the order.

But the baggage guard did not fire; for some one among them seemed to
have more sense than the others, and had interposed to prevent a useless
sacrifice of life. A dispute followed among them, and the sergeant
advanced upon them.

"No more jaw!" interposed Langford. "Start your mules, and go ahead!"

"Where are we going? We ain't no use over there now," said one of the
men.

"You are no use anywhere! Start your teams!" added Langford, as he
slapped the last speaker with the flat of his sabre. "Shove them along,
boys!"

"We ain't goin' over there; we'll turn round and go back where we come
from," added the spokesman of the party.

"Are you all idiots?" demanded Langford. "Your wagons are wanted over at
the bridge, and that is where you are going."

The troopers soon started the teams with a vigorous use of the flat
sides of their sabres. The guardsmen were disposed to resist; but they
were vigorously pushed forward, and when a fellow hung back, he was
gently pricked with the point of the sharp weapons.

"I believe a good part of these ruffians are idiots, as Langford
suggested," said Deck, as he and Artie rode forward. "They don't seem to
understand that they are taking part in the war."

"That's so," replied Artie, laughing. "If they find they cannot destroy
the bridge, all they have to do is to go back where they came from, and
call it square. But Langford has brought them to their senses."

A smart gallop of a few minutes brought the messengers in sight of the
mansion-house of the plantation. The first company was not where they
had left it in the early morning; but they soon discovered a couple of
the men, who seemed to be patrolling the south road.

"Where is the company, Yowell?" asked Deck, when they came within
speaking distance.

"Behind the mansion. We were sent down to look for you," replied the
soldier. "Major Lyon was afraid something had happened to you."

"We are all right. Have you seen any of the enemy up this way?"

"Not a man of them. If you take this path it will bring you to the
house, and you will find the major there."

The boys took the path indicated, and put their horses to their best
speed. When they came to the house, they were greeted in the yard by the
planter and his family, and the ladies poured forth their gratitude to
Deck for the service he had rendered the evening before. But the young
cavalryman could not stop to listen long to them.

"Where is Major Lyon?" he asked, looking about him.

"He is on the top of the house," replied Mr. Barkland.

"Come up here, both of you!" shouted the major from his elevated
position.

Giving the reins of their bridles to the orderly, who was there with the
commander's horse, Mr. Barkland showed them the way to a platform on the
roof of the mansion, from which a full view of the surrounding country
was obtained; only the railroad bridge was shut out by a hill.

"What makes you so late, boys?" asked the major, as they presented
themselves before him.

"The baggage-train of the enemy stopped in the road, with half-a-dozen
men in charge of it, so that we could not pass it without a fight,"
replied Deck.

"Has anything been done at the bridge?" asked the commander anxiously.

"Yes, sir; the battle has been fought and won, and the whole company of
Home Guards are prisoners," replied Deck, giving the entire story all in
a heap.

"That is good news, though I expected no other result. What was our
loss?"

"None killed; eight wounded, two of them seriously, the others slightly.
The enemy's loss is eight killed and fifteen wounded, some of them
fatally," replied Deck, who had studied over the report of the fight he
was to make; and then he proceeded to give the details of the affair.

This was in the beginning of the war, and before any battle of magnitude
had been fought, so that the action at the railroad bridge seemed to be
a considerable affair. The major listened with deep interest to all the
particulars. Doubtless he was pleased with the report of the result;
but he frequently raised the field-glass in his hands to his eyes as he
listened, and it was evident that he was more concerned in regard to the
approach of the enemy from the south.

He put several questions to the boys, which were answered by both of
them, and fully informed himself in regard to the situation at the
bridge, which was about three miles distant from the mansion.

"You will both return to the bridge; give my order to Captain Truman to
leave a sufficient force on the ground to guard the prisoners, to
dispose of the dead and wounded, and then to join me at this place with
all the men that can be spared," said the major.

The boys saluted him, and hastened to obey the order. In a few minutes
they were galloping over the road again. On their way down the stairs
they met Captain Gordon on his way to the roof. He had been the
recruiting officer sent by the commanding general of the department to
organize the first company, and the major had used all his influence to
elect him to the office he filled himself. He had declined the position,
for he thought it better that the planter of Riverlawn should fill that
place. He had an apartment at the major's mansion, and they had been on
the most intimate terms from the beginning.

"I have posted Lieutenant Belthorpe behind the hill," said Captain
Gordon, as he saluted his superior officer. "I have given him full
instructions."

"I have just sent for Captain Truman and as many of the second company
as can be spared," replied Major Lyon. "They have beaten Captain Titus's
command, and captured the whole of them."

"Can you make out any movement of the enemy to the south of us, Major
Lyon?" asked the captain.

"Nothing yet. Everything is in readiness, I suppose, to carry out our
plan."

"Everything; and the men are in fine spirits."

"The only thing I fear is that the Rangers will take the other road to
the bridge," suggested the major.

"But that would make the distance at least two miles farther," replied
Captain Gordon. "Can it be possible that the commander of the Rangers
has obtained information of our presence here, and of the result of the
affair at the bridge?"

"I think not; and yet it is possible, for not many in command could be
so neglectful of all reasonable precautions as Captain Titus was."

"If they come this way, we are all ready for them. I have scouts out to
the eastward of our position, who will report to us the passage of any
force by the east road, as they call it here," continued the captain.
"The Texans are not early risers, or we should have seen them by this
time. I will return to my company, and await further orders."

The boys understood the necessity of haste, and in less than fifteen
minutes their foaming steeds brought them into the presence of Captain
Truman, to whom they delivered their message. He had already reduced
everything to a condition of order. The wounded had been removed to a
deserted shanty, probably used by the railroad workmen, and the
prisoners were surrounded by a guard of twenty men. All was quiet on the
ground, and the captain was glad to receive the order brought by the
messengers.

Lieutenant Blenks had already been placed in command of the camp, and
the captain gave the order for Lieutenant Gadbury to have his men in
marching order at once; and twenty men from the second platoon were
added to their number. But Deck and Artie did not wait for this body to
move, but started at once on their return; for they were anxious to be
present in any engagement that might take place. They had little
compassion for their horses, fond as they were of them, and dashed down
the road at their best speed.

"Hi!" exclaimed Artie, as they reached the cross-road.

"What is it, Artie?" asked Deck, who was looking to the right.

"Don't you see? There are a couple of mounted men wearing the gray!"
exclaimed Artie with energy.

"What are they?" asked Deck.

"What are they? It is as plain as a stone wall to a blind man after he
has stumbled over it, that they are the Texans who are expected over
here."

"Are there only two of them?" asked Deck facetiously. "Your head is
level, Artie, and they are a couple of scouts who are feeling the way
for a bigger body further back."



Just at that moment a bullet whistled between the two boys; for the
scouts could have no difficulty in making out the uniform of the two
messengers. Both of them unslung their carbines; and, without
considering what consequences might ensue, both of them fired, Artie
delivering the first shot. One of the Texans tumbled from his horse, and
Deck aimed at the other; but he was less fortunate in his discharge, for
the remaining man still clung to his horse. Raising his carbine, he
fired.

"I am hit," said Deck, as he held up his left arm.

The man who had delivered his fire wheeled his horse as soon as he had
done so, and galloped back by the way he came.




CHAPTER X

THE BATTLE BEGUN AT THE CROSS-ROADS


Deck and Artie Lyon were not veterans in military service; but on
several occasions during the preceding six months they had been within
the reach of flying bullets. They had not become hardened to the
whizzing, boring sound they make in their passage through the air, for
they carried wounds and death in their train; but they had considered
and talked about the chances of being hit, and fully realized the
possible consequences.

"We are in the hands of the good Lord," Noah Lyon used to say; "and if
it be his will that we suddenly pass the portals that divide the seen
from the unseen, or that we languish for weeks or months upon the couch
of pain, we can only submit to the divine will; and all we have to do is
faithfully to discharge our duty to God and our country. God and our
country! Let this be our watchword, boys; and with it on our tongues
and in our hearts, we ought to fear no danger."

Some appear to be brave in mere bravado, and the pride of many gives
them courage: but the bravest men are those who are earnestly devoted to
the discharge of their duty; for principle generates courage when it is
founded upon religious faith. It was in this firm reliance that the
father had schooled his sons. He was a faithful apostle, and they were
loving disciples.

"Where are you hit, Deck?" asked Artie, full of anxiety in regard to his
brother, though he could see that he was not very severely wounded.

"Right in the arm, half-way between the wrist and the elbow," replied
Deck with a smile; for the time had come for him to feel something of
what had only been talked about before. "It won't amount to much, though
it doesn't feel good."

"Let me see it, and I will fix it up as well as I can," added Artie, as
he wheeled his horse till he was at the side of his companion.

The noble steeds stood as quietly as though they understood what had
occurred, while Artie rolled up the sleeve of the jacket, and disclosed
the wound. The fond and devoted mother had provided each of them with a
bandage and a handful of lint, and she had even practised them in doing
up a leg and an arm. Artie wiped away the blood, and then applied the
lint, around which he wound the bandage, as he had been instructed.

"It is not a bad wound, as you say, Deck, and I hope you will never have
a worse one," said Artie, as he pinned the end of the bandage.

"Thank you, Artie, and you are quite a surgeon," replied Deck, as he
straightened out his arm. "That feels better, though it is still rather
warm. But we have business on our hands, and we can't fool away any more
time. What do you suppose the presence of those two fellows here means?"

"There is only one thing that it can mean," replied Artie, as he
strained his vision to take in whatever might be seen in the direction
from which the two scouts had come. "There must be a body of cavalrymen
not far behind them."

"I don't understand this business," added Deck. "Let's ride up the
slope, and then we can see the enemy if there is any there."

"It won't take both of us to do that. We know, if everybody in the
company does not, that there is a company of Texan Rangers camped about
three miles from Mr. Barkland's plantation. From their odd uniform we
have a right to believe these two scouts belonged to that company. Very
likely the captain of it is up to some mischief; and if a part of the
force should come over here after Captain Truman has departed to join
our first company, they could undo all that has been done, burn the
bridge, and recapture all the prisoners."

"That's so!" exclaimed Deck, taking in the argument of his brother, and
fully agreeing with it.

"As you are wounded, I will ride up the slope, and see what is to be
seen, while you hurry back as fast as Ceph will take you to Captain
Truman, and tell him all about it," suggested Artie.

"All right; go ahead!" returned Deck, as he wheeled his horse, while
Artie galloped up the slope, which was quite gentle for half a mile.

When the latter reached the spot where the Texan had fallen, he saw that
he was not dead, though the blood was oozing from a wound in his
breast. His horse was quietly feeding on the bushes at the side of the
road; but Artie could not stop to do anything for his wounded enemy,
though his heart was big enough to do everything in his power. He rode
on at the highest speed of Dolly, as he called her, though she had had
another name before he made her acquaintance. He reached the top of the
hill, if it could be called such, and the spot commanded a view of the
country for several miles.

It was not a plain which opened to him, for the prospect was bounded by
a range of hills several miles distant, the intervening space having a
sort of rolling surface. The first object that attracted his attention
was a horseman, riding at full gallop up a slope about a mile distant
from him. He concluded that he was the scout whose companion had fallen
from his horse when he fired his carbine. He must have stopped by the
way, or ridden more slowly than at present, or he would have been out or
sight in the time he had taken.

Artie had halted on the crown of the slope, for it was useless to go any
farther. He could see the country for at least two miles; and it was
not prudent for him to proceed alone. He sat upon his horse considering
what he should do next. The only course left open to him was to return
to the south road; but if an enemy was approaching by the east road, as
the presence of the two scouts indicated, it was important that he
should ascertain the fact.

He kept his eyes busily engaged in wandering along the whole horizon to
the east and south of him. If Captain Truman's command were not wanted,
it would be an error to detain them. On the other hand, the result of
the morning's work would be all undone if the enemy should advance after
the larger portion of the second company had been withdrawn. It was a
perplexing question for a boy of eighteen to settle; and he realized the
responsibility that had accidentally, as it were, fallen upon him.

If he was not at the cross-road when Deck returned from his visit to the
camp at the bridge, Captain Truman would march his men up the slope,
when they might be needed in the vicinity of the planter's house. He
decided to compromise with the circumstances, and wait a reasonable time
for some evidence of an advance on the part of the Texans. The two
scouts had come from beyond the elevation where he stood; and unless
they were simply messengers or spies, there must be a force behind them.
As spies, they would not have appeared in full uniform.

When he had waited perhaps ten minutes, he discovered something moving
over the top of one of the hills south-east of him. With the utmost
eagerness he observed the spot. He could not make out anything that
looked like a road. But presently the moving object became more definite
to his gaze. He wished he had his father's field-glass; but all he could
do was to watch and wait. In a few minutes more the moving object
resolved itself into a body of mounted men. They were marching along the
summit of an elevation, and he saw them begin the descent.

While still in sight the troop halted, and Artie concluded that the
scout who had escaped had come up with them, and was making his report.
But he could not leave yet; for it was important that he should report
the strength of the enemy, as well as his actual presence in the
vicinity. The young cavalryman had a full view of the valley into which
the troop were descending; and as soon as they marched again he
estimated, and even counted, the number of men.

The Texans did not compel him to wait a great while, for they resumed
the march at full gallop. They had been moving at a very moderate gait
when Artie first saw them. The report of the scout doubtless assured the
officer in command that a force of Union cavalry was located near the
bridge, and he was hurrying his men forward to meet it. Artie had seen
enough to assure him of the approach of an enemy, and he started on his
return to the cross-road. He had seen the whole of the force, and had
estimated its number at forty-four men in the ranks; for he had counted
eleven sections of four in each.

Dolly had had quite a rest while he was observing the approach of the
enemy; and, as soon as he had obtained the facts, he was in a hurry. He
urged his steed forward at her best speed. He reached the cross-road
just as Deck appeared there; for the information he brought perplexed
the captain not a little in regard to his duty under the changed
circumstances, and he had been detained to answer a great many
questions.

"Where is Captain Truman?" shouted Artie, as soon as he was within
speaking distance of his brother.

"He will be here in a few minutes with his men," replied Deck, who had
also remained, to have his wound properly dressed by the surgeon. "Have
you seen the enemy, Artie?"

"I have; and they are within a mile and a half of here now," replied
Artie. "They are advancing with all speed, and they will be here in a
few minutes."

"Here is the captain," added Deck; and a minute later the troopers were
halted.

"Here is Artie, Captain Truman; and he has big news for you," said Deck,
who appeared to have forgotten that he was wounded.

"Your report, Artie," demanded the captain.

"The Texan Rangers--at least, that is what I suppose they are--will be
here in ten or fifteen minutes, if they don't stop by the way."

"Is it a large force?" asked the captain, with some anxiety visible on
his face.

"Forty-four men, as I estimated them, besides the officers."

"We outnumber them, then. But I am ordered to report at the planter's
house," said the officer, who appeared to be musing upon the situation.

He was not an experienced officer; and his mind was charged with the
idea that the soldier must obey his superior officer, though his
intellect was broad enough, and he had read in his military books that
one in command of a force must use judgment and discretion. This was
what he was thinking of when he alluded to his orders, which he would
not have done if the boys had not been the sons of the major, and he was
on very intimate terms with them.

"But, if you obey your orders, the bridge will be destroyed, and the"--

"I don't intend to obey them; I am not quite blind, my boy," interposed
Captain Truman, with a smile on his face. "Less than fifty men, you say,
Artie. I made up my mind, from what Deck said, that if there was a force
approaching from that direction, the enemy were divided, and were coming
to the bridge by the two roads."

"There must be more than forty-four men in the whole company, besides
the officers," added Artie.

"No doubt of it," replied the captain, looking about him.

Then he called for Lieutenant Gadbury, and sent him, with thirty men,
back to the field where they had been concealed to await the attack of
the Home Guards on the bridge. Then he ordered the rest of the men,
about forty in number, to unsling their carbines, and formed them across
the south road. In a somewhat longer time than Artie had predicted, the
head of the enemy's column, arrived at the top of the hill, where they
halted.

A couple of officers appeared in front of the troop, and seemed to be
surveying the situation. They could see the railroad bridge, and that it
had not been destroyed by another division of the Confederates. But they
could not see the camp that had been established at the side of the
structure, for it was on much lower ground. They could also see the
cavalry of Captain Truman, stationed about six feet apart, so that they
extended both ways on the crossing along the south road.

The Union cavalry doubtless looked like a small force to the officers
who observed it. They had the reputation of being bold and brave men,
and the order to attack was not long withheld. The officer in command
led his men down the hill at full gallop, the men yelling like so many
demons; for, at this early stage of the war, the troops of the enemy had
acquired the notion that these hideous cries would intimidate their
foes; but they did not in this instance.

"Now, my boys, this will be no fool's play!" shouted Captain Truman at
the top of his lungs. "These troopers are not Home Guards; and there
will be fighting, and no child's play. Stand up to it like men--like
Kentuckians, and, above all, like Union men!"

The soldiers responded with a hearty cheer; and they kept it up till the
enemy were within gunshot range, where they halted. They were formed
across the road, but with only half-a-dozen men in a rank, so that they
were still clustered in a rather solid mass. In this condition they
delivered their first volley. One of the Union men dropped from his
saddle, and only one. If others were wounded, they said nothing. The
fire was promptly returned; but, so far as could be seen, with no
greater effect than that of the Rangers.

The Union men, as ordered, continued to fire at will; and it was soon
evident that their carbines were superior to those in the hands of the
enemy, for they discharged at least twice as many shots. The report of
the muskets had brought the force of Lieutenant Gadbury into the rear of
the enemy, and both divisions of the company were pouring bullets into
them.




CHAPTER XI

A DESPERATE CHARGE ON BOTH SIDES


The Texan Rangers were formed in a rather compact mass, while the Union
line was considerably extended. Captain Truman had ideas of his own;
and, though he was not a martinet, he was disposed to follow strictly
the rules and precedents of military practice. His men could not very
well fire into forty-five men huddled together in a small space without
hitting some of them. On the other hand, the enemy might discharge a
volley into his force, placed about six feet apart, with comparatively
little effect.

He was surprised to observe how few of the Rangers fell from their
horses at the first discharge of his men; but their practice immediately
began to improve, and as soon as the detachment of Lieutenant Gadbury
dashed into the road in the rear of the enemy, the fire became very
destructive. Many of the enemy were killed and wounded, and it looked
as though they would all be destroyed.

The Texans were brave men; they were impulsive and reckless, and they
seemed to be perfectly satisfied that they could overcome the Union
cavalry, and carry everything before them. In a few minutes it was
evident to the captain of the second company that the officer of the
enemy had made a fearful blunder, led into it by his impulsive ardor. He
had conducted his men into the fight without sufficiently understanding
the situation, and without taking the trouble to feel of the enemy
beforehand. He had rushed blindly into the engagement with a feeling of
contempt for his foe, and with the belief that the Texan cavalry could
carry everything before them.

In a few minutes he had discovered his mistake, as he saw his men drop
before the fire in the front and rear of his force. He had been beyond
the crown of the elevation in the road when Captain Truman stationed his
flanking party behind the knoll, where they could not be seen by the
enemy. He had recklessly regarded the force in front of him as the
entire strength of his foe.

The Rangers were between the upper and the nether millstone, as the
Home Guards had been early in the morning; and it was only a question of
time when they would all be shot down. In the village of Barcreek,
Captain Truman had won a reputation as a chess-player among the better
class of citizens who were fond of the game. He had reached the
conclusion that warfare was to be conducted on similar principles, and
he was on the lookout for an opportunity to "checkmate" his antagonist.
He had fought the battle in the morning on the plan laid down for him by
Major Lyon.

By dividing his detachment, and placing forty of them in front of the
Texans, and spreading them out so that they appeared to be even a
smaller force, he had tempted the attack in which the enemy were
suffering so severely. It was not in the power or the nerve of any body
of soldiers to stand up against such a deadly fire from their front and
rear. They must either be shot down or surrender. It evidently had not
occurred to the lieutenant in command of the Rangers to resort to the
last expedient to save his men; but he was plainly making a movement to
extricate them from the trap into which he had so inconsiderately led
them.

"Attention, company!" shouted Captain Truman at the top of his lungs, as
he interpreted the movement of the enemy. "Close order, march!"

The file closed up in a more compact mass. The command was given to
sling their carbines, and to draw their sabres; and it was given none
too soon, for the captain had correctly divined the intention of the
lieutenant on the other side of attempting to cut his way through the
force in front of him.

"Can you make out what Lieutenant Gadbury is doing, Deck?" asked the
captain, who was rather near-sighted.

Deck and Artie had both remained near the captain; and they had not been
idle or indifferent, but acted as volunteers in the second company.

"His men are slinging their carbines, as the enemy have done," replied
Deck.

"We are going to have some hot work, my boy. If you are ready to return
to the first company"--

"I am not ready to return, Captain Truman!" exclaimed Deck. "I think you
need all the men you can have, and I shall add one to the number. I have
not heard any firing to the south of us, and I don't believe the first
company has been engaged yet."

"But I am somewhat concerned about our prisoners at the bridge. There
are a hundred of them, or very nearly that number. They must have heard
our firing, and Lieutenant Blenks may have his hands full. You can
render better service by looking after this part of the field," added
the captain.

"Of course I am ready to go wherever I can do the most good," replied
Deck, who could not help wondering if the captain was not sending him
out of the way because he was the major's son.

"You are wounded, and you can be spared better than some other man. Some
of our poor fellows have bitten the dust. Ride over to the bridge; and,
if Blenks is having no trouble with the prisoners, go over to the rear
of the enemy, and direct Gadbury to follow up the charge of the Texans."

Deck saluted the captain, and dashed down the road towards the bridge
with all the speed the willing Ceph could command. It was a few minutes
that he required to reach the position of Lieutenant Blenks, who had
heard the firing, and had drawn up his men for any duty that might be
before them. No movement on the part of the prisoners was apparent to
Deck, and they were surrounded by a guard, with their carbines in their
hands; for the officer had ordered them to be on the lookout for any
demonstration.

"I am sent by Captain Truman to ascertain the condition of the
prisoners," said Deck, as he saluted the lieutenant.

"The prisoners are all right," replied the officer with a smile. "As
soon as I heard heavy firing I strengthened the guards around them; for
I thought they might want to take a hand in the fight over yonder. I had
a talk with the second lieutenant of the Guards, now in command, and he
told me that a company of Texan cavalry were to have connected with his
force here."

"But the force we have engaged cannot be more than half the company; and
all of them must have known that at least one of our companies was in
this vicinity," added Deck.

"The lieutenant, whose name is Condor, tried to induce Lagger to wait
till they had joined their forces before he meddled with the bridge; but
he refused to do so."

"Buck Lagger desired to win his spurs while the captain of the Guards
was absent. But you need no assistance here," added Deck, as he wheeled
his horse.

"None at all; we could ride these fellows down in two minutes. But their
arms are loaded into our baggage wagon, and they could do nothing if
they tried," replied the officer.

The messenger galloped up the road and into the field by the side of the
east road. It was not cultivated, though it had been years before, and
was now overgrown in places by small trees and bushes. Behind these Deck
made his way to a point abreast of the enemy. He was in time to hear the
order to charge upon the Union cavalry at the foot of the hill. The
lieutenant had evidently delayed this order for some time; for when his
men ceased to fire, the Union troopers had followed their example, and
prepared for the decisive event of the conflict. The messenger rode into
the road and saluted the officer in command of the flanking party.

"Captain Truman's order is that you follow up the enemy in the rear as
they charge down the hill," said Deck.

"I am all ready to do that," replied the officer, as he pointed to his
men, who sat upon their horses with their drawn sabres in their hands.

They were not more than two hundred feet from the Texans, and Lieutenant
Gadbury had already addressed some inspiring words to them. The other
division could be plainly seen at the foot of the hill, and both parties
were observing the enemy with the most intense interest. Judging from
the impetuous and reckless conduct of the Rangers, the conclusion had
been reached on both sides to charge the foe; for any other movement
would be turning their backs to the enemy.

During the tacit suspension of the conflict, both combatants had
improved the opportunity to care for their wounded. Two of the men only
had been killed so far, but half a dozen of them had been wounded; for
the Texans had given most of their attention to those at the foot of the
hill. Of these six, four kept in their saddles, and refused to take the
rear. The wounds were dressed as far as possible, and Dr. Farnwright was
a busy man at his post on the cross-roads.

Suddenly the officer in command of the Texans appeared in the rear of
his force, and made a furious gesture with his sword, pointing in the
direction of Gadbury's men. This was not what was expected of the
Rangers; and for the moment all the advantage was in favor of the enemy,
so far as numbers were concerned.

"Fours, right about, march!" shouted the Confederate lieutenant. "Now
charge with all the blood there is in you! Ride them down, and use your
sabres like men!"

The order was promptly obeyed by the Texans, who appeared to be under
excellent discipline; but they had hardly whirled around before the
watchful eyes of Captain Truman discovered what they were doing, and his
energetic shouts of orders could be heard by the force now in front of
the Rangers. In another moment the main body of the company were
spurring their steeds with all their might up the hill. Their sabres
were in their hands, and they were using them in urging forward their
horses. They came like a whirlwind, with the captain in advance; and
