"You see, I always knew them both," she went on. "They used to take me
out in a dory to catch codfish when I was a little girl, and I liked
them both," she added thoughtfully. "Jack doesn't care to talk about his
brother now. That's natural. But you won't mind telling me how it
happened, will you? I should so much like to know."
Well, I told her about the voyage and what happened that night when we
fell in with a gale of wind, and that it hadn't been anybody's fault,
for I wasn't going to admit that it was my old captain's, if it was. But
I didn't tell her anything about what happened afterwards. As she didn't
speak, I just went on talking about the two brothers, and how like they
had been, and how when poor Jim was drowned and Jack was left, I took
Jack for him. I told her that none of us had ever been sure which was
which.
"I wasn't always sure myself," she said, "unless they were together.
Leastways, not for a day or two after they came home from sea. And now
it seems to me that Jack is more like poor Jim, as I remember him, than
he ever was, for Jim was always more quiet, as if he were thinking."
I told her I thought so, too. We passed the gate and went into the next
field, walking side by side. Then she turned her head to look for Jack,
but he wasn't in sight. I shan't forget what she said next.
"Are you sure now?" she asked.
I stood stock-still, and she went on a step, and then turned and looked
at me. We must have looked at each other while you could count five or
six.
"I know it's silly," she went on, "it's silly, and it's awful, too, and
I have got no right to think it, but sometimes I can't help it. You see
it was always Jack I meant to marry."
"Yes," I said stupidly, "I suppose so."
She waited a minute, and began walking on slowly before she went on
again.
"I am talking to you as if you were an old friend, captain, and I have
only known you five minutes. It was Jack I meant to marry, but now he is
so like the other one."
When a woman gets a wrong idea into her head, there is only one way to
make her tired of it, and that is to agree with her. That's what I did,
and she went on talking the same way for a little while, and I kept on
agreeing and agreeing until she turned round on me.
"You know you don't believe what you say," she said, and laughed. "You
know that Jack is Jack, right enough; and it's Jack I am going to
marry."
Of course I said so, for I didn't care whether she thought me a weak
creature or not. I wasn't going to say a word that could interfere with
her happiness, and I didn't intend to go back on Jack Benton; but I
remembered what he had said when he left the ship in Havana: that it
wasn't his fault.
"All the same," Miss Mamie went on, as a woman will, without realising
what she was saying, "all the same, I wish I had seen it happen. Then I
should know."
Next minute she knew that she didn't mean that, and was afraid that I
would think her heartless, and began to explain that she would really
rather have died herself than have seen poor Jim go overboard. Women
haven't got much sense, anyhow. All the same, I wondered how she could
marry Jack if she had a doubt that he might be Jim after all. I suppose
she had really got used to him since he had given up the sea and had
stayed ashore, and she cared for him.
Before long we heard Jack coming up behind us, for we had walked very
slowly to wait for him.
"Promise not to tell anybody what I said, captain," said Mamie, as girls
do as soon as they have told their secrets.
Anyhow, I know I never did tell any one but you. This is the first time
I have talked of all that, the first time since I took the train from
that place. I am not going to tell you all about the day. Miss Mamie
introduced me to her mother, who was a quiet, hard-faced old New England
farmer's widow, and to her cousins and relations; and there were plenty
of them, too, at dinner, and there was the parson besides. He was what
they call a Hard-shell Baptist in those parts, with a long, shaven upper
lip and a whacking appetite, and a sort of superior look, as if he
didn't expect to see many of us hereafter--the way a New York pilot
looks round, and orders things about when he boards an Italian
cargo-dragger, as if the ship weren't up to much anyway, though it was
his business to see that she didn't get aground. That's the way a good
many parsons look, I think. He said grace as if he were ordering the men
to sheet home the topgallant-sail and get the helm up. After dinner we
went out on the piazza, for it was warm autumn weather; and the young
folks went off in pairs along the beach road, and the tide had turned
and was beginning to come in. The morning had been clear and fine, but
by four o'clock it began to look like a fog, and the damp came up out of
the sea and settled on everything. Jack said he'd go down to his cottage
and have a last look, for the wedding was to be at five o'clock, or soon
after, and he wanted to light the lights, so as to have things look
cheerful.
"I will just take a last look," he said again, as we reached the house.
We went in, and he offered me another cigar, and I lit it and sat down
in the parlour. I could hear him moving about, first in the kitchen and
then upstairs, and then I heard him in the kitchen again; and then
before I knew anything I heard somebody moving upstairs again. I knew he
couldn't have got up those stairs as quick as that. He came into the
parlour, and he took a cigar himself, and while he was lighting it I
heard those steps again overhead. His hand shook, and he dropped the
match.
"Have you got in somebody to help?" I asked.
"No," Jack answered sharply, and struck another match.
"There's somebody upstairs, Jack," I said. "Don't you hear footsteps?"
"It's the wind, captain," Jack answered; but I could see he was
trembling.
"That isn't any wind, Jack," I said; "it's still and foggy. I'm sure
there's somebody upstairs."
"If you are so sure of it, you'd better go and see for yourself,
captain," Jack answered, almost angrily.
He was angry because he was frightened. I left him before the fireplace,
and went upstairs. There was no power on earth that could make me
believe I hadn't heard a man's footsteps overhead. I knew there was
somebody there. But there wasn't. I went into the bedroom, and it was
all quiet, and the evening light was streaming in, reddish through the
foggy air; and I went out on the landing and looked in the little back
room that was meant for a servant-girl or a child. And as I came back
again I saw that the door of the other room was wide open, though I knew
Jack had locked it. He had said the lock was no good. I looked in. It
was a room as big as the bedroom, but almost dark, for it had shutters,
and they were closed. There was a musty smell, as of old gear, and I
could make out that the floor was littered with sea-chests, and that
there were oilskins and such stuff piled on the bed. But I still
believed that there was somebody upstairs, and I went in and struck a
match and looked round. I could see the four walls and the shabby old
paper, an iron bed and a cracked looking-glass, and the stuff on the
floor. But there was nobody there. So I put out the match, and came out
and shut the door and turned the key. Now, what I am telling you is the
truth. When I had turned the key, I heard footsteps walking away from
the door inside the room. Then I felt queer for a minute, and when I
went downstairs I looked behind me, as the men at the wheel used to look
behind them on board the Helen B.
Jack was already outside on the steps, smoking. I have an idea that he
didn't like to stay inside alone.
"Well?" he asked, trying to seem careless.
"I didn't find anybody," I answered, "but I heard somebody moving
about."
"I told you it was the wind," said Jack contemptuously. "I ought to
know, for I live here, and I hear it often."
There was nothing to be said to that, so we began to walk down toward
the beach. Jack said there wasn't any hurry, as it would take Miss Mamie
some time to dress for the wedding. So we strolled along, and the sun
was setting through the fog, and the tide was coming in. I knew the
moon was full, and that when she rose the fog would roll away from the
land, as it does sometimes. I felt that Jack didn't like my having heard
that noise, so I talked of other things, and asked him about his
prospects, and before long we were chatting as pleasantly as possible.
I haven't been at many weddings in my life, and I don't suppose you
have, but that one seemed to me to be all right until it was pretty near
over; and then, I don't know whether it was part of the ceremony or not,
but Jack put out his hand and took Mamie's and held it a minute, and
looked at her, while the parson was still speaking.
Mamie turned as white as a sheet and screamed. It wasn't a loud scream,
but just a sort of stifled little shriek, as if she were half frightened
to death; and the parson stopped, and asked her what was the matter, and
the family gathered round.
"Your hand's like ice," said Mamie to Jack, "and it's all wet!"
She kept looking at it, as she got hold of herself again.
"It don't feel cold to me," said Jack, and he held the back of his hand
against his cheek. "Try it again."
Mamie held out hers, and touched the back of his hand, timidly at
first, and then took hold of it.
"Why, that's funny," she said.
"She's been as nervous as a witch all day," said Mrs. Brewster severely.
"It is natural," said the parson, "that young Mrs. Benton should
experience a little agitation at such a moment."
Most of the bride's relations lived at a distance, and were busy people,
so it had been arranged that the dinner we'd had in the middle of the
day was to take the place of a dinner afterwards, and that we should
just have a bite after the wedding was over, and then that everybody
should go home, and the young couple would walk down to the cottage by
themselves. When I looked out I could see the light burning brightly in
Jack's cottage, a quarter of a mile away. I said I didn't think I could
get any train to take me back before half-past nine, but Mrs. Brewster
begged me to stay until it was time, as she said her daughter would want
to take off her wedding dress before she went home; for she had put on
something white with a wreath that was very pretty, and she couldn't
walk home like that, could she?
So when we had all had a little supper the party began to break up, and
when they were all gone Mrs. Brewster and Mamie went upstairs, and Jack
and I went out on the piazza to have a smoke, as the old lady didn't
like tobacco in the house.
The full moon had risen now, and it was behind me as I looked down
toward Jack's cottage, so that everything was clear and white, and there
was only the light burning in the window. The fog had rolled down to the
water's edge, and a little beyond, for the tide was high, or nearly, and
was lapping up over the last reach of sand within fifty feet of the
beach road.
Jack didn't say much as we sat smoking, but he thanked me for coming to
his wedding, and I told him I hoped he would be happy, and so I did. I
daresay both of us were thinking of those footsteps upstairs, just then,
and that the house wouldn't seem so lonely with a woman in it. By and by
we heard Mamie's voice talking to her mother on the stairs, and in a
minute she was ready to go. She had put on again the dress she had worn
in the morning.
Well, they were ready to go now. It was all very quiet after the day's
excitement, and I knew they would like to walk down that path alone now
that they were man and wife at last. I bade them good-night, although
Jack made a show of pressing me to go with them by the path as far as
the cottage, instead of going to the station by the beach road. It was
all very quiet, and it seemed to me a sensible way of getting married;
and when Mamie kissed her mother good-night, I just looked the other
way, and knocked my ashes over the rail of the piazza. So they started
down the straight path to Jack's cottage, and I waited a minute with
Mrs. Brewster, looking after them, before taking my hat to go. They
walked side by side, a little shyly at first, and then I saw Jack put
his arm round her waist. As I looked he was on her left and I saw the
outline of the two figures very distinctly against the moonlight on the
path; and the shadow on Mamie's right was broad and black as ink, and it
moved along, lengthening and shortening with the unevenness of the
ground beside the path.
I thanked Mrs. Brewster, and bade her good-night; and though she was a
hard New England woman, her voice trembled a little as she answered, but
being a sensible person, she went in and shut the door behind her as I
stepped out on the path. I looked after the couple in the distance a
last time, meaning to go down to the road, so as not to overtake them;
but when I had made a few steps I stopped and looked again, for I knew I
had seen something queer, though I had only realised it afterwards. I
looked again, and it was plain enough now; and I stood stock-still,
staring at what I saw. Mamie was walking between two men. The second man
was just the same height as Jack, both being about a half a head taller
than she; Jack on her left in his black tail-coat and round hat, and the
other man on her right--well, he was a sailor-man in wet oilskins. I
could see the moonlight shining on the water that ran down him, and on
the little puddle that had settled where the flap of his sou'wester was
turned up behind: and one of his wet, shiny arms was round Mamie's
waist, just above Jack's. I was fast to the spot where I stood, and for
a minute I thought I was crazy. We'd had nothing but some cider for
dinner, and tea in the evening, otherwise I'd have thought something had
got into my head, though I was never drunk in my life. It was more like
a bad dream after that.
I was glad Mrs. Brewster had gone in. As for me, I couldn't help
following the three, in a sort of wonder to see what would happen, to
see whether the sailor-man in his wet togs would just melt away into the
moonshine. But he didn't.
I moved slowly, and I remembered afterwards that I walked on the grass,
instead of on the path, as if I were afraid they might hear me coming. I
suppose it all happened in less than five minutes after that, but it
seemed as if it must have taken an hour. Neither Jack nor Mamie seemed
to notice the sailor. She didn't seem to know that his wet arm was round
her, and little by little they got near the cottage, and I wasn't a
hundred yards from them when they reached the door. Something made me
stand still then. Perhaps it was fright, for I saw everything that
happened just as I see you now.
Mamie set her foot on the step to go up, and as she went forward, I saw
the sailor slowly lock his arm in Jack's, and Jack didn't move to go up.
Then Mamie turned round on the step, and they all three stood that way
for a second or two. She cried out then--I heard a man cry like that
once, when his arm was taken off by a steam-crane--and she fell back in
a heap on the little piazza.
I tried to jump forward, but I couldn't move, and I felt my hair rising
under my hat. The sailor turned slowly where he stood, and swung Jack
round by the arm steadily and easily, and began to walk him down the
pathway from the house. He walked him straight down that path, as
steadily as Fate; and all the time I saw the moonlight shining on his
wet oilskins. He walked him through the gate, and across the beach road,
and out upon the wet sand, where the tide was high. Then I got my breath
with a gulp, and ran for them across the grass, and vaulted over the
fence, and stumbled across the road. But when I felt the sand under my
feet, the two were at the water's edge; and when I reached the water
they were far out, and up to their waists; and I saw that Jack Benton's
head had fallen forward on his breast, and his free arm hung limp beside
him, while his dead brother steadily marched him to his death. The
moonlight was on the dark water, but the fog-bank was white beyond, and
I saw them against it; and they went slowly and steadily down. The water
was up to their armpits, and then up to their shoulders, and then I saw
it rise up to the black rim of Jack's hat. But they never wavered; and
the two heads went straight on, straight on, till they were under, and
there was just a ripple in the moonlight where Jack had been.
It has been on my mind to tell you that story, whenever I got a chance.
You have known me, man and boy, a good many years; and I thought I would
like to hear your opinion. Yes, that's what I always thought. It wasn't
Jim that went overboard; it was Jack, and Jim just let him go when he
might have saved him; and then Jim passed himself off for Jack with us,
and with the girl. If that's what happened, he got what he deserved.
People said the next day that Mamie found it out as they reached the
house, and that her husband just walked out into the sea, and drowned
himself; and they would have blamed me for not stopping him if they'd
known that I was there. But I never told what I had seen, for they
wouldn't have believed me. I just let them think I had come too late.
When I reached the cottage and lifted Mamie up, she was raving mad. She
got better afterwards, but she was never right in her head again.
Oh, you want to know if they found Jack's body? I don't know whether it
was his, but I read in a paper at a Southern port where I was with my
new ship that two dead bodies had come ashore in a gale down East, in
pretty bad shape. They were locked together, and one was a skeleton in
oilskins.
FOR THE BLOOD IS THE LIFE
We had dined at sunset on the broad roof of the old tower, because it
was cooler there during the great heat of summer. Besides, the little
kitchen was built at one corner of the great square platform, which made
it more convenient than if the dishes had to be carried down the steep
stone steps, broken in places and everywhere worn with age. The tower
was one of those built all down the west coast of Calabria by the
Emperor Charles V. early in the sixteenth century, to keep off the
Barbary pirates, when the unbelievers were allied with Francis I.
against the Emperor and the Church. They have gone to ruin, a few still
stand intact, and mine is one of the largest. How it came into my
possession ten years ago, and why I spend a part of each year in it, are
matters which do not concern this tale. The tower stands in one of the
loneliest spots in Southern Italy, at the extremity of a curving rocky
promontory, which forms a small but safe natural harbour at the southern
extremity of the Gulf of Policastro, and just north of Cape Scalea, the
birthplace of Judas Iscariot, according to the old local legend. The
tower stands alone on this hooked spur of the rock, and there is not a
house to be seen within three miles of it. When I go there I take a
couple of sailors, one of whom is a fair cook, and when I am away it is
in charge of a gnome-like little being who was once a miner and who
attached himself to me long ago.
My friend, who sometimes visits me in my summer solitude, is an artist
by profession, a Scandinavian by birth, and a cosmopolitan by force of
circumstances. We had dined at sunset; the sunset glow had reddened and
faded again, and the evening purple steeped the vast chain of the
mountains that embrace the deep gulf to eastward and rear themselves
higher and higher toward the south. It was hot, and we sat at the
landward corner of the platform, waiting for the night breeze to come
down from the lower hills. The colour sank out of the air, there was a
little interval of deep-grey twilight, and a lamp sent a yellow streak
from the open door of the kitchen, where the men were getting their
supper.
Then the moon rose suddenly above the crest of the promontory, flooding
the platform and lighting up every little spur of rock and knoll of
grass below us, down to the edge of the motionless water. My friend
lighted his pipe and sat looking at a spot on the hillside. I knew that
he was looking at it, and for a long time past I had wondered whether he
would ever see anything there that would fix his attention. I knew that
spot well. It was clear that he was interested at last, though it was a
long time before he spoke. Like most painters, he trusts to his own
eyesight, as a lion trusts his strength and a stag his speed, and he is
always disturbed when he cannot reconcile what he sees with what he
believes that he ought to see.
"It's strange," he said. "Do you see that little mound just on this side
of the boulder?"
"Yes," I said, and I guessed what was coming.
"It looks like a grave," observed Holger.
"Very true. It does look like a grave."
"Yes," continued my friend, his eyes still fixed on the spot. "But the
strange thing is that I see the body lying on the top of it. Of course,"
continued Holger, turning his head on one side as artists do, "it must
be an effect of light. In the first place, it is not a grave at all.
Secondly, if it were, the body would be inside and not outside.
Therefore, it's an effect of the moonlight. Don't you see it?"
"Perfectly; I always see it on moonlight nights."
"It doesn't seem to interest you much," said Holger.
"On the contrary, it does interest me, though I am used to it. You're
not so far wrong, either. The mound is really a grave."
"Nonsense!" cried Holger, incredulously. "I suppose you'll tell me what
I see lying on it is really a corpse!"
"No," I answered, "it's not. I know, because I have taken the trouble to
go down and see."
"Then what is it?" asked Holger.
"It's nothing."
"You mean that it's an effect of light, I suppose?"
"Perhaps it is. But the inexplicable part of the matter is that it makes
no difference whether the moon is rising or setting, or waxing or
waning. If there's any moonlight at all, from east or west or overhead,
so long as it shines on the grave you can see the outline of the body on
top."
Holger stirred up his pipe with the point of his knife, and then used
his finger for a stopper. When the tobacco burned well he rose from his
chair.
"If you don't mind," he said, "I'll go down and take a look at it."
He left me, crossed the roof, and disappeared down the dark steps. I did
not move, but sat looking down until he came out of the tower below. I
heard him humming an old Danish song as he crossed the open space in the
bright moonlight, going straight to the mysterious mound. When he was
ten paces from it, Holger stopped short, made two steps forward, and
then three or four backward, and then stopped again. I know what that
meant. He had reached the spot where the Thing ceased to be
visible--where, as he would have said, the effect of light changed.
Then he went on till he reached the mound and stood upon it. I could see
the Thing still, but it was no longer lying down; it was on its knees
now, winding its white arms round Holger's body and looking up into his
face. A cool breeze stirred my hair at that moment, as the night wind
began to come down from the hills, but it felt like a breath from
another world.
The Thing seemed to be trying to climb to its feet, helping itself up by
Holger's body while he stood upright, quite unconscious of it and
apparently looking toward the tower, which is very picturesque when the
moonlight falls upon it on that side.
"Come along!" I shouted. "Don't stay there all night!"
It seemed to me that he moved reluctantly as he stepped from the mound,
or else with difficulty. That was it. The Thing's arms were still round
his waist, but its feet could not leave the grave. As he came slowly
forward it was drawn and lengthened like a wreath of mist, thin and
white, till I saw distinctly that Holger shook himself, as a man does
who feels a chill. At the same instant a little wail of pain came to me
on the breeze--it might have been the cry of the small owl that lives
among the rocks--and the misty presence floated swiftly back from
Holger's advancing figure and lay once more at its length upon the
mound.
Again I felt the cool breeze in my hair, and this time an icy thrill of
dread ran down my spine. I remembered very well that I had once gone
down there alone in the moonlight; that presently, being near, I had
seen nothing; that, like Holger, I had gone and had stood upon the
mound; and I remembered how, when I came back, sure that there was
nothing there, I had felt the sudden conviction that there was something
after all if I would only look behind me. I remembered the strong
temptation to look back, a temptation I had resisted as unworthy of a
man of sense, until, to get rid of it, I had shaken myself just as
Holger did.
And now I knew that those white, misty arms had been round me too; I
knew it in a flash, and I shuddered as I remembered that I had heard the
night owl then too. But it had not been the night owl. It was the cry of
the Thing.
I refilled my pipe and poured out a cup of strong southern wine; in less
than a minute Holger was seated beside me again.
"Of course there's nothing there," he said, "but it's creepy, all the
same. Do you know, when I was coming back I was so sure that there was
something behind me that I wanted to turn round and look? It was an
effort not to."
He laughed a little, knocked the ashes out of his pipe, and poured
himself out some wine. For a while neither of us spoke, and the moon
rose higher, and we both looked at the Thing that lay on the mound.
"You might make a story about that," said Holger after a long time.
"There is one," I answered. "If you're not sleepy, I'll tell it to you."
"Go ahead," said Holger, who likes stories.
       *       *       *       *       *
Old Alario was dying up there in the village behind the hill. You
remember him, I have no doubt. They say that he made his money by
selling sham jewellery in South America, and escaped with his gains when
he was found out. Like all those fellows, if they bring anything back
with them, he at once set to work to enlarge his house, and as there are
no masons here, he sent all the way to Paola for two workmen. They were
a rough-looking pair of scoundrels--a Neapolitan who had lost one eye
and a Sicilian with an old scar half an inch deep across his left cheek.
I often saw them, for on Sundays they used to come down here and fish
off the rocks. When Alario caught the fever that killed him the masons
were still at work. As he had agreed that part of their pay should be
their board and lodging, he made them sleep in the house. His wife was
dead, and he had an only son called Angelo, who was a much better sort
than himself. Angelo was to marry the daughter of the richest man in the
village, and, strange to say, though the marriage was arranged by their
parents, the young people were said to be in love with each other.
For that matter, the whole village was in love with Angelo, and among
the rest a wild, good-looking creature called Cristina, who was more
like a gipsy than any girl I ever saw about here. She had very red lips
and very black eyes, she was built like a greyhound, and had the tongue
of the devil. But Angelo did not care a straw for her. He was rather a
simple-minded fellow, quite different from his old scoundrel of a
father, and under what I should call normal circumstances I really
believe that he would never have looked at any girl except the nice
plump little creature, with a fat dowry, whom his father meant him to
marry. But things turned up which were neither normal nor natural.
On the other hand, a very handsome young shepherd from the hills above
Maratea was in love with Cristina, who seems to have been quite
indifferent to him. Cristina had no regular means of subsistence, but
she was a good girl and willing to do any work or go on errands to any
distance for the sake of a loaf of bread or a mess of beans, and
permission to sleep under cover. She was especially glad when she could
get something to do about the house of Angelo's father. There is no
doctor in the village, and when the neighbours saw that old Alario was
dying they sent Cristina to Scalea to fetch one. That was late in the
afternoon, and if they had waited so long, it was because the dying
miser refused to allow any such extravagance while he was able to speak.
But while Cristina was gone matters grew rapidly worse, the priest was
brought to the bedside, and when he had done what he could he gave it as
his opinion to the bystanders that the old man was dead, and left the
house.
You know these people. They have a physical horror of death. Until the
priest spoke, the room had been full of people. The words were hardly
out of his mouth before it was empty. It was night now. They hurried
down the dark steps and out into the street.
Angelo, as I have said, was away, Cristina had not come back--the simple
woman-servant who had nursed the sick man fled with the rest, and the
body was left alone in the flickering light of the earthen oil lamp.
Five minutes later two men looked in cautiously and crept forward toward
the bed. They were the one-eyed Neapolitan mason and his Sicilian
companion. They knew what they wanted. In a moment they had dragged from
under the bed a small but heavy iron-bound box, and long before any one
thought of coming back to the dead man they had left the house and the
village under cover of the darkness. It was easy enough, for Alario's
house is the last toward the gorge which leads down here, and the
thieves merely went out by the back door, got over the stone wall, and
had nothing to risk after that except the possibility of meeting some
belated countryman, which was very small indeed, since few of the people
use that path. They had a mattock and shovel, and they made their way
here without accident.
I am telling you this story as it must have happened, for, of course,
there were no witnesses to this part of it. The men brought the box down
by the gorge, intending to bury it until they should be able to come
back and take it away in a boat. They must have been clever enough to
guess that some of the money would be in paper notes, for they would
otherwise have buried it on the beach in the wet sand, where it would
have been much safer. But the paper would have rotted if they had been
obliged to leave it there long, so they dug their hole down there, close
to that boulder. Yes, just where the mound is now.
Cristina did not find the doctor in Scalea, for he had been sent for
from a place up the valley, halfway to San Domenico. If she had found
him, he would have come on his mule by the upper road, which is smoother
but much longer. But Cristina took the short cut by the rocks, which
passes about fifty feet above the mound, and goes round that corner. The
men were digging when she passed, and she heard them at work. It would
not have been like her to go by without finding out what the noise was,
for she was never afraid of anything in her life, and, besides, the
fishermen sometimes come ashore here at night to get a stone for an
anchor or to gather sticks to make a little fire. The night was dark,
and Cristina probably came close to the two men before she could see
what they were doing. She knew them, of course, and they knew her, and
understood instantly that they were in her power. There was only one
thing to be done for their safety, and they did it. They knocked her on
the head, they dug the hole deep, and they buried her quickly with the
iron-bound chest. They must have understood that their only chance of
escaping suspicion lay in getting back to the village before their
absence was noticed, for they returned immediately, and were found half
an hour later gossiping quietly with the man who was making Alario's
coffin. He was a crony of theirs, and had been working at the repairs in
the old man's house. So far as I have been able to make out, the only
persons who were supposed to know where Alario kept his treasure were
Angelo and the one woman-servant I have mentioned. Angelo was away; it
was the woman who discovered the theft.
It is easy enough to understand why no one else knew where the money
was. The old man kept his door locked and the key in his pocket when he
was out, and did not let the woman enter to clean the place unless he
was there himself. The whole village knew that he had money somewhere,
however, and the masons had probably discovered the whereabouts of the
chest by climbing in at the window in his absence. If the old man had
not been delirious until he lost consciousness, he would have been in
frightful agony of mind for his riches. The faithful woman-servant
forgot their existence only for a few moments when she fled with the
rest, overcome by the horror of death. Twenty minutes had not passed
before she returned with the two hideous old hags who are always called
in to prepare the dead for burial. Even then she had not at first the
courage to go near the bed with them, but she made a pretence of
dropping something, went down on her knees as if to find it, and looked
under the bedstead. The walls of the room were newly whitewashed down to
the floor, and she saw at a glance that the chest was gone. It had been
there in the afternoon, it had therefore been stolen in the short
interval since she had left the room.
There are no carabineers stationed in the village; there is not so much
as a municipal watchman, for there is no municipality. There never was
such a place, I believe. Scalea is supposed to look after it in some
mysterious way, and it takes a couple of hours to get anybody from
there. As the old woman had lived in the village all her life, it did
not even occur to her to apply to any civil authority for help. She
simply set up a howl and ran through the village in the dark, screaming
out that her dead master's house had been robbed. Many of the people
looked out, but at first no one seemed inclined to help her. Most of
them, judging her by themselves, whispered to each other that she had
probably stolen the money herself. The first man to move was the father
of the girl whom Angelo was to marry; having collected his household,
all of whom felt a personal interest in the wealth which was to have
come into the family, he declared it to be his opinion that the chest
had been stolen by the two journeyman masons who lodged in the house. He
headed a search for them, which naturally began in Alario's house and
ended in the carpenter's workshop, where the thieves were found
discussing a measure of wine with the carpenter over the half-finished
coffin, by the light of one earthen lamp filled with oil and tallow. The
search party at once accused the delinquents of the crime, and
threatened to lock them up in the cellar till the carabineers could be
fetched from Scalea. The two men looked at each other for one moment,
and then without the slightest hesitation they put out the single light,
seized the unfinished coffin between them, and using it as a sort of
battering ram, dashed upon their assailants in the dark. In a few
moments they were beyond pursuit.
That is the end of the first part of the story. The treasure had
disappeared, and as no trace of it could be found the people naturally
supposed that the thieves had succeeded in carrying it off. The old man
was buried, and when Angelo came back at last he had to borrow money to
pay for the miserable funeral, and had some difficulty in doing so. He
hardly needed to be told that in losing his inheritance he had lost his
bride. In this part of the world marriages are made on strictly
business principles, and if the promised cash is not forthcoming on the
appointed day the bride or the bridegroom whose parents have failed to
produce it may as well take themselves off, for there will be no
wedding. Poor Angelo knew that well enough. His father had been
possessed of hardly any land, and now that the hard cash which he had
brought from South America was gone, there was nothing left but debts
for the building materials that were to have been used for enlarging and
improving the old house. Angelo was beggared, and the nice plump little
creature who was to have been his turned up her nose at him in the most
approved fashion. As for Cristina, it was several days before she was
missed, for no one remembered that she had been sent to Scalea for the
doctor, who had never come. She often disappeared in the same way for
days together, when she could find a little work here and there at the
distant farms among the hills. But when she did not come back at all,
people began to wonder, and at last made up their minds that she had
connived with the masons and had escaped with them.
       *       *       *       *       *
I paused and emptied my glass.
"That sort of thing could not happen anywhere else," observed Holger,
filling his everlasting pipe again. "It is wonderful what a natural
charm there is about murder and sudden death in a romantic country like
this. Deeds that would be simply brutal and disgusting anywhere else
become dramatic and mysterious because this is Italy and we are living
in a genuine tower of Charles V. built against genuine Barbary
pirates."
"There's something in that" I admitted. Holger is the most romantic man
in the world inside of himself, but he always thinks it necessary to
explain why he feels anything.
"I suppose they found the poor girl's body with the box," he said
presently.
"As it seems to interest you," I answered, "I'll tell you the rest of
the story."
The moon had risen high by this time; the outline of the Thing on the
mound was clearer to our eyes than before.
       *       *       *       *       *
The village very soon settled down to its small, dull life. No one
missed old Alario, who had been away so much on his voyages to South
America that he had never been a familiar figure in his native place.
Angelo lived in the half-finished house, and because he had no money to
pay the old woman-servant she would not stay with him, but once in a
long time she would come and wash a shirt for him for old acquaintance'
sake. Besides the house, he had inherited a small patch of ground at
some distance from the village; he tried to cultivate it, but he had no
heart in the work, for he knew he could never pay the taxes on it and on
the house, which would certainly be confiscated by the Government, or
seized for the debt of the building material, which the man who had
supplied it refused to take back.
Angelo was very unhappy. So long as his father had been alive and rich,
every girl in the village had been in love with him; but that was all
changed now. It had been pleasant to be admired and courted, and invited
to drink wine by fathers who had girls to marry. It was hard to be
stared at coldly, and sometimes laughed at because he had been robbed of
his inheritance. He cooked his miserable meals for himself, and from
being sad became melancholy and morose.
At twilight, when the day's work was done, instead of hanging about in
the open space before the church with young fellows of his own age, he
took to wandering in lonely places on the outskirts of the village till
it was quite dark. Then he slunk home and went to bed to save the
expense of a light. But in those lonely twilight hours he began to have
strange waking dreams. He was not always alone, for often when he sat on
the stump of a tree, where the narrow path turns down the gorge, he was
sure that a woman came up noiselessly over the rough stones, as if her
feet were bare; and she stood under a clump of chestnut trees only half
a dozen yards down the path, and beckoned to him without speaking.
Though she was in the shadow he knew that her lips were red, and that
when they parted a little and smiled at him she showed two small sharp
teeth. He knew this at first rather than saw it, and he knew that it was
Cristina, and that she was dead. Yet he was not afraid; he only wondered
whether it was a dream, for he thought that if he had been awake he
should have been frightened.
Besides, the dead woman had red lips, and that could only happen in a
dream. Whenever he went near the gorge after sunset she was already
there waiting for him, or else she very soon appeared, and he began to
be sure that she came a little nearer to him every day. At first he had
only been sure of her blood-red mouth, but now each feature grew
distinct, and the pale face looked at him with deep and hungry eyes.
It was the eyes that grew dim. Little by little he came to know that
some day the dream would not end when he turned away to go home, but
would lead him down the gorge out of which the vision rose. She was
nearer now when she beckoned to him. Her cheeks were not livid like
those of the dead, but pale with starvation, with the furious and
unappeased physical hunger of her eyes that devoured him. They feasted
on his soul and cast a spell over him, and at last they were close to
his own and held him. He could not tell whether her breath was as hot as
fire or as cold as ice; he could not tell whether her red lips burned
his or froze them, or whether her five fingers on his wrists seared
scorching scars or bit his flesh like frost; he could not tell whether
he was awake or asleep, whether she was alive or dead, but he knew that
she loved him, she alone of all creatures, earthly or unearthly, and her
spell had power over him.
When the moon rose high that night the shadow of that Thing was not
alone down there upon the mound.
Angelo awoke in the cool dawn, drenched with dew and chilled through
flesh, and blood, and bone. He opened his eyes to the faint grey light,
and saw the stars still shining overhead. He was very weak, and his
heart was beating so slowly that he was almost like a man fainting.
Slowly he turned his head on the mound, as on a pillow, but the other
face was not there. Fear seized him suddenly, a fear unspeakable and
unknown; he sprang to his feet and fled up the gorge, and he never
looked behind him until he reached the door of the house on the
outskirts of the village. Drearily he went to his work that day, and
wearily the hours dragged themselves after the sun, till at last he
touched the sea and sank, and the great sharp hills above Maratea turned
purple against the dove-coloured eastern sky.
Angelo shouldered his heavy hoe and left the field. He felt less tired
now than in the morning when he had begun to work, but he promised
himself that he would go home without lingering by the gorge, and eat
the best supper he could get himself, and sleep all night in his bed
like a Christian man. Not again would he be tempted down the narrow way
by a shadow with red lips and icy breath; not again would he dream that
dream of terror and delight. He was near the village now; it was half an
hour since the sun had set, and the cracked church bell sent little
discordant echoes across the rocks and ravines to tell all good people
that the day was done. Angelo stood still a moment where the path
forked, where it led toward the village on the left, and down to the
gorge on the right, where a clump of chestnut trees overhung the narrow
way. He stood still a minute, lifting his battered hat from his head and
gazing at the fast-fading sea westward, and his lips moved as he
silently repeated the familiar evening prayer. His lips moved, but the
words that followed them in his brain lost their meaning and turned into
others, and ended in a name that he spoke aloud--Cristina! With the
name, the tension of his will relaxed suddenly, reality went out and the
dream took him again, and bore him on swiftly and surely like a man
walking in his sleep, down, down, by the steep path in the gathering
darkness. And as she glided beside him, Cristina whispered strange,
sweet things in his ear, which somehow, if he had been awake, he knew
that he could not quite have understood; but now they were the most
wonderful words he had ever heard in his life. And she kissed him also,
but not upon his mouth. He felt her sharp kisses upon his white throat,
and he knew that her lips were red. So the wild dream sped on through
twilight and darkness and moonrise, and all the glory of the summer's
night. But in the chilly dawn he lay as one half dead upon the mound
down there, recalling and not recalling, drained of his blood, yet
strangely longing to give those red lips more. Then came the fear, the
awful nameless panic, the mortal horror that guards the confines of the
world we see not, neither know of as we know of other things, but which
we feel when its icy chill freezes our bones and stirs our hair with the
touch of a ghostly hand. Once more Angelo sprang from the mound and
fled up the gorge in the breaking day, but his step was less sure this
time, and he panted for breath as he ran; and when he came to the bright
spring of water that rises halfway up the hillside, he dropped upon his
knees and hands and plunged his whole face in and drank as he had never
drunk before--for it was the thirst of the wounded man who has lain
bleeding all night long upon the battle-field.
She had him fast now, and he could not escape her, but would come to her
every evening at dusk until she had drained him of his last drop of
blood. It was in vain that when the day was done he tried to take
another turning and to go home by a path that did not lead near the
gorge. It was in vain that he made promises to himself each morning at
dawn when he climbed the lonely way up from the shore to the village. It
was all in vain, for when the sun sank burning into the sea, and the
coolness of the evening stole out as from a hiding-place to delight the
weary world, his feet turned toward the old way, and she was waiting for
him in the shadow under the chestnut trees; and then all happened as
before, and she fell to kissing his white throat even as she flitted
lightly down the way, winding one arm about him. And as his blood
failed, she grew more hungry and more thirsty every day, and every day
when he awoke in the early dawn it was harder to rouse himself to the
effort of climbing the steep path to the village; and when he went to
his work his feet dragged painfully, and there was hardly strength in
his arms to wield the heavy hoe. He scarcely spoke to any one now, but
the people said he was "consuming himself" for love of the girl he was
to have married when he lost his inheritance; and they laughed heartily
at the thought, for this is not a very romantic country. At this time,
Antonio, the man who stays here to look after the tower, returned from a
visit to his people, who live near Salerno. He had been away all the
time since before Alario's death and knew nothing of what had happened.
He has told me that he came back late in the afternoon and shut himself
up in the tower to eat and sleep, for he was very tired. It was past
midnight when he awoke, and when he looked out the waning moon was
rising over the shoulder of the hill. He looked out toward the mound,
and he saw something, and he did not sleep again that night. When he
went out again in the morning it was broad daylight, and there was
nothing to be seen on the mound but loose stones and driven sand. Yet he
did not go very near it; he went straight up the path to the village and
directly to the house of the old priest.
"I have seen an evil thing this night," he said; "I have seen how the
dead drink the blood of the living. And the blood is the life."
"Tell me what you have seen," said the priest in reply.
Antonio told him everything he had seen.
"You must bring your book and your holy water to-night," he added. "I
will be here before sunset to go down with you, and if it pleases your
reverence to sup with me while we wait, I will make ready."
"I will come," the priest answered, "for I have read in old books of
these strange beings which are neither quick nor dead, and which lie
ever fresh in their graves, stealing out in the dusk to taste life and
blood."
Antonio cannot read, but he was glad to see that the priest understood
the business; for, of course, the books must have instructed him as to
the best means of quieting the half-living Thing for ever.
So Antonio went away to his work, which consists largely in sitting on
the shady side of the tower, when he is not perched upon a rock with a
fishing-line catching nothing. But on that day he went twice to look at
the mound in the bright sunlight, and he searched round and round it for
some hole through which the being might get in and out; but he found
none. When the sun began to sink and the air was cooler in the shadows,
he went up to fetch the old priest, carrying a little wicker basket with
him; and in this they placed a bottle of holy water, and the basin, and
sprinkler, and the stole which the priest would need; and they came down
and waited in the door of the tower till it should be dark. But while
the light still lingered very grey and faint, they saw something moving,
just there, two figures, a man's that walked, and a woman's that flitted
beside him, and while her head lay on his shoulder she kissed his
throat. The priest has told me that, too, and that his teeth chattered
and he grasped Antonio's arm. The vision passed and disappeared into the
shadow. Then Antonio got the leathern flask of strong liquor, which he
kept for great occasions, and poured such a draught as made the old man
feel almost young again; and he got the lantern, and his pick and
shovel, and gave the priest his stole to put on and the holy water to
carry, and they went out together toward the spot where the work was to
be done. Antonio says that in spite of the rum his own knees shook
together, and the priest stumbled over his Latin. For when they were yet
a few yards from the mound the flickering light of the lantern fell upon
Angelo's white face, unconscious as if in sleep, and on his upturned
throat, over which a very thin red line of blood trickled down into his
collar; and the flickering light of the lantern played upon another face
that looked up from the feast--upon two deep, dead eyes that saw in
spite of death--upon parted lips redder than life itself--upon two
gleaming teeth on which glistened a rosy drop. Then the priest, good old
man, shut his eyes tight and showered holy water before him, and his
cracked voice rose almost to a scream; and then Antonio, who is no
coward after all, raised his pick in one hand and the lantern in the
other, as he sprang forward, not knowing what the end should be; and
then he swears that he heard a woman's cry, and the Thing was gone, and
Angelo lay alone on the mound unconscious, with the red line on his
throat and the beads of deathly sweat on his cold forehead. They lifted
him, half-dead as he was, and laid him on the ground close by; then
Antonio went to work, and the priest helped him, though he was old and
could not do much; and they dug deep, and at last Antonio, standing in
the grave, stooped down with his lantern to see what he might see.
His hair used to be dark brown, with grizzled streaks about the temples;
in less than a month from that day he was as grey as a badger. He was a
miner when he was young, and most of these fellows have seen ugly
sights now and then, when accidents have happened, but he had never seen
what he saw that night--that Thing which is neither alive nor dead, that
Thing that will abide neither above ground nor in the grave. Antonio had
brought something with him which the priest had not noticed. He had made
it that afternoon--a sharp stake shaped from a piece of tough old
driftwood. He had it with him now, and he had his heavy pick, and he had
taken the lantern down into the grave. I don't think any power on earth
could make him speak of what happened then, and the old priest was too
frightened to look in. He says he heard Antonio breathing like a wild
beast, and moving as if he were fighting with something almost as strong
as himself; and he heard an evil sound also, with blows, as of something
violently driven through flesh and bone; and then the most awful sound
of all--a woman's shriek, the unearthly scream of a woman neither dead
nor alive, but buried deep for many days. And he, the poor old priest,
could only rock himself as he knelt there in the sand, crying aloud his
prayers and exorcisms to drown these dreadful sounds. Then suddenly a
small iron-bound chest was thrown up and rolled over against the old
man's knee, and in a moment more Antonio was beside him, his face as
white as tallow in the flickering light of the lantern, shovelling the
sand and pebbles into the grave with furious haste, and looking over the
edge till the pit was half full; and the priest said that there was much
fresh blood on Antonio's hands and on his clothes.
I had come to the end of my story. Holger finished his wine and leaned
back in his chair.
"So Angelo got his own again," he said. "Did he marry the prim and
plump young person to whom he had been betrothed?"
"No; he had been badly frightened. He went to South America, and has
not been heard of since."
"And that poor thing's body is there still, I suppose," said Holger.
"Is it quite dead yet, I wonder?"
I wonder, too. But whether it be dead or alive, I should hardly care to
see it, even in broad daylight. Antonio is as grey as a badger, and he
has never been quite the same man since that night.
THE UPPER BERTH
CHAPTER I
Somebody asked for the cigars. We had talked long, and the conversation
was beginning to languish; the tobacco smoke had got into the heavy
curtains, the wine had got into those brains which were liable to become
heavy, and it was already perfectly evident that, unless somebody did
something to rouse our oppressed spirits, the meeting would soon come to
its natural conclusion, and we, the guests, would speedily go home to
bed, and most certainly to sleep. No one had said anything very
remarkable; it may be that no one had anything very remarkable to say.
Jones had given us every particular of his last hunting adventure in
Yorkshire. Mr. Tompkins, of Boston, had explained at elaborate length
those working principles, by the due and careful maintenance of which
the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa F Railroad not only extended its
territory, increased its departmental influence, and transported live
stock without starving them to death before the day of actual delivery,
but, also, had for years succeeded in deceiving those passengers who
bought its tickets into the fallacious belief that the corporation
aforesaid was really able to transport human life without destroying it.
Signor Tombola had endeavoured to persuade us, by arguments which we
took no trouble to oppose, that the unity of his country in no way
resembled the average modern torpedo, carefully planned, constructed
with all the skill of the greatest European arsenals, but, when
constructed, destined to be directed by feeble hands into a region where
it must undoubtedly explode, unseen, unfeared, and unheard, into the
illimitable wastes of political chaos.
It is unnecessary to go into further details. The conversation had
assumed proportions which would have bored Prometheus on his rock, which
would have driven Tantalus to distraction, and which would have impelled
Ixion to seek relaxation in the simple but instructive dialogues of Herr
Ollendorff, rather than submit to the greater evil of listening to our
talk. We had sat at table for hours; we were bored, we were tired, and
nobody showed signs of moving.
Somebody called for cigars. We all instinctively looked towards the
speaker. Brisbane was a man of five-and-thirty years of age, and
remarkable for those gifts which chiefly attract the attention of men.
He was a strong man. The external proportions of his figure presented
nothing extraordinary to the common eye, though his size was about the
average. He was a little over six feet in height, and moderately broad
in the shoulder; he did not appear to be stout, but, on the other hand,
he was certainly not thin; his small head, was supported by a strong and
sinewy neck; his broad, muscular hands appeared to possess a peculiar
skill in breaking walnuts without the assistance of the ordinary
cracker, and seeing him in profile, one could not help remarking the
extraordinary breadth of his sleeves, and the unusual thickness of his
chest. He was one of those men who are commonly spoken of among men as
deceptive; that is to say, that though he looked exceedingly strong he
was in reality very much stronger than he looked. Of his features I need
say little. His head is small, his hair is thin, his eyes are blue, his
nose is large, he has a small moustache and a square jaw. Everybody
knows Brisbane, and when he asked for a cigar everybody looked at him.
"It is a very singular thing," said Brisbane.
Everybody stopped talking. Brisbane's voice was not loud, but possessed
a peculiar quality of penetrating general conversation, and cutting it
like a knife. Everybody listened. Brisbane, perceiving that he had
attracted their general attention, lit his cigar with great equanimity.
"It is very singular," he continued, "that thing about ghosts. People
are always asking whether anybody has seen a ghost. I have."
"Bosh! What, you? You don't mean to say so, Brisbane? Well, for a man of
his intelligence!"
A chorus of exclamations greeted Brisbane's remarkable statement.
Everybody called for cigars, and Stubbs, the butler, suddenly appeared
from the depths of nowhere with a fresh bottle of dry champagne. The
situation was saved; Brisbane was going to tell a story.
I am an old sailor, said Brisbane, and as I have to cross the Atlantic
pretty often, I have my favourites. Most men have their favourites. I
have seen a man wait in a Broadway bar for three-quarters of an hour for
a particular car which he liked. I believe the bar-keeper made at least
one-third of his living by that man's preference. I have a habit of
waiting for certain ships when I am obliged to cross that duck-pond. It
may be a prejudice, but I was never cheated out of a good passage but
once in my life. I remember it very well; it was a warm morning in June,
and the Custom House officials, who were hanging about waiting for a
steamer already on her way up from the Quarantine, presented a
peculiarly hazy and thoughtful appearance. I had not much luggage--I
never have. I mingled with a crowd of passengers, porters, and
officious individuals in blue coats and brass buttons, who seemed to
spring up like mushrooms from the deck of a moored steamer to obtrude
their unnecessary services upon the independent passenger. I have often
noticed with a certain interest the spontaneous evolution of these
fellows. They are not there when you arrive; five minutes after the
pilot has called "Go ahead!" they, or at least their blue coats and
brass buttons, have disappeared from deck and gangway as completely as
