reduced to his smallest dimensions.
The drummer played a new tune, and sang in a low tone. The boy seemed to
have a fit, and writhed as though he were in convulsions, finally dropping
down into the basket very slowly. Mrs. Blossom was sure the basket was not
big enough to contain him, and wondered what had become of him. Then the
performers threw themselves on the basket, closed the lid, and began to
punch it in every direction with long and wicked-looking knives. The ladies
were appalled at the sight; but they were assured that it was all right.
The Hindus finally crushed down the basket till it was almost flat, and it
did not look as though there was any space in it for a kitten, much less an
eight-year-old boy. Then the men formed a circle around the basket, and
began a sort of chant. Something like a voice seemed to be sounding in at
the open windows. It continued to come nearer, and at last appeared to
proceed from the basket, which began to be distended, till it was restored
to its full size. Then the lid was removed, and the child sprang out, to
the great relief of Mrs. Blossom.
Then one of the jugglers set a top to whirling, placed the point on the end
of a stick, and balanced it on his nose. So far it was no new thing; but
one of the spectators was asked to say stop at any time he pleased. Captain
Ringgold gave this command; and when he did so, the top ceased to whirl,
though, upsetting the bicycle theory, it kept its place on the stick. "Go!"
added the commander, prompted by Sir Modava; and the plaything began to
whirl again, as though its gyrations had not been interrupted. It was
stopped and started again several times, till the spectators were
satisfied.
The stick and the top were critically examined by the whole party, but not
one of them could suggest an explanation of the trick. The last two acts
were the most surprising; and the rest of the performance, though skilfully
done, did not amount to much. His lordship gave the chief juggler a handful
of silver, and they left the hotel with a profusion of salaams; for they
did not often make in a month what they got for an hour, the Hindu
gentleman said.
                                 CHAPTER XXII
                       A MERE STATEMENT ABOUT BUDDHISM
"I looked into a Hindu temple this morning while I was walking about," said
Louis Belgrave, after the jugglers had been discussed a while. "I saw some
very ugly-looking idols; and I should like to ask if they really represent
individuals, or are creatures of the imagination."
"Both," replied Sir Modava with a smile; "there are, as you have been told
before, a great many different sects, and a system of mythology. About all
the gods and goddesses known to the Greeks and Romans have an existence in
the Indian mythology more or less similar to them. Indra, the counterpart
of Apollo in some of his functions, drives the chariot of fire that lights
the day.
"Rhemba was born of the sea, and is the Indian Venus; Cama is Cupid;
Parvati, whose image you saw at Elephanta, is Ceres; and so on to the end
of the chapter. These divinities are represented in the temples, but they
are without form or comeliness."
"They are not much like the beautiful statues of the Greeks," added Louis.
"The most prominent Indian sects are the Saïvas, or worshippers of Siva;
the Vaïshnavas, who bow down to Vishnu under his several incarnations, like
Krishna, whom you could not greatly respect; and the Jaïns, allied to the
Buddhists, found mostly in the northern sections of India. They occupy
important positions, and possess wealth and influence. There are
subdivisions into sects among them, and it would be quite impossible to
follow them through the mazes of belief to which they adhere. There is a
great deal of philosophy among many of the sects."
"But what are the Buddhists?" inquired Dr. Hawkes.
"Buddhism is quite as much a philosophy as a religion. It is not as
prevalent in India proper as formerly; though it is still dominant in
Ceylon, Napaul, Burma, and in the more northern countries of Asia. Its
history is somewhat indefinite. Gautama, of whom a great many pretty
stories are told, is sometimes regarded as the founder; though some who
have studied the history of the sect, or order, do not believe that the
Buddha was a real person, but an allegorical figure.
"Those who give a personal origin to the system, now said to be the
religion of one-third of the human race, begin with Prince Siddhartha, a
young man disposed to be an ascetic, and inclined to retire from the world.
In order to wean him from his meditative tendency, his father, in order to
cure him, and prevent him from forsaking his caste, married him to a
beautiful princess, and introduced him to the splendid dissipation of a
luxurious court. A dozen years of this life convinced him that 'all was
vanity and vexation of spirit,' and he became a sort of hermit, a religious
beggar, and spent his time in dwelling upon the miseries of human life.
"He used up years in this manner, and after much reasoning, came to the
conclusion that ignorance was misery. He gave himself up to study, and at
last came to believe that he had reached the perfection of wisdom. The tree
under which he sat when he reached this result was then called
Bodhidruma, or the tree of intelligence; and the Buddhists believe
the spot where it grew to be the centre of the earth. A tree that passes
for this one was discovered by a Chinese, still standing twelve hundred
years after the death of the Buddha; and the bo-tree of Ceylon is regarded
as its legitimate descendant. You have been told something about it.
"In Benares, having ascertained the cause of human misery, and learned the
remedy for it, the Buddha began to preach his peculiar salvation. In the
phrase of his religion he 'turned the wheel of the law.' One of his titles
is Chakravartin, which means 'the turner of a wheel.' The doctrines
of the Buddha are written out on a wheel, which is set in motion with a
crank, though it is sometimes operated by horse-power; and such machines
are sometimes seen in front of religious houses in Thibet, and the monks
have portable ones."
"I thought the religion of Thibet was the worship of the Grand Lama,"
suggested Louis.
"That is a form of Buddhism. The most important of the converts of the
Buddha was the Rajah of Magadha, or Behar, on the Ganges, which gave him a
good start, and it has since made almost incredible progress. It would take
too long to state the doctrines in detail of this sect, and you get an idea
of what it must be from what I said of its founder. Its leading doctrine is
the transmigration of souls, also called by that tough word,
metempsychosis, though other Hindu systems adopt this belief. It seems to
include the recognition of the immortality of the soul, which at the death
of the body passes into another form of existence,--a man, a woman, a lower
animal, or even a tree or other plant. The Buddha claims to have been born
five hundred and fifty times,--a hermit, a slave, a king, a monkey, an
elephant, a fish, a frog, a tree, etc. When he reached his highest
condition of perfection, he could recall all these different states of
being; and he has written them out.
"Some of the negroes of Africa have this belief, and when a child is born
they decide upon the ancestor whose soul has returned to the flesh in this
world. There are one hundred and thirty-six Buddhist hells, regularly
graded in the degree of suffering experienced and the length of time it
endures, the shortest term being ten million years. A good life secures an
elevated and happy life on earth, or as a blessed spirit in one of the many
heavens, where existence is continued for a bagatelle of ten billion years.
When the karma is exhausted"--
"What in the world is that?" asked Mrs. Blossom, who was struggling to
understand the subject.
"It is the allotted term of existence, including the manner of living,
whether in bliss or misery. The person must be born again, and then become
a god, or the vilest creature that crawls the earth, according as he has
behaved himself. The Buddhists do not appear to have any idea of a personal
God; and they are practically atheists, though there are many good things
in their system. They recognize no omniscient, omnipresent, all-powerful
Supreme Being, who presides over the universe and all that is in it. They
are pessimists, and believe that life, on the whole, is misery, a curse
rather than a blessing. I have given you only a faint outline of what
Buddhism is. It has points in which it resembles Christianity. Buddha is
dead and gone; but his followers put up petitions to him, though there is
no one to hear and answer their prayers. But I must stop for the want of
time rather than because there is nothing more to be said; and I have done
no more than touch the subject."
"But it is not very different from Brahminism," suggested Professor Giroud.
"You are quite right, Professor," replied Sir Modava. "Brahma means the
universal spirit; but it is not a personal divinity to be worshipped. I
believe there is not an idol or sculpture in all India that represents
Brahma. Something that passes for this mystic spirit is represented with
four heads."
"But is there not a new church or philosophy of recent date--I mean Brahmo
Somaj?" inquired Dr. Hawkes.
"Rammohun Roy, or Rajah Ram Mohan Rai, was a Hindu ruler in the Presidency
of Bengal, born in 1772. His ancestors were Brahmins of high birth. He
studied Sanskrit, Arabian, and Persian, and was a profound scholar and
philosopher. When he began to have some doubt about the faith of his
fathers, he went to Thibet to study Buddhism, where he was so outspoken
that he offended the priests and others, and his religious belief brought
upon him the enmity of his own family. In 1803 he lived in Benares, and
held a public office at one time. He published works in the languages with
which he was familiar, directed against idolatry, which he labored to
uproot.
"He succeeded to abundant wealth at the death of his brother in 1811. His
influence assisted in the abolition of the suttee, and in bringing about
other reforms. He published 'The Precepts of Jesus,' accepting his
morality, but denying his divinity and the truth of the miracles. More than
fifty years ago he started an association which became the Brahmo Somaj,
which is a living and working society still. He went to England in 1831,
and was received with great respect and friendliness. I have great
reverence for the man, though I do not accept all his religious views."
"Lord Tremlyn informed this company in regard to the divisions of caste, so
that I think we have a tolerable idea of the matter," said Captain
Ringgold, reading from a paper in his hand. "But all these sects and castes
are divided again into tribes and trade societies. Then there is a
considerable portion of the people who, though they are fully recognized as
Hindus, are outside of the pale of this multiform organization."
"I should say that all this would make endless complications in business
and society. Each of these societies, or whatever you may call them, is
independent, and has its own regulations. None of its members can marry
into another caste, or even eat with those of a lower rank. A man born into
one of these associations having a particular business cannot take up
another calling without being pinched by the social law in all that he
holds dear in life. His wife deserts him, his children refuse to
acknowledge him as their father, and his property is absorbed by his
society or caste. All this for no crime, no immorality; and he may be a
noble and true man. If he chooses to be a tinker, instead of a trader, all
the gods of Hindu antiquity light upon his head, and worry him to the
funeral pyre by the shore."
"That is quite true, Captain, and I join with you in condemning this
grossly heathen institution," added Sir Modava. "But time and Christianity
will yet do their work, and my country will be saved. But I submit, my dear
Captain, that there is another side to the question."
"Quite true, and I was about to state it. The man who remains faithful to
the requirements of the society is protected and supported. Wherever he
goes, at whatever distance from his country he may be, he finds a roof and
a hearthstone which he may make his own for the time. If gone for years, he
will find the house and the field of his fathers undisturbed, of which he
may take possession. This institution may remove care and anxiety from the
mind of the man, and make him, as we find here, calm and contented, but
without the ambition of the business-man. I have taken most of this from a
book I found in Bombay."
"The most influential caste here are mostly Jains and Buniahs; and though
they belong to different tribes, they are united in business matters. They
wear their own costumes; but they have done more than any others for the
prosperity of the place," said Lord Tremlyn. "They are the speculators in
cottons and other goods, and many of them have immense wealth. The Buniahs
are always intelligent, and somewhat aristocratic. You may know one of them
by his tall turban, like a shako, though sometimes it is rolled like a
conch-shell. Around his dress he wears a red band, which he twists about
his limbs, and has a long calico tunic closely fitted to his chest. His
chosen calling is that of a commercial broker.
"These rich Hindus, while adhering to everything required by their
religion, adopt English fashions, and revel in British luxuries. You will
see them late in the afternoon on the public roads, in elegant carriages,
drawn by the finest horses, and attended by servants in rich liveries.
Their houses are magnificent, furnished like the Parsee's we visited the
other evening. The social intercourse between them and their European
neighbors is very limited.
"The Mohammedans here are an important class of people, and some of them
are very wealthy, and are honest and upright merchants. They are very
strict in the observance of their religion, and not one of them would eat
pork or drink wine or liquors. If it were the beginning of their year,
which is different from ours, you might witness a celebration of the day.
It is called the Mohurrum, and takes place on the shore of the Back Bay.
They construct a great number of temples of gilt paper, and after marching
with them in procession through the city, they cast them into the sea. I do
not quite understand what it means; but the first month is usually a time
of mourning and fasting in commemoration of the sufferings of the two
nephews of the Prophet. The ceremony at the water is very ancient."
"The wives of Mussulmans here have more liberty than in most Eastern
countries. They go about the streets with their faces uncovered, and are
clothed for the most part like the Hindu women. As they appear in the
street they are not so neat as the other native females, who spend much
time in bathing, and are always clean and tidy. I have nothing more to say
at present."
"I have an announcement to make," said Captain Ringgold. "To-morrow
forenoon we shall return to the Guardian-Mother, and sail for Surat."
The party spent the rest of the day in excursions about Bombay in three
parties, each under the direction of one of the hosts.
                                 CHAPTER XXIII
                    THE UNEXAMPLED LIBERALITY OF THE HOSTS
The Blanche, the elegant white steam-yacht of General Noury, which had
sailed in company with the Guardian-Mother from Aden, and which had
assisted in the rescue of the crew of the Travancore, had come into the
harbor of Bombay, and lay at anchor not half a mile from her consort. The
owner was a Moor of the highest rank, and a Mohammedan; and he had friends
in Bombay, though he had never been there before. He had written to them of
his intended visit, and they had taken possession of him on his arrival.
The general had been invited, with Captain and Mrs. Sharp, to join the
party of her consort in the business of sight-seeing; and Lord Tremlyn and
Sir Modava had united with Captain Ringgold in the invitation. The
commander of the Blanche had visited the party on shore; but he was engaged
in making some changes on board of his ship which required his attention.
The Mohammedan magnates had kept the general very busy, night and day, and
fêted him like a king.
Lord Tremlyn had taken care of the engineers and other people of the
wrecked steam-yacht, and had treated everybody in a subordinate capacity
with princely liberality. He and his Indian associate were both
multi-millionaires, with fortunes inherited from their ancestors and other
relatives; and unitedly they had placed a large sum of money in the hands
of the captains of the two steamers, to be equitably distributed among
their ships' companies. Captain Ringgold remonstrated against this lavish
gift to his own people.
"It is a sailor's duty, and a large part of his religion, to assist those
in peril and distress on the sea, the poor and the rich alike, and I
dislike to have my men rewarded in money for a service of this kind," said
he rather warmly.
"It was the good Father in heaven who sent your ship to our aid when we
were perishing; but he works through human agencies, and I feel it to be a
solemn duty to recognize my obligations to those so providentially sent to
save us," replied his lordship, taking the hand of the commander with much
feeling in his tone and manner. "I shall never cease to be grateful to
Heaven for this interposition in my favor, and that of my companions; for
all of us were in the very jaws of death."
"I can understand your feelings, my Lord; but all my people, as well as
myself, may soon require the same service we have rendered to others, and I
desire to let what we have done be placed to our credit against the
possible debt of the future," added the captain.
"I shall feel better and happier when I have done, in connection with Sir
Modava, what I propose, and I beg you will withdraw your objections,"
persisted the viscount.
They argued the question for some time; but at last the commander yielded
the point. Every seaman, fireman, and waiter received five pounds, and
every officer a larger sum, in proportion to his rank, after the manner in
which prize-money is distributed on board of ships of war. The same
apportionment was made on board of both steamers, and Lord Tremlyn and Sir
Modava were most vigorously cheered by the two ships' companies.
Due notice had been given to Captain Sharp of the intention to sail for
Surat on Tuesday; and on the day before the cabin party of the Blanche,
which included Dr. Henderson, the surgeon of the ship, came to dine with
their friends at the Victoria Hotel. General Noury, who had been taking
leave of his Mussulman hosts, was attended by three of them, who were at
once invited by his lordship to join them at dinner, and the band of the
Blanche had been sent on shore for the occasion.
The general had been taken about the city and its vicinity by his host, and
they were anxious to retain him longer in Bombay. He was on excellent terms
with Lord Tremlyn, who, though a strict Churchman, was not a bigot; and his
connection with the affairs of India had brought him into intimate
association with men of all religions, and there were about thirteen
million Mohammedans in the Punjab.
His lordship renewed his invitation to the general to join the party who
were going across India, and he seemed to be inclined to accept it. His
Mussulman friends declared that he would be most cordially welcomed by all
the people of their faith, especially if attended by such excellent
Christian people; and they appeared to have none of the bigotry so often
found among the followers of the Prophet.
"I don't quite understand your plan, Captain Ringgold," said Captain Sharp.
"You go to Surat, and from there across the country;" for the conductors
had decided not to go to Kurrachee. "But what becomes of the ships?"
"The Guardian-Mother will proceed to Calcutta, as soon as we land, in
charge of Mr. Boulong," replied Captain Ringgold. "We shall join her
there."
The commander of the Blanche shook his head; and after some discussion he
declined to join the tourists, and his wife would not go without him.
Doubtless he had some strong reasons for his decision, though he did not
state them; but probably he had not as much confidence in his first officer
as Captain Ringgold had in Mr. Boulong. The question was settled that the
general should go, and he insisted that Dr. Henderson should go with him;
and with three physicians in the excursion they appeared to be provided for
any emergency.
The dinner was a very merry affair. The band played to the delight of all;
and one of the general's friends declared that they had no such music in
Bombay, to which he replied that he had engaged the best he could find in
Italy. The company retired to the parlor, and the band played on the
veranda for an hour longer. Some of the most distinguished of the civil and
military officers located in the city called at this hour by invitation of
the viscount, to pay their respects to the visitors; and Mrs. Blossom
declared that she was never so "frustrated" in all her life.
"I should like to take my band with me," said General Noury, when the
officials had all departed. "I am very fond of music, and I think it will
afford us all a great deal of pleasure; of course I mean at my own
expense."
"I beg your pardon, General Noury, but it must be at my expense,"
interposed Lord Tremlyn. "I was thinking myself what an addition it would
be to have such excellent music on our way, and I am sure it will add a
great deal to the earnestness of the welcome we shall everywhere receive.
As to the expense, I hope and beg that not another word will be said about
it. The entire party are the guests of Sir Modava and myself."
"I protest"--Captain Ringgold began.
"Pardon me, my dear Captain; you are all our guests, and protests are
entirely out of order," interposed Lord Tremlyn.
It was a very pleasant and friendly dispute that followed, and his lordship
had carried his point at the close of it. The commander had been to the
landlord, and asked for his bill; but the worthy Parsee informed him that
it had already been paid. He had remonstrated with the hosts; but they had
been inflexible. It was finally decided that nothing more should be said
about expense; for his lordship declared that it was a very disagreeable
subject to him. The captain believed that he was entirely sincere; and
though he had never encountered such extreme liberality before, he gave up
the point.
"You can tie your purse-strings with a hard knot, Uncle Moses, for you will
not have occasion to undo them again for a month," said Captain Ringgold.
"I don't quite like it."
"I don't know that I wonder at the generosity of our hosts," replied the
trustee, as he put his fat arm around the neck of Louis, who stood next to
him. "If this young man had been in the situation of Lord Tremlyn and Sir
Modava when you picked them up, I am very sure I should not have grumbled
if I had been called upon to disburse a sum equal to what this trip will
cost them, if they, or any one, had picked him up. There are two sides to
this question, Captain."
"Then you fight on the other side, though you hold the purse-strings," said
the commander.
"Would I give a hundred thousand dollars for saving Sir Louis's life? His
mother would give ten times that sum, and all the rest of the young man's
fortune. That is a matter about which we must not be mean; and the other
side take that view of it. I quite agree that not another word ought to be
said about expense," responded Uncle Moses, giving the young millionaire
another hug.
"Uncle Moses is not a bit like the miser that could not afford a candle at
his death-bed in the night," added Louis. "If they had done as much for us
as we have for them, I should be glad to take them all around the world,
and pay for an Italian band of music all the way."
"That's right, Sir Louis! Do as you would be done by," chuckled the
trustee.
"It just occurs to me, Captain Sharp," said the commander of the
Guardian-Mother, as the former was about to leave, "that there is no reason
for your going to Surat, for we can take the general, Dr. Henderson, and
the band along with us. You have a voyage of two thousand miles before
you."
"Which I can make in seven or eight days without hurrying," replied the
captain of the Blanche. "I could get to Calcutta before you do if I sailed
two weeks hence."
"Just as you please."
But General Noury seemed to like the idea of getting on board of the
Guardian-Mother even for a day, and adopted the suggestion of Captain
Ringgold.
"There is next to nothing to be seen at Surat, and we shall go from there
immediately to Baroda, on our way to Lahore," interposed Lord Tremlyn. "The
Maharajah of Gwalior is an old friend of Sir Modava, and I am well
acquainted with him. I have no doubt we shall be very hospitably treated
there, and that you will be introduced to many things that will interest
you. If Captain Sharp desires to see some Indian sports, he can go with us
to Baroda, stay a week, and then return to his ship here by railway."
"I like that idea, as my wife wishes to see a little more of India on
shore, though she does not wish to take the long journey you are to make,"
added Captain Sharp.
This plan was accepted, and the party separated. The next morning the
carriages conveyed them to the Apollo Bunder, and at seven o'clock the
Guardian-Mother was under way. The band was playing on the promenade, and
the party were taking their last view of Bombay and its surroundings.
Captain Sharp and his wife were on board. The three doctors formed a trio
by themselves, and were discussing jungle fever, which existed in the low
lands beyond Byculla.
The sea outside was smooth; and at four o'clock in the afternoon the
steamer was among the Malacca shoals, in the Gulf of Cambay, with a pilot
on board. She soon entered the Tapti River, fifteen miles from its mouth.
The band had scattered after the noonday concert, and the party took the
chairs in Conference Hall.
"I suppose you wish to know something about the places you visit, ladies
and gentlemen," said Lord Tremlyn, rising before them, and bowing at the
applause with which he was heartily greeted. "This is Surat, a hundred and
sixty miles north of Bombay, on the Tapti River, which you may spell with a
double e at the end if you prefer. It has a population of a hundred
and ten thousand. It extends about a mile along this river, with the
government buildings in the centre.
"The streets are well paved, and the houses are packed very closely
together. There are four very handsome Mohammedan mosques here, so our
friend the general will have a place to go to on our Friday." The Mussulman
bowed, and gave the speaker one of his prettiest smiles. "The Parsees, of
whom a few families own half the place, are prominent in business, as in
Bombay; and they supply the most skilful mechanics, the liveliest clerks,
and the quickest boys in the schools. They have two fire-temples here. The
Hindus, especially the Buniahs and the Jains, are as prominent as in
Bombay. The city was founded before 1512; for then it was burned by the
Portuguese, who did it again eighteen years later.
"It had a very extensive commerce in its earlier years, and flourished on
its cotton trade during the American war. In 1811 it had a population of
two hundred and fifty thousand; but five and thirty years later it had less
than one-third of that; but has gained somewhat up to the present time.
Nearly a hundred years ago it was the most populous city of India. But I do
not propose to exhaust the subject, and now you may see for yourselves."
His lordship and the Hindu gentleman, since their liberality had been
whispered through the ship, were exceedingly popular, and both were warmly
applauded whenever they opened their mouths. The party found enough to
occupy their attention till the ship came to anchor, with its brass band in
full blast, off the public buildings. A steam-launch came off for the
passengers; for the hosts had written to every place they were to visit,
and carriages were in readiness for them when they landed.
They rode over the town after a collation at a clubhouse, and saw all that
was to be seen. They were quartered for the night at private residences,
and there was almost a struggle to know who should receive them.
                                 CHAPTER XXIV
                  THE RECEPTION OF THE MAHARAJAH AT BARODA
India has nearly twenty thousand miles of railroads open and in use, and
thousands more in process of construction. As in England, they are
invariably called "railways." They do not have baggage, but it is
"luggage;" a baggage-car is unknown, for they call it a "van;" and the
conductor is the "guard." Our travellers had become accustomed to these
terms, and many others, in England, and now used them very familiarly.
Early rising is hardly a virtue in India; for he who sleeps after six in
the morning loses the best part of the day, especially in the hot season.
The tourists were up before this hour, and had coffee wherever they were.
They had been treated with the utmost kindness and consideration, and their
hosts could not do enough for them. They were conveyed to the railway
station by them, and there found his lordship with a plan of a number of
carriages--they are not cars there. On this plan he had placed, with the
assistance of the commander, the names of the entire party.
They were to leave at seven; for it is pleasanter to travel early in the
morning than later in the day, and the train was all ready. They were not a
little astonished when they were introduced to their quarters in the
vehicles, to find them quite as luxurious as a Pullman, though they were
constructed on a different plan, and were wanting in some of the
conveniences of the American palace-car, though better adapted to the
climate of the country.
Each carriage contained but two compartments; but they were suites of rooms
on a small scale. The principal one was of good size, and on one side was
cushioned to the ceiling, so that being "knocked about" did not imperil the
traveller's bones and flesh. Against this stuffed partition was a low
couch, which could be made up as a bed at night, or used as a reclining
sofa by day.
Over it was a swinging couch suspended by straps, which could be folded up,
or be entirely removed, and formed a couch like the one below it. On the
other side of the apartment was a toilet-room, with all conveniences
required for washing and other purposes, including a water-cooler. In this
compartment the traveller takes his servant, and often a cook, for the
valet cannot meddle with culinary matters; and they sleep on the floor
wherever they can find a place. A reasonable additional price is charged
for accommodations in this luxurious style.
The journey to Baroda would occupy hardly more than three hours, and these
elaborate arrangements were scarcely necessary for the time they were to be
used; but the members of the party looked upon them with especial interest
in connection with the long travel to Lahore, and that which was to follow
to Calcutta, though they were to break the journey several times on the
way.
The "Big Four" had a compartment to themselves, with the two servants,
Sayad and Moro, who proved to be such good fellows that the boys liked them
very much. Sir Modava had managed to dismiss more than half of the
attendants furnished at first, for all the party declared that such a mob
of them was a nuisance; and the others had overcome their repugnance to
serving more than one person in the face of dismissal, for their
perquisites had already been considerable as they valued money.
"This isn't bad for a haythen counthry," said Felix, as he stretched
himself on the lower couch. "We'll git to Calcutty widout breakin' ahl the
bones in our bodies."
"This is vastly better than anything I expected to find here," replied
Louis, as he pushed his crony over against the partition, and lay down at
his side.
"But where do the elephants and the tigers come in?" asked Scott, as he
called upon Moro to "shine" his shoes. "I haven't seen an elephant since I
came here."
"Elephants are not worked in this country," added Morris. "The Moguls use
them when they want to go in state, and sometimes when they go hunting
tigers; and then the big beast gets most of the hard scratches."
"But the elephant can take care of himself when the mahout allows him to do
so," argued Scott.
"Is the mahout his schnout?" asked Felix.
"You know better than that, Flix. The mahout is the fellow that sits on the
elephant's neck and conducts him. He is the driver," replied Morris.
"Is he afeerd of schnakes?"
"He needn't be, perched on the top of the pachyderm," answered Scott.
"Who is he? Oi've not been introjuced to 'm."
"Are you going among elephants, Flix, and don't know what a pachyderm is?"
demanded Scott.
"Oi see, it's the elephant, and ye's call him so bekase he carries his pack
on his bachk; and 'pon me worrud that's the roight place to carry it."
"I wonder if we are to have any hunting out here where we are going,"
suggested Scott. "How is it, Louis? You are in the ring with the Grand
Moguls."
"Sir Modava told me that the Maharajah whom we shall visit at Baroda is a
great sportsman, and always treats his guests to a hunt," answered Louis.
"Is it after schnakes?"
"No; but after tigers."
"But I want to hunt some schnakes; I'd loike to bring down a good-soized
cobry," said Felix, rising from his reclining posture.
"No, you wouldn't, Flix," sneered Scott. "If you saw a cobry, you would run
till you got back to Ireland."
"Is'ht me! Wud I roon from a cobry? Not mooch! Ain't I a lineal dayscindant
of St. Patrick?--long life to him! And didn't he dhrive all the schnakes
and toads out of the ould counthree! Jisht show me a cobry, and thin see me
roon!"
Before the Milesian could tell how he intended to kill the cobra if he saw
one, the train stopped; and a moment later Sir Modava, the commander, and
Mrs. Belgrade appeared at the door.
"We have come to make things a little more social," said the Hindu
gentleman as they entered the compartment; and the servants brought stools
from the toilet-room, so that all were seated, making quite a family group.
"Are there any snakes where we are going, Sir Modava?" asked Felix, before
any one else had a chance to speak. "I am spoiling for a fight with a
cobra;" and he came back to plain English, which he could use as well as
any one.
"Plenty of them, Mr. McGavonty," replied the East Indian. "You will not get
badly spoiled before you fall in with all you will wish to see."
"Then I will bag some of them," added Felix.
"No, you won't, Flix; they will be more likely to bag you," rallied Scott.
"But I am in earnest," persisted the Milesian. "I have seen plenty of them
in Bombay; and upon my word and honor, I don't feel at all afraid of them.
One of them might hit me when I was not looking, for they don't play fair;
but I shall be on the watch for them, and I'll take my chance."
"But, Sir Modava, do you really dare to go out where there are cobras?"
asked Mrs. Belgrave, looking at her son.
"Certainly we do; we don't think anything at all about them."
"But you are in danger all the time."
"Of course it is possible that one may be bitten when a snake comes upon
him unawares. The deaths from snakes and wild animals in all India averages
annually twenty-two thousand. About a thousand are killed by tigers. Of a
hundred and fifty kinds of snakes, only about twenty are poisonous. The
deaths from snakes is one in 13,070; and the chance of being bitten is very
small."
"I am afraid your figures lie, Sir Modava," said Captain Ringgold, with a
pleasant laugh. "Millions of the people live in cities and large towns
where there isn't a snake of any kind."
"Quite true, and, to some extent, the figures do lie; but there are plenty
of cobras and other snakes in parts of Bombay, and the figures are not so
false as you think, Captain," replied Sir Modava. "But I forget that I was
sent here for a purpose by Lord Tremlyn. I am to tell you something about
the Mahrattas, which is the name of the people who inhabited the region
north of us. They have a long history which I have not time to review, but
they have been prominent in the earlier affairs of India. They have always
been a warlike people, and wrested the country from the Mogul emperor,
sometimes called the Grand Mogul, and made themselves a powerful people.
"The present maharajah rules over the most extensive kingdom of any native
prince. He is a Rajput, which is the aristocracy of the Mahrattas. He is
the most powerful of the Indian rulers, and one of the most hospitable. I
was formerly in his service, and he considers himself under some slight
obligations to me. He is an independent prince in the same sense that other
rulers are in this country. There is always a British representative at his
court, who advises him in some matters of government, and his realm is
called a protected state.
"He is a great sportsman; and I have no doubt you will be invited to hunt
with him, as well as to witness some exhibitions which may not be agreeable
to the ladies."
"Don't we stop at any stations on the road?" asked Louis.
"There is no town of any great consequence between Surat and Baroda, and
this is a special express train," replied Sir Modava.
Some of the party looked out the windows, and the intelligent guide
explained what was to be seen along the way. Some handsome temples
attracted their attention, but they were insignificant compared with what
they had been taught to expect in the future. The train crossed a bridge,
which brought them into the suburbs of Baroda.
"The outskirts of the town contain a hundred and fifty thousand
inhabitants, far more than the city itself," said the Hindu gentleman. "The
streets are very narrow here, and the houses are nearly all of wood; but
they are different from any you have seen before, for they are peculiar to
Goojerat, the state of which Baroda is the capital. You see at about all
the crossings pagodas and idols, with banners flying over them. It is an
unhealthy region, the ground is so low; and yonder you see a stately
hospital, built by the Guicowar, as the maharajah is called."
The tourists had all they could do to see the strange things that were
pointed out to them, and while thus employed the train stopped at the
station. Looking out the windows again, they saw several elephants, all
handsomely caparisoned, and with howdahs on their backs. A band of native
musicians was playing near them, and the party wondered what this display
could mean; but Sir Modava was unable to inform them. They got out of the
carriages, and found themselves in a handsome square.
A company of cavalry was drawn up near the elephants, at the head of which,
surrounded by a numerous staff of officers, sat on a prancing horse,
caparisoned with exceeding richness, a person who could be no other than
the maharajah. He was dressed in the most magnificent robes of India,
covered with jewels in ornamental profusion.
"That is the Guicowar," said the Hindu guide.
"He is doing us great honor in coming out in this manner to welcome us."
As soon as he discovered the party, the ruler dismounted nimbly from his
noble steed, and, attended by some high officers, advanced to meet them. A
sort of procession was hastily formed with Lord Tremlyn at the head of it;
for he was the most distinguished person, and in some sense the
representative of the British home government. The Italian band of the
general, as soon as the native band ceased, struck up "Hail, to the chief!"
The party encountered the king, who rushed up to the viscount, and seized
him by the hand, as not all kings are in the habit of doing. They talked
together for a few moments, when his Highness happened to see Sir Modava,
and rushed to him, seizing him in a semi-embrace, clasping the Hindu with
his right hand while the left encircled his shoulder. The potentate was
profuse in his congratulations to the two gentlemen on their escape from
death in the shipwreck, and this afforded Lord Tremlyn an opportunity to
present Captain Ringgold as the commander of the steamer that had saved
them.
"He is my friend, then," said the Maharajah, as he gave him no equivocal
shake of the hand.
Then Louis and his mother were presented and described, and received an
equally warm welcome. But the prince decided to receive the rest of the
party at the palace, and they were requested to mount the elephants. The
ladies were timid about it; but Louis told his mother that she must get up
into the howdah as though she had been riding elephants all her life, and
she did so, the others following her example. Louis assisted his mother
first, and then Miss Blanche.
They were all seated on the huge beasts, and the procession started, the
Italian band following the native, and playing when they ceased to do so.
                                 CHAPTER XXV
                   FELIX MCGAVONTY BRINGS DOWN SOME SNAKES
"Well, what do you think of this?" asked Captain Ringgold, turning to Mrs.
Belgrave, as the elephant moved off.
"I don't feel quite at home up here," she replied, holding on with both
hands at the side of the howdah.
"I think it is nice," added Miss Blanche. "It seems very much like riding
on a camel, only there is more motion."
"It is a good place to see everything there is to be seen," suggested
Louis, as he looked about him. "The king is taking us to his palace in high
style. If he meant to astonish us, he has hit the nail on the head."
"But where are Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava?" asked Miss Blanche.
"They are mounted on a couple of as handsome horses as I ever saw in my
life," replied the commander. "One of them is on each side of the Guicowar,
at the head of the cavalry troop. In England and America the escort goes
ahead of the persons thus honored; but here, as a rule, the king cannot
ride behind anybody. You remember that when we saw the Sultan going to the
mosque in Constantinople he rode at the head of the procession, and all the
great officers of state went behind him; and that seems to be the fashion
here."
"But is he much of a king?" Mrs. Belgrave inquired.
"They all call him a king, and I suppose he is one. He is a Maharajah, a
word written with a capital, and composed of two words, maha, which
means great, and rajah, a king. The definition is 'a Hindu sovereign
prince,' and that makes a king of him. He rules over a large territory, and
Lord Tremlyn says he is the most powerful of all the native princes. He is
certainly treating us very handsomely."
"I think I could get along without quite so much style," said Mrs.
Belgrave, laughing; and she seemed to feel as though she was taking a part
in a farce.
"All the style is in honor of the distinguished gentlemen we picked up in
the Arabian Sea. But excuse me, Mrs. Belgrave, if I suggest that it is not
wise and prudent to laugh in the midst of such a spectacle as this. The
Hindus are very exclusive until you get acquainted with them, and have a
great many prejudices which we cannot comprehend. They are very sensitive,
and are very likely to misinterpret the expression and the actions of a
stranger; your laugh might be offensive, leading them to believe you were
sneering, or making fun of them, as we should call it."
"Then I will be very circumspect," replied the lady. "But is the Guicowar
really a king, when all this country belongs to the English? Victoria is
the Empress of India."
"He rules over a protected state; but his powers seem to be almost
unlimited. A British officer is always at his court, and is called a
'resident,' who is the representative of the government. But he does not
meddle with the affairs of the state unless occasion requires."
The houses the tourists passed were all of Indian style, and there were
always towers and pagodas in sight. The region as they passed out of the
city was rural; and finally they came to the great gates of the palace,
which they entered. The grounds were covered with great trees and gardens,
in the midst of which was a palace, where they found the cavalry drawn up
and presenting arms. The elephants were made to kneel down as when the
party mounted them, and they descended by means of ladders.
A host of servants ushered them into the palace, which Lord Tremlyn said
had been appropriated to their use. Their luggage had already been sent to
their apartments; and an hour later the company assembled in the grand
salon, dressed to receive the Guicowar. His Highness did not "put on any
style this time," and was as sociable as any common person. He saluted the
commander and Mrs. Belgrave; and then all the rest of the party were
presented to him by the viscount, and Mrs. Blossom had nearly shaken
herself to pieces during the ceremony.
A bountiful collation was then served in another apartment, at which the
Maharajah presided. He spoke English as fluently as any person present, and
was very affable to all. The Italian band played during the repast, and the
Guicowar declared that it was the finest music he had ever heard. General
Noury had been placed on his right as the one highest in rank of any
present.
The king proved himself to be exceedingly well informed in regard to the
United States, and was even able to talk intelligently with the gentlemen
about Morocco. Though he had a wife, a mother, and a young daughter, they
were never presented to the gentlemen of the party, though the ladies were
permitted to make their acquaintance, and learned more from them about
Hindu domestic life than they could have obtained from any others.
"To-morrow will be a great day in Baroda," said Sir Modava to the
commander. "It is the great Sowari, a procession such as none of your
people ever saw, I will venture to say; and his Highness has provided
places for all of you where you can see the whole of it in detail."
The king announced this great state occasion himself before the lunch was
finished, and gave the visitors a cordial invitation to witness the
procession. The "Big Four," a term of which the viscount and Sir Modava had
already learned the meaning, were very impatient to do some hunting. They
had brought their guns with them, and Louis informed the Hindu gentleman of
their desire.
"Is there any place near the palace where we could find any game?" he
inquired.
"Not in the palace grounds, but within a few miles of it a very rugged
region may be reached, and a road-wagon will be provided for you. I will
speak to the Guicowar about it," replied Sir Modava; and he broached the
subject at once.
In half an hour a vehicle was at the door; and the boys were ready, dressed
for the hunt, and with their guns in their hands. Two officers were
appointed to attend them, and both of them spoke English very well. The
vehicle provided was a kind of coach, the floor of which was cushioned, so
that several persons could sleep on it during a long journey. It was drawn
by four high-spirited horses; and, though the road was bad, it was driven
at a high rate of speed; and in less than an hour they alighted in a wild
region, where there was not a building of any kind to be seen.
The two officers directed the servants to take some boards from the top of
the carriage, with which they stated their purpose to make a platform in a
tree, where they could watch for game; but the boys objected to this
arrangement, and declared that each of them would hunt on his own hook.
"But suppose you should come across a tiger, for they have been found here,
though I hardly think you will see one," said one of the officers. "What
would you do then?"
"Shoot him, of course," replied Scott. "What are our guns for?"
"But you may fire half a dozen balls into him without disabling the beast,"
added Khayrat, the principal officer. "Tiger-hunting is dangerous sport,
and you can't be too careful."
But the boys were very confident, and all of them were good shots; but they
had never tried any hunting of this kind. Khayrat said there was plenty of
deer in the vicinity, and they had better confine their attention to them.
If they approached the foothill of the Vindya Mountains, which he pointed
out to them, they might find tigers. With this warning, the "Big Four"
separated, and struck into the jungle. Khayrat followed Louis, for he had
been informed that he was the most important person in the quartet. Adil,
the other officer, kept near Scott, who appeared to be the most reckless of
the four.
Felix was not attended by any one; but he had not gone more than a hundred
yards before he saw a huge cobra directly in front of him, bestirring
himself as though he "meant business." The fellow stood up, and he looked
mad enough to chew up the hunter. But before he had time to discharge his
piece at the monster, for he looked as though he was six feet long, Felix
heard a rustling in the bushes at his left, and a moment later a
disturbance on his right.
He looked in the direction of the noises, and saw two more cobras lifting
their vicious heads into the air. These were more than he had bargained
for; and, believing that discretion was the better part of valor, he
climbed a tree in which he saw a convenient resting-place. Between him and
the three snakes there was a small pool of water, half concealed by the
bushes, and the reptiles had probably come there to drink or to obtain for
food some of the amphibious creatures that lived there.
The enthusiastic sportsman had hardly begun to climb the tree before he
heard a hissing behind him, and discovered another cobra. Two of the four
in sight were much smaller than the other two, and he could easily believe
he had come upon a family of them. He got a position in the tree, and lost
no time in attacking the enemy. He was a good shot, for he and Louis had
both been thoroughly trained in a shooting-gallery in New York. He gave his
attention to the one nearest to him, and wondered he had not trodden upon
him as he came to the spot.
As this one stood up Felix could see the top of his head, and he decided to
use his revolver first. He fired; and, as the reptile was not ten feet from
him, so skilful a marksman could hardly help hitting him. He did hit him,
and the ball passed through his head. He wriggled a moment, and then
stretched himself out at full length, dead.
One of the larger ones was within twenty-five feet of him, and he used his
repeating rifle this time. He slipped a little in his perch as he
discharged the piece, and the ball went through the snake's body, which was
furiously mad, hissed and shook himself. He held still a moment, and then
Felix fired again. The ball seemed to tear his head all to pieces, and he
dropped down out of sight. He had to fire several times to kill the other
two; for, as he expressed it, they "would not hold still."
But he had killed the four, and felt just as though he had settled the
snake question. Most of the natives, who are oftener the victims of the
cobra than the white people, go about in the dark with naked feet, and it
is not strange that they are bitten. He descended from the tree, and went
to examine the game he had brought down. Cutting some pliable sticks, he
dragged the serpents together, and passed a withe around them behind the
hood, and started back for the rendezvous where they were to take the
carriage. He was determined to convince Scott that he was not afraid of
snakes.
He had already heard several shots, and realized that his companions had
found game of some kind. He waited a full hour for them, when Louis
returned first, with a very handsome deer slung on a pole with Khayrat
carrying the other end. Morris came in with a monkey, which the officers
would not have permitted him to kill if they had been near him. Scott came
in last with only a couple of birds.
"Did ye's mate ony cobrys, Musther Scott?" asked Felix.
"Not a cobra; and I didn't want to meet any," replied Scott, disappointed
at his luck.
"You's air afeered of the schnakes," rallied the Milesian.
"So are you, Flix. If you saw one you wouldn't stop running till you got
back to Baroda," returned the third officer of the ship.
"But I have seen four of them in my little walk, and I'm not doing any
running just now," said Felix triumphantly.
"Go 'way with you, Milesian, and don't tell any fish stories!" replied
Scott, continuing to blackguard him while the servants were putting the
deer on the top of the wagon.
"Do you want to carry those snakes back to the palace?" asked Khayrat.
"What snakes?" asked Scott.
"I'll be most happy to introjuce you to four uv 'em I killed," added Felix;
and Scott was convinced against his will, and the dead serpents were put on
the wagon.
In another hour they reached the palace, and the game was exhibited to a
wondering audience. The officers explained how so many of the cobras
happened to be together; but Felix had reached a correct conclusion before.
Mrs. Blossom scolded him for not running away when he saw the first one;
but he declared he had to prove that a boy with Kilkenny blood in his veins
was not afraid of snakes.
                                 CHAPTER XXVI
                  THE MAGNIFICENT PROCESSION OF THE SOWARI
Felix had to repeat his story, and he was regarded as quite a hero by the
Americans, though Sir Modava and other natives thought but little of it.
Mrs. Blossom continued to scold at him for not running away from the
serpents.
"How could I run away when I was surrounded by the snakes?" demanded Felix,
when the worthy lady's discipline became somewhat monotonous to him. "If I
had done what you say I should certainly have been bitten. I did better: I
climbed the tree, and bagged the whole four at my leisure."
"But snakes can climb trees," persisted the excellent woman.
"I suppose they can, but they don't always; and I knew the one nearest me
wouldn't do much climbing with a hole through his head. Besides, they say
the cobra does not come at you unless you meddle with him, like the
rattlesnake. I suppose I disturbed them, and they hoisted the flags to let
me know they were in town. I wanted to reduce the number of the varmints a
little."
"But why did Khayrat tell me I ought not to have shot a monkey?" asked
Morris.
"Because monkeys are harmless, and the Hindus consider them sacred. Before
you get to Calcutta you will find them housed in temples. Besides, the
natives are very tender of all animals," replied Sir Modava.
"In the hospital for lame ducks and superannuated bullfrogs we visited in
Bombay, do they take in sick cobras?" asked Felix. "Do they nurse lame
tigers?"
"They do not; it would not be quite safe to do so. Morris, the monkey you
shot will be decently buried," said the Hindu gentleman.
"I am willing; for, though they eat them in some countries, I don't hanker
after any monkey-flesh," replied the young hunter. "I met a man at my
father's house who had lived for years in Africa, and he said they ate the
boa-constrictor there,--the natives did, not the white people."
"So I have heard; but many Hindus never eat meat at all," added Sir Modava,
as the party retired to dress for dinner.
The party were to dine at the palace with the Guicowar, and it was to be a
state dinner. Though contrary to Hindu etiquette, the ladies were all
invited, and they were treated with "distinguished consideration." It was a
very elaborate occasion, and a few speeches were made at the last of it.
The principal one was by the king himself, who enlarged upon his relations
with Lord Tremlyn and Sir Modava, whom he regarded as two of his best
friends.
From this point, he dwelt upon his esteem for the commander of the
Guardian-Mother, who had rendered a service to India in saving them from
certain death, which they, better than he, could understand and appreciate.
Captain Ringgold and General Noury made fitting replies; and the party
returned, escorted by a score of torch-bearers, to the "Garden of Pearls"
as the summer palace in which they were lodged was called. They appeared
early in the morning, and after they had taken their coffee Louis and Felix
took a long walk outside the palace walls. At the gate they saw a little
animal which seemed disposed to make friends with them. They had brought
their guns with them, and Felix was on the point of firing at him when
Louis interposed.
"That's a mongoose," said the latter. "Haven't you heard of him?"
"Never did."
"The creature is a sort of ichneumon, with a long body, extending back of
his hind legs, which gradually decreases in size till it becomes his tail.
His body is long, even without the portion of it which belongs to his
caudal appendage. He has a small head and a sharp nose, and is something
like a weasel. He has the reputation of being the great serpent-killer of
India, and many wonderful stories are told of him. He is very useful about
a house in destroying rats and other small nuisances."
The mongoose ran along ahead of the boys while Louis told what he knew
about him. Felix protested that a little fellow like that couldn't do
anything with such a cobra as he had shot the day before, for the snake was
a trifle more than five feet long. They had gone but a short distance
farther before Khayrat stepped out from a tree which had concealed him.
"There's a cobra in here somewhere," said the officer, who was one of the
king's huntsmen. "I brought out my mongoose, but the little rascal has left
me."
"There he is, just ahead of us," replied Louis. "He seems like a kitten, he
is so tame."
"He is my pet, and I am very fond of him, for I think he saved my life
once. I was just on the point of stepping on a cobra when Dinky attacked
the snake and killed him after a fight," added Khayrat. "I think he is on
the track of the enemy, for the serpent killed two chickens last night."
"There he is!" exclaimed Felix, as he brought his gun to his shoulder.
"Don't fire! Let Dinky take care of him; for my pet is spoiling for a
fight, as one of the Americans said yesterday," interposed Khayrat.
The serpent was a large one, though not equal in size to the one Felix had
shot the day before. He had erected his head, and spread out his hood, and
he looked as ugly as sin itself. He knows all about the mongoose, and seems
to have an instinctive hatred of his little but mighty enemy.
The little snake-killer made a spring at him, and then skilfully whirled
himself around so that the snake could not bite him. Dinky knew what he was
about all the time; and though his foe struck at him several times, he
dodged him and put in several bites. After considerable manoeuvring, the
snake appeared to have had enough of it, and deemed it prudent to beat a
retreat. He dropped on the ground, and headed for a thicket; but this was
just what Dinky wanted. He sprang upon the neck of the cobra, placing his
fore-paws on him, and then crushed his spine with his sharp teeth. The
