lieutenant had reloaded his revolver after making with it the holes
across the board which had proved so serviceable to them.
In his report to the Confederate authorities at Richmond, General
Crittenden alludes to a battalion of cavalry, of which some officers
and privates were absent on furloughs, and of which all but about
twenty-five ran away. It is possible that the four troopers who were
trying to force the negro to ferry them over the river belonged to the
number.
"Cavalry," said the sergeant as he returned to the lieutenant.
"They have threatened to shoot the negro if he don't ferry them over to
Robertsport," added Deck, who had remained at the window of the shanty.
"They called him Cuffy; and when they threatened to kill him, he rushed
out of the house. I saw him go into the barn or outhouse in the rear.
The men lost sight of him when they followed him out, and perhaps
thinking he had gone to his boat, they went off in that direction. Let
us find the negro."
They went to the shanty, which did duty as a barn; but Cuffy had
concealed himself, and they could not find him. Deck called him by name
several times; and if the ferryman was not extremely stupid, he could
understand that neither his voice nor his speech was that of the
troopers.
"Who's dar?" responded the negro, after a long delay.
"Come out here, and we will help you out of your trouble," added Deck.
"Who be you uns?" inquired Cuffy, which proved later to be his real
surname.
"We are your friends."
"Whar dem sogers now?" asked the terrified ferryman.
"They moved off towards the river."
"Den dey done gone to steal my boat!" groaned the negro, coming out of
his hiding-place with a gun in his hand.
As the wanderers followed him out of the barn, they saw in the darkness
that his head was thickly covered with white wool, and he must have
been well along in years. He evidently kept his gun and ammunition in
this out-building, for he had a powder-horn and shot-bag suspended from
his shoulders.
"What are you going to do with that gun, Cuffy?" asked Deck, who was
rather astonished to see him armed.
"I's gwine to shoot one of dose men if dey try to kill me, as dey done
sworn dey would," replied the ferryman.
"Better not do anything of that kind, Cuffy," said Deck. "We will stand
by you, and we can fire shots enough to kill the whole of them."
"Who be you uns, Mars'r?" asked the ferryman, gazing at them, and
trying to make them out in the darkness.
"We are Union soldiers, just escaped from the enemy," answered Deck.
"Bress de Lo'd!" exclaimed the negro. "Dem men was Seceshers, and is
gwine to steal my boat. It's all I have to make a little money for de
contribution-box, and ef I lose it I'm done ruinged."
"Never mind the boat, Cuffy," continued Deck, as he led the way to the
four horses; for he had seen the Southrons go off on foot, and knew
they had not taken them. "Mount one of these animals, Ben."
He led out one of them, and put himself in the saddle, while the
sergeant did the same with another.
"Can you ride a horse, Cuffy?" asked the lieutenant.
"I done ride 'em all my life."
"Get one of the others, then. Can we get to the ferry on horseback?"
"For sartin, Mars'r; some folks goes down to de boat on hosses, and we
swim 'em ober de riber," replied Cuffy, as he mounted the animal he had
chosen. "My son comes ober dat way."
"Now lead the way to the ferry. Do they know where you keep your boat?"
"Dunno, Mars'r; but I reckon dey find it."
Cuffy conducted the wanderers nearly to the Harrison road, and then
took a path towards the river, arriving in a few minutes at the head of
the descent to the flat below.
"Not too far, Cuffy; fall back a little, where the men cannot see you,"
said Deck in a low tone.
"But I's gwine to shoot 'em if dey touch my boat," said the owner, his
determination indicated in his tones.
"Don't do it, and don't let them see you," added Deck in a low tone,
but with energy enough to impress the negro.
"Dey gwine to steal my boat!" groaned Cuffy; and his agony seemed to be
intense. "Den whar I git any money for de missions?"
"Never mind your boat, man. I saw it down below; it is not worth much,
and I wouldn't give two dollars for it," said Deck somewhat
impatiently.
"I takes folks ober de riber in it, and some days I makes twenty cents
wid it. Can't affode to lose it, Mars'r," protested Cuffy.
"If you lose it, I will give you another."
"Dat so? Whar's yo' boat?"
"It is down below there, and you will not have to wait a single hour
for it."
"Whar you git dat boat, Mars'r?"
"No matter about that now; I will tell you when we have more time,"
replied Deck, as he rode his horse to a tree, followed by both of his
companions, and secured him to the sapling, as did the others.
Returning to the bank, they lay down upon the ground, where they could
see the four troopers without being seen. They had found the negro's
flatboat, and carried it to the stream. This was done, perhaps, half a
mile above where the wanderers had landed, and the current was not so
violent as it was where the water concentrated all its force against
the lofty bluff.
The Southrons put the boat into the water after they had tipped it
over, and emptied out the leakage or the rain which it contained. Then
they seated themselves equidistant fore and aft in the rickety craft,
and pushed off.
"I knowed dey was gwine to steal my boat," groaned Cuffy again, as the
skiff receded from the shore.
"Don't say that again!" said Deck, disgusted with the ferryman. "If you
do, I won't give you any boat for the one you lose!"
"I lub dat boat, Mars'r. Berry ole friend ob mine," pleaded Cuffy.
"Say no more about it; perhaps you will get it again, for those men
only wish to get across the river," added Deck in a milder tone. "You
would not take them over, and they intend to ferry themselves across."
"I can't ferry dem ober in de night, when de riber is ragin' like a
roarin' lion seekin' wem he mout devour. No, sar; ef Mars'r looks long
enough, he's see dem men all devoured like as ef de ragin' lion had 'em
in his gills," said Cuffy very impressively, as though he was within
hail of a funeral. "Don't b'lebe dey done been converted."
Two of the troopers had paddles, or something that was a cross between
a paddle and an oar; for the wanderers had seen them in the boat in the
darkness. They forced the skiff out into the current, headed directly
for the opposite shore. They did very well so far; but in a few moments
more the full strength of the stream struck them, and the flimsy craft
was carried down the stream at a rapid rate. They were farther out than
the keel-boat had been; and the rushing water, lifted into waves by its
own force, began to tumble about as it would have done in the wilder
rapids of Niagara.
None of the four were skilful boatmen, and there seemed to be no one in
particular in the skiff to take the lead. As usually happens on such
occasions, the two men without paddles were frightened, and stood up,
which was the worst possible thing they could do. The two who were
managing the boat did not agree as to the method of handling it, and
each wanted his own way of doing it. Each of them was sure he could do
it, and that the other could not.
The couple with the paddles could not use them; and the skiff whirled
as it mounted the waves, and then it heeled over from one side to the
other. The two men who were standing up jumped from one side to the
other; then one of them lost his balance, and tumbled overboard. The
second tried to save him, and one of the two with the paddles went to
his assistance, the result of this, throwing the weight nearly over on
one side, capsized the boat, and the next instant all four of them were
floundering in the uneasy tide.
"De boat done tip over!" exclaimed Cuffy, as though his companions on
the bluff could not see for themselves what had happened.
"Perhaps we can save the men!" said Deck, as he rose from the ground
and ran with all his might to the path leading down to the landing of
the ferry, closely followed by the sergeant.
"Sabe de boat!" shouted Cuffy, trying to keep up with them, though he
soon fell far behind them.
The lieutenant was first to reach the foot of the path, and saw the
four unfortunates whirling through the agitated current, directly
towards the bluff where the keel-boat had been thrown on the flat. They
were too far out for him to reach them, and he could do nothing. It was
plain that not one of them could swim, and if they had been able to do
so at all they could have done nothing in the boiling flow of the rapid
current. They were swept down the stream, and being farther out from
the shore than the other boat had been they were not dashed upon the
flat.
Deck and Fronklyn watched them till they disappeared behind the bend,
though one was seen to go down before he reached it, and the others
must soon have followed him. The skiff had gone on ahead of them, and
was the first to pass beyond the view of the observers. The lieutenant,
with the hope that he might save the men if they were thrown on the
flat in an exhausted condition, had nearly reached the high bluff. The
sergeant had ceased to hurry when he realized that nothing could be
done for the doomed troopers. They had to pay the penalty of their own
folly.
Fronklyn and Cuffy soon joined Deck, the negro putting all his strength
into his lamentations for the loss of his boat. He did not seem to
realize that four men had just passed into eternity; but Deck had more
charity for him after he said he loved the flimsy craft, and reproached
him no more.
"Your boat is gone for the present, but you may find it again," said
Deck with an effort to comfort him. "It will be cast ashore by the
current, or be drawn into some eddy. When the river gets quiet again,
you can go down stream and find it in some place where the logs gather
on the shoal places."
"I dunno, Mars'r; how kin I go down de riber when I done lose my boat?"
demanded Cuffy.
"Come with me," said Deck, as he led the way to the rock behind which
they had left the steamer's tender. "There is a boat you can use till
some one claims it."
"Glory Hallelujah!" exclaimed the negro, when he saw the keel-boat; and
he was skilled enough to perceive even in the darkness, that it was a
vastly better one than the skiff he had lost.
"Whar you git dat boat, Mars'r?" asked Cuffy, disturbed by the
suggestion that some one might claim it.
"Can you keep a secret, Cuffy?" asked Deck.
"Kin keep a hund'ed on 'em."
"That's too many for one man to keep," replied the lieutenant, who
decided not to admit, as he had before intended to do, in what manner
they had escaped from the enemy's camp. "This boat belongs to the
steamboat up by Mill Springs; we have no further use for it, and we
shall leave it here. But you haven't lost anything of any value
to-night. We shall want two of the men's horses, as they have no
further use for them, and you can keep the other two, Cuffy. You can
sell them for money enough to make you rich."
"Bress de Lo'd!" cried the ferryman.
"Come along now, and we will go back to your shanty," said Deck, as he
led the way to the tree where the horses had been secured. They all
mounted, and rode back to the cabin, where the tired trooper and his
officer went to bed in the barn on some straw they found there.
CHAPTER XXVII
THE OWNER OF THE MANSION ON THE HILL
Cuffy took care of the horses, for two of them were to belong to him,
giving them even a feed of corn-meal mixed with water, which was all he
had to give them. He hitched them in the barn with the exhausted
soldiers of the Riverlawn Cavalry, though it was rather close quarters
for them. Deck preferred the out-building to Cuffy's bed, which he
offered them.
It was four o'clock in the morning when the lieutenant and the sergeant
retired upon their bed of straw, though there was plenty of it, and it
was a luxury to men who had been accustomed to lie at night on the
ground. They had been fully twenty-four hours on their feet, and had
been through a great deal of excitement during the day and the night.
They were asleep about as soon as they struck the bed.
Cuffy came to the barn about nine o'clock in the forenoon to attend to
the horses. He led them all out to water, and then gave them another
feed in tubs. His guests had complained of fatigue, and he allowed them
to sleep as long as they desired.
It was noon when Fronklyn awoke, and he had slept his full eight hours.
Deck put in another hour; for he was younger than his companion, and
needed more sleep. The sergeant had worn his overcoat all the day and
night, though he had several times been tempted to throw it away,
especially when they were climbing down the steep bank of the river. He
was glad he had not done so when he went to bed on the straw.
He had given his blanket to Deck, though it required a great deal of
persuasion to induce him to accept it; but Fronklyn had an overcoat. It
was not so cold as to interfere with the slumbers of the weary
soldiers; and when they woke they felt like new men. They went to a
brook that flowed through the negro's farm, and had a thorough wash to
freshen them up. The sergeant then renewed the plaster on his head, and
examined the wound of his companion. The swelling had nearly all gone
down, though there was still a soreness there; but the patient felt
well enough for duty.
"Here we are, Ben; what is the next move on the checker-board?" said
Deck, as they returned from the brook to the barn.
"Considering what we have been through since the sun went down last
night, I think we are very well fixed to-day. We have a couple of
horses to go where we please, and all we have to do is to ride back to
the outside of the Beech-Grove camp of the enemy; for we have seen
enough of the inside of it," replied Fronklyn.
"We can't be many miles from it; and when we get there I think we shall
find our army in possession of it. That steamer whose boat we borrowed,
and the other craft about there, must have been busy ferrying the enemy
across to the Mill Springs fortification," added Deck. "But what do you
suppose has become of all those cavalry men, and infantry too, that ran
away from the battle-field?"
"I don't imagine that a great many of them went back to the
intrenchments, and probably most of them are wandering about the
country in this vicinity," replied the sergeant. "The farmers'
corncribs, if there is anything left in them, will suffer for the next
week. They are not bashful, those fellows; and I have no doubt they
will visit the houses, and order meals as they would at a hotel."
"We are liable to meet them on our way back to the camp; and if we have
anything they want, they are likely to take it. Your blanket and
overcoat would be useful to them, and so would the horses. But I fancy
they would move about in small parties, and we may be able to take care
of ourselves. You have your carbine, and I have my revolver."
"That looks like a big house on the hill back of us," said Fronklyn,
pointing to the mansion.
"Mornin', Mars'rs!" shouted Cuffy, coming from his shanty to meet them.
"You done git up; I don't 'sturb you, coz I knowed you was tired out."
"We are glad you didn't, and we feel first-rate this morning. Whose
house is that on the hill?" asked Deck.
"Dat's de mansion ob Cun'l Hickman, my ole mars'r," replied Cuffy. "He
owns all de land 'bout here, mor'n tousand acres. He let me live on dis
corner when he want me to run de ferry, and I stops here eber since."
"Then he must be very rich."
"Rich! Dat ain't no name for't. He's got more money'n de Bank ob
London, 'n I reckon he could buy out de State of Kaintuck. He's pow'ful
rich, Mars'r."
"Is he a Secessionist?" asked Deck.
"Cun'l Hickman! Secesher! No, sar! He's de out-en-outenish Union man in
Kaintuck," returned Cuffy, whose politics were not at all in doubt with
his guests. "De Seceshers done raided his place fo' times; yesterday
was de last time, 'n I reckon dem fellers dat wanted me to ferry 'em
ober de riber in de night is de ones dat did it. I done seen 'em on de
hill fo' dark. I done see lots o' men wid guns, and some on hossback
dis mornin' strollin' 'long de riber an' ober de country."
"Which way did they come from, Cuffy?" inquired Deck.
"Most on 'em com 'd down de Harrison road, an' some on 'em was beat'n'
across de farm."
"Have you heard of the great battle that was fought over by Logan's
Cross Roads?" asked the sergeant.
"I don't hear ob no battle," replied the negro, opening his eyes wide
enough to let them drop out of their sockets. "Gollywhimpers!" suddenly
exclaimed Cuffy, turning his gaze towards the mansion on the hill, "dar
comes de cun'l on a hoss!"
The lieutenant and the sergeant looked in the direction indicated by
the ferryman, and saw a man riding down the hill at a breakneck speed.
As he came nearer they saw that he was a person over sixty years of
age, with long, flowing white hair, like one of the patriarchs of old.
He wore a soft black hat, well back on his head. He looked behind him
frequently, as though he expected something to transpire in that
direction. As Cuffy said, his mansion had been raided several times,
and he might have got used to such events.
"W'a--w'a--w'at's de matter, Cun'l Hickman?" shouted the ferryman,
before the gentleman came within ten rods of him.
The rider did not check his speed till he reined in his horse in front
of the negro and his guests. He looked at the two officers without
giving any attention to Cuffy, and seemed to be astonished to find them
there.
"I see that you wear the blue," said the colonel, addressing Deck,
whose shoulder-straps apparently excited his attention.
"We belong to the army of the United States, sir," replied Deck.
"Then how do you happen to be here?" demanded the colonel in a tone and
with a look of great severity.
"It would take some time, Colonel Hickman, to answer your question in
full," returned Deck; "but I will say that we marched and fought
yesterday from four o'clock in the morning till dark, and were
practically prisoners in the camp of the enemy at the end of the day,
but escaped in the night in a boat we took from a steamer alongside the
fortifications at Beech Grove."
"Excuse me for speaking somewhat abruptly, Lieutenant, and give me your
hand; for I honor every man that fights or works for his country,"
continued the colonel. "I am somewhat too old to do either, or I should
not be at home."
Deck took the proffered hand, and it was warmly pressed by the planter,
and he extended the same courtesy to the sergeant.
"My mansion is beset by a band of ruffians, and I have been obliged to
flee for my life," pursued the planter, glancing back at his house as
though he expected to see the flames rising from it.
"Do they mean to burn the mansion?" asked the lieutenant,
misinterpreting the glance of the owner.
"Not at all; I have no fear that they will do that, for they are
looking for my money, for I have some concealed on my premises where
they will never find it," said the planter with a significant shake of
the head, which was as much as to say, "I have euchred them!"
"I suppose the banks in this part of the State are no longer safe
repositories for valuables," added Deck.
"They are not, and I keep a comparatively small amount for current
expenses at hand. This same band raided me three days ago, and
threatened to hang me in front of my mansion if I did not give up my
money; but I would burn the bank-bills rather than permit them to fall
into the hands of these miscreants. I had a horse ready as soon as I
saw the ruffians coming down the private road from Millersville; and I
keep several of my negroes on the watch for them. I escaped on my horse
before, as I have done this time."
"How many are there in this band, Colonel?" asked Deck.
"My negroes counted ten of them. These raids are not uncommon events;
and there were two or three of them within less than ten miles,
sometimes by the enemy's foragers, and sometimes by partisan gangs. The
mansion of Mr. Halliburn was captured a few days ago; but a very clever
young lieutenant, whose name was Lyon, in command of a detachment of
cavalry, entrapped the whole gang of ruffians in the house, and made
prisoners of every one of them, without the loss of a man."
"Perhaps I know more about that affair than you do, Colonel Hickman;
for my name is Lyon, and I happen to be the officer to whom you
allude," replied Deck, looking at the ground.
"Lieutenant Lyon! Is it possible?" exclaimed the planter, taking the
young man's hand again.
"But we will not talk about things that are passed and gone, Colonel,"
interposed the young officer. "I wish I had my platoon, or even half of
them, here. Now, what can we do to aid you in this trouble, and free
you from the annoyance of such enemies?"
"As you have only a sergeant with you, I don't see that you can do
anything, my young friend; though I am as much obliged to you for your
good intentions as though you had a whole army behind you," said the
planter. "I have been a soldier myself, and I was one of the young
Kentuckians that fought in the battle of New Orleans under General
Jackson."
"Have you any arms at your mansion, sir?" inquired Deck, as though he
had some scheme in his head.
"Plenty of them; enough to supply half of your platoon."
"Can you get back to your house without being seen, Colonel?"
"Easily; back of my house is an avenue, planted with trees, by which I
once made my escape while they were looking for me. You can see it on
the south side of the hill; and it extends down to the river, the last
part of it on the tongue of land, so that it has the stream on each
side of it," the old soldier explained.
"If you have such a quantity of arms, where do you keep them?"
"In the spring-house, the brick building on the brook, which you cannot
see from here. I have five sons and one daughter; two of the boys are
in the army, and three are past the military age, though they belong to
the Millersville Home Guards, and were called out for duty three days
ago. I expect them home soon; but they have been gone four days now. My
overseer, his assistant, and two mechanics, went over to see the fight
yesterday afternoon, and they have not yet returned."
"Dar dey is, Mars'r Cun'l!" shouted Cuffy, pointing to the Harrison
road, down which three mounted riflemen were riding.
"I am glad to see them," added the planter, as the men came up the
hill.
The father greeted them heartily, and they began to tell what service
they had rendered during the preceding day on the right flank of the
field of battle. One of them happened to turn his head, and saw Deck;
and, interrupting the conversation that was going on, he shouted,--
"Lieutenant Lyon!"
The other two, who had also been with the riflemen under command of
Captain Ripley, repeated the exclamation.
"We fought under the command of Lieutenant Lyon most of the day
yesterday, and he is one of the ablest and bravest officers in the
service," said one of the sons. "He is"--
"We will hear that another time, Mr. Hickman; and you may have a chance
to fight under me to-day, for your father's mansion is beset by a band
of ruffians, who threaten to hang him," interposed Deck. "We muster six
men now, and I propose to clean them out."
It was talked over for a little while, and the party soon rode off to
one of the openings of the avenue by the river.
CHAPTER XXVIII
THE FIGHT BEGINS AT GROVE-HILL MANSION
Colonel Hickman led the way; and, like most Kentuckians of good estate,
he rode an excellent horse. He hurried the animal beyond the capacity
of the two cavalry horses which had come into the possession of Deck
and Fronklyn, and he reached the avenue by the river considerably in
advance of the others. He rode into the opening, and disappeared behind
the trees.
By this time the lieutenant had an opportunity to examine this approach
to the mansion. The road was not more than thirty feet wide, with three
rows of trees on each side of it, so that it was really a grove
consisting of a variety of trees. It had evidently been laid out many
years before, for the ground was completely shaded. The mansion faced
the Millersville road, and in the rear of it was quite a village of
out-buildings.
The planter halted as soon as he was in the avenue, and waited till the
others joined him. After all that had been said about him by the sons,
he was willing to leave the management of the affair to Lieutenant
Lyon; for, young as he was, he had obtained some experience in
defeating and capturing such marauders as those who had taken
possession of the great house on the hill. The ruffians were after the
colonel's money; a gentleman as wealthy as he was reputed to be must
have a considerable sum on hand, as he had admitted, for the payment of
his ordinary expenses.
Deck had asked but few questions in regard to the situation, preferring
to inform himself more fully when he had seen the premises. The avenue,
or grove, was as the owner had described it. At the point where the
party had passed into it, the mansion could not be seen at all through
the dense foliage of the trees; and the approach to it was entirely
safe, even if the ruffians had placed some of their number on guard
outside of the dwelling. The covered road was not entirely straight,
for several bends and curves made it more picturesque than it would
otherwise have been.
It was certainly a very pleasant place for a ride on a warm day; and
the young lieutenant had taste enough to appreciate and admire it,
though under the circumstances he could not use much of his time in
examining its beauties, which he would have been pleased to do at a
more convenient season. Just then he looked at it as a strategist
rather than as a lover of art.
"I don't quite understand, Colonel Hickman, how you succeeded in
getting away from your mansion without having a bullet planted
somewhere in your head or body," said Deck, as he surveyed the
surroundings. "You came directly down the hill, and not through this
avenue."
"As I have told you before, I have been on the lookout for these
miscreants since their former visit, when they threatened to hang me to
one of my trees if I did not give up what money I had on hand," replied
the planter. "I was alone on the estate, and of course I could not
defend myself against ten men armed with rifles or muskets. I kept half
a dozen of my negroes on the watch upon the road, to notify me of their
coming. I had my horse saddled and bridled all the time. As soon as I
was informed that the ruffians were coming, I hastened to the stable,
mounted, and rode down the hill by the shortest way, in the direction
of the road to Harrison. I did not expect to obtain assistance before I
reached Jamestown, where I thought some of the Federal troops might be
posted. I was glad to find you at Cuffy's, and rejoiced to meet my sons
again."
"If there are ten of the ruffians, we shall still be outnumbered,"
added Deck. "But I hope we shall be able to outmanoeuvre them."
"My sons are riflemen, and they are dead shots at a long distance,"
said the colonel.
"I am aware of that, for I have seen them shoot with the rest of
Captain Ripley's men. I think we had better be on the march," added the
lieutenant. "We will send out a couple of pickets to feel the way for
us. Sergeant Fronklyn shall go for one, and with him one of your sons,
to show him the way and explain the situation."
"Warren shall accompany him, and can give him all the information he
needs," the planter decided.
The sergeant and the planter's son started the horses, and rode off at
full gallop; but they did not continue at this speed for more than
half-way to the top of the hill, and they soon disappeared at a bend in
the avenue. Deck and the rest of the party followed.
"I think we had better leave our horses here," said Fronklyn, as he
reined in his steed. "The sound of the horses' feet may betray us."
"I obey your orders, Sergeant; but the villains will not hear us at
this distance," replied Warren Hickman. "I have no doubt they are
looking for the money in the house."
At this suggestion they rode some distance farther; and, turning
another bend, Fronklyn discovered a three-story building at what
appeared to be the end of the avenue. He stopped his horse, and was
decidedly opposed to riding any farther. He could not yet see the
mansion; but through the trees he saw several other buildings.
"What is the three-story house?" asked the sergeant.
"That is the stable; but it is built on the side of the hill, and there
are only two stories on the front," replied Warren.
Both of the riders dismounted; and, after securing the horses to the
trees, they walked to the stable. The lower part was a cellar in the
side-hill, and appeared to be used as a place for storage. The
planter's son led the way into this apartment, and then mounted the
stairs leading to the middle story. There were half a dozen horses
there, and stalls for as many more. The doors were wide open, and the
pickets, or scouts, moved about very carefully.
Warren then looked out of the doors and windows; but not a person could
be seen, except some negro men and women, who appeared to be skulking
about the premises, apparently ready to run away in case of danger. The
sergeant and the rifleman had both unslung their firearms, and were
ready for business if they discovered any of the marauders. The
planter's son then ascended to the hayloft, and from the windows there
surveyed all that could be seen of the premises from them.
"We don't get ahead much," said Warren, as he descended the stairs. "I
must get at one of the servants, though they all seem to keep out of
harm's way."
"It is time for us to know the situation here," replied Fronklyn, as he
followed his companion down the stairs.
As a matter of precaution, Warren closed the great doors, though a
smaller one was left open on one side of them. They found that all the
horses in the stable were saddled and bridled for use. While he was
wondering what this meant, a dozen blacks rushed in through the open
door. They seemed to be greatly alarmed.
Adjoining the stable on each side were the carriage-houses; and Warren
hastened into one of them, supposing that the marauders were pursuing
them; but no enemy followed them. The negroes went into the stalls, and
began to lead out the horses.
"What does all that mean, Warren?" asked Fronklyn in a whisper.
"I don't know," replied the planter's son, as he cocked his rifle, and
returned to the stable. "What are you about here?" he demanded.
"Mars'r Warren!" exclaimed several of them.
"What are you going to do with the horses, Phil?" asked Warren.
"Who shut the big doors, Mars'r Warren?" asked Phil, who appeared to be
an upper servant of some kind.
"What are you going to do with the horses, Phil?" exclaimed the
planter's son angrily.
"I thought the robbers had got into the stable, and I wanted to save
the horses," replied the servant, breaking down at the tone of the
master's son.
"You are lying, Phil! You would not have dared to come into the stable
if you had supposed the robbers were here."
"We was gwine to run away on de hosses," added a very black fellow.
"Don't know who shut de big doors, Mars'r, if de robbers don't do it,"
said another, who was evidently a field-hand.
"I didn't think there was more'n one of them here," added Phil, as he
held up a revolver with which he had armed himself after the departure
of the planter. "I meant to kill him, and get away with the horses."
"Perhaps you would have done so."
"I do it for sure."
"Now, where are the robbers?" asked Warren.
"In the house. We don't see any for more'n half an hour. I think they
looked part of the house over to find the money, and then went
up-stairs to hunt for it," replied Phil, who appeared to be an
intelligent fellow, far superior to the rest of them.
"Very well; you may get on the horses, and ride down the avenue till
you meet the colonel," added the son of the planter. "Now, Sergeant, we
will find the condition of things in the house."
The negroes led all the horses down an inclined plane into the cellar.
This was not an uncommon device in large cities to economize space; but
the planter had caused it to be built for just such an emergency as the
present, and he had made his escape in this manner from the estate. The
terrified servants mounted the horses in the cellar, and entered the
avenue by the way Warren and the sergeant had left it.
The two scouts passed out of the stable by the same door. Keeping
behind the outbuildings, they reached the side of the mansion. Passing
entirely around it, they looked in at every window very cautiously; but
were unable to see a single guerilla on the lower floor. By an outside
door they went into the cellar of the dwelling. They found several
places where the earth had been dug up, but not a man was to be seen.
"Now, Warren, I am going up-stairs; and I should like to have you
return to the avenue, and bring up the rest of our party as quickly as
possible," said Fronklyn in a low tone.
"Up-stairs!" exclaimed the planter's son. "Do you mean to throw away
your life?"
"Not if I know myself; but I wish the lieutenant was here," replied the
sergeant, who had noted the stairs that led to the next floor.
"I will do as you say, Sergeant; but I hardly expect to find you alive
when I come back," answered Warren.
"I believe I can take care of myself; and I think these ruffians have
put themselves just where we want them," said Fronklyn, recalling the
strategy at Mr. Halliburn's mansion.
Warren left the cellar by the same way they had entered, and made his
way around the out-buildings to the avenue. Fronklyn stole up the
stairs, after he had removed his shoes, and looked into half a dozen
rooms on the first floor. The carpets had been partly torn up, the
furniture overturned and broken up, the closets ransacked, and abundant
other evidence that the search for money or other valuables had been
completed in this part of the mansion.
On the floors of the second story he could hear the tramp of shoes, the
cracking and snapping of furniture, and the rough speech of coarse men.
The search for money was still in progress; and the planter's son was
sure the marauders would not find that which they were seeking. The
money might be safe, but that was certainly not the case with the
mansion and furniture.
In the great hall, in a corner behind the front door, the sergeant
found a large steel safe, with its door wide open, and entirely empty.
The planter had evidently removed his valuables, including his books
and papers, to what he believed was a more secure depository for them.
The robbers had drawn it out from the corner, plainly to search behind
it for the hidden treasure. Fronklyn opened the front door of the
mansion, and then deposited himself behind the safe, the house door
concealing him on the open side.
His carbine was in condition for immediate use, and he had taken a
revolver from the horse he had ridden belonging to the trooper who had
perished in the river. The noise up-stairs continued, and he had become
somewhat impatient for the appearance of the rest of the party. He was
inclined to "open the ball;" but he concluded that it would be a piece
of rashness for him to do so, and he refrained from doing anything.
Between the door and the safe he obtained a full view of the head of
the staircase.
"There comes the planter!" shouted some one in the hall above.
"Hang him!" yelled another.
"Down-stairs all together!" cried the first speaker, who was perhaps
the leader of the ruffians.
He was the first to appear at the landing. Several voices repeated the
cry to hang the colonel. At that moment a shot was heard, and the first
ruffian came tumbling down the steps. The next instant the one behind
him shared his fate, and both of them lay motionless at the foot of the
stairs.
A moment later Deck rushed in through the open door, followed by the
three riflemen.
CHAPTER XXIX
A NEW METHOD OF OPERATIONS
The fall of the two ruffians evidently created a panic among the
robbers, for they all retreated from the head of the staircase. They
could not see the person who had fired the shots. Fronklyn had used the
heavy revolver of the trooper, reserving his carbine for more difficult
practice. There was a pause, for no more victims were in sight.
"You are in a dangerous position, Lieutenant Lyon," said the sergeant,
as soon as Deck rushed into the hall.
"Where are you, Sergeant?" asked the officer, as he retired from his
exposed situation.
"Behind the safe," replied Fronklyn. "Ask one of the planter's sons if
there are any other stairs from above."
"Another staircase at the rear of the hall," answered Warren.
"Go there quick!" said Deck, as soon as he had mastered the situation.
"If any one attempts to come down, shoot him on the instant! But let
them surrender if they will do so."
"Surrender!" exclaimed Harlan in disgust. "I don't feel exactly like
letting one of the men that want to hang my father surrender."
"Let them surrender!" replied Deck very decidedly.
"From my position I could manage the whole of them," interposed the
sergeant.
"You are in a safe place to do so," added the lieutenant.
"Some of the party ought to look out for the outside of the house, or
the ruffians will escape from the windows," suggested the sergeant.
"Colonel Hickman is out-doors, with his negroes, to keep watch of the
windows," answered Deck. "You have begun the fight here on the plan we
adopted at Mr. Halliburn's."
"I was thinking of fighting it out alone when one of the ruffians
up-stairs shouted that Colonel Hickman was coming; and the cry was to
hang him. They started to come down, and I dropped two of them; the
others ran away. I can dispose of them as fast as they show
themselves," Fronklyn explained.
"Give them a chance to surrender before you kill them, Sergeant."
At that moment a shot was heard from the rear end of the hall, and the
lieutenant hastened to ascertain the occasion of it. One of the
ruffians had attempted to come down the back stairs, and Warren had put
a rifle-ball through his head. There were only seven of the marauders
left in the house, and the two parties were equalized.
"Up-stairs!" hailed Deck, when the third ruffian had fallen.
"What's wanted?" shouted some one who was prudent enough to keep out of
sight.
"You may surrender if you prefer that to being shot," replied Deck.
"On what terms may we surrender?" demanded the spokesman of the second
floor.
"No terms."
"Do you mean to murder us all?"
"It would serve you right. You came here to hang Colonel Hickman, and
you would have done so if he had not found friends to assist him in
defending his property and his life," added the lieutenant with proper
indignation.
"We did not intend to hang him if he gave up his money. He is a rich
man, and he could afford to part with some of it," said the spokesman.
"That is the argument of pirates and robbers. If you wish to surrender,
say so; and do it quick!"
"We have nothing more to say," returned the spokesman.
For an hour longer the situation remained the same. But it required
only Fronklyn at the main staircase, and Warren at the rear one, to
keep the seven ruffians where they were. The villains were all armed,
the planter said; and the lieutenant was not willing to sacrifice the
life of even a single member of the loyal party. But the sergeant was
impatient to terminate the affair. Deck had seated himself in the
parlor in the midst of the broken furniture, where he could talk with
the sergeant.
"This is becoming rather monotonous," said the latter.
"I don't think it is prudent to go up and attack the ruffians," replied
Deck.
"But I think that something can be done from the outside," suggested
Fronklyn.
"What?" asked Deck.
"I don't know."
"I will go out and see if anything can be done. I should like to return
to the camp of the Riverlawns; for I suppose my father and the others
still believe that you and I were killed in the fight at the
intrenchments," replied Deck, as he passed out of the house at the
front door.
He found Colonel Hickman on the end piazza of the mansion, seated in
one of the armchairs. But he was astonished to see the display of arms
near him; and he concluded that the weapons the planter kept in his
spring-house had been brought up by the negroes to the piazza. At least
a dozen rifles were standing against the side of the house, and a box
of revolvers was near them. On each side of the colonel was a brass
field-piece, with several boxes which he supposed contained ammunition
for them.
"You seem to be ready for battle, Colonel Hickman," said Deck, as he
surveyed the armament.
"I am ready; and I expect to have a use for these rifles and
field-pieces before night," replied the planter.
"To-day?" queried Deck.
"I expected three times as many as came this morning; but I suppose the
rest of them have cleaned out some other mansion. The ruffians in the
house promised to come with thirty men when they were here before. If
all the white men belonging on the plantation had not been absent, we
should never have let this lot of infernals come near the place."
"But I think we had better get rid of the lot here now before we
entertain another horde of them," suggested the lieutenant.
"The sergeant appears to have locked up the ruffians in the second
story as though he meant to keep them there the rest of their natural
lives," replied the planter. "We have not yet lost a single one of our
number."
"It is the policy of war to save your own men while you destroy the
enemy," added Deck. "The next thing to be done is to drive the ruffians
out of the house."
"That seems to be easier said than done," replied the colonel, with an
inquiring look at the young officer. "How do you propose to do it?"
"I don't know that it can be done; but there is nothing like trying. I
suppose you are still a rifleman, Colonel Hickman?"
"I am, as I have been since I was a dozen years old. I have my old
rifle here," he answered, pointing to the dozen of them resting against
the side of the house. "I judge that you have some plan in your busy
young head, Lieutenant. I am ready to obey all your orders, without
regard to my age."
Deck stated his plan, which he had arranged after a survey of the
surroundings of the mansion. It involved a change of position among the
men, the most important of which was placing the planter behind the
safe in the hall, thus releasing Fronklyn for more active duty. The
colonel was willing, and even glad, to take the position assigned to
him, and, like a good soldier, asked no questions.
"But what about the attack you expect this afternoon?" asked Deck.
"I have put my servants on picket, as they have been for several days.
They are all mounted, just as they came back from the avenue. They are
all faithful to me, though I don't expect them to do any fighting; but
they can keep watch as well as white men."
"Then, if you are ready, Colonel, we will go to the front hall of the
house," said the lieutenant, as he led the way.
At the door he called the sergeant from behind his breastwork, and put
the planter in his place. The old soldier had hardly shown himself in
the hall before a shot was fired down the stairway. Doubtless one or
more of the ruffians had been on the lookout for the appearance of a
man in the hall below; and as the planter passed behind the open door,
the opportunity had been used.
Fortunately the venerable planter was not hit; for the enemy had only
such old flint-lock guns as General Crittenden describes in his report
of the battle of Mill Springs, and they were far from being reliable
weapons. The bullet shattered the edge of the door, and no other damage
was done. The veteran proved that he was still an active man; for as
soon as he was behind the steel fortress, he cast a searching glance up
the stairs.
On the landing he discovered a head on the floor; for the man who had
fired the shot was lying where he could see down into the hall. It
would have been better for him if his feet had been where his head was;
for the planter raised his rifle, and fired at almost the same instant.
His companions drew his body back without exposing themselves to the
deadly fire from the hall.
"Flickens is killed!" exclaimed one of them; and the enemy were one
less in number.
The planter, with his rifle in position for instant use, fixed his gaze
upon the head of the staircase; but no one now was to be seen there.
Deck and the sergeant had passed into the parlor, the door of which was
next to the safe, after the colonel had discharged his rifle.
"Are you all right, sir?" asked the lieutenant, stopping in a safe
place near the door of the apartment.
"I am better off than the fellow I just hit in the top of his head,"
replied the planter. "I wish another of them would try that experiment
again."
"I know you can hold this position, and I will see what can be done
elsewhere," returned Deck, as he moved towards the door of the rear
room.
"You need not be concerned about me; I can finish the affair if the
villains will only show themselves," replied the colonel; and his
cheerful tones indicated that he was happy in his new position.
Deck and Fronklyn passed around into the rear of the hall, where they
found Warren Hickman standing at the door of the dining-room, where he
could not be seen from the head of the back stairs. He was informed
that an attempt would be made to drive the enemy from the second story.
He was to remain in his present position. The lieutenant and the
sergeant passed out at the back door into the kitchen, some distance
from the mansion. Here they found the other two sons of the planter,
watching the windows on that side of the house.
The end of the cook-room extended back into a grove of trees which
surrounded the mansion, and which had given Deck his first suggestion
of his method of future operations. Taking the two Hickmans with them,
the four went through a window into the grove. The building containing
the kitchen concealed them from the view of the ruffians, if any of
them went to the windows.
The trees around the mansion, like those in the avenue, were large, and
the foliage dense. Deck explained to his companions his plan, and then
directed one of them to proceed by the grove to each of the sides of
the house, reserving the one by the stable for himself.
"What then?" inquired Fronklyn.
"Each of you will sling his rifle, and then climb a tree commanding all
the windows on his side of the mansion," replied Deck. "When you see
one of the enemy at a window, use your rifle. I shall be on the stable
side."
The lieutenant, who had provided himself with a rifle on the piazza,
followed the grove in the direction of the stable, outside of all the
out-buildings, while the other three proceeded the opposite way. There
were no trees between the mansion and the stable; but Deck made his way
to the hayloft, which commanded a view of all the windows of the
former. He waited long enough to enable his companions to secure their
places in the trees, and then opened a window, which enabled him to
obtain a safe position for himself.
While he was waiting, he took a couple of horse-blankets from the
harness-room, and fastened them up before the only two windows in the
loft. This made the place quite dark, though there was light enough to
enable him to find his way. Then he kneeled about ten feet from the
open window, darkened to within a foot of the bottom. From this point
he discovered, by looking through the window directly opposite his
opening, three men sitting on a bed.
He fired his rifle, and saw one of the ruffians drop on the floor.
CHAPTER XXX
THE SURRENDER OF CAPTAIN GRUNDY
Deck Lyon reloaded his rifle without a moment's delay; then resuming
his kneeling posture, he gazed at the window again. The ruffian had
fallen forwards from the bed, and his companions had picked him up. The
observer could see that he had not been killed. The other two laid him
on the bed, and it was evident that he had been severely wounded. They
examined him, but of course the result could not be known to the
lieutenant.
While one of them was tying a handkerchief around the head of the
wounded man, the other went to the window. A pane of glass had been
broken, and this must have assured him that the ball had come from
outside of the mansion. Then he proceeded to look about the
surroundings in search of the person who had fired the shot, confining
his gaze to the ground. If he had reasoned at all over the matter,
which perhaps his education did not enable him to do, he might have
realized that the bullet did not come from the ground.
The man had thrown the window wide open, and was making a very
scrutinizing examination of every part of the courtyard. He could see
plainly whatever was in front of the window; but this did not seem to
satisfy him. He thrust half his body out of the opening, looking both
sides of him, as though it had been possible to fire a rifle around a
corner. The fellow was certainly stupid enough to be shot, and Deck did
not wait any longer to do his work.
The ball struck him in the head as he was stretching his neck to the
utmost to enlarge the extent of his vision to a point from which the
fatal bullet could not possibly have come. If he could have imagined a
line from the round hole in the pane of glass to the point where his
comrade's head had been, it would have pointed directly to Deck's
locality when he discharged the rifle.
The ruffian dropped from the window-sill to the ground with a heavy
thud, and did not move again. The ball had penetrated his brain, and he
was the victim of his unscientific observations. But the lieutenant did
not remove his gaze from the open window. It seemed very like slaughter
to shoot down the enemy in this manner, and a twinge of conscience
disturbed him. But he reasoned that he had given the ruffians a chance
to surrender, which they had refused to accept. Then they were pirates,
robbers, making war for gain against friend and foe alike.
The third man in the room did not remain there any longer. He could
hardly have known what became of the one at the window, unless he had
heard the crack of a rifle, and failed to see him again. Under these
circumstances it was not difficult for him to reason out the conclusion
that the chamber where he was must be a dangerous locality, and he
sought a safer place.
The lieutenant continued to watch the window, but no enemy appeared in
the room again. It had proved to be a chamber of death. He had hardly
lost sight of the foe before he heard the crack of a rifle in the
grove. The two Hickmans there were riflemen, and Deck did not believe
it would be possible for either of them to fire without killing or
wounding his man; but he heard but one shot, and probably four of the
land pirates were still living.
Deck waited some time for the sound of another shot, but in vain. He
did not believe another ruffian would enter the fatal room commanded by
his position, and he decided to seek a more promising place for his
operations. Since the shot he had heard, he was confident that none of
the enemy would show themselves at the windows. He descended to the
cellar of the stable, and then, by the way he had come, reached the
kitchen, and then the parlor, at the door of which the planter was
fortified.
"Anything new, Colonel Hickman?" he asked.
"Yes, indeed!" exclaimed the sentinel over the staircase. "What have
you been doing outside? Something has happened."
"I think we have reduced the enemy by three, and perhaps more," replied
the young officer; and he proceeded to explain what he and his
companions had been doing.
"You think you have knocked down three or more of the robbers?"
"As many as that."
"Then that explains it!"
"Explains what?" asked Deck, as much puzzled by the exhilarated tones
of the planter as by his questions.
"One of them hailed me some time ago, and wanted to see the one in
command. I told him the commander was not in the house, but was
conducting the fight outside. He asked me to send for him, but I
refused to do so. I did not intend to interrupt your operation; for I
never take another's command away from him," replied the colonel,
indulging at the same time in a chuckle, to which he was somewhat given
when pleased.
"Do you know what he wanted?"
"I do; for he shouted down the stairs that he and the rest of them
desired to surrender."
"Then we will let them do so," added Deck, who was not disposed to
fight after the battle had been won.
"What shall you do with them after they have surrendered, Lieutenant?"
asked the planter, plainly much interested in the question.
"I shall do nothing at all with them; I am not the judge or the civil
power of Russell County. We have beaten the enemy, and I have nothing
further to do with the matter," answered Deck.
The colonel decided not to ask any more questions, though the
lieutenant suspected he intended to dispose of the prisoners as he
thought best.
"Up-stairs, there!" shouted the planter. "The commander is here now."
"Ask him to come up here, and we will arrange things," returned the
ruffian with unblushing effrontery.
"The commander will do nothing of the sort," replied the colonel
indignantly. "Do you really believe that he would trust himself with
such cutthroats as you are?"
"We will agree not to hurt him, though he has used us very unfairly,"
said the spokesman. "He has tried to murder all of us!"
"You deserve to be hung; and it would be too merciful to shoot you!"
roared the colonel, his wrath getting the better of him.
"Do Union men hang their prisoners?" demanded the ruffian bitterly.
"Prisoners!" exclaimed the planter contemptuously. "You are such
prisoners as they shut up in the penitentiary, or hang in the public
square."
"Can I see the commander?" asked the spokesman, quite gently by this
