unseen chains which were already dragging fa'tri to 
his doom. Palestine soon resounded with the im- 
piety of the great heretic ; and behind dark, ecclesi- 
astical curtains and in grim, political corners his 
name was marked. 
One of his offenses in this act of lofty chivalry 
was the attitude which he took towards womanhood. 
This was, and remained throughout his life, so far 
in advance of his age, that it was nothing less than 
stupefying to his contemporaries* It was one of the 
most original, as it was one of the most noble ele- 
ments in his philosophy and in his practice. The 
position of women among the Jews was far beyond 
200 THE STOBY OF JESUS CHE1ST 
that which other Oriental nations gave them. Still, 
men who refused to sit beside the ladies of their 
families in the synagogue were exasperated by the 
social code of the Nazarene. Eaces which thought 
it degrading for a man to allude to the existence of 
his own wife outside of his home, races whose favor- 
ite proverb taught that " the threshold weeps for 
forty days when a girl is born," were perplexed by 
his estimate of the nature and position of woman. 
He paid no attention to the bitterness which he 
aroused in this respect. He advocated a startling 
reform as calmly as if it were as old as Sarah, Prin- 
cess of Abraham. He seemed almost unconscious 
of the social revolution of which he was laying the 
foundations. He went straight on with serene and 
beautiful indifference, always treating women with 
respect, always recognizing their fettered individ- 
ualism, their force of character if they had it, 
their undeveloped powers, their terrible capacity for 
suffering, their superiority in spiritual vigor. He 
boldly took, from the beginning to the end of his 
history, the stand that he had taken in the Phari- 
see's dining-room : that the restoration to a respected 
future of a woman who had repented her past was 
to be made a matter of course ; that men and women 
stood before God upon the same moral plane, and 
that they ought so to stand before human society. 
This was a thing hard to understand, and harder to 
forgive. Men with holy 'faces and unholy lives 
rebelled at it. Men with haughty hearts, bad tem- 
pers and self-indulgent habits, all the domestic 
tyrants whose yoke women were meekly ^nd hope- 
THE RABBI, AXD THE WOMAX 201 
lessly enduring, resented it. Even the kind men, 
the loyal, the loving, of whom in all ages, thank 
God, the world has had her happy share, were more 
perplexed than enlightened by this social heresy. 
But there is not a single instance in the life of 
Jesus in which for a moment he seemed inclined to 
weaken on this point. Every incident in which a 
woman figures finds him as fearless and as chival- 
rous in his treatment of her as if he had held the 
ruling of society in his own hands. TSjjit jnan-Jaa 
was sometimes severe ; with women never. Men he 
women never. For men 
he could reserve a rebuke amounting to denuncia- 
tion ; for women his impulse of forgiveness came 
uppermost. 
A little later in his story, a beautiful incident 
is related of him, in which he compassionately saved 
from sentence of death a woman who perhaps de- 
served it. But the moral lesson, which has lasted 
from that day to this, was worth the pardon. 
The exquisite modesty and delicacy of the man who 
1 could not bear even so much contact with so much 
shame, and who, from, obvious embarrassment, wrote 
upon the ground with his finger, and with downcast 
eyes, while he gave the case the consideration that 
he must, have dropped upon our lives like petals 
from the very flower of chivalry, the blossom of 
purity, manliness, and godlikeness. 
"While his success in Galilee was at its height, 
Jesus was forming the deepest friendships of his life. 
At the time when life was at its summit, he,. like 
other men of eminence, found these easy to select* 
1 Ecce Homo. 
202 THE STORY OP JESUS CHRIST 
He had, among the twelve chosen, one preferred. 
This man, John, has acquired for all time the 
enviable reputation of being the dearest disciple of 
Jesus Christ. John was a Galilean fisherman, like 
several of tlie others ; but he far surpassed his birth 
and training in a refinement which won him a precious 
place in the heart of his Rabbi. Jesus was deeply 
drawn to John, and it is one of the noble things 
about the others in the little band that none of them 
showed any jealousy of this preference, but treated 
the friendship with rugged generosity, memorable 
when we think how they all loved and honored their 
Master ; ail but one dark soul. That man, the trea- 
surer of the association, like other men born traitors 
but posing friends, hidden in protestations, awaited 
the time when the movement of the drama should 
betray him to the world ; perhaps who knows ? 
first reveal him to himself. 
There were other friendships peculiarly dear to 
Jesus, but chiefly cultivated a little later in the story. 
Their central figure was a young man living in the 
suburbs of Jerusalem ; but there were grouped about 
him the women of his family, sisters, who had their 
share in a tenderness which always centred loyally 
about their hospitable home. Jesus was such a 
lonely man that an attractive home, where he could 
feel himself one of the household, had a pathetic 
charm for him. 
At the time of which we speak, and in Galilee, 
the devotion of several high-minded women had 
already been offered to his cause and personality; 
and he had accepted it with the fine discernment in 
w 
w 
E 
w 
a 
H 
Q 
& 
< 
2 
2 
a 
u 
THE RABBI, AXD THE TTOMAX 203 
such matters which never failed him. Xo sentimen- 
talists, no gushing, giddy heads were admitted to his 
circle. Extraordinary as it might be for irreproach- 
able women to march Galilee over among the con- 
verts to this Rabbi, in whom the meanest mind in 
Palestine could find no blame, the thing was done 
and done with dignity. One of these ladies was the 
wife of the steward of Herod Antipas. Another 
was in high social position. The group was soon 
joined by a joyous woman known as Mary of Mag- 
dala whom the healer had cured of a violent mania, 
and freed from a terrible past, and whose gratitude, 
too real for words, forced itself into deeds. 
Mary* the mother of Jesus, the most eminent 
matron of the company, received the position which 
belonged to her. This was the happiest time in 
Mary's later life. Perplexity and trouble lay be- 
hind her. Anguish ineffable lay before her. But 
for the moment she knew a little comfort. Family 
friction no longer annoyed her in her relations to 
her son. In this respect she had asserted herself. 
She no longer brought to him or suffered to be 
brought to him any criticisms upon his judgment or 
his conduct. She was convinced that he was not to 
be interfered with. She bowed to his superiority 
with more than usual maternal adoration. The 
thought of his mystical birth, the belief in his mys- 
tical mission, for so many years submerged in her 
mind, had now come uppermost. Feeling a little 
as if she had wronged him by having ever listened 
to what the other children thought or said about 
him; filled with a noble sadness for any hour in 
204 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
which she had ever wondered or questioned whether 
he were fated to grow into a grand destiny, she 
plunged herself into the beautiful devotion which 
only a woman may know and show, and only for a 
great son. 
The presence of his mother was an inexpressible 
comfort to Jesus in his homeless and wandering life. 
With starting tears we thank God that he had it, 
and had it just when he did. For he stood trem- 
bling on the height of his success ; filled with the 
perplexing weariness, with the vague portents slowly 
assuming distincter outlines, that besieged him in 
the last days before the decline of his fortunes set 
in. He moved apart from his dearest friendships 
in tbe inexorable loneliness which nothing but utter 
love could approach ; and the love of a mother who 
does not ask to understand, only to give, was at 
times the only one which his hurt and patient heart 
could bear. 
CHAPTER IX 
ACROSS THE T,AK"R 
THE happiest year of his life was almost over. 
Galilee had known her one great opportunity, had 
interested herself in it for a dramatic twelvemonth, 
and was ready to drop it idly through her fickle 
fingers, 
Jesus observed the fluctuations in the popular 
mood with an eye now keen with experience in pub- 
lic life, and with an inward illumination fed from 
sources unknown to other men, and not always con- 
sciously available to himself. He was in the posi- 
tion of a man whom success has seemed to decoy 
to an unperceived doom, but whose own foresight 
was not in reality deceived, and who, considering 
only greatness of character and purity of conduct, 
had gone straight on, ignoring the advance of fate. 
Whatever knowledge of the outcome of it all he 
possessed never deterred him for an hour from do- 
ing the plain, right thing. The simplicity of his 
moral purpose in face of his complex and tragic 
story is the very essence of grandeur. He did not 
vacillate. He did not trim or veer. What he 
feared, he endured in silence. If he trembled, no 
one knew it. He pursued his course with the Indif- 
ference of a star in which, all the while, the heart 
206 THE STORY OF JESUS CHBIST 
and pulses of a too sensitive organism are beating 
painfully. 
That year pressed hard upon his physical 
strength. The demands upon the healer, the duties 
of the preacher, encroached upon his endurance to 
the point of an exhaustion which never overcame 
him, though it seemed sometimes to threaten to do 
so. There were nights of vigil and prayer, in for- 
ests or on the lakeshore, when the trees, the hills, 
or the waves were the only companions whom he 
could bear, for he was so spent. There were morn- 
ings when those who loved him, seeing him sitting 
in his pulpit-boat, with the people moving after him 
on the beach and cliffs, felt the pang at the heart 
which we have at sight of the suffering of one dear 
to us whom we know we do not understand ; for he 
looked so wasted. Yet he never sank. Exactions 
that would have crushed an ordinary man he met, 
not without signs that he suffered from them, but 
serenely. Strains which would have killed a lesser 
being he endured, who knew how ? 
The simple people who followed and watched 
him did not understand, as well as we who read his 
story now, the laws of the highly-strung organiza- 
tion ; those terrible laws which make the very 
physique qualified to do a certain deed the more 
liable to surrender to the effects of it. One of the 
simplest and sincerest healers of modern times a 
man who received his thousands of patients a day 
for a few weeks found himself unable to continue 
the strain on body or brain, and suddenly retreated 
from the clamor which he had created 5 disappear- 
ACEOSS THE LAKE 207 
ing to isolation or to death. Jesus did not retreat. 
He did not disappear. He did not yield. He en- 
dured with the delicate sturdiness peculiar to him- 
self. 
What was the secret ? He stood and withstood, 
giving out always o his fathomless pity, urging 
his trained and powerful will. Any man in the 
professions which depend upon the concentration 
of will-power on human conditions or character can 
form some pale idea of the mental and emotional 
energy required of Jesus Christ. The expenditure 
of life in him at its least daily estimate was tremen- 
dous. His splendid vigor refunded it all. How? 
His glowing vitality never ran in debt. Why? 
Yet was there something significant in his continued 
inability to bear too great or too close human prox- 
imity. Just the little span of water, put between 
himself and the throng upon the shore, saved him 
for his day's work. Something in his nature could 
not, even after all this experience of crowds, endure 
the thoughtless pressure of them without that odic 
space. 
What became of his boat, so dear to the fishermen 
for his sake ? Did they keep it safely moored on 
Gennesaret, putting out in it now and then, with 
tears which they did not try to hide from each other, 
and talking in low voices of him ? Though they had 
starved, not a man of them would have sold it. Was 
it ever used for a fishing-trip again ? Did any of 
the thousands of people whom he had comforted 
care enough to treat it as a sacred thing ? Did it 
find its way into mourning homes, carved into relics 
208 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
and treasured for generations? Or did the little 
craft meet, in age and honor, the end that a boat 
loves ? "\Vas it wrecked or sunken on the sea that 
had known and carried it and him ? 
One of the favorite homiletic methods of Jesus he 
used very much at this time. He preached by the 
parable ; and some of these most famous addresses 
were delivered from the thwarts of his boat. 
The parable was a peculiarly Oriental form of 
teaching, and one of which he made a valuable use. 
It was, in fact, a species of self-protection to him* 
Beset, as he was, by masses of people who cared lit- 
tle for the truth, but much for the excitement of a 
novelty, he had to deal with them somehow ; and he 
would not waste his highest thought upon his lowest 
hearers. If they gave any evidence of capacity or 
wish to understand it, no one ever lived so free as 
he from intellectual aristocracy. He would offer all 
he could. He would share his best with the worst. 
But, with sheer shallowness and with mental vulgar- 
ity, which could not or would not grasp a sacred 
idea, Jesus was ingenious. He did not refuse to 
speak, but he adapted himself to his audience. Peo- 
ple who came begging for stories, and incapable of 
listening to anything else, got them. 
The use of the illustration came to a brilliant fin- 
ish in his discourses. But he was never deceived in 
an audience if it could not go beyond that. 
His reserve in the expression of truth, always so 
marked in him, became at times massive. He had 
so much in thought which he might not dare to say, 
he believed so much which he could not induce 
ACROSS THE LAKE 209 
others to believe, that he put great skill into the 
construction of his sermons. 
Once, being puzzled by one of these intensely pop- 
ular discourses, one of his friends asked Mm. i n 
private what it meant, and why he preached as he 
did. The reply of Jesus was a significant one, and 
not much easier to understand than the sermon. 
He intimated that, as a certain sort of audience 
could not comprehend the whole truth if he gave it 
to them, he purposely gave them what he thought 
fit, and did not, indeed, always think it necessary to 
make what he chose to say perfectly clear to them. 
Truth was always something royal to him; some- 
thing to be treated with deference. He once spoke 
of it as a pearl, and warned his followers against 
wasting it on creatures of the trough and the mire. 
In this superb democrat, who counted, no treasure 
of brain or heart too costly to share with the humblest 
being that valued it, such intellectual reticence is 
very striking*. 
The parables of Jesus were a succession of homely 
stories, the homeliest that he could select. A search 
for a lost sheep, a laborer working in a vineyard, 
an episode in the relations of servant and master, 
the bursting of a leathern wine-bottle, the blossom- 
ing of a wild lily, a commercial anecdote, any such 
trifling incident in common life, was enough. It 
gave him his illustration, and one that was sure to 
attract the attention of his audience. The notice- 
able thing was that he packed it so tightly with 
the truth which he desired to convey. The lightest 
story was heavy with thought. The illustration 
210 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
never slipped. Any mind capable of thinking be- 
yond the silken cover of fiction could find more than 
enough to keep it busy in the parables of the Rabbi. 
He was preaching in this picturesque way, on the 
western side of the lake, on a day eventful even in 
the rush of incident with which his life was at this 
time crowded. 
The people had over-wearied him that day, and 
pressed upon him till he could bear no more. "With 
one of the peremptory decisions which he knew so 
well when to make, he determined to escape from 
this human torrent, from which, at its full, an 
angel's vitality might have fled ; the current was so 
insistent, so thoughtless, so tainted. Longing for 
hat which only the wave and the shore can give to 
the heart that loves them, he turned to his dear 
lake. It was towards evening. Beautiful Gennesaret, 
throbbing among her smiling hills, where even the 
rocks were turned to leaf and blossom by terraces ; 
the mobile lake, where the colors painted by flaws 
and sudden foam the metallic green, the blazing 
blue, the stately purple, the silver white chased 
gayly over the water; Gennesaret, sinking to exquisite 
calms when every mountain-top was let into the depths 
from the freights, each in its own hue and fine out- 
line, and when the silken sails of the belated pleasure 
boats crossed the bows of the fishermen rowing 
home, Gennesaret was at her loveliest. The sun 
was sinking. The moon was rising. The wind was 
light and steady upon the little sea. Clouds hung 
upon the opposite hills, but they looked innocent 
enough. Jesus took to Hs boat with his friends and 
ACROSS THE LAKE 211 
gave the order to cross the late. He sat for a few 
moments thoughtfully watching the disappointed 
throng which he had left ashore, as it slowly dispersed 
in the growing shadow. He drew a sigh of relief 
touched with regret. The strain had been severe 
that day. It was one of the prominent lineaments of 
his character that he knew how far he could go in 
endurance, and that he never hesitated to stop at the 
right point. He had none of the short-sighted senti- 
mentalism in philanthropy which pushes the moment 
to the ruin of the year, or sacrifices the ultimate 
scope of a great work to a temporary call upon the 
sympathies. His that day had been sorely taxed. 
He withdrew from the draft upon them. 
He was very tired, so tired that he did not try to 
talk, but went aft and lay down, thinking to rest if 
he could. His most thoughtful disciple had put a 
pillow there for him upon the stern seat. His friends, 
respecting his mood as they always meant to do, even 
if they did not always succeed (for the Master had 
strange hours, hard for fishermen to understand), 
left him undisturbed. The management of the boat 
soon occupied their attention, for there was more 
wind than one would have thought. Jesus fell 
asleep ; he was so completely worn out that nature 
insisted,, and he slept long and deeply. 
What were his dreams ? A man so sad, so lonely, 
so spotless in motive, so wrapped in purposes which 
no one understood, so shrouded in fate which no one 
could defy, what would his dreams be like ? Did 
they drag him under the dome of martyrdom, that 
dark vault whose great circumference was already 
212 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
descending upon his life ? Did they intimate failure, 
shame, torture, to his shrinking nerve? Even in 
sleep, did trouble pursue him? Those who have 
suffered much know how difficult it is for misery to 
let the victim go, in dreams. Was the anguish of 
his lot more merciful to him? Did the machinery 
of endurance go spinning on ? Or did he know a 
little respite? Did visions of the great joy which 
kept him up gently visit him ? Did he dream of the 
most precious possession of his consciousness, in life 
or death always foremost to his mind, his faith 
in his God ? Did his Father Invisible comfort the 
wornout man ? 
We like to think so, for he slept well. The 
moonlight, painting his quiet face, softened its lines 
of care and deepened its expression of peace. The 
nobility of his brow, the beauty of his delicate lips, 
the pathos that speaks in the closed eyelids of a man 
acquainted with grief and bearing it patiently, to 
these unconsciousness lent the grave charm which 
would have moved an indifferent spectator, and which 
was touching to those who loved him. 
But they who loved him were not watching him 
now. Suddenly, startled from a deep slumber, 
rested and refreshed, he was aware that there was 
an unusual commotion on the boat. The little craft 
was laboring painfully in the trough of a heavy sea. 
One of the sudden squalls for which capricious 
Gennesaret was famous had struck the lake. The 
wind drew down from the gorges of the hills in 
dangerous flaws and gusts. The water was smitten 
to madness. The full moon had gone under a thick 
ACKOSS THE LAKE 213 
cloud. The light was gray and wan. Foam flew. 
The bow plunged too deep. Water was rushing 
over the rails. The experienced crew were thor- 
oughly frightened, and that with good reason. The 
boat was in danger of swamping. 
The fishermen had lost their heads. The lateen 
sail was already down ; they were in too great depth 
to anchor ; they had not been able to keep head to 
the wind ; their rudder refused to do its duty ; and 
the boat was at the mercy of the sea. They clam- 
bered aft in terror. One of them had roughly 
awakened the Rabbi, and they were all crying out 
together : 
u Master ! Master ! We are perishing ! " He 
rose to his feet quietly. The fishermen, all their 
lives used to the tricks of Gennesaret, were alto- 
gether demoralized. Their rude voices rang above 
the roar of the storm : u Save us ! save us ! save 
us ! " In fact, the boat was practically sinking. 
And they were far from either shore, too far for 
swimming. The situation was serious enough. 
A strange expression crossed the countenance of 
Jesus. He seemed more surprised at the fears of 
his friends than disturbed at the common danger. 
But he turned his attention at once to the storm. 
He seemed to study it as a subject which he must 
grasp, intensely, because it must be grasped in a 
moment. Indeed, there were no moments to lose ; 
for the water was dashing over bow and stern, and 
was filling the boat rapidly. 
He seemed to make a curiously fine distinction 
between the wind, which was the offender in the 
214 THE STORY OE JESUS CH&IST 
trouble, and the passive sea, which, was only the 
helpless agent. Suddenly there shot from his lips 
a severe rebuke; as if the wind were a conscious 
and a guilty thing, and as if he were lord of it ; as 
if he and nature understood each other better than 
he and man. As if it acknowledged the order, the 
wind went down meekly. There fell upon the air 
one of the sudden calms, quite possible on the lake, 
but which there was no evident reason to expect just 
then. The moon swept out from the cloud. In the 
reviving light, the crew saw one another's terror- 
stricken faces, and his who showed no fear. He 
stood serene, smiling, with one upraised hand and 
arm, a statue of strength and assurance. In a very- 
low tone they heard him speaking to the water ; not 
as he had addressed the wind; authoritatively and 
like a master calling to account, but in a sweet, 
persuasive voice, such as one might use to a nervous 
woman or a frenzied child: "Hush! peace! peace, 
and be still!" 
The noisy sea trembled ; the choppy waves sank ; 
the lake began to ripple ; the ripple wasted away ; 
then such a calm took the water as lay like a sheen 
of silk from shore to shore. On it there fell a 
strange silence. The keel was even. The fishermen 
began to bail out the water from the boat. They 
did not speak. But the Rabbi watched them with 
a kind of astonished sadness. 
" How is it ? " he said slowly, " how is it that 
ye have not any faith? Why are ye so afraid? " 
His voice had a wistful accent to it, as if his 
heart ached more than any one of them could know; 
ACROSS THE LAKE 215 
as if lie had expected to be trusted, and they had 
disappointed him. He did not blame them. He 
went back to the stern and lay down again quietly 
upon Ms pillow. 
But the fishermen did not answer him. They did 
not dare. Each man of them looked at the other, 
quailing. They hung their heads, half in shame 
and half in fright. They were more afraid of the 
Rabbi at that moment than they had been of the 
storm. 
"What manner of man is this?" they muttered; 
" why, the wind and the sea obey him ! " It was 
the sailors* supreme tribute. They could not go 
beyond it. 
The boat came to land in the night on the shore 
of Gergesa, a populous coast. Throughout the 
whole region the cliffs adjacent to the towns were 
burrowed with caves and tombs, the shelter of the 
dead, and of certain of the living who were less for- 
tunate than the dead. Flocks and herds lay in dim 
blots over the pasturage of this hilly locality. Oc- 
casionally some wretched human figure flitted across 
the landscape, emerging from blackness and becom- 
ing quickly submerged therein. As the Rabbi and 
his Mends landed, two of these human wraiths fol- 
lowed them with ghostly silence and pertinacity. 
Peter and the others pointed them out to Jesus, 
whispering. The bravest man in the twelve looked 
over his shoulder at the uncanny sight ; the weird 
figures, the feeling that only midnight gives, were 
startling to every nerve. One of the disciples in- 
216 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
stinctively took up a stone in self-protection, but it 
fell harmlessly. One look from the Rabbi seemed 
to thrust it out of his hand. 
Jesus did not join in the repugnance of his friends 
to the dreary spectacle. Indeed, he expressed 
neither distaste nor surprise when the bolder and 
madder of the two maniacs flung himself in the way 
of the party and addressed the Eabbi with all the 
ingenuity of an insane vocabulary, appealing for 
protection against the delusions of his disease. 
These were acute. We are not yet wise enough 
in the finer psychology to pronounce dogmatically 
upon much easier questions in alienism than that 
involved in the particular hallucination so common 
to the East, to that age, and those people. The 
lunatics wholly believed themselves to be possessed 
of devils. Jesus, like expert physicians much less 
successful than himself, did not in the least antago- 
nize a deranged patient by fighting his whim. What- 
ever view he personally held of the subject is, to the 
reader of the story, entirely secondary in importance. 
Insanity is a dark sea on whose shore we have not 
even yet ventured far; and science is a frail boat 
which may or may not hold the points of compass. 
Whether demonic possession was the delusion of a 
blatant superstition, or should ever become mate- 
rial of an exact science, Jesus, if he knew, did not 
think it necessary to explain. He delivered no hom- 
ily on evil spirits. He delayed to elucidate no views 
on the nicer problems of mental disorder. He sim- 
ply went to work and healed the case. 
It was a bad case; one of the worst of the in- 
ACEOSS THE LAKE 217 
curable, against which the rude medical art of the 
times was hopelessly helpless, and about which the 
humanity of the times did not feel any responsibil- 
ity. Few pitied and most forgot the homicidal, sui- 
cidal wretches who had been driven from home and 
from all human society. It needed Jesus to invent 
tenderness to the insane. It swept through his 
heart that night in a surging movement of pity and 
power. 
We have here one of those sombre pictures in 
which a great moral emotion has taken the brush 
and painted in the only high lights. The gloom of 
the land of caves filled a dismal background. A 
large herd of two thousand swine, disturbed by the 
cries of the maniacs and disinclined to sleep, were 
stirring uneasily on their pasture at the top of the 
steep grade which ended in the water. The fisher- 
men, uncomfortable and puzzled, were gathered 
closely about their Rabbi, to protect or to be pro- 
tected, they hardly knew which. The maniacs were 
gibbering and shrieking ; he, the worst case, bleed- 
ing with self-inflicted wounds where he had cut him- 
self with sharp stones. In the centre of the group, 
tall and quiet, Jesus stood thoughtfully. The moon 
brought out all the nobility of his face and form. 
He seemed to absorb light from the sky, and to 
radiate it upon the little spot of earth on which he 
trod. 
The maniac, or the demoniac, call him as you 
please, had something of the shrewd wit not un- 
common to the deranged. By whatever law illumi- 
nated, he recognized the supreme superiority of the 
218 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
Nazarene more quickly than most sane men. The 
friends of Jesus were confounded to see the lunatic 
on the ground at the Rabbi's feet in the attitude of 
worship, and to hear him crying shrilly : 
u Thou son of the Most High God ! " 
" Thou spirit unclean ! " replied Jesus authorita- 
tively, " come out of the man ! " 
A few moments of great confusion followed this 
command. The shrieks of the lunatic, his protests, 
the disturbed comments of the fishermen, the re- 
newed entreaties of the maniac, were hardly quieted 
by the calm replies of Jesus. 
Suddenly sharp cries came from another direc- 
tion. The keepers of the flocks above were calling 
for help. The great herd of swine, alarmed by 
the unusual scene and by the shouts of the mani- 
acs, thoroughly demoralized, had taken fright, and 
were running down the declivity. In the moonlight 
they could be plainly seen rushing from shadow to 
shadow, from the pasture behind to the lake below. 
The keepers ran to and fro helplessly. It was a 
perfect stampede ; one of the curious animal im- 
pulses which no man can ever understand, and few 
control. Before it could be stayed, the whole herd, 
unable to stop on the steep grade, the foremost 
crowded by those in the rear, had pushed to the 
edge of the water and were drowned. 
Strange things were said about this scene. Jesus 
was accused of having ordered a legion that was 
to say, a large and indefinite number demons 
from the man into the animals. His disciples, sure 
only of this one thing, that their master was the 
ACROSS THE LAKE 219 
kindest, the tenderest of all men living, or who had 
ever lived, remembered that he had conversed in- 
dulgently with the maniac, suffering 1 but not com- 
manding in the man's disordered mind this view of 
the stampede. Peter, John, and James, and the 
rest, were simple men. The demonology of their 
times was much less mysterious to them than their 
Rabbi. Whether the swine went over, or were sent 
over, was a matter of little consequence to them. 
Whatever Jesus commanded or permitted needed no 
explanation. The animals were gone. But the man 
was here, sane a happy, reasonable person, asking 
for clothes and food and home; acting like other 
people, and pouring passionate gratitude at the feet 
of the healer, who stood quietly amid the confusion, 
his peaceful face brushed by a wing of sadness. 
Was he thinking about the swine in the lake ? The 
mystery of animal life sacrificed to that of man had 
not begun to arouse a question in the ordinary mind 
in those times. His extraordinary mind, or extraor- 
dinary heart, always moved first in the direction of 
pity. It was not one of his easiest tasks in life 
that, in the capacity of a dispenser of mercy, he had 
sometimes to choose between the lesser pity and the 
larger. 
At all events the man was saved, the brutes were 
lost. The owners of the property were exasperated. 
The residents of the region were terrified. They 
intimated to the healer that his presence among 
them was not desirable. Had he been an ordinary 
juggler, they would have ordered him off. But this 
was not jugglery. Jesus was no common sorcerer. 
220 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
The most ignorant man on either side of the lake 
knew better than that. In truth they were all very 
much afraid of him. The cured maniac, longing 
to keep close to the healer who had given him back 
his reason, but gently forbidden to do so, traveled 
here and there, joyously relating the story with the 
authority of a hero in the scene. The whole coast 
was astir. Every other popular emotion seemed to 
have melted in terror. Jesus was made so uncom- 
fortable that he took to his boat again, and returned 
across the lake. 
CHAPTER X 
FIVE THOUSAND GUESTS 
HE was at home once more, but he was not per- 
mitted to rest. Crowds larger than he had left re- 
ceived him. He was surrounded and overwhelmed. 
It seemed as if all invalid Galilee were moaning 
after him. In the heart of his busiest and weariest 
hour an urgent demand came up. He was wanted 
for a life and death case. An officer of the Jewish 
church, an important person, Jairus by name, had a 
little daughter, dearly cherished. She was scarcely 
twelve years old, just at the lovely age, not yet 
past her play-days, but already with the dainty airs 
of a little woman, a winsome maid, her father's 
darling. She lay at the point of death, and in hot 
haste messengers had been sent for the Nazarene. 
But the distress of the father outran the swiftest 
feet. He touched the unconscious child with the 
despair of one whose last kiss cannot be returned by 
the dearest lips in the world, and went desolately 
out to try in person to find the healer ; at whom the 
regular physicians had scoffed. But the physicians 
had given up the case. 
At the feet of Jesus, Jairus flung himself down 
like a slave, and such an agony went up in his face 
and attitude as a cold man could not easily have 
222 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
resisted. Jesus, melting with sympathy, tenderly 
reassured the father, and started at once in the di- 
rection of the ruler's house. 
But what a throng ! When he tried to pass 
through the people, they closed like a round wall 
about him. It was, indeed, a wall of human misery, 
blank and vast. Jesus felt almost stifled by it, as if 
Hwere crushing him. The unhappy, the evil, the 
sick oh, the uncounted, neglected sick ! uprose 
upon him. It was like an insurrection of the woe 
of the world, catching sight, for the first time, of the 
only alleviation it had ever seen. The healer's face 
changed perceptively. He seemed to stagger for the 
moment in that riot of misery. 
Such a mass of humanity pressed upon him that 
it was impossible to move. 
At that moment, stealing past the push and rush 
of the thoughtless throng, a timid hand touched the 
fringe of Ms talith; and, terrified, withdrew instantly. 
But as instantly he felt it, who knew how ? 
" Who touched me ? " he asked quickly. No per- 
son in the crowd replied. 
"Strength goes out of me," insisted the healer. 
" Who was it ? " 
* 
Jesus and Jairus walked together to the ruler's 
house. The father did not speak any longer. He 
was afraid of offending the Eabbi. After those first 
hot words, the first wild moment, what could he do ? 
When the servant came, weeping, and told him that 
it was too late, not to trouble the Master, for the 
little raaid was gone, his heart had broken in one 
FIVE THOUSAND GUESTS 223 
mad outcry. This great healer, this mysterious man, 
so famous for his tenderness, so marvelous for his 
pity, must needs fail him, him, Jairus, out o all 
Palestine, and that in the hour of his terrible need I 
The fact could not be denied that Jesus had stopped 
on the way to a dying patient to cure an old, chronic 
case. 
The woman could have been healed just as well to- 
night, to-morrow, next week. But he had lingered. 
And the child was dead. 
What had he, the desperate fattier, said in his 
anguish? Had he blamed, had he reproached the 
Nazarene? But, if he had, Jesus exhibited no of- 
fense at the outbreak. His sympathy with the poor 
father was far too high a thing. He could not stoop 
to notice how the madness of grief had treated him. 
A lower nature may do that. 
" Do not be afraid," he said tenderly ; " only be- 
lieve ! " But his face was very grave. And, by a 
single motion of his expressi7e hand, he ordered all 
his disciples back but three, Peter, James, and 
John, his dearest. The group entered the ruler's 
house. 
The house was not silent ; Oriental mourners had 
already taken possession of it. Obtrusive wails and 
groans, mingled with genuine sobs and tears, filled 
the place. Jesus seemed surprised at the condition 
in which he found the family. 
" The child is not dead," he said decidedly. Some 
of the neighbors, who did not altogether believe in 
the famous healer, began to laugh. It was a deri- 
sive laugh, a cold sound in that house of woe, 
224: THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
and it did not please him. A keen rebuke shot from 
his mild eyes at the unseemly scorn. 
"Xay," he repeated, "she is not dead. She is 
asleep." 
He spoke in the tone of a man who was not to be 
gainsaid. He did not try to make the most of the 
case. He did not say, " Yes, this is death. But I 
am lord of death." It would have been far easier 
to do than to cling to his view of the 'truth as he did, 
against the convictions of the family. He went into 
the sick-room and looked at the child. 
" This is sleep," he persisted. . . . The father's 
sobs had ceased. The mother lifted her face, dis- 
colored with tears, worn with watching, and piteously 
raised her hands. The three friends of the Rabbi 
stood reverently wondering. 
Jesus silently regarded the little maid. 
She lay unconscious, and was quite rigid. The 
rare trances known to medical science show less evi- 
dence of death than the child did. She lay on her 
pallet, cold, with the pathetic, wondering look which 
death casts upon childhood, as if she said : 
" Why, this is what happens to old people ! " 
Jesus looked at her with a strange expression. 
His eyes seemed to say : 
" It is between me " and thee, little maid. We 
understand." 
He was known to be very fond of children, and 
they of him; he was sometimes seen with them 
climbing over his lap and laughing, as they put their 
arms about his neck with the unerring identification 
of those whom they can trust, which only children 
FIVE THOUSAXD GUESTS 225 
and dogs possess. Mothers brought their babies to 
him for his blessing, and it is recorded how lovingly 
he gave it. 
Now he looked at the little girl with the tender- 
ness that is only to be expected of those in whom 
the love of children is profound and genuine. 
She seemed to quiver beneath his look, but her 
color and her attitude did not change. Then he took 
her by the hand. 
Her little, wasted fingers lay for a few moments 
in his nervous and vital grasp ; then he felt them 
tremble. . . . Who sees the instant when the lily 
blossoms? Who could have detected the moment 
of time in which the child began to stir ? Was it 
his hand that moved, or hers that directed his slowly 
upward till it reached her pillow, and 'so ca^ue upon 
a level with her face ? 
It did not seem sudden or startling, but only the 
most natural thing in the world, when the little girl 
laid her cheek upon his palm. . . . 
" Give her something to eat," said the healer, 
quite in his ordinary tones. This sensible and com- 
monplace order restored their senses to the excited 
household. But Jairus remembered how he had 
thought of Jesus, perhaps how he had spoken to 
him, when the Nazarene stopped to cure the chronic 
case ; and the father felt ashamed ; but he did not 
know how to say so. And the little arms about 
his neck were warm ! How could he think of any- 
thing else in the world ? Jesus seemed to take this 
as a matter of course. That was the wonderful, the 
226 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
beautiful thing. Jairus felt as if lie could worship 
the Rabbi. 
The whole countryside rang with the story. 
" Death ! A second time I Why, he cheats the 
grave, as another may cheat in war or a bargain ! 
Who is this man who does the deeds of the living 
Grod ? " But Jesus had denied that the child was 
dead. He never retracted the denial. 
It would have been easy for him to rise just then 
on a great flight of popularity, had he chosen to 
mate the most of this reanimation. Instead, he 
made the least of it. Content with the doing of the 
thing, not concerned for the name of it, he w;ent 
serenely on, as if his own reputation as a worker of 
wonders were the last thing in the world about 
which he, had a care. In point of fact it was. He 
had so much loftier aims that he could well afford to 
let the lesser go. 
He had at this time, if no more leisure, at least 
more solitude than, usual, in which to reflect upon 
his position and his future ; for he had dismissed his 
chosen friends on an evangelistic tour about the 
country, dividing them two by two, selecting these 
couples with great care, that they might supplement 
one another's temperament. We wonder to whom he 
united John the preferred, gentlest and loveliest 
of companions ! Whose calmer nature moderated 
the hot temper of Peter, the spokesman of the 
group ? Who had the warm faith to melt the doubts 
of the skeptical Thomas ? Whose penetration kept 
watch upon the moods of Judas the treacherous ? 
JAIRUS' DAUGHTER 
PIVE THOUSAND GUESTS 227 
To these men Jesus now solemnly made over a 
measure of his own gift ; as if his power to relieve 
human misery were a thing communicable at his will 
to one who loved and trusted him. These men re- 
ceived a certain amount of quality as healers, and 
of success as missionaries. In his enthusiasm for 
humanity Jesus did not draw the line at anything, 
but tried to make his disciples wonder-workers as 
efficient as himself. 
" Raise the dead," he said. It is not recorded of 
them that they did this. Had he too much faith in 
them, or they too little in him ? 
When the twelve came back to their Rabbi, there 
had reached him news so black that the experiences 
of their missionary trip although they told him 
all about them volubly enough were put well into 
the background. During their absence had occurred 
the terrible supper at the palace of Herod, when a 
girl danced away the life of the greatest of prophets 
and one of the grandest of men. 
The execution of John, after all, had been sudden 
and was unexpected. Jesus was overwhelmed by it. 
He received the intelligence in silence, and went 
away alone as soon as he could. He spent that night 
by the sea in the solitary prayer which, while it made 
such havoc of his vitality, seemed strangely to renew 
the very treasure that it wasted. No man was wit- 
ness to those hours of grief and of resolve. 
In his personal bereavement a consciousness of 
personal peril now began distinctly to mingle. Jesus 
was not the man to be deceived by this thrust from 
