Joan. The tribunal prepared to rise. At this point Cauchon 
forbade Joan to try to escape from prison, upon pain of 
being held guilty of the crime of heresy — singular logic ! 
She answered simply — 
' I am not bound by this prohibition. If I could escape 
I would not reproach myself, for I have given no promise, 
and I shall not.' 
Then she complained of the burden of her chains, and 
asked that they might be removed, for she was strongly 
guarded in that dungeon and there was no need of them. 
But the Bishop refused, and reminded her that she had 
broken out of prison twice before. Joan of Arc was too 
proud to insist. She only said, as she rose to go with the 
guard — 
' It is true I have wanted to escape, and I do want to 
escape.' Then she added, in a way that would touch the 
pity of anybody, I think, ' It is the right of every prisoner.' 
And so she went from the place in the midst of an im- 
pressive stillness, which made the sharper and more dis- 
tressful to me the clank of those pathetic chains. 
What presence of mind she had ! One could never 
surprise her out of it. She saw Noel and me there when 
she first took her seat on her bench ; and we flushed to 
the forehead with excitement and emotion, but her face 
showed nothing, betrayed nothing. Her eyes sought us 
fifty times that day, but they passed on and there was 
never any ray of recognition in them. Another would have 
started upon seeing us, and then — why then there could 
have been trouble for us, of course. 
We walked slowly home together, each busy with his 
own grief and saying not a word. 
CHAPTER VI 
That night Manchon told me that all through the day's 
proceedings Cauchon had had some clerks concealed in the 
embrasure of a window who were to make a special report 
garbling Joan's answers and twisting them from their right 
meaning. Ah, that was surely the cruellest man and the 
most shameless that has lived in this world. But his 
scheme failed. Those clerks had human hearts in them, 
and their base work revolted them, and they turned to and 
boldly made a straight report, whereupon Cauchon cursed 
them and ordered them out of his presence with a threat 
of drQ3saiingj which was his favourite and -most frequent 
menace. The matter had gotten abroad and was making 
greStnd unpleasant talk, and Cauchon would not try to 
repeat this shabby game right away. It comforted me to 
hear that. 
When we arrived at the citadel next morning, we found 
that a change had been made. The chapel had been found 
too small. The court had now removed to a noble chamber 
situated at the end of the great hall of the castle. The 
number of judges was increased to sixty-two— one igno- 
rant girl against such odds, and none to help her. 
The prisoner was brought in. She was as white as 
ever, but she was looking no whit worse than she looked 
when she had first appeared the day before. Isn't it a 
strange thing ? Yesterday she had sat five hours on that 
backless bench with her chains in her lap, baited, badgered, 
persecuted by that unholy crew, without even the refresh- 
ment of a cup of water — for she was never offered any- 
thing, and if I have made you know her by this time you 
will know without my telling you that she was not a person 
likely to ask favours of those people. And she had spent 
the night caged in her wintry dungeon with her chains 
upon her ; yet here she was, as I say, collected, unworn, 
and ready for the conflict ; yes, and the only person there 
who showed no signs of the wear and worry of yesterday. 
And her eyes — ah, you should have seen them and broken 
your hearts. Have you seen that veiled deep glow, that 
pathetic hurt dignity, that unsubdued and unsubduable 
spirit that burns and smoulders in the eye of a caged eagle 
and makes you feel mean and shabby under the burden of 
its mute reproach ? Her eyes were like that. How 
capable they were, and how wonderful ! Yes, at all times 
and in all circumstances they could express as by print 
every shade of the wide range of her moods. In them 
were hidden floods of gay sunshine, the softest and peace- 
fullest twilights, and devastating storms and lightnings. 
Not in this world have there been others that were com- 
parable to them. Such is my opinion, and none that had 
the privilege to see them would say otherwise than this 
which I have said concerning them. 
The stance began. And how did it begin, should you 
think ? Exactly as it began before — with that same tedious 
thing which had been settled once, after so much wran- 
gling. The Bishop opened thus : 
' You are required, now, to take the oath pure and 
simple, to answer truly all questions asked you.' 
Joan replied placidly — 
' I have made oath yesterday, my lord ; let that 
suffice.' 
The Bishop insisted and insisted, with rising temper ; 
Joan but shook her head and remained silent. At last she 
said — 
' I made oath yesterday ; it is sufficient.' Then she 
sighed and said, ' Of a truth, jyou do burden me too 
much.' 
The Bishop still insisted, still commanded, but he could 
not move her. At last he gave it up and turned her over 
for the day's inquest to an old hand at tricks and traps and 
deceptive plausibilities — Beaupere, a doctor of theology. 
Now notice the form of this sleek strategist's first remark — 
flung out in an easy, off-hand way that would have thrown 
any unwatchful person off his guard — 
' Now, Joan, the matter is very simple ; just speak up 
and frankly and truly answer the questions which I am 
going to ask you, as you have sworn to do.' 
It was a failure. Joan was not asleep. She saw the 
artifice. She said — 
' No. You could ask me things which I could not tell 
you — and would not.' Then, reflecting upon how profane 
and out of character it was for these ministers of God to be 
prying into matters which had proceeded from His hands 
under the awful seal of His secrecy, she added, with a 
warning note in her tone, ' If you were well inforrne d con- 
cerning- mejygu would wish mejJii Lpf your hands.  lEave 
doQ£ nothing but by revelation'
Beaupere changed his attack, and began an approach 
from another quarter. He would slip upon her, you see, 
under cover of innocent and unimportant questions. 
' Did you learn any trade at home ? ' 
' Yes, to sew and to spin.' Then the invincible soldier, 
victor of Patay, conqueror of the lion Talbot, deliverer of 
Orleans, restorer of a king's crown, commander-in-chief of 
a nation's armies, straightened herself proudly up, gave 
her head a little toss, and said with naive complacency, 
' And when it comes to that, I am not afraid to be matched 
against any woman in Rouen ! ' 
The crowd of spectators broke out with applause — 
which pleased Joan — and there was many a friendly and 
petting smile to be seen. But Cauchon stormed at the 
people and warned them to keep still and mind their 
manners. 
Beaupere asked other questions. Then — 
' Had you other occupations at home ? ' 
' Yes. I helped my mother in the household work and 
went to the pastures with the sheep and the cattle.' 
Her voice trembled a little, but one could hardly notice 
it. As for me, it brought those old enchanted days flood- 
ing back to me, and I could not see what I was writing for 
a little while. 
Beaupere cautiously edged along up with other ques- 
tions toward the forbidden ground, and finally repeated a 
question which she had refused to answer a little while 
back — as to whether she had received the Eucharist in 
those days at other festivals than that of Easter. Joan 
merely said — 
' Fassez outre.  Or, as one might say, ' Pass on to 
matters which you are privileged to pry into.' 
I heard a member of the court say to a neighbour — 
' As a rule, witnesses are but dull creatures, and an 
easy prey — yes, and easily embarrassed, easily frightened 
— but truly one can neither scare this child nor find her 
dozing.' 
Presently the house pricked up Its ears and began to 
listen eagerly, for Beaupere began to touch upon Joan's 
Voices, a matter of consuming interest and curiosity to 
everybody. His purpose was to trick her into heedless 
sayings that could indicate that the Voices had sometimes 
given her evil advice—hence that they had come from 
Satan, you see. To have dealings with the devil— well, 
that would send her to the stake in brief order, and that 
was the deliberate end and aim of this trial. 
< When did you first hear these Voices ? ' 
' I was thirteen when I first heard a Voice coming from 
God to help me to live well. I was frightened. It came 
at mid-day, in my father's garden in the summer.' 
' Had you been fasting ? ' 
' Yes.' 
' The day before ? ' 
'No.' 
' From what direction did it come ? ' 
' From the right — from toward the church.' 
' Did it come with a bright light ? ' 
' Oh, indeed yes. It was brilliant. When I came Into 
France I often heard the Voices very loud.' 
' What did the Voice sound like ? ' 
' It was a noble Voice, and I thought it was sent to me 
from God. The third time I heard it I recognised it as 
being an angel's.' 
' You could understand it ? ' 
' Quite easily. It was always clear.' 
' What advice did it give you as to the salvation ot 
'It told me to live rightly, and be regular in attendance 
upon the services of the Church. And it told me that I 
must go to France.'  
' In what species of form did the Voice appear : 
Joan looked suspiciously at the priest a moment, then 
said, tranquilly — 
' As to that I will not tell you.' 
' Did the Voice seek you often ? ' 
'Yes. Twice or three times a week, saying, '' Leave 
your village and go to France." '  
'Did your father know about your departure ? 
' No. The voice said, '' Go to France" ; therefore I 
could not abide at home any longer.' 
' What else did it say ? ' 
'That I should raise the siege of Orleans.' 
' Was that all ? ' 
' No, I was to go to Vaucouleurs, and Robert de 
Baudricourt would give me soldiers to go with me to 
France ; and I answered, saying that I was a poor girl 
who did not know how to ride, neither how to fight.' 
Then she told how she was baulked and interrupted at 
Vaucouleurs, but finally got her soldiers, and began her 
march. 
' How were you dressed ? ' 
The court of Poitiers had distinctly decided and decreed 
that as God had appointed her to do a man's work, it was 
meet and no scandal to religion that she should dress as a 
man ; but no matter, this court was ready to use any and 
all weapons against Joan, even broken and discredited ones, 
and much was going to be made of this one before this 
trial should end. 
' I wore a man's dress, also a sword which Robert de 
Baudricourt gave me, but no other weapon.' 
' Who was it that advised you to wear the dress of a 
man? ' 
Joan was suspicious again. She would not answer. 
The question was repeated. 
She refused again. 
' Answer. It is a command ! ' 
' Passez outre y' was all she said. 
So Beaupere gave up the matter for the present. 
' What did Baudricourt say to you when you left ? ' 
' He made them that were to go with me promise to 
take charge of me, and to me he said, '' Go, and let happen 
what may ! " ' {Advienne que pourra !) 
After a good deal of questioning upon other matters she 
was asked again about her attire. She said it was neces- 
sary for her to dress as a man. 
' Did your Voice advise it ? ' 
Joan merely answered placidly ; 
' I believe my Voice gave me good advice.' 
It was all that could be got out of her, so the questions 
wandered to other matters, and finally to her first meeting 
with the King at Chinon. She said she chose out the 
King, who was unknown to her, by the revelation of her 
Voices. All that happened at that time was gone over. 
Finally — 
' Do you still hear those Voices ? ' 
' They come to me every day.' 
' What do you ask of them ? ' 
' I have never asked of them any recompense but the 
salvation of my soul.' 
' Did the Voice always urge you to follow the army ? ' 
He is creeping upon her again. She answered : 
' It required me to remain behind at St. -Denis. I would 
have obeyed if I had been free, but I was helpless by my 
wound, and the knights carried me away by force.' 
' When were you wounded ? ' 
' I was wounded in the moat before Paris, in the 
assault.' 
The next question reveals what Beaupere had been lead- 
ing up to : 
' Was it a feast day ? ' 
You see ? The suggestion is that a voice coming from 
God would hardly advise or permit the violation, by war 
and bloodshed, of a sacred day. 
Joan was troubled a moment, then she answered : ' Yes, 
it was a feast day.' 
' Now, then, tell me this : did you hold it right to make 
the attack on such a day ? ' 
This was a shot which might make the first breach in a 
wall which had suffered no damage thus far. There was 
immediate silence in the court and intense expectancy 
noticeable all about. But Joan disappointed the house. 
She merely made a slight little motion with her hand, as 
when one brushes away a fly, and said with reposeful 
indifference : 
' Fassez outre. ' 
Smiles danced for a moment in some of the sternest 
faces there, and several even laughed outright. The trap 
had been long and laboriously prepared ; it fell, and was 
empty. 
The court rose. It had sat for hours, and was cruelly 
fatigued. Most of the time had been taken up with appa- 
rently idle and purposeless inquiries about the Chinon events, 
the exiled Duke of Orleans, Joan's first proclamation, and 
so on ; but all this seemingly random stuff had really been 
sown thick with hidden traps. But Joan had fortunately 
escaped them all, some by the protecting luck which at- 
tends upon ignorance and innocence, some by happy acci- 
dent, the others by force of her best and surest helper, the 
clear vision and lightning intuitions of her extraordinary 
mind. 
Now, then, this daily baiting and badgering of this friend- 
less girl, a captive in chains, was to continue a long, long 
time — dignified sport, a kennel of mastiffs and blood-hounds 
harassing a kitten ! — and I may as well tell you, upon 
sworn testimony, what it was like from the first day to the 
last. When poor Joan had been in her grave a quarter of 
a century, the Pope called together that great court which 
was to re-examine her history, and whose just verdict 
cleared her illustrious name from every spot and stain, and 
laid upon the verdict and conduct of our Rouen tribunal 
the blight of its everlasting execrations. Manchon and 
several of the judges who had been members of our court 
were among the witnesses who appeared before that Tribunal 
of Rehabilitation. Recalling these miserable proceedings 
which I have been telling you about, Manchon 
testified thus ; — here you have it, all in fair print in the 
official history : 
When Joan spoke of her apparitions she was interrupted at almost 
every word. They wearied her with long and multiplied interrogatories 
upon all sorts of things. Almost every day the interrogatories of the 
morning lasted three or four hours ; then from these morning interroga- 
tories they extracted the particularly difficult and subtle points, and these 
served as material for the afternoon interrogatories, which lasted t7uo or 
three hours. Moment by moment they skipped from one subject to an- 
other ; yet in spite of this she always responded with an astonishing wisdom 
and memory. She often corrected the judges, saying, ' But I have already 
answered that once before — ask the recorder,' referring them to me. 
And here is the testimony of one of Joan's judges. Re- 
member, these witnesses are not talking about two or three 
days, they are talking about a tedious long procession of 
days : 
They asked her profound questions, but she extricated herself quite 
well. Sometimes the questioners changed suddenly and passed to another 
subject to see if she would 7iot contradict herself They burdened her with 
long interrogatories of two or three hours, from which the judges themselves 
zvent forth fatigued. From the snares with which she was beset the ex- 
pertest man in the world could not have extricated himtelf hut with diffi- 
culty. She gave her responses with great prudence ; indeed, to such a de- 
gree that during three weeks I believed she was inspired. 
Ah, had she a mind such as I have described ? You 
see what these priests say under oath — picked men, men 
chosen for their places in that terrible court on account of 
their learning, their experience, their keen and practised 
intellects and their strong bias against the prisoner. They 
make that poor young country girl out the match, and 
more than the match, of the sixty-two trained adepts. Isn't 
it so ? They from the University of Paris, she from the 
sheepfold and the cow-stable ! Ah, yes, she was great, she 
was wonderful. It took six thousand years to produce 
her ; her like will not be seen in the earth again in fifty 
thousand. Such is my opinion. 
CHAPTER VII 
The third meeting of the court was in that same spacious 
chamber, next day, 24th of February. 
How did it begin work ? In just the same old way. 
When the preparations were ended, the robed sixty-two, 
massed in their chairs and the guards and order-keepers 
distributed to their stations, Cauchon spoke from his 
throne and commanded Joan to lay her hands upon the 
Gospels and swear to tell the truth concerning everything 
asked her ! 
Joan's eyes kindled, and she rose ; rose and stood, fine 
and noble, and faced toward the bishop and said — 
' Take care what you do, my lord, you who are my 
judge, for you take a terrible responsibility on yourself and 
you presume too far.' 
It made a great stir, and Cauchon burst out upon her 
with an awful threat — the threat of instant condemnation 
unless she obeyed. That made the very bones in my body 
turn cold, and I saw cheeks about me blanch — for it meant 
fire and the stake ! But Joan, still standing, answered 
him back, proud and undismayed — 
' Not all the clergy in Paris and Rouen could condemn 
me, lacking the right ! ' 
This made a great tumult, and part of it was applause 
from the spectators. Joan resumed her seat. The Bishop 
still insisted. Joan said — 
' I have already made oath. It is enough.' 
The Bishop shouted — 
' In refusing to swear, you place yourself under suspi- 
cion ! ' 
' Let be. I have sworn already. It is enough.' 
The Bishop continued to insist. Joan answered that 
' she would tell what she knew — but not all that she 
knew.' 
The Bishop plagued her straight along, till at last she 
said, in a weary tone — 
' I came from God ; I have nothing more to do here. 
Return me to God, from whom I came.' 
It was piteous to hear ; it was the same as saying, 
' You only want my life ; take it and let me be at peace.' 
The Bishop stormed out again — 
' Once more I command you to ' 
Joan cut in with a nonchalant ' Passez outre y' and 
Cauchon retired from the struggle ; but he retired with 
some credit this time, for he offered a compromise, and 
Joan, always clear-headed, saw protection for herself in it 
and promptly and willingly accepted it. She was to 
swear to tell the truth ' as touching the matters set down 
in the proces verbal.'' They could not sail her outside of 
definite limits now ; her course was over a charted sea 
henceforth. The Bishop had granted more than he 
had intended, and more than he would honestly try to 
abide by. 
By command, Beaupere resumed his examination of the 
accused. It being Lent, there might be a chance to catch 
her neglecting some detail of her religious duties. I could 
have told him he would fail there. Why, religion was her 
life ! 
' Since when have you eaten or drunk ? ' 
If the least thing had passed her lips in the nature of 
sustenance, neither her youth nor the fact that she was 
being half starved in her prison could save her from dan- 
gerous suspicion of contempt for the commandments of the 
Church. 
' I have done neither since yesterday at noon.' 
The priest shifted to the Voices again. 
' When have you heard your Voice ? ' 
' Yesterday and to-day.' 
' At what time ? ' 
' Yesterday it was in the morning.' 
' What were you doing then ? ' 
' I was asleep and it woke me.' 
' By touching your arm ? ' 3 
' No ; without touching me.' 
' Did you thank it ? Did you kneel ? ' 
He had Satan in his mind, you see ; and was hoping, 
perhaps, that by-and-by it could be shown that she had 
rendered homage to the arch-enemy of God and man. 
' Yes, I thanked it ; and knelt in my bed where I was 
chained, and joined my hands and begged it to implore 
God's help for me so that I might have light and instruction 
as touching the answers I should give here.' 
' Then what did the Voice say ? ' 
' It told me to answer boldly, and God would help me.' 
Then she turned toward Cauchon and said, ' You say that 
you are my judge ; now I tell you again, take care what 
you do, for in truth I am sent of God and you are putting 
yourself in great danger.' 
Beaupere asked her if the Voice's counsels were not 
fickle and variable. 
' No. It never contradicts itself. This very day it has 
told me again to answer boldly.' 
' Has it forbidden you to answer only part of what is 
asked you ? ' 
' I will tell you nothing as to that. I have revelations 
touching the King my master, and those I will not tell 
you.' Then she was stirred by a great emotion, and the 
tears sprang to her eyes and she spoke out as with strong 
conviction, saying — 
' I believe wholly — as wholly as I believe the Christian 
faith and that God has redeemed us from the fires of hell, 
that God speaks to me by that Voice ! ' 
Being questioned further concerning the Voice, she 
said she was not at liberty to tell all she knew. 
' Do you think God would be displeased at your telling 
the whole truth ? ' 
' The Voice has commanded me to tell the King certain 
things, and not you — and some very lately — even last 
night ; things which I would he knew. He would be more 
easy at his dinner.' 
' Why doesn't the Voice speak to the King Itself, as it 
did when you were with him ? Would it not if you asked 
it?' 
' I do not know if it be the wish of God.' She was 
pensive a moment or two, busy with her thoughts and far 
away, no doubt ; then she added a remark in which 
Beaupere, always watchful, always alert, detected a possible 
opening- -a chance to set a trap. Do you think he jumped 
at it instantly, betraying the joy he had in his find, as a 
young hand at craft and artifice would do ? No, oh no, 
you could not tell that he had noticed the remark at all. 
He slid indifferently away from it at once, and began to 
ask idle questions about other things, so as to slip around 
and spring on it from behind, so to speak : tedious and 
empty questions as to whether the Voice had told her she 
would escape from this prison ; and if it had furnished 
answers to be used by her in to-day's stance ; if it was 
accompanied with a glory of light ; if it had eyes, &c. 
That risky remark of Joan's was this : 
' Without the Grace of God I could do nothing.' 
The court saw the priest's game, and watched his play 
with a cruel eagerness. Poor Joan was grown dreamy 
and absent ; possibly she was tired. Her life was in 
imminent danger, and she did not suspect it. The time 
was ripe now, and Beaupere quietly and stealthily sprung 
his trap : 
' Are you in a state of Grace ? ' 
Ah, we had two or three honourable brave men in that 
pack of judges ; and Jean Lefevre was one of them. He 
sprang to his feet and cried out : 
' It is a terrible question ! The accused is not obliged 
to answer it ! ' 
Cauchon's face flushed black with anger to see this 
plank flung to the perishing child, and he shouted : 
' Silence ! and take your seat. The accused will 
answer the question ! ' 
There was no hope, no way out of the dilemma ; for 
whether she said yes or whether she said no, it would be 
all the same — a disastrous answer, for the Scriptures had 
said one cannot know this thing. Think what hard hearts 
they were to set this fatal snare for that ignorant young 
girl and be proud of such work and happy in it. It was a 
miserable moment for me while we waited ; it seemed a 
year. All the house showed excitement ; and mainly it 
was glad excitement. Joan looked out upon these hungering 
faces with innocent untroubled eyes, and then humbly 
and gently she brought out that immortal answer which 
brushed the formidable snare away as it had been but a 
cobweb : 
'If I be not in a state of Grace, I pray God place me in it ; 
if I be in it, I pray God keep me so.' 
Ah, you will never see an effect like that ; no, not while 
you live. For a space there was the silence of the grave. 
Men looked wondering into each other's faces, and some 
were awed and crossed themselves ; and I heard Lefevre 
mutter — 
' It was beyond the wisdom of man to devise that 
answer. Whence come this child's amazing inspirations ? ' 
Beaupere presently took up his work again, but the 
humiliation of his defeat weighed upon him, and he made 
but a rambling and dreary business of it, he not being able 
to put any heart in it. 
He asked Joan a thousand questions about her child- 
hood and about the oak wood, and the fairies, and the 
children's games and romps under our dear Arbre Fee de 
Bourlemonty and this stirring up of old memories broke her 
voice and made her cry a little, but she bore up as well as 
she could, and answered everything. 
Then the priest finished by touching again upon the 
matter of her apparel — a matter which was never to be lost 
sight of in this still-hunt for this innocent creature's life, 
but kept always hanging over her a menace charged with 
mournful possibilities : 
' Would you like a woman's dress ? ' 
' Indeed yes, if I may go out from this prison — but 
here, no.' 
CHAPTER VIII 
The court met next on Monday the 27th. Would you 
believe it ? The Bishop ignored the contract limiting- the 
examination to matters set down in the proces verbal and 
again commanded Joan to take the oath without reservations. 
She said — 
' You should be content ; I have sworn enough.' 
She stood her ground, and Cauchon had to yield. 
The examination was resumed, concerning Joan's 
Voices. 
' You have said that you recognised them as being the 
voices of angels the third time that you heard them. What 
angels were they ? ' 
' St. Catherine and St. Marguerite.' 
' How did you know that it was those two saints ? 
How could you tell the one from the other ? ' 
' I know it was they ; and I know how to distinguish 
them.' 
' By what sign ?,' 
' By their manner of saluting me. I have been these 
seven years under their direction, and I knew who they 
were because they told me.' 
' Whose was the first Voice that came to you when you 
were thirteen years old ? ' 
' It was the Voice of St. Michael. I saw him before 
my eyes ; and he was not alone, but attended by a cloud of 
angels.' 
' Did you see the archangel and the attendant angels in 
the body, or in the spirit ? ' 
' I saw them with the eyes of my body, just as I see 
you ; and when they went away I cried because they did 
not take me with them.' 
It made me see that awful shadow again that fell 
dazzling white upon her that day under PArbre Fie de 
Bourlemont y and it made me shiver again, though it was so 
long ago. It was really not very long gone by, but it 
seemed so, because so much had happened since. 
' In what shape and form did St. Michael appear ? ' 
' As to that I have not received permission to 
speak.' 
' What did the archangel say to you that first time ? ' 
' I cannot answer you to-day.' 
Meaning, I think, that she would have to get per- 
mission of her Voices first. 
Presently, after some more questions as to the revela- 
tions which had been conveyed through her to the King, 
she complained of the unnecessity of all this, and said — 
' I will say again, as I have said before, many times in 
these sittings, that I answered all questions of this sort 
before the court at Poitiers, and I would that you would 
bring here the record of that court and read from that. 
Prithee send for that book.' 
There was no answer. It was a subject that had to be 
got around and put aside. That book had wisely been 
gotten out of the way, for it contained things which would 
be very awkward here. Among them was a decision that 
Joan's mission was from God, whereas it was the intention 
of this inferior court to show that it was from the devil ; 
also a decision permitting Joan to wear male attire, whereas 
it was the purpose of this court to make the male attire do 
hurtful work against her. 
' How was it that you were moved to come into France 
— by your own desire ? ' 
' Yes ; and by command of God. But that it was His 
will I would not have come. I would sooner have had my 
body torn in sunder by horses than come, lacking that.' 
Beaupere shifted once more to the matter of the male 
attire now, and proceeded to make a solemn talk about it. 
That tried Joan's patience ; and presently she interrupted 
and said — 
' It is a trifling thing and of no consequence. And I 
did not put it on by counsel of any man, but by command 
of God.' 
' Robert de Baudricourt did not order you to wear it ? ' 
'No.' 
' Do you think you did well in taking the dress of a 
man ? ' 
'I did well to do whatsoever things God commanded 
me to do.' 
' But in this particular case do you think you did well 
in taking the dress of a man ? ' 
' I have done nothing but by command of God.' 
Beaupere made various attempts to lead her into con- 
tradictions of herself ; also to put her words and acts in 
disaccord with the Sqriptures. But it was lost time. He 
did not succeed. He returned to her visions, the light 
which shone about them, her relations with the King, and 
so on. 
' Was there an angel above the King's head the first 
time you saw him ? ' 
' By the Blessed Mary ! ' 
She forced her impatience down, and finished her sen- 
tence with tranquillity : ' If there was one I did not see it.' 
' Was there light ? ' 
' There were more than three hundred soldiers there, 
and five hundred torches, without taking account of 
spiritual light.' 
' What made the King believe in the revelations which 
you brought him ? ' 
' He had signs ; also the counsel of the clergy.' 
' What revelations were made to the King ? ' 
' You will not get that out of me this year.' Presently 
she added : ' During three weeks I was questioned by the 
clergy at Chinon and Poitiers. The King had a sign before 
he would believe ; and the clergy were of opinion that my 
acts were good and not evil.' 
The subject was dropped now for a while, and Beaupere 
took up the matter of the miraculous sword of Fierbois 
to see if he could not find a chance there to fix the crime of 
sorcery upon Joan. 
' How did you know that there was an ancient sword 
buried in the ground under the rear of the altar of the 
church of St. Catherine of Fierbois ? ' 
Joan had no concealments to make as to this : 
' I knew the sword was there because my Voices told 
me so ; and I sent to ask that it be given to me to carry in 
the wars. It seemed to me that it was not very deep in 
the ground. The clergy of the church caused it to be 
sought for and dug up ; and they polished it, and the rust 
fell easily off from it.' 
' Were you wearing it when you were taken in battle at 
Compigne ? ' 
' No. But I wore it constantly until I left St. -Denis 
after the attack upon Paris.' 
This sword, so mysteriously discovered, and so long 
and so constantly victorious, was suspected of being under 
the protection of enchantment. 
' Was that sword blest ? What blessing had been 
invoked upon it ? ' 
' None. I loved it because it was found in the church 
of St. Catherine, for I loved that church very dearly.' 
She loved it because it had been built in honour of one 
of her angels. 
' Didn't you lay it upon the altar, to the end that it 
might be lucky ? ' (The altar of St.-Denis.) 
'No.' 
' Didn't you pray that it might be made lucky ? ' 
' Truly it were no harm to wish that my harness might 
be fortunate.' 
' Then it was not that sword which you wore in the 
field of Compigne ? What sword did you wear there ? ' 
' The sword of the Burgundian Franquet d' Arras, whom 
I took prisoner in the engagement at Lagny. I kept it 
because it was a good war-sword — good to lay on stout 
thumps and blows with.' 
She said that quite simply ; and the contrast between 
her dehcate Httle self and the grim soldier-words which she 
dropped with such easy familiarity from her lips made 
many spectators smile. 
'What is become of the other sword? Where is it 
now ? ' 
' Is that in the proces verbal ? ' 
Beaupere did not answer. 
' Which do you love best, your banner or your sword ? ' 
Her eye lighted gladly at the mention of her banner, 
and she cried out — 
' I love my banner best— oh, forty times more than the 
sword ! Sometimes I carried it myself when I charged 
the enemy, to avoid killing any one.' Then she added, 
naively, and with again that curious contrast between her 
girlish little personality and her subject, ' I have never 
killed any one.' 
It made a great many smile ; and no wonder, when 
you consider what a gentle and innocent little thing she 
looked. One could hardly believe she had ever even seen 
men slaughtered, she looked so little fitted for such things. 
' In the final assault at Orleans did you tell your 
soldiers that the arrows shot by the enemy and the stones 
discharged from their catapults and cannon would not 
strike any one but you ? ' 
' No. And the proof is, that more than a hundred of 
my men were struck. I told them to have no doubts and 
no fears ; that they would raise the siege. I was wounded 
in the neck by an arrow in the assault upon the bastille 
that commanded the bridge, but St. Catherine comforted 
me, and I was cured in fifteen days without having to quit 
the saddle and leave my work.'  
' Did you know that you were going to be wounded ? 
' Yes ; and I had told it to the King beforehand. I 
had it from my Voices.' 
'When you took Jargeau, why did you not put its 
commandant to ransom ? ' 
' I offered him leave to go out unhurt from the place, 
with all his garrison ; and if he would not I would take it 
by storm.' 
' And you did, I believe ? ' 
'Yes.' 
' Had your Voices counselled you to take it by storm ?' 
' As to that I do not remember.' 
Thus closed a weary long- sitting, without result. 
Every device that could be contrived to trap Joan into 
wrong thinking, wrong doing, or disloyalty to the Church, 
or sinfulness as a little child at home or later had been 
tried, and none of them had succeeded. She had come 
unscathed through the ordeal. 
Was the court discouraged? No. Naturally it was 
very much surprised, very much astonished, to find its 
work baffling and difficult instead of simple and easy, but 
it had powerful allies in the shape of hunger, cold, fatigue, 
persecution, deception, and treachery ; and opposed to 
this array nothing but a defenceless and ignorant girl who 
must some time or other surrender to bodily and mental 
exhaustion or get caught in one of the thousand traps set 
for her. 
And had the court made no progress during these 
seemingly resultless sittings ? Yes. It had been feeling 
its way, groping here, groping there, and had found one 
or two vague trails which might freshen by-and-by and 
lead to something. The male attire, for instance, and the 
visions and Voices. Of course no one doubted that she 
had seen supernatural beings and been spoken to and 
advised by them. And of course no one doubted that by 
supernatural help miracles had been done by Joan, such 
as choosing out the King in a crowd when she had never 
seen him before, and her discovery of the sword buried 
under the altar. It would have been foolish to doubt these 
things, for we all know that the air is full of devils and 
angels that are visible to traffickers in magic on the one 
hand and to the stainlessly holy on the other ; but what 
many and perhaps most did doubt was, that Joan's visions, 
voices, and miracles came from God. It was hoped that 
in time they could be proven to have been of satanic 
origin. Therefore, as you see, the court's persistent 
fashion of coming back to that subject every little while 
and spooking around it and prying into it was not to pass 
the time — it had a strictly business end in view. 
CHAPTER IX 
The next sitting opened on Thursday the first of March. 
Fifty-eight judges present — the others resting. 
As usual, Joan was required to take an oath without 
reservations. She showed no temper this time. She con- 
sidered herself well buttressed by the proces verbal com- 
promise which Cauchon was so anxious to repudiate and 
creep out of ; so she merely refused, distinctly and de- 
cidedly ; and added, in a spirit of fairness and candour — 
' But as to matters set down in the proces verbal I will 
freely tell the whole truth — yes, as freely and fully as if I 
were before the Pope.' 
Here was a chance ! We had two or three Popes, then ; 
only one of them could be the true Pope, of course. Every- 
body judiciously shirked the question of which was the true 
Pope and refrained from naming him, it being clearly dan- 
gerous to go into particulars in this matter. Here was an 
opportunity to trick an unadvised girl into bringing herself 
into peril, and the unfair judge lost no time in taking ad- 
vantage of it. He asked, in a plausibly indolent and absent 
way — 
' Which one do you consider to be the true Pope ? ' 
The house took an attitude of deep attention, and so 
waited to hear the answer and see the prey walk into the 
trap. But when the answer came it covered the judge with 
confusion, and you could see many people covertly chuckling. 
For Joan asked in a voice and manner which almost deceived 
even me, so innocent it seemed — 
' Are there two ? ' 
One of the ablest priests in that body and one of the 
best swearers there, spoke right out so that half the house 
heard him, and said — 
' By God it was a master stroke ! ' 
As soon as the judge was better of his embarrassment 
he came back to the charge, but was prudent and passed 
by Joan's question — 
' Is it true that you received a letter from the Count of 
Armagnac asking you which of the three Popes he ought 
to obey ? ' 
' Yes, and answered it.' 
Copies of both letters were produced and read. Joan 
said that hers had not been quite strictly copied. She said 
she had received the Count's letter when she was just 
mounting her horse ; and added — 
' So, in dictating a word or two of reply I said J would 
try to answer him from Paris or somewhere where I could 
be at rest.' 
She was asked again which Pope she had considered 
the right one. 
4 was not able to instruct the Count of Armagnac as 
to which one he ought to obey ' ; then she added, with a 
frank fearlessness which sounded fresh and wholesome in 
that den of trimmers and shufflers, ' but as for me, I hold 
that we are bound to obey our Lord the Pope who is at 
Rome.' 
The matter was dropped. Then they produced and read 
a copy of Joan's first effort at dictating — her proclamation 
summoning the English to retire from the siege of Orleans 
and vacate France — truly a great and fine production for 
an unpractised girl of seventeen. 
' Do you acknowledge as your own the document which 
has just been read ? ' 
' Yes, except that there are errors in it — words which 
make me give myself too much importance.' I saw what 
was coming ; I was troubled and ashamed. ' For instance. 
I did not say, '' Deliver up to the Maid " {rendez a la Pucelle) ; 
I said, '' Deliver up to the King " {rendez au Roi) ; and I did 
not call myself '' Commander-in-Chief" {chef de guerre). All 
those are words which my secretary substituted ; or may- 
hap he misheard me or forgot what I said.' 
She did not look at me when she said it ; she spared 
me that embarrassment. I hadn't misheard her at all, and 
hadn't forgotten. I changed her language purposely, for 
she was Commander-in-Chief and entitled to call herself so, 
and it was becoming and proper too ; and who was going 
to surrender anything to the King ?— at that time a stick, 
a cipher ? If any surrendering was done, it would be to the 
noble Maid of Vaucouleurs, already famed and formidable 
though she had not yet struck a blow. 
Ah, there would have been a fine and disagreeable 
episode (for me) there, if that pitiless court had discovered 
that the very scribbler of that piece of dictation, secretary 
to Joan of Arc, was present— and not only present, but 
helping build the record ; and not only that, but destined 
at a far distant day to testify against lies and perversions 
smuggled into it by Cauchon and deliver them over to 
eternal infamy ! 
' Do you acknowledge that you dictated this proclama- 
tion?' 
' I do.' 
' Have you repented of it ? Do you retract it ? ' 
Ah, then she was indignant ! 
' No ! Not even these chains '—and she shook them— 
' not even these chains can chill the hopes that I uttered 
there. And more ! '—she rose, and stood a moment with 
a divine strange light kindling in her face, then her words 
burst forth as in a flood—' I warn you now that before seven 
years a disaster will smite the English, oh, many fold 
greater than the fall of Orleans ! and ' 
' Silence ! Sit down ! ' 
'—and then, soon after, they will lose all France ! ' 
Now consider these things. The French armies no 
longer existed. The French cause was standing still, our 
King was standing still, there was no hint that by-and-by 
the Constable Richemont would come forward and take up 
the great work of Joan of Arc and finish it. In face of all 
this, Joan made that prophecy — made it with perfect confidence 
— and it came true. 
For within five years Paris fell — 1436 — and our King 
marched into it flying the victor's flag. So the first part 
of the prophecy was then fulfilled — in fact, almost the en- 
tire prophecy ; for, with Paris in our hands, the fulfilment 
of the rest of it was assured. 
Twenty years later all France was ours excepting a 
single town — Calais. 
Now that will remind you of an earlier prophecy of 
Joan's. At the time that she wanted to take Paris, and 
could have done it with ease if our King had but consented, 
she said that that was the golden time ; that with Paris 
ours, all France would be ours in six months. But if this 
golden opportunity to recover France was wasted, said 
she, ' 1 give you twenty years to do it in. 
She was right. After Paris fell, in 1436, the rest of the 
work had to be done city by city, castle by castle, and it 
took twenty years to finish it. 
Yes, it was the first day of March, 143 1, there in the 
court, that she stood in the view of everybody and uttered 
that strange and incredible prediction. Now and then, in 
this world, somebody's prophecy turns up correct, but when 
you come to look into it there is sure to be considerable 
room for suspicion that the prophecy was made after the 
fact. But here the matter is diff"erent. There in that court 
Joan's prophecy was set down in the official record at the 
hour and moment of its utterance, years before the fulfil- 
ment, and there you may read it to this day. Twenty-five 
years after Joan's death the record was produced in the 
great Court of the Rehabilitation and verified under oath 
by Manchon and me, and surviving judges of our court 
confirmed the exactness of the record in their testimony. 
Joan's startling utterance on that now so celebrated 
first of March stirred up a great turmoil, and it was some 
time before it quieted down again. Naturally everybody 
was troubled, for a prophecy is a grisly and awful thing, 
whether one thinks it ascends from hell or comes down 
from heaven. All that these people felt sure of was, that 
the inspiration back of it was genuine and puissant. They 
would have given their right hands to know the source of 
it. 
At last the questions began again. 
' How do you know that those things are going to 
happen ? ' 
