But the young men were busy observing the various craft; for they were
of all sorts and kinds, from the simple Chinese sampan to the craft
fifty feet long, provided with a cabin, and parts of her covered with
the leaf awning, something like what they had seen in Borneo.
"Where does this boat come from, Achang?" asked Felix.
The Bornean spoke to a man who seemed to be the captain and a Malay.
"She come from Great Lake," reported Achang. "She bring down dry fish to
sell to the poor people of Cholon."
"How much does it cost to build one of these houses, Mr. Frôler?" asked
Captain Ringgold, after they had looked over some of them.
"About twenty-five francs."
"It ought not to cost more than that, for they are nothing but
shanties," replied the commander. "Some of them are built on floats, as
in Bangkok."
"Let us look into one of them; they will not object. This is a
Chinaman's abode, and he belongs to the better class here," said the
Frenchman as he led the way into the house, followed by the commander,
with Mrs. Belgrave on his arm.
Seated at a table was what a sailor would call a kid, or small tub,
containing a stew of fish and vegetables; and there was a dish for each
individual, which did duty as a plate. There were a man, a woman, and
three children at the table.
"These people belong to the aristocracy," said the Frenchman, as they
retired, and the family were visited by others of the party. "We will
look into another house of a lower grade of people;" and they went into
a hut about six feet square, in which were eight men, women, and
children, huddled together around a tub on the floor containing fish and
rice. The odor was not agreeable, and they hurried away.
"You noticed the two girls there. If you want them, Captain, you can buy
them for thirty dollars apiece of your money."
"I don't want them; and I don't care about staying any longer in this
part of the town," replied the commander.
They walked rather hurriedly to the yacht. On the way they met a
carriage something like a wheelbarrow, with a single large wheel, and a
seat on each side of it, one occupied by a fat Chinaman and the other by
a Malay. It was propelled by a native just like an ordinary wheelbarrow.
"That's a big team," said Scott.
"You will see plenty of them in some of the cities of China."
The Blanchita left Mr. Frôler at the landing-place, and then conveyed
the passengers to the two ships; for the ladies insisted that they must
dress for the dinner at the governor's palace.
CHAPTER XXV
SEVERAL HILARIOUS FROLICS
The ladies certainly did dress for the occasion; and not only the
ladies, but all the gentlemen. The captain put on a new uniform which he
had not worn since his ship left Colombo. Scott had a new uniform also;
Uncle Moses, the surgeon, Mr. Woolridge, and the professor came out in
evening costume, with black dress-coats; and the young men were clothed
for their age, in black. The ship's company looked at them with
astonishment when they came on deck, for they had never seen them en
grand tenue before.
The ladies were properly costumed for the dinner, and all of them wore
the best they had. When the Blanchita came alongside the ship with the
Blanche's party, more surprise was manifested; for Mrs. Noury was
dressed as a princess, as she was, with the richest garments of India;
General Noury clothed in the full costume of his Moroccan rank, a dress
which had not been seen before. Captain Sharp wore his uniform, and his
wife proved that no money had been spared on her dress and adornings.
The rajah wore his Indian suit, made of the costliest materials and the
most brilliant colors, and rubies and diamonds sparkled upon him, as on
the pacha. Dr. Henderson was in keeping with his professional brother
of the other party.
The seats of the yacht had been overlaid with rugs and other materials,
that the rich costumes need not be soiled. The Blanche's barge came soon
with the Italian band on board; for the general desired to serenade the
governor during the evening. It was an hour too early; for the commander
had been so solicitous that the company should not be late, that he had
overdone the matter. The landlord was to have the carriages at the
landing at half-past six, and there was an hour to wait. But the
princess and Mrs. Sharp declined to leave their seats in the launch, for
fear of mussing up their dresses; and the general called upon the band
to play while they were waiting.
It was near the close of a clear day, and the music was delightful. In a
short time not less than a hundred boats surrounded the ship, and three
times as many people stood upon the shore. The band had not played
before since their arrival. Mr. Frôler, in Parisian evening dress, had
come to the landing to receive the party, and when he heard the music,
he came off, standing up in a sampan; for he was as careful of his
garments as the ladies. The captain had ordered a carpet to be placed on
the steps of the gangway, and the polite Frenchman ascended to the deck
without peril to his clothing.
"Good-evening, Captain Ringgold," said he, extending his hand. "You have
the most ravishing music here."
"It is General Noury's Italian band, and he will take it ashore to
serenade the governor," replied the commander.
"I have not seen your steamer before, and she is a magnificent vessel,"
added the Frenchman.
"I should be happy to show her to you; but we have hardly time to do so
now, for I see that the ladies are taking their places in the launch,"
answered Captain Ringgold; "but I shall ask the governor and such ladies
and gentlemen as you will designate to spend the afternoon and evening
on board to-morrow, dining in the cabin. I arranged it with the general.
Both ships will be visited, the band will play, and we will make a
general frolic of it. The next morning we shall sail for Manila."
Both of the gentlemen hastened to the gangway to assist the ladies as
soon as the commander saw Mrs. Belgrave moving in that direction. Miss
Blanche, conducted by Louis, appeared about the same time. Her costume
was very neat, though not showy; but she was as beautiful as a fairy,
and the Frenchman clasped his hands in ecstasy when he saw her. In a
short time they were all seated in the Blanchita, and the gentlemen then
took their places.
Precisely at twenty minutes past six Captain Sharp, prompted by Captain
Ringgold, gave the order to cast off. A quartermaster of the Blanche was
at the wheel, and in five minutes she was alongside the shore. A
platform of clean boards, covered with a carpet, had been laid down by
the landlord of the Hôtel de l'Europe, and the vehicles were in
waiting. The ladies were handed from the boat to the carriages without a
spot or a splash on their dresses, though the shore was very muddy.
In ten minutes more the head of the procession reached the governor's
palace. There they found an awning over the sidewalk, and carpets laid
down for the guests to walk upon. The French, English, and American
flags were flying on the building. The ladies were conducted to the
grand entrance of the palace, and taken by the servants to the
apartments set apart for clothing. There were not less than a thousand
natives and French people gathered in the vicinity, but they were kept
in admirable order by the Malay police. The pacha's band was admitted to
the grounds, and Mr. Frôler was acting as chief marshal; he notified
them when the party began to descend the stairs, and the music commenced
then. They came down in couples, Captain Ringgold and Mrs. Belgrave
leading, followed by the pacha and the princess.
His Excellency stood at the head of the large apartment, and received
them as they advanced. He was a widower and childless, so that he had no
wife nor daughter to present. Louis and Miss Blanche were the next,
though the commander had proposed that Louis should come next to him and
his mother; but Louis rebelled, and insisted that he should follow the
pacha. The rajah came next, and had Mrs. Blossom on his arm, to the no
small amusement of the party; but the deposed sovereign prince could
find no other lady disengaged.
Possibly Mr. Woolridge and wife were disconcerted to come next; but
their daughter had been properly honored, and both were too fond of
Blanche to be troubled about the precedence. Mr. Frôler stood by the
governor, and announced the names of the members of the party; for His
Excellency could hardly be expected to remember them. But he was very
cordial to all of them, speaking in his broken English, except to the
pacha and Louis. Some of the gentlemen had to present themselves without
ladies; but there were at least twenty ladies and gentlemen seated
around the room. After all the party from the ships had been received by
the governor, they were introduced to the other visitors. Some of the
Saigonians could speak English, and some could not; but the conversation
soon became general. The commander and Mrs. Belgrave found enough who
could speak English. There were seven persons among the tourists who
could converse fluently in French, and Mr. Frôler employed these as
interpreters for those who could not speak the polite language.
The scene was quite amusing to all; and even the governor laughed
heartily as he looked about him, and saw the struggles in the matter of
language. The chief marshal proved to be a very potent functionary, and
he was omnipresent in the apartment. When the governor spoke to him in
praise of Miss Blanche, he immediately sent Louis with her to His
Excellency. The room was the audience chamber of the palace, and the
magnate of the occasion invited her to a seat on the dais at his side.
She could speak French a little; and it was soon observed that she was
enjoying herself very much, and the governor even more.
Mrs. Sharp was passed over to Louis, and he made the grand round with
her. The princess was instructed to do the same with Mr. Woolridge,
while the professor rendered the same service to Mrs. Woolridge. The
rajah escorted Mrs. Blossom around the chamber, and the poor woman was
in a flutter all the time. The long robe of the Indian prince bothered
her, and she had been nearly tripped up several times; but her new beau
was as polite and deferential as though she had been a queen. She had a
story to tell the gossips of Von Blonk Park which would last her the
rest of her lifetime. It was even a livelier time than that at the
hotel, made so by the confusion of tongues, which was not far short of
that at the Tower of Babel.
The dinner was announced by the major-domo of the household. Ignoring
the houris of the occasion, the polite governor escorted Mrs. Belgrave
to the table, and seated her on his right, while the captain of the
Guardian-Mother conducted the princess. Those of the gentlemen who could
speak French were requested by Mr. Frôler to attend the resident ladies;
and the most distinguished was placed in charge of the pacha. The
contretemps of language were frequent and laughable; and so much
amusement was derived from this source that some of the visitors
purposely made bulls to keep up the hilarity.
The dinner was a very elegant as well as a very substantial affair.
Monsieur Odervie and other French cooks fraternized as usual on this
great occasion; and the table was ornamented with many set pieces, and
one from the citadel produced a Buddhist temple in sugar, which was the
admiration of the guests; and doubtless all these culinary artists would
assist the chef of the Guardian-Mother for the great dinner of the
following day. But it would require a considerable volume to detail all
the occurrences of the governor's banquet. A speech was made by His
Excellency in French, which was replied to by Captain Ringgold, without
knowing much of what had been said; but Louis followed him in a few
remarks in French, thanking the governor and the residents of the city
for their kindness and hospitality.
The pacha made the speech of the evening in the vernacular of the host,
which was violently applauded by the residents, especially by the
military officers from the citadel, who had been informed that he was
the commander-in-chief of the armies of his country. The Italian band
had been brought into the palace, feasted, and stationed in the great
hall, where they discoursed their finest music, to the great delight of
the guests. Dancing followed, and the governor led Mrs. Noury to the
floor. The rajah asked Mrs. Blossom to dance with him; but she did not
know a step, and if she ever in her life regretted that she could not
dance, it was on this occasion. The commander of the citadel and chief
officer of the army of Cochin China led out Mrs. Noury, and the next in
rank to His Excellency who could speak English was favored by Miss
Blanche.
It was kept up till after midnight; and then the tourists returned to
the ships, visiting the hotel the next forenoon to obtain their baggage.
All the party at the fête of the governor had been invited to the
ships; and the Blanchita conveyed them from the landing in two trips,
one to the Guardian-Mother, and the other to the Blanche. The guests
were shown over both steamers, and they expressed their admiration in
both languages. All the officers were kept busy, especially Mr.
Gaskette, who spoke French. Every passenger was a host or hostess, and
the confusion of tongues created as much merriment as it had at the
palace. Captain Ringgold devoted himself especially to the governor. The
Italian band played all the time on the deck of the Blanche, which was
hardly a ship's length from her consort.
After a light lunch had been served in the cabins of both steamers, the
party on board of the Guardian-Mother, with their hosts, were conveyed
to the Blanche, where they spent a couple of hours, and had a dance on
her promenade deck under an awning. Every part of the ship was visited;
and after a stay of two hours, the entire company was conveyed in two
trips to the Guardian-Mother. When some of the guests asked how the
passengers contrived to amuse themselves on the long voyage, Mrs.
Belgrave organized a section of them, and played Blindman's Buff,
Turning the Cover, Copenhagen, and other games, to the intense delight
of the guests.
At six o'clock dinner was announced. Monsieur Odervie had had the
assistance of not less than four chefs all day; and several set pieces
in varied ingredients, original and artistic, adorned the two tables.
The bill of fare had been printed in the city, and of course it was all
French. The occasion was much the same as at the palace, with all the
confusion of tongues. At the close of the dinner Captain Ringgold made
his speech, which the governor could understand, and the chief official
of the province responded in his own language. Several others were
heard; and when Dr. Hawkes attempted to make a speech in the polite
language, he excited bursts of laughter, and it was soon evident that he
was speaking for the fun of it. His gestures were more French than his
speech, which he interlarded with English and Latin. Uncle Moses made a
remark in the latter language, which only the doctor and the professor
could understand; but it was as vigorously applauded as though every
word had been comprehended.
After dinner the governor called for some singing, and gospel hymns were
introduced. Captain Rayburn was one of the guests on board, and his
heavy bass was the crowning glory of the music.
The ship had been illuminated, and the band played at times on the deck.
The governor wanted some more of Mrs. Belgrave's games, and they were
repeated in the music-room. The Cupids, as the two fat gentlemen had
been named in Egypt, did their best on this occasion,--rolled on the
floor, and were as antic as boys.
It was after midnight when the Blanchita began to convey the guests to
the shore; and the adieux were very cordial, with many regrets that the
ships must depart so soon. The river was so full of boats that the
launch had some difficulty in making her way to the shore; but the Malay
police soon made an opening for her.
Mr. Frôler had been invited to sleep on board, as had Captain Rayburn;
and both accepted, the former returning to the ship after he had seen
his ladies home.
CHAPTER XXVI
THE VOYAGE ACROSS THE CHINA SEA
The tide was right at six o'clock in the morning, and the order had been
given the night before to sail at this hour. Mr. Frôler and Captain
Rayburn were on deck before this time; and the latter took a boat to his
vessel, after very hearty thanks for the pleasure he had enjoyed.
"I don't feel at all like leaving your steamer, Captain Ringgold, but I
suppose I must," said the French gentleman, as the commander took him by
the hand in the morning.
"I am as sorry to have you leave as you are to do so," replied the
captain. "We have seen the place, and made the acquaintance of quite a
number of the people. In fact, you have turned our visit into a general
frolic, and I am sure my party have never enjoyed themselves more than
during the past two days; and we owe it all to you, Mr. Frôler."
"You praise my feeble efforts to enable you to see the place and some of
the people more than they deserve," replied the Frenchman.
"When I meet you in New York, I shall do my best to reciprocate your
very kind and hospitable reception, and I am confident all my passengers
will do the same. I should be most happy to have you continue on
board."
"I should avail myself of your very kind invitation so far as to go to
Manila if there were a line of steamers between that port and Saigon.
But I should have to go by the way of Singapore. With your permission, I
will go down the river with you."
"What is this coming alongside?" asked the captain, as he moved over to
the rail.
"It is one of the gunboats, Captain," answered Mr. Frôler. "There is the
governor on her deck and two ladies. His Excellency has come off to say
good-by to you."
"He is very considerate."
"And there is the landlord of the hotel."
"I paid his bill yesterday afternoon, and for everything up to this
morning," said the commander as he hastened down the gangway to receive
the governor.
On his way he called Louis, who was on deck early, and directed him to
have the stewards call all the passengers, and to inform them that His
Excellency was coming on board. The distinguished official was received
by the captain, and conducted to the deck. It was a cordial greeting on
both sides. The governor declared that he had never enjoyed himself more
than on the day before, and he should go down the river for the purpose
of saying his adieux to the party.
The gunboat would escort the ships to Cape St. Jacques, and he would
return with it. In ten minutes after the call the passengers began to
come on deck, and the governor greeted them as though they had been his
friends for years. He was a jolly old fellow, and made himself as
familiar with the tourists as though they had been his intimate friends.
When Miss Blanche came up he rushed to her, and took her by both hands.
Mr. Frôler suggested that the governor had come more to see the
beautiful women on board than for any other purpose.
The barge was hastily dropped into the water, and sent for the
passengers of the Blanche, the third officer being in charge of the
message. The landlord of the hotel said he had come on board to pay his
respects to his late guests, and he would go down the river with them.
The barge returned after some delay, for none of her party were out of
their rooms. They warmly welcomed the governor and the captain of the
gunboat, who had been one of the guests the day before.
Both ships got under way at once, for the anchors had been hove short.
Mr. Sage and the cook were set to work. The governor divided his
attentions between Mrs. Noury and Miss Blanche; and the pacha was not at
all disturbed by his old Mohammedan notions about wives. The rajah took
Mrs. Blossom on his arm, and promenaded the upper deck with her under
the awnings.
"Faix! Oi belayve the ould feller manes to marry her," said Felix.
"Nonsense, Flix! He is a Mohammedan, and she is a Methodist, and neither
of them would consent to marry the other," replied Louis.
"He knows she's a fust-rate nuss, and that's what he needs. Oi'll give
my free consint to it," added Felix, as Louis was called away.
The three hours' run to the sea was a continuation of the frolic of the
day before, even including the games. At nine o'clock, with the ship in
a sheltered bay, breakfast was served; and it was as lively as all the
other meals had been. More speeches and a confusion of tongues followed.
The two ladies who had come off in the gunboat were the lady who was
said to have detained Mr. Frôler so long in Saigon, and her mother; and
they were treated with the utmost consideration by all. The band played
during the breakfast, having been sent for by the pacha.
Everybody was so happy that Captain Ringgold remained three hours longer
than he had intended. Then the time to separate came; and the parting
was long and difficult, bringing about another confusion of tongues, but
it was over at last. The gunboat received her passengers for up the
river; but the craft did not go that way, and accompanied the two
steamers about five miles to sea, with the American flag flying at the
fore.
As the vessels were to separate finally, the gunboat fired a salute of
seven guns, which was returned by both ships; and then they sped on
their voyage of eight hundred miles to Manila. The captain gave out the
course east by north half-north, and the French flag was hauled down
from the topmast. The passengers of the Blanche had been sent on board
of her, while those of the Guardian-Mother continued to promenade the
deck. The commander noticed that some of them were gaping and yawning,
and he remembered that they had had only three or four hours' sleep.
"I advise you all to turn in and finish your night's sleep," said he.
"Professor Giroud will give his lecture on the Philippine Islands and
Manila to-morrow at half-past nine. There is nothing to do till
dinner-time. No lunch will be served to-day in the cabin, for you have
but just left the breakfast-table; but any one can ring his bell, and
send for whatever is wanted."
The passengers seemed to think favorably of this advice, for they all
went below. There was nothing to see; for there was not a single island
in the course, and the ship was soon out of sight of land, not to see it
again till she made Luban Island, off the entrance to Manila Bay. The
wind was almost dead ahead, though it blew very gently; but this
circumstance soon attracted the attention of Scott, who had been so busy
with the frolics that he had not had time to consult his books and
chart.
It was not his watch; and he went to his stateroom, returning very soon
with the blue book that goes with the chart of the Indian Ocean. He
found that there was an east monsoon which prevailed in the China Sea
north of the equator.
"What's the matter, Mr. Scott?" asked the captain when he found him
absorbed over his book. "Do you think we are going wrong, or that there
is a typhoon within hail?"
"Neither, sir; I was looking to see why the wind was east to-day,"
replied the third officer.
"You have discovered by this time that there is an east monsoon coming
in between those from the north-east and south-west."
"But we did not find it coming up from Sarawak to Bangkok," added the
young officer.
"Your course carried you within between one hundred and one hundred and
fifty miles of the Malay Peninsula. This and the great island of Sumatra
doubtless have some influence on the winds. Both of these bodies of land
are very hot; and, as the air from them tends to the cooler atmosphere
of the sea, they favor the south-west monsoons. All these bodies of land
modify to some extent the prevailing winds."
Scott was satisfied with the explanation, for it conformed with what he
found in his book. When he carried his authority back to his room, he
turned in and took his nap, in order to be ready for his watch at eight
bells in the afternoon watch. In fact, all but the watch on deck were
asleep.
The passengers seemed to be rather logy in their movements and heavy of
intellect, perhaps because they had slept so well. It was cool at sea in
comparison with the shore, and they had by this time become accustomed
to extremely hot weather. But they waked up before the meal was
finished, and all the talk was about the frolics of the last two days.
"What do you call the place where we go next, Captain Ringgold?" asked
Uncle Moses. "I see it spelled in the books with a single l and with a
double l. Which is correct?"
"Both," replied the commander. "If you are writing Spanish, you use one
l; if you are writing English, you may use two l's, though I don't
believe in doing so."
"Do the Spaniards ever double the l?"
"I will leave the professor to answer that question," replied the
captain.
"They never spell Manila with two l's when they spell it correctly;
for that would make another word of it,--a common noun instead of a
proper, and meaning quite another thing," the professor explained.
"Perhaps I am stupid, Professor, and I know next to nothing of the
Spanish language," added Uncle Moses, "but I don't quite understand you.
If a Spaniard spelled the capital of the Philippine Islands with a
double l it wouldn't be the capital at all?"
"It would not."
"What would it be?"
"It would be something of which Miss Blanche has a couple in her
possession; and I may say the same of every lady at the table," said the
professor with a cheerful smile on his face.
"But which no gentleman has?" suggested the worthy trustee.
"I don't say that; for the word means in Spanish a small hand."
There was a general laugh around the table, and all the party held out
their paws like dancing bears.
"Then Spaniards must be good spellers," said Dr. Hawkes. "There is very
great difference between the capital of the Philippine Islands and Miss
Blanche's pretty little hands."
"Ll, which we call double l, is treated as one letter in Spanish,
and it has its own peculiar sound, nearly equivalent to ly in English;
and therefore Miss Blanche's small hand would be called mah-nil-ya,
which is not the capital spoken off. The name of all the islands is
spelled in English with double p,--Philippine; but that is not
Spanish, though the geographers have generally adopted that orthography.
The Spanish name is Las Islas Filipinas."
"Thank you, Professor; and I think I understand it now," added Uncle
Moses.
"Quiera V. enseñarme sus manillas, Signorina Blanche?" said Louis with
a laugh. Of course she did not understand him; and he added, "Will you
show me your small hands, Miss Blanche?" But she did not do so.
"I should very much like to have all geographical names reduced to a
common standard, for I do not believe in translating proper names," said
the commander. "I have been sometimes greatly bothered by the difference
in names. When I came to Aachen in Belgium, I did not know where I was
till I looked in my guide-book, and found it was Aix-la-Chapelle.
Vienna has about three or four different names, and people there would
not know what you meant if you called it as we do, or Vienne as the
French write and spell it."
"I think you are quite right, Mr. Commander," added the professor.
"But I have a few words to say about our voyage; for I find it necessary
to repress the ambition of some of my passengers," continued the
captain. "Some of them wish to visit all the Philippine Islands, and
there are about two thousand of them."
"Oh! oh! oh!" groaned some of the party.
"But the number I gave includes every rock, reef, and shoal that lifts
its head above the water. Some call it twelve hundred. We will not stay
to count them; but there are many of them big enough to have quite a
number of towns on them. I wish to announce that it will not be possible
for us to go to any of them except Manila, spelled with one l, and
make an excursion up the Pasig River, and to the lake. But the ambition
of the party is more expansive in regard to China and Japan. As I have
told you, we can take only a specimen city in each country we visit.
Hong-Kong and Canton in China, with some more northern port or city not
yet selected, will be enough to give us an idea of the Central Flowery
Nation."
The party left the cabin, and went on deck to study the map of the
islands they were to visit.
CHAPTER XXVII
SOME ACCOUNT OF THE PHILIPPINES
The Guardian-Mother continued on her course without encountering either
typhoon or other tempest, and her passengers kept very comfortable under
the awnings. The ship was in about 10° of north latitude and 110° of
east longitude. She was sailing with the wind nearly dead ahead, and
therefore the breeze was good on deck, and even in the cabins.
At the appointed hour the passengers were in their chairs in Conference
Hall, two of them occupied by the siamangs, and the baby in the lap of
Miss Blanche, who had become very much attached to the little creature.
On the frame in front of the orang-outang was a complete map of the
Philippine Islands, covering seventeen degrees of latitude, and ten of
longitude, with enough of the seas around them to make their position
clear to the audience.
Professor Giroud was introduced for this occasion as the speaker; and he
was received with more than usual applause, for he had not occupied the
rostrum as much as formerly, General Noury having been kept busy since
his reappearance off Batavia. It may be said that after the rest of the
day before the party were in excellent condition to be instructed.
"We are sailing just now in comparatively shallow water; and just to the
south of us there are innumerable shoals, with only from four to ten
fathoms of water on them. If the water were entirely drained from the
China Sea, the bottom would be like a hilly region; for these numerous
shoals would be the tops of various elevations, and the same would be
true of a less extent north of us. The portion of the sea over which we
are now moving would appear to be a considerable valley. You all have
imagination enough to see what I have described.
"All around the Philippines on the east and south the water is from two
to four thousand fathoms deep; so that if the seas were dried up around
them, these islands would appear like a number of irregular chains of
mountains, and the highest peak would be over 10,000 feet above the
present surface of the water.
"From north to south these islands extend about a thousand miles, and
from east to west about half that distance, with the Sulu or Mindoro Sea
four hundred miles across it in either direction, nearly enclosed within
them; for the north-east coast of Borneo is part of its boundary on the
south. As the commander mentioned at dinner last evening, there are over
two thousand islands in the group; and leaving out those rocks and
shoals which are not big enough for a man to stand upon, there are
twelve hundred of them.
"On a map of the world, or even of Asia, the Philippine Islands occupy
but a small space, and in your school-days you have doubtless regarded
them as of but little importance; but several of the islands are larger
than any New England State, and two of them are as large as Virginia and
Ohio, and nearly as large as New York and Pennsylvania. Luzon and
Mindanao," and the professor pointed to them on the map, "the most
northerly and the most southerly, have each about 40,000 square miles,
and the area of all the islands is 116,000 miles. I think most of you
could have no idea from your study of maps of the extent of the
Philippines.
"Mindoro, the next island south of Luzon, has 9,000; and the others from
1,200 to 5,500. I shall not mention or describe them separately. We
shall visit only Manila and the country near it, and you would not
remember even the names of the islands over night. They are all
mountainous and volcanic. The highest mountain is Apo, in Mindanao,
which is 10,400 feet high, and there are others of 9,000 feet.
"The islands are volcanic, and therefore subject to earthquakes; and an
instrument in Manila which indicates vibrations of the earth is said to
be shaking about all the time. Several destructive ones are recorded in
the past. In 1863 Manila was nearly destroyed by one, and the great
southern island is especially liable to them.
"The mountain ranges mostly extend north and south; and there is space
between them for some considerable rivers, as the Rio Grande in Luzon
has a course of 220 miles. The Agusan in Mindanao is navigable for 60
miles. In this island are several lakes, with rivers flowing from them.
In addition to which are many lacustrine basins."
"Spare us, Professor!" exclaimed Uncle Moses.
"The word comes from lacus, Latin for lake, and applies here to such
lakes as send their overflow to the sea or other lakes by streams made
by the rush of water. But I don't use many such words, and I hardly
expected a classical scholar to object," replied the professor.
"But I objected in behalf of several here who never studied Latin; and
besides the overflow is entirely apart from the root of the word. But I
am satisfied, and the commander may invite you to proceed," chuckled
Brother Avoirdupois.
"On account of the high mountains and the abundant sea-breezes, though
hot and moist, this group is not so unhealthy as most tropical islands
and countries. The fevers of hot countries are here of the mild,
intermittent kind"--
"What is intermittent, Professor?" asked Felix. "Is it the kind they
don't have in Ireland?"
"I should say that it was."
"An intermittent fever, Felix, is one that comes and goes, like the old
woman's soap," interjected Mrs. Blossom, the nurse; and everybody
laughed to hear her say anything.
"The diseases most dreaded in these islands are consumption, dysentery,
and anæmia"--
"Mercy, Professor!" cried Mr. Woolridge.
"The reduction in the amount of blood in the system, and the condition
resulting from this loss, is anæmia. Dr. Hawkes can explain it more
fully," replied the professor.
"Not necessary," added the surgeon.
"As all over the Eastern Archipelago, there are two seasons, the wet and
the dry, produced by the monsoons; but the irregularity of the surface
variously modifies the result. For the southern and western sides of the
mountains the south-west monsoons give the wet season, and the
north-east the dry season, and vice versa. Manila is subjected by the
influence of the south-west winds to rains from June to November, with
dry weather the rest of the year.
"The temperature is about the same all the year round. The coolest month
is December, when the glass stays at about 77°; and in May, the hottest
month, at 86°. Of course there are days, and times of day, when the
temperature is lower than the one, and higher than the other. The
extremes where we are going vary only about 25°--from 66° to 91°; and we
have it hotter than the last in New York. The average rainfall is about
seventy inches, varying by months from one-third of an inch in March, to
twenty inches in August.
"The flora of the islands is just what you would expect in this climate.
Nearly or quite all the plants you have found in the other islands you
have visited are to be found here. Particularly plenteous here are the
fibrous plants, and abaca forms in its prepared state one of the most
important exports of the islands. This is a sort of plantain from which
comes the Manila hemp, as it is sometimes called, though it is a
misnomer; and with us it is called simply manila, the sailors tell me.
It is extensively cultivated here, and grows something like the banana.
"The stalks on which the leaves grow are split into long strips, are
threshed, combed, washed, and dried, and then they become manila, of
which many of the ropes of this ship are made, though hemp makes the
better article. The finest fibres are sometimes fifteen feet long, and
from such some very delicate manufactured goods are produced. The
coarser parts are used for cordage, which is very serviceable. When we
were at Nassau, in the Island of New Providence, last year, we saw
fields of sisal, which has in late years come into use as a substitute
for common hemp and manila, and is said to resist the action of
sea-water better than any other material.
"The fauna may seem to be quite limited to the Nimrods of our company,
for the large animals we have found in other islands do not exist in the
Philippines. The buffalo and the gibbon are the largest in the islands,
with a variety of monkeys. The elephant, tiger, rhinoceros, bear, and
orang-outang have no home here. The only dangerous animals are the
crocodile, serpents, and other reptiles. If the Nimrods wish to hunt
they will have to try their hand at the wild buffaloes, though they are
not to be found near Manila.
"Birds are numerous and various, and especially the gallinaceous bipeds,
such as barnyard fowls, grouse, and pheasants; but the most highly
valued here is the 'rooster,' if I may call him by his common American
name, for cock-fighting is one of the national amusements of Spain and
its dependencies. You will see plenty of it in Manila, if you are so
disposed; but it is not an elevating sport, any more than bull-fighting,
which may possibly prevail here. Coal and iron are the most common
minerals, with others; but mining is too severe work for the enterprise
of the people, and I believe most of the mines of Cuba are worked by
Americans.
"The original inhabitants of the Philippines were doubtless Negritos;
and I hasten to explain the name before I am 'picked up.' It was the
word used by the Spaniards to designate, not alone the negroes as we
find them in Africa, but those who are similar to them. People of this
race formerly inhabited all these islands, but there are scarcely any of
them left at the present time. Hindus, Malays, and other natives of the
adjacent countries and islands, came here, and the races mingled.
"The people found here at the present time have a variety of names,
beginning with the pure Spaniards, Creoles, Tagals, Chinese, and
Mestizoes. The Spaniards and the Tagals need no explanation, for the
latter are the pure natives of the islands. Creole, I believe, is
variously used in different locations; but it is a Spanish word, coming
from criolla, which means grown up. They are one thing in the Spanish
West Indies, another in Brazil.
"A more general definition is a person born in any country, but not of
native blood. In the Philippines, Creoles are the children of Spanish
fathers and native mothers. Mestizoes are children of Chinese parents on
one side and natives on the other. The last class are usually called
'métis' in Manila and elsewhere. You will doubtless see all of these
classes, and with a little practice will be able to identify them.
"The Spaniards of the islands are Catholics, often, I am sorry to say,
merely nominally such. Many of the natives are Mohammedan, though the
greater portion are Catholic. The Philippines were discovered by
Magellan, as we generally call him, though that was not his correct
name, in 1521. He was born in Portugal, and his name was Magalhães. He
served as a soldier in Malacca and Morocco, and was lamed for life in a
battle in the latter. He did not think his services were appreciated by
his king, and he offered them to Spain.
"He presented to Charles V. a plan for reaching the Moluccas by sailing
to the west; and, his scheme being approved, he was fitted out with a
fleet of five ships. He passed through the straits south of Patagonia,
which still bear his name, crossed the great ocean, to which he gave the
name of Pacific, though it was discovered by Balboa, who called it the
South Sea. Succeeding in his enterprise, he reached the Philippines,
after putting down a mutiny. He was killed in an expedition he led in
the islands. The Victoria, his ship, returned to Spain in charge of one
of his subordinates, thus completing the first voyage ever made around
the world.
"There were several governments in the islands, and most of them were
conquered or conciliated so that they came under Spanish rule; but the
Mohammedans of Sulu, the Archipelago north-east of Borneo, and Mindanao
retained their independence for a long period, and they still retain
their boundaries and government.
"Manila has a population of 270,000, and there are several other
considerable towns with 30,000 or more. There is a submarine cable to
Hong Kong, 720 miles of telegraph, and 16 miles of railroad out of
Manila. The army consists of 4,800 men, with 3,500 gendarmerie, or
police, such as ride in pairs all over Spain. It has a navy of two
corvettes, six avisos, or despatch vessels, sixteen gunboats, with
2,000 sailors and marines. I believe I have told you all that is
necessary to know about the Philippine Islands in a general way; and I
thank you for your attention through the long talk I have given you,"
the professor concluded, and retired from the rostrum in the midst of
the hearty applause bestowed upon him.
"I think we all know more about the Philippines than we ever knew
before, though I have been there; and to-morrow I shall have something
to say, very briefly, about the city of Manila," said the commander.
"When shall we get there, Captain?" asked Dr. Hawkes.
"Day after to-morrow morning; but I shall lay off so as not to get there
at three in the morning."[1]
FOOTNOTE:
[1] On board of a steamer from Colombo, Ceylon, to London, I
met an educated Scotch gentleman from Manila, who pronounced the name
Philippine, the last i long. On the steamer from Liverpool to Boston,
I met a lady, also from Manila, and she pronounced it with a long i in
the last syllable. I conclude this is the fashion among English-speaking
people in the Philippine Islands.--O. O.
CHAPTER XXVIII
THE DESCRIPTION OF AN EARTHQUAKY CITY
In the afternoon of the second day out Professor Giroud called his
pupils together in the library, which was the schoolroom of the ship,
and resumed the lessons which had been interrupted since the arrival at
Sarawak. The long intermission had sharpened the intellects of the
class, and they were very earnest in their studies. But it could be only
for the afternoon and the next day, for the commander was very diligent
in the business of sight-seeing.
At half-past nine the next forenoon, the passengers were all assembled
in Conference Hall, as the captain had appointed; and the siamangs, who
spent much of the time aloft running up and down and along the
foreyards, were in their usual places, for chairs had been provided for
them; and they looked as grave and attentive as though they understood
the whole of the lecture. Captain Ringgold appeared on the rostrum,
after he had patted Mr. and Mrs. Mingo on the head, and glanced at Miss
Mingo in the lap of Miss Blanche.
"Manila is the capital of all the Spanish possessions in the East, as
the professor has informed you; it has a population of 270,000, which is
40,000 greater than Havana," he began. "It is on the south-west coast
of Luzon, 650 miles from Hong-Kong, which is a run of about forty-seven
hours for the ship. It is located on both sides of the little river
Pasig, which is the outlet of Lake Bahia, or the Lake of the Bay. When I
was here many years ago, I spoke Spanish enough to get along; but I
shall leave the language now to the professor and Mr. Belgrave, for I
forget most of it.
"In going to the city we have to pass through Manila Bay, which is
really a sea of itself; and, though it is land-locked, it affords little
if any protection for vessels in heavy weather, for it is about thirty
miles long from north to south, and twenty-five from east to west. A
west or south-west wind rakes it about the same as the ocean.
"The city forms a circle, with a piece of it cut off on the bay; and the
suburbs are on several islands in the river and bay. To keep a clear
channel, the Pasig is extended into the bay between two piers, with a
fort at the end of one, and a lighthouse at the end of the other. The
anchorage in the bay is good enough so far as holding ground is
concerned, except in the south-west monsoon, when vessels of four
hundred tons or more have to go to Cavite, ten miles south south-west
from the city; and their cargo must be taken to and from them in
lighters.
"The oldest part of Manila is on the southern bank of the Pasig, and is
strongly fortified; but it has a dilapidated look, for it was founded in
1571. On the north side of the river is the Binondo suburb, as it is
called, which is more populous than the old part. The foreign merchants
live here, and it is the more important commercial centre. You would
hardly know, if you waked from a sleep there, whether you were in a
Spanish or an Oriental city, for you would see something of both.
Gloomy-looking churches, awkward towers, and heavily built stone houses
are mixed up with pleasant cottages in groves of tropical trees. I
believe the people are now inclined to build more of wood than stone on
account of the prevalence of earthquakes, which shake down the heavier
structures, and crush the occupants under the weight of the material.
"As in Burma and Siam, the cottages I mentioned are built on posts; for
the land is sometimes inundated, and the water requires a free passage,
or it would do more mischief. In the month of August, nearly two feet of
water falls on a level; and it makes bad work in the low places. The
streets are wide and not paved; and in the rainy season, with a foot or
two of water lying loose around, they become very nearly impassable. The
houses are built in Spanish fashion, with a central court-yard. They are
generally two stories high; for in an earthquaky country like this,
where terra firma becomes terra shaky, the people are not encouraged to
erect buildings twenty stories high, as in New York and Chicago.
"An iron suspension bridge connects the old town with Binondo. It was
formerly a stone bridge, built more than two hundred years ago, which
was thrown down by the earthquake of 1863. A street in the new suburb,
called the Escolto, seems to be the Broadway of the city; for it is the
great shopping locality, and it is flanked with shops and stalls, filled
with people of various races. Beyond this the Chinese, Tagals, and
half-castes congregate in numerous occupations, as jewellers, oil and
soap dealers, confectioners, painters, and those of other trades. Here
you will find plenty of gambling-houses, if you are looking for them.
"As in Singapore, certain sections of the city are given up to
particular branches of business. At San Fernando, there are immense
cigar manufactories, like the one you saw in Sevilla in Spain, where six
thousand women are employed; and probably as many are to be found in
some of them here," continued the commander, consulting memoranda he
took from his pocket. "At Santo Mesa is a cordage manufactory; at
Alcaicerfa the Chinese have a landing-place for their sampans; fishermen
and weavers live at Tondo, whose gardens supply the markets with fruit
and vegetables; Malate is the resort of the embroiderers; Paco is
favored by artists and artisans; and Santa Ana and San Pedro Macati are
health resorts."
"McCarty!" exclaimed Felix, as he caught what sounded like an Irish
name. "I wondher if he comes from Kilkenny."
"A place, and not a man; and it did not come from Kilkenny. It is a
Spanish name, spelled Ma-ca-ti," replied the captain. "I have read off
all these names from my memoranda, not that I expect you to remember
them, but to show you how things work here. All the buildings for public
use in a capital city are found here, and a cathedral, the palaces of
the governor-general and the archbishop, an elegant town-house,
churches, three colleges for young men, and two for young women (not
behind the times, you see), a large theatre, probably not as large as
that in Barcelona, custom-house, barracks, etc. The Prado is the largest
public square, and is ornamented with a statue of Charles IV., or
Carlos, King of Spain from 1788 to 1808; and I wonder there is not one
of Magellan, who discovered the islands, and lost his life here.
"The streets of the city are lighted with kerosene-oil lamps, and not
with gas, for the reason that the earthquakes made bad work of the
latter; and the works were destroyed in a hurricane in 1882, as was half
the city. They do not build houses of brick or stone now, but of wood,
the former being so destructive of human life in an earthquake. The
native dwellings are constructed of bamboo, thatched with the leaves of
the nipa palm.
"Glass windows are not used here; but the flat shell of a large oyster
is substituted for glass, and the sashes all slide horizontally. Both of
these departures from ordinary methods are said to be to exclude the
great heat; but I confess that I cannot see it. I find among my
memoranda that 21,000 women and 1,500 man are employed in making
cigars; which in Sevilla includes the putting up of tobacco in papers
for smoking, and it may be so here. Before I close I wish to say that
authorities differ in regard to the population of the city; but I think
the professor was about right in putting it at 270,000. Lippincott gives
it with the suburbs at 160,000, and Chambers at nearly 300,000. You have
been patient and longer suffering than I intended you should be, and I
thank you."
The commander made his bow, and descended from the rostrum. Hearty
applause followed, and the siamangs joined with repeated cries and
squeaks. Miss Mingo had fallen asleep in her comfortable quarters; but
the noise woke her with a start, and she sprang to the shoulder of Miss
Blanche, where she gave her "Ra! Ra! Ra!" and the squeak which is the
"tiger" at the end of it. As the audience left their chairs for a walk
on the deck, Mr. and Mrs. Mingo sprang into the fore-rigging, climbing
the shrouds, and over the futtock-shrouds, disdaining to crawl through
the lubber-hole to the top.
Miss Mingo looked up at them, and then sprang into the rigging; for her
strength and agility seemed to have greatly increased since she came on
board, making it probable that the sea-air agreed with her. But her
mamma did not appear to be quite satisfied with this venture; and she
sprang over the futtocks, and seized her with one arm as she began to
mount them.
Mr. Mingo ran up the topmast rigging, and seated himself on the
cross-trees. The anxious mother looked at him a moment, and then darted
down to the deck with the baby in her arm. Then, seeing Mrs. Belgrave
seated in one of the arm-chairs on the promenade, she carried Miss Mingo
to her, placing the infant in her lap. The lady immediately folded the
little one in her arms so that she could not escape, caressing her so
that she did not offer to follow her mother up the rigging, though she
watched her ascent.
Mrs. Mingo ascended to the cross-trees, where she and the gentleman
siamang seemed to hold a conference. The latter then sprang up to the
topgallant yard, and was closely followed by his mate. They turned
somersets, and went through a variety of athletic feats, which greatly
interested their audience on deck, who gave them a round of applause.
They seemed to understand and appreciate this manifestation of
approbation, for they attempted various other feats.
Mrs. Mingo got hold of the topgallant halliards, and finding them loose,
swung out over the lee side of the ship. Captain Ringgold was startled
at this movement. She swung out as far as she could, the line yielding,
and suddenly she dropped into the water. The captain rang the gong to
stop the screw, and then to back it. If the siamang could swim at all,
she was very clumsy in the water; and the waves, for there was
considerable sea on, seemed to bother her.
"Clear away the second cutter, Mr. Gaskette!" shouted the commander as
soon as he had rung the gong to stop the screw, and the ship was as
nearly at rest as she could be on the billows.
"All the second cutters, on deck!" shouted Biggs, the boatswain, after
he had piped his whistle, at the order of the second officer.
The boat was swung out in as much haste as though the cry had been "Man
overboard!" and her crew took their places in good order. The cutter was
lowered into the water, and the men gave way on a favoring wave and went
clear of the ship. They pulled with all their might; and Lanark, the
cockswain, steered her for the siamang.
"Stand by, bowmen, to haul in the lady!" called Mr. Gaskette, as the
cutter approached the unhappy animal. "In bows!" and the two bowmen
tossed their oars, and brought them down in place, the men springing
into the fore-sheets to seize hold of the creature. "Way enough!"
It looked to those who were anxiously watching the operations of the
men, fearful that Miss Mingo would become an orphan, as though the boat
would strike Mrs. Mingo, and kill her by the collision.
"Stern all!" cried Mr. Gaskette with energy.
The order was obeyed, and the cutter came to a stop when near the
animal. The bowmen were reaching to get hold of her, when she made a
vigorous leap into the fore-sheets, grasping the rail as she did so. She
shook herself with all her might as soon as she was in the boat, and a
cheer went up from the deck of the ship. The lady then seated herself on
the little platform in the bow, and seemed to be as happy as ever, and
that was saying a great deal.
"Give way!" said Mr. Gaskette, laughing at the apparent self-possession
of Mrs. Mingo when her troubles were over. The cutter came alongside the
ship under its davits, the falls were hooked on, and the boat was
hoisted up. The lady was the first to leap from her place to the rail of
the ship.
The passengers applauded as she moved aft; and she replied with her
usual cry, and ended it with a squeak. She went directly to the
promenade, which she mounted, and then hastened to Mrs. Belgrave's
chair. She looked at her baby as though it had been overboard. Miss
Mingo's keeper had taken care that the infant should not see her mother
in the water; and the little one could not have told what was the matter
if any one had asked her, first because she did not know, and second for
an obvious reason.
The ship was going ahead again, and the captain came to the promenade.
He took the lady into the sun, and persuaded her to lie down and dry
herself. She seemed to understand the matter, and stretched herself out.
"What made her fall overboard, Captain?" asked the lady--meaning Mrs.
Belgrave this time, and not the siamang.
[Illustration: SHE MADE A VIGOROUS LEAP INTO THE FORE-SHEETS.
Page 267.]
"The fore topgallant halliard was not made fast to the cleat, and when
it ran out, it jerked her from it," replied the commander. "It ought not
to have been loose, and there is a bit of discipline for some jack-tar."
The ship went along as before; and when the passengers turned out the
next morning Manila was in sight, and not five miles distant.
CHAPTER XXIX
GOING ON SHORE IN MANILA
The ship had slowed down in the afternoon, and reached the entrance of
Manila Bay about eight bells, or four o'clock in the morning. At the
Boca Grande she had taken a pilot; but she still had twenty-five miles
to run. She had come in by the larger of the two passages, formed by a
group of islands, both of which are called "mouths" (bocas); and the
smaller of them is the Boca Chica. The Blanche had followed the example
of the Guardian-Mother in slowing down, and had taken a pilot at about
the same time.
The passengers had asked the steward on watch in the cabin to call them
at half-past five, and they were all on deck as soon as it was light
enough for them to see the shore clearly. But the bay is so large that
they could make out the shores only ahead of the ship. They could see
the mountains in the distance, with a lower stretch of land between them
and the low ground of the shore. All that they could observe was
tropical verdure, with lofty palms on every hand. The low ground,
covered with water in the rainy season, was planted with rice-fields.
The ladies declared that the view was lovely; and certainly it presented
variety enough, with the high lands in the background, and the rich and
luxuriant growth near the bay. The pilot was a Spaniard who could speak
a little English; and the commander ordered him to bring the ship to
anchor at a safe place, as near as convenient off the end of the two
piers at the mouth of Pasig. The Blanche took a position abreast of her,
off the fort, while the first was off the lighthouse.
The health-officer came on board, and by this time it was after sunrise.
He was blandly received by the commander, as every official or visitor
was, and the conversation was carried on in English. All the ship's
company and the passengers were mustered on the upper deck. The papers,
including lists of all the persons on board, were examined, and compared
with the number presented, which made it clear that no one was sick in
his stateroom or in the forecastle.
The custom-house officers were not far behind, and the character of the
steamer was explained. There was no manifest, for there was no cargo to
be invoiced. The principal officer was very minute in his inquiry, and
not particularly courteous. He was evidently impressed by his authority;
and the captain did not invite him to breakfast, as he would have done
if he had been somewhat less conscious of the magnitude of his office.
