tween quickly retreating on tiptoe or still more 
quickly letting her know that she was observed. 
Before Jean could decide her companion looked 
up, then rapidly and confusedly rose. She could 
only be Miss Armiger, and she had been such a 
figure of woe that it was a surprise not to see her 
in tears. She was by no means in tears; but she 
was for an instant extremely blank, an instant 
during which Jean remembered, rather to wonder 
at it, Mrs. Beever's having said of her that one 
really didn't know whether she was awfully plain 
or strikingly handsome. Jean felt that one quite 
did know : she was awfully plain. It may immediately be mentioned that about the charm of the 
apparition offered meanwhile to her own eyes, 
Rose Armiger had not a particle of doubt : a slim 
fair girl who struck her as a light sketch for something larger, a cluster of happy hints, with nothing 
yet quite " put in " but the splendour of the hair 
and the grace of the clothes clothes that were 
not as the clothes of Wilverley. The reflection of 
these things came back to Jean from a pair of eyes 
as to which she judged that the extreme lightness 
of their grey was what made them so strange as to 
be ugly a reflection that spread into a sudden 
smile from a wide, full-lipped mouth, whose regular office, obviously, was to produce the second 
impression. In a flash of small square white teeth 
this second impression was produced and the ambiguity that Mrs. Beever had spoken of lighted 
up an ambiguity worth all the plain prettiness 
in the world. Yes, one quite did know: Miss 
Armiger was strikingly handsome. It thus took 
her but a few seconds to repudiate every connection with the sombre image Jean had just en 
countered. 
"Excuse my jumping out at you," she said. 
"I heard a sound I was expecting a friend." 
Jean thought her attitude an odd one for the 
purpose, but hinted a fear of being in that case 
in the way; on which the young lady protested 
that she was delighted to see her, that she had 
 
already heard of her, that she guessed who she 
was. " And I daresay you've already heard of 
me." 
Jean shyly confessed to this and, getting away 
from the subject as quickly as possible, produced 
on the spot her formal credentials. 
" Mrs. Beever sent me over to ask if it's really 
quite right we should come to luncheon. We 
came out of church before the sermon, because 
of some people who were to go home with us. 
They're with Mrs. Beever now, but she told me to 
come straight across the garden the short way." 
Miss Armiger continued to smile. 
"No way ever seems short enough for Mrs. 
Beever ! " 
There was an intention in this, as Jean faintly 
felt, that was lost upon her; but while she was 
wondering her companion went on 
"Did Mrs. Beever direct you to inquire of 
me?" 
Jean hesitated. 
" Of anyone, I think, who would be here to tell 
me in case Mrs. Bream shouldn't be quite so 
well." 
" She isn't quite so well." 
The younger girl's face showed the flicker of a 
fear of losing her entertainment; on perceiving 
which the elder pursued 
"But we sha'n't romp or racket shall we? 
We shall be very quiet." 
" Very, very quiet," Jean eagerly echoed. 
Her new friend's smile became a laugh, which 
was followed by the abrupt question: "Do you 
mean to be long with Mrs. Beever?" 
" Till her son comes home. You know he's at 
Oxford, and his term soon ends." 
"And yours ends with it you depart as he 
arrives ? " 
" Mrs. Beever tells me I positively sha'n't," said 
Jean. 
" Then you positively won't. Everything is 
done here exactly as Mrs. Beever tells us. Don't 
you like her son ? " Rose Armiger asked. 
" I don't know yet ; it's exactly what she wants 
me to find out." 
" Then you'll have to be very clear." 
" But if I find out I don't? " Jean risked. 
" I shall be very sorry for you ! " 
" I think then it will be the only thing in this 
duck of an old place that I shan't have liked." 
Rose Armiger for a moment rested her eyes on 
her visitor, who was more and more conscious that 
 
she was strange and yet not, as Jean had always 
supposed strange people to be, disagreeable. 
"Do you like me?" she unexpectedly inquired. 
" How can I tell at the end of three minutes?" 
" I can tell at the end of one ! You must try 
to like me you must be very kind to me," Miss 
Armiger declared. Then she added : " Do you 
like Mr. Bream?" 
Jean considered ; she felt that she must rise to 
the occasion. " Oh, immensely ! " At this her 
interlocutress laughed again, and it made her continue with more reserve. " Of course I only saw 
him for five minutes yesterday at the Bank." 
" Oh, we know how long you saw him ! " Miss 
Armiger exclaimed. " He has told us all about 
your visit." 
Jean was slightly awe-stricken: this picture 
seemed to include so many people. " Whom has 
he told?" 
Her companion had the air of being amused at 
everything she said; but for Jean it was an air 
none the less with a kind of foreign charm in it. 
" Why, the very first person was of course his 
poor little wife." 
" But I'm not to see her, am I ? " Jean rather 
eagerly asked, puzzled by the manner of the allu 
sion and but half suspecting it to be a part of her 
informant's general ease. 
" You're not to see her, but even if you were 
she wouldn't hurt you for it," this young lady replied. "She understands his friendly way and 
likes above all his beautiful frankness." 
Jean's bewilderment began to look as if she too 
now, as she remembered, understood and liked 
these things. It might have been in confirmation 
of what was in her mind that she presently said : 
" He told me I might see the wonderful baby. He 
told me he would show it to me himself." 
" I'm sure he'll be delighted to do that. He's 
awfully proud of the wonderful baby." 
"I suppose it's very lovely," Jean remarked 
with growing confidence. 
"Lovely! Do you think babies are ever lovely?" 
Taken aback by this challenge, Jean reflected a 
little ; she found, however, nothing better to say 
than, rather timidly : " I like dear little children, 
don't you ? " 
Miss Armiger in turn considered. "Not a bit!" 
she then replied. "It would be very sweet and 
attractive of me to say I adore them ; but I never 
pretend to feelings I can't keep up, don't you 
 
know? If you'd like, all the same, to see Effie," 
she obligingly added, " I'll so far sacrifice myself 
as to get her for you ? " 
Jean smiled as if this pleasantry were contagious. " You won't sacrifice her ? " 
Rose Armiger stared. " I won't destroy her." 
" Then do get her." 
" Not yet, not yet ! " cried another voice that 
of Mrs. Beever, who had just been introduced and 
who, having heard the last words of the two girls, 
came, accompanied by the servant, down the hall. 
" The baby's of no importance. We've come over 
for the mother. Is it true that Julia has had a bad 
turn ? " she asked of Rose Armiger. 
Miss Armiger had a peculiar way of looking at a 
person before speaking, and she now, with this 
tranquillity, delayed so long to answer Mrs. Beever 
that Jean also rested her eyes, as if for a reason, on 
the good lady from Eastmead. She greatly admired her, but in that instant, the first of seeing 
her at Bounds, she perceived once for all how the 
difference of the setting made another thing of 
the gem. Short and solid, with rounded corners 
and full supports, her hair very black and very 
flat, her eyes very small for the amount of expression they could show, Mrs. Beever was so " early 
Victorian " as to be almost prehistoric was constructed to move amid massive mahogany and sit 
upon banks of Berlin-wool. She was like an odd 
volume, "sensibly" bound, of some old magazine. 
Jean knew that the great social event of her 
younger years had been her going to a fancy-ball 
in the character of an Andalusian, an incident of 
which she still carried a memento in the shape of a 
hideous fan. Jean was so constituted that she also 
knew, more dimly but at the end of five minutes, 
that the elegance at Mr. Bream's was slightly provincial. It made none the less a medium in which 
Mrs. Beever looked superlatively local. That in 
deed in turn caused Jean to think the old place 
still more of a " duck." 
" I believe our poor friend feels rather down," 
Miss Armiger finally brought out. " But I don't 
imagine it's of the least consequence," she immediately added. 
The contrary of this was, however, in some 
degree foreshadowed in a speech directed to Jean 
by the footman who had admitted her. He reported Mr. Bream as having been in his wife's 
room for nearly an hour, and Dr. Ramage as having 
arrived some time before and not yet come out. 
Mrs. Beever decreed, upon this news, that they 
 
must drop their idea of lunching and that Jean 
must go straight back to the friends who had been 
left at the other house. It was these friends who 
on the way from church had mentioned their having got wind of the rumour the quick circulation of which testified to the compactness of Wil- 
verley that there had been a sudden change 
in Mrs. Bream since the hour at which her husband's note was written. Mrs. Beever dismissed 
her companion to Eastmead with a message for her 
visitors. Jean was to entertain them there in her 
stead and to understand that she might return to 
luncheon only in case of being sent for. At the 
door the girl paused and exclaimed rather wistfully 
to Rose Armiger : " Well, then, give her my love ! " 
" Young young friend," Rose commented, " is as 
affectionate as she's pretty: sending her love to 
people she has never seen ! " 
"She only meant the little girl. I think it's 
rather nice of her," said Mrs. Beever. " My interest in these anxieties is always confined to the 
mamma. I thought we were going so straight." 
"I daresay we are," Miss Armiger replied. 
" But Nurse told me an hour ago that I'm not to 
see her at all this morning. It will be the first 
morning for several days." 
Mrs. Beever was silent a little. " You've en 
joyed a privilege altogether denied to me" 
" Ah, you must remember," said Rose, " that I'm 
Julia's oldest friend. That's always the way she 
treats me." 
Mrs. Beever assented. " Familiarly, of course. 
Well, you're not mine ; but that's the way I
treat you too," she went on. "You must wait 
 
with me here for more news, and be as still as 
a mouse." 
" Dear Mrs. Beever," the girl protested, " I never 
made a noise in all my life ! " 
"You will some day you're so clever," Mrs. 
Beever said. 
"I'm clever enough to be quiet." Then Rose 
added, less gaily : " I'm the one thing of her own 
that dear Julia has ever had." 
Mrs. Beever threw back her head. " Don't you 
count her husband ? " 
" I count Tony immensely ; but in another way." 
Again Mrs. Beever considered : she might have 
been wondering in what way even so expert a 
young person as this could count Anthony Bream 
except as a treasure to his wife. But what she 
presently articulated was : " Do you call him 
'Tony' to himself?" 
Miss Armiger met her question this time 
promptly. " He has asked me to and to do it 
even to Julia. Don't be afraid ! " she exclaimed ; 
"I know my place, and I sha'n't go too far. Of 
course he's everything to her now," she continued, 
" and the child is already almost as much ; but 
what I mean is that if he counts for a great deal 
more, I, at least, go back a good deal further. 
Though I'm three years older, we were brought 
together as girls by one of the strongest of all ties 
the tie of a common aversion." 
" Oh, I know your common aversion ! " Mrs. 
Beever spoke with her air of general competence. 
"Perhaps, then, you know that her detestable 
step-mother was, very little to my credit, my aunt. 
If her father, that is, was Mrs. Grantham's second 
husband, my uncle, my mother's brother, had been 
the first. Julia lost her mother; I lost both my 
mother and my father. Then Mrs. Grantham 
took me : she had shortly before made her second 
marriage. She put me at the horrid school at 
Weymouth at which she had already put her 
step-daughter." 
" You ought to be obliged to her," Mrs. Beever 
suggested, "for having made you acquainted." 
"We are we've never ceased to be. It was 
as if she had made us sisters, with the delightful 
position for me of the elder, the protecting one. 
But it's the only good turn she has ever done 
us." 
Mrs. Beever weighed this statement with her 
alternative, her business manner. "Is she really 
then such a monster ? " 
Rose Armiger had a melancholy headshake. 
 
" Don't ask me about her I dislike her too 
much, perhaps, to be strictly fair. For me, how 
ever, I daresay, it didn't matter so much that she 
was narrow and hard: I wasn't an easy victim 
I could take care of myself, I could fight. 
But Julia bowed her head and suffered. Never 
was a marriage more of a rescue." 
Mrs. Beever took this in with unsuspended 
criticism. " And yet Mrs. Grantham travelled 
all the way down from town the other day sim 
ply to make her a visit of a couple of hours." 
"That wasn't a kindness," the girl returned; 
" it was an injury, and I believe certainly 
Julia believes that it was a calculated one. 
Mrs. Grantham knew perfectly the effect she 
would have, and she triumphantly had it. She 
came, she said, at the particular crisis, to 'make 
peace.' Why couldn't she let the poor dear 
alone? She only stirred up the wretched past 
and reopened old wounds." 
For answer to this Mrs. Beever remarked with 
some irrelevancy : " She abused you a good deal, 
I think." 
Her companion smiled frankly. "Shockingly, 
I believe ; but that's of no importance to me. 
She doesn't touch me or reach me now." 
"Your description of her," said Mrs. Beever, 
"is a description of a monstrous bad woman. 
And yet she appears to have got two honourable men to give her the last proof of confidence." 
" My poor uncle utterly withdrew his confi 
dence when he saw her as she was. She killed 
him he died of his horror of her. As for 
Julia's father, he's honourable if you like, but 
he's a muff. He's afraid of his wife." 
"And her 'taking' you, as you say, who were 
no real relation to her her looking after you 
and putting you at school: wasn't that," Mrs. 
Beever propounded, "a kindness?" 
" She took me to torment me or at least to 
make me feel her hand. She has an absolute 
necessity to do that it was what brought her 
down here the other day." 
"You make out a wonderful case," said Mrs. 
Beever, "and if ever I'm put on my trial for a 
crime say for muddling the affairs of the Bank 
I hope I shall be defended by someone with 
your gift and your manner. I don't wonder," 
she blandly pursued, "that your friends, even 
the blameless ones, like this dear pair, cling to 
you as they do." 
"If you mean you don't wonder I stay on 
here so long," said Rose good-humouredly, "I'm 
greatly obliged to you for your sympathy. 
Julia's the one thing I have of my own." 
" You make light of our husbands and lovers ! " 
laughed Mrs. Beever. "Haven't I had the pleasure 
of hearing of a gentleman to whom you're soon to 
be married?" 
Rose Armiger opened her eyes there was perhaps a slight affectation in it. She looked, at any 
rate, as if she had to make a certain effort to meet 
the allusion. " Dennis Vidal ? " she then asked. 
" Why, are there more than one ? " Mrs. Beever 
cried ; after which, as the girl, who had coloured 
a little, hesitated in a way that almost suggested 
alternatives, she added: "Isn't it a definite en 
gagement?" 
Rose Armiger looked round at the clock. "Mr. 
Vidal will be here this morning. Ask him how he 
considers it." 
One of the doors of the hall at this moment 
opened, and Mrs. Beever exclaimed with some 
eagerness, " Here he is, perhaps ! " Her eagerness 
was characteristic ; it was part of a comprehensive 
vision in which the pieces had already fallen into 
sharp adjustment to each other. The young lady 
she had been talking with had in these few minutes, 
for some reason, struck her more forcibly than ever 
before as a possible object of interest to a youth of 
a candour greater even than any it was incumbent 
on a respectable mother to cultivate. Miss Armiger 
had just given her a glimpse of the way she could 
handle honest gentlemen as "muffs." She was 
decidedly too unusual to be left out of account. If 
there was the least danger of Paul's falling in love 
with her it ought somehow to be arranged that her 
marriage should encounter no difficulty. 
The person now appearing, however, proved to 
be only Doctor Ramage, who, having a substantial 
wife of his own, was peculiarly unfitted to promise 
relief to Mrs. Beever's anxiety. He was a little 
man who moved, with a warning air, on tiptoe, as 
if he were playing some drawing-room game of 
surprises, and who had a face so candid and circular that it suggested a large white pill. Mrs. 
Beever had once said with regard to sending for 
him: "It isn't to take his medicine, it's to take 
Mm. I take him twice a week in a cup of tea." 
It was his tone that did her good. He had in his 
hand a sheet of note-paper, one side of which was 
covered with writing and with which he immediately addressed himself to Miss Armiger. It was 
 
a prescription to be made up, and he begged her to 
see that it was carried on the spot to the chemist's, 
mentioning that on leaving Mrs. Bream's room he 
had gone straight to the library to think it out. 
Rose, who appeared to recognise at a glance its 
nature, replied that as she was fidgety and wanted 
a walk she would perform the errand herself. Her 
bonnet and jacket were there ; she had put them 
on to go to church, and then, on second thoughts, 
seeing Mr. Bream give it up, had taken them 
off. 
"Excellent for you to go yourself," said the 
Doctor. He had an instruction to add, to which, 
lucid and prompt, already equipped, she gave full 
attention. As she took the paper from him he 
subjoined : " You're a very nice, sharp, obliging 
person." 
" She knows what she's about ! " said Mrs. Beever with much expression. "But what in the 
world is Julia about?" 
" I'll tell you when I know, my dear lady." 
"Is there really anything wrong?" 
" I'm waiting to find out." 
Miss Armiger, before leaving them, was wait 
ing too. She had been checked on the way to 
the door by Mrs. Beever's question, and she stood 
there with her intensely clear eyes on Doctor 
Ramage's face. 
Mrs. Beever continued to study it as earnestly. 
"Then you're not going yet?" 
"By no means, though I've another pressing 
call. I must have that thing from you first," he 
said to Rose. 
She went to the door, but there again she 
paused. 
"Is Mr. Bream still with her?" 
"Very much with her that's why I'm here. 
She made a particular request to be left for five 
minutes alone with him." 
"So Nurse isn't there either?" Rose asked. 
" Nurse has embraced the occasion to pop down 
for her lunch. Mrs. Bream has taken it into her 
head that she has something very important to say." 
Mrs. Beever firmly seated herself. 
" And pray what may that be ? " 
" She turned me out of the room precisely so 
that I shouldn't learn." 
" I think I know what it is," their companion, 
at the door, put in. 
"Then what is it?" Mrs. Beever demanded. 
"Oh, I wouldn't tell you for the world!" 
And with this Rose Armiger departed. 
LEFT alone with the lady of Eastmead, Doctor 
Ramage studied his watch a little absently. 
"Our young friend's exceedingly nervous." 
Mrs. Beever glanced in the direction in which 
Rose had disappeared. " Do you allude to that 
girl?" 
"I allude to dear Mrs. Tony." 
"It's equally true of Miss Armiger: she's as 
worried as a pea on a pan. Julia, as far as that 
goes," Mrs. Beever continued, " can never have 
been a person to hold herself together." 
"Precisely she requires to be held. Well, 
happily she has Tony to hold her." 
" Then he's not himself in one of his states ? " 
Dr. Ramage hesitated. " I don't quite make 
him out. He seems to have fifty things at once 
in his head." 
Mrs. Beever looked at the Doctor hard. 
" When does he ever not have ? But I had a 
note from him only this morning in the highest 
spirits." 
Doctor Ramage's little eyes told nothing but 
what he wanted. " Well, whatever happens to 
him, he'll luckily always have them ! " 
Mrs. Beever, at this, jumped up. " Robert 
Ramage," she earnestly demanded, "what is to 
happen to that boy ? " 
Before he had time to reply there rang out a 
sudden sound which had, oddly, much of the effect 
of an answer and which caused them both to start. 
It was the near vibration, from Mrs. Bream's 
room, of one of the smart, loud electric bells which 
were for Mrs. Beever the very voice of the new 
ness of Bounds. They waited an instant ; then 
the Doctor said quietly: "It's for Nurse!" 
" It's not for you? " The bell sounded again as 
she spoke. 
" It's for Nurse," Doctor Ramage repeated, 
moving nevertheless to the door he had come in 
by. He paused again to listen, and the door, the 
next moment thrown open, gave passage to a tall, 
good-looking young man, dressed as if, with much 
freshness, for church and wearing a large orchid 
in his buttonhole. " You rang for Nurse? " the 
Doctor immediately said. 
 
The young man stood looking from one of his 
friends to the other. " She's there it's all right. 
But ah, my dear people ! " And he passed 
his hand, with the vivid gesture of brushing away 
an image, over a face of which the essential ra 
diance was visible even through perturbation. 
" How's Julia now ? " Mrs. Beever asked. 
"Much relieved, she tells me, at having 
spoken." 
" Spoken of what, Tony ? " 
" Of everything she can think of that's incon 
ceivable that's damnable." 
" If I hadn't known that she wanted to do 
exactly that," said the Doctor, " I wouldn't have 
given her the opportunity." 
Mrs. Beever's eyes sounded her colleague of 
the Bank. " You're upset, my poor boy you're 
in one of your great states. Something painful 
to you has taken place." 
Tony Bream paid no attention to this remark ; 
all his attention was for his other visitor, who 
stood with one hand on the door of the hall 
and an open watch, on which he still placidly 
gazed, in the other. "Ramage," the young man 
suddenly broke out, "are you keeping something back ? Isn't she safe ? " 
The good Doctor's small, neat face seemed to 
grow more smoothly globular. " The dear lady 
is convinced, you mean, that her very last hour 
is at hand ? " 
" So much so," Tony replied, " that if she got 
you and Nurse away, if she made me kneel down 
by her bed and take her two hands in mine, what 
do you suppose it was to say to me?" 
Doctor Ramage beamed. " Why, of course, that 
she's going to perish in her flower. I've been 
through it so often ! " he said to Mrs. Beever. 
"Before, but not after," that lady lucidly rejoined. "She has had her chance of perishing, 
but now it's too late." 
" Doctor," said Tony Bream, " is my wife 
going to die ? " 
His friend hesitated a moment. "When a 
lady's only symptom of that tendency is the 
charming volubility with which she dilates upon 
it, that's very well as far as it goes. But it's not 
quite enough." 
" She says she knows it," Tony returned. 
"But you surely know more than she, don't 
you?" 
" I know everything that can be known. I know 
that when, in certain conditions, pretty young 
 
mothers have acquitted themselves of that inevi 
table declaration, they turn over and go comfort 
ably to sleep." 
"That's exactly," said Tony, "what Nurse must 
make her do." 
"It's exactly what she's doing." Doctor Ramage had no sooner spoken than Mrs. Bream's bell 
sounded for the third time. " Excuse me ! " he 
imperturbably added. "Nurse calls me." 
" And doesn't she call me ? " cried Tony. 
"Not in the least." The doctor raised his 
hand with instant authority. " Stay where you 
are ! " With this he went off to his patient. 
If Mrs. Beever often produced, with promptitude, her theory that the young banker was 
subject to "states," this habit, of which he was 
admirably tolerant, was erected on the sense of 
something in him of which even a passing ob 
server might have caught a glimpse. A woman 
of still more wit than Mrs. Beever, whom he 
had met on the threshold of life, once explained 
some accident to him by the words : " The reason 
is, you know, that you're so exaggerated." This 
had not been a manner of saying that he was 
inclined to overshoot the truth; it had been an 
attempt to express a certain quality of passive 
excess which was the note of the whole man, 
and which, for an attentive eye, began with his 
neckties and ended with his intonations. To 
look at him was immediately to see that he 
was a collection of gifts, which presented themselves as such precisely by having in each case 
slightly overflowed the measure. He could do 
things this was all he knew about them ; and 
he was ready-made, as it were he had not had 
to put himself together. His dress was just 
too fine, his colour just too high, his moustache 
just too long, his voice just too loud, his smile 
just too gay. His movement, his manner, his 
tone were respectively just too free, too easy, 
and too familiar ; his being a very handsome, 
happy, clever, active, ambitiously local young 
man was in short just too obvious. But the 
result of it all was a presence that was in it 
self a close contact, the air of immediate, un 
conscious, unstinted life and of his doing what 
he liked and liking to please. One of his 
"states," for Mrs. Beever, was the state of his 
being a boy again, and the sign of it was his talking nonsense. It was not an example of that 
tendency, but she noted it almost as if it were, 
that almost as soon as the Doctor had left them 
 
he asked her if she had not brought over that 
awfully pretty girl. 
" She has been here, but I sent her home 
again." Then his visitor added: "Does she 
strike you as awfully pretty?" 
" As pretty as a pretty song ! I took a tre 
mendous notion to her." 
" She's only a child for mercy's sake don't 
show your notion too much ! " Mrs. Beever 
ejaculated. 
Tony Bream gave his bright stare ; after which, 
with his still brighter alacrity, " I see what you 
mean : of course I won't ! " he declared. Then, 
as if candidly and conscientiously wondering : 
" Is it showing it too much to hope she'll come 
back to luncheon ? " 
"Decidedly if Julia's so down." 
" That's only too much for Julia not for her," 
Tony said with his nervous smile. " But Julia 
knows about her, hopes she's coming, and wants 
everything to be natural and pleasant." He 
passed his hand over his eyes again, and as if at 
the same time recognising that his tone required 
explanation, " It's just because Julia's so down, 
don't you see?" he subjoined. "A fellow can't 
stand it." 
Mrs. Beever spoke after a pause during which 
her companion roamed rather jerkily about. 
" It's a mere accidental fluctuation. You may 
trust Ramage to know." 
"Yes, thank God, I may trust Ramage to 
know ! " He had the accent of a man constitutionally accessible to suggestion, and could turn 
the next instant to a quarter more cheering. " Do 
you happen to know what has become of Rose ? " 
Again Mrs. Beever, making a fresh observation, 
waited a little before answering. " Do you now 
call her ' Rose ' ? " 
"Dear, yes talking with Julia. And with 
her," he went on as if he couldn't quite remember 
"do I too ? Yes," he recollected, " I think I 
must." 
" What one must one must," said Mrs. Beever 
dryly. "'Rose,' then, has gone over to the 
chemist's for the Doctor." 
" How jolly of her ! " Tony exclaimed. " She's 
a tremendous comfort." 
Mrs. Beever committed herself to no opinion on 
this point, but it was doubtless on account of the 
continuity of the question that she presently 
asked : " Who's this person who's coming to-day 
to marry her ? " 
 
" A very good fellow, I believe and ' rising ' : 
a clerk in some Eastern house." 
" And why hasn't he come sooner ? " 
" Because he has been at Hong Kong, or some 
such place, trying hard to pick up an income. 
He's 'poor but pushing,' she says. They've no 
means but her own two hundred." 
" Two hundred a year ? That's quite enough 
for them ! " Mrs. Beever opined. 
" Then you had better tell him so ! " laughed 
Tony. 
" I hope you'll back me up ! " she returned ; 
after which, before he had time to speak, she 
broke out with irrelevance : " How is it she 
knows what Julia wanted to say to you ? " 
Tony, surprised, looked vague. "Just now? 
Does she know? I haven't the least idea." 
Rose appeared at this moment behind the glass 
doors of the vestibule, and he added, " Here 
she is." 
" Then you can ask her." 
" Easily," said Tony. But when the girl came 
in he greeted her only with a lively word of 
thanks for the service she had just rendered ; so 
that the lady of Eastmead, after waiting a minute, 
took the line of assuming, with a certain visible 
rigour, that he might have a reason for making 
his inquiry without an auditor. Taking temporary leave of him, she mentioned the visitors at 
home whom she must not forget. "Then you 
won't come back ? " he asked. 
"Yes, in an hour or two." 
" And bring Miss What's-her-name ? " 
As Mrs. Beever failed to respond to this, Rose 
Armiger added her voice. " Yes do bring Miss 
What's-her-name." Mrs. Beever, without assenting, reached the door, which Tony had opened for 
her. Here she paused long enough to be over 
taken by the rest of the girl's appeal. " I delight 
so in her clothes." 
" I delight so in her hair ! " Tony laughed. 
Mrs. Beever looked from one of them to the 
other. " Don't you think you've delight enough 
with what your situation here already offers?" 
She departed with the private determination to 
return unaccompanied. 
THREE minutes later Tony Bream put his ques 
tion to his other visitor. " Is it true that you 
know what Julia a while ago had the room 
cleared in order to say to me ? " 
Rose hesitated. " Mrs. Beever repeated to you 
that I told her so ? Yes, then ; I probably do 
know." She waited again a little. " The poor 
darling announced to you her conviction that 
she's dying." Then at the face with which he 
greeted her exactitude : " I haven't needed to be 
a monster of cunning to guess ! " she exclaimed. 
He had perceptibly paled : it made a difference, 
a kind of importance for that absurdity that it 
was already in other ears. " She has said the 
same to you?" 
Rose gave a pitying smile. " She has done me 
that honour." 
"Do you mean to-day?" 
" To-day and once before." 
Tony looked simple in his wonder. "Tester- 
day?" 
Rose hesitated again. " No ; before your child 
was born. Soon after I came." 
"She had made up her mind then from the 
first?" 
" Yes," said Rose, with the serenitjr of superior 
sense ; " she had laid out for herself that pleasant 
little prospect. She called it a presentiment, a 
fixed idea." 
Tony took this in with a frown. "And you 
never spoke of it?" 
" To you ? Why in the world should I when 
she herself didn't ? I took it perfectly for what 
it was an inevitable but unimportant result of 
the nervous depression produced by her step 
mother's visit." 
Tony had fidgeted away with his hands in the 
pockets of his trousers. " Damn her step-mother's 
visit!" 
" That's exactly what I did ! " Rose laughed. 
" Damn her step-mother too ! " the young man 
angrily pursued. 
"Hush!" said the girl, soothingly: "we mustn't 
curse our relations before the Doctor ! " Doctor 
Ramage had come back from his patient, and she 
 
mentioned to him that the medicine for which she 
had gone out would immediately be delivered. 
" Many thanks," he replied : " I'll pick it up 
myself. I must run out to another case." 
Then with a friendly hand to Tony and a nod 
at the room he had quitted: " Things are quiet." 
Tony, gratefully grasping his hand, detained 
him by it. " And what was that loud ring that 
called you ? " 
" A stupid flurry of Nurse. I was ashamed of 
her." 
"Then why did you stay so long?" 
" To have it out with your wife. She wants 
you again." 
Tony eagerly dropped his hand. " Then I 
go!" " 
The Doctor raised his liberated member. "In 
a quarter of an hour not before. I'm most 
reluctant, but I allow her five minutes." 
"It may make her easier afterwards," Rose 
observed. 
" That's precisely the ground of my giving in. 
Take care, you know; Nurse will time you," 
Doctor Ramage said to Tony. 
"So many thanks. And you'll come back?" 
" The moment I'm free." 
When he had gone Tony stood there sombre. 
"She wants to say it again that's what she 
wants." 
" Well," Rose answered, " the more she says it, 
the less it's true. It's not she who decides it." 
"No," Tony brooded; "it's not she. But it's 
not you and I either," he soon went on. 
" It's not even the Doctor," Rose remarked with 
her conscious irony. 
Her companion rested his troubled eyes on her. 
"And yet he's as worried as if it were." She 
protested against this imputation with a word to 
which he paid no heed. "If anything should 
happen" and his eyes seemed to go as far as 
his thought "what on earth would become of 
me?" 
The girl looked down, very grave. " Men have 
borne such things." 
"Very badly the real ones." He seemed to 
lose himself in the effort to embrace the worst, 
to think it out. "What should I do? where 
should I turn?" 
She was silent a little. "You ask me too 
much ! " she helplessly sighed. 
" Don't say that," replied Tony, " at a moment 
when I know so little if I mayn't have to ask 
 
you still more!" This exclamation made her 
meet his eyes with a turn of her own that might 
have struck him had he not been following an 
other train. "To you I can say it, Rose she's 
inexpressibly dear to me." 
She showed him a face intensely receptive. 
" It's for your affection for her that I've really 
given you mine." Then she shook her head 
seemed to shake out, like the overflow of a cup, 
her generous smile. " But be easy. We sha'n't 
have loved her so much only to lose her." 
" I'll be hanged if we shall ! " Tony responded. 
"And such talk's a vile false note in the midst 
of a joy like yours." 
" Like mine ? " Rose exhibited some vagueness. 
Her companion was already accessible to the 
amusement of it. "I hope that's not the way 
you mean to look at Mr. Vidal ! " 
" Ah, Mr. Vidal ! " she ambiguously murmured. 
" Sha'n't you then be glad to see him ? " 
"Intensely glad. But how shall I say it?" 
She thought a moment and then went on as if 
she found the answer to her question in Tony's 
exceptional intelligence and their comfortable intimacy. "There's gladness and gladness. It isn't 
love's young dream ; it's rather an old and rather 
a sad story. We've worried and waited we've 
been acquainted with grief. We've come together 
a weary way." 
" I know you've had a horrid grind. But isn't 
this the end of it?" 
Rose hesitated. "That's just what he's to 
settle." 
"Happily, I see! Just look at him." 
The glass doors, as Tony spoke, had been 
thrown open by the butler. The young man 
from China was there a short, meagre young 
man, with a smooth face and a dark blue double- 
breasted jacket. " Mr. Vidal ! " the butler announced, withdrawing again, while the visitor, 
whose entrance had been rapid, suddenly and 
shyly faltered at the sight of his host. His 
pause, however, lasted but just long enough to 
enable Rose to bridge it over with the frankest 
maidenly grace ; and Tony's quick sense of being 
out of place at this reunion was not a bar to 
the impression of her charming, instant action, 
her soft " Dennis, Dennis ! " her light, fluttered 
arms, her tenderly bent head, and the short, bright 
stillness of her clasp of her lover. Tony shone 
down at them with the pleasure of having helped 
them, and the warmth of it was in his immediate 
 
grasp of the traveller's hand. He cut short his 
embarrassed thanks he was too delighted; and 
leaving him with the remark that he would pres 
ently come back to show him his room, he went 
off again to poor Julia. 
VI 
DENNIS VIDAL, when the door had closed on 
his host, drew again to his breast the girl to 
whom he was plighted, and pressed her there 
with silent joy. She softly submitted, then still 
more softly disengaged herself, though in his 
flushed firmness he but partly released her. The 
light of admiration was in his hard young face 
a visible tribute to what she showed again his 
disaccustomed eyes. Holding her yet, he covered 
her with a smile that produced two strong but 
relenting lines on either side of his dry, thin 
lips. " My own dearest," he murmured, " you're 
still more so than one remembered!" 
She opened her clear eyes wider. " Still more 
what?" 
"Still more of a fright!" And he kissed her 
again. 
"It's you that are wonderful, Dennis," she said: 
" you look so absurdly young." 
 
He felt with his lean, fine, brown hand his 
spare, clean, brown chin. " If I looked as old as 
I feel, dear girl, they'd have my portrait in the 
illustrated papers." 
He had now drawn her down upon the nearest 
sofa, and while he sat sideways, grasping the 
wrist of which he remained in possession after she 
had liberated her fingers, she leaned back and 
took him in with a deep air of her own. "And 
yet it's not that you're exactly childish or so 
extraordinarily fresh," she went on as if to puzzle 
out, for her satisfaction, her impression of him. 
" ' Fresh,' my dear girl ! " He gave a little 
happy jeer ; then he raised her wrist to his mouth 
and held it there as long as she would let him, 
looking at her hard. " That's the freshest thing 
I've ever been conscious of ! " he exclaimed as she 
drew away her hand and folded her arms. 
"You're worn, but you're not wasted," she 
brought out in her kind but considering way. 
" You're awfully well, you know." 
"Yes, I'm awfully well, I know" he spoke 
with just the faintest ring of impatience. Then 
he added: "Your voice, all the while, has been 
in my ears. But there's something you put into 
it that they out there, stupid things ! couldn't. 
Don't ' size me up ' so," he continued, smiling ; 
"you make me nervous about what I may seem 
to come to!" 
They had both shown shyness, but Rose's was 
already gone. She kept her inclined position and 
her folded arms; supported by the back of the 
sofa, her head preserved, toward the side on which 
he sat, its charming contemplative turn. "I'm 
only thinking," she said, "that you look young 
just as a steel instrument of the best quality, 
no matter how much it's handled, often looks 
new." 
"Ah, if you mean I'm kept bright by use ! " 
the young man laughed. 
" You're polished by life." 
" ' Polished ' is delightful of you ! " 
" I'm not sure you've come back handsomer than 
you went," said Rose, " and I don't know if you've 
come back richer." 
"Then let me immediately tell you I have!" 
Vidal broke in. 
She received the announcement, for a minute, 
in silence : a good deal more passed between this 
pair than they uttered. " What I was going to 
say," she then quietly resumed, "is that I'm 
awfully pleased with myself when I see that at 
 
any rate you're what shall I call you ? a made 
man." 
Vidal frowned a little through his happiness. 
"With 'yourself? Aren't you a little pleased 
with me ?" 
She hesitated. "With myself first, because I 
was sure of you first." 
