with some curiosity, in spite of his ill temper.
'It does not seem likely that you mean to marry them both,' said
Francesco, swinging one leg slowly and blowing the smoke towards the
window.
'Both--whom?'
'Both the American and Aliandra. Of course, you could marry Aliandra in
church and the American by a civil marriage, and they might both be
satisfied, if you could keep them apart--'
'What an infernal scoundrel you are,' observed Tebaldo, slowly.
'You are certainly not the proper person to point out my moral
shortcomings,' retorted Francesco, coolly. 'But I did not suppose that
you meant to marry them both, and as you have very wisely decided to
take the American girl, I really think you might leave Aliandra to me.
If you marry the one, I do not see why I should not marry the other.'
'If I ever find you making love to Aliandra Basili,' said Tebaldo, with
slow emphasis, 'I will break every bone in your body.'
But he still kept his hands in his pockets. Francesco laughed, for he
did not believe that he was in present bodily danger. It was not the
first time that Tebaldo had spoken in that way.
'You are ready to quarrel again! I am sure I am perfectly reasonable. I
wish to marry Aliandra Basili. I have kept out of your way in that
direction for a long time. I should not mention the matter now, unless I
were sure that you had made up your mind.'
'And--' Tebaldo came near to him, but hesitated. 'And--excuse me--but
what reason have you for supposing that Aliandra will marry you?'
'That is my affair,' answered Francesco, but he shrank a little and
slipped from his seat on the table to his feet, when he saw his
brother's face.
'How do you mean that it is your affair?' asked Tebaldo, roughly. 'How
do you know that she will marry you? Have you asked her? Has she told
you that she loves you?'
Francesco hesitated a moment. The temptation to say that he was loved by
Aliandra, merely for the sake of giving his brother pain, was very
great. But so was the danger, and that was upon him already, for Tebaldo
mistook the meaning of his hesitation, and finally lost his temper.
His sinewy hands went right at his brother's throat, half strangling him
in an instant, and then swinging him from side to side on his feet as a
terrier shakes a rat. If Francesco had carried even a pocket knife, he
would have had it out in an instant, and would have used it. But he had
no weapon, and he was no match for Tebaldo in a fury. He struck out
fiercely enough with his fists, but the other's hands were above his
own, and he could do nothing. He could not even cry out, for he was half
choked, and Tebaldo was quite silent in his rage. There would have been
murder, had there been weapons within the reach of either.
When Tebaldo finally threw him off, Francesco fell heavily upon one knee
against the door, but caught the handle with one hand, and regained his
feet instantly.
'You shall pay me yet,' he said in a low voice, his throat purple, but
his face suddenly white.
'Yes. This is only something on account,' said Tebaldo, with a sneer.
'You shall have the rest of the payment some other time.'
But Francesco was gone before the last words had passed his brother's
lips. The door closed behind him, and Tebaldo heard his quick footsteps
outside as he went off in the direction of his own room.
The angry man grew calmer when he was alone, but now and then, as he
walked up and down, and backwards and forwards, he clenched his hands
spasmodically, wishing that he still had his brother in his grip. Yet,
when he reflected, as he began to do before long, upon what had really
happened, he realised that he had not, after all, had much reason for
taking his brother by the throat. It was the hesitation that had made
his temper break out. But then, it might have meant so much. In his
present state, the thought that perhaps Aliandra loved Francesco was
like the bite of a horse-fly in a raw wound, and he quivered under it.
He could not get away from it. He fancied he saw Francesco kissing
Aliandra's handsome mouth, and that her eyes smiled, and then her
eyelids drooped with pleasure. His anger subsided a little, but his
jealousy grew monstrously minute by minute, and his wrath smouldered
beneath it. He remembered past days and meetings, and glances Aliandra
had given his brother, such as she had never bestowed upon himself. She
did not love him, though she wished to marry him, and was determined to
do so, if it were possible. But it flashed upon him that she loved
Francesco, and had loved him from the first. That was not quite the
truth, though it was near it, and he saw a hundred things in the past to
prove that it was the truth altogether.
He was human enough to feel the wound to his vanity, and the slight cast
upon him by a comparison in which Francesco was preferred to him, as
well as the hurt at his heart which came with it. He did not know of
Francesco's daily visits, but he suspected them and exaggerated all he
guessed. Doubtless Francesco had seen her again and again alone, quite
lately, while Tebaldo had been made to endure day after day the presence
of Aliandra's aunt in the room. Again the red-lipped vision of a kiss
flashed in the shadow of the room, a living picture, and once more his
eyes grew red, and his hands clenched themselves spasmodically, closing
on nothing.
She had said that she preferred Francesco. She had almost admitted that
she loved him, and he could remember how cold her eyes had been while
she had been saying it. There had been another light in them for his
brother, and she had not held her hands behind her back when Francesco
had held out his. Or else she had, laughingly. And then she had put up
her face, instead, for him to kiss. Tebaldo ground his teeth.
His jealousy got hold of him in the vitals and gnawed cruelly.
Everything in his own room made him think of Aliandra, though there was
not one object in a score that could possibly have any association with
her, nor any right to remind him of her, as he tried to tell himself.
But his watch, lying on the toilet table, made him think of her watch, a
pretty little one he had given her. His gloves made him think of her
gloves, his books recalled hers, his very chairs, as they chanced to
stand about the room, revived the memory of how other chairs had stood
when he had parted from her. The infinite pettiness of the details that
irritated him did not shock his reason as would have happened at any
other time. On the contrary, the more of them sprang up, the more they
stung him. Instead of one gadfly, there were hundreds. And all the time
there was the almost irresistible physical longing to go to her, and
throw over everything else. He went out, for he could not bear his room
any longer.
It was still hot in the streets in the early afternoon, and there was a
fierce glare all through the new part of the city where there were many
white houses in straight rows along smoothly-paved streets. Tebaldo
walked in the shade, and once or twice he took off his hat for a moment
and let the dry, hot breeze blow upon his forehead. The strong light was
somehow a relief as he grew accustomed to it, and his southern nature
regained its balance in the penetrating warmth. He walked quickly, not
heeding his direction, as he followed the line of broad shade and passed
quickly through the blazing sunshine that filled the crossing of each
side street.
He regained his normal state, and presently, being quite calm, he
stopped and quietly lighted a cigar. Like many men of ardent and
choleric temperament, he neither smoked nor drank much, but there were
times, like the present, when smoking helped him to think quietly.
Before the cigar was half finished he was at the door of the hotel at
which Miss Slayback and her aunt were staying. He was glad that he had
decided to see her on that afternoon, and he attributed the good sense,
as he would have called it, which had ultimately brought him to her
door, to the soothing influence of the tobacco.
Miss Slayback was alone in the sitting-room. The blinds were closed, but
the windows were open, and the warm breeze stirred the white curtains.
It was an ordinary hotel sitting-room, like hundreds of others, but Miss
Lizzie had not been satisfied with such mediocrity of surroundings, and
had taken much pains to give the room an inhabited look. She had, of
course, bought several hundred objects of no particular value, as rich
women who visit Rome for the first time invariably do, and most of them
were in sight in her sitting-room. There were photographs by the score,
pinned to the walls and standing on tables, and heaped together in a
corner. The photograph is the unresistible temptation to women. There
were three or four clever water-colour studies of men and women in
costume, such as one sees everywhere in Rome; there were half-a-dozen
bronzes copied, in the unfinished, wholesale manner, from the antique;
there was the inevitable old choir book of the psalms, with the old
musical notation that is still used for plain chaunt, written on
parchment and opened at the page which presented the best illuminated
capital letter; there were three or four pieces of old embroidered
vestments, draped over the backs of chairs, and there were several vases
containing fresh flowers and dry wild grasses from the Campagna. And
there was Miss Lizzie Slayback.
She was exceedingly pretty in a sort of nondescript dress, between a
tea-gown and something else; for though it was adorned with ribbons and
laces, after the manner of tea-gowns, it was short-skirted when she
stood up. In fact, it was 'a little creation' of her own, as her
dressmaker would have said, thereby disclaiming all responsibility for
its eccentricity. But it was distinctly becoming, and Miss Lizzie knew
it.
There is a great difference, morally, between being vain and being
æsthetically aware of one's advantages and good points. Vanity is even
more blind than love, but there is something really and healthily
artistic in judicious and successful self-adornment. Vanity paints its
eyes, and rouges its cheeks, and dyes its hair, and laces its waist till
its ribs crack. Good taste cuts its clothes according to its figure and
its age, instead of pinching its body to fit its clothes. Vanity is
full of affectation; good taste presents the best it has to view, so far
as it can, and hides what is less good, without attempting to distort
it, because what is not good cannot be made to look good, by torture, to
eyes that understand. The vain woman interprets the statement that she
is clay, in a literal sense, and tries to violently model her clay into
the Venus of her dreams. The woman of taste accepts the fact that she is
not a goddess and makes the best of her mortality as she has received
it.
Miss Slayback was very pretty, and even Tebaldo Pagliuca admitted the
fact, though he was not in the least in love with her. She smiled and
looked ten times prettier than before, as he entered the room.
'My aunt is supposed to be out,' she said, as he sat down. 'But she is
in the next room. So it is quite proper.'
She laughed a little at her own speech, for she was still amused by
European ideas of propriety, and she would have been surprised if anyone
had been shocked by her receiving Tebaldo alone, when Mrs. Slayback was
really asleep in the next room, during the heat of the afternoon.
Tebaldo smiled courteously, leaned back a little in his small, low
armchair, and fixed his eyes upon her face in silence. His expression
might have deceived an older and a wiser woman.
'I am very glad to find you alone,' he said softly, after an emphatic
pause of admiration. 'Your aunt is one of the most charming women in the
world, of course, but--'
'But she is not always necessary,' interrupted Miss Slayback. 'Do you
want to see my new embroidery? I bought it this morning--'
'No. I do not care about your embroideries. I came to see you, not
vestments.'
'It is not a vestment. It is an altar cloth--'
'It is not you, at all events,' said Tebaldo, fixing his eyes upon her
again. 'I want you and only you--to-day, to-morrow, and for ever.' His
voice was well modulated.
Miss Lizzie looked down, thoughtfully, but she did not blush. Tebaldo
leaned forward a little, gazing earnestly into her face. But she looked
down and said nothing, for she wished him to say more. It was pleasant
to hear, and though her eyes were bent upon the carpet, she could
really see his face quite distinctly.
'I think you see and understand that I love you devotedly,' he said in
soft tones.
It was not easy for him, with his ideas, to make the statement in cold
blood, so to say. But that was evidently what she expected, and he did
his best.
'You must have seen it,' he continued. 'You must have understood it. I
have tried to express it to you with the most profound respect, with
that respect which I have felt for you from the first, and shall always
feel, and wish to feel, for my wife.'
Possibly Miss Lizzie, not being a Latin, would have been willing to hear
less about respect and more about love. But he managed to make his tone
convey something of that also. She looked up, slowly raising her long
black lashes, till her dark blue eyes met his.
'You know,' she said, with an odd mixture of gentleness and wilfulness,
'if I marry you, you must always let me do exactly as I please.'
Tebaldo had known her long enough to be past the stage in which she
could surprise him. The conception of American life which he had formed
from her conversation was somewhat fantastic.
'You would not be so frank if you meant to misuse your liberty,' he
answered wisely.
'Do not be so sure!' laughed Miss Lizzie, gaily.
But Tebaldo wanted a more binding reply to his proposal.
'Please do not laugh,' he said. 'Your answer--your consent will
transport me to paradise.'
'I hope not,' answered the girl, still laughing a little. 'I prefer you
on earth, if I am to marry you.'
'You are adorable!' exclaimed Tebaldo, understanding that he must accept
her jesting humour.
'Yes? Am I?' She smiled.
'But you see that I adore you, worship you--love you! Everyone does--'
'I do not want everyone--'
'But me? That is the question. Do you--'
'Oh yes! I want you,' she answered, interrupting him. 'Please let me
think a moment. I am making up my mind.'
Thereupon Miss Lizzie got up from her seat. Tebaldo rose also, wondering
what she might be going to do to help her mind in making itself up. He
rather expected that she meant to go into the next room to consult her
aunt before giving her final answer. But she had no intention of doing
that. She went to the window, and looked through the slats of the closed
blinds, into the hot glare outside. Tebaldo remained standing close to
the chair in which he had been sitting. As has been said, she could no
longer surprise him, but he watched the ways and manners of the American
young girl with interest, even while he grew nervous as he thought of
the magnitude of the stake he hoped to win.
Miss Lizzie stayed some time at the window, without moving. When she
suddenly turned back into the room, and came straight up to Tebaldo, her
face was a little paler than usual; but he could not see it, for the
light was behind her. Her manner had quite changed now, and she spoke
very gravely.
'I have not known you very long, and you are asking me to put my whole
life in your hands,' she said. 'I like you very much. I care for you so
much that I am going to trust you, though I know you so little. I am
going to say yes.'
She laid her hands in his trustfully, and looked up into his face. His
lids half veiled his eyes, for the triumph in his look was not the
triumph of love, and he knew it. No sane man is without some good
impulse, be he ever so bad.
'I thank you with all my heart,' he said, wisely choosing simple words
now; and he pressed her hands gently. 'I shall try to make you happy,'
he added.
It all seemed very strange to her. Possibly something warned her even
then that he was very false, more false than she could have understood.
She had expected, shyly and with a little not quite unpleasant
trepidation, that he would suddenly catch her in his arms and kiss her a
score of times, quickly, as no one had ever kissed her. Yet there he
stood, quite calm, just pressing the tips of her fingers, as though he
were afraid of hurting her, and saying that he meant to make her happy.
She was disappointed, though she would not have admitted that she was.
She little guessed that the bad man had just then chanced to feel one of
the few good impulses that ever disturbed him. At that moment it would
have seemed considerably worse to him to act as she really expected that
he would than it would have seemed to cut Francesco's throat in his
sleep. Explain those things who can. There is good in human nature, even
at its worst; and it comes to the surface unexpectedly. Francesco, whose
character was on the whole far less evil and malevolent, would have had
no such scruple. To him a woman was a woman, and nothing more. But
Tebaldo either loved or did not love, and the woman he did not love was
not a woman at all in his eyes. And since in this case she chanced to be
an innocent girl, his manliness--for he was manly and physically
brave--revolted at the idea of offending her innocence.
An old-fashioned theologian might say that a man who has no good in him
is not properly fit to be damned. Such a man would have no free-will,
and could not, therefore, logically be punished for anything he did.
That was not Tebaldo Pagliuca's case, at all events.
Miss Lizzie stood still a moment, looking up to his face, after he had
spoken; then she drew away her hands, and sat down again, feeling rather
shy, for the first time since she had been a child. It seemed strange
that it should all be over, and that she was to be married. Tebaldo
began a little speech.
'You have made me very happy,' he said; and he formed a number of fairly
well-turned phrases, in which to express his satisfaction, which was
genuine, and his affection, which was not.
She did not hear him, for her own thoughts seemed louder than his
smoothly-spoken words. She was happy, and yet she was uncomfortable, in
an undefined way, and did not know what was the matter. He did not seem
to expect any response just then, and she let him talk on. Then she was
aware that he was repeating a question.
'May I announce our engagement?' he was asking, for the second time.
'Of course!' she exclaimed, suddenly realising the sense of his words.
'It is not a thing to be concealed. I will tell my aunt at once. You
must come and see her this evening--no, we are going somewhere--I forget
where! Come to-morrow, please.'
'And when--?' He purposely left the sentence incomplete, filling the
question with one of the long looks he had employed so often, with such
success.
'When what? Oh! You mean, when shall we be married? Let me see. It is
May now. I shall have to go to Paris, of course. You will come, will you
not?'
'Could we not be married first, and go to Paris afterwards?' enquired
Tebaldo.
But Miss Lizzie had no intention of being hurried to the altar without
having got the full amount of enjoyment out of buying beautiful clothes,
and Tebaldo was obliged to content himself with a promise that the
wedding should take place early in the autumn. She wished to be married
in Rome by an archbishop, if not by a cardinal. Tebaldo agreed to the
whole college of cardinals, if necessary.
When he went away, he walked more slowly. The sun was very low, and the
air was growing cooler. He sauntered down towards the Corso, well
pleased with his own prospects and thinking out the details of his
future with intense satisfaction. Tebaldo was no spendthrift fool to
waste his wife's fortune on absurd frivolities, or to gamble it away in
mad speculations. He meant to build up the Corleone once more, and make
his family far greater than it had ever been. He did not know exactly
how rich Miss Slayback was, but his guessing was, if anything, under the
truth, and he had seen enough of her to know that she desired to be a
personage, and was attracted by the idea of rank. He knew that she and
her aunt had taken pains to enquire into the validity of his titles. He
smiled when he remembered how cheaply he had held them in the old days
at Camaldoli, when he would have sold his birthright for a new rifle,
and a title or two for a supply of ammunition; and he admired in himself
the transformation from the rough country gentleman, hardly one step
above the tenant farmer of the Sicilian hills, to the fashionable young
nobleman, engaged to be married to a great heiress, and already on the
point of restoring to his family all its ancient magnificence.
He walked the length of the Corso and back before he went home. He had
hardly entered his room when there was a light knock at the door.
Vittoria entered, looking pale and frightened.
'What was the matter between you and Francesco?' she asked as soon as
she had shut the door behind her.
'The matter?' Tebaldo looked at her curiously, wondering whether she
knew anything about Aliandra Basili. 'We quarrelled, as usual,' he said
briefly.
'It must have been worse than usual,' said Vittoria, in a low voice. 'He
is gone.'
'Gone? Where? Gone out to dinner?' Tebaldo affected to laugh carelessly.
'No. I think he is gone to Sicily,' answered the young girl.
Tebaldo uttered an exclamation of surprise, and his expression changed
as he looked at his sister.
'Yes,' she continued. 'He made a terrible scene with me and our
mother--not exactly a scene, perhaps--it was all about you. He said that
he was going, that he could not live in the house any longer, that he
should never come back again. He said--' she hesitated.
'What more did he say?'
'He was half mad, I think. He said it was better to be an outlaw than
live under such a brother as you, and that he would pay you for what you
had done to him in the way you least expected.'
'What makes you think that he is gone to Sicily?' asked Tebaldo, very
quietly, while his lids drooped at the corners.
'He looked for the trains in the newspaper, and I heard him say 'Reggio'
and 'Messina.' We tried to quiet him--we did what we could. But he
packed a quantity of things in a hurry, and went off in a cab, looking
at his watch, and saying that he had barely time. Mother fell into one
of those terrible fits of crying that she has sometimes, and she is ill
again. I thought it best to tell you.'
'Certainly,' said Tebaldo, thoughtfully. 'And now that you have told
me, please go away, for I must dress.'
She was already turning, for she was used to his peremptory ways, but he
stopped her.
'I may as well tell you, Vittoria,' he said; 'I am engaged to be married
to your friend Miss Slayback. I hope that, as the marriage will be so
advantageous to our family, you will not criticise me to her too much. I
am not quite so bad as you sometimes think.'
Vittoria looked at him in silence for three or four seconds before she
spoke.
'I shall say nothing to injure you with her,' she said slowly, and at
once left the room.
CHAPTER XXV
Aliandra was received in Randazzo with that sort of ovation which only
Italians accord to a successful artist; and her father's house was
filled for a whole day with the respectable townsmen and their wives and
daughters, who came to greet her and congratulate her. For the
newspapers had informed them of her successes in Rome, and the Sicilian
papers had exaggerated the original reports tenfold. The mayor and his
wife, the municipal officers, the grey-haired lieutenant of carabineers
with his pretty daughter, the rector, the curate, the young emigration
agent of the big steamship company with his betrothed bride and her
mother, the principal shopkeeper with his wife and children, the
innkeeper--in short, all that represented the highest fashion in
Randazzo, including Don Tolomeo Bellini, the most important tenant
farmer on the great Fornasco estate as well as a small freeholder, whose
ancestors had been privileged to bear arms, and who, therefore, ranked
as a gentleman and stamped the cheeses from his dairy with a little
five-pointed coronet. Basili had formerly hoped to get him for a
son-in-law, and he would have been considered a very good match for the
notary's daughter.
All Randazzo talked of the singer's return, and the poor people crowded
the street to get a look at her. The mayor said she was an honour to the
province and to Sicily, and the rector, who had baptized her, expressed
his hope that she might be always as good as she was famous, for he
distrusted the name of art, but wished the girl well for her father's
sake and her own.
Don Atanasio, the apothecary of Santa Vittoria, tried to persuade his
daughter to go with him down to Randazzo and pay Aliandra a visit.
'It will divert you a little from your sorrow, my daughter,' he said,
shaking his head.
Concetta's dark eyes turned slowly towards her father with a wondering
look, as though she were amazed at his audacity and yet pitied his
inability to measure her grief.
'The dead need no amusements,' she said, gravely. 'They are very quiet.
They wait.'
'Eh--but the living,' objected Don Atanasio. 'We are alive, you know.'
Concetta did not heed what he said.
'The dead are very quiet. They wait for the Judgment and the
Resurrection--the judgment of blood, and the resurrection of the
innocent. Then they will be alive again.'
Don Atanasio sighed, for his unhappy daughter was no longer like other
women. She was of those simple beings for whom life has but one purpose
after love has taken possession, and from whom the loved one, dying,
takes all purpose away for ever. The old man sighed and looked sideways
at her, and a tear ran down his thin, straight nose, and fell upon the
plaster he was spreading on the marble slab before him; but his
daughter's dark eyes were dry. She was sitting on a little low stool
behind one end of the counter, where she could not be seen by any one
who might chance to come into the shop. Her head was screened by the
great old-fashioned marble mortar.
Don Atanasio laid down the broad mixing-knife he was using, pushed back
the black broadcloth cap which Concetta had once embroidered with a
design of green leaves, wiped his spectacles, turned away to blow his
nose with a large coloured handkerchief, and turned back again to take a
long look at the girl. He laid his hand gently on her head, pressing her
forehead back until she looked up into his face.
'You wish to make me die also,' he said slowly. 'What have I done that
you wish to make me die?'
She looked at him very sadly, and then quickly got hold of his other
hand and kissed it with a sort of devotion. She was very fond of him. He
patted the back of her head affectionately.
'In truth, my dear,' he said gently, 'if I see you always thus, I shall
not live long, for I have only you in the world, and the rest does not
matter. But it is not that, since I would die to make you happy. What
should it be for me? I am old. I am of no use. They will have another
apothecary in Santa Vittoria. That is nothing. My thoughts are for you.'
'Do not think for me,' answered the girl. 'I sit here quietly. I do no
harm. And then, when it is later, I go to see my dead one every day.'
'But it is not good to do this always,' objected Don Atanasio,
coaxingly. 'That is why I say come down with me to Randazzo to-morrow,
and let us go and see the notary Basili, who has broken his leg, and his
daughter, the great singer, who has come back from Rome to visit him.
She is a good girl, and you can make a little conversation with her. It
will be a diversion, a sober diversion, and the air will do you good,
and the movement.'
She kissed his hand again, then dropped it, and drew up her black shawl
over her head, for she heard a step on the threshold. Don Atanasio heard
it too, and immediately took up his mixing-knife and went to work again
at the plaster. The newcomer was the lieutenant who commanded the
infantry men quartered in Santa Vittoria. He asked for six grains of
quinine in three doses.
He was a quiet young fellow, scrupulously neat in his close-fitting
tunic with its turned-down velvet collar, his small red moustache,
carefully trimmed, and his red hair parted behind and well brushed below
his cap. He had singularly bright blue eyes with rough red eyebrows and
a bright and healthy but much-freckled complexion.
Don Atanasio proceeded to weigh out the little doses of the valuable
drug, and the officer watched him as he cut the clean white paper into
smaller sizes and neatly folded each package.
'Do you know all those Pagliuca brothers?' he asked suddenly.
The apothecary stopped in his work and looked at him keenly. The officer
was a Piedmontese, and was, therefore, unpopular in the south.
'Eh!' ejaculated the apothecary. 'They formerly lived here. I have seen
them.'
Concetta did not stir in her hiding-place at the end of the counter,
behind the marble mortar. The officer was silent for a moment, and the
apothecary hastily folded the last package, slipping one end of the
doubled paper into the other, as chemists do, and taking up another
sheet of paper in which to wrap the three doses together.
'One of them has suddenly returned here,' said the officer. 'He is in
the neighbourhood, and is not here for any good purpose. Most probably
he has come to do some injury to the gentleman who killed his brother,
the brigand.'
In spite of herself Concetta drew a sharp breath between her teeth. The
officer's eyes turned inquisitively towards the corner where she sat.
'It is the cat,' said Don Atanasio, calmly. 'One lira and fifty
centimes, Signor Lieutenant,' he added, handing the officer the package
across the counter.
'They say that it is Francesco Pagliuca who has come back, and that he
was seen this morning in Randazzo,' said the young man, while he counted
out the money in big coppers; for, as usual in the south, there was a
scarcity even of the flimsy little paper notes. 'We do not know him by
sight, you see,' he continued, 'and I should be very glad of any
information, if you should see him in the village. One
thirty--forty--fifty--there it is.'
He laid the last copper on the marble slab.
'A thousand thanks, Signor Lieutenant,' said Don Atanasio, collecting
the coins.
'And you will let us know if you see the young man?' asked the officer.
'You shall be served,' replied the apothecary, gravely.
The officer thanked him, nodded, and went out, with a little clattering
of his light sabre. When he was gone, Don Atanasio's grave face relaxed
in a smile.
'And those are the men who expect to rule us Sicilians,' he said in a
low voice, more to himself than to his daughter. 'They wish to catch a
man. What do they do? They warn his friends by asking questions. What
can such people catch? A crab, as we say, that will bite their own
fingers. Then they complain. They are like children. They do not even
know what the mafia is, and they come to Sicily.'
Concetta sat quite still in her corner, thinking. It seemed to her sure
that Francesco Pagliuca had come to kill Orsino Saracinesca, for his
brother's sake. That was what the officer thought, and all the soldiers
would be looking out for Francesco, and on the smallest excuse he would
be arrested on mere suspicion. It did not strike her that he could
possibly have come for any other purpose, and her one desire was that
Orsino should be killed. That was man's work, that killing, and she
would leave it to the men. But if none of them would do it, she would
some day take her father's gun and wait for Orsino at the cemetery, for
he often passed that way. She was not afraid to kill him, but she
considered it to be the duty and business of the Corleone men. They had
prior rights, and, besides, they were men. A woman should not do any
killing so long as there were men to do it, except in self-defence.
It was clearly her duty, she thought, to warn Francesco that the
soldiers were aware of his presence in the neighbourhood. It would be
much wiser of him, she reflected, to communicate with the outlaws who
were about Noto, and get half a dozen resolute fellows to help him. She
had no knowledge of his character, though she had often met him, and she
supposed him to be like his brothers, bold and determined. So she wished
to warn him, in order that he might safely accomplish what she supposed
must be his purpose.
The difficulty lay in finding him. Her father might help her, perhaps,
but it was doubtful. It was quite certain that he could not say or do
anything which could thwart Francesco's plans, but, on the other hand,
she knew that he would be careful not to seem to help him, for he had to
keep on good terms with the authorities, for the simple reason that he
held a government license as apothecary, which could easily be taken
from him.
'Did you know that Francesco Pagliuca had come back?' she asked, after a
long silence, during which the plaster had been finished, folded up, and
laid aside ready to be called for.
'I knew,' answered Don Atanasio, but he did not seem inclined to say
anything more.
'Why did you not tell me, father?' asked the girl.
'It might have given you pain, my child. And then, one does not say
everything one knows. One forgets many things. He slept at the house of
Don Taddeo, the grocer.'
'Where is he now? Is he still here?'
'Who shall say where he is? Heaven knows where he is. I cannot know
everything.'
He answered with a little irritation, for he understood that Concetta
wished to see her dead lover's brother, and he could not understand how
any good could come of the meeting.
Concetta rose slowly to her feet and came out from behind the counter.
She had grown very thin, but she was not less beautiful. She drew her
black shawl together under her chin, and it fell over her forehead to
her eyes. There was no disguise in it, for everyone knew her, but she
felt that it gave her some privacy in her grief, even in broad day and
in the street.
'I go to breathe the air,' she said quietly, moving towards the door.
'Go, my daughter, you need it,' answered the apothecary.
He watched her sadly, and as she went out he moved to the entrance of
the shop and looked after her. Tall, sad, and black, and graceful, she
walked smoothly along the shady side of the street, which was deserted
in the blazing noon. Don Atanasio did not go in again till she had
turned the corner and was out of sight.
She found the grocer's brother, the fat and cross-eyed sacristan, eating
dark brown beans out of an earthen bowl with an iron fork, in the open
shop. No one else was there. It was a cool, vaulted place, with a floor
of beaten cement and volcanic ashes, and a number of big presses in a
row behind a long walnut counter, black and polished with age. Hams and
sides of bacon hung from the ceiling, and the air smelt of salt pork,
cereals, and candles. The fat man sat on a bench, in his shirt sleeves,
eating his beans with a sort of slow voracity. He looked up as
Concetta's shadow darkened the door.
'Will you accept?' he asked, lifting his earthen bowl a little as he
spoke.
'Thank you, and good appetite,' answered the girl. 'How are you?'
'Always to serve you, most gentle Concetta,' said the man. 'What do you
need?'
'Eat,' replied Concetta, sitting down upon a rush-bottom chair. 'I do
not come to disturb you. Are you all alone?' She peered into the shadows
at the back of the shop.
'Eh, you know how it is? Taddeo eats and then goes to sleep, and while
he sleeps I keep the shop. In truth, it needs no great merchant to do
that, for no one comes at this hour.'
'And you and your brother do not eat together?'
'Generally we do, but to-day, who knows how it was? He ate first and
went to sleep. Then I brought my beans here for company. This is our
conversation. I open my mouth, and before I can speak the beans answer
me. This I call, indeed, conversation.'
'And Francesco Pagliuca, with whom does he converse upstairs?' asked
Concetta, lowering her voice.
The man looked up quickly, with his mouth full, as though to see whether
she were in earnest and knew the truth. A glance convinced him that she
did.
'He went to Randazzo at dawn,' he said, almost in a whisper. 'He makes
love with the notary's daughter there.'
Concetta did not believe that this could be the only reason for
Francesco's return.
'Why does he not stay at Randazzo, then?' she enquired. 'Why should he
come here at all? It is a long way.'
'Perhaps he is afraid of Basili's friends,' suggested the fat man. 'Or
he prefers to sleep here because the air is better. He will certainly
not tell us why he comes.'
'Is he coming back this evening?'
'I think so, for he has a box here with his clothes, and other things.
But for charity's sake, tell no one.'
'I?' Concetta laughed in a cold way, without a smile. 'I wish to warn
him that the soldiers know he was in Randazzo yesterday, and are looking
out for him.'
She told the man of the lieutenant's visit to her father's shop, and he
listened attentively.
'I could wait for him in the road,' he said. 'He thought that the
soldiers would not know him here, because they are all new men. But they
have seen him in Randazzo and have sent word. They think that he has
come on account of the Saracinesca, but he has followed the notary's
daughter from Rome. They cannot touch him so long as he does no harm.'
'They may prevent him from doing it,' said Concetta, looking steadily at
the man.
'That would be a pity,' he answered gravely. 'I will wait for him in the
road.'
'But if he comes by the bridle-path over the hills, you will miss him.'
'I do not think he will do that, for it is a bad road, and he had my
brother's best horse to ride.'
'Go and wait in the bridle-path,' said Concetta. 'I will wait in the
road, towards Camaldoli.'
'He will not come before sunset,' observed the sacristan. 'That crazy
priest of the Saracinesca, Don Ippolito, comes to play the organ in
Santa Vittoria every day, and pays me to blow the bellows, and he never
goes away till twenty-three o'clock.'
Twenty-three of the clock is half an hour before the sun sets, at all
times of the year, by the old reckoning, which is still in use in the
south.
'You can send a boy to blow the bellows,' suggested Concetta. 'You
cannot trust anyone to warn Francesco Pagliuca.'
They both supposed that since enquiry was being made for him, he would
be in imminent danger of arrest, with or without any legal grounds, an
opinion sufficiently indicative of the state of the country. The man
stared blankly at the wall for a few seconds after Concetta had last
spoken, then nodded, and began to eat again.
The girl rose from her chair, and moved towards the door with her
graceful, slowly-cadenced step. She had done what she had come to do and
was quite sure of the man, as indeed she had reason to be, for the mafia
protects its own, and generally has its own way in the end, in spite of
governments and soldiers. If Concetta and the fat sacristan asked no
one to help them, it was because it was such a very simple matter to
warn Francesco of danger, that they needed no assistance. But as they
needed none, they told no one what they were going to do.
Concetta came home again to the quiet little shop, and Don Atanasio
bolted the glass door, and they both went upstairs to dinner. The girl
ate a little better than usual, and sipped half a glass of strong, black
wine.
'The air did you good,' observed her father, looking at her. 'Eh, this
human body! What is it? Who shall ever understand it? You go out every
afternoon, when it is cool, for two hours, and it does you no good, and
you eat no more than a bee takes from a flower. And to-day you go out
for half an hour into a heat that would burn up paving-stones, and you
come back with an appetite. So much the better. It is not I that should
complain, if you ate the house and the walls, poor child.'
'When the heart is thirsty for blood, the body is not hungry for meat,'
said the beautiful, white-faced girl, in her clear, low voice.
CHAPTER XXVI
Ippolito and Orsino had already acquired certain fixed habits in their
several occupations, so that they rarely failed to meet at the same
regular hours and then separate again, each doing the same or similar
things day after day. Such regularity becomes a second nature in remote
places where there is little chance that anything unexpected should
happen.
Orsino had really not enough to do, after he had once familiarised
himself with his surroundings. So long as San Giacinto had remained, it
had been different, for he had great plans, and had spent much time in
riding about the country with an engineer from Palermo who was to build
the light railway round Etna. San Giacinto had now gone back to Rome,
however, leaving his cousin in charge of Camaldoli, with directions to
manage things with an easy hand, so as not to prejudice the people
against the work of the railway when it should be begun. To do this
meant, practically, to leave the tenants to their own devices, unless it
were possible to help them in any way to which they should not object.
At the same time, there were certain defensive measures which were
always necessary, for no one knew when the brigands might grow weary of
Noto and appear on the slopes of Etna again to avenge their friend
Ferdinando Pagliuca.
Orsino used to ride about a good deal, more for the sake of exercise
than for anything he could accomplish, and he carried his rifle now as a
matter of habit, but rarely took one or two of the carabineers with him.
He began to believe that there were not really any outlaws at all, and
that Ferdinando's unknown friend had left that part of the country.
Ippolito, as a priest, went about unarmed, and, being naturally
fearless, he rambled about as he pleased. Almost every day he walked to
Santa Vittoria and spent an hour at the organ. Orsino accompanied him,
when there was any reason for going to the village, but it did not amuse
him to hear his brother's music. In fact, it was rather a relief to him
not to hear the piano constantly at his elbow, as he heard it when
Ippolito played in their joint sitting-room in Rome.
On the afternoon of the day on which Concetta had walked to the grocer's
shop, Ippolito strolled up to the small church as usual. There was a
little lame boy who had discovered the priest's habits, and used to hang
about in the afternoon in the hope of earning a penny by calling the fat
sacristan to come and blow the organ. He was not strong enough to blow
it himself, and was content and glad to get a copper or two for limping
into the village with his message. Ippolito now had a key of his own to
the church, and went inside while the man was coming. Each day, during
the twenty minutes or so which generally elapsed, he worked at the back
of the instrument, repairing with bits of wire a number of trackers that
ran from the pedals to a wooden stop set up on one side of the organ. At
some former time the connexions had been repaired with waxed string,
which the hungry church mice had gnawed to pieces. It was a troublesome
job, requiring patience and some mechanical skill, as well as two or
three simple tools which Ippolito had brought from Rome and now left in
the organ until the work should be finished.
Instead of the sacristan, a big boy appeared on this particular day, the
same who had carried the holy water for the priest who had come down to
Camaldoli when Ferdinando had been killed. He explained that the
sacristan had been sent on an errand to Bronte by his brother, the
grocer, and had left him, the boy, to do duty at the bellows if needed.
Ippolito thought nothing of the matter, and sat down to make music, as
usual. The days were growing very long, and he generally regulated his
stay in the church by the sun rather than by his watch. Sometimes the
fat sacristan came round from behind, perspiring, and declaring that his
brother needed him at home.
Meanwhile Concetta had gone down the road to the cemetery just beyond
the shoulder of the hill, out of sight of the village and the little
church in which Ippolito was playing the organ. It was her hour, and he
had grown used to seeing her sitting on the curbstone by the churchyard
gate every day when he went home just before sunset. When she passed the
church and heard the music through the door that was left ajar, she knew
also who was there, and her eyes darkened as she went by, and she drew
her shawl more closely about her head. And she recognised the priest's
light step when he came by the cemetery gate an hour later, and she
always turned her face away that she might not see him.
The people knew her, too, and most of them pitied her, and all respected
her sorrow. Some of the labourers who came down from the hill farm, by
the paths that turned into the main road just at the end of the
churchyard, used to touch their hats when they passed her, and, when she
chanced to be looking, she nodded gravely acknowledging their greeting.
They knew she was half mad, but the madness of a great sorrow has always
been respected by simple folks who feel seldom, but keenly, and think
little. The peasants generally passed about sunset on their way into the
village.
To-day Concetta came to the gate as usual, and when she reached it
Francesco was no longer uppermost in her thoughts. At the sight of the
black cross that marked the last grave on the left, the whole world
vanished again, and her sorrow came down like a darkness between her and
all life. She stood with dry eyes and compressed lips, grasping the iron
rails that were hot with the level sun, and out of the long, low mound
rose the face and figure of the well-loved man.
There can be nothing intellectual in the spasm of a great sorrow, in the
blind grasping upon emptiness for what is not, in the heart-famine that
no living thing can satisfy. Such grief brings no thoughts, for it is
the very contrary of thinking. It is only when each returning convulsion
has subsided that thought comes back, and then it comes uncertainly like
the sense of touching a small object through a heavy pall.
Concetta had no consciousness of the passing of time, as she stood at
the gate, nor for a long while afterwards, when she had sat down upon
the curbstone in her accustomed attitude, with her shawl drawn down over
her face, shielding it from the low rays of the sinking sun, and from
the sight of the world that was so desolate for her. As spring warmed to
summer, no one passed that way who could help it, for the road was dusty
and hot.
Two of the foot-carabineers passed her, returning to Santa Vittoria from
their regular patrol of the high-road, their carbines slung over their
shoulders and their pipeclayed cross-belts gleaming white in the sun.
They knew her, too, and barely glanced at her as they went by. She did
not even raise her head, though she remembered, now, that she had come
to wait for Francesco Pagliuca, and she was glad that the patrol had
marched up again, for he must be following them, and could thus not be
met by them. She knew that he would come on horseback. As she strained
her ears to catch the distant sound of hoofs, the savage longing for
revenge began to burn again in her heart. Surely he must have come for
that, and not really for love of Aliandra Basili. If he reached the
cemetery in time, he could kill Ippolito, the priest, as he came down
from the church. She would show him just where to stand with his gun, at
the corner of the wall, and she would stand beside him; and then, if he
were quick, he could get down half-way to Camadoli, near the cross-roads
and kill Orsino too, when he came up hastily to see his dead brother.
The vision of much blood reddened before her aching eyes, as she
listened for the horse's hoofs. If only he could come before Ippolito,
she thought, and she listened also for the priest's light step behind
her.
Francesco came first. She saw him far down the road before the first
sound reached her. He was riding leisurely up the steep way, a broad hat
drawn over his eyes, against the level sun, that gleamed like fire on
the barrel of his rifle. She could see that from time to time he looked
behind him quickly. He was warned already, she thought. So much the
better. If only he would quicken his speed a little. Ippolito almost
always passed the graveyard before the sun was quite down. Her heart
beat very fast as she heard the clink of the horse's iron shoes against
the stones, and then the rattle of the tiny pebbles that flew up and
fell to right and left at every step.
She rose when he was within fifty yards of her, and threw the black
shawl back from her splendid black hair. He knew her face and would stop
when he recognised her. She remembered the sound of his voice, and how
he had said in her hearing that she was very beautiful, and once when
she had been alone in her father's shop, he had come in and had talked
strangely, and she had been a little frightened, but Ferdinando had
entered just then. She remembered it all distinctly. It did not matter,
now, for he had come to avenge Ferdinando. The bullets that should do
justice were already in the Winchester that gleamed so red in the
setting sun.
She stood upright, with her head thrown back, that he might recognise
her. He stopped beside her.
'Concetta!' he exclaimed, smiling, as he smiled at every pretty woman.
'What brings you here? What are you doing out here in the road alone?'
She hardly saw that he smiled, in her own earnestness.
'That brings me here,' she said, pointing through the iron gate. 'Do you
see? It is the last one on the left, with the black cross.'
Francesco looked.
'I see a grave,' he said indifferently.
'It is your brother's grave,' said the girl. 'Ferdinando lies there.'
'Oh--I understand.'
The young man glanced up and down the road, and dismounted from his
horse, passing his arm through the bridle. He advanced close to the
gate, and looked through it in silence for several seconds.
'Poor fellow!' he exclaimed, turning away again, but without any very
strong feeling in his tone.
Concetta grasped his arm roughly, to draw him after her, and spoke
rapidly into his ear.
'The priest Saracinesca will be coming down the road from the village at
any moment. Come quickly, come with me. Behind the corner of the wall.
You can shoot him from there, and I will hold your horse.' She dragged
him along and the horse followed, led by his arm. 'No one will come.
When he is dead, mount quickly and ride down to the cross roads above
Camaldoli, by the fields, and wait behind the shrine. I will run all the
way and tell the other Saracinesca that his brother is dead in the road.
He will run out,--from behind the shrine you can kill him easily. Then
ride for the woods of Noto. The brigands are there, and you will be
safe.'
Almost before he knew where she was leading him, he found himself behind
the corner of the cemetery, on the side away from the village. In
digging the foundations of the wall, the dark tufo had been broken out
of the earth and piled high up at a short distance, so that there was a
sort of deep trench between the wall and the heap of stones, out of
which the poisonous yellow spurge grew in great bunches. It would have
been impossible to select a better spot for an ambush in what was really
an open country.
With the unconscious ease of a country-bred woman, Concetta, taking the
bridle, backed the horse into the trench so as to leave room in front of
him for herself and Francesco to be under cover of the wall. She had
scarcely done speaking when they were already in position.
'Get your rifle ready!' she said in a whisper, at the same time taking
hold of the leathern belt by which the Winchester was slung. 'He may be
here at any moment. Be quick!'
'But I do not wish to kill anybody,' said Francesco, at last, with an
uneasy laugh.
Concetta started and stared at him, too much astonished to despise him
yet.
'You do not wish to kill the Saracinesca!' Her face expressed blank
amazement. 'But then, why have you come?'
'Not to murder anyone, at all events. You are quite mad.'
'Mad? I? Mad? Is not the body of your murdered brother lying there, on
the other side of that wall? Does not his blood cry out for the blood of
those who killed him? Have you not come to do justice? Have I not
brought you to a safe place? And you call me mad!'
'Quite mad,' reiterated Francesco, coolly.
She stared at him a moment longer, and an immense contempt rose in her
eyes.
'Give me your rifle,' she said in a different tone. 'I will kill him,
since you are afraid.'
'I am not in the least afraid,' answered Francesco, with the too ready
resentment against a woman's accusation of cowardice, which a real
coward always shows. 'Not that I see why I should risk being sent to
penal servitude because my brother got himself killed in a foolish
affair--'
'Foolish?' Concetta's black eyes blazed suddenly from contempt to anger.
'Foolish, yes! Ferdinando--I am sorry for him, of course--but he was a
fool.'
The back of one little white hand had struck him across the mouth,
almost before the word was out.
'Infame!' she cried, using the strongest word in her language.
He did not care for the light blow, still less for the word. She was
matchlessly beautiful in her anger, as the blood rose a little in her
white cheeks, and her nostrils dilated with wrath. The shawl had fallen
almost to the ground, and revealed her perfect throat and exquisitely
graceful figure as she faced him. The colour rose in his face, and his
lips reddened, and his eyes sparkled badly. Almost before the hand that
had struck him had fallen to her side, he had caught her in his arms,
and his lips were on hers, smothering her, hurting her, and he was
forcing her backwards against the heap of stones--not twenty yards from
his brother's grave.
She was lithe and strong, but she was no match for him. Yet, defending
herself as she could, like a wild animal, she bit his lip half through,
and as he started under the pain she wrenched her head aside and
screamed with all her might, once, before he got one of his hands over
her mouth.
But her scream had been heard. She had judged rightly that Ippolito
Saracinesca would be coming along the road in a few moments, to meet his
death, as she had hoped. Instead, he saved her, for at her cry, being
but a few yards from the corner of the wall, he sprang forward, saw a
woman struggling against a man, recognising neither, leapt into the
trench and had Francesco by the back of the collar in a moment,
twisting the tough starched linen with all the might of his by no means
weak white hands. As Orsino had always said, Ippolito was more of a man
than anybody suspected, and there was the good blood of his good race in
him, and all the fearlessness.
In an instant he had dragged Francesco backwards, half strangled, up the
little declivity of the trench, and out into the middle of the road. So
far he had done nothing more, perhaps, than was necessary to save the
girl. But having got him out, the man's instinct against the wretch that
does violence to a woman took possession of him, and holding Francesco
by the back of the collar in front of him with his right hand, he struck
him half a dozen times quickly and violently on the side of the head
with his left fist, till Francesco, stunned and choked, suddenly fell in
a heap in the road.
Concetta had struggled to her feet at once, and stood leaning against
the corner of the wall. With a mad horror she saw that she had been
saved by the man she had wished to kill. The horse leisurely picked its
way up through the stones and stood waiting in the road.
At that moment, four peasants coming home from the hill farm came down
into the road from behind the other end of the long wall of the
cemetery. They naturally glanced downwards before going up towards the
village, and seeing the priest standing over a fallen man, they hurried
