nice, quiet, well-behaved little girl. Children were trained in those
days. Some of them actually took pride in being as nice as possible and
obeying the first time they were spoken to, without even asking "Why?"

The little girl sat on a stool sewing patchwork. This particular pattern
was called a lemon star and had eight diamond-shaped pieces of two
colors, filled in with white around the edge, making a square. Her
grandmother was coming to "join" it for her, and have it quilted before
she was eight years old. She was doing her part with a good will.

"To New York?" she repeated very deliberately. Then she went on with her
sewing for she had no time to waste.

"Yes, Pussy." Her father pinched her cheek softly. The little girl was
the most precious thing in the world, he sometimes thought.

"What, all of us?" You see she had a mind to understand the case before
she committed herself.

"Oh, certainly! I don't know as we could leave any one behind."

Then he lifted her up in his lap and hugged her, scrubbing her face with
his beard which gave her pink cheeks. They both laughed. She held her
sewing out with one hand so that the needle should not scratch either of
them.

"I can't--hardly--tell;" and her face was serious.

I want to explain to you that the little girl had not begun with
grammar. You may find her making mistakes occasionally. Perhaps the
children of to-day do the same thing.

"Would we move everything?" raising her wondering eyes.

"Well, no--not quite;" and the humorous light crossed his face. "We
couldn't take the orchard nor the meadows nor the woods nor the creek."
(I think he said "medders" and "crick," and his "nor" sounded as if he
put an e in it.) "There are a good many things we should have to leave
behind."

He sighed and the little girl sighed too. She drew up her patchwork and
began to sew.

"It is a great deal of trouble to move;" she began gravely. "I must
consider."

She had caught that from Great-Aunt Van Kortlandt, who never committed
herself to anything without considering.

Her father kissed her cheek. If it had been a little fatter she would
have had a dimple. Or perhaps he put so many kisses in the little dent
it was always filled up with love.

I don't know whether you would have thought this little girl of past
seven pretty or not. She was small and fair with a rather prim face and
thick light hair, parted in the middle, combed back of her ears, and cut
square across the neck, but the ends had some curly twists.

Certainly children are dressed prettier nowadays. The little girl's
frock was green with tiny rivulets of yellow meandering over it. They
made islands and peninsulas and isthmuses of green that were odd and
freaky. Mrs. Underhill had bought it to join her sashwork quilt, and
there was enough left to make the little girl a frock. It had the merit
of washing well, but it gave her a rather ghostly look. It had a short,
full waist with shoulder straps, making a square neck, a wide belt, and
a skirt that came down to the tops of her shoes, which were like Oxford
ties. Though she was not rosy she had never been really ill, and only
stayed at home two weeks the previous winter at the worst of the
whooping-cough, which nobody seemed to mind then. But it must have made
a sort of Wagner chorus if many children coughed at once.

"I had a very nice time in New York," she began, with grave approbation,
when she had considered for some seconds. "The museum was splendid! And
the houses seem sociable-like. Don't you suppose they nod to each other
when the folks are asleep? And the stores are so--so--" she tried to
think of the longest word she knew--"so magnificent? Aunt Patience and
Aunt Nancy were so nice. And the cat was perfectly white and sat in Aunt
Nancy's lap. There was a little girl next door who had a big doll and a
cradle and a set of dishes, and we had tea together. I'd like to have
some dishes. Do you think Uncle Faid is coming back?" she asked
suddenly.

"I believe he is, this time. And if we get very homesick we shall have
to come back and live with him."

"I shouldn't be homesick with you and mother and the boys, and Steve and
Joe. It would be nice to have Dobbin and Prince, but the stores are on
the corners instead of going to the village, and its nice and queer to
ride in the omnibuses and hand your money up through the roof. The
drivers must have an awful sight when night comes."

They even said "awful" in those far-back days, they truly did.

Father Underhill laughed and squeezed the little girl with a fondness
she understood very well.

Just then a voice called rather sharply: "'Milyer! 'Milyer!" and he sat
the little girl down on the stool as carefully as if she had been china.
He put another kiss in the little dent, and she gave him a tender smile.

His whole name was Vermilye Fowler Underhill. Everybody called him
Familiar, but Mrs. Underhill shortened it to 'Milyer.

The little girl's name was Hannah Ann. The school children called her
Han and Hanny. One grandmother always said Hanneran. But being the
youngest, the most natural name seemed "little girl."

There were three sons to lead off, Stephen Decatur, Joseph Bennett, and
John Fowler. Then a daughter was most welcome, and she was called
Margaret Hunter after her mother, and shortened to Peggy. They used
nicknames and diminutives, if they were not as fanciful as ours.

After Margaret came George Horton, Benny Franklin, and James Odell. The
poor mother gave a sigh of disappointment, she had so longed for another
girl. When Jim had outgrown babyhood altogether and was nearly five, the
desired blessing came.

There was a great discussion about her name. Grandmother Hunter had
married a second time and was a Van Kortlandt now. She had named her
only daughter after her mother and was a bit offended that Margaret was
not named for her. Now she came with a fairy god-mother's insistence,
and declared she would put a hundred dollars in the bank at once, and
remember the child in her will, besides giving her the old Hunter
tablespoons made in London more than a hundred years ago, with the crown
mark on them.

Grandmother Underhill's name was Ann. She lived with her eldest son at
White Plains, who had fallen heir to his grandfather's farm. When a
widow she had gone back to her girlhood's home and taken care of her old
father. David, her eldest son, had come to work the farm. She had a
"wing" in the house, but she never lived by herself, for her son and the
grandchildren adored her.

Now she said to the baby's mother: "You put in Ann for a middle name and
I'll give her a hundred dollars as well, and my string of gold beads
that came from Paris. And I'll make her a nice down bed and pillows."

So Hannah Ann it was, and the little girl began life with a bank
account. She was a grave, sweet, dainty sort of baby, with wondering
eyes of bluish violet, bordering on gray. I think myself that she should
have had a prettier name, but people were not throwing away even
two-hundred-dollar chances in those days. Neither had they come to
Ediths and Ethels and Mays and Gladys. And they barbarously shortened
some of their most beautiful names to Peggy and Betsey and Polly and
Sukey.

Left to herself the little girl went on with her patchwork, and recalled
her visit to the city. There were so many aunts and cousins and so many
wonderful things to see. She must find out whether there would be any
snow and sleighrides in the winter. As for fruit and vegetables and eggs
and poultry the farmers were always sending them in to the city, she
knew that.

The prospect of a removal from Yonkers, where they had always lived, was
not so new to the elders. Stephen was in New York nearly all the week
now. Joseph was studying for a doctor. John was not in love with farming
and had a great taste for mechanical pursuits. Margaret, a tall, fair
girl of seventeen, was begging to be sent away to school another year,
and learn some of the higher branches people were talking about. Joe
thought she should. Her father was quite sure she knew enough, for she
could do all the puzzling sums in "Perkins' Higher Arithmetic," and you
couldn't trip her up on the hardest words. She went to a very good
school in the village. And the village was quite primitive in those
days. The steamboat-landing was the great focus of interest. It was all
rock and hills and a few factories were plodding along. The farm was two
good miles away.

The young people thought it a most auspicious turn in affairs that Uncle
Faid was coming back. His real name was Frederic. Since David had his
grandfather's farm, this had been divided between the two remaining
sons, but Frederic had been seized with the Western fever and gone out
to what was called the new countries. His sons had married and settled
in different places, one daughter had married and come East to live, and
Uncle Faid was homesick for the land of his youth.

Mrs. Underhill had declared at first, "She wouldn't stir a step. 'Milyer
could buy out his brother's part in the house"--the two hundred acres
had been already divided. But people had begun to complain even then
that farming did not pay, and John wanted to learn a trade. And if three
or four went out of the old home nest! Steve wanted his father in New
York. If they were not satisfied they could come back and build a new
house. And presently she began to think it best even if she didn't like
it.

The little girl finished her block of patchwork, pinched and patted down
the seams, and laid it on the pile. Her "stent" for that day was done.
There were nine more blocks to make.

There was a wide half closet beside the chimney and she had the top
shelf for her own. It was so neat that it looked like a doll's house.
Her only doll had been a "rag baby," and Gip, the dog, had demolished
that.

"Never mind," said her mother, "you are too big to play with dolls." But
the little girl in New York was almost a year older, and she had a large
wax doll with "truly" clothes that could be taken off and washed. If she
went to the city she might have one.

She piled up her patchwork with a sense of exultation. She was extremely
neat. There was a tiny, hair-covered trunk grandmother Van Kortland had
given her full of pretty chintz and calico pieces. She kept her baby
shoes of blue kid that were outgrown before they were half worn out, so
choice had her mother been of them. There were some gift-books and
mementos and a beautiful Shaker basket Stephen had given her at
Christmas. It was round, so she imagined you put something in it and
shook it, for she had no idea the Shakers were a community and made
dainty articles for sale, even if they discarded all personal vanities.

She went through to the next room, which was the kitchen in winter and
dining-room in summer. She took down her blue-and-white gingham
sun-bonnet, and skipped along a narrow path through the grass to the
summer kitchen. This was a short distance from the house, a big, square
room with a door at each side, and smoky rafters overhead. The brick and
stone chimney was built inside, very wide at the bottom and tapering up
to the peak in the roof. There was a great black crane across it, with
two sets of trammels suspended from it, on which you could hang two
kettles at the same time. If you have never seen one, get Longfellow's
beautiful illustrated poem, "The Hanging of the Crane." A great many old
country houses had them, and they were considered extremely handy.

The presiding genius of the kitchen was a fat old black woman, so old
that her hair was all grizzled. When she braided it up in little tails
on Saturday afternoon Hannah Ann watched with a kind of fascination. She
always wore a plaid Madras turban with a bow tied in front. She had been
grandmother Underhill's slave woman. I suppose very few of you know
there were slaves in New York State in the early part of the century.
Aunt Mary had sons married, and grandchildren doing well. They begged
her now and then to give up work, but she clung to her old home.

"Aunt Mary," inquired the little girl, "is the chicken feed mixed?"

"Laws, yaas, honey, lem me scoop it in de pail. You's got such little
claws o' han's. Don't seem 's if dey ever grow big ernough fer nothin'."

She ladled out the scalded meal, mixed with bits of broken bread. The
little girl laughed and nodded and crossed the small bridge that spanned
the creek. The spring, or rather the series of them, ran around the
house and down past the kitchen, then widened out into quite a pond
where the ducks and geese disported themselves, and the cows always
paused to drink on their way to the barn.

She went down to the barn. On the carriage-house side in the sun were
some chicken-coops. Pretty little chicks whose mothers had "stolen
their nests;" thirty-two of various sizes, and they belonged to the
little girl. She rarely forgot them.

There were plenty of chores for Ben and Jim. They drove the cows to
pasture, chopped wood, picked apples, and dug potatoes. You wondered how
they found any time for play or study.

Jim "tagged" the little girl as she came back with her pail. She could
run like a deer.

"Here you, Jim!" called Aunt Mary, "you jes' take dis pail an' git some
of dem big blackbre'es fer supper steder gallopin' roun' like a wild
palakin ob de desert!" and she held out the shining pail.

A "palakin of the desert" was Aunt Mary's favorite simile. In vain had
Margaret explained that the pelican was a bird and couldn't gallop.

"Laws, honey," the old woman would reply, "I aint hankerin' arter any ob
dis new book larnin'. I's a heap too old fer 'rithmertic an' 'stology. I
jes' keeps to de plain Bible dat served de chillen of Isrul in de
wilderness. Some day, Miss Peggy, when you's waded tru seas o' trubble
an' come out on de good Lord's side an' made your callin' an' 'lection
sure, you'll know more 'bout it I done reckon."

"Come with me, do, Hanny," pleaded Jim. "You can walk along the stone
fence and pick the high ones and we'll fill the kittle in no time."

Jim thought if he had made a spelling-book, he would have spelled the
word that way. Jim would have been a master hand at phonetics.

The little girl crossed two of her fingers. That was a sign of truce in
the game.

"No play till we come back," said Jim.

The little girl nodded and ran for her mitts of strong muslin with the
thumb and finger ends out. The briars were so apt to tear your hands.

They ran a race down to the blackberry patch. Then they sat on the fence
and ate berries. It was really a broad, handsome wall. There were so
many stones on the ground that they built the walls as they "cleared
up." The blackberry lot was a wild tangle. There were some hickory-nut
trees in it and a splendid branching black walnut. Sometimes they found
a cluster of hazel-nuts.

The great blackberry canes grew six or seven feet high. They generally
cut one path through in the early summer. The long branches made arches
overhead.

The little girl pinned a big dock-leaf with a thorn and made a cup. When
it was full she emptied it into Jim's pail. They were such great,
luscious berries that they soon had it filled. Then they sat down and
rested. Everybody knows that it is harder work to pick berries than to
play "tag."

Jim had a piece to speak on Friday afternoon at school. They had these
exercises once a month, but this was to be a rather grand affair, as
then school closed for a fortnight. That was all the vacation they had.

Jim was rather proud of his elocutionary gift. He stood up on a big flat
stone and declaimed so that the little girl might see if he knew every
word. It was extremely patriotic, beginning:

    "Columbia! Columbia! to glory arise,
    The queen of the world and the child of the skies!"

"Oh, you say it just splendid!" declared the little girl
enthusiastically. She never laughed and teased him as Peggy did.

She was learning some verses herself, but she wondered if she would have
courage enough to face the whole school. They were in her "Child's
Reader" with the "Little Busy Bee," and "Let Dogs Delight to Bark and
Bite." She thought them beautiful:

    "The rose had been washed, lately washed in a shower,
      Which Mary to Anna conveyed."

It puzzled her small brain a good deal as to why the rose needed
washing. But Peggy showed her one day how dusty the leaves and flowers
grew in a dry time, and she learned that the whole world was the better
for an occasional washing. She asked Mary afterward why the clothes were
not put out in a hard rain to get them clean.

"Laws, honey, dey need elbow-grease," and the old woman laughed
heartily.

"I do wish my name was Anna," she said, with a sigh.

"Well, you just need to put another a to the Ann," said her brother
confidently.

"And I don't like being called Han and Hanny."

"I'd a heap rather be called Jim than James. When pop calls me James I
think it's time to pick myself up mighty spry, I tell you!" and he
laughed.

"It's different with boys," she said, with a soft sigh. "Girls ought to
have pretty names, and Hanneran is dreadful."

"I'd stand a good deal for two hundred dollars. And it doubles in
fourteen years. And seven again! Why you'll have more than five hundred
dollars when you're grown up!"

She did not know the value of money and thought she would rather have
the pretty name. Yet she wasn't quite sure she would choose Anna.

"You stay here while I run after the cows," said Jim. "It will save
another journey."

Boys are often economical of their steps, I have noticed. Perhaps this
is how they gain time for play. The little girl jumped down presently
and looked over at the wild flowers. There were clusters of yarrow in
bloom, spikes of yellow snap-dragons, and a great clump of thistles in
their purple glory. She must tell her father about them, and have them
rooted out. Would it hurt them to be killed? She felt suddenly sorry for
them.

A squirrel ran along and winked at her as he gave his tail an extra
perk. Nothing was ever afraid of the little girl. But she ran from the
old gobbler, and the big gander who believed he had pre-empted the farm
from the Indians. She generally climbed over the fence when she saw old
Red, who had an ominous fashion of brandishing her long horns. But she
didn't mind with Jim nor Benny.

Jim came now and took up the pail. The cows meandered along. She was
rather glad Jim did not see the thistle. She would not tell him about it
to-night.




CHAPTER II

GOOD-BY TO AN OLD HOME


When they reached the barn they saw Aunt Mary carrying a great platter
of corn up to the house. The little girl washed her hands and her face,
that was quite rosy now, and followed. How delicious it all looked!
White bread, corncake, cold chicken, pot-cheese in great creamy balls,
and a hot molasses cake to come on with the berries.

The little girl always sat beside her mother, and Margaret on the boys'
side, to help them. There were four boys and two hired men.

Mrs. Underhill was a notable housekeeper. She was a little sharp in the
temper, but Mr. Underhill was so easy that some one had to uphold the
family dignity. She complained that 'Milyer spoiled the children, but
they were good-natured and jolly, and quite up to the average.

After supper the cows were milked, the horses fed and bedded, Margaret
and her mother packed up the dishes in a big basket, and the boys took
them down to Mary. Mrs. Underhill looked after the milk.

The little girl went out on the wide porch and studied her lessons.
There were two long lines in Webster's elementary spelling-book to get
by heart, for the teacher "skipped about." The children went up and
down, and it was rare fun sometimes. The little girl had been out of the
Baker class a long while. They call it that because the first column
began with that easy word. She was very proud of having gone in the
larger class. Her father gave her a silver dollar with a hole punched
through it, and Steve brought her a blue ribbon for it. She wore it on
state occasions. She studied Peter Parley's geography and knew the
verses beginning:

    "The world is round and like a ball,
      Seems swinging in the air."

How it could be puzzled her. She asked her father, for she thought he
knew everything. He said he believed it was, but he could never make it
seem so.

Aunt Mary strenuously denied it. "Sta'ns to reason de folks would fall
off w'en it went swirlin' round. De good Lord He knows His business
better'n dat. Jes don't mind any sech foolin', honey! Its clear agin de
Bible dat speaks ob de sun's risin' an' settin', an' de Lord nebber
makes any mistake 'bout dat ar Bible."

The little girl studied her lesson over four times. Then Jim came up and
they had a game of tag. Dave Andrews and Milton Scott sat out under the
old apple-tree smoking their pipes and talking politics. One was a Whig
and the other a Democrat who believed that we had never had a President
worth mentioning since Andrew Jackson, Old Hickory as he was often
called.

When her father came round the corner of the house she stopped running
after Jim and held out both hands to him. Her cheeks were like wild
roses and her eyes shone with pleasure. They sat down on the step, and
he put his arm about her and "cuddled" her up to his side. She told him
she had gone up three in saying seven times in the multiplication table,
and four in spelling "tetrarch." Then when Charley Banks was reading he
said "condig-en" and the class laughed. She also told him she had been
studying about Rhode Island and Roger Williams, and all the bays and
inlets and islands. She made believe comb his hair with her slim little
fingers and once in a while he opened his lips like a trap and caught
them, and they both laughed.

Presently Mrs. Underhill, who sat by the window knitting in the
twilight, said: "'Milyer, that child must go to bed."

She felt she had to issue this mandate two of three times, so she began
early.

They hugged each other and laughed a little. Then he said: "All the
chickens right?"

"Yes, I counted them. They're so cunning and lovely."

"I hope they'll get their feather cloaks on before cold weather," said
her father.

"'Milyer, that child must go to bed! I don't see why you want to keep
her up all hours of the night."

They hugged each other a little closer this time and did not laugh, but
just kissed softly. It was beginning to grow dusky. The peeps and
crickets and katydids were out in force. The katydids told you there
would be frost in six weeks.

When her mother added in a dignified tone, "Come, Hannah Ann," the
little girl took one last hug and came into the room. Margaret had
lighted the candles in their polished brass candlesticks. One stood on
the hall table, one on the stand in the middle of the room. Mrs.
Underhill had knit past the seam in her stocking and pulled out a few
stitches. Then she laid it down and unfastened the little girl's frock
and said, "Now run to bed this minute." Margaret was reading, but she
glanced up and smiled.

The candle made a vague yellowish light on the stairs. There were people
who burned lamp-oil, as the oil from whales was called. The little girl
held it in curious awe, associating it with the story of Jonah. Mrs.
Underhill despised the "ill-smelling stuff" and would not have it in the
house. She made beautiful candles. Oil-wells had hardly been thought of,
except that some one occasionally brought a bottle from Pennsylvania for
rheumatism.

The little girl had slept in her mother's room, which answered to the
back parlor, until this spring when she had gone up to Margaret's room.
There were four large chambers on the second floor and a spacious
clothes-room with a closet for bedding. Up above was an immense garret
with four gables. The three younger boys and the two hired men slept
there.

The little girl didn't mind going to bed alone, but her mother generally
found some good reason for going up-stairs. On cool nights she was afraid
the little girl wasn't well covered; and to-night she looked in and
said:

"I hope you're not bundled up in a blanket this hot night, Hannah Ann!
Children seem to have such little sense."

"Oh no, I have only the sheet over me." But the little girl raised up
and held out her arms, and her mother gave her a soft squeeze and patted
the pillow and said:

"Now you must go to sleep like a good little girl;" quite as if she was
in the habit of being bad and not going to sleep, but they both
understood.

You may think the little girl's life was dull with lessons and sewing
and going to bed at dusk. But she found no end of fun. Now and then a
host of cousins came, and they climbed trees, ran races, waded in the
brooks, went off to the woods and swung in the wild grape-vines.
Sometimes they walked out on the end of a wide-spreading branch, holding
to the one above, and when they began to "teeter" too much they gave a
spring and came down on the soft ground. The little girl could go out a
long way because she was so light and fearless. They never broke their
necks or their limbs. They laughed and shouted and turned summersaults
and ran races. No day was ever long enough.

The school was a good mile away, but on very stormy days they were taken
in the covered wagon. They studied with a will, just as they played, and
you heard nothing about nerves in those days.

Some of the parents came that last day at school. Jim acquitted himself
creditably in his "Ode to Columbia," and the little girl recited with a
rose in her hand, though Margaret had quite a trouble to find one for
her. Roses didn't bloom all the year round as they do now. When the
children were dismissed they went out and gave some deafening hurrahs
for the two weeks' vacation. Oh, what throats and lungs they had!

When the little girl reached home she found a houseful of company. When
families have lived from one to two hundred years in one section of the
country, they get related to almost everybody. And though Aunt Becky
Odell was a second cousin of her mother's, she was aunt to the little
girl all the same. She had come up from West Farms to spend a few days
and brought her two little girls. Some other relatives had come from
Tarrytown.

The little girl greeted everybody, took off her Sunday white frock that
had a needleworked edge that her mother had worn twenty years and more
ago. Then she took the little girls out to see the chickens and hunt
some eggs and have a good play on the hay in the barn.

"Oh, ain't you just crazy to go to New York to live?" cried Polly Odell.
"The stores are so beautiful! When I go down I just don't want to come
back!"

"You was homesick at Aunt Ph[oe]be's, you know you was," said her
sister, with small regard for her tense.

"Well, I didn't like Aunt Ph[oe]be one bit. She's old and cross, and she
isn't our own aunt either. She won't let you stand by the window les'
you breathe on the glass, and she won't let you rock on the carpet nor
run up and down stairs, nor touch a book, and makes you get up at five
in the morning when you're so sleepy. She wanted me to stay 'cause she
said 'I was handy to wait on her.' And it wasn't truly New York but way
up by the East River. I wouldn't have stayed for a dollar. I just jumped
up and down when poppy came, and she said, 'For goodness' sake! don't
thrash out all my carpet with your jouncin' up an' down.' You can just
go yourself, Janey Odell, and see how you like it!"

"I'm sure I don't want to go. But you just jumped at it!"

"Well, I thought it would be nice. But oh, Hanneran, it's just splendid
here! And to-morrow Uncle 'Milyer's going to take us out riding. He said
so. Oh, Hanneran, wasn't you awful 'fear'd to speak a piece before all
the folks at school?"

Polly Odell looked at her in amazement.

"Well--just at first----"

"I wouldn't dast to for a dollar!" cried Janey.

They went on with their play, now and then stumbling against a
discussion that never really reached the height of a dispute. Margaret
came to hunt them up presently that they might have their tousled heads
smoothed and their hands and faces washed.

The little girl was always interested when they had a high tea in the
sitting-room. The best old blue china was out, the loaf sugar, and the
sugar-tongs that the little girl watched breathlessly lest her mother
should lose the lump of sugar before it reached the cup.

The men and boys were having supper in the other room, but the little
girls waited on the porch. They were so quiet and kept so tidy that Mrs.
Underhill gave them a lump of sugar in each glass of milk, and took it
up with the sugar-tongs, to the little girl's great delight.

She couldn't help hearing the talk as they all sat out on the porch.
Uncle Faid had really sold his farm, stock, and crops, and was to give
possession in September. Then they would visit their two sons and some
of Aunt Betsey's people in Michigan, and get on about Christmas.

"It's a shame to have to give up the house," declared Cousin Odell.
"Can't you keep it, 'Milyer?"

"A bargain's a bargain. Faid did a fair thing when he went away, and I
can't do less than a fair thing now. If he'd died, his share in the
house would have been offered to me first. I dare say we could put on an
addition and live together without quarrellin', but the boys want to go
to New York, and they couldn't all stay here and make a living. The
young folks must strike out, and I tell mother if she don't get to
feeling at home I'll come back and build her a house."

"It'll never be like this one," said Mrs. Underhill sharply.

"The world is full of changes," declared the Tarrytown cousin.

The little girl sat in her father's lap and listened until she went
soundly asleep. Janey Odell leaned against the porch column and almost
tumbled over. Mrs. Underhill sprang up.

"Mercy on us! These children ought to be in bed. Wake up, Hannah Ann!"

"I'll carry her up-stairs," said her father, and he kissed her tenderly
as he laid her on the bed. Her mother undressed her and patted down her
pillow. She flung her arms about her mother's neck.

"Oh, mother!" she cried softly, wonderingly, "do you want to go to New
York?"

"Child dear, I don't know what I want," and there was a muffled sound in
her voice. "There, go to sleep, dear. Don't worry."

They inspected the pretty knoll the next day where Mrs. Underhill was to
have her new house built if they didn't take root in New York. Were not
her children dearer to her than any spot of ground? And if they were all
going away----

The children had a very jolly time. On Monday the Odells went home, and
the little girl hated to say good-by. Cousin Famie Morgan, her real name
was Euphemia, wanted to go to White Plains to visit a while with Aunt
Ann and David, and Cousin Joanna would stay a few days longer and go to
New York to do some shopping. Margaret would go with Cousin Famie. The
little girl wanted to go too, and take her patchwork. She had only six
blocks to do now.

Grandmother was very glad to see her, and praised her without stint.
Uncle David and Aunt Eunice had some grandchildren. Two sons and one
daughter were married, and one son and daughter were still at home. Aunt
Eunice was a very placid, sweet body, and still clung to her Quaker
dress and speech, though she went to the old Episcopal church with her
husband. Her folks lived up in Putnam County.

Grandmother would have spoiled the little girl if such a thing had been
possible. She would help her with the patchwork, and then she brought
out some lovely red French calico that was soft and rich, and began to
join it. They had some nice drives, and one day they took Cousin Morgan
home and stayed to dinner. There were three single women living together
in a queer rambling house that had been added to, and raised in places.
Mr. Erastus Morgan and his wife lived in Paris, and once a year or so
there would come a package of pretty things--china and ornaments of
various kinds, odd pieces of silk and brocade for cushions, gloves, and
fans and laces and silk for gowns, as if they were still quite young
women.

Uncle David had the "Knickerbocker History of New York," which everybody
now knew was written by Mr. Washington Irving, and various members of
the family were settled about Tarrytown, and many others in the Sleepy
Hollow graveyard. The very next day the little girl began to read the
history, for she wanted to know about New York. They had a delightful
visit with grandmother and Aunt Eunice. Uncle David was seven years
older than her father. The little girl concluded she liked him very
much.

When she and Margaret went home everything was going on just the same.
The little girl was somewhat amazed. No one said a word about moving.
She had expected to see everything packed. The children started for
school as usual. Then Mrs. Underhill went down to the city and stayed a
fortnight and came home looking worn and worried. The impending change
weighed upon her. But the little girl was so interested in Mr. Dederich
Knickerbocker which she was reading aloud to her father that changes
hardly mattered.

Early in December Mr. Frederic Underhill with his wife and daughter came
to hand. He was thin and stooped a good deal, and looked older than
Uncle David. Aunt Crete's name was Lucretia, and the little girl was
amazed to learn that. She was tall and thin and wore a black lace sort
of cap to cover the bald spot on her head. Then she had a false front of
dark hair. Her own was very thin and white. She had been a great
sufferer from 'ager,' as she called it, and the doctors said only an
entire change of climate would break it up. And goodness only knew how
glad she was to get back East.

Lauretta--Retty as she was called--was about twenty-two, a good, stout,
common-place girl who made herself at home at once. She had a lover who
was coming on in the spring when they would be married, and he expected
"to help Pop farm. Pop was pretty well broken down with hard work, and
he'd about seen his best days. He'd been awful anxious to get back among
his own folks, and she, Retty, hoped now he'd take things kinder easy."

Grandmother and Uncle David's family came down to welcome them. All the
country round seemed to turn out. And just before Christmas, with all
the rest of the work, the little girl's quilt was put in. Some of the
older people came the first day and had a fine supper. Next afternoon it
was the young people's turn.

The little girl had a blue-and-white figured silk frock made from a
skirt of her mother's. The tops of the sleeves were trimmed with four or
five ruffles and there were two ruffles around the neck. She wore her
gold beads, and Margaret curled her hair. Everybody praised her and she
felt very happy. Some of the young men came in while they were taking
the quilt out of the frame, and oh, what a tussle there was! The girl
who could wrap herself first in it was to be married first. Such pulling
and laughing, such a din of voices and struggle of hands--you would have
thought all the girls wild to get married. The little girl looked with
dismay, for it seemed as if her quilt would be torn to pieces.

Retty wound one corner around herself, and two of the young men rolled
Margaret and several of the other girls in the other end amid the shouts
of the lookers-on.

Then grandmother shook it out and folded it.

"There!" she exclaimed, "to-morrow I'll put on the binding. And, Hannah
Ann, you have a good beginning. Not every little girl can show such a
quilt as that, pieced all by herself before she was eight years old!"

"But you helped, grandmother----"

"Nonsense, child! Just a piece now and then! And I've a nice pair of
wool blankets I'm saving up for you that I spun myself. You'll have a
good many things saved up in a dozen years."

What fun they had afterward! There were two black fiddlers in the hall;
one was Cato, Aunt Mary's grandson, a stylish young fellow much in
demand for parties. They danced and danced.

Steve took his little sister out several times, and John danced with
her. Her father thought her the very prettiest one in the crowd. Her
mother let her stay up until eleven.

"I'm so sorry you are going away," said Retty, the next morning. "I
never did have such a good time in my life. I don't see why we can't all
live together in this big house!"

In the new year the real business of changing began. It was hard to
select a house. Joe said all New York was going up-town, and that before
many years the lower part of the city would be given over to business.
Bond and Amity Street, around St. John's Park and East Broadway were
still centres of fashion. The society people had come up from the
Bowling Green and the Battery, though there were still some beautiful
old houses that business people clung to because they wanted to be near
to everything. Harlem and Yorkville were considered country. Up on the
east side as far as Eightieth or Ninetieth Street there were some
spacious summer residences with beautiful grounds. A few fine mansions
clustered about University Square. City Hall Park was still covered with
fine growing shade-trees. There was such a magnificent fountain that
Lydia Maria Child, describing it, said there was nothing to equal it in
the Old World.

Still, the unmistakable trend was up-town. Grace Church was agitating a
new building at Tenth Street. Rows of houses were being put up on the
new streets, though down-town people rather scoffed and wondered why
people were not going up to Harlem and taking their business places
along.

After much discussion the Underhills settled upon First Street. Stephen
made the decision, though he had great faith in "up-town." This was
convenient. Then they could buy through to Houston Street, and there was
a stable and sort of storehouse on the end of the lot. And though you
wouldn't think it now, it was quite pretty and refined then, from Avenue
A out to the Bowery. They were in a row of nice brick houses, quite near
First Avenue, on the lower side of the street. Opposite it was well
built for quite a space, and then came the crowning glory of the block.
About a dozen houses stood thirty or so feet back from the street and
had lovely flower-gardens in front. Stephen would have liked one of
these, but the houses were not roomy enough. And in their own place they
had a nice grass-plot, some flower-beds, and several fruit-trees, beside
a grape-trellis. He thought his mother would be less homesick if she
could see some bloom and greenery.

It was the last of March, 1843, that the little girl came to New York.
Mrs. Underhill believed it only an experiment. When the boys were grown
up and married, settled in their own homes, she and 'Milyer would go
back to Yonkers on their part of the farm and have a nice big house for
their old age and for the grandchildren. In her motherly heart she hoped
there would be a good many of them. She couldn't have spared any of her
eight children.

The house in First Street seemed very queer. It had a front area and two
basements, two parlors on the next floor with folding-doors and a long
ell-room, rather narrow, so that it would not darken the back room too
much. Up-stairs there were three large chambers and one small one, and
on the fourth floor, that did not have full-size windows, three more.
That there was no "garret" caused endless lamentation.

They could not bring old Mary, indeed she would not come, but they had a
rather youngish countrywoman whose husband had deserted her, and who was
looking for a good home. Mary thought she would stay a while with the
"new folks" and get them "broke in," as she phrased it, and then go and
live with her son.

The little girl stood on her own front stoop looking up and down the
street. It was queer the houses should be just alike--six brown-stone
steps, and iron side railings, and an iron railing to the area, that was
paved with brick. You would always have to be thinking of the number or
you might get into the neighbor's house. Oh, no. Here was a sure sign,
the bright silver door-plate with black lettering--"Vermilye F.
Underhill." She looked at it in amazement. It made her father suddenly
grand in her estimation. Could she sit in his lap just the same and
twist his whiskers about her fingers and comb his hair and read out of
her story-books to him? And where would she go to school? Were there any
little girls around to play with? How could she get acquainted with
them?

While she was considering this point, two girls went by. Both had straw
gypsy hats with flowers and ruffled capes of black silk. They looked up
at her. She was going to smile down to them in the innocent belief that
all little girls must be glad to see each other. One of them
giggled--yes, she absolutely did, and said:

"Oh, what a queer-looking thing! Her frock comes down to her shoe-tops
like an old woman's and that sun-bonnet! Why she must have just come in
from the backwoods!"




CHAPTER III

FINE FEATHERS FOR THE LITTLE WREN


The little girl stood still a moment as if transfixed. There came the
passionate desire to run and hide. She gave the door-bell a sharp pull.

Martha Stimis answered it.

"Goodness sakes, is it you, ringin' as if the world wouldn't stand
another minnit? Next time you want to get in, Haneran, you jest come
down the aree! And me a-mouldin' up the biscuit!"

The little girl walked through the hall with a swelling heart. She
couldn't be allowed to ring the door-bell when her own father's name was
on the door!

The ell part was her mother's sleeping chamber and sitting-room. No one
was in it. Hannah Ann walked down to the end. There was a beautiful old
dressing-case that had been brought over with the French great, great
grandmother. It had a tall glass coming down to the floor. At the sides
were several small drawers that went up about four feet, and the top had
some handsome carved work. It was one of Mrs. Underhill's choicest
possessions. In the mirror you could see yourself from "top to toe."

The little girl stood before it. She had on a brown woollen frock and a
gingham high apron. Her skirt was straight and long. Her laced shoes
only came to her ankles. Her stockings were black, and she remembered
how she had watched these little girls coming down the street, their
stockings were snowy white. Of course she wore white yarn ones on
Sundays. A great piece of their pantalets was visible, ruffled, too.
Yes, she did look queer! And the starch was mostly out of her
sun-bonnet. It wasn't her best one, either.

She sat down on a little bench and cried as if her heart would break.

"Oh, Hanny dear, what is the matter?"

Margaret had entered the room unheard. She knelt by her little sister,
took off her sun-bonnet and pressed the child in her arms. "What is it,
dear?" in a soft, persuasive voice. "Have you hurt yourself?"

"No. I--I----" Then she put her little arms around Margaret's neck. "Oh,
Peggy, am I very, very queer?"

"You're a little darling. Did Martha scold you?"

"No. It wasn't--some girls came along----" She tried very hard to stop
her sobbing.

"There, dear, let me wash your face. Don't cry any more." She laid aside
the bonnet and bathed the small face, then she began to brush the soft
hair. It had not been cut all winter and was quite a curly mop. Stephen
had bought her a round comb of which she was very proud.

"It was two girls. They went by and they laughed----"

Her voice was all of a quaver again, but she did not mean to cry if she
could help it.

"Did they call you 'country'?"

Margaret smiled and kissed the little girl, who tried to smile also.
Then she repeated the ill-bred comment.

"We are not quite citified," said Margaret cheerfully. "And it isn't
pleasant to be laughed at for something you cannot well help. But all
the little girls are wearing short dresses, and you are to have some
new ones. Mother has gone out shopping, and next week cousin Cynthia
Blackfan is coming to fix us all up. But I do hope, Hanny, you will
have better manners and a kinder heart than to laugh at strangers, no
matter if they are rather old-fashioned."

"I don't believe I ever will," said the little girl soberly.

"Now come up in my room. Mother said I might rip up her pretty blue
plaid silk and have it made over. I came down to hunt up the waist."

She found it in one of the drawers, pinned up in a linen pillow-case.

"And you can have on a white apron," the elder said when they reached
the room.

This had long sleeves and a ruffle round the neck. The little girl was
