the enemy of Gloriana the Great, and 
straightway destroyed him. 
At the right of the Hoe, a wilderness 
of greenery overlooking the sea, lies 
Mount Edgcumbe, wisely selected by 
the leader of the Armada for his own 
share of the spoils. He had an eye for 
beauty, this Medina Sidonia ; and even 
at this late day, with all our sympathies 
enlisted on the winning side, we can but 
feel "the pity of it '' that even so insolent 
an invader should thus have "loved a 
dream," though we smile, perforce, over 
old Fuller's ironical remark that "the 
bear was not yet killed, and Medina 
Sidonia might have catched a great cold, 
had he no other clothes to wear than, the 
skin thereof." It is easy to picture the 
delight with which the sea-wearied eyes 
of the Spanish mariners must have rested 
 
on this royal spot. Sheer above the 
dimpling water rise mountainous cliffs, 
crowned by a noble growth of trees, 
and carpeted with sweet under-verdure. 
Mount Edgcumbe Park, where the public 
is permitted to wander on specified days, 
is a miracle of beauty. Tracts of wood- 
land alternate with garden beds rich in 
color. Laurel and holly reflect the day 
in their shining leaves, and a wondrous 
giant hypericum stars the ground with 
bloom. The great estate is traversed by 
broad walks and winding paths, appar- 
ently due not to design, but to the errant 
will of some wanderer; and now and 
again, in skirting the cliff, you may look 
down into the summer sea, over the 
greenly wooded Drake's Island in the 
harbor. At happy intervals are lodge 
and cottage, where you may order delec- 
table tea and plum-cake for sixpence, or 
ham and eggs (the bulwark of England's 
greatness) for another silver trifle. And 
if the sky, such of it as you can see 
through the treetops, smile upon you, 
and the typical sight-seer be not omni- 
present, you will take the little boat 
again for Plymouth quay, after a dreamy 
half -day in the park, more alive than ever 
 
to England's beauty and Medina Sidonia's 
taste in real estate. 
Were one to attempt a summary of 
Plymouth's notable days and names, he 
would find an American tourist's stay 
within its gates all too short for dwelling 
fitly upon associations of such magnitude. 
From that port set sail, in its golden 
days, an " infinite swarm of expeditions." 
Drake put forth from its harbor to 
circumnavigate the globe. Sir John 
Hawkins made it the initial point of his 
dark but masterful career. Sir Walter 
Raleigh's fleet set sail thence for the 
settlement of Virginia, and hither he 
returned, broken-hearted, from his last 
fatal expedition in quest of the golden 
city of Manoa. Sir Humphrey Gilbert 
went thence to Newfoundland, a voyage 
destined to stretch on into that other, 
infinite journey, illumined by the burning 
words, " We are as near heaven by sea 
as by land." From Plymouth, also, em- 
barked, in 1620, those pilgrims who had 
left Holland for a bleaker but more de- 
sired haven. Quaint and dry are the 
early chronicles of the town, denoting a 
race of tough fibre, fit associates for the 
mariners whose names do so bum and 
 
flash upon the page. These were men 
who stood no more upon ceremony than 
old " Frankie Drake," and who could give 
and take such missiles of dry humor as 
might well be considered both danger- 
ous and deadly in their effect on friendly 
intercourse. Some of the stories con- 
nected with the early mayors recall the 
candor once prevailing in the pit of the 
English theatres. Shipley, being meek 
by nature and deportment, was popularly 
called " Sheepley," and evidently took no 
offense thereat. Farcy, who would have 
the world know that he was " gentleman 
bom," struck the town clerk for not call- 
ing him ''your Worship," and so was 
dubbed thereafter " Worshipful Farcy " 
by all the Plymouth gamins^ perhaps 
even with the concurrence of their tough- 
hided fathers. Yogge, who was blamed 
for belittling his office by bearing his 
meat home from market, returned with 
sturdy good wit, " It's a poor horse that 
won't carry its own provender ! " But 
of all the legends connected with these 
robust city fathers, none better shows us 
the stuff of which they were made than 
a true tale of Mayor Dirnford, who, in 
1455, in church "on his opening day," 
 
had a fit of apoplexy. No such slight in- 
cident, however, could really disturb his 
Worship. He came out of it with dignity, 
as from a recognized part of the services, 
and at dinner ate Michaelmas goose, say- 
ing grimly that the fit had given him an 
appetite. 
Of the beauty and strength of Ply- 
mouth at the present day, it would be 
difficult to say too much. It includes 
within its jurisdiction the sister towns 
of Stonehouse and Devonport, all three 
bearing the patent marks of military de- 
sign and occupation. Look into the Cat- 
water and Hamoaze, estuaries of the Plym 
and Tamar, twin rivers of Plymouth, and 
you shall find men-of-war and humble 
merchant vessels. Go to Devonport, and 
there you may seek the dockyards, en- 
ticingly open to such foreigners as are 
favored by the gods and the admiralty. 
Though the days have long passed when 
seafaring heroes trod the streets, Ply- 
mouth will disclose many a quaint comer 
to such as are patient as well as curious : 
witness, at least, the Barbican, where one 
who fears not sea slime and good-natured 
chafE may meet the fishing population at 
dawn; and also that eccentric auction 
 
distinguished by the falling of every bid. 
What lover of the past could be misled 
by a garnished exterior? Yet if there 
be one thus "fond and foolish/' let him 
in Plymouth seek out that square where 
so many stately buildings are congre- 
gated, and, ignoring their carven fresh- 
ness, enter old Saint Andrew's Church. 
For there were the people at service, 
three hundred years ago, when a salute 
told the news that Sir Francis Drake 
had returned from the seas which " were 
a prison for so large a spirit," and drew 
forth men, women, and children to meet 
the victorious hero. 
Another bit of earth where the loyal 
heart beats at thought of Kingsley and 
olden days is Clovelly, jewel dropped in 
a cleft of the rock, happy human nest 
builded close by the sea. The approach 
to this oddest comer of creation, past 
vestiges of a Roman encampment, gives 
no hint of the beauties on which the eye 
is presently to feed. The coach stops, 
apparently in a gentleman's park devoted 
to utilitarian ends ; and leaving care be- 
hind, in the shape of baggage, the trav- 
eler must thereupon take to his feet down 
a steep, rock-paved road, where all tour- 
 
ists fare alike, be they clad in frieze or 
gold. Suddenly, at a turn of the way, ap- 
pears Clovelly Street, descending sharply 
in low, broad stairs laid with cobblestones. 
No carriage has ever profaned this stony 
staircase. Only the tiny hoofs of don- 
keys go clattering up and down ; for it is 
Neddy who patiently toils under sacks 
of coal (trying, meanwhile, with gentle 
insistence, to " scrunch " the unwary 
traveler against the neighboring wall), 
or drags about sledges piled high with 
trunk and portmanteau, whose name 
here is legion. Flanking this declivitous 
way runs, on either side, a row of cot- 
tages, immaculate in whitewash, and 
adorned by fuchsia shrubs and gerani- 
ums. HaHway down stands the New 
Inn, its sign swinging across the street, 
— a little old-fashioned house, resplen- 
dent in old china, and kept in perpetual 
commotion by the influx of hungry ex- 
cursionists, who come by boat and coach 
to flood the tiny village with admiring 
exclamations. 
The quaintness of Clovelly is not all 
its charm ; it wears, too, that of a won- 
drous beauty and delight. Lpng as it 
does in an earth-cleft stretching down to 
 
the sea, it is fostered and overlooked by 
towering wooded cliffs, and, secure in 
humble contentment and sweetness of 
life, seems nowise inferior in merit to 
such natural pomp and magnificence. 
The little street wanders, in its progress 
to the water; once, perhaps twice, it 
boldly marches through the walls of a 
house (itself spanned by an archway 
above), and then after threading strange 
nooks and comers, where fishy smells 
mingle with the smoke which is Clovelly's 
natural breath, ends at the little harbor, 
— that harbor where, as Kingsley says, 
in the season of herring fishing so many 
boats set forth with song and prayer, 
some never to return. One scene, he 
tells us, would come upon him again and 
again : of " the old bay darkened with 
the gray coldness of the waterspouts 
stalking across the waves before the 
northern gales; and the tiny herring 
boats fleeing from their nets right for 
the breakers, hoping more mercy even 
from those iron walls of rock than from 
the pitiless howling wastes of spray be- 
hind them ; and that merry beach beside 
the town covered with shrieking women 
and old men, casting themselves on the 
 
pebbles in fruitless agonies of prayer, as 
corpse after corpse swept up at the feet 
of wife and child, till in one case alone 
the dawn saw upwards of sixty widows 
and orphans weeping over those who had 
gone out the night before in the fullness 
of strength and courage." 
Kingsley's father was rector of Clo- 
velly during six of those years when the 
sensitive lad must have been very deli- 
cately responsive to new impressions. 
Under the mysterious spell of sea and 
cliff, he conned the pages of England's 
naval history, learning it through the 
heart rather than the mind ; for here did 
he catch the spirit of those men who 
made it glow and bum. From Devon 
air, her sunshine, waves, and rocks, rather 
than Hakluyt's Chronicles, was born his 
fiery sympathy with that heroic race who 
peopled the deep three hundred years 
ago. "Now," said he to his wife, on 
her first visit to Clovelly, " now that you 
have seen the dear old paradise, you 
know what was the inspiration of my life 
before I met you." His very spirit per- 
meates the place; his name is there a 
household word. 
"Did you know Mr. Kingsley.?" I 
 
asked a woman, beautiful with health, 
and bearing the dignity of a sturdy 
character, the wife of a "master mari- 
ner," to whom a humble stone was 
erected in Clovelly churchyard. Evi- 
dently, that manner of speech was too 
familiar as concerning a beneficent house- 
hold deity. " We all saw him very often," 
she said with gravity. " As soon as he 
came on his visits, he was in and out of 
every house, as welcome as a bit of sun- 
light on a wet day, and asking how was 
this one, and how was that, and had the 
lads got home from sea ? Ah, we loved 
Mr. Kingsley ! " 
His happiest vacations were spent 
here, sometimes as a guest at Clovelly 
Court, and again in lodgings in a fuchsia- 
decked house on Clovelly Street. Thence 
he sailed to Lundy, or wherever a fisher- 
man's lot might lead him, delighting his 
keen eyes and reverent soul with God's 
wonders dredged up from the deep. " I 
cannot believe my eyes," was his home- 
satisfied cry, on settling into a welcoming 
nest. "The same place, the pavement, 
the dear old smells, the dear old hand- 
some faces again ! " 
The people who fill the picturesque 
village houses are of a noble and digni- 
fied type. Clovelly women are tall and 
shapely; the men bear in face and car- 
riage unmistakable marks of thought and 
feeling, and the children are marvels of 
dark-eyed beauty. With such simplicity 
and directness does the body here express 
the soul that you may read daily, in 
living lineaments, the story of a fine and 
striving race. Life to these men is little 
more or less than a year-long struggle 
with the treacherous sea. So constantly 
are they brought face to face with danger 
that minor griefs are no longer present 
to remembrance, and the desire of eter- 
nal life becomes to them all in all. Such 
men were their dead-and-gone ancestors, 
who fought the Armada, and went, "grim 
or jocund," in quest of the "golden South 
Americas ; " such, in endurance and rigid 
purpose, was Salvation Yeo, of "West- 
ward Ho!" who was bom in Clovelly 
Street, in the year 1526, where his "father 
exercised the mystery of a barber sur- 
geon and a preacher of the people since 
called Anabaptists." One noticeable cir- 
cumstance, strange and pregnant, is that 
Clovelly has no young men. They are 
all at sea, serving their apprenticeship, 
 
to come home for the innocent kisses of 
a dozen joyous women waiting on the 
quay, or to furnish new cause for the old 
ache, throbbing for the wanderer who 
may not return. 
Clovelly may be approached through 
the Hobby Drive, a way of marvelous 
beauty skirting the top of the cliff, 
guarded by towering trees, and bordered 
with a lush undergrowth of ferns. From 
time to time in his course, the traveler 
will come upon a natural window in the 
leafy walls, — an airy space, whence he 
may overlook the blue sea, seek out 
Lundy's outline, severely simple, and in 
the distance the shadowy coast of Wales ; 
and finally shall he receive the crowning 
vision of Clovelly herself, far below his 
eyrie, nestling in her flowery gorge, and 
drowsily indifferent to sea or wind. This 
road, a veritable fairy progress, belongs 
to Clovelly Court, where in the sixteenth 
century lived the Carys, one of whom 
figures so prominently among Kingsley's 
giants of action. They held it till the 
eighteenth century, when their branch 
of the family died out. And where now 
shall we seek a trace of the gallant Will 
who was one of that noble Brotherhood 
 
of the Rose, founded by Frank Leigh, 
worthy favorite of the Virgin Queen? 
Only Kingsley can rehearse his mimic 
history, though, if the trace of one of 
his forbears be cheering to the eye, the 
traveller may climb the height to the 
little church, to find a Gary's name in 
enduring brass. Another point of pil- 
grimage on the estate is Gallantry Bower, 
a steep cliff rising four hundred feet out 
of the sea, and commanding Hartland 
Point, Bideford Bay, and, stretching ever 
outward like a weird finger, Morte Point, 
where so many ships have gone down, — 
barren and dreadful Morte, which of all 
places on earth " God made last, and the 
devil will take first' Gallantry Bower, 
as Amyas says, is so named when one is 
on land, though you "always call it White 
Cliff when you see it from the seaboard." 
It has its appropriate legend ; for here, in 
a lonely tower, lived the fair lady of a 
Norman lord. She had a fine vantage 
point for surveying the world around, 
this victim of soft durance! Peace to 
her dust, — peace equal in measure to 
the skyful of beauty whereon she daily 
looked ! 
To go into lodgings at Clovelly is to 
 
invite a possibility of becoming soon in- 
terknit with the life of its kindly people. 
In an angle of the stairlike street, almost 
overhanging the quay, stands a bench 
serving as council ground for the village 
fathers. There, usually at twilight, when 
the boats have come in and nets are dry- 
ing, sits a row of grizzled mariners dis- 
cussing the state — of the world, think 
you ? Nay, of the universe itself. One 
bit of quaint philosophy, overheard during 
such a twilight symposium, has lingered 
in my ears, to sweeten many a tough 
morsel of experience. "Well,'' said one 
of these weatherworn sea-dogs, in the 
tone of those who have drawn their own 
conclusions from the inexplicable drama 
called Life, " human nature 's looking up 
a bit ; that 's the only comfort." And 
is human nature looking up even a bit, 
Clovelly sailor, more familiar with the 
deep than with human countenance, and 
unpolluted by the grime of great cities ? 
It may be so ; for out of the lips of men 
unspotted from the world come often 
truths more crystalline than those of sci- 
ence or statistics. In the village is sold 
a photograph of Clovelly mariners, and 
one face, a humorous, droll physiognomy, 
 
at once strikes the attention. "And 
who is this?" I asked the sympathetic 
dealer. " Oh, that is poor old Captain 
Folly," said she, with a tear in her voice. 
" He died the other day. You must have 
been here." Yes, we were there in our 
lodgings at the head of the street, when 
Captain Folly was borne past by his 
brother mariners in their Sunday best ; 
wearing also the becoming gravity of 
those who think gently and seriously of 
death, not during the one hour when it 
disturbs them at their avocations, but as 
children recognize the night as the inevi- 
table foil of day. A solemn hymn was 
sung, strong voices sustaining the burden, 
and up the street to the little church was 
carried the old man whose journey was 
finished, and who slept, wrapped in honor 
and full of days, beneath the flag spread 
reverently upon his coffin. 
Midway down the street stands — or 
stood — another old man, whose race is 
not soon to be run, judging from his 
apparent ability to keep feebleness and 
sorrow at bay. He is crippled, and waits 
at the domestic receipt of custom, ready 
to retail village gossip, and readier still 
to dispose, in a very self-respecting 
manner, of the forthcoming shilling or 
sixpence. He is a trifle more cynical than 
many of his brother mariners, this aged 
man, the daily implication of whose life 
is, "A penny, if you please,'' yet he 
furnishes savor and spice in a godly 
community. 
But in order to find himself actually 
near the heart of this simple folk, it is 
the part of the reflective traveler to 
attend chapel on Sunday, and not the 
church. Such a service, once sought 
out and followed, is never to be forgotten. 
A rough hall in an obscure corner jutting 
from the street, bare and uninteresting 
as the old country schoolhouse, is filled 
with worshipers, who at entrance and 
departure make a mighty clattering on 
the uncarpeted floor, and whose heart of 
religious love raises their hymn-singing 
to a resounding if strident chorus. What 
lover of human expression would not 
study reverently the faces in that lowly 
chapel.? Every eye fixed upon the 
preacher, — a man who had somewhat 
to say, a sermon full of hard and lov- 
ing common -sense, — their earnestness 
bespoke sheep worthy the guidance of 
a faithful shepherd ; not such as feed 
 
in grassy vales, but accustomed to stony 
ways and mountain fastnesses, to storm 
and night. One old man, whose every 
look and gesture was of the sea, empha- 
sized the prayers, from point to point, 
with sonorous "amens." His soul drank 
of the waters of life, said the recurrent 
response ; this was his thanksgiving. 
Eleven miles from Clovelly lies Lun- 
dy, from whose southeast edge rises the 
Shutter Rock, terrible dramatic centre 
of the tragedy so marvelously described 
in " Westward Ho ! " when, at the end 
of Amy as Leigh's sixteen days' chase 
of the Spaniard, the wind a destroying 
angel, and lightnings and thunder the 
messengers of an avenging heaven, Don 
Guzman's ship was cast upon the rocks. 
What traveler so painstaking as to seek 
out Lundy will not remember at the 
south that cliff overhanging the shore- 
less cove and deep, dark sea, where blind 
Amyas sat and drank in his vision of 
the Spanish galleon, and her men "all 
lying round her, asleep until the judg- 
ment day " ? 
" Don Guzman he never heeded, but 
sat still and drank his wine. Then he 
took a locket from his bosom ; and I 
 
heard him speak, Will, and he said, 
' Here 's the picture of my fair and true 
lady ; drink to her, Sefiors all.' Then he 
spoke to me. Will, and called me right 
up through the oar-weed and the sea: 
' We have had a fair quarrel, Sefior, and 
it is time to be friends once more. My 
wife and your brother have forgiven me, 
so your honor takes no stain.' And I 
answered, 'We are friends, Don Guz- 
man ; God has judged our quarrel, and 
not we.' Then he said, ' I have sinned, 
and I am punished.' And I said, 'And, 
Sefior, so am I.' Then he held out his 
hand to me, Gary, and I stooped to take 
it, and I woke." 
Lundy, in the days before steam had 
rendered traveling "as easy as lying," 
was so inaccessible as to provoke the re- 
mark that the difficulty of getting there 
was exceeded only by the difficulty of 
getting away. Indeed, it is said that the 
clergymen of five or six coast parishes 
once made an excursion thither, and 
were detained on the island over two 
Sundays, to the exceeding dismay of 
their waiting congregations, — an en- 
forced season of retirement which, it is 
hoped, the reverend gentlemen employed 
S 
for the good of their souls. The island 
is one of that brood of earth pigmies 
bom to mightiness of garb and history. 
Its granite and slate defenses present an 
impregnable front to the Atlantic, and 
surging currents rage about it with a 
strength and fury to be surpassed only 
at Land's End. But once within its 
rocky gates, more smiling beauties greet 
the eye, for its vegetation is rich in 
that coloring which is the benison of sea 
air. Here heather and furze glow in 
rose and gold, the royal foxglove stands, 
and the sedum blesses the earth with 
bloom. 
Lundy has had a checkered history, 
ever painted in gloomy and glaring hues. 
It can boast remains of a primeval popu- 
lation in flint and pottery, but few will 
, care to trace its history further than the 
day of Sir Jordan de Moresco, its earliest 
recorded lord, who in the reign of Henry 
II. lived there a turbulent and piratical 
life, undaunted by king or peer, though 
his bit of land was declared forfeit to the 
crown. Of good old stuff were the Mo- 
rescos, and they fought a valiant fight 
against law and order until 1242, when 
William of that name was seized and 
hanged in London town. Thereafter, 
Lundy became a favorite resort for 
pirates, and was captured in turn by 
French, Spanish, and even Turkish pri- 
vateers. Seek its pages to-day, and you 
will read the tamer sequel to so bold 
a story : a few houses cluster at the 
landing-cove, a lighthouse crowns the 
plateau above ; the scene is one of qui- 
etude, broken only by the turmoil of 
nature. On the upper plain lie also the 
ruins of an ancient fortress known as 
Moresco's Castle, forever tainted by the 
blot of having sheltered a dastardly refu- 
gee, Sir Lewis Stukely, Vice-Admiral of 
Devonshire, and kinsman of Sir Walter 
Raleigh, who through that craven means 
came to the headsman's block. By this 
Judas-like deed, Stukely earned the royal 
favor, but irretrievably lost that of his 
peers ; and being vigorously insulted by 
old Lord Howard of Effingham, he ran 
whining to James and made complaint. 
" What should I do with him ? " queried 
James. " Hang him ? On my sawl, mon, 
if I hung all that spoke ill of thee, all the 
trees in the island were too few ! " But 
Stukely was to learn that treachery to a 
friend and defection from a royal master 
 
are two different oflfenses ; for when, 
within a year, he was caught debasing 
the coin of the realm, there was nothing 
for it but flight before the winds of 
wrath. Into Devonshire hot-foot he hur- 
ried, and there was he resolutely boy- 
cotted ; his own denied him, and the 
common people would give him " neither 
fire nor water." Again was he swept 
on by fate and furies to Lundy, and, seek- 
ing refuge in the old Moresco Castle, 
died there, "cursing God and man." 
Not far from Clovelly lies Portledge, 
now the seat of the Pine-Coffins, and in 
Amyas Leigh's time the residence of 
that Will Coffin who made one among 
the lovers of Rose Salterne. The most 
prominent member of the old Coffin 
family figures boldly among Prince's 
"Worthies of Devon," and his life pre- 
sents a pretty bit of incident scarcely 
to be told more vividly than in Prince's 
own diction, quaint and clear. This Sir 
William Coffin married, in the reign of 
Henry VIII., Lady Mannors of Derby- 
shire; "and residing, as is likely, with 
her on her Dowry in those Parts, he was 
chosen Knight of that Shire in the Parli- 
ment which began A. 21 K. Henry VIII., 
 
1529: In his way to which, there hap- 
pened a remarkable Accident, not un- 
worthy the relating, especially for the 
good Law it occasioned : Passing by a 
Church-yard, he saw a multitude of Peo- 
ple standing Idle ; he enquired into the 
cause thereof : Who reply'd. They had 
brought a Corse thither to be buried; 
but the Priest refused to do his office 
unless they first delivered him the Poor 
Man's Cow, the only quick goods he left, 
for a Mortuary. Sir William sent for 
the Priest, and required him to do his 
Office to the Dead : Who peremptorily 
refused it, unless he had his Mortuary 
first. Whereupon he caused the Priest to 
be put into the Poor Man's Grave, and 
Earth to be thrown in upon him ; and he 
still persisting in his Refusal, there was 
still more earth thrown in, until the 
obstinate Priest was either altogether or 
well-nigh suffocated/' This little drama 
led to an act of Parliament absolutely fix- 
ing the amount of mortuaries, and spe- 
cifying the place of payment, so that 
no poor man was thereafter likely to be 
denied his last rites and resting-place. 
" All which," as Prince begs us to "make 
a note of," " Confirms the Observation, 
 
That Evil Manners are often the Parent 
of Good Laws." 
It were a pert and presumptuous pen 
which would attempt a description of 
Bideford after Kingsley has ticketed it 
with missal script, and laid it away for 
all time, in library records, as " the little 
white town . . . which slopes upwards 
from its broad tide-river paved with yel- 
low sands, and many-arched old bridge 
where salmon wait for autumn floods, 
toward the pleasant upland on the west. 
Above the town the hills close in, cush- 
ioned with deep oak woods, through 
which juts here and there a crag of fern- 
fringed slate; below they lower, and 
open more and more in softly-rounded 
knolls and fertile squares of red and 
green, till they sink into the wide ex- 
panse of hazy flats, rich salt-marshes, 
and rolling sand-hills, where Torridge 
joins her sister Taw, and both together 
flow quietly toward the broad surges of 
the bar, and the everlasting thunder of 
the long Atlantic swell." But the trav- 
eler who arrives there with the begin- 
ning of " Westward Ho ! " warm in the 
memory will recall that, in the year 1575, 
Amyas Leigh, wandering home from 
school along the quay, by the taverns 
that lined the High Street, met there 
two men telling strange tales of the gold 
and gems of the New World, and the 
marvelous adventures attendant on their 
quest. These were Mr. John Oxenham, 
of whose family Devonshire traditions 
contain curious mention, and Salvation 
Yeo. That the latter was a true Devon- 
shire name " the bricks are alive to this 
day to testify ; '' for in Bideford town I 
saw it, not many months ago, on a pro- 
saic and humble signboard. But though 
syllables may defy the lapse of time, the 
ancient taverns are gone, and the High 
Street is a busy course of trade. Even 
the old church, where Amyas and his 
brother mariners gave thanks after their 
wonderful voyage with Drake, has made 
place for a new one. Only the muddy 
Torridge flows daily in and out, alternat- 
ing in yellow flats and dimpling water, 
and Bideford bridge stands proud and 
firm in the very outlines it wore when 
the lad Amyas begged of Salvation Yeo 
his carven horn. So old is this historic 
bridge that no man knoweth the date 
of its building. The most ancient ex- 
isting seal of Bideford borough, dating 
 
from the fourteenth century, bears its 
portrait; therefore must it have been 
silive and in good and honorable stand- 
ing at that day. Its origin, like that 
of all truly self-respecting structures 
in Great Britain, is supernatural. It is 
recorded that the river was long ago 
crossed by a ford so dangerous that no 
stones could be laid there with any hope 
of permanence. Finally, however, the 
parish priest was told in a dream that a 
stone had been moved to a desirable 
spot in the stream, and there should the 
bridge be built. So this holy medium of 
communication 'twixt Heaven and Bide- 
f ord. Sir Richard Gomard, or Gurney, re- 
vealed his vision to the bishop, who was 
pleased to "send forth indulgences and 
licenses" in order to enlist the good 
offices of his flock. They, obedient 
souls, gave abundantly, each according 
to his means. Many contributed money ; 
the rich gave lands and the labor of 
their workmen, and the poor cheerfully 
ofifered the work of their hands, some 
for a week, and others, more prosperous 
or more zealous, for a month. That the 
succeeding bishops had the bridge's wel- 
fare in mind is indicated by the fact that 
announcement was made not only from 
the cathedral church of Exeter, but 
throughout the diocese of Devonshire 
and Cornwall, that those who would 
promote and encourage this work " should 
participate in all spiritual blessings for- 
ever." No wonder that the bridge be- 
came so rich as to hold its head high, 
and bear itself with the dignity of a 
landed proprietor, becoming, first and 
last, " an inspired bridge, a soul-saving 
bridge, an alms-giving bridge, an educa- 
tional bridge, a sentient bridge, and last, 
but not least, a dinner-giving bridge." 
It was to the Grenviles that Bide- 
ford owed its early prosperity. The 
first Grenvile of Bideford was a cousin 
of the Conqueror ; but the bright star of 
that heroic family remains Sir Richard, 
whose prowess is sung by every chanter 
of Devon's fame, and who departed this 
life in a swiftly-traced but ever-during 
track of glory. For in the Revenge, off 
Flores, with a hundred and twenty men, 
he fought the Spanish fleet of fifty sail 
and ten thousand men, from three in 
the afternoon till daybreak next morn- 
ing. But when, in that fury of battle, 
more than a thousand of the enemy were 
 
slain, while the Revenge lost but forty, 
when his boat was riddled through and 
through, and he himself was wounded, 
he would fain have blown up the vessel, 
and was forced to surrender only through 
want of ammunition. Three days after, 
he died of his wounds, saying in Span- 
ish, that his captors might understand 
and know themselves defied to the last, 
" Here die I, Richard Grenvile, with a 
joyful and quiet mind, for that I have 
ended my life as a good soldier ought to 
do, who has fought for his country and 
his queen, for honor and religion." 
Such was Richard Grenvile, who walks 
through " Westward Ho ! " and the pages 
of less poetic history " a wise and gallant 
gentleman, lovely to all good men, awful 
to all bad men : in whose presence none 
dare say or do a mean or a ribald thing ; 
whom brave men left, feeling themselves 
nerved to do their duty better, while 
cowards slipped away, as bats arid owls 
before the sun." Well is he remembpred 
as " the great Sir Richard, the pride of 
North Devon." 
Kingsley's authority has been ques- 
tioned for making Bideford one of Eng- 
land's chief ports in the sixteenth cen- 
 
tury, though its halcyon days, beginning 
under Elizabeth, rapidly brightened, 
until its commerce with America and 
Newfoundland became exceeding great. 
French and Spanish privateers found 
Bideford ships such rich booty that they 
seized them in the very offing of the 
Taw and Torridge, and ironically named 
the spot " Golden Bay." But such flour- 
ishing of commerce is a thing of the past, 
for now the shipping trade of the Tor- 
ridge is conducted mainly at the neigh- 
boring town of Appledore. Burrough 
in Northam, where Kingsley fixed the 
home of Amyas Leigh, has been for 
centuries the seat of a family of the 
name of Leigh, two of whom were sea- 
faring men, and one, in Elizabeth's time, 
" Chief Pilot of England/' A member 
of a luckless expedition to the Arctic 
seas in the sixteenth century, he daringly 
continued his voyage, even though a 
companion ship was separated from him 
by wind and weather. On he sailed 
into the north, the region of perpetual 
mystery, and, most undaunted of pio- 
neers, entered the White Sea, naming 
the North Cape by the way. Again, in 
an insignificant vessel with a tiny crew, 
 
he sailed triumphantly to a point within 
the Kara Sea, "beyond which," says 
Prince, "no navigator went until our 
own day." Truly Amyas the giant came 
of a goodly race, and one whose tradi- 
tions bound him to heroic deeds. 
Near the mouth of the Torridge lies a 
delightfully clean little town, a seaside 
resort of some pretension. This is West- 
ward Ho, born of the great book to 
which the region is yearly indebted for 
crowding visitors. Though the town is 
modern, even amazingly so among such 
surroundings, its near neighbor is as old 
as — what i Let geology tell us. I had 
sdmost said, in the ignorant enthusiasm 
of the unscientific pilgrim, "as old as 
Adam." This neighbor is the Pebble 
Ridge, whose moaning told poor Mrs. 
Leigh, three miles away in Bideford 
town, that the sea and winds were rap- 
idly rising, and that her boy, on his way 
to Ireland, would not sleep that night. 
The Ridge is simply a wide beach heaped 
with pebbles, the smallest larger than 
the fist, and on the day of my pilgrimage 
lying at rest beside a calm sea and under 
a smiling sky. But it is easily to be 
guessed that when the demons of air and 
 
water strive together, these missiles of 
the deep, wet with ocean spume, are cast 
mightily upon one another, until they 
rattle like the fetters of giants captive. 
Behind them lie Northam Burrows, broad, 
smiling expanses clothed with coarse 
grass, and delightful to the British golfer, 
who there amuses himself religiously, 
quite as the Armada captains played at 
skittles on the Hoe. Is it beyond pos- 
sibility that, in our own " empty day," 
some game of golf may be historic ? 
When and where shall the pilgrim 
content himself.? Shall he follow the 
uttermost traces of those he would fain 
have known, and, knowing, offered rev- 
erence, even when the present fails to 
copy fair the past i If he elect to do so, 
then may he seek Freshwater at Clovelly, 
where " Irish ffoxe came out of rocks," 
to lose his brush of self-sufficiency, de- 
spoiled by giant Amyas ; yet here he will 
find but slender trickling of the stream 
of clear water, and slight reminder of 
such shy quarry, so peaceful is the scene. 
He may religiously visit Marsland Mouth, 
where lived Lucy Passmore, the "white 
witch," to find it a Devonshire combe, 
full of every-day contentment ; or he may 
 
traverse Dartmoor, and put the finger of 
fancy on the very spot where Ssilvation 
Yeo slew the king of the Gubbings. 
Time and enthusiasm must direct him, 
but he can scarcely be disappointed in 
any Devonian quest, even where he looks 
for castle or hovel, and finds not one 
stone left upon another ; for always and 
everywhere are the changeful skies, 
warm cliffs, and smiling or tempestuous 
sea ; everywhere his hope will be set in 
the gold of trefoil or the rose of heather. 
Devonshire herself has not waxed old 
nor faded, and in holding her warm hand 
