that Archie should have any wits at all, and it was no wonder that they
were not like those of other men.  And it had all been a secret, kept by
the child first, then by the growing boy, then by the full-grown man,
till his thews and sinews had toughened upon him and he had turned and
paid back blow for blow, all at once.  And last of all the father had
struck her, with a thought of revenge, perhaps, as well as in passion,
because he dared not raise his hand against his strong son.

Again she saw the words of her telegram, ’Henry Harmon, New York.
Forgiven,’ and they were in letters of fire that her tears could not
quench.  She had not known how much she was forgiving.  Archie knelt
beside her in wonder, for he had never seen her cry in his life. He
touched her arm lovingly, trying to see her face, and his own softened
strangely, growing more human as it grew more childlike.

"Don’t, mother!  Please don’t cry like that! If I had thought you would
cry about it, I’d never have told you.  Besides, it couldn’t have hurt
him so very much--"

"Him!"

Helen’s voice rang out, and she turned, with a fierce light in her angry
eyes.  In a quick movement her arms ran round Archie’s neck and drew him
passionately to her breast, and she kissed his head, again and again,
always his head, upon the short, thick hair, till he wondered, and
laughed.

When they were quiet again, sitting side by side, her battle began once
more, and she knew that it must all be fought over on different ground.
She had forgiven Henry Harmon, as well as she could, for her own wrongs;
but there were others now, and they seemed worse to her than anything
she had suffered.  It was just to think so, too, for she knew that at
any time she could have left Harmon without blame or stain.  It had been
in her power, but she had chosen not to do it.

But the boy had been powerless and silent through long years.  She had
never even guessed that his father had ever struck him cruelly.  At the
merest suspicion of such a thing she would have turned upon her husband
as only mothers do turn, tigresses or women. But Archie had kept his
secret, while his strength quietly grew upon him, and then he had paid
the long score with his own hands. Out of shame, Harmon had kept the
secret, too.

Yet she had said in one word that she forgave him, and the word
determined the rest of her life.  A suffering, a short, sad respite, and
then suffering again; that was to sum the history of her years.  She
must suffer to the end, more and more.

And all at once it seemed to her that she could not bear it.  For
herself she might have forgiven anything.  She had pardoned all for
herself, from the first neglect to the scar on her forehead.  But it was
another matter to forgive for Archie.  Why should she?  What justice
could there be in that?  What right had she to absolve Harmon for his
cruelty to her child?

She must ask Archie if he forgave his father. She could no longer decide
the question alone, and Archie had the best of rights to be consulted.
Wimpole’s words came back to her, asking whether it could do Archie any
good to be under the same roof with his father; and all at once she saw
that her whole married life had been centred in her son much more than
in herself.

Besides, he must be told that his father had recovered, for every one
must know it soon, and people would speak of it before him, and think it
very strange if he were ignorant of it.  She hid from herself the
underthought that Archie must surely refuse to live with his father,
after all that had passed, and the wild hope of escape from what she had
undertaken to do, which the suggestion raised.

She sat silent and thoughtful, her tears drying on her cheeks, while her
son still knelt beside her.  But without looking at him, she laid her
hand on his arm, and her grasp tightened while she was thinking.

"What is it, mother?  What is it?" he asked again and again.

At last she let her eyes go to his, and she answered him.

"Your father is well again.  By this time he must have left the asylum.
Shall we go back to him?"

"I suppose we must, if he’s all right," answered Archie, promptly.

Helen’s face fell suddenly, for she had expected a strong refusal.

"Can you forgive him for all he did to you?" she asked slowly.

"I don’t see that there’s much to forgive. He hit me, and I hit him just
as often; so we’re square.  He won’t hit me now, because he’s afraid of
me.  I hate him, of course, and he hates me.  It’s quite fair.  He
thinks I’m stupid, and I think he’s mean; but I don’t see that there’s
anything to forgive him.  I suppose he’s made so.  If he’s all right
again, I don’t see but what we shall have to go and live with him again.
I don’t see what you’re going to do about it, mother."

Helen buried her face in her hands, not sobbing again, but thinking.
She did not see ’what she was going to do about it,’ as Archie expressed
the situation.  If she had not already sent the telegram, it would have
been different.  The young man’s rough phrases showed that he had not
the slightest fear of his father, and he was ignorant of what she
herself had suffered.  Much she had hidden from him altogether, and his
dulness had seen nothing of the rest.  He supposed, if he thought
anything about it, that his mother had been unhappy because Harmon drank
hard, and stayed away from home unaccountably, and often spoke roughly
and rudely when he had been drinking.  To his unsensitive nature and
half-developed mind these things had seemed regrettable, but not so very
terrible, after all. Helen had been too loyal to hold up Harmon as an
example of evil to his son, and the boy had grown up accustomed to what
disgusted and revolted her, as well as ignorant of what hurt her; while
his own unfinished character was satisfied with a half-barbarous
conception of what was fair so far as he himself was concerned.  He had
given blow for blow and bruise for bruise, and on a similar
understanding he was prepared to return to similar conditions. Helen saw
it all in a flash, but she could not forgive Harmon.

"I can’t!  I can’t!" she repeated aloud, and she pressed Archie’s arm
again.

"Can’t--what, mother?" he asked.  "Can’t go back?"

"How can I, after this?  How can I ever bear to see him, to touch his
hand,--his hand that hurt you, Archie,--that hurt you so much more than
you ever dream of?"

There were tears in her voice again, and again she pressed him close to
her.  But he did not understand.

"Oh, that’s all right, mother," he answered. "Don’t cry about me!  I
made it all right with him long ago.  And I don’t suppose he hurt me
more than I dreamed of, either.  That’s only a way of talking, you know.
It used to make me feel rather stupid.  But then, I’m stupid anyway; so
even that didn’t matter much."  And Archie smiled indifferently.

"More than you think, more than you know!" She kissed his hair.  "It was
that--it may have been that--it must have been--I know it was--"

She was on the point of breaking down again.

"What?" he asked with curiosity.  "What do you mean?  I don’t
understand."

Helen’s voice sank low, and she hardly seemed to be speaking to her son.

"Your father made you what you are," she said, and her face grew cold
and hard.

"What?  Stupid?" asked Archie, cheerfully. Then his face changed, too.
"I say, mother," he went on, in another voice, "do you think I’m so dull
because he hit me on the head?"

Helen repented her words, scarcely knowing why, but sure that it would
have been better not to speak them.  She did not answer the question.

"That’s what you think," said Archie.  "And it’s because I’m not like
other people that you say it’s absurd of me to want to marry Sylvia
Strahan, isn’t it?  And that’s my father’s doing? Is that what you
think?"

He waited for an answer, but none came at once.  Helen was startled by
the clear sequence of ideas, far more logical than most of his
reasonings.  It seemed as if his sudden passion for Sylvia had roused
his sluggish intelligence from its long torpor.  She could not deny the
truth of what he said, and he saw that she could not.

"That’s it," he continued.  "That’s what you think.  I knew it."

His brows knitted themselves straight across his forehead, and his eyes
were fixed upon his mother’s face, as he knelt beside her.  She had not
been looking at him, but she turned to him slowly now.

"And that’s why you ask whether I can forgive him," he concluded.

"Can you?"

"No."

He rose to his feet from his knees easily, by one movement, and she
watched him.  Then there was a long silence and he began to walk up and
down.

Helen felt as if she had done something disloyal, and that he had given
the answer for which she had been longing intensely, as an escape from
her decision, and as a means of freedom from bondage to come.  She could
ask herself now what right she had to expect that Archie should forgive
his father.  But, instead, she asked what right she could have had to
give Archie so good a reason for hating him, when the boy had not
suspected that which, after all, might not be the truth.  She had made
an enormous sacrifice in sending the message of forgiveness for her own
wrongs, but it seemed to her, all at once, that in rousing Archie’s
resentment for his own injuries she had marred the purity of her own
intention.

Indeed she was in no state to judge herself, for what Archie had told
her was a goad in her wound, with a terror of new pain.

"You cannot forgive him," she said mechanically and almost to herself.

"Why should I?" asked Archie.  "It means Sylvia to me.  How can I
forgive him that?"

And suddenly, without waiting for any answer, he went out and left her
alone.

After a long time, she wrote this letter to her husband:


DEAR HENRY,--I am very glad to hear of your recovery, and I have
received your letter to-day, together with the doctor’s.  I have
telegraphed the one word for which you asked, and you have probably got
the message already. But I must answer your letter as well as I can, and
say a great many things which I shall never say again.  If we are to
meet and try to live together, it is better that I should speak plainly
before I see you.

You asked a great deal of me, and for myself I have done what you asked.
I do not say this to make it seem as though I were making a great
sacrifice and wished you to admit it.  We were not happy together; you
say that it was your fault, and you ask me to forgive you.  If I
believed that you had been in full possession of your senses till you
were taken ill, I do not think that forgiveness could be possible.  You
see, I am frank.  I am sure that you often did not know what you said
and did, and that when you did know, you could not always weigh the
consequences of your words and actions.  So I will try to forget them.
That is what you mean by being forgiven, and it is the only meaning
either you or I can put upon the word.  I will try to forget, and I will
bear no malice for anything in the past, so far as I am concerned.
Never speak of it, when we meet, and I never will.  If you really wish
to try the experiment of living together again, I am willing to attempt
it, as an experiment.

But there is Archie to be considered, and Archie will not forgive you.
By a mere chance, to-day, after I had sent my telegram, he told me that
you used to strike him cruelly and often because his dulness irritated
you. You struck him on the head, and you injured his brain, so that his
mind has never developed fully and never can.

I do not think that if I were a man, as he is, I could forgive that.
Could you?  Do you expect that I should, being his mother?  You cannot.
You and he can never live under the same roof again.  It would perhaps
be harder for you, feeling as you must, than for him; but in any case it
is not possible, and there is only one arrangement to be made.  We must
put Archie in some place where he shall be safe and healthy and happy,
and I will spend a part of the year with you and a part with him.  I
will not give him up for you, and I am not willing to give you up for
him.  Neither would be right. You are my husband, whatever there may
have been in the past; but Archie is my child.  It will be harder for me
than for him, too.

You say that I might have got a divorce from you, and you do me the
justice to add that you believe I have never thought of it.  That is
true, but it is not a proof of affection.  I have none for you.  I told
you that I should speak plainly, and it is much better.  It would be an
ignoble piece of comedy on my part to pretend to be fond of you.  I was
once.  I admired you, I suppose, and I liked you well enough to marry
you, being rather ignorant of the world and of what people could feel.
If you had really loved me and been kind to me, I should have loved you
in the end.  But, as it turned out, I could not go on admiring you long,
and I simply ceased to like you.  That is our story, and it is a sad
one.  We made the great mistake, for we married without much love on
either side, and we were very young.

But it was a marriage, just the same, and a bond which I never meant to
break and will not break now. A promise is a promise, whatever happens,
and a vow made before God is ten times a promise.  So I always mean to
keep mine to you, as I have kept it.  I will do my best to make you
happy, and you must do your part to make it possible.

After all, that is the way most people live.  True love, lasting
lifetimes and not changing, exists in the world, and it is the hope of
it that makes youth lovely and marriage noble.  Few people find it, and
the many who do not must live as well as they can without it. That is
what we must do.  Perhaps, though the hope of love is gone, we may find
peace together.  Let us try.

But not with Archie.  There are things which no woman can forgive nor
forget.  I could not forgive you this if I loved you with all my heart,
and you must not expect it of me, for it is not in my power.  The harm
was not done to me, but to him, and he is more to me than you ever were,
and far more to me than myself. I will only say that.  There can be no
need of ever speaking about it, but I want you to understand; and not
only this, but everything.  That is why I write such a long letter.

It must all be perfectly clear, and I hope I have made it so.  It was I
who suffered for the great mistake we made in marrying, but you are
sorry for that, and I say, let us try the experiment and see whether we
can live together in peace for the rest of our lives.  You are changed
since your illness, I have no doubt, and you will make it as easy as you
can.  At least, you will do your best, and so shall I.

Have I repeated myself in this letter?  At least, I have tried to be
clear and direct.  Besides, you know me, and you know what I mean by
writing in this way. I am in earnest.

God bless you, Henry.  I hope this may turn out well.  HELEN.


It was ten o’clock when she had finished. She laid her hand upon the
bell, meaning to send her letter to the post office by a servant; but
just then the sound of laughing voices came up to her through the open
window, and she did not ring.  Looking out, she saw that there were
still many people in the street, for it was a warm evening.  It was only
a step from her hotel to the post office, and if she went herself she
should have the satisfaction of knowing positively that the letter was
safe.  She put on a hat with a thick veil, and went out.




                               CHAPTER IX


Colonel Wimpole looked positively old that evening when he went down to
dinner with his sister and Sylvia.  His face was drawn and weary and the
lids hung a little, in small wrinkles; but down in his grey eyes there
was a far-off gleam of danger-light.

Sylvia looked down when she met him, and she was very silent and grave
at first.  At dinner she sat between him and Miss Wimpole, and for some
time she scarcely dared to glance at him.  He, on his part, was too much
preoccupied to speak much, and she thought he was displeased.
Nevertheless, he was more than usually thoughtful for her.  She
understood by the way he sat, and even by the half-unconscious shrinking
of the elbow next to her, that he was sorry for her.  At table, seated
close together, there is a whole language in one’s neighbour’s elbow and
an unlimited power of expression in its way of avoiding collisions. Very
perceptive people understand that.  Primarily, in savage life, the bold
man turns his elbows out, while the timid one presses them to his sides,
as though not to give offence with them.  Society teaches us to put on
some little airs of timidity as a substitute for the modesty that few
feel, and we accordingly draw in our elbows when we are near any one.
It is ridiculous enough, but there are a hundred ways of doing it, a
hundred degrees of readiness, unwillingness, pride, or consideration for
others, as well as sympathy for their troubles or in their successes,
all of which are perfectly natural to refined people, and almost
entirely unconscious. The movement of a man’s jaws at dinner shows much
of his real character, but the movement of his elbows shows with fair
accuracy the degree of refinement in which he has been brought up.

Sylvia was sure that the colonel was sorry for her, and the certainty
irritated her, for she hated to be pitied, and most of all for having
done something foolish.  She glanced at Wimpole’s tired face, just when
he was looking a little away from her, and she was startled by the
change in his features since the early afternoon. It needed no very keen
perception to see that he was in profound anxiety of some kind, and she
knew of nothing which could have disturbed him deeply but her own
conduct.

Under the vivid light of the public dining table, he looked old.  That
was undeniable, and it was really the first time that Sylvia had
definitely connected the idea of age with him.  Just beyond him sat a
man in the early prime of strength, one of those magnificent specimens
of humanity such as one sees occasionally in travelling but whom one
very rarely knows in acquaintance.  He could not have been more than
twenty-eight years old, straight in his seat, broad-shouldered, with
thick, close, golden hair and splendid golden beard, white forehead and
sunburned cheeks, broad, well-modelled brows and faultless nose, and
altogether manly in spite of his beauty.  As he leaned forward a little,
his fresh young face appeared beside the colonel’s tired profile, in
vivid contrast.

For the first time, Sylvia realized the meaning of Wimpole’s words,
spoken that afternoon.  He might almost have been her grandfather, and
he was in reality of precisely the same age as her father.  Sylvia
looked down again and reflected that she must have made a mistake with
herself. Youth can sometimes close its eyes to grey hair, but it can
never associate the idea of love with old age, when clearly brought to
its perceptions.

For at least five minutes the world seemed utterly hollow to Sylvia, as
she sat there.  She did not even wonder why she had thought the colonel
young until then.  The sudden dropping out of her first great illusion
left a void as big and as hollow as itself.

She turned her head, and looked once more, and there, again, was the
glorious, unseamed youth of the stranger, almost dazzling her and making
the poor colonel look more than ever old, with his pale, furrowed cheeks
and wrinkled eyelids.  She thought a moment, and then she was sure that
she could never like such a terribly handsome young man; and at the same
instant, for the first time in her life, she felt that natural, foolish,
human pity which only extreme youth feels for old age, and she wondered
why she had not always felt it, for it seemed quite natural, and was
altogether in accordance with the rest of her feelings for the colonel,
with her reverence for his perfect character, her admiration for his
past deeds, her attachment to his quiet, protective, wise, and
all-gentle manliness.  That was her view of his qualities, and she had
to admit that though he had them all, he was what she called old.  She
had taken for love what was only a combination of reverence and
attachment and admiration. She realized her mistake in a flash, and it
seemed to her that the core had withered in the fruit of the universe.

Just then the colonel turned to her, holding his glass in his hand.

"We must not forget that it is your birthday, my dear," he said, and his
natural smile came back.  "Rachel," he added, speaking to his sister
across the young girl, "let us drink Sylvia’s health on her eighteenth
birthday."

Miss Wimpole usually took a little thin Moselle with the cold water she
drank.  She solemnly raised the glass, and inclined her head as she
looked first at Sylvia and then at the colonel.

"Thank you," said Sylvia, rather meekly.

Then they all relapsed into silence.  The people at the big table talked
fast, in low tones, and the clattering of dishes and plates and knives
and forks went on steadily and untunefully all around.  Sylvia felt
lonely in the unindividual atmosphere of the Swiss hotel.  She hated the
terribly handsome young man, with a mortal hatred, because he made the
colonel look old.  She could not help seeing him whenever she turned
towards Wimpole.  At last she spoke softly, looking down at her plate.

"Uncle Richard," she said, to call his attention.

He was not really her uncle, and she almost always called him ’colonel,’
half playfully, and because she had hated the suggestion of age that is
conveyed by the word ’uncle.’  Wimpole turned to her quietly.

"Yes, my dear," he said.  "What is it?"

"I suppose I was very foolish to-day, wasn’t I?" asked Sylvia, very low
indeed, and a bright blush played upon her pretty face.

The colonel was a courteous man, and was also very fond of her.

"A woman need never be wise when she is lovely," he said in his rather
old-fashioned way, and he smiled affectionately at the young girl. "It
is quite enough if she is good."

But she did not smile.  On the contrary, her face became very grave.

"I am in earnest," she said, and she waited a moment before saying more.
"I was very foolish," she continued, thoughtfully.  "I did not
understand--or I did not realize--I don’t know.  You have been so much
to me all my life, and there is nobody like you, of course.  It seemed
to me--I mean, it seems to me--that is very much like really caring for
some one, isn’t it?  You know what I mean.  I can’t express it."

"You mean that it is a good deal like love, I suppose," answered the
colonel, speaking gravely now.  "Yes, I suppose that love is better when
people believe each other to be angels.  But it is not that sort of
thing which makes love what it is."

"What is it, then?"  Sylvia was glad to ask any question that helped to
break through the awkwardness and embarrassment she felt towards him.

"There are a great many kinds of love," he said; "but I think there is
only one kind worth having.  It is the kind that begins when one is
young, and lasts all one’s life."

"Is that all?" asked Sylvia, innocently, and in a disappointed tone.

"All!"  The colonel laughed softly, and a momentary light of happiness
came into his face, for that all was all he had ever had.  "Is not that
enough, my dear?" he asked.  "To love one woman or man with all one’s
heart for thirty or forty years?  Never to be disappointed? Never to
feel that one has made a mistake? Never to fear that love may grow old
because one grows old oneself?  Is not that enough?"

"Ah, yes!  That would be, indeed.  But you did not say all those other
things at first."

"They are just what make a life-long love," answered the colonel.  "But
then," he added, "there are a great many degrees, far below that. I am
sure I have seen people quite really in love with each other for a
week."

Sylvia suddenly looked almost angry as she glanced at him.

"That sort of thing ought not to be called love at all!" she answered
energetically.  "It is nothing but a miserable flirtation,--a miserable,
wretched, unworthy flirtation."

"I quite agree with you," said Wimpole, smiling at her vehemence.

"Why do you laugh?" she asked, almost offended by his look.  His smile
disappeared instantly.

"You hit the world very hard, my dear," he answered.

"I hate the world!" cried Sylvia.

She was just eighteen.  Wimpole knew that she felt an innocent and
instinctive repulsion for what the world meant to him, and for all the
great, sinful unknown.  He disliked it himself, with the steady, subdued
dislike which is hatred in such natures as his, both because it was
contrary to his character, and for Sylvia’s sake, who must surely one
day know something of it.  So he did not laugh at her sweeping
declaration. She hated the world before knowing it, but he hated it in
full knowledge.  That was a bond of sympathy like any other.  To each of
us the world means both what we know, and what we suspect, both what we
see and the completion of it in the unseen, both the outward lives of
our companions which we can judge, and their inward motives, which we
dimly guess.

But on this evening Sylvia felt that the world was particularly odious,
for she had suffered a first humiliation in her own eyes.  She thought
that she had lowered herself in the colonel’s estimation, and she had
discovered that she had made a great mistake with herself about him.

"I hate the world!" she repeated, in a lower tone, almost to herself,
and her eyes gleamed with young anger, while her delicate, curving lips
just showed her small white teeth.

Wimpole watched her face.

"That is no reason for hating yourself," he said gently.

She started and turned her eyes to him.  Then she blushed and looked
away.

"You must not guess my thoughts," she answered.  "It is not kind."

"I did not mean to.  I am sorry."

"Oh--you could not help it, of course.  I was so foolish to-day."

The blush deepened, and she said nothing more.  The colonel returned to
his own secret trouble, and on Sylvia’s other side Miss Wimpole was
silently planning a charitable institution of unusual severity, while
she peeled an orange with the most scrupulous neatness and precision.




                               CHAPTER X


Sylvia went to her own room after dinner, still wondering what had
happened to her on her birthday.  There is an age at which most of us
unexpectedly come across the truth about ourselves, and sometimes about
others, and it generally happens that in our recollection the change
turns upon one day, or even one hour.

The shock is sudden and unexpected.  Floating down a quick smooth stream
in a boat, a man is aware of motion, as he watches the bank without
realizing the strength of the flowing water; but when the skiff is
suddenly checked by any obstacle in midstream, the whole force of the
river rushes upon it, and past it, and perhaps over it, in an instant.
Something of the same sort happens now and then in our lives. The great
illusion of childhood carries us along at a speed of which we have no
idea, in the little boat which is the immediate and undeniable reality
of near surroundings, the child’s cradle afloat upon a fiction which is
wide and deep and strong, and sometimes we are grown men and women
before our small craft strikes upon a shoal of truth, with a dash that
throws us from the thwart, and frightens the bravest of us.  There we
stick fast upon the rough fact for a while, and the flood that was so
smooth and pleasant rushes past us, foaming and seething and breaking
against the boat’s side and threatening to tear her to pieces.  And if
the tide is ebbing at the river’s mouth, we may be left high and dry
upon the sharp reality for a long time; but if not, the high water will
presently float us, and off we shall spin again, smoothly and safely, on
the bosom of the sweet untrue.

Such accidents happen more than once to most people, and almost every
one resents them bitterly.  Even in daily living, few men can bear to be
roughly roused from sleep.  Much more is the waking rude from year-long
dreams of fancy.

Sylvia sat at her table and stared at the lamp, as if it were her own
heart which she could look into, and watch, and study, and criticise.
For most of all, she was in a humour to find fault with it, as having
played her false when she least expected that it could deceive her.  She
had built on it, as it dictated; she had trusted it, as it suggested;
she had lived, and loved to live, for its sake; and now it had betrayed
her. It had not been in earnest, all the time, but had somehow made her
think that she herself was all earnestness.  It was a false and silly
little heart, and she hated it, as she looked at it in the lamp, and she
wished that it would frizzle and burn like the poor moth that had gone
too near the hot glass while she had been downstairs.

It was positively laughing at her, now, and she set her small mouth
angrily.  To think that she should ever have fancied herself in love
with a man who might have been her grandfather! And it wickedly showed
her the colonel as he would be in another ten years, a picture founded
upon the tired look she had just seen in his face. She was ashamed of
herself, and furious against herself for being ashamed, and she suddenly
wished that she were dead, because that would give people a real reason
for being sorry for her. It would be very pathetic to die so young!  If
she did, her heart could not laugh at her.

She thought about it for a while, and among other reflexions she
suddenly found herself wondering whether young Knox, the officer on her
father’s ship, would be very sorry.  He had written her a letter from
Japan which she had not answered.  Indeed, she was not sure that she had
read every word of it, for it had only come this morning.  Life had been
too short for reading letters on that day.  But there it was, on the
table.  She had the evening before her, and though it was a long letter,
it could not take more than a quarter of an hour to go through it.  She
put out her hand to take it and then looked at the lamp again.

A lean, brown young face was suddenly there, and bright eyes that looked
straight at her, without anything vastly superior in them, but full of
something she liked and understood and instantly longed for.  Her heart
was not laughing at her any more, for she had forgotten all about it,
which is generally the best thing one can do in such cases.

Even the expression of her face changed and softened as she laid her
hand upon the letter. For Wimpole’s sake, as she had made herself think
a few hours earlier, she would gladly have doubled her age, and the
forced longing for equality of years between herself and her ideal had
fleetingly expressed itself in her face by shadows, where there could
not yet be lines. But as the illusion sank down into the storehouse of
all impossibilities and all mistakes, the light of early youth fell full
and unscreened upon her face again, and she revived unconsciously, as
day-flowers do at sunrise, when the night-flowers fold their leaves.

It was surely no thought of love which made the change; or if that were
its cause, it was but love’s fore-lightening in a waking dream.  Much
rather it must have been the consciousness of living roused by the
thought of youth.  For youth is the elixir of life, and the touch of old
age is a blight on youth, when youth is longing to be old; but youth
that is willingly young has power to give the old a breath of itself
again, before the very end.  In their children men live again, and in
their children’s children they remember the loveliness of childhood.

From a very far country, across half a world of land and water, the
letter had come to Sylvia on her birthday, as Harmon’s had come to
Helen.  There is something strange and terrible, if we realize it, in
man’s power to harm or help by written words from any distance. The
little bit of paper leaves our hand with its wishing-carpet in the shape
of a postage stamp, and swiftly singles out the one man or woman, in two
thousand millions, for whom it is meant, going straight to its mark with
an aim far more unerring than steel or ball.  A man may much more
probably miss his enemy with a pistol at ten paces, than with a letter
at ten thousand miles.  If the fabled inhabitant of Mars could examine
our world under an imaginary glass, as we study a drop of water under a
microscope, he would surely be profoundly interested in the movements of
the letter-bacillus, as he might call it.  He might question whether it
is generated spontaneously, or is the result of an act of will, more or
less aggressive, but he would marvel at the rapidity of its motion and
at the strength of its action upon the human animal through the eye.  It
would be very inexplicable to him; least of all could he understand the
instant impulse of man to tear off the shell of the bacillus as soon as
it reaches him, for he would no doubt notice that in a vast number of
cases the sight of it produces discontent and pain, and he might even
find a few instances in which death followed almost immediately.  In
others the bacteria produce amazingly exhilarating results, such as
laughter and the undignified antics of joy, and even sudden improvements
in the animal’s health and appearance.  He would especially notice that
these bacilli are almost perpetually in motion, from the time they leave
one human being until they fasten themselves upon another, and that in
parts of the world where they are not found at all, or only
sporadically, the animals behave in a very different way, are healthier,
and are less exposed to the fatal results of their own inventions.  If
the inhabitant of Mars were given to jumping at conclusions, he would
certainly announce to his fellow-beings that he had discovered in Earth
the germ of a disease called by Terrenes ’Civilization.’  And perhaps
that is just what the letter is.

Young Knox wrote to Sylvia because he was in love with her, which is the
best of all reasons for writing when love is right, and the worst
imaginable when it is wrong.  He was so much in love that as soon as she
was out of his sight his first impulse was to set down on paper all
sorts of things which had very little sense in them, but made up for a
famine of wisdom by a corresponding plenty of feeling.  There is
something almost pathetic in the humbleness of a young man’s strength
before the object of his first true love.  It is the abasement of the
real before the ideal; but if the ideal fails, the real takes vengeance
of the man for having trodden it under.

Young women rarely understand their power; older ones too often overrate
what they have. The girl who first breathes the air of the outer world
and first sees in a man’s eyes that he loves her, knows that he is
stronger, better taught, more experienced than she is, and compares
herself with him by a measure which he rates as nothing.  Man is much
more real to woman, when both are very young, than woman is to man; and
being real he represents to her a sort of material force.  But to him
she is an imaginary being, strong with a mystic influence from which he
cannot escape when he has come within the pentagram of the spell.  It is
bad for a man if she comes to know her strength before he has learned
his weakness.  Then she riots in it, recklessly, for a time, until she
has hurt him.  She says, ’Do this,’ and he does it, like the Centurion’s
servant; or ’Say this,’ and he says it, be the words wise or foolish,
and she reckons his wisdom to herself and his folly to him, frankly, and
without the least doubt of her own perfection, for a while, rejoicing
senselessly in driving him.  But by and by, as in a clock, the
mainspring feels the gentle regulation of the swaying balance, and the
balance takes its motion from the spring, till both together move in
perfect time, while each without the other would be but a useless bit of
machinery. Sylvia did not know all that, and if she had, she would
perhaps not have reasoned about it much.  She did not understand why
young Knox wrote that he would live for her, die for her, and, if
necessary, convulse the solar system for her exclusive pleasure and
benefit.  It seemed a great deal to promise under the circumstances, and
her moderate maiden vanity could not make her appear, in her own eyes,
as an adequate cause of such serious disturbance in the order of things;
yet it was not displeasing to be magnified into a possible source of
astronomical miracles, though the idea was slightly ridiculous and she
was glad that she had it entirely to herself and beyond carping
criticism.

She was not in the least in love with the man who wrote to her, and she
had not been in love with him when they had parted.  That very morning,
when she had received the letter, she had been a little inclined to
smile at the writer’s persistence, and had laid the letter aside, half
read, in no great hurry to finish it.  But since then, her life had
changed.  She had gone aground on the shoal of truth and she was already
longing for the waters of illusion to rise and float her away.

So she let the breezy memories come back to her, and they brought her a
sweet forewarning of her growing life.  All at once, she knew that she
had never met any one so young who had pleased her so much, any one with
such clear eyes and manly ways, frank smile and honest voice, as the
young officer who had hated this hollow world with such grave conviction
because Sylvia Strahan could not go home in her father’s ship.  She read
on, and felt an unexpected thrill of pleasure when the words told her
what she had already known; namely, that the squadron would be far on
its way to San Francisco by the time the letter reached her, that Knox
was to come to the capital with her father, and that she was quite
certain to meet him there before very long.  She was unconscious of
looking round at her things just then and wishing that they were already
packed for the homeward journey.

She wrote to him before she went to bed.  It was a duty of civility to
answer him, though she felt herself under no obligation to reply to his
numerous questions.  On the contrary, she said nothing at all about
them, but she gave him her impressions of Lucerne and told him that Aunt
Rachel had taken cold, but was now quite well, a piece of information
which, though satisfactory in its way, was not calculated to affect her
correspondent’s happiness in any marked degree.  ’It would be nice to
see each other again,’ she said at the end, with which mild sentiment
she signed herself ’sincerely’ his.

The only odd thing about it all was that when the letter was finished
she had not the slightest idea where to send it, a fact which had not
crossed her mind when she had unscrewed her travelling inkstand, but
which sufficiently proved that she had acted under an impulse of some
sort.  She said to herself that it did not matter, but she was
disappointed, and the smile faded from her face for a little while.

When she was asleep it came back in the dark and lingered on her lips
all night, waning and waxing with her maiden dreams.

Her eighteenth birthday had been a good day in her life, after all.
There are few indeed who fall asleep happily when the first illusion has
gone down into darkness with the evening sun.




                               CHAPTER XI


Helen Harmon went out alone to mail her letter.  She would not have done
such a thing in any great city of Europe, but there is a sense of safety
in the dull, impersonal atmosphere of Lucerne, and it was a relief to
her to be out in the open air alone; it would be a still greater relief
to have dropped the letter into the mysterious slit which is the first
stage on the road to everywhere.

No one ever thinks of the straight little cut, with its metal cover, as
being at all tragical. And yet it is as tragic as the jaws of death, in
its way.  Many a man and woman has stood before it with a letter and
hesitated; and every one has, at some time or other, felt the sharp
twist at the heart, which is the wrench of the irrevocable, when the
envelope has just slipped away into darkness.  The words cannot be
unwritten any more, after that, nor burned, nor taken back.  A telegram
may contradict them, or explain them, or ask pardon for them, but the
message will inevitably be read, and do its work of peace or war, of
challenge or forgiveness, of cruelty, or kindness, or indifference.

Helen did not mean to hesitate, for she hastened towards the moment of
looking back upon a deed now hard to do.  It was not far to the post
office, either, and the thing could soon be done.  Yet in her brain
there was a surging of uncertainties and a whirling of purposes, in the
midst of which she clung hard to her determination, though it should
cost ever so dear to carry it out.  She had not half thought of all the
consequences yet, nor of all it must mean to her to be separated from
her son.  The results of her action sprang up now, like sudden dangers,
and tried to frighten her from her purpose, tried to gain time against
her to show themselves, tried to terrify her back to inaction and doubt.
Something asked her roughly whence she had got the conviction that she
was doing right at all.  Another something, more subtle, whispered that
she was sacrificing Archie for the sake of her own morbid conscience,
and making herself a martyr’s crown, not of her own sufferings only, but
of her son’s loss in losing her.  It told her that the letter she held
in her hand was a mistake, but not irrevocable until it should have
slipped into the dark entrance of the road to everywhere.

She had still a dozen steps to make before reaching the big white
building that stands across the corner of the street, and she was
hurrying on, lest she should not reach the door in time.  Then she
almost ran against Colonel Wimpole, walking slowly along the pavement
where there was a half shadow.  Both stopped short, and looked at each
other in surprise.  He saw the letter in her hand, and guessed that she
had written to her husband.

"I was only going to the post office," she said, half apologetically,
for she thought that he must wonder why she had come out alone at such
an hour.

"Will you let me walk with you?" he asked.

"Yes."

He made a step forwards, as though expecting her to turn back from her
errand and go with him.

"Not that way," she said.  "I must go to the post office first."

"No.  Please don’t."  He placed himself in her way.

"I must."

She spoke emphatically and stood still, facing him, while their eyes met
again, and neither spoke again for a few seconds.

"You are ruining your life," he said, after the pause.  "When that
letter is gone, you will never be able to get it back."

"I know.  I shall not wish to."

"You will."  His lips set themselves rather firmly as he opposed her,
but her face darkened.

"Is this a trial of strength between us?" she asked.

"Yes.  I mean to keep you from going back to Henry Harmon."

"I have made up my mind," Helen answered.

"So have I," said Wimpole.

"How can you hinder me?  You cannot prevent me from sending this letter,
nor from going to him if I choose.  And I have chosen to go. That ends
it."

"You are mistaken.  You are reckoning without me, and I will make it
impossible."

"You?  How?  Even if I send this letter?"

"Yes.  Come and walk a little, and we can talk.  If you insist upon it,
drop your letter into the box.  But it will only complicate matters, for
you shall not go back to Harmon."

Again she looked at him.  He had never spoken in this way, during all
the years of their acknowledged friendship and unspoken love.  She felt
that she resented his words and manner, but at the same time that she
loved him better and admired him more.  He was stronger and more
dominant than she had guessed.

"You have no right to say such things to me," she answered.  "But I will
walk with you for a few minutes.  Of course you can hinder me from
sending my letter now.  I can take it to the post office by and by."

"You cannot suppose that I mean to prevent you by force," said Wimpole,
and he stood aside to let her pass if she would.

"You said that it was a trial of strength," she answered.

She hesitated one moment, and then turned and began to walk with him.
They crossed the street to the side by which the river runs, away from
the hotels and the houses.  It was darker there and more quiet, and they
felt more alone. It would seem easier, too, to talk in the open air,
with the sound of the rushing water in their ears.  He was the first to
speak then.

"I want to explain," he said quietly.

"Yes."  She waited for him to go on.

"I suppose that there are times in life when it is better to throw over
one’s own scruples, if one has any," he began.  "I have never done
anything to be very proud of, perhaps, but I never did anything to be
ashamed of either. Perhaps I shall be ashamed of what I am going to say
now.  I don’t care.  I would rather commit a crime than let you wreck
your whole existence, but I hope you will not make me do that."

They had stopped in their walk, and were leaning against the railing
that runs along the bank.

"You are talking rather desperately," said Helen, in a low voice.

"It is rather a desperate case," Wimpole answered.  "I talk as well as I
can, and there are things which I must tell you, whatever you think of
me; things I never meant to say, but which have made up most of my life.
I never meant to tell you."

"What?"

"That I love you.  That is the chief thing."

The words did not sound at all like a lover’s speech, as he spoke them.
He had drawn himself up and stood quite straight, holding the rail with
his hands.  He spoke coolly, with a sort of military precision, as
though he were facing an enemy’s fire.  There was not exactly an effort
in his voice, but the tone showed that he was doing a hard thing at that
moment.  Then he was silent, and Helen said nothing for a long time.
She was leaning over the rail, trying to see the running water in the
dark.

"Thank you," she said at last, very simply, and there was another pause.

"I did not expect you to say that," he answered presently.

"Why not?  We are not children, you and I. Besides--I knew it."

"Not from me!"  Wimpole turned almost sharply upon her.

"No.  Not from you.  You wrote Henry a letter, many years ago.  Do you
