tection seemed to gravitate to him naturally. 
" I don't want to be hard, Royal Palmer. I 
never was hard to her" that meant Bessie's 
 
mother; "but I can't afford to keep her a lady, 
and I've no fortune to give her. And if she 
shouldn't like housework modern girls despise 
it," and there was a fling in Aunt Hannah's voice, 
" I'll see if Miss Cummings won't take her at dress 
making. She must have some way of getting her 
living. Helpless, wishy-washy women on the look 
out for husbands are my abomination ! I pity the 
men who get them ! " 
" But you don't pity the men who want capable 
women." 
Aunt Hannah really colored up. Westhorpe 
was not in ignorance of that episode, happening 
only a few years ago, when Aunt Hannah was 
sorely wanted. 
" I always took it as a compliment that Rachel 
Marks wanted me to be stepmother to her chil 
dren. Rachel was a nice, sensible body, but I 
never could see how she made up her mind to 
Silas. I'd have done it for her sake and the chil 
dren's if I could." 
Aunt Hannah was growing impatient now. She 
opened the stair door and called in a quick tone : 
" Bessie Deane, will you come to supper ! " 
Bessie Deane, to show her independent spirit, 
still lingered. 
"Sit down," said Aunt Hannah, peremptorily. 
" We shall not wait for a slip of a girl." 
She had poured the tea and passed the bread 
when Bessie entered. 
" I am glad I did not keep you waiting," in a 
soft, winsome voice, with a deprecating glance at 
Roy. 
" No," answered Aunt Hannah, in a brief, deci 
sive tone. " We were ready and sat down. Do 
you take cream and sugar in your tea ? " 
Bessie answered in a rather ignoble affirmative. 
Then she tried to make some conversation with 
Roy, but he did not seem in the mood. Or was 
he afraid of this tall, stern-looking ogre ; a very 
masculine sort of woman, Bessie decided. He 
had been chatty enough on the homeward drive. 
Afterward he walked down to the post-office 
for the mail, and for the talk he would have with 
Bernard Ward. Aunt Hannah took Tim's supper 
out in the shed kitchen. Part of this was floored, 
and all but one end lathed and plastered. That 
side was piled almost up to the ceiling the roof 
slanted considerably with wood, split and sawed 
in even lengths. There were various barrels and 
one closet for storing away things. A long wash 
bench, and a pine table with two wooden chairs 
comprised the furniture. Then she brought in a 
small cedar tub and washed her tea things. 
" What pretty china," Bessie ventured, not want 
ing to be entirely ignored. 
 
" Yes, Mr. Palmer bought it at a vendue ; it was 
old Mrs. Pratt's. All the things went cheap." 
" Is he is Mr. Palmer some relation to you ? " 
with a sudden hope it might be so. 
" No ; I'm housekeeper only. I came here 
when Mrs. Palmer had her stroke. She and I 
had been friends for years. And then when both 
were dead I went on he wanted a housekeeper. 
Some day he'll have a wife," in a dry sort of tone, 
" but I am not so old but that I can get something 
else." 
Bessie took a survey of her. To seventeen she 
seemed an old woman, but at fifty-seven she was 
still brisk and strong. Her hair was white and 
quite abundant, but brushed plainly above her 
ears. She wore a dark gingham dress and a 
white apron, and there was a bit of white ruffle 
about her neck. She was not attractive to Bessie, 
nor in the least sympathetic. 
Tim ate his supper and wished them " good 
night" with a touch of his hand to his forelock, 
which he had learned as a boy at school and it 
answered for the more cordial nod. He always 
went home to sleep. 
Aunt Hannah settled herself and brought out 
some knitting white cotton shells for a counter 
pane. She abhorred idleness, and the half loung 
ing figure in the old rocking chair rasped her. 
 
" What have you learned to do ? " she asked 
presently. 
" Do ? " repeated Bessie, "I went to school until 
Christmas. Then there was so much trouble with 
the failure, and one servant was sent away. Why, 
I did a little of everything. Papa I call him 
papa," and she sighed, "thought I might do for 
a teacher. It was my second year in the high 
school. But I always told him I should just hate 
teaching." 
" I suppose you've learned to sew ? " 
" Oh, I've done Kensington work and different 
embroideries," with a rather lofty air. 
" But your clothes and mending ? " 
" Oh, we always had a dressmaker, and bought 
muslin things ready made. Kitty always darned 
stockings until she went away. It was awfully 
hard to do without her. There were seven children 
in all three of my own mamma's and four of Mrs. 
Deane's. And I didn't really belong to anybody." 
" Mr. Deane was quite well-to-do ? " ventured 
Aunt Hannah. " At least until the failure ? " 
" I suppose so ! We had what we wanted and two 
servants, and a laundress coming in on Monday." 
" Well, there'll be nothing like it here," said 
Aunt Hannah, grimly; "you'll have to begin to 
earn your own living." 
" I shouldn't know how," rather flippantly. 
 
" Then you must learn. You must do your own 
sewing and darn your stockings." 
" I hate darned stockings ! They are all in 
bunches," Bessie declared, with emphasis. 
" I'll show you how to darn so they won't be in 
bunches. You can't begin too soon. I work for 
my living. And in about a week or so there are 
some boarders coming." 
" Oh," retorted Bessie, with a touch of insolence, 
" does Mr. Palmer keep boarders ? " 
" I shall keep them," was the quietly firm reply. 
" And if you decide through the summer that you 
don't like housework, there are other things. I 
really shall not need your help when the boarders 
go away. A girl who has nothing must learn to 
take care of herself." 
Bessie sat confounded. Her life plan was to 
get married as soon as a decent opportunity of 
fered. What was Westhorpe like ? Were there 
many young men in the place ? A relative of Mr. 
Palmer's housekeeper of that strong, common 
place woman ! 
Bessie was inclined to burst into a passion of 
tears. But with some inward intuition she knew it 
would not touch Miss Gage. She wanted whatever 
she did to affect some one. The other person's 
emotion entertained her quite as much as her own. 
She gave a great yawn instead. 
 
"I should like to go to bed," she exclaimed. "I 
am awfully tired." 
" I expect you are." Aunt Hannah lighted a 
candle for her. " Be careful to hold it straight," 
she counselled; "spermaceti is the worst thing 
in the world to get on your clothes or the carpet. 
Can you find your way up ? We rise early, but 
you won't be in the traces yet to-morrow morn- 
ing." 
" I'm a dreadfully late sleeper," was the re 
joinder. " Good night," as she was on the stair. 
" Good night," said Aunt Hannah. 
But the woman set her lips firmly together 
afterward. "She'll marry the first man that asks 
her," Aunt Hannah said. " Heaven forbid that 
she should wreck any good man's life." And 
there was one young man dearer to her than this 
girl, even if she was her half-sister, her own 
father's child. 
Bessie did cry a little when she had shut her 
door. Everything was so common, so hard. She 
could have gone to Canada. Mrs. Deane had 
proposed that she become a sort of governess and 
seamstress. They could not afford to keep her in 
idleness. Mrs. Deane had been carelessly good- 
natured in prosperity, though she did not see that 
this girl had any real claim upon her husband, 
now that she was grown. 
l 
Adversity did not sweeten her at all. No 
wonder, poor woman, with all her cares. Bessie 
thought her grown quite captious and fretful and 
stingy. She preferred the unknown future, and 
somehow she pictured Miss Hannah Gage as a 
queer old woman with a good deal of money that 
would be hers presently. 
CHAPTER II 
A POSSIBLE ATTRACTION 
WHEN Bessie awoke the next morning the sun 
had been up a k>ng while. Her fatigue and the 
quiet with no children astir in the early morning, 
conduced to slumber. She hurried on her clothes, 
for she felt really startled. 
And when she opened the kitchen door the 
clock on the mantel pointed to nearly half past 
eight. Everything was in immaculate order. 
Aunt Hannah sat by the open window working 
some lovely golden butter that diffused a fra 
grance about the room. 
" Oh ! " she cried in dismay. 
Aunt Hannah half smiled. She had a more 
cheerful look in this light print dress than in her 
dark afternoon gingham. 
" I had no idea it was so late " 
" Well, you were tired. And it didn't make any 
difference. Mr. Palmer had to go down to Knowl- 
ton on some business, and we had an early break 
fast. Generally it is at seven, but his train went 
at that time." 
Aunt Hannah rose, -patting the butter in a golden 
ball, and leaning the bowl against her side, with 
her arm over it. It was a good firm arm, with the 
sleeve rolled above the elbow. 
" I wonder what you would like for breakfast ? 
There's cold chicken. We had biscuits, but they 
are cold. I could put them in the oven a minute. 
And I'll make a cup of fresh coffee." 
" Don't trouble about anything, please. When 
we came down to breakfast at home we took what 
there was. And you might give it to me out here." 
She had followed Aunt Hannah to the shed 
kitchen. 
"Well, there is a clean cloth in that drawer, and 
the big closet there no, that's a pantry that's 
the dish closet. Get any plate and cup, then come 
down cellar with me." 
The cellar was cool and clean as the world after 
yesterday's rain. Aunt Hannah laid her butter in 
a stone jar, found the plate of chicken, some pota 
toes, and some stewed fruit. Bessie helped carry 
them up. The potatoes were fried in a trice. The 
biscuit were heated. It was a breakfast fit for a 
king b'etter than that at the Deanes'. 
" You are very good not to scold," said Bessie, 
rather conscience smitten. 
" I am not much of a scold, as any one can tell 
you. But there isn't much to scold about here. 
And now if you're done, take the chicken down 
stairs, and the butter." 
Bessie obeyed cheerfully. Really, Aunt Hannah 
wasn't so bad ! Perhaps there was a right side to 
her. 
Then they went up-stairs. Over the parlor part 
were two large rooms, with spacious closets. On 
the other side three not as large. Roy had moved 
over, and the two rooms were to be put in order for 
the newcomers. There was a small-figured ingrain 
carpet on the floor. 
" There is to be a new set of furniture for this 
room. Miss let me see her name is Otis. 
Her mother was a Brooke." 
"Her father should have been a river." Bessie 
was frightened at her own small wit, but Aunt 
Hannah gave a short half-laugh. 
" He wasn't, though. Her mother's dead, and 
her father's been getting married again. The two 
ladies think there is no summer place like Wes- 
thorpe." 
" I suppose they are rich," said Bessie, enviously. 
" Well, yes. They are real ladies. No shoddy 
about them. Real old quality people." 
They dusted and straightened things and chatted 
in quite a friendly fashion. Aunt Hannah had 
taken counsel of her good judgment as she churned 
and worked her butter. Bessie should have no 
 
chance to make a martyr of herself, nor appeal to 
Roy Palmer's sympathies. She should be put in a 
comfortable place and left there, and Roy should 
not begin by pitying her. 
In the afternoon they drove " down town." 
They were quite at one side of Westhorpe. The 
town was pretty, clean, and with a refined air, for 
there was not much business. Bessie noted that 
the people they met paid a certain respect to Miss 
Gage, as if she was something more than a house 
keeper, as indeed she was. 
Mr. Palmer did not return until quite late and 
had his supper alone. Then he took out his paper, 
and had very little to say. Bessie's conversational 
powers had heretofore been exercised upon the 
floating gossip of city doings what was being 
played at the theatre, the last ball match, meeting 
this one and that one, and the silly nothings crude 
young people exchange. She wondered if Roy 
Palmer wasn't rather slow. If she could only see 
him alone! 
She was up quite early the next morning, and 
they breakfasted together. But there was corn to 
plant, and off he went again. 
Word came that day that the Brookes would be 
earlier than they thought. June came in on Tues 
day, but they would reach Westhorpe on Saturday, 
if it would be convenient. 
 
When her duties were explained to Bessie she 
inwardly resented some of them. 
" I could order a house," she said, "but I do not 
think I have any gift for the drudgery part." 
" The woman who does not know all about the 
work does not know how to order. Incompetent 
mistresses make poor servants. Still, I'm free to 
confess that it isn't every woman who has a genius 
for housekeeping. It's bad to get at the wrong 
thing. I've seen a good farmer spoiled in a poor 
minister or lawyer. And you're so tasty looking I 
do think you'd make a good dressmaker. Only it 
seems to me that women who hate to do housework 
oughtn't undertake it and spoil a man's life. She 
owes him some consideration." 
" When I marry it will be a man rich enough to 
keep a servant." 
Aunt Hannah nodded in a dubious sort of fash 
ion. " Then don't marry a farmer," she said 
decisively. 
Bessie had a pretty, graceful way with her. She 
made a room look homelike, took the stiffness out 
of it by a few little turns. She knew how much 
more effective flowers of a kind were by themselves 
than everything in a bunch. She had an eye for 
color and harmony. Aunt Hannah was not a hard 
or straight-laced woman and did riot consider beauty 
foolishness, though it seemed to her there was a 
 
great deal that was not beautiful at all. She had 
the inner sense, but lacked the power of expression. 
Roy went over to the station at four, with the 
big carriage, and Tim was to take the wagon for 
the trunks. Aunt Hannah had gone through 
Bessie's wardrobe and bought her two nice print 
gowns. She had two rather shabby silks, that had 
been " evening gowns," and a white one much 
furbelowed. There was her spring suit of light 
gray, which would do for her church and wearing 
dress until hot weather. The others were winter 
attire of no special use now. 
" There's nothing like good wash prints for a girl 
like you," said Aunt Hannah. 
Bessie had hoped so to achieve a new silk, and 
was appalled when lawn was mentioned in its place. 
She sat on the porch where the roses were just 
coming out. There was a wide, hard path down to 
the gate, with a flower border on each side. Some 
blossoming shrubbery, some trees and a good deal 
of grass that Aunt Hannah called a dooryard, and 
the lawn. At the side of the house was a wide 
drive. 
The carriage came up. There was a Miss 
Brooke, tall and still fair, with a gracious but 
rather aristocratic mien, sixty or thereabout ; Miss 
Esther, five or six years younger, not so tall, 
her hair light but scarcely turned, very delicate 
 
looking, almost frail. The young lady sat on the 
front seat with the host. 
She looked twenty, but she was only a month 
past nineteen. Tall, like her aunts, a proudly 
poised head, a face at once noble, dignified and 
so reticent you hardly thought of its beauty. A 
rather long oval with finely cut features, very 
dark blue eyes, with black lashes, a great coil of 
dusky hair with a little irregular fringe that added 
softness to the broad forehead. Bessie felt dis 
appointed. It was not at all what she had hoped. 
A city girl whose people were not strenuously 
fashionable promised something to her imagina 
tion. This one lived in a mysterious realm quite 
above her, and she wanted people on her own 
level. 
And it seemed to her in this brief while that 
Roy Palmer had changed. He sat very erect, and 
there was a dignity Bessie had never taken into 
account, never noted, perhaps. It roused a curi 
ous smouldering jealousy, as if he might drift out 
of her region. 
Miss Helen Otis was a trifle surprised as well. 
She had come to Westhorpe to bury sorrow. She 
would have no taste for gayeties, for this great 
grief of her life had changed everything. 
She was only ten when her mother died, who 
had been the youngest Miss Brooke, much 
 
younger than the two sisters. Helen had been 
at school, and sometimes spent her vacations 
with them. Indeed, their house was her real 
home ; but now and then she took a journey with 
her father. He was a fine looking man, only 
forty now, an intelligent and polished business 
man, finding some time for the social amenities 
of life, and being very fond of his daughter. 
Helen had graduated from her boarding-school 
the year before. She had been fired with some 
girlish ambitions, and had a secret longing to 
enter college. But her father said : 
" Helen, I shall have to go abroad the first 
of July. We three partners take turns. Of 
course there will be a good deal of business for 
the first two months, but I shall no doubt find 
some friends in Paris and on the Continent who 
can keep you from feeling neglected. After that 
we can take a pleasure tour. What say you ? " 
Of course she was delighted. She had a splen 
did time, and adored her father more than ever. 
In Berlin they met quite a circle of her father's 
acquaintances. Among them a Miss Carew of 
three or four and thirty, a music teacher, who 
had given up this year for the restoration of her 
health and energy, and was looking into new 
methods of teaching. She proved a very attrac 
tive companion. 
 
Mr. Otis returned the last of December, leaving 
his daughter to go to Egypt with some friends in 
whom he had every confidence. Oddly enough 
Miss Carew crossed on the same vessel. She had 
been summoned home on the death of a relative 
and was to receive a considerable legacy. 
Beside her musical ability she was well read and 
very attractive. He had been thinking it was 
time now to give up his half bachelor ways, his 
suite of rooms at the hotel, and make a home for 
his daughter. He began to feel quite fatherly. 
And why not put this sweet, well-bred woman at 
the head of it, and give Helen several charming 
years before she would want to marry ? She must 
have a chaperon of some sort. Her aunts were 
quite out of touch with the modern world, and 
Miss Esther was too frail to undertake any dissipa 
tion. A younger woman, who understood the 
ways and needs of girls but it was not likely 
Miss Carew would come, except in one capacity. 
He continued the acquaintance after they were 
in New York, and found that he was really in love 
with her. She accepted him, but would not be 
married until Helen returned. That was in May. 
Helen's first feeling was indignation. Her 
father was a good deal surprised, but he pointed 
out the advantages, to which she was blind. She 
felt herself deceived and injured, and with a girl's 
 
unreason, blamed Miss Carevv. Aunt Margaret 
tried to reason with her. " Nothing is more 
natural, my dear. Your mother has been dead 
almost eight years, and few men respect a memory 
that long. Beside, at his time of life he needs a 
home, and, really, a wife." 
" But I could have made his home," sobbed 
Helen, between sorrow and anger. "I had counted 
on it ; I meant to devote my life to it." 
" My dear," returned Aunt Margaret, gravely, 
but with a certain persuasive sweetness, "that 
would hardly have been possible. You are too 
inexperienced. You know nothing about ordering 
a house. You could not entertain your father's 
friends without some older lady " 
" But you and Aunt Esther might have come," 
interrupted the girl. 
Aunt Margaret sighed. She had always liked 
her brother-in-law very much, but they were 
almost at the opposite ends of the society scale. 
He was still a fashionable man, much admired 
and much sought after, and had kept his place 
without a break. They tried to do honor to a few 
occasions among relatives and older friends, but 
they had cheerfully "stepped out of the swim." 
Miss Esther's poor health, and her own age, her 
disinclination for gayeties would make her a poor 
chaperon. 
" My child, you need a younger person, who is 
fresh in society ways. We have been much 
pleased with Miss Carew. Your father desires a 
home and a wife, and you will no doubt marry." 
" I meant to devote my whole life to him. We 
had such a delightful time abroad. And his letters 
since have been so charming ! I had learned to 
love him so ! Why, every thought of his heart 
seemed mine, and instead, he was loving another. 
He has deceived me ! And she has crept in " 
" My dear, do not say that," entreated Aunt 
Margaret. " It was a delicate subject to write 
about. And I do think you will find her a kind 
and appreciative friend. She is still young enough 
to enjoy the things of youth without being worried 
by them." 
But Helen would not be consoled or convinced. 
She met Miss Carew coldly. It was a church 
wedding, and Helen went in carriage attire and sat 
with her aunts. Mr. and Mrs. Otis were to make 
a tour of the Lakes and Canada, coming down the 
Maine coast to Bar Harbor, where a cousin of 
Miss Carew's had a cottage. If Helen would 
meet them there, and then make a sojourn at some 
of the watering-places ? 
But Helen very stiffly elected to go with her 
aunts. She kept considering herself the victim of 
an underhand and deceitful arrangement. Her 
 
love for her father had received a hard blow, and 
she kept nursing it up in bitterness. She wanted 
no gayeties, she would have nothing but seclusion 
and sorrow. 
" I am very glad," she said, when the change 
was made to the Palmer house, and Miss Gage 
warmly praised to them. Miss Brooke couldn't 
remember, but she fancied Mr. Palmer quite an 
elderly gentleman, and Helen never gave him a 
second thought. 
But when he said in a cordial manner, " I am 
Mr. Palmer," Miss Otis almost forgot her exquisite 
breeding and stared. 
She was rather given to be analytical, like many 
seriously educated young people. The strong, 
well-developed figure, the shapely hands, the clear- 
cut grave face lighted by smiling hazel eyes, inter 
ested her. His hair had a tint of chestnut and 
was curling ; his mustache was a warm brown with 
golden ends, and of course he was sunburned, but 
his white forehead betrayed his fair skin. 
He assisted the two ladies into the carriage, 
they took the back seat; then Helen, and, after 
giving Tim orders about the luggage, sprang in 
lightly beside her. 
"I believe," said Miss Brooke, "you are a little 
farther out of the town than Mrs. Garth." 
" Quite on the outskirts, the farming district," 
and he smiled, " but we are on such high ground 
we overlook the town. I hope you will not feel 
lonely our family is small." 
There was a dignified assurance in his manner. 
His horses were handsome and spirited, obedient 
to the slightest touch. He pointed out some 
beautiful views, and, though the ascent was not 
much, they soon saw the rows of houses and 
gardens quite below them. 
Mrs. Garth had come over to meet them and 
introduce them to Miss Gage. Aunt Hannah 
seemed just the name for the every-day, motherly 
woman, Miss Otis thought. 
There had been a curious little puzzle about the 
relationship of Bessie and her half-sister, compro 
mised by Bessie insisting she should say Aunt 
Hannah. -Miss Gage thought it would be less 
likely to call to mind her father's foolish marriage, 
so she merely said, " My niece, Miss Deane." 
" I'll show you to your rooms," said Miss Gage, 
and preceded them up-stairs. 
Everything was in attractive order ; Bessie had 
moved the chairs about a little, put bunches of 
greenery in each fireplace, a bowl of flowers on 
one table, and a tall vase on the other. From the 
side windows you looked out to the ranges of hills, 
rising one above the other, here a ledge of brown 
rocks ; here a gray mass of perpendicular, looking 
 
like fluted columns, and there a great round peak 
that suggested a volcano. 
" It is beautiful," declared Helen ; " I shall like 
my room so much ; I am so glad I came with 
you." 
Tim and his master brought up the trunks. 
There was a manliness about Roy Palmer, a grace 
in doing common things that interested Helen. 
" I suppose that is the Mr. Palmer ? " she asked 
with a half-smile, " but I am rather sorry he isn't 
an elderly man." 
" I am very much surprised ; " and Miss Brooke 
really was, but she began to arrange the pillows 
on the lounge, and gently put Esther down, who 
was extremely tired with the journey. 
Bessie came up with a tray holding a pitcher 
of fresh water and some glasses. 
"And that is a pretty girl," continued Helen, 
" but she has a rather weak, self-willed face. Do 
you suppose there is no servant ? " 
" This is not a very easy place to get servants 
if I remember rightly," said Miss Brooke. "The 
farmer's daughters are all averse to taking situa 
tions, and only the poorest help seem to find the 
way here." 
"We might have brought Barbara," returned 
Esther. 
" We could send for her if we needed her. But 
I have found that in boarding a servant is a great 
deal of trouble." 
" And I am to be your maid to help pass away 
the time, you know," said Helen, affectionately. 
She and her aunt unpacked. The drawers had 
a fragrance of rose leaves and lavender. The 
closets were capacious, and would each hold a 
trunk. Helen had brought a portfolio of engrav 
ings and a few ornamental articles with which she 
adorned the mantel, the top of a half closet set by 
the chimney jamb, and her bureau. 
Miss Gage knocked at the door. 
" I wish you'd be kind enough to tell me which 
you prefer taking your meals by yourselves, or 
with us. There would be Mr. Palmer and my niece 
" she would not put Bessie in a servant's place. 
Miss Gage looked so clean and tidy, so really 
inviting, that Miss Brooke said : 
"Oh, all together; you must not let us make 
too much trouble. My sister will occasionally 
have her meals sent up." 
" She had better to-night," returned Miss Gage. 
" She looks clear tired out. Mrs. Garth said she 
wasn't strong. Can anybody help you ? " 
" If this trunk and the box could be taken 
away " in a tone of softened request. 
Miss Gage pulled them out in the hall, and they 
-heard them rumbling; off. 
 
About six the bell rang. Bessie came up with 
a tray. There was toast, two dainty biscuits, cold 
chicken and ham, and a dish of luscious berries, a 
little pot of tea, and a pretty Japanese cup. She 
set it on a table with a flush, as she saw Helen 
glance at her. 
The ladies followed her down. Mr. Palmer had 
on a clean linen coat, and a pale blue necktie 
which was very becoming. And though no waiter 
stood behind the chairs, the serving seemed very 
complete, and the table was beyond cavil. 
They saw no more of the ladies that evening. 
Bessie had made some acquaintances already, and 
the young people went out on Saturday evening 
for a walk. A neighbor called for Bessie, and 
Aunt Hannah was very glad to have an errand 
done. Jane Moore was too steady going to let 
Bessie get far astray. 
Roy came and sat down on the kitchen step be 
side Aunt Hannah. There was a laughing sound 
in his voice as he tossed back his tumbled hair. 
" Well, you were not extinguished." 
"Why, they are very pleasant and home-like. 
I can't quite make out the young girl. Oh, no ; 
I don't feel a bit afraid. But I do hope to good 
ness they'll eat more than they did to-night, or I 
shan't feel that they get their money's worth ! " 
He did really laugh then. " Don't you worry 
 
about that," he said. Then, as there was no 
further comment, he began, rather hesitatingly : 
" Aunt Hannah, since the scheme will pay, do 
you not think it seems to me it would be a good 
plan to give Bessie a sort of weekly allowance 
not exactly wages, but every one likes to have a 
little money to spend." 
"To waste, in this case. No, I don't think it a 
good plan. Bessie hasn't a bit of sense about 
money, and I shall get her what she needs. She's 
dying for a silk gown, and I'd be ashamed to see 
her wear those dirty, tawdry things she has. I 
told her so. And I said if she did her best this 
summer I'd buy her one. She's awfully afraid 
these people will think she's a servant." 
" But they " he was going to say " must not," 
and then changed it to "will not, surely." 
" As if it makes any difference ! I'm your 
housekeeper, Roy Palmer, and I've always been 
respected. I didn't see as these people made any 
great to-do about coming to my table, and I gave 
'em their choice. Bessie will have to earn her 
living, so it's no use for her to set up for grand 
folks. Don't yon go to putting any nonsense in 
her head." 
"Why, I have to earn my living. I dare say 
the young woman up-stairs thinks herself miles 
above me. No, I don't believe Bessie will cotton 
 
to her. But now like this : When girls go down 
town on Saturday night to hear the music and see 
each other, they like a bit pf cream or candy 
" Jane Moore doesn't spend her money for such 
stuff." There was a touch of scorn in Aunt Han 
nah's tone. " I don't quite approve of this run 
ning down town ! " 
" It gives the young people a good deal of 
pleasure. I like it myself, and I am getting to be 
quite an old fogy. We all want a little joyousness 
in our lives. You'll do better if you don't keep 
her too strict." 
Was he really interested in Bessie ? A less con 
scientious woman would have been delighted with 
this easy solution of Bessie's destiny. 
"Aunt Hannah," he said suddenly, "Thirza 
Rolfe is home." 
CHAPTER III 
THIRZA ROLFE 
THIRZA ROLFE had been sitting opposite the 
Brooke party during the four hours' journey. She 
knew Miss Otis was one of those who toiled not 
nor spun. There were some distinguishing marks; 
the girl was quite aware of them now. Not merely 
in the term aristocratic, for there were two girls in 
her class who could have stepped upon a throne 
and been declared of royal lineage. It was another 
quite indescribable token. The elder ladies had a 
quaint old-fashionedness in their gray silks and 
the thread lace and violets on their bonnets, for 
the flood of violets had not yet come in. 
She had The Forum in her hand, and now and 
then she quite lost herself in some article. She 
glanced up and caught Thirza watching her. For 
the merest instant she frowned. When, a long 
while after, Thirza ventured upon another glance, 
Miss Otis was studying her. Both flushed, and 
neither betrayed any sense of being offended. 
They went on to the front of the car. Miss 
Rolfe waited a moment, then walked to the back 
 
end, which she rarely did, on principle. So she 
did not see who took them away, but she knew 
they were boarders. 
" Hello ! " cried a burly, cheerful voice. " Sight 
o' you is good for sore eyes ! I laid that the last 
minnit you'd go to Paris or some of them grand 
places, and Clara counted so on your comin' home. 
We bet," and he laughed heartily ; " and, by the 
great guns, I've lost ! How much traps have you ? " 
"A trunk, and a box among the freight. Here 
are the checks. There is my Noah's ark. Be sure 
to get the box. How are they all ? " 
"Well and hearty. They'll be glad enough, I 
kin tell you. I had to come down for some stuff." 
She drew a long breath. There had been sev 
eral changes in Westhorpe, she observed. Two or 
three people whom she used to know passed with 
out recognizing her. Had she changed so much 
as that ? 
"Will you ride up in the business wagon?" 
asked her brother-in-law, eying her doubtfully. 
" I'd like to walk. I want to see if I can find 
my way." She smiled pleasantly. 
" Clara said mebbe she'd come down. But it's 
early, and there is a deal to do Sat'day afternoon. 
Well here's my load ; " throwing in some cases 
of goods. " But I could make room. Say, Thirzy, 
there's the stage." 
 
If there was one thing she hated more than 
another it was being called Thirzy, and though she 
said nothing, she was quite as resentful as Bessie 
Deane had been. Certainly Mr. Kent had not 
altered for the better. He was stouter, redder, 
chipper, and louder. Not a point for romantic 
softening. 
Some one spoke to her then. No, she had not 
been forgotten. And as she stopped to exchange 
a few words Palmer drove away with his load. 
It was a pleasant walk. She went diagonally 
through the old park. She saw the wing recently 
built to the Methodist parsonage ; the addition to 
the court house, some new dwellings ; the Colston 
house on the corner, remodelled and made quite 
grand. There had been a good deal of new paint 
ing. Fences had been discarded in the modern 
fashion. Lawns were better kept. There was a 
wealth of roses everywhere. Oh, it was beautiful ! 
She turned down a street of old-fashioned houses 
with wide spaces of ground between, where at the 
back, the lots ran down to a little stream, the old 
creek, willow bordered. The ground widened out, 
and there were gardens and poultry houses and 
almost farm concomitants. 
She paused before a gate, with her hand on the 
latch. A big boy ran down the path and stared, 
then bolted through. She walked up the path 
 
of course they would all be around in the kitchen. 
But she rang at the front door. 
The instant it was opened there was a shriek. 
Clara, her mother, Aunt Abby more bent and 
wrinkled, and a host of children. It almost dis 
tracted her at the first moment. They pulled her 
hither and thither, they kissed her and exclaimed 
in almost every key ; and at every other breath 
Clara said " Well, I never ! " 
The dining-room was the general sitting-room 
as well. It was commodious, with a sort of square 
bow window built out that added greatly to the 
space. There had only been one baby born in 
the two years, but there were four children in the 
room, beside the big boy who had gone " down to 
the store." 
Mrs. Rolfe went back to her seat in the window 
corner and took up her mending. A peach 
basket lined and frilled with turkey red seemed 
full to overflowing. Aunt Abby went out in the 
kitchen to dress the chickens that were to be 
cooked for Sunday dinner ; Clara took up her 
baby and began to caress it. 
"Well you haven't changed a mite, has she, 
mother? You don't look a day over twenty. 
And when I was twenty-three, I had three babies. 
And do you see how fat I'm getting? I take after 
mother's folks. You're clear Rolfe." 
 
Thirza Rolfe was a slim, tallish girl, with one 
of the willowy figures, and drooping shoulders ; a 
clear, dusky sort of skin, fine and soft, and this, 
with her large, long eyes, gave her an oriental 
look. She was picturesque rather than beautiful. 
Clara had been the family beauty, with a much 
fairer skin and red cheeks, and curling, dark hair. 
Now, at nine and twenty, she was rather blowzy, 
commonplace ; but Thirza would never be that. 
" I wonder if I could go to my room ? I feel 
as if I had the dust and grime of ages upon 
me." 
" Oh, yes," answered her sister, briskly. " Bel 
has the little room next to mother's, and you can 
sleep there and use mother's room. I tell John 
we must build an addition ; and he says wait until 
he can make a double house of it. But I'd begin 
to-morrow if Seth could lay up a little faster. 
They had an awful sight of sickness last winter, 
and lost their baby. Laura's ailing a good deal. 
Bel, go up-stairs with Aunt Thirza ; maybe she's 
forgot the way," and Clara laughed. 
"There are towels in my top bureau drawer," 
said her mother. 
" We've gone up in the garret, Fan and me ; 
and I think it's just splendid," began the child, a 
chubby girl nine or thereabouts, with a thick bang 
indeed, half her short hair seemed brushed over 
 
toward her forehead, which was broad but not very 
high, and made the bang unbecoming. 
" You may go down, now," said Aunt Thirza, in 
a soft tone, and the child obeyed reluctantly. The 
room was in neat, old-fashioned order. The wall 
had been whitened until it began to scale off in 
patches. There was an antique, high-post bed 
stead, with a gorgeous patchwork quilt a rising 
sun in reds and yellows and pinks and purples ; a 
high bureau ; a chest of drawers ; a modern wash- 
stand ; and some rush-bottomed chairs. The ad 
joining room had only a small bedstead and one 
chair. There would be room for her trunk. 
She took off her jacket and skirt. How delight 
ful the cool water felt ! She held handfuls of it to 
her face. She brushed out her hair, which was 
not black, but a soft, dusky hue, and a trifle wavy, 
but it never curled like Clara's, and was unglossy, 
but fine and very long. If her trunk was only 
here ! But she had a fresh waist in her satchel. 
Thirza sat down by the open window. When 
she was nineteen she had almost a mind to marry. 
The old grand-aunt who named her died and left 
her five thousand dollars, and her father dropped 
down one day with an unsuspected heart trouble. 
Seth wanted the farm, so it was appraised. He 
also wanted to marry Laura Albert, and her 
money paid half of each girl's share. 
 
Thirza felt herself but half educated, and she 
had a thirst for learning. She went away to 
school for a year and found out many things 
about herself, and why she was so different from 
Clara. Her mother thought it great foolishness. 
Then she resolved to study art and entered a 
training school. The second year she had spent 
her vacation abroad, and the world had opened its 
rich stores to her. She would never be a great 
genius, but she could earn money in a congenial 
manner and have a broad, satisfying life. 
And it was so different from this ! A vague 
shudder went over her. She had tried to idealize 
them all a little, to blame herself for lack of love, 
and so she had resolved to spend this summer 
among her friends and kinsfolk. From henceforth 
she was to lead her own separate life. Ah, how 
bright and peaceful and enticing it looked ! The 
pretty suite of rooms, the three congenial women 
working out their own problem of self-support in 
a reliant manner, making a pretty, cosy, aesthetic 
home, where flowers and pictures and bits of rare 
china should be gathered ; a touch of fire in the 
fireplace in the evening, the lounge rolled up, the 
easy chairs placed cosily, books and pamphlets, the 
papers of the day with their columns of woman's 
work, not simple woman's gossip over fashions ; 
then a friend or two dropping in ; or the three 
 
going out to a lecture or a reception ; or some 
body's "evening." What a delightful vision! 
This must give her courage for the weeks of tire 
some commonplaces. 
Some one was coming up-stairs, and behind 
the step there was a shuffling of feet and a bang 
ing of trunk corners. 
" John's sent up your trunk," announced her 
mother. "And that great box. What is in it, 
Thirzy ? " 
Thirza sprang up, flushing. 
" Let them bring the trunk in here, and the 
box" 
" You can't get that great box up here, 'er if 
you did it would have to stand in the middle of 
the floor in my room, and goodness knows how 
we'd get round." 
" No, I'll unpack that down-stairs," Thirza kept 
