and much more humane than a number of the methods which 
have been sanctified by custom, but that does not justify its 
employment. That is, it does not wholly justify it. Its un- 
usual nature makes it stand out and attract an amount of 
attention which it is not entitled to. It takes hold upon 
morbid imaginations and they work it up into a sort of exhibi- 
tion of cruelty, and this smirches the good name of our civiliz- 
ation, whereas one of the old harsher methods would have had 
no such effect because usage has made those methods familiar 
to us and innocent. In many countries we have chained the 
savage and starved him to death ; and this we do not care for, 
because custom has inured us to it ; yet a quick death by 
poison is lovingkindness to it. In many countries we have 
burned the savage at the stake ; and this we do not care 
for, because custom has inured us to it ; yet a quick death 
is lovingkindness to it. In more than one country we have 
hunted the savage and his little children and their mother 
with dogs and guns through the woods and swamps for an 
afternoon's sport, and filled the region with happy laughter 
over their sprawling and stumbling flight, and their wild sup- 
plications for mercy ; but this method we do not mind, because 
custom has inured us to it ; yet a quick death by poison is 
lovingkindness to it. In many countries we have taken the 
savage's land from him, and made him our slave, and lashed 
him every day, and broken his pride, and made death his only 
friend, and overworked him till he dropped in his tracks ; and 
this we do not care for, because custom has inured us to it ; 
yet a quick death by poison is lovingkindness to it. In the 
Matabeleland to-day — why, there we are confining ourselves 
to sanctified custom, we Rhodes-Beit millionaires in South 
Africa and Dukes in London ; and nobody cares, because we 
are used to the old holy customs, and all we ask is that no 
notice-inviting new ones shall ba intruded upon the attention of 
our comfortable consciences. Mrs. Praed says of the poisoner, 
" That squatter deserves to have his name handed down to the 
contempt of posterity." 
I am sorry to hear her say that. I myself blame him for 
one thing, and severely, but I stop there. I blame him for 
the indiscretion of introducing a novelty which was calculated 
to attract attention to our civilization. There was no occasion 
to do that. It was his duty, and it is every loyal man's duty 
to protect that heritage in every way he can ; and the best 
way to do that is to attract attention elsewhere. The squat- 
ter's judgment was bad — that is plain; but his heart was 
right. He is almost the only pioneering representative of 
civilization in history who has rien above the prejudices of his 
caste and his heredity and tried to introduce the element of 
mercy into the superior race's dealings with the savage. His 
name is lost, and it is a pity ; for it deserves to be handed 
down to posterity with homage and reverence. 
This paragraph is from a London journal : 
"To learn what France is doing to spread the blessings of civilization in 
her distant dependencies we may turn with advantage to New Caledonia. 
With a view to attracting free settlers to that penal colony, M. Feillet, the 
Governor, forcibly expropriated the Kanaka cultivators from the best of their 
plantations, with a derisory compensation, in spite of the protests of the 
Council General of the island. Such immigrants as could be induced to cross 
the seas thus found themselves in possession of thousands of coffee, cocoa, 
banana, and bread-fruit trees, the raising of which had cost the wretched 
natives years of toil, whilst the latter had a few five-franc pieces to spend in 
the liquor stores of Noumea." 
You observe the combination ? It is robbery, humiliation, 
and slow, slow murder, through poverty and the white man's 
whisky. The savage's gentle friend, the savage's noble friend, 
the only magnanimous and unselfish friend the savage has ever 
had, was not there with the merciful swift release of his poi- 
soned pudding. 
There are many humorous things in the world; among 
them the white man's notion that he is less savage than the 
other savages.* 
* See Chapter on Tasmania, post. 
CHAPTER XXII. 
Nothing is so ignorant as a man's left hand, except a lady's watch. 
— PadiVnhead Wilsons New Calendar, 
YOU notice that Mrs. Praed knows her art. She can 
place a thing before you so that you can see it. She 
is not alone in that. Australia is fertile in writers 
whose books are faithful mirrors of the life of the country and 
of its history. The materials were surprisingly rich, both in 
quality and in mass, and Marcus Clarke, Ralph Boldrewood, Gor- 
don, Kendall, and the others, have built out of them a brilliant 
and vigorous literature, and one which must endure. Mate- 
rials — there is no end to them ! Why, a literature might be 
made out of the aboriginal all by himself, his character and 
ways are so freckled with varieties — varieties not staled by 
familiarity, but new to us. You do not need to invent any 
picturesquenesses ; whatever you want in that line he can fur- 
nish you ; and they will not be fancies and doubtful, but real- 
ities and authentic. In his history, as preserved by the white 
man's official records, he is everything — everything that a hu- 
man creature can be. He covers the entire ground. He is a 
coward — there are a thousand fact to prove it. He is brave 
— there are a thousand facts to prove it. He is treacherous — 
oh, beyond imagination ! he is faithful, loyal, true — the white 
man's records supply you with a harvest of instances of it that 
are noble, worshipful, and pathetically beautiful. He kills the 
starving stranger who comes begging for food and shelter — 
there is proof of it. He succors, and feeds, and guides to 
safety, to-day, the lost stranger who fired on him only yesterday — 
there is proof of it. He takes his reluctant bride by 
force, he courts her with a club, then loves her faithfully 
through a long life — it is of record. He gathers to himself 
another wife by the same processes, beats and bangs her 
as a daily diversion, and by and by lays down his life in 
defending her from some outside harm — it is of record. 
He will face a hundred hostiles to rescue one of his children, 
and will kill another of his children because the family is large 
enough without it. His delicate stomach turns, at certain de- 
tails of the white man's food ; but he likes over-ripe fish, and 
brazed dog, and cat, and rat, and will eat his own uncle with 
relish. He is a sociable animal, yet he turns aside and hides 
behind his shield when his mother-in-law goes by. He is 
childishly afraid of ghosts and other trivialities that menace 
his soul, but dread of physical pain is a weakness which he is 
not acquainted with. He knows all the great and many of the 
little constellations, and has names for them ; he has a symbol- 
writing by means of which he can convey messages far and 
wide among the tribes ; he has a correct eye for form and ex- 
pression, and draws a good picture ; he can track a fugitive by 
delicate traces which the white man's eye cannot discern, and 
by methods which the finest white intelligence cannot mas- 
ter ; he makes a missile which science itself cannot duplicate 
without the model — if with it ; a missile whose secret baffled 
and defeated the searchings and theorizings of the white 
mathematicians for seventy years ; and by an art all his own 
he performs miracles with it which the white man cannot ap- 
proach untaught, nor parallel after teaching. Within certain 
limits this savage's intellect is the alertest and the brightest 
known to history or tradition ; and yet the poor creature was 
never able to invent a counting system that would reach above 
five, nor a vessel that he could boil water in. He is the prize- 
curiosity of all the races. To all intents and purposes he is 
dead — in the body ; but he has features that will live in 
literature. 
Mr. Philip Chauncy, an oificer of the Victorian Govern- 
ment, contributed to its archives a report of his personal ob- 
servations of the aboriginals which has in it some things which 
I wish to condense slightly and insert here. He speaks of the 
quickness of their eyes and the accuracy of their judgment of 
the direction of approaching missiles as being quite extraor- 
dinary, and of the answering suppleness and accuracy of limb 
and muscle in avoiding the missile as being extraordinary also. 
He has seen an aboriginal stand as a target for cricket-balls 
thrown with great force ten or fifteen yards, by professional 
bowlers, and successfully dodge them or parry them with his 
shield during about half an hour. One of those balls, properly 
placed, could have killed him ; " Yet he depended, with the 
utmost self-possession, on the quickness of his eye and his 
agility." 
The shield was the customary war-shield of his race, and 
would not be a protection to you or to me. It is no broader 
than a stovepipe, and is about as long as a man's arm. The 
opposing surface is not flat, but slopes away from the center- 
line like a boat's bow. The difficulty about a cricket-ball that 
has been thrown with a scientific "twist" is, that it suddenly 
changes it course when it is close to its target and comes 
straight for the mark when apparently it was gding overhead 
or to one side. I should not be able to protect "Inyself from 
such balls for half-an-hour, or less. 
Mr. Chauncy once saw " a little native man " throw a cricket- 
ball 119 yards. This is said to beat the English professional 
record by thirteen yards. 
"We have all seen the circus-man bound into the air from a 
spring-board and make a somersault over eight horses standing 
side by side. Mr. Chauncy saw an aboriginal do it over eleven ; 
and was assured that he had sometimes done it over fourteen. 
But what is that to this : 
" I saw the same man leap from the ground, and in going over he dipped 
his head, unaided by his liands, into a hat placed in an inverted position on the 
top of the head of another man sitting upright on liorseback — both man and 
horse being of the average size. The native landed on the other side of the 
horse with the hat fairly on his head. The prodigious height of the leap, and 
the precision with which it was taken so as to enable him to dip his head into 
the hat, exceeded any feat of the kind I have ever beheld." 
I should think so ! On board a ship lately I saw a young 
Oxford athlete run four steps and spring into the air and 
squirm his hips by a side-twist over a bar that was five and 
one-half feet high ; but he could not have stood still and 
cleared a bar that wdfour feet high. I know this, because I 
tried it myself. 
One can see now where the kangaroo learned its art. 
Sir George Grey and Mr. Eyre testify that the natives dug 
wells fourteen or fifteen feet deep and two feet in diameter at 
the bore — dug them in the sand — - wells that were " quite cir- 
cular, carried straight down, and the work beautifully exe- 
cuted." 
Their tools were their hands and feet. How did they 
throw sand out from such a depth ? How could they stoop 
down and get it, with only two feet of space to stoop in? 
How did they keep that sand-pipe from caving in on them ? 
I do not know. Still, they did manage those seeming impossi- 
bilities. Swallowed the sand, may be. ' 
Mr. Chauncy speaks highly of the patience and skill and 
alert intelligence of the native huntsman when he is stalking 
the emu, the kangaroo, and other game : 
" As he walks through the bush his step is light, elastic, and noiseless ; 
every track on the earth catches his keen eye ; a leaf, or fragment of a stick 
turned, or a blade of grass recently bent by the tread of one of the lower ani- 
mals, instantly arrests his attention ; in fact, nothing escapes his quick and 
powerful sight on the ground, in the trees, or in the distance, which may 
supply him with a meal or warn him of danger. A little examination of the 
trunk of a tree which may be nearly covered with the scratches of opossums 
ascending and descending is sufficient to inform Jiim whether one went up the 
night before tcithoict coming dmcn again or not." 
Fennimore Cooper lost his chance. He would have known 
how to value these people. He wouldn't have traded the dull- 
est of them for the brightest Mohawk he ever invented. 
All savages draw outline pictures upon bark ; but the re- 
semblances are not close, and expression is usually lacking. 
But the Australian aboriginal's pictures of animals were nicely 
accurate in form attitude, carriage ; and he put spirit into 
them, and expres- 
sion. And his pic- 
tures of white peo- 
ple and natives 
were pretty nearly 
as good as his pic- 
tures of the other 
animals. He 
dressed his whites 
in the fashion of 
their day, both the 
ladies and the gen- 
tlemen. As an untaught wielder of the pencil it is not likely 
that he has had his equal among savage people. 
His place in art — as to drawing, not color- work — is well 
up, all things considered. His art is not to be classified with 
savage art at all, but on a plane two degrees above it and one 
degree above the lowest plane of civilized art. To be exact, 
his place in art is between Botticelli and De Maurier. Tliat is 
to say, he could not draw as well as De Maurier but better 
than Boticelli. In feeling, he resembles both ; also in group- 
ing and in his preferences in the matter of subjects. His 
" corrobboree " of the Australian wilds reappears in De Maurier's 
Belgravian ballrooms, with clothes and the smirk of 
civilization added ; Botticelli's " Spring " is the corrobboree 
further idealized, but with fewer clothes and more smirk. 
And well enough as to intention, hut — my word ! 
The aboriginal can make a fire by friction. I have tried 
that. 
All savages are able to stand a good deal of physical pain. 
The Australian aboriginal has this quality in a well-developed 
degree. Do not read the following instances if horrors are not 
pleasant to you. They were recorded by the Rev. Henry K. 
Wolloston, of Melbourne, who had been a surgeon before he 
became a clergyman : 
1. "In the summer of 1852 I started on horseback from Albany, King 
George's Sound, to visit at Cape Riche, accompanied by a native on foot. 
We traveled about forty miles the first day, then camped by a water-hole for 
the night. After cooking and eating our supper, I observed the native, who 
had said nothing to me on the subject, collect the hot embers of the fire to- 
gether, and deliberately place his right foot in the glowing mass for a moment, 
then suddenly withdraw it, stamping on the ground and uttering a long- 
drawn guttural sound of mingled pain and satisfaction. This operation he 
repeated several times. On my inquiring the meaning of his strange conduct, 
he only said, ' Me carpenter-make 'em ' ( ' I am mending my foot ' ), and then 
showed me his charred great toe, the nail of which had been torn off by a tea- 
tree stump, in which it had been caught during the journey, and the pain of 
which he had borne with stoical composure until the evening, when he had an 
opportunity of cauterizing the wound in the primitive manner above de- 
scribed." 
And he proceeded on the journey the next day, "as if 
nothing had happened " — and walked thirty miles. It was a 
strange idea, to keep a surgeon and then do his own surgery. 
2. "A native about twenty-five years of age once applied to me, as a 
doctor, to extract the wooden barb of a spear, which, during a tight in the 
bush some four months previously, had entered his chest, just missing the 
heart, and penetrated the viscera to a considerable depth. The spear had 
been cut off, leaving the barb behind, which continued to force its way by 
muscular action gradually toward the back ; and when I examined him I 
could feel a hard substance between the ribs below the left blade-bone. I 
made a deep incision, and with a pair of forceps extracted the barb, which 
was made, as usual, of hard wood about four inches long and from half an inch 
to an inch thick. It was very smooth, and partly digested, so to speak, by 
the maceration to which it liad been exposed during its four montlis' journey 
through the body. Tlie wound made by the spear had long since healed, 
leaving only a small cicatrix ; and after the operation, which the native bore 
without flinching, he appeared to suffer no pain. Indeed, judging from his 
good state of health, the presence of the foreign matter did not materially an- 
noy him. He was perfectly well in a few days." 
But No. 3 is my favorite. Whenever I read it I seem to 
enjoy all that the patient enjoyed — whatever it was : 
3. " Once at King George's Sound a native presented himself to me with 
one leg only, and requested me to supply him with a wooden leg. He had 
traveled in this maimed state about ninety-six miles, for this purpose. I ex- 
amined the limb, which had been severed just below the knee, and found that 
it had been charred by fire, while about two inches of the partially calcined 
bone protruded through the flesh. I at once removed this with the saw ; 
and having made as presentable a stump of it as I could, covered the ampu- 
tated end of the bone with a surrounding of muscle, and kept the patient a 
few days under my care to allow the wound to heal. On inquiring, the na- 
tive told me that in a fight with other blackfellows a spear had struck his leg 
and penetrated the bone below the knee. Finding it was serious, he had re- 
course to the following crude and barbarous operation, which it appears is not 
uncommon among these people in their native state. He made afire, and dug 
a hole in the earth only sufficiently large to admit his leg, and deep enough to 
allow the wounded part to be on a level with the surface of the ground. He 
then surrounded the limb with the live coals or charcoal, which was replenished 
until the leg was literally burnt off. The cauterization thus applied com- 
pletely checked the hemorrhage, and he was able in a day or two to hobble 
down to the Sound, with the aid of a long stout stick, although he was more 
than a week on the road." 
But he was a fastidious native. He soon discarded the 
wooden leg made for him by the doctor, because " it had no 
feeling in it." It must have had as much as the one he burnt 
off, I should think. 
So much for the Aboriginals. It is difficult for me to let 
them alone. They are marvelously interesting creatures. For 
a quarter of a century, now, the several colonial governments 
have housed their remnants in comfortable stations, and fed 
them well and taken good care of them in every way. If I 
had found this out while I was in Australia I could have seen 
some of those people — but I didn't. I would walk thirty miles 
to see a stuffed one. 
Australia has a slang of its own. This is a matter of 
course. The vast cattle and sheep industries, the strange 
aspects of the country, and the strange native animals, brute 
and human, are matters which would naturally breed a local 
slang. I have notes of this slang somewhere, but at the mo- 
ment I can call to mind only a few of the words and phrases. 
They are expressive ones. The wide, sterile, unpeopled deserts 
have created eloquent phrases like "No Man's Land" and the 
" Never-never Country." Also this felicitous form : " She lives 
in the Never-never Country " — that is, she is an old maid. And 
this one is not without merit: "heifer-paddock" — young 
ladies' seminary. "Bail up" and "stick up" — equivalent of 
our highwayman-term to " hold up " a stage-coach or a train. 
" New-chum " is the equivalent of our " tenderfoot " — new 
arrival. 
 And then there is the immortal "My word!" We must 
import it. " M-y word I " In cold print it is the equivalent of 
our " (jQX-reat Ccesar ! " but spoken with the proper Australian 
unction and fervency, it is worth six of it for grace and charm 
and expressiveness. Our form is rude and explosive ; it is not 
suited to the drawing-room or the heifer-paddock ; but " M-y 
word ! ''"' is, and is music to the ear, too, when the utterer 
knows how to say it. I saw it in print several times on the 
Pacific Ocean, but it struck me coldly, it aroused no sympathy. 
That was because it was the dead corpse of the thing, the soul 
was not there — the tones were lacking — the informing spirit 
— the deep feeling — the eloquence. But the first time I heard 
an Australian say it, it was positively thrilling. 
CHAPTEK XXIII. 
Be careless in your dress if you must, but keep a ticl}- soul. 
— PudcCnhead Wilnon's New Calendar. 
VE left Adelaide in due course, and went to Horsham, 
in the colony of Victoria ; a good deal of a journey, 
if I remember rightly, but pleasant. Horsham sits 
in a plain which is as level as a floor — one of those famous 
dead levels which Australian books describe so often; gray, 
bare, sombre, melancholy, baked, cracked, in the tedious long 
drouths, but a horizonless ocean of vivid green grass the day 
after a rain. A country town, peaceful, reposeful, inviting, 
full of snug homes, with garden plots, and plenty of shrubbery 
and flowers. 
" Horsham, October 17. At the hotel. The weather divine. 
Across the way, in front of the London Bank of Australia, is a 
very handsome cotton wood. It is in opulent leaf, and every 
leaf perfect. The full power of the on-rushing spring is upon 
it, and I imagine I can see it grow. Alongside the bank and a 
little way back in the garden there is a row of soaring fountain- 
sprays of delicate feathery foliage quivering in the breeze, and 
mottled with flashes of light that shift and play through the 
mass like flash-lights through an opal — a mofst beautiful tree, 
and a striking contrast to the cotton wood. Every leaf of the 
Cottonwood is distinctly defined — it is a kodak for faithful, 
hard, unsentimental detail ; the other an impressionist picture, 
delicious to look upon, full of a subtle and exquisite charm, but 
all details fused in a swoon of vague and soft loveliness." 
It turned out, upon inquiry, to be a pepper tree — an importation
from China. It has a silky sheen, soft and rich. 
I saw some that had long red bunches of currant-like berries 
ambushed among the foliage. At a distance, in certain lights, 
they give the tree a pinkish tint and a new charm. 
There is an agricultural college eight miles from Horsham. 
We were driven out to it by its chief. The conveyance was 
an open wagon ; the time, noonday ; no wind ; the sky with- 
out a cloud, the sunshine brilliant — and the mercury at 92° in 
the shade. In some countries an indolent unsheltered drive of 
an hour and a half under such conditions would have been a 
sweltering and prostrating experi- 
ence ; but there was nothing of that 
in this case. It is a climate that 
is perfect. There was no sense of 
heat; indeed, there was no heat; 
the air was fine and pure and exhil- 
arating ; if the drive had lasted half 
a day I think we should not have 
felt any discomfort, or grown silent 
or droopy or tired. Of course, the 
secret of it was the exceeding dry- 
ness of the atmosphere. In that 
plain 112° in the shade is without 
doubt no harder upon a man than is 
88° or 90° in New York. 
The road lay through the middle 
of an empty space which seemed to me to be a hundred yards 
wide between the fences. I was not given the width in yards, 
but only in chains and perches — and furlongs, I think. I 
would have given a good deal to know what the width was, 
but I did not pursue the matter. I think it is best to put 
up with information the way you get it ; and seem satisfied 
with it, and surprised at it, and grateful for it, and say, " My 
word ! " and never let on. It was a wide space ; I could tell 
you how wide, in chains and perches and furlongs and things, 
but that would not help you any. Those things sound well, 
but they are shadowy and indefinite, like troy weight and 
avoirdupois; nobody knows what they mean. When you 
l?uy a pound of a drug and the man asks you which you 
want, troy or avoirdupois, it is best to say "Yes," and shift 
the subject. 
They said that the wide space dates from the earliest sheep 
and cattle-raising days. People had to drive their stock long 
distances — immense journeys— from worn-out places to new 
ones where were water and fresh pasturage; and this wide 
space had to be left in grass and unfenced, or the stock would 
have starved to death in the transit. 
On the way we saw the usual birds — the beautiful little 
green parrots, the magpie, and some others ; and also the 
slender native bird of modest plumage and the eternally-for- 
getable name — the bird that is the smartest among birds, and 
can give a parrot 30 to 1 in the game and then talk him to 
death. I cannot recall that bird's name. I think it begins 
with M. I wish it began with G. or something that a person 
can remember. 
The magpie was out in great force, in the fields and on the 
fences. He is a handsome large creature, with snowy white 
decorations, and is a singer; he has a murmurous rich note that 
is lovely. He was once modest, even diifident ; but he lost all 
that when he found out that he was Australia's sole musical 
bird. He has talent, and cuteness, and impudence ; and in his 
tame state he is a most satisfactory pet — never coming when 
he is called, always coming when he isn't, and studying dis- 
obedience as an accomplishment. He is not confined, but loafs 
all over the house and grounds, like the laughing jackass. I 
think he learns to talk, I know he learns to sing tunes, and his 
friends say that he knows how to steal without learning. I 
was acquainted with a tame magpie in Melbourne. He had 
lived in a lady's house several years, and believed he owned it. 
The lady had tamed him, and in return he had tamed the lady. 
He was always on deck when not wanted, always having his 
own way, always tyrannizing over the dog, and always making 
the cat's life a slow sorrow and a martyrdom. He knew a 
number of tunes and could sing them in perfect time and 
tune ; and would do it, too, at any time that silence was wanted ; 
and then encore himself and do it again ; but if he was asked 
to sing he would go out and take a walk. 
It was long believed that fruit trees would not grow in that 
baked and waterless plain around Horsham, but the agricul- 
tural college has dissipated that idea. Its ample nurseries were 
producing oranges, apricots, lemons, almonds, peaches, cherries, 
48 varieties of apples — in fact, all manner of fruits, and in 
abundance. The trees did not seem to miss the water ; they 
were in vigorous and flourishing condition. 
Experiments are made with different soils, to see what 
things thrive best in them and what climates are best for 
them. A man who is ignorantly trying to produce upon his 
farm things not suited to its soil and its other conditions can 
make a journey to the college from anywhere in Australia, 
and go back with a change of scheme which will make his farm 
productive and profitable. 
There were forty pupils there — a few of them farmers, re- 
learning their trade, the rest young men mainly from the 
cities — novices. It seemed a strange thing that an agricul- 
tural college should have an attraction for city-bred youths, 
but such is the fact. They are good stuff, too ; they are above 
the agricultural average of intelligence, and they come without 
any inherited prejudices in favor of hoary ignorances made 
sacred by long descent. 
The students work all day in the fields, the nurseries, and 
the shearing-sheds, learning and doing all the practical work of 
the business — three days in a week. On the other three they 
study and hear lectures. They are taught the beginnings of 
such sciences as bear upon agriculture — like chemistry, for 
instance. We saw the sophomore class in sheep-shearing shear 
a dozen sheep. They did it by hand, not with the machine. 
The sheep was seized and flung down on his side and held 
there ; and the students took off his coat with great celerity 
and adroitness. Sometimes they clipped off a sample of the 
sheep, but that is customary with shearers, and they don't mind 
it; they don't even mind it as much as the sheep. They dab a 
splotch of sheep-dip on the place and go right ahead. 
The coat of wool was unbelievably thick. Before the shear- 
ing the sheep looked like the fat woman in the circus ; after it 
he looked like a bench. He was clipped to the skin ; and 
smoothly and uniformly. The fleece comes from him all in 
one piece and has the spread of a blanket. 
The college was flying the Australian flag — the gridiron of 
England smuggled up in the northwest corner of a big red 
field that had the random stars of the Southern Cross wander- 
ing around over it. 
From Horsham we went to Stawell. By rail. Still in the 
colony of Victoria. Stawell is in the gold-mining country. 
In the bank-safe was half a peck of surface-gold — gold dust, 
grain gold; rich; pure in fact, and pleasant to sift through 
one's fingers ; and would be pleasanter if it would stick. And 
there were a couple of gold bricks, very heavy to handle, 
and worth $7,500 a piece. They ere from a very valuable 
quartz mine ; a lady owns two-thirds of it ; she has an income 
of $75,000 a month from it, and is able to keep house. 
The Stawell region is not productive of gold only ; it has 
great vineyards, and produces exceptionally fine wines. One 
of these vineyards — the Great Western, owned by Mr. Irving 
— is regarded as a model. Its product has reputation abroad. 
It yields a choice champagne and a fine claret, and its hock 
took a prize in France two or three years ago. The champagne 
is kept in a maze of passages under ground, cut in the rock, to 
secure it an even temperature during the three-year term re- 
quired to perfect it. In those vaults I saw 120,000 bottles of 
champagne. The colony of Yictoria has a population of 1,000,- 
000, and those people are said to drink 25,000,000 bottles of 
champagne per year. The dryest community on the earth. 
The government has lately reduced the duty upon foreign 
wines. That is one of the unkindnesses of Protection. A man 
invests years of work and a vast sum of money in a worthy 
enterprise, upon the faith of existing laws ; then the law is 
changed, and the man is robbed by his own government. 
On the way back to Stawell we had a chance to see a group 
of boulders called the Th'ree Sisters — a curiosity oddly located ; 
for it was upon high ground, with the land sloping away from 
it, and no height above it from, whence the boulders could have 
rolled down. Relics of an early ice-drift, perhaps. They are 
noble boulders. One of them has the size and smoothness and 
plump sphericity of a balloon of the biggest pattern. 
The road led through a forest of great gum-trees, lean and 
scraggy and sorrowful. The road was cream-white — a clayey 
kind of earth, apparently. Along it toiled occasional freight 
wagons, drawn by long double files of oxen. Those wagons 
were going a journey of two hundred miles, I was told, and . 
were running a successful opposition to the raihvay ! The rail- 
ways are owned and run by the government. 
Those sad gums stood up out of the dry white clay, pictures 
of patience and resignation. It is a tree that can get along 
without water ; still it is fond of it — ravenously so. It is a 
very intelligent tree and will detect the presence of hidden 
water at a distance of fif tv feet, and send out slender long: root- 
fibres to prospect it. They will find it ; and will also get at it 
— even through a cement wall six inches thick. Once a 
cement water-pipe under ground at Stawell began to gradually 
reduce its output, and finally ceased altogether to deliver 
water. Upon examining into the matter it was found stopped 
up, wadded compactly with a mass of root-fibres, delicate and 
hair-like. How this stuff had gotten into the pij)e was a puz- 
zle for some little time ; finally it was found that it had crept 
in through a crack that wats almost invisible to the eye. A 
gum tree forty feet away had tapped the pipe and was drink- 
ing the water. 
There is no such thing as "the Queen's English." The property has gone into 
the hands of a joint stock company and we own the bulli of the shares ! 
— Fuddnhead Wilsons New Calendar. 
FREQUENTLY, in Australia, one has cloud-effects of an 
unfamiliar sort. We had this kind of scenery, finely 
staged, all the way to Ballarat. Consequently we saw 
more sky than country on that journey. At one time a great 
stretch of the vault was densely flecked with wee ragged-edged 
flakes of painfully white cloud-stuff, all of one shape and size, 
and equidistant apart, with narrow cracks of adorable blue 
showing between. The whole was suggestive of a hurricane of 
snow-flakes drifting across the skies. By and by these flakes 
fused themselves together in interminable lines, with shady 
faint hollows between the lines, the long satin-surfaced 
rollers following each other in simulated movement, and en- 
chantingly counterfeiting the majestic march of a flowing sea. 
Later, the sea solidified itself ; then gradually broke up its 
mass into innumerable lofty white pillars of about one size, and 
ranged these across the firmament, in receding and fading per- 
spective, in the similitude of a stupendous colonnade — a mirage 
without a doubt flung from the far Gates of the Hereafter. 
The approaches to Ballarat were beautiful. The features, 
great green expanses of rolling pasture-land, bisected by eye- 
contenting hedges of commingled new-gold and old-gold gorse 
— and a lovely lake. One must put in the pause, there, to 
fetch the reader up with a slight jolt, and keep him from glid- 
ing by without noticing the lake. One must notice it ; for a 
lovely lake is not as common a thing along the railways of 
Australia as are the dry places. Ninety-two in the shade again, 
but balmy and comfortable, fresh and bracing. A perfect 
climate. 
Forty-five years ago the site now occupied by the City of 
Ballarat was a sylvan solitude as quiet as Eden and as lovely. 
Nobody had ever heard of it. On the 25th of August, 1851, 
the first great gold-strike made in Australia was made here. 
The wandering prospectors who made it scraped up two pounds 
and a half of gold the first day — worth $600. A few days 
later the place was a hive — a town. The news of the strike 
spread everywhere in a sort of instantaneous way — spread 
like a flash to the very ends of the earth. A celebrity so 
prompt and so universal has hardly been paralleled in history, 
perhaps. It was as if the name BALLARAT had suddenly 
been written on the sky, where all the world could read it at 
once. 
The smaller discoveries made in the colony of New South 
Wales three months before had already started emigrants 
toward Australia ; they had been coming as a stream, but they 
came as a flood, now. A hundred thousand people poured into 
Melbourne from England and other countries in a single 
month, and flocked away to the mines. The crews of the ships 
that brought them flocked with them ; the clerks in the gov- 
ernment offices followed ; so did the cooks, the maids, the 
coachmen, the butlers, and the other domestic servants ; so did 
the carpenters, the smiths, the plumbers, the painters, the re- 
porters, the editors, the lawyers, the clients, the barkeepers, 
the bummers, the blacklegs, the thieves, the loose women, the 
grocers, the butchers, the bakers, the doctors, the druggists, 
the nurses ; so did the police ; even officials of high and 
hitherto envied place threw up their positions and joined the 
procession. This roaring avalanche swept out of Melbourne 
and left it desolate, Sunday-like, paralyzed, everything at a 
stand-still, the ships lying idle at anchor, all signs of life de- 
parted, all sounds stilled save the rasping of the cloud-shadows 
as they scraped across the vacant streets. 
That grassy and leafy paradise at Ballarat was soon ripped 
open, and lacerated and scarified and gutted, in the feverish 
search for its hidden riches. There is nothing like surface- 
mining to snatch the graces and beauties and benignities out of 
a paradise, and make an odious and repulsive spectacle of it. 
What fortunes were made ! Immigrants got rich while the 
ship unloaded and reloaded — and went back home for good in 
the same cabin they had come out in ! Not all of them. Only 
some. I saw the others in Ballarat myself, forty-five years 
later — what were left of them by time and death and the dis- 
position to rove. They were young and gay, then ; they are 
patriarchal and grave, now ; and they do not get excited any 
more. They talk of the Past. They live in it. Their life is a 
dream, a retrospection. 
Ballarat was a great region for " nuggets." No such nug- 
gets were found in California as Ballarat produced. In fact, 
the Ballarat region has yielded the largest ones known to 
history. Two of them weighed about 180 pounds each, and 
together were worth $90,000. They were offered to any poor 
person who would shoulder them and carry them away. Gold 
was so plentiful that it made people liberal like that. 
Ballarat was a swarming city of tents in the early days. 
Everybody was happy, for a time, and apparently prosperous. 
Then came trouble. The government swooped down with a 
mining tax. And in its worst form, too ; for it was not a tax 
upon what the miner had taken out, but upon what he was 
going to take out — if he could find it. It was a license-tax — 
license to work his claim — and it had to be paid before he 
could begin digging. 
Consider the situation. No business is so uncertain as 
surface-raining. Your claim may be good, and it may be 
worthless. It may make you well otf in a month ; and then 
again you may have to dig and slave for half a year, at heavy 
expense, only to find out at last that the gold is not there in 
cost-paying quantity, and that your time and your hard work 
have been thrown away. It might be wise policy to advance 
the miner a monthly sum to encourage him to develop the 
country's riches ; but to tax him monthly in advance instead — 
why, such a thing was never dreamed of in America. There, 
neither the claim itself nor its products, howsoever rich or 
poor, were taxed. 
The Ballarat miners protested, petitioned, complained — it 
was of no use ; the government held its ground, and went on 
collecting the tax. And not by pleasant methods, but by ways 
which must have been very galling to free people. The 
rumblings of a coming storm began to be audible. 
By and by there was a result ; and I think it may be called 
the finest thing in Australasian history. It was a revolution — 
small in size, but great politically ; it was a strike for liberty, a 
struggle for a principle, a stand against injustice and oppres- 
sion. It was the Barons and John, over again ; it was Hamp- 
den and Ship-Money ; it was Concord and Lexington; small 
beginnings, all of them, but all of them great in political 
results, all of them epoch-making. It is another instance of a 
victory won by a lost battle. It adds an honorable page to 
history ; the people know it and are proud of it. They keep 
green the memory of the men who fell at the Eureka Stockade, 
and Peter Lalor has his monument. 
The surface-soil of Ballarat was full of gold. This soil the 
miners ripped and tore and trenched and harried and disem- 
bowled, and made it yield up its immense treasure. Then they 
went down into the earth with deep shafts, seeking the gravelly 
beds of ancient rivers and brooks — and found them. They 
followed the courses of these streams, and gutted them, send- 
ing the gravel up in buckets to the upper world, and washing 
out of it its enormous deposits of gold. The next biggest of 
the two monster nuggets mentioned above came from an old 
river-channel 180 feet under ground. . 
Finally the quartz lodes were attacked. That is not poor- 
man's mining. Quartz-mining and milling require capital, and 
staying-power, and patience. Big companies were formed, 
and for several decades, now, the lodes have been successfully 
worked, and have yielded great wealth. Since the gold dis- 
covery in 1853 the Ballarat mines — taking the three kinds of 
mining together — have contributed to the world's pocket 
something over three hundred millions of dollars which is to 
say that this nearly invisible little spot on the earth's surface 
has yielded about one-fourth as much gold in forty-four years 
as all California has yielded in forty-seven. The Californian 
aggregate, from 1848 to 1895, inclusive, as reported by the 
Statistician of the United States Mint, is $1,265,217,217. 
A citizen told me a curious thing about those mines. With 
all my experience of mining I had never heard of anything of 
the sort before. The main gold reef runs about north and 
south — of course — for that is the custom of a rich gold reef. 
At Ballarat its course is between walls of slate. Now the 
citizen told me that throughout a stretch of twelve miles along 
the reef, the reef is crossed at intervals by a straight black 
streak of a carbonaceous nature — a streak in the slate ; a 
streak no thicker than a pencil — and that wherever it crosses 
the reef you will certainly find gold at the junction. It is 
called the Indicator. Thirty feet on each side of the Indicator 
(and down in the slate, of course) is a still finer streak — a 
streak as fine as a pencil mark ; and indeed, that is its name — 
Pencil Mark. Whenever you find the Pencil Mark you know 
that thirty feet from it is the Indicator ; you measure the distance,
excavate, find the Indicator, trace it straight to the 
reef, and sink your shaft ; your fortune is made, for certain. 
If that is true, it is curious. And it is curious any way. 
Ballarat is a town of only 40,000 population ; and yet, since 
it is in Australia, it has every essential of an advanced and 
enlightened big city. This is pure matter of course. I must 
stop dwelling upon these things. It is hard to keep from 
dwelling upon them, though ; for it is difficult toet away from 
the surprise of it. I will let the other details go, this time, but 
I must allow myself to mention that this little town has a park 
of 326 acres ; a flower garden of 83 acres, with an elaborate 
and expensive fernery in it and some costly and unusually fine 
statuary; and an artificial lake covering 600 acres, equipped 
with a fleet of 200 shells, small sail boats, and little steam 
yachts. 
At this point I strike out some other praiseful things which 
I was tempted to add. I do not strike them out because they 
were not true or not well said, but because I find them better 
said by another man — and a man more competent to testify, 
too, because he belongs on the ground, and knows. I clip them 
from a chatty speech delivered some years ago by Mr. William 
Little, who was at that time mayor of Ballarat : 
" The language of our citizens, in this as in other parts of Australasia, is 
mostly healthy Anglo-Saxon, free from Americanisms, vulgarisms, and the 
conflicting dialects of our Fatherland, and is pure enough to suit a Trench or 
a Latham. Our youth, aided by climatic influence, are in point of physique 
and comeliness unsurpassed in the Sunny South. Our young men are well 
ordered ; and our maidens, ' not stepping over the bounds of modesty,' are as 
fair as Psyches, dispensing smiles as charming as November flowers." 
The closing clause has the seeming of a rather frosty com- 
pliment, but that is apparent only, not real. ]ovember is 
summer-time there. 
His compliment to the local purity of the language is war- 
ranted. It is quite free from impurities ; this is acknowledged 
far and wide. As in the German Empire all cultivated people 
claim to speak Hanovarian German, so in Australasia all culti- 
vated people claim to speak Ballarat English. Even in Eng- 
land this cult has made considerable progress, and now that it 
is favored by the two great Universities, the time is not far 
away when Ballarat English will come into general use among 
the educated classes of Great Britain at large. Its great merit 
is, that it is shorter than ordinary English — that is, it is more 
compressed. At first you have some difficulty in understand- 
ing it when it is spoken as rapidly as the orator whom I have 
quoted speaks it. An illustration will show what I mean. 
When he called and I handed him a chair, he bowed and said : 
" Q." 
Presently, when we were lighting our cigars, he held a 
match to mine and I said : 
" Thank you," and he said : 
" Km." 
Then I saw. Q is the end of the phrase " I thank you " 
Km is the end of the phrase " You are welcome." Mr. Little 
puts no emphasis upon either of them, but delivers them so 
reduced that they hardly have a sound. All Ballarat English 
is like that, and the effect is very soft and pleasant ; it takes 
all the hardness and harshness out of our tongue and gives to 
it a delicate whispery and vanishing cadence which charms the 
ear like the faint rustling of the forest leaves. 
CHAPTEK XXV. 
" Classic. A book which people praise and don't read. 
— Paddnhead Wilson's New Calendar. 
ON the rail again — bound for Bendigo. From diary : 
October '23. Got up at 6, left at 7.30 ; soon reached 
Castlemaine, one of the rich gold-fields of the early 
days ; waited several hours for a train ; left at 3.40 and reached 
Bendigo in an hour. For comrade, a Catholic priest who was 
better than I was, but didn't seem to know it — a man full of 
graces of the heart, the mind, and the spirit ; a lovable man. 
He will rise. He will be a bishop some day. Later an Arch- 
bishop. Later a Cardinal. Finally an Archangel, I hope. 
And then he will recall me when I say, " Do you remember 
that trip we made from Ballarat to Bendigo, when you were 
nothing but Father C, and I was nothing to what I am now?" 
It has actually taken nine hours to come from Ballarat to 
Bendigo. We could have saved seven by walking. However, 
there was no hurry. 
Bendigo was another of the rich strikes of the early days. 
It does a great quartz-mining business, now — that business 
which, more than any other that I know of, teaches patience, 
and requires grit and a steady nerve. The town is full of 
towering chimney-stacks, and hoisting-works, and looks like a 
petroleum-city. Speaking of patience ; for example, one of 
the local companies went steadily on with its deep borings and 
searchings without show of gold or a penny of reward for 
eleven years — then struck it, and became suddenly rich. The 
eleven years' work had cost $55,000, and the first gold found 
was a grain the size of a pin's head. It is kept under locks 
and bars, as a precious thing, and is reverently shown to the 
visitor, " hats off." "When I saw it I had not heard its history. 
" It is gold. Examine it — take the glass. Now how much 
should you say it is worth 'i " 
I said — 
" I should say about two cents ; or in your English dialect, 
four farthings." 
" Well, it cost £11,000." 
" Oh, come ! " 
" Yes, it did. Ballarat and Bendigo have produced the 
three monumental nuggets of the world, and this one is the 
monumentalest one of the tliree. The other two represent 
£9,000 a piece ; this one a couple of thousand more. It is 
small, and not much to look at, but it is entitled to it name — 
Adam. It is the Adam-nugget of this mine, and its children 
run up into the millions." 
Speaking of patience again, another of the mines was 
worked, under heavy expenses, during lY years before pay 
was struck, and still another one compelled a wait of 21 years 
before pay was struck ; then, in both instances, the outlay was 
all back in a year or two, with compound interest. 
Bendigo has turned out even more gold than Ballarat. 
The two together have produced $650,000,000 worth — which 
is half as much as California has produced. 
It was through Mr. Blank — not to go into particulars 
about his name — it was mainly through Mr, Blank that my 
stay in Bendigo was made memorably pleasant and interesting. 
He explained this to me himself. He told me that it was 
through his influence that the city government invited me to 
the town-hall to hear complimentary speeches and respond to 
them ; that it was through his influence that I had been taken 
on a long pleasure-drive through the city and shown its notable
features; that it was through his influence that I was 
invited to visit the great mines ; that it was through his in- 
fluence that I was taken to the hospital and allowed to see the 
convalescent Chinaman who had been 
attacked at midnight in his lonely hut 
eight weeks before by robbers, and 
stabbed forty-six times and scalped be- 
sides ; that it was through his influ- 
ence that when I arrived this awful 
spectacle of piecings and patchings and 
bandagings was sitting up in his cot 
letting on to read one of my books ; 
that it was through his influence that 
efforts had been made 
Catholic Archbishop of to get the 
Bendiffo to invite me to dinner; that it was through his influence that 
efforts had been made to get the Anglican Bishop of Bendigo 
to ask me to supper ; that it was through his influence that 
the dean of the editorial fraternity had driven me through the 
woodsy outlying country and shown me, from the summit of 
Lone Tree Hill, the mightiest and loveliest expanse of forest- 
clad mountain and valley that I had seen in all Australia. 
And when he asked me what had most impressed me in 
Bendigo and I answered and said it was the taste and the 
public spirit which had adorned the streets with 105 miles 
of shade trees, he said that it was through his influence that it 
had been done. 
But I am not representing him quite correctly. He did not 
say it was through his influence that all these things had 
happened — for that would have been coarse ; he merely con- 
veyed that idea ; conveyed it so subtly that I only caught it 
fleetingly, as one catches vagrant faint breaths of perfume 
when one traverses the meadows in summer; conveyed it 
without offense and without any suggestion of egoism or 
ostentation — but conveyed it, nevertheless. 
He was an Irishman ; an educated gentleman ; grave, and 
kindly, and courteous; a bachelor, and about forty-five or 
possibly fifty years old, apparently. He called upon me at the 
hotel, and it was there that we had this talk. He made me like 
him, and did it vithout trouble. This was partly through his 
winning and gentle ways, but mainly through the amazing 
familiarity with my books which his conversation showed. 
He was down to date with them, too ; and if he had made 
them the study of his life he could hardly have been better 
posted as to their contents than he was. He made me better 
satisfied with myself than I had ever been before. It was 
plain that he had a deep fondness for humor, yet he never 
laughed ; he never even chuckled ; in fact, humor could not 
win to outward expression on his face at all. No, he 
was always grave — tenderly, pensively grave ; but he made me 
laugh, all along ; and this was very trying — and ver} pleasant 
at the same time — for it was at quotations from my own books. 
When he was going, he turned and said — 
" You don't remember me ? " 
" I ? Why, no. Have we met before ? " 
" No, it was a matter of correspondence." 
" Correspondence ? " 
"Yes, many years ago. Twelve or fifteen. Oh, longer 
than that. But of course you — " A musing pause. Then 
he said — - 
" Do you remember Corrigan Castle ? " 
"IS" - no, I believe I don't. I don't seem to recall the name." 
He waited a moment, pondering, with the door-knob in his 
hand, then started out ; but turned back and said that I had 
once been interested in Corrigan Castle, and asked me if I 
would go with him to his quarters in the evening and take a 
hot Scotch and ' talk it over. I was a teetotaler and liked 
relaxation, so I said I would. 
We drove from the lecture-hall together about half -past 
ten. He had a most comfortably and tastefully furnished 
parlor, with good pictures on the walls, Indian and Japanese 
ornaments on the mantel, and here and there, and books every- 
where — largely mine ; which made me proud. The light was 
