nest attention. It presently appeared, how- 
ever, that his reference was merely to the 
affectation of admiring such ridiculous works 
an admonition that she received from him 
as submissively as she received everything. 
What turn it gave to their talk need not here 
be recorded: the transition to the colorless 
schoolroom and lonely Mrs. Wix was doubt- 
less an effect of relaxed interest in what was 
before them. Maisie expressed in her own 
 
way the truth that she never went home 
nowadays without expecting to find the 
temple of her studies empty and the poor 
priestess cast out. This conveyed a full 
appreciation of her peril, and it was in re- 
joinder that Sir Claude uttered, acknowledg- 
ing the source of that peril, the reassurance 
at which I have glanced. " Don't be afraid, 
my dear : I've squared her." It required 
indeed a supplement when he saw that it 
left the child momentarily blank. " I mean 
that your mother lets me do what I want so 
long as I let her do what she wants." 
"So you are doing what you want?" 
Maisie asked. 
"Rather, Miss Farange." 
Miss Farange turned it over. " And she 's 
doing the same? " 
"Up to the hilt." 
Again she considered. " Then, please, 
what may it be? " 
" I would n't tell you for the whole world." 
She gazed at a gaunt Madonna ; after which 
she broke out into a slow smile. " Well, I 
don't care so long as you do let her ! " 
" Oh, you monster ! " laughed Sir Claude, 
getting up. 
Another day, in another place, a place in 
Baker Street, where at a hungry hour she 
had sat down with him to tea and buns, he 
brought out a question disconnected from 
previous talk. " I say, you know what do 
you suppose your father would do ? " 
Maisie had not long to cast about nor to 
question his pleasant eyes. " If you were 
really to go with us? He would make a 
great complaint." 
He seemed amused at the term she 
employed. " Oh, I should n't mind a 
' complaint' " 
" He would talk to every one about it," 
said Maisie. 
" Well, I should n't mind that either." 
" Of course not," the child hastened to 
respond. " You've told me you 're not afraid 
of him." 
" The question is, are you f " said Sir 
Claude. 
Maisie candidly considered; then she 
spoke resolutely. " No not of papa." 
" But of somebody else? " 
" Certainly, of lots of people." 
"Of your mother, first and foremost, of 
course." 
"Dear, yes; more of mamma than of 
than of" 
" Than of what?" Sir Claude asked as she 
hesitated for a comparison. 
She thought over all the objects of dread. 
" Than of a wild elephant ! " she at last sug- 
gested. " And you are too ' she reminded 
him as he laughed. 
" Oh, yes ; I am too." 
Again she meditated. " Then why did 
you marry her? " 
" Just because I was afraid." 
" Even when she loved you? " 
" That made her the more alarming ! " 
For Maisie herself, though her companion 
seemed to find it droll, this opened up depths 
of gravity. " More alarming than she is 
now?" 
" Well, in a different way. Alarm, unfor- 
tunately, is a very big thing, and there's a 
great variety of kinds." 
She took this in with complete intelligence. 
" Then I think I've got them all." 
"You?" her friend cried. "Nonsense! 
You 're thoroughly game." 
" I J m awfully afraid of Mrs. Beale," Maisie 
insisted. 
He raised his smooth brows. " That 
charming woman?" 
" Well," she answered, " you can't under- 
stand it, because you're not in the same 
state." 
She had been going on with a luminous 
" But," when, across the table, he laid his 
hand on her arm. " I can understand it," he 
confessed. " I am in the same state." 
" Oh, but she likes you so ! " Maisie eagerly 
argued. 
Sir Claude literally colored. "That has 
something to do with it." 
Maisie wondered again. " Being liked 
with being afraid?" 
" Yes ; when it amounts to adoration." 
" Then why are n't you afraid of me?" 
"Because with you it amounts to that? " 
He had kept his hand on her arm. " Well, 
what prevents is simply that you 're the 
gentlest spirit on earth. Besides " he 
pursued; but he came to a pause. 
"Besides?" 
" I should be in fear if you were older 
there ! See ? you already make me talk 
nonsense," the young man added. "The 
question 's about your father. Is he likewise 
afraid of Mrs. Beale?" 
" I think not. And yet he loves her," 
Maisie mused. 
" Oh, no he does n't ; not a bit ! " After 
which, as his companion stared, Sir Claude 
apparently felt that he must make his 
announcement fit with her recollections. 
" There 's nothing of that sort now." 
But Maisie only stared the more. 
"They've changed?" 
" Like your mother and me." 
She wondered how he knew. " Then 
you've seen Mrs. Beale again? " 
He hesitated. " Oh, no. She has written 
to me," he presently pursued. "She's not 
afraid of your father either. No one at all is 
really." Then he went on, while Maisie's 
little mind, with its filial spring too relaxed, 
from of old, for a pang at this want of 
parental majesty, speculated on the vague 
relation between Mrs. Beale's courage and the 
question, for Mrs. Wix and herself, of a neat 
lodging with their friend. " She would n't 
care a bit if Mr. Farange should make a 
row." 
" Do you mean about you and me and 
Mrs. Wix? Why should she care? It 
would n't hurt her." 
Sir Claude, with his legs out and his hand 
diving into his trousers' pocket, threw back 
his head with a laugh just perceptibly tem- 
pered, as she thought, by a sigh. " My dear 
stepchild, you 're delightful ! Look here, 
we must pay. You've had five buns? " 
" How can you? " Maisie demanded, crim- 
son under the eye of the young woman who 
had stepped to their board. " I've had 
three." 
Shortly after this Mrs. Wix looked so ill 
that it was to be feared her ladyship had 
treated her to some unexampled passage. 
Maisie asked if anything worse than usual 
had occurred, whereupon the poor woman 
brought out with infinite gloom : " He has 
been seeing Mrs. Beale ! " 
"Sir Claude?" The child remembered 
what he had said. " Oh, no not seeing 
her!" 
" I beg your pardon. I absolutely know 
it." Mrs. Wix was as positive as she was 
dismal. 
Maisie nevertheless ventured to challenge 
her. "And how, please, do you know it?" 
She faltered a moment. " From herself. 
I've been to see her." Then, on Maisie's 
visible surprise, " I went yesterday while 
you were out with him. He has seen her 
repeatedly." 
It was not wholly clear to Maisie why Mrs. 
Wix should be prostrate at this discovery; 
ISO  
but her general consciousness of the way 
things would be both perpetrated and re- 
sented always eased off for her the strain 
of any particular mystery. " There may be 
some mistake. He says he hasn't." 
Mrs. Wix turned paler, as if this were a still 
deeper ground for alarm. " He says so? 
he denies that he has seen her? " 
" He told me so three days ago. Perhaps 
she 's mistaken," Maisie suggested. 
"Do you mean perhaps she lies? She lies 
whenever it suits her, I 'm very sure. But I 
know when people lie. That 's what I've 
loved in you : you never do. Mrs. Beale 
did n't yesterday at any rate. He has seen 
her." 
Maisie was silent a little. " He says not," 
she then repeated. " Perhaps perhaps " 
Once more she paused. 
" Do you mean perhaps he lies?" 
" Gracious goodness, no ! " Maisie shouted. 
Mrs. Wix's bitterness, however, again over- 
flowed. "He does, he does-! " she cried, 
" and it 's that that 's just the worst of it ! 
They 'll take you, they 'll take you, and what 
in the world will then become of me? " She 
threw herself afresh upon her pupil and wept 
over her with the inevitable effect of causing 
the child's own tears to flow. But Maisie 
could not have told you if she had been cry- 
ing at the image of their separation or at that 
of Sir Claude's untruth. As regards this 
deviation it was agreed between them that 
they were not in a position to bring it home 
to him. Mrs. Wix was in dread of doing 
anything to make him, as she said, " worse ; " 
and Maisie was sufficiently initiated to be 
able to reflect that in speaking to her as he 
had done he had only wished to be tender of 
Mrs. Beale. It fell in with all her inclinations 
to think of him as tender, and she forbore to 
let him know that the two ladies had, as she 
would never do, betrayed him. 
She had not long to keep her secret, for 
the next day, when she went out with him, 
he suddenly said in reference to some errand 
he had first proposed: "No, no; we won't 
do that we 'll do something else ! " On 
this, a few steps from the door, he stopped a 
hansom and helped her in; then, following 
her, he gave the driver, over the top, an 
address that she lost. When he was seated 
beside her she asked him where they were 
going ; to which he replied : " My dear child, 
you'll see." She saw, while she watched 
and wondered, that they took the direction of 
the Regent's Park ; but she did n't know why 
he should make a mystery of that, and it was 
not till they passed under a pretty arch and 
drew up at a white house in a terrace, from 
which the view, she thought, must be lovely, 
that, mystified, she clutched him and broke 
out: " I shall see papa?" 
He looked down at her with a kind smile. 
" No ; probably not. I have n't brought you 
for that." 
"Then, whose house is it?" 
" It 's your father's. They 've moved here." 
She looked about; she had known Mr. 
Farange in four or five houses, and there was 
nothing astonishing in this except that it was 
the nicest place yet. " But I shall see Mrs. 
Beale?" 
" It 's to see her that I brought you." 
She stared, very white and with her hand 
on his arm; though they had stopped she 
kept him sitting in the cab. " To leave me, 
do you mean?" 
He hesitated. " It 's not for me to say if 
you can stay. We must look into it." 
" But if I do I shall see papa? " 
" Oh, some time or other, no doubt." Then 
Sir Claude went on : " Have you really so 
very great a dread of that ? " 
Maisie glanced away over the apron of the 
cab gazed a minute at the green expanse 
of the Regent's Park; and at the moment, 
coloring to the roots of her hair, she felt the 
small rush of an emotion more mature than 
any she had yet known. It consisted of a 
sudden sense of shame at placing in an in- 
ferior light, to so perfect a gentleman and so 
charming a person as Sir Claude, so very 
near a relative as Mr. Farange. She remem- 
bered, however, her friend's telling her that 
no one was seriously afraid of her father, and 
she turned round with a brave toss of her 
head. " Oh, I dare say I can manage 
him ! " 
Sir Claude smiled, but she noticed that the 
violence with which she had just changed 
color had brought into his own face a slight 
compunctious and embarrassed flush. It was 
as if he had caught his first glimpse of her 
sense of responsibility. Neither of them 
made a movement to get out, and after an 
instant he said to her : " Look here, if you 
say so, we won't, after all, go in." 
" Ah, but I want to see Mrs. Beale ! " the 
child murmured. 
" But what if she does decide to take you? 
Then, you know, you 'll have to remain." 
Maisie turned it over. "Straight on 
and give you up?" 
" Well I don't quite know about giving 
me up." 
" I mean as I gave up Mrs. Beale when I 
last went to mamma's. I could n't do with- 
out you here for anything like so long a time 
as that." It struck her as a hundred years 
since she had seen Mrs. Beale, who was on 
the other side of the door they were so near 
and whom she yet had not taken the jump to 
clasp in her arms. 
" Oh, I dare say you 'll see more of me 
than you've seen of Mrs. Beale. It is n't in 
me to be so beautifully discreet," Sir Claude 
said. " But all the same," he continued, " I 
leave the thing, now that we 're here, abso- 
lutely with you. You must settle it. We 'll 
only go in if you say so. If you don't say 
so, we 'll turn right round and drive away." 
"So that in that case Mrs. Beale won't 
take me?" 
"Well not by any act of ours." 
" And I shall be able to go on with 
mamma? " Maisie asked. 
" Oh, I don't say that ! " 
She considered. " But I thought you said 
you had squared her." 
Sir Claude made an odd sound which 
turned into a laugh. "Not, my dear child, 
to the point she now requires ! " 
"Then if she turns me out and I don't 
come here ? " 
Sir Claude promptly took her up. " What 
do I offer you? you naturally inquire. My 
poor chick, that 's just what I ask myself. I 
don't see it, I confess, quite as straight as 
Mrs. Wix." 
His companion gazed a moment at what 
Mrs. Wix saw. " You mean we can't make a 
little family?" 
" It's very base of me, no doubt but I 
can't wholly chuck your mother." 
Maisie, at this, emitted a low but length- 
ened sigh, a meagre note of reluctant assent, 
which would certainly have been amusing to 
an auditor. " Then there is n't anything 
else?" 
" I vow I don't quite see what there is." 
Maisie waited a moment. Her silence 
seemed to signify that she too had no al- 
ternative to suggest. But she made another 
appeal. " If I come here you 'll come and 
see me?" 
" I won't lose sight of you." 
"But how often will you come? " As he 
hung fire she pressed him. " Often and 
often?" 
Still he faltered. " My dear old woman ! " 
he began; then he paused again, going on 
the next moment with a change of tone. 
"You're too funny! Yes, then," he said, 
"often and often." 
"All right" and Maisie jumped out of 
the cab. Mrs. Beale was at home, but not 
in the drawing-room, and when the butler 
had gone for her the child suddenly broke 
out : " But when I 'm here what will Mrs. 
Wix do?" 
"Ah, you should have thought of that 
sooner ! " said her companion with the first 
faint hint of asperity she had ever heard him 
produce. 
XIV 
MRS. BEALE fairly swooped upon her, and 
the effect of the whole hour was to put be- 
fore her how much, how quite formidably 
indeed after all, she was loved. This was 
the more the case as her stepmother, so 
changed in the very manner of her mother 
that she really struck her as a new ac- 
quaintance, somehow recalled more famil- 
iarity than Maisie could feel. A rich, strong, 
expressive affection, in short, pounced upon 
her in the shape of a handsomer, nobler, 
older Mrs. Beale. It was like making a fine 
friend, and they had n't been a minute to- 
gether before she felt elated at the way she 
had met the choice imposed upon her in the 
cab. There was a whole future in the com- 
bination of Mrs. Beale's beauty and Mrs. 
Beale's hug. She seemed to Maisie charm- 
ing to behold, and also to have no connection 
at all with anybody who had once had meals 
in the nursery and mended underclothing. 
The child knew one of her father's wives 
was a woman of fashion, but she had always 
dimly made a distinction, not applying that 
epithet without reserve to the other. Mrs. 
Beale, since their separation, had acquired 
a conspicuous right to it, and Maisie's first 
flush of response to her present delight col- 
ored all her splendor with meanings that, 
this time, were sweet. She had told Sir 
Claude that she was afraid of the lady in 
the Regent's Park; but she was not too 
much afraid to rejoice aloud on the very 
spot. "Why, aren't you beautiful? Isn't 
she beautiful, Sir Claude isn't she?" 
" The handsomest woman in London, 
simply," Sir Claude gallantly replied. " Just 
as you 're the best little girl ! " 
Well, the handsomest woman in London 
gave herself up with tender, lustrous looks 
and every demonstration of fondness to a 
happiness at last recovered. There was al- 
most as vivid a bloom in her maturity as in 
mamma's, and it took her but a short time 
to give her little friend an impression of 
positive power an impression that opened 
up there like a new source of confidence. 
This was a perception on Maisie's part that 
neither mamma, nor Sir Claude, nor Mrs. 
Wix, with their immense and so varied re- 
spective attractions, had exactly kindled and 
that made an immediate difference when the 
talk, as it promptly did, began to turn to 
her father. Oh yes, Mr. Farange was a 
complication, but she saw now that he 
would not be one for his daughter. For 
Mrs. Beale certainly he was an immense 
one; she speedily made known as much: 
but Mrs. Beale from this moment presented 
herself to Maisie as a person to whom a 
great gift had come. The great gift was 
just for handling complications. Maisie ob- 
served how little she made of them when, 
after she had dropped, to Sir Claude, some 
reference to a previous meeting he ex- 
claimed with an air of consternation and yet 
with something of a laugh that he had de- 
nied to their companion their having, since 
the day he came for her, seen each other till 
that moment. 
Mrs. Beale diffused surprise. "Why did 
you do anything so silly?" 
" To protect your reputation." 
"From Maisie?" Mrs. Beale was much 
amused. " My reputation with Maisie is too 
good to suffer." 
" But you believed me, you rascal, did n't 
you?" Sir Claude asked of the child. 
She looked at him she smiled. " Her 
reputation did suffer. I discovered you had 
been here." 
He was not too chagrined to laugh. 
" The way, my dear, you talk of that sort of 
thing ! " 
" How should she talk," Mrs. Beale in- 
quired, " after all this ruinous time with 
her mother?" 
" It was not mamma who told me," Maisie 
explained. " It was only Mrs. Wix." She 
was hesitating whether to bring out before 
Sir Claude the source of Mrs. Wix's infor- 
mation when Mrs. Beale, addressing the 
young man, showed her the vanity of her 
scruples. 
" Do you know that preposterous person 
came to see me a day or two ago ? when 
I told her that I had seen you repeatedly." 
Sir Claude, this time, was disconcerted. 
" The old cat ! She never told me. Then you 
thought I lied? " he demanded of Maisie. 
She was flurried by the term with which 
he had qualified her patient friend, but she 
felt the occasion to be one to which she must 
in every way lend herself. " Oh, I did n't 
mind ! But Mrs. Wix did," she added with 
an intention benevolent to her governess. 
Her intention was not very effective as 
regards Mrs. Beale. " Mrs. Wix is too idi- 
otic ! " that lady declared. 
" But to you, of all people," Sir Claude 
asked, "what had she to say?" 
" Why, that, like Mrs. Micawber whom 
she must, I think, rather resemble she will 
never, never, never desert Miss Farange." 
" Oh, I 'll make that all right ! " Sir Claude 
cheerfully returned. 
" I 'm sure I hope so, my dear man," said 
Mrs. Beale, while Maisie wondered just how 
he would proceed. Before she had time to 
ask Mrs. Beale continued: "That's not all 
she came to do, if you please. But you 'll 
never guess the rest." 
" Shall  guess it? " Maisie threw in. 
Mrs. Beale was again amused. " Why, 
you 're just the person ! It must be quite 
the sort of thing you've heard at your 
awful mother's. Have you never seen women 
there crying to her to ' spare ' the men they 
love?" 
Maisie, wondering, tried to remember; 
but Sir Claude was freshly diverted. " Oh, 
they don't trouble about Ida! Mrs. Wix 
cried to you to spare me? " 
" She regularly went down on her knees 
to me." 
"The darling old dear! " the young man 
exclaimed. 
These words were a joy to Maisie they 
made up for his previous description of Mrs. 
Wix. "And will you spare him?" she 
asked of Mrs. Beale. 
Her stepmother, seizing her and kissing 
her again, seemed charmed with the tone 
of her question. " Not an inch of him ! 
I 'll pick him to the bone ! " 
" You mean then he 'll really come often? " 
Maisie pressed. 
 
Mrs. Beale turned lovely eyes to Sir 
Claude. "That's not for me to say it's 
for him." 
He said nothing for the time, however ; with 
his hands in his pockets and vaguely hum- 
ming a tune even Maisie could see he was 
a little nervous he only walked to the win- 
dow and looked out at the Regent's Park. 
" Well, he has promised," Maisie said. " But 
how will papa like it? " 
"His being in and out? Ah, that's a 
question that, to be frank with you, my dear, 
hardly matters. In point of fact, however, 
Beale greatly enjoys the idea that Sir Claude 
too, poor man, has been forced to quarrel 
with your mother." 
Sir Claude turned round and spoke gravely 
and kindly. " Don't be afraid, Maisie ; you 
won't lose sight of me." 
" Thank you so much ! " Maisie was ra- 
diant. " But what I meant don't you 
know? was what papa would say to 
me." 
" Oh, I've been having that out with him," 
said Mrs. Beale " he 'll behave well enough. 
You see the great difficulty is that, though 
he changes every three days about every- 
thing else in the world, he has never changed 
about your mother. It 's a caution, the way 
he hates her." 
Sir Claude gave a short laugh. " It cer- 
tainly can't beat the way she still hates him ! " 
" Well," Mrs. Beale went on obligingly, 
" nothing can take the place of that feeling 
with either of them, and the best way they 
can think of to show it is for each to leave 
you as long as possible on the hands of the 
other. There 's nothing, as you've seen for 
yourself, that makes either so furious. It 
is n't, asking so little as you do, that you've 
much of an expense or a trouble ; it 's only 
that you make each feel so well how nasty 
the other wants to be. Therefore Beale goes 
on loathing your mother too much to have 
any great fury left for any one else. Besides, 
you know, I've squared him." 
" Oh Lord ! " Sir Claude cried with a louder 
laugh and turning again to the window. 
" I know how ! " Maisie was prompt to 
return. " By letting him do what he wants 
on condition that he lets you also do it." 
" You 're too delicious, my own pet ! " 
she was involved in another hug. " How in 
the world have I got on so long without you ? 
I've not been happy, love," said Mrs. Beale 
with her cheek to the child's. 
" Be happy now ! " Maisie throbbed with 
shy tenderness. 
" I think I shall be. You 'll save me." 
" As I 'm saving Sir Claude? " the little girl 
precipitated. 
Mrs. Beale, a trifle surprised, appealed to 
her visitor. "Is she really?" 
He showed high amusement at Maisie's 
question. " It 's dear Mrs. Wix's idea. There 
may be something in it." 
" He makes me his duty he makes me 
his life," Maisie continued to her stepmother. 
" Why, that 's what  want to do ! " And 
Mrs. Beale, so anticipated, turned pink with 
astonishment. 
" Well, you can do it together. Then he 'll 
have to come ! " 
Mrs. Beale by this time had her young 
friend fairly in her lap ; she smiled up at Sir 
Claude. " Shall we do it together? " 
His laughter had dropped and for a mo- 
ment he turned his handsome, serious face 
not to his hostess, but to his stepdaughter. 
" Well, it 's rather more decent than some 
things. Upon my soul, the way things are 
going, it seems to me the only decency ! " 
He had the air of arguing it out to Maisie, 
of presenting it, through an impulse of con- 
science, as a connection in which they could 
honorably see her participate; though this 
plea of mere " decency " might well have 
appeared to fall below her rosy little vision. 
"If we're notjgood for you," he exclaimed, 
" I 'll be hanged if I know who we shall be 
good for ! " 
Mrs. Beale showed the child an intenser 
radiance. " I dare say you will save us 
from one thing and another." 
" Oh, I know what she 'll save me from ! " 
Sir Claude roundly declared. "There'll be 
rows, of course," he went on. 
Mrs. Beale quickly took him up. " Yes, 
but they'll be nothing for you, at least 
to the rows your wife makes as it is. I can 
bear what  suffer I can't bear what you 
do." 
" We 're doing a good deal for you, you 
know, young woman," Sir Claude went on to 
Maisie with the same gravity. 
His little charge glowed with a sense of 
obligation and the eagerness of her desire it 
should be known how little was lost on her. 
" Oh, I know ! " 
" Then you must keep us all right ! " This 
time he laughed. 
" How you talk to her ! " cried Mrs. Beale. 
" No worse than you ! " he gayly rejoined. 
" Handsome is that handsome does ! " she 
exclaimed in the same spirit. " You can 
take off your things," she went on, releasing 
Maisie. 
The child, on her feet, was all emotion. 
"Then I'm just to stop this way? " 
" It will do as well as any other. Sir 
Claude, to-morrow, will have your things 
brought." 
" I 'll bring them myself. Upon my word 
I 'll see them packed ! " Sir Claude promised. 
" Come here and unbutton." 
He had beckoned his young companion to 
where he sat and he helped to disengage her 
from her coverings while Mrs. Beale, from a 
little distance, smiled at the hand he dis- 
played. " There 's a stepfather for you ! I 'm 
bound to say, you know, that he makes up 
for the want of other people." 
" He makes up for the want of a good 
nurse ! " Sir Claude laughed. " Don't you re- 
member I told you so the very first time? " 
"Remember? It was exactly what made 
me think so well of you ! " 
" Nothing would induce me," the young 
man said to Maisie, " to tell you what made 
me think so well of her" Having divested 
the child he kissed her gently and gave her a 
little pat to make her stand off. The pat was 
accompanied with a vague sigh, in which his 
gravity of a moment before came back. " All 
the same, if you had n't had the fatal gift of 
beauty " 
'Well, what?" Maisie asked, wondering 
why he paused. It was the first time she had 
heard of her beauty. 
" Why, we should n't all be thinking so 
well of each other ! " 
" He is n't speaking of personal loveli- 
ness you 're not lovely in person, my dear, 
at all," Mrs. Beale explained. "He's just 
talking of plain, dull charm of character." 
"Her character's the most extraordinary 
thing in all the world," Sir Claude com- 
municated to Mrs. Beale. 
" Oh, I know all about that sort of thing ! " 
she fairly bridled with the knowledge. 
It gave Maisie somehow a sudden sense of 
responsibility, from which she sought refuge. 
"Well, you've got it too, 'that sort of 
thing ' you've got the fatal gift, you both 
really have ! " she broke out. 
" Beauty of character? My dear boy, we 
have n't a pennyworth ! " Sir Claude protested. 
" Speak for yourself, sir ! " leaped lightly 
from Mrs. Beale. " I 'm good and I 'm 
clever. What more do you want? For 
you, I 'll spare your blushes and not be 
personal I 'll simply say that you 're as 
handsome as you can stick together." 
" You 're both very lovely ; you can't get 
out of it ! " Maisie felt the need of carrying 
her point " And it 's beautiful to see you 
together." 
Sir Claude had taken his hat and stick ; he 
stood looking at her a moment. " You 're a 
comfort in trouble! But I must go home 
and pack." 
"And when will you come back? to- 
morrow, to-morrow?" 
" You see what we 're in for ! " he said to 
Mrs. Beale. 
" Well,  can bear it," she replied, " if you 
can." 
Their companion gazed from one of them 
to the other, thinking that though she had 
been happy indeed between Sir Claude and 
Mrs. Wix, she should evidently be happier 
still between Sir Claude and Mrs. Beale. 
But it was like being perched on a prancing 
horse, and she made a movement to hold on 
to something. " Then, you know, sha'n't I 
bid good-bye to Mrs. Wix?" 
" Oh, I 'll make it all right with her," said 
Sir Claude. 
Maisie considered. " And with mamma? " 
" Ah, mamma ! " he sadly laughed. 
Even for the child this was scarcely am- 
biguous ; but Mrs. Beale endeavored to con- 
tribute to its clearness. " Your mother will 
crow, she 'll crow " 
" Like the early bird ! " said Sir Claude as 
she looked about for a comparison. 
" She 'll need no consolation," Mrs. Beale 
went on, " for having made your father grandly 
blaspheme." 
Maisie stared. " Will he grandly blas- 
pheme?" It sounded picturesque, almost 
scriptural, and her question produced a 
fresh play of caresses, in which Sir Claude 
also engaged. She wondered meanwhile 
who, if Mrs. Wix was disposed of, would 
represent in her life the element of geog- 
raphy and anecdote; and she presently 
surmounted the delicacy she felt about ask- 
ing. " Won't there be any one to give me 
lessons?" 
Mrs. Beale was prepared with a reply that 
struck her as absolutely magnificent. " You 
shall have such lessons as you've never had 
in all your life. You shall go to courses." 
" Courses?" Maisie had never heard of 
such things. 
" At institutions on subjects." 
Maisie continued to stare. "Subjects?" 
Mrs. Beale was really splendid. " All the 
most important ones. French literature 
and sacred history. You 'll take part in 
classes with awfully smart children.  ' 
" I 'm going to look thoroughly into the 
whole thing, you know; " and Sir Claude, 
with characteristic kindness, gave her a nod 
of assurance accompanied by a friendly wink. 
But Mrs. Beale went much further. " My 
dear child, you shall attend lectures." 
The horizon was suddenly vast, and Maisie 
herself felt the smaller for it. " All alone? " 
" Oh, no ; I 'll attend them with you," said 
Sir Claude. " They 'll teach me a lot I don't 
know." 
" So they will me," Mrs. Beale gravely ad- 
mitted. "We'll go with her together it 
will be charming. It J s ages," she confessed 
to Maisie, " since I've had any time for 
study. That 's another sweet way in which 
you 'll be a motive to us. Oh, won't the 
good she'll do us be immense?" she broke 
out uncontrollably to Sir Claude. 
He weighed it ; then he replied : " That 's 
certainly our idea." Of this idea Maisie 
naturally had less of a grasp, but it inspired 
her with almost equal enthusiasm. If in so 
bright a prospect there would be nothing to 
long for, it followed that she would n't long 
for Mrs. Wix; but her consciousness of her 
assent to the absence of that fond figure 
caused a pair of words that had often 
sounded in her ears to ring in them again. 
It showed her in short what her father had 
always meant by calling her mother a " low 
sneak " and her mother by calling her father 
one. She wondered if she herself should n't 
be a low sneak in learning to be so happy 
without Mrs. Wix. What would Mrs. Wix 
do? where would Mrs. Wix go? Before 
Maisie knew it, and at the door, as Sir 
Claude was off, these anxieties, on her 
lips, grew articulate and her stepfather 
had stopped long enough to answer them. 
" Oh, I 'll square her ! " he said ; and with 
this he departed. 
Face to face with Mrs. Beale she gave a 
sigh of relief, looking round at what seemed 
to her the dawn of a higher order. " Then 
every one will be squared ! " she peacefully 
said. On which her stepmother affection- 
ately bent over her again. 
XV 
IT was Susan Ash who came to her with 
the news. " He 's downstairs, miss, and he 
do look beautiful." 
In the schoolroom at her father's, which 
had pretty blue curtains, she had been mak- 
ing out at the piano a lovely little thing, 
as Mrs. Beale called it, a " Moonlight Ber- 
ceuse" sent her through the post by Sir 
Claude, who considered that her musical 
education had been deplorably neglected 
and who, the last months at her mother's, 
had been on the point of making arrange- 
ments for regular lessons. She knew from 
him familiarly that the real thing, as he 
said, was shockingly dear and that anything 
else was a waste of money, and she therefore 
rejoiced the more at the sacrifice represented 
by this composition, of which the price, five 
shillings, was marked on the cover and which 
was evidently the real thing. She was now 
on her feet in an instant. " Mrs. Beale has 
sent up for me? " 
" Oh, no it 's not that," said Susan Ash. 
" Mrs. Beale has been out this hour." 
"Then papa?" 
" Dear no not papa. You 'll do, miss, 
all but them loose 'airs," Susan went on. 
" Your papa never came 'ome at all," she 
added. 
"From where?" Wondering a little ab- 
sently and very excitedly, Maisie gave a wild 
manual brush of her locks. 
" Oh, that, miss, I should be very sorry 
to tell you ! I 'd rather tuck away that white 
thing behind though I 'm blessed if it's my 
work." 
" Do then, please. I know where papa 
was," Maisie continued impatiently. 
" Well, in your place I would n't tell." 
" He was at the club the Chrysanthe- 
mum. So ! " 
"All night long? Why, the flowers shut 
up at night, you know ! " cried Susan Ash. 
" Well, I don't care " the child was at 
the door. " Sir Claude asked for me all 
alone?" 
" The same as if you was a duchess." 
Maisie was aware on her way downstairs 
that she was now quite as happy as one, 
and also, a moment later, as she hung round 
his neck, that even such a personage would 
scarce commit herself more grandly. There 
was moreover a hint of the duchess in the 
infinite point with which, as she felt, she 
exclaimed : " And this is what you call com- 
ing often?" 
Sir Claude met her, delightfully, in the 
same fine spirit. " My dear old man, don't 
make me a scene I assure you it's what 
every woman does that I look at. Let us 
have some fun it 's a lovely day : clap on 
something smart and come out with me 
then we 'll talk it over quietly." They were 
on their way five minutes later to Hyde 
Park, and nothing that even in the good 
days at her mother's they had ever talked 
over had more of the perfection of security 
than his present prompt explanations. He 
was at his best in such an office and with 
the exception of Mrs. Wix the only person 
she had met in her life who ever explained. 
With him, however, the act had an authority 
transcending the wisdom of woman. It all 
came back, all the plans that always failed, 
all the rewards and bribes that she was 
perpetually paying for in advance and per- 
petually out of pocket by afterwards the 
whole complication to be dealt with intro- 
duced her on each occasion afresh to the 
question of money. Even she herself al- 
most knew how it would have expressed the 
strength of his empire to say that to shuffle 
away her sense of being duped he had only 
from under his lovely moustache to breathe 
upon it. It was somehow in the nature of 
plans to be expensive and in the nature of 
the expensive to be impossible. To be 
" involved " was of the essence of every- 
body's affairs, and also at every particular 
moment to be more involved than usual. 
This had been the case with Sir Claude's, 
with papa's, with mamma's, with Mrs. Beale's, 
and with Maisie's own at the particular mo- 
ment, a moment of several weeks, that had 
elapsed since our young lady had been re- 
established at her father's. There was n't 
" two-and-tuppence " for anything or for any 
one, and that was why there had been no 
sequel to the classes in French literature 
with all the smart little girls. It was devilish 
awkward, didn't she see? to try without 
even the modest sum mentioned to mix her 
up with a remote array that glittered be- 
fore her after this as the children of the 
Rich. She was to feel henceforth as if she 
