of it. Barton Finch is the kind of man who begins 
with a great flourish, but flats out towards the end. 
I 'm tired of them all ! ' 

" It will be your turn to marry next," said his 
mother. " And then I 'll seem quite a young 





woman with only three children. I do suppose 
we 'll go up to Yonkers some time and spend our 
old age there ; though I begin to think your 
father is weaned away." 

George laughed. " Father seems about half 
Uncle Faid's age. And at eighty, you won't be 
as old as Aunt Crete. If I had lots of money, to 
do as I liked- -but farming so near by doesn't 
amount to much." 

The Germans and Swiss had to come in and 
show us about market-gardening and floriculture, 

George went down-town with Stephen, and talked 
with Ben, and listened to the groups on every 
corner discussing the golden land. He was young 
and strong; why shouldn't he go and seek his 
fortune? 

Miss Bradley had a very nice evening wedding, 
with dancing and a supper. She was very well 
looking, but not as handsome as Margaret, or as 
pretty and piquant as Dolly. She did not seem 
to come close to their hearts, as Dolly had ; though 
Mrs. Underhill was very well satisfied, and knew 
she would make John happy. John was a sort of 
solid, sober-going fellow, quite different from Steve 
and Joe. 







CHAPTER VII 

THROUGH THE EYES OF YOUTH 

THEN George surprised everybody by his 
determination to go to California. 

" There are chances to make fortunes here," de- 
clared Stephen. "With the crowds going out 
there, and no homes and no provision made for 
them, there must be a good deal of suffering. The 
stories of gold are too fabulous for belief." 

" I want to see something of the world. And 
all the countries on the Pacific Coast are rich in 
gold and treasures. I wonder what the history of 
the world would have been if that side had been 
settled first?" 

" The history of Mexico and Peru. Wealth and 
indolence and degeneration. And the East is 
nearer the commerce of the world. Oh, the old 
Pilgrim fathers didn't go so far out of the way ! ' 
laughingly. 

" And they went in the face of almost every- 
thing. We have a little of their love of adventure. 
I don't know as my heart is so set upon a fortune. 
You wouldn't believe it ; but I 've wished myself 
that intrepid explorer Fremont dozens of times. 
There is such a splendid excuse for going now." 



At first, they were all strongly opposed. John 
told him to come and join them, and keep turning 
his money over in tip-town real estate. Mrs. Un- 
derhill pleaded. She was very fond of having her 
children about her. But when he went down- 
town, and heard the exciting talk, and saw the 
vessels of every kind fitting out, he came home 
more resolved than ever. 

" And then we will build the house on that beau- 
tiful knoll, a large, rambling, commodious place, 
big enough to take us all in, a refuge for our old 
age," laughed George. 

They found he was not to be talked out of it. 
Ben was on his side, and not only gave him en- 
couragement, but offered to lend him a little 
money he had saved up, and proposed to go 
shares with him. 

Indeed, it was a time of great excitement. The 
ship-yards on the East River were veritable bee- 
hives ; and morning, noon, and night the streets 
were thronged with workmen. The clipper-ships 
began to astonish the world, and the steamers to 
compete with those of England. The new treaty 
with China was opening possibilities of trade to 
that country. 

George decided to go by water to Vera Cruz. 
Round the Horn seemed too long a journey for 
impatient youth. If he shouldn't like it, and 
should not see any special prospect, he could 
come back the richer by his experience, if nothing 
else. People vrent to China. They often stayed two 
years in Europe- 



" Yes," said Ben ; " there 's Mr. Theodore Whit- 
ney. He has had no end of a good time, and 
is in much better health then when he went away." 

" And Fremont has gone through a great many 
hardships, and been in some battles, and still lives," 
added George, laughingly. " And some of the 
people in Yonkers died who had never been more 
than ten miles away from home." 

Mrs. Underhill gave in, as mothers of big sons 
are often forced to do. Mr. Underhill was rather 
pleased with the boy's spirit. Doctor Joe felt that 
it wasn't a bad thin^ altogether, and that it would 

o o 

be nice to have an authentic account of that 
wonderful country. 

So the last of March, George said good-bye to 
everybody. His father, Stephen, and Joe went 
down to see him off. It looked as if half the sail- 
ing-craft in the world were gathered in New York 
harbour. 

Right on the top of this, something happened 
that engrossed the attention of the younger mem- 
bers of the family. There had been a disturb- 
ance in Paris ; the old Bonaparte faction coming 
to the fore, and Louis Philippe had fled from the 
throne to England. Napoleon Bonaparte had 
shattered the divine right of kings nearly forty 
years earlier. 

But the most startling link in the chain of events, 
was that Louis Napoleon, the son of Hortense 
Beauharnais and the once King of Holland, who, 
for fomenting one revolution, had been confined 
in the Fortress of Ham for life. He had escaped, 

 

nd, with the prestige of the family name, had 
oused the enthusiasm of France, and helped to 
orm a Republic. He was elected as one of the 
Deputies. Everybody was saying then the French 
.vere too volatile, and too fond of grandeur, to 
accept the democratic tendencies of a republic 
for any length of time. And they wondered if he 
would not follow in the steps of his famous uncle, 
and one day aim at a throne and an empire. 
Others hailed the step as a great advancement in 
the rights of the people, and thought it prefigured 
that Europe would be republican rather than Cos- 
sack, recalling the elder Emperor's prediction. 

And Hanny learned that this young man, who 
was before long to be Emperor of the French, had 
lived in New York, as well as Louis Philippe. Joe 
took her down-town to the old Delmonico Res- 
taurant, which was considered quite elegant in its 
day, and had entertained many famous people. 
Here, the young fellow who had been the son of a 
king, and was now an exile, used to dine, and gather 
about him the flower of the fashionable world, as 
it was called. And Lorenzo Delmonico, who rarely 
went into his kitchen now, would go and cook a 
dinner for this guest, who had the high art of 
persuasion in an eminent degree, it would seem. 
Afterward the Prince would entertain the other 
guests with curious tricks with cards, and conver- 
sation. Now his life bid fair to be almost as event- 
ful as his uncle's ; and, like him, he was doomed to 
die an exile on English soil. 

Joe and Hanny took their dinner in the old 



place, though now the Delmonicos were fitting up 
a hotel at the lower end of Broadway which was 
destined to become quite as famous, and to house 
many notable people. 

She was so engrossed with reading and studying 
that sometimes she hardly found an hour for the 
babies. She and Daisy, like most very young 
girls, had a passion for poetry. Mrs. Sigourney 
they thought rather grave and dry; but Mrs. 
Hemans, with her soft flowing numbers and beau- 
tiful face, was a great favourite. Longfellow was 
beginning to be appreciated, and several other 
poets that one saw now and then on Broadway. 
There were some pathetic poems by a Western 
writer, Alice Gary, that used to go quite to the 
little girl's tender heart. She had a wonderful 
memory for any rhythmic production, and used to 
say them over to her father. If she didn't sit on his 
lap,- -and her mother had almost laughed her out 
of it, - - she leaned her arms on his knee, or rested 
her head against his shoulder, while her soft, sweet 
voice went purling along like, - 

" A hidden brook- 
In the leafly month of June." 

The Dean girls did not care so much for poetry. 
They wanted stories ; and stories and books were 
beginning to spring up on every hand. Miss Delia 
Whitney was writing a novel. She had accom- 
plished some successful stories, and had one in 
"The Ladies' Book," the pretty fashion magazine 
of the day. 

 

Poor deaf Aunt Clem had dropped out of life 
like a child going to sleep. Aunt Patty kept well 
and bright. Xora was growing up into a tall girl, 
and went to Rutger's Institute, though she con- 
fessed to Hanny, " She just hated all schools, and 
wouldn't go a day longer, only it was not quite 
the thing to grow up an ignoramus." 

And there was Frederica Bremer, a Swedish 
novelist, whose " Home or Family Cares and Fam- 
ily Joys' was Hanny's delight. And Irving was 
ever new and bright. " Salmagundi ' always 
amused her father so much. The recent and 
delightful stories were the talk of every one. 

Daisy was not such a ravenous reader. She 
was quite taken up with painting, and had done 
some very nice work in water-colours. She had a 
decided gift for catching resemblances, and had 
sketched some excellent likenesses. She confided 
to Hanny that her ambition was to paint portraits 
on ivory. 

This spring a plan was mooted that almost ren- 
dered Hanny speechless. Mr. Jasper had some 
business connections abroad that needed his per- 
sonal supervision, and he proposed to take his 
family. Tours to Europe were not a common 
occurrence then, and one could hardly run over 
for a six weeks' trip. Daisy had improved so 
much that she was sure to enjoy it ; and there were 
some German baths Doctor Joe thought he would 
like her to try. 

Italy had been the children's land of romance. 
But the Deans never expected to go ; and Hanny 



THROUGH THE EVES OF YOUTH 

was quite sure she should feel awfully afraid on 
the ocean. But Joe said some time when he 
had grown quite rich, and needed a rest for his 
tired-out body and nerves, he and Hanny might go, 
ten years hence, perhaps. It wasn't nearly so 
formidable when you looked at it through the 
telescope of ten years ; and Hanny could be 
learning French and German, and may be Italian. 
She had picked up a good deal of German already 
from Barbara, who had proved an excellent ser- 
vant after she had acquired American ways. 

The Jaspers would give up their house and 
store their choicest furniture. Opposite, a great 
many foreigners were crowding in ; and down 
below, Houston Street and Avenue A. were filling 
up with them. We felt so large and grand then, 
with our great stretches of unoccupied land, that 
we invited the oppressed from everywhere. It was 
our boast that, - 



"Uncle Sam was rich enough to give us all a farm." 



Very good thrifty citizens many of them made ; 
but some of the early experiences were not so 
agreeable. And people were beginning to think 
" up-town ' would be the choice for residences. 
Even Mr. Dean had a vague idea of buying up there 
while property was cheap. Stephen and Margaret 
were trying to persuade their parents to do the 
same thing. 

It would be dreadful to have Daisy go away for 
a whole year. When Daisy considered the point, 



it didn't seem as if she could leave all her girl 
friends and her dear Doctor Joe. But the days 
passed on, and the passage was taken. Mrs. Jasper 
asked the children in to a supper, which would have 
been delightful, except for the thought that it was 
a farewell supper. The table was spread in most 
artistic array ; and Sam waited upon the company. 
They tried very hard to be merry ; but every little 
while they would all subside and glance at each 
other with apprehensive eyes. 

The grown people came in the evening. The 
most wonderful thing was that Mr. and Mrs. Reed 
were among the parents. Cousin Jane was still at 
the Reeds' ; and, as she was " handy " about sew- 
ing, she had altered Mrs. Reed's old-fashioned 
gowns, and made her some new ones. 

Mrs. Reed did not get real strong, and was 
troubled somewhat with a cough when cold weather 
came on. But she lost her weather-beaten look, 
and did gain a little flesh. She was very present- 
able in her black-silk dress, with some lace at the 
throat and wrists that she had bought at her mar- 
riage. She wore a little black-lace head-dress with 
a few purple bows ; and she admitted to Charles 
that the Jaspers were very fine people, and she was 
sorry they were going away ; but it would take a 
mint of money for a whole family to travel around 
like that. 

The Jaspers' house was then dismantled ; but 
they were going to board for about ten days. 
Hanny and Josie Dean went down to see the state- 
room and wish them boil voyage. Doctor Joe had 

' 



THROUGH THE EYES OF YOUTH 

given Mrs. Jasper counsel about everything that 
might happen to Daisy. 

Then the signal was given for all who were not 
going to return on shore. There were some ten- 
der kisses and tears ; and Doctor Joe took both girls 
by the arm and steadied them down the gang- 
plank. What a huge thing the steamer looked ! 
But it was nothing compared to the later ones. 

It was very lonesome. The night was pleasant, 
and Hanny sat out on the stoop with her father ; 
but, whenever she tried to talk, something swelled 
up in her throat and made her feel like crying. 
But her father hugged her up close. She would 
always have him. 

It had not seemed so sad to have Nora go away ; 
in fact they could see her any time. And she had 
not loved Nora quite so well. She didn't love any 
girl as she loved Daisy, and it seemed as if she 
could not live a whole year without her. 

They talked about it at school, and most of the 
girls envied her the splendid journey. " I don't 
know as I would mind being a little lame, if I could 
have such a beautiful face, and be taken every- 
where," said one of the girls. 

But Hanny didn't want to be anybody else, if 
she had to give up her own mother and father, and 
dear Joe and Ben and, oh, little darling Stevie. 

Just after this a black-bordered envelope came 
up from Hammersley Street. Grandfather Bounett, 
who had been very feeble of late, had died. 
Hanny had seen him a number of times since her 
memorable introductory visit. Luella had been 




sent to boarding-school, and was quite toned down, 
was indeed a young lady. 

Doctor Joe had made frequent visits, and the old 
gentleman had told him many striking incidents 
of his life. Hanny used to think how queer the 
city must have been in seventeen hundred, when 
people had a black servant to carry the lantern so 
one could see to get about. She knew so much 
of the early history now, the Dutch reign and 
the British reign and the close of the war. 

Old Mr. Bounett looked like a picture in his 
handsome, old-fashioned attire ; and he just seemed 
asleep. The large rooms and the hall were full, 
and men were standing out on the sidewalk. He 
had rounded out the century. A hundred years 
was a long while to live. There were a number of 
French people, and a chapter was read out of 
grandfather's well-worn French Bible. 

Somehow it was not a sorrowful funeral. It was 
indeed bidding him a reverent God speed on his 
journey to the better land. 

About ten days afterward, they were surprised 
by a visit from the eldest married daughter, Mrs. 
French, whom Hanny had taken such a fancy to 
years before. 

" I 've come of a queer errand," she explained, 
when they had talked over the ordinary matters. 
" I want a visit from little Miss Hanny. I have 
been away with my husband a good many times 
since we first met, and now he has gone to China, 
and will be absent still a year longer. I am keep- 
ing house alone, except as I have some nieces now 



and then staying with me. I want to take Hanny 
over on Friday, if I may, and she shall come back 
in time for school on Monday morning. I have a 
great many curiosities to show her. And perhaps 
some of her brothers will come over and take tea 
with us Sunday evening." 

Hanny was a little shy and undecided. But her 
mother assented readily. She thought a change 
would do her good, as she had moped since Daisy's 
departure. 

So it was arranged that Mrs. French should 
come on the ensuing Friday. Hanny almost gave 
out; but when the carriage drove up to the door, 
and Mrs. French looked so winsome and smiling, 
she said good-bye to her mother with a sudden 
accession of spirits. 

They drove to Grand Street Ferry and crossed 
over on the boat. Williamsburg was a rather strag- 
gling place then. It was quite a distance from the 
ferry, not closely built up, though the street was 
long and straight. At the south side of the house 
was an extra lot in a flower and vegetable garden. 
The house was quite pretty, two stories with a 
peaked roof, and a wisteria going up to the top. 
There was a wide porch with a hammock hung 
already. All the air was sweet with a great bed of 
lilies of the valley, - - quite a rarity then. 

There was a long parlor, and then a music-room ; 
in a sort of an ell, a dining-room and kitchen ; up- 
stairs, two beautiful sleeping chambers and a small 
sewing-room with a writing-desk and some book- 
shelves. 

 

Hanny felt as if she were entering an Oriental 
palace. The doorways and windows were hung 
with glistening silk that had flecks of gold and 
silver in it; and there were such soft rugs on the 
floor your feet were buried in them. It was almost 
like a museum, with the queer tables and cabinets, 
and the curious fragrance pervading every corner. 

They went upstairs and took off their hats and 
capes, which were one of this spring's fashions. 

" This is my room," explained Mrs. French. 
" And with the door open you won't feel afraid 
in the guest-chamber." 

" I have had to sleep alone since Margaret was 
married," returned the little girl. " No, I am not 
afraid." 

" I thought I would not ask any one else. I 
wanted you all to myself," and Mrs. French 
smiled. " I have hosts of nieces and nephews. 
There was such a large family of us." 

Hanny thought she would rather be the only 
guest now. She was quite fascinated with Mrs. 
French. 

She bathed her face and brushed her hair. She 
had brought a pretty white ruffled apron. The 
little girls didn't wear black-silk aprons now; but 
they were taught to be careful of their clothes, 
and I think they were quite proud of their pretty 
aprons. Hanny's had dainty little pockets and a 
pink bow on each one. 

The frocks were made shorter, and the pantalets 
kept them company. All that was really proper 
now, was a row of fine tucks and a ruffle, or an 



edge of needlework. There was some fine im- 
ported French needlework, much of it done in 
convents ; but nearly every lady did it herself, and 
it was quite a great thing for a little girl to bring 
out her work and show it to aunts and cousins. 
No one dreamed then that there would be machines 
to make the finest and most exquisite work, and 
save time and eyesight. 

Hanny looked very sweet and pretty in her pink 
lawn and white apron. Her hair was braided in 
the two tails that every little girl wore who had 
not curly hair. On grand occasions, Hanny's was 
put in curl-papers, and it made very nice ringlets, 
though it was still a sort of flaxen brown. But 
then she was fair, rather pale a good deal of the 
time. She flushed very easily though. There was 
an expression of trustful innocence that rendered 
her very attractive, without being beautiful like 
Margaret. 

" Come and let us walk about the garden," said 
Mrs. French. " It is light enough to see the roses. 
They are my especial pride." 

Hanny took the oustretched hand. She could 
not have explained it, but she did feel happy and 
at home with Mrs. French. There was a gracious- 
ness about her that set one at ease. 

At the side was a long porch with curtains 
that rolled up when they were not needed for 
shade. At the front of the garden, there was con- 
siderable young shrubbery, then an arrangement 
of beds ; the centre one, which was a circle, was 
filled with the most beautiful roses. The middle 

 

was raised somewhat, mound shape, with the dark 
red roses, then growing a little paler to pure rose- 
colour and pink, tea-rose with the salmon tint, and 
a border of white. And, oh, how fragrant ! 

Beside this bed there were others in clusters, 
and one clump in an exquisite yellow. 

" Some of them have been great travellers," said 
Mrs. French. " There are roses from Spain, from 
France and Italy." 

Hanny opened her eyes very wide, and then 
she looked at them again in surprise. 

" Oh, how could you get them ? " she asked. 

" I brought them from their homes. You see I 
have been quite a traveller, also." 

The child drew a long breath. " Did you go 
with Captain French?" she inquired. 

" Yes. When we were first married, his vessel 
traded in the Levant, and brought back fruits and 
silks and shawls and nuts, and ever so many things. 
After that we went to India, Calcutta. We took 
one of my sisters, and she married an English 
merchant, and has been home only once since then." 

" Oh, I shouldn't like Margaret to live in Cal- 
cutta," the little girl said, startled. 

Mrs. French smiled. " Then we were away 
almost four years. We went to the Chinese ports 
as well, and to some of the curious islands. We 
took a cargo of tea to London." 

" I know a little girl who has just gone to 
London, and who is to go on to Germany to take 
some special kind of baths. She is my very dear 
friend." 



"Is she ill?" 

" She is a great deal better now. When we first 
knew her, she couldn't walk but a few steps. She 
was in the hospital where my brother used to go 
when he was first a doctor. Then she came to live 
in our street." 

"With her parents? " 

" Oh, yes. She has one aunt, but no brothers 
or sisters. It must seem strange not to have any," 
and Hanny glanced up. 

" It would be strange to me. I had ten in all, 
and there is only one dead. Eugene is the oldest 
of the second family. One married brother lives 
in Baltimore, one only a short distance from here. 
And you have six brothers, a good supply for 
one little girl." 

" I suppose some of them belong to Margaret," 
and she gave a soft, rippling laugh. " We haven't 
ever divided them up. But Joe belongs to me. 
When I get to be a woman, and he has a good big 
practice, I am going to keep house for him." 

" But what will your father do? ' 

"Why ' Hanny had not considered that 
point. " Oh, it won't be in a long while ! And 
then father will be old, and he will come and live 
with us, I think. Dolly says she is going to have 
mother." 

Airs. French thought the division rather amus- 



ing. 





Where is Captain French gone now? ' 
" To China again. He has been going back and 
forth to Liverpool ; but he had an excellent offer for 





the long trip. I concluded not to go, grandpa was 
so old and feeble. And my sister is coming to 
England to live. Her husband is heir now to a 
fine estate and a title ; and they have quite a family 
of children." 

" Then you will want to go to England to see 
her," said Hanny. 

" Indeed, I shall. I have not seen her in seven 
years ; since the time she was here." 

" We all liked Mr. Eugene so much," Hanny 
remarked. " And Luella has grown so, I hardly 
knew her." 

" They have a trick of growing up. I hope you 
won't be in any hurry." 

" I am small of my age/' and Hanny gave a 
soft sigh. 

" It will take you a long time to get as large as 
your mother." 

Hanny wasn't sure that she wanted to be quite 
so large. Yet she didn't really want her mothef 
changed. And, oh, she wouldn't have her as thin 
as Mrs. Reed for all the world ! 

They had been walking around the paths that 
were clean and solid as a floor. What beautiful 
plants and flowers there were ! Strange things, 
too, that Hanny had never seen before. Then the 
tea-bell rang, and they came up to the rose garden, 
where Mrs. French broke off several partly opened 
buds and pinned them on the little girl's bodice. 

The dining-room windows opened on the porch, 
and they walked in that way. It had a great 
beaufet with carved shelves and brackets going 



nearly up to the ceiling, and full of the most curi- 
ous articles Hanny had ever seen. Then there was 
a cabinet in the corner containing rare and beauti- 
ful china. The table was small and dainty, oval, 
with a vase of flowers at the ends ; and the two sat 
opposite each other, while a tidy young coloured 
girl waited upon them. 

Hanny felt as if she was part of a story ; and she 
tried to recall several of her heroines who went 
visiting in some curiously elegant house. It was 
different from the Jaspers, from anything she had 
ever seen, and there was a subtle fragrance about 
it that made her feel dreamy. 



 



CHAPTER VIII 

GOING VISITING 

"DON'T you want to tell me about your little 
friend?' 1 Mrs. French said when she had put 
Hanny in the hammock, and hedged her about 
with silken cushions. She sat in a willow rocker 
that Hanny thought quite as fascinating as the 
hammock. 

" Oh, yes," and Hanny smiled brightly, and, like 
a true biographer began at the beginning, the first 
time the children had seen Daisy, with her long 
golden curls and pallid face, like a snow-drift. 
And how Doctor Joe had been in the hospital 
when she had the operation performed. 

" Poor little thing ! ' exclaimed Mrs. French. 
" And now there is something they can use that 
gives a blessed unconsciousness, and when you 
wake up the worst of the pain is over. I do not 
know how any one could endure such torture." 

" Joe said she was very brave, though she fainted 
several times. And she 's growing straight and 
tall, and her hair curls lovely again. I have always 
wished my hair curled naturally. It just twists a 
little at the ends, but won't make ringlets." 



People in those days curled their hair a great 
deal ; but they had to put it in papers. Patent 
curlers, like a great many other things, had not 
been invented. When you wanted to be very fine, 
you went to the hair-dresser's. The real society 
ladies had some one come to the house to "do" 
their hair ; and sometimes it w r as very elaborate. 

Mrs. French thought curly hair would not 
improve the little girl. There was something 
charming in her very simplicity, and her hair 
was like floss silk. 

As she told about Daisy she detailed bits of 
neighbourhood life, and descriptions of the other 
children. Mrs. French heard about John Robert 
Charles and his mother. 

" But she 's so different now. She is not real 
strong any more ; and then Charles is such a big 
boy, and goes out with his father. It 's queer, but 
Jim and he are great friends, and Jim goes over 
there to study with Charles. Mrs. Reed did not 
use to like boys ; and Jim is so full of fun and 
pranks, mother calls them, and he knows so many 
funny stories ! Mother tries very hard not to laugh 
at them ; but she can't always help it." 

The evening passed so quickly that it was bed- 
time before either of them realised it. Mrs. French 
took the large square pillows off the bed, and laid 
one of the silken spreads over the footboard. How 
beautiful and soft they were, with great flowers so 
natural it seemed as if you could pick them up ! 
And the fragrance was so delicate and puzzling : 
)ne moment you thought it violets, then it sug- 

 

gested roses and lilies and the smell of newly cut 
grass. 

Mrs. French kissed her, and said if she felt 
strange in the night to call her; but she was asleep 
in five minutes, and never woke until quite in the 
morning, it was so much more quiet than in First 
Street. 

When she did sit up in the bed and glance 
around, she had a queer feeling that she was a part 
of a fairy story, like the white cat in her enchanted 
palace, waiting for the Prince, or perhaps Psyche, 
blown from the hill-top to her beautiful place of 
refuge, where she found and lost Love, and had to 
do many hard tasks before she could regain him. 

She was quite sure, an hour or two later, that she 
was in some enchanted realm. There were such 
queer things, - - some beautiful, and some she 
thought very ugly, especially the grotesque idols. 

" I couldn't believe a god like that had any 
power. And I am sure I couldn't worship him," 
Hanny said emphatically. 

"They beat their gods sometimes and break 
them to pieces, and go off and get new ones. It 
seems very singular to us." 

The little girl had been deeply interested in 
Judson, the missionary to Burmah. There had 
been a good deal of romance about his last mar- 
riage, to " Fanny Forester," who wrote tales and 
sketches and poems, and had made herself quite 
a name for brightness and gay humour, and then 
had surprised her friends by going to India as a 
missionary's wife. And she knew Bishop Heber's 

no 



GOING VISITING 

beautiful poem to his wife all by heart, and often 
sang " From Greenland's icy mountains." So she 
had a feeling that she did know something about 
India. 

But Mrs. French had really been there, and spent 
two months at Bombay, and almost six months at 
Calcutta. There were so many gorgeous things, 
silks, and bright stuffs with threads of gold, jack- 
ets all embroidery, and queer Eastern dresses, two 
made of pineapple cloth, a sheer, beautiful fabric, 
and one had delicate flowers embroidered in silk. 

But the oddest of all, Hanny thought, was burn- 
ing incense. Mrs. French had several curious 

o 

incense bowls and jars. She lighted one, and in a 
little while the room was filled with an indescrib- 
able fragrance and a hazy purplish air. 

" They burn incense in the Roman Catholic 
churches. Joe took us one Easter Sunday. It 
was very strange, I thought. And a little boy 
swung the- - something - 

" Censer." 

" Oh, yes, censer. And the singing was beautiful. 
But we couldn't understand the prayers ; Joe said 
they were Latin. I suppose he could follow 
them." 

" No doubt ; I have attended some very grand 
services in churches abroad and in England." 

The incense burned out presently, and they went 
downstairs to dinner. Afterward, a niece and 
nephew, her brother's children, came. The girl 
was not quite twelve, but most a head taller than 
Hanny, who felt rather shy with her. The boy 

in 





was older still, and his name was Harold, which 
suggested to Hanny the last of the Saxon kings. 
But he was very dark, and didn't look like a 
Saxon, she thought. 

Mrs. French sent to the livery and ordered a 
carriage, and they all went to drive. Hanny was 
quite conversant with upper New York and West- 
chester County ; but she had only been once to 
